
<Ct]ing for CVi 
• Check out the stats on the ND 
and Georgia Tech teams in this
See this weekend's schedule 
A London Program resident assistant reflects 
week's 
upon the late Princess Diana. 
of events on page 3. 
Irish Football Pull-out.
page 11 


Friday, September 5, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 10 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SER\!1i~G NOTRE uAME Al~D SAH\11 MARY'S 

Stadium stands ready for rededication 
By DEREK BETCHER Associate News Editor 
Nineteen ninety-seven will mark the start of a new era for Notre Dame football; Saturday, fans will arrive and see a new head coach, 
Timeline of a Decision 
Monday, April 7 
• SMC Board of Governance grants recognition to The Alliance 
Monday, April14 
• President Hickey defers Alliance recognition to confer with the Committee on Relationships 
Friday, April18 
• Pro-Alliance rally protests deferment 
Saturday, May 31 
• President Hickey officiallyleaves office 
Sunday, June 1 
• President Marilou Eldred takes office 

new recrui~ and a new 
o~ns~e 
~~~~~eer.. ~a~n~u~~!~c~s~h~:~~~~g 
of the new Notre Dame Stadium. 
Following a two-year $50 million renovation that added 21,000 seats, the stadium is finally ready to wel­come a full complement of fans for tomorrow's rededication game against Georgia Tech. 
Following the last game of the 1995 home season, construction swiftly began, and for the next 20 months neither winter tempera-
see STADIUM I page 5 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Rally ,to move outdoors 
By BILL UNIOWSKI enthusiasm that has been News Writer lost in recent years, orga­··'""''" nizers have, moved the With all of tb:e changes pep rallies ftom the Joyce the Notre DaxiJ£football Center into the newly ren­
progra~ h~~ct·· . gq~i~--ovl;l:~cJ.I!i~g,re Dame 
through m the ·past year~ even the traditional pr(l~ game pep rail}' has nl)i survived unsc~tb;ed. . 
In hopes of' r-~newing some of the spirit aild 
Stad1um. _, Jlt·£1 
Coach Bob Davie's.new emphasis on student involyement was the .cata­lyst for change. 
"We're trying to get the 
fire back in Notre Dame Stadium," Davie said as he addressed students in Alumni Hall on Wednesday night. "We've had some tough times." 
Davie also indicated the importance of allowing all students to attend and to he the first to enter the 
see RALLY I page 4 
SMC Alliance will continue its wait 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Members of The Alliance will now have to wait longer to gain recognition as an offi­cial campus club because president Marilou Eldred con­tinues to deliberate the deci­sion. 
Campus officials, including student body president Nikki Milos, Board of Governance {BOG) Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Liason Sara Nienaber, and Alliance members Poogie Sherer and Kelly Curtis, will be meeting with Eldred early next week to further the dis­cussion. 
This summer, Eldred con­tacted several constituents of the College in order to better familiarize herself with the issue regarding sexuality on campus, and to gain as much information as she could. Upon the students' return to campus, Eldred approached the appropriate student lead­ers to begin discussion. 
"In order to make the best possible decision for Saint Mary's College, I feel that I have to be here for a while to get a better sense for the place," said Eldred. "This is a complicated issue, and my ultimate responsibility is to determine what is best for the College, I don't want to set up false expectations." 
"I feel that president Eldred is handling the situation quite well," said student body presi­dent Nikki Milos. "She approached the student repre­known as The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College, first pro­posed its constitution at the March 3 BOG meeting, where it was tabled until the March 19 meeting. At this meeting, BOG members formed an internal research team to seek out unbiased information to educate the members of BOG in order for them to make an informed decision on the ques­tion of official recognition of The Alliance. 
sentatives in  an  open and  
friendly manner."  
The  Alliance,  formally  


The research team reported answers to previous questions on campus ministry opinion, verification of club advisor, Catholic documents and the laity of the Catholic communi­ty. 
The board then voted in favor of The Alliance's consti­
tution and approved club recognition at Saint Mary's College for the remainder of the semester, and continuing into the 1997-98 aoademic year. 
The following week, howev­er, their decision was deferred by former president Hickey, who first wanted to consult 
with  the  Committee  on  
Relationships.  
The  Committee  on  

Relationships had been insti­tuted in order to support the educational environment which impacts cultural norms in the lives of Saint Mary's College students. 
"It is my understanding that president Eldred is interested in seeing this committee con­tinue its work," said Linda Timm, vice-president for stu­
see ALLIANCE I page 7 


------------~---­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 5, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
We AreND 
I completely agree 
Colleen Gaughen
with GLND/SMC, but I 
Assistant Viewpoint 
think I speak for the 
Editor
majority of the student body when I say I'm kinda sick of the hype. I realize and respect the intensity of this issue, and I truly hope their hard work is rewarded with the suc­cess it deserves. But there are other serious divisions plaguing our Notre Dame commu­nity that, when added up, subtly affect our daily lives. 
We walk around in clusters, or alone, lost in our private worlds. Racial lines divide our dining halls. Saint Mary's women are persecuted and shut out. Dorm bashing isn't always just in fun. We snub one another because we just don't have the time to smile or say hello. 
We are mean sometimes, and we hurt others without even realizing it. We look down our noses at smokers as we destroy our livers. We scoff at different majors and give in to misconceptions and stereotypes. We have brought our pre-conceived opin­ions into this glorious haven and in doing so have disrupted its peace. 
Each of us has a story to tell. Each of us has come from a unique background with unique ideas to share. We are all here because we can contribute something of ourselves, something wonderful and inspir­ing. 
Kindness exists in our high school-like cliques, but seldom do we ever reach beyond the horizons of our little spheres. 
We are all striving for the same goals­success, fulfillment, meaning, and love. Finding our place in this crazy world isn't easy, and we need each other. There is so much we can learn from each other; why do we push people away? 
We are all an important part of something so special that we won't even realize its depth until it's over. Allow me to present you a challenge. Tomorrow, when we all yell the "We Are NO" cheer, think about it. I mean really think about it. 
What does it mean to be a part of this community? Do you really treat everyone as one of your Notre Dame family? Do you extend the same degree of respect to those you encounter, regardless of their appear­ance or personal choices? Or do you just brush past people as if they were shadows, allowing your fears to consume you? 
We all have a right to be here without worrying about haughty glances and raised eyebrows. Judge not and ye shall not be judged. We need to embrace our differences instead of condemning them. 
Go ahead. Greet that stranger on the sidewalk good morning. Smile. Someone may need it more than you know. Thank people. Let someone go ahead of you in the dining hall. Question your convictions. Join a club you know nothing about. Trust me, there's plenty of time left. Go on a Notre Dame Encounter or Freshman Retreat. Step outside yourself and venture into what this amazing place truly has to offer ... each other. 
Open your minds, open your mouths, but before you do anything, open your hearts. 
A spirit of inclusion is all right. but what we really need around here is a spirit of acceptance. 
We are NO. Let's start acting like it. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
• TooAv's STAFF  
News Michelle Krupa Laura Perelle Sports Allison Krilla Viewpoint Kelly Brooks Tara Churik Graphics Tom Roland  Accent Joe Weiler Joey Crawford Production Mark DeBoy Michelle Krupa Laura Perelle Lab Tech Kevin Dalum  
Friday 
75 56 Saturday 78 57 Sunday 75 57 Monday ~~-78 58 Tuesday '"~ 78 59 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Elton John rewrites 'Candle' as tribute to Princess Diana 
LONDON Norma Jean Baker-now, he will sing Two decades ago, he eulogized Close up on the crash "Goodbye, England's Rose." another fallen icon, remembering The new version about "the nation's 
Marilyn Monroe with a sentimental golden child," also co-written with song called "Candle in the Wind." Taupin, eliminates some of the bite Now, Elton John has updated it to and bitterness of the original words mourn someone more real to him -about Monroe's overdose death in his friend, Princess Diana. 1962. There is no mention of the media 
The pop star will sing the new ver­in the new lyrics. sion of the song Saturday in John and the princess both were Westminster Abbey at the funeral of AIDS activists and friends of designer the princess, a fan of his since child­Gianni Versace, who was shot to death hood. The revised lyrics, released in July. Diana sat next to the singer Thursday, tell of a woman who was and comforted him when he broke "the grace that placed itself where down at the designer's memorial ser­lives were torn apart," and who vice in Milan, an image captured by leaves behind "a country lost without photographers and distributed widely. 
your soul." 
Where in the original song, released in 1973 and co­written by lyricist Bernie Taupin, John sang "Goodbye, Norma Jean" -a reference to Monroe's real name, 
Gore aide testifies before committee 
WASHINGTON 
With the 1996 election near and con­troversy swirling around Al Gore's appearance at a Buddhist temple, the vice president was told by his deputy chief of staff that the event five months earlier-where $100,000 was donat­ed -was a "community outreach" luncheon, not a fund-raiser, according to the aide's sworn statement. The 

aide, David M. Strauss, told Senate investigators that when Gore asked his recollection of the April 29, 1996, event, Strauss did not know that political contributions linked to the event had been raised for the Democratic Party. Strauss was testifying today before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, where Republicans were eager to grill him over his definition of the event at the Hsi Lai Temple near Los Angeles. In defending his calling the luncheon as a "community outreach" func­tion, Strauss told investigators that in Gore's briefing papers for the appearance, "there is no reference here to any money being raised at this particular event." Strauss told investigators that when Gore asked last October for his recollection of the temple appearance, the vice president never asked whether the aide thought it was a fund-raising event-even though that question was becoming a problem for Gore as the election neared. 
Chicago schools require volunteering 
CHICAGO 
Chicago's high school students will need good deeds­not just good grades-to graduate. Beginning next year, they will have to put in 60 hours of community service to get a diploma. "There is no better way to teach and rein­force honesty, respect, tolerance, work ethic, discipline, self-respect and respect for others," public school chief executive Paul Vallas said Thursday in announcing the policy. Chicago, which has roughly 95,000 high school students, is instituting a system already in place in com­munities across the country. Federal judges have upheld community service requirements in Pennsylvania and New York, and the Supreme Court rejected an appeal of the Pennsylvania case. Pence warned it won't be easy to launch and coordinate a mandatory program in a city the size of Chicago. "It can have a tremendous impact on the staff -coordinating, keeping track and taking responsibility," he said. "This is not necessarily simple." Chicago students were not opposed to the requirement. "While we're concerned about kids having the skills to make them employable, we also want to make sure it's important to care about your community," Vallas said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather ®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
~...5'.....1~'~·· . _.:'"" ·...... :; 

Q,~,~p~Qi)~u 
Shower~ T-storms Ram Flurries Snow Ice · Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph~esNat 
• NATiONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
~ ......._._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
«::> 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Vra Associated Press 
Atlanta  85  58  Dallas  91  64  New Orleans 86  67  
Baltimore  80  53  Denver  88  57  New York  79  61  
Boston  79  58  Los Angeles 92  71  Philadelphia 81  59  
Chicago  80  59  M1ami  88  77  Phoenix  104  84  
Columbus  79  57  Mtnneapolis 79  58  St. Louis  87  64  

"Candle in the Wind" was first released on John's "Goodbye, Yellow Brick Road" album, and an intensely emotional live version of the song was nominated for a Grammy in 1988. 
Montana may reinstitute speed limit 
HELENA, Mont. 
Confronted with a 31 percent increase in highway deaths, lawmakers are pressing for a special session of the Legislature to end Montana's status as the only state without a fixed daytime speed limit. The secretary of state's office on Thursday received its lOth request for a special session. That triggers a mail canvass of lawmak­ers. A majority vote is needed to convene the Legislature. Montana has been without a posted daytime speed limit for most vehieles since December 1995, when Congress repealed the federal speed limit. Montana law requires drivers of cars and light trucks to drive in a "reasonable and prudent" manner based on conditions. In the first year without a fixed speed limit, deaths dropped slightly, from 215 in 1995 to 198 in 1996, and the 1997 Legislature rejected a proposal for an 80 mph limit on all highways. The picture changed this year. As of Thursday, 177 people had been killed in traffic accidents, 42 more than on the same date a year ago. "It's getting to be, in my estimate, a matter of life and death," Rep. Joe Quilici said. "Our friends and neighbors are dying out there." Others argue a link between the existing Jaw and the increased deaths has not been proved. They note that many of the deaths involve alcohol or not wearing seat belts, and many occur at night, when a speed limit is in effect -65 mph for interstate highways. 55 mph for other highways. 
MTV Awards gets Martha Stewart 
NEW YORK 
Pierced tongues, posses and a fashion rainbow from black to brown -Manhattan was the Island of Hip Thursday for the MTV Video Awards, the celebration where winning a trophy is far less important than look­ing right. Nowhere was that more evident than on 51st Street, where office workers watching from a window flashed numbers to grade the outfits of glitterati dis­gorged from black stretch limousines. MTV's cultural influence has faded over the past few years, not coinci­dentally as it de-emphasized music videos. Only the truly hip know much about Jamiroquai, the British band that led with 10 award nominations. But MTV still knows how to throw a party. The Rolling Stones, noted band of the 1960s, and U2, noted band of the 1980s, showed up to try and create a 1990s buzz. So did Elton John, who warned not to expect anything shocking on his new album. "It's definitely not techno-funk-rap," he said. Even domestic queen Martha Stewart showed up to pre­sent an award. Martha Stewart? "What are you doing here, anyhow?" asked quizzical rapper Busta Rhymes to a decidedly uncomfortable Stewart. 



.r------------------------------­
-~ ~ 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NCAA certifies Notre Dame 
By SEAN SMITH and commitment to rules com­er, Notre Dame will incorporate Assistant News Editor pliance, academic integrity, fis­the results of the self-study into cal integrity, and commitment to its own internal plan. 
Following the completion of a equity. In the University's NCAA year-long self-study and review Nathan Hatch, provost of the Athletic Certification Self Study process, the University of Notre University and professor of histo­Report, Notre Dame outlines six Dame received unconditional ry, chaired the self-studying major goals for the future of the certification last week from the committee. athletic department. The goals National Collegiate Athletic "The cardinal principle of this are as follows: Association's Committee on process was to make sure that • "Providing opportunities on Athletic Certification. the athletic department is run an equitable basis that enhance 
Established in 1993 as part of with integrity," Hatch said. "The the moral, intellectual, and phys­the NCAA's reform agenda, the whole process attempts to look ical welfare of the student popu­committee oversees a certifica­at every facet of a Division I pro­lation primarily, and the faculty tion program designed to ensure gram and to confirm that the and staff secondarily." integrity in collegiate athletic program is being run legitimate-• "Recruiting, training, sup­operations and to assist depart­[y. " porting, and retaining outstand­ments in improving their pro­Upon the completion of the ing coaches in each of our varsi­grams. All 307 Division I mem­self-study last September, the ty programs and administrators bers must complete the process committee submitted a report to in each of our areas of support." by December 1998. a peer-review panel comprised • "Providing the programs that 
According to the NCAA, athlet­of individuals from other develop the leadership skills of ic departments receiving uncon­Division I institutions. A peer­highly potential student ath­ditional certification have shown review team then visited the letes." that they run their programs in campus last October for three • "Attaining consistently supe­"substantial conformity with days, subsequently making rec­rior athletic achievements." operating principles adopted by ommendations to the NCAA • "Enhancing Notre Dame's the Division I membPrship." Committee on Athletic tradition of loyalty and pride." 
Notre Dame's certification Certification. which last week • "Managing effectively and process began in October 1995 ann.ounced its decision to certify efficiently the physical and when Father Edward Malloy, Notre Dame unconditionally. human resources of the depart­president of the University, "Basically, they [the NCAA] ment." appointed a 47-member commit­gave us [Notre Dame] a clean bill "This process and review is a tee to examine all aspects of the of health," Hatch said. great way for the athletic athletic department, with partic­Perhaps more important than department to be understood," ular emphasis upon governance the formal certification, howev-Hatch said. 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 19-24, 1997 Experiential/Service Learning 
Ce11ter for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 15 
sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology 
Information meeting: 

Tuesday, September 9, 7:30-8:00 PM 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 
Examine issues of diversity and related concerns 
One-credit Theology or Sociology 

Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 9, 4:15-4:45PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Environmental Issues: Clzallcnges and Responsible Solutions 

Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
Service and politica1 awareness opportunities 
One-credit Theology or Government 
Information meeting: Tuesday, September 9, 7:00-7:30 PM 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
SOCIAL

Applications Due: Sept. 11,1997 
CONCERNS 
Special Bookstore Hours  Bookstore  
Historic Campus Tour  Meet at Main Circle  
Center for the Homeless Tours  Main Circle  
Irish courtyard picnic  Morris Inn patio  
Marching Band rehearsal  Fieldhouse Mall  
Glee Club open rehearsal  Crowley Hall  
Cheerleaders and porn pons  Notre Dame Stadium  
Pep Rally  Notre Dame Stadium  
Film, "Rudy"  Cinema at the Snite  
SMC-Breakfast in the Halls  SMCdorms  
Special Bookstore Hours  Bookstore  
Marching Band rehearsal  Loftus  
Alumni Hospitality Center  JACG, North Dome  
Chearleaders and Porn Pons  Bookstore  
Alumni flag football game  Stepan Field  
Glee Club-NO in Review  JACC, North Dome  
Marching Band Concert  Bond Han  
Marching Band pre-game  Notre Dame Sladium  
Notre Dame vs. Georgia Tech  Notre Dame Stadium  
Mass  Basilica  
Candlelight Dinner  NO Dining Halls  
Film, "Rudy"  Cinema at the Snite  
7  

Basilica South Quad Men's Soccer: NO vs. Providence Alumni Field 


and convenient location. (219) '287-6797 Rooms availa~e fOl' football week,nds ~alking Distance to Not-re Dame 
Please recycle The Observer. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use:l tooks i::ught arrl sold 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


b:lbks in stock • 0.lt-of-Print Sem::h service: $2.00 
• J>wraj.sals large arrl srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 
(219) 232~8444 
Perkins" goes global with our New International Eggs Benedicts. From Cordon Bleu to Rio Grande, it's world-class taste served around the clock. Come take a taste tour today. 
For~flmKe.dumeonlyilt~opatm&re•aunrnC'I996Perlc"''ll.e~~Uf'I:Comp.ty.LP 


page4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 5, 1997 
A new look lor this old house 
The Observer Photos/Kevin Dalum 
visiting team, which has to exit its locker room at the top of the ramp and walk the length of the 
"Touchdown Jesus" is not as visible from the stadium's seats, but fans can look to
tunnel. 
the north from the new concourse to view the "Word of Life" mosaic . 


each pep rally and participate in the
Rally 
events. Students from host dorms will also address the crowd.
continued from page I "Bob Davie and his staff have taken 
new stadium. 
"That's our stadium, and I don't want that stadium to open Saturday morning to let Georgia Tech fans be there before we have," Davie said. 
Junior Matt Trosper, a member of the committee that organized the new pep rallies said that Davie "has been really involved and he's really gotten this thing rolling." 
Organizers expect 20,000 to 30,000 people to attend the rally tonight. The gates to the stadium open at 5:30 p.m .. 
"So far, the reaction has been really positive," said Trosper. "There's no problem with seating. No one will be turned away." 
Students will be seated front and cen­ter, as opposed to the past rallies in the Joyce Center where they have been in the upper levels. 
Organizers are tentatively planning to hold the first three rallies outside in the stadium and the last three back in the Joyce Center when the weather turns colder. 
"If the beginning stages get off on the right foot, look for more changes in the future when they go back into the JACC," said Trosper. 
New for this year, residence halls will also be included in the preparation. A group of dorms will act as hosts for bold steps to insure the spirit of Notre Dame never dies," said Ryan Cox, resi­dent of Alumni Hall, one of the host dorms for the first rally. "We must heed Coach Davie's call to make the House that Rockne Built the most feared college stadium." 
Another member of the organizing committee, junior Chris Utz, explained that the organizers had both students and the team in mind when planning the rallies. 
"We want the students to want to go every time, not just on the first time and before big games," Utz said. "We also want to fire up the team so it's not just something they have to do on Friday nights." 
Students have reacted positively to news of the change, but they also have concerns as well with the ability to fill the stadium consistently throughout the season after the first game's rally. 
Despite this, most students welcome the change from the crowded rallies of past years. 
"It was really annoying last year get­ting into the pep rallies with people shoving and being turned away," said senior Laura Giuliani. 
Junior Lisa Thode added, "It's a good idea, and it's fortunate now that every­body has a chance to go." 

• SECURITY BEAT 
New parking lots make room for more ND fans 
By HEATHER COCKS Joseph's lligh School offered a total News Editor of 3,300 spaces, and 900 spectators can park near Moreau Seminary. 
As if finding a parking spot during Additional spots are available football weekends wasn't already near the WNDU stations and tough enough, Notre Dame has University Village, west of campus been scrambling to make room for on Douglas Road. over 10,000 extra spaces, compen­"Historically, our traffic and park­sating for those lost to stadium and ing patterns have worked well, and golf course construction. our goal has been to maintain that 
With some help from the sur­efficiency to the greatest degree rounding area, the University suc­possible, given the substantial cessfully found enough parking increase in the game-day crowd," areas to accommodate 11,300 vehi­Johnson said. "Now. we'll see how cles, according to Phil Johnson, well our plans translate to reality." assistant director of Notre Dame Transpo buses will shuttle specta­Security/Police. tors to campus from the areas far­
"Parking and traffic considera­thest from Notre Dame. tions have been part of the stadium Buses will also run from Saint project since its inception," Johnson Mary's College, Town and Country said in a statement. "We've studied Shopping Center, and several local the ramifications both internally hotels and motels. and with the advice and support of It costs $7 to park in the new lots. local government and police agen­Johnson said, and the fee includes cies." shuttle service. 
The largest lot, holding 6,000 The majority of roads surrounding cars, is located off Juniper Hoad, campus are turned into one-way between the intersections of streets three hours prior to kick-off; Douglas and Pendle Road north of they remain one-way until one hour campus. Holy Cross College and St. after the game's conclusion. 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Stadium 
continued from page 1 
tures nor the 1996 home season would derail the construction. As many as 300 workers were on site during the project to ensure that the reborn stadium would be ready for the public on Sept. 6, 1997. 
The day has come, and it has been much antic­ipated. 
Even in 1930. when Knute Rockne first led his team into Notre Dame Stadium, game-day publi­cations reported that the "new" stadium had been designed keeping in mind a possibility of future expansion. Over the next 67 years the pro­gram grew and fan-base exploded, setting the stage for the stadium to grow as well. 
In explaining their May 6, 1994, decision to expand the stadium. Notre Dame's Board of Trustees cited overwhelming ticket demand as a primary force launching the construction's plan­ning. 
"In light of our increasing inability to meet alumni demands, it only makes sense," executive vice president Father William Beauchamp had said early in the renovation process. 
Correspondingly then, most of the additional 21,000 seats have been earmarked for Notre Dame alumni-16,000 of them. University staff, alumni clubs, benefactors, and parents of stu­dents will receive much of the remaining surplus. 
In addition to trying to leave fewer members of the Notre Dame family standing ticketless at the entry gates, the stadium's final post-renovation appearance was an equally large concern. Throughout the planning and construction 
Stadium QuickFacts 
• 
The expansion will add 26 rows and 21,915 seats to the stadium, bringing capacity to 80,990. 

• 
The Fighting Irish have played 330 games in the facility, entering the 1997 season with a record of·· 252-73-5 (.771). 

• 
Total home attendance since 1930, ~ entering the 1997 football season:~ 17,314,670. 

• 
Every Irish home game since 1973 has been asellout. 

• 
In November 1994, $53 million in tax-exempt fixed-rate bonds were issued to finance the expansion of the stadium. 

• 
Original Construction cost (1930): $750,000. 

• 
Material for the project included 240,000 concrete blocks, 700,000 new bricks, 500 cubic yards of mortar, 25,000 cubic yards of cast­in-place concrete, five miles of new handrails and guardrails-and eight and ahalf miles of redwood seating. 


process, administrators emphasized that they wanted the renovations kept within the character of Notre Dame. 
With the stadium ready to be reopened, offi­cials are more than pleased. 
"The stadium really does fit Notre Dame. It's 
not a glass palace or an art-deco piece. I think 
it's just a beautiful stadium," said University 
president Father Edward Malloy. "It's just a 
very attractive building." 
Malloy's predecessor, President Emeritus 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, agreed whole­
heartedly. 
"I've seen a lot of stadiums on a lot of 
campuses, and very often they're eye­
sores-giant lying down by pygmies," 
Hesburgh said. "But this structure, sitting 
alongside [DeBartolo Hall] and the business 
building, both of which are fairly monumen­
tal, and with the Joyce ACC right across the 
street-it fits right in." 
Notre Dame Stadium is still the House that Rockne Built, now it is just bigger. Plans called for the original stadium to remain relatively pre­served, and contractors in keeping with that request concentrated on adding only a 26-row ring around the original stadium. Purists can gain some satisfaction from knowing that beneath all of the visible accouterments, the original structure stands largely intact. 
A first glance at the exterior, however, would indicate otherwise; the stadium's changes are far from limited to additional seating. 
A new grass field and drainage system was 
installed, as were two dot-matrix scoreboards. A 
modern three-level press box -four times larg­
er than the original one -was also added. 
Concession stands and restroom facilities were 
improved and doubled in number not just to 
accommodate additional spectators but to ease 
the overall crowd. Handicapped access seating 
was vastly increased and the number of elevators 
was doubled. The asphalt parking which had 
surrounded the stadium has been replaced with 
maple, oak and birch trees and other landscap­
ing. 

Even those on the field will appreciate the 
improved amenities; locker rooms for the home 
team, the visitors and even the referees were 
doubled in size. Permanent lights were also 
added at the request of NBC. No night games will 
be held, however. The improved lighting is 
planned solely to aid television broadcasters' pic­
ture quality. 
In sum, nearly every facet of the stadium was 
improved. 
Tradition, however, was left untouched. 
The 1997 Notre Dame Marching Band will con­
tinue perform the "Victory March," the end zones 
with their new turf will still be diagonally 
striped, and Notre Dame players led by a new 
coach will continue to file beneath the "Play Like 
a Champion Today" sign on their way to the 
playing field. 
That spirit of allowing the old tradition and 
mystique to augment the new changes and inno­
vations best connects the physical stadium to the 
redesigned Notre Dame 
team that will enter the 
field Saturday. 
Let the New Era 
begin. 

• fOR THE RECORD 
'I've benefitted and this football team has benefitted from the change~·,because the energy level ..."" ........... now. is at an all-time high ~· . It's. the total package 
chaNtc­. I'm absolutely con­
U.U.V•CJV theright place.' 
Father Edward Malloy President ofthe University 
'Itisn't about football. This is 
about enabling more family, 
friends and associates to come to 
the ,and see things like the 
d Heart, the Hesburgh ,v~...u.o,.•'*i;7'' well as Notre 


for football games.' Andrew McKenna Chairman ofthe Board ofTrustees 
Tech vs. Notre Dame 6,1997 • 1:30 pm Dame Stadium 
lide!l'lia SJ7u 

------~----­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT September 5, 1997 

4AM 
Friday & Saturday 
= 







~ 2AM 
Hours may vary throughout year. 
Sunday ... Thursday 
ND, SMC, Holy Cross 


r------------------, 

--......--6.95 
LARGE 1 TOPPER 
2nd PIZZA $5 
ALL DAY EVERY DAY Some restrictions apply. Not valid w/ other offers. Only valid @ Edison Plaza location. 
Offer only good w/ current student ID. 
L------------------~ 


WINFREE FOOD 
With our FREQUENT BUYER PROGRAM. 1 point is accumulated with each order. FREE menu items are awarded as point totals accumulate. 
Valid @ Edison Plaza location for a limited time. 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page? 
N. MAIN

THAI RESTAURANT C 
s
0 
ST. 
A
L 
L

"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F 
A 
L

invite you to try world class 
X 
E
~s'\·

cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art 
j\\Gl"

that descends from primogenitor. Thai v-.\C cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, 1232-4445 1 and natural." 211 N. Main St. 
South Bend, IN 
46601 

r----------------------~
I I I I I I 
II 

There's only one thing we can do... Toga! 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
A Dillon Hall resident speaks to a television reporter during last night's rally. Students joined in chants and cheers and heard head coach Bob Davie speak about the upcoming Irish season. 
Ducks,Rabbits~rechauns 
Expen"ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 

• A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 
• 
More than 1/4 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 Come visit us at ~:~-~«;, 


North Shore Club ~~,!!; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
Students: 
Don't miss these important meetings planned by the Student Activities Office: 
Food Service Training: 
*If you plan to run a football concession stand or have food 
at an event, at least one representative of your organization 
must attend one of these training sessions* 
Thursday, 9/4 at 5:30p.m., Foster Room Wednesday, 9/10 at 5:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre 
Social and SYR Chair Training Monday, 9/8 at 6:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre 
Vendor Fair 
*Meet vendors who have products for your concession stands or fund raisers and the latest in imprinted items* Monday, 9/8 at 7-10 p.m., Ballroom 
Clubs and Organizations Meetings 
*Attendance at one of these meetings is suggested for all clubs and organizations. You are encouraged to attend the meeting which represents your group; however, if a different time works better, please attend that meeting 
Wednesday, 9/10 at 8:00p.m. (Special Interest clubs) Thursday, 9/11 at 4:00p.m. (Ethnic clubs) Thursday, 9/11 at 6:00p.m. (Academic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 4:00p.m. (Athletic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 6:00p.m (Social Service clubs) These meetings will be held in the Montgomery Theatre 
for information about these meetings or for assistance with your club, organization orhall cot.neit contact the Student Activities Oft7ce at 631-1309or stop byouroft7ce at 315 Lafortune Student Center 
Alliance 
continued from page 1 
the Committee on Relationships along with Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice-presi­dent for mission. 
"It's important that everyone understand that president Eldred is continuing the dia­logue, and that we as a College community give her time to do that," said Timm. 
Alliance members, several of whom have graduated since last year's deferment, are a prime example of the timeli­ness of the issue; they gradu­ated without any closure on the issue. Members had orga­nized a protest rally late last semester in order to demon­strate their frustration with president Hickey's decision to defer club recognition. 
"I continue to believe that this is an important step for Saint Mary's College, and I hope that president Eldred will take this issue seriously," said Alliance member Kelly Curtis. "The Alliance stands ready to serve the campus community, and we welcome the opportunity to do so from the administration." 
"I am really afraid that the student body will think that BOG is not standing behind the decision that was made last semester. I know that there are people on this cam­pus whose needs are not being met, and I will do anything possible to fix that," said stu­dent body vice-president Lori McKeough. 
As stated in The Alliance's constitution, the organization strives to provide a safe envi­ronment for those dealing with issues regarding sexuali­ty. The group aims to provide students with a safe and wel­coming atmosphere to hold discussions on sexuality. 
The group aims to provide students a physical space with a safe and welcoming atmos­phere to hold discussions on sexuality. 
According to the organiza­tion's mission statement, The Alliance looks to educate the larger campus communities on issues surrounding sexuality. create an open forum in which students freely and critically study the rich heritage of the Catholic tradition, raise the questions necessary to develop a mature religious life, culti­vate a community life which responds to the needs of women in a way that is dedi­cated to the personal and social growth and foster an appreciation of differences and acceptance of diversity. 
The Alliance contains in its constitution a policy on non­discrimination which seeks to set an example of acceptance, respect and inclusiveness for the Saint Mary's community. 
eart 
o"­
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri llam-2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun Spm-9pm 
Fri-Sat Spm-9:30pm 
211 0 L
-+--=--.A 

Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, September 9, Rockne Rm. 219 
R~-e-~ 
www.nd.eauJ-recsport 

~===================================~'~----------------------.. 

-

-~---~ ~~--~ --~ 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 5, 1997 
Each)?earfsin_de 1991, ihe Not're Dame Student Body joins together to show their school spirit bY-VV~a~lng 
"Tlie~~hi rt ,,_J .. 
' . , I 

I \\ • 
I 
' 
I 
__"___ ·-­

This Saturday, L'T;he Shirt" is even mOre important al~~e-:, 
b~gi~_a ~\~ erlt of otre ante___j 
fq ll. ~~~thls hi ·.··. by Wearil(tgi~:' 
Shirt" at the 
". Georgia Tee game. 



--~----­
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Architecture students visit Greece, create new town 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Assistant News Editor 
Unlike many other U.S. archi­tectural programs which focus on the antiquities of Greece, the group of 14 students who went to Greece this past sum­mer with the School of Architecture focused on the urban and architectural char­acter of contemporary Greek towns. 
The six students from Notre Dame and eight from abroad worked together to create a future plan for the expansion of the small-sized city of Nauplion, Greece, which is near the city Argos. 
According to faculty advisors Michael Lykoudis and Richard Economakis, the program was a success because of the hard work of the students who par­ticipated in the program, Notre Dame's first summer program in Greece. 
"I feel that it's extraordinary that all the students, from such diverse backgrounds were able to pull together and produce a design that was uniquely con­sistent." said Lykoudis. "They were able to cooperate so well and leave their egos at home." 
The program culminated with a presentation of the stu­dents' master plan for the future development of four bor­oughs on the outskirts of the present city to the town's resi­dents. 
Economakis and Lykoudis both said that they plan to complete the design of Nauplion next summer, which will be the program's second year. 
This program, Economakis explained, is the first design studio in all Greece since the Second World War that takes an openly traditional approach to city planning. It is based on the principles of traditional architecture and urbanism, as opposed to the urbanism prevalent since World War II. 
Modern cities tend towards suburban sprawl and a central­ized business district while tra­ditional cities are character­ized by an integration of living space, businesses, and recre­ational areas in each of several neighborhoods. 
The students, by planning the growth of the city with a tradi­tional scheme, hope to solve the complex problems facing the city of Nauplion today. 
This particular city was cho­sen as the area of study because of its vibrant neo-clas­sical old town. But in its pre­sent state, the town is experi­encing unregulated outward growth, creating an unattrac­tive and sprawling new town in the nearby countryside. 
The program's official report summarized the problem as "the purely financially motivat­ed, speculative nature of mod­ern urban growth, which has 
402 E.Madison South Bend 
23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) 
resulted in a serious degradation of the quality of the built environ­ment." 
Lykoudis explained that this is because of "public policy and misguid­ed political and economic attitudes." In order to expand its economy, the city of Nauplion is selling much of its sur­rounding countryside Fourteen architecture students studied this summer in Nauplion, Greece. They studied the for commer­town and designed a new more modern organization for it. 

cial develop­m e n t . Lykoudis sees this as a shame. 
"It's a wonderful place, with a pristine countryside," he said. "But some people are not thi~~~ng of what they are doing to 1t. • 
Lykoudis and Economakis pointed out the sharp contrast between the accused "modern movement" and the traditional ideal of city planning. 
"The post-war model that is taught in schools around the world is a monocentric model, a city of mono-functional 'zones,"' Economakis said. 
Such a city, he continued, is characterized by sprawling suburban areas and large shopping malls on its outskirts. 
"You have bedroom commu­nities, office parks, and shop­ping malls," he said. "Your life is spent commuting from one mono-functional zone to anoth­er." 
This description, he said, which is immediately recogniz­able as an accurate description of nearly any medium to large size city in the United States, could become the norm in Nauplion if the outward flood of development continues. 
"It would have a large resi­dential zone, a commercial zone, a cultural zone, et cetera, and you have to commute between them," Economakis explained. 
"It is a waste of time because of all the driving, and it is a waste of space because of the roads and parking lots that need to be built." 
The traditional model of a city, on the other hand, is poly­centric, containing several neighborhoods, each of which has most or all of the functions necessary for city life. 
Lykoudis explained that among the many advantages this model affords, "it has a high density, which allows for commercial viability. It also allows people to share public and private space." 
And in addition to the envi­ronmental advantages inherent in not spreading the city into the surrounding country, he added that the traditional model puts everything within walking distance of one's home. 
"Specifically," he said, "older people don't need to rely on their cars to do the things they need to do during the day." 
Economakis also pointed out that in traditionally designed cities, "crime rates are lower, because people have a clearly defined local community, and for the most part they feel that they are contributing to it." In the traditional city, he said, "people feel that they have a place in society." 
Economakis believed that this is primarily because the modern model is based on the premise that a society is focused primarily on distribut­ing and consuming. 
"Tlie modern model of the city is obsessed with the distri­bution of goods," he said. 
In modern eyes, Economakis went on, the average person is merely a "consumer," rather than a citizen, a contributing member of the community. 
"'Citizen' is a word that has become eclipsed since the zoned city came into being. Yet 'citizen' reminds one of 'city,"' Economakis said. "The 'con­sumer' only has rights. He is not thought of as having responsibilities. But the citizen has responsibilities as well as rights." 


Fun Be Money 
(AIItronics location) 



r----------------, 
~0:\...~ 
Castle & Co.

:I.,. 


Hair Designers 

"INDULGE • YOU DESERVE IT" 
A FULL SERVICE SALON 
YOU CHOOSE A FIRST CLASS CAMPUS, WHY NOT A FIRST CLASS HAIRCUT? 
Hair • Skin • Nails • Tanning A Total Mini Spa 

15°/o student discount with student I. D. 

Only minutes from campus 
1 coupon per visit (not valid with any other offers) 

272-0312. 272-8471 

Next to Marco's Pizza closed Mondays 
L----------------~ 

--~---­

----~ ~-~ --­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 5, 1997 

An Open Letter to the Notre Dame Community 
We, the undersigned members of the Notre Dame community, appreciate the intent of the "Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame." This is a truly pro-active document which calls the University community to adhere to a high moral code of conduct. We hope that this statement will inspire all members of the Notre Dame community to reflect on their indi­vidual roles in making Notre Dame a more inclusive environment in the spirit of Christ. 
We urge the Administration and the greater Notre Dame community to recognize that this is not a final solution to the issues facing the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community at Notre Dame. Rather, this action must serve as an impetus for the revision of the legally binding non-discrimination clause. 
The "Spirit of Inclusion" holds most members of the Notre Dame community accountable for their actions with regard to discriminatory activities. However, the Administration has refused to hold itself to the same standard; it reserves the right to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation "in administration of its educational policies, admissions poli­cies, scholarship and loan programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs." (duLac, p. 4) 
We, the undersigned members of the Notre Dame community, ask that the University of Notre Dame include "sexual orientation" in the official legally binding non-discrimination clause of the University. 
Signed, September 4, 1997 

Matt Griffin Student Body President 
J.P. Cooney College Democrats 
Katie Marchetti HPC Co-Chair 
Beth Nolan President, Class of 1998 
Andria Wisler SUB, Board Manager 
Clare Deckleman HPC Executive Assistant 
Ryan Cox Alumni Co-President 
Darren Kelly Alumni Co-President 
Kelly Hanratty Badin Co-President 
Kristen Quinn Breen-Phillips Co-President 
Jamie Kuhn Cavanaugh Co-President 
Greer Vespa Cavanaugh Co-President 
John Boland Dillon Co-President 
Chris Backus Fisher Co-President 
Frank Whittman Fisher Co-President 
Colleen Herber Howard Co-President 
Jill Pentimonti Howard Co-President 
Erek Nass Student Body Vice-President 
Tim Slattery College Democrats 
Karl Eichelberger GLND/SMC Co-Chair 
Frank Law President, Class of 1999 
Shannon Ball SUB, Programming Director 
Adam Ortega HPC Executive Assistant 
Alfonso Kennard Keenan Co-President 
Brian Murphy Keenan Co-President 
Peter Cesaro Knott Co-President 
Theresa Higgins Lewis Co-President 
Kathryn Bartniczak Lyons Co-President 
Siobhan O'Brian McGlinn Co-President 
Todd Manegold Morrissey Co-President 
Shane McGoneggle Morrissey Co-President 
Brett Smith Morrissey Co-President 
James Rosenbach O'Neill Co-President 
Shannon Ames Pangborn Co-President 
Mary Gillard Student Government Chief of Staff 
Allison Dobson College Democrats 
Alyssa Hellrung GLND/SMC Executive Board 
Tara Dix NASCCU, National Chapter 
Lee Hambright HPC Treasurer 
Robert Thornburg HPC 
Cynthia Serrato Pangborn Co-President 
Bridget McNicholas Pasquerilla East Co-President 
Kim Nichols Pasquerilla East Co-President 
Kim Gibson Pasquerilla West Co-President 
Mary Laflin Pasquerilla West Co-President 
Tim Fitzsimons Sorin Co-President 
Brandon Roach Sorin Co-President 
Scott Cullen Stanford Co-President 
Amy Krayer Walsh Co-President 
Deanette Weiss Walsh Co-President 
Matt Szabo Student Senator 

r-~----------------------------~-------------------------~---------------~--------~-,-.------------~----~-----~~----------------, 
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
• NEWS COMMENTARY 

ND student sees London's reaction to Diana's death 
LONDON 

In Johannesburg, paintings of the Princess now adorn the Wall of Remembrance. In Sydney, thousands-------­arc attend­ing memorial services. In Washing-ton, Chicago, Moscow, and countless cities across 
the globe, 
Dan McKillop flowers 
London Correspondent 

h a vn been ------'--­piled high on the steps of British Embassies and Consulates. 
Political figures, celebrities, and sports stars from every con­tinent have expressed sadness, disbelief and shock at the death of Princess Diana. There is glob­al anger and despair to go with the sadness. Diana's brother, Charles Spencer, issued an understandably bitter statement from his Cape Town residence. 
"This is not a time for recrimi­nations, but for sadness," he said. "However, I would say that I always believed that the press would kill her in the end." 
In Los Angeles, the few maga­zines and newspapers that actu­ally printed the photographs taken by the "stalkarazzi" who caused the accident were burned in the street. On the other side of the world, a Pakastani man who posed for a photo with Diana when she came to visit his vil­lage was found in his home, hav­ing committed suicide by poison­ing himself. The photograph was found in his shirt pocket. 
And though the entire world weeps, the tears here in London are the most grief-stricken and bitter of all. 
The famous lights of Harrod's Department Store, owned by Mohammed ay-Fayed, Dodi Fayed's father, are dark. Thousands of people have come from all over the British Isles to join the line leading to St. James Palace, where Diana now lies in state, to add their names to the Books of Condolences. 
Caught completely unprepared for the magnitude of the mourn­ers, the Palace opened a paltry five Books the day after Diana died. 
There are now 43 open to the public, and the wait to sign one remains five hours long. Floral tributes at the gates of Buckingham and Kensington Palaces number in the thou­sands, stretching in a sea of color and fragrance for dozens of yards. The overwhelming scenes at the Palaces were no less powerful Sunday, the day of the accident. 
After learning of the tragedy from my sister back on campus at 6 a.m. {and subsequent calls from friends and loved ones), I walked the length of Hyde Park to Buckingham with one of my flatmates. Britons from every walk and station of life had already come to the nation's center to find consolation and solidarity. 
The flowers had formed a siz­able semi-circle against the wrought-iron front gate, brought by young adults who had heard the news on their way home from late parties, businessmen and women headed for work, and children who had come with their parents. 
When police attempted to remove the tributes, they were angrily remonstrated by the crowd, and there the flowers stayed. Most people had the same look on their face that I'm sure I did -not quite sure why 
~==-===:===::=~~~===::~~=7==::===::=-=:=:=-=r:~=:~==::-=::~=-:==::==:===• Sunday night was palpable and 


"" G 0 L DEN 
obvious;men,women,andespe­
cially children wept openly in
BADIN HAlL 
front of the softly glowing can­dles and swaying lillies. Police on ~~ 5 H I R T horseback were
foot and on unable or unwilling to try to con­
5CH E D Ul E 
trol the broken-hearted crowd. Please call the following number to reserve your 1t was like a surreal scene h • I 9 2 I4 from a movie, reminding me of 
S I r t: -the stories and images related to Shirts may be picked up at the South Dining Hall on the deaths ofEvita, James Dean, 
Marilyn Monroe, JFK, and JohnFriday evening from 5-7 or Sunday morning from Lennon all wrapped into one. 0 I 2 There truly aren't words emo-I -• tive or meaningful enough to The shirts are $I2.00 each. describethefeelofthecitythis
week before the funeral. Most are not intent on the punishment 
S'i'f.U a.'fe '"'ltte'f ~ee~t-w.it' 'l'fU' '97 tJ~t-t'e fl-tJ#tt a.~t-d t'e 1997 
of the paparazzi responsible for 
they were there, what they were supposed to be doing, or how to concentrate enough on one emo­tion to let it surface. 
I had brought an extra candle from the Grotto with me and I left it burning in front of the Palace, though I felt -even as I was doing so -somewhat ill at ease for leaving a remembrance at the establishment that had spurned Diana so often. 
The first hours were like that, though -nobody seemed to know quite what to do, and any­thing was better than nothing at all. Deeper emotions were felt at Kensington Palace, Diana's London residence, that evening. After several hours spent coping with the situation, Londoners began to head for her home. 
The remembrances had by now taken on a decidedly more personal tone -poems, candles, photographs, collages, and even soccer jerseys adorned the gates and the walls of the Palace. 
"We have lost our shining star," declared one note. Others included "Queen of Hearts"; "Rest in peace, Diana and Dodi"; and one especially poignant, "You took care of me while you were alive. Now it is my turn." 
The grief at Kensington 
~--The Purdue Ticket Lottery Winners Are: 
11 ~~C:kets 
[Pause for dramatic drum role] 
·······au:f~s~l.l~Tr~ae 

Seasons .and Individuals

320152 320154 320157 320162 320166 320167 320168 320176 320179 320180 
11 
GNs only•Conficlential
II
320181 320202 320203 320221 320222 320240 320244 320248 320252 320253 ./ 320256320257 320260 320261 320263 320264 320265 320273 320278 320279 


234-5650 

320283 320290 320307 320308 320310 320311 320321 320333 320341 320351 
(t(:,,edute (Jit-t'e ~a.~'. rltt tette'fill-9 u dtJ~t-e ill-9tJtd /tJit. 
-----------~--~~----------~~-­

the death of Diana, at least for now. All roads lead to the Abbey, as one of the London newspa­pers said Thursday. 
The preparations for the most significant burial ceremony since that of Sir Winston Churchill in 1965 -indeed, for one of the most significant ceremonies of this century -occupies the thoughts of everyone here. 
More than two million people are expected to line the now two-mile long processional route from Kensington Palace to Westminster Abbey, which will result in crowds almost 100 peo­ple deep at every point., this despite the use of giant television screens in Hyde Park to provide live coverage for 500,000 more people. 
Five thousand journalists will broadcast the event to the far reaches of the globe, and the 2,000 individuals invited to the actual funeral service itself will include some of the most impor­tant persons in Diana's life and from our society. 
I am planning, with several of the Notre Dame students here, to camp out at Westminster Abbey Friday night in order to have a decent position for the proces­sion into the Abbey on Saturday morning. 
We are not doing this as a lark or to just be able to say that we did it-rather, we feel that our respect might best be shown to the Princess in this manner. As for any reason why this might have happened, no one can say. 
It may be a comfort, however, to believe that Diana was taken away in a time when she was happiest, with a man who pro­vided her with compassion, understanding and love. Jt is small comfort indeed for those of us who are left to remember her. 
Dan McKillop is a Notre Dame London Program resident assis­tant. He can be reached at dmckillo@JonesDay. com 



1(\\
(\\
I 
-
~­

320360 320368 320369 320372 320380 320381 320403 320406 320420 320421 320434 320439 320444 320445 320447 320474 320476 320481 320483 320484 
CI:: wants 
320487 320492 320499 320503 320507 320510 320520 320523 320524 320529 320531 320540 320548 320551 J20560 320567 320568 320570 320578 320581 

Ll.J 

Positions available for: 

320587 320603 320606 320614 320616 320617 320618 320630 320632 320636 320651 320652 320674 320675 320677 320678 320683 320684 320685 320690 The Alternates are : 320160 320210 320223 320245 320276 320291 320294 320323 320338320356 320374 320428 320437 320464 320470 320500 320528 320546 320554 320607 
*Remember, every winner can buy two tickets at the LaFortune Info Desk. Winners who have not bought their tickets by 8pm Wed. Sept. 10 will forfeit their opportunity to alternates who can then buy tickets on a first come first serve 

-------~~~~-------------------~~~-~---~----~---­
page 12 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 5, 1997 

Unleash big savings. AT&T presents the largest student discount program ever. FREE. 

Choose AT&T. And we'll give you a free one-year Student Advantage® membership. Use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors like these: 

~
uv··,. M©bil.
OMY A~ .. Greyt10ll1d
~ ~ 

MOTOPHOTO
~mo.
I'EARIEV!sHJN THEATRES ThebpnnceMakestbeD!lterenar kinko•s· Ill
~C....fll<OI'O'MO<oTh'"'I'Milr 
Choose AT&T. Get a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.htrril 
It's all within your reach. 

AT&T 

Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Residential Long Dl5tance, AT&T Calhng Card and AT&T Univer>al Card customers. © I997 AT&T 
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
•ISRAEL 
Bombs explode again in center of city, killing seven 
By HILARY APPELMAN Associared Press Wri rer 
JERUSALEM 

Three suicide bombs explod­ed within a few deadly seconds in the heart of Jerusalem on Thursday, spraying rusty nails into a crowd of shoppers and late-summer tourists on the city's main pedestrian mall. 
The blasts, claimed by the Islamic militant group l-lamas, killed sevPn people -including the three bombers -and struck a new blow to the peace process just as hopes were ris­ing for its revival. 
At least 192 people, including several American tourists. were wounded in the attack, which turned the bustling Ben Yehuda Street walkway of cafes and shops into a chaotic ni"ghtmare of broken glass and blood. The dead included a 12-year-old girl. 
The bombers apparently posi­tioned themselves outside three stores, close enough to make eye contact, and blew them­selves up within seconds of each other. 
"There were three of us talk­ing. and suddenly I heard an explosion," said Bob Helfman of Detroit, who was sitting at a cafe when the attack began. 
"I tried to get up. realizing it was a bomb. but my feet could not even support me, and I fell over. Then I heard another bomb, and everyone started running. No one knew which direction to go in." 
With sirens wailing and a charred smell in the air, rescue workers treated some victims on the sidewalk, surrounded by overturned cafe chairs and umbrellas. In a scene that has become all too familiar in Israel. ultra-Orthodox burial squad volunteers searched for pieces of flesh in the debris. 
After the blasts, Israel stepped up pressure on Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat for an immediate crack­down on Islamic militants, and sealed its borders with the West Bank and Gaza Strip. A previ­ous closure had been eased only two days earlier, ahead of the planned visit of U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright next week. 
That closure was imposed after a double suicide bombing in a Jerusalem market on July 30, which killed 17 people. 
In Washington, President Clinton denounced the latest bombings and said Albright would go ahead with her trip. He urged Arafat's Palestinian Authority to "do all it can to create an environment that leaves no doubt that terror will not be tolerated." 
Clinton called Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Thursday to express his out­rage and condolences, Netanyahu's office said. 
Israel Radio said Netanyahu 

Muslim Quarter 
.,./ 
"i)ome of \the 
OLDCITY \ 


Give Us A Minute, We'll GiveYou ABuck! 
Resource Center ATM Demonstrations* Beginning August 26, 3:00-6:00p.m. Hesburgh Library -Lower Level 
..source. 
lifiBank 

Your partners from the fi~ 
• Limit one d9monstration per person 

canceled plans for his security chiefs to meet with Palestinian and U.S. security officials, and a source in Arafat's office said Israel was refusing Arafat per­mission to travel by helicopter from Gaza to the West Bank city of Ramallah. 
The three nail-studded bombs exploded shortly after 3 p.m., when hundreds of shoppers and tourists crowded the pedestrian mall, which is lined with cafes, tourist shops, and American fast food restaurants such as Burger King and Sbarro. 
In the tumult, a toddler was rushed into the back of an ambulance. Paramedics splashed water in the face of one weeping man. Blood spat­tered the facade of the Israel Discount Bank. 
Hamas, which has carried out 13 bombings in four years of Israeli-Palestinian peacemak­ing, claimed responsibility and threatened more bombings unless Hamas prisoners held by Israel were released by Sept. 14. 
Arafat condemned the attack, and a senior Palestinian official pledged full cooperation with Israel on security matters. But Netanyahu said the already deeply troubled peace process could not go on unless Arafat 
\ 
I 
;41 
APf\Nm. J. Castello 
crushed Hamas once and for all. 
"No peace process can exist when the Palestinian Authority enables the leaders of the ter­rorists to walk around free with their arms, demonstrations and flags in cities that have become refuges for terrorists," he said. 
Palestinian authorities detained two Hamas political leaders in the West Bank on Thursday night, arrested eight activists and shut down a Hamas newspaper in Gaza, Palestinian security sources said. But the moves fell far short of the mass arrests Israel is demanding. 


-----·------~------------~-~---~--~-----~------------~-----~ 




VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Friday, September 5, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................ Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor .......................Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.................... jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager. ................Mark DeBo}' Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller.......................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . .............. Karie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame 
duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither 
instirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent 
rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediror. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Edimr, Pharo Ediror, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prCsenr rhe views of the aurhors, and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
CUA\N 9Vak£R 

General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• EDITORIAL 

Without clause revision, 'Spirit' reiDains weak 
I
n reviewing the University's recent decision to draft a "Spirit of 
Inclusion" statement that welcomes homosexuals into the Notre Dame 
community, one praise*worthy concept emerges. 
Rooted in the wording ofthe "Spiri~of Inpl~sion •." releas~~ ~y University president Father Edward Malloy last Fnday, IS t~e adtntniS· tration's clear desire to appeal to a moral standard htgher than American legal statutes. Such action is commendable. . . 
American society has always created legal standards that put a mlm­mum restraint on the liberties of the individual, that define only what a person cannot do, That's one of the greatt1Ungs about t~is country. But between what a person can do and what he should do hes a deep gulf. Simply put. the American legal code represents the minimum of what society expects of the individual. . 
In an ideal world, the "Spirit of Inclusion" -the University's expres­sion of a moral code -would be sufficient. However, the fact is homo· sexuals face discrimination; Legal codes,, while m~uttrialist, are neces­sary to support the moral codes on which they are based. 
That's why the University's decision to issue the "Spirit of Inclusion" without the corresponding legal action-the revision of the legally-bind­ing non-discrimination clause -is so disappointing. It represents a situ­ation where the University has. failed to provide the J')Upport -and failed to hold itselflegally accountable ~ to the very moralcode that it advo­cates. The ''Spirit of Inclusion" may condemn "harassment of any kind," but it fails to provide the legal deterrence necessary for realistic protec­tion of homosexuals. 
In explaining his decision not to revise the non-discrimination clause, Malloy said that to add sexual orientation to the clause would open the University up to potential challenges in civil court, where the University's definition of sexual orientation may not coincide with society's definition. 
Malloy argues that society considers the term "sexual orientation" to mean both the orientation itself and the sexual activities that accompany it; he says that because the Catholic Churc~ seE!s an it;tJportant moraldis· tinction between having a homosexui:tl orientation and engaging in homosexual activities, revising the clause might jeopardize the University's right to make policies that are in alignment with Catholic teaching. . 
If that risk exists, that's a. shame. But itis worse to allow that.risk to override the opportunity to e11-tend legal protection. t(). an often4hreat· ened section or society, as homosexuals are; · 
Legal semantics should not supercede an individual's right to a needed protection that a inoraJ·code suggests. Legal semantics should work to guarantee that protection. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A Call for Consideration 
As I graduate with honors and into a teaching position from Bowling Green State University, I look back on my first two years of college education. 
I remember fondly the hours that I spent with the women students of Saint Mary's and the wonderful teach­ing staff that the institution employed. I remember games and practices for the soccer team, the thrill! felt in being one of only four sophomores to receive a resident advisor position. I rem11mber the hours I spent reading to and visiting with Sister Helen Patrice through the Adopt-A-Nun pro­gram. 
Of course. the challenging yet excit­ing classes are vivid in my mind, as well as the thrill of being promoted into junior standing with honors. Then my memories turn to the ortice of financial aid, a real thorn in my side throughout my stay at Saint Mary's. I remember several unpleas­ant visits with the Saint Mary's finan­cial aid office and the true sadness I felt when I was forced to realize that I would financially not be able to return to Saint Mary's. 
When I reflect on my two years at Bowling Green, I cannot control my smiles. As at Saint Mary's, the teach­ing faculty and student population that I encountered were wonderful. Surprisingly, however, even those working in BGSU's finances were nothing but kind and helpful. lsn 't this ironic, that in a state institution of over 16,000 students, we were all respected and treated as important individuals -even by the financial office? 
If I recall correctly, when I was looking at post-secondary schools as a senior in high school, one of the big marketing points for Saint Mary's was the individualized attention. The fac­ulty and staff "really work with stu­dents" to try to understand their situ­ation. That marketing scheme turned out to be a real farce when it came to the office of financial aid. The finan­cial aid office did not work with me at all in trying to find financial alterna­tives for funding my stay at Saint Mary's. 
I received a teaching position in Ohio (the exact area I desired) in April. Many education graduates in Ohio must substitute teach for a sig­nificant amount of time, relocate out of state, or otherwise sacrifice to get a full-time job. I was hired by one of the highest paying districts in the state. It seems that almost everywhere I go people realize my dc£;1ication to that in which I am involved. People also real­ize all that I have to offer their orga­nizations and groups. 
Everyone, it seems, but Saint Mary's. 
I am sorry for Saint Mary's missed opportunity. I can assure you that I mince no words when sharing my financial story with the people that I encounter. I wish the best to the stu­dents and teaching staff of Saint Mary's, but I assure you that I will never recommend Saint Mary's to anyone. I would never want anyone to grow as attached to a wonderful school as I did, only to have the opportunities ripped from underneath them by some emotionless individuals in the financial administration office. 
I hope that the existing attitude in the financial aid office at Saint Mary's is not concurrent with the one that I encountered two and three years ago. I hope that the current students at Saint Mary's are enjoying all that the great school has to offer, without liv­ing in the shadow that I did. Perhaps, in your free time, you can call BGSU's oflice of financial aid to see how they pleasantly meet the needs of their many students. 
Emily Albrecht July 9, 1997 

• DOOI\IESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
TJ.I/5 Kit?~ /XX)'I/5!ill//!Y 
pUTJIIS~,at./P~ ~CWifA:)(IJ(fANie 8A11Y. I RGtJRIWI'PCAt.t.. HIS otPMAN ANt:' ASKRiR A #lOt 000fltl/1?&1?.~ ff-8. 
"'-,,Ali~~ 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Wonders never cease as long as you never cease to wonder." 
-Ziggy 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, September 5, 1997 page 15 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Money is the Name of the Game at Notre Dame 
Subtly embedded in tomorrow's foot­ball game is the root of modern-day Notre Dame ... money. When NBC bought the Irish rights for about $1 mil­lion per game, the era of big money at Notre Dame was officially baptized by Father Beauchamp. And as we inch toward the millennium, the campus betrays the many monuments of a Notre Dame marching as a big busi­ness. 
This year is the first in many that ticket prices for students and the gener-
Gary Caruso 

al public have not been increased. Some attribute the expansion of 21,000 seats as the primary factor. However, season ticket holders were offered a "deal" to guarantee their rights for the next decade. Instead of contributing the mandatory minimum of $100 per seat to the athletic building fund (a fig­ure which had not increased in several years), season ticket holders could lock in their seats for the next ten years by contributing a mere $1,000 per seat. 
Let's estimate that about one quarter of the old stadium's capacity (14,769) was held by season ticket holders. At $1.000 per seat, the University could have received almost $15 million. However, let's also conservatively antic­ipate that half of the holders did not have the good sense to lock in their tickets. So assume that NO only received an additional $7 million this summer from season ticket holders for the athletic building fund. 
Add to that amount an additional 
21.000 seats (the University's official count according to the July 15 football ticket lottery letter sent to each alum­nus} at $32 each, and NO will receive $672,000 per game in increased rev­enue. That totals to over $4 million per 
• ON THE POLLEN PATH 
season just from new ticket sales. At 70,000 general admission seats (exclud­ing student seating), the University should make $2.2 million per game or $13.4 million this season. 
But those ligures are just the begin­ning of the many twists of the football money saga. The July 15 lottery letter listed the actual number of ticket requests for five of the six games this year. It seems that these live games rank on the all-time demand list of ND ticket requests, placing in live of the six top slots. This year, USC, Michigan State and West Virginia rank in the top three respectively. Last year's Ohio State game ranks fourth, and this year's Boston College and Georgia Tech games rank fifth and sixth in all-time demand. The number of requests range from a high of 57,048 requests for first place USC to sixth place Georgia Tech at 43,408. 
Alumni are now allotted 31,769 seats per game. {Can anyone explain why this is not an even number?) For the USC game, 25,279 more requests were received than available tickets. At $32 per ticket, the University held almost $809,000 (for this game only) for about three months before issuing refunds. Let's see, a 90-day CD has how much of an interest rate? 
Using the figures of the five games published in the letter, Notre Dame held 78,827 requests which subse­quently had to be refunded, for a total of $2.5 million. On the other hand, the University accepted 158,845 requests for those five games. In other words, for five of the six games this year, 237,672 requests were made by alumni who submitted a total of $7.6 million, $5.1 million the University permanently pocketed from the alumni lottery. 
Some would suggest that a focus on the handling charge added to each application might attribute significant sums to the University. It is harder to estimate how many games on the aver­age each application might include, but the number of ticket requests should be divided in half to account for the limit of two ticket requests per game. 
Let's now estimate that ~very alumni request listed four games on the form. 
Using the numbers for the five games above, the number of applications received would average around 30,000 {discounting Navy altogether). At about $15 per application, the University should receive some $450,000 in non­refundable handling fees. Don't forget that those 30,000 alumni also must contribute at least $100 on average to the annual fund for the privilege of receiving the ticket application ... netting an additional $300,000 to the University. 
Thus far, the list of receipts men­tioned in this article for a Notre Dame football season totals about $30 million. Add such items as preferred parking at $20 per permit and lot parking at an average of $6 or so, food and souvenir concessions, football programs along with other trinkets, and the scope of a football "event" becomes quite clearly enormous. Then add the bookstore "fare" to the mix, and many crazed Irish fans will leave campus much lighter in the wallet. 
Money in itself is not bad. Father Beauchamp's financial genius is a strength of the University. Some, like my grouchy classmate, rant incessantly about the rapid growth of what he calls "the insensitive commercial zeal on campus." He insists that so much emphasis is placed on money, that the vision of the University's leaders is tainted enough that educational goals ultimately become secondary. 
My friend points to the fact that he gave several thousands of dollars to Notre Dame during his younger years when dollars were worth more but never receives recognition today for that sacrifice. Now that he has a fami­ly, he figures that he could save money by not contributing to the annual fund, but instead, come to the games of his choice and buy tickets at scalpers' prices. His famous quote about the new stadium seating is, "The only thing that the new seating will do is reduce scalpers' prices from an average of $80 to $60 per game." 
His other observation is that letters for money and "good news" are always signed by a real person while bad news comes from "committees" or "offices." 
Case in point, the July 15 lottery letter is signed, "University of Notre Dame Ticket Office." On the other hand, new parking instructions and informational letters that accompanied the football tickets are signed by real people like "Lawrence Cunningham." He asks, "How can we hold an 'office' account­able for policy matters?" 
Mr. Grouch has a final observation about how money affects the alumni lottery. He insists that he has broken the computer system. According to his theory, quality points are assigned by age, societal status and amount of con­tribution. Sarin Society members receive tickets to each game for which they apply. However, their seats are not ideal locations for the more impor­tant games, while they are fantastic for the lesser games. 
Non-Sorin Society alumni are rotated every other year so that an application for four games will "win" two or three games one year and only one, or maybe a shutout, the following year. He swears that his relatives who also grad­uated from Notre Dame are "victims" of this system, currently reaping the bumper year of the cycle as opposed to their "shutout" famine of 1996. 
My friend has "outsmarted" the com­puter this year. He only applied for the Georgia Tech game. He won those tick­ets, so maybe his theory does not have its roots in the money levels of giving. On the other hand, I applied for four home games and two away games, only to "win" one game. The tickets are in a very good location, but I need to figure out the quality scheme of the computer ...or follow the money path and rejoin the Sorin Society. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years and is now Director ofExternal Communications with the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached by e-mail at dchottline@hotmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and are not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 

Benefits Outweigh Cost of Renovated Stadium 
On the way to DeBartolo for class this week. I couldn't help but notice the array of construction workers fin­ishing up the grounds of the newly ren­ovated stadium in preparation for Saturday's game. The first game in the stadium this year is also the first game of a new season and the first game for Bob Davie. 
Kyle Smith 

All these firsts have most people around campus pretty excited, but I am still hearing murmurs from a small group of ignorant whiners who think that the $50 million spent to renovate the stadium was a frivolous waste of money. This notion is ridiculously shortsighted, and I am sick of hearing it. 
If the money spent to renovate the stadium bothers you, consider this: over the next 30 years, the revenues on the bonds for the stadium will gen­erate enough money to allow the stadi­um to pay for itself. In addition, these bonds will generate another $4 7 mil­lion for academic purposes. This is just the money from the bonds and doesn't even begin to include all the revenue from the 21,150 additional tickets sold for each of the six home football games a year or all the money each of these people will spend on con­cessions, merchandise or at the book­store. 
Alumni contributions to the University generate an enormous sum. In the new stadium, twice as many alumni tickets will be available (16,000 to 32,000). I know that if I was an alum, I would be a lot more likely to give, and give in greater amounts, to the University if I had the opportunity to come back to campus each year to see old friends and attend a football game-wouldn't you? 
Besides the economic aspect of the renovation, I've heard complaints that lately it seems as if the administration puts more emphasis on football than it does on religion or academics. 
Writer and scholar, Joseph Campbell, once proposed that an outside observer can tell what principles form a society by noting the tallest building of the place. 
For example, during medieval times the cathedral was the tallest building in a town, but by the 17th century, political palaces reigned above all. Now, in modern times, office buildings and banks dominate the skyline. According to Campbell, this demon­strates the progression of Western civi­lization from its emphasis on religion to government to economics. 
What, then, are the informing princi­ples at Notre Dame? The highest point on campus is the tip of the cross mounting the spire at Sacred Heart Basilica {234 feet). Second highest is the top of Mary's head on the Dome {212 feet), and third is the Hesburgh Library (21 0 feet). The height of the renovated stadium is just 115 feet ­less than half the height of the Basilica. 
Thomas Schlereth, a Notre Dame archivist and historian, suggests that the location of the campus buildings is also a factor in their relative impor­tance. The Dome and the Basilica are both centrally located, yet the stadium is far off to one side of campus. According to Schlereth, the University officials in the 1800s purposefully located the Dome and the Basilica in such obnoxious proximity to each other in order to dramatize Notre Dame's mutual dedication to the mind and the spirit of its students. 
With the renovation of the stadium, Notre Dame boasts three structures which are recognized and revered across the nation. 
The Basilica represents dedication to the spirit, the Dome represents dedica­tion to the mind, and now the new sta­dium represents rededication to the body. This is not a detrimental shift away from religion and academics toward athletics, but rather a rededi­cating to the spirit, mind and body of the students. 
Notre Dame is consistently ranked in the top 20 academically of all colleges and universities nationwide, and at few other institutions are students more dedicated to religion than at Notre Dame. In fact, South Bend has the highest per capita concentration of masses on Sunday than anywhere else in the world. And just this spring, Sports Illustrated ranked ND second only to UCLA in the number of students who frequently participate in athletic activities. It is precisely this tripartite commitment to learn, pray and even exercise as a community that sets Notre Dame apart from any other col­lege. 
Though the stadium has undergone some massive changes, it has not been set apart from Notre Dame. Every facet of the renovated stadium indi­cates that the underlying wholeness of the University has been preserved. 
Bricks like the ones used to build DeBartolo and COBA were used to build the new outer walls of the stadi­um, and these bricks permanently encase the tradition of the old stadium within the to-be-written tradition of the new. In addition, the lights are low and discreet and don't detract from the classic architecture of the stadium. Also, the view of Touchdown Jesus has been preserved, and in fact, I would contend that with the portals in the upper-reaches of the stadium and the second-story walkway around the sta­dium that the view of all of the campus has actually been improved. 
As a parting thought, look up at the name on the stadium as you enter tomorrow afternoon. It doesn't boast the name of a Reisman Trophy winner or a championship winning coach, rather it reads: University of Notre Dame. 
The stadium and the football team are most definitely not frivolous expen­ditures, but rather an integral part of the Notre Dame community as a whole. During the week we learn, on Sunday we pray, and on Saturday ... we play football. 
Kyle Smith is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. His col­umn appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. 

ACCENT
page 16 Friday, September 5, 1997 

A GLANCE AT GEORGIA TECH 
THE FIGHT SONG 
Georgia Tech "Ramblin' Wreck" 

I'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech and a hell ofan engineer, A helluva, helluva, helluva, hell ofan engineer, Like all the jolly good fellows, I drink my whiskey clear, I'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech and a hell ofan engineer. 
Oh, ifI had a daughter, sir, I'd dress her in White and Gold, And put her on the campus, to cheer the brave and bold. But ifI had a son, sir, I'll tell you what he'd do. He would yell, "To Hell with Georgia," like his daddy used to do. 
Oh, I wish I had a barrel ofrum and sugar three thousand pounds, A college bell to put it in and a clapper to stir it around. I'd drink to all good fellows who come from far and near. I'm a ramblin ', gamblin ', hell ofan engineer. 
THE ALUMNI 
tTFormer President Jimmy Carter; 
tTFormer Undersecretary of Defense Edith Martin; 
tTJohn Portman, architect; 
tTRon Allen, president and CEO of Delta Air Lines; 
tTJohn Salley, professional bas­ketball player, Miami Heat; 
tTDick Truly, former head of NASA; Nancy Jan Davis, first astronaut ever to fly into space with a spouse (Mark Lee); 
tTKary Mullis, winner of the Nobel Prize for chemistry. 




ACCENT
Friday, September 5, 1997 page 17 

The Rudy Horror Piuture Show~ 
By JOEY CRAWFORD Accent Editor
' L 
et's do the time warp again." A common refrain from the "Rocky
Horror Picture Show" wil be replaced tonight by quite possibly the more recognizable Notre Dame Victory March. Rudy will take center stage -or shall I say center screen -minus the drag of 
course, to kickoff a new era in Notre Dame history. The film based on the real life account of the famed little man conquers all, Notre Dame alum Rudy Ruetteger, will show tonight at the Snite Theatre at 7 and 9 p.m. and also Saturday night at the same times. 
The film will be shown in celebration of Bob Davie's new head coaching career as well as the opening of the new and improved stadium. It is also commemorates the only game Rudy ever played here at Notre Dame, when he squared up against the mighty Georgia Tech Yellowjackets. The movie, however. will be presented in a much different format from what had been previously available at the 9 p.m Friday show. According to Ted Mandell, a professor in the Communications and Theatre Department and creator of the Rudy Rally, "The format is geared to get the audience more involved and not be so passive." 
Passive is defintely not how the audience will be. Following the first Pep Rally in the stadium, fans are encouraged to come to the Snite Theatre to enjoy some free entertainment with the family favoirte "Rudy" -with an interesting twist. Fans are encougraged to dress up like their favorite Rudy characters to possibly win free Cinema at the Snite passes. Fans are also encouraged to recite lines from the movie and even cheer out loud if the feel­ing so possesses them, in much the same fashion as the famous cult classic, "The Rocky Horror Picture Show." Spectators will not be taken to Transylvania but to Rudy's humble beginnings in Joliet, Illinois, to his now legendary years at Notre Dame. 
There will be some very special guests at the Rudy Rally as well. The Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Department has asked some of this year's walk-ons from the football team to join them in this bash. There is also the possiblibility of some other surprise guests, but the COTH depart­ment is being very secretive as to who it may be. 
So come out tonight and enjoy the festivities and celebrate another great year of Notre Dame football in a most unique fashion. 



By JOE WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
F
or all of you who are bound and determined to scoff this weekend's festivities in an attempt to prove to your parents and friends once and for all that you did not come to Notre Dame for the football game, there are a few alternatives with which you can occupy yourselves. 
Hardly second rate alternative material, seven mary three brings its alter­native tunes to the Heartland Dance Hall at 222 S. Michigan St. in South Bend this Sunday. For those of you unfamiliar with the band, 7M3, an Atlantic recording artist out of William and Mary, got its first big break after selling stores out of their first major album, CHURN. From that point they went on to open for such bands as Live and Matthew Sweet. 
Most well known for its radio-friendly hit, "Cumbersome," 7M3 will be bringing a type of grass roots alternative style with it to Heartland this Sunday. Following in the tradition of Pearl Jam in the same manner that Oasis does the Beatles, they range from mellow, heavy tones, likes those found in "Cumbersome's" droning melodies, to grungy, upbeat tunes with just a bit of funk, like their less popular but still very happening "Rock Crown." 
Also appearing at Heartland will be the nationally recognized Nixons, who will be opening for 7M3 along with Soak and Ceilophane. Doors open at 6 
p.m. for the general admission show. Tickets are $12 in advance and are available at all Ticketmaster locations and at the Heartland Box Office. Tickets are also available the night of the show for $15. For m,are informa­tion, call Heartland at 234-5200. 
-
:~ 
-
-~­

., ' 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 5, 1997 
•MLB 

Helling fans 12, hands Toronto 7th straight defeat 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Rick Helling struck out a career-high 12 in 8 1-3 innings, leading the Texas Rangers over Toronto 6-2 Thursday night and sending the Blue Jays to their seventh straight loss. 
Rusty Greer drove in three runs and Tom Goodwin went 3­for-4 with four runs scored as Texas won its third consecutive game. 
Helling (2-1). who hasn't had a complete game since May 1994. allowed seven hits and walked one in sending Toronto to its longest losing streak since a eight-gamer in 1995. Benito Santiago chased him with a ninth-inning homer, and Scott Bailes finished up. 

Cris Carpenter (1-7) gave up five runs -one earned -and six hits in five innings. 
Carpenter hurt himself with a first-inning error that led to a run. and errors by shortstop Tomas Perez and third base­man Tom Evans led to three more unearned runs in the third. 
Goodwin started the game with a walk and went to second when Carpenter's attempted pickoff bounced in the dirt and deflected up the first-base line. Greer singled one out later to put Texas ahead. 
Goodwin singled in the third, then ran on a pitch and reached second when he kicked the ball out of Perez's glove. Greer hit an RBI single, Juan Gonzalez reached on a throw­ing error by Evans and Lee Stevens hit a two-run double for a 4-0 lead. 
Shannon Stewart hit an RBI double in the bottom half, but Carpenter threw a run-scoring wild pitch in the fifth. Greer's RBI groundout made it 6-1 in the seventh. 
Orioles 5, Yankees 2 
Rick Krivda pitched six ef­fective innings before Baltimore's bullpen took over, and the Orioles remained per­fect against the Yankees this year with a 5-2 win Thursday night that increased their AL East edge over New York to 7 1/2 games. 
Jeffrey Hammonds hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the seventh inning and a solo homer in the ninth as the Orioles ended a five-game los­ing streak. New York has lost four in a row and seven of eight, but still leads Anaheim by six games for the wild-card spot. 
Baltimore improved to 5-0 against the Yankees. The Orioles were only 4-14 against New York last season, including a five-game loss in the AL play­oft's. 
The Yankees began a stretch in which they play Baltimore eight times in 11 days. 
Owner George Steinbrenner met with manager Joe Torre before the game, seeking re­assurance that New York wasn't conceding the division title to the Orioles, then watched David Wells (14-9) lose before a crowd of 39,770. 
Mike Bordick and Aaron Ledesma doubled and Berroa hit an RBI single that put the Orioles ahead 2-1 in the third. Curtis' sacrifice fly tied it in the bottom half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Student Chauffer needed for one round trip to Toledo Saturday morn­ing, Sept. 7. Good pay. 
Contact Beth at 703-519-9300. 
Tami's Typing Service. 
Will P/U & deliver. 
256-9850. 
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast 
home. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE 
Football weekends 219-674-0270 
SEASONS INN Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of all sizes. Spacious lots available. Reserve Now 219-674-0270. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
Room Available Georgia Tech 
9/5&9/6 Hampton Inn $140 nile 
Responsible Adults Only Call: 
Sarah (219) 634-4003 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lose a set of keys to room 407? 
ask Carlo at x1862 
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION 
SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY 
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST. 
JOSEPH LAKE ON ND CAMPUS. 
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER 
OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR 
CALL 
631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY. 
Seniors! Did you lend a hat to a 
random stranger at camping out 
last Tuesday? To claim a (well­
worn) white "PA, Andover Squash" 
hat, call Amber, 634-3719. 
WANTED 
Blind Student is hiring readers. 
Biology/Chemistry 
experience preferred. 
Call Tim at 4-4681. 
95' Alumni need many BC GA Tix. 
246-0849-ask for Kristin 
! ATHLETE'S DREAM! Have you always wanted a pro ath­lete's income? Rapidly growing health and nutrient co. is expanding locally. No phone interviews. 271-0912 ext 10 
STUDENTS! Want to make 1-2k average monthly? Expanding International sports nutrient co. Looking for motivated students looking for flexible hours. No p;hone interviews. 271-0912 ext11 
FLY 4 FUN! If you enjoy working with people, love to travel, and enjoy earning top $$ call 243-4946 
SPORTS MINDED? 

Are you into the health & fitness fields? we're looking for team players to help with our expanding company. 243-4947 
Student Assistant to the Computer Systems Mgr. The Graduate School 
Position requires extensive Macintosh experience, preferably in a computer cluster. Knowledge of MacOS, Word, Excel, Eudora, Web, FileMaker, PageMaker, and PowerPoint helpful. Work 15-20 hours per week. Pay: $9,000 academic­year stipend, or hourly rate. 
Apply by September 15. Send cover letter and resume to Doug Franson, Mgr., Technical Support, 612 Grace Hall, 631­4662, dfranson@nd.edu 
BABYSITIER WANTED FOR ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES $40.00 PER GAME. CALL 233-9728 
WANTED: Lead guitarist to join set 5 piece band. Need at least 5 years experience. Call Shane: X1879 
Need 2 GAs for Mich St & USC Call Jaret 233-5620 or Eric 4-0872 
SELL ME YOUR CRAPPY BIKE, call john x-4197 
BABYSITIER Needed during GA Tech Game. Tailgate with family, watch 2 daughters (2 & 5 mo.) during game. Call Matt or Sue. Day 614-469-3605, night 614­263-9761. 
The National Youth Sports Program is looking for site coordinators for its after school program beginning October 1. Please call 1-9782 for more information. This is a paid position. 
Driver wanted to transport 4th 
grader between school and 
afternoon activities each Tues. 
and Wed. Female preferred. 
Contact D. Bennett at 631-8298 
or bennett@nd.edu. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
$195/PERSON 
232-2595 
IT'S NOT TOO LATE­A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is still available to rent for the fall semester. 2 full baths, washers and dryer, huge rec room, security system. Call now to take a look 277-0636. 
Bd & Brft all football weekends 
near campus call 219-272-5989 
QUIET, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD! 
PRIVATE 3 ROOM FURNISHED 
APARTMENT 5 MILES FROM 
CAMPUS. NO SMOKERS OR 
PETS. UTILITIES PAID BY LAND­
LORD. 257-8521 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND 
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 
243-0658. 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 
1-800-418-9487. 
NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD AREA NORTH OF ND CLOSE 2773097 
ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097 
FOR SALE 
Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic Mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225.00. 219-862-2082. 
USED TEXT BOOKS FOR SALE ­30%-40% DISCOUNTS. PANDORA'S BOOKSTORE 808 HOWARD STREET 
86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires, exh, alter, brakes. $2200 abo. Chris x1512. 
Contemporary lakefront home for sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre, $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­888-225-RUTH. 
1993 Honda Sports Coupe Book Value $8900-Selling for $6000/0BO. 5Sp,Air,Tint,AIIoy Whls,Viper Alarm,lnfinity6Spr w/12Disc Changer. Taking Best Ofr by 9-15. Must Sell! Rob243.9277 
89, Jeep WRANGER, Green. V. Clean. Like New. $4800 Or B/0 88,Chev Astro. V.Good Coond.$2999 Or B/0 86,Toyota Corlla, 4Drs.Great Cond. $2099 Or B/O.Ca\12773254. L.Mess. 
matching comfy CHAIRS:$35 each 
or $60/pr SPEAKERS: Technics 4 
way, 160w, 8 ohm, $40 call Sean 
x1904 
88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi.. 
Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio, 
air.cond., new trans.. and good 
exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­
5610. 
LAWRENCE A COLLECTABLES 
STORE AND SPORTS MUSEUM 
Decorate your room, den, office. 
Notre Dame items -jerseys, pro­
grams, pins, etc. Sports and movie 
celebrities' autographs. Photos 
matted & framed. Early 1900's 
equipment -bats, gloves, hockey 
sticks, game-used shoes, etc. 
Downtown Mishawaka 
109 LWE 
257-0039 
BUY AND SELL 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND 
HOME GAMES.272-6551 
Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. 
Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259­
1731 or during the day 
(201)316-4117. Leave message. 
NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS 
CALL AMY: 616-473-5825 
Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC 
or USC.243-9028 
WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC 
Family visiting-will pay big bucks 
for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028 
NEEDED: 1 Georgia Tech ticket Will pay$$! Call Brian 4-1680 
I NEED 4 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN ST. CALL MICHELLE AT 4-2377 
HAVE TIX ALL GAMES-TRADE OR SALE MIKE 612-937-2247 
Looking for GA's to Any & All ND Games! Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game for LSU. Call 634-4872 
WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 634-4196, LEAVE MESSAGE. 
I HAVE 2 GA TECH GA'S Looking to trade for 2 Mich. St. GA's, or any other GA's. Call Dan x1881 
HELP! Need 2 tickets (stu. or ga) for Georgia Tech. Kelly 4-3738 
!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!1!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!!1!111!!!!!1!1 
Selling 2 GT tix. Leave best offer at (402)341-9406 or (402) 345-2177. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
GA and married student tickets for sale, call 273-4372. 
2 GTech GA's 4 Sale Call4-4115 
I need GA Tech tickets x2854 
Exchange 2 Michigan State 
tickets for 2 USC 
If interested, call Stephanie 
at 284-5050. 
NEED MICH STATE TIX 
WILLING TO PAY 
CALL 634-0893 
Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a 
pair of USC, Michigan. or Stanford 
tickets to trade. 
Call901-755-4273. 
Married student ticket for sale 271­
1715 after 7pm 
Looking to buy 1 Ga. Tech ticket. 
Call Chip@ 634-3101. 
I have a BIG Irish family 
I need tix 
home & away 
GA & student 
call 273-9249 
NEED TO TRADE: I have 4 W.Va's and need 4 for Navy. Call Connie at 243-2794 
NEEDED: Two Michigan State 
GAs. Will Pay $$$$. 273.5056 
Need 2 GT tix 
Call Rob 271-6005 
Need GT stud tix 
call Doug 243-2615 
Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to 
G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to TRADE for Mich. St. and USC so can bring family with\ Call Casey 289-3349 
Two married student tix for sale. 
271-1568 after 6pm 
I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST. 
CALL JIM AT 634-3985 
2 Married Stu. Tickts. All Gams Or 
1by1. Call277-3254l.Mess. 
Tickets for sale. 234-4681 
Need 2 GaTech Gas. Will pay top $. Call Matt xt-4378 before 5 or 232-0550 after 5. 
FOR SALE GA tix for GaTech, BC, and West Va. 287-1449 
Have BC & USC or$$ To trade for MSU tickets. Call 243-4743, ask for Meaghan. 
2ND GA's To All Home Games For Sale. Call 243-2173 
Sale 2 GA's for GaTech 287-3181 after 7 pm 
G-Tech GA's for sale 273-1997 
I sell three student ticket booklets, $199 for each~ (You need an ID!) Call ASAP 634-4465 
NEED MSU, LSU TIX FOR SALE BC GA'S CALL AN X2855 
Will trade Navy GAs and$$ for BC GAs John X4928 
I need GA's for MSU, BC, and UMich. Call Nikki @ 634-2367. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
BUYING BUYING BUYING 
N.D GAONLY 
SEASON TICKETS 277-1659 BUYING BUYING BUYING 
GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929 
Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. 
Call 234-5650. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 
ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia Tech and/or the Michigan State game!!! Please call Amy at 81 0-355-9140. 
I have BC GA's. Will trade for any game but WV. Call Jill ( 440)779-9691. 
I NEED USC AND BC GA'S CALL DAVE@ 634-4905$$ 2 stud tix for sale. all home games. Call4-3313 
ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 
MARRIED STUD.T.BOOKS FOR SALE. 283-0920 
Need 1 Mich. St. ticket Call Dave 4-2055 9/4-9/6 
PERSONAL 
FREE FACIAL & MKOVR wl Mary Kay Call Margrette 2845099 
MEMORIAL AIDS QUILT COMING TO CAMPUS VOLUNTEERS NEEDED IF INTERESTED CALL 
ERIN AT 4-3857 
CLASS 
OF 
1998 Pick up the OFF CAMPUS DIREC­TORY outside the '98 office door (213 LaFort.) limit one per apart­ment or room. 
Hey LITTLE Ortiesta brother HAppy 20th! 
ST JUDE NOVENA May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored and glorified, loved and pre­served throughout the world, now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St Jude, Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St Jude. Help of the Hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times a day. By the eighth day your prayer will be answered. Publication must be promised. It has never been known to fail. Thank you, St Jude. 
ATTENTION: GAY, LESBIAN, and BISEXUAL STUDENTS, 
FACUL TV jind STAFF: 
New Year, New Night, New 
Leadership, New Attitude!!!! 
The ORIGINAL campus group 
will hold it's first Info Meeting on 
Wed. Sept. 1Oth, ?PM 
Our first Support Group Meeting: 
Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM 
Call 236-9661 for details! 
Drummer looking for bandmates. 
Call Jim at x-0677 
Billy Joel or Spain? Billy Joel or Spain? Hmmm ... 
Hey Section 29, Rows 40 and 41­It's almost game time. 
need tickets for Mich. St. and USC. Call Chirs at 4-1003. G.A.s or stu­dent tix are OK. 
I need tix too. Student or G.A. Call Michelle at 4-0562 if you have extra Navy or West Va. Thanks. 
Finkelmeyer...gane time means 
Boot time ... let the party start! 
It's good to be back in the magic 
land where doors open by them­
selves, discussing callipygiates, 
trombones, and, yes, even the 
occasional math major with my 
favorite stress-balls and drunks. 
lit's either sadness or euphoria. 

.J 

r---------------------------------------~~---~--------------------------------------­
A sPECIAL INVITATION 
Announcing the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r-----:1 
r-----, r-----, 
r-----,
1l0°/o OEF 1 I $47 ~· I I $55 .. I I $60. I I .~···.~I
: "" 4;"~~ t\~ : : .~o!o~;c~~~~1sJ:•:,: I "'Hihtes& I
designing I ;A%Retail I 1 ~p.e'Process 1 ~~~~~~ 
I .. I ,&_Style I Crtt& Style I

I ' I
and L _____ .J L_ _____ .J 1L _____ .J1 I I L-----.J
building. 
•Please call to schedule your appointment. 
Friday, September 5, 1997 
• GoLF 
Controversy surrounds Ryder Cup team picks 
By RON SIRAK including second place at the Associated Press Writer British Open, made the biennial team competition between the 
Nick Faldo and Jesper United States and Europe for l'arnevik were added to the the !irst time. European Ryder Cup team "It's the same thing as 1995," Thursday even as Miguel Angel Faldo said from his Florida Martin pushed forward his home. He failed to finish in the threat to sue to reclaim his spot top-20 in any of the four Grand on the squad. Slam events that year yet went 
The two captain's picks by on to be a Ryder Cup hero. Snvn Ballesteros gave his team "Winning the Hyder Cup then an intimidating player with a made it a great year." load of experience and one of Ballesteros also pointed to the the hot players in the world. European victory in Rochester, 
Martin, meanwhile, refused to N.Y., in explaining the selection abandon his effort to get back of Faldo. the spot stripped from him and "II' I had to bet my life on given to Jose Maria Olazabal on someone playing the last hole, Tuesday when Martin said his Nick Faldo would be my injured wrist was not yet ready choice," Ballesteros said at the for play. European tour stop in 
Martin has appealed to the Switzerland. 
European Ryder Cup committee "We have to remember what 
and said he would go to court if happened at Oak Hill two years 
that failed, as it almost certain­ago," Ballesteros said. Faldo 
ly will. won the last three holes to 
"We are informed it is very defeat Curtis Strange 1-up in a unlikely that an injunction (to crucial match as the Europeans stop the matches) would be suc­took the Cup by a half point. CPssful," Ken Schofield, execu­"Nick opened the door for us tive director of the PGA to win the Hyder Cup," European Tour, said Thursday. Ballesteros said. The Ryder Cup begins three Parnevik was also an obvious weeks from Friday. pick because of his great play 
Faldo, who had his worst year this year, but there was some ever in the four major champi­concern Ballesteros might skip onships, will play in a record him because, unlike Faldo who 11th Hyder Cup, breaking the is also playing full time in the mark he shared with Christy United States, Parnevik has not O'Connor Sr. Parnevik, who has maintained his membership on eight top-five finishes this year, the European PGA Tour. 
0 0 
.sign up at 

Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. Career and Placement You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and 
we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
on 

We hope to see you soon.
9/8 (Monday) o 9/9 (Tuesday) with 

The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• TENNIS 
Australian revives tradition 
By STEVE WILSTEIN two years ranked 68th and Rafter paid homage to the Associated Press Writer 62nd as he struggled with Australian champions who injuries -began in February preceded him and who have NEW YORK in Australia when he came helped him so much as he's 
Patrick Rafter, spearhead­back from two sets down to overcome wrist and ankle ing a revival of Australia's beat Cedric Pioline in a problems the past two years proud tennis tradition, thrilling, five-set Davis Cup and a shoulder injury more reached his second Grand duel. recently. Slam semifinal this year That victory, coming right "They re.<J.Ily are idols for a Thursday at the U.S. Open after Rafter lost in the first lot of us," Rafter said. "They with a classic attack remi­round of the Australian Open, were like gods when we were niscent of his famous men­made the 24-year-old realize growing up. Then when you tors. he could beat top players. A meet them, it's great to see 
Rafter's 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-2 month later, that feeling was they're just like regular guys. victory over Magnus Larsson reinforced when he reached It's great to have the Aussie bore all the hallmarks of the the final of a tournament in guys in your corner. Hochey great players of Australia's Philadelphia, where he will give me a call, or Newk past, from John Newcombe to pushed Pete Sampras to three will give me a call, just to talk Rod Laver, from Tony Roche tough sets. about things and help me to Ken Rosewall to Pat Cash. Rafter would reach the fi­along if I'm going through a 
The link between the long­nals of four other events, rough patch." haired Rafter and those falling each time in close Rafter, who beat Andre champions is evident in his matches against excellent Agassi in the fourth round, serve-and-volley style, his players, including Michael faced few rough patches powerfully sculpted legs, and Chang in Hong Kong and against the baseline-hugging the pleasure he takes from Carlos Moya two weeks ago Larsson. Though the wind the game -even down to on Long Island. played havoc with balls for a clowning a bit at match point At the French Open in June, second straight day, Rafter's as he did against Larsson. Rafter reached his first Grand relentless net attacks follow­
Roche is Rafter's tutor at Slam semifinal before losing ing backhand slices allowed the major tournaments these to former champion Sergi him to cut through the days, and Newcombe has Bruguera in a fourth-set breezes. been talking to Rafter about tiebreaker. "It was very tricky. very strategy and desire in an Coming into the U.S. Open, hard to hit your shots and put effort to build his confidence Rafter had already achieved the ball where you want to," and see him fulfill his his year's goal of cracking the Rafter said. "I played pretty promise. For Australians, top 30 -he was seeded No. well under the circumstances. their lost dominance in the 13 -and his victory over You just go with your sport is seen as something of Larsson will put the Aussie strengths, what you think is a national challenge to re­into the top 10 when the next working well. I felt my slice cover, and they are banking ATP Tour rankings come out was working well." on players like Rafter and next week. Larsson was certainly im­Davis Cup teammate Mark "I was thinking about that pressed, comparing Rafter to Philippoul!sis to reclaim it. on the court," Rafter said. Stefan Edberg. 
Rafter's emergence this "All the dreams, all the goals, "He's really athletic, moves year as a championship con­all the things I've worked well at the net, and it's hard tender -he finished the past for." to pass him," Larsson said. 
-
For Students, and Families 

OM PAGNA 
presents II UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALLII 
6 Monday Seminar topics:Evenings, 7·9p.m. Offense, Defense, starting the Kicking Game, September 15th Demonstrations Jordan & Particpation TOM PAGNA Former Offensive Backfield Coach 
-

for Reservations Call Sponsored 219/233·3486 by Home F $SO 
Management Service~---...._.e_e_:--fJIIII'~ 
• NEW CLIENTS ONLY • 
Ad must be presented to receptionist beforf! services are peiformed (Certain restrictions apply) 

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the nght to refuse serv1ce to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires September 30, 1997.
resume and bid form for Ford Motor Company 

A1'1.IASALON 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive • South Bend, IN 46615 • Tel. 219-289-5080 
Information Technology Interview 
u

~~ : ~ !: : . ; I ~ !~ ~ II II~~~~~~ ; ~ 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 5, 1997 
•MlB 

Sanders leaves Reds, joins Cowboys 
National League 


KROC SCHOLARS International Peace House 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press Writer 
CINCINNATI 
Deion Sanders is going back to the thing he does best -cover receivers -on a full-time bases this weekend, unsure whether his latest fling with baseball will be his last. 
The Cincinnati Reds have given Sanders permission to end his season after Friday night's game against Pittsburgh so he can be with the Dallas Cowboys full-time. 
Sanders intended to play baseball during the week and football on weekends through the end of the month, but a bulging disc in his lower back made it impossible to do both effectively. The travel also was taking a toll. 
"It gets tough emotionally more than physically, to tell you the truth," Sanders said Thursday. 
• NFL 
in this last round. Florida


Rookie QB to start for 'Niners 
and Montreal wound up with 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SANTA ClARA, Calif. 
The San Francisco 49ers will start a rookie quarterback Sunday for the first time since 1979. 
Then, it was Joe Montana. On Sunday, it will be Jim Druckenmiller. 
"I've always been a little ner­vous before I start a game but

-
it's always a good feeling," said Druckenmiller, who will start at St. Louis in place of injured Steve Young and his backup Jeff Brahm. "If I'm not nervous, I'd get worried." Young needs another week to recover from a concussion, his third in 10 months, and Brahm 
Alexzandrea BARRAU Mioara DEAC 
-Dalia HAJ-OMAR Edward HUNT Monica HURTADO Ekaterina MORYAKOVA Glenna OBERLADSTATTER David REYES Ithai STERN Jason SUBLER 
Tara AZIZ Michael DEEMER Elizabeth ERBAUGH Krista ERICKSON Helena HOFBAUER JIAN Yi Akanksha KELA Tilla McANTONY Julia MELNICHUK Anne MONOGHAN Shushanik PAPANYAN Krisztina TIHANYI Ingeborg TVEITEREID 
Sanders, the outfielder, was in the starting lineup Thursday night against Pittsburgh, four days after Sanders, the defen­sive back, played against the Steelers at Three Rivers Stadium. Sanders returned a punt, got knocked on his head and aggravated his sore back during a 37-7 victory in the Cowboys' opener. 
Sanders turned 30 on Aug. 9 and has been limited since mid­August by the bulging disc, which required two cortisone injections. He sat out baseball last season but returned to the Reds this spring under an unusual contract arrangement. 
The Reds permitted him to leave once they were eliminated from contention. The club also could give Sanders permission to play football full-time if it was not in the middle of the race. 
General manager Jim Bowden spoke to Sanders on Wednesday and gave Sanders the option. lie 
hasn't practiced this week after chipping a bone in his throwing hand as well as having prob­lems with his lower back. Both were injured in San Francisco's opening 13-6 loss at Tampa Bay, a game that also saw the 49ers lose wide receiver Jerry Rice to a season-ending knee injury. 
"We're all going to miss Steve. We're all going to miss Jerry, a lot of things," said Druckenmiller, the team's first­round draft pick out of Virginia Tech. 
"But we've got a game to play and that's the main issue right now. We need to attack that. Hopefully, I can fill in some shoes and hopefully a lot of other players can pick it up 
• Fort de France, MARTINIQUE • Cluj-Napoca, ROMANIA • Kartoum, SUDAN • Boise, Idaho, USA • Bogota, COLOMBIA • Tashkent, UZBEKISTAN • Innsbruck, AUSTRIA • Santa Maria, California, USA • Jerusalem, ISRAEL 
We give students a break!

Berne, Indiana, USA
• 

• Erbil, Kurdistan, IRAQ • Mansfield, Ohio, USA 
%

Boston, Massachusetts, USA
• 

Northbrook, Illinois, USA
• 

Mexico City, MEXICO
• 

Beijing, P.R. CHINA Bhopal, INDIA 
• 
Off 

• 
All Salon Services and Haircare Products 


Nairobi, KENYA
• Adult Haircut reg. $9.95
Kharkov, UKRAINE 
• 
• 
MasterCuts R8GIS H€~~s PFIUL Mnu-iELL. HBAHIAN
Co. Fermanagh, N. IRELAND 
• Yerevan, ARMENIA I MasterCuts I family haircutters
Zalaegerszeg, HUNGARY I 
*Location &Phone

• I I Great Haircuts. Great Prices. I
Sannidal, NORWAY Guaranteed . 
I
• 

chose football. "We just let him know from the club's standpoint we would 

tops third round 

not stand in his way from going 
to play football full-time, given 
By RONALD BLUM his situation and given our situ­
Associated Press Writer 

ation," Bowden said. Sanders, who has a base 
NEW YORK salary of $1.2 million, will not 
The National League came be paid for the time he misses. 
out the big winner in the first There is a mutual option for 
season of interleague play, next year at $2.5 million, but 
beating AL rivals 117-97. Sanders is not sure whether he 
Both leagues, however, will play baseball again. 
won at the box office. Sanders is going through a 
Interleague games averaged divorce and is trying to get cus­
33,407 fans, up 20.02 per­tody of his children, ages 6 and 
cent from the intraleague 

average of 27,800. summer works against his 
3. Playing baseball during the 
"It brought new levels of chances. 
excitement," acting com­"Right now, that's a factor," 
missioner Bud Selig said Sanders said. "I must be in a 
Thursday. "There was a cer­stable place.... That carries a 
tain clement of electricity in lot of weight." 
the air." Bowden is one of Sanders' 
Playing mostly at home in biggest fans -he named one of 
the third round of inter­his dogs "Prime Time" -and 
league games, which ended would love to have him back. 
Wednesday, the NL drubbed the AL 53-31. NL East teams were the most dominant, go­ing 24-6 against the AL East 
baseball's best interleague

around us." 
records, each going 12-3. 

Coach Steve Mariucci said 
''I'm too superstitious to 

Thursday that Young, whose 
say anything," NL president

neurologist recommended he sit 
Len Coleman said Thursday.

out this week's game, would be 
"I've still got a World Series 

inactive at St. Louis. Brahm will 
ahead of me." 

tape his injured middle finger 
Familiar names headed the 

and receive pain-killing injec­
statistical categories.

tions so he can back up 
Seattle's Edgar Martinez had 

Druckenmiller on game day. 
the top interleague batting

The team Thursday signed 
average at .475 (19-for-40).

former University of Utah quar­
Eric Karros of the Los 

terback Mike McCoy to serve as 
Angeles was tops in homers 

the third quarterback. Center 
with 10, and the Giants' J.T. 

Steve Gordon was waived to 
Snow led in RBis with 20. 

make room for McCoy. 
But interleague play also 

"This is what we were lean­
ing toward, what we thought was going to happen," Mariucci said. "We just wanted to make it official on a certain day and today is the day. 
provided some surprises. Hoger Clemens, 20-2 with a 
1.65 ERA against AL teams, went 0-3 with a 4.24 ERA against the NL. 
"It doesn't matter what league you're in, if you leave the ball out over the plate, you're going to get hit," Clemens said. 
Anaheim had the worst in­terleague record at 4-12, with Philadelphia and Toronto only slightly better at 4-11. The World Series champion Yankees, 74-48 against the AL {a .607 win­ning percentage), went 5-10 against the NL. 
"The only time I like inter­league play is in October," Yankees manager Joe Torre said Thursday before the start of a four-game series against AL East-leading Baltimore. 
The main complaint voiced by players was having inter­league games in September, when contenders were con­centrating on the stretch run. The first two periods of inter­league play were June 12-18 and June 30-July 3. 
"I understand that, but I kind of like it the way it was," said Selig, one of in­terleague play's chief advo­cates. "The attendance was spectacular, the television ratings were very good all over, radio was heightened. But the biggest thing was that it was a major factor in redirecting the focus back on the field." 

The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies welcomes its new graduate students in the M.A. Program in Peace Studies 
HESBURGH SCHOLARS 
l!::::======~=~============================:::!J• No double discounts. Valid for your entire family. Present coupon and student I.D. Expires --97. SX6
L-----------------------------------------------------------­
page 21 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE.  
.•  And don't worry about the time or the distance. If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T One Rate. Free. You'll also get a free one-year membership to Student Advantage®-the largest student discount program ever. • AT&T One Rate: only 15¢ a minute on calls from home-to anybody, anytime, anywhere in the U.S.  - 
• Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~Tower Records® and Amtrak~  
Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate and a Student Advantage membership. FREE. Call 1-800-878-3872 or visit www.att.com/college/np.html  - - 

It 's all WI"th.1n your reach. 





AT&T 

Student Advantage offer vahd for AT&T Res•dent1al Long Dst.lnce customers. © 1997 AT&T 
-
.. 


.-­~------­
I I I 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 15, 1997 
Funeral halts English sports events 
BADIN CENTENNIAL COFFEE TABLE BOOK 
Chronicles 100 years of Badin Hall 

This book is acollection of memories and PhotoeraPhs from past residents of Badin Hall. Books are beine sold in the South Dinine Hall on Sunday mornine 10-12. Order forms maY also be Picked UP at Badin Hall. The books are $35.00 each. 
JNTRODUCt.S... 
A NGW SIASHJ BAR 
"Sushi is an ancient Japanese culinary tradition and art form-one that we are proud to continue, right here at Martin's. Prepared fresh daily right before your 
.............__.=~---~:eyes, sushi is unique, healthy and delicious! We offer several varieties of sushi including 
the California Roll (with shrimp, avocado cucumber, and spicy sauce), and the Vegetarian Special (with cucumber, avocado, 
and carrot) to name a few. A not-so-raw fact about sushi is that the word means 'seasoned rice'. The rice, blended with 
fish and vegetables, is wrapped in a delicious sheet of toasted seaweed (nori) and sliced into bite sized pieces. It can also be
-easily prepared for vegetarian tastes." 
){){){){){){){){~J{){){){){){){){){){){){){){){){~J{){){){){){}{){}{){){}{}{}{){){~J{~}{}{){~J{}{}{ 

Many options and sizes are available, such as the Traditional 



Ne-nr

Caesar Salad, the Broiled Chicken Caesar, and the Shrimp Caesar, all available with The Works. 


Caesar

\ 
Create your own salads to your own taste, boasting 
with fresh veggies, crisp romaine, tasty chicken or 


Salad

shrimp and freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 
--
in our Martin's Super Market store located at St. Road 23 and Ironwood, South Bend 
• BOXING 

Love and war for Scranton fighter 
By ED SCHUYLER JR. the $3,000 cake, so big it will Associared Press Writer take two days to make. Mills' first four pro fights The bridesmaids will wear all ended with first-round tuxedo jackets and shorts. victories and lasted a total of Not at the wedding! At the 4:19. fight Holloway. the Ohio Golden 
The five women will display Gloveschampion, is 1~5, but the round cards when groom as promoter Don Elbaum Chris Mills fights Wednesday pointed out: ••An of his wins nightin Scranton in the fea-as a pro are by knockout." tured bout of a promotion Elbaum has put together billed as "The Boxer & The this type of fight before. He Bride." once bought a cake and the 
Bride Sandy Yarbrough will wedding gown and had the cheer for the man she'll ceremony performed in the marry two days later and cut ring after the groom had a 7-by-7-foot wedding cake won. . after Mills fights Wayne ''1 have to tell you," Holloway~ Each fan will get a Elbaum said. "They're piece. j;tc _ d! 
diVor­
"I never used to he a fight: ._.. > ()n Qi;casion, 'he fan, bu.t I've grown to like it.;;. -p1a · apj:l)mp Yarbrough said;}'I would . s.i:Q .aj$t~ never tell him not to fight. Ift:· 'le,.but the he likes it>l'U support him.'' esaid the 
Love is grand. For the 29· man ofbe allowed to year-old Mills, so is boxing. land. 
"lt's my whole life," said 4,;'Whatare the going to do, Mills~ a latecomer to the :blast hhnout of the sky?" sport•who has a 4-0 record wQ,ndered Elbaum, who as alightheavyweight. tall~dQffthestunt. 
He's billed as "Scranton's . In 1~65; Elhlmm was in­ComingWorld Champion." . !'Mvc:>Jved Wi~Jl a fight in "Thti town is very, very :··r ····· ~;, featuring the exCited aid Mayor Jimmy ·· Ray Robinson, in ~· Conner ho will serve as 9f.his care~r~ At the ring announcer at the '<l:J:Un(!beon~. Elbaum pre~ CYO and sing or· song or two. sente4.toRobinson the gloves "This is one of the best towns he supposedly wore in his in the world." pro debut in Madison Square 
A crowd of 3,000 to 4,000 Garden in 1940, fight fans is expected to at· ''Ray was choked up and tend, and they might not (his wife) Millie was crying," have to wait long to sample Elbaum said. 


• IN MEMORY OF DIANA 
Associated Press 
GLASGOW, Scotland 
Saturday will be a sports­free day in Britain while the nation pays respect to Princess Diana. 
There will be no pro soecer. the big cricket final has been postponed for a day and all horse racing had been can­celed. 
The Scotland-Belarus World Cup qualifying game became the latest event to join the side­lines in tribute to Saturday's funeral in London. On Thursday, soccer's internation­al ruling body agreed the game could be put off until Sunday. 
In New York, British tennis star Greg Rusedski will wear his black ribbon in the U.S. Open semifinal. And, in France, Olympic champion rowers Steve Rcdgrave and Matthew Pinsent will compete, although their thoughts will be with Diana. 
Rusedski, Hedgravc and Pinsent are competing abroad and can't expect organizers to reschedule their events. 
"Yes, it is a very difficult sit­uation," said Hedgrave, a four­time Olympic gold medalist. "Obviously we will carry on up to our capabilities but our thoughts and hearts will be what is going on as well. 
"One of the main reasons is that there are other crews we are racing against arc racing two events and there is no way we can put raees onto Sunday. It wouldn't be fair to them." 
Rusedski, aiming to become the first British player to reach a US Open semifinal in the Open era, has been wearing a small black ribbon on his ten­nis shirt since he heard of Diana's death in a ear accident in Paris early Sunday. 
The eventual postponement of the Seotland-Belarus soccer game happened after public fury and the withdrawal of three star Scottish players. 
Ally MeCoist, Gordon Durie and Andy Goram said they would not play. And, after pressure from Prime Minister Tony Blair. the Scottish Football Association agreed to ask FIFA to delay the game until Sunday. 
SFA chief executive Jim Farry at first insisted the game proceed Saturday as sched­uled. On Thursday. he fought off calls for his resignation. 
"I am still angry. as is the whole of the nation. at the way this has been handled by the SFA," lawmaker Jimmy Hood said. "If this is not a resigna­tion issue, then what the heck is a resignation issue with the Scottish FA?" 
Donald Findlay, vice chair­man of Seotland's most pow­erful club, Glasgow Rangers. demanded an inquiry. 

Friday, September 5, 1997 



0MPUS 
1\111NI5TRY 
--~----------~ 

-~---~ ---­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
Dear Alumni &Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Georgia Tech Football Weekend September 6 and 7, 1997 
Saturday Vigil Masses ­
Basilica 30 minutes after game Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
-

Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
Sacred Heart 
-

Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, 
9:30 & 11:00 am Keenan-Stanford 12:00 noon 
... 

(Chapel of the Holy Cross) 
-
...... 
i 
lI 
~~ 
~ 

l ~ 
l 
1 
I I I I 

I 
I 
I I I I I 
I 
1
I I I 
' 
I 


---~ ~-~~------­
-
---·-~----~ ~-~------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS 
• AUTO RACING 


Earnhardt cleared to race 
By HANK KURZ Jr. 
Associated Press Writer 
RICHMOND, va~ 
A "migraine-like event~! probably caused Dale Earnhardt to fall asleep at the wheel of his race car last weekend, a doctor who per­formed tests on the driver said Thursday. 
Or. Charles Branch of the neurosurgery department at Bowman Gray Medical Center in Winston-Salem, N.C., no· tified NASCAR that he has cleared the seven-time Winston Cup champion to race this weekend. 
''The episode last weekend in all likelihood was a peculiar form of a migraine;. like ev!lnt that caused a brief period of altered mental function," Branch said. 
He said the incident also could be the result of a small bruise on the brain from an earlier incident. 
In last Sunday's Southern 
500 a~ Darlington, ~;q;,Earnhardt twice fell asleep at the wheel while waiting' for the race to start. He then wrecked on the first lap and had trouble finding his way back to pit road. 
Branch's clearance came after Earnhardt underw t four days oftesting at two pitals: The results . .. reviewed by specialists at two other hospitals, then sent to the circuit's headquarters in Daytona Beach, Fla. 
NASCAR said Branch and 

-
Earnhardt would answer questions about the tests at 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. 5 ON 5 PLUS GOALIE REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER II
-
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITID TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631--61 oo 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
-
Classes Begil). Monday, September 8
-
10 Sessions ottMondays & Wednesdays 6:30-7:45 av Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Registration Fee is $12.00 Call631-6100 for more Info 
www.nd.edul-recsport 
the track Friday. 

"The doctor told us he didn't see any reli n why he couldn't t{l.ce. . at's. good enough for ·...· . NASCAR spokesman Kevin Triplett said. "He knows more about it than we do." 
Ernie lrvan, who was nearly killed after crashing in 1994. then returned amid some con­cern last year, said it's a tough position to be itt;· 
''I was in the same position of having to have a doctor say it was all right, and that's not a fun deal because that doctor is just looking at it as a doc­tor:· Irvan said. "He's not looking at it as your livelihood. racing for a ~h{l.t),lpionship and everything fha,t .goes along with it." · · · . ·}tt. 
At the sam{:! ti.fue, Itvan said he knows Earnhardt won't be foolish. 3' 
'Tm sure he had all the doc~ tors check him, He doesn't 
· want to race if he thinks he'll put anyone})] er. Life is too valuable(\ . •.. said..... 
·· ·· Earnhardfhas started 537 consecutive rac¢s; the second· longest streak in stock car racing's premier series. Terry Labonte has started 560 straight. 
The driver own as "The lntimidato 70 career ···· Winston .desk· hut 
ill••hasn'tW · Purolator · ·· 500 in Atlan a. ......... . year. 
On Wednesday, Dale Earnhardt Jr. said he'd gone dove hunting with his father the day after the race in South Carolina and his father seemed Hm,t•,mq;;;;;.,,,........ 
"He caught his usual," he said. "To do that, his eyesight would have to be at least neat•perfect. That's some· thing I really paid attention to." 
Earnhardt has long been known for taking cat naps while sitting in his car waiting for repairs or for a race to begin. So when he nodded off before. the start of the Southern 500, no one in his pit paid much attention. 
They became suspicious, though, when Earnhardt fell asleep a second time. But by then, the drivers were being ordered to start their engines, and Earnhardt fired up the car and drove away with the r~stofthe field. 
On the first lap, Earnhardt's Chevrolet Monte Carlo slammed into the concrete retaining wall in both the first and second turns. Earnhardt failed to respond when car owner Richard Childress called him on the radio sever~ atti!nes, and th(l driver also couldir~t find the entrance to pitroad. · 
When Earnhardt finally came over the radio, he apol~ ogized for seeing "two race­tracks." 
Earnhardt finally pulled over and was lifted from his cat !J.ke a.rag doll and taken first to the infield care· center, then to a nearby hospital. 
Tests there were negative, and he was released the next day. He had more tests Tuesday and Wednesday upon his return to his home in Mooresville, N.C. 
Friday, September 5, 1997 
• Nfl 
Patriots linebackers land blows, stiff fines 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
NflW England Patriots line­backers Tedy Bruschi and Todd Collins were fined $7,500 each by the NFL Thursday for hits on San Diego Chargers quarter­
back  Stan  Humphries  last  
Sunday.  
The  Patriots  beat  the  

Chargers 41-7 and II u m phries separated his left, non-throw­ing, shoulder. 
Besides the dislocation, Humphries took a helmet-to­helmet shot from Bruschi and a forearm beneath the chin from 
Read The 0 bserver 
t s goo 10r you.
"I ' d .c '" 

Collins. Bruschi's hit split Humphries' lip. 
Chargors coach Kevin Gilbride said Monday he didn't think the hits were cheap shots, but he changed his mind and appealed to the NFL. 
"l didn't want to get into it at that point {on Monday)," Gilbride said. "I tried to do it the right way and send film dips to the league. 
"At least it sends a message, and hopefully it will encourage some additional sensitivity to some of the hits he has been subjected to. In that respect, I'm delighted." 



Diamond Price Quotations 246-1939 1-888-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diantond Authority®
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
.­
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

Be the most fanatic fan wearing Champion product and you could instantly win a fabulous Champion "prize pack"! 




FREE Jacket! 

Look for winning sticker 1n your program. 
WIN,• 
ALOHA SWEEPSTAKES 

Win an all expense paid trip to the ND vs. Hawaii game in Hawaii. Includes airfare, hotel accommodations, tickets to the game and Champion prize packs. 
Please stop by the Hammes Bookstore or Varsity Shop for program details. 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Phone: 631-6316 

... 
l 
; 
wl 
..,_ 
I I I I 
-1 I I I I I 
I 
-
I ' ' 
' 
I I "· 1 ' 
' 
-


page 26 

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 5, 1997 
•MlB 

Basement dwelling Tigers mix-up pennant races 
.r 
-
I I 
~ 
on Dave Hollins' double and Hill didn't allow a hit until league orientation" during the came home on Garrett the fifth, when the Tigers current six-game homestand. Anderson's grounder to first. scored their lone run off him. Pitchers Francisco Cordero,
Salmon made it 2-0 when he "Unfortunately we lost, but Dave Borkowski, Claytonled off the fourth with a drive the only time I have control Bruner and Brian Powell;high into the left-field upper over things is when I'm in the infielders Rob Fick and 
deck. The Angels went on to game," Hill said. "We needed Alejandro Freire; and outfield­load the bases with one out, this game. Seattle won and we er Gabe Kapler participate in but DiSarcina hit into a dou­don't have too much time." all pregame activities, but sit ble-play. Notes: Salmon's two-homer in the stands during the Erstad drew a two-out walk game was his second of the games.... Anaheim's Tonyin the fifth. then Salmon made year and 11th of his career.... Phillips was 0-for-3 with two it 4-0 when he hit his 28th The Tigers have brought up walks, ending a 12-game hit­homer just out of Brian seven of their top Class A ting streak. His career-best 
Hunter's reach in left-center. minor leaguers for a "major was a 13-game streak in 1994. 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS Public Welcome... Grand Opening of ... 
Irish Courtyard 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football weekend fun!" 
• 
Grilled Burgers & Brats • Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
Cold Beverages • All under a Large tent 

• 
Big Screen T.V.s • Fri. 3:00pm-1 O:OOpm 

• 
Music • Sat. 9:00am-7:00pm 


Dining Room Cocktail lounge 
• Casual Dining Serving • Sandwich and Appetizer 
Daily, Breakfast, Menu Available Daily Lunch, and Dinner 
• Popular Campus 
• Reservations 
Gathering Spot Recommended 




Rudy Rally! 
{ a pep rally and movie . . . I for the little guy ) I 
This weekend's kickoff to I the Bob Davie era is against I Georgia Tech, the only team Rudy I ever faced on the gridiron. I
CELEBRATE the reunion with a 
I
Friday night 
I

post-pep rally, Rudy Rally. 
I

DRESS UP like your 
favorite Rudy character I and win FREE Cinema At The Snite I passes. Recite lines from the movie I during the screening, I 
CHEER out loud, 
I

and meet some of this year's 
I

walk-ens from the 
I

Notre Dame football team. 
I Friday Sept.5th, 9:00 p .m. I Cinema at the Snite I sponsored by ND Communication & Theatre I admission free I 


Associated Press 
DETROIT 
While Detroit may be a few years away from pennant con­tention, they want to have a say about who's playing this October. 
Tony Clark hit a game-tying three-run homer in the eighth inning and Bobby Higginson singled home the winning run in the 11th as the Tigers over­came a four-run deficit to beat the Anaheim Angels S-4 Thursday night. 
"It just goes to show you no one's quitting in this club­house," Higginson said after the Tigers, coming off two vic­tories in three games at Atlanta, won for the fifth time in seven games. 
"This is our little playoff series coming up: California, Seattle, Baltimore, the Yankees," Higginson said. "There is a chance for us to make a difference in the stand­ings. These games aren't meaningful for us, but they're meaningful for the other teams and we want to show we're just as good as they are." 
The loss was the third straight and sixth in eight games for the Angels, who fell three games behind first-place Seattle in the AL West. 
Higginson's two-out single off Pep Harris (2-4) scored Deivi Cruz, who reached on first baseman Darin Erstad's throwing error. 
Erstad's throw pulled short­stop Gary DiSarcina off the bag at second after Cruz attempted to sacrifice pinch-runner Juan Encarnacion to second. After a failed sacrifice and a strikeout, Higginson singled up the mid­dle. 
"It was a curveball that stayed up and he stayed back on it and hit it well," Harris said. "It's tough to lose a game 

like this at this time of year when you're in a pennant race." 
Todd Jones (3-3), the last of four Tigers relievers, pitched a hitless 11th to cap four score­less innings by the bullpen. Detroit relievers have allowed just two runs in their last 22 1­3 innings, an 0.81 ERA. 
"Everybody is just picking each other up and that's what it's all about," Jones said. 
"Our bullpen's been as good as any in baseball lately," Tigers manager Buddy Bell said. 
Tim Salmon hit his 27th and 28th homers to help stake the Angels to a 4-0 lead in the fifth, and Ken Hill left with a 4­1 lead after giving up just a run on three hits in seven innings. 
"I think we kind of lulled them to sleep a little bit, and a lot of that had to do with Ken Hill," Bell said. "We don't hit Ken Hill very well." 
Damion Easley and Higginson singled to lead off the eighth against Mike Holtz, and, after Easley stole third, Clark lined his 30th homer into the left-field upper deck. 
"I thought I could at least get a sacrifice fly," said Clark, who has three-run homers in each of his last two games. "I was just fortunate to get some­thing I could handle." 
Holtz said Clark hit a hang­ing curveball. 
"I left it up in the zone," he said. "When you do that, the big guys are going to get it. Hindsight's always 20-20, but it's a situation where maybe I should've done something dif­ferent." 
Salmon went 3-for-5, with a solo home run in the fourth and a two-run homer in the fifth. He scored the Angels' first run when he led off the second with a single, took third 

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 
360° Stadium Theater 

• 
Training Center • Locker Room 


• Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions • Strategy Clinic 
• Bowl Games & National Championships 
• Great Moments 
1.800.440.FAME 
(1.800.440.3263) 
http:/Icollegefootba/l.org/ Exit 77 off1-80/90, Downtown South Bend 

-
------~~----------------------~.-----------------------~------------------------~--------------------------------­
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 27 


Men's NSCAA/Umbr~?\~Soccer Poll 
Rank Team 
···:·:·;fflbki=~w== 

1.. Florida lnternatigHal 2.:0;;;0 4 2. Maryland 2-0-0 13 3. Indiana 0-0-0 5 4. UCLA 2-0-0 3 5. St. John's o.:1-o 1 
6. Creighton 1-0=1 "'!:'' 17 7. Rutgers 1-0-0 10 a. Portland 2-0-0 
9. Wake Forest 1-0-0 
10. Boston University 1-0-0 11. American 1-0-0 12. Penn State 1-0-0 18 13. Southern Methodist 1-0-0 8 14. James Madison 1-0-0 15 
15. Rhode Island 0-0-0 16. Clemson 1-0-0 20 17.. Washington 1-0-0 6 
18. NOTRE DAME 0-0-1 19. Virginia 0-1-0 2 
w20. George Mason 1-0-0 21. Duke 1-0-0 23 22. Cornell 0-0-0 23. Butler 1-0-0 24. Syracuse 1-0-0 25. Air Force 1-0-0 21 



Howe attempts comeback 
By HARRY ATKINS was vying for a playoff spot. Howe last wore a minor Associated Press Writer "When some negative re­league jersey in the spring of sponses from the league came 1946. That autumn, he began AUBURN HILLS, Mich. in, we called Syracuse and a 25-year career with the Gordie Howe is at it again. said, 'This is not a good time, Detroit Red Wings. After a The 69-year-old hockey great this is not for us,"' Howe said. brief retirement, he joined the wants to play one game with a "We've found this (Vipers) Houston Aeros of the now­minor league team, allowing organization to be a win-win defunct World Hockey him to have competed profes­thing. They've done everything Association, playing with sons sionally in six decades. we wanted here." Mark and Marty. He finished 
Howe will skate one shift The Vipers, who won the his career back in the NHL in with the Detroit Vipers in their Turner Cup championship last 1980 after the league Oct. 3 International Hockey season, will open camp Sept. absorbed the Hartford League home opener. Howe 12, but Howe won't be there. Whalers. said the cameo appearance He said he would train at a Howe scored 801 goals and would fulfill a longtime dream rink near his home in Traverse had 1,049 assists in 1,767 NHL of his wife, Colleen, who City, Mich., and skate with the regular season games. He won accompanied him Thursday at Vipers perhaps a time or two, the NHL's most valuable play­a news conference at The just to meet the players. er award five times in an Palace. "This is not going to be the eight-year span and led the 
"This not a comeback," said Gordie Howe of old," Howe Red Wings to four Stanley Cup Howe, wearing a Vipers' said. "I am not going to run championships. sweater -with his familiar the beach or roller blade During those glory years, No. 9 -over a white shirt and through downtown. All I want Howe was considered the tie. "I want to make it clear is one shift, to realize a greatest hockey player of all this is only for one shift. dream." time. Is there a concern this Colleen wanted this, and I do, Howe said his wife got the return might tarnish that gold­too." idea after seeing the Chicago en image? 
Howe tried to accomplish the White Sox arrange a similar "No, no," Howe said. "What feat last season, but the cameo for outfielder Minnie tarnished my image was the Syracuse Crunch of the Minoso a few years ago. amount of money I made. I got American Hockey Association "Sports is not just games," as much money in four years canceled plans for his April 1 Mrs. Howe said. "It's really at Houston as I got my last 18 appearance because the team show business. Right?" years in Detroit.'' 
• SPORTS MEDIA 
Albert's plea for dismissal dismissed 
By ANNE GEARAN ber of the grand jury that He faces up to life in prison if Associated Press Writer indicted him managed the pros­convicted. ecutor's election campaign. Albert sat silently and held ARLINGTON, Va. The NBC sportscaster is hands with his fiancee, Heather 
A judge rejected Marv charged with forcible sodomy Faulkiner, during the three­Albert's claim Thursday that and assault and battery in a hour hearing. sex charges against him should Feb. 12 attack on a Virginia He left afterward without be dismissed because a mem-woman. making any comment. 
Rankings through Sept. 1. 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 32 
year in favor of Notre Dame as the teams play at Alumni Field. In the last seven seasons, the men have won 75 percent of games played in South Bend. 
Providence. who finished ninth in the conference overall last year, has lost only three starters. Andy McConville, an all-rookie selection last year, is a top contender in the midfield, and senior forward Juan Acevedo will lead the offensive 
The ObserverfTom Roland 

campaign for the Friars. Also returning is goalie Daniel Pires, who has an impressive saves percentage of .829. 
The one factor that remains a main focus during this game and throughout the season is a more aggressive offense. 
Forward Andrew Aries said, "We need to work on goal scor­ing and finishing the game. We had opportunities to score against Indiana and we came up short. Another aspect that needs some improvement is shots on goal, as we have not had enough to make the offense truly successful." 
David Wade 
A brother with the Community of "Family of Mary Coredemptrix," is giving a series of prayer conferences: 
Friday 9/5, 7:30pm-Meaning of Suffering 
--Uniting our suffering with Jesus is a source of grace for the whole world. 
Sunday 9/7, 6:30 pm-Praying with Jesus & Mary 
--Jesus and Mary lead us to a life centered in prayer. 
Monday 9/8, 7:30 pm-Final Marian Dogma 
--A growing movement to proclaim Mary Coredemptrix, Mediatrix, and Advocate. 
All of these talks will be given in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy. 
Sponsored by Children of Mary and Knights of Immaculata 
Any Question? Call Tim Monahan, x0767 
Enjoy the Privileges of 
MEMBERSHIP +No-Fee Checking +Share Savings 
+ 
Student Loans + VISA/Mastercard 

+ 
Direct Deposit + Payroll Deduction +Touch-Tone Teller +Home Equity 

+ 
Money Market + Mortgages +Auto Loans + Share Certificates 

+ 
Free Financial Planning 


Internet: www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 

'@~2I~~~~-~~ 
CAMPUS LOCATIONS: @ ,-NCUA-, Saint Mary's Campus -284-4614 LT.m -..=-=­Douglas Road -239-6611 or 800-522-6611 
Other convenient locations in South Bend and Mishawaka 


Women's Volleyball 
}Ylonday 
-

Sept. 8th ~pm ~ 


vs. Florida ~ 
• JocK Srmr 

Domers battle best of world for USA 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Former Irish standout Beth Morgan helped the United States world­championship team to a silver medal in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Versus the Canadians, Lee led gave the national team a four the team with 18 kills, setting point lead to work with in the the stage for a rematch with the last five minutes of the game. Russians, the only team to have Two former Notre Dame beaten the U.S. thus far for the women's basketball players gold medal. In the gold medal also got in on the Olympic game, Lee was called upon to excitement. Beth Morgan and play a different role. Infected by Katryna Gaither, both All­food poisoning only 21 hours American Honorable mentions, before the match, she came out were members of the World onto the court to fill in at setter. Championship team in Sao 
Despite her efforts, the Paulo, Brazil. Their play off the Americans couldn't stop the bench contributed to the Russians from walking off with Americans capturing the silver the gold medal. Even though medal and qualifying them for a she played setter in the last spot in the 1998 World match, Lee was still able to lead Championships in Berlin. the team in kills. Dejected that Morgan was pleased with the they didn't win the gold, the silver, but knew that the gold Americans held their heads up was just out of her reach. Her high as they strolled off the chance to obtain gold came court with a silver medal in when she was selected to play hand. in the World University Games. 
The journey for Garrity to Morgan's spirit and play when­Sicily started in Colorado. He ever she entered into the game was one of 66 college players was quickly passed on to her chosen to try for one of the 12 teammates who would steam roster spots on the team. After roll through the competition several months of tryouts, like the Dream Team did in '92. Garrity was selected to play and A defeat of China in the final began to train with his new game accomplished Morgan's teammates in California. On goal of obtaining gold around Aug. 1, Notre Dame's star for-her neck. ward stepped onto the court Lastly, senior backstroker and quickly made an. impact. Erin Brooks trekked to Sicily in With Yugoslavia closing in on hopes of securing a medal. The the lead, Garrity's back-to-back All-American swimmer was in baskets helped the national third going to the finals. In a team pull away for good. Two closely contested race, Brooks games later against China, finished in third and won a Garrity contributed a team-high bronze medal in the 200 meter 14 points in a 107-39 romp. backstroke. 
Against a tough Lithuanian To see your country's flag team, Garrity once again led raised as you stand on the podi­the team with 20 points in-um is one of the greatest thrills eluding 2-of-3 from behind the in an athlete's life. For many arc. Trying to help the U.S. cap-college athletes, this may be ture their second consecutive their only chance to participate 22 & Under World in Olympic style events as ama­Championship, Garrity turned teurs, due to the growing inter­in his best performance of the est to see professionals play. tournament. He tallied 19 Few are chosen to represent points and 11 rebounds in 33 their country, but those who minutes, obtaining the team's are make the best of the situa­second double-double of the tion as shown by the 10 athletes tournament, only to see his above. These athletes now have team fall to Australia and fall a better understanding of out of medal competition. In the Hesburgh's ideology of God, final game, his two baskets Country, Notre Dame. 
By GENE BRTALIK 
Sports Writer 

As I walked across North Quad the other day, I couldn't help notice one of the t-shirts adorned by one of my peers walking in front of me. It read, "God, Country, Notre Dame, and Beer (not necessarily in that order)." The first three were instilled by Father Theodore Hesburgh as the way that items should be ordered in our lives. For most students, God and Notre Dame are the basic statutes that are followed. Country is often left out of the mix. 
This summer, nine Notre Dame athletes included hon­oring America as one of their
... 
goals. These athletes took part in Olympic-type events such as the Nordic Cup, an under-20 soccer competition, and the World University Games. This group included three Big East award winners, including Jaimie Lee {volleyball player of the year), Pat Garrity {basket­ball player of the year), and Jenny Streiffer {soccer rookie of the year). Four of the nine players traveled to Sicily, Italy, while the others traveled as a team to Denmark. Below recounts the travels and the preparation of these World Class athletes. 
Five of this year's Notre Dame women's soccer starters, including three on defense, were selected to join the U.S. squad for their journey to Denmark. These five are goal­keeper LeKeysia Beene, defend­ers Kate Sobrero and Jen Grubb, midfielder Jenny Streiffer, and forward Meotis 
Erikson. Without 
the support of this 
quintuplet, the U.S. 
may have never 
captured the gold. 
In their first game 
against Sweden, 
Beene made five 
saves while Grubb 
and Sobrero limited 
the Swedes to only 
four more shots, re­
sulting in a 3-0 win. 
The following day, 
the Americans were 
back in action. This 
time Streiffer aided 
in the victory. After 
entering in the sec­
ond half, Streiffer 
scored eight min­
utes later on a vol­
ley from five yards 
out. Later in the 
half, Streiffer added 
her second point of 
the competition 
with an assist to put 
the Americans up 
3-0. Beene added 
her second shutout 
in as many games 
with a 4-0 win. 
Next the U.S. took 
on the host team 
from Denmark. The 
Denmark team was 
poised to notch a 
goal and then drop 
into a defensive 
standpoint. Their 
plan would have 
worked fine if Beene was not the goalie. Midway through the first half, Beene dove across the goal mouth to save a strike from one of the Danes. This kept the game in a scoreless tie until Streiffer entered the game. 
Streiffer's second goal and assist in as many days enabled the Americans to capture a 3-1 win and place them in the finals against Norway. Against the Norwegians, the U.S. played a whole game, and still neither team had a tally on the board. Eight minutes into overtime, the hero of the last two games made her first appearance on the pitch. Quickly her presence was felt. Noting that the Norwegian defense was ex­hausted, Streiffer gathered the ball at the midfield and passed it off to her teammate on the left wing. The forward dribbled down the sideline, and after spotting that Norway's keeper had come out too far, she crossed the ball to Streiffer who one-touched the pass into the back of an empty net. 
Beene again played fabulous­ly in goal, preventing two dif­ferent scoring attempts from entering the goal. Sobrero and Grubb once again shone throughout the game, and were praised by head coach Lauren Gregg who said that they neu­tralized the opponents' attack and really helped the team lind a rhythm and maintain posses­sion 
While soccer was being . played up North, the rest of the Notre Dame athletes were down in Sicily showcasing their talent. One of those players was Jaimie Lee. Lee was one of 10 players selected to play for the 
U.S. Lee was also selected as the captain of the squad. She quickly fulfilled the role of cap­tain in her first match. Serving 15 straight points to open the second game, Lee shut out the New Zealanders, and also con­tributed to America's victory over Estonia later in the day. The next day, Lee rose to occa­sion again, amassing 1 0 kills, four aces, and three blocks in a four set victory over the Chinese, putting the Americans in the semifinals against Canada. 

W.Soccer 
continued from page 32 

always played very well against them." 
With no major changes to the starting lineup, expect the Irish to rely on the strong defense of Kate Sobrero, Jen Grubb and Kelly Lindsey, with the athletic LaKeysia Beene in the net, set for her first true test. 
Monica Gonzalez, Big East Rookie of the Week for her first two games in a Notre Dame uniform, and fellow freshmen phenoms Anne Makinen and Meotis Erikson have done a more than adequate job filling the high-scoring shoes of Cindy Daws, and will need to show their maturity for the Irish to beat the Pilots. 
Veterans Monica Gerardo, Jenny Heft and Jen Streiffer must step up and finish the many scoring opportunities
-
created by the playmakers, Shannon Boxx and Holly Manthei, among others. 
If the Fighting Irish can emerge from their first road trip unscathed, they will be well prepared to take on top­ranked North Carolina in the Adidas!Lady Footlocker Classic at Alumni Field on Sept. 19. 


Wrangler 
continued from page 32 
game for granted: We must continue the longest winning streak against one opponent in college football. 
When the seniors walk off the field after the West Virginia game, I will stay on the field and cheer them. Then I will stay and will celebrate the sea­son with a party on the field until I am kicked out of the sta­dium. 
Most importantly, win or lose, I will support Notre Dame foot­ball, our team. 
Now granted, the last time that I signed a pledge was at my eighth-grade graduation, when myself and all of my classmates signed a piece of paper saying that we would never smoke a cigarette. At our first party in high school, four months later, 90 percent had probably broken the pledge ... 
But hey, four months --that is all we need. Let us revive Notre Dame Stadium. 
Go Irish, 
Wrangler Whitman 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
THE 

HAMMES 



NOTRE DAME 
ON THE BOOKSTORE 
CAMPUS 
• 

The Textured Fleece Half Zip and the "Telluride" Bavarian Fleece Pullover by GEAR For Sports.••• 
classic, relaxed clothes done simply righl 
Moodiy-Friday ~7pm, Sabmlay 9am-5pm, Sunday llam-5pm SpecW hours fooChall wukmds: Friday 9am-7pm, Sabmlay 8mt-7pm, Sunday 9am-5pm Pbooe: 219-Ql-6316 IW catalog information calll-800-6(7..f641 
*Before or after the game, stop by one of our many locations conveniently located througbout the stadium and on campus. 
I 
'I ' 
I I I I 
4--I I 
I 
-
.,_ 
-
-

page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 5, 1997 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 

Craig carries Auburn past Virginia in opener 
By DAVID REED 
Associated Press Writer 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Dameyune Craig threw two touchdown passes to Karsten Bailey and scored on a 17 -yard scramble as No. 16 Auburn defeated Virginia 28-17 in a season opener Thursday night. 
Craig had a shaky start in the first meeting between the Southeastern and Atlantic Coast Conference schools. He fumbled the opening snap and missed on four of six passes in the first quarter. 
Craig directed a 98-yard. six­minute scoring drive that put Auburn ahead for good in the second quarter. He completed passes of 19, 35 and 7 yards and ran 17 yards for a touch­down on a scramble after find­ing no open receiver. 
Craig put Auburn ahead 21-9 with 12:45 left in the third quarter after Bailey made quick amends for dropping an easy touchdown catch. On the next play, Craig hit Bailey again on a crossing route, and Bailey caught the ball over his shoulder with a defender's hand in his face for a 57 -yard scoring play. 
Bailey beat his defender deep again with 13:44 to play for a 77 -yard touchdown reception. 

Craig, who was 12-of-19 for 24 7 yards, was sacked on the Auburn 5 after fumbling on the first play and three plays later Jaret Holmes' punt was blocked. Virginia got a safety when Holmes recovered the loose ball in the end zone. 
The Cavaliers returned only three defensive starters from last year's team that was 7-5, but the replacements pinned Auburn inside its 35 through the first quarter, twice forcing punts from the end zone. 
Virginia's offense, only slightly more experienced with four starters back, failed to take advantage of good field position, however, and spoiled three scoring opportunities in the first half. 
Aaron Brooks' 12-yard pass completion brought the Cavaliers to the 4 on their sec­ond possession of the .game. On third-and-1, Thomas Jones fumbled an option pitch and Auburn's Ryan Taylor fell on the ball. 
Craig then took Auburn 98 yards for a 7-2 lead that stood up the rest of the half. 
On the first play of the sec­ond half, Brooks' pass went right into Taylor's hands and the linebacker returned the interception 25 yards for a touchdown to put Auburn ahead 14-2. 
-

~ake the fall ~eme~ter an active one. ~top by the l!ec~porh office & 
regi~ter for a fitneM cia~~ today! Plenty of ~pace~ are ~till available in ~tep, Lo Impact, Ni lnten~ity, Ab~ and Combo claMC~. find the ~hedule on the web @ www.nd.edu I -rec~port 
• 
Contact If~ 5965 for more info. 
Interested in planning the activities for your class? 
-
Freshman Class Board Elections Coming Soon ... 
-
Mandatory Informational Meeting September 8 & 9 at 7:00pm In Haggar Parlor 

Legal troubles plague Va. Tech 
By HANK KURZ Jr. 
Associated Press Writer 
BLACKSBUHG, Va. 
The road to prominence has not been easy for Virginia Tech. For every achievement and football victory, there has been a headline screaming about another arrest, another legal problem. 
For each of the team's 20 wins in 24 games over the last two seasons, there has been a player charged with a crime, several of them felonies. 
Coach Frank Beamer and team leaders say the image will ch~tnge; school president PaulTorgersen has said it must. 
"Last year was a real bad year, not only for myself but really for the whole team," said senior fullback Marcus Parker, who was suspended for the first four games of last season after being arrested on shoplifting charges. 
"As a team, I think we've taken it a little bit more upon ourselves," he said. "I've seen older guys helping out, trying to keep guys out of trouble. We've had a few team"only meetings this sum­mer and talked about a few things. So we know how important it is to stay out of trouble." 
The team's troubles began attracting national attention in 1995, when linebacker Tony Morrison and wide re­ceiver James Crawford were suspended before !he Sugar Bowl. 
Alre!idy notorious as the players accused of raping a fellow student, Morrison was charged with trashing a bar during a drunken rampage and Crawford was charged with felony hit-and-run and fraud for reclaiming his car from an impound lot without paying fines. 
Morrison later was cleared of the charges and has since left Virginia Tech. Crawford was convicted of disorderly conduct and fined $400. 
Then last year, before the Hokies played Nebraska in 
the Orange Bowl, Crawford and roommate Brian Edmonds were charged with raping and attempting to sodomize a woman who had attended a party at their off­campus apartment. 
The trial, to b~gin Monday, will return the Hokies' prob­lems to the spotlight. In the last two years, 20 Virginia Tech players, many no longer with the team, have been charged with a crime. 
In an effort to deal with all the problems, Torgersen and then-athletic director Dave Braine put together a set of standards for athletes last February. They include tougher sanctions, more drug testing, expanded player counseling and more atten­tion to character assessment in recruiting. 
Players charged with a felony will be suspended immediately until their cases are heard. Those convicted of felonies will be kicked off the team. The circumstances of lesser convictions will deter­mine the discipline. 

ATTENTION FORMER DADINITES 
Join us for a laalinit.e lteunion this weekenal.
Friday: 3:00-6:00 Open House and Tours of lotr chapel 
7:00 Pep ralq hosted by Badin Hall at the stadium 
Saturday: 8:00-12:30 Visit Badin's concession stand 1:30 Notr9 Dam9 vs. G90rgia 'Thch 7:00-10:00 Reception and Centennial Book release 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

*Course names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 



MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
CI\TC>EP..T: t.\IIL 1-\.R. DIREC.TOI\ 
::o 

~------------------------------~8 
A.NY EMPLOYEE Wl10 USES THE. INTERNET FOR NON-13U5INE55 PURPOSES WILL BE FIRED. 
~ 

26 Checking a fisherman's claim 
47 Complains 49 2, to 112 53 Ouzo flavoring 54 Behind closed 
doors 56 Order members 57 Lubricating 
device 

58 Mid life crisis symptom 59 Like a Friday crossword 60 Tiny type size 
DOWN 
1 Medical suffix 2 Certain 3 "Don't look 
--!" 4 Narrow margins 5 Pick up 6 Gettysburg 
general 7 Skim milk 
extract &Vocal nag 9 Plants yielding 
senna 10 Profit 11 Bibliophobes 12 It's off the main drag 13 N.F.L. scores 
15 Marsh birds 21 Sea birds 23 Christmas 
tradition 
... 
0 
@
"" 
::0
"' 
0"" 
...
"" 
... 
0 
u 
"' 

1\ND ANY EMPLOYEE 
WHO 5IT5 IN A COf"\PANY CHAIR WHILE 111\VING 
A PERSONAL THOUGHT 
WILL BE EXECUTED BY 
SECURIIY. 
fr 
30Kid 31 They have open houses 
32 Talk big 
35 What things could always be 36 At a time of one's choosing 
38 M t h os gung-o 39 Commander of ~he Alamo 42 Nostromo" author 

SCOTT ADAMS 
51 Check mate 52 Start of a 46 More mellow count 48 Suspire 53 Professional 
so Brand that org. since 184 7 offers "Chunky" ss Grp. on the style range? 
A . 
nswers to any three clues rn this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 31

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Susan StrJshL•rg, Riclwrd BL•n­J<Hnin, Judith Crist, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 
DEAR EUGENli\: 1 was born on March R, 1476, at 7:03a.m. I need to knllW whid'l o{ twn rncn l match up to better. Tht• first was born on Nov. 23, 1%7, ,,t 6 p.m., and the second was born June 24, ]976. I just can't mokc up my mind. Also, I need to know what nw financiJ.l outlook and prospects are going to be in the near future. 
Fish Swimming with Two Mates 
DEAR FISH SWIMMING WITH TWO MATES: In all honesty, I'd keep on looking for a mate if I were you. You are in a high cycle where ro­mantic opportunities are concerned right now. However1 l feel that you may miss out on someone who really matches up to you well if you are spending too much time with these two men. 
The signs that match up to you 
best are Aries, Leo, Libra and Sagit­
tarius. The Nov. 23 mate whom you 
picked is not a strong Sagittarius. His 
chart is predominantly Virgo and 
Scorpio. Your financial out\ook is on 
the rise slowly but surely, and al­
though you won't see major gains in­
stantly, as we reach the end of this 
decade you'll be in a much better fi­
nancial position. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do 
something special with your lover. 
You will be in the mood to be active, 
so consider going to a sports evenn>r 
dancing. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Love 
connections can be made if you get 
out with peers. You will find interest­
ing items at the flea market. 
GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): Prop-
Born Today: You'll have a tendency to overreact this year if you are-n't cart'· ful. Be sure to get all the facts and to listen to good ad,·icc being offered. You will make a mistake if you are reluctant to forgive others for their shortcom· ings. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
~rly investments will prove to he lu­crlltivt•. You mav ~.:onsider a fl•siJL~n­tial movt•. Donicstic clffairs will 1111­prove. Lady luck is with you. 
CANCER (june 21-)uly 22): Sf"'nd tirne \'\'ith someunt:' you lovt• tod.1y. You can ~L't aht.•ad if you discus.." your intentilm~. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 221: Your emo­tions will be unsett!t.."CC with regard to joint fin-ancial \'Cntures thc1t may not look that !'>t,1ble. Get sound ad\'ice bt.•­fore you make .1 final dt."t.l~ttm. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Social functions will result in romantic at­tractions. You can benefit thmugh con­servative investments. Pleasure trip':> will be enjoyable. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sudden 
romantic interludes wlll unfold 
through social events you attend. 
Pleasure trips \\·iH tum out to be mon.• 
fruitful than you ever imagined. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Social 
activity should involve large group~ 
whell' vou can meet the most penpk 
Romalitic attractions vdii sudan' 
through the e\'ents you attend. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): 
Don't lend or borrow today. Difficul­
ties with friends or children will un­
fold if you aren't diplomatic Avoid 
getting involved in joint money ven­
tures. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22·)an. 191: 
In-laws or relatives mav cause friction 
today. Don't discuss your personal 
problems with others. You can gain 
valuable information if you listen. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
should make deetsions regarding 
your professionalrosition. job oppor­
tunities will be fruitful and changes in 
your direction will be beneficial. 
PISCES (feb, 19-March 20l: Ym1 
will be in love with life today. In­
volvement in group activitie> will br 
conducive to romantic encounter~. 
New business ventures will be prot­
itable . 
-
-
--
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Part of Caesar's boast s Radio type 9 Art able to 14 Back 16 Duck 11 Resettle 18 Classic Vegas casino 19 Gets hot? 20 Really fancy 22 "Sometimes a Great Notion" author 24 Bugs 2512-time baseball All-Star, 1976-88 27 It's parallel to the radius 
29 Part of a long-distance company's 800 number 
31 Nobility 32 Music genre 33 Unbuttered 34 Shooters 35 British 
servicewomen 36 10,080 minutes 37 "Chances--" 38 Queensland 
native 39 Lowest par 40 Reagan prog. 41 Conclusion 
starter 42 Helmet plume 43 Fearsome 
fellows 4sComplain 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.. 

,~--­
1 I 



SPORTS Weekend 
page 32 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish to face Huskies, third-ranked Portland 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
If the true test of a ranked team is its performance against ranked opponents, then the Fighting Irish women's soccer team will have its hands full this weekend. 
Notre Dame (2-0-0) ventures to the Pacific Northwest for a two-game stint against Washington and third-ranked

-
Portland. "We're very excited about the weekend," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We're looking forward to (the games). They're going to be a bit of a challenge for us." In today's action, the Irish face an experienced Huskies squad that returns seven starters from last season's 12-8 campaign, ending in a first round NCAA tournament 
.. 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame community has a long-standing, well­founded reputation for com­munity ser-r--------. v i c e . Programs like Big Brother/Big Sister, Habitat f9r Humanity, and Summer S e r v i c e 
------.J-...---w Projects are manifestations of the students' commitment to this tradition. And varsity athletes are no exception. They, too, are com­mitted to bettering the lot of 
defeat. 

"We seem to match up well with [Washington!," said Petrucelli. "I feel good about this game, especially the way we match up defensively." 
Petrucelli's strong feelings for the defense are grounded in the two games the Irish played last weekend, in which the defense did not give up a goal, and allowed only five total shots on goal. 
The Portland Pilots, who return 10 starters from last season's 19-1-2 team, dropped a 3-2 match to the Irish in last year's NCAA semifinals, and will pose the greatest challenge for Notre Dame this weekend. 
"They will be a major chal­lenge for us," said Petrucelli. "They are a very good team, very experienced. But we have 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Forward Monica Gerardo leads a talented, experienced Irish squad to 
see W. SOCCER I page 28 the Northwest this weekend where it faces Washington and Portland. 
Friday, September 5, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Student body spirit questioned 
Dear Fellow Students: 
Much ink has been spread in the Blue and Gold over the 
1 a  s  t  Wrangler Whitman  
Y e a r  Sports Writer.  
about  -------­ 

the lackluster performance and interest of the student body at football games. Ever since the media, during the broadcast of the Navy game, railed us for our inability to support our team after the Air Force loss, many excuses have been used to explain the students lack of spirit. 
We say it is NBC's fault. We say it is the alumni who sit on their behinds during the whole game that makes it seem like the fans of Notre Dame Stadium are watching the Phillies versus the Royals in September rather than the most storied team in all of sport. 
We say that it is the make­up of the student body, who are now better academically than in the past and have many other interests besides football. We say it is the fact that Notre Dame is not an all· male school anymore. We say that Notre Dame Stadium does not serve alcohol. 
Instead of making excuses for our performance, I say we search for solutions. My first attempt at getting the stu­dents more involved is for all students (and for that matter all alumni, subway alumni, and tourists making the pil­grimage to the hallowed grounds of Notre Dame) make the following pledge. 
·. I, (state your name), pledge that f will attend all home football games, and stay until the Alma Mater is sung, no matter how many beers that I have drunk. 
I will stand and sing and cheer every time the fight song is sung. 
On every third and fourth down, I will scream when the opposing team has the ball. When NBC is advertising Must-See TV for the 16th time, I will remain excited and not lose my edge as a Notre Dame fan. 
I will attend one road game this year, not including the Orange Bowl. 
The only time that I will criticize Notre Dame football is when we run option right on third and eight. 
I will do push-ups after we score at least once during the year {alums, this one is for you too). 
When we are beating Southern Cal 42-0, I will hum the USC fight song. 
I will not bet on the Boston College game. I will not take the Navy 
see WRANGLER I page 28 


• HOCKEY 

Team sponsors Power Play Run/Walk 

others. 

"One thing that separates this University from the rest," explained head hockey coach Dave Poulin, "is our commit­ment to coming out and helping others. We avoid just leading a sheltered life on the campus or in the gym." 
The hockey team, for in­stance, has been actively in­volved in such programs as Logan Center and the Stars Program. This weekend, Poulin and his staff hope to add one more event to this rich tradition of service: the Notre Dame Power Play Run/Walk. 
The event begins at 11 a.m. on Sunday at Stepan Center, and three distances are avail­able -two miles, five kilome­ters, or 10 kilometers. The pre-registration fee for students is $6 or $8 on-site; all others pay a pre-registration fee of $10 or $12 on-site. 
Students and faculty can reg­ister at North and South Dining Halls, the Joyce Center's RecSports office, or with dorm athletic commissioners. 
Alumni and visitors in town can register in the Alumni Association hospitality area from 8:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. on Saturday. 
"This is a great event, and it is an extension of an already existing commitment to service. We hope that it will become a tradition," stated Poulin. 
The proceeds from this event will benefit the family of Ed 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Men pursue first win of young season 
By KAREN SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
Looking for its first win of the season, the Notre Dame men's soccer team eagerly awaits Sunday's match against Big East opponent Providence. 
-
This game will be the second home appearance for the Irish who were defeated last Tuesday by Indiana, one of the most renowned soccer pro­grams in the country. 
Although the loss was dis­appointing, the team has set its sights on upcoming rivalries, 
-and an overall satisfaction with its last effort was affirmed by coach Mike Berticelli. "We played exceptionally well," said Berticelli. "They are
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
an outstanding program who
Goaltender Greg Velho will try to save the Irish from another home loss, when the team hosts Big East rival Providence at Alumni Field. have all 15 of their starters 
..... 
Slaggert, brother of assistant hockey coach Andy Slaggert, who died of cancer this sum­mer. 
The event was originally sup­posed to feature Ed Slaggert and to raise money in his honor for the American Cancer Society, but now the event has taken on even more meaning. 
"We've had a tremendous response with registrations so far," observed Andy Slaggert. "The students and the dorms have just been great in their support for this event." 
Prospective participants are encouraged to sign up as soon as possible, and runners who plan to register on-site are advised to show up early, due to the large turnout expected. 
returning from last year. Also due to extreme depth within their team, they are able to substitute, in moments of fatigue, easily without loosing experience from the field." 
A strong record against Providence proves a good omen for Sunday. Both in 1995 and 1996, a 1-0 score put Notre Dame on top of the Friars. 
Last year, the lone goal was scored by Chris Mathis, and the Irish handily out shot their opponents, 11-5, proving domi­nant throughout the game. 
This win proved significant for the Irish because it was their first Big East away game, a disadvantage so early in the season. 
The tables are turned this 
see M. SOCCER I page 27 

aJ • Jock Strip 

II 
vs. Georgia Tech, 
at Gonzaga, 
-
Saturday, September 6 
@ Today, 7 p.m. ~ see page 28 
6 
ft 
vs. Providence, • lnterleague Play Wrapup 
at Washington, 
~ 
Today 

September 7, 1 p.m. 
see page 20 
~ 


... 
-~~-------------~-~­

-~~ 
-----------------~------~------.­

The Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  Friday, September 5, 1997  
ghtin' Irish  
Spencer,Jamie 6 0-0  0-0  0-1  0  0-0  0  0" 36  
Rossum,AIIen  4 0-0  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  0  0-24  
222 0  Johnson,M.  2 0-0  0-0  0·0  0  0-0  0  0-12  
81  1  11.4  Goodspeed, J.  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  0  0-12  
59  2  6.3  RECIOIVING  No.  Yds  Avg  TD  Avg/G  
32  16  2.7  Johnson,Malcolm 25  449 18.0  2  40.8  FIELD GOALS  FGM-FGA  
Denson, Autry  11  111 10.1  2  10.1  Cengia, Scott  0-1  
INTERCEPTIONS No. Yds  Avg TD Long  Stephens, S.  9  193 21.4  1  24.1  Sanson, Jim  6·9  
4  42  10.5 0  42  Nelson, Raki  8  128 16.0  1  12.8  
3  61  20.3 0  34  Spencer, Jamie  8  61  7.6  1  6.1  PUNTING  No. Yds  Avg  Long Blkd  
2  8  4.0 0  8  Brown. Bobby  2  84  42.0  0  10.5  Smith, Hunter  44 1906 43.3  65  0  
1  17  17.00  17  Goodspeed, Joey 1  22  22.0  1  2.4  Wachtel, Chris  1  47  47.0  47  0  
1  35  35.0 0  35  Cooper, Deke  1  9  9.0  0  0.9  
Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt Pet  Yds  TD  Avg/G  FUMBLES RCVRD  No.  Yds Avg  TD  DEFENSE  UT AT Tot ForLoss Sks-Yds lnt-Yds  PBU  
141.26  232-133-4  57.3 1942 12  176.5  Jordan, Shelton  1  0  0.0 0  Guilbeaux,B.  44  18 62  3-5  1.0-6  4-42  5  
15-10-0  66.7  181 3  30.2  Covington,lvory  8  8.0 0  Dansby, Melvin 29  26 55  9-22  3.5-34  0-2  1  
3-2-0  66.7  8  0  0.7  Mitoulas, Bill  0  0.0 0  Minor, Kory  32  21  53  7·20  8.0-66  1-17  5  
Covington,!.  42  11  53  1-4  0  0  4  
Rossum, Allen  30  20  50  2-4  0  2-8  3  
Cooper, Deke  16  13  29  1-2  0  3-61  2  
TOTAL OFFENSE  G Plays  Rush  Pass Total  Avg/G  Bennett, Corey  1 0  11  21  4-7  1 .0-8  0  2  
No.  Yds  Avg  TD  Long  Powlus, Ron  11  285  8  1942  1950  177.3  Howard, Bobbie 9  11  20  0  2.0-13  0  0  
7  141  20.1  0  35  Denson, Autry  11  202  1179  0  1179  107.2  
6  227  37.8  1  99  Spencer, Jamie  10  38  222  0  222  22.2  
2  47  23.5  0  27  Jackson, Jarious  6  26  16  181  197  32.8  
The Observer/Brandon Candura In 1996 Denson enjoyed the fifth best year in Irish history with over 1,100 yards.  PUNT RETURNS  1 4 4.0 0 1 44 44.0 No. Yds Avg  4 0 TD  44 Long  SCORING TD FGs Kick Rush Rev Pass DXP Saf-Pts Denson,Autry 11 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 0-0 0 0 ­66 Sanson,Jim 0 6-9 39-45 0-0 0 0-0 0 0-57  BY QUARTER 1st 2nd 3rd 4th OT Total Notre Dame ....... 80 135 95 97 0 -407 Opponents... 31 52 35 53 10 -181  
YELLOW JACKE  
TOTAL OFFENSE G  Play  Rush  Pass  Total  Avg/G  Haney  7  108 15.4  0  25  
Hamilton  10  283  248  1342  1590  159.0  INTERCEPTIONS  NO  YDS  AVG  TD  LP  
Shaw  7  103 -22  520  498  71.1  Wilkins  4  0  0.0 0  0  PUNT RETURNS  NO  YDS  AVG  TD  LP  
Wiley  3  37  202 0  202  67.3  Perryman  2  44  22.0  1  30  Rogers  2  60  30.0  0  45  
Williams  10  174  663  0  663  66.3  Dee  2  2  1.0 0  2  Perryman  18  219 12.2  1  72  
Rogers  11  115  551  0  551  50.1  Rogers  1  5  8'0  0  5  Middleton  12  129 10.8  0  31  
Hollomon  11  33  132 0  132  12.0  
Johnson  7  8  26  0  26  3.7  SCORING  TD  2pt  XP  DXP  Saf  FG  DEFENSIVE  Pri  Ast ToVAvg  Tfi-Los Sck-Yds PBU FC FR  
Muyres  8  1  16  0  16  2.0  Pts  Brooking  85  48  133/13.3  3·9  2-13  5  1  2  
Johnson  4  3  5  0  5  1.3  Williams  9  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  Rogers  67  45  112/11.2  5-21  3-29  1  0  0  
Gubba  10  3  6  0  6  0.6  54  Clements  42  38  80/8.0  5-25  0-0  10  2  1  
Chambers  0  0-0  16-16 0-0  0  11-15  Miles  30  25  55/5.5  5-17  8-67  1  3  3  
RUSHING Wiley  Att 37  Gain Loss Net 204 2 202  Avg 5.5  TD 0  Avg/G 67.3  49 Frakes  0  0-0  7-7  0-0  0  4-11  Shepherd Perryman  32 21 42 9  53/5.3 51/5.1  5-9 0-0  5-23 0-0  3 3  0 1  2 0  
Williams  174  721  58  663  3.8  7  66.3  19  Dee  33  11  44/4.4  0-0  1-9  5  0  1  
Rogers  115  567  16  551  4.8  2  50.1  Middleton  3  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  
Hamilton  95  384  136  248  2.6  3  24.8  18  
Hollomon  33  133 1  132  4.0  0  12.0  Hamilton  3  0-2  0-0  0-0  0  0-0  TEAM STATISTICS  Georgia Tech  OPP  
Johnson  8  26  0  26  3.3  0  3.7  18  Total First Downs  197  190  
First Downs-Rushing  96  85  
PASSING Att Cmp  lnt  Pet  Yds  TD  Avg/G  BY QUARTER  1 st  2nd  3rd  4th  TOT  AVG  First Downs-Passing  92  97  
Hamilton  18  1 08  13  .574  1342 7  115.9  Georgia Tech  51  94  52  23  220  20.0  First Downs-Penalty  9  8  
Shaw  74  36  3  .486  520 2  108.5  Opponents  36  99  36  65  236  21.5  Fumbles/Lost  25-6  23-9  
Penaltles/Y ards  62-527  62-543  
RECEIVING No.  Yds  Avg  TD  Avg/G  PUNTING  NO  YDS  AVG  LP BLK  Sacks by/Yds Lost  28-208  26-196  
Middleton  64  804 12.6  3  5.8  Williams  53  2034  38.4  77  0  Third Down Conversions  62-167  55-151  
Sheridan  28  461 16.5  2  2.5  Third Down Conversion Pet.  .371  .364  
Rogers Williams Baynham  17 15 9  240 14.1 150 10.0 98 10.9  1 2 0  1.5 1.5 0.8  KICK RETURNS Perryman Rogers  NO 2 26  YDS AVG 59 29.5 626 24.1  TD 0 0  LP 30 76  Fourth Down Conversions Fourth Down Conversion Pet. Time of Possession  10-16 .625 31:04  8-11 .727 28:56  Courtesy of Georgia Tech Sports Information Keith Brooking (35) and Ron Rogers (50)  
are Tech's defensive playmakers.  


Visa/Mastercard Accepted 


Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 
------------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--------.. 
Friday, September 5, 1997 The Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS page 3 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Senior QB Ron Powlus will open his fourth season as the Irish signal caller. 
F
or the first time in a long time, Irish fans will enter Notre Dame Stadium not knowing what to expect from the Irish offense. 
"We're not going to drop back and throw it 50 or 60 times in this game," head coach Bob Davie said. "I do think you'll see us throw it more on running downs. You will see some different forma­tions involving multiple wide receivers." 
This puts the pressure squarely on the shoulders of Ron Powlus. Jim Colletto has installed his offense that will fit the drop-back passing talents of tne fifth-year senior, so tomorrow fans will see how he handles it. 
"Ron Powlus has had an excel­lent preseason," said Davie. "He has had a great attitude, and our football team rallies around him." 
If the aerial assault is to be effective, the receiving unit will have to take advantage of an inex­perienced Tech secondary 
T
he perennially quick-starting Yellow Jackets enter Notre Dame Stadium this weekend with the offensive tools to give the Irish defense a run for its money. Tech boasts an experi­enced group of players who want to prove that a 4-1 start in 1996 was not just a fluke. 
Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie is the first person to acknowledge the offensive strengths of the Ramblin' Wreck. 
"The mosr important thing I see is they're an experienced football team." commented the first-year coach. "When you look at their offense, certainly their skill positions are the strength of their football team." 
Georgia Tech's attack will be led down the field by talented sophomore quarterback Joe Hamilton. Hamilton, who start­ed nine games a year ago, pos­sesses a solid throwing arm and is always a threat to take off and run with the ball. 
Hamilton's primary targets include first-team All-ACC selec­tion Harvey Middleton and speedy fifth-year senior Derrick Steagall. Middleton figures to be a serious contender for a first­team All-America spot, as he brings to the table a combina­tion of great hands and danger­ous quickness. If Steagall is healthy enough to make a legiti­mate contribution on Saturday, the experienced Irish defensive backfield will have its hands full. 
Also returning from injury for the Jackets is 6-foot-1, 226­pound junior running back Charles Wiley. The versatile Wiley could spend time at both tailback and fullback due to his speed and blocking ability. 
Leading the pack is Malcolm Johnson, who is the most proven of the Irish receivers. Alongside Johnson will be Bobby Brown, who only has two career recep­tions but is looking to prove that he is a different player. 
"Bobby has really continued to show the type of improvement he showed in the spring," said Davie. "He got much stronger in the off­season and I wouldn't hesitate to say that right now, he's probably our best receiver. That's a credit to him because he's come an awful long way." 
Also in the mix are burners Joey Getherall and Allen Rossum, who will line up on the offensive side of the ball about 10 times. 
"Getherall has been an immedi­ate hit from the first day he walked on campus," said Davie. 
Powlus certainly should feel comfortable in the pocket with an offensive line that, with the excep­tion of center Rick Kaczenski, averages over 6-foot-6 and wieghs in at over 300 pounds and has the potential to be one of the most dominant in college football. 
"Certainly the strength of our offense is in the offensive line," said Davie." 
The battle in the trenches should be a good one with the Ramblin' Wreck defense posting a strong front seven and a massive line. Nose tackle Patrick Bradford weighs in at 287, and senior defensive end Derrick Shepard tips the scale at just under 300 pounds. 
Linebackers Keith Brooking and Ron Rogers, the heart of the Yellow Jacket defense, are consid­ered one of the best duos in the nation. 
"They've got two excellent inside Linebackers," said Davie. "Both of them are really active, play the run extremely well, and really play hard." 
The Yellow Jackets will have their hands full with Irish tailback Autry Denson and the talented trio of Joey Goodspeed, Jamie Spencer and Ken Barry at full­back. Behind Denson are Clement Stokes and Tony Driver, who has managed to live up to his hype. 
"I think he had a fine reputation coming in, and he's not disap­pointed anyone," said Davie. "He's a big, strong running back who plays the game 100 percent every time." 
The only concern for the offense is the tight end slot where Dan O'Leary, who has not played a down, will get the start with con­verted tackle Tim Ridder as his backup.Also in at the time at the tight end slot will be Jabari Holloway, who has been another impressive member of the Class of 2001. 
"He's one of the more talented young tight ends we've had in the program," Davie praised. 
All of those questions that Irish fans have had since winter will begin to be answered come kickoff tomorrow afternoon. 

I 

Quarterbacks 
Tech's sophomore QB Joe Hamilton finished second in ACC rookie of the year honors, but you can't have more experience than Powlus and itss his shoe sto run. 


Running Backs 
Denson racked up more yards than the Tech's top three rush­ers combined, and the rest of the sta­ble is loaded. 

Receivers 
Middleton is a star, and Steagall can burn. Rossum and Getherall can fly, but 
it remains to be seen if they can get their hands on the pill. 


Offensive tine 
Sheer mass and experi­ence give the Irish the advantage of about the size of Rosenthal. and the fifth-year seniors are looking to prove they're one of the best units in the land. 

Defensive Line 
Shepard and Bradford are a mass in the mid­dle, and they can play. This is Dansby's year to shine, and we'll have to see who'll step up to fill the void left up front. 


Linebackers 
The unit headed by Kory Minor is loaded 
athletes, but no one knows how they'll perform on game day. Brooking and Rogers form one of the best duos in the game. 



Secondary 
Ross~m and Guilbeaux are turning into play­makers, and the Irish return everyone from the '96 squad Graduation leaves Tech's backfield thin. 

Special Teams 
Tech's special teams are better than aver­age, though not as explosive as Rossum and Co. Continuing woes at kicker give the Jackets the edge. 


Coaching 
Although he lacks experience in the head coach's headset, 
Davie's enthusasium give him the nod over O'Leary. 


Overall 
Tech would like to play the role of spoiler, but the atmosphere will not 
likely allow it. The players have been waiting for this one since November. 

... YEllOW JACKETS ON THE OffENSIVE 

It will be up to the six-man rotation of Melvin Dansby, Corey Bennett, Jason Ching, Brad Williams, Lance Legree, and Kurt Belisle to anchor the Irish defensive line against the rela­tively inexperienced Tech offen­sive front. 
Solid play from whichever three linemen happen to be in the game for the Blue and Gold will allow the young Notre Dame linebacking corps extra space in which to contain Hamilton and the rest of the Yellow Jacket backfield. The Irish Insider • COVER STORY Friday, September 5, 1997 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

All eyes of the Irish team, as well as the Notre Dame community, have turned toward Davie since he took over the reigns of the Irish legacy. 




Facing the Pressures 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Many people have labeled Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie as a "players' coach." While this moniker may apply, there exists much more to the first-year head coach than a simple label allows. 
Listening to Bob Davie talk about the upcoming season and what has gone into it. he sounds more like a philosopher than a football coach. Following in the tradition of Vince Lombardi and George Allen, it is not an unlike­ly combination. Still, when you're chosen as the football coach of the University of Notre Dame, most people don't care about philosophy. They only care about wins. 
Fortunately, for Bob Davie, his philosophy lies in what it is going to take to win. 
"First of all, everything we've done and everything that has been done all affects how you ply and winning," Davie said, without a hint of hesitation or tension. "The only pressure we feel is to, number one, ftave a plan for every situation and then to have great preparation. Winning is going to take care of itself if we follow the plan and have great preparation." 
Everything has a plan, he says. Since he took over as head coach last November, Davie has seen many plans develop into the one grand plan that will be unveiled tomorrow when the Irish christen the new stadium in their home opener against Georgia Tech. The most visible of these is the stadium itself. The expansion will 20,000 wit­nesses to Davie's grand plan. Another is the renovated foot­ball office, that allows the main architects of his plan -the players and the coaching staff -to be more comfortable with­in the plan. 
Finally, there is the condition­ing of the team itself, which again is a compilation of smaller plans. Davie called upon former Purdue head coach Jim Colletto and former Michigan defensive coordinator Greg Mattison to join in on the drawing of the blueprint as his new offensive and defensive coordinators. respectively, all the while sup­plying input from their former programs. 
But he remains the master of about Davie, however, is that he takes no credit for the imple­mentation of the plan, letting praise and compliments roll off his back and onto his supporting cast of coaches and players. or the University itself. He remains focused in his plan, citing victo­ry and betterment of program as the goal. 

"Really, winning is just a cul­mination of all the things that have transpired since I've taken this job," Davie said. "All these areas really have only one focus in mind, and that is winning and making it better for our play­ers." 
There is no doubt that Davie has the best interest of his play­ers in mind. The sincerity with which he discusses this year's team and the affection with which he explains how he put together his coaching staff prove this. He even makes you want to believe him when he says he feels no pressure. 
The manner in which he explains the unfathomable response that a Notre Dame football coach feels no pressure to win could convince even the biggest skeptic. 
''I've been asked that question so many times, about the pres­sure," Davie explained. "I hon­estly don't feel the pressure as far as winning. The pressure is in the preparation, and things have gone extremely well as of this point." 
Pure and simple. Case closed. Unrefutable. Davie leaves no room for question, no room for doubt. In a job that many con­sider one of the most high-pres­sure jobs in the U.S., next to that of the president, Davie remains calm, cool, and collect­ed. He has the utmost confi­dence in his players, in his staff, in the University, and most importantly, in himself. 
"There certainly is a lot of hype," Davie commented. "But I think it comes down to this, you know: I take this job very seri­ously. I don't take myself all that seri­ously, other than what's impor­tant, and that's coaching this football team." 
Of course, he will encounter the first and 
greatest test as a coach tomor­er to game day, I've gotten a lot row when the Irish take the field of prayers from a lot of people." against the Yellow Jackets. The only thing that could 
Although he might experience make Bob Davie happier is if bigger games and higher­those prayers are answered, ranked opponents than the and the Irish walk off the field Yellow Jackets, over 80,000 with a win. people will witness first-hand and over a million viewers will watch on television his ~· coaching debut. Still, / .• ,. Davie absorbs himself in L · the task at hand, and# · that is preparing his v team for the game. · Jl:. · . 
"It's still about preparation to me," Davie said. "You don't all of the sud­den Monday or Tuesday before the first game start wor­rying about winning. We've got too many immediate things to concentrate on and not worry about the big picture." 
When you do look at the big picture, though, . the bottom line is that Bob Davie is a man with· a plan, who enjoys his· job and enjoys the sur-', rounding community and ' ··· the support it exudes. 
"You know. I enjoy coach­ing at a place where people really care, and I mean that sincerely," Davie said. "One of the most surprising parts of this job is just the mail and the suggestions and the letters of encouragement and things that you get. The only thing that's really increased as we get clos­
the plan. What stands out most possibly¥
' 

Friday, September 5, 1997 The Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 
DAME SCHEDULE -· 
In the S 

1st season at Notre Dame 

Career record: 0-0 At Notre Dame: 0-0 Against Georgia Tech: 0-0 
1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 so 2 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-1 207 JR 3 Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SA 4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 5 A'jani Sanders ss 5-11 188 JR 6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so 10 Deveron Harper CB . 5-11 185 so 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR CB 5-10 169 SA CB 5-8 179 SA QB 6-2 190 FA 

p 
6-2 210 JR SE 5-10 183 SR WR 5-9 165 FA K 5-9 179 so OLB 6·2 210 JR 

___JSk? 214 JR 20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 Jfl 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so 23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR 25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FA 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SA 29 Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FA 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SA 31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FA 
Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 so Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SA Chirs Wachtel p 5-11 207 SA Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SA Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FA Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SA Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FA Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SA Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FA Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FA Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FA Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 215 FA Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 so Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FA Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SA Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 so Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR David Payne c 6-0 281 JR Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SA Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SA Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 258 SR Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SA Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FA John Merandi c 6-3 272 so Anthony Brannan ss 5-11 194 so JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FA John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 
72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SA 74 Rob Mowl 'OG 6-5 294 so 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FA 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 274 SA Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FA SE 5-11 186 so TE 6-5 264 so FL 6-2 233 SA TE 6-4 243 SA 
Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FA Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so N.VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 228 so 
93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so 
94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SA Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so 
97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 430 98 Jol•n Teasrl.-,1.: TE 6-6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 
This season Bert Berry, Kinnon Tatum, and Lyron Cobbins are playing on Sundays. Only Kory Minor returns from the heart of the 1996 defense. 
Looking to fill their shoes are Lamont Bryant, Jimmy Friday and Bobbie Howard. While their talent certainly is not lacking, gameday experi­
--~----· TAILBACK 
23-Denson 32-Stokes 

. . 
··••·· ,. 
FLANKER 88-Brown 9-Nelson 
TAILBACK 36-Wiley 
-··~_····· 

LEFT GUARD 
75-Burks 7G-Key
FULLBACK 
r\ 

39-Johnson 
~Hoi~ 
RIGHT TACKLE 
65-Brown 59-Grantham 

ence is. 
Everyone knows what Minor can do and we will start to find out tomorrow if the rest of the 'backers can follow his lead. 
How good the defense will be directly depends on if the linebacking corps can play up to their potential. 
~­
.• _:.'j:· 
:: ;~;,:;.~·· ..
!··: .I 

I' '' 
.I 
3rd season at Georgia Tech 
Career record: 11-14 At Georgia Tech: 11-14 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
Pas. Ht. Wt. YR 
Jacob Smrekar FL 6-0 173 SA 
Rodney Williams p 6-1 182 JR 
Charlie Rogers TB 5-10 180 JR 
Jason Bostic CB 5·9 177 JR 
Cordes Owen K 5-8 150 so 
Chris Edwards OLB 6-5 229 so 
Condrad Daniels FL 6-0 186 JR 
Jon Muyres FS 6-2 193 so 
George Godsey. QB 6-3 198 FA 
Derrick Steagall FL 6-0 207 SA 
Steven Segal MA 6-2 230 ZEN 
1 0 Brandon Shaw QB 6-3 219 JR 
11 Hunt Trotter SE 6-1 183 JR 
12 Dave Frakes K 6-1 202 SR 
13 Brad Chambers K 6-2 196 JR 
14 Joe Hamilton QB 5-10 189 so 
15 Josh Long QB 6-3 200 FA 
16 Brian Wilkins FS 6-3 202 JR 
17 Mike Sheridan SE 6-2 213 JR 
18 Dante Booker ILB 5-11 220 so 
18 Alex Thompson QB 5-11 217 JR 
20 Curtis Hollomon FB 6-2 220 JR 
:22 Dez White WR/DB 6-1 200 FA 
22 Deez Nuttz TE 5-10 145 PhD 23 Rashad Jones WR 6-1 185 FA 24 Derrick Dudley CB 5-10 177 FA 25 Troy Tolbert ss 6-1 195 FA 26 Traveres Tillman ss 6-2 190 so 27 Jerry Caldwell CB 5-11 190 JR 28 Josh Rackley FB 5-9 190 so 29 Ron Mabra ss 5-10 201 so 30 Reggie Wilcox CB 6-0 180 so 31 Robert Nelson FS 5-9 186 JR 32 Sean Gregory RB 6-1 202 FA 33 Lee Frazier FS 6-1 190 so 34 Matt Gubba TE 6-2 249 JR 34 Hubba Bubba GUM 5-1 120 FA 35 Keith Brooking ILB 6-3 242 SR 36 Charles Wiley TB 6-1 226 JR 37 Phillip Rogers TB 6-1 225 so 38 Nick Rogers TB/FB 6-2 215 FA 39 Virgil Johnson FB 6-1 240 so 40 Emmett Hill TB 5-10 180 SA 41 Jesse Tarplin DE 6-3 250 JR 43 Kofi Smith CB 5·9 178 JR 45 Ross Mitchell LB 6-3 225 FA 46 Ralph Hughes DE 6-4 256 SA 48 Matt Miller LB 6-4 230 FA 50 Ron Rogers ILB 6-1 240 SR 51 Matt Uremovich ILB 6-3 215 FA 52 Craig Page c 6-3 273 JR 53 Ivan Brown ILB 6-2 225 so 54 Rodderick Roberts DE 6-3 250 JR 55 Delaunta Cameron ILB 6-2 231 JR 56 Nate Stimson DE 6-2 245 JR 57 Scott Wilkins ILB 6-1 233 JR 58 Justin Robertson ILB 6-1 236 JR 59 Josh McElroy OLB 6-3 217 FA 60 Harris Mendheim c 6-3 267 FA 61 Michael Bledsoe G 6-3 295 FA 61 Dezi Taylor OLB 6-0 195 so 62 Joe Perdoni G 6-4 268 so 63 Bill Madigan T 6-5 290 so 64 Ken Celaj T 6-5 300 SR 65 Chris Brown T 6-6 320 FA 66 Kevin Knapp G 6-4 271 so 67 Michael Byrne T 6-5 285 FA 68 DeShaan Simmons DE 6-3 247 JR 69 John Grantham T 6-4 261 JR 70 Brent Key GIG 6-5 271 FA 71 Noah King c 6-2 275 so 72 Noah's Arc O.T. 6-0 220 B.C. 73 Jesse Moody T 6-6 290 FR 73 Moody Blues UK 4-0 500 OLD 74 Jon Carman T 6-9 350 so 75 Jason Burks G 6-5 280 so 77 Abe Fernandez G 6-4 293 so 78 Dan Mitchell T 6-5 281 FA 79 Patrick Bradford DT 6-2 287 SA 80 Russell Matvay TE 6-4 230 FA 81 Harvey Middlelon SE 6-0 187 SA 82 Mike Lillie TE 6-3 240 FA 83 Titus Nelson SE 6-3 189 FA 84 David Powell FL 6-3 195 FA 85 Brett Basquin SE 6-1 193 FR 87 Jason Kemble TE 6-4 243 FA 89 Conrad Andrezejewski TE 6-2 246 so 90 Bryan Corhen DL 6-4 275 FA 91 Chris Myers TE 6-7 253 JR 92 Derrick Shepard DT 6-3 296 SA 93 T any Robinson DT 6-4 306 FA 94 Dan Witherspoon NG 6-2 287 SA 95 Brian Meager DE 6-5 250 FA 96 Guenter Kryszon DL 6-4 250 FA 97 Felipe Claybrooks DE 6-5 246 FA 98 Merrix Watson DL 6-4 265 FA 99 Ira Claxton NG 6-6 255 FA 
..... 


page 6 The Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, September 5, 1997 
'-
• IRISH INSIGHT 
New stadium offers a little something for everyone 

I
f it ain't broke, don't fix it. That was the cry of traditionalists like myself who wanted no part of the complete renovation of Notre Dame Stadium. 
Granted, something needed to be done to the stadium. But something minor, like redoing the bath­rooms or power cleaning the brick; not a complete overhaul of the nation's most historic and tradition-laden football venue. Sports Editor 
So when the bull­dozers came in and started ripping down much of the 6 7 -year-old brick from the House that Rockne Built, we traditionalists were either completely outraged or in tears. It seemed that modernization had overtaken years of memories and history from the world's most storied sports program. 
What's worse, it became apparent that "Touchdown Jesus" could not be seen without straining one's neck from the top of the recently added second deck. Instead fans were left with 22,000 seats and that same new brick that the University apparently "got a deal on" and decided to splash all over campus. 
That is how many traditionalists like myself have viewed the past 21 months of construction. But oh, how close­minded we were. 
Now that the product is finished, tra­ditionalists may just have a completely different outlook. Simply put, it seems Notre Dame fans get the best of both worlds. 
To begin with, the renovation did not rob the stadium of all the appeal it has always had as the playing field of the Irish. The old brick can still be seen as you enter the foyer, and the tunnel to the field provides a spectacular view of "Touchdown Jesus." 
However, it is the new amenities and 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe The recently completed renovation of Notre Dame Stadium offers all the advantages of a modern facility but still possesses much of the history and tradition of the original House that Rockne Built. 
"extras" that have propelled Notre Dame Stadium from a historical, yet  The new upper deck blends smoothly into the old seats as if it had been there  • THE IRISH INSIOER STAFF'  
slowly deteriorating building to a histor­ical, and now state of the art facility  forever, while the luxurious press boxes, locker rooms, and closed-in seat­ Editor:  Mike Day  
that will be emulated for years to come. From the glistening golden "University of Notre Dame" signs that  ing area again add the modern appeal without sacrificing the tradition. And what about the brick? It actually  Associate Editor; Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato,  
radiate above each archway to the old­style streetlights that line the entrance,  contrasts the older brick just inside the stadium in a way that brings out th~  Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler  
a touch of class and a sense of nostalgia permeate the surrounding grounds.  best in both. Indeed, it is the type of building that  Graphic Design: Tom Roland  
It only gets better once you enter the  will propel Notre Dame head and shoul­ Statistician: Jim Belden  
inside of this almost majestic palace.  ders above its peers in terms of facili­ 
Immediately above the playing surface  ties and appearance.  And at the same  Production:  Mark DeBoy  
are rows and rows of flowers that have replaced the hundreds of folding chairs  time, history and tradition were not for­gotten as many originally feared.  Cover: Katie Kroener, Tom  
that were crowded together to accomo­date just a few more fans.  It has traditionalists like myself eating our words.  Roland  

SUNDAY NFL TICKET 
@ < 

• 
Largest selection of appetizers 

• 
Over 15 TV's & l3ig Screens :lti 5 NFL Games at ALL Times 

• 
Pull Menu 


• 
Fantastic Prizes ~. Virtual Reality Gol( 

• 
Foozball 



::m.. 
• 
Pool Tables 

• 
Dart Boards 



's • ~ 
• 
Video Games 


• 
Great Sandwiches 



. . 
. 
Saturdfly 



no tickets? 

/Come to 





Coach's 
and watch the Irish rout the YelloW Jackets in the qedication game 

., 



Friday, September 5, 1997 
Irish Experts? 

Mike Day Sports Editor 

Notre Dame Florida State Tennessee 
BYU 


Betsy Baker Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida State Tennessee Washington 

Joe Cavato Assistant SportS Editor 
Notre Dame· 
Florida State UCLA Washington 

Kathleen Lopez Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Florida State Tennessee Washington 

Brian Rienthaler Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame usc Tennessee 
BYU 


Pat Garrity Big East Player of the Year 
Notre Dame Florida State Tennessee Washington 
The Irish Insider • THE NATION page 7 
IRISH INSIDER.
.r 
Eye on the Natio;n 
National powers hit the road 
Trojans shoot for early upset 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
#5 Florida State at #21 USC 
These squads boast two of the top five toughest schedules in the country this year and Saturday's inter-conference battle is one of the reasons why. The Trojans, whose schedule appears to be the most difficult of any Division 1­A school, have a golden oppor­tunity to begin the quest to save John Robinson's job as head coach. 
USC's potential all-America cornerback tandem-of junior Daylon McCutcheon and senior Brian Kelly should be able to slow Thad Busby and the Seminole passing attack, now that Warwick Dunn can no longer bail them out. 
Junior Dee Feaster will have an opportunity to balance the Florida State offense if he can expose the only weakness in the Trojan defense, the line. 
Speaking of weaknesses in the defensive line, two of the Seminoles' front four will not be available on Saturday. Defensive end Greg Spires suf­fered a stress fracture in his ankle and nose guard Julian Pittman is out for disciplinary reasons. 

It remains to be seen if senior tailback LaVale Woods USC will bring its brand of Iovin' to the newly renovated Notre Dame Stadium this season. 
can step up and exploit FSU's 1998. soft spots. As a junior in 1996, Woods rushed for 601 yards and seven touchdowns. 

#4 Washington at #16 BYU 

Picked by many to contend#3 Tennessee at UCLA for a national title, the Huskies hope to prevent BYU fromThe picture is already look­avenging its only loss of 1996. 
ing pretty bleak for the Bruins. 
Washington ruined theThey come into Saturday's 
Cougars' chance at a perfectnational television showdown season and an Alliance bowlwith the Vols following a dev­bid last year with 29-17 defeat 
astating week one loss at 
of BYU in Seattle. 
Washington State, and looking 
Quarterback Brock Huard
forward to a trip to national and tailback Rashaan Shehee
power Texas next weekend. 
will lead the WashingtonIf the same UCLA defense attack into Provo, Utah, but
that gave up 529 yards to the 
the Cougar defense, which
Cougars last Saturday decides 
returns nine starters, should 
to turn in another clunker this not be caught by surprise thisweek, the voters may be forced time around. They remember 
to abandon New York's 
Shehee's 131-yard, two-touch­
Dowtown Athletic Club and 
down display of a year ago and
hand Peyton Manning the 
are not about to sit back and
Heisman on Saturday after­
be spectators for an encore. 
noon in sunny California. 
Linebacker/defensive end
The Bruins hope that tail­Jason Chorak will anchor theback Skip Hicks, who currently Husky line as it looks ·to slow
leads the nation in rushing 
the rushing tandem of Brianwith 190 yards, can turn in 
McKenzie and Dustin Johnson,another stellar performance. 
who combined for over 1,200
But even with another gem 
yards in 1996. Washingtonfrom Hicks, if Manning even 
will also attempt to put pres­comes close to his five touch­
sure on quarterback Paul
down passes from a week ago, Shoemaker, who is making his UCLA fans should start looking first collegiate start. 
forward to spring practice 
TEAM RECORD 
1. Penn State (23) 0-0 2. Florida(14) 1-0 3. Tennessee (7) 1-0 4. Washington (9) 0-0 5. Florida State (6) 0-0 6. Nebraska (4) 1-0 7. N. Carolina (4) 0-0 8. Colorado (3) 0-0 
9. Ohio State 1-0 10. LSU 0-0 
11. Notre Dame 0-0 12. Texas 0-0 
13. Miami, Fla. 1-0 14. Michigan 0-0 15. Alabama 1-0 16. Auburn 0-0 17. Stanford 0-0 18. Clemson 0-0 19. BYU 0~ 20. Iowa 0-0 
21 
. Kansas State 0-0 

21 
. Northwestern 1-0 23. usc 0-0 


24. 
Colorado State 1-0 

25. 
Michigan State 0-0 


OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Syracuse 146, Virginia Tech 141, Arizona St 113, North Carolina St 87, Texas A&M 71, Washington St, 49, East Carolina 27, Virginia 26, Arizona 21, Georgia 20, West Virginia 19, South Carolina 10, Southern Mississippi 8, Rice 3, Utah 2, Georgia Tech 1, San Diego St 1, Wisconsin 1. 
TheObserver/MikeRuma 
POINTS 
1616 1543 1523 1502 1494 1434 1335 1323 1149 1098 1051 999 
887 
820 
783 
619 561 417 411 
374 
245 245 216 197 162 
Prev 
1 
2 
5 
4 3 6 7 8 9 
10 
11 
12 14 15 16 17 18 20 19 21 22 24 23 
25 



·-------~--------------------~~-~-----­
-

---------------~­



