
Friday, October 31, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 44 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum A chained prisoner tries to maim visitors at the Carroll Hall haunted house Wednesday. Many campus dorms are celebrating the holiday. 
Friday Feature~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Holiday boasts diverse history 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Today, costumed children all over the country are using hos­tile threats and scare tactics to persuade stingy adults to hand over expensive pre-packaged sugar. 
Trick or treat, it Halloween. and the jack-o-lanterns, witches and black cats that repre­sent the holiday grace. the doorsteps and storefronts of America. 
But what is everyone really celebrating on the night of Halloween? 
More than 2,000 years ago, the Celts hon­ored the sun god and the lord of death with a festival cailed Samhain. Meaning the "end of summer," Samhain began as the sun set on Oct. 31, and ended with a feast on the night of Nov. 1, which marked the beginning of winter, or what the Celts referred to as the "season of death." 
Many scholars think that this ancient Celtic festival is the precursor to the contemporary celebration of Halloween. In fact, many popular Christian holidays have roots in more secular festivities. 
"It was quite common for the Church to take such pagan fes­tivals and Christianize them," said Jay Dolan, a professor of 
history at Notre Dame. 
During the Celtic festival, sac­rifices were offered to the Celt lord of death so that the sins of ancestors would be expiated and their souls freed. According to Proinsias MacCana, author of "Celtic Mythology," "criminals were put into cages shaped like ani­mals and burned by Druid priests." 
The lord of death then judged the souls and decided what form of existence they would continue as, with the soul of the wicked being "condemned to the bodies of animals." 
During the Middle Ages, how­ever, the influence of Christianity changed the pagan ritual of Samhain. In the 7th century, Pope Boniface IV added All Saint's Day to the calendar as a festi­val to honor all known and unknown saints who had not pre­viously received 
recognition. 
In 835, Pope 
Gregory moved the 
holiday from its origi­
nal placement on May 13 
to November 1, essentially replacing the Samhain festival with a Christian celebration. 
"All Saint's Day is an impor­tant part of our Christian year," explained. Father Theodore Hesburgh. "A different saint is honored every day of the year. All Saint's Day tries to catch up with all the saints that were not necessarily canonized formally by the Church." 
The evening before All Saint's 
see HALLOW I page 4 
• SECURITY BEAT 
South Bend police fight rise in crime 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 
During the past two weeks, the city of South Bend has been stunned by an unusually high number of acts of "sense­less violence," and as a result, the police department has increased uniformed and investigative officers' presence throughout the city. 
According to Sgt. John Williams of the South Bend police department, the increase comes in response to a call from Mayor Stephen Luecke and police administra­tors after 13 violent crimes. including homicides, were reported in 14 consecutive days earlier this month. 
"They [Luecke and others] called us to increase officers assigned to the neighborhoods where the crimes have occurred." Williams said. 
All crimes took place on the west side of the city, just a few miles from the University, and law enforcement officials can­not find any connections between any of the crimes. As a result, the police staff has reorganized, placing more offi­cers near the crime scenes over the past 10 days, but no new officers have been hired as a result of the occurrences. 
"Plain-clothes officers who normally have follow-up work to do are now in unmarked cars on the west side," Williams said. 
He noted that 12 officers are presently at the police acade­my in "rookie school," and that they will be hired upon their completion of studies to aug­ment the present police force. 
In the mean time, citizens must carry on with their nor­mal lives and trust the efforts of the police in trying to allevi­ate the crime situation, according to Williams. 
''I'm sure that a lot of people in the community are scared to go out of their houses, but they should know that the police are doing all they can to keep doing all that we can, and we'll keep them safe," he said. 
Sgt. Ken Horvath noted in a recent press release the diffi­
see CRIME I page 9 

Carroll: Catholics must resist violence 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Unless American citizens speak out against continued dependence on nuclear weapons by the United States government, the threat of a nuclear holocaust has not ended with the Cold War, according to Catholic priest turned author and columnist James Carroll. 
Carroll lectured in the Center For Continuing Education yester­day as part of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. He used his experi­ence as an anti-war activist dur­ing the 1960s and 1970s to illus­trate how he thought that the government, if left to its own devices, could betray the people that it represents. 
"We know what kind of tragic days those were (in 1968)," he said. "But the real tragedy was Richard Nixon's prolongation of a war that the American people had rejected. History will judge us harshly for allowing an illegal and immoral war to continue for years." 
He indicated that he believed the Vietnam War could have ended in 1968 after President Lyndon Johnson annouced he would not run for a second term, renouncing American involve­ment in the war when Sen. Eugene McCarthy announced his bid for president on an anti-war platform. 
Carroll spoke at length about Catholic priests Phillip and Daniel Barrigan who served as inspirations for him in their activism against the war. 
He related the story of Phillip Harrigan leading a raid on the draft-board in the customs house in Baltimore. "When the clerks went to go get the records, the two men that were standing there walked up, along with the priest, and opened drawers of draft records," he recalled. "They then pulled vials from their coats, opened them and poured blood all over the records. They said that it was an example of the American and Vietnamese blood that was being spilled in the war. Then they sat down on the bench and waited to 

see CARROLL I page 9 


The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 31, 1997 


utside the Dome 
Boulder Pagan Alliance offers alternatives for Halloween 
BOULDER, Colo. 
A Barbie doll and Bullwinkle the moose, the goddess and god of the cer­emony, sit on the altar amidst candles, a chalice, wine, a plate of cookies and a sword. Subtract the sword, the Barbie, the moose and the light-hearted pagan laughter that fills the room and the set­ting could easily pass as a Catholic altar. 
Warren Stott, priest and co-founder of the Boulder Pagan Alliance, took part in this ritual and says that the levi­ty and joy in the funny side of the human experience is one of the appeals of paganism. Stott describes paganism as a natural, pre-Christian religion that has been termed one of the fastest growing religions in the country. 
The Boulder Pagan Alliance hosts monthly drum gatherings, which Stott says draw 80 to 200 followers. Colorado has a large pagan population, which Stott estimates at 2,500. 
According to the New York Times, 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

Students and celebs rally to free Tibet 
WASHINGTON 
GW students were among hundreds of people who gath­
ered across from the White House in Lafayette Park 
Wednesday to protest the Chinese government's human 
rights abuses. Chinese President Jiang Zemin's visit to the 
White House for a U.S.-China summit drew more than 20 
groups advocating human rights, workers' rights,religious 
freedom and environmental protection, including GW's 
Students for a Free Tibet. "We roll out the red carpet for 
(Jiang) and he is Tiananmen Square," said junior Nerissa 
Whittington, referring to the suppressed student protests 
in 1989. "We had a really large turnout today and hope­
fully we are bringing some attention to this problem," 
Whittington said as she helped set up a 12-foot model of 
the Statue of Liberty in the park. Also parading among the 
protesters were puppets of President Clinton and Jiang 
playing with a fishing pole, with dollars as bait. "What 
China is doing is morally offensive -and what America is 
doing in supporting them is wmng," junior Jonathan 
Skrmetti said. 
• BtWLOR UNIVERSITY 

BU financial aid under investigation 
WACO, Texas 
The U.S. Department of Labor is investigating Baylor 
University's classification of employees in the financial aid 
department for possibly being in violation of the Fair Labor 
Standard Act. The Fair Labor Standards Act sets the stan­
dards for employer's management of minimum wage, over­
time pay and child labor. "They are investigating certain job 
classifications and how our employees' positions fall in the 
two categories regarding overtime pay," Larry Brumley, the 
associate vice president for communications said. 
"Employees classified as non-exempt are entitled to over­
time while those exempt are not." Clfrical assistants, for 
example, who have a job description of 40 hours per week, 
are supposed to be paid for any overtime hours spent at 
work, Brumley said. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Friday ~ 
... ... ''' 
Saturday Sunday ~ 
'''' ' 
Monday ~.-•/:'/-·-·· Tuesday/' ,·8,


-{...)....· :..;·-~ ............... ,/~ ..... ':...(') 


It is also a result of counter-culture 
migrants who were attracted to Colorado in the '60s by its cheap land, relative isolation and mountain mys­tique. 
On Friday, many pagans will host rit­uals celebrating Samhain, a Celtic word meaning "·summer's end." This day is the end of the Celtic year. In seasons past. priests celebrated a festival of the Goddess of Summer and God of Winter, marking the year's transition. Druid priests built protective bonfires, believ­ing that the souls of the dead assem­bled on Samhain. Priests also made sacrifices of animals and, occasionally, people, seeking to appease the sun god. 
Samhain is the day when the veil between the world of the living and the dead is the thinnest, and pagans honor those who have passed away, Stott said. According to a Samhain Web Site www.ohio.net/-jestes/samhain1.html pagans once believed that ghosts, many of which were evil, could be seen walk­ing through graveyards on Samhain. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA-BERKHEY 
Theme housing explores gay issues 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
From the outside, Ehrman Hall looks like any other UC Berkeley housing facility, with its nondescript facade. identical rooms and constraining dorrri rules. But inside. eight students on the fifth floor say their home represP.nts something completely different -namely the together­ness, identity and freedom associated with being an open­ly gay community. The eight students are pilot members of the university's new Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender theme housing program, a endeavor similar to other theme housing programs on campus. The pro­gram began this fall thanks to the planning and initiative of 20 students from the UC Berkeley group Gays, Lesbians or Bisexuals Everywhere. "I was tired of being the only gay guy on the floor," says Randy Althaus, a junior lin­guistics major who helped form the LGBT theme program. "It's nice to know you're not alone. It's nice to know there's people around you who you can identify with." Despite the positive results of the program, members say they had to overcome a rocky start. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXASwARUNGTON 
Witch Way To Go? 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
They eat with you in McDonald's, walk with you on the sidewalks and may be sitting beside you right now while you read this article. They are "Wiccans," and they are not as unusual or creepy as you might think. Donna (not her real name) is an advertising senior who has been a practicing Wiccan for five years now. She says her religion is misunderstood by the public. "I have had people call me a witch, and that's just not so. My mother cried when I told her. My family is Catholic, and they don't understand that I still am, too. I've just added something." Several modern-day Halloween traditions were derived from Wiccan rituals, including the act of donning costumes and masks. The Wiccans would practice this to ward off evil spirits. 
Boston 56 37 Los Angeles 89 55 Philadelphia 64 42
4,Q,~@.6j.Q (f ~ u 
Chicago 64 54 Miami 85 75 Phoenix 89 61
Showers Twstorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud) 
Columbus 64 45 Minneaptotis 55 45 St. Louis 65 54
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 31. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
«:> 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B 5Sl [TIJ 0 . ~ 8 i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
r-~~-------~--------------~------~~----~~-------------------------~------­
Friday, Ocrober 31, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 

McGovern shares personal tragedy 

By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Assistant News Editor 
Senator George McGovern is well known for his career in Congress and for his unsuccessful attempt at the presidency in 1972. But when he came to Notre Dame last night. it was not to speak about politics. 
Instead. he came to speak about an issue much closer to his heart. In December of 1994, his daughter Terry, 45, was found frozen to death in a snowbank in Madison. Wis. after an episode of heavy drinking. Terry had suffered from alcoholism for over 25 years and had final­ly become one of the disease's countless victims. 
Last night, in his speech to several hundred at the Joyce Center, McGovern stressed the fact that alcoholism is a disease. and that it is an addiction to which some people have an acute vulnerability. 
Since his daughter's death. McGovern has taken to the road to speak about alcoholism, his main concern being to stop what happened to his daughtrr from happening to othrrs. 
"If there arc people here at Notre Dame who suspect they may have a problem," he said at a prrss conference before his presentation, "you should not delay in seeking treatment from AA (Aieoholics Anonymous) or some other group. You really need help to get over this addiction." 
lie showed particular concern for college stu­dents who abuse alcohol, as it was in college at the University of South Dakota that his daughter first began to lose control over her drinking. 
"The number one problem on almost every rollege campus in the country is weekend binge drinking," he said. "Maybe as many as 40 to 45 percent of students engage in this binge drink­ing. Many get over it when they graduate, but 10 to 15 percent will become alcoholics." 
Even when she had seemed to make great progress in a program. McGovern said, she would often suffer a relapse. 
He recalled one instance in which Terry had just returned from a program after six weeks of intensive therapy. She asked to borrow the car when she got home to pick up a few items at the drug store. 
"Three and a half hours later. I got a call from a friendly bartender who said that Terry had passed out and was lying on the floor," he said. 
It was not easy for the family to put up with Terry's alcoholism. McGovern said. Still, he pressed the point that alcoholics need the love of their family no matter how difficult it seems. 
"I remember that I could hardly speak to her for a time," he regretfully confessed. "I forgot that it was a disease. I forgot that it hurt her more than her parents. 
"Tough love is important," he said, "but you can't forget about the 'love' part ... You especial­ly need it if you are sick." 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum George McGovern spoke yesterday about his book concerning his daughter's struggle with alcoholism. 
The passing years were especially difficult for 
Terry, McGovern said, since she was struggling 
not only with alcoholism, but also with clinical 
depression, which was first diagnosed in her at 
the age of 19. He specially remembered going 
with her to an AA meeting open to non-alco­
holics. and seeing her unhappy when the others 
present would testify to how their lives had 
improved since they had found sobriety. 
"The truth is that life was not that big a deal 
for Terry when she was sober because of the 
depression," he said. 
Her alcoholism later separated her from her 
husband and two children, and ended with her 
tragic death. 
McGovern recently wrote the book "Terry, My 
Daughter's Life-and-Death Struggle with 
Alcoholism," in the hope that it might help those 
in her situation to deal with their addiction. 
"I know that Terry McGovern in death has 
accomplished more than she did in life, and that 
was the purpose of my writing this book," he 
said. 
McGovern emphasized the need for more fund­
ing in the study and treatment of alcoholism as a 
disease. 
He also spoke about the need for parents to do 
what they can to keep their children from falling 
into alcohol abuse as his daughter did. 
"No parent can make their kids safe from alco­
hol and drugs," he said. "But especially at the 
junior high and high school level, we should 
begin talking to our youngsters about this." 
He added, addressing the students present, 
that every state has a drinking age of 21. 
"It wouldn't hurt once in a while to obey the 
law," he said. 

9a.m.-7 p.m.10a.m.,1 &3p.m.11a,m.-9 p.m.· 11a.m., 3p.m. 3p.m.3&3:30 p.m.4:30p.m. 4:45p.m. 
5:05 p~m~
e:2o p.rn:·
7p;p1. 
. 8 Pti·w:mi.&•""''·'M'""'·'"''' 
Bil.m:'l!p.m.6a.. m.-9 p.m.9&1{)a.m.9:30a.m. 10a.m. 10a.m. 10:40a.m. 11:30a.m. 12 noon 1:10p.m.1:30p.m.30 min. alter game4:45-7 p.m. 
Hours of operation Saint Mary's campus tours Hours of operation Notre Dame campus tours Glee &lub performance Center for the Homeless tours Marching band rehersal GleeCiub ripen rehersal Vtgtl Mas~ for AU Saints DayPorn pons; cheerleaders perform PepRally . ·..... Free .Glee Club coneert 
sai~rcl~v:··ti:;e;.ber 1 
.. ,·.,;;.,"~v.w~~=···· 
Sunday, November 2 
Hours of operation Hours ofoperation Saint Mary'$ campus tours Closed AA meetingAlumni flag fooll}all game Porn pons, cheerleaders performPorn pons, cheerleaders perform Glee Club· ND in Revue Marching Banfconcert Pre-game show Fighting Irish vs. Navy Mass Candlelight bullet 
Notre Dame Bookstore 122 LeMans Hall Irish Express Grace Hall Grace Hall courtyard Main Circle Fieldhouse Mall Washington Hall Basilica Joyce Center Joyce Genter Washington Hall 
Notre Dame Bookstore Irish Express122 LeMans Hall 
esc, room 124 
Stepan Field Notre Dame Bookstore Joyce Center Joyce Center Bond Hall Notre Dame Stadium Notre Dame Stadium Basilica Dining'Halls 

8,10&11:45a,ilt Mass Basilica10 a.m.-4 p.m. Hours of operation Varsity Shop, JACG 2p.ot Free solo piano concert by Joel Cummins Snite Museum 
• SECURITY BEAT Monday, Oct. 27 
11:49 a.m. A Welsh Family Hall resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
Tuesday, Oct. 28 
1 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported receiving harassing phone calls. 
1:30 p.m. A visitor was transport­ed to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained 
The Observer/Dave Piening 

during a fall. 
Wednesday, Oct. 29 
1:33 a.m. Security a.rrested a South Bend resident who was wanted on an outstan-ding war­rant. 
6:40 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of her gym bag from the Joyce Center. Her gym bag was unattended at the time of the theft. 



ON·LINE OFFICE 

I 
WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 
A Better Choice to Nlake 


~ ~~!~c~~~~~~ 
SHOWING FRIDAY, OCT 31 

Road 239-6611 or 800-522-6611 reland Road-299-2220 Edison Lakes-254-4400 Mill Street-256-2361
AND SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 1 
aint Mary's Campus-284-4614 Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 


7:15 and 9:45p.m. 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 


http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 31, 1997 
of-Halloween." tricks on them. Eventually they But within the realm of asserted. 'There is no place in "The practices of divination learned that ghosts did not Christianity there exist many the life of the Church or the
Hallow 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
bridge builders over the chasms that separate people, the young and old, the rich and poor, the black and white, the ignorant and the learned. Go out from here as one who knows and loves, one who has cherished wisdom and built character, and, 
above all, one who has learned to give of self" 
-Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President Emeritus, Univ. of Notre Dame 
Michela Costello jessica Baumgarten 
Sean Frey Congratulations and thanks to the over 200 participants in Lara Becker 
jennifer Glodek Dina Brick Andrew Hardie Ashley DeBruyne Tom Kilroy Brian Dillon Sarah Kolasa jennifer Ehren 
The Appalachia Seminar 
Ryan Murphy Pam Gaulrapp Matthew Potts · Michael Girsch Rachel Tomas Morgan Christine Holmberg 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar 
Amy Keller Roslyn Amparo Christopher Lombardi Maria Banas Melissa Matheny 
The Washington Seminar 
Christine McConaghy Melanie Caesar Shay Boyle 
Sara Nienaber Benjamin Campbell Matt Renaud 
Diane Griffin who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint Michael Riley 
Sherreca jones Mark Rincon 
Sonia Pelletreau Mary's College during Fall Break in service and experiential Kara Rossetti 
Jennifer Piccoli Anthony Rossmiller 
Rona Reodica learning at 19 sites across the nation. Frederick Salvo, III 
Laura Schreeg Anna Sanford Lindsey Smith jennifer Stirk 
Daniel Tully 
jon VanGalder joel Wilson William Varettoni 
Gabriel Alejandro Kevin Coleman Maggie Durant Rebecca Greco Catherine Kearney Andrew McElhinney Chris Owens jaime Sutton Maralyssa Alvarez Regina Collins Maria Eidietis Andrew Grohman Marsha Kennedy Kevin McGee Heather Paich Elizabeth Talarico Cindy Baas ten • Christopher Connor Jennifer Farrell joanna Grossa Christopher King Marcella Mcintyre john Pusey Ashleigh Thompson Suzanne Barrett Matt Connor Kathleen Finn Brian Guarraci Michael Kiernan Aisling McKenna Matt Quallick josh Uebelhor Molly Bates Kevin Cope Karen Flynn Christian Halscheid Kristi Klitsch Conor McKenna Stephen Recupero Kelly Van Overbeke joseph Birmingham Adrienne Corpuz Peter Folan Gretchen Hasselbring Brian Kolle Chiquita McMillian Kelly Righton Anna VanOverberghe john Borrego Luis Couchonnal Molly Franke Katrin Heinisch Katherine Kowalski Nora Meany Brian Rigney Erin Walsh Gabe Bosslet Gina Couri james Freeman Megan Hennessy Alison Kriegel Michael Miazga Aliceson Robinson Adrian Washington Kristen Bree Amy Crawford Christopher Fretel Thomas Hennessy Christopher Kusek Shawn Miller JeniferRoe Gwen Weisse Colleen Briscoe Janine Cuneo Adam Frick Tammy Hoffman Elizabeth Lawton Brigid Molen Maureen Ryan Annemarie Welch Marybeth Briscoe Kami Davidson Megan Fry .Maureen Hoover Amanda Lerch David Monahan Ned Ryan William Whitman, IV Erin Brophy Tony Davis Erika Fuehrmeyer Sharon Houlahan David Leung Martin Moran Daniel Santone jason Wilcox jessica Buchanan BeckyDeitle Erin Galbraith Maria Hrvatin . jacob Lloyd Elizabeth Moriarty jill Saunders Michelle Williams Mark Buckingham Edward Donahue Sean Gallagher Bryan Huarte Shaye Loughlin jeffrey Morse john Serrano jill Witkowski Rebecca Burick Katie Donohoe Erin Gallavan Karen Hubbard Jodi Lucena Madej Mrugala Mary Ellen Sheehan Bonny Young Cerise Bush Chad Doran Alexis Gaul Susan Hudachek Rachel Lustig jesus Munoz Nicole Shirilla Kerry Zahn Michael Camilleri Thomas Dovidio Stacey Geist Michael Hutchinson Sean Mahoney David Murphy Kyle Smith Heather Campbell Michael Downs Kristen Georgia john Infranca Jacqueline Martinez Melissa Myron Stacey Smith jaclyn Carfagno julieDuba jennifer Gingrass Kimber! y j eselnick Melissa Maykuth David Neighbours Megan Speaks Andrea Ray Maria Carranza Kevin Dunne Christina Goetz jennifer johnson jake McCall Shannon Norton Rachel Steininger Colleen Casey Erin Dunnigan· john Graziani Sarah johnson Christopher McCarthy Meghan O'Brien Megan Stollenwerk 
continued from page 1 
Day, originally called "All Hallows' Eve" before being shortened to the modern title of "Halloween," which means "holy evening," was used as a preparatory celebration for All Saint's Day. Christians were encouraged by the Church to abandon pagan rituals in recog­nizing this holy day. 
Why, then, do contemporary celebrations of Halloween reflect more pagan ideals? 
Although the practices of the ancient Celtic festival were out­lawed by the Church as witch­craft, many of the traditions remained to become part of a more modern concept of Halloween, according to Cass Sandak. author of "The History and dressing in disguises remained, as did the common fear of nocturnal creatures such as bats, toads and owls which were linked to the spirit of the dead,"he stated. 
The phrase "trick-or-treat" has several explanations. According to Sandak, the Celts left out food for the spirits, hop­ing that a "treat" would prevent an evil "trick." But Robert J. Myers. author of "The Complete Book of American Holidays," believes the phase has Irish ori­gins. 
"Poor farmers would go to the homes of the rich and ask for the feast," Myers stated. "If they were not given anything, they would play tricks on them dur­ing the night. In the morning, the rich would awaken and think that ghosts has played come on nights critics who feel they had not 
that modern given food celebrations of away." Halloween are Halloween has expressly come to be a against mostly American­Christian celebrated holi-teaching; cele­day, and has lost t t0 th d k brations of 
almost all its reli-u es e same ar 
Halloween gious significance force, Satan.' only promote in the wake of the worship of
Gloria Phillips 
the commercial­Satan.
member ofBay View Church
ism that sur­G I o r i a rounds the cele­Phillips, of Bay bration. View Church in Mobile, Ala., 
"The imagination can run wild thinks that traditional American with all the things the dead symbols and celebrations of thfl. might be up to," said Father holiday arc expressly against Brian Daley, a professor of the­the word of God. ology at Notre Dame. "Still. it "Through the ages, I-lallowecm can be a time to reflect on all has gone by various names, but mortality, and a sense of all have been tributes to the Christian hope." same dark force, Satan," she Christian for such participa­tion." 
Father J-lcsburgh, however, bdieves that there is no conflict between the celebration of Halloween and the life of the Christian. 
"Most of our culture comes out of pagan holidays," he said. "I think that the Church didn't eliminate the culture of the holi­day [by changing it from Samhain to All Saint's Dayl. it just emphasized a deeper Christian meaning." 
Although American culture has regained more of the pagan aspects of llallowPen. the holi­day does not displace Christian tcmching. 
"Having fun is not necessarily pagan," Ilcsburgh said. "You can have a good time and still be doing good things." 

As a member of the Jordan Automotive Group I am proud to be able to offer you the area's widest selection of Ford, Totota, Volvo, Mitsubishi and pre-owned vehicles in the 
area. 

LOU VALDERAS 219-259-1981 ext 242 
It would be a pleasure to seNe you during your next purchase or leasing 
expenence. 

Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 p~ges, hardbound. 
The DiaiDond Authority® 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
w

------~ ~~ -----------~----~ -~~ 
-----~ 


COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NATIONAL NEWS BRIEFS Perot considers campaign 
DALLAS 

Ross Perot said he thought of going up to Washington to "bang on some doors" to try to get a campaign finance bill passed. but concluded it would be a waste of time. "Facts and testimony don't mean anything there," 


Perot added, rolling his eyes and professing mock shock -shock that such legislation is currently stymied in Congress. "It's who's paid off who that means everything." The biparti­san campaign finance hearings in Washington are a total joke anyway, he said. "This is like having Willie Sutton and Jesse James investi­gate one another for bank robbery," snapped Perot. And over all. lw concluded, the nation is in a "Lawrence Welk mode," lethargically ignoring its real problems. But lest anyone think that Perot, the two-time presidential candidate. has grown pessimistic about his role in the nation's public life, watch for him this weekend in Kansas City. That is the site of a national meeting of the Reform Party. the movenwnt that he founded and bankrolled and whose Presidential nomination he accept­ed last year -and might just accept again in the future, if the call comes. "J will sweep the strerts. I'll sleep under a bridge," he said last week on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
Astronaut feared for his life 
WASHINGTON 

Amr~rican astronaut Michael Foale said Wr.dnnsday that most of his stay aboard the troubled Russian space station Mir was worth­while and enjoyable, but that for a brief monwnt he fearnd for his life when a runaway cargo wssel struck the orbiting outpost. Foale, in his first news conference since returning to Earth three weeks ago, said at the Johnson SpacP Contnr in llouston that the only time he feared for his lifn was "for about one second" on .June 25 when a Progress cargo vessel con­ducting a docking test slammed into one of Mir's main modules. Moments before the colli­sion. lw said. lw had bnen ordnred into the Sovuz rnscun craft attachr.d to the station. Just bd"orP n~aching the Soyuz. while Foale was in a connecting node br.tween sections of the sta­tion, tlw Progress struck the Spektr science module with a loud thump, rupturing the sec­tion and causing it to lose its air. After he and the two Hussian cosmonauts aboard, Vasily Tsibliyev. the commander, and Sasha Luzhutkin, thn engineer, sealed off the rup­tun~d seetion and eventually restored power to the station. he said, "things were not so bad for us" and there werr. no fears of life-threatening situations. Foale said Tsibliyev, who was in charge of the docking, took the accident par­ticularly hard. 

AMEX:
Dow 
670.84 
-5.51
]ONES Nasdaq:
-125.00 
1570.41 
-3234 
• 
NYSE: 
475.83 
-1.10 


S&P 500: Volume: 903.68 713,500,000
7381.67 
-15.48 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER Ofo CHANGE S GAIN PRICE 
Credit Depot LENDD 300% +3.00 4.00 Ortec lnt'I·WT ORTCW 100% + 1.63 3.25 ACC Corp. ACCC 45.16% +12.25 39.38 Ortec lnt'l WTB ORTCZ 42.86% +0.75 2.50 Faraundja Inc. FOJA 41.67% 8.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
Big City B·WTS BIGCW ·58.33% ·1.75 1.25 Big City Bagels BIGC ·34.00% ·1.0625 2.063 Pegasystems PEGA ·33 78% ·9.375 18.375 Banca Quad·ADR QDRMY ·25.00% -1.25 3.75 Ancor Comm. ANCR ·21.88% -1.75 6.25 
American leaders greet Jiang 
Questions, doubts surround first visit since Tiananmen massacre in 1989 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Confronting some of his harshest critics, Chinese President Jiang Zemin defended Beijing's human rights record Thursday amid blunt questions about allegations of forced abortions, religious persecution and the sale of organs from executed prisoners. 
Winding up a two-day visit to Washington, Jiang told members of Congress that since China opened to the world in the 1970s, "The Chinese people have enjoyed a much better life, and it has intensified efforts to improve democracy and the legal system." 
From Capitol Hill to the White House, Democrats and Republicans closed ranks to raise candid con­cerns about China as Washington and Beijing end eight years of diplo­matic estrangement. House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Jiang was "very vigorous in defending some posi­tions we don't agree with." 
"He got it from the president and now he got it from Congress," said Senate Democratic leader Tom Daschle a day after Jiang heard a lecture about human rights from President Clinton. 
Jiang, the first Chinese leader wel­comed in Washington since the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, hnad­ed from Washington to Philadelphia to visit such symbols of American democracy as the Liberty Bell and Independence Hall. On Friday, Jiang will be in New York, where he will step into the heart of American cap­italism and ring the opening bell at the stock exchange. . Unlike Wednesday when hundreds protested in Lafayette Park, only a handful of demonstrators shadowed Jiang's stops Thursday in Washington. Protest leaders said they were focusing their efforts on rallies in Philadelphia. 
The Chinese leader concluded his visit to the capital with a speech acknowledging that relations with the United States have been marked with "estrangement and contacts, confrontation and cooperation, fric­tion and harmony." 
"Different views held by countries on the human rights issue ought to be addressed through dialogue so confrontation could be avoided," Jiang said. 
Addressing American trade con-

cerns, Jiang pledged to "open China still wider to the outside world." 
Jiang, in his speech, said China had improved human rights and ended slavery in Tibet, comparing Beijing's action to "the liberation of black slaves in American history." After China's intervention, the peo­ple of Tibet are "living and working in happiness and contentment," the Chinese leader said. 
Despite the strongly held views on Capitol Hill, the Chinese leader appeared to make some headway in a breakfast with about 50 members of Congress. 
"I think frankly the president's comments about democracy and the 
see JIANG/ page 11 



Albright warns against delays 
By DOUGLAS JEHL 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 

To considerable American impa­tie.nce, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his top advisers are wrestling to resolve Israel's stance on issues that were supposed to have been discussed with the Palestinians in Washington this week. 
The disagreement in Netanyahu's governing coalition has already forced postponement of the talks and prompted Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to warn that "time is kind of petering out." 
Before a seven-hour meeting of Netanyahu's security Cabinet Wednesday, Albright telephoned him to counsel against further delay. Israeli officials said later that Foreign Minister David Levy, the Israeli nego­tiator, who had put off his trip to Washington, would now travel as early as the end of the week. 
Israeli Channel Two television reported that the meeting had pro­
duced some broadly worded agree­ments. But the session, convened at Levy s request, fell far short of pro­ducing the "fundamental clarifica­tions" of position Levy had sought. 
That lack of progress left uncertain whether the Palestinians would take part in the talks. Saeb Erekat, a top Palestinian negotiator, said they would reserve that decision until they received American assurances that Levy had been authorized to speak for Israel on the full range of issues on the agenda. 

page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT ___ Friday, October 31, 1997
--'-=--"._:_::_ 
THE 
HAMMES 

NO 
RED 
E 
OOKSTOR 
()NTHE

CAMPUS 
The "VICTORY'' jacket by GEAR For Sports® in adult, child, and infant sizes... 



classic, relaxed clothes done simply right 
G 
R 
F 0 R T S ® 

r---~-------------------.-~----~------------------------------------------~----------------~------------------~ 
Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Simpson explains her Snite exhibit 
By SARAH HANSEN 
News Writer 
In conjunction with her exhibit, "Lorna Simpson: Race, Gender, Photography," photographer Lorna Simpson presented a lec­ture on her work, currently on dis­play at the Snite Museum, last 
night. 
In addition, Simpson treated her audience to a slide enhanced chronological tour of her work. 
"Everyone would look from one picture to another," Simpson com­plained. "I always liked contrasts." 
Iler interest in contrasts com­
bined with a passion for writing 
narratives led Simpson to develop­
ing her signature mode of creativi­
ty: a juxtaposition of visual and 
linguistic communication. 
Simpson, in her collection of 21 intaglio prints titled "Details," pre­sented to the Snite by Mr. and Mrs. John C. Rudolph of Seattle, matches a hand with a seemingly unrelated sentence fragment. 
In trying to forge some sort of connection between the hand and the sentence fragment, the viewer is forced to create a story to make the body fragment and text frag­ment harmonize. 
According to Robert Haywood, assistant professor of art, art his­tory and design at Notre Dame and guest curator of the exhibi­tion, " ... Any story one 'invents,' which inevitably invokes racial and gender stereotypes, fails to cohere -fails, that is, to present itself as truth." 
Simpson's art addresses the del­
icate subjects of race and gender, 
often questioning her own choice of photography as a mode of rep­resentation. 

"It's not so much about history, it's more about fmding and forget­ting who is related to who," revealed Simpson. 
Simpson's most recent endeav­ors have included a billboard pro­ject for "Art Against AIDS" and a video installation, a viewing of which she used to close the lec­ture. 
"In trying to create pieces, I always try to push things to their limit,'' said Simpson. 
Simpson's exhibition will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art until November 16. The Snite is open to the public Tuesday and Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Thursday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. 



WSND Presents ... 
An in depth interview with President Marilou Eldred of Saint Mary's College. Listen to WSND 
88.9 FM to find out how she plans on leading : SMC into the 21st century. 
I I I I I I I I I I I 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Artist Lorna Simpson spoke yesterday about her exhibit, "Race, Gender, Photography," now on display at the Snite Museum of Art. 
AMBASSADOR .. 
PAI~T SERVICE $ j , < ... · )95
Starting At • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . , ..'} .·
189
. . . . 

With over 25 years experience in auto painting and bodyworks, MAACO is the notional leader of quality automotive collision ond point services. We hove alarge variety of packages ta ensure o collision and paint service to lit every budget. 
SOUTH BEND 
•DENT 
STRAIGHTENING 

•RUST 
REPAIRS 

•PARTS 
REPLACEMENT 

•SKILLED 
BODYWORK TECHNICIANS 




Applications are DUE 

in the 
esc 
I I


:uvta~ci~o 'g I 
I

ITALIAN EATERY I
Football Feast I I Available All Day Saturday and Sunday I Monday After 4:00p.m. 
New and Improved *Spaghetti and Meatballs *New Appetizers 
*Chicken Strip Dinners *Games and Attractions (video games) 
**Bring this coupon and receive free 112 order of garlic bread w/purchase of meal. 
St. Andrew's Plaza  LaSalle Square  
620 W. Edison Rd. Suite 130  913 N. Bendix Drive  
Mishawaka, IN 46545  South Bend, IN 46628  
L.  254-9533  234-5817  

------------------------~ 
.----~-------­
•
' 
' page8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 31. 1997 

Give away your coat... 
and 





SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND FIGURES ON PovERTY AND AMERicA's WoRKING PooR 
* 
Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 

* 
The growth '::> : 


: · 
·> 

in the number of 
> working poor ··:::•• r_:: · grew by 400,000 1: 
between 1980 · and 1990, all of which were accounted for by the growth of female working poor. 
* In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 39% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 
* In 1993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of U.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 1947. The top 5% of households earn 
i 
1 
I 

There will also: dium dur 
Each donor will receive a chasing a new GEAR for 

socrAL CONCERNS 

COMMUNITY SERVICE 
coats were , including :alt~~Lv~~·~-s in need 
und the sta­and 22. 
to be used in pur­otre Dame Bookstore 

Hammes Bookstore 
STUDENT AcTIVITIES 
St. Michael's Laundry 
Notre Dame Support Services 


Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

the 1 0 most admired companies according to Fortune? 
Visit us on the web at http://www.dttus.com 
Crime 
continued from page 1 
cultics with which police are contending in trying to put an end to the crime. 
The recent rash does not fol­low this year's decrease in the overall rate of crime in South Bend. 
"City homicides are actually down 25 percent over last year, robberies are down actu­ally 39 percent, and rapes are also down 13 percent," Horvath said. 
lie said that police investi­gated the lifestyles and life choices of the victims and sus­pects of the crimes and that "it appears that these life choices and styles are not representa­tive of the great majority of good, hard-working citizens that make up our community." 
Overall, South Bend police are trying to do all they can to quell the fears of South Bend residents and bring the recent rash of crimes to an end. 
"As far as the chief of police is concerned, we're trying to do all we can to put a dent in this thing," Williams said. 



Who audits 4 of 
Carroll 
continued from page 1 
be arrested." 
Carroll emphasized that priests in the 1960s were given more respect than they are today. "My father was an Air Force general when this was going on," he said. "But he was not just any general, he was the general in charge of intelligence for war. I remember sitting at the dinner table, and I got my dad so angry that he pounded his fist on the table. But I said to him, 'Phillip Barrigan is not a kook ... he is a priest.' That used to mean something." 
In the course of his lecture, Carroll said that Catholic citizens had a special responsibility to protest the government involve­ment in Vietnam. "Everyone in the government believed that Vietnam was a Roman Catholic country," he said. "Their igno­rance is really a scandal, because what drew us in, what started those conflicts on the streets of Saigon in 1961, was an Inquisition-style Catholic regime 

Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 1/4 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 Come visit us at $~;;,'<.,. 


North Shore Club ~~,~) 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Dai(y 

Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
and an overwelmingly Bhuddist population." 
He said that his admiration for the Barrigan brothers sprang from their courage, as Catholics, to speak out against the govern­ment. "When Daniel Barrigan, speaking at the funeral of Roger LaPorte (who immolated himself in protest of the war in 1965), refused to condemn LaPorte's action as suicide, Cardinal Spellman banished him from New York," Carroll remembered. "Then he and Phillip and four others poured homemade napalm on draft records in Catonsville, Md. These acts imposed a new meaning of the priesthood on me. 
"They knew that a Catholic effort to end the war was required by the very role of Catholics in its beginning," he added. "American Catholics had been trying, since Charles Carroll, to be trusted citizens and here were Catholics, speaking out against the good order that had already been destroyed.'' 
Carroll said that the six months in between October 1967 and April 1968 were, "The most fate­ful because what did not happen. On three separate occasions, generals said to use nuclear weapons in Vietnam. But we decided, as a people, that we would rather suffer defeat than use total war." 
He added that since the end of the Cold War, the United States has not only not moved to cut down on nuclear weapons, but has moved towards a policy of becoming the only world power. 
Carroll ended his lecture by noting that on Monday, a full 30 years after Phillip Barrigan raid­ed the Baltimore customs house, the now 74-year-old Barrigan was again sentenced for civil dis­obedience, this time for pouring blood on the missile-launching equipment of an AegisVI in the Bath Iron Works in Maine. 
"If the world is very lucky, nuclear weapons will never be used again," he said. "And the world will look on a person like Barrigan as a kook or a nui­sance. History will judge us gen­erously. But if some part of the nuclear nightmare does occur, the survivors will wonder, where were our morals and outrage?" 


pagelO Friday, October 31, 1997
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



WITH 
' 

Be the most fanatic fan wearing Champion product and you could instantly win a fabulous Champion "prize pack"! 
ALOHA 


SWEEPSTAKES 
Win an all expense paid trip to the ND vs. Hawaii game in Hawaii. Includes airfare, hotel accommodations, tickets to the game and Champion prize packs. 
Please stop by the Hammes Bookstore or Varsity Shop for program details. 

... l 
Friday, October 31, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 11 
gious persecution," said from governmental interfer­House Minority Leader Dick ence."
Jiang Clinton wants to share 
Gephardt. "He denied there Gingrich said members of 
continued from page 5 
rule of law and the direction 
that are trying to  move  in is  
very  encouraging,"  said  
Gingrich.  

Senate Republican leader T•·ent Lott said, "The impor­tant thing is for us to see what he does when he returns." 
But Rep. Chris Smith, R­
N.J ., said of Jiang: "He told whoppers today. lie told big, big lies today. He gave us the party line." 
Faced with hostile question­ing. Jiang stood his ground. "He denied there was reli­
was a denial of political and rights of speech. He denied there was forced abortion. He denied there was internation­al sale of organs from execut­ed prisoners, all of which was raised." 
Lott told Jiang that China has made "incredible econom­ic progress" in the past dozen years but that "our relation­ship cannot be based simply on economics." 
"We do not believe that freedom is limited by geogra­phy or by history." Lott said. 
"We believe that all men and women should be able to live, work and speak free Congress were "very direct on religious liberty, very direct on issues of (weapons) prolif­eration, very direct on ques­tions of compulsory abortion, very direct on questions about jamming Radio America and Radio Free Asia and also very direct in talking about Tibet and the Dalai Lama." 

Before the breakfast, Jiang met separately with the four congressional leaders -Lott, Gingrich, Dasch1e and Gephardt -in Gingrich's office for about 30 minutes and then was escorted by the four for a quick tour of the Capitol Rotunda. 

The 5th Annual Emil T. Hofman, Ph.D. Lecture University of Notre Dame, Alumni Association & Saint Joseph's Medical Center Present: 
THE IMPAIRED PHYSICIAN: How Do We Confront This Problem? 
featuring 

Lynn R. Hankes, M.D., '58 
Director Washington Physicians Health Department Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington Seattle, Washington 
Impairment among physicians manifests itselfin many ways. Dr. Hankes will expl6re physician distress in this unprecedented period ofupheaval within the profession. 
10:00 AM-11:30 AM NovEMBER 1, 1997 (BEFORE THE NAVY-ND GAME.) ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM, NoTRE DAME UNIVERSITY 
The Associated Press · 
WASHINGTON 
For more than a year, the White House kept documents from Congress that said President Clinton wanted a 
computer,......,...,___,_,.,=--~ 
database built with federal money to include his contributors and be "integrat­ed" with the 

Democratic Clinton 
Party. 
The documents produced 
this week also include typed 
notes from a high-level White 
House meeting suggesting 
some aides did not think 
putting donor information in a 
government database was 
appropriate. 
"Why do we need this info in our internal management sys­tem? Would it not be more appropriate at the DNC or Re­Elect? (Our recommenda­tion)," the notes state. "DNC" is for Democratic National Commit-tee. 
White House officials say those notes were written by one of the aides who helped build the database. They say that even though donor names were put in the database, built with at least $600,000 in fed­eral money, it was never mis­used. 
"In fact, it was used the way that every White House used lists of names and computer lists to organize accurate lists of people who the White House wanted to invite to offi­cial and social events," White House spokesman Barry Toiv said Thursday. 
But the chairman of the House subcommittee that has investigated the issue angrily accused the White House of obstructing justice by with­holding the documents for more than a year after they were discovered. 
During that time, the com­mittee interviewed many wit­nesses while unaware of the documents. The committee first requested all relevant documents from the White House in August 1996. 
"It is startling new evidence about the level of involvement 


"Frankenstein" (1931) 
and "~er~a.m" 
OCTOBER 31, 9:00PM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER BALLROOM 
•FREE ADMISSION & FOOD • FREE TREAT BAGS TO THE FIRST 100 STUDENTS• 
~®~~11 ~®~®~1111® f2~0~® tl®l!J~ Q)O~~®W~ 51~~ f2~51~rr!~l1~g 
political donor data 
in the White House in regard 
to this database," Rep. David 
Mcintosh, R-Ind., said. "And it 
appears that somebody in the 
White House counsel's office 
last year, before the election, 
made the decision to obstruct 
justice and conceal evidence." 
Mcintosh's House 
Government Reform and 
Oversight investigative sub­
committee has been looking 
into whether the White House 
database created in 1994 was 
misused or improperly 
designed for political purpos­
es. 
Federal law generally pro­
hibits the use of federal funds 
for political purposes. 
White House counsel 
Charles Ruff turned over the 
latest documents on Tuesday 
to Mcintosh's subcommittee. 
Ruff said that they had been 
located in September 1996 
and turned over to his office 
but that a lawyer there con­
cluded the papers "were not 
responsive" to the committee's 
investigation. 
The final decision not to 
turn over the documents last 
year was made by Ruff's pre­
decessor, Jack Quinn, and a 
lawyer who remains in the 
counsel's office, Cheryl Mills, 
the White House said 
Thursday. 
The White House has previ­ously acknowledged that con­tributor records were included in the database and that at one point aides considered sharing data with the Democratic National Committee. The White House says the latter was never car­ried out. 
The newly disclosed docu­ments are the first to come suggesting the president encouraged sharing data from the project with the party. 
"Harold and Deborah DeLee want to make sure WhoDB is integrated w/DNC database ­so we can share. Evidently POTUS wants this to! (Makes Sense)," White House aide Brian Bailey wrote in 1994 notes. 
"Harold" is then-deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes. "POTUS" is for president of the United States. Bailey, an assistant to Erskine Bowles, then another deputy, was involved in creating the data­base, officials said. 
Officials said Bailey or one of the other aides building the database is believed to be the author of typed, undated notes in preparation for a spring 1994 meeting with Ickes and Bowles, who is now Clinton's chief of staff. 
Those notes state that President and Mrs. Clinton were behind the idea to include 1992 campaign con­tributor records in the data­base. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
UsErl rooks l:x::u;Jht an:1. sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


rooks in stock • D.Jt-of-Print Se3rch ServiCE: $2.00 • -"l;praisals large an:1. STBll 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 

p a a 
t 
' 








VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, October 31, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Edi[Or ........................... Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager............................. Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... .. ..... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller. .......................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students ofrhc University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration of either insdturion. The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Sports. Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, ~md Associate News Editor. Commemaries. lerrers and Inside Columns presem rhe views of rhe amhors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoinr space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and ro all readers. The free expression of va1ying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Line's' 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4 542  Business Off.ce  631-53U  
Managing Editor  631-4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Off.ce Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror/ViewPoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoim.I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS, AND GENERAL RAMBLINGS 
An Endless Search for Directions 
"Take Highway 110 East. then 70 South. Get off at the George St. exit ... You can't miss it." 

Kathy Scheibel 
"YOU CAN'T MISS IT."-I seem to have unconsciously made it my life's mis­sion to make this the most frequently dis­proved theory to ever exist in the history of mankind ... because trust me, I CAN miss it. Though perhaps no other living (or not so living) human, dog, cat or rodent may be capable of missing it, and though by the laws of science and nature it may be absolutely and unquestionably physically impossible to miss it, I give you my guarantee that I not only CAN but definitely WILL miss it. 
I'm directionally impaired. I have never once in my life traveled from point A to point B without somehow routing myself through points C, F, K. M, Q and some­times Yin the process. 1 defy all odds! 1 stump the probability masterminds of the world! "Baffiing ... utterly baffiing,'' they say, shaking their heads in ... well, baffie­ment. "Strictly statistically speaking, she simply HAS to get it right SOMETIME!!!" 
So, enlightened as to my directional deficiencies, you must understand the complete ludicrousness of the situation when my father (MY OWN FATHER!!!) who regularly finds me lost in our front yard, told me (ME!!!) "You can't miss it," after giving me directions to my softball game. 
"You can't be serious," I said. "Oh sure! I think you can do it this time!" 
What?!?! To my knowledge, pigs still didn't have wings, and I hadn't seen monkeys flying yet either. So I just natu­rally assumed that I still was not capable of finding my way out of a paper bag (even with the help of a map and a friendly police officer.) But Dad (appar­ently banking on that "she has to get it right sometime" theory) seemed confi­dent, and so I figured, "Hey -maybe pigs really have acquired wings, and I am just (as always) the last to know." I decid­ed to give it a try. 
"O.K.-so I take 1-70 East to Highway 35 West and then get off at Bill St., right?" 
He cringed. "No, take Highway 110 East to 70 South; then get off at George St." 
"O.K., sure. I've got it, no problem!" And I was off to explore the vast intrica­cies of the Kansas highway system ... well, a couple of trips around the block and a quick stop at the Joneses for direc­tions out of the neighborhood, and THEN I was offi 
"O.K. Highway 125, Highway 125, Highway 125 ... oops-red light ... Highway 125, Highway 125 ... oops­pedestrian ... Highway 125, Highway 125 ... it has to be here somewhere. Oh, hey -it's Oflicer Dave, Highway Connoisseur Extraordinaire! Hi Officer Dave!" 
"Hi Kathy! Whatcha lookin' for this time?" 
"Highway 125." 
"There is no Highway 125." 
"Oh." 
"But, Highway 110 is quite nice. I high­ly recommend it." "O.K. Sure. I'll try that one then." "Go one block to your left, and it's right 
there. You can't miss ... well, you'll even­tually find ... well, I'll tell Oflicer Fred to be on the lookout for you." 
So, I went my two blocks to the right and came upon what looked not so much like a highway, but more like a McDonald's. 
"Hi. Welcome to McDonald's. May I take your order?" "Urn, no thank you, but can you tell me how to get to Highway 11 0?'' 
"Eastbound or Westbound?" 
"I don't know; which do you suggest?" 
"West. Definitely West." 
And, well, three hours, another McDonald's, two Burger Kings and a You Bet Your Buns Hot Dog Stand later, I was heading down I Iighway 230 West. "Wahoo! I still might make it for the last inning!" I exelaimed, as I drove off into the sunset on the wrong highway. 

I was just riding along, thinking deep philosophical thoughts, contemplating what flying monkeys might actually look like, when KABLOOIE!-the highway cxplodr,d! My nice, friendly two-lane highway suddenly r,xplodr,d and began spewing out lanes in every direction until 

it was a rather frightening 4 7 -lane mess, converging and diverging all over itse111 And not-so-helpful signs sprouted up cverywhr,re: "Lane 6 just ended," "Lane 17 goes to Orlando," "Lane 20 goes to Seattle," "Lane 23 will spontaneously combust in .02 miles," and "FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, GET OUT OF LANE 41!!" 
I clenched the wheel so hard it bit me back, as I desperately tried to read the signs and switch lanes, while at the same time contemplating the meaning of life and death and how much I djpn't really care to die at that particular moment. And there were ears everywhere! And semis! (Large, scary semis!) And horns were honking! And the sky was falling! And ... 
The next thing I knew. I was sitting in a daze on some distant, rural road in front of Bill' and Ed's Tomato Stand. I figured I should probably ask for directions. 
"Can you tdl me where 70 South is?" "70 South?! Bill'-you ever heard of 70 South?" "70 South? Why, hock-that's back in Kansas!" 
"Well, where am I?!" 
"Why; you're in Oklahoma!" 
"Oklahoma?! Woll, how do I get back to Kansas?" 
"Just h~ad on down this lwre stn)et, hang a left at Edgar and Myrtle's house,, and keep on going. Kansas will be the big state on your right. You can't miss it!" 
Kathy's "you can't miss it" disproval number 5,698: The next major landmark I noticed was a sign saying, "Welcoml) to Mexico." 
"Ila! 'WelconH~ to Mexico'! That's funny! ... Crazy kids!" 
I cracked it up to the work of pranksters, never figuring that even I eould be THAT bad with directions. But, when a couple of days later I happened upon a "Now Leaving Mexico" sign. I remembered, "Oh yeah, that's right-I AM that bad!" and I stopped for direc­tions. 
"Ilola! Perdon merci sir senor por favor can you give me dirccciones to cl United States, gracias, danke, mea culpa?" 
After a somewhat lengthy laughing lit, he replied (according to my translation skills, which I'm guessing arc not so stel­lar ... either that or this guy was just Ioopy.) "The United States? Go over the rainbow, turn left at the mouse named Pedro, and follow the purple cucumber six frogs towards the millennium." 
"1-lmm." "Oh, and senorita," he said. "Ees a beeg country. You can't mees it!" 
Kathy Scheibel is a senior Arts and Letters major. ller column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
... 50 I'M 5T/U Jl.J5T PL.LE­GINGAWAYAT JtETIC£. NOT Mt.JCHNtW 70 RlRJ!?T. fWA/JOUTYOU GUYS~ "'  GU&SJUHOGOY­c:RNOR. W!/..GON JlJ5TAfflJIN!WTO ~f'i.AC£. lACEY IN CONGI<IES!  

• 0UOTE OF HIE DAY 
"Awork of art is a corner of creation seen through a temperament." 
-Emile Zola 




VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 31, 1997 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
The Devil Explains Life 

Last week's Ppisode of "King of the Hill" fea­tured the classic struggle between the self­righteous "good" proposed by Christian funda­mr.ntalists who opposr.d trick or treating activi­tir.s and Hank Hill, the "evil" influence who insisted on celebrating Halloween. For most of the program, Hank's son and niece were frightened of devilish activities they associated 
Gary Caruso 


with Hank. In fact, Bobby, the son, went so far as to sign a pledge to join an angel brigade and disavow candy along with his father's activi­tir.s. 
After the "angel squad" convinced the town fathers to cancel Halloween, Hank dressed as the Devil and went trick or treating by himself. As hr marched down the street shouting, "Trick or treat," neighbors joined him in defi­ance of thr law. They finally went to the "llaiiP!ujah House" whPre Bobby was being taught the evils of abortion, drugs, homosexu­ality and Halloween rituals. Ilowever, Bobby evrntually joined his father for an evening of candy and family togetherness at the end of the episode. 
That profound animated program challenged my intellectual capacities. Was the simplicity of tlw show as complex as today's society? Have I, through this column in The Observer, been thr tool of the nvil one? Last week I received a nasty e-mail chastisement from a Notre Dame student telling me I should be ashamed of the light heartedness by which I dismissed the Stanford band's parody of the Irish Catholics and the potato famine. This week, I had to find the Devil personally and ask. 
I thought to myself, "Where the hell would the Devil be around here ... on Earth?" The answer was clear. I had to find the most miser­able place on Earth, and surely he would be lurking there. Was he at an abortion clinic or at the Notre Dame gay and lesbian students' rm~eting'? Could hn be sitting at a desk at the American Civil Liberties Union or the National Organization of Women'? I had to think like a ronsnrvativn zealot! 
I found at thn motor vehicle's bureau that he had just left for ... tho White House! When I linally got past the White House guards, the devil had slipped over to the IRS at the Treasury DPpartment n(~Xt door. I caught up with him then~. 
lie was easy to spot in a crowd, for he was dressed almost entirely in a red ... not quite rherry rr.d but more burgundy with a touch of gold herP and there. I was not sure if the gold was lire. until I got closer to him. His head had horns. llis face a sharply cut mustache and V­shaped beard. lie looked like USC coach John Bobinson. 
"Are you the Devil'?" I asked. 
"Among other names," he answered. 
"lley," I continued. "You look like John Hobinson." 
"I am," he said. 
"What the hell?" I muttered aloud. 
"Everyone says that," he replied. 
"Well, Mr. Devil." I boldly went on, "I need sonw answers from you, and I don't want lies. First. important questions. What is wrong with 
the ND football team'?" 
"It's simple," began the Devil, "Notre Dame 
now worships the almighty dollar, with all the 
campus expansion ... including the stadium. 
Your first article this semester before the 
G(~orgia Tech game was 100 percent correct. 
So God, in his twisted wisdom, decided to pun­
ish ND by having the team not win many 
ganws and forfeit their millions in bowl money 
this year." 
The Devil continued, "1, on the other hand, was brilliant enough to hitch my coaching wagon to this year's miserable Irish perfor­mance and preserve my career. I have some abilities too, you know? I have been keeping place kickers from across the nation away !'rom ND for years now in anticipation of this year's opportunity to extend my coaching career. And it's paid off nicely. As long as I beat Notre Dame, I will coach the following year." 
I asked, "What does that mean for the future'? You can't keep placing your hopes on a kicker." 
"Oh come on," the Devil said. "''m not. I also have the ND coaching staff to rely 011. This year the fans will blame the assistant coaches, both offensive and defensive coordinators. So they will leave next year, and I'll win again because it is the head coach who defines the program from recruiting to practice to game strategy to execution during the game. It will take your fans at least two more years to figure that out." 
"How can you say that?" I asked. 
"Because when the play clock expires for a delay of game penalty, it's the head coach who is not on the same page with his offensive coor­dinator and players. When the team goes for two yards on fourth down and fails to gain twice in a row even when they got an extra chance due to the other team's penalty, it is the head coach's call. Players can't influence the coach on these plays, his other coaches should. But he must make the right decision. Now you know why major universities should always hire a head coach who has had an established program rather than one who can be over­whelmed by the entire process his first year." 
"It seems to be getting better now," I coun­tered. 
"But it took several games and different excuses to finally sink in to him that a field · goal while up 14 points means the other team must score three times just to catch you. And winging the ball on a 'Hell Mary' with only six seconds left in the half is the thing to do to see if something might happen. That was the case in Pittsburgh early in the game and at the USC game." 
"You talk a good game, Devil, but I don't know," I answered. 
"I beat ND twice in a row, didn't I? I even let all those ND fans who booed your team during the USC game win those tickets in the lottery the summer before," bragged the Devil. 
"You are sinister," I shouted. 
"Call it what you will," he smugly replied, "I will conquer the football team AND YOU! I read your article criticizing the USC band's 'Victory to Troy' songs. We need our idols, and you can't stop us." 
"Good," I snapped back feeling most holy at the moment. · 
But the Devil was not finished with me. He leaned into my face. I could smell his bad breath, full of salsa and beer odors. 
He said, "Now one final thing. As long as I am, I will." 
"What the hell does that mean?" I asked. "Everyone asks that," he replied. Then he went on, "I am strong because of those who oppose me with reckless abandon. You saw 
how great I was in the Middle Ages during the crusades? So every time the 'Angel Freaks' 
begin a crusade on moral grounds, they 
become intolerant. They oppress and witch 
hunt ... and my influence increases. Go ahead, shout at me again." 
I said, "No, you're starting to make sense to me." 
"Weill should be," he shot back. "I love dose-minded people who think they are cor­rect. I love those who take the Bible literally. I love the Florida State and Miami football pro­grams. But I am tired of your articles calling for tolerance and humor and acceptance. So cut it out." 
"Well Devil," I answered, "Now you've crossed the line of decency and respect by becoming vicious and vulgar. But I accept you for who or what you are. I'll say a little prayer to help you, although it may be difficult for me to make much of a difference. But I'll try ... everyone needs understanding, and I'll be as open-minded as I can be with you." 
"To hell with you, Caruso," shouted the Devil as he went back to Georgia for the winter. 
As I walked back home, I couldn't help to think of how I defeated the Devil by using peace as my strength. Was tolerance and understanding really the key to following good? We'll all probably be able to judge when the next two year's ND-USC final scores are inscribed into the sports ledgers. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for 18 years and for the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington. D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dchottline@hotmail.com. 
The views expresseed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
page 13 

lure high qualityfaculty and students; Notre Dame does not fail in this 9~partJUentand has been :n:ioderately successful in attracting the reqU}stt{l facwty.,The quality oUts undergraduate population is not thatofHarya,rd,butitis relatively high. Thf3 graduate students enrolled here, are offered stipendS which match the offerings of most 
, schools,and this is in many cases sufficient for them to tolerate South Bend. < · · sufficient. The other iru~titlitio1n must not only acquire fac­-·~ ... ,,.,___,, respect, after their actruU;;iti(Jirl,ii l attl b·eginnifiglriy sJ .. as a graduate student in focus on the·lack ofrespect · ="''""'"T"Stttdentshere atNotre Dame. we deserve the respect due our an·vw1ner·efrom 22 to 50, or older. jM[anyo.fushaV(lfa,miW3!>. J:IJ;:$:Mrtwfl' the respect due to any our moral autonomy must re<:ogntzed.. The · . · .·. not inloco parentis for those tnE~mliei1;e.ts ~e ofage tohe parents. This respect is not forth­coJtnill!!; · member of the graduate community knows. ""v'"'~""' the recent(iSU party hi Wilson Commons. This facili­
the US() ofthe graduate community, yet getting events there ofan adult nature is like pulling teeth. ~...,.. ~...v••u•~•ulll!! of being allowed to hold the party 
................~ ~·~ enclosedterraceoutside the building. 
Ju_r.,u"'u are being used to hold a party, I see no reason for the impose such patronizing rules on my party. ·· grl'ldtiatestu<ients Jio not own cars, and hence are essentially 
corttltl:ed campus. during their. years here, The absence of a ..,.., .. "'""•theabsence of1;igarettes in any store on cam-on the of the administration to encour­1 as{e arno~rmaluini\rerldtv-tn'wn Mirflo to spring up on the fringes of .cal)lplus ;~ <tll •>f~hes;e conJtrjb,utt! to the feeling one has while liv­grll~.u.H~wstuQ.eJlttha1:ollte h!ls entered a peculiar sort of atll[)n.eXJ>erbnl~t chamber whose aim is alone. The obscene architec­her dra(J1iil;tle i'E)~idleil1~es only adds to this sense l91:~sc~Utt:~cmt.ta:sits:oJl'~s,ettl~silgn focal point is suited gated than rep.tact)a With Luallly l'ost()r$ ad1demie con:~tm1nit:y, such as a 
The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, October 31, 1997 


South Bend's 
This display was made possible by _ 
the combined efforts of Observer Marketing Managers, Greg Szilier and Jeremy Cazares, Ad Designers, Jenn Breslow, Brett Huelat, and Jon King, and the Advertising Department. Contact Greg or Jeremy at 631-6900 for more information. 


W7U77 

~ L£1 

11:00 a.m. -1:30 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. -11:00 p.m. sat.-sun. 1:o@_.-.m. -11:oo R3JD.·
G5l -----~ n 
(EJ!J -' ' <,_:\ '\00-ll 
~~~~W2!7fi\ffi~
~·U9il~~~u-~ 
Sports Grill & Pub and much morel 123 W.Washington St. Downtown South Bend l/2 Block West of College Football Hall of Fame 
Open Daily 20 TV's 2 Big Screens
r--------, r--------, 
S~OOD•COCKTMLLOUNGE
I I I I 
I 20 Wings I I 50 Wings r, 

6402 North Grape Road 
I ss.oo I I $10.00 I 
277-6368

I I I I 
Dine In Only Dine In Only
I I I I 
Call for Reservations
._ ________ ..... ._ _______ _
1Expires 12-31-97 obsmap 1 1Expires 12-31-97 obsmau· Friday, October 31, 1997 

o 
Trivia 

o 
7 ft TV Screens 

o 
Seating for Over 300 

o 
Extra Large Booths 

o 
Mouth Watering Variety of Sandwiches \@ 


1 ···­
and Entrees \r---~~-,-----"­
\ ­
\ . 
\ 
and Cocktail Loun!!e 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan 
•Lunches 
starting at .... $4.25 

•Dinners 
starting at .... $5.95 

•
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.9 5 for Children 

..... Bar and Restaurant open 1 days a week 
(219} 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 .. _ . (next to Howard Johnson) • Call For Reservations 
After the game .. . After work.. . 
After all •• It's 
( 
-./


Bpplebee's 
;N~igihlborb.ood Grilli .-& :~or 

-rw.p~--~~~ 

-~ ..,,_,..,,_,..,. ~,..., 
_,llkbtRt; ..1:241 lnlfft,.,._, 2~J J21 
o 
Homemade !llloilu,• .,..., & Breads 

o 
Appetizers 

o 
Salads 


o 
Sandwiches and PASTA 


ao·-_··a--.-' ~-·~··y-.-_­
r·'~ · ·· DUI'&Iz,a
. .. . .... . . ·· .. ,.,, .·. -··· ·..... '··' ..... 
No matter where you're from, we'II be showing your 
.te(l.~ 

.........< 
52750 u.s. 33N. 

S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood! lllelweetl Cleftlud &Danlea Rill )Senilg Notre Dame Ami ISenilg St. Mary's) 
243·1111 243·1122 
FREE DEUVERY ON CAMPUS No Coupon Necessary Excludes other Ollen Dellvtry Extra ~Not On Cmnpus Llmltod 
Time Offer 

--FREE EXTRAS-­
-Pannesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust 
• Extra Pizza Sauc-:J~~Idfik~ Banana Peppers 

"""-­






ACCE-NT 
page 16 Friday, October 31, 1997 


For a tasty treat this All Hallow's Eve, Accent thought it would scare up a little Halloween history 

CELTIC: The ancient Celtic (Irish, Scottish, Welsh) festival called Samhain is considered by many to be a predecessor of our contemporary Halloween. Samhain was the New Year's Day of the Celts, celebrated on Nov. 1. It was also a day of the dead, a time when it was believed that the souls of those who had died during the year were allowed access to the land of the dead. It was related to the season: by Samhain, the crops should be harvested and animals brought in from the distant fields. 
Many traditional beliefs and customs associated with Samhain, most notable that night was the time of the wandering dead, the practice of leaving offerings of food and drink to masked and costumed revelers, and the lighting of bonfires. continued to be practiced on Oct. 31, known as the Eve of All Saints, the Eve of All Hallows. or Hallow Even. It is the glossing of the name Hallow Even that has given us the name Hallow e'en. 
The spirits of Samhain, once thought to be wild and powerful, were now said to be something worse: evil. The church maintained that the gods and goddesses and other spiritual beings of traditional religions were diabolical deceptions, that the spiritual forces that people had experienced were real, but they were manifestations of the Devil, the Prince of Liars, who misled people toward the worship of false idols. Thus. the customs associated with Halloween included representations of ghosts and human skeletons ­symbols of the dead -and of the devil and other malevolent, evil creatures, such as witches were said to be. 
ENGLAND: Guy Fawkes Day, Nov. 1, is celebrated in ways reminiscent of Halloween. Guy Fawkes was accused of attPmpting to blow up the Houses of Parliament on that day in 1605. lie was apprehended, hung, drawn, and quartered. On Nov. 5 1606. the same Parliament declared the fifth of November a day of public thanksgiving. The act of treason was viewed as part of a popish ­that is, Roman Catholic-plot against the Protestant government. Because Halloween was associated with the Catholic church cal­endar, its importance diminished, but many of its traditions shifted to the annual commemoration of the death of Guy Fawkes. 
Today, for weeks in advance of 5 November, English children prepare effigies of Fawkes, dummies known as Guys. They set them out on street corners and beg passers-by for "a penny for the Guy." The eve of the fifth is know as Mischief Night, when children are free to play pranks on adults. just as Oct. 30, the night before Halloween. is know as Mischief Night in many areas of the U.S. On the night of Nov. 5. the Guys arc burned in bonfires, just as the ancient Celts burned bonfires on 1 November. 
GERMANY: Throughout the Western world, May 1, like Nov. 1, is a day of traditional significance. The 30th of April, the eve of May 1, is in areas of Germany, par­ticularly the Harz Mountains, Walpurgisnacht, or the eve of St. Walpurgis Day. Witches are supposed to be especially active this day, as are spirits of the dead and demon creatures from the nether world. 
CHINA: The care of the dead through prayers and sacrifices were part of a spring festival of purification and regeneration. 
JAPAN: Bon festival, dedicated to the spirits of ancestors, for whom special foods arc prepared, occurs during the middle of the summer (one of the most important festive periods of the year). Three days in length, it is a time when everyone goes home (reminiscent of the American Thanksgiving). 
c 

The first week of November is marked in many countries, especially those with a strong Catholic influence, with festivals concerned with death in a playful but serious way. In Catholic countries we often find some cognate of llalloween associated with All Saints' or All Souls' days. 
In MEXICO and other LATIN AMERICAN countries, the first and second of November are the Days of the Dead-El Dias de los Muertos. In some regions, the evening of Oct. 31 is the beginning of the Day of the Dead Children, which is followed on Nov. 1 by the Day of the Dead Adults. Skeleton figures-candy (sugar skulls), toys, statues and decorations-arc seen everywhere. It is a time for great festivity, with tradi­tional plays and food. It is a time to play with death and decorating family graves, which is preceded by religious serviees and followed by picnics. The human skeleton or skull is the primary symbol of the day. Unlike the American Halloween. in Mexico people build home altars, adorned with religious icons and special breads and other food for the dead. The Day of the Dead incorporates recognition of death as a concept with rituals that remember the deaths of individuals. 


otre Dame vs. 
avy 
... 

"Anchors Aweigh" 
Anchors Aweigh my boy, Anchors Aweigh Farewell to college joys, We sail at break of 
-· day-ay-ay-ay Through our last night on shore Drink to the foam Until we meet once more Here's wishing you a happy voyage home! N·A·V·Y ••. Gooooo Navy! 

Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN's INTERHAll FOOTBALL 
Dillon and Keough to square off in playoff action 
By BRIAN KESSLER, PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS, ANTHONY BIANCO, and KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sporrs Writers 
"This is a new season. All the records are thrown out the win­dow." Wade Laffey, captain of the Keough Kangaroos, couldn't have summed it up any better. This is the playoffs. 
This Sunday, No. 3 Dillon (3­0-1) will square ofT against No. (J Keough (2-2) on Stepan South at 1 p.m. The Big Red will be trying to prove that their 14-7 victory over Keough in week throe of the regular season was no fluke. However, the under­dog 'Roos hope to use what they learned from that game to their advantage and possibly upset Dillon. 
Dillon is trying to bounce back from its tie against Alumni in the last week of the season. They run a balanced offense, but will look to mix it up on Sunday. 
Keough had an up and down season. There are no stand­outs on the team, but they play well together as a unit. 
Knott vs. Sorin 
When Knott and Sorin last met on September 21, 60 min­utes was not enough to deter­mine the better team as the game ended in a scoreless tie. This Sunday, however, these two teams will face each other again in the first round of the interhall playoffs. 

Sorin captain Anthony Netto believes that the game against Knott will be much different because both teams have improved since week one. 
Both teams are prepared to prove that their first encounter was morely a fluke, and that this game will be played on a higher level. 
Siegfried vs. Keenan 

Sunday's matchup between seventh-ranked Siegfried (2-1­1). and second-ranked Keenan (4-0), in the first round of the playoffs should prove to be exciting. 
The teams have yet to face each other this season, or another team with a similar style of play. 
Siegfried's defense will face a new style of play against Keenan's offense, a strong passing game. 
The Knights of Keenan hope that history won't repeat itself this Sunday; they lost in the first round last year. 
Zahm vs. Morrissey 

Top-ranked Zahm and eighth-seeded Morrissey will square off this weekend. Both teams look to a balanced attack and a strong defensive ell"ort as a key to going home with a vic­tory. 
Zahm capped off a 4-0 regu­lar season with a 16-0 victory over Sorin. 
Morrissey went 2-2 in the regular season, with two wins coming against Stanford and Off-Campus. Morrissey lost only two players from last year's 4-0 team that was disqualified from tournament play for using an ineligible player. 
On offense, the Manor is led by right tackle Bob Comosy, fullback Brian Tilley, tailback Steve Bartlett, quarterback Danny Sullivan, and wide receiver Brendan Browne. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat's) 
Phone 631-COPY 
SUN, SURF, SAND, SUDS, and S... Spring Break with Bianchi-Rossi Tours in Acapulco! Packages from $425.90. Party packages includes: FREE cover, VIP ser­vice, & more. Call for info 800­875-4525. www.bianchi-rossi.com 
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. from NO campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633. 
Go straight to heaven Avoid Purgtory-Learn how $2.00 Nordlife 2233 Adams Lorain, OH 44052 
Ever Dreamed of Your Own Business? TASP International seeks stu­dents for next summer who want entrepreneurial and man­agement experience. Positive attitude a must. Full training. Earn $8K to $1 OK. CALL 1­800-543-3792. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
would appreciate anyone who 
, finds keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862 
LOST -ROOM KEY -#406. CALL JILL 4-3196. 
LOST: Martial arts letter jacket at senior bar. Call x4969 or return to the bar. Reward for info or return of jacket. 
I WANTED 
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited earning potential!! 616-461-6772. 
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! 
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages available!! INDIVID­UALS, student ORGANIZA­TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com 
MODELS/DANCERS WANED please call 219-27.1-0633 
NO Prof. needs babysitter for infant next semester Tffh: 11 :30-3:30; MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart-Rieker: 631­6914 (office); 233-1268(home). 
TUTOR needed for 8th grader Primarily Math Will bring the student to campus to fit your schedule Good pay Please call KATHLEEN 288-9622 
**Spring Break..."Take 2"** Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
Silver Hawks Baseball Team Office Receptionist needed at Coveleski Stadium Mon-Fri 8:30am-1 :OOpm Call 235-9988 for more infor­
mation 
I FORRENT 
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
1-bdrm, turn. apt.. Downtown SB. $400/mo. + $150 dep. 
Lease. 233-2900 or 272-7305. 
HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 88. 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. FRIDGE. NEW GAS FUR­NACE. 2 BLOCKS FROM NO. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME 
FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
AND OTHER ND-SMC 
EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 
15-20 MIN. WALK. 
243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #1 07, 1-800-418-9487. 
LG. FURN. RM., PRIV. BATH, PRIV. ENT., 10 MIN. TO CAM­PUS: MALE GRAD. PREF. 232-8285. 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272-6551 
FOR SALE 
GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax, Repo's. REO's. Your area. Toll Free (1)800-218-9000 Ext. H-2013 for current listings. 
SEIZED CARS from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1­800-218-9000 Ext. 2013 for current listings. 
SAVE YOUR PARENTS/YOURSELF MONEY! 131 minutes of long distance calls for only $25! Rate is lower than calling cards, collect calls & BOO service. 277-3318 
Brass bed, queen size with orthopedic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862­2082. 
MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color monitor, printer, fax/modem, $750, 4-4322 
CONDO FOR SALE! PER­FECT CONDITION ALL NEUTRAL HIGH CEILINGS SKYLIGHTS FIREPLACE 2 BRS ALL 
APPLIANCES BASEMENT 
AND GARAGE! CALL SANDY 
235-3561 IMMEDIATE POS­
SESSION! 
On Simonton Lake, home, central air, heated garage, 40' pier. (219)262-2699 
SPACIOUS CONDOMINIUM 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
Garage, pool, A/C, hardwood 
floors, ceramic tile, much 
more!!! 
Just One Year Old!! 
See it--http://www.nd.edu/ 
-tmandell/condo.html 
Call (219) 289-8914 
I TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO 
HOME GAMES.272-6551 
Wanted: Individual wants tick­ets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752­1208 or (318)747-8820. 
ND MOM NEEDS 8 NAVY 
GA's -PLEASE CALL 1-800­
235-5568 x2242. WILL 
RESPOND ASAP. 
9 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE. 
BEST OFFER 243-5354 
ND VS. NAVY & W. VA TIX 
FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE 
MESSAGE 
4 NAVY GA's $32each x1998 
Hey, you want my 
4 NAVY GA's 
don't you? 
good. then call 
jodie @ x3645 
Sale Navy & W.VA. Married Tixs-don't need i.d. 
b.o. leave mess. 288-8680 
4 NAVY GA'S 4 SALE 
MATT X2010 4 NAVY GA's 

$32 each Call Brian 243-5638 
4 NAVY GA's 
+++++++++++++++++++++++ 
For Sale: 3 Navy student tickets (not GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435 
+++++++++++++++++++++++ 
For Sale: 2Navy and 2 W.VA GAs. Call 243-2173. 
I have 4 Navy GA's all togeth­er. Call Kevin at 4-1999 
4 Navy GA's for sale, $30 each, call289-7581 
2NAVY TIX FACE CHRIS 4-3046 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY-SELL-TRADE 
232-0058 

CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 LOW PRICES 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
FOR SALE: 

TWO Navy GAs ONE W. Va GA 
Call Colby @ 4-4903 
4 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE x3947 Michelle 
PHISH PHANS Going phishing 12/6 in Auburn Hills, MI. Have 2 xtra rods but need boat. Call X4238. 
For Sale: 2 Navy GAs & 1 Student Call: 634-2997 
NAVY GA FOR SALE BEST OFFER CALL BETH: 634-0734 
I have Navy GAs! Do you need them? Call me at x1287. 
We NEED 2 GA's for WV lv. msg. (800)321-411 Ox1 0986 
For Sale: 4 Navy and 4WV GA's--Face Value. Call Nicole X1308 
2 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE CALL JON 243 -5321 
PERSONAL 
ADOPTION -LOOK NO FUR­THER A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE &MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them to adopt my baby. They're wonderful parents and I couldn't be happier with my choice. I'm thrilled that they want to adopt again! They're · fun, affectionate, professional, stable & easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with you too. (888)690-BABY or check their web site at WWW.MEETUS.COM 
000 Lool<ing for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Ghost Stories!! Halloween Night at the Library Auditorium 8-9p.m. Bring Family and Friends Free Food!! Sponsored by Notre Dame Student Players 
TONIGHT!!!!!! Ghost Stories at the Library Auditorium 8-9pm Bring Family and Friends!!! Sponsored by Notre Dame Student Players 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/ND-SMC ID ­1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
for the crap i put up with, i must have killed someone in a for­mer life 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center .J High-Speed Copies --1 Canon Color Laser Copies --1 Digital Color Printing -.J Binding & Laminating --1 Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 
Phone 631-COPY 

almost your birthday kristen and david 
i'm not getting up till 10 

the panther is a modern phe­nomenon. i wish i was half as smart 
but then we couldn't fit in the same room 
goodnight krupa 
take me to bed or lose me for­ever 
take me to bed or i will fall asleep here, and that would be embarrasing. more so then that jelly do-nut incident, and boy was that a mess. 
kevin nick and comp: by the time you read this, your tests will be over and a cold one will be waiting for you in my room. after all, kevin's buy­ing 
why am i so stupid that i forget to do these things? 
If I find you wearing my jacket I will break you. 
Heeelllllllloooooo La La La! Happy Birthday -Kelly! Have a special and magical day-you special little person. 
-Cavanaugh Kerry 
Hey Cavanaugh -have a spooktacular (get it?!) Halloween! If you have extra candy -I am accepting dona­tions in room 257! Have a great day:) 
-Cavanaugh Kerry 
Has anyone seen a pirate run­ning around campus ... or Senior Bar? 
Hey B-bear. .. 
Are YOU ready for a Fiesta Semesta? 
Nice sack, Ron. 
Hoover vacuum, huh? 
"Is he ... growling?" 
Mike Day, master of the obvious: "I just noticed something: it's all girls up here tonight." 
How about that back page, huh? We're working on bring­ing out that feminine, creative side. 
carl the smelly fish is gone! 
i like fridays. they're cool. 
Happy belated birthday, Debbie! Woohoo! You're 20! 
"She turned me into a newt!" 
Jana-curtains on Von Trapp kids. Check out page 27. 
"A newt?" 
...and he just keeps grinning at me like a big dumb idiot. .. 
I like corn. 
"Well... I got better." 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 31, 1997 
• WOMEN'S !NTERHAlL fOOTBALl 
Undefeated Pyros face eighth-ranked Chaos 
By ALISON WEL TNER and TIM CASEY Spons Writers 
This Sunday, the undefeated 
P.E. Pyros will face the Cavanaugh Chaos (2-3-1) in the first round of playofl's. On both sides, morale and excitement are high. P.E. had a fantastic season. finishing in first place. Cavanaugh, ranked eighth, is proud to have made the play­offs for the first time in the hall's history. 
"I think that everyone is real­ly excited to have made the playoffs. We're happy to be where we are," said team member Katie McCoyd. 
P.E. echoed similar enthusi­asm, as stated by team mem­ber Stephanie Trautman. 
"We're pumped. We're ready to take [the championship title] from Lyons." 
P.E. might have one advan­tage in this post season that no other team has: a desire for revenge. Last year. the Pyros made their way to the final game but suffered a disap­pointing lost to Lyons. 
Still they are cautious not to look too far into the future. 
"We try to take each game as it comes. We build on our past games. but don't dwell on them," said Anne Searle. "We focus on each game one by one." 
With major help from Searle, defeating such challenges has been a successful process thus far. Working with quarterback Elizabeth Plummer, the two have run the option play sue-· cessfully throughout the sea­son. 
On defense. players such as Trautman and Sophia Barbado have provided strong coverage continuously. 
Cavanaugh plans to continue with the successful aspects of its game, but is not afraid to make adjustments. 
Since the end of the regular season, the Chaos has added several new plays and are pre­pared to mix up their running and passing as needed. The key to this offensive campaign is players such as Kristin Patrick, Katie King, and Allison Krilla. On defense, standouts McCoyd and Susie Prchal are expected to continue their high level of performance. 
Coach Adam Ortega looks eagerly toward Sunday. He believes the key will be con­verting what works in practice to the game itself. 
"We have a lot of good lead­ership and a lot of athletic abil­ity," he said. "The thing we need to do is execute. We're going to score a lot." 
Lewis vs. PW 
Sunday's game between Lewis and Pasquerilla West is a rematch of their final of the regular season game. PW won that game 12-0. but knows that the playoffs are a whole new season. 
The Purple Weasels !4-1-1). led by captains, junior Liz McKillop and seniors Kelly McMahon. Amy Crawford and Mary Hepburn, finished the season ranked third. 
PW's defense has been a strong point all year, posting several shutouts this year. Middle linebacker Crawford and defensive end Hepburn are the leaders on defense, and the secondary features senior Christine Oberholzer and junior Lauren Voitier. 
"We've been improving with every game and feel as if we're on top of our game right now­we have a good shot at the championship," said McKillop. 
"We haven't looked rusty at all after fall break, and we're ready to play-if we stick to what we've been doing all sea­son long, we'll be in good shape," said coach Martin Marxuach. 
Sixth-ranked Lewis is coming off a solid 3-3 regular season, and looking for revenge after its last loss to PW. 

SEE YouR MARINE CoRrs OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
For more information calll-800-878-0241 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS www.marines.com 

'Me~t the Irish' to benefit Sargent 
Special to the Observer 


May 29 automobile accident near the Notre Dame campus. Sargent spent two months at the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago at Northwestern University and is currently living in Rochester and involved in outpatient care through Strong Memorial Hospital. He hopes to return to the university to take classes in January. 
"Meet the Irish" is scheduled for 2 to 4 p.m., with nearly all Notre Dame athletic teams available in either the Joyce Center arena, the Joyce Center fieldhouse or the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 

Progrt~ssivs , Rstro , A.ltsrDativsDaDos 
frlltl •diDIIIIDD w/11'1 v•Jid DD.IItlltl ID If proptlr ldt~DIIflo•IIDD 
l~r·$'0 P.S. Dump your Boyfriend 
WEEKEND WEDNESDAYS 
The Biggest Wednesday night party in Michiana! No cover for ladies 
SATURDAY NITE DANCE PARTY 
Get ready for a night of high energy featuring Chicago's hottest DJ's 
Stnce 1921 

CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 

BOOGIE NIGHTS (R) 1:00 4:00 7:00 10:00 KNOW WHAT YOU DID (R) 2:15 5:00 7:20 9:40 DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (R) 1:15 4:10 7:10 10:10 FAIRY TALE (PG) 1:30 4:20 6:45 9:15 KISS THE GIRLS (R) 2:00 4:45 7:40 10:15 ROCKETMAN (PG} 1 :45 4:30 7:20 9:30 
• : • .t\lNT MARY's SOCCER 
Belles riding high into last gaiile 
Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
.-s-AiNT MARY's VOLLEYBAll 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI 
Sport Writer 
Coming off a decisive 4-1 victory over Bethel College on Wednesday, the SMC soccer team (6-13) is on a high as it heads into its last game today. 
Last year's 5-0 win against Bethel gave the Belles confi­dence going into Wednesday's game. 
"We were feeling confident because of the great practices we had this week. Also, the nnd of the season is approach­ing, and we all want to end on a winning note," said sopho­more Mary Woodka. 
The game did not start out 
as the Belles had hoped, with Bethel scoring first at 26:42. 
However, the Belles did not give up and at 39:08 senior Eileen Newell found sopho­more Erin McCabe to tie up the score. 
"We started communicating better as the game pro­gressed. After we tied up the game we knew we could win," said Woodka. 
With eight seconds remain­ing on the clock before half­time, junior Katie Wagner located Woodka for another SMC goal. 
"In the first half we had some good assists, which led to a couple one touches in front of the goal," said Coach 

NOTRE DAME HOME GAMES 
Join Us at Parisi's Lounge 
Serving Sandwiches, Specials & Pizza Before &During the Game. 
Reservations accepted for dinner Sharp. "We also worked the ball in the middle successfully and opportunities happened." 
The second half was domi­nated by SMC. The Belles scored two more goals. Newell netted her fifteenth goal of the season, tying the SMC single­season record for goals scored. 
For the final goal of the game, senior Debbie Diemer took the ball to the net unas­sisted. 
The strength of the defense helped the Belles hold Bethel to only one goal. 
The Belles' season ends today with their game against Goshen College. Yesterday, at practice, the Belles worked on staying up. 
Newell has a chance of mak­ing school history today. If she scores her sixteenth goal, she will break the record for the most goals scored in a season. 
''I'm just going to let the goal come naturally because if I try too hard to score, it will never happen," said Newell. 
Also, if the Belles pick up their seventh win today, they will have improved on last year's six-win season. 
SMC season to end at Midwest Invitational 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 
There will be no post-season play for the SMC volleyball team. 
As they head into the Midwest Invitational at Calvin College, the Belles' season boils down to one thing-upsets. 
"Let's leave there with teams hating us because we've knocked them out of play," said Betsy Connolly. 
In the 12-team tournament, the Belles will have more than enough animosity to spare. 
The squad will play in the second of the four pools con­sisting of three teams each. Saint Mary's (12-14} will face rival Calvin College before matching up against Olivet. 
Friday's play will determine Saturday's arrangement of competition. Five regionally or nationally ranked teams add an extra edge to the tournament. The Belles hope to make a name for themselves by defeat­ing Wittenburg, Calvin, Hope, Hanover, or Bluffton College, but they do not go into play without problems. 
The squad, with an undeni­ably strong offense, has strug­gled defensively this season. Its defensive weakness has proved the missing link in most of its 14 losses. One of these falls includes a loss to Calvin (20-8). 
The Belles have spent the week massaging out the defen­sive kinks. ' 
"The ball has really been gaining momentum," said Joyce. "Our defense is starting to show signs of strengths. It's goi~g to be the deciding fac­tor. 
However, the Belles are not worried about their underdog position. 
In fact, Connolly sees it as an advantage. 
"There's no pressure. We have nothing to lose, which will actually make the victory even sweeter," said Connolly. 
For Joyce the competition is all about punctuation. 
"We want to put an exclama­tion point at the end of our sea­son with this weekend's play. We're going to go in and knock someone off their pedestal." 
after the game. 

HEY! Have you heard?
Call ahead for carry out orders. 
Mail Boxes Etc. has 



5¢ COPIES 
MBE can also ship your Overnight & 2nd Day Air letter, UPS packages, take passport photos, fax, and much more. 

MAILBOXES ETC~ 

Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood in the Martin's Plaza Phone (219) 277-6245 Fax (219) 277-7679 Open 9am-7pm, M-F lOam-Spm, Saturday 
-
This sculpture depicts the continuation of the greatest tradition in college football with The Four Horsemen set in bas~relief against the new north tunnel stadium portico. 
Hand cast in durable beta gypsum, this work of art by noted sculptor Bill Burford is a prized addition to any den or office and will be treasured for years to come. 


The inscription at the base reads from the famous Grantland Rice Report; Outlined against a blue gray October sky The Four Horsemen rode again in dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These were only aliases 
The Four Horsemen of Notre Dame 
-
This fine work of art is available only through the University of Notre Dame campus stores for $140.00 
A product of N .0. Collectibles Inc. 






page 20 


• MeN's SWIMMING 
Notre Dame to fight Ball State in dual meet 
By MATT YUNG 
Sporrs Writer 
Tonight at 6 p.m.• the Irish men's swimming and diving teams will confront Ball State for the ·19th time: Ball State leads the series .10-8 and has won the past four meetings, including the past two at 
Notre Dame. . 
Notre Dame still holds a 5-4 advantage at home and plans to extend its winning margin at Rolfs Aquatic Center. In last year's meet. the lead changed three tl.mes...and the meet came down to the final race -the 400-meter freestyle relay. Ball State led 114-112 going into the relay, and winning a 127-116 nail:­
biter win, leaving the Irish six •it will stop an4,give the spel:ita­
points shy of victory; 
Last year's meet was typical of those between BSU and Notre Dame. There have been some very close meets, and the team expects more of the same this year. 
"Ball State is always well coached, well prepared, and they race well." lrish head coach Tim Welsh said. "They ·. [BSU) are improved from last year, but I think we improved as much as they did plus six 
-
-
points. We'll see what~ap· pens Friday -it coul(l be trick or treat." 
BSU's biggest improvement this year comes from ,S()uth African freslrgt::tn Lo~wrens i!!\.ppelcryn. AppelCryn f"il~Jast ·year's gaping hole in the dis· tance freestyle races and is expected to make a big splash 
this year. ··•······.. . ''" '','
Notre D s John L\t!!ker 
' swam a . 'ng 9:40.36 cin the 1000-meter-freestyle and his encore performance tonight i~,,~ag~rl~ R\o\14,\Jed. ;,Roll Roye~.Js3tl~o·•expeytettJodo well iiltlie 200 al1d ~00· mf.)ter-freestyle. · · · · 
Between .. the races, tonight's mee~will feature diving. The,,sWlmrning-,xaces 
tors an excellent chance to see some great divers coll,l­pete head to head. BSU s divers are usually strong, and this year isno exception. 
Next week; the team travels to Houston to face Rice and Texas Christian on Friday and Satuiday; respectively. The Irish svvi~mer~:,,:,;!le~t homestand won t come untd Friday, Nov; 21 when they will race Air Force and West Virginia in a triangular. 

The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 31, 1997 
.SWIMMING 


Irish 'monsters' going strong 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Sports Writer 

While most Notre Dame stu­dents were home relaxing over fall break, the Irish swimmers were busy making waves. 
On Oct. 24, the Notre Dame women traveled to the Collegiate Aquatic Sports Championships in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Over two days of competition, the Irish swim­mers had a strong showing, winning the 4x800-meter freestyle relay in 7:26.82. The team of senior captain Linda Gallo, freshman Kristen Van Saun, and all-American sopho­more Alison Newell set a new collegiate record in the 3x500­meter relays as they swam to victory in that race. 
The Notre Dame men faced Western Ontario on Oct. 23 at home to open its dual meet sea­


Tomassito•sSM 


at The Huddle 
7pm -1 am 
Sun.· Sat. 


Try our Hot Breadsticks and Marinara Sauce r.-----r-----r.----.-1 
lNJ Men's swimmi...~g 
Friday vs. Ball State Gp Rolfs Aquatic Center 
ND Hockey Friday vs. MSU 7:00pm 
ents! (while su lies last) 
son with a win, dunking 
Western Ontario, 133-63. The 
Irish took first in all but two 
events. Senior Ron Royer won 
both the 200-meter freestyle 
and the 500-meter freestyle. 
"I thought that [the Collegiate Aquatic Sports Championships] was a really good meet for us, particularly this time of the year," said. women's head coach Bailey Weathers. "I think it was a pretty good indication of how training's gone." 
"I think the freshmen have brought a Jot to the program. They have a lot of experience at the national level, and they're all very competitive individuals, and that really adds some depth and flavor to our pro­gram. It's still very early," Weathers cautioned. "We u.eed to stay healthy and continue to train well, but I think we'll have a good year. 
Large 1 Topping I Large 
I  Pizza w1th  1 I  Cheese Pizza  
1 I  8 Breadsticks and Sauce  1 1 11  with 2 Liter Soda  
$6.99  I I  $6.99  
_EHe~pire~ed.~/26~  _.  l  _Effer!Pire~ed.~/26~  

10 pm • 1am 
Football Fri. and Sat. 





1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 

I Larg~ 1 Topp1ng I I P1zza w1th I 
1 1 4Pepperoni & 

1
Mozzarella I I Breadsticks &Sauce 1 I $6.99 

_. 1 _Effer!Pire~ed.~/26~ _. 
'These are the meanest mon­
sters to walk the deck of Holfs 
in over a decade," said men's 
head coach Tim Welsh. "The 
team is training harder and 
with more intensity. At the cou­
ple of meets we had, we were 
faster than we were at the 
same time last year." 

"The freshman class is one of our best freshman classes ever, and we've been able to say that three years in a row. The cumulative effect is that we just keep on improving. The senior class is small, but it's loaded with leadership. Going into [the Ball State meet) we've had an outstanding fall training sea­son." 
The Notre Dame men host Ball State tonight at Holfs Aquatic Center at 6 p.m., and the women return to the pool on Nov. 7 when they travel to Pittsburgh. 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
Friday, October 31, 1997 page 21
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
OF 

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
PREVIEW THE BIG GAME AT THE HALL OF FAME! 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council553 
Friday, October 31 8:30P.M. at the College Football Hall of Fame Press Box 
Guests Include: Notre Dame Greats William "Red" Mack, Larry Williams, ]erry Wisne · Guest Emcee:]on "].T." Thompson, WSBT Radio -AM 960 Special Guest: Lou Somogyi, Assoc. Editor, Blue &Gold Illustrated Plus a special guest from the United States Naval Academy 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information on Notre Dame and USC. Previews are held each Friday at 8:30P.M. preceding Notre Dame home games. Tickets are $5 each and include admission to the Hall ofFame. 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUITLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours &Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall 
on Notre Dame Ave. 

NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M. 6:00P.M. 7:U0 P.M. 
HAll OF FAME 
To Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 

-· 
6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 


I .800.440.FAME 
(1.800.440.3263) • http://collegefootball.org/ 
219.235.9999 
~UNITEDSTIJ.TES 

Alka· 

Founding Sponsors: J!iiif POSTIJ.L SERV/CErM 
Seltzer. 


• page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 31, 1997 

• CROSS COUNTRY 


Irish strive to leave mark at Big East meet 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame cross country teams travel to Bronx. N.Y. today to compete in the Big East cross country champi­onships. Providence is the defending champion in both men's and women's. This will be a highly competitive meet as four women's and two men's teams are currently ranked in the top 25. 
On the men's side. Notre Dame will look to improve on last year's fourth place finish. The Irish, ranked ninth nationally, are the highest ranked team in the Big East. Senior all­American Jason Hexing is the top returnee from last year's championships. Junior Antonio Arce and freshman Ryan Shay have consistently been the two top runners for the Irish and will look to lead the Irish to their first-ever Big East championship after finishing third in 1995 and fourth in 1996. 
On the women's side, the Irish hope to surpass last year's fifth-place finish. Sophomore all-American JoAnna Deeter is the top returning finisher from last year's championships and has her eye on capturing first place after finishing a close second last year. 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-------, r-------,
1 One Week 1 110 Tanning1 : Unlimited : or : Bed : I Tanning I 1 Sessions 1 
I I I I 
I only $15.001 1only $35.001 
L-------~ L-------~ 
Grape & McKinley University Commons 

by UP Mall nearKMart 
272-7653 256"-9656 

-
-
• GOLF 



Schloss posts 79 to lead team 
Special to the Observer 

Freshman Becca Schloss made the most of her first offi­cial c61lege golf tournament by finishing in sixth place Saturday at the Notre Dame Invitational, held at the par-72, 5,820-yard Bonita Bay Country Club. Schloss. who competed as an individual in two earlier tournaments this fall, carded rounds of 84 and 80 on Friday before posting a 79 on Saturday for a team-best total of 243. 
Notre Dame shot a l'inal­round 312 to make up eight shots and finish In a tie for sec­ond with Rollins College, at 
976. The Irish totaled rounds of 339 and 325 on Friday and used Saturday's strong finish to edge past regional rival Michigan State by seven shots. 
Florida Southern used rounds of 325-325-307 to claim the team title in the six-team tournament, outdistancing Notre Dame and Rollins by 19 shots. 
Notre Dame sophomore Andrea Klee concluded a stel­lar showing in the fall season by tying l'or eighth with a three-round total of 244 (85­81-78). 
Irish senior co-captains Katie King (86-85-76) and Tracy Melby (84-81-82) finished tied for 11th at 247 to remain tied atop the Notre Dame career stroke average list. King and Melby both have totaled 6,644 career strokes over the course of' 81 rounds for a career aver­age of 82.03 strokes per round. 
Notre Dame closes its fall season with the f<;llowing stroke averages over the course of four tournaments (12 rounds): Melby 80.83, Klee 
81.00. King 81.67, Cooper 82.92, and Klein 85.25. Schloss averaged 83.22 strokes over nine rounds (six while compet­ing as an individual). 
AT&T Summer Internship Program 
Why an AT&T Internship? 
• 
Internal exposure to the global leader in the telecommunications industry 

• 
First consideration for AT&T's Financial Leadership Program (FLP) 


• Structured program that includes:  
Professional Development Seminars Formal Objectives and Appraisals Social Gatherings  Senior Management Presentations Networking Events Community Service Projects  
• Challenging assignments • Experience in a Fortune 500 Corporation  

Job Description 
Requireme~ts 
Location 
-
-


-AT&T When 
-
-

Entry-level management positions Project & team oriented assignments Well defined goals and objectives 
Junior Accoun!ing & Finance Majors Overall GPA of 3.5+ preferred: 3.0 minimum 
Majority of positions in New Jersey (Housing Assistance Available) 
On Campus Interviews are Tuesday December 2nd at Career & Placement Resume drop is Monday & Tuesday. November 3rd & 4th at Career & Placement 

5406 N. Main • Mishawalm •271-7788 Tal{e Douglass East to Main Street 
Hours of Operation 8-7 M-Sat; 9-5 Sun 

Jji$S.oo-of:_F, CARY/ASH DETAIL 
~~$3:ooo_F_F, 


Good for any Extra Value Good for any Extra Value Wash. Limit o"ne coupon Detail. Limit one coupon per vehicle per visit. May per vehicle per visit. May not be combined with any not be combined with any other offer. other offer. 
Expires I 1/30/97 

.L _ :_x~'::s~ ~~9.: _ .J 
L----------.J 
FJ$3:00-0-FFi :LUBE: 
I . -~.I
••n•
I :--I 
: QUAKER :




! sTATE. ! 
!Good for any Extra Value Lube.I 1 Limit one coupon per vehicle 1 1per visit. May not be combined 1 I with any other offer. Expires I 11/30/97
L.-----------1 

.-----------~--~------~~-----~--------------~--­
' 
Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

0MPUS 


MINSTRY 
' 
' 
~ ' 
Dear Alumni and Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
• Navy Football Weekend November 1 and 2, 1997 

Vigil o£the Solemnity o£all Saints 

Friday Presider: Bishop Joseph R. Crowley Music: Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
.. 
5:05pm 


Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica Presider: Rev. Richard Bullene, C.S.C. Musice: Women's Choir ~­30 Minutes after game 
Stepan Center Presider: Rev. Jim Foster, C.S.C. 
.... 
Music: Contemporary Choir & Handbell Choir 45 minutes after game 

Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00am Presider: Rev. Thomas Streit, C.S.C 
10:00 am Presider: Rev. Dan Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 am Presider: Rev. Jim Lies, C.S.C.. 

-------------------~-------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 31, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Irish to face conference co-leader on road trip 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team finishes off its five-match road trip this weekend with two matches against Big East opponents. However, unlike previous trips to the east coast, the Irish will start off the week­end by facing the most difficult conference opponent of their season. 
On Friday, the Irish will trav­el eastward to face Villanova, a team which has consistently played near the top of the con­ference ladder. The Wildcats are currently 15-5 on the sea­son and tied with Notre Dame for first place with a 5-0 con­ference record. 
Three current Villanova play­ers -senior middles Stacy Evans and Marisa Davidson and junior hitter Megan O'Brien -were named second team all-Big East in 1996. Wildcat setter Stacy Moline was named Big East rookie of the year last season as well but is sidelined for the rest of the sea­son due to an injury. 
Despite Notre Dame's phe­nomenal success in conference play, the team's 3-0 record against Villanova may be more misleading than it seems. Last year, the Irish pulled out a five­game win at the Joyce Center against the Wildcats. which marked the only time Notre Dam€ has lost two games in a Big East match. 
"We've taken a good look at them, and they're definitely one of the best teams in the conference," head coach Debbie Brown said about the Wildcats. "They're not a very big team, but they play well as a team. Along with us. we're the best two teams in the con­ference." 
On Sunday. the Irish will head to Washington, D.C.. to face off against Georgetown, a team that Notre Dame has had a lot of success against in the past. 
The Irish have won all four previous contests against the Hoyas, including a 15-8, 15-6, 15-9 win at the Joyce Center last season. 
That year, Georgetown went 19-14 on the season and 6-5 in conference play, just missing a seed in the Big East tour­nament. This year, they are 11­11 overall and 2-3 in the Big East, again hoping to take sixth 


Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 
'?ALL S?&e1AL 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) 

••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES•• 
402 E.Madison SouthBend 23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227)

Open 7 days a week 
Must be 21 to enter Just a 3 minute walk from downrown 
Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
place and the final seed in the tournament. 
The lloyas are led by junior middle Melissa Tytko, who ranks second in the Big East in hitting percentage with a .317 average. 
Freshman hitter Kiran Gill has also made a name for her­self. ranking third in the conference in kills per game and second in aces per game. Gill was recently named Big East rookie of the week wlwn she tallied 34 kills in a non­conference match, the biggest single-match kill total in the Big East this season. 
Notre Dame {15-6) has cur­rently been on a streak of its own. having won nine of its past 10 matches. The only blemish on its record in October is a four game loss to No. 9 Texas during fall break. 
With the end of the regular season approaching, some Irish players are on pace to take their place in the record books. 
Senior hitters Jaimie Lee and Angie Harris currently have the second and fifth-best kill aver­ages in Irish history and could become the first teammates to average more than four kills per game in the same season. 
Freshman setter Denise Boylan is averaging 12.07 assists per game, which would rank fourth in Irish history if the trend continues. 
Sophomore middle Mary Leffers has managed to keep a .309 season hitting percentage, which would rank fifth in Notre Dame history. 
The Irish have had astound­ing success in conference play, having won 68 consecutive matches against conference opponents. 
A three-game win over Providence on Oct. 12 moved Notre Dame into fourth plaef~ on the list of longest confnrnncn winning streaks in women's volleyball. The Irish are five rnatehes away from third-place Texas. who had a 73 match streak from 1984 to 1991. 
After the match against Georgetown, the Irish will return to the Joyce Center for their last regular season horne­stand of the season, which con­sists of two matches against conference foes West Virginia and Pittsburgh. 
W  L  
Villanova  5  0  
Notre Dame  5  0  
s~r!Euse  3;y _2  
Connecticut  3  2  
West Virginia  2  2  
Pittsburgh  2  2  
Providence  2  3  
Seton Hall  2  3  
Rutgers  2  3  
Georgetown  2  3  
Boston College  1  4  
St. John's  0  5  


The Observer/ Dave 


Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store 
CELEBRATES PARENTS WEEKEND 


1025 SOUTH BEND AVE. 3 BLOCKS SO. OF STADIUM 
TUES. & WED. CLOSED THURS. $2 COVER DJ IS CAPT. MOORE FRI. OPEN 2:00PM (FREE MUNCHIES) DJ AT 10:00 SAT. OPEN AT 9:00 A.M. DJ IS BLONDIE 
GO IRISH!! 

15% OFF 
YOUR ENTIRE PURCHASE 
Present this ad for your special savings on clothing for men, women, boys, and furnishings for the horne. 
Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store 
Horizon Outlet Center, Fremont • (219) 833-6255 Horizon Outlet Center, Michigan City • (219) 874-9442 
One card per per;on. Card must be surrendered ilt time of purchase. V.1lid through Nov. H, 1'1'17. TO 
-
page 25 

Friday, October 31, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 28 
"I need to be a major part of the offense for the team, and it's crucial that I step up for tho rest of the season," TurnPr said. "I have to go out there and lead us as a scorer. It's now tournament time ­time for the seniors and cap­tains to perform." 
The Notre Dame defense will also need to turn it up a notch as it approaches the post-season. The defense has been the backbone of the team all season long. However, the stakes are high­er and the competition stiffer as they ncar crunch time. 
"Right now we need to head in thinking it's a new season," junior co-captain Matt Johnson said. "We are looking at this game as a chance to get back on the right track. The ball has not been bounc­ing our way lately, and we have lost many close games. It is a little frustrating, but as a team we need to realize that there arc going to be games like that. We need to just con­tinue to work hard and soon we will see results." 


W.Soccer 
continued from page 28 

ference foes on the line. Michigan will be the highest ranked Big Ten team Notre Dame has faced since a 2-0 shutout of eighth-ranked Wisconsin on Oct. 9, 1994. 
In preparation for next week­end's Big East conference championship tournament, Notre Dame hopes to control the ball and work on finishing as many scoring opportunities as possible, while maintaining its focus on defense. Notre Dame has had few problems doing any of these things so far, thanks to a balanced squad that values teamwork. 
"We're trying to use the games this weekend to get 
ready for the Big East and NCAA tournaments," said Beene. "But Michigan is a good team, and we can't belittle this game." 
In the past four weeks, fresh­man Meotis Erikson has been on a scoring tear, netting a goal in each of the last nine games and scoring at least one point in the last 10 contests. Erikson was named Big East offensive player of the week, following conference rookie of the week honors on Oct. 7 and 20. A goal by the forward against the Wolverines tonight would break Amy VanLaecke's nine-game goal scoring streak set in 1995. Erikson leads the Irish with 17 goals and ranks seventh in the nation in goals scored. Erikson and Jenny Streiffer sit atop the Irish leader board with 42 points apiece. 
Pro Shop Hours Sat-Sun 6:00-S:OO Mon-Fri 6:30-S:OO  UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN  
SALE 10%-60% OFF SEIECIED MERCHANDISE VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNEMEMORIAL  TOLEDO, SPAIN RECRUITMENT MEETING FOR 1998-99 WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE AND CARMEN NANNI MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1997 4:45PM 118 DEBARTOLO APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 1998-99. FALL '98 AND SPRING '99: DECEMBER 1, 1997  
New CD f Records N oF NoTRE DAME Mus1c. THESE 15 ORIGINAL SONGS FEATU IT "HERE CoME THE IRISH': WRITTEN AND CO-PRODUCED BY JOHN TRI-CAPTAIN AND ALL-AMERICAN; NFL VETERAN FROM 1981 TO IL-'L.>I.Ii< NNING PRODUCER JIM TULLIO. PERFECT GIFT IDEA-ALLOWS FANS EXPERIENCE INTO THEIR HOMES "SINCE GRADUATING AFTER THE 1980 SE:ASiC BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE AS SOMEONE WHO CAME FROM NOTRE DAM THAT LABEL SPEAKS FOR ITSELF IN ALL MY ENDEAVORS." JOHN ScuLLY Co-PRODUCER Available NOW atthe Notre Dcu;pe Bool<store and Varsity Shop. Orto order, call the Notre Dame Catalog Fulfillment Centertoday at 1-800-647-4641  

Senior Holly Manthei has also had a hand in the play-making for the nation's highest-scoring offense, leading the nation-in assists with 26. Notro Dame's squad averages a lofty 5.24 goals per game. 
Beene, .a sophomore in her first season as the starting goalkeeper. continues to lead the nation with a .30 goals against average. She has built on her Big East single-season record for shutouts, recording eight in 10 conference games. 
Beene  has  compiled  13  
shutouts in 1 7 games on  the  
year.  

As the regular season draws to a close, Notre Dame will turn its attenti'on to capturing a third consecutive Big East championship and returning to the NCAA finals to reclaim the national title. 

-
-
.... 
...... 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 31, 1997 
• HOCKEY 

Notre Dame hosts top pick in competitive CCHA 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
With three victories and one loss, ineluding bark-to-bark tri­umphs over nationally­acelaimed St. Cloud State. the Notre Dame hockey team is off to a fast start. 
But these precious victories came outside of Central Collegiate Hockey Association league play and thus are not counted when the league assigns post-season births. And so when the Michigan State Spartans, members of the CCliA. roll into the Joyce Center tonight at 7 p.m.. the 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back cover. 
-
Boys of Winter will be especial­ly ready to jump off to a good start in the long season. The series continues on Saturday evening with a gamo at Michigan State. 
The -Spartans, however, are an excellent hockey team, and the task at hand is daunting. The Spartans were overwholm­ingly picked by CCHA coaches to win the competitive CCIIA title this year, and, in respected national hockey pre-season polls. the Spartans were ranked as high as third in the continental United States. Furthermore, Notre Dame's last victory against the 
Date: -th 
No ~e,m ber tf 
---)u~ 
0 
Location: 
NoTre., Do.fl'\I.J 
Uni-f<:rsit'a-Time: 
'fpm-8p,., 
Call for Details: 
Aipho.-E'p6.1lon De..lti>J !lC­
2..'TZ..-LJ-135 
~ 
our ourse. 
~ 
\\'

.,.\\arr1ott 
HOTELS· RESORTS· SUITES 
-
The Marriott Hotel Downtown, the premiere customer service provider in the Michiana area, is 
.... 
actively pursuing friendly, outgoing people. Apply today if you are interested in: Flexible, part-time, & full-time jobs, ideal for college students. Competitive pay, Medical, Dental, Vacation, and Retirement Benefits. 
~·, 
EEO/AA/M/FIV/D 

Spartans came 14 years ago in 1983. 
In the 19 games since then, the Boys have mustered only three ties. Michigan State also n~turns its top two seomrs from last year. Mike York and Sean Berens, its starting goaltender {ranked third in the CCIIA with a 2.65 GAA last season). and Tyler llarlton, winner of tho prestigious best defenseman award in the CCI lA last season. 
"Michigan State is an excel­lent team; there's no doubt about that," stated sophomore forward Joe Dusbabek. 
So how does Notre Dame go about slaying this Goliath'? Special teams eertainly will be a key for the game. 
"We have a very talented team this year," explained freshman forward Jay Kopischke. "Because of that we haven't had to spnnd as much time going over tlw fun­damentals. We can go quickly over these because we have a good sense for them already, and we can focus on our power play and on our penalty-killing. This is nice because we can have a set plan before we get too far into thn CCIIA season." 
The hard work seems to bP making returns already. Until last week's loss to Boston Collegfl, Notn~ Dame had gone a perroct 17 -f'or-17 in pnnalty­killing, and it had also been much more productive on its revamped power play, a facet of the game in which it strug­gled last year. 
Notm Dame will also look for strong goaltnnding from senior Matt Eisler, who has bm~n phe­nomenal this season. 
"Matt is the man," Pxplained sophomore forward BPn Simon. Eislp,r backstoppPd both upsets of St. Cloud State. including the 4-1 victory on Saturday night in whieh he recorded an unheard of 36 savPs. 
The Irish face a difficult opponent tonight. Rngardless of the outcome of this week­~~nd's games, the Boys of Winter an~ hnaded down the path to smashing success in the CCHA. 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS Public Welcome... Irish Courtyard Hours: Friday 3:00pm-1 0:30pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm "Come join us for Irish festivities and on the campus ofNotre Dame football weekend fun!" Phone (219) 631-2000 • Grilled Burgers & Brats • Notre Dame Souvenirs E.ocil 77 Jntarstate 80-90 • Cold Beverages • Live "Irish Band" • Big Screen T.V.s Fri. 4:00pm-1 0:30pm Sat. 1 0:00am-2:00pm • All Under a Large Tent The ..A.. ..A.. Nollw MorrtsJ,....{ 1--.( Dame Inn Stadium Dining Room Cocktail Lounge Angela • Casual Dining SeNing • Sandwich and Appetizer Daily, Breakfast, Menu Available Daily Lunch, and Dinner • Popular Campus • Reservations Gathering Spot SOU'ni BEND, INDIANA Recommended  

Charge by Phone at 235-9190 or 800-537-6415 Or Purchase at Morris Box Office, Method Music Elkhart, Disc Go Round Mishawaka, and Majerek's Hallmark Reader's World 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
14MM.. H5RSSA~ O~P PAIR OF SHORT$",'TWO BOTTLE' (() 
CA~S ... ()) m 
0•• 

DILBERT 
MA.N~GER TI\1\I.NlNG ~------------------------1~ 
YOU WI.LL OFTEN BE 
ASKEO TO COI'\MENT 
ON TI-HNG5 '<OU 
OON"T UNOERSTI\NO. 

r------JE r-----JU. 
~ 
..0 
@ 
!/) 
::;; 
11 Gene Krupa portrayer, 1959 12Chirped 14Computer language 17 Ready to break, as a wave 8-:-+.:+.::-t 21 Multitudes 24 Certain witticism -:+=+::=+:::-i 25 1880 literary heroine 
TI-\E.SE. 1-\~NOOUTS CONT~T.N NONSENSE. 
PHRA.5ES T\-\1\T C~N 
53 Old nursery 
song word 55V.I.P. 57 Wing 
sa Subject of a 
1930's mystery 61 "Norma-" 62Anonym 
63 Thunderstorm product 64A.A.R.P. members 65 Cord fiber 66 Fast times 
DOWN 
1 F.B.I. sting of the late 70's 2 1962 monster 
film 3 Like "The Zoo 
Story," e.g. 4Guns 5 Stuck 6 Prefix with dairy 
7 One of the Khans a "Fiddlesticks!" 9 Seven-time Emmywinner 
28Wolfpack opponent 30 Kind of table 
33 Hit song of 1959 35 Overseas Mrs. 36 Powerful 
37 Victim of Paris 380newhose work's a bust 39 Emergency boat workers 43Salad ingredients, briefly 
li 
'0 
!/);. 

MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
... SO, LET'S OOMINI\IE. OUR lNOU5TRY ... WITH QUt>..liTY "IMPLE.i"\ENTt>.TION 
45 Maker of 49lndian chief Wish-Bone 51 Register salad 
54 Winter dressing 
time 46 Break in, so to 56 Goggle speak 
59 Lower, in a way 47 Categories 60 Break 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
fly toward their targets. You overflow with intel­lectual and physical pas­sion. Expect a day of rebirth and regeneration. 
Sagittarius: 
A spark of spontaneity 
lights up a day of plodding 
routine. Deliberately mis­
understand someone's 
words or actions if you 
think there's a good joke 
in it. Today's important 
issue may be of no conse­
quence tomorrow. 
Capricorn: 
Yesterday's good deed is 
rewarded today. You 
learn a vital lesson that it 
seems you already knew. 
Spend time and money 
with the people who love 
you the most. 
Aquarius: 
You are disappointed by 
a truth that is less glori­.ous than you had imag­ined. Accepting what you cannot change makes your life easier. Do some­thing fun and spontaneous to turn your day around. 
Pisces: Think big thoughts I today. Speak with your hands. Throw old ideas out the window, along , with anyone who still believes in them. Keep moving, or your feet will fuse to the ground. 

• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Gravely ill, once &Big name in 
auto supplies 10 Alphabet trio 
13 Damfool thing 14 Machetes 
15Appear indecisive 
16 Comics hero since 1947 
18 Porter 
19 Beers, maybe 
20 Request of Rhonda, in a 1965 Beach Boys hit 
22 Heavenly route 
23 Consider appropriate 26 Have another 

picture taken 27 Helm of fiction 29 Stop using 31 Left 32lnvoice fig. 34 Unfair 36 Beverly Sills 
contemporary 
39 Tom or Daisy of "The Great Gats by" 
40 1981 Tony winner McKellen 
41 North Carolina county on the Blue Ridge Parkway 
42--Roman 44 Trudge 48 More remote so Tanker's cargo 52 Provoke 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: 

You're ready to drive off 
at full speed today, but it 
would help if you knew 
where you were going. 
Change a plan instead of 
scrapping it. Open up your 
ears and your heart to let 
someone else into the pic­
ture. 

Taurus: You are carried away on a moment's impulse. The 
word "moderation" is not in your vocabulary. Excesses of appetite, endurance, and emotion feel great today, but you might pay for it all tomor­row. 
Gemini: 

You make yourself understood, but many are displeased by your mes­sage. Be open with your feelings, even as you keep your wallet tightly closed. Community action goes only so far today. 
Cancer: 

A vast, comforting sense of calm fills your day. Stay home and bond with your family. Teaching with love, no matter what the lesson, enhances an edu­cational experience. 
Leo: 

You are easily irritated by others today. Simple conversations run the risk of turning into battles of will. You find easy excus­es to spend time alone in your den, working on pro­jects. 
Virgo: 

Today you are the voice of reason in a cheerfully irrational world. Someone forgives you for outlasting him in a debate. Others listen to you when they realize that you have their well-being in mind. 







SPORTS l 
t 


page 28 Friday, October 31, 1997 
• • MEN's SOCCERSOCCER 

Notre Dame heads into final stretch at the top of the league 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
According to the latest soccer power ratings, the second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team plays the fifth toughest schedule among teams ranked in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America's Top 25 poll. 
Even more impressive is the fact that the Irish have outscored the opposition 88-5, and outshot them 490-62, en route to a 16-0-1 mark with only two regular season games remaining. 
-
Tonight the explosive Irish battle 12th-ranked Michigan at Alumni Field. The Wolverines (15-2-1) have won six consecutive contests, and are paced by sophomore forward Amber Berendowsky's 16 goals and 16 assists. Thus far, Notre Dame holds a 3-0 advantage over Big Ten opponents in 1997. The Irish defeated Michigan State, Indiana and Wisconsin by a com­bined 24-0 margin. 
"We can't look past our game with Michigan," said goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene. "They are supposed to have some good forwards and midfielders, so it should be a good game for our defense." 
Notre Dame also puts its 30-game unbeaten streak against Big Ten con-
see W. SOCCER I page 25 

Eagles challenge Irish in final regular season game 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team plays the last game of its 1997 season on Sunday against the Boston College Eagles. It is a very big game for the Irish as they look to the postseason. 
The team is currently ranked sixth in the conference with a record of 4­5-1 and an overall record of 8-8-2. Boston College is tied with Notre Dame in the rankings and has a record of 4-5-1 as well and 5-7-2 on the season. 
The Irish arc coming off a tough week, dropping four in a row and live straight in the Big East. All the con= tests were determined by just one goal. After such a strong start in the Big East, Notre Dame is looking to return to its winning ways ... fast. 
"We know that we could've won each of the last live Big East games," said senior co-captain Ryan Turner. "It's frustrating losing by just onP goal. We were in each game. and a lot of times, we were up. Now we arc in the Big East tournament. which was one of the season's goals, and from this point on. the past is in the past." 
Boston College brings a tenacious defense that has played well all year. Their goals against average is 0.87, which is the third best in the Big East. The Eagles' nest is also well protected by freshman goalie Chris Hamblin. He has played very solidly on the year and has recorded 51 savns in confer­ence play. 
The Irish offense will need to show the intensity displayed earliPr in the season in this very important game. Notre Dame will look to Turner for a spark. Turner is second in overall scoring in the J3ig East with 11 goals and four assists. 
seeM. SOCCER I page 25 

Notre Dame hopes to end its four game losing streak when it faces Boston College this Sunday at 1 p.m. 
l. 
• 
Swimming recap, preview 
vs. Michigan, 

at Big East Tournament, 
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 

Tomorrow, 10:30 a.m. see page 20 
vs. Boston College, 

Volleyball at Calvin College, 
ND Hockey takes on Michigan State 
November 2, I p.m. 

Today, 7:30p.m. 
see page 26 
Soccer vs. Goshen College, Today, 7 p.m. Today, 3 p.m. 
at Villanova, 








