
Thursday, November 13, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 53 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Leaders debate student government relationships 

By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
The Lyons basketball courts, multicultural aware­ness at Notre Dame and the division of duties between student government and Student Senate were among the issues covered at last night's senate meeting. 
In discussing student government relations, student body president Matt Griffin noted that the two bodies often work on the same issues. causing overlap and wasted effort. 
"This comes out of having two such ambitious groups working on similar issues," observed Griffin. Additionally, Griffin is concerned because "a common student voice is not being presented. There's the stu­dent government, and then there's the Student Senate." 
"It is not necessary nor it is appropriate for the senate to discuss minor details. That is the responsi­bility of the president's office {and student govern­ment)," Keough senator A.J. Boyd noted. 
Other senators talked about the consequences of the senate working out the small details. 
"As dorm representatives we have the perfect venue for determining what our constituents want," said Keenan senator Matt Mamak. "Minor things, in indi-vidual cases, we can take care of at the dorm level." 

"We directly represent individual dorms. This should be the place for discussion of issues," noted Sorin senator Kevin Grugan. 
The two groups, especially at their subcommittee levels, have frequently worked on the same issues. One example given was the proposal to install laundry 


Dukakis to address government forum 
Ex-candidate will speak on finance reform 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Campaign finance reform will be the topic of a symposium headlined by Michael Dukakis tomorrow from 9 a.m. until 
noon in the Center for Continuing Eduration auditorium. 
Dukakis. a IIJ~R prnsi­dPnlial can­didate and 


former gov-Dukakis 
nrnor of 
Massachusetts. will be included on a panel of attorneys and law scholars for an open presenta­tion and discussion on the con­troversy surrounding political funding. Beginning at 9 a.m., each panelist will present a spe­cific topic and his perspective on campaign financP reform. The presentations will be followPd by a moderated panel discussion and an open discussion where panelists will answer audience questions. 
The controversy surrounding campaign funding was brought to light during the 1996 cam­paign when certain activities were allegedly associated with unlimited special-interest fund­ing, or "soft money," efforts generated by the Demoeratic National Committee. The grow­ing use of this type of funding and the ways in which political parties solicit this money are currently up for debate in the 
U.S. Congress. 
Along with Dukakis. who is currently a professor at Northeastern University, the panel assemblnd for this discus­sion will include Craig Engles, campaign advisor· for the 55 Republican candidates for the 
U.S. Senate, William Marshall, associate council to the presi­dent of the United States, Donald Simon, the executive vice prnsi­dent of Common Cause, Bradley Smith, an adjunct scholar with the CATO Institute, and Kenneth Weine, staff attorney for the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University Law School. 
facilities in all dorms. When the issue first arose, both student government's Gender Issues Committee and senate's Residence Life Committee were acting on it. Ultimately, the senate took charge and passed a reso­lution two weeks ago. This is one of a number of resi­dence life issues to be passed by the senate this semester. 
"''ve gone out of my way to inform [student govern­ment departments] of our issues ... because I don't want overlaps," said senate Residence Life Committee chair Matt Szabo. 
Some senators asked why the two couldn't simply make a greater effort to work together. · "A simple solution would be more involvement and collaboration between student government and Student Senate," noted Fisher senator Chip Warden. 
Breen-Phillips senator Andrea Kavoosi added, "If you have all these issues, who cares who does the footwork? With both working on them, you have twice the people, and you'll get twice as much work done." 
"There's been a communication breakdown," observed student body vice president Erek Nass. To help remedy this situation, several ideas were pro­posed. They included regular reports to the senate by 
see SENATE I page 4 

Observing the terror ... 

M
aureen Lane looks at pictures that were displayed in the lobby of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies as part of the "Ban Bus" project. The bus, organized by the U.S. Campaign to Ban Land Mines, is touring the country before a Dec. 5 land-mine treaty signing. 
See story on page 3. 

• SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT 



Saint Mary's leaders focus on community events 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT The effectiveness of tho pro­Board has distributed one Haggar game room. The com­on the campus through pic­A\sociatr Saint Marv"s News Editor grams with respect to turnout newsletter, Student Academic mittee is looking for students tures of various boards and holds a strong impact on the Council has issued two, and with artistic abilities to offer their members, and will be dis­
Bringing students together success of 
r-------, more will follow later this aca·­
their artwork played on the first floor of on campus and in the commu­this year's demic year, according to Milos to be painted Haggar, Milos and McKeough nity headline the agenda of the events. and McKeough. They added along the stated. Saint Mary's Board of McKeough that students also receiv~ walls of this In other news, athletics com­Governance, according to stu­insisted. monthly calendars. The admis­room. missioner Betsy Gemmer has dent body president Nikki Milos "Alcohol sions office, according to "Students organized several new intra­and student body vice presi­Awareness McKeough, requested that offering their murals and has provided fur­dent Lori McKeough. Week, which prospective students receive a artwork will ther publicity for the varsity 
"The many activities we have was spon-copy of SAC's magazine, eventually sports throughout campus. planned and have hosted thus sored by Milos "Spotlight on Academics." McKeough turn what "We are extremely excited far have proven themselves RHA, had Milos and McKeough added was originally about the improvements that extremely successful when much publicity which helped to that there will be an opening of a drawing on paper into a wall­have been made to improve looking at them from the stu­make it a success," she added. a multicultural lounge this year sized sketch," McKeough said. communication in the athletic dent turnout rate," Milos said. While Student Activities in the resource station of Leadership will be celebrated areas," Milos said. 
... 



page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Friends are Friends Forever 
I was writing my 

Inside Column on  Kristi Klitsch  
Sunday night when the  Wire Editor  
telephone rang. It was  

12:08 a.m. At that moment, everything changed. 
Two of my friends from high school had been in a serious car accident, my friend from Creighton explained. One of them had died, and the other was struggling to live. 
Surely he must be kidding, I thought to myself. How could Amy, whom I saw only a few months ago, be dead? And Lisa, whom I have known since childhood. how could she be in surgery? 
Yet he was not laughing. 
I won't even explain my initial reaction, because I now know that it was complete shock. Nor will I s~y that I understand why this happened, because I know that I never will. 
But I do know that the spirit of Amy will never die, because it will live in her friends for­ever. 
Following the accident, I spent hours on the phone with many of my high school friends. Some of us hadn't talked in months, yet at this time we had never felt closer. 
We prayed for Amy and her family, and we comforted each other as we awaited news about Lisa. 
At 3 a.m. relief arrived. Lisa had survived surgery, and although she had a long road ahead of her, she would recover. 
Yet, through the prayers and tears, a lesson is to be learned. 
Our society takes too much for granted. How many times do we walk out the door without saying "I love you" to our parents? How many times do we use the word "hate" so haphazard­ly? How often do we fight with our friends about boys, grades or difference in opinion? 
Too often do we depart in anger, assuming that we can resolve the conflict when we return. But in Amy's case, she never returned. 
The last time I saw Amy was on my birthday -July 25, 1997. We departed with the assumption that we would meet again at Thanksgiving. 
Little did I know that this was to be my final good-bye. Yet Sunday night, I learned a lot about the value of friendship. 
When I told my three roommates about the accident, they responded with hearts and hugs of support. They held my hand, wiped my tears, and waited up with me into the late hours of the night. 
The accident was tragic, and Amy's death unexplainable, yet it taught me to value my friends and to live life to the fullest. 
Please, I beg of all of you to take my advice: value every moment that you spend with your friends. 
I don't mean the drunken bliss that occurs every Thursday night, but those late nights spent laughing, talking, and even crying. 
These are the nights that we tend to trivialize, yet they are also the nights that we remember. 
Let your friends know that you love, care about and support them. Let them know now; please don't wait. 
To Amy, I want you to know that I valued our friendship, and that I will always treasure your memory. 
To all of you, don't let time slip away. Live every moment for the moment, and value all of your friendships. You never know when it will be too late. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Too;w's STAFF 
News Accent Heather MacKenzie Emmett Malloy Matt Loughran Graphics Sarah Hiltz 
Jon King Sports Production 
Anthony Bianco Chris Uhart Viewpoint Lab Tech Colleen Gaughen Kevin Dalum 
Kelly Brooks 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ[s are reserved. 
,,

........'-__.._ 
~­

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 13, 1997 



utside the Dome 
compiled from IJ-u•irt• reports 

Cornell considers banning alcohol in light of death trend 

ITHACA, N.Y. 
On Monday, Jan. 18, 1993, police found Terrence Quinn '93 dead from asphyxiation in the chimney of Psi Upsilon fraternity. He had been missing since­the previous Friday, after an evening of reportedly heavy drinking. 
Alcohol-related deaths continue to plague the Cornell community. According to Christopher Muller, pro­fessor of hotel administration, there has been a death due to drinking at Cornell every year for the past decade. But the tragedies are not only limited to this campus. 
Alcohol killed 18-year-old Scott Krueger, a freshman at MIT who died Sept. 29 after spending three days in an alcohol-induced coma. 
Last May at Hartwick College, police 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Teacher removed for unfit conduct 
LOS ANGELES 
School of Cinema-Television instructor Duane Byrge has 
been indefinitely removed from his teaching position as a 
result of displaying inappropriate conduct in class last 
Thursday, school officials said. Students said Byrge 
appeared intoxicated in his Theatrical Film Symposium 
class as he conducted a question-and-answer session with 
Basil Poledouris, who composed the score to "Starship 
Troopers." The class, which screens new films, usually 
draws more than 400 students to Norris Cinema Theatre. 
Byrge, however, said jet lag was responsible for his con­
duct. "He made a fool of himself," said Cynthia Hakopian, a 
junior majoring in business. "His speech was slurred, and 
he was slouched down in his seat. He usually lectures in the 
beginning of class for about a half hour and asks the guests 
questions (at the end of class)," Hakopian said. "(Thursday) 
he only asked one or two questions and turned it over to the 
students. Everyone was laughing, and I think the guest got 
really mad." Poledouris could not be reached for comment. 
• BAYLOR UNIVERSITY 
Man calls department heretical 
WACO, Texas 
On Monday night in Austin as the first session of the 
annual meeting of the Baptist General Convention of Texas 
closed, the department of religion was accused of heretical 
teachings. The accusation was given in a motion by Ben 
Cole, a messenger from First Baptist Church in Sherman. 
Heresy is the practice of holding a belief that is contrary to 
the teaching of a certain religion -in this case, the 
Southern Baptist Convention. Cole's motion asked for a 
committee from the BGCT to be formed to study teaching 
in New Testament courses to see if faculty members are 
holding heretical positions. According to a BGCT employee, 
the dispute regards a textbook on Christ. The source is not 
sure if the book was written by a Baylor faculty member or 
if it was taught to students. "It was a pretty rambling pre­
sentation," the employee said. "[Cole] was citing some text­
book used there at Baylor." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 13. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~~--/L____ --­
H 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L m ISSJ !Til 0 . [ZJ 8 ¢-eJ. u
Mo~day ,, {~ 38 30 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
(~J···'\s·· ....,.....,j" ... 'l..r· 
Vis Assocsated Press 
Atlanta 56 52 Dallas 52 42 Los Angeles 66 58 Baltimore 40 . 37 Denver 38 14 Miami 84 72 Baton Rouge 66 58 Detroit 40 30 New York 45 32
4,Q,~A.M8 (f ~ u 
Chicago 40 32 Honolulu 81 68 Phoenix 72 52 
Showers T-storms Rain Fluffies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 42 38 Indianapolis 43 39 St. Louis 43 37 
Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 
.............. 
As a result of these tragedies, cam­puses across the nation are either considering or have already adopted policies banning alcohol. Cornell also faces this option as it attempts to curb alcohol abuse. And aside from any policy decision, this university and others try to understand why so many 
• OHIO UNIVERSITY 
Students cry out about campus rape 
ATHENS, Ohio 

More than 200 OU students gathered at the site on East Green where an OU woman was raped Nov. 2, and they let out a collective scream that pierced the night air. For more than an hour last night, students held candles, chanted, read poems and shared rape survival stories. Many students were brought to tears as individual stu­dents spoke to the group about personal rape experiences. The vigil, organized by several campus groups, gave OU students the chance to mourn the rape of a 19-year-old South Green resident, which happened between 10:30 and 11 p.m. in a small patch of trees between Morton and Tiffin halls. Police still are investigating the incident. Catlin Sweet, an OU student and member of Swarm of Dykes, addressed the crowd and urged Tiffin Hall resi­dents to join the vigil. "I'm sick of walking down the street at night and being afraid," she said. Eleni Zulia, Women's Affairs commissioner for Student Senate, proposed work­ing to get better lighting on campus. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Group criticizes Playboy investment 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Leaders of the Radcliffe Union of Students (RUS) criticized the University's investment policies in a meeting last night after a revealing discovery: Harvard owns stock in Playboy Enterprises. "If Harvard knowingly sanctioned a purchase of a stock whose sole profit making function is pornography, we certainly don't agree with that," said Melissa Gambol '99, treasurer of RUS and a spokesperson for the RUS board. "Being an educational institution, they must scruti­nize what they're investing in and must avoid things that could be so controversial for such a large portion of the stu­dent body." The university owns 22,700 shares of class A stock in Playboy Enterprises, according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and obtained by The Crimson. At yesterday's closing price of $14.125, this holding is valued at about $320,600, far less than 1 percent of Harvard's $11 billion endowment. 
students abuse alco­
hol. 
Muller, who is 
also a master train­
er for the Training 
Intervention 
Procedures for 
Service of Alcohol 
(TIPS), a national 

program, suggested students feel invincible, and may be unaware of the consequences associ­ated with drinking to excess. "The glory of youth is [the attitude]. 'It's not going to happen to me,"' he added. 
Chris Couture '99, a resident advis­er in the Class of '28 dormitory, said knowing the consequences is not the issue if people have been drinking to such an extent that they lose control. "Yes, they do know the consequences, but, no, they don't always follow their best judgment," he added. 


Thursday, November 13, 1997 
'Ban Bus' project brings challenge to ND students 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 
By THI LINH CHOJNACKI 
News Writer 
Approximately 100 mil­lion uncleared landmines lie buried throughout the world and claim over 500 victims per week, according to the "Get on the Ban Bus" pamphlet. 
Speakers from the International and U.S. Ban Bus campaign gathered in the Ilesburgh Center for International Studies last night to communicate their stand on a complete ban of anti-personnel landmines. 
The Ban Bus began its campaign in San Francisco and will stop in a total of 24 cities across the U.S. during its five-week tour. The cam­paign's final destination is Ottawa, where the official signing of the Sept. 18, 1997. Oslo Treaty will occur. The ultimate goal of tlw Ban Bus is to get the 
U.S. to sign the treaty in Ottawa on Dec. 3 and 4. 
Speakers at last night's talk included Australian photographer John Rodsted, British mino sweeper Michael llands. Norwegian mine awareness instructor Mette Sosie Eliseussen and American Paul Piatti. who is the Western region devel­opment director of the Vietnam Veterans of America foundation. 
With the intent to raise public awareness of the devastating effects of land­mines, these speakers pre­sented photos of the n1ass destruction eaused by land­mines and conveyed their own experiences involving landmines. 
The purpose of the tour. according to the speakers, is to convince audiences that landmines are cruel weapons which continue to damage even years after wars end. The activists insist that their goal will not be reached until they have reached a large popu­lation and feel that Notre Dame is a good place to start. 
During his presentation, Piatti revealed that shoe stores in countries with landmines often sell single shoes. As a gesture of urg­ing the U.S. to sign the treaty, Piatti encouraged each student to bring a shoe to the football game and raise it during the play­ing of "The Star Spangled Banner." It was Piatti 's opinion that such support displayed by the Notre Dame student body could start a domino effect of sup­port across the country. 
International Study Programs Reminder 


DECEMBER 1, 1997 
is the Application 
Deadline 
for 

Academic Year 1998-9 Programs 
In 

Angers, France; Innsbruck, Austria; Dublin, Ireland; Mexico City & Monterrey, Mexico; Nagoya,Japan; Toledo, Spain; 

ALL FALL 1998 Programs 
and 
Spring 1999 Programs 
In 

Dublin, Ireland; Fremantle, 
Australia and Toledo, Spain 

Improvements abound on campus 
By NICOLE fl~nlllles>Bookstore and the Future endeavors for SWARTZENTRUBER A!uinni!Visitor Center. The Facilities Engineering NewsWriter newbook$tore Mllhave two include overseas improve· stories, withtrade books and ments in the London 
When will the construction mer(ih(:l.ndise on the first Program, and a new campus end? Semi-trailers, fences~ floor apd 'sChool books on performing arts center. scaffolding and dirt occupy t o.~d f~o.or .. But the. Currently, the University is eight locations on )'Jotre okstore wHI have screening architectural firms Dame's campus, forcing stu, t:J squarefol)tage. for the construction of the dents to maneuver ~:trouM ding to ~ike Smith, Marie DeBartolo Performing everything from. r,estrtct4;)d t · ,of Facilities Arts Center. Once one is cho­areas to buf(et table~: · ··· · the. present sen, Facilities Engineering 
These minor inc tor.e will and the dean and depart­niences will, however, t. service DJ,ent heads of the College of their worth by { · l~i~try, Arts ,and Letters will prepare 2000. The lJniyfl Studies; a constructiort proposal. Notre Dame, in its rY .· f(l:t' A schematic for the per· for the Year 2()00. rid the forming arts center was charted major ta Program developed four years ago, improvements in a variety .. . . move to the but changes in the college areas. ·· S.o!.lftl:t QuadJ:milding. staff require new reviews 
The facilities currently . :·we wanted to put the and approvals. under construction are the of'fi~!;?S that serve the stu-The schematic will include Jerry Hank Family Hall addle· deD:ts in the middle of. cam-new theater facilities, a tion to the Galvin Life pus;1'Smithsaid. music library, and practice Sciences building, Rolfs ··•· Will the current Hammes halls. Sports Recreational .· bookstore remain the center The University of Notre Building, Planner Hall, Ave ()f campus? With the rash of Dame is undergoing a bar· Maria Press Building, South c~nstruction on campus, rage of construction in 1997, Dining HalL Warren Golf sQme .have speculated that but "it has had construction Course, Main Building and bythe year 2010, the Morris going since its birth in Eck Center. ·· lnn will he the center of 1842," Smith said. 
The Eck Center will soon· ea.tl}pus, Smith discredited When will the construction border the main gate imd . this prophesy, and asserted end? "Never," Smith assert-· Morris Inn on the southern tha the onlyforeseen cam· ed. "[but] I don't think you end of campus. It will co ~pansion wHJ move want it to stop. That'JJ mean 
sist of two buildings: th we've closed." 
The Notre Dame Afican Students' Association Proudly Presents: 
"From Zaire to Congo; from Mobutu to Kabila: Background and lmplications" A Lecture by Professor Leonard Gashugi, chair, Department of Accounting, Economics, and Finance, Andrews University. 
Moderator: Professor Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Department; Discussants: 1. Djo Mwamba, Assistant Vice-President, KeyBank 2. Ngamije Mwangachuchu, MSA Program. 
MONDAY NOVEMBER 17 AT 4:15PM in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium Sponsors: African Students' Association & Kroc lnstitute for lntemational Peace Studies http://www.nd.eduj......ndasa 
-------~-~~--~-~-------~
---~----~ 
page 4 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
leaders of student government 
groups, joint meetings of subcom­
mittees of the two bodies and divi­
sion of action. 
While no decisions were 
reached, the senate agreed to 
reopen these issues later. 
The one resolution passed in 
last night's meeting concerned 
multicultural awareness at the 
University. As the senate's 
response to Oct. 31's "Men About 
Campus" comic in The Observer, 
the resolution called for height­
ened awareness of diversity and 
multiculturalism. Specifically, it 
hopes to "seek an understanding 
of the thoughts and feelings of 
those members of our community 
that were most directly offended 
by the comic strip." 
"This is something I feel we should do," said Dan Nisbet, chair of the Multicultural Affairs Committee, in discussion b~e the vote. The resolution passed with no opposition and three abstentions. 
Another idea which was dis­cussed by the senators was for them to attend a prejudice reduc­tion workshop. "This would be a positive show, saying 'What can we do [to help race relations]?"' said Nass. 
• 
From the Residence Life Committee, Szabo announced that last week's senate resolution to repave the Lyons Hall basketball courts will be acted upon in time to have the courts ready for Bookstore Basketball. In addition to repaving the two existing courts, the University will add a third court on the location. The work will be done in two days during spring break. 

• 
Another issue discussed by the Residence Life Committee was the placement of laundry facilities in 



The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 13, Jt)lJ7 the six men's dorms which do not 
have them. 

Two weeks ago, the senate passed a resolution calling for the Office of Facilities Engineering and Maintenance to ensure that laundry machines be placed in those dorms. Szabo reported that the issue is currently being worked out with the Campus Life Council and assistant vice presi­dent for Student Affairs William Kirk, and that they are having some problems allocating funds for the facilities. 
"It is going to take a bit longer than we thought to get machines in the men's dorms," Szabo said, "but the problems are being worked out." 
• The Academic Affairs Committee reported its progress on moving exams out of Stepan Center. Breen Phillips senator Andrea Kavoosi reported that she had spoken to University registrar Harold Pace about the issue. She said one of the concerns voiced by faculty was that students would not have equal access to profes­sors if classes were broken up and exams were in different rooms. However, Kavoosi noted, "Not one person I've talked to 
doesn't not like taking tests in Stepan." 
• Gender Relations Committee chair Katie Harness reported that her committee met with its equiv­alent group in the student govern­ment office, and that committee was planning several actions. Among them were further promo­tion of the Women's Resource Center, presentations in all dorms on eating disorders and body images, and a series of speakers on ordaining women as priests. 
Harness also reported that installation of 24-hour detex sys­tems in North Quad dorms had been made by the rectress of each individual dorms. The senate has been considering a resolution to change the detex system. 
Scales and arpeggios ... 


MOREAU CENTER­
UTilE THEATRE 
NOV. 13, 14,15 at8pm 
&NOV. 16 at2:30 pm 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'laughlin Auditorium, open Mon.· Fri., 9 am to 5 pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 

M"gjjf;()
I c;~ THE ARTS ~ NOTRE DAME, IN 

COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS 



ALFRED DECRANE,}R. 
FORMER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF TEXACO, INC. 




Global Business: Global Standards? 
TH~RSBAY, NOVEMBER 13 AT 7:30PM joRDAN AuoiToliUuM, CoLLEGE OF BusiNESS ADMINISTRATION 
Sponsored by: Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 

and 

Students for Responsible Business 

SRB
__..,._

Notre Dame Cent~{,,,,,, , 
for Ethics and Rezi;'l6~s:,;:'"' Students for Values in Business Responsible Business 
a 1 

---------------------r------------------~------------------------------------­

Thursday, November 13, 1997 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Jury convicts Yousef 
NEW YORK 

A man prosecutors portrayed as one of his­tory's most sinister terrorists and the architect of the World Trade Center bombing was con­victed Wednesday of conspiracy in the 1993 attack. The federal court jury answered a prosecutor's plea to make Ramzi Yousef and an accomplice. Eyad Ismoil. pay for plotting to kill a quarter million people by toppling two 11 0-story towers like dominoes across lower Manhattan. The conspiracy charge carries a maximum sentence of life in prison. The bombing kiliPd six people, injured more than 
1.000 others and stole from many Americans a sense of safety from the kind of Middle East terrorism they had only read about before. But the buildings did not fall. Yousef and Ismoil both fled on commercial flights the night of the bombing. A $2 million reward for Yousef helped lead to his capture in Pakistan in 1995, the same year Ismoil was picked up in Jordan. 
Somali death toll rises 
NAIROBI, Kenya 

Massive flooding in Somalia has left at least 448 pPople dead and hundreds of thousands homeless. aid oflicials said Wednesday as they searched for aircraft and money to mount a rescue operation. A Red Cross official said a !light over the Buale region to survey the dam­age revealed nothing but straw roofs floating in water from the flooded Juba River. "If the water level rises another six feet, I don't see what can save them,'' said the official, Josue Anselmo. More than a month of heavy rainfall has destroyed at least 15,500 houses and complete­ly submerged 43 villages in southern Somalia. according to Wendy Driscoll. a spokeswoman for CARE International. At least 10,000 cattle have drowned. The estimated 18,000 villagers in the area have also been hit with a severe out­break of malaria because mosquitoes, which carry the disease, were breeding rapidly in the !lood waters, AnsHlmo said. 
Canada avoids postal strike 
OTTAWA 

The Canadian Union of Postal Workers with­drew a strike deadline that could have shut down nationwide mail services Thursday and went back to the bargaining table with the fed­eral postal agency. "Based on our decision to break the impasse, we have decided to with­draw the strike deadline," said union president Darrell Tingley said Wednesday. "Whether or not there will b!l a postal strike will depend on Canada Post's response to our proposal." He gave no details of the proposal. Canada Post said it would examine the offer and make a counter-proposal. Canada Post wants to find ways to save 200 million Canadian dollars ($140 million U.S.) over five years in labor cost reductions. It wants to expand delivery routes and make workers cat lunch on their routes instead of returning to their sorting stations 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• PAKISTAN 


Clinton calls attack 'barbarism' 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 

KARACHI 
The shooting of four Americans caught in a traf­fic jam was a "target killing" that police strongly suspect was retaliation for the con­viction of a Pakistani who killed two CIA employees. 
In Virginia, the jury still deciding whether to sen­tence the Pakistani to death was ordered sequestered to shield them from news reports of Wednesday's killings in Karachi. 
Earlier this week, after convicting Mir Aimal Kasi for the 1993 shootings out­side CIA headquarters in Langley, Va., jurors sent the judge a note expressing fear for their safety, a defense attorney said. 
The killings of the four Americans -all employees of the Houston-based Union Texas Petroleum -hap­pened as the black car in which they were riding to work was inching along a bridge in Karachi jammed with school buses. 
A red car pulled up behind it and two gunmen in khaki jackets and traditional baggy Pakistani garments leapt out of their vehicle. They strode over to the black car and emptied the clips of their Kalashnikov rifles inside. 
After checking to see if all four Americans and their Pakistani driver were dead, the gunmen fled. The gun­men later abandoned their vehicle near Karachi's cen­tral post office and disap­peared. 
There was no claim of responsibility for the attack, but police had strong suspi­cions about the motive. 
"It is premature to say why they were killed, but there is a strong possibility that it was linked to Kasi's conviction and sentencing," Karachi police chief Malik 
• VIETNAM 


Iqbal said Wednesday. "We know it was a target killing. It wasn't random firing." 
Iqbal said police had put together a description of the attackers and had begun a manhunt. The Pakistani Cabinet met in an emer­gency ses­sion and named a was delivered to the U.S. ambassador in the Pakistani capital of Islamabad. 
The slain Americans, all auditors, were identified by Texas Petroleum as: Ephraim Egbu, senior audi­tor; Joel Enlow, manager of 
special 'WE KNOW IT WAS A investigative 
TARGET KILLING. IT 
panel. , , In Wash-WASN T RANDOM FIRING. ington, President 
KARACHI POLICE CHIEF 
Clinton's spokesman called the killing "an outrageous act of barbarism." White House press secretary Mike McCurry stressed, however, that there was no direct evi­dence of a connection with the CIA case. 
Pakistani President Farooq Leghari wrote Clinton to express his shock at what he called a "terror­ist'' attack on "four innocent 
U.S. nationals." The letter 
MALIK IQBAL 
audit pro­jects; Larry Jennings, audit man­ager; and T r a c y Ritchie, senior 
a u d i t 
supervisor.
The bod­ies of the 
men, all in their 40s, were to be flown home to Houston on Thursday. 
McCurry said the killings would not affect plans for Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to visit Pakistan. Clinton's trip is scheduled for early 1998; Albright is to arrive Sunday. 
Kasi, 33, was convicted Monday in a Fairfax, Va., court of first-degree murder for the Jan. 25, 1993, slay­ings of CIA employees Frank Darling and Lansing Bennett. The two were shot in their cars at a traffic light outside CIA headquarters. Three others were injured. 
The jury is now hearing testimony on whether he should get the death penal­ty. 
On Wednesday, Judge J. Howe Brown directed that the six men and six women on the jury be taken to an unidentified location overnight. The order result­ed from his concerns about increased press coverage after the attack in PakistaQ, said Jim Vickery, chief deputy sheriff for Fairfax County. He said no threats had been made against the jury. 
Early Wednesday, defense attorney Richard Goemann disclosed that members of the jury sent the judge a note on Monday expressing fear for their safety. The exact contents of the note were not disclosed. 

United Nations offers typhoon relief 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
HANOI 
A U.S. Air Force cargo plane filled with $460,000 worth of food, medicine and other aid for typhoon victims land­ed Wednesday in southern Vietnam ­the first major U.S. donation to Vietnam since the communists seized Saigon in 1975. 
"The Vietnamese government issued an appeal to the international communi­ty and this was an area where we could help," said Dennis Harter, U.S. Embassy deputy chief of mission. 
Tens of thousands of families remain homeless after Typhoon Linda slammed Vietnam's southernmost Ca Mau and Kien Giang provinces earlier this month. 
Linda killed at least 435 people, according to the Central Committee for Flood and Storm Control. Several thou­sand more people are missing. 
The storm caused more than $450 million in damage, flattening entire vil­lages. 
The United Nations, which is coordi­nating the relief effort, estimates Vietnam needs at least $12 million in immediate assistance. 
In all, the United States is donating more than $600,000 in aid to typhoon victims. 
France and South Korea have both offered about $100,000, while Switzerland donated $400,000 earlier this week. 
Also Wednesday, French President Jacques Chirac arrived in the Vietnamese capital, looking to extend France's influence over its former colony. 
U.S. Ambassador Pete Peterson met Wednesday with Vietnamese deputy for­eign minister Vu Khoan to deliver a check for $25,000, the U.S. Embassy said. 
On Tuesday, a chartered commercial flight from Guam delivered about $65,000 worth of medicine and other supplies, Harter said. Additionally, the 
U.S. government is supplying about $85,000 worth of meteorological equip­ment to help Vietnam improve its ability to detect the size and pattern of storms. 
One reason for Typhoon Linda's impact on southern Vietnam was that the region was caught unprepared for its size and speed. 
"This is such a big national tragedy," said Kim Cuong, a popular Vietnamese actress helping to raise relief funds. "It means so much to have the kindness of the Americans. I'm so happy to hear that they are saving a place for us in their hearts." 
The arrival of the U.S. C-141 in Ho Chi Minh City marked the first major U.S. donation to Vietnam since 1975, when communists overran the city, then known as Saigon. 
~---------~------~------­
-

page 6 The o~1server • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 13, 1997 
~----::....::..::..: 




Be ateacher and experience: J 
• 
Master-level Teacher Preparation

• 
Collliilnnity Life 

•
Spiritual Development 






Informational meetin[: 


Thursday, November 13th, 7:00 pm Me in the Hesbur[h Library Auditorium. 
Any Uuestions? Call the ACE Office at 631-7052. 


APPROvttl fOil P05nNG PUll DATl 

NOV 1~ m7 



Thursday, November 13, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• BUSINESS BEAT 
Prof condemns Microsoft 
inpoints _,_·.ntin.e elections 
May of this year. "This is a substantially bad context for an ~h~ction year," said Perez ·Unan; 
Metie!ll's former minister of economy, Domingo Cavallo, formed the original plan of economic reform to combat these problems. However, wh~!l,Cavallo r¢$igned in AugJl:st 1996, hisabsence did not detrimentally affect the economy and actually seemed to improve it. · Th · · ve the~rgentine 
ipeot~l$ "l>.Jto that the econo­depend on anyone ..H,,,t...... because it was 
auLonJattc pilot}' accord­. "It had gotten not t ote for 
are grqwing more concerned about on in the govern­aid Perez Lifian. utH1t~u scandals and cor­
··· have ·· · s administration. Most recently, the public expressed its horror concern­ing the assassination of a photographer who >exposed govemnnmt scandal. "Corruption is a high price to pay for an economic sys­tem that they will neverthe­lesshav~." Leiras stated. The lance victory comes at .... portun.e time as it ·prepares for the presidential elections in 1999. However, qu,estion still remains for the new coalition !tlle i,OA);'gentina?" 
By MALIN STEARNS 
News Writer 
Microsoft is guilty of "monopoly leveraging," according to Joseph Bauer, professor of law at Notre Dame. The computer giant has found itself under heavy fire for requiring computer makers buying Windows 95 to also license and distribute its Internet browser. 
"[Monopoly leveraging] is when a company uses its monopoly in one market to extend its monopoly to anoth­er market," said Bauer, a spe­cialist in antitrust law. 
A storm is brewing in Washington following Justice Department allegations that Microsoft violated a 1995 antitrust agreement. On Oct. 20, the department formally accused Microsoft of using its powerful Windows 95 monop­
oly to dominate the Internet browser market. 
In the first federal court hearing on the Justice Department's accusations, the government provided docu­ments revealing that Microsoft had threatened Compaq Computers, the world's largest maker of personal computers, with withdrawal of Windows 95 if the comp.ny refused to include the Internet Explorer. 
Microsoft defended its actions, saying at the hearing that the Internet Explorer software is part of its Windows system. 
"The technology is very complex," Bauer said. "It's hard to say whether they're breaking any laws." 
However, Bauer does feel the government is justified in taking action against Microsoft. 
Happy zpr Birthday, Kathy Peak! 

Love, Your friends from Welsh Family Hall 
"What is illegal is an attempt to monopolize, and monopoly leveraging is one way of doing this," said Bauer. "But it's up to the courts to decide whether they're violat­ing the consent decree." 
The consent agreement was formed in 1995 between the government, Microsoft and the courts. The decree barred Microsoft from imposing anti­competitive licensing terms on personal computer makers. 
The Justice Department is asking a federal court to hold Microsoft in contempt and fine it $1 million a day if the com­pany continues to violate the antitrust agreement. 
In documents released by the ..Justice Department, Compaq revealed that Netscape Communications Corp. was its original browser partner, but Microsoft's threats persuaded Compaq to reinstate Microsoft browsers on all machines. 
According to Bauer, Microsoft's action could be extremely damaging for rival browser companies like Netscape. "If the action is not challenged, other browsers won't be able to compete," said Bauer. "Microsoft is like a 900-pound gorilla because they have what everyone wants." 
He added that it will be up to federal court to decide whether Microsoft is in viola­tion of the consent decree. The Justice Department and Microsoft will have a second chance to state their cases in a Dec. 5 federal court hearing. 





Businesf:; Writing 
~etwor~~~~opol()gy 
Customer Relations SQL Office P GUIDe 
u.L..:;.L.L.Lentation 

fe take the future seriously. 
Meet DC Systems on November 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 

e 
DC SYSTEMS DC SYSTEMS SOFTWARE EDUCATION 
Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, November 13, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day ProduC£ion Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford SySlems Manager .......................Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ..... : ..................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflecr the policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Ediwr, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem [he views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lc:ners is encouraged. 
ObseJVer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accc:m/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediwr/Vic:wpoim  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observc:r@darwin.cc.nd.c:du  

• POSTCARDS fROM MEXICO 
MEXICO CITY the millions of cars that circle the roads 
Some high-tech city, hundreds of years and highways each week, on any given from now, residents will base their plans day, one-fifth of them are parked in for the day on the level of pollution in garages or on the street by a govern­the air; children will stay home from ment mandate that forces license plates school when the threat of developing ending in certain numbers to stay out of bronchitis is too high; and face masks circulation. My favorite days, when the 

air is particularly thick and has that cer­tain consistency of Yo-Cream, are "Doble no circula," or Double No Circulation. All vehicles ending in one, two, five and six were off the road just a
Bernadette 

few days ago because the air contamina­tion level was too high.

Pampuch 

The statistics are stunning: The World Health Organization says that smog and ozone levels are more than twice as high as what the human body can support, and that residents breathe, on average, 
will be a regular sight on the streets. unsafe levels of ozone live hours a day Problem is, Mexico City is like this all year long. today. An ozone level of 100 is considered 
Part of the difficulty of living in a city safe in Mexico City, and levels over 200 of nearly 22 million is the pollution that are dangerous to human health. Last 22 million people produce. Granted, not year, during a Phase I air quality crisis all of the smog can be attributed to the (ozone level of more than 250 points), people living here; Mexico City is situat­some 400,000 people came down with ed in what equates to a giant bowl, nes­pollution-related health problems. To tled in the Valley of Mexico, and sur­combat the problem, the Mexican gov­rounded by mountains. Reports of low ernment pulled 1.4 million private vehi­air quality date back to pre-Columbian cles off the streets, closed gas stations times when even the Aztecs noticed the and halted construction. clouds hanging low over their revered Critics of Mexico City's environmental city of Teotihuacan. solutions say that the city has a long 
With Mexico City sitting 7,400 feet way to go. Poor public transportation is above sea level, pollution levels are at one of the problems. Overcrowded sub­their highest between November and ways and inefficient buses that come March when thermal inversion keeps and go as they please contribute to an dirty air trapped within the mountains environment that encourages finding and most Mexicans trapped indoors. On ways around the system. Mexicans able days when the pollution levels are at to afford a second car simply bought their highest, it is impossible to see any another one when the No Circulation of the mountains that line the city, and program went into effect. almost everything disappears into a gray But things aren't really so bad here. haze. Descending from a plane, most of Chicago, New York or Miami would suf­the horizon is bathed in a brown smog. fer from the same problems as Mexico 
There are some things about living in City if they were surrounded by moun­Mexico City that seem like a page in a tains and trapped beneath the air they science-fiction novel: the occasional face emitted daily. I have never had a prob­mask, pollution levels reported on the lem breathing, which I attribute to living radio and T.V. everyday, brown skies in next to an ethanol factory for four years, the morning, and no stars at night. Of and the daily smog comes and goes 
• DOONESBURY 
YOU KNOW, ftfARL-, P/Hffl 
/f/81</t:.R& GROMN6 UP, YOU N~AWAYS1Ht3 f'l?e77Y011&, I?AI?I?YS U77t.e .FAVa<J713,.. 
I 


depending on the weather. The rainy season, now ending, cleans the streets and clears the air sufficiently with a brief rainfall everyday, and government programs to clean the environment actually seem to be working. 
Mexicans have created some incredi­bly ingenious programs to deal with pol­lution. At the Ibero University, students parking a car on school property alone (not carpooling) are charged the highest parking rate possible while anyone with more than two people in the car enters for free. Public parks everywhere have separate trash containers for organic and inorganic waste, a practice unheard of just a few years ago. Since the early 1990s, cars have been required to have catalytic converters to be able to use unleaded gas unless the owners want to pay higher fees. Every glass bottle in the city is recycled and used again and again. There are more carpoolers, more public buses, and more subway users today than there ev~or have been before. 
While Mexico City has the distinction of being the most polluted city in the northern hemisphere, it also has a great opportunity for change. Pollution levels today are the same as (surprise!) Los Angeles in the early 1970s. If Mexico continues in the same pattern as other cities like Los Angeles that have under­gone sweeping environmental changes, the air 20 years from now will not be that much different than other U.S. cities, including Chicago and South Bend. 
But hopefully, without the ethanol. 
Bernadette Pampuch, SMC '97. is a graduate literature student in Mexico City this year with a scholarship from Rotary International. She can be reached by e-mail at bpampuch@hot­mail.com. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer . 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I COVF&77 I ONC!3ffAP 
H:JRR/1? fi£UN6§ 7t:WAR/? 
YOU. I tuA550~JCAL..­a.G, t3V!W .4PTl3R. YOU ta=THOM&l 
I 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Follow your bliss." -James Campbell 


VIEWPOINT

Thursday, November 13, 1997 page 9 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Woodward Embraced by Brits and Local Media 
LONDON 
Louise Woodward a hero? 
At least that's the impression you would get upon watching the ecstatic reaction of the residents of Louise Woodward's home town of Elton, England. BBC News reports were resplendent with shots of a cheering and clapping crowd which cried tears of joy when they collectively learned that Judge Hiller Zoebel had reduced Woodward's murder conviction of 8­month-old Matt Eappen to involuntary manslaughter and summarily freed her from prison. "100 percent innocent!" blares from huge yellow banners at local Woodward rally headquarters. A few days earlier Woodward had been convicted of murder by her presiding jury after her defense team had chosen a "Noose-or-Loose" strategy whereby the jury was not allowed the option of returning a lesser manslaughter con­
vietion. 
Thus far English media has been deliriously one-sided in its support of their newest and favorite little involun­tary manslaughterer. English radio reports that she is already being offered £250,000 for her story from local magazines. By the immense out­pouring of support Woodward has been getting, you'd think she wasn't even a convicted killer at all. 
I wish Judge Zoebel could have had the power to just dismiss the case when Woodward's defense team announced its strategy (doubtless with the idea that no jury would convict such a cherubic face). Zoebel could have sim­ply said. "Well folks, if you find her innocent now. she walks. If you find her guilty of the only charge you are allowed, murder, she'll still walk because I've already decided to reduce the charge and set her free anyway. Let's just go home and start the appeals." 

With the disturbing precedence that this trial sets, I wonder if any shaken baby death culprit will ever plea bar­gain out the case again. They'll just use "Noose-or-Loose" and wait for the judge to overturn any guilty jury ver­dict with his own arbitrary conviction and sentencing. I'm now baffled as to why Massachusetts even bothered to have a jury at all. Fat lot of good they did. If the judge indeed has the power to change jury verdicts that he or she feels are "miscarriages of justice," why didn't Judge Lance Ito overturn the acquittal verdict of O.J. Simpson? I wouldn't be surprised if judges can only downgrade the severity of convic­tions. That would be in keeping with an American judicial system that cares far more about the rights of the accused than the victim. 
This controversial trial certainly has more ominous links to the O.J. Simpson case than the now familiar jubilant cel­ebrations of defense supporters. Barry Scheck, doubtlessly attracted to this high-profile trial like a fly to honey, served on both defense teams. More importantly, however, both were tele­vised. Putting the trials on TV ensured that the decision of guilt or innocence would be predicated by a popularity contest between the killer, who only has to sit there and look cute and harmless, and the killed, who are unfortunately not around to look cute and harmless. I wonder if O.J. would have been acquitted in his civil trial if it were televised. What with Woodward being dishonest enough to use a fake 10 to get into Boston taverns, as is admit­ted in her testimony, why couldn't she have saved everyone some emotional pain and claimed she dropped the baby on accident. "Ooops! Butterfingers!" she could claim to have uttered. 
I'd really like to ask Woodward the type of question no one bothered to ask Simpson, "If you didn't smash the skull of Matt Eappen, who did? His 3-year­old brother, the only other person pre­sent? The 'one-armed man'?" At least I see no reports so far that the defense had the gall to go there. I can see it now: "Your honor, we believe that Matt's 3-year-old brother climbed into the crib, picked him up, and big time, wrestled him into the turnbuckle." 
Remember now the legal standard is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, not guilty beyond any doubts at all. Woodward continues to maintain absolutely no knowledge of the fate of Matt Eappen, and, I wonder, if the prosecution appeal fails, might she scour the golf courses of North America in search of the "real killers?" 
Bronson Neal 2nd Year MBA, London Program November II, 1997 

Public School Systems Affect ti.~ 
While skimming through The Observer on We~~~day in hopes of finding an interesting and purposeful article, I gold with J.P. Cooney's article, "Take a Stand on theEducation of Our Youth." I applaud Cooney in his effort to make people aware of the importance of.education inthe.United States, and its implications on our society. · ···· 
Although I found this article thought-provoking, I'm afraid too many other people simply skipped the article because of the per­ception it has nothing to do witb their lives. We are no longefa part of the public school system, or perhaps never have been; so why should this be our concern? The education system should be our concern because of its affects on the social rmers of the nation. 
As the education system continues to deteriorate, prohlems>pf murder. rape, teenage pregnancy, and drugs rapidly increase(} am not saying that our diseased education system is the only .. reason for these social ills. Family values and the environment .·. that children are raised in also fuel the fire of the~e social pr~p­lems. But placing the blame on the family makes it too easy fot us to be able to turn our backs on the problem. · 
How can we make a family change the way they raise their children? Trying to change each individual family is not proba:. ble and is the'reason why vv~ 1flUstl · topur.§pp~ols as a ~t ing point to making a positive chl:ui . oney'Sideanfht:in high school students to tutor at after school programs as part ~f their academic curriculum is an excellent start. I think from · there we need to go even further by encouraging more pursue teaching as a career; AlthoughUieACE ·· · · many students, I find it sad that Notre Dame education program. What is this telling us? 
All right, if you are still reading this letter then you are bly wondering what point I'mtrying t? ff~t at. ~Jyl'!t want to be more aware that the deplorable conditions of ·.. · school system, whether we think so or not. affect all Of would also encourage you, ifyou've ever entertailled pursue a career in teaching. Or, ifone of your fri¢n~s the desire to be ateacher, ~~Hio.urage~~~~tofollowthis Teaching may not be the mOst glamorous and profitable careers, but it is one of the must important. If nothing else, •.... please remember that apathy is NOT a tolerable stand on the4i' issues pertaining to the education system that pl a vital· · in shaping our future -the..c!tildre 


Is Noto Progressive CEO? 
DO 
( 

Is Lucio A. Noto, chairman and CEO of Mobil Oil Corporation, an example of a leader that can successfully take a Fortune 500 company into the 21st century? From my vantage point in COBA's Jordan Auditorium on Thursday, the question continuously pervaded my mind. Maybe the thought that "women don't know where the kitchen is anymore" is an acceptable stereotype in Saudi Arabia (where Noto spent the most recent time in his 21 expatriate years). But the 1997 U.S. boardroom (or university lec­ture hall for that matter) is not the place to per­petuate sentiments of gender inferiority. 
Noto went on to reveal his biases by explain­ing that consumers no longer want to experi­ence human interaction at the gas pump because they "actually want to have a conversa­tion in English." I appreciate the Eugene B. Clark Executive Lecture Series bringing this cal­iber of leadership in the business world to Notre Dame, meanwhile Mobil Oil may want to initiate some sensitivity training in its corporate ranks. 
A final sentiment that surfaced in Noto's pre­sentation was his disregard for solutions to manage the resources of this planet in a sus­tainable way. He obviously disagrees that firms that make profits from non-renewable resources have a responsibility to seek solutions to the problems created by such company's methods. He went on to discount the current problems faced by this country's reliance on the automobile. His rationalizations of the ecologi­cal problems in the Los Angeles area were interesting. This leaves little doubt as to where he directs Mobil's lobbying dollars regarding issues of public transportation, the use of petro­leum biproducts to fuel automobile engines, or alternative fuel research in general. 
I'm sure this display won't discourage the Clark Executive Lecture Series from bringing speakers to campus. I wonder whether future speakers will reflect the management qualities that Notre Dame is teaching its students. 
This ends an interesting week in Jordan Auditorium. One marked by technical failures, students in baseball caps at "Wall Street Day," and business leaders with ideals contrary to progressive business education. 
Eric Moore MBA '99 November 10, 1997 



Thursday, November 13, 1997 
by anthony limjuco 


ida at the lounge ax 

found on the phenomenal '96 album I Know About You. The song was indeed a treasure, as the audience recognized Dan Littleton and Liz Mitchell's improvi­sation, which included lyrics from Neneh Cherry's "Buffalo Stance" to close out the rendition: "No moneyman can win my love/It's sweetness that I'm thinking of." Later, Littleton amused the wall-to­wall indie-rock fans by admitting that he was still reeling from his "bonafide gui­tar solo." 
Then there was "Maybelle," a single available only on the split 7" with fellow NYC residents, Beekeeper. Here Mitchell and new bass player Karla Schickele exchanged lilting vocals, with Littleton joining in to culminate in a gorgeous three part harmony. 
Though Ida drew sparingly from their new album, they won the crowd over with their choices. The attendees thor­oughly enjoyed the rollicking cover of Neil Young's "Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere," buoyed by Mitchell's and Schickele's effervescent "Ia-la's." The founding members of the group also got a chance to showcase their individual talent in the form of a couple of solos: Littleton's acoustic, melancholic "Do You and "bump and grind." Littleton's guitar contributed to the antics with "wah­wah's" reminiscent of 70's slow-jam funk. 
Poignant at times, carefree at others, but always engaging, this winsome quar­tet left those at the Lounge Ax with an unforgettable evening of sincere, heart­felt music. 
emerson, lake & palmer 

t'c~ 1/2


Emerson, Lake, & Palmer 
(out of five stars) 

T
he King Biscuit Flower Hour, a legendary live rock-and-roll radio program, has released some of its recordings of the big-name groups that have appeared on the program. The latest release in the series features a live performance of the British super-group Emerson, Lake and Palmer. The session, recorded in 1977 at the Coliseum in Wheeling, W. Va.. begins with a funked-up version of the Peter Gunn Theme that shows the great skill of keyboardist Keith Emerson. It is an appriopriate beginning to the CD because it focuses on the funk/new-age sound that made the band popular. 
The release has two discs. The first contains 10 tracks recorded from the West Virginia show and four tracks from a show in Tulsa, Okla. The second CD features one track from the Oklahoma show along with a fully interactive track accessible to both Macs and PCs. The highlights of the actual performance on this disc exist mostly on the songs that Emerson puts his keyboard into a harmonica-type voice and goes for a bluesy groove along the solid rythym set down by bassist Greg Lake and drummer Carl Palmer (who was chosen to join the band over former Cream drummer Ginger Baker). Perhaps the best example of the bluesy, acoustic groove that gives this band some of their best material is the four-minute version of "Watching Over You" in which the vocals, guitar and keyboards blend to create a soothing melody worthy of any coffehouse show. 
The performance of their hit "Lucky Man" has the same effect and the same instrumentation. There are many weak points to this album: the annoying, over­long version of "Pirates" midway through the album, the too ethereal vocal track on "C'est La Vie" and the funky, sometimes unrecognizable play on Aaron Copeland's "Fanfare for the Common Man." 
Overall, the album, since it is a recording of live performances, has a good structure and each song plays off of the energy of the previous one. The two piano improvisations prove why Emerson's name should be in the top billing of this group, even though it was really only done alphabetically. The strength of this album also comes in the fact that it is a release of a radio program that was orginally aired in the mid-1970s. There is not much chance of ever being able to hear this performance again. 
For the songs that are worth listening to, and for the sheer collector's nature of the project, this is defi­nitely worth checking out. With the depth of the King Biscuit vaults (including performances by such super­huge groups as the Rolling Stones) it will be exciting to see what kind of discs come through this record company in the future. 
by Matthew Loughran 

the seahorses 

~rnfflw 
doit 1&1 
vourself 

Courtesy of Geffen Records 
~


Do It Yourself 
(out of five stars) 

B
uild-up to an album release is great, but only when a band can live up to it. Hecent issues of Q and Select are rife with accolades for The Seahorses' debut LP, Do It Yourself. This overindulgent level of praise was to be expected how­ever, when one considers that The Seahorses are the brainchild of ex-Stone Roses guitarist John Squire. But much the same way the legacy of The Stone Roses is overhyped, so is this record. 
Admittedly, this record is not nearly as bad an investment as Blur's Parklife, but it still falls far short of promise. There are some bright spots here. Tracks like "Suicide Drivo" and "Standing On Your Head" throw a faint nod in the direction of The Small Faces, but "Love is the Law" and "Love Me and Leave Me" are just plain silly. Let's face it-the only rea­son this band is getting any airplay is because of The Stone Roses connection. 
For reasons beyond my comprehension, The Stone Hoses still occupy a mythical standing in the national British psyche. Maybe it was more when they came about (1989-90), than the music itself. At the time, U2 was in self-imposed Berlin exile, and Manchester was engulfed in the age of "baggy." The cities' con­cert stages were inundated with dance-oriented rock acts like The Happy Mondays and 808 State. Furthermore, the country was musically divided along North/South lines, and good guitar bands like Lush and Ride were more likely to play America than venture up past Oxford. Thus, The Stone Roses filled a cult of personality vacuum, much like The Sex Pistols did in 1976. 
A recent Seahorses video shows the band's mem­bers lloating around helplessly in a futuristic space station. This is appropriate, given that the Mars Pathfinder recently lost radio contact with Earth ­John Squire seems to have done the same. Hang around the Roskilde festival in Denmark long enough this summer, and you might sound enlightened if you casually mention you have this record. Too bad Do It' Yourself sounds like something we've all heard before, but something that will be hard to recall in a few months time. 
by Sean King 

uestio 


The Stone Hoses were supposed to make their return to the live stage at the 1995 Glastonbury Festival. They canceled at the last minute. Why? Be very specific. 
E-mail your answer to: King.64@nd.edu.. The name of the first correct respondent will be published in two weeks. 
Thursday, November 13, 1997 

G. Love &Special Sauce Squirrel Nut Zippers Motley Crue Blues Traveler Sister Hazel Fiona Apple Puff Daddy &The Family Green Day Poster Children/Wolfie Barenaked Ladies Atari Teenage Riot The Why Store Moby/Juno Reaction The Rolling Stones Jesus Lizard Ph ish Portishead The Wallflowers Catherine Wheel Goldfinger/Our Lady Peace 
1. 
Pixies-Dea To Pixies 

2. 
Sweep The Leg Johnny-4, 9, 21, 30 

3. 
Bjork-Homogenic . Portishead-Portishead 


5. 
Polvo-Shapes 

6. 
The Sundays-Static & Silence 


~~~~ 

g. love & special sauce Yeah, It,s That Easy (out of five stars) 


A
fter spending the last two weeks dealing with that remains catchy and entertaining from start to an "adolescent fear of electronic music," finish. From the soon-to-be-classic G. Love anthem yours truly, the DJ Spak, is back to review G. "Recipe" to the slow, deep blues of "Pull the Wool," Love and Special Sauce's third album, Yeah, this album is so dope that a quarter of its contents It's That Easy. Campus rhythm genius Stuart Smith has been selling for $45 on the corner of Angela and had me on a steady diet of nitrous oxide and Mo' Wax Notre Dame Ave. G. Love and Special Sauce's debut albums, but just as the medicine seemed to be taking album may have been hip, but Yeah, It's That Easy is effect an anonymous stranger slipped me a few doses coming out of the socket. As Shane "Sweet Sugar Pie" of G. Love's latest blues/hip-hop/soul effort. I was Steffens says, 'This record is funkier than my daddy immediately hooked on the raw, live soul of G. Love in a pigpen!" Indeed. and his various backing bands, enabling me to ignore Finally, for anyone and everyone who enjoys this the confrontational therapy instituted by Mr. Smith. album or anything else by G. Love, make sure to catch 
For those who don't know, G. Love is a rapper and his live show on Nov. 15 at The Vic in Chicago. If blues guitarist from Philadelphia who sounds like he you've never seen a 6-foot-5 Elvis lookalike strutting flunked his third grade phonics course. Despite his across the stage while freestyling about babes and vocal shortcomings, however, G. Love has been able booze, then you don't know a damn thing. Like to create one of the most unique sounds of the 90s by Twisted Sister's heads and your mama on my door, G. combining an endless flow of lyrics with smooth, Love and Special Sauce's latest new album, Yeah, It's head-nodding rythyms. Although his lyrics give the That Easy, is totally banging. band a distinctive sound, the emphasis of G. Love and Special Sauce has always been on the flow and the sound of the music by DJ Spak 
By adding more instruments and musicians, G. Love and company have created a more complete sound 

Courtesy of Epic Records 
.., 
Nov. 15 The Vic (Chicago) Nov. 16 Clutch Cargos (Pontiac, Mich.) Nov. 19 Market Square Arena (lndianpolis) Nov. 20/21 Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Nov. 20 Blind Pig (Ann Arbor) Nov. 21 State Theatre (Detroit) Nov. 22 Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont) Nov. 23 Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Nov. 26 Double Door (Chicago) Nov. 29 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Nov. 28 Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac, Mich.) Nov. 28 Piere's (Fort Wayne) Dec. 1 House of Blues (Chicago) Dec. 2 Pontiac Silverdome (Pontiac, Mich.) Dec. 5 Patio Lounge (Indianapolis) 
....... 

Dec.6 Palace of Auburn Hills (Auburn Hills) Dec.9 State Theatre (Detroit) Dec. 12 Hill Auditorium (Ann Arbor) Dec. 16 Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac, Mich.) Dec. 16 Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) 
1. 
The Refreshments-Fresh 

2. 
Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot 

3. 
Soundtrack-I Know What You Did Last Summer Bob Dylan-Time Out Of Mind 


-
5. 
Everclear-So Much For The Afterglow 

6. 
The Verve-Urban Hymns 


7. Various-The Duran Duran Tribute Album  7. Moby-I Like To Score  
8. Mike Watt-Contemplating The Engine Room  8. The Pixies-Death To The Pixies  
9. Chisel-Set You Free  9. Arkarna-Fresh Meat  
10. The Verve-Urban Hymns  10. Chumbawamba-Tubthumbing  


•NBA 

Hawks pace NBA with 8-0 record 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Dikembe Mutombo scored 25 points, Steve Smith had 21 and the Atlanta Hawks improved to 8-0 for the best start in fran­chise history as they beat the Indiana Pacers 89-86 Wednesday night. 
Mookie Blaylock added 18 points, including a basket and a free throw in the last 10 sec­onds. Smith had a basket and three free throws in the last two minutes. 
Travis Best had an open 3­point attempt from the left side with 0.8 seconds left, but it rimmed out. He was taking the final shot because Reggie Miller, who scored 30 points, fouled out with 1:21 to play. It was just his second disqualification in the past three seasons. 
Rik Smits added 21 points for the Pacers. 
Atlanta surpassed the 7-0 start by the franchise in 196 7­68, its last season in St. Louis. The Hawks, the last unbeaten team in the Eastern Conference, have yet to allow 100 points in a game. 
Indiana erased Atlanta's nine­point halftime lead by the end of the third quarter as Smits put back a miss by Jalen Rose to tie the game at 65-65 just before the end of the period. 
The Hawks built their first­half lead by shooting 54 percent from the field to Indiana's 31. Mutombo led the way with a 10­for-14 shooting, 21-point first half. 
The Hawks, who had a 27-15 rebounding advantage in the first half, also benefited from eight offensive boards -five by Mutombo. 
New York 90, Toronto 73 
Larry Johnson scored 27 points, more than twice his sea­son average, and the New York Knicks coasted to a 90-7 3 victo­ry over the Toronto Raptors on Wednesday night. 
.Johnson, who apologized to his teammates for his poor shooting in a loss at Sacramento last Sunday, scored 16 points in the first half on 8-of-11 shooting as the Knicks, who were up by as many as 20 points in the sec­ond quarter, opened a 50-35 lead at the break. 
Johnson entored the game averaging 10.6 points. 
Patrick Ewing had 17 points and eight rebounds and Chris Dudley had 11 points and a game-high 11 rebounds for the Knicks, who led for the entire game except for a brief spurt in the first quarter when the Raptors reeled off eight straight points. 
Allan Houston added 12 points and John Starks 11 off the bench as the Knicks improved their career record against Toronto to 8-0. 
Former Knick John Wallace was one of the few bright spots for Toronto, coming off the bench to score 13 points as the struggling Raptors, who shot a season-low 33.3 percent from the field, lost their fourth in a row and third straight at home. 
Damon Stoudamire was held to 10 points and Doug Christie, who was coming off a 26-point effort in a loss to San Antonio, scored nine points on 3-of-13 shooting. 
Boston 96, Denver 86 

Antoine Walker had 19 points and 12 rebounds and the Boston Celtics won Wednesday night for the first time since opening night with a 96-86 comeback victory over the win­less Denver Nuggets. 
Ron Mercer added 16 points, including eight in the fourth quarter. and Travis Knight had 17 -two shy of his career­high. 
Denver dropped to 0-6 under rookie coach Bill Hanzlik. 
Boston took its first lead of the game when Walker followed up a miss by Bruce Bowen with 20 seconds left in the third quarter for a 72-70 lead. Boston extend­ed its lead to 81-72 on a foul line jumper by Mercer with 8:35 remaining. The Celtics put the game out of reach on Chauncey Billups' jumper with 1:08 left for an 89-84 lead. 
The game marked the return of LaPhonso Ellis, who last played in April before rupturing his right Achilles tendon. Ellis finished with nine points. 
Knight scored 11 points in a four-minute stretch of the third quarter. His 3-pointer with 2:55 left in the period trimmed what was once a 13-point Nuggets lead to four. 
Jacques Demers wants his edly worth about $900,000. players to get mad and start In 11 full NHL seasons, winning. Demers has a 375-372-112 
'"The fans have been cheat-record with Quebec, St. Louis, ed h¢r(!l by the players,. and Detroit and Montreal while that's the end of that." he said. guiding teams to the playoffs 
Demers, a two-time NHL eight times. coach of the year, was hired "He is a strong motivational Wednesday to coach the coach, and everywhere he has Tampa Bay Lightning, who gone he has been able to bring are winless in their last 13 out the best in players," games. Lightning general manager 
lie''replaces Rick Paterson, Phil Esposito said. "I believe who had been interim coach that's exactly the type of since Terry Crisp was fired coach that is needed in our Oct. 26. organization." 
The Lightning were 0-6"'"'" "As far as I know, they under Paterson and returned haven't won in a long time .... from a four-game, West Coast They may have a reason (for ro.ad trip Wednesday with a not giving 100 percent), but league-worst 2·12·2 record the reason's going to be short-with six points. lived," the coach said. 
Demers, a Stanley Cup win-"We're in the entertainment ner with the Montreal business. Right now we're not Canadiens in 19931 will be singing very welL But we're .behind the bench for Friday going to start singing better." night's home game against the While the new coach New York Islanders. He promised changes on the ice, doesn't plan to remain in last he didn't bring in new assis· place for long. tants. Paterson returns to the 
"How many games we're role he held under Crisp, going to win, I don't know," he along with assistant Chris said. 'Tm not going to brag on Reichart. the past. But the cheating "I'm totally focused on help-stops today." ing Jacques win," Paterson 
Crisp, who led Tampa Bay to said. ''I'm going to go home, its only playoff appearance in recharge my batteries and 1995, was fired with another help the new coach win." 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
····· Losr····  HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98.  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  NEED  a coffee cup is a do-nut. wow.  
NOTICES  Help!! Large Gold "Ciaudaugh" Earring  4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL.  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or  1 conv stu tix or GA forWV  topology is squishy things and play· doe  
lost at "Finnigan's" on Friday, Nov.  FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE.  (318)747·8820.  call Christian x3290  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  7th.  2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS SECU­ please help me!!!  
LaFortune Student Center  If found please call Casey @  RITY SYSTEM.  NO VS.W. VA TIX  2 WVA stud tix, $12/tic. U need 10!  I need a ride to OMAHA. NEBRAS·  
Store Hours  634-1346. Please! I It is very spe­ 289·4712  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  Call44465  KA for thanksgiving.  
Mon.·Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  cial!  MESSAGE  will pay for everything  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  LOST • ROLL OF FILM AT NO­ ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  ######## For Sale ########  PERSONAL  call jon at 4·0605 PLEASE!!!!!!  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  USC GAME. LOST SOMEWHERE  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  2 West Virginia student tickets  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  BETWEEN STADIUM & SHUTTLE  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  (cheap!!)  000 Looking for a unique gift?  NEED A JOB?  
Phone 631-COPY  BUSES. PLEASE CALL 513·922­ MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  call Jenny @ 687-8435  Bring in your favorite pictures  Student Activities is accepting  
8756.  243·0658.  ########################  and we'll create a personalized  applications for:  
Spring Break '98  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  Gorch Games Room  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida. Group Discounts & Free  WANTED  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  4 WV GA's for sale call Erin 4-2453  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Building Set Up Crew Information Desk  
- Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free!  Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90,  2 West Virginia GA's for sale call Jen@ 687·8435 <-­ I am going home now. bye bye  Building Manager Apply at 315 LaFortune.  
1-800·234· 7007  earning potential!!  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  
www.endlesssummertours.com  616-461·6772.  Toll Road, Exit #107,  BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in  NO Inquisition  
1-800-418-9487.  NOTRE DAME  concert to Stepan Nov. 18!! Check  http://rosenberg-3a.studentnd.edu  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  FOOTBALL TICKETS  out this night of incredible music  Who's your daddy  
Will TYPE thesis,term papers,  please call219-271-0633  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL272·  BUY · SELL · TRADE  just for the sound of it! Tix at  
resumes,etc. IBM & MAC-Word,  6551  LaFunk info desk $9 for NO, SMC.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
WP,Excei,Pgmkr,Ciaris,Photo  1997-98 NATIONAL PARK  232-0058  HCC students, $12 for public.  LaFortune Student Center  
Shop.Gall LINDA 1-9468.  EMPLOYMENT-Work in America's National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  FOR SALE  CONFIDENTIAL  ADOPTION Happily married couple  .J High-Speed Copies .J Canon Color Laser Copies  
Preserves. Companies hire entry  TICKET-MART, INC.  with lots of love to share with new­ .J Digital Color Printing  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own  level/skilled/volunteer workers.  Honda Accord Hatchback  born. Can help with doctor bills.  .J Binding & Laminating  
Business?  Summer/Year-round. Competitive  1987. 93K miles.  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI·  Please, call 1·800·484-6399 X2706.  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
TASP lnternational seeks students  wages & bonuses! We can help you  v. good condition. 1 owner.  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Phone 631-COPY  
for next summer who want entre·  make the connection. (517)324­ $3,000  674-7645.  lneterested in a FREE ticket for Ben  
preneurial and management experi­ 3082 ext N55841  631·8672  Folds Five?? If you want to help  
ence. Positive attitude a must. Full  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  load-in in Stepan from 10·3 on  ···swiNG···  
training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1·  Music Merchandiser: WHR Inc., CD  PC -486DX2, 16 MEG RAM, 450  FOR SALE  Nov.18, call Ashleigh at 1·7757.  ... in a place you'd never imagine a  
800·543-3792.  supplier to The Hammes Notre  meg hard drive. 256 pipeline burst  DAYTIME#: 232·2378  dance. Students, staff & faculty are  
Dame Bookstore, is looking for a  cache. 4 simm slots. 15" super vga  EVENING#: 288-2726  observer production loves neil dia·  invited to the perfect date event  
Tutor Available for Grades K·8  merchandiser for 10-15  monitor. Excelent condition. Asking  LOW PRICES  mond  88.9 WSND's LIVE BIG BAND  
Exper'd Cert'd Teacher  hours/week. Must be available M,  $450. Call Anthony @ 4·1149.  DANCE. This Friday through Gate  
Close to NO campus  TH, F mornings. Pick up application  FOR SALE  I hate professional baseball  1 in the JACC from 7-11pm. Call1·  
243-4984  at Bookstore office.  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  7342 for info on this "South Bend  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air & Full Basement  N.D. G.A.'S 271·9412.  3 charming space cadets from Zahm in desparate NEEd of dates for fall formal. Call:  Classic". "' SWING•••  
- $44,900 1-800-382-2952  Baker Bob at 1117, Puff  
Found • Found· Found' Found  WALK TO CAMPUS  WANTED N D G A'S  Daddy, Way, or Fat Dawg at  You know that person you've been  
Piece of Jewelry in C1 Parking Lot  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  MAC· 12MB, CD·ROM, color moni·  TO ALL HOME GAMES  1144 late nights.  watching in the dining hall and want  
near Juniper Road. Please call  $195/PERSON  tor, printer, fax/modem, $750/0BO,  271 1526  to ask out ... WSND's Big Band  
Dana @ 271-0250 to describe and  232·2595  4-4322  zorn's axiom is cool, because that's  Dance is this Friday  
claim. Thank you.  my choice  (hint hint).  
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES.  TICKETS  We NEED 2 GA"s for WV  why do I call my algebra teacher in  Only four days left .  
Lost: Navy Polo Blazer at the  272-6551  lv. msg. (800)321·4110x10986  the middle of the night?  lock up your daughters and  
Pangborn Formal. Call Brad  4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale.  to take isomorphic dictation of  warn grandpa!'!  
at 4807 if you have it. Reward  nothing for sale here  Call 860·623-3682.  4 WV GA's: CALL 273·0428.  course!  

r 
I 

Thursday, November 13, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERT-"'I-=-S=E=M-'-E...:::.N_T___________________:_Pa....::.g'--e-I3 
Calendar of Events '"" 
El Coro Prirn!:lva••a Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, N 
Sunset Lodge, Mi 
Notre Dame Retreat #48 
Friday-Saturday, 
14-15 
Fatima Retreat 
RCIA Retreat . Sunday, Nove 9:00 am -6:30. Solitude 
Misa En Es Spanish M 
Sunday, Nove, 1:30pm Sta Chapel 
Twenty-Eighth Sunday in Ordinary Time :'c:::rk.\ /. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. James 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David Scheid 
Vespers Sunday, No,verno• 
7:15p.m. 
1st Reading 2nd Reading 
Gospel 
"There Are No Restricted Signs In Heaven" 
ChandraJ.Johnson 

My father, Bill Johnson, was a founding member of the Golden Gate Quartette, a gospel group which originated in the Norfolk, Virginia area in 1930. From an early age, my father made his living writing and singing songs about God and the stories in the Old Testament. As a little girl, I sang the songs as I heard them on records, making up words as I went along because in my world of imaginary friends and pretend tea parties, I didn't really know what the lyrics meant. For instance, my favorite song to sing was "There Are No Restricted Signs in Heaven." However, at age four I thought my father was singing "There Are No Simple Simons in Heaven." So up until about age eight, I knew that when I got to heaven, Simple Simon wouldn't be there. As I grew older and the world began to get more complicated, it didn't take long to real­ize that the words in this 1930's song had a timeless and universal message. And little did I know that 67 years later, I would need this song to help me get through the past few weeks. 
The song goes something like this. As people die and enter heaven: 
Verse:  "Old Saint Peter was the official greeter.  He was present  
to let them in.  
Some looked down because their skin was brown,  
But Ole Pete hollered with a great big grin, ''You're  
welcome, come on in."  
Chorus:  There are no restricted signs in Heaven,  
There's no selected clientele,  
There are no restricted signs up in heaven  
Brother, [sister], that goes double, hallelujah!"  
Verse:  Then low, there was the Lord, sitting on a simple throne.  
And he looked like Moses, and he looked like Buddha,  
And he looked like the Savior, so good and so kind.  
And he spoke to the young in their native tongue:  
''You are my guest!  If you keep in mind... "  
Chorus:  There are no restricted signs in Heaven,  
There's no selected clientelle,  

There are no restricted signs up in heaven, Brother, [Sister] that goes double, hallelujah!" 
I have reflected on this song throughout the past few weeks as our cam­pus once again faces the reality of an American societal tragedy. If you've read the newspaper or watched the television lately you've probably come to the con­clusion that we have a problem. People are in pain. People are angry. People are indifferent. People are helpless and don't know what to do. As a communi­ty, we're struggling to see God. So I force myself once again to sing the song: "There are no restricted signs in Heaven, there's no selected clientele ... " These words remind me that as a people of God and witnesses to the life and death of Jesus Christ, it does us well to relinquish the temptation of replacing the real words with childish limericks. As a community of faith, we are called as a com­munity to tear down the human barriers restricting God's divine love, a love that extends beyond the gates of Heaven. As a people of God, we are all respon­sible for the development of a collective, Christian consciousness directed inward toward Christ and outward to embrace the personhood of one another. 
Reflecting on the song further, it's interesting that the only words spo­ken by the Lord are those directed to the young. This might be due to the fact that when the song was written, my father and the other Gates were probably high school seniors or a few years older. They were the age of many Notre Dame students. The Gates, as young adults, were singing a message of responsi­bility and accountability ... to themselves. The Lord, "sitting on a simple throne," gathers and honors the young as "guests" with the challenge to "keep in mind" that all people are equal in the sight of God. He calls them forth and speaks their language, a language special to them and them alone. He tells them there are no restrictions placed on God's love. No boundaries or definitions exist 
1:
which separate one from another. Neither color nor creed taints the essence and permanence of God's loving kindness. They are singled out as ambas­sadors ofjesus Christ, standing before the throne and charged with the respon­sibility to recognize the other as brother and sister. The young are entrusted with the knowledge and transforming power of God to be used in all areas of their lives. Sixty-seven years later, these lyrics must reach our dorms, dining halls, classrooms, football stadium, basketball courts, and every corner of this campus, reminding us that who we see as "other" is, in reality, none other than 
Jesus Christ. 

We each bring to this University values bred and embedded in our indi­vidual cultural perspectives. We are diverse by God's design. We are a people endowed with many gifts freely given by God. In sharing these gifts, we give life to the fullest expression of God. One of my valued and most cherished cultural expressions is this song of my youth, sung then and shared now with you. You are now a part of my story. I share it freely and openly as an expression of God's love for me. I pass it on in the spirit of unity, and I await with joyful anticipa-(l\MPUS 
~ion the sharing of your story with me and others. There are no restricted signs MINISTRY m heaven. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 1997 

_. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Rookie Renaldo Wynn (48), a Notre Dame first-round pick, has stepped up with the injuries to the Jaguars. 
Former Domer Wynns spot 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

As a first-round draft pick by Jacksonville, defensive tackle Renaldo Wynn thought he might have a chance to play his way into the starting lineup late in the season. 
This isn't what he had in mind. 
"Injuries are a part of the game," Wynn said Wednesday. "But this is kind of crazy." 
How crazy? 
Coach Tom Coughlin shook his head and said nothing when asked if he could ever remember a team losing two starters and the top backup at defensive tack­le in one season, let alone a span of 50 days. 
It started with John Jurkovic, who was lost for the season Sept. 22 with a broken bone in his lower leg. 
His replacement, Kelvin Pritchett, tore knee ligaments in 

9 Plw\ -Jw\IDMIGHT 
~rECIAL 

practice two weeks ago and also was ruled out for the year. On Tuesday, the Jaguars put Don Davey on injured reserve after learning the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee was torn. 
Wynn not only is a starter, but the 23-year-old rookie from Notre Dame has more tenure on the Jaguars than any other defensive tackle. 
He'll make his third start Sunday against the Oilers. Lining up next to him will probably be Seth Payne, a 22-year-old draft­ed in the fourth round out of Cornell. 
Payne was inactive the first three games, and his playing time has increased with each injury. 
Coughlin is not looking at this as a lost cause -perhaps because he is used to a unusual­ly high number of injuries this year, or because Wynn and Payne have made good progress over the past month. 
"We're not wiped out," he said. "We knew exactly what we were doing when we kept the 10 defensive linemen. I've been impressed with the continued improvement of Renaldo Wynn, and Seth Payne has played strong. He's played well inside." 
But having two rookies inside will put the Jaguars (7 -3) to a test. 
"All of those teams are going to run the ball," Wynn said. "If you were an offensive coach and you saw two rookies in there, you'd want to run the ball. We've got to prepare ourselves this week and step it up." 
"Injuries are part of the NFL -unfortunately, we've had a lot at one positions," Coughlin said. "We've got to ask other people to step up and keep our eyes on the road ahead. We can't afford to dwell on what isn't." 

Hey Boys! 
Ever wanted to date a sexv, 'RICH', old lady? If so, then call Denise Krotzer to wish her a Happy 22'.. 1 Birthday! 
Atr~a 

Anno~:e~t:~F:l:~i~g:troductory Offers of ... ~qlOJil 
r-------, r-------, r-------, r-------, r-------,
ll0°/o OFF: : $25 : I $59 I : $65 : : $65 : I Aveda I I C & I : Color, Cut & : I p C I I H'l' & I 
1 R . 1 1 Ut 1 I Style 1 I erm, ut I 1 I ttes I 
1

I etat I I Style I 1One Process I I & Style I I Cut & Stylel 
L-------~ L-------~ L-------~ L-------~ L-------~ 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 

~--~~----------------~

Please use the Special Savings invitation and _get to 
• NEW CLIENTS ONLY • 

know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service 
Ad must be presented to reception­

we provide, and we will do our best to merit your 
ist be re .ser1Jlce~ are performed

confidence and patronage. 
mtncttons 1Jppty)

We hope to see you soon. 
Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires December 1, 1997. 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N. Ironwood Drive • South Bend, IN 46615 • Tel. 219-289-5080 
Metropolitan battle goes to New Jersey 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Goaltender Mike Hichter mis­played Bobby Holik's long shot in the third period Wednesday night, giving the New Jersey Devils a 3-2 win over the New York Rangers. 
The Devils led 2-1 when I lolik unleashed a 62-foot shot from just over the blue line that beat Richter at 10:14. That shot proved to be the winner as New York's Niklas Sundstrom scored his second goal of the game less than two minutes later to pull the Rangers within a goal. 
Petr Sykora gave the Devils a 1-0 lead at 5:27 of the second period when he beat Richter with a slap shot from the high slot. Brian Rolston made it 2-0 at 11 :01 with a shot between Hichter's legs after a pass out to the slot from Doug Gilmour. 
Sundstrom cut the Rangers' lead to 2-1 when he scored at 
1:26 of the third. Holik then beat Richter from the blue line mid­way through the third to give the Devils a 3-1 lead. The Hangers made it a one-goal game again on Sundstrom's goal at 12:02. 
Washington 4. Pittsburgh 1 
Adam Oates scored one goal and assisted on two others in a four-goal second period Wednesday night that carried the Washington Capitals to a 4-1 win over the slumping Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Peter Bondra opened the scor­ing 24 seconds into the second period when he one-timed Oates' pass from the middle of the right circle for his ninth goal. 
Ken Klee scored his first at 
7:39 when he was left unchecked in the slot to put in Slyvain Cote's rebound. Oates scored his sixth at 14:37 when he converted Hichard Zednik's pass from behind the net. 
Phil Housley scored on a power play at 16:43 when his 55-foot shot hit the stick of Penguins' forward Ed Olczyk and went in. 


SAINT MARY's Cou..EGe O'lAUGHUN AUDITORIUM ~ 
TICkets on sale at the Scinl Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Audnorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m .• 
Mg"ljfik)

Monday • Friday. I c;~ THE ARTS Credit card orders by phone: 219/284-4626 ~ 
NOTRE DAME,IN 

What: Ice Skating PartY When: November 16th 
5:30-1:30 

'-­
----------~-----------------------~----------~------------~-------------------------------------------..------~----­
Thursday, November 13, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Junior sweeps voting for first AL MVP award 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ken Griffey Jr. became the ninth unanimous pick for the American League Most Valuable Player award. win­ning the honor for the first time Wednesday. 
Griffey, who hit .304 for Seattle, led the AL with 56 homers and finished first in the majors with 147 RB!s, re(:eived all 28 first-place votes and 392 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Nnw York Yankees first base­man Tino Martinez was sncond with 24 second-place votes and four thirds for 248 points. fof-" lowed by Thomas (172 points) and Baltimore reliever Bandy Myers (128). 
Griffey, winning an honor his father never did during 11) sea­sons in the majors, led the AL in runs (125), total bases (393) and slugging percentage (.646). He had 24 homers through May but just five in June and three in July before getting hot again. 
He had finished close in pre­vious MVP voting, winding up second in 1994, fourth last year and fifth in 1993. 
Griffey's home-run total matched the seventh-most in a single season, and his 294 homers already is 76th on the career list. On April 25, he became the fourth-youngest player to reach 250 homers, trailing only Jimmie Foxx, Eddie Mathews and Mel Ott. 
Griffey's father, who finished with 159 homers, was ninth in NL MVP voting in 1976 with 49 points and got one lOth-place vote in 1980. 
For winning the award, GriiTey gets a $150,000 bonus. The only other player to earn a bonus was Texas outfielder Juan Gonzalez, who gets $50,000 for finishing ninth. 

BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ t30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7:30 PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21 ................. t30 PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... 7:30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6Jr-8I28 
The College of Science DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR Lecture Series 
PRESENTS 

PROF. DENNIS SNOW 
Department of Mathematics 

S-ymmetries ()f (;e()metric {)bjects and their IJelative Sizes 
Thursday DeBartolo Hall Nouember 13 Room 126 8:00P.M. 
The Observer· SPORTS 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Luis Sojo became the first of the 138 free agents to sign, agreeing Wednesday to return to the New York Yankees for a $1.6 million, two-year contract. 
Sojo, a second baseman, hit .307 for the Yankees last sea­son with two homers and 25 RB!s in 77 games. He had a $400,000 base salary and earned an additional $25,000 in performance bonuses. 

His new contract calls for him to earn $800,000 per sea­son. 
The deal wasn't immediately announced by the Yankees but was confirmed by a lawyer familiar with the contract who spoke on the condition he not be identified. 

Talking Trees, 
From 

i/,is (~ Whispering Waters day ~MMil The Saint Mary's Students for
Ullwan/, 

will ~, Environmental Action Invite You to 
walk ·~\"LISTEN TO THE SOUNDS AND
11asy 

SHARE IN THE VERSES OF
i/,is 
eartlt. 

NATURE" 
u·ill 

at 
Dalloway 's Coffee House 
car//, 
u·lrere 

Thursday, November 13 7:00pm 
~~;;:,. \ -Bring your favorite music or poetry to 
listen ~~ 

to ~~~ share.
wfrai it ~f ~~ Bring_your own mug... 
;:/ling '' Refreshments will be served mo. -M.f. Slim Hoooy Sponsored by SM-SEAC 

,..,.,r ,. r .-r 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Informational Meeting With Prof. Margaret O'Callaghan 
Thursday November 13, 1997 4:30P.M. 138 DeBartolo 

page 15 

Paul Assenmacher, who became a free agent following the World Series, returned to the Cleveland Indians on Wednesday when he agreed to a two-year contract. 
Assenmacher, 36, appeared in a team-high 75 games for Cleveland last season, often as the setup man for closer Jose Mesa. 
The left-hander was 5-0 mark with four saves and a 
2.94 ERA Cleveland had earli­er declined to exercise an $825,000 option. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

---~-~-~-------------~----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish need to court skills 
Monday's triple overtime win too close for comfort 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
One thing that the women's basketball team found out about itself in Monday's pre-season win over the Brisbane Blazers was its conditioning as it took triple overtime to defeat the squad from Australia. 
Tonight the Irish will take to the Joyce Center floor again in their last exhibition game before their season opener when they host Butler. Head coach Muffet McGraw and her team will be looking for their defense to be improved after giving up a 22-point lead to the Blazers. 
"The first game we played with a lot of heart, and it was kind of stressful going into triple overtime," sophomore guard Niele Ivey said. "I think we found out that we need to work more on our defense and just continue to stick together." 
The contest Monday night was the first opportunity for the squad to play against someone other then themselves, and it provided a much needed learn­ing experience as the team has a lot of new faces with just two seniors and two juniors on the squad. In addition, only three of those four upperclassmen were on the floor when the team made its trip to the Final Four last season. 
The Irish are hoping that the freshmen continue to develop as there were flashes of talent dis­played by the Class of 2001 on Monday night. Forward Kelly Siemon was the most impressive with her strong moves in the post providing a spark for the offense. 
Other new faces were those of two players who returned from injuries and played key roles in Monday's win. McGraw hopes Danielle Green and Ivey will continue to be an integral part in the team's success. Green missed all of last year, and Ivey missed all but the first five games last season. 
"It was a really good feeling to get back in the playing mode because I have been out for so long," Ivey commented. "It was 

The Finch Senior guard Mollie Peirick and the rest of the squad have relied on their strong offense to spark a problematic defense. • 
good to get the feel of basketball again." 
After scoring 47 points in the first half Monday night and 103 total, the squad feels com l"ort­able about its offense and will use tonight's game to try to solve its problems on defense. 
"We're looking to step up our defensive pressure as well as continue our offensive threat," Ivey said. "We want to just con­tinue getting better at the little things and putting everything together." 
Things will likely come togeth­er easily for this squad as McGraw has already explained the great team chemistry sur­rounding the team. 
"I think we have really good chemistry because everyone is around the same age," Ivey said. "There are two seniors that we're really close with and there are a lot of freshmen, so it's a close-knit team. We get along real well and have fun out there." 
That chemistry and closeness off the court can also translate into good things on the court, according to lvey. "It helps because we know each other so well, and we associate and socialize with each other off the court so we have an under­standing of where we're sup­pose to be on the court." 
Considering what Not~e Dame lost last year to graduatwn, that team chemistry will be essential for its success this year as the Irish continue to find out how they will fill the gaps left by last year's four seniors. 
Irish Notes: Sherisha Hills, a 5-foot-8 guard from the Academy of the Holy ~ames at Ta~pa, Fla., has ~1gned a natwnal lett?r o~ mtent to attend the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame as a member of the Class of 2002_. Hills is the third ~est player m the state of Flonda, and 43rd on Blue Star Basketball's list of the top 80 players in 1997-98. She has twice been named to the USA Today honorable mention team and has earned the St. Petersburg Times player of the year the past two seasons, and the Tampa Tribune's player of the year after the 1996-97 sea­son. Hills has led her team to a 90-_11 mark_ in three seasons, while scormg 1,853 career points. Last year she averaged 
19.5 points per game. 
Every Thursday All-You-Can-Eat Pizza & Pasta 

~.\~~~'" for $5.oo 0 »~i 8 30p m •
':+~~~ •6:00p.m. -: . . .~'~> . or Friday & Saturday
Taking reservations f 
• fOOTBALL 

DiNardo looks to turn luck of Irish LSU's way 
By CHRIS MACALUSO Reveille (LSU) Sports Writer 
LSU football coach Gerry DINardo admitted to the media at his weekly press con­ference Tuesday that this 


g a m e against Notre Dame feels differ­ent. 
"People ask me if this game is different 
because I went to school at Notre Dame," DiNardo said. "It is just h<lcause you know more about the school. I've been at six universities and I've had great experiences at all six. You know people and some­times you even know the kids so in that regard it is differ­ent." 
DiNardo played offensive guard at Notre Dame from 1972-75 under head coaches Ara Parseghian and Dan Devine. DiNardo played on Notre Dame's 1973 national championship team that beat Alabama 24-23 in the Sugar Bowl. DiNardo earned All­America honors in 1975 under first year coach Dan Devine. 
This Saturday's game is the seventh between Notre Dame and LSU with the series tied at three games apiece. The series will continue next season when LSU travels to South Bend, Ind. The series began in 1970 when Notre Dame beat the Tigers 3-0 in South Bend. LSU has won the last two meetings 10-7 in 1985 and 21­19 in 1986. 
"Most of our non-conference games are not repeat games." DiNardo said. "The Notre Dame non-conference game is different because it has history to it. The series is 3-3 and we are going to play this year and next year. It is probably the last non-conference rivalry LSU may ever play. I think it takes on a little different sig· nificance that way. 
"They (Notre Dame) are big up front and they have a vet­eran offensive line," DiNardo said. "They are probably as good as the best offensive line we've played all year. Their entire team is going to be the he~,~:lthiest it has been all year for our game. 
"I think injuries have played a part; they've played an awful lot of people," DiNardo said. "I think any time a new staff takes over there is a legitimate transition period that you have to go through. I think if you look at the schedule and the injuries and if you look at what's going on at some of the other schools, it's not unique to them. Colorado won 10 games the last two years and they are struggling right now. Football is getting a little more balanced. 
"I believe this game will have something to do with where we play postseason and have a bearing on what bowl we play," DiNardo said. "If you are a competitor, any time you play a game, if you don't think it's significant, there's some­thing wrong with you. That is the bottom line for our guys. There is no guarantee that the guys who play the Notre Dame game will ever play again in their lives. That more than anything makes this a signifi­cant game." 

Our unique ergonomic swivel hood is designed to move with your head. The Mountain Light Jacket also features articulated sleeves. zip-m compatibility, and a durable, waterproof breathable Gore-Tex00 shell. It's the ultimate multipurpose mountaineering jacket. 

-
NEVER STOP EXPLORING'" 



Thursday, November 
13, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 I I 
_. I I 
RAD I 0 88.9 FM 
-PRESENTS ­
H E 

tPe 
nan c e 
Featuring "~uHedo Junction" 
Friday, Nouember 14 7:00 PM -11 :00 PM Joyce Center Monogram room Concourse (Gate 1) 
$5 Per Person
St udent s: $8 Per Couple 
General $8 I Person
• 
...

Admission • $1 2 1 Couple 
r 
-~-­

page 18 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
ber of the squad. However, the lack of experience did not pre­vent her from getting playing time, as she appeared in 33 of the 34 matches that season. Injuries to middle blockers Jennifer Rouse and Jen Briggs forced Treadwell to take on a more crucial role as the season went on, and she went on to enjoy an outstanding freshman season. 
In her freshman year, Treadwell led the Big East with 
a .367 hitting percentage, which still ranks second in Irish histo­ry. In one-third of the matches played, she led the team in blocks. In the Purdue Premier tournament, she was named to the all-tournament team after tallying a combined 27 kills, 12 blocks, and eight digs over three matches. 
"It was probably pretty unusual that first year not hav­ing any teammates in the same class as me," said Treadwell. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute-Taekwondo and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne MemoriaL All are welcome. · 


Field Hockey :;.;.. Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 
p.m. in Loftus.. Call Maureen at ·x4281 or Stephanie at x2741 with any questions. 
Synchronized Swimming Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
"But the team welcomed me. It wasn't like I was an outsider. I felt like part of the team right from the beginning." 
For Treadwell, the next sea­son would have even more in store for her. In one of the most injury-plagued seasons in recent history, she was one of three players who participated in all 34 matches of the season. 
"It was hard for us to get into a rhythm then," Treadwell said about last season. "With Carey May out, and Jaimie Lee moving from hitter to setter, it was hard for us to get consistency. Looking back on it, though, we did pretty well, all things con­sidered." 
Upon moving to a more all­around position, Treadwell pro­vided the offensive spark that allowed the team to capture its second straight Big East title. Over the final nine matches of the season, she hit .378 while averaging 2.97 kills per game. In the Big East tournament, Treadwell had a combined 26 kills on one error in wins against Pittsburgh and Syracuse. Her performance in 
-----~---~~--------­
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 13, 1997 
---------------------------------~--------~----­
the Irish run for the title made her the obvious choice for the tournament MVP. 
"Lindsay has made some very important contributions during her first two seasons," Brown said. "Lindsay really has improved her ball control, pass­ing and defense to the point where she can be a primary passer and all-around player for us. She also gives us great flexi­bility at the net due to her quickness." 
Despite the fact that Treadwell is not as tall as most middle blockers, her competi­tive spirit mom than makes up for it. 
"At times, I find it frustrating," Treadwell said. "Sometimes, I feel if I were two inches taller, I might be able to make a much bigger presence. But my coach­es and I have worked a lot on it, and we've found that there are ways around it." 
Hopefully, the Irish volleyball team will continue its season in the same way -overcoming adversity, and, like both McCarthy and Treadwell, perse­vering under pressure. 



Sobrero 
continued from page 20 
all," Sobrero said. "Notre Dame was somewhat interested, but after the switch, they were really intP-rested." 
The likes of Maryland, Virginia, Clemson, and Stanford showed interest in Sobrero. 
"I was never a huge recruit," Sobrero said. "Coach [Chris Petrucelli] was what sold me on Notre Dame. He was so honest from day one, and I liked that." 
While under the tutelage of Petrucelli, Sobrero has been a part of some memorable moments. The 1995 national championship was a great honor for her and winning the NCAA championships defensive MVP meant a lot. 
Last year's trip to the NCAA finals left a sour taste in her mouth because she sustained a knee injury which knocked her out of the game. She contends that this year's tie and last year's defeat of North Carolina rank right up there with the national title. 
Sobrero and Co. appear to be charged for postseason play. With her commanding the defense for Notre Dame, Sobrero might have one more momen­tous event still to come in her collegiate soccer career. 
IAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
NOVEMBER 1JTH FEATURING A BACKYARD BOOGIE BUCK PARTY 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security -Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad November 13 
Luuuu~ Juuu Friday, Nov. 21 SKALCOHOLIKS Thursday, Dec.~ TASHI STATION Don't get evicted-Hold your off campus party at Jazzman's-no rental cost-must be 21 or over 
233-8505 for info. 
co 
e Over 75 accredited courses 
0) 
e French Immersion Program e Fine Arts Program 
e Advanced Photography and Web Design Programs e Cultural Excursions 
For more information, call or write: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs, Box S-2000 102 rue St. Dominique 75007 Paris, France 
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 06 14 Fax (33/1) 40 62 07 17 New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414 
Web site . http://www.aup.fr ..... E·mail · Summer@aup.fr .... 

Stop By 

Wo•nen's Soccer 
C• • ti
TS....c...na 
Sunday Nov. 16th 1pm rA.Iumni Jield 
.. 

Thursday, November 13, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
page 19
The Observer· TODAY 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Evenwith the right tools, 

WCU. ..~ ."i/tl RDNS!/i[E .f R£FIJ5[ 1"0 Ll VE 
the job might not get done today.

1HE OLD PRAc ncr:.-, ill£ wiJ"HOUl 1!105£ 1/IROW 
Last night's dream interferes with

/)!Nifl/q ll!lLL5 Pf<.08ABLY BACKS FRoM 1'HE C/IE/1 
lM'!liLD R.Ef!J5E To /'JFAToN 
FRIDAYS 

DOG5ERT'S DATING 1\0VKE 
~==============~e0
WOMEN LIKE MEN WHO 
HAVE ACCOI"\PLI5HM£NTS. BUT 'THE'( HATE ME.N WHO 
BOf.-5T. 
<.> 
.; '6 
CD 
E 
'0 
l!!
·;: 
:l 
~ 
;;:: 

I WILL BE YOUR DESIGNATED BRAGGER, 
ALLOWING '(OU TO 
APPEA.R \-\UMBLE. 
SERVE LAB A.K.A. 
your presence of mind. If you dis­
like making mistakes, it may be
BACO;V
\ 
best to do as little as possible.
[3tTSg 
Taurus: You come up with a strange solution that strikes a deep chord among everyone who understands it. Presentation counts today, no matter how good an idea. 
Gemini: Today you have the sense that you won't get what you want if you want it too badly. Approach a problem creatively and save your theatrical assault for another time. 
Cancer: If traveling today, take the water route to enhance the seamless flow of your thoughts. Others find you deep and enthusi­astic, if a bit vague. You will be at your best before dawn or after dusk. 
Leo: If you don't get the respect you want, consider for a moment how much of it you deserve. This is a day to spend time rather than money in pursuit of your goals. 
Virgo: A change in your eating habits effects a unique mind-body relationship. Your critical analysis of a situation or process abruptly
ONE POTENTif..L PRO~LEM 
lands you in the driver's seat.
Will-\ THI5 PLAN IS THP..T 
Being able to tell fact from fiction 
1 I-IA'J£. NO 
is crucial today. Libra: A working relationship is 
tF SHE I5N'T 

strained by a disagreement over money. Negotiate business mat­ters promptly before the discord reaches a personal level. A methodical approach may be best today. 
Scorpio: People assume you are a visionary today because of the prophetic ring to your state­ments. Mystery and philosophy play greater roles in the every day world. 
Sagittarius: You experience a minor crisis of spirit when you misplace something important. Getting in touch with a close rela­tive is a useful reality check. 
Capricorn: Even if you don'l 

work in the design department, 
you may be the one whose cre­
ative approach makes the differ­
ence. Someone confirms your 
delightful suspicions. Take a 
chance on something about which 
you feel secure. 
Aquarius: An unexpected 

event puts you back in touch with 
your humanity. Be gentle but firm 
with others as you set your own 
house in order. Electronic com­
munications play an important 
role in your day. 
Pisces: You are given a free 

hand to get things done in your 
own mysterious, non-linear way. 
Use confidential information to 
your best advantage. You turn the 
flow of events into a forward 
surge. 
~EI\RING 1"\f>,I<.EU~, 
Wt.'L l BE HONEST TOO. 
_) 
' 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Pet1t chapeau 6 Crosswordy ratite 9 Theater box 13 Its capital is Oranjestad 14 .. __ Life of Johnson" (classic biography) 16 --Caesar 
(Caligula) 17 Genius 18 Teetotalers 20 Torso's 
washboard 21 British baby 
bearer 23-Domini 25 French number 
with three O's 27 Ones, when marching 
28 Mrs. John Quincy Adams and others 
JOWraps 32 Actress Penelope--­
Miller 33 Use clippers 35 Turtle dove 36 Genius 42"­
questions?" 43 Bartoli performance 44-Berg, the Intellectual of 
Baseball 45 Convertibles 49 Collected works 51 Substance from 
which the universe was created 

52 Like a herm1t 54 Robin's residence 55 It towers over 
Taormina 560 57 Univ. recruiter 59 Genius 62 Kind of board 65 Hotel chain 66 Like a carpet 67 Associate with 
riffraff 6&Lao-­69 Hot pot and 
others 
DOWN 
1 It plays it 2 Mouths, to 16-Across 3 One who'd like to know more 4 Classic 1 896 
Alfred Jarry play 5 "No sweat!" 6 Tidal movement 
24 It's outlawed 
26 Horned goddess7 Upright 
8 In working order 29 Shorthander,9 Writer Deighton for short 10 Op-ed artist Pat 31 First name in 11 Expresses late-night TV anger, in a way 341990 12 Pleasant Matsushita 
distraction 
acquisition15 Know-it-all 
37 Nepalese 19 Know-it-all capital 22 Submissions to 38 Press S &S. 
390newho 23 Brand of doesn't know daminozide much 

40---chef 53 Medleys 41 Toe in the water 58 Butterfingers' 45 Manhattan remark 
ingredient 60 Actor Alastair 46 Changes a suit 6122.5" 47 Agreeable 
63 Maimonides, for 48 Most artful one 50 Just know 64 Spots 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

G sk 
..~.LIVE MUSIC 
... 

8:30P.M-I OP. 
SKANKING AVAILABLE. 
-. 



SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, November 13, 1997 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 

She anchors a defense which allowed just 66 shots and five goals in 19 regular season games this year. 
Senior Kate Sobrero has been a force to reckon with on the Irish defense since her freshman year. She is one of the top defenders, if not the top defender, in the nation. In crucial games, she is assigned to the opponent's best player. 
"She is probably one of the hardest, toughest, and most tenacious defenders I have come across," said senior captain Holly Manthei, who was a member of the 
U.S. national team and has seen some of top defensive players in the world. 
Recently, Sobrero was named the 1997 Big East MVP, which some believed she sho•Jld have captured last year. Currently, she serves as tri-captain of the second­ranked Irish. At the conclusion of the reg­ular season, she had chalked up two goals and eight assists of her own. 
Sobrero feels that she has improved tremendously in the past four years but feels that there are aspects of her game that could still use improvement. She characterized her play as "athletic" dur­ing her freshman campaign. 
"I didn't have as much skill my fresh­man year," Sobrero said. "I have more of a feel than I used to, but I still think that I have stuff to work on." 
"In the past four years, she has emerged as a leader," Manthei said. "She is so confident and poised. She represents what a true soccer player is." 
"Kate is more of a silent leader," fellow teammate sophomore Jcn Grubb remarked. "Personally, what motivates me about her is that she gives 100 per­cent all the time. An example is this past weekend when she was sick, and she still played. That kind of commitment is what I'm talking about." 
"Watching her play so hard for the team makes me want to play equally as hard for her," junior Shannon Boxx said. 
This past weekend, the Irish took on the Huskins in the Big East championships. Sobroro fell ill with some sort ol' ailment and found herself questionable for Sunday's linoup. According to Sobrero, she just got too fidgety to sit on the bench. 
"I just couldn't sit out," Sobrero said. "I wasn't feeling so good in the first half, but by the second half. I felt fine." 
"Her work ethic is the best, and that is a groat thing to bring to the team," Manthei said. "Last weekend is an example of this. She was sick 10 minutes before the game, and then she was out there. mak­ing 60-yard runs up the field." 
She, along with her teammates, thinks that the team is hitting its prime at the right moment. 
"I think we aro a better team than last season by two goals," Sobrero said. "Just this weekend we played so incredible. It was so much fun. We arc definitely peak­ing at the right moment. In fact, I don't think that we have evfln played our best yet, which is scary." 
Sobrero is touted as one of the top­marking backs in the nation. While the majority of her collegiate rafl'flr was spont on defense, she played up front at forward in high school. Around Thanksgiving of her senior year of high school, she made a switch to defense. 
"At first, I wasn't heavily recruited at 
see SOBRERO I page 18 

...... 
... 
• VOLLEYBALL 

McCarthy and Treadwell team up at middle blocker 
differently, but it was difficult in that r11spect." 
As the YIHtrs progressed, McCarthy continually improved and moved up through tlw ranks. As a junior, she appeared in 22 matches and took the role of reserve middle blocker. Injuries to the squad forced her to take on addPd importance in the middle of the season. 
"Molly is ono of the hardest workers and best team players I've ever coached," said Brown. "I havo no hesi­tation using her in any situation, and she will play an important role for us." 
One of the biggest matches of McCarthy's career came last season against Illinois State. After dropping the first two games, Notre Dame decided to go with the smaller middle blocking unit of her and Treadwell. Coming off of the bench and afflicted with the flu, McCarthy collected six kills and four blocks and almost managed to revitalize the Irish o!Tense enough to pull off the comeback, bflfore losing 15-13 in the fifth game. 
Treadwell is no stranger to unusual situations as well. In her first year, Treadwell was the only freshman mom-
see VOLLEYBALL I page 18 


The Observer/Joe Stark 

Senior Molly McCarthy (14) has moved up the ranks since being an invited walk-on . 
(I 
at LSU, 
November 15, 3:30 p.m. 
• ~ 
:1 ,_ 

, ... 
vs. Cincinnati, \~ November I 6, I p.m. 
at Rutgers, 

• 
\~ M' November 15, 2 p.m. 
Fencing at Penn State Open, November 15, 16 
• 

By BILL HART Sports Writer 
For thn past two y1)ars, unforeseen injuries have plagued Notre Dame's vol­leyball team. Last season, three starters missed a combined 44 matches. 
The year before, an injury claimed one of the starting middle blockers. Because of those ailments. reserve players have had to step up and perform under great pressure. In the middle blocking posi­tion, two players have done just that ­senior Molly McCarthy and junior Lindsay Treadwell. 
To say that McCarthy has family tics to Notre Dame would be an understate­ment. No less than eight relatives of McCarthy have graduated from Notre Dame, induding her father, grandfather, five undcs, and one cousin. 
"Just from my family, I learned a lot about Notre Dame," McCarthy said. "I knew it was a great academic university, and the Catholic environment was very important to me. 
"My freshman year I was an invited walk-on," McCarthy said about her first year as a player. "I didn't have to try out, but I didn't have any scholarship money. It wasn't like I was treated any 

at Miami of Ohio, November 15, 7 p.m. Q) 
• Woman's basketball hosts Butler Women's Basketball vs. 
see page 16Slavyanka (Hungary), 

••--= 
today, 7 p.m. 

riJ • Reynaldo Wynn leads Jaguars' defense 
Men's Basketball vs. 
see page 14

The Citadel, November 17, 7:30 p.m. 
~ 

---~-~,--~~­

~ 

Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, November 14, 1997 
FIGHTIN' IRISH 
The Obse!Ver!Brandon Candura Outside linebacker Lamont Bryant leads the Irish with three sacks on the year. 
NO Opp 

22.8 21.8 Individual Statistics First Downs 197 188 Rushing Att Yds Avg TO Long Avg/G Rushing 85 90 Denson 193 889 4.6 9 50 98.8 Passing 94 85 Stokes 46 219 4.8 0 17 27.4 Penalty 18 13 Barry 25 127 5.1 0 23 14.1 Rushing Yardage 1501 1694 Driver 28 96 3.4 3 12 10.7 Rushing Attempts 374 378 Spencer 18 82 4.6 1 23 9.1 Average Per Rush 4.0 4.5 Average Per Game 166.8 188.2 Passing Effie Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds TO Avg/G TO's Rushing 16 17 Powlus 126 253-160-7 63.2 1748 8 194.2 Passing Yardage 1828 1721 Jackson 109 8-4-1 50.0 80 0 20 Att-Cmp-lnt 262-164-8 248-149-8 Average Per Pass 7.0 6.9 
Receiving No Yds Avg TO Long Avg/GAverage Per Game 203.1 191.2 
Brown 39 457 11.7 5 39 50.8 
TO's Passing 8 5 Johnson 33 434 13.2 1 38 48.2 
Total Offense 3329 3415 Denson 29 183 6.3 1 47 20.3 
Total Plays 636 626 Nelson 22 294 13.4 0 44 32.7 
Average Per Play 5.2 5.5 
Getherall 9 103 11.4 0 20 20.6 
Average Per Game 369.9 379.4 Kickoff Return Average 22.9 20.7 
TIGERS  
Punt Return Average  
lnt Return Average  
Opponents  Fumbles-Lost  17-7  Cleveland  
Penalties· Yards  66-490  Frazier  
Team Statistics  LSU  Opp  Average Per Game  54.4  48.0  
Points Per Game  34.3  14.9  Punts-Yards  46-2151  55-2464  Kick Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
First Downs  189  171  Average Per Punt  46.8  44.8  Collins  5  119 23.8  0  38  
Rushing  113  63  Time of Possession/Game29:20  30:40  Faulk  5  113 22.6  0  30  
Passing  69  99  Sacks By-Yards  28-200  20-126  Mealey  3  50  16.7  0  26  
Penalty  7  9  Cleveland  2  25  12.5  0  20  
Rushing Yardage  2484  968  Individual Statistics  Poole  1  0  0.0  0  0  
Rushing Attempts  421  315  Rushing  Att  Yds  Avg TO  Long Avg/G  
Average Per Rush  5.9  3.1  Faulk  151  901  6.0  12  53  128.7  Field Goals  FGM-FGA  Pet  Long  Blk  
Average Per Game  276.0  107.6  Mealey  93  609  6.5  6  44  67.7  Richey  2-8  25.0  33  3  
TO's Rushing  30  9  Collins  72  596  8.3  3  69  149.0  Boyd  1-4  25.0  30  2  
Passing Yardage  1356  2081  Tyler  72  257  3.6  7  72  28.6  
Att-Cmp-lnt  171-105-4  351-1'78-14  Banks  13  70  5.4 2  16  7.8  Defensive  UT  AT  Tot.  ForLoss Sacks  
TO's Passing  10  9  Wesley  51  35  86  10-46  2.5-34  
Total Offense  3840  3049  Passing Effie Att·Cmp-lnt Pet  Yds  TO  Avg/G  Smith  38  24  62  12-40  2.5-15  
Total Plays  592  666  Tyler  141.74156-95-4  60.9  1243 9  138.1  Roman  41  13  54  3-7  0  
Average Per Play  6.5  4.6  Sparacino151.9515-10-0  66.7  113 1  28.3  Wiley  30  22  52  10-53  4.5-42  
Average Per Game  426.7  338.8  Receiving No  Vds  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  Hill  35  13  48  1-1  0  
Kickoff Return Average  19.5  20.1  Foster  36  507  14.1  4  38  56.3  

Denson 
Kick Returns Rossum Driver Denson Harper Sanders 
Field Goals Sanson Cengia 
Punting No Smith 35 
Defensive UT Friday 45 Dansby 46 Minor 42 Bryant 31 Guilbeaux 36 
Long 0 12 0 13 
No Yds Avg TO Long 16 473 29.6 2 93 10 186 18.6 0 49 5 93 18.6 0 33 4 58 14.5 0 23 2 19 9.5 0 10 
FGM-FGA Pet Long Blk 5-10 50.0 45 0 1-2 50.0 20 0 
Yds Avg Long 1540 44.0 64 
AT Total ForLoss Sacks lnt/Yds 45 90 0 1.0-5 0 37 83 9-28 1.5-26 0 20 62 6-12 1.5-14 3-50 29 60 4-7 3.0-17 0 20 56 4-13 1.0-6 3-32 
Photo courtesy of LSU Sports Information 

Tiger punter Chad Kessler is the best in the land with an insane average of 50.7 yards. 
graduate obtaining a BS in .............................,e or an MBA and are looking technology, we .are ready to 
Engineer 
ogy solve'J)usiness problems. Important and mem6'~r of a problem-solving team for a variety of 


challenging work environment provided. Strong exp~(!~~d. W~.mwill exceed your e~pectations and 
a.•·b··••.'·.'~···"1I..•.··...1··t1·es. nw.:.. 
Sound like a fit? 
Meet DC Systitms+onNovember 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 






· Technical Education • Business Products 
----~~­

r--------~---------~ -~­
Friday, November 14, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS 

page 3 


\ 
Quarterbacks 
Herb Tyler can come up with the big play with his arm (nine TDs) and with his feet (seven). He boasts an impressive 20-4 record, while Powlus is a mediocre 26-15-1. 
Running Backs 

Kevin Faulk is the best player the Irish defense will face this year and is a threat to take it the distance every time he touches it. 



Receivers 
I 
The Tigers don't take to the air often, and when they do, they can go to Booty or Foster, but the 
Irish corps has continued to come on, especially Raki Nelson in recent weeks. 
Offensive Line 

Faulk doesn't do i alone as the Tigers are in the top five in the nation iri rushing offense -a place one used to find the Notre Dame offense year in and year out. 
Defensive Line 

Mixon, Wiley McFarland are play­makers up front and have combined for 29 tackles for loss. Dansby is still the only ND lineman opponents have to worry about. -j 
as 
Secondary 

Donaldson has more interceptions (seven) than the Irish sec­ondary has broken up passes. And 14 picks as a team ain't too shabby. 
Special Teams 
.~

For the first time this 
.
u 

year, the best punter will be on the other side of the field. The nation's best, Chad Kessler, averages 50.7 a boot. 
Coaching 

Fans will see Davie did with week off to prepare, but DiNardo will definitely have his crew ready to host the Irish. 

Overall 

The Tigers have a at the SEC onship and an 
alliance bid, and are playing like it, embarrassing Alabama last week 27-0. ND is trying to salvage a season. 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

T
he Notre Dame offense is going to have to step up its performance against LSU to a level it has not yet reached this season. 
The Tiger defense is averaging two interceptions per game, including two returned for touch­downs. It also has forced 12 fumbles in eight games, one of which was returned for a touch­down. It also has produced 31.5 sacks for a loss of 241 yards. Overall, the Tigers boast a plus­nine turnover margin, the sixth best in the nation. 
And with the best punter in the nation in Chad Kessler, it is prob­able that the Irish are not going to be given any breaks in the field position department. 
In other words, the Irish offense must play flawlessly because every mistake is guaran­teed to be costly. 
Headlining the Tiger defense is senior cornerback Cedric Donaldson, who leads the LSU secondary with seven intercep­tions and is personally responsi­
R
ankings aren't everything. However, this Saturday they will play a significant role in the game's outcome. 
The unranked Irish head to Death Valley to take on the 11th­ranked Tigers. LSU weapons include the nation's 19th-ranked total offense, fifth-ranked rushing attack, and the top-ranked punt­ing game. Notre Dame ranks above LSU only in passing, where it stands 61st in the nation, while the Tigers rank 95th. 
"They're ranked in just about every category," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "We're ranked in basically no category. Certainly it's a big challenge, but I like our team. I think we've made progress. 
"I think we're a better team now than we were early in the year, and I think it provides a good opportunity for us." 
LSU is corning off a 27-0 victory over Alabama, where it chalked up 265 rushing yards. 
The standout for the Tigers is tailback Kevin Faulk. Last sea­son. he was a consensus all­American and is a candidate again this year. Against Alabama, he ran for 168 yards on 27 carries and scored two touch­downs. The second score came on a 53-yard sprint. He leads the SEC in four categories: rushing, punt returns, all-purpose yards, and scoring. 
Despite his success, Faulk has been nagged by a hamstring injury throughout the season. 
"They have two true-rate tail­backs in my mind," Bob Davie stated. "Faulk is a tremendous player, and I think [Rondell] Mealey is a big, big physical play­
er." 
ble for the two that were returned for touchdowns. 
What makes Donaldson's per­formance so impressive is that with the defensive line that plays ahead of him, it is amazing that opposing quarterbacks have had the opportunity to get the ball off. Then again, the pressure from the Tiger defensive line is proba­bly one of the major reasons opposing quarterbacks throw interceptions. 
The line is anchored by the tackle tandem of 274-pound senior Chuck Wiley and 290­pound junior Anthony Mc­Farland, who together have con­tributed nearly one-third of the team's total sacks. Wiley and McFarland are joined by defense end Kenny Mixon, who has col­lected five sacks of his own and is second on the team in tackles for a loss with 11. 
In order to overcome the odds -and the odds are definitely against it -the Irish offense is going to have to effectively use both its running and passing game. The offensive linemen are going to need the performance of their lives in order to subdue the tenacious Tiger defense. 
The key for the Irish, as stated earlier, is to limit mistakes. Penalties, especially holding penalties, have proven costly for the Irish throughout the season. 
"I think the key for us on offense is that we cannot waste a play," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "They're a big play defense. They're a turnover type of defense. You know, they scramble around, and they have a lot of good athletes. 
"You can't let them get you back on your heels. When we've had breakdowns in execution, it's been in bunches. When we've had penalties, it's been in bunch­es." 
The bottom line for the Irish is that if they cannot execute with­out making mistakes, it will epit­omize the "death" in Death Valley. 
-Betsy Baker 
••• TIGERS ON THE OFFENSIVE 


The Tigers are quarterbacked by Herb Tyler. Against the Crimsom Tide, he went 7 -for-13 for 105 yards. The passing attack is not one of LSU's strengths. 
Perhaps one of the strengths of LSU's game lies in its punter Chad Kessler. Currently, he ranks as the top punter in the nation, aver­aging around 50 yards per punt. 
"They're No. 1 in the nation in net punting, so they're good in the punt game," Davie said. "And then certainly with [Larry] Foster and Faulk back there returning punts and kickoffs, they've got some weapons." 
The rankings are stacked against the Irish as they head into Tiger Stadium, but Notre Dame would want nothing more than to be the spoiler this Saturday. 
-Kathleen Lopez 

--------~ --~-------------~-----.. 
page 4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY Friday, November 14, 1997 
Running toward the 
has developed into a leader 


By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Spons Editor 
Allen Rossum has never been a shy individual. He has never hesitated to express his self­confidence. He has never been afraid to show his spirited side for the television cameras. 
Some feel that his demeanor is a sign of immaturity, but although the senior tri-captain admits that he has always gone out of his way to get into the spotlight, it is there that he thrives. 
"We (Ivory Covington and Rossum) were kind of cocky our freshman year." recalled Rossum. "We use to joke around with the upperclassmen and say, 'Pretty soon I'll be (captain).' LaRon Moore and Bobby Taylor -we use to tell them all the time, 'One day baby, one day you'll see me up there."' 
At that time, he was backing up the all-American Taylor and seeing some time on the special teams, but as Rossum had pre­dicted, it was not long before the speedy little man from Texas began making a big-time name for himself. 
As a sophomore, he stepped under the Notre Dame magnify­ing glass as he started at cor­nerback. He rose to the top kickoff return position on the roster and returned two inter­ceptions for touchdowns in the course of the season. He then began the 1996 Irish campaign by returning the opening kickoff against Purdue 99 yards for a touchdown. He went on to be the only player in the nation to return three punts for touch­downs last year. 
Only one player in college football history had had eight returns for touchdowns before 1997, and Rossum, with his two interception returns, three punt returns, and one kickoff return, was just two scores off the pace heading into his final collegiate season. 
With kickoff returns for touchdowns against Pittsburgh and Boston College, the Notre Dame senior tied the record but was unaware of his accomplish­ment. 
"At first, I didn't even know until they told me," explained Rossum. "I didn't know I was that close, in other words." 
He commented that breaking the record would be a nice achievement, but that there were more important things to him. 
"It's just something that if I could just achieve that, it would be fine," Rossum said. "But if I don't achieve that and we go out and win these last three games, I'd rather have that." 
It may be surprising to his critics that a player like Rossum has such a nonchalant attitude about a personal record. However, his maturity and lead­ership skills are just two of his traits that have proven the crit­ics wrong. 
His exciting play as a return man is not the only reason that he has become such an integral part of the team. 
Rossum 's desire to win and moti­vate those around him by example are the reasons why he has risen to the prestigious position of tri­captain at Notre Dame. 
"I told those guys (the underclass­men) at the begin­ning of the year that I wasn't going to be their father and try to hoot and holler in their ears," Rossum stated. "I was going to try to be a leader on the field by actions. If they see me perform­ing well, they'll try to pick up their level also. Actions speak louder than words." 
When asked if he needed to change from the "cocky" fresh­man he claimed to have 

been, to become a role~ 
model and a captain for the younger players, he emphatically stated that he is 
the same person he has always been. . "! haven't ch~.n.ged at all," 
mststed Rossum. I ve had to go through adv~rsity all my life. Everything I ve done, people said I couldn't do. They said I was too small to come up here and play. They said I was too small to play high school ball, 


Rossum, shown here chasing Stanford tailback Mike Mitchell in the team's 33-15 loss to the Cardinal, has developed into Notre Dame's most dependable defensive back. 
· · 
and I proved them all wrong." 

Rossum has indeed perse­vered, not only through his lack of size and the criticism of the naysayers, but through the ups and downs of four years of Notre Dame football and the disappointments of his senior 
season. 

"It's been real rough," said Rossum of the difficult year the Irish have been having. "Especially those first three or four losses in a row. It's the type of thing that you really don't come to Notre Dame for. I am just trying to get the younger guys to (realize) that this is not the feeling that you want." 
On Saturday, however, Rossum is going to try to help his teammates experience the feeling that they do want. Assuming that there is no bowl game in store for the Irish, this weekend's showdown with LSU will serve as the culmination of his college career. Rossum has taken part in plenty of big games in his time at Notre Dame, but there will be added significance to this one. 
"This is the last time I get to go this close to home," the Dallas native explained. "So it's going to be extra special for me. My family is going to be there, and this is the last time that that amount of people (rela­tives) will be able to come." 
So the stage is set. Rossum will play in his final high-proflle college game in front of his entire family, with a chance to break an NCAA record and help Notre Dame redeem its season before a national television audience. 
Allen wouldn't have it any other way. 


------~---------~--=---~-­
Friday, November 14, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS 
In the S 
Kevin Faulk vs. Irish defensive line 
1st season at Notre Dame 
Career record: 4-5 At Notre Dame: 4-5 Against LSU: 0-0 

No.Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1 Deke Cooper  FS  6-3  209  so  
2 Benny GuilbeauxSS  6-1  207  JR  
3 Ron Powlus  QB  6-3  225  SA  
4 Kory Minor  OLB  6-1  234  JR  
5 A'jani Sanders  ss  5-11  188  JR  
6 Malcolm JohnsonSE  6-5  213  SR  
7 Jarious Jackson QB  6-0  219  JR  
8 Eric Chappell  QB  6-4  213  so  
9 Raki Nelson  FL  5-11  189  so  
1 0 Deveron Harper CB  5-11  185  so  
11 Jay Johnson  SE  6-0  186  so  
12 Scott Cengia  K  5-10  181  SA  
12 Mario Strayhorn OLB  6-1  214  JR  
13 Jimmy Friday  ILB  6-2  227  JR  
14 Ivory Covington CB  5-10  169  SR  
15 Allen Rossum  CB  5-8  179  SA  
16 Zak Kustok  QB  6-2  190  FA  
17 Hunter Smith  p  6-2  210  JR  
18 Cikai Champion SE  5-10  183  SR  
18 Joey Getherall  WR  5·9,  165  FA  
19 Jim Sanson  K  5-9  179  so  
19 Wayne Gunn  OLB  6-2  210  JR  
20 Kevin Kopka  K  5-7  214  JR  
20 Byron Joyner  FS  -1  188  JR  
21 Shannon StephensFL  5-10  175  JR  
22 Jay Vickers  TB  5-11  218  so  
23 Autry Denson  TB  5-10  164  JR  
24 Ty Goode  CB  5-11  164  SR  
25 Tony Driver  TB  6-3  205  FA  
26 Lee Lafayette  CB  5-9  189  so  
27 Bobbie Howard ILB  5-10  228  JR  
28 Ken Berry  FB  6-0  221  SR  
29 Cooper Rego  TB  5-9  185  FA  
30 Jarvis Edison  FS  6-4  221  SR  
31 Darcey Levy  RB  6-2  195  FA  
32 Clement Stokes TB  6-0  205  SR  
33 Jamie Spencer FB  6-1  248  JR  
34 Ronnie Nicks  ILB  6-0  220  so  
35 Robert Phelps  CB  6-0  189  SA  
36 Chirs Wachtel  p  5-11  207  SA  
36 nm Lynch  CB  5-9  177  SR  
37 Ron Israel  DB  6-1  175  FA  
37 Kevin Rice  FB  6-0  200  SR  
38 Brock Williams  CB  5-11  175  FA  
38 Paul Grimm  CB  5-9  170  SA  
39 Anthony DenmanLB  6-3  205  FA  
40 Jason Murray  FB  6-2  235  FA  
41 Joe Ferrer  OLB  6-2  230  so  
42 A. Wellington!  LB  6-tl  237  so  
43 Grant Irons  ILB  6-5  225  FA  
44 Mike Tribe  ILB  5-10  215  FA  
45 J.Goodspeed  FB  6-0  225  so  
45 Chris McCarthy K  5-11  205  SA  
46 Kevin Dansby  LB  6-2  210  FA  
4 7 Bill Mitoulas  OLB  6-1  225  SA  
48 J. Herbert  WR  5-11  194  so  
49 Joe Thomas  ILB  6-2  223  JR  
50 David Payne  c  6-0  281  JR  
51 Melvin Dansby  DE  6-4  276  SR  
52 Alex Mueller  OG  6-6  270  JR  
53 Lamont Bryant  OLB  6-3  243  JR  
54 Luke Petitgout  OT  6-5  287  SA  
55 Shelton Jordan  DE  6-3  241  JR  
56 Kurt Belisle  DE  6-2  266  SA  
57 Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  258  SA  
58 B. O'Connor  OG  6-2  294  so  
58 Mike Burgdort  TE  6-0  205  JR  
59 Matthew Kunz  ILB  6-0  215  SA  
60 Scott Fagan  OLB  6-2  219  so  
62 Casey Robin  OL  6-7  285  FA  
64 John Merandi  c  6-3  272  so  
65 A. Brannan  ss  5-11  194  so  
66 JW Jordan  OL  6-1  284  FA  
67 John Wagner  OT  6-7  320  JR  
70 Tim Ridder  OG  6-7  298  JR  
71 Jerry Wisne  OG  6-6  295  JR  
72 Leon Hires  OG  6-4  287  so  
73 Mike Doughty  OT  6-7  303  SR  
74 Rob Mowl  OG  6-5  294  so  
75 Chris Clevenger OT  6-8  312  SA  
76 Kurt Vollers  OL  6-7  275  FA  
77 Brad Williams  DE  6-4  266  so  
78 Jon Spickelmier C  6-3  274  SR  
79 Mike Rosenthal OG  6-7  315  JR  
80 Justin Smith  WR  6-1  185  FA  
81 Lewis Dawson  SE  5-11  186  so  
82 Mike Gandy  TE  6-5  264  so  
83 Justin Orr  FL  6-2  233  SA  
84 Mike Denvir  TE  6-4  243  SA  
85 Antwon Jones  NG  6-3  267  JR  
86 Dan O'Leary  TE  6-4  243  so  
87 Jabari Holloway TE  6-4  235  FA  
88 Bobby Brown  FL  6-3  185  JR  
90 Lance Legree  NG  6-1  271  so  
91 N. VanHook-Drucker DE  6·2  228  so  
93 B.J. Scott  DE  6-3  267  so  
94 Andy Wisne  DL  6-5  255  FA  
95 Corey Bennett  NG  6-1  253  SA  
96 Jim Jones  NG  6-2  280  so  
97 Eric Glass  DT  6-4  220  so  
98 John Teasdale  TE  6-6  255  FA  
99 Jason Ching  DE  6-3  235  so  

An area of concern for the Irish all season has been their inability to stop the run. Two weeks ago, Chris McCoy and the Navy rushing attack ran through the Notre Dame defense like crap through a goose. This week, the Irish will again have their work cut out for them. LSU tailback Kevin Faulk is one of the nation's top backs, 
The Observer/Kevin Datum 

Corey Bennett will play an important role tomorrow. 
·:it 

FULLBACK 28-Barry
~~ 


TIGHT END 87·Holloway89-Ridder 
. 
.~ . 


LEFT END 98·MIIIrl 92-Mathews 


3-Faulk ·
TAl~~
7-Mealey 
FULLBACK 43-Banks 
~~~ 
RIGHT TACKLE 75-Langley 68-Winey 
TIGHT END 87-Hankton 82-Doming 





amassing 901 yards and 12 touchdowns in just 
seven games. For the first time since the season opener, the Irish defensive line will be at full strength on Saturday. Brad Williams returns from an injury to join Melvin Dansby and Corey Bennett in their attempt to contain Faulk and the Tigers. 
3rd season at LSU 
Gerry DiNardo 
Career record: 43-33-1 At LSU: 24-8-1 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 

No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR 1 Wade Richey PK 6-4 200 SR 2 Brandon Dale CB 5-11 170 FA 3 Kevin Faulk TB 5-10 192 JR 4 Nate Gates CB 6-0 180 so 5 Yahmani Adams FL 5-11 172 SA 6 Bryan SparacinoQB 6-2 190 SA 7 Rendell Mealey TB 6-0 203 so 8 Mark Roman FS 6-0 185 so 9 Clifton White ss 6-0 225 so 10 Rohan Davey QB 6-3 220 FA 1 0 Corey Gibbs p 6-0 190 so 1 0 Brad Poole FL 5-9 168 SR 11 Michael Hayes WR 6-4 210 FA 12 Casey Taber FB 6-1 220 SA 13 Tyrone Frazier SE 5-11 182 so 13 Tom RathmannQB 6-2 190 JR 14 Herb Tyler QB 6-0 194 JR 15 Craig Nail QB 6-3 207 FA 15 Kris Kessler PK 6-2 190 FA 15 Andy Stroup QB 6-3 195 FA 16 Rodney HudsonFL 6-0 175 JR 16 S. Underwood FB 6-4 230 JR 17 Melvin Hill FB 6-0 217 SR 18 C. LeBlanc FS 6-3 200 so 19 C. Cummings CB 5-9 164 JR 21 Raion Hill FS 6-1 191 JR 22 Larry Foster FL 5-10 190 so 23 Jeremy Witten P 5-10 170 so 24 LaVar Johnson RB 6-1 185 FA 25 Cisco Perkins RBILB 6-1 210 FA 26 Chris Beard ss 5-11 182 JR 27 C. Donaldson CB 5-11 175 SR 28 Chris Green ss 6-0 191 SA 29 T. O'Bryant DBIWR6-3 200 FA 30 John Christ FB 6-2 230 so 31 T. Dunson LB 6-3 235 FA 32 K. Cleveland TB 6-1 221 JR 33 Nemessis BatesSE 5-10 190 so 34 Cecil Collins TB 5-10 205 so 35 Charles Smith LB 6-2 220 so 36 Anthony SkinnerFB 6-1 256 SR 37 Aaron Adams LB 6-2 225 SA 38 Ryan Clark DB 6-1 180 FA 39 S. Chapman FS 5-10 192 SA 39 Uoyd Jones DB 6-3 215 JR 40 Prentis Jenkins DB 6-0 175 FA 41 Fred Booker DB 5-9 175 FA 




42 M. Spears LB 5-11 229 JR 
43 Tommy Banks FB 6-0 242 FA 
44 Robert Tyler FB 6-0 235 so ­45 Jamal Hill LB 6-2 220 FA 
46 Wardell Sykes LB 6-1 230 FA 47 Robert Davis WR 5-9 175 FA 48 Joe Wesley LB 6-2 222 JR 49 Mark O'Dowd LB 6-3 213 SA 49 Korey Wales FB 5·8 213 JR 52 Brandon MicheiLB 6-2 233 SR 54 Lee Stromberg OT 6-3 270 JR 55 Chuck Wiley DT 6-5 274 SA 56 W. Moreham LB 6-1 215 FA 57 B. McCorkle SNP 6-1 225 JR 58 Monte Gatlin LB 6-1 233 so 58 J. Barreca LB 5-10 225 JR 60 Ryan Hebert OT 6-3 285 so 61 Nathan Perry OG 6-3 260 SR 64 John Compton C 6-3 270 FA 65 R. Thomassie OG 6-2 282 JR 66 Alan Faneca OG 6-5 310 JR 67 Alvin Puckett OG 6-3 290 FA 68 Brandon WineyOT 6-7 260 FA 70 Louis Williams OT 6-6 295 FA 71 AI Jackson OT 6-3 300 so 72 Todd McClure C 6-2 280 JR 74 Dwayne PierceOT 6-3 320 FA 75 Trey Langley OT 6-5 280 FA 76 Adam Perry OG 6-3 293 SA 77 Jarvis Green DE 6-3 235 FA 78 Jason Green LB 6-2 210 FA 79 N. Menard c 6-2 275 so 80 Chad Kessler 6-1 197 SR

p 

81 Jamal Pack TE 6-3 250 so 82 J. Domingeaux TE 6-5 245 FA 83 Danny Boyd PK 6-0 210 so 85 Kyle Kipps TE 6-5 245 FA 85 Billy Dressier p 6-3 197 FA 85 Brandon Smith P/PK 6-1 190 JR 86 Robert Royal TE 6-6 215 FA 87 F. Hankton TE 6-5 259 SA 88 Willie Harvey DE 6-4 245 FA 88 Abram Booty WR 6-2 176 FA 89 Ed Dangerfield WR 6-4 205 FA 90 Mike Sutton DE 6-4 263 SA 91 M. Barnes DL 6-2 245 FA 92 R.Matthews DE 6-4 231 so 93 Theo Williams DE 6-3 235 so 94 A. McFar1and DT 6-1 190 JR 95 Johnny MitcheiiDT 6-5 300 so 96 Melvin Richey DT 6-4 280 FA 96 Jason Engels DT 6-3 244 so 97 Kareem MitcheiiDT 6-3 240 FA 98 Arnold Miller DE 6-4 242 JR 99 J. Underwood DE 6-5 233 FA 

~--~------.-------~----------~·----------------~------------------~----------------------------------------~ ------~ ·~ 
page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, November 14, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Opportunities abound in trip to Baton Rouge 
T
he excuses have grown stale, and patience has worn thin. The chips are down; all their cards are on the table. Simply put, there is a lot on the line for the Notre Dame football team this Saturday when it travels to Baton Rouge. 
For starters, the Irish will most like­ly need seven wins to qualify for the post­season, so a bowl bid and at least a million dollar pay day are at stake against the Tigers. 
As a team, Notre Dame has a chance to upgrade the label that will soon be for­ever attached to the 1997 season. If the squad fails in its quest to upset the Tigers, there is little doubt that the year will go down in Irish lore as "a complete and utter nightmare." 
However, if Notre Dame is able to pull off what many consider to be the impossible, history books just may be a little kinder and refer to the season as only "a major disappointment." While it's hardly the way one would want to describe a season at NO, it's come to the point where beggars can't be choosers. 
For several individuals, Saturday's matchup presents an important oppor­tunity -one that could forever affect the future of Irish football. Included in this group are Bob Davie, Jim Colletta, Ron Powlus, and the Class of 1998. 
Bob Davie: Although one victory would hardly salvage a frustrating season for the first-year head coach, it would go a long way to reducing the number of critics that are beginning to line up behind him. 
In addition, a 7-5 season compared to a 6-6 mark (haphazardly assuming the Irish defeat West Virginia and Hawaii) sure looks better to the recruits Davie will be trying to land following the year. 

Jim Colletta: There's no reason to beat around the bush. A win over LSU just might save Colletta's job. Pressure continues to mount on Davie to cut ties with his offensive coordina­tor after the season. 
In a lackluster sea­son, a strong offen­sive performance at Death Valley may be the only thing that can keep Colletta out of the unemployment line this winter. 
Ron Powlus: For all of his records and statistics, the quar­terback's four years at Notre Dame will be remembered as "average" at best. 
And whether he 


With much speculation concerning his job security, offensive coordinator Jim Colletta will need a good showing 
from his offense over the final three games. 

deserves it or not, Powlus will go down as the "can't miss" prospect that missed. 
However, a win on Saturday might create a lasting memory for Irish fans, and at the same time, cancel out some of the times Powlus would sooner for­get. They say that what one does in the end is what will be remembered the most. 
The Class of 1998: Keep in mind that this group entered Notre Dame on the heels of the now infamous 1993 season in which the Irish finished a controversial No. 2 in the polls to Florida State. Amid the loftiest of expectations, the class has struggled to a 27-16-1 record since arriving in South Bend. 
While it would be unfair to point the finger entirely at the seniors, at least some of the blame for the sudden fall of the Notre Dame football program should be attributed to the Class of 1998. For all of its problems both on and off the field, the bunch could restore a shred of pride if it returns home with a victory. 
Indeed, this is more than a big game for the Irish. With money, recruiting, job security, and a place in history rid­ing on Saturday's outcome, Notre Dame football may never be the same. 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King, Mark DeBoy Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Jenn Breslow Lab Techs: Brandon Candura, Kevin Dalum 
Notre a..a 
vs. 

Tugelf' St.tulln'lllm 

Baton Ro1ll!ge, Lm.nis:iamt 
-3:30 ll),m, 
\ 


~-­

Friday, November 14, 1997 
II'iSh Expel'ts. 

Mike Day (19-13) Spons Editor 
LSU 
Penn State Georgia 
UCLA 

Betsy Baker (20-12) Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Washington 

Joe Cavato (18-14) Assistant Spons Editor 
LSU 
Penn State Auburn UCLA 

Kathleen Lopez (22-10) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Washington 

Brian Reinthaler (16-16) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Purdue Georgia UCLA 

Jeff Wagner All Big East first basemen 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia 
UCLA 


Rivals collide for control of Pac-1 0 
Nittany Lions attempt to bounce back 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
No. 13 Washington at No.9 UCLA 
UCLA's hopes for a winning season appeared to be in doubt after consecutive losses to Washington State and Tennessee to open its 1997 campaign. Since then, howev­er, the Bruins have rattled off seven consecutive victories coming into this battle for Pac-10 supremacy. 
The Huskies are tied with UCLA at 5-1 in conference play, so this contest should be the ultimate determinant of the West Coast's representa­tive in Pasadena on New Year's Day. 
Bruin quarterback Cade McNown has yet to throw for less than 200 yards in a game this year, and Skip Hicks will be looking to redeem himself for his sad seven-carry, eight­yard effort in Seattle in 1996. The Huskies have a three­game winning streak against UCLA during which they have won each game by 20 points or more. 
The Bruins are the hottest team in the nation, as six of their seven consecutive wins have been by at least a 13-The Observer/Brandon Candura 
point margin. It is also about Billy Dicken will lead his resilient Purdue squad against Penn State this weekend in hopes of keeping its Rose 

time that Washington shows up for a big game. The Huskies have not fared well this year when anything of consequence has been on the line. 

No. 6 Penn State at No. 19 Purdue 
The Nittany Lions' embar­rassing loss to Michigan sets up an intriguing battle in West Lafayette this weekend. The Boilermakers have bounced back from their loss at Iowa and took care of business last Saturday by coming from behind to take out Michigan State. Both teams have one loss and are mathematically still in the hunt for a Rose Bowl berth. 
Joe Paterno should certainly have his troops ready to turn in a rebound effort of their own when they invade Ross­Ade Stadium tomorrow. He must remind them, however, that they are not playing the 'Spoilermakers of the recent memory. In fact, this will be Penn State's first road game against a ranked opponent. 
One thing that the Lions cer­tainly should not have forgot­ten is wide receiver Brian Alford's effort against them in 1996. Alford racked up 126 yards on nine receptions in 
Bowl hopes alive. 
that contest. A possible omen working against the Boilermakers is the fact that they have not won eight games in a season since 1980. Purdue is currently 7-2. 
No. 16 Auburn at No. 7 Georgia 
The Bulldogs are in a must­win situation if they hope to represent the SEC East divi­sion in the upcoming confer­ence championship. Despite the fact that they lead the division by half a game, a loss would drop them into a tie with Tennessee, and the Vols would take the tie-breaker due to their win over Georgia earlier this season. 
Auburn trails Notre Dame opponent LSU by half a game in the SEC West division, but a win here keeps the Tigers in contention for the division title. The Tigers dropped a four-overtime shoot-out to the 'Dawgs last season as Mike Bobo threw for 360 yards, and Hines Ward caught nine balls for 175 yards. Do not be sur­prised if this game is another barn-burner. Auburn, despite its 4-2 conference record in 1997, has outscored oppo­nents by an unimpressive spread of 109-108. 

TEAM 

1. Michigan(44) 
2. Florida St. (23) 3. Nebraska (3) 
4. 
Ohio State 

5. 
Tennessee 

6. 
Penn State 

7. 
Georgia 


8. 
North Carolina 

9. 
UCLA 


10. 
Kansas State 


11. LSU 
12. Florida 

13. Washington 
) 14. Washington St. 
15. 
Arizona State 

16. 
Auburn 


17. 
Mississippi St. 

18. 
Texas A&M 

19. 
Purdue 



19. Virginia Tech 
21. 
Syracuse 

22. 
Iowa 

23. 
Wisconsin 


24. 
Oklahoma St. 

25. 
Missouri 




RECORD 9-0 9-0 9-0 9-1 7-1 7-1 7-1 8-1 7-2 8-1 7-2 7-2 7-2 8-1 7-2 7-2 6-2 7-2 7-2 7-2 7-3 6-3 8-2 7-2 6-4 


POINTS 
1723 1693 1623 1496 1477 1342 1314 1248 1200 1125 995 966 898 873 865 615 473 418 404 404 372 289 288 254 115 
PREV 
4 
3 1 7 8 2 
9 
5 
10 
11 
14 13 
6 
16 15 17 19 21 23 20 22 12 
25 

OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: West Virginia 88, Colorado St. 82, Virginia 26, Southern Miss. 22, Louisiana Tech 14, Toledo 14, Air Force 13, Mississippi 9, Tulane 3, Clemson 2, Marshall2, Miami, Ohio 2, Michigan St. 1, Oregon 1, Southern Cal1. 
TJR • 

_j 
----~-~~---------------~---------­
-

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 14, 1997 
TO: Notre Dame Students, faculty, Staff, Alumni, and Fans FROM: Papa John's Pizza, Mike, Alison, and Grant Patton 
South Bend Franchises REGARDING: 
THE NOTRE DAME FIGHTING IRISH FOOTBALL TEAM 
We proudly support and appreciate the long hours, work ethic, positive attitude, dedication, and wining tradition of the following Notre Dame coaches and players... 
Coaches 
Bob Davie, Head Coach; Jim Colleto, Offensive Coordinator, Greg Mattison, Defensive Coordinator, Inside Linebackers, Urban Meyer, Receivers, Desmond Robinson, Running Backs, Bob Chmiel, Recruiting Coordinator, Mike Standor, Quarterbacks, Kirk Doll, Assistant Head Coach, Outside Linebackers, Special Teams, Tom McMahon, Defensive Backfield, Charlie Strong, Defensive Line 
Players 
Deke Cooper, Benny Guilbeaux, Ron Powlus, Kory Minor, A'jani Sanders, Malcolm Johnson, Jarious Jackson, Eric Chappell, Raki Nelson, Deveron Harper, Jay Johnson, Scott Cengia, Mario Strayhorn, Jimmy Friday, Ivory Covington, Allen Rossum, Zak Kustok, Hunter Smith, Cikai Champion, joey Getheral, Jim Sanson, Wayne Gunn, Kevin Kopka, Byron Joyner, Shannon Stephens, Jay Vickers, Autry Denson, Ty Goode, Tony Driver, Lee Lafayette, Bobbie Howard, Ken Barry, Cooper Rego, Jarvis Edison, Darcey Levy, Clement Stokes, Jamie Spencer, Ronnie Nicks, Robert Phelps, Chirs Wachtel, Tim Lynch, Ron Israel, Kevin Rice, Brock Williams, Paul Grimm, Anthony Denman, jason Murray, Joe Ferrer, Antwoine Wellington, Grant Irons, Mike Tribe, Joey Goodspeed, Chris McCarthy, Kevin Dansby, Bill Mitoulas, Johnathan Herbert, Joe Thomas, David Payne, Melvin Dansby, Alex Mueller, Lamont Bryant, Luke Petitgout, Shelton Jordan, Kurt Belisle, Rick Kaczenski, Brendan O'Connor, Mike Burgdorf, Matthew Kunz, Scott Fagan, Casey Robin, John Merandi, Anthony Brannan, JW jordan, john Wagner, Tim Ridder, jerry Wisne, Leon Hires, Mike Doughty, Rob Mowl, Chris Clevenger, Kurt Vollers, Brad Williams, Jon Spickelmier, Mike Rosenthal, justin Smith, Lewis Dawson, Mike Gandy, Justin Orr, Mike Denvir, Antwonjones, Dan O'Leary,Jabari Holloway, Bobby Brown, Lance Legree, Noah VanHook-Drucker, B.J. Scott, Andy Wisne, Corey Bennett, Jim Jones, Eric Glass, John Teasdale, Jason Ching 
In honor the team, we offer the following spedals: 
Offensive Lineman Defensive Lineman 
Secondary SpecialSpecial Special Receiver's Special 

Large One ToppingLarge Meats Large Works Large Cheese Pizza forPizza for Pizza for Pizza for 
$6.99
$9.99 $10.99 $5.99 
good thru 11/30/97good thru 11/30/97
good thru 11/30/97 
good thru 11/30/97 


Linebacker's Special Team's Running Back's Quarterback's Special Special Special Special Double Pepperoni Extra Large Two 2 Large Large 1 Topping Pizza for Topping Pizza for 1 Toppings for with Breadsticks 
$7.99 $10.99 $11.99 $10.00 

GO IRISH BEAT LSU! 
P.S. PAPA PREDICTS ND 20, LSU 17  
Notre Dame: 271-1177 1827 South Bend Avenue (formerly Cactus Jack's)  Saint Mary's: 271-PAPA 52565 US 33 (North Village Mall)  
Open for lunch, dine in available  








