--------------------------------~------­



Thursday, February 13, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 90 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NOTRE DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS 1997 
Campus waits for Golf Quad ... 
Election results postponed, O'Neill, Keough vote today 
By DEREK BETCHER have a judicial board [the group that nor­Assistant News Editor mally conducts elections], so we've been working with their hall presidents," J en 
Unexpectedly, the winner of Wednesday's Dovidio, election committee president runoff election for student body president explained. was not announced last night. But that was where the chain of com­
The two remaining tickets gathered in the mand broke down. student government office last night only to "The person in charge of running the learn that the election election basically didn't do results were incom-their job," Bret Hartmann, plete. Two residence Keough co-president said. halls had failed to par­'We're still trying to Hartmann's co-presi­ticipate. dent, Eric Saslas, had a
get some real, ~ 
"Results will be post­more active involvement in poned until Keough and substantive answers. We the primary balloting but 
l
O'Neill vote tomorrow," was reluctant to. publicly
will have official results 
election committee place blame on those president Jen Dovidio tomorrow.' responsible for the runoffs 1 announced. "Under the mistakes. 
circumstances, we feel Jen Dovidio "This is not going to hap-
l 
that we've taken all of Election committee chair pen a second time," was the necessary steps to the only comment Saslas 
make this a fair elec­tion." 

The candidates -Matt Griffin and Erek Nass, Matt Szabo and Mary Gillard -were visibly upset. Both tickets declined com­ment. 
The events leading up to the postpone­ment were slow in unfolding. Representatives from Keough Hall and O'Neill Hall each picked up their dorms' ballots in the student government office yesterday, but no polling was conducted in either of the halls. Election officials were left scrambling for answers. 
"In a nutshell, neither of these dorms 
would make. 
While an exact cause for the absence of a proctor and balloting place could not be pinpointed, miscommunication, irresponsi­bility, and apathy towards student govern­ment surfaced as likely culprits. 
The blame in O'Neill Hall was equally dif­ficult to place. 
The situation was strikingly similar: An O'Neill resident picked up his dorm's bal­lots but also failed to locate anyone to administer the election. 
"It's an unfortunate mistake, he made a 
see ELECT!0 N I page 6 

Faculty: Recruiting top priority for ND future 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
The future of faculty recruiting took center stage last night at the second meeting of the Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life. Faculty from every department came to voice their concerns and comments about the current state of affairs. 
The session, which featured talks by professors Sonia Cernes and Edward Conlon, continued discussion on the six priorities that University Provost Nathan Hatch laid out in his installation address in September. Cernes' and Conlon's speeches focused on the third and fourth of these priorities, which both dealt in some way with student and faculty recruitment. 
Professor Sonia Cernes set about defining the problems that the University has had with recruiting in the past and offering solutions for the happiness of faculty in the future. 
Cernes, a professor of English, stressed to the audience that the single most important factor in college education is interpersonal activity with and between professors and students. 
In her attempt to show how far the "revitalization of undergraduate education" has come, Cernes referred to the University's implementation of the Kaneb Center, which offers workshops in time management to teachers, and a heavy investment in technology. 
"Notre Dame undergraduate education doesn't need the Heimlich maneuver or CPR. We are in need of a good dose of beta carotene," Genres stated speaking about pos­sible incentives which could be offered to the Notre Dame faculty. 
Cernes proposed several solutions to the problems that faculty face in their departments and in the classrooms. Grants for outstanding teacher assistants, greater techno­logical support for class periods, better retirement benefits, and merit raises were among the incentives Genres out-
see FACULTY I page 4 

• STUDENT SENATE 
Quorum eludes senate again 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate's inability to officially meet yesterday highlighted a serious ineffi­ciency that proposed reform efforts will address. Fittingly, the informal meeting that did occur was dominated by Brendan Kelly's explanation of pending reform proposals. 
"No business shall be conducted in the Student Senate unless a quorum is present," the • see also STUDENT student govern­
GOVERNMENT

ment constitution 
reads.  REFORM page 3  
That  quorum  
total  - three- 

quarters of the members -is occasionally an unrealistic target, considering the packed schedules of many student government partic­ipants. 
The quorum rule is one of many facing adjustment in the pending reform process. 
"I can't call this meeting to order," senate chairman Seth Miller said, "but I'd like to pro­ceed in an informal way." What followed was a pseudo-senate meeting, which included 
The Observer/Megan Dooher 

Kelly's briefing on the reform process. 
Tony Siefring and Peter Cesaro look on as Brendan
"I just want to give you an outline of what 
Kelly explained reform committee proposals to Student
we've come up with," Kelly, the reform com­
Senate members yesterday afternoon. 
mittee chairman, began. 
Central to all reforms, he said, was the idea With those purposes in mind, reform seeks to that student organizations have two duties to reorganize and recreate portions of student gov­the student body; first, organizations should ernment, Kelly said. He released a timetable for provide regular activities, services and pro­those changes to the senate; much of the imple­
gramming. Second, they should form opinion and plan action on student life issues. 
see SENATE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 13, 1997 
• WORlD AT AGlANCE 
Israel begins to follow through on Hebron peace agreement 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


No more excuses for V-Day 
I've heard that ifyou are male and the month is February, the prospect of having to enter Victoria's Secret is your most terrific nightmare. 
No matter how strongly men stride from their car through the mall to the store's thresh­old, when they reach the point of entry, they smell the perfume, see the lin­gerie and lose it. 
Victoria's Secret epito­mizes feminine pleasure: it's an idyllic atmosphere with classical music, sensu­al fabrics, and provocative scents. 
For men, it's altogeth­er different. It's as if the fragrances are toxic or the walls are papered with barbed wire. For some reason, the luxuriousness of the place makes them unnaturally nervous. Once actual­ly inside, men show signs of serious infection: flushed faces, clammy palms, and dizziness. 
Although you may be afraid of developing these symptoms, I can attest that I've never seen a case persist once the victim has left the store. A female companion to accompany you may mitigate heart palpitations and wheezing. 
Maybe Victoria's Secret just isn't your thing. Fortunately, there are plenty of other ways to prove you know what romance is without endangering your health. However you decide to celebrate Valentine's Day, don't choose the "wimping out" option. For men, these excuses count as "wimping:" 
• 
I'd rather call my Mom/Sister/Aunt Rita to wish her Happy V-Day than call The One whose responses in Seminar awe me. 

• 
I'm staying home to make nasty sentences with Conversation Hearts, such as I TOLD YOU SO CUTIE or SO LONG LOVER GIRL. 

•I gave romance up for Lent. 

• 
JPW. (Nice try. Unfortunately, there's always tonight. It's V-Day at midnight anyway. How about tucking the parents into bed early?) 

• 
I'm boycotting. Last year I followed the advice in your lousy column and got rej ected/tortured/sm'acked. 

• 
There's nothing to do in South Bend. (Anyone who uses this one deserves to get a phone book thrown at their head. This holiday requires doing your own research. The lazy Cupid never catches the worm.) 

Because I've been accused of being one-sided in my columns, I've included a similar list for females: 

• 
I'd rather call my Dad/Brother/Uncle Guido to wish him Happy V-Day than call the one whose eye color leaves me seeing blue all day. 

• 
I refuse to be taken out to dinner/accept candy/eat anything other than lettuce. Spring Break is in 21 days. (I feel your pain.) 

• 
I'm booking up tomorrow's schedule com­pletely, so I won't feel lonely when the Chosen One doesn't take my repeated hints and ask me for plans. 

• 
I never check the name tagged to bouquets in the dorm lobby. (It is possible, though unlikely, that one of them is for you.) 

• 
I always forget to wear sexy underwear on Valentine's Day, even though I know its the day Venus sanctioned for the wearing of sexy underwear. 


What it all comes down to is this: there's no such thing as a legitimate excuse for abstaining from Valentine's Day. Because it is in giving that we receive kisses, there is a sale right now at Victoria's Secret, and you won't stay single long if you are brave. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  ImlAY's STAFF  
News  Production  
Bridger O'Connor  Mark DeBoy  
David Freddoso  Bridget O'Connor  
Sports  Maureen Hurley  
Tom Schlidr  Graphics  
Accent  Brian Blank  
Joey Crawford  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Joe Stark  
Brandon Williams  

> 

q,~,~P.Q.Q ~ ~ 6 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta  41  37  Dallas  38  32  Minneapolis  27  0  
Baltimore  36  21  Denver  32  18  New Orleans 66  51  
Boston  28  21  Geneseo  18  10  New York  32  27  
Chicago  30  8  Los Angeles 70  54  Philadelphia 36  23  
Columbus  31  18  Miami  80  64  Phoenix  64  46  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
HEBRON, West Bank 

Keeping its word to the Palestinians, Israel reopened an Arab vegetable market next to a downtown Jewish set­tler enclave on Wednesday, a day after freeing 31 Palestinian women from prison. 
The gestures were designed to help build trust as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu left for meetings with President Clinton in Washington to discuss how to proceed in Mideast peace efforts. 
Netanyahu, speaking during a stopover in Amsterdam en route to the United States, praised what he called Palestinian efforts to "create more con­fidence in the process." 
"Israel now sees reciprocal move­ment by the Palestinians on the fulfill­ment of commitments," he said. Among these, he said, were "acting against terrorists, putting terrorists back in prison, refraining from releasing ter­rorists." 
On Wednesday morning, workers using hammers and chisels pried open iron shutters that had been welded onto nine stalls in the vegetable market adjacent to the Avraham Avinu settler 
Current status 
• Total Palestinian control 
R Palestinian civil control with lsraeli security 0 Total Israeli control 

APNo/m. J. Castello 
compound in downtown Hebron. Seventeen other stalls are to be opened during the next few weeks. 
The market was closed by Israel in 1994 after a Jewish settler gunned down 29 Muslim worshipers at the Tomb of the Patriarchs. Israel said the market created friction by drawing too many Palestinians to settler areas. 
"This is a good achievement. Life starts to return to normal," vegetable seller Abdel Hadi Nasreddine said. 
The opening of the market was stipu­lated in last month's Hebron agreement, the first peace accord between the Palestinians and a right-wing Israeli government. 
Israel also fulfilled its promise to free Palestinian women prisoners, whose release was already more than a year overdue. Israel had agreed in September 1995 to free the women, but its president and an army commander refused to pardon five involved in killing Israelis. In solidarity, the other women chose to remain in jail. 
Waving clenched fists and "V" for vic­tory signs, 31 women were released late Tuesday, after a long day of waiting and confusion. 

Clinton to eulogize Harriman 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton plans to "speak very warmly and affectionately" about Ambassador Pamela Harriman at her funeral today, the White House says. Clinton is to deliver a eulogy to the 76-year-old British-born socialite and Democratic Party maven, who died in Paris last week after a stroke. White House spokesman Mike McCurry said 

yesterday that the president plans to speak of "his admiration for her public service" and the work she did as the U.S. envoy to France. He is gearing his com­ments primarily to Harriman's family, the spokesman said. "He will speak very warmly and affectionately about a woman that all of America loved and all of France loved," McCurry said. The private funeral will be held at Washington National Cathedral. She will be buried at Arden, the Harriman estate north of New York City. 
Nebraska ends 'mumbling' 

LINCOLN, Neb. 
The Nebraska Legislature dispensed with the final mumble yesterday, passing a bill without first listening to a clerk droning "hominahominahomina" as he for­mally read every single word for the record. The Nebraska Constitution used to require a "final read­ing," meaning lawmakers sometimes had to sit through tag-team recitals by the clerks that could run for hours. But in November, voters amended the Constitution to let senators skip the reading. The speaker of the single­chamber legislature gets to decide whether to ask the senators to skip the final reading. Three-fifths have to agree, but that was no problem yesterday, when the lawmakers were confronted with a 17-page bill to change the way businesses lile entity names and trade names. They quickly voted 37-0 to invoke the new privi­lege, then passed the bill 44-0. Until yesterday, most of the bills passed this year had been so short it was never worth taking the time for a vote on suspending the reading. 
Peru crisis may end in peace 
LIMA. Peru 

Diplomats spoke optimistically yesterday about a peaceful end to Peru's 2-month-old hostage crisis after long-stalled talks restarted between the government and Tupac Amaru rebels. The Tuesday meeting between rebel leader Roli Rojas Fernandez and govern­ment negotiator Domingo Palermo was seen as a signifi­cant step toward the release of the 72 men held hostage in the Japanese ambassador's mansion. Yesterday, about a half-dozen of the captives were seen in the back yard of the walled compound, picking up dishes and a party tent that had been abandoned when rebels seized the diplomatic residence during a Dec. 17 cocktail party. In Tokyo, Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto told reporters he felt "relief' that communi­cation has resumed after six weeks. Many of the cap­tives are Japanese. Seiroku Kajiyama, Chief Cabinet Secretary, called the talks "extremely meaningful." No date has been set yet for the next talks. Negotiations had been stalled since Dec. 28. 
Grenade blast rocks Ethiopian city 
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia 

A grenade attack at a hotel in the historic Ethiopian city of Harar killed two people and wounded eight. including five European tourists, a British Embassy offi­cial said Wednesday. There was no claim of responsibility for the attack late Monday in Harar, 325 miles east of Addis Ababa, and the motive was unclear. Security has deteriorated in eastern Ethiopia during the past two years. The victims were not identified, but Roger Patten, a spokesman at the British Embassy in Addis Ababa, said Wednesday that three Britons were wounded. Ethiopian television said the other wounded Europeans were a German man and a French woman. Patten said the dead were an Ethiopian police officer and a hotel security guard. He said three Ethiopians were also wounded. The region of the attack is inhabited by ethnic Somalis, some of whom sympathize with Al-ltihad Al-Islam, or Islamic Unity, which is fighting for unification with Somalia in an Islamic state. Al-ltihad operates from Somalia, but occa­sionally makes forays inside eastern Ethiopia. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®torecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 13. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Thursday
Friday: Saturd~y Q 17
··:·· .;:
j
'· 

Sunda~ (f 28 6 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
«:) 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
', 

Pressure 
H L EJ CSJ [!}) 0 1Z3 8¢-uu 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
Mon~ay ~r 28 24 
VIs Assoclsled Press
(5,......s.....·......,,.,...; ....\4) · 



amend the student body con­stitution this weekend, pend­ing approval from the Hall President's Council and the Student Senate. 
Officials plan on publishhig the new plan for the pro• posed Student Union on March 6. ..••..•. 
Members spent most ofi~st night's meeting considering the reports of the senate reform subcommittee and a suggestion to set up the elec­tion procedure ahead of time. 
The senate reform subcom­mittee report highlighted the proposals that letters and resolutions passed by the Student Senate be signed by the student body president, then submitted to the admin• istration. 
"This will show the admin­istration that the student body has a strong, unified voice on the given issue," said Mark Higgins, chair of subcommittee report. Some concern was voiced over the position and duties of the off-campus presidents and whether or not.they 
"They should su .... their own budget which will then be looked over by the budget committee~" · 
Each subcornmitt~e will 

debate any probl¢nls With the changes before tl:ley are presented to th~ Hall President's Council Tuesday, 
\V()1Y~i(Jf-Ll'\f 9 S JRJE.:S(}1UJR(~ l~: C~ El'\f1fJ[~: 1R 
FRIDAY 

BROWN BAG LUNCH DISCUSSION SERIES 
TOMORROW between 12:00PM and 1:00PM in the WRC, located on the 2nd floor of Lafortune in the Student Government Office. 
come meet WRC volunteers and supporters over lunch while diseussin~ important ami rele·vant issues. 
Goals set for reform process 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Members of the reform committee, along with concerned faculty and staff members presented the reasons for, and goals of, the recent reform process with students at a forum hosted by Keenan Hall last night. 
Sam Gaglio, dean of the College of Business Administration, who says he has used student government as an example in his classes of how not to run an organiza­tion, praised the system that the reform committee has developed as "a solid struc­

ture that gets things done." Kelly 
Citing the Student Senate as an example of what is wrong with the organiza­tion of student government, Gaglio noted that only 25 percent, at most, of the voting members are actually senators. 
"That is not accurate representation of the stu­dent body's concerns," he said. 
Each of the three reform committee members present agreed, adding that they do not have time to fully address concerns in the senate because many of its members run other organi­zations. This problem caused the reform com­mittee to propose changing the composition of the senate to that of one senator from every dorm. This would eliminate extraneous mem­bers from the senate. 
Mark Leen, a student senator and member of the reform committee, described the reason for reforming student government as one of student power. 
"There is no organization that speaks out for students," he said. "Power is influence, having people listen to you. This new senate organiza­tion gives that power to the students." 
Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy, who also sits on the senate, described the current student government constitution as "a most con­fusing document that contradicts itself and is not a smooth flow." 
To illustrate this he said that every incoming student body president and vice president are asked to put together an organizational chart of student government based on the constitution. "Those that actually put together a chart have charts with boxes and arrows and dotted lines in every direction," he said. "It has no direct flow." 
Brendan Kelly, chairman of the reform com­mittee, described the changes that were being made to the structure of student government in 
Timeline for Implementing Reform 
February 14 Amendments from sub­committee chairs due February 16 Writing Committee completes revision February 18 HPC proposal 
February 19 Reform Committee finalizes new constitution February 25 HPC vote 
February 26 Proposal to senate 
March 5 Senate vote 
March-Implementation of reforms if September passage is successful 
The Observer I Brian Blank 

the transition to the new Student Union. 
"We have two basic purposes," he said. "We are not a government. We do not enact laws. So the change to a Student Union brings about a change to create some unity between organiza­tions. We also look for a synthesis of ideas in programming and representation." The commit­tee has suggested moving the Hall Presidents' Council to a purely programming role under the auspices of a new Executive Cabinet. 
"The role of the HPC was never clearly defined," said Deborah Hellmuth, co-chair of the HPC. "Major changes get passed through the HPC. But, when issues come to us there is a process of re-education that has to go on every time." 
Under the new organization, the policy side of the Student Union will be handled by the Student Senate and its subcommittees alone. "The power in the system comes from 28 people whose only job is making policy," said Hellmuth, noting that the new single-dorm senators will have to answer to individual dorm council meet­ings. 
One student's question addressed the position of the Campus Life Council in the reform process. "The CLC does not fall under the stu­dent government constitution," answered Kelly. "But we need to have a unified organization that functions before we can go to the Board of Trustees and maybe reform the CLC." 
In saying this, he indicated that the reform process might not end on March 6, the targeted date for the publishing of the revised student body constitution. 

Kelly resigns as chief of staff 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN rent president and vice presi­Assistant News Editor dent of the student body]. "As chair, I need to play a 
Brendan Kelly resigned as neutral role to implement the student government chief of reforms suggested by this staff on Monday afternoon. committee," Kelly explained. 
Kelly will remain as chair of "My resignation as chief of the reform committee. This, staff makes me non-political he says, is the main impetus and gives me more time to behind his resignation. devote to implementation of 
"There has been a lot of con­reforms." fusion among the candidates Deanette Weiss, Kelly's [for student body president] assistant, will take over as and the general public about interim chief of staff until the the reform procedure," he newly elected administration said. "The reforms are con­appoints its own. "Deanette ceived by a large group that will keep the Office of the represents every constituency Student Body President on on campus. They are a prod­task and help with an effective uct of a diverse group of stu­transition to the next adminis­dents and are non-political. tration," Kelly said. There has been an inaccurate Kelly will also retain his association of this process advisory position on the with just Seth and Megan [cur-Academic Council. 

~ Valell£~f!e~'s pay ' 
Flower~.·-.& G1f:ts 
........;:: :.= .. <·:·<: ;.:.~~.......:.. :·~.;.4·. : >: _,f#".¢.$»'·"'';~~::=·. 

Roses ~ $29~99 Dozen -Delivered Flower BpKays r-$10.9·9:~t q·~ -Delivered Flowe~ing Prlnts ;.;..·$10~99t-Delivered We al~:5 have ho~em,lae chbq{i,l~tes, vases, halloof(;~~:~a~ds $l.i >'/'~is 
MATERN•••. 
Please Pre order to 'gudrantee..,~eliv~ry! 
272-0970 Vl~f:h 
Halfmile north ofN.D. at U.S. 31/Pendle Rd. Stop Light 


---~-----~-~-~ ---­
page 4 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
mentation is planned to be done before spring break. 
Kelly also solicited feedback from the senate members. 
Many expressed approval of the proposal to recreate the senate with one representative from each dormitory. But related to that issue, repre­sentation for students living off-campus was identified as a concern that still needs fine­tuning. 
"That's something that needs to be considered at our next meeting," Kelly conced­ed. 
Earlier, senator Mark Leen opened by reading the group a memo from senior class presi­dent Bill Hammonds. Friday, Feb. 21, the note began, there 

~ ---~--------------~------------------------------------------. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

will be a faculty and senior lunch at Alumni-Senior Club where alcohol will be served. The memo alluded to a two­part reason for attending; first, to support faculty and student relations, and second, to show support for returning 'liquid lunch' to senior bar. 
In other news, Judicial Council president Ryan Mcinerney updated the group on the letter he is drafting to the University's Board of Trustees regarding the addi­tion of a student member to the board. 
The letter introduces the idea and then proposes setting aside part of student govern­ment's allotted time so that a senate sub-committee can for­mally present the proposal, Mcinerney said. 
The letter will be ready for final approval at the next Student Senate meeting. 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
and merit raises were among the incentives Genres outlined over the course of her talk. 
Conlon, the management department chair since 1992, pushed audience members to create a vision for their depart­ment and to define excellence in the classroom, but not without a quick game of patty-cake. 
All members of' the audience joined with Conlon to partici­pate in the children's game as an example of a way in which each faculty member can devel­op a vision for success. "Vision in the heads of' the departments can be a powerful asset," he emphasized. 
The organization behAvior 

scholar proposed steps to achieving departmental excel­lence. Ilis major points revolved around developing a "vision" through a consensus which would then differentiate all of the different schools. Support of a vision that is desir­able, feasible, focused, and communicable will allow the "mind-games" in faculty recruiting to come to an end. 
However, Conlon stressed that no one's department vision would work without the Provost or administration. "Department vision doesn't mean anything without the hierarchy." 
Faculty from all departments then had the opportunity to grill the panel about the realistic e!Tects of their proposals on the University. Scarcity of funds for faculty recruiting trips, depart­ment tension, and lack of infor-
Thursday, February 13, 1997 
mation glared as unresolved issues that face the Notre Dame community. 
Many faculty members raised motivational concerns over teaching large classes and required courses. The question of whether Notre Dame needs more teachers to deal with the current situation was discussed by Eileen Kohlman from the First Year of Studies. 
"Is it a problem of not having enough teachers?" she asked the silent audience, "We must ask ourselves, can we really ever have enough teachers to meet the demand?" 
The next session of Academic Life, dealing with the fifth and sixth themes from Provost Hatch's speech, will take place on April 8, in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 

Come learn the insights of sports psychology that have helped students of all discplines ... 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School 
Presentation & Discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the University Counseling Center, will cover: 
*enhancing/maintaining concentration *how to manage numerous demands on your time *handling performance anxiety when writing papers, making presentations & taking comprehen­sive finals *dealing with academic setbacks *improving confidence in your study strategy *improving your ability to pace yourself in your academic studies *focus your energy more quickly &productively 
Date:Sunday,February 16 Place: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Ctr Time:4pm-5pm 
*sponsored by Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences, the University Counseling Ctr.& Campus Ministry 





JanSport's 1997 Junior Parents' Weel{end Collection 

Notre Dame Bookstore 
Open ·Sunday 9am-3pm! 
((on the campus)) 
Thursday, February 13, 1997  The Observer • NEWS  page 5  
• CHECHNYA  
Chechen president sworn in amidst celebration  
senate election schedule!· Observer Staff Report Jen Dovidio, election committee pres­ident, presented the schedule of hall and class elections at the student gov­ernment reform committee last night. "All elections will take place between spring break and April 1," sh~ ~;:tid. Students will elect their Student Senators and Hall Presidents within the same two week perio(U\NThe exact time frame between elections will be left up to each particular htillL+; "We need to allow flexibility and some their schedule of these'positions dorm, they heed not  By ANATOLY MALTSEV Associated Press Writer GROZNY, Chechnya With all the pomp a ruined capital could muster, Asian Maskhadov was installed yesterday as Chechnya's presi­dent and vowed to protect "the constitu­tion. the laws and freedom" of the breakaway republic. Chechens celebrated by firing guns and shouting "Allahu Akbar" outside a small theater at the Chemical Workers' Palace of Culture -the only building still standing that could accommodate the inauguration ceremony. Thousands of people gathered outside, smiling, hugging and dancing in the win­ter sunshine amid a barrage of gunfire so loud and long it set off scores of car alarms. Inside, the hall was decorated with the trappings of independence Chechnya's green, red and black flag, green bunting, and a banner with the republic's slogan: "Freedom, equality, peace."  ''I'm passing into Asian Maskhadov's Maskhadov took the oath of office wear­hands a free, independent Chechnya," ing a suit and a cliechen lambswool hat. the outgoing Chechen leader, Zelimkhan A copy of the Koran, the Muslim holy Yandarbiyev, said in a brief speech book, lay nearby. opening the ceremony, held in the Russia has recognized Maskhadov's victory, andChechen language. President BorisJust a few foreign Yeltsin sentdignitaries attended, national securi­a sign that 'I'm passing into Asian ty chief IvanMaskhadov's small, Maskhadov's hands a Rybkin to themostly Muslim republic is a long free, independent Chechnya.' swearing-in. But the funda­way from being roc­ognized as an indo­Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev mental disputeover Chechnya'spendent country. political statusMaskhadov, a for-hung over themer officer in the Soviet army officer, led rebel forces in a proceedings. Moscow insists Chechnya must remain victorious war against the Russians, then negotiated a peace agreement last part of Russia, while Chechen leaders August providing for the pullout of consider their tiny region already inde­pendent and have been running theirdefeated Russian troops. He became prime minister in the sepa­own affairs for months. ratist government and won a landslide To drive home its point, Russia refused victory in the Jan. 27 presidential elec­visas to some foreign guests and threat­ened to cut diplomatic ties with anytions. His hands cupped in prayer, country that recognizes Chechnya.  



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Dine in • Carry Out • Catering • Reservations Desired 
~  . 1 l  ~~where The Aroma Of  ~  
~  Gentle Spices Awaits You"  ~  
~  ~~~  ~  
~  INDIAN TANDOORS & South INDIAN  ~  
~  CURRIES  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  

~ 10% discount for students on Valentine's ~ ~ Dinner Tues -Thurs 5:00-9:00 ~ ~ Fri-Sat 5:00-9:30 ~ 
~ t:=] ~ ~ 1640 SOUTH BEND AVE. • SOUTH BEND, IN (EDISON and ST. RD 23 ~ 
@].@] 



~OBSERV~~R 
is now accepting applications for the 
1997-98 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Brad Prendergast by Friday, Feb. 14 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an abiliry to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning phowgraphs. 
ST. MARY'S EDI~.TOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary\ is encouraged to apply. The ediwr manages Sainr Mary's department heads, coordinates c\verage with Notre Dame staff, gen­erates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is re5t?onsible for the Observer office at 
Saint Mary's. '­
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gener­ating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 13, 1997 
the election's outcome. If Keough and O'Neill have the


Election 
same 46 percent turnout today that they had in Friday's pri­
continued from page 1 
mary, over 250 ballots will be serious attempt to try to find cast. The primary winner was someone to do it," O'Neill co­decided by a 35-vote margin. president Bob Stallman said. Keough's rector, Tom Doyle, Highlighting an apathy in his attributed yesterday's ballot dorm towards student govern­problem to growing-pains m e n t . instead of Stallman said apathy.
'Jfeel badly for the
that despite "We're a not setting up candidates. I can new dorm, a a polling new build­
imagine how disap­
place, not a ing, with a single resident pointed and exhausted new rector. confronted they are.' You just do him with the what you
Tom Doyle can to get
problem. 
"That's probably a sadder thing," he remarked. 
"I would say. more than any­thing, that there's just a dis­heartened view of student gov­ernment here. No one stepped up and said 'I want to run this election,"' O'Neill co-president Rajit Basu agreed. 
Regardless of a predominant non-concern, today's vote could play a significant role in 
your year going," he apologetically offered. While a Notre Dame student, Doyle ran for student body president in 1988. and he offered a different perspective to yesterday evening's events. "I feel badly for the candi­dates. I can imagine how dis­appointed and exhausted they are," he said. "They're the ones who have to wait." 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1·5323. 


Make A Difference Be A ..• 
Good Shepherd Volunteer 
Opportunities for a year in service in: Human Services and Special Education 
In the Context of: Community and Spirituality 
Come and meet a representative at the: Center for Social Concerns Thursday, February 13, 1997 at 7:30 p.m. 
Interviews available Thursday and Friday Drop by the CSC or contact Meridith Welch at 212-4 75-4245 ext. 717 to Schedule 

• SOUTH KOREA 

North Korean confidant defects 
Leaders accuse 
South offoul play, kidnapping 
By JU-YEON KIM Associated Press Writer 
SEOUL, South Korea 

A confident of North Korean leader Kim Jong II defected yesterday and was seeking asy­lum here, becoming the high­est-ranking official to flee the communist North and giving the South an intelligence coup, South Korea said. 
Hwang Jang Yop, 72, a mem­ber of the Central Committee of North Korea's ruling Workers' Party, fled to the South Korean Embassy in Beijing and asked for asylum, the South Korean Foreign Ministry said. 
South Korean Ambassador Chung Jong-wook said in Beijing that Hwang had defect­ed with an aide. The Foreign Ministry identified the aide as Kim Duk Hung, the president of a North Korean trading compa­ny who is in his 50s. 
"Since (Hwang's) free will to defect has been confirmed, the issue will be handled through consultations with the Chinese government," the ambassador said. · 
North Korea insisted that Hwang must have been kid­napped by South Koreans, call­ing his defection "inconceivable and impossible." 
"If it is true that Hwang Jang Yop is in the South Korean embassy in Beijing, it is obvious that he has been kidnapped by the enemy," an unidentified North Korean Foreign Ministry spokesman said in a report car­ried by the North's Korean Central News Agency. 
"If it is brought to light that the South Korean authorities kidnapped him and describe him as seeking asylum, we will regard it as a serious incident without precedent and take due countermeasures," the spokesman said. 
The importance of Hwang's defection was underscored by South Korea's reaction. It called an emergency Cabinet meeting to discuss ways to bring Hwang and his aide to Seoul. The for­eign minister canceled a week­end trip to Singapore where he was to attend a meeting of Asian and European foreign ministers. 
The defection could be a sign of a power struggle within the North's hierarchy, according to one South Korean official who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty. 
Hwang also could provide a wealth of information about North Korea's government, which rules one of the world's most closed societies, the offi­cial said. 
Hwang's defection comes while North Korea is preparing to celebrate its biggest holiday, the 55th birthday of Kim Jong II, who became the country's de facto leader when his father died almost three years ago. 


Trouble withyour FAFSA or Profile? 


WE CAN HELP! 
Joe Russo, Director of Financial Aid, will be discussing these forms and answering your questions 
Monday,February 17 8 p.m. Dooley Room 1st Floor of LaFortune 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AID 
U"'"'"'"'"' Nnur o ... , 
ITun•••llm••••.,••• 


Thursday, February 13, 1997 
Ten U.S. news organizations approved for Cuba bureaus 
By GEORGE GEDDA Clinton administration gave the said the other media applica­Associated Press Writer go-ahead Wednesday for 10 U.S. tions., including one from The news organizations to open Associated Press, would be 
WASHINGTON bureaus in Cuba. Of the 10, only reviewed. 
In a move it said would focus CNN has permission from the The administration acted after more attention on the shortcom­Cuban government. influential conservatives, includ­ings of Communist Cuba, the The Cuban Foreign Ministry ing Senate Foreign Relations 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association & Campus Ministry 
proudly present 
An insightful film about religions in Africa by 



0MPU5
Ali Mazrui


AFRICA 
LANU OF ~£AUT\' 4 PL£Nn' 
fV11NISTRY 

''New Gods"
. 

"NEW GODS" examines the factors that influence religion in Africa, paying particular attention to how traditional Mrican religions, Islam, and Christianity coexist •nd influence each other. 
followed by a 

Panel Discussion: "THE IMPACT OF ISLAM & CHRISTIANITY ON AFRICA" 
featuring: 

Prof James Bellis, Anthropology Dept. at Notre Dame (Chair); Rev. David Burrell, Professor, Theology Dept. at Notre Dame; Rev. Sylvanus Udoidem, Dean ofPhilosophy Dept.!Univ. ofPort Harcourt, Nigeria and a Visiting Research Fellow at the Center for Philosophy ofReligion at Notre Dame; Prof Peter Walshe, Govt. Dept. at Notre Dame; Brother Raymond Papenfuss, Ghana Mission Promoter at Holy Cross Center; Chandra johnson, Assistant Director, Retreats and Special Projects, Campus Ministry at Notre Dame; Mohamed Ibrahim, Lawyer, CCHRL/Law School 
Wednesday, Feb. 19 • 7:00 p.m. • 155 DeBartolo 
FREE ADMISSION http://www.nd.edu/~ndasa 

Some employers promise y~u the world. 

We offer you a chance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University ofNotreDame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest of brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Committee Chairman Jesse cial in Havana, contacted by Helms, R-N.C., said they would telephone, said that CNN was have no objection to the pres-the only U.S. news organization ence of U.S. news bureaus in authorized by the Cubans. Havana. • "We will continue analyzing 
No U.S. news outlet has had a the rest of the applications" and permanent bureau in Cuba since will make decisions "when the the AP was expelled from the Cuban government considers it 
island in 1969.  opportune,"  
White House  said the offi­ 
s pokes man  'It will bring greater  cia!.  Cuba  
Mike McCurry said the  public exposure  a p p r o v e d CNN's applica­ 
administration  to those who are  tion  last  
action was in keeping with a  d a vacating  democratic  August.Besides CNN  
policy dating  change in Cuba.'  and  the  AP,  
back  to  U.S.  govern- 
October 1995  ment permis­ 
"supporting  Mike McCurry  sion  to  open  
an  increased  ----------­ bureaus  was  

flow of accurate information to extended to ABC, CBS, Univision, and from and within Cuba The Miami Herald, Dow Jones itself." News Services, the Chicago 
He said the administration Tribune, the Sun-Sentinel of believes reporting by U.S. news Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and the organizations "will keep inter-School for Advanced national attention focused on International Studies at Johns the situation in Cuba and on the Hopkins University, which pub­realities of economic and politi-lishes a Cuba news letter. cal conditions there." CNN News Group President 
"It also will bring greater pub-Tom Johnson said that he was lie exposure to those who are pleased by the administration advocating democratic change decision, and that the network's in Cuba," he said. Havana bureau would open in A Cuban Foreign Ministry offi-March. 
• 
Jumbo Sweetheart chocolate chip cookie cakes personalized 

• 
Edible chocolate chip cookie roses, half dozen and dozen 

• 
Sweetheart gift boxes and cookie canisters. 


No more stale candy, wilted roses or expensive cards. Order your Valentine a delicious gift from Blondie's today. 
Call ahead to guarantee that your order is ready when you want it. 


7/?oo-Lu4 
Mail order available. 
University Park Mall 

277-7970 


HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Information Meetings: Thursday, February 13-4:00-5:00 or 7:00-8:00 at the Center for Social Concerns 
... Service 
... Simple Lifestyle 
... Spirituality 
... Community Living 
Placements in: 
+ 
Phoenix, AZ 

+ 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA 

+ 
Colorado Springs, CO 

+ 
Brockton (Boston area), MA 

+ 
Portland, OR 


+ Wilke~Barre, PA 
• Chil~{s'~uth Ameriea;,,, ·· 
PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1@ND.EDU 
AmeriCorps Education Award scholarships available for Domestic Participants See us on the Web-http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 

... 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 13, 1997 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 
Violence renewed in Belfast, one dead 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK in the border region with sin­Associated Press Writer gle shots -often using an American-made .50-caliber BELFAST rifle able to penetrate flak 
A sniper killed a British sol­jackets-from August 1992 to dier with a single shot May 1994. Wednesday in the first fatality British Prime Minister John this year from Northern Major said the soldier was Ireland's renewed conflict. ''presumably another victim of 
A civilian woman· also was the murderous efforts of the hospitalized with a head · IHA." wound that wasn't life-threat­"My heart goes out to his ening. and two other civilians family," Major said in London. were treated for shock, police "How many more victims must said. "" there be before the evil men 
There was no immediate responsible recognize the utter claim of responsibility for the futility of their terrorism?" killing in Bessbrook, a And in Dublin, Irish Prime Protestant village 30 miles Minister John Bruton led con­southwest of Belfast, where demnation t'rom every major the army maintains its main party. "The IRA campaign is helicopter base for running anti-Irish and contrary to the patrols along Northern interests of all in Ireland," he Ireland's border with the Irish said. · Republic. The slain soldier, who wasn't 
But the nature of the killing immediately named,· was suggested the Irish Republican standing at one of two fixed Army was responsible. the road checkpoints that screen outlawed group killed seven traffic outside the Bessbrook soldi.ers and three policemen base when he was shot. 

fove, 
..Mom, 
'Dad, Jen, §randpa 
&~ie 

HAPPY 811BJRTBDAY JOHN1 
American Airlines strike slow to resolution 
Associated Press said today the latest American sure what it's going to take to Airlines offer was worth $43.1 please the pilots."WASIIINGTON million less over the life of the The National Mediation American Airlines an'd its 
contract than the tentative Board canceled its scheduled 
pilot union pored over new agreement. morning news conference to contract offers today but American spokesman Chris update the media on the talks,showed little movement Chiames said he could not give which insiders say have made toward meeting a midnight a comparable economic analy­no progress. Several lawmak­Friday strike deadline. sis, but added: ers have asked President 
Union president Jim Sovich "Frankly, we're not quite Clinton to intervene. 
INSTITUTES ART & CRAFT OF lOBBYING • CAMPAIGN CIVIL WAR • EDUCATING FOR .GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP NIC EXPERIENCE IN NEW YORK CITY • FtlM & VIDEO • GLOBAL 
~ 

.  .  
INTERNATIONAL  RELATION$  •  MAGAZINE  PUBLISHING  •  
& SOCIETY •  NUCLEAR  

For a Summer Bul!Rtin 
d@i 
• STRATE(?IC INITIATIVES FOR and registration form rail 

. 202-885-2500, CONSULTANTS & CHANGE AGENTS 
fax 202-885-2542, or e-mail: surn'TTIR'T®arnerimn. edu

• TEACHING ENGLISH TO SPEAKERS OF 
for more information. 

OTHER LANGUAGES. 
an eeo/affirmative action university 
. 
Detail from Robert F. Gates' painting, Bathllrt. 1962. oil on canvas, 50" x114•. Gift from Sarita Gates. Watkins CollectiO!l, American Univtr$ily. 





})ar·ty (J)3,r'te) 
n. 1. a.) a group of people working together to establish or promote particular theories or principles of government which they hold in common 2. any group of persons acting together; specif., a.) a group sent out on a task or mission 
b) a group meeting together socially to accomplish a task a) a group assembled for amusement or recreation 



Their Idea of a Partv. Our Idea of a Partv . 
.. .. 
Dungeons&Drago~~® 
You're tired of towing the party line. You're looking for ~orne problem~ creatively, and walking around in ~omeone el~e·~ ~hoe~ for a excitement in your life. You crave action. You want a challenge. You while. It'~ playing a game where you control the action. You want to want it? You got it. The ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS" Game i~ all climh that tree, go for it. You want to arm wre~tle an ore, knock that and more. It'~ you and a group of friend~ playing character~. like your~elf out. It'~ your call. There'~ no fini~h line to cro~~. no ~cript to warrior~. wizard~. and thieve~. a~ you explore and adventure yottr way follow. The only limit i~ that of your own imagination. So join the through ~orne of the wilde~t world~ in fanta~y and ~cience fiction. It'~ party with the ADVANCED DuNGEONS & DRAGONS Game from TSR. learning how to work together toward a common goal, ~olving 


It's Yottr Party. B.v.o.B. 
(Bring Your Own Brain) 


To find the store nearest you call toll-free 1-800-384-4TSR. Questions? Call Rob Taylor at 414-248-2902 or Email TSRConSvc@aol.com. Visit us on America Online at keyword: TSR. 
®and rM designate trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. ©1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 






VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 13, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insriturion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinc Editor, Accent Editor, Phow Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraric:s, leners and Inside Columns presc:nr rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily rhose ofThe: Obsc:rver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
• WHEN PIGS fLY 
Dreaming of a Valentine that's more like a woman 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 

Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accen1/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
I want a girlfriend. I want someone to call me on the phone and fret over me constantly and I want one before Valentines Day. 
I want someone cute and cuddly and good-humored and with baking abilities. I want brownies, cookies and cake all 

Bernadette Pampuch 
set to be delivered to my door. I want those little pink boxes of candy hearts with sayings scrawled all over them, great big Mylar balloons, roly-poly stuffed dogs and puppies and bears with tiny t-shirts saying "I Love You!" left on my doorstep or mailed to my house because this is something only girls think of doing. 
I don't want to have to worry about receiving flowers this year. Girls never send flowers. I want someone to send me a Calvin and Hobbes book, a nice pair of boxers to sleep in, or a great, big, huge bag of Hershey's Kisses. Almond ones. 
A girlfriend would be good for my ego. I could sit around and imagine her sit­ting around imagining me. I could not call her for days on end just to play with her head, or I could call her at three in the morning just to make sure she's not out partying somewhere and was sitting around dreaming all about me. A girl­friend would check her e-mail every half-hour just to see if I still cared, and I could sometimes be gallant enough to write once a day. 
If I had a girlfriend, she would do crazy things for me. She would borrow money from her sister and fly all the 
Observer Phone Lines 

63I-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
63 I -4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
63I-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  63I-8839  
63I-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

way to Texas to visit me, and then pre­tend she was just there to visit her cousin. She would learn to like reggae. She would get really, really drunk and try to forget me if we got in a fight, and then I would find out some days later that she was dancing on a table with Tiny the Bouncer at the bar down the road, heartbroken. She would send me postcards every day for two weeks while she was on vacation, and she would call me from a pay phone in Acapulco risk­ing life, limb and morality to stand on a street corner trying to squeeze a lot into a two-minute conversation paid for by the only phone card that could be found for fifteen kilometers around. My girl­friend would be the kind of girlfriend who made rice pudding for me all the time, even if she hated rice pudding. 
My girlfriend would learn the rules of hockey just to watch me play and sud­denly understand what high-sticking was, and finally come to appreciate the view of blood on ice. If I was a member of a band, my girlfriend would manufac­ture her own fake I.D. out of luck and lamination so she could come seem me sing. Then we could celebrate her i8th birthday in Bridget's. 
This girlfriend would be wrapped around my little finger. She would brood around the house if I didn't call her exactly when I said I would, and she would sit around her room on a perfect­ly splendid Friday night if I wasn't there to be with her. She would console her­self with Chunky Monkey and Almond Joy and rent "Don Juan DeMarco" to remind herself of me. Her friends would make fun of her for being so dramatic. My girlfriend would have my telephone number on speed dial, my beeper num­ber scribbled on the front page of her biology book, and the names of all my friends memorized just in case she needed to call me and wish me "Good luck on your test!" or say, "You're so special!" 
My girlfriend would have some cute little name like Mimi or Penni or Jody so 
that I could get.-----------------------, 
her name engraved on stuff and not have to worry about ten letters fitting in on a keychain or a license plate. She would look just a little bit like my mother so that I could tell her that I was lucky to have two of the most beautiful women in my life so close in my heart, and I would keep saying this kind of thing until she really did start FedExing me cookies by overnight express. The kind of girl­friend I would have would treat 
me way too well. 
She would proba­

bly start picking '------------------------_J 
up my socks and sweatpants and t-shirts and running shoes and try to wash them or fold them or throw them away (unless I was really attached to them) and explain that she really, truly was a femi­nist, this wasn't the sort of thing she did all the time, she just hated to see any human being living in such a sty and was only watching out for my occupa­tional safety. 
My girlfriend, this angel, would be something from a dream. She would love me and lust me and trust me, she would pamper me and give me back rubs and want to borrow my clothing just so she could smell my cologne and spend $200 a month in phone bills and write me sappy love letters all the time and record old Simon and Garfunkel songs on cassettes from Musicland and scrawl poems all over her walls in my honor. She would steal chicken-rice soup from the salad bar in the dining hall when I was sick and invite me to spend Thanksgiving with her family or Christmas in Toronto and hold hands in the shopping mall and always remember my birthday and the name of the dog 1 had that was hit by a car when I was nine. 

(Sigh.) That's true devotion. This is why I want a girlfriend. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior writ­ing major at Saint Mary's College. Flowers and gifts can be sent in lieu of money to the front desk of LeMans Hall on Valentines Day, c/o B. Pampuch. Personal correspondence and love let­ters should be directed to pamp2029@jade.saintmarys. edu 
page 10 
Thursday, February 13, 1997 

What made Nico sound more mellow than your previous ast year Blind Melon frontman Shannon I-loon albums'? overdosed on coeaine. Swept up in a media It's just the nature of how it was reeorded. It was a eon­frenzy resulting from Stone Temple Pilots, stantly portable environment -in dressing rooms. back­Trainspotting, and Smashing Pumpkins, the stage, in hotel rooms. We didn't want to overdub things. 
Hoon story overshadowed the posthumous release of the band's third LP, Nico. Critically acelaimed, it was Nico was pieced together from non-studio tracks. Is arguably their best. there more'? 
With miraele of modern telecommunications, I "sat Yeah, but some is too dark and telling. Plus we'd rather go down" with three guys from UNC, U of Tennessee, and out than fizzle out. Mizzou to ehat with Blind Melon guitarist, Rogers. Random questioning ensued for a half-hour, punctuat­Why was the album called 'Nico' [after Shannon's daugh­ed with moments of awkward silenee. Having nothing ter]? before me but a blaek speakerphone, I gave up any We wanted to give her something through her dad. She'll attempt of pinning questions to respeetive interview­never know him, and this is just a way to show how much ers. Plus college guys tend to all sound the same when she meant to him. filtered through low-end digital conferencing technolo­gy. Rogers jumped on the line from his New York Did you expect your rocket to success? apartment, interrupting an argument over whose Actually ... can you hold on? [Rogers clicks over to call wait­school's basketball team was better (a conversation ing for a bit]... Sorry. Actually, hope had fizzled. The album from which I withheld). had been out for a year and we were just touring off it. The 
whole thing was a pleasant surprise. What has the band been up to? We're going to move on and get a new singer. It's What was touring like? 
gonna be a new band. New songs. We want something I like not having roots, living out of llotelrooms. Just being that stands on its own. I've been painting. Working able to pick up and go. We were very lucky. We got to see on songs. Christopher is producing a record. Brad th9 world -Japan, Australia, Paris. made his own record. Glen is working on songs in New Orleans. Was Shannon's overdose a surprise? 

Who are you looking at to fill Shannon's shoes? 
There's this one guy I'm looking at. I'm definitely going to do an album with him. Whether the other guys will want to come in or not remains to be seen. At this point actually I'm a little skeptical. Bringing in someone entirely new ... we've had seven years of growing together. 
Over 2000 demos were submitted in response to your open add for a new singer. Did you actually sit through all of them? I listened to every one. [Laughing] It was fun. People karaoking over our songs, people screaming. 
What direction will the new band have? We're not going to try and consciously sound like anything else. We'll just see what happens. Thinking about things too much squashes spontaneity. 
Are you still with Capitol records? Well, Capitol picked up the option. But who knows. If they look at their books at the end of the year and say, "These guys haven't done anything," they might cut us. 
Yes. lie was just out of rehab. There were times earlier when I expected 'that call' late in the night. 
How much do you attribute the drug use to "the rock-and-roll lifestyle?" 
I would never say that the industry caused Shannon's problems. When Shannon was fifteen he had a criminal record longer than his leg. He'd tell stories and we were like, "You did WHAT?" He took off from Indiana and came to California, and that's when we hooked up. 
He was quite prolific at it [the substance abuse]. He was quite ... skilled at it. But he made up for it in so many ways... He had a huge heart. He had that staying power. 
Did any other members have a problem with heroin or cocaine'? 
He really didn't do heroin. lie actually died of cocaine. 1'11 be the first to admit, Shannon and I were the ringleaders of the problem. When someone has that prob­lem, you have to let them make their own choices. We stopped short of trying to violently stop him. You just can't tic him up to the posts of the bed. 
By this point Rogers had been led around like a horse with four drunk jockeys. lie politely hung up and went back to his painting. 

aphex twin 
T:rtct:?

Richard D. James 
(out of five stars) 


M 
any people claim that all techno sounds the same, but these are people who have never heard of the Aphex Twin {a.k.a. Richard James). Just as Kraftwerk were the main pioneers of electronic music, so the Aphex Twin is the principle standard bearer of the tradition they creat­ed (and of horrible CD covers). Projecting a sound as unique as it is experimental, over the past few years, James has released tracks ranging from the hardest of hard core techno to the most minimalist of ambient excursions, and while such virtuosity is again evident on this latest release it is not to the standard with which we have become accustomed. 
There is the usual mixture of humor and oddball samples, "To Cure a Weakling Child" is one of the more distinctive tracks on the album, a mantra repeated to strange effect with all sorts of unidentifi­able noises bouncing around its outer reaches. "Cornish Acid" is another noteworthy piece, reminis­cent of earlier work under the Polygon windows pseudonym {he has released under more than a few names); "Fingerbib" is almost a homage to the afore­mentioned Kraftwerk, but at this point the positives expire. Most of the other tracks on the album suffer from sounding too much like those on the last album, a trille uninspired and lacking the usual continuity. "Corn Mouth" is a prime example of this trait, a pack­et of noises thrown together with little to entice the appreciation of the listener. Later on we find that "Yellow Calx" goes the same disappointing way. For those who enjoy the Aphex Twin there is no reason not to buy this album, but for those who desire to hear him at the height of his ability, then best to start with something else {preferably Selected Ambient Works 85-92). Overall, an average album from a great talent. 
by Julian Elliot 

chisel (nd alums)  3/6  Empty Bottle, Chicago  
big head todd and the monsters  3/14  Aragon Ballroom, Chicago  
the wallflowers  3/14  The Riviera Theatre, Chicago  
jon spencer blues explosion  3/15  The Vic, Chicago  
blur  3/15  The Riviera Theatre, Chicago  
cake  3/24  Metro, Chicago  

Thursday, February 13, 1997 page 11 

the offspring 
lxnay on the Hombre 
'{;:{'{;:{ 
(out of five stars) 

I 
hereby pat my shovel on the dirt of punk's grave. Meanwhile, across the graveyard, the rotten hand of Heavy Metal pop bursts through overgrown sod. The fist-pumping, arena-thundering, Camero-propelling beast child of rock and roll is back! The Offspring want to ween the industry away from Bad Religion spawned punk and rock you like a hurricane. All they need now is a zombie-esque mascot in silver shades to be on the front of every album, t­shirt, and poster. 
"Gone Away" sounds so much like the Scorpions, that I searched the lxnay on the Hombre booklet frantically for pictures of bald German guys. Sure, "The Meaning of Life," "All I Want," and "Cool to Hate" are copied straight of the desk of older Offspring albums. However, dually realizing the stale flavor of pop-punk and their status of Official Band of American Middle/High School Boys, the Offspring have spit out any pretension and monkeyed around in stu­dio dunce caps. Congo drums funk up "I Choose" and a borderline dance techno drum-roll beats behind "Me & My Old Lady." Although this could be seen as a heady attempt at "artistic merit" or 
Courtesy of Columbia Records 
"growth" by other bands, The Offspring sincerely just goof around. "Moto" tries damn hard to be the "world music" spiced "Come Out and Play" circa 1997, and "Don't Pick It Up" is pre-school ska. 
Along with juvenile music comes music tran­scribed from bathroom stalls. "He picked a candy bar up/ off the ground/ He chowed about a haiti' Then his face turned blue/ Turned out this candy bar was doggy-doo," belts Dexter Holland like a snickering Dennis the Menace. The words "weenie," "libidos," "cheerleaders," and "thin­gies" also pop up. Of course, every song is also peppered with naughty words. 
The Offspring know their market-fresh testosterone. lxnay on the Hombre is music junk food, and the band is proud of it. While every girl sings to "Don't Speak" their boyfriends will chant along with Offspring's "Amazed." Coming to a mall near you! 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

top 
1. Space -Spiders 
2. Live -~~Lakini's Juice" 
3. 
Splashdown-Stars and Garters 

4. 
Nine Inch Nails -nPerfect Drug" 


5. 
Jamiroquoi-Traveling Without Moving 

6. 
Star 69 -Eating February 


7. 
Bjork -Telegram 

8. 
Astropuppies -You Win the Bride . Kula Shaker -K 


10. MXPX-Life in General 
1. Built to Spill -Perfect From Now On 
2. 
Pavement-Brighten the Corners 

3. 
Chavez-Ride the Fader 


4. Sweep the Leg Johnny-self-titled 7" 
5. 
Number One Cup-Kim Chee is Cabbage 

6. 
Heatmiser-Mic City Sons 


7. Babe the Blue Ox-Live 
8. Bis-This is Teen-C Power 
9. Underworld-Pearl's Girl 
10. DJ Shadow-Endtroducing ... 
.. 
viden<~e Qfthis, 
evq}(ed in he literally spatatthe 
sound that was 

n<:>i'fAPthr UlU~JLL<U and descrip~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 13, 1997 
• SKIING 




Tomba dissed in championship loss 
By STEPHEN WADE last year in Spain, but was Associated Press coaxed out of the decision by his father and the organizers of these SESTRIERE, Italy championships who reportedly 
Michael Von Gruenigen of paid him $800,000 to race. Switzerland won the giant slalom Even before the season started, at the world championships Tomba said he would focus only Wednesday, then dismissed on the worlds and skip World Alberto Tomba as no longer a Cup races. threat in the event. "He could have done every race 
Mattison 
continued from page 20 
why Notre Dame is what it is." 
Davie hired Mattison as the defensive coordinator on December 5, triggering some­what of a tripartite reunion among coaches. Back at Texas A&M, Mattison coached the Aggie defensive line dur­ing Davie's first three years as defensive coordinator, from 1989 to 1991. The two banged heads to lead the country's top defensive unit (222 yards per game) as Texas A&M won the Southwest across the nation. Then, like Allen Rossum on a kick return, he was gone. 

"When I decided to come [to Notre Dame], I promised Michigan I would not go out and attempt to re-recruit the players I had first recruited to Michigan. Only when the ath­letes would drop their com­mitment to Michigan would I then pursue them. Ethically, I didn't want to use my rela­tionship with Michigan to bring recruits to Notre Dame." 
One such player, however, who Mattison had an effect in swaying was star Grant Irons, brother of Michigan's All­America linebar.ker Jarrett very excited about these guys. I won't know them well until we put on the pads, but you have to stick with them and believe in them. You can't trade them. This isn't the NFL." 
"He's a good guy, real down­to-earth," said Lamont Bryant, one of several players expect­ed to emerge from the shad­ows under Mattison's wing this spring. "He's hard-nosed, he wants to hustle a lot, and he tries to get the most out of everyone.. He's not real differ­ent from Coach Davie because they coached together." 
Greg Mattison has coached teams that have advanced to bowl games in each of the last seven years -a streak per­haps he will help reinvigorate at Notre Dame. His Wolverine defense ranked eighth in the nation in scoring in 1996, and it eclipsed the top-20 in the three other categories of total defense, and rushing and pass efficiency defense. 
But now the defensive emperor has switched forces. He is the most recent example of a Michigan program that has virtually become Notre Dame's farm team. He is Davie's right-hand man, one who loves to blitzkrieg the opposing quarterback into the ground. 
"The atmosphere, of all of us coaching together, excites me the most," Mattison said. "We have new assistant coaches, a new head coach, a new stadium. All of us have the opportunity to do a great job to keep Notre Dame at the top. Some day down the road, to say I was the defensive coordinator at Notre Dame, that's a life-time experience." 
Tomba, the defending champi­on, almost fell three times before going out just over a minute into the fi:r:st run when he nearly missed a gate and skidded to a stop. 
"I have no fear anymore of Tomba in giant slalom," Von Gruenigen said of the five-time Olympic and world champion. "Even last year, he wasn't as good as he used to be in giant slalom." 
Von Gruenigen, the best giant slalom racer the last two years, finished his two runs in 2 min­utes, 48.23 seconds. Norway's Lasse Kjus was second in 2:49.35, followed by Austria's Andreas Schifferer in 2:49.68. 
Tomba, skiing's marquee name, has missed almost the entire World Cup season with an injured wrist and reported ill­ness. 
More and more his attention has turned to product endorse­ments and he's to announce in the next few months if he'll make a movie. 
The 30-year-old Italian almost retired after winning slalom and giant slalom golds in the worlds this year if he wanted to," said Von Gruenigen, who took bronze in the worlds last season behind Tomba in both slalom races. 

"It's his problem if he doesn't race very well now. He's definite­ly not a giant slalom rival any­more. It's not good to prepare for only the world championships. We have a World Cup circuit. You just can't come around and care about only one race. It's not fair to those of us who compete all the races." 
Tomba will have a chance to redeem himself Saturday in slalom, which is his best race and the final event of the two-week championships. 
In giant slalom this season, Tomba skipped five of the six World Cup races and crashed out in the second run of the only race he ran. 
He's been better in slalom. He won the last World Cup slalom race before these worlds and was second in the other two he ran. 
Tomba has 48 overall World Cup wins, second only to retired Swede Ingemar Stenmark (86). 
"I am angry and disappointed," said Tomba. 
Conference title. Since then, a mutual respect and friendship has grown and lasted. 
"I've always been excited about Bob Davie," asserted Mattison. "He's a personal friend, and his kids play at a higher level than they are expected to." 
Besides the Davie-Mattison reunion, recruiting liaison Bob Chmiel, whom Lou Holtz reined in with Davie in 1994, also worked with Mattison, up in Ann Arbor from 1992-93. 
The notion of a coaching transition, particularly when discussed in terms of recruit­ing, becomes a process that must be fine-tuned and smoothed out until no obsta­cles remain. Anytime a coach moves from one program to another, the recruiting process is briefly stumped for both sides. Notre Dame expe­rienced this with Davie's hir­ing, but came out alright in the end. Mattison's story was similar. 
At Michigan, he had wooed several top athletes from Irons. Mattison swiftly deflected any credit. 

"First of all, Kirk Doll did a relentless job," Mattison noted. "I've also had a long relationship with Grant Irons. Jarrett and I and his family have had a tremendous rela­tionship for many years, but let's be honest -the reason Grant Irons came to Notre Dame is because he likes Notre Dame." 
Sounds a lot like the former words of another Michigan prodigy, Chmiel. "Notre Dame sells itself," Chmiel once said. 
Success on the gridiron comes down to execution though, and Mattison's sound defensive philosophy has pro­duced. In ways, his philoso­phy is a clone of Davie's. 
"I believe in an aggressive­style defense. I'm going to take it right to the offense," said the new defensive coordi­nator. "I believe in players having fun, but in a disci­plined environment. I think it also depends on what kind of players you have, and I've 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
PACK O'LAUGHLIN THEATER.  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS!  '90 Camry 111 K miles  ATTN SENIORS!!  
NOTICES  This Fri., Sat., and Sun. We need YOUR help!  COUNSELORS needed for out­standing Maine camps! CAMP  ColorWorks is currently recruiting on campus for a limited number of  $3500 291-4114  **"***************** TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE @  
Buy your tickets soon!!  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  summer '97 management positions.  GENESIS w/ 2 6-button ctrlrs, 9  LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  For the SMC/ND dance workshop  for boys. Each located on magnifi- Gain hands on experience in man- top games. $150. 1-4639.  THE BLACKHAWKS V. STARS  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  production of  cent lakefront setting with excep­ aging a business in your hometown.  HOCKEY GAME.  
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  "BODY TALK."  tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions at each camp for heads and assis- Opportunities available in SOUTH BEND. ELKHART,  TICKETS  FEB. 25TH TICKETS ARE $20 GAME STARTS@ 7:30PM  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  Get pumped for the  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and  SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!  
springbreaktravel.com  SMC/ND dance workshop produc­ volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  other areas. Summer earnings $7­ NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE  
lion of "BODY TALK."  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ $9,000. To speak to a campus rep- CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439  
SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  ILOST & FOUND I  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ resentative call 1-800-477-1001.  PERSONAL  From Chicago ... FULTON's POINT APPEARING AT BRIDGETS  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  THIS FRIDAY  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  REWARD$$ REWARD $$  dance  JAZZERCISE  
TUB. SUITES UPTO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  LOST -Antique silver earring on Tuesday night between O'Shag and  Oazz, tap, ballet), nature study, backpacking, horseback riding,  FOR RENT  Very close to campus 277-0111  BEWARE OF DELTA KILO! WE STRIKE AT MIDNIGHT'  
BIGGEST PARTY.  stadium parking lot.  ropes course, trip leaders, mountain  
..  FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  It is round with an old fashioned screw back.  biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre- Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  To many coals in the fire? You can handle two of them.  
PLEASE call Kathleen 631-6479.  taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp  
THE COPY SHOP  REWARD $$ REWARD $$  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  ADOPTION:  
LaFortune Student Center  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth- HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!! I  Corporate Executive & homemaker  
Phone 631-COPY  LOST: CAMERA LEFT AT CAM­ ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  can offer newborn a wonderful life  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  PUS VIEW AT CASE RACE  CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  272-6551  The highest quality color copies  filled with warmth, security, endless  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  PARTY, CALL ERIK AT 243-9290  Beacon Street, Brookling, MA  are now available at  love, education & a bright future.  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  AND DESCRIBE.  02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­ HOUSE FOR RENT FOR 97-98  THE COPY SHOP  Confidential. Mark  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  5 BDRMS; WSHRIDRYER; ALRM;  LaFortune Student Center  & Candace 1-888-811-1141  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  FOUND: HEMP NECKLACE WITH  PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  DISH WSHR; .4 ML FROM ND;  Phone 631-COPY  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  TURTLE STONE BEHIND THE  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam- CALL 232-0431  Sarah jane­ 
.A.._  Sun.: Noon -Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends  BOOKSTORE ON SATURDAY. CALL AMY 4-2880.  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  St Jude Novena May the Sacred Heart of Jesus  bizz buzz!! jaw  
CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  219-291-7153 FAX 1185  be adored and glorified, loved  
SPRING BREAK!  If anyone has found a computer  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  and preserved throughout the  ###########################  
MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND  disc labeled "Sophomore Year'' in  Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO  Campus View Apartments  world, now and forever. Sacred  ATTENTION all LESBIAN, GAY,  
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT  the library computer lab please con- APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  1 &2 Bedroom Apts Avail '97-'98  Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude.  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  
CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT- tact Beth at x1514. Thank you.  ,.. * *. * * * *"' * * * * * * * * * *. * *  Schoolyear Summer Leases Available  Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St. Jude, Help of the Hopeless, pray for  students, faculty and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College.  
ED BY OWNER.  Looking for Sales Reps to sell  Call272-1441  us.  There will be a support group meet­ 
941-642-5483  LOST: Pioneer detachable face  Weight Loss System, Vitamins,  Say this prayer nine times a day. By  ing TODAY at 7:30. Please call the  
for car CD player. was in a  and/or Skin Care and Cosmetics.  POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM-FOR  the eighth day your prayer will be  0-LINE at 236-9661 for the location  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  black carrying case. if found,  Direct Sale. Part time/Full time.  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097.  answered. Publication must be  of the meeting.  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee)  Training. Call  promised. It has never been known  ###########################  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL. CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. ...ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE,  reward WANTED SUMMER JOBS  (219)277-6021....................... Campus Manager: $1 ,500-$5K pit fit Student Advantages seeks indi­vidual to develop local area. Sales/mktg a plus. For more info go  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 2773097 FOR SALE  to fail. Thank you, St Jude. Is your band ready? Rent a full-production studio at $100 a day. I'll Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 Is your band ready? Rent a full- The next recruiting signing day for football is now less than 360 days away. Once again Sports rules and beats News out the door.  
CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  to our web site at  Bed -Oueensize orthopedic premi­ production studio at $100 a day. I'll  
DA. 1-800-838-8203  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  www.studentadvantage.com  um mattress set. Never used still in  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  Happy Valentines Day to all of the  
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN­TINE CLASSIFIED FOR YOUR SWEETHEART OR YOUR  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373  or call 800-333-2920 Jana/ Chana: I'm a pony ...  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352 Must sell. 1988 Mercury Tracer.  You play Irish Music? Sesuns at Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. 256-9041. Musicians welcome.  lovely ladies who make my life so special, Mom and Sis you know who you are.  
FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM  5-speed. $850.00 or best offer.  ·····················  
ON 2/13.  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  Meagan ... don't blame me-my  Looks good! 257-7872.  Happy 85th Birthday Grandma.  Jillian and Carmen  
•  ••• * * * * * •• * ..... * * * *  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational  shakra is in tune with my chi-I can't lose ... Crazy Forever ... GO 78!!  > 69 <  are The Coolest  
HEY, EVERYBODY!!! STOP BY THE OBSERVER AND PLACE AN AD TO YOUR VALENTINE!!! * * *."' * •••• *. *. * * * * *  English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  I hate doing classifieds  > 69 < I am selling Memorex portable CD players for $69 each. Has 100% guarantee. Tim 4-1889  Hey, Mammo -get well MO-smile, no prob-BO  Get Well Bag Makers. If only they could be MY Valentines ... .................,...  

Power Lunch: The Journey Ta...•~ .......... 
Thursday, February ·1 
12:45-1:45 p.m. 
Faculty Dining Room 
Allanza Officers u.a•·•:a• 
Friday-Saturday, Febru Angela House, Michiga 
JPW Mass 
Saturday, February 15 ·5:30p.m. 
Joyce Center 
RCIA "' Rite of 
Sunday; February 
11:45 a.m. Mass Basilica 


Campus Bible 
Tuesday, February 
7:00p.m. 
Campus Ministry-B 

Kalros (4th Day) 
Wednesday, .•.• 
Chapel of .· 
February· 
If you live in Dillon, Badin, Keenan 
Lewis, Morrissey, O'Neill, 
East, St. Edwards, Walsh or Zahm, ; 
please consider attending the next en 
Fresmen Retreat. Applications will 
bE?.< 
sent by mail. Extras G(lf')R~pick~9........ 
from Rectors or at Caropus Minist 
Complete an application and return 
103 Hesburgh library by Friday, 
February 15th. 
American Catholics who are 14 ye~r~ or older are obligated to abstain from meat on Fridays of Lent. 



WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduation was looming in their future. They both were interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each other. But theyjust weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look forjobs in the same city or should they test the rela­tionship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
They·came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some informa­tion. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see if they weretruly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged couples for many years, we had not really thought about this category of couple; what should we call them? "Serious but not yet commit-· ted?" "Pre-engaged?" We were greatly impressed that a couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this cou­ple. They were still exploring their relationship -the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion we focused on some of the issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships:. 
-how can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? -should we try to find jobs or graduate schools that are in the 
same city? -how will a long distance relationship affect us? -how can you express your true feelings without pressuring for 
commitment? -how will the demands of careerI graduate school affect our rela tionship? -how might differences in our famiiies of origin affect our rela tionship? -how can we communicate better? 
After identifying the issues we put together a program and called it "What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some presenta­tions on the stages of relationships and decision-making. While we _,. 
were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions and a lot of time for discussing answers with your partner. There is a discussion period for questions. There is a folder of articles for additional infor­mation and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
Ifyou are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds of questions listed above perhaps you'd like to attend the program this semester. 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" will take place Sunday, February 23, from 12:00 to 4:30. Pre-registration is required. Registration papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices 
(Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline is Thursday, February 20. The program is limited to 25 couples. There is no cost for the program. If you have any questions, please call Chris Etzel, Sylvia orJohn Dillon 631-5242. 
Chris Etzel 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

page 14 The Observ€r • SPORTS Thursday, February 13,1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Opponents, nation focus on freshman phenom Carr 
.~· ­
_..._ 
By DAVID KINNEY 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
How does Donnie Carr top his first eight college basketball games? He's not sure he can. 
The freshman guard aver­aged 29.9 points a game for La Salle and led Division I in scor­ing. He won a pair of games with a 23-point second half against Dayton and a buzzer­beater against Duquesne. 
And there he was -a high­light on ESPN's SportsCenter. 
"I was just sitting there amazed," he said. "Everybody was surprised, but nobody more than me." 
Since then, reality has arrived. The 19-year-old is struggling, and so are the Explorers, who after starting 7­5 have dropped to 8-12. 
Carr's average is now 24.1, 

still fourth best in Division I, and he is the only freshman listed in the top 50. So coach Speedy Morris keeps giving his 6-foot-1 guard the kind of free reign that results in 36-point efforts -and horrible 6-for-28 shooting nights. 
"Should he get 23 shots a game?'' Morris asked after Carr shot 22 percent in a loss to Virginia Tech. "Maybe not. I'd rather see him take 17, 18 shots and see the other guys make some of their shots." 
That's not happening. The Explorers, who finally snapped a seven-game losing streak with a win over the Hokies on Monday night, have just three men scoring more than five points a night. Overall, the team shoots 37 percent. 
"Sometimes the team gets into a funk where we aren't scoring any points," Carr said.. 
Thursday, Friday,and Saturday: OJ Dance Party Weekend Giveaways! 
Always open 'til 3AM M-F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 



R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend to Howard Johns 
"That's when the coaches look to me. What we lack is a guy down in the post that we can dump it into to take some pres­sure off the perimeter guys." 
Morris is working on that. He's bringing in two big men, 6-9 and 6-11, next season. Until then, Carr and junior Mike Gizzi will shoulder the scoring. 
So like any other natural shooter, Carr shoots away, tak­ing four out of every 10 La Salle shots. But he's incrtJasingly frustrated in his role as The Player To Stop every time he steps on the court. That showed in.a five-game dry spell that 
· included a 29-for-122 stretch. 
"I don't think it's my shoot­
ing," he said. "It's the tough 
shots I have to take because 
teams are making me work so 
hard. At the beginning of the 
season, I guess everybody knew 
I was a good player, but they 
didn't know what I liked to do." 
Now, whenever he pulls up 
behind the 3-point circle or cuts 
through a screen, defenders 
know to stay on top of him. If 
he penetrates, he's certain to 
run into a double-team. That's 
when he looks most like a 
freshman -taking awkward 
shots instead of passing. 
"That's something you know you're going to go through," said Carr, who knows he must become more of a pure shooter and better defender if he is to make the NBA. "That's part of being a good player." 
Carr, the fifth of six children raised by a single mother in a South Philadelphia neighbor­hood, got his first break when Roman Catholic High School offered him a scholarship. He averaged 25 points and four assists as Homan went 27-3 last season. 
Syracuse and Providence paid visits but Carr chose La Salle. 

Join the committee that's planning next month's cele­bration week (March 17-24) and Notre Dame's biggest survey ever! 
Contact Patrick Belton by Friday, February 14 at the Student Government office as we trace 25 years of women at Notre Dame 
Call the Gender Relations Department at 
1-4556

UNIVE.RSITY OF NOTIIF. DAMf 
~run niT r.nvrMNMH~T 

Come see the Campus Entertainer ofthe Year ... 

Tom DeLuca 
America's most talented, not to mention best looking, hypnotist!!! 
Tuesday, Feb. 18 and Wednesday, Feb. 19th at 8:00p.m. 
Library Auditorium 
Tickets on sale for $3 at the Lafortune Info Desk Brought to you by Student Activities 
-----~ -~--~­

Harding escapes kidnapper Belle acknowledges 
By AMY CORNELIUSSEN would investigate anybody, but ty service. Associated Press at the same time, this type of Harding could not comment report is unusual," said sher­on Wednesday's incident 
gambling debts 
PORTLAND, Ore. iffs spokesman Damon Coates. because of exclusive media con­
Tonya Harding says she foiled an abduction attempt early Wednesday by ramming her truck into a tree and running away from a bushy-haired man who tried to commandeer her vehicle. 
The figure skater told police the man abducted her outside her home and forced her to drive to a rural area. She said she dodged him in a chase through the woods, then jumped back in her truck and took off. Aside fro·m a slap mark on her face, Harding was unharmed. 
Clackamas County sheriff's deputies, who have responded to Harding's calls for help before, said they were taking the matter seriously. 
"We'll treat it at face value and investigate it just as we "I have no reason to think it's false at this point, but it would be a poor investigation not to look at that." 
The abduction report came the same day the U.S. Figure Skating Championships began in Nashville, Tenn., and 10 days before Harding's skating come­back -a three-minute exhibi­tion program in Reno, Nev. 
Harding has been banned for life from amateur competition for her role in the 1994 attack on her Olympic rival, Nancy Kerrigan, at the U.S. Championships. Harding plead­ed guilty to conspiring to cover up the attack, in which Kerrigan was whacked on the knee. A judge placed Harding on three years' probation, fined her $110,000 and ordered her to serve 500 hours of communi­
• 

LEADERSHIP FOR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
The Center for Social Concerns is sponsoring a series of 4 seminars this semester focusing on Leadership. Anyone interested in developing leadership skills is welcome. 
Seminar I 
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People Kathleen Sullivan, Ph.D. Director of Alumni Continuing Education 
Session 1 Friday, February 14 3-4:45p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Session 2 Friday, February 21 3-4:45 p.m Center for Social Concerns 
Please call 631-5319 to register 
tracts related to her Feb. 22 performance at Reno's Flamingo Hilton, said her agent, David Hans Schmidt. 
"There's no abduction preclusion in the contracts. I might have to put that in from now on, God only knows," Schmidt said. 
Over the years, police have responded to numerous calls from Harding. 
While fighting to maintain her spot on the 1994 U.S. Olympic team, Harding told Beaverton police that she was assaulted one night while walking through a park. 
In May 1995, Harding report­ed she was tailing a car driven by a man she said had been stalking her. 
No one was arrested in either incident. 
• 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
Albert Belle, the slugger whose career has been tainted by temper outbursts, suspen­sions and fines, has admitted under oath that he recently lost as much as $40,000 gambling on sports. 
Belle, who left the Cleveland Indians and became baseball's highest-paid player by signing a $55 million, five-year con­tract with the Chicago White Sox in November, said Tuesday he bet on pro football and col­lege basketball. 
He answered the questions about gambling during a six­hour deposition in a civil law­suit related to a confrontation he had with Halloween pranksters in 1995. 
Belle's lawyer, Jose Feliciano, said Wednesday his client did not gamble on baseball games. 
"None of this stuff had to do with baseball," Feliciano said. "Absolutely none of it." 
Gambling is a misdemeanor in Ohio, but it was unclear if Belle would face criminal charges as a result of his testi­mony. 
Cuyahoga County prosecutor Stephanie Tubbs Jones did not return a telephone message Wednesday. 
Baseball's rules are clear: A player is prohibited from bet­ting on major league games. A violation could mean suspen­sion for one year or for life if a bet is placed on the player's own team. 
"There's a rule on the books about betting on baseball," said major league baseball spokesman Rich Levin, who said officials were aware of Belle's testimony. 
Lawyer Richard Lillie, repre­senting the guardian of a teen­ager who contends Belle injured him with his truck, said Wednesday he was trying to question Belle's credibility. 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR THE POSITION OF IPW 1998 CHAIRPERSON!!! DON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM FEBRUARY 19 QUESTIONS? CALL SUE CHRISTIE AT 4-4825 
Lillie questioned Belle about gambling and other aspects of his past, including treatment for alcohol dependency and an assault conviction. 
Belle revealed that he was fined $1,000 and sentenced to one year probation in 1992, Lillie said. Court records show Belle was convicted of domestic violence-related assault stem­ming from an incident that took place in Tucson, Ariz.,, on July 5, 1988. 
Details were not available because the case is so old, the file has been destroyed, a clerk at the Pima County attorney's office said. 
Lillie said Belle also testified he placed wagers with friends on golf. 
"He acknowledged $40,000 in gambling debts," Lillie said. "He acknowledged purchasing money orders in amounts under $10,000 to pay those debts. He acknowledged betting on professional football and college basketball." 
The teen-ager who is suing 
Belle  gave  his  deposition  
Wednesday  at  Feliciano's  
office.  

"This is someone trying to use collateral issues to help his lawsuit," said Feliciano, who characterized the gambling matter as "silly and petty" and "no big deal." 
A pretrial hearing in the civil case was scheduled for March 5 with Cuyahoga County Judge James Sweeney. Belle will not be required to attend. 
Ron Schueler, senior vice president of baseball opera­tions for the White Sox, declined comment Wednesday from the team's spring training post in Sarasota, Fla. 
"We do not have any infor­mation at this time, so we are not in a position to comment," Schueler said. 
Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, said, "It is not uncommon for many athletes, owners or even people in the media to bet on football games." 
"Albert's done nothing wrong or illegal," Tellem added. "Albert Belle has never bet on a baseball game." 
Tellem said he was unaware of the assault conviction. 
./ Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 5CJ'Io Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six • Tuesday through Sunday • 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
-------~----~-~-------­
page 16 The Observer • IRISH FOCUS Thursday, February 13, 1997 

Not just 








horsing 
around 
J
ordan and Pippen. Montana and Rice. Gretzky and Messier. Partnerships often make up the most colorful parts of sports history. How about Jen and Bozo the horse? 
Well, they might not make the head­lines of the previous three, but there is no doubt that their partnership is just as important. 
They are two of the members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian Club and for them, cooperation is the key to their relationship. 
"It really is a partnership sport," senior Jen Toland said. "Horses are a lot smarter than people give them credit for." 
The success of a rider in this sport relies on the relationship with the horse. Learning to form this relation­ship takes experience and dedication, two virtues that the thirty-two mem­bers of the ND/SMC Equestrian Club claim. 
The season for the club runs throughout the academic year and consists of as many as ten competi­tions against various members of the Intercollegiate Horse Show Association. 
The competition is on both an indi­vidual and a team basis, with the focus more often falling on the team. For the Irish, this forms one of the most important points of the team's success. 
"The best part about it is the com­panionship," senior Susan Galanthay commented. "The bond not only develops with the horses, but also with the people who love horses." 
The team encompasses all levels of the sport, from first-time riders to Iy time-consuming, so a lot of people One interesting aspect of the compe­the host school to provide the horses.
those who have done it for years, and give it up during high school," Jody tition is that the riders do not always Therefore, the rider must prepare her­even those who are rekindling the love Duff said. "But most of the people are work with the same horse. It is the self to develop an immediate bondof the sport. 
out here because it is so much fun." responsibility, often the advantage, of with the horse.
"It's an expensive sport and it is real­
"The most important thing for a rider is being adaptable," Toland said. "Sometimes you get a good horse, sometimes you get a bad horse." 
She continued, "We use the term 'having a feel' for the horse. Horses are like humans. You have to be able to tell when they are having a bad 
-day." 
The IIISA is made up of over a hun­dred teams which are divided into five zones and nine regions throughout the country. Eaeh region contains around live states, such as the Midwest region in which the Irish compete. 
When the regular SfJason ends, the road to fame runs through regional, zone, and then finally national compe­tition which commences in May 
Great tandems are known by their championships. Maybe this May, Jen and Bozo will join this select group of champions. 
Story by Betsy Baker Photos by Mike Ruma 


• WORLD CUP SOCCER 
Italy shuts out England 1-0 in World Cup qualifier 
By ROBERT MILLWARD 
Associated Press 
WEMBLEY. England 

Italy appears headed to a spot in the 1998 World Cup. England, however, appears headed to a playoff for a spot in the tournament. 
England lost a World Cup qualifier at home for the first time. falling to Italy 1-0 Wednesday night on Gianfranco Zola's goal in the 19th minute. 
Italy (3-0), second behind England (3-1) in Europe's Group Two, has won seven of 10 games against the English since the 1966 World Cup and hasn't lost to them since 1977. 
"It's a setback but not a dis­aster," England coach Glenn Hoddle said. "There's still a lot to play for. We are not out of the World Cup and we have to remain optimistic. It's how we respond off the back of this defeat that will count." 
The top team in the group will qualify automatically for the 32-nation field in France next year, with the second­place team probably winding up in a home-and-home playoff series for a berth. Poland (1-1), Georgia (0-2) and Moldova (0-3) are the other teams in the group. 
"We've got Georgia next and we have to be positive," Hoddle said. "Who knows? Italy could trip up along the way before we go across to Rome." 
England, which failed to qual­ify for the 1994 tournament when it finished third in its group behind Norway and the Netherlands, had been 20-0-8 at home in World Cup qualify­ing. The English could be facing a must-win situation when they go to Rome for their final quali­fier on Oct. 11. 
"It's going to be extremely 
difficult," England forward Alan Shearer said. "They've got an edge of course, they have got a game in hand, but both of us still have got to go to Poland and it's far from over." 
Zola, who plays for Chelsea in England's Premier League, scored when Alessandro Costacurta sent a 40-yard pass over the head of Stuart Pearce. Zola collected the ball, outran defender Sol Campbell and beat goalkeeper Ian Walker, making his first international appear­ance. 
David Seaman, England's reg­ular goalkeeper, was scratched just before the game because of a knee injury. 
With a crowd of 75,055 cheering on the English, Cesare Maldini coached his first World Cup qualifier for Italy since replacing Arrigo Sacchi in December. 
"The team played well, taking Paraguay was at Peru. 
Colombia (5-1-2) leads the South American standings with 17 points, three more than 
Paraguay (4-1-2), four ahead of Argentina (3-1-4) and five ahead of Ecuador (4-4). The top four teams qualify along with defending champion Brazil. 
Bolivia (2-2-4) and Uruguay (3-4-1} have 10 points each, fol­lowed by Chile (2-3-3} and Peru (2-2-3} with nine each and 


Cost: $25 
(no 

t Activities 
937-229-4630 (phone) • 937-229-2772 (fax) MVSC@saber. udayton. edu (e-mail) 
ADVERTISEMENT 
LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND LOCATION
V•VARSITY 

OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH. C•CLUI REACH HER AT I•INTRAMURAL,, 
COLLEEN.HENSHAW@NIKE.COM 


15 
16 
MEN'S 

MEN'S TENNISN MEN'S HOCKEYN 
WOMEN'S 

VOLLEYBALUC VS. TEXAS AT MICHIGAN 
BASKETBALUV

AT INDIANA TOURNAMENT ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT PROVIDENCE

1:00PM
MEN'S HOCKEYN 

AT KANSAS 
1:00PM 
AT MICHIGAN 

MEN'S & WOMEN'S 2:00PM 
MEN'S 
WOMEN'S 

TRACKN 
TENNISN

AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP
TENNISN 
VS. DUKE

SYRACUSE, NY
VS. SYRACUSE 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
lAWRENCE, KS 
NOON 
2:00PM 

THE GOAJ.. Of SPORTSWEEKEND IS TO INFORM STUDeNTS A800T SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT sPONSOR /I.Ni VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULE 00£5 NOT IN 1J.J>N WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
few risks," Maldini said. "We played at Wembley, a place where it's difficult to get good results." 
England put on pressure in the second half, especially in the final 20 minutes. 
Graeme Le Saux's curling 30­yard free kick was pushed over the crossbar by goalkeeper Angelo Peruzzi in the 72nd minute, and Peruzzi blocked an shot off Pearce's left foot. 
Paul Merson's cross hit Campbell, who was nearly on the goal line, and bounced away. 
"We had one or two half chances but didn't create any real ones," Shearer said. "We kept them at bay in the second half but we didn't create any decent chance." 
In Europe's only other game, Spain beat Malta 4-0 in Group Six. In South America, Ecuador beat Uruguay 4-0 and Chile gained a 1-1 tie at Bolivia. 

Venezuela (0-7 -1) with one. 
Argentina 1, Colombia 0 
At Baranquilla, goalkeeper Farid Mondragon's blunder allowed Lopez' goal. The goal­keeper trotted after Lopez' shot to the far post, apparently thinking it would go wide, but it bounced into the met. Mauricio Serna missed a penalty kick for Colombia eight minutes into the second half. 
Spain 4, Malta 0 
At Alicante, Josep Guardiola scored in the 25th minute, Alfonso Perez in the 45th and 47th and Juan Pizzi in the 90th for Spain (5-0-1 ), which leads Group Six, one point ahead of Yugoslavia (4-1}. Malta (0-4} is last and has been outscored 21­0. 
Ecuador 4, Uruguay 0 
At Quito, Ecuador routed vis­iting Uruguay 4-0 behind two goals by Agustin Delgado. Alex Aguinaga scored off a rebound in the sixth minute and Delgado got his first in the 68th off Aguinaga's cross. Delgado scored again in the 76th and Kleber Chala connected in the 87th. 
Bolivia 1, Chile 1 
At La Paz, Bolivia stumbled against Chile, one of South America's weaker teams. Vladimir Soria scored in the 27th minute for the home team, but Pedro Gonzales tied it near the end of the first half. 
join Hearts... 


for the journey 
Marianist Voluntary Service Communities 
•
Men and women age 20 and over 

•Committed 
Christians 

•
Willing to give a year of service 

•
Living in community, simply & prayerfully 


MVSC P.O. Box 9224 Wright Bros. Branch Dayton, OH 45409 

'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
Valentine's For Your Love! 
5-Course Dinner • Champagne • Roses • Dancing 
Share a romantic and memorable Valentine's Day with your love. Enjoy aS·course dinner beginning with aglass of champagne and hors d'oeurn plate foUowed by soup, salad, and mixed grill of beef tenderloin, rosemary 

rawns, and chicken &apple sausages. hocolate Oblivion Torte completes the meal just in time for dancing. 
$70 
Limited Seating Per Couple (Plus tax & Gratuity) 

llwBLUE HERON 
(21 !1)2:l:l<JO!II \I 1\ld( kll111111 F.\X(2 I!1)233-02!13 
'· 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 13, 1997 


Hoops 
continued from page 20 
foul trouble all evening. Their limited minutes did not prevent them from dominating the paint as Gaither scored 13 in just 17 minutes while Bohman, who fouled out with seven min­utes left in the contest, had 16 in 22 minutes of action. 
The Irish attacked the Eagles' star, Holly Porter, who got into early foul trouble and played just 24 minutes in the first half which allowed the Domers to dominate the glass as her fouls limited her defensive intensity. 
"It made things a lot easier," Bohman said. "We kept run­ning the same play over and over she just had to stand there and take the abuse. I feel our inside game is definitely better than theirs and she isn't strong enough to handie me, Katryna, or Julie." 
But, Gaither and Bohman's domination was limited by the whistles of the referees. With two of her starters being forced to spend some time on the bench, ·McGraw had to look to her bench where she saw three scholarship players in dress cloths. Junior guard/forward Kari Hutchinson joined the injured list with sophomore Danielle Green and freshman Niele Ivey who are both out for the year. Hutchinson broke her hand in practice and will be on the shelf for four weeks. 
With the bench depleted, freshman center Julie Henderson and non-scholarship players Adrienne Jordan and Kristina Ervin gave McGraw solid minutes. 
Henderson played terrific post defense to go with her ten points and six rebounds. 

Jordan, a senior walk-on, enjoyed a career high night as she scored six. Kristina Ervin, who joined the team this semester put her first points on the Joyce Center scoreboard since her days spiking for the Notre Dame volleyball team. 
"I thought they did a very good job," McGraw commented. "Adrienne played very well and had a career high for us, and Kristina did a great job. The problem was we just haven't practiced with them. This is a great chance for Julie, as a freshman she needs to get some quality playing time." 
The Irish took advantage of the three point shot over the next several minutes as they hit three threes in a span of just over two minutes leading to a 14 point run. 
Junior guard Mollie Peirick got things going with three of her eight on the evening. On one of the Irish next posses­sions the shot clock was wind­ing down on the Irish when Bohman showed that she is not just a hanger as she drilled a three from the top of the key for her first career triple. 
"Boh and I have been work­ing on that," joked Morgan. "We just had a different sce­nario in mind." 
On the very next possession, Sheila McMillen knocked in another three ball as the Irish pushed the lead to 21. The Irish went into the locker room with a 36-19 lead. 
The Irish will hit the hard­wood again this Sunday when they travel to Providence. The squad will have a new look as they are down to just seven healthy scholarship players. Earlier in this season Notre Dame opened their Big East season with a 91-75 win at the Joyce Center. 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS 



~OA~t~NCE 
AT SAINT MARY'S 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM FEBRUARY 14, 15, AT 8 PM FEBRUARY 16 AT 2:30 PM 
M-F7:30-7 Sat 8-6 
• ' Sun 10-5 Edison 
11All major credit cards accepted" Charge by Phone 
... l. TV 
u~s 1• ~~e, .1·•.·•. ··•· 
ti<m, negligence, fraud, inva­to. convince a judge that sion of privl.l,cy and trespass­there's merit to the claims,''
to, . 


XA:S lawyer Chip Babcock .... .. . yer
Ginsberg, said both cases cen­
ter on his contention that 
police and KXAS disregarded 
d~¢ proc i and. ethfcs 
because th n were famous. 
"They stand for the principle 
that people who hold positions 
ofpuhlic trust have to respect 
th? rJgh~s./;~freverybody~ 
wijetfier tM person Is·black.or 
white, rich or poor, successful 
or not successful," Ginsberg 
said. 

,;.:;,~}le. po}i~~-l}ave. a~. o.9Ii$a:• 
t1011 to.respect everyone'!'!. c()n­
stitutional rightS and when the 
press decides to focus atten­
tion on somebody, they have to 
doitfairly and honestly.:•,\ •.·. ·. Lawyers for the cit~r~and KXAS denied the allegations. "The allegations, you've got to prove them and you've got 
B . lawsuits seek unspeci­fied damages. Ginsberg said Williams would. donate any ~ptiey he wins to charity. 
Uwin, who icriuldn't he reached Wednesday, isn't part of thf:i lawsuits, although he could he added. 
O~Dee. 30,Jormer topless dancer Nina Shahravan told police she had been raped the night before by Williams and another man at Williams' homenorth ofDallas. Irvin, she sll.id, pointed· a gun at her andvideotaped the attack. 
Griffin named Williams the next morning in a special report, and police called a news conference an hour later that was broadcast live across North Texas on television and radio. 

This weekend SUB Presents ROMEO & JULIET Thurs 10:30pn1 Fri, Sat 8 & 10:30pn1 ,..;,~~... Feb 13 -15 
G!b·.·
...·······-.

;mp·· 
KIDS CORPORATION, A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT OPERATES A VARIETY OF PROGRAMS FOR NEWARK CHILDREN, IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD PEOPLE TO JOIN ITS SUMMER STAFF. 
Kids Corporation operates Summer educational programs in Newark, New .Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban ed~cation and the needs of young children. This is not a job, it is an expenence. We work long hours to provide the kids with a sense of hope and opportunity. We need college students who are interested in working in the following programs: 
I\: IDS SCHOOLS :Kids Schools operate for eight weeks each summer and provide children in Grades 1-5 with basic educational skills and a sense of community. All schools are located in Newark, N.J. 
KI_DS CAMP: Children attending educational programs m Newark visit Kids Camp once a week. Over 600() children come to the camp each summer. Kids Camp is located in Warren County near Blairstown N.J. 
All programs run from .June 21 thru August 17, 1997. Stud~nt_s gross $125 per week, room and board, and three college cred1ts m Urban Education from St. Vincent College. The work is ~ard an~ the hours long, but the kids are great. If you are interested m learmng more about this opportunity see us at: 




CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CAROL I DO YOU 11-.NOW WHY MY RAISE HA5N''T 
E 
0 

SHOWED UP IN t-'\Y PAY oi (,) 
'6 

't'ET? CD E 
'0
1 HAVEN'T

I 
,S!
SUBt-\HTED THE ·;: :I PAPERWOR". :i;: 
;: 


CROSSWORD 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your superb organizational skills could bring a lucrative job offer. Think twice. Self-employment could offer greater long-term benefits. Your loving nature makes you very vulnerable at times. Putting your trust in the wrong person could lead to lasting regrets. Go slow when it comes to making a permanent com­mitment. Next fall, expect the unex­pected at work. Large financial gains arc possible if you seize an unusual opportunity to present your ideas to the public. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: pilot Chuck Yeager, golf great Patty Berg, actress Kim Novak, Monkee Peter Tork. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You make friends easily now. Strong communication skills help you obtain the green light for a special project. Wonderful news arrives from overseas contacts. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Resist the temptation to withdraw from work. Anxiety can be treated if you seek medical advice. Share your dreams and hopes with people who really care. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Go after what you want. Your enthusi­asm will persuade your business or romantic partner to lend a helping hand. Temporary financial sacrifices will make a major purchase possi­ble. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Acting overly sensitive could irritate others. Find refuge in a quiet retreat until you regain control. Do some networking every day if seeking a
u
I'fv\ TOO BU5Y TO DO IT. .: CAROL 1 YOU ARE new job. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Launch­
MAYBE '<OU SHOULD ~ THE. SECRETARY. 
ing a project prematurely would be a
u 
mistake. Talk with experts before deciding on the right time. Adequate 
TALK TO fv\Y B05S ~ , 
/\BOUT GETTING ME rn 
preparation is a must. Be diligent.
TI-IA'T'LL COST 

A SECRETARY. ~ 
YOU ANOTHER

... 
) 
... 
,'! MONTH . 
c 
:::0 ) 
63 See 16-Across 64 The Continent 65 Sonnies &&City on 
Guanabara Bay 
Your romantic expect<.tions are ju;;. 
tified. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

Look for ways to reduce expenses. 
You need to have a backup plan 
when trying to help a teen-ager. 
Tough love may not be the answer. 
Schedule a doctor's appointment for 
someone who is depressed. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 

Thanks to your shrewd financial 
management, you can expect to 
make a tidy profit. Wield your 
authority wisely at work. Someone 
who resents your influence could try 
to undermine it. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

You have a lot of irons in the fire 
right now. Go ahead and delegate 
more responsibility to a quick Ieam­
er. Just be certain to give clear 
instructions. Encourage a novice to 
ask questions. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 

21): A thorough approach is vital 
today. Have someone proofread 
your work hefore handing in a 
report. Your obvious sincerity works 
to your advantage in love 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A good day to play catch-up at work. Decide on your priorities, then arrange your schedule to accommodate them. Nonverbal communication is sometimes more effective than the spoken word. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Writing may provide th~ best outlet for your feelings. You experience an awakening of passion. Seek an expert's advice if you need to man­age your funds more shrewdly. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The emphasis today is on keeping a low profile. Indulging in a power struggle with higher-ups will be counterproductive. Try to get your point across without stepping on someone' s toes. 
-

-
• 

ACROSS 1 Walker. in sign language 4 Thanksgiving dish 7 Engagement 13 Baritone in Rabaud's "Marouf" 14 First or second, e.g. 15 Habituates 16 With 63-Across, theme of this puzzle 18 See 6-Down 19 Xaviera Hollander book 21 Neighbor of Uganda 22 Boston suburb 23 6/6/44 26Gung-ho 31 Result of a firing 
34 Corporate hotshot 36 Patriot of 1776 
37 Common game show consolation prize 
42 Meanie 43 Out of town 44 "Fantasy 
Island" prop 45 SE Mexican state 49Words of 
Caesar 51 Senseless state 53 "Alii gotta do 
--naturally" (Beatles lyric) 
57 "The Jeftersons" co-star 
62 It's often picked up in bars 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~PAY'@/tJ-"30 Rrltf 5Ar~ ~;o:go 
/tl Ct/SI-fll/6 A-VP/"Tbl?lV}// ~a AVt'11S51d/j
f=>OETRY 

67 Made up (for) 68 Windy City sights 69 Door word 
DOWN 

1 Results of some handshakes 2 Peace Nobelist Root 3 Fell 
precipitately 4 Cry harshly 5 "... and make it 
snappy!" 

& With 18-Across, a two-time Oscar winner 
7 Bucknell footballers 

a Lover in Dryden's "All for Love" 
9 lzmir resident 29 Colleague of 48 Medical suffix 58 Submarine 10 Cherry or apple 59 Venerable
Claudia and 50 Soyuz launcher Naomi 52 Fish
11 Lecherous look English
30 Lucy's husband 54 Waker-upper
12 Psychic's claim institution 
31 Tons 55 Whoopi, in "The 
14 Not so spicy 60 Become better 
32 Nintendo rival Color Purple" 
17 Harry James's 61 Machiavellian
33 Mint or sage 56 Holyfield beat 
"--the 
concerns35 1860's insignia him, 11/9/96 Craziest 38 Shade of green 57 Close &2 Leaves at 4:00? 

Dream" 39 Have bills 20 Triangle part: 40 Turner of noteAbbr. 

41 Daily since Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 24 Borden weapon 
1851, briefly are available by touch-tone phone: 25 Cry of victory 
46 Minor accident 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 27 Half a dance result 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 28 Flag down a 47 Searched best of Sunday crosswords from the last cab thoroughly 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Go AHP :>"li&e IT ALL.. S Tl/'1es: 
~--------------~-------------­




SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 13, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll • fOOTBALL 
Mattison

Irish shoot down 
reJOins

BC Eagles 91-64 
Davie's staff 

By JOE CAVATO well after losses and I think we Sports Writer just came ready to play," By T. RYAN KENNEDY McGraw said. "We came out 
Sports Writer A basketball game that with a little more intensity than 
includes 50 fouls. 55 turnovers we did against UConn." When Notre Dame head roach 
and 65 free throw attempts is The team enjoyed returning Bob Davie called Greg Mattison 
normally not pleasing to the to the Joyce Center as they late last November and asked 
eye. But, last night Irish eyes him if he would be interested in
caught fire early and never were certainly smiling as the cooled off. After shooting a working in South Bend, the Notre Dame women's basket­season low 27 percent Sunday, 
voice on the other line wavered. 

ball squad came away with a they responded with 68 percent Mattison, then Michigan's
,.. 
91-64 trouncing of the Boston shooting from the field last defensive coordinator, was College Eagles (13-9, 9-5) night. happy in Ann Arbor. lin had pushing their record to 21-5 Senior Beth Morgan lead the loyally served the Wolverine and 13-1 way with 17 points as she 
staff for five seasons, to the 

Last night's contest at the canned half of her shots. The 
point where he became a final­Joyce Center was a far cry team was hot from the top of ist for the Broyles Award, which from their last game and their the career points list to walk­recognizes the top assistant earlier contest with the Eagles on's as every healthy player coach in college football. which were both poor shooting wearing the Blue and Gold saw "I immediately thought in my performances by the Irish. a shot for them fall. mind, I'm not interested," Muffet McGraw's squad "We were excited to play recounted Mattison. "I had a 
responded from a 72-49 loss to again after the loss," Morgan good job, things were going the top ranked Connecticut commented. "We had a day off 
well, and we had a good team Huskies by jumping all over the to think about the UConn loss coming back. But when my third best team in the Big East. and had a good practice yester­wife and I came down and met The score was knotted at four a day and I think we always the people and spoke with piece before the man-to-man shoot better at home." Coach Davie and walked around 
defense sparked a run that Post players Katryna Gaither 
the campus,· my thoughts opened the lead to 19-4 over a and Rosanne Bohman were in changod. I had a chance to see six minute span. "This team has responded Sophomore guard Sheila McMillen turned in a strong offensive effort see HOOPS I page 18 last night as she helped the Irish past another Big East opponent. see MATTISON I page 12 

Four Irish standouts receive preseason honors 
Special to The Observer year. l-Ie helped the Irish to a 9-4 record giving 
up just 88 goals and making 169 saves for a .658 
Junior goalkeeper Alex Cade, who has led the save percentage. Cade also garnered Great nation in goal against average the last two sea­Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) first-team sons, was among four Notre Dame men's honors. 
lacrosse players chosen for preseason All­Keenan, also a USILA honorable mention All­America honors by College Lacrosse USA. American honoree, led the Irish in scoring last In addition to Cade, a first-team preseason season last season with 15 goals and a team­
honoree, junior midfielder Jimmy Keenan, junior high 19 assists (34 points). In addition, he was defenseman Todd Rassas and sophomore attack­named to GWLL first-team. man Chris Dusseau were selected for honorable Rassas-was a USILA All-American selection mention honors. and first-team GWLL choice. Dusseau also gar­
Cade, a United States Intercollegiate Lacrosse nered first-team GWLL as he finished the 1996 Association (USILA) honorable mention All­campaign with 29 goals and 2 assist. llis 29 America selection in '96, finished last season goals set the Irish single-season freshman mark. 
with a 7.16 goals against average as he led the Notre Dame opens up the 1997 season at Penn The Observer/Rob Finch 
Goalkeeper Alex Cade (above left) and midfielder Jimmy Keenan
nation in that category for the second straight State on February 28. 
(above) were two of four Irish chosen for All-American honors. 






