-

Wednesday, August 27, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No.3 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's earns top ranking for fourth time 
College tops 
U.S. News' regional list 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's College is the best, according to U.S. News and World Report. 
For the fourth year in a row, 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Having completed construc­tion on the new dorms, the bull­dozers and cement trucks on West Quad turned to ren­ovating South Dining Hall. 
cenrer helps

Workers 
SDH keep pace''

are imple­
p.4

menting "Phase One" of the reconstruction: demolish­ing SOH's former loading dock. The project is scheduled for eompletion in August 1998. 


The $11 million undertaking will add service and seating capaeity to accommodate the 
1.000 students who've moved ncar SDH in the last two years. 
Tlm~e phases of the project arc currently underway: moving Food Services out of the build­ing's basement to accommodate the renovation, closing the Oak Hoom and demolishing the south-side loading dock, aecording to Doug Marsh, pro­ject manager at Faeilities Engineering. 
"We are presently in the mid­dle of a few phases of work, but right now it will be no diiTerent to cat in South than it was last the College was ranked first out of 136 institutions in the Midwest Regional Liberal Arts Schools category. Saint Mary's has landed in the top ten of the 
U.S. News and World Report survey during each of the eleven years that the study has been conducted. 
"This ranking is another affirmation of the quality of this institution and a tribute to the dedication and commit­ment of the many people who comprise the Saint Mary's fam­ily," wrote College president Marilou Eldred in a memo directed to the Saint Mary's community. 

"I am very proud to attend an institution which has achieved 


'Phase One' of SDH renovation underway 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Following the completion of Welsh and McGlinn Halls, construction moved to nearby South Dining Hall. 
year," Marsh said. 

That will change very soon, though, according to Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services. After fall break, food serving units in the dining rooms will contain entrees pre­pared and heated in North Dining Hall and the new Food Services Support Facility. 
"The dining rooms will be open throughout the whole con­struction project, but in late October, portions of the [SDH] kitchen will be closed, except those for grilling and frying, and all food will be cooked in North and shipped to South," Prentkowski said. 
He added that in March 1998 the SDH kitchens will close entirely, and dish rooms will be removed, facilitating the use of disposable plates and utensils. 
"Next spring, we will only 
see SOH I page 4 

Saint Mary's achieved high ranks in other categories of the survey as well. The College placed first in the category of retention rank, which mea­sures whether a school is retaining and graduating stu­dents who enroll as freshmen. Saint Mary's also achieved top ten placement in the categories of faculty resources and finan­cial resources. 
The issue containing the col­lege rankings is available on newsstands this week. 
Slain officer mourned; suspect arraigned 
Observer Staff Report 
Services honoring and remembering slain South Bend Police Officer Paul Deguch will take place today and tomorrow, the police department said. 
Deguch, 30, was shot four times in the head Monday in a neighborhood bordering S.R. 
23. He was pronounced dead shortly thereafter. 
A visitation service will take place today at Kaniewski Funeral Home, 3545 N. Bendix Drive, from 3-9 p.m. Gatherers plan to say a rosary at 7 p.m. 
Police said the funeral service will be held Thursday at St. Matthew's Cathedral, 1701 S. Miami Street, at 12:30 p.m. The burial, at St. Joseph's Cemetery, will follow. 
Gregory Dickens Jr.. the youth accused of killing Deguch, made his initial appearance in the St. Joseph County Supreme Court yester­day. Dickens said he will seek private counsel, and will appear in front of Judge William Albright on Friday, Sept. 5. 


Tragedy follows July A hot commodity... wedding ceremony 
By LORI ALLEN to love, honor and cherish her Saint Mary's Editor husband for life. After their and ALLISON KOENIG reception at the Mishawaka Saint Mary's News Editor Athletic Club, the newlyweds 
checked into the Beiger 
Every young girl dreams of Mansion for a one-night stay. the perfect wedding and a life On the stairs to the honeymoon happily ever after. For Susie suite, the fairy tale turned trag­Laatz. a 1995 graduate of Saint ic. Mary's 
With no warning, Susanne College, only Kahl Mangan fatally collapsed part of that into her husband's arms. The dream came groom carried her to the bot­true this past tom of the stairs where her July 5 when cousin, a surgeon, attempted she walked cardiopulmonary resuscitation. down the Susie was pronounced dead at aisle in St. Joseph Community Hospital, LeMans just 12 hours after her wed­
Mangan

Hall's Holy ding. Spirit Chapel to exchange vows St. Joseph County coroner with Sean Mangan, a 1995 Charles Hurley attributed Notre Dame graduate. Mangan's death to cardiomy­
Surrounded by family and opathy, a condition which can friends. the 24-year-old blond­be caused either by a thicken­haired. blue-eyed beauty, ing of the walls of the heart or 
Preparing for their last football season before joining the alumni lottery, seniors camped out for their stu­
described as the quintessential 
dent football tickets. Hundreds were already in line early yesterday afternoon. 
Saint Mary's woman, pledged 
see MANGANI page 4 

page 2 

The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Russia downplays problems of space station 
Moscow Mir's crew was alive, well and breathing oxygen Tuesday, and the 
space station's main problem 
. b

seemed to be crossed wtres etween NASA and Russian Mission Control. Mir itself sailed on serenely, slow­ly regaining power after last week's 
· · · 

successfuI repair misston. 
NASA announced Monday that the station's oxygen-generating systems had gone down, igniting urgent news reports that caused a brief panic. 
On the defensive after a string of mishaps in recent months, Russian officials insisted all was normal on board and lashed out at the reports of a serious problem. 
"The station is alive and will live," 
Repairing Spektr 
PROCEDURE: 
• Once the docklna port 
isdepressurl:zed,llie cosmonauts OP.en the
hatch into the Spektr and look inside tor
potential hazards. 
• ~i~~~;~~~.Jreconnec1-"'' 
abou1 a dozen cables, 
to the Spektr-side of , the hatch. Solovyov 
assists, reconnectina 
cables on the opposite sideofthehatch. 

who has leaped to the Mir's defense during its recent travails with both 
praise and increase.  a  proposed budget  
Th · d e WI esp drea  trepor s  - 11a  

based on NASA information -char­acterized the latest trouble with the Mir's balky air supply systems as 
t t' 11 · 

po en Ia y senous. NASA said both the main and
b k · 

ac up oxygen-generatmg systems 
were not working, and that without swift repairs, the Russian-American crew might have to abandon the space station. 
Russian ground controllers brand­ed that "utter nonsense," saying a minor technical problem had been blown out of proportion. The two systems were both a bit obstinate, 
declared President Boris Yeltsin, L______:""--'~--'---'---!-------___:.____d!jj~__J but never failed simultaneously. 
Clinton plans to improve education 
WASHINGTON 

Large numbers of Americans want national standardized tests to measure how well children do in school, accord­ing to a poll released Tuesday. And more than half the parents of children in public schools support using tax money to send students to private and parochial schools, the survey by the Gallup Organization found. National 
"""'"'-"'--~­tests rank high on President Clinton's list of educational goals, and he'll be touting school issues when he returns to Washington in September. He also must fight an effort in the House to deny funding for voluntary national tests.Opponents and supporters of voluntary national tests claimed the survey results showed the public lean­ing in their direction."We think that not only does it have the support of the American people, but we believe that those standards and establishing national tests will improve students' performance in the long run and pre­pare our kids for the challenges of the 21st century," said White House spokesman Barry Toiv. The poll was conducted for Phi Delta Kappa, a professional society for educators. 
LSU student drinks himself to death 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

One Louisiana State University student died and three others were hospitalized Tuesday after a drinking binge to celebrate fraternity pledge week, the chancellor said. The student died of acute alcohol poisoning, said deputy coroner Chuck Smith. An initial autopsy showed the blood-alcohol level to be nearly six times what is consid­ered legally drunk, Smith said. A final autopsy report will not be available for weeks, he said. School Chancellor William Jenkins said there was no evidence that anyone had been forced to drink as part of any haz­ing ritual. LSU has long had a reputation as a "party school" where many students drink heavily. The death comes a week after the Princeton Review, not affiliated with Princeton University, published a guide for high school seniors that listed LSU as tenth on a list of the nation's top party schools.Campus police received an emergency call from the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity house early Tuesday, just after midnight, and found about a dozen people passed out on the floor, LSU police chief Randy Watts said. They had been drinking off cam­pus, Jenkins said. Alcohol is illegal on campus and none had been found during a routine cheek of all fraternity houses on Monday, he said. 
Priest negligent in molestation case 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
A federal jury awarded $750,000 Tuesday to a man who said he was molested by a Roman Catholic priest when he was a teen-ager in the 1960s and that his dio­cese covered it up. The jury found that the Bridgeport Roman Catholic Diocese breached its duty to Frank Martinelli, 50, of Milwaukee and failed to investigate whether there were other victims. The Rev. Laurence Brett did not attend the seven-day trial. He was dropped as a defendant in the lawsuit after both sides said they were unable to locate him. The jury awarded Martinelli compenshtory damages but said he had failed to prove that the diocese negligently inflicted emotional distress. 
U.S. District Judge Janet Bond Arterton did not set a date to decide the punitive award, which is limited to legal fees and other related costs. Martinelli smiled and shook his lawyer's hand after the derk announced the verdict. "Justice has been delivered. We knew that there had been a cover-up. This was never a case just about me," Martinelli said. Officials of the diocese were disap­pointed but still hoped the judge would set aside the ver­dict, spokesman Thomas Drohan said. "There is a sub­stantial difference between Father Brett and the diocese. They are worlds apart," Drohan said. 
Railroad to be investigated for safety 
OMAHA, Neb. 
The country's largest railroad -Union Pacific -will undergo a nationwide safety review following a series of train wrecks that killed 12 people in eight months, the Federal Railroad Administration said Tuesday. More than 60 inspectors will talk to crew members and the railroad's more than 900 dispatchers in 10 cities for 10 days. It is the biggest rail safety review ever, the agency said. "We are not only looking at the dispatchers but also riding the trains to see the operating practices going on with the train crews," agency spokesman Dave Bolger said. "Are they working an inordinate amount of time because of the merger with Southern Pacific?" Bolger said. "Are eight people doing the job that 30 people used to do three years ago?" Bolger said a weeklong inspection in June found 80 percent of dis­patcher orders contained at least one error. "These were basic communication errors, such as giving and confirming directions clearly," Bolger said. "They were not only violat­ing federal rules, but their own Union Pacific rules." Union Pacific spokesman John Bromley defended the railroad's training and said most of the dispatch errors cited were minor. He said the railroad has been trying to ease stress on dispatchers and denied any problems were related to last year's purchase of Southern Pacific Railroad. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 



Making a 
n1ess of success 
Everybody  seems  David Freddoso  
obsessed with success  Assistant News Editor  
nowadays.  ''I've got to  
finish college, I have to  

get a degree, I need to get a good job." 
The University of Notre Dame has chosen to facilitate this obsession for success by expand­ing the College of Business Administration. COBA is a veritable success factory, one could say. At my work-study job in the office of Career and Placement, I see business students landing THE job offer several times a week. 
I have many friends who are business majors, and I hope that they will all forgive me, but I find something very shallow in all of this "success" business (not to mention busi­ness studies in general). But undergraduate business students are only the victims of the "success" syndrome which the administration and faculty of COBA have allowed to take hold. 
Thomas Merton said a few words about suc­cess which I think our administration could learn a great deal from. "If you have learned only how to be a success," he wrote, "your life has probably been wasted." 
Even more relevant and difficult is his bald statement that "if a university concentrates on producing successful people, it is lamentably failing in its obligation to society and to the students themselves." 
It makes me cringe every time I see the administration release statistics on "average graduating salary" and other such trivialities. In the great days of the University of Alexandria. there were higher goals in study than filling one's toga with gold coins in the first year after graduation. When St. Thomas Aquinas studied at the University of Paris, he did not expect to be a "success," nor did any of his classmates. 
Does Notre Dame, or any other modern school for that matter, even deserve the title of "University" at all? Are we really here to enlighten the minds of American young people, or are we here to give them a piece of paper that looks really good at Arthur Andersen? 
Our administration is so worried about "suc­cess" that it has forgotten why we are here. 
We are obsessed with convincing applicants that our graduates are successful, and also that our university is a financial success. For example, the Development Department, which is wholly non-academic, is the largest adminis­trative body on campus. (We may not know how to translate Greek, but we sure have some nice buildings at Notre Dame!) 
Quite plainly, the purpose of getting a uni­versity education is to learn how to think, and to become a better person as a whole, stronger in both intellect and character. Education was never meant to gratify your own hungry wal­let. 
Besides, it is not those who have studied business, but rather those who are well-read and articulate who make the best businesspeo­ple and the best executives. 
You have been duped if someone told you that you came here to make it in the "real world," whatever that is. Be convinced that you ARE in the real world, right now. If you keep looking forward to some other world, you will be very disappointed when you get there and find out that with all of your "success," you have never learned how to think. 
You will see that you will never again have the chance to study what you enjoy, because you will have already chosen while still in col­lege to shackle yourself to the eternal and monotonous job you will have until the day you die. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 

News Graphics Dave F reddoso John King Sarah Hiltz Sports Production 
Brian Reinthaler Mark DeBoy 
Viewpoint Heather J. Focks Kelly Brooks 
Accent Lab Tech Andrea Jordan Kevin Dalum 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.·.w•• 

r

H ·-L'p 

Tuesday 



:~~~~ 

Wednesdayl)­1'5 Thursday ~ 76 64 
Friday ~, r::.73. ·66~ Satqtday ,~B 'st 

~)'...1\1"""''•·~..\,/'' ~·t...:J 
( 

~,.rC\..r() ~uu ~ ~ c:2
,,",,,~ ...~···.·.····=·.;:i·.:::·-=..-:..-:.. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy CtoudJ Via ASSOCIBfed Press GraphicsNet 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug 28 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 

Pressure H L HIGH LOW  B ISS] SHOWERS RAIN  II.!] 0 . [ZJ 8 T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE  i) SUNNY  ~u Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY  
Boston  76  62  Juneau  64  50  Omaha  89  69  
Chicago Dallas Detroit  82 96 79  64 71 62  Las Vegas 104 Memphis 91 Milwaukee 84  77 70 64  Orlando Phoenix St. Louis  91 99 90  72 82 72  
Fargo  85  60  New York  82  67  Seattle  69  56  

'In yo' face!' 

ND '97 alu01na dies in car wreck 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE first post-graduate full-time ND," Haas said. "She stated Assistant News Editor job. that they hope to do so, per­Sister Kathy Haas, Smith's haps this fall. 
Shortly after the festivites of rector in Knott, reflected on "Mrs. Smith shared that the Notre Dame graduation Smith's time at Notre Dame: there are many blessings to ceremonies, tragedy struck. "She was such a postive pres­remember -and the Notre 
On July 13, Stacy Smith, who ence in the dorm. Her life was Dame family is a key part of had celebrated her commence­just beginning," Haas said. that." ment just two months earlier, Smith's funeral was held in Haas has plans to. set up a died in a car accident. her hometown of Stoughton, memorial in the chapel of 
Smith's car overturned, Mass. Several Notre Dame stu­McGlinn Hall, where Knott res­killing her instantly. Her dents and faculty attended, idents now live. boyfriend, riding in the pas­including Father Dick Warner "One of my last memories of senger seat, was hospitalied. of Campus Ministry. Stacy was embracing her in No further details were avail­Haas sent a letter to the for­the halls of Knott right after able. mer residents of Knott, inform­graduation," remembered 
Smith Was a four-year resi­ing them of the tragedy, and Megan Ferstenfeld, a friend of dent of Knott Hall and involved asking for their thoughts and Smith's. 'Til always remember in many aspects of Notre Dame prayers. her like that." life, such as dorm functions, "When I spoke with Mrs. Smith's family asks that any ROTC, and campus ministry. Smith, I expressed the hope donations students or faculty 
A biology major with the that the family would know wish to send be given to the intent of being a veterinarian, that they are always welcome Animal Behavior Lab in Galvin Smith had also obtained her to visit us if they journey to Life Sciences. 
Alumnae honored with award 
Special to The Observer 

University, she founded Stellar Solutions, a compa­
ny providing technical support to defense satellite 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association marked the programs.University's 25th year of coeducation by honoring The College of Business Adminstration was rep­six prominent alumnae with the 1997 Notre Dame resented by Lynette Boggs McDonald, a 1985 grad­Women's Award of Acheivement. uate recently appointed director of marketing and The College of Arts and Letters was represented community relations for the University of Nevada­
by Barbara Frey, a 1978 graduate and former Las Vegas.executive director of Minnesota Advocates, a The Law School was represented by U.S. District prominent international human rights organization Court Judge Ann Claire Williams of the Northern 
with more than 1,200 members and 15 programs. District of Illinois. Graduated from the Law School 
The College of Science was represented by Lt. in 1975, she became both the first African­Col. Karen Daneu, a 1977 graduate who received American and the youngest judge appointed to the her commission as a second lieutenant from the bench in Chicago. She has been a member of the 
Air Force ROTC at Notre Dame. She has com­Notre Dame's board of trustees since 1988. manded the 350th Air Refeuling Squadron at The Graduate School was represented by Sister McConnell Air Force Base in Kansas. Joan Chittister, O.S.B., who received a master's 
The College of Engineering was represented by degree in theology from the University in 1968. Celeste Voiz Ford, a 1978 graduate. An aerospace She is a member of the Benedictine Sisters of Erie, engineer with a master's degree from Stanford Pa. 




S·EN IORS 
GRAFFITI DANCE @ A/S CLUB TONIGHT DOORS OPEN AT 
9'PM 
GET YOUR MEMBERSHIP FOR 1/2 PRICE 

1998-99 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 28-7:00 p.m. 126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
~--------------------------------------------~ ----------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
SDH 
continued from page 1 
cook and transport product<; that we can cook and transport safely. The menu will be slightly altered, but we're hoping that students will understand this and possibly eat some meals at [NOH] to alle­viate some of the rush," Prentkowski said. 
Eating previously-transported food will not be much of a differ­ence for many SOH diners. Though many students are unaware, there has always been a mobile condition between din­ing halls, because NOH has more space and equipment for meal production. 
Prentkowski explained that as more food needs to be prepared in advance, food services shifts have been added to economize the work of University employees. 
'To compensate for the loss of SOH kitchens in the spring, we've created a night shift at NOH to prepare items like lasagna to be cooked later and then transport­ed to South," Prentkowski said. 
Mangan 
continued from page 1 
by a virus that weakens the heart. According to Dr. Joel Wachs, a South Bend cardiolo­gist, the fact that Mangan was an avid runner would not have affected her, nor even made her aware that she suffered from the condition. 
Mangan, an honors student at Saint Mary's, spent the last two years teaching elementary school in a remote Alaskan vil­lage. Friends described her as independent, happy, and beau­tiful. They consider her death 

New food center helps SDH keep pace 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
In two years, the south side of campus has gained 1,000 residents -and gained longer lines in the dining hall. 
South Dining Hall is being renovated to accommodate the influx, but that translates to a temporary loss in kitchen and storage space. 
To keep the SOH regulars fed, most of the meals will be stored and prepared at the new 38,000-square-ft. Food Service Support Facility, a state-of-the-art building that combines the latest technology with more efficient equipment to serve all campus food out­lets. 
"We've been operating out of North and South [Dining Halls] for years. Everything has been crammed down in basements of two dining halls, and now that South has to move any­way, it's a great time for this 
to be nothing less than a com­plete shock. 
Members of the family have started a scholarship fund in the Chicago area, in Susie's memory. According to Ken Cooke, the attorney administer­ing the fund, the public has expressed a great deal of inter­est. Details on the scholarship 
are pending. 
The South Bend Tribune tributed to this report. 
con­

new facility. It allows us to be much more efficient and deliv­er a better product," said Doug Marsh, the project's Facilities Engineering manager. 
Featuring a bakery, butcher shop, vegetable processing area, ambient temperature warehouse and freezers, the warehouse can hold an esti­mated 1.9 million pounds of food and supplies. It offers space for food services staff offices, holding and issuing freezers and a five-bay loading and shipping dock. 
The benefits of the new building extend past the con­venience of timing, though. The University will save money, according to Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services, since contracts can now be drawn up to purchase larger quantities of food at once. 
"We can contract now with manufacturers to buy in bulk and store it ourselves, which is 

• FACT FILE 
less expensive than having a from the center of campus, food service distribution. The and ultimately create a safer net effect is that we will be atmosphere by "keeping those alJie to absorb cost increases," big trailer semi-trucks that Prentkowski said. deliver food to the dining halls 

He added that the new facili­from endangering students ty will help centralize and pedestrians on campus." University food services away 
~.,~ 


c~.. fJo&o"" 


R--~ "'AI•o,.41
Sunday, September 7 ~ Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Begining at 10:00 
18 HOLES PLAY YOUR OWN BALL MEN'S &WOMEN'S DIVISIONS FEE IS $8.00 REGISTER &PAY FEE AT GOLF PRO SHOP SIGN-UPS BEGIN THURSDAY, AUGUST 28 DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 SPACE IS LIMITED FOR MORE· INFO. CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-6100 


News 
The best source for local and national current events 
Official Rules: 1 ENTRY: To enter, correctly complete and return the official ent>y form to the designated Chicago Tribune booth on cam· pus. Must be 18 years old to enter. Proof of age may be required. 
2. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY: You may 
also enter by writing the required informa­tion, name, address, day and evening phone number and date of birth, on a post­card and mail to: University Contest 
Chicago Tribune 435 N. Michigan Promotions Suite 200, Chicago. IL 60611· 
4041. One entry per envelope. Mechanically reproduced entries will be dis­qualified. Mailed entries must be received 
by the Chicago Tribune by November 1. 
1997, The Chicago Tribune will not be , 
responsible for entries lost or delayed or 
deferred and reserves the right disqualify 
any mutilated, altered, illegible entries or 
entries which do not comply with these 
rules. All entries become the property of 
the Chicago Tribune. By entering this con­
test. all entrants agree that the Chicago Tribune has the sole right to decide all mat· 
ters and disputes arising from this contest 
and its determination of the winners shall 
be final and binding. 
3. PRIZES: Prizes are nonreturnable and 
not redeemable for cash. GRAND PRIZE: 
one winner will get hotel accommodations 
Friday Section 
Find out about cool places and spicy tastings 
and airfare for two to Cancun, Mexico for 
4 nights and 5 days. Certain travel and 
other restrictions apply. Retail value: 
$1500. FIRST PlACE PRIZE: four winners 
·will get a Chicago Bulls leather jacket from 
Tribune Store. Retail value $350 each. 
4. WINNERS: Winners will be determined by random drawing on November 1. 1997, 
Odds to win will depend on number of entries received. Send S.A.S.E. to above address for a winners list. Winners agree to allow use of their name and photos by the Chicago Tribune for promotional pur­poses. Winners must execute and return 
an affidavit of eligibility and liability/publici· 
ty within 3 days of notification, or prizes will be forfeited. Winners assume any lia­
bility for prizes. Winners will be notified by 
phone or mail. Organizers are not respon­sible for any damages or injury incurred by a contestant as a result of winning. 
5. ELIGIBILITY: Employees of Chicago 
Tribune Company, its affiliate, agencies 
and distributors and their families are not eligible. This contest is subject to all fed· 
eral, state, and local laws, and is void 
where prohibited. 
6. In fairness to us. the Chicago Tribune 
cannot discuss the contest by phone, mail or in any other way with the contestants. 
Tempo Sports Sunday Paper 

Review music, comedy, the­In your face coverage of col­Share views and opinions, ater and books lege and professional bargain shop or scan the sports job section 
r---------------------------------, 
I 

IFULL TERM, 32 WEEKS HALF TERM, 16 WEEKS 
Is7% off the newsstand price 50% off the newsstand price 0 Seven day $67.20 ($2.10/wk) DEK* 0 Seven day $37.60 ($2.35/wk) DEJ* 0 Mon .. Sat. $43.20 ($1.35/wk) DEK* 0 Mon.-Sat. $25.60 ($1.60/wk) DEJ* 0 Sun. only $56.00 ($1.75/wk) 0 Sun. only $28.00 (1.75/wk) DEJ* 
If different from above ___ # of full term week # of half term weeks. 
Payment by: 0 Check 0 Mastercard 0 Visa 0 American Express 0 Discover/Novus Account No. Exp. Date __________________ 
Signature -------------------------Name --------------------------­
Address _________________________________________________________ 
Dorm Address -----------------------------------------,,.----------­

Apt. _________ City _________________ State ______ Zip ___________ 
1 Home Phone Work Phone ---------------------­1 
Mail coupon to: Chica o Tribune 2000 York Rd. Suite 124 Oak Brook, IL 60523-0001 

~n~~~~2-~-~-m------~---T-h_e_O_b_s_cr_~_r_•_P_~_I_D_A_D-~~-M-E_N_T-----------------P~ 
~~~~~~~~~~--------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------~~-­
.._............­
··­


rr 
ACADEMIC 
Accounting Club 
Alpha Epsilon Delta 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astro. 
American Institute of Architecture Students 
American Institute of Chemical Engineers 
American Society of Civil Engineers 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Anthropology Club 
Arts Collective 
Biology Club 
Computer Applications Honor Society 
Council on International Business Development Entrepreneur Club Finance Club Hispanic Business Student Assoc. Investment Club Joint Engineering Council League of Black Business Students MAES/SHPE Marketing Club Math Club Medieval Club Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers Minority Pre-Medical Society MIS Mock Trial Association Model United Nations National Society of Black Engineers Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Psychology Club Science-Business Club Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Women Engineers Tau Beta Pi Toastmasters International 

ATHLETIC 
Aikido Club Bocce Club Bowling Club Boxing Club Climbing Club Cycling Club Equestrian Club Gymnastics Club Irish Outdoors Club Judo Club Martial Arts Institute Men's Volleyball Team Men's Water Polo RecSports Rowing Club Sailing Club Ski Team Sports Promotion Synchronized Swimming Club TaeKwonDo Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club Ultimate Club Women's Water Polo World of TaeKwonDo Federation Wrestling Club 

ETHNIC 
African American Student Alliance African Students' Association Arab American Club Asian American Association Asian International Society Black Cultural Arts Festival Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Filipino American Student Organization German Club Hawaii Club India Association at Notre Dame International Student Organization 





ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBERl FROM 7:00P.M. TO 9:00P.M. JOYCE ACC FIELD HOUSE (GATE)) 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACTTHE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
The following organizations are scheduled to appear: 
Muslim Students' Association NAACP Native American Student Association, NO Nuestra Voz Spanish Club Vietnamese Student Association 
MEDIA 
Dome Juggler Magazine Observer, The Scholastic Magazine WSND-FM WVFI-AM 

MISCELLANEOUS 
Class of '98 Class of '99 Class of '00 Flip Side Humor Artists Student Activities Office Student Union Student Union Board Troop Notre Dame 


MUSIC 

Bagpipe Band Chorale Collegiate Choir Folk Choir Guitar Players Association Handbell Choir Liturgical Choir Shenanigans Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Wind Ensemble Women's Liturgical Choir 

SERVICE 

AIDS Awareness/Students with AIDS Training AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assistance Alliance for Catholic Education American Cancer Society American Red Cross Amnesty International Best Buddies Bible Club Big Brothers/Big Sisters of ND/SMC Big Brothers/Big Sister of St. Joe C o. Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination Catholic League Center for Basic Learning Skills Center for the Homeless CSC Information CSC Neighborhood Roots Program CSC Seminars Information Table CSC Summer Service Projects CSC Urban Plunge table Chiara Home, Inc. Children's Dispensary Circle K International Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics Community Resource Center Council for Fun and Learning Fire Home First Aid Services Team Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council Habitat for Humanity Hansel Head Start Holy Cross Vocation Homeless Shelter Children's Group Hospice Chapter, NO Hospice of St. Joseph Co., Inc. HUGS Junior Achievement Club Juvenile Justice Center Knights of Columbus La Casa de Amistad Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana Life Treatment Center Logan Center Logan Center (Council for the Retarded) 
Manantial Mental Health Assoc. of St. Joesph County Michiana Blues Society Neighborhood Study Help Program Northeast Neighborhood Council, Inc. Operation Smile Rainbows (Catholic Charities) Real Services Recylin' Irish Reins of Life Right to Life, ND/SMC Sacred Heart Parish SADD Sex Offense Services Silver Wings South Bend Boys and Girls Club South Bend Comm. Schools/Adult Education South Bend Heritage Foundation St. Joseph's Chapin St. Health Center Student Tutorial Ed. Program (STEP) Students for Environmental Action Students for Responsible Business Super Sibs University Young Life Volunteers For Youth Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition 


SPECIAL INTEREST 
Air Force ROTC Ballroom Dance Club Basilica of the Sacred Heart Campus Fellowship Campus Ministry Children of Mar)\ College Democrats College Republicans Computer Club, NO Farley Hall Players Hospitality Program and Undergrad. School Irish Accent Irish Marauder Drill Team Japan Club Juggling Club Knights of the Immaculata Le Cercle Francais NASCCU Pan-African Cultural Center Physical Therapy Club Ranger Challenge Salon of Friendship Sorin Cadet Club St. Edward's Hall Players Student Alumni Relations Grp. (SARG) Student Players Students Supporting Diversity Terra Club 
• 

Wednesday, August 27, 1997 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~---­



Students: 
Don't miss these important meetings planned by the Student Activities Office to help your club, organization or hall council: 
Food Service Training: 
*If you plan to run a football concession stand or have food at an event, at least one representative of your organization must be present at one of these training sessions* 
Thursday, 8/28 at '5:00 p.m., Montgomery Theatre Thursday, 9/4 at 5:30 p.m., Foster Room Wednesday, 9/10 at 5:00p.m., Montgomery Theatre 

Social and SYR Chair Training 
Monday, 9/8 at 6:00 p.m., Montgomery Theatre 

Vendor Fair 
*Meet vendors who have products for your concession stands or fund raisers as well as the latest in imprinted items* 
Monday, 9/8 at 7-10 p.m., Ballroom 
< 


Clubs and Organizations Meetings 
ttendance at one of these m gs is suggested for all clubs and organizations. You are encouraged to attend the meeting which represents your group; however, if different-time works better, please attend that meeting* 
d., 9/10 at 8:00 p.m. (Special Interest clubs) 
Thursday, 9/11 at 4:00 p.m. (Ethnic clubs) Thur., 9/11 at 6:00p.m. (Academic clubs) Monday, 9/15 at 4:00p.m. (Athletic clubs) 
Monday, 9/15 at 6:00 p.m (Social Service clubs) 
These meetings will be held in the Montgomery Theatre 
For information about any of these meetings or for assistance with your club, organization or hall council, contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7309 or stop by our office at 315 LaFortune Student Center. 


-----~--~~--~----------~-~~--------' 
• BOSNIA



FDA: Some apple juice 
Challenge splits Serb army
may harm kids, elderly 
However, four of the eight Police in three key northwest By MISHA SAVIC generals apparently disobeyed towns, Banja Luka, PrijedorBy LAURAN NEERGAARD Later this fall, the FDA said, Associated Press Writer the ministry and attended the and Mrkonjic Grad, are loyal to 
Associated Press Writer it will propose forcing makers 
meeting. Gen. Momir Talic and Plavsic, said U.N. spokesmanof all untreated juices to take BANJA LUKA, Bosnia Gen. Novica Simic, between Alun Roberts in Banja Luka. 
WASHINGTON new safety steps. 

Just like the police and the them control the northern, Two others still are loyal to As the fall apple season Critics questioned whether media, the Bosnian Serb army more populous sectors of Serb Karadzic, Roberts said. 
starts, the Food and Drug the interim call for voluntary 
split Tuesday over the presi­territory in Bosnia. Plavsic's Television facilities, a key
Administration asked makers warning labels came too late ­dent's challenge to indicted war northwestern base is under weapon in a largely rural land of unpasteurized apple juice apple season already is starting criminal Radovan Karadzic, Talic, while the northeast is where TV is the sole source of and cider Tuesday to warn cus­now in northern states. 
deepening the political divide under Simic. news for many, also have been tomers that the drinks could "This is not a little between the two halves of Serb The head of the air force, and divvied between the two camps.
contain bacteria dangerous to Montezuma's revenge or flu­territory. one of Colic's deputies also met TV technicians repro­children, the elderly and peo­like bout with diarrhea," Half of the senior generals with Plavsic. grammed a transmitter near 
ple with weak immune sys­warned Laurie Girand of the 
met with President Biljana Two other commanders, con­Banja Luka on Sunday to give tems. advocacy group Safe Tables Plavsic at her headquarters in trolling the region around Plavsic her own voice in the Only a small share of the Our Priority. Her daughter was northwest Bosnia. The rest Karadzic's base in Pale, east of media. NATO troops have been nation's apple juice is not heat­hospitalized for a week and stayed away. Sarajevo and southern Bosnia, deployed near the transmitter. 
treated to kill potentially dead­required two blood transfu­The Bosnian Serb military stayed away. The Bosnian Serb Parliament ly bacteria such as E. coli. sions last year after drinking chief of staff, Gen. Pero Colic, There was no statement after accused international organiza­But the FDA's call for volun­unpasteurized apple juice in told Associated Press Television the meeting. tions of overstepping their tary warning labels comes California. 
that he did not attend the meet­An ally of Karadzic declared authority. "This could lead to 
after an E. coli outbreak in But small cider producers 
ing at Plavsic's headquarters on that the future of the Serb an international protectorateunpasteurized apple juice a say the FDA's plans could put Defense Ministry orders. republic, 49 percent of Bosnia, over Srpska, with elements of a year ago killed a child and them out of business. If they're "We respect the official insti­was at stake. military occupation," it said. 
sickened 66 other people. ultimately forced to pasteurize, tutions, the assembly, the gov­"Our republic will soon be Earlier in the conflict, Plavsic The FDA said its request was the equipment alone could cost ernment and the ministry, and history if we don't preserve dismissed the Parliament,just a first step, taken because about $40,000. 
the decision of the ministry is unity of our national forces," which generally supportsit didn't have time to complete "I wasn't even aware of E. 
for us not to attend this meet­Momcilo Krajisnik, the Serb Karadzic, and urged October stronger federal rules govern­coli being in cider," said Rick ing," he said in Sarajevo. His member of Bosnia's three-man elections for new legislators.
ing all unpasteurized juices Kimes, owner of Kimes Cider list did not include the presi­presidency, told the pro­Parliament met Tuesday in before fall harvests. Mill in Bendersville, Penn. 
dency. Karadzic assembly. defiance of Plavsic's order. But 
In a later interview, Krajisnik in a possible indication that charged that Western powers some legislators were heeding were using Plavsic against Plavsic, only 45 of 83 members Serbs. Splitting the army, he were present. said, was the "final task" in a The assembly did make a cos­

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
project aimed at destroying the metic move to appease the Serbs' republic, he said. Serbs' international critics. It The split in the military fol­replaced the Bosnian Serb inte­
Preseason Sportstalk Show with 
lowed equally sharp divisions in rior minister, Karadzic loyalist the police, the media, and Dragan Kijac, as demanded by among public officials. international officials. 
Coach Bob Davie &JeffJeffers 
You can be a part of the 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE
excitement and the tradition of Notre Dame 

Your source for the best in theological football by listening to the 
and philosophical books! Preseason Sportstalk Show. 
Open' House,~
This 2 hour show will air 
on U-93FM and 1490AM 

Friday, August 29 
Saturday, August 30, 

1:00-6:00 p.m.
6:00PM -8:00PM, 

Enjoy refreshments while 
just 7 days before the 

you explore our uniqueplayers, coaches and fans 
selection of books at 237 will "Wake up the Echoes" 
N. Michigan (at the corner in the newly expanded 
of LaSalle and Michigan). stadium. 
Free parking south side. Open 10-5p.m. Mon-Fri. 234-0003 
BRASS EAGLE FAMILY BILLIARDS 

• 26 tables 
• 
Snooker, pool, billiards 

• 
Conduct code enforced 

• 
10% student discount with ID 


1202 5. Lafayette • 1 block west of Matn •2 blocks south of Sample 
~FEDERAL 
~'1'5

CREDIT ...\UNION 
Be%ic 

•
~qg 



1490 AM m
\'!:) 

MILES Federal 
Credit ALWAYS \IVITHIN REAcH Union 
HAROlD 
ZEIGLER 
P 0 a D 
ILII:BAKT 
COUNTRY AUTO CENTER 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin 
Photo Editor ........................... Karic Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofdther insriturion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Ediror, Sporrs Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commenraries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces· sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to aJI readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  
Ncws/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  
Day EditorNiewpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
General Information  63I-7471  Ad E-Mail  

• WRONG SIDE UP 
631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-747I 63I-6927 Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


So, Are You Sure 'Doctor' isn't Your First Name? 
I have always avoided the Notre Dame Health Services. It is not because I have a fear of doctors or because the sight of blood makes me quiver (even though it does). Actually, I have avoided the Health Services because I am dubi­ous as to whether or not they've got real doctors there. 
Margaret Shaheen 

My theory is that when the dining halls close, the food service workers grab a bagel (or a single piece of fruit) and trek on over to Health Services for job number two. Admittedly, I could be mistaken, since I do not have a factual foundation for this theory. However, I have heard rumors that prospective employees need not have medical degrees provided they are children of alumni. Well, as a rule, I hate to specu­late without knowing all the facts. So, in a quest for the truth, I took a heroic trip into the Notre Dame Health Services building. Actually, the trip became necessary when I discovered a small hunk of something (much like an Altoid) lodged in my throat. 
As I was sitting in the Health Services waiting room looking at photos of hooked trout in Outdoorsman maga­zine, I started to get a bit anxious. I could feel butterflies storming in my stomach as the pages of Outdoorsman stuck to my hands. However, my fears were immediately put to rest when the nurse approached me, donning a grey tee-shirt with "Notre Dame Nurse" scrawled in big, green and blue, plaid, block letters. Clearly, this woman was a professional. I followed the nurse into an examining room which was a cross between something you might find in Dr. Zhivago and a 1940s convent. When the Notre Dame poster child finished looking in my mouth she said, "Hmmm, maybe we should let the doctor take a look at that throat." Hmmm, I won­dered, do you have those here? 
The nurse stationed me on the exam­ining table in the doctor's office and told me that the doctor would be "just a minute." Of course, "just a minute" is code for fifteen minutes, but I did not mind the wait. It gave me ample time to do a quick background check on the doctor. His credentials were framed nicely on the wall. Let's see, "Notre Dame Health Services ... Notre Dame Health Services ... Notre Dame Health Services." Well, it seems he was trained in the back room of the Notre Dame Health Services. My eyes drifted to his bookshelf where l found-not Gray's Anatomy-but rather, a book about Notre Dame written by the doctor. Yes, doctor by day and creator of Notre Dame propaganda by night. 
Finally, Hemingway's prodigy came in and started shooting the breeze about Colorado, Denver International Airport, contusions caused by soccer injuries, you know, the usual. After awhile, he decided it might be a good idea to take a look at my throat, so he whipped out a fancy flashlight and told me to say "abhh." Rest assured; I was not on my deathbed. No surgery was required. In fact, all that was really needed was a tongue depressor and an extra long Q­tip to get at that debris caught in the back of my throat. 
Debris? 

"Yes," the doctor informed me, "you have a bit of debris caught in the back of your throat. It will most likely dis­lodge itself." Yes, but why should we have allowed the debris to dislodge itself when this Notre Dame enthusiast was packing a tongue depressor and an extra long Q-tip? The doctor aimed the Q-tip and fired; he fiercely probed at my tonsil and I fiercely gagged. After a continuous cycle of probing and gag­ging, I was quite sure the doctor had removed the debris and my tonsil all in one nice, little package, but unfortu­nately, the debris was a stubborn little fellow and refused to yield to the doc­tor's probing. I continued to gag; my eyes were watering and for the life of me, I couldn't figure out why the doctor didn't just leave me and my debris alone and let us dislodge in our own good time! 

Realizing he was defeated, the doctor finally put down his Q-tip in frustration. I started to stand up, having had quite enough of the Notre Dame Health Services for one lifetime, but the doctor told me to sit back down. You see, this man was not just a doctor, not just a writer, but this jack of all trades was also an artist. I sat back down and the doctor clicked his ballpoint pen a few times, before he began drawing a detailed diagram of my throat on the butcher paper covering the exam table. 
The doctor allowed me to leave only after he explained the biological basis for how food becomes lodged in one's throat. 

A week later, my debris and I were still carrying on a happy existence together, so I was forced to return to the Health Services. Doctor number two told me that I did not have food stuck in my throat; I had a bacterial infection. He popped me some pills. and my debris and I have now parted company. Yet, the question remains: are they real doctors? The evidence is inconclusive. However, I for one, would rather take my chances in the dining hall than show my face in that quackery again. 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. She can be reached by e-mail at Margaret.L.Shaheen.3@nd. edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURY 
&V8RYTHIN6-7H/3 CbR&MONt 7H/3 R£CEPT/ONON 7H/3Ft3l<R.'7; TH/3 FCXJ/?! 7J.f£ NHOtb 7H!NG NA'3 JlET ~ C'AI<E3RJUYYfl 
/MA61NATIVUY m:JIJGHTOUT/ 
\ 


• 0UOTE Of THE DAY 
"Illness of any kind is 
hardly a thing to be encouraged in others. Health is the primary duty of life." 
-Oscar Wilde 





ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, August 27, 1997 page 9 

u1nmer Iovin' ...had mea blast 


• ACCENT ASKS 
By ANDREA JORDAN it, want more of it, or mind your own busi­
''What was the 
Assistant Accent Editor ness, punk." If the last two are used, the question to follow could be "What did you these conversations sound do this summer?" and then strategy num­familiar? "So how was your sum­ber one for the first redundant question
Do 

highlight of your
mer? My summer was good. And will have to be relied upon. 
yours? Oh, mine was good too." If people are told to mind their own busi­Or "What did you do this summer?" "I ness when they approach you with the worked and saved up some money. And inquiry, they will be led to believe that you?" "Same here." These talks generally something extremely exciting or secretive 

summer?'' 
end here because small talk is actually was done. Thus, the gossip mill will start that "small." to churn and one may find oneself the cen­
Let's be truthful: nobody gives a mon­ter of attention. key's butt what anybody did for the sum­Warning: This is both good and bad. mer, but it is a way to be polite, to make Being the center of attention has advan­conversation. It is a way for a guy to get to tages for people who are constantly know a girl better before he tries to hook ignored by everyone including professors up with her later or vice versa. because they will enjoy the attention they 

"Went to Ireland and 
Of course this bit of information is noth­so desire. The negative outweighs the pos­
became a Celtic flower 

ing new to anyone, but continually people itive because people will eventually find 
dancer."

ask the dead-end questions: "What did you out what happened over the summer. do this summer?" or "How was your sum­Needless to say, they will be definitely dis­mer?"At the beginning of the school year appointed to discover the ultimate summer 
Justin LaReau 

these questions are literally asked a mil­secret: as an employee at McDonald's you lion times in schools around the world. discovered what the secret sauce was on 
Junior, Carroll 

Does anybody hope to hear that someon' the Big Mac {Thousand Island Dressing}. went skiing in the Rockies, touring The one guaranteed response that will Europe, working with the President, or work for both questions every time is the spending the summer in jail? Nobody famous "I don't know." Most people won't hopes to hear these things and most of the believe you, but hey who cares. They are time they don't. really. not going to take the time to pry the 
"I worked in sub-zero condi­
Every year why must the precious ears info out of you. 
tions at a dairy factory." 
of students across the world be filled with Warning: This answer could cause some such meaningless garbage? distant acquaintances to stop associations, No one ever really remembers what but were these people important in the 
Chris Bailey 

somebody else did and if they do, it is first place? No. 
Sophomore, Siegfried 
because they have an ulterior motive, If none of these answers are suitable and which will be discussed later. your preference is to simply answer the 
Suggestion: Let's abandon this whole question and continue saying the same idea of being polite or making small talk. bull, then by all means do not let this arti­What new knowledge is gained from hear­cle discourage you. After all, it is your ing about how your classmate worked 40 time, energy and brain matter that is hours a week in a meat packing industry being wasted. or how he or she traveled around the A little bit of advice for people who con­



"My car broke down and I
country on foot? No one cares, okay, so stantly find themselves the ones who are don't ask these stupid questions any more asking these questions or similar ones: 
had to ride with a toothless 

How to break the bad habit of these think before you speak or act. You don't 
truck driver for an hour."

redundant questions, one may wonder? really care that your lab partner's biggest The answer is quite simple. When asked job this summer was saying "Hi, may I "What did you do this summer?" feel free take your order please?" or that she spent 
Margaret Cholis 

to take from a variety of responses like: I the summer working in a nursing home found a new scab everyday to pick at and playing strip poker (okay, maybe you care 
Junior, Badin 

make bleed. I dug in my nose until I found to hear that one}. the biggest green monster my finger could As for the rest of the bull, you've heard it handle, or I licked my body clean of all all before. Heck, it's the same bull that you existing fungi. say in response to your own stupid ques­
Through any one of these responses the tions. For the sake of everyone's sanity monotony of the conversation will be bro­"Just don't do it." 

"I was in a 190-mile bike race
ken. The person asking the question will 

-
for the American Lungtake on a look of disgust, shock or fall on 
the ground in laughter. 
Association"
Warning: The conversation can take any form from this point and possibly lead to the discovery of what was really done over 
Nicole Harris 

the course of the summer. If none of these responses are good 
Senior, Pangborn 
enough or outrageous enough, take anoth­er route. For example, simply ask the per­son "Why do you want to know?" 
-
Everybody has a motive behind their ques­tion. Thus, make it a goal to get to the nitty gritty before responding. After dis­covering the purpose then proceed with 

"Nudie skateboarding." caution. Caution must be used because some people are very slick and the real motive could still be hidden. He or she 
David Powers 

could really be a spy, or just plain nosy. 
Freshman, Dillon

For example, do rectors or professors really care what students did for their summer. Are they just being nosy or sim­ply passing the time until they have some­thing better to do? 
A similar format should be used with the 
-

question "How was your summer?" Take from a variety of responses such as: I hated every minute of it or "loved it, loved 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
• JOCK STRIP 

Frosh face plenty of pressure early on 
On a sun-laden field in early August they come together as one for the first time. They come from all over the United States and are stars in their home state. They attend the 
top universities-;;;~~~~~~;' 
across the nation. From the University of Maine to the University of San Diego and from the University of Minnesota to the University of Miami. They entertain the 

. th Sports Writer 
crowd Ill e --=-----­sports they play. From Meotis Erickson (soccer) to Shane Battier (basketball) to Travis Minor (football) to Sharif Karie (track), they are the most highly sought after prizes during the re­cruiting season. Who are they? They are the few, the proud, the recruits. 
When these freshman were high school juniors two years ago, they were already capturing the spotlight and the eyes of many recruiters at the young age of 16. Their blinding quickness, sweet touch, and on-field presence made them ones to watch. When coaches first scouted these players the summer before they be­came seniors, their mouths began to water as if they were staring at a succulent steak sitting on a barbe­cue. 
Knowing that only a few would re­spond, the coaches first sent out let­ters to all the players that they were interested in obtaining. At USC, for example, the coaches bombard their recruits with letters for months ­even those who are already commit­ted. 
Next comes the visiting phase. These highly-sought-after prizes must choose the five schools that they want to visit as part of NCAA regulations. The all-star seniors walk around the campus, talk to their future coaches and teammates, and examine the situation that they are presented. After this is all said and done, the recruiting process starts to look like a cattle auction rather than a signing period. The coaches begin to present their offers to the prospects (some rather illegally). hoping that they will feel the joy that a child does on Christmas morning. 
As the signing day approaches, more and more recruits give an oral commitment to the school of their choice, usually not the one that will bring them a championship, but the one where they will fit in right away and make an impact from day one. The others who are not committed will be blitzed with an endless array of phone calls. 
Finally, the day of reckoning comes and coaches obtain the pieces of paper that solidify the agreements that they have made with their recruits. While some coaches just release a list of their newly obtained toys, others like former Notre Dame football coach and current LSU head coach Gerry DiNardo hold a big rally in the school's athletic center to annoum;e each new pickup and give a short bio on them. For the coaches, this is their Christmas Day. 
After several months these new players come together to learn about their new team. For the first time in their careers they may not be the focus of the team. Throughout their high school years, whether they played their way up through the ranks of the freshman, JV, and varsi­ty teams, or they were vaulted straight to a starting varsity spot, they were the athletes that everyone focused on and looked up to. For the first time, these novice players have to impress their coaches right away to prove that they belong in the start­ing lineup. When the coach orches­trates a tackling drill, dribbling drill, or shooting drill, no longer can these players take a lackadaisical approach, for if they do they'll be riding the pine for the foreseeable future. 

Players may even have to "kiss up" to the coach to gain his attention. and when one is finally granted his or her fifteen minutes of fame, he or she must showcase his or her talents like a beauty pageant contestant. For a month these players learn and adapt to the new plays handed to them. This month-long camp may also be a retooling for some. A line­backer may become a fullback, a wide receiver converts to a safety, a sweeper moves up to midfield slot, and a second baseman is optioned to the outfield. This turns out to be one of the new obstacles that athletes must face when they enter the topsy­turvy world of Division I sports. This month-long training seminar is also an adjustment period. For the first time they are on their own without mother or father, they have to share their room with a stranger, and they must decide how to divide up their study time. During a month which is supposed to be relaxing, the class of 2001 is taking on one of the toughest opponents they will face all year. 
As the weeks dwindle down, more emphasis is placed on memorizing the plays and learning the tech­niques to make the team a winner. Finally the day of reckoning comes ­their first game as members of their new team. As they take the field, they pray that they will not slip up, and will be able to aid in the team's victory. For all the freshman the fate is not the same. One may become an instant hero, while the flub of anoth­er may have cost the team a game. But when the unfortunate are con­fronted by the coach about their gaff. they can stare at the coach and like Brian Vander Ark say, "We were merely freshman." 
a two-mile RecSports 
UnUV.IULIU.I 
or team com-and non-varsity clivi­for this event. 
"'-The ini!~mationa~#meet­course will be Sunday at 1 p.m. Met~icltiaL Completion of the 
in YMCA lifetime certification. 
Karate -This is a semester­' ....J.i'lll"'·" is instructed according to tec:hn.itntes· Register in advance at is $18. A demonstration 10 at 6:30 p.m. in tbe 
Self•(lefense ,,, This course ions op Mondays and Rockn~ MemoriaL Class and is open to students is limited and there is a e information;: call 1­
le,t -;;::: Classes will be held on Sundays . ·3·4"p.m. and Wednesdays from 8-9 

p.m. The fee is $35. Register in advance at RecSports. Sign-ups begin on Sept. 8. ThereWm be a.ri< informational meeting on Sept. 7 att:15 p.m. Space Is limited. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds.i_s 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, inclu~ing all spaces. 
LOOKING FOR A COOL JOB?  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOR  NO FAN NEEDS TICKET FOR  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ 
NOTICES  Webmasters, graphic designers, database specialists call Chris at 1­ FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  11/22 GAME WITH WV. PLEASE CALL 304/465-0775. WILL PAY  ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929  PERSONAL  
5610.  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  FOR CALL.  
5 ROOMS AVAILABLE IN PRI­ KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  Buying GA's seasons or individual  FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND  
VATE HOME; NICELY DECORAT­ ****INTERESTED IN MAKING  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State game-Sept.  games. Top dollar paid.  OPERATORS: Packets are now  
ED, LOCATED LESS THAN 2  EXTRA MONEY****  20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­ Confidential service.  available in the Student Activities  
MILES FROM CAMPUS. CONTIN. BRKFST. INCL. CALL KIM NOW  LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY PRACTICE LOOKING FOR STU­ FOR SALE  (773)525-9373.  Call 234-5650.  Office, 315 LaFortune. Packets must be picked up by FRIDAY.  
277-8340.  DENTS TO MAKE  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS  FOR SALE GA TICKETS  AUG. 29. If you are not sure if  
FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO  DRUMS  CALL AMY: 616-473-5825  TO ALL NO HOME AND  your organization has a stand, call  
Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  SEE HOW OUR PATIENTS ARE  28" bass drum good condition- AWAY GAMES  631-7308.  
Private home 2 miles from stadium.  DOING.  50.00  WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH  CALL 272-7233  
Private baths.  FILING & COMPUTOR ENTRY  2 trap cases at 45.00 ea.  (312)744-8794  CLASS  
272-9471  ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  Electronic equipment:  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  OF  
ILOST & FOUND I  HOURS. CALL GERARD OR DOUG NOW! ***233-5754***  Crate Speaker Traynor 4200 Mixer Amplifier Octapad  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS (904)398-6146  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726  1998 Grafitti Dance @ Sr. Bar  
Roland Rhythm Composer TR727  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  9pm  
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY  FOR RENT  Korg 005 dynamic digital drums Korg KMP68 Midi Patch Bay  NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO BOSTON COLLEGE  NO TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Get your membership for 1/2 price.  
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST.  3 foot table and power strip  (904 )398-6146  EVENING#: 288-2726  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
JOSEPH LAKE ON NO CAMPUS.  WALK TO CAMPUS  Total: 1,000 firm  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette  
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Call 631-4873 or 2723987  FOR SALE  2845099  
OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR  $195/PERSON  
CALL  232-2595  N.D. GA'S  What're you-nuts?  
- 631-7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ NEED 3  
IT"S NOT TOO LATE­ dic Mattress set and frame. New,  GA. TECHTX  271-9412.  ATIENTION: GAY, LESBIAN,  
WANTED  A newly remodeled 5 bedroom house is still available to rent for the  never used, still in plastic. $225.00. 219-862-2082.  (GA or student) will pay$$$  WANTED N D G A'S  and BISEXUAL STUDENTS, FACULTY and STAFF:  
fall semester. 2 full baths, washers  please call Justin  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
PART-TIME WORK  and dryer. huge rec room, security  2.8 cu. ft. dorm refrigerator. $45.  273·9422  271 1526  New Year, New Night, New  
Local company filling 15  system. Call now to take a look  Call 272-3753 after 5 pm.  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  277-0636.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
$10.25 starting. Flexible hours  '85 Pontiac stationwagon. Great  HELP!!! Devoted Notre Dame Fan  Don't like football??  The ORIGINAL campus group  
around classes. 282-2357  condition. Perfect tailgater.  needs FIVE GAs for the Georgia  I will buy your football tix  will hold it's first Info Meeting on  
Rooms for rent  $1,400/obo. 272-5132.  Tech Game! Call 510) 551 8292.  applications  Wed. Sept. 10th, 7PM  
- PHONE RECEPTIONIST  237-1919  FOR SALE: A custom crafted,  Ask for Tom!  Call Jenny@ 687-8435 CALL TODAY!!!!!!  Our first Support Group Meeting:  
Part-time afternoons. $5/hr. 2-3  varnished, solid oak-wood  Need GA's to home games  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
days per week. Call 12-1 pm 282­ ROOMMATE NEEDED. PREFER  FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a  Will sell or trade Navy or W.V.  
2341.  F, UPPER GLASSMAN OR GRAD  couch and folds into a double  GA's. Call Justin at x1722  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call 236-9661 for details!  
STUDENT. FURN. APT. 10 MIN  sized bed. Call Greg Leone @  WANTED:  
TO CAMPUS. MONTHLY OR  272-0915. Priced at $750.00.  NOTRE DAME  Married Student Football  GC,  
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ SHORT TERM AVAIL. $300/MO. (ALL INCL.)  FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE  Ticket Applications Call Jenny@ 687-8435  Hope things are better now that the routine has begun. I'm still disori­ 
TIONS  PG. 282-5575.  KING BED. EXCELLENT. $80. 288­ TODAY!!  ented, but I'll make some time for  
On-Call positions available  3408  232-0058  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  you soon. But you know where to  
evenings 5-9 Mon.-Fri. and/or 10­ THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  find me if you need me.  
6:30 on weekends. Our busy call  Breakfast Inn has space available  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi..  CONFIDENTIAL  I need 1 or 2 GAs tor the Georgia  
center is looking for candidates with  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio,  TICKET-MART, INC.  Tech and/or the Michigan State  But now it's been ten years; l'mm  
excellent phone skills and a desire  with private baths, $70-$90,  air.cond., new trans., and good  game!!l  still wonderin' whoto be. I love to  
to satisfy customers. Starting pay is  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­ BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ Please call Amy  mix in circles, cliches and social  
$8.80 per hour tor evenings and  Toll Road, Exit #107,  5610.  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  at810-355-9140.  coteries. That's me!  
$9.05 per hour on weekends. Apply  1-800-41 B-9487.  674-7645.  
at Oualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  NICE FURNISHED HOUSE  TICKETS  BUYING BUYING BUYING  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will  I juggle one hand, do some magic tricks and give the best imitation of  
Louise St., South Bend. IN 46615.  NORTH OF NO GOOD NEIGH­ N.D GA ONLY  exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  myself.  
We support a drug free workplace.  BORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659  h(214)351-6775  
EOE  2773097  HOME GAMES.272·6551  BUYING BUYING BUYING  w(214)855-1180.  Name the band.  



----~----~~~~~---~­


Welcome Back Students! 
Free GEAR For Sports Notre Dame Cap with purchase of GEAR For Sports Sweatshirt, Polo, Sweater orJacket. 
8/22 Friday • 9am-7pm 8/23 Saturday • 9am-7pm 8/24 Sunday • 9am-5pm 8/25 Monday • 9am-7pm 8/26 Tuesday • 9am-8pm 8/27 Wednesday • 9am-8pm 8/28 Thursday • 9am-8pm 8/29 Friday • 9am-7pm 

·~ ,,:. ..... 
F 0 R ·s ·"·· 0 ·It T 5 
.. ® 

Ask for it by name. 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~on the campus" 
-I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

1 
I 
' 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAtl 




Spurrier faces new challenges in Florida's opener 
"Southern Miss is one of the Another starter, left tackle wait and see how it goes, but I and going away with a victo­New quarterback best teams we've opened with Zach Piller, sprained his ankle think he's ready to play very ry," Spurrier said. "From what in the eight years we've been last week in a scrimmage is well." we've heard, they have pre­brings uncertainty around," Spurrier said out for at least three weeks. The last time a Florida quar­pared all summer. They've got Tuesday. And the Gators begin defense terback made his first start in the couHtdown to play the
to 'Fun 'N' Gun' "They're a good team that's of their first national champi­the season-opener was in Gators." coming with expectations to onship behind sophomore 1993, when junior Terry Dean The Golden Eagles (8-3 last
By DOUG FERGUSON 

beat you," he said. "We're quarterback Doug Johnson, led the Gators to a 44-6 victory year) have played a top-5 team
Associated Press Writer looking forward to opening up who took only 70 snaps last over Arkansas State. in each of the last four sea­
the season and trying to find year as the backup to lleisman But Southern Miss isn't like sons. And if that's not enoughGAINESVILLE, Fla. 
out what kind of team we've Trophy winner Danny some of the patsies the Gators to get Florida's attention, they
Aside from his $2 million 

got." Wuerffel. have opened against beat Florida State, 30-26, in
contract, this must feel like 

Florida might be better off "I think he's ready to play," Arkansas State, San Jose State the first game of the 1989 sea­Steve Spurrier's first game as 
finding that out against The Spurrier said. "He will make in 1991. New Mexico State in son.
head coach of Florida. 

Citadel, which it plays next some mistakes. Hopefully, 1994, Southwestern Louisiana Of course, they had a youngNot only is he curious about 
year, or Central Michigan, they're not the extremely bad last year. quarterback named Brett
how his vaunted Fun 'N' Gun 

which it plays next week. plays, not interceptions for A year ago, Southern Favre on that team. On
offense will perform with a 

Five of its players will be touchdowns or fumbles by the Mississippi won at Georgia in Saturday, Southern Miss will
quarterback making his first 

serving one-game suspensions quarterback that you pick up the first game and then took be trying to beat the highest­start, but the se{;ond-ranked Saturday night for off-field and score. Alabama into the fourth quar­ranked team in school historyGators finally play a season­incidents -two are starters, "Doug has not played much, ter before losing, 20-10. behind junior Lee Roberts,opener against a team capable the other make significant con­he's had a lot of practice "They've got a history of who had a 155.3 pass-efficien­of beating them. 
tributions. time," he said. "We've got to coming into an SEC ballpark cy rating last year. 
•MLB 

Martinez,_ Yanks pummel Oakland despite slow start 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS apiece. Martinez, who. finished a triple Oakland since it allowed a dub-record Oakland helped keep the fifth inning Associated Press Writer shy of the cycle, raised his major 23 against Minnesota on July 18, 1978. alive with throwing errors by catcher league-leading RBis total to 124. The 18 runs were the most against the George Williams and shortstop Rafael OAKLAND. Calif. "I think it becomes a domino effect," A's since an 18-5 loss to Baltimore on Bournigal. The A's made three errors 
For four innings, the Yankees' offense Raines said. "We were getting walks. Aug. 15,1996. overall but they led to just two was flat. By the end of the game, it had We were getting big hits in key situa­"It was terrible," Oakland manager unearned runs. flattened Oakland. tions and they made a big error early Art Howe said. "They've got a quality "Oquist did a great job early but then 
"I was a little worried early on when in the game and we kind of fed off that. team and you need big league pitching got into a jam," Howe said. "Our we hit into three double plays. I was If we didn't hit into those double plays, to beat them." defense was the worst of the season. saying.. 'Uh, oh, I don't like the looks of it maybe could have been worse. But Chad Curtis also homered to back It's no fun taking your lumps like we this thing," Yankees manager Joe that's baseball. Everyone came out Andy Pettitte (15-7), who allowed one did today." Torre said. today and swung the bat well." run and five hits in seven innings. Oakland limited the Yankees to a run 
By the time the afternoon was over, New York got the most hits off "It didn't matter if I had good stuff or by turning three double plays in the New York had totaled up its most hits Oakland in 19 years. The Yankees sent bad stuff today. The only thing is, it first four innings, but New York broke in 11 years. Tino Martinez hit his 41st 13 batters to the plate in an eight-run gets you stiff sitting on the bench," through in the fifth, when Girardi had homer as the Yankees rapped out 22 fifth, then batted nine in a six-run sev­Pettitte said of the long innings. two hits. Curtis hit his 13th homer, two hits Tuesday and routed the Oakland enth that included a three-run homer Mike Oquist (2-4). the first of six runs scored on George Williams' error, Athletics 18-2. by Martinez. Oakland pitchers, gave up six runs and Bernie Williams hit an HBI single, Paul 
"I always get concerned coming out The Yankees had their highest hits eight hits in 4 1-3 innings. O'Neill hit a run-scoring double and after an off day. You want to kind of total since getting 22 in an 18-9 loss to "It's a tough game up here," Oquist Girardi had a two-run single for a 9-0 guard against any flatness," Torre Baltimore on June 8, 1986. It was their said. "I felt good dear up until the fifth. lead.. said. "We sure eliminated that prob­most runs since beating Milwaukee 19-Then I got the curve ball and the Bournigal hit a run-scoring ground­lem." 2 in a doubleheader opener last Sept. changeup up and it just broke loose out in the bottom half, but O'Neill hit a 
Joe Girardi and Rey Sanchez had four 25, the game that clinched their first from there. Every team goes through a sacrifice fly in the sixth to make it 10-1. hits each, and Martinez, Bernie division title since 1981. game during the season that gets away. Raines and Bernie Williams hit RBI Williams and Tim Raines had three The 22 hits were the most against It just got ugly in a hurry." singles in the eighth. 
Wanted: Sports Writers, Copy Editors. 

Join The Observer Sports Staff 



f:()med~

.TicKets·········­



[)()ubleheade.,.
Buy•Seii•Trade Seasons and IddiViduals GA's only•Corifidential 

featur-ina

234-5650 

-


f3e()r-!!e f3r-eenfield Leiahann L()r-d




~~:£.-N • 
• ~-~--~ SATtiRDAY. AUGl:.IST 30 
• ···-..,.J'. ··-···.·· ,.... _,. :. ••••••••••••• 
•• 10:30 AMAT__~). · BEACH FRIDAYI AUGUST 2S> 
• • JCC FIELD HOUSE AT 8:1~ P.M• •
• 

free admission

•••• •••• .. 
•• •• sponsored by the Student Activities Office and SARG 
• •

• ,Z?~~
.• --~ .• 

• www.nd.edu/-recsport • 


~gJ w!t..~'i~fvs The biggest Wednesday nite party all of Miobiana! No cover lor ladies 
SEVEN MARY THRE THE NIXONS • SOAK 
Doors Spm • Show 7:30pm • $12 advance • $15 at door Tix available at Ticketmaster & Heartland 
-
EIVEIRY WEIDNEISDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 --.. 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
~
5-lOpm Tuesday-Thursday 5-llpm Friday & Saturday FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY! 
222 S. IVIICHIGAN · SOUTH BEND · (219) 234-5200 

~--------------------------------------------------------------~---­



<CtJiil.IMBUS;Ohio'! ·tern 1nig9 >}ltJ.ve• ~~~me~·· Nine months after watching··w in ing from: the ()utsid~, Joe Germain.e lead 0 tate"b c~s~n •s~~~ it l'l~t 
to its first Rose BoW fun •. especi. the in 23 years, Stanley Jackson -. w ... · . oft}le Michigan, g~m~ is still the ~~(Jke~~$'. $tfl,rting ••Whetl' ;he foun Ge~tn:aitl'fl·. 
quarterback: · ··· · · · . .. · wasgoingto s Jackson; despUe ending "Itbi last seasou M adist c .e ond choice at the p h 
· comes into this seas on~t w vinced of his No; 1 ~ bti't I gijt tbe' Part of the reasoil is be has w o e situation,owas handled convinced the'coacbing staff@• badly .tow~r . . D~ pf the 
he's a team player. 
"I just feel great," the fifth-year senior said. "My confi­dence is at.a level now that' it's never been sinceJ'v~ been a Buckeye!' ······ ,.,. 
Jackson started 11 ofOhio State's 12 gami'ls:o-anfi th Buckeyes Won them alL 
Through a change ofoffen~·/····•
sive coordinators and a:w;.cHat'ris got t;he . .at change of quarterback PittSburgh. WitpMikeJacobs coaches, Jacksoil has main-· ele~a,ted to rutl. th~ $~0'\-\'; tained his edge over;w Jackson w'bn b!ii:;k the start-
Germaine. ingjoh 
"He's a compe~itor, like all Bp:t.. . . of our quarterbacks are/; theilWw .· quarterbacks . ~(lac~ Tiln .Ariz~na · Salem said,.~'He.'s -~•__ goo(:li1mturtp;ed leadoff hitter .... He gives us Jackson 
... me thin 
•· get"go. 
''He's a guy who havethat.hall hrll.is .n~.nu:s\WFB4~St1Jn He wants t& be the quarterback. He wants to be the first guy.Ol'l the .~tel leading the team out of 
tu~~~~t' s. hts·denieiuior:~i1~l>stJti!~li aroulid That was Jackson's 
demeanor going into. las!;;: 
year. But at:mid"season henn-liiKflr 
sensed an erosion of .confi­dence from offensive coor .. nator Joe Hollis and quart backs coach Walt Barr Even as theiBuckuyes rQl to a 10-0 start, Jackson sta ­ed spending more time lOJl ing over a shoulder, Wonde ing when was be 


Please Recycle The Observer 

-
ye<tf;'I ·Jacks . . . ''That1s 
when I ).llay have s}lovvn 
sigl'u; qfl: fr ati~P' . and, 
didn't like w was going 
on.%;; ·;;•:;. t1i!· . / , 
"Other than that; Ltlidught 
I ha:ndled it quit{lwelM' ....··· 
ll~fo s~Yi:l:lol\1~{ 
oUis ·.. ·t~dhead. ·• coa~~ at Atk~nsa:~ S · , . and 
into the bOwL d!ive ?f against 
· eoac~~s ·. fJ.~. dis'" 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
•NBA 

Iverson pleads no contest to charge 
By LARRY O'DELL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW KENT, Va. 
NBA Rookie of the Year Allen Iverson of the Philadelphia 76ers pleaded no contest Tuesday to carrying a concealed weapon and was placed on three years' probation. 
A· marijuana possession charge was dropped in a plea agreement. 
Under the agreement Iverson reached with prosecutors, he must also undergo monthly drug testing for two years and may not own a gun during that time. 
The 22-year-old Iverson, who gained national attention as a Virginia high school star who got into trouble with the law, was a passenger in a car that was stopped early Aug. 3 for speeding on Interstate 64 near Richmond. The car, a Mercedes­


2 4:15-5:15
t.------This Saturday & Sunday 
3 5:25-6:25

Double Elimination 
4 5:25-6:10 

1202 5. Lafayette • 1 block west of Main •2 blocks south of Sample 
5 3:45-4:45 6 3:45-4:45 7 5:30-6:30 8 5:30-6:30 
9 6:30-7:15 am 10 12:15-12:45 11 4:15-5:15 12 5:25-6:25 13 9:00-9:45 14 7:45-8:30 am 15 12:15-12:45 16 3:45-4:45 
17 5:30-6:30 18 5:20-6:05 19 4:40-5:30 20 5:35-5:55 21 6:05-6:55 
22 12:15-12:45 23 6:45-7:45 
1 4:15-5:15 

Benz owned by Iverson, was going 93 mph in a 65 mph zone. 
The state trooper who stoppPd the car smelled marijuana. A search of the car revealed a .45­caliber pistol belonging to Iverson and two marijuana ciga­rettes-one under Iverson's seat, another in the back seat. 
Iverson was charged with possession of marijuana and possession of firearms with a controlled substance. 

The Application Deadline for Spring Semester 1998 Undergraduate Programs in 
Athens, Greece Cairo, Egypt The Caribbean Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia Jerusalem Mexico City, Mexico Monterrey, Mexico Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 
' 

has been moved up to OCTOBER 1, 1997 
Applications and advising available in 109 Hurle , 631-5882 
International Study Programs 109 llurley Building 

BRASS EAGLE FAMILY BI-LLIARDS 

FITNESS SCHEDULE Fall, 1997 JOY~E CENTER CLASSES 

9 Ball Tournament ,;h+ww 
e\' $20~~::~~r~und ii!!id 
STEP Gym 1 MIW $25 
Hi Intensity Gym2 MIW $20 
STEP Gym 1 M1W $25 
Flex &Tone Gym2 MIW $20 
STEP Gym 1 Tffh $25 
Hi Intensity Gym2 Tffh $20 
STEP Gym1 Tffh $25 #Lo Impact Gym2 Tffh $20 ROCKNE CLASSES 
STEP 301 MIWIF $25 
STEP 301 MIWIF $25 
STEP 301 MIWIF $35 
STEP 301 MIW $25 
Cardio Combo 301 MIW $20 
STEP 301 Tffh $25 
Flex & Tone 301 Tffh $25 
AeroStep 301 Tffh $25 
STEP 301 Tffh $25 
Hi Intensity 301 F $12 
STEP 301 Su $12 
AIIAbs 301 Su $12 
Hi Intensity 301 Su $12 
RQLFS ~LASSES 

Aquacise MIWIF $20 
Aquacise Tffh $20 
.KNO~KQUT WQRKQ!JT 24 6:15-7:30 Joyce Center Tffh $20 Class runs unti110/16 
----~ -~--~-----------.... 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST




SCOTT ADAMS 

YOU'RE FORGETTING TfiAT "FRO/"\ \fiE 1"\0UTHS 
OF BABE.5 ... COMES. 501"\E.THING GOOD. II 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
WHO GIVES ME THEIR OPINION. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Lymphatic part 
38 "Penny Lane," not "Strawberry1 Cockeyed 

6 Stirs in Fields Forever" 
Ingredients 10 Emily of "Our 
39 Frank Fontaine Town" 
TV character 14 Trig. function 43 Thomas Mann's 15 Man of the 
"--Kroger" House? 44 Presidential run 160ilof-­
45 One below a 17 Gin inventor second Iieut. 
19 After-school 46 Pursues 
drink 48 Government20 "Cheers" star worry
21 Fib 50 Aves.
23 Cravings 
51 Sir Peter--,

25 "--giorno!" 
painter of British 26 Bathing facility royalty

29Spot 53 Kind of toad 
31 Flashed one's pearly whites 
55 Leftover 

35 Unagi, at a 59 Emphatic sushi bar affirmative 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
o A N G M 0 p 
~..!-t..!-t.::::f~i.ioll:.l .:...:..J-=4.:...:..J~:::..j1-.lllll 
~'-'+-'+''-! ~:::+:.t=-1 
~~:::+~::..! 
-7-+=+=+=~:..j 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cloris Leachman, Willie Ndson, jill Clayburgh, Burt Young 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on March 2, 1962, at 1:00 a.m. How does my love life look this year? I am not looking for a casual or sex-only rela­tionship. I am looking into settling down and meeting my soul mate. Willi be blessed with this wish? Also will my business be successful? 
Banffbears 
DEAR BANFFBEARS: You were one of those kids born during the dawning of the Age of Aquarius, and guess what? The Age of Aquar­ius is upon us. You happen to have four planets in that sign, even though you were born under the sign Pisces. You're chart indicates that the biggest drawback is relying on others to help you and trusting those you shouldn't. As far as being in business for yourself, this is the year for you to excel. You will be in a much better position where love, 
marriage, commitment are con­
cerned next year. You match up well to the signs Aries, Leo and Libra. As for now, push your hardest and do your best and you should make headway professionally. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): This is not the best day to lend money or belongings to friends or relatives. You must avoid extravagance at all costs. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): You may want to make career changes. Think things through carefully. Don't leave in order to get away from some­one you don't like working with. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): You will attract potential lovers with your 
PEOPLE ARE IDIOTS. 
IF I HA\JE 10 LISTEN TO 
innate ability to charm them with your quick wit and versatile mind. 
CANCER (june 22-)uly 22): Don't be so eager to give of yourself. You are ready to make changes regarding your career and personal life. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): This is a perfect time to get down to busines> regarding your personal life. Talk about your intentions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You can do your best work today if you concentrate on detail and working by yourself. Don't try to enlist the help of others. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Make plans to go ahead with that change that you've been considering. You will have the discipline to stop those bad habits. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Someone you love may be trying to make you feel guilty. You must look out for your own best interests. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You can't be everything for everyone. A friend may ask you to do unreason­able things. You must learn to say no rather than overload your plate. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): This is not a good day to lend a friend money. You will find that losses will occur if you are careless with your be­longings. Don't take senseless chances today. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): Acceptance will be the key to happi­ness. You must let go of the past that haunts you. New friends, new lovers and new adventures can all be yours if you'll take the first step. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Some­one may be trying to undermine you. Keep your thoughts to yourself for the time-being. You can come into financial gains through rebates, inher­itance or winnings. 
Born Today: Get ready to give life your best shot. You can have whatever you want as long as you don't ponder over past mistakes or regrets. Move-into 

DE.SERVE C0f''\PEN­the fast lane and get into the swing of things this year. You have a lot to offer and much to get back in return.
SAT10N. 




4'-'+=+-=+==-1 32 Property company best of Sunday crosswords from the last securities 54 Compact name 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive Tlie Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
0  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ------------State ____ Zip________ 
__,. 




SPORTS 
Wednesday, August 27, 1997 
• FooTBALL 
Preseason coming to a close 
media day held when the upper­It is no surprise that the offense 
Squad meets classmen arrive for pre-season will be looked at as the strong camp, Davie gave local fans an point of the Irish team. But like 
press, prepares opportunity to get to know the any football aficionado knows, new Irish team last Saturday by offense might score touchdowns,
for stadium debut inviting them out to Krause but defense wins games. 
Stadium to meet the players. Much of the concern surround­By BETSY BAKER The Irish "fan fest" was held ing the Irish defense lies in the Assistant Sports Editor appropriately on the first week­fact that many players have sus­
end that all new Notre Dame tained preseason injuries and 
The countdown is getting lower freshmen arrived on campus, giv­strains. While none of the injuries and the intensity is picking up as ing them and their parents the are considered serious, they have the Notre Dame football team is first taste of Notre Dame football hindered the defense's ability to preparing for its first game of the tradition. develop a much-needed rhythm 1997 season. However, Davie was quick to going into the first game. 
...___ When the Irish take the field on emphasize the importance of giv­"Defensively, we have not had Sept. 6 to face Georgia Tech, it ing the local fans, who might not the continuity that we would will be more than just the inau­always be lucky enough to see a like," Davie commented_ gural game in the renovated sta­game but are equally as dedicat­Still, the offense has continued dium. The showdown against the ed, a first-hand chance to know to impress the coaching staff, Yellow Jackets will be the debut the team. especially the emergence of tal­of a new team from top to bot­"Notre Dame has fans all ented freshmen like running back tom. While there will exist some across the country," Davie said to Tony Driver and wide receiver familiar faces in the Irish lineup, the over 1,000 fans who attended Joey Getherall. While upper­the system and the attitude will the fan fest. "But it's you people classmen like junior tailback be something unknown but here at home who are the back­Autry Denson and senior receiver eagerly anticipated by Irish fans. bone." Malcolm Johnson are still seen as Irish head coach Bob Davie has In addition to the autograph the probable starters for the basically kept preseason prac­session with the players Saturday Georgia Tech game, freshmen tices closed to media, alumni, morning, the Irish held their first like Driver and Getherall have and many others who, in the preseason scrimmage in the surely pushed the veterans to past, would have been allowed a newly renovated stadium on earn that right, and will most sneak peek at the team. But Saturday night. Although, like likely see their share of playing there have been a few opportuni­the rest of the preseason prac­time. ties for insight into the progress tices, the scrimmage was closed Junior Autry Denson is one of the experienced players who will and preparation of the team. to the media, Davie commented The South Bend Tribune con­lead the Irish into battle on Sept. 6. · 
In addition to the traditional on the team's performance. tributed to this article . 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

New look Irish hope pieces are in place for season 
man's two goal performance led the

Tar Heels to visit 
team to a 2-1 victory over the Tar Heels in overtime. 
N
Alumni Stadium At the NCAA tournament last year, soccer fans came by the thousands tofor fall showdown get a glimpse of the rematch. The Irish were thirsty to repeat as na­ow that school is in session and tional champions while the Tar Heels camping out for football tickets is were looking to capture their 13th in full swing, it is time to recognize title in 15 years. The 8,800 fans got that there is more to Notre Dame their money's worth in the double athletics than foot-~=====~ overtime game. 
ball. 
North Carolina prevailed in the 
Granted, this second extra frame thanks to an team's venue unusual bounce which eluded the hasn't recently grasp of goalkeeper Jen Renola. The been refurbished, game left a sour taste in the team's nor does it hold mouth. 80,000 fans. This season the team is stacked 
It does, however with talent and ready to play. In houses one of the their first exhibition match, the team top programs in Kathleen Lopez showed they have what it takes. The 

the nation. AssistamSports Editor Irish showed no mercy as they Alumni Field is trounced the Missouri Tigers, 11-0. home to the second-ranked women's With the addition of freshmen soccer team. Despite this fact, the Anne Makinen, Monica Gonzalez, squad rarely gets a sellout crowd. and Meotis Erikson, the team has It is time for this to change. ball skills, speed, and depth on the Fans are needed at this sort of bench which is sorely needed. The function as well, not just at football team lost several seniors which oc­games. The Irish take on several cupied key positions on the field in ranked opponents this season. In 1996. fact, this year the battle of the top Under the leadership of senior two teams in the nation, barring any Holly Manthei and Kate Sobrero, the unforeseen losses, will take place program should have no problem here at Notre Dame. On Sept. 19, continuing its winning ways. After Notre Dame will do battle with the the exhibition game, all the skeptics University of North Carolina in the can rest assured that the program Adidas Lady Footlocker Classic. This remains intact. match-up promises to be intense -The team kicks off the season on one that you will not want to miss. Friday night against Big East rival St. Last year's tournament was held at John's at 7 p.m., and there is nothing Duke and the fans turned out in that would give the team more incen­droves. In the end, the Irish held the tive to launch their drive for the title, The Observer/ Rob Finch secret weapon. That weapon was than a sellout crowd for the season Head coach Chris Petrucelli hopes veteran players like Holly Manthei (right) can fill in for his Jenny Streiffer. The quiet fresh-opener. departed seniors. 




6 
. vs. St. John's, 

vs. Indiana, a) 
• Jock Strip: New recruits 
August 29, 7:30 p.m. 

~ 
September 2, 7:30p.m. see page 10
•
-J_ 
·~

CIJ • Iverson cops plea 
vs. Louisville, vs. Georgia Tech., 

see page 14@) August 29, 7:30p.m. 

~ September 6, I :30 p.m. 
~ 


I ~­
1 
I 
----------------------------------------" 







