--~------------~--~---~------------------------------------~------.-------~ 

Thursday, April 17, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 127 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Malloy to join Clinton at educational su01mit 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame community is pulling together in response to a call from President Clinton to promote growth and cooperation in community service efforts nationwide. 
Heading the crusade, Father Edward Malloy, president of the University, will have a leader­ship role in the President's Summit for America's Future, scheduled for April 27-29 in Philadelphia. 
"It is an effort to highlight in a dramatic way the need for a greater degree of participation in mobilizing volunteer service to solve significant social prob­lems of our society," said Malloy, a leading national advocate of volunteerism. 
The summit, sponsored by the Corporation for National Service and the Points of Light Foundation, is the kickoff for America's Promise, an unprece­dented multi-year national effort aimed at pro­viding the 15 million at-risk young people in America with the resources they 

~211afL~~~ need to suc­ceed. Over 1,700 community and 
state delegates representing all 50 states will meet to develop concrete action plans to turn the 
see SUMMIT I page 8 
• STUDENT SENATE 
New senate preps for business 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate continued to ease into its new term, tackling both business and training in its second meeting. Yesterday, the senate entertained discus­sion on student rights and fur­ther explanations of the Student Union. 
Updates by the senate's select committees on student rights and on the non-discrimi­nation clause occupied much of the senate agenda. 
Chair of the student rights committee Matt Mamak explained that his group had spent the past week learning about the history of the move for student rights at Notre Dame. He then clarified sever­al points. 

The Observer/Brei Hogan 
Yesterday, the senate listened to a report on student rights. No action was taken, but the issue should resurface throughout the coming term. 
"One thing we learned is that Mamak said. the original intention in the "Our best plan of action," the past was not just for rights in Keenan senator offered, "is disciplinary hearings, but a for just to write a letter to Monk a wider student bill of rights," 
s~e RIGHTS I page 4 
All wrapped up••• Zahm hears Hesburgh share ideas on service 
By DAVID FREDDOSO able to secure a meager lodg­News Writer ing for himself and become familiar with local restaurant 
"Service is really better for owners, McAloon began to the guy or: gal who serves help other young Americans than the one being served," who came to Rome poor and said Father Theodore unfamiliar with the city,. as he Hesburgh 
had. in a speech "He did this until he was on service about 80 years old," last night. Hesburgh recalled. "He had 
Father no family. He had no money... Hesburgh He had gone through life spoke about serving thousands of kids." service "He was kind of like Saint before a Francis," he went on. "Saint group of Hesburgh Francis of Assisi is a proto­about 35 type of service to others." students in the basement of Saint Francis had grown up Zahm Hall. He gave examples in a wealthy family, Hesburgh of service in peoples' lives and said. compared these examples to "He used to be a real dandy, scenes of service in the but it struck him suddenly Gospel. that he was a useless charac­
He began with the story of ter. He said to himself, 'I'm Vince McAloon, a man who going to start working for the made a pilgrimage from poor."' Lisbon to Rome as a young He began to visit leper man. colonies and perform other 
Arriving in Rome as many services for the poor. This young Americans do, with lit­angered his father, who tle money and no place to accosted him for his behavior stay, MacAloon struggled to publicly one day in the town
The Observer/Rob Finch 
establish himself in the new
Defeat wasn't the most difficult part of the day for Ashley Fluhme (right). Although Fluhme's team, Dos Goldkamps avec Duct Tape, had a chafing defeat in yesterday's Bookstore action, removal of the team's city. When he was finally 
see SERVICE I page 4
duct tape uniforms posed a more painful challenge. See Back Page for complete Bookstore coverage. 

Congresswoman alumna set for SMC commencement 
Special to The Observer candidate in a special election to fill a graduated from Saint Mary's College in vacancy in the 32nd legislative district of 1970. Her daughter, Katherine 
Kentucky Congresswoman Anne the Kentucky House of Representatives. McCrystal Northup, is a 1995 alumna. Meagher Northup will be the commence­She won that race and went on to be re­Saint Mary's College will present ment speaker for the 150th graduation elected four times. Northup with an honorary doctorate of ceremony of Saint Mary's College on While serving in the Kentucky legisla­laws. Sat., May 17. ture, she was a member of the Economic Northup will be one of five distin­
A 1970 alumna of Saint Mary's, Development Task Force, the State Debt guished honorary degree recipients who Northup became the first Kentucky Capacity Task Force and the were selected for significant contribu­woman elected to the U.S. House of Appropriations and Revenue Committee. tions in the areas of medicine, public Representatives in more than 60 years As an active volunteer in her commu-office, education and the Church. The and the first Republican to represent . nity, Northup sits on the boards of honorees include Dr. Audrey Evans, of Kentucky's Third Congressional District Greater Louisville Public Radio, the Philadelphia, the pediatric oncologist in almost 30 years when elected to con­Partnership for Kentucky School who founded the Ronald McDonald gress in 1996. Reform, the llome Economics Advisory House Charities; Sister Kathleen Feeley, 
Northup began her political involve­Board of the University of Kentucky former president of College of Notre ment more that) 30 years ago as a state College of Agriculture, the Hospice of Dame of Maryland; the Honorable Maria officer for Kentucky Youth for Louisville and the Kentucky Cancer Josephine Kasindi Kamm, a member of Goldwater. She made her first bid for Consortium. political office in 1987 as the Republican The mother of six children, Northup see NORTHUP I page 4 



Thursday, April 17, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Into the abyss 
People have been rantin.~~=====~ 
and raving about virtue since Socrates started opening his big mouth mil­lennia ago. It's a good thing that hemlock isn't still in style today because peo­ple react just as angrily when a modern day 

Socrates tells them  Brandon Williams  
they're doing something  Assistant Viewpoint  
wrong. We don't like  Ediror  
people telling us that  

there is anything objectively wrong. We build up huge philosophical walls of relativity -impervi­ous to arrows bearing universal standards. Where Braveheart screamed for freedom from a tyranny that violated natural rights, we scream for freedom from the Natural Law from whence those rights came. If to do this means kicking out God -so be it. If it means life loses its value -so be it. If it means we lose our capacity to fmd true meaning-so be it. At least we can't be wrong. Nope, we legislate it, we philosophi­cally argue it, we chant it in the streets, we decide it in the courts-we cannot be wrong. We are free ... even from responsibility. 
Some rise up calling for moral values and we force them down again as bigots or closed­minded or antiquated. Even worse, we pay some of the rabble-rousers lip service, cheering along with them until they infringe on our own lives. Then it's back to subjectivity, back to "Don't force your values on me!" Perhaps now we are paying for it. 
Just recently a nine-year old girl, was sexual­ly assaulted at a Washington, D.C., elementary school. Now, before you jump up out of your seat looking for the head of some adult school employee you should know it was no adult who assaulted her. It was another child. A little child decided to sexually assault a peer ­before one would even think the kid might even think of such things. Yet, this nine-year-old girl -nine years old -was not wronged. The principal claims that she and the eight others were involved in consensual acts. There is no moral affront here. 
This is where moral relativity and permissive­ness has gotten us. So what do we do? Dostoevsky said, "If you were to destroy in mankind the belief in immo.~ttality ... nothing then would be immoral, everything would be permissible." Pretty prophetic. Without God there are no moral standards -there is only law determined by cultural consensus. A law without God is only words; behind it there is no soul, no spirit. If we want to stop a cultural consensus for freedom from responsibility in favor of freedom to take it -we must defend God. Without Him, without something higher and more lasting than ourselves, our culture will be relegated to an infinite possibility hover­ing over nothing -ready at any moment to fall into the abyss. 
People are finally taking a stand. Last week­end thousands from every race gathered at Montgomery, Ala. They rallied for a different kind of freedom -the freedom to recognize right and wrong. Alabama Judge Roy Moore has refused to take the Ten Commandments from his courtroom -one place at least where right and wrong should still exist. A judge and the ACLU see it differently. They can't tolerate religious symbolism or a belief in higher laws. They will go in and take the Commandments down. Problem is, the governor disagrees, and he's got the National Guard on his side. He thinks we've gone too far. He doesn't think that sexual assault among third graders meets up to what is natural and right. He has come with America to the Abyss and he doesn't like it-so he and a lot of people from Alabama are saying they aren't going to go. Are we? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Derrek Betcher  Brian Blank  
Dave Freddoso  Production  
Bridget O'Connor  Thomas Schlidt  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Thomas Schlidt  Brandon Candura  
Viewpoint  
Brandon Williams  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599· 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except dunng exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the: Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Strong earthquake rattles northwestern China 
BEIJING ings. Li, from the television station, said A magnitude-6.3 earthquake hit the 95 percent of the county's residents were 
disaster-stricken region of Jiashi in northwestern China early today, injuring an undetermined number of people. No deaths were reported. 
The earthquake struck the area in Xinjiang province at 2:19 a.m., the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported. It gave no further details. 
Some injuries were reported but no deaths, and some buildings were destroyed, said an official from a 

local television station contacted by AP injuring at least 23 people and causing 
telephone. He gave his surname, Li. 

Four aftershocks ranging in magnitude from 4.0 to 4.9 followed today's quake, said Li Shanyin of the Xinjiang Seismological Bureau in Urumqi, the provincial capital. She said 635 houses collapsed. 
Repeated strong quakes since the beginning of the year have leveled many of the region's earthen build-
Clinton pitches foreign policy at retreat 
President Clinton pitched for biparti­sanship in America's conduct in world affairs Wednesday, serving up lamb, bitter chocolate and foreign policy in a dinner for three dozen lawmakers. No progress was claimed on the variety of issues discussed, including the pressing matter of a chemical weapons treaty awaiting ratification, but officials said 
~.....1__....,__ the meeting was more about mood than specifics. "I don't think any of us viewed it as one of those sessions where you just kind of twist arms," Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said later. "It was a valuable meeting and I think we ought to do more of them." But Clinton did make a strong appeal for ratification of the chemical weapons treaty and believes he has the commitment of Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott to bring it to a vote before an April 29 deadline, said White House spokesman David Johnson. The treaty has been hung up by opponents led by Sen. Jesse Helms, H.­N.C., chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Helms and House Speaker Newt Gingrich declined the invi­tation to the Blair House dinner across the street from the White House, but Lott was among the broad selection of Republicans and Democrats from the Senate and House who came. Clinton, still on crutches and driven to the din­ner and back, was accompanied by much of his national security team as he met the lawmakers for nearly four hours. "Very good," he shouted on his way out. Discussion ranged over the foreign-policy landscape, including NATO , armed forces modernization and relations with China. 
Envoy to Albania cancels tour 

TIRANA, Albania 
Under pressure from President Sali Berisha, a senior international envoy on Wednesday canceled plans to meet with insurgents and warned that political animosity threat­ens planned elections. For his part, Berisha questioned whether elections expected in June should be held at all if rebels still control part of the south. "They are trying to block. the electoral process," he told the envoy, former Austnan Chancellor Franz Vranitzky. Vranitzky and his delegation from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, responsible for coordinating h~manit~rian aid and democratization, met Wednesday With Bensha as well as members of the coalition govern­ment and political parties. The delegation had planned to meet rebel leaders Thursday in the southern port of Vlora and travel to the pro-Berisha northern city of Shkodra. Vranitzky canceled both plans late Wednesday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, April 17. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~-......,........../':-:0::..,H:OOOOOOOoooo-•••• 
L 

Thursday ~ 
31 Friday ~ 53 39 Saturday ~ "57 42 Sunday ~ rt1S7 43 

~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CC 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B E;Sj [D.] 0 . tz3 8 ~ ~ u
Mon~ay ____ 1tJ) 55 39 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
0.........s...,..,........,//\,':.J'' 

V1a Assoclared Pmss 

(  
\  Atlanta  79  58  Dallas  86  67  Miami  85  77  
Baltimore  78  55  Denver  46  34  New York  70  60  
4,~,~8.88 Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o-~ Ice Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet  ~ Sunny  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Baton Rouge Chicago Columbus  84 68 73  64 59 54  Honolulu Indianapolis Los Angeles  90 76 77  75 56 59  Phoenix St. Louis Woodbine  89 77 78  66 64 55  

living in .tents and emergency shelters. 
A magnitude-6.6 earthquake Friday killed nine people and injured at least 40, toppling many of the buildings left stand­ing by earlier tremors. 
Thousands of soldiers and other relief workers have been sent to the area, 2,170 miles west of Beijing near China's borders with the former Soviet republics of Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. 
Two strong quakes hit Jiashi on April 6, 
heavy damage. In January, twopowerful quakes shook the county in rapid succession, killing 12 people. Another quake in March 1996 killed 24 people. 
The region is prone to jolts because it is at the juncture of two tectonic plates -slabs of land that move across the earth's surface -that have been colliding with greater frequency in recent years. 
Survivors recall industrial disaster 
TEXAS CITY, Texas 
It was sunny just like that Wednesday in 1947. This time, though, it was peaceful. Fifty years to the minute after a Fr~nch frei~hter exploded in the Texas City harbor, gray­hatred survivors bowed their heads in a moment of silence, remembering the 576 people who died in the nation's worst industrial disaster. "If it was jusfa little bit cooler, it would be an exact replica of the day 50 years ago," said Jeanne McCauley, nodding at the blue sky streaked with white, wispy clouds. "It was just like this, and within an hour, it was just like midnight." An explosion at 9:12a.m. aboard the S.S. Grandcamp, docked and loaded with 2,300 tons of ammonium nitrate fertilizer, shattered windows 25 miles away and blew two small planes out of the sky. The b~ast, whic~ investigators said was probably caused by a discarded cigarette, sparked other explosions and fires in the huge petrochemical complex of the Galveston Bay city. A 15-foot tidal wave tossed a 150-foot barge 200 feet away onto land. It took nearly a week to put out all the fires. The disaster injured about 5,000 people. Nearly a third of Texas City's residents were either killed or hurt. "It was really like the war had started all over again," said Mrs. !"'~~Cauley, des~ribing the horrors of seeing so many InJUred people. Some of their arms were dangling. I saw ?ne man .':"hose. face w~s split down the center and hang­mg open. Mattie Lou Higgs was one of the many survivors among the 4,000 people attending the memorial service. Her 31-year-old husband and 26 other firefighters died. "When he was leaving the house, there was just a feeling that came over me that I would never see him again," she recalled, wiping her eyes. 
Protests continue in Nicaragua 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua 
Many Nicaraguans walked to work and school We?nesday, the third day of scattered roadblocks set up by leftist demonstrators angry about government economic policies. The Panamerican highway and other routes to neighboring Central American countries were barricaded i~ pl~ces. With .trucks unable to pass, food prices began to nse m th~ capital, Managua, and markets were running low. President Arnoldo Aleman's government rejected a proposal from protest leaders for internationally mediated talks with the Sandinista party, but apparently yielded on a demand for legislation protecting land rights of small farmers. No direct confrontations between demonstrators and police have been reported, but Wednesday in Managua a group of masked men stopped and burned a bus operated by a transport cooperative. No injuries were reported. 
Thursday, Aprill7, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sizing 'em up... 
FREE EXTRAS 
• Parmesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust 
• Extra Pizza Sauce 
• Side of Banana Peppers -Just Ask· 


54533 Terrace Ln. 





243·1111 
ZA 
NG 
Now Open 2:00am Week Nights & 3:00am Fri. & Sat. 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS 
No Coupon Necessary Not Valid With Any Other Offer Delivery Extra If Not On Campus 
ONE WEEK ONLY 
4/17 • 4/24/97 


The Observer/Brat Hogan 

T
his week, graduating seniors have flocked to the bookstore to be measured for their caps and gowns. Patience tn line and $15 put seniors one 
step closer to the May 18 ceremony. "I found it to be quite anti-climactic because waiting in line was such a hassle," said senior Mike Perrone. He continued "I still have so much work that I haven't had a moment to stop and think about graduation." For other seniors however, the process was one that marked a significant transition. 
"It meant that it was time to leave Notre Dame and move on with our life," said senior Lisa Maggio. "It was really sad." 
For Nathalie Hibble, the moment struck up still different emotions. "It reminded me how much I'll miss my friends, as we're all from different parts of the country." 
W eeldy Specials 


Show your Seniors you care! 

Advertise in the May 16th Observer Commencement Issue! 

Hurry and reserve space before May 13th! 
1-6900 

Call Early for best results 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April17, 199-7 

Rights 
continued from page 1 
Malloy expressing our opinions on the issue." 
He concluded with a recom­mendation that the issue be brought up again next week after his committee could fur­ther investigate the issue. 
Action from senator Matt Szabo's non-discrimination clause committee will also have to wait until next week. Szabo brought two resolutions to the senate meeting, but action on each was postponed indefinite­ly. 
"There are two main issues here," Szabo began. "We can urge a time line for an update from the University officers ... The senate can also take a stand, one way or the other, on this issue." 
The two resolutions were tabled so that the senate would have time to analyze pending decisions from vice president for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara. O'Hara will soon be responding to similar resolu­tions calling for a non-discrimi­nation clause revision timetable. The resolutions were 
Cbl Visa LT S.A. Inc. 1997 
made Monday by the Campus 
Life Council. 
Earlier in the meeting, stu­dent body president Matt Griffin took 15 minutes to explain the structure of the new Student Union. He wanted to respond to the senators' questions and uncertainties, especially those regarding the Senate's role in student govern­ment. 
"This is the main thrust," he said. "The senate's goal is to formulate and advance the role of the student body on issues of student life." 
In other senate news: 
•The 
senate unanimously confirmed all student govern­ment staff positions except those of the controllers. There was some concern over the assistant controller serving a dual role as Hall Presidents' Council treasurer, but Robert Vitt was approved as the con­troller when that issue was deemed irrelevant. 

•Senators 
Matt Mamak (Keenan} and Matt Tomko (Knott, formerly Flanner} were elected to spots on the financial management board. There, they will help the treasurer's office distribute nearly $500,000 of funds 




Service 
continued from page 1 
square. "His father said to him, 
'Even the clothes you have on 
your back were bought with my 
money," Hesburgh said. 
Francis responded by taking off all of his clothes right there, and he left town stark naked in order to serve the poor. 
Hesburgh exhorted the stu­dents to serve others, citing the statement of Christ in Matthew, chapter 25 that, "whatsoever you did for the least of my brothers, you did for me." 
"Whatever you do for any­body," Hesburgh emphasized, "you do it for Him." 
Service, Hesburgh concluded, can help young Catholics to mature. 
"It's one of the top things you can do as a Christian, he said. "You will grow, you will become compassionate. 
"If you start serving others now, you'll probably do it for the rest of your life," Hesburgh told his Zahm audience. "You won't grow up to be a fat-head­ed Christian, who sees some­thing that needs doing, but walks away." 

Northup 
continued from page 1 
Parliament in Tanzania, East Africa, and a 1960 alumna of Saint Mary's College; and the Most Reverend John Joseph Leibrecht, bishop of Springfield-Cape Girardeau. 
Sister Kathleen Feeley, has been a national leader in Catholic education for women for 25 years. She will be awarded a doctorate of human­ities. From 1971 until 1992, Feeley served as president of College of Notre Dame of Maryland. One of the critical programs established during her tenure was a weekend undergraduate program for men and women to enable them to earn a college degree. 
As an internationally known scholar of Flannery O'Connor, she was a professor of English at Notre Dame of Maryland for 26 years. From 1988 to 1990. Feeney served as the president of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities. 
Following her retirement as president of College of Notre Dame, Feeley spent a year as a Fulbright Teaching Scholar to 



Because 
all-nighters arent always spent in the librarY. 


India and a second year as an exchange professor to Australia. 
Upon returning to the United States, she became executive director of the Caroline Center, which implements a job train­ing and career guidance pro­gram for low-income women. She continues this work part­time as she currently serves the Baltimore City Public Schools as administrator for special education. 
Kasindi Kamm, a 1960 alum­na of Saint Mary's College, is serving her second term as a member of Parliament in Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika}, East Africa. 
She chairs a regional com­mittee responsible for provid­ing equipment and training for citizens who are handicapped. 


You've 
Earned It! 

·Giant 6 Foot Party Subs ·Party Platters ·Party Trays 
PHONE 289-1288 


Thursday, April 17, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Students assess state of gay rights 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 

We are pleased to announce that the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College graduates have accepted a position with our Worldwide Organization: 
The Pro!lram in Middle East Studies 
Presents 
Dr. Margot Badran 
Visiting Scholar, Center for Middle East Studies University of Chicago 

speaking on: 

UGender~ Culture and ModernitY in Islam~· 
3:00PM 
Thursday, April 17 
Decio Ill 
All Welcome 

as a 1 e s b ian, r--c-=-c===~-------,-."""" 
0 

reflected upon  
the past few  
years in terms of  
the campus'  
journey toward  
acceptance, cou­ 
pled with their  
personal strug­ 
gles.  
"I wanted to  
leave Notre  
Dame after my  
freshman year,"  
Silva said. "I had  
to get involved  
by a friend of a  
friend who was  
studying in  
Australia who  
happened t0 be  The Observer/Joe Stark  
gay.''  Tony Silva shared his perspective on the evolution  
His friend  of the rights of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame.  
shared similar  In his presentation, he recogni.zed the progress of  
r e s e r v a t i n s  recent years but called for contmued reforms.  

about Notre Dame. Catholic Church was that it 
"Notre Dame was my per-was there for a certain group sonal hell," she said. "The of people," recalled Silva, dome was just lurking over "and by being there, I was de­me. There aren't many people gracing it." who openly support gay He explained that he recon-rights." ciles the situation with his 
Silva had reservations about belief that slavery was once remaining at Notre Dame after considered acceptable by the coming out. His friend, howev-Church. er, transferred to another "They're just behind," he school before openly stating asserted. her sexuality. Both students Silva credited GLND/SMC's grappled with the decision; efforts to bring speakers to the female, in particular, campus that might provide articulated the difficulty in answers to students struggling weighing her options. with their sexuality, especially 
"Why sacrifice everything I in light of what he perceives worked for, getting a good as a lack of role models. education at a prestigious uni-"One female resident assis­versity?" she asked. tant came out this year," he "However, I felt like I wasn't said, "but there are no openly even alive [at Notre Dame]. gay female staff members, and having struggled with being a only about four or five males." lesbian on campus. He expressed his hope that the 
"I felt I was hitting my head standing committee would against the wall that is move toward encouraging Catholicism," she added. strong role models in addition 
Crucial to Silva's decision to the current student support was a desire to research the groups. faith issue, especially the The pair also addressed treatment of homosexuality in questions about "homophobia" Church doctrine. and their experiences in join­
"My perception of the ing the gay community. 
Timothy April, B.S., Chemical Engineering, St. Louis Robert Auffant, B.S., Science -Business, Chicago Robert Baxter, Jr., B.S./MBA, Computer Engineering/MBA, Chicago Jose Blanco, B.A., Economics, San Francisco Emily Bochy, B.B.A., Management, Columbus Elizabeth Bowen, B.A., Government/Psychology, Chicago C. Patrick Carroll, B.S., Mechanical Engineering/History, Palo Alto C. Jeff Catalina, B.S./MBA, Physics/MBA, Chicago Michael Dongvillo, B.S., Computer Science, Northbrook Rebecca Downey, B.A., English/Art History, Chicago Keri Fogarty, B.B.A., MIS, Chicago Charles Forsythe, B.S., Computer Engineering, Chicago Michael Hub, B.B.A., MIS, Cincinnati Kevin Hutchinson, B.A., Preprofessional Studies, Chicago Sarah Kaufman, B.S., Mechanical Engineering, Northbrook Joan Kelleher, B.S., Biochemistry, Northbrook Jeanne LaFleur, B.B.A., Management/HR. Denver Ryan Lynch, B.A., PLS/Computer Applications, Boston Jeanne Mcinerney, B.A., History, Chicago 
Katherine McNally, B.S., Biochemistry, Chicago Kyle Michl, B.S., Civil Engineering, New York Christopher Millar, B.B.A., MIS, Chicago Guy Miller, B.S., Biochemistry, Chicago Sean Norton, B.S./MBA, Chemical Engineering/MBA, Boston James Phillips, B.A., Economics, Chicago Percy Rose, B.A., Sociology/Communications, Chicago Emily Ruffner, B.B.A., Marketing/Communications, Chicago Ellen Ryan, B.B.A., Finance, Chicago C. Wade Salzman, B.A., Marketing/Computer Applications, Chicago Thomas Schlidt, B.S., Mathematics, Chicago Julie Shepard, B.S., Chemical Engineering, Indianapolis Jolene Smith, B.A., Anthropology, Houston Kathryne Smith, B.S., Mathematics, Northbrook Megan Taylor, B.A., History, Chicago Ryan Thornton, B.B.A., MIS, Chicago 
Peter Wernau, B.B.A., Accounting, Chicago Kristin Wisniewski, B.B.A., Finance/Marketing, Northbrook 
Word has been 
the death.. · professor v• •1u'""' Notre Dame. died last Saturday).n Palo Alto, Calif., after a long illness. 
He had been ,,;;a patient there at Stanford 
Univer~HY d •. 
Hospital. ······ ······ ,, 
A native of he received his nnl'•fnr•<>l 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
Moving from seemingly nonexistent to a strengthening presence, the gay community at Notre Dame has evolved in its accessibility to students. 
Two homosexual students concluded Tuesday night that, despite the progress, Notre Dame still needs to "burst its sheltered bubble." 
"Gay people didn't exist here four years ago," asserted Tony Silva, who has been active in GLND/SMC and the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. "It was 'God's country.' It was a totally different place." 
Silva, accompanied by a sophomore who has come out 
We would also like to welcome the following Interns this summer: 

James Dougherty, B.A., Government/Computer Applications, Chicago  James Laur, B.S., Computer Science, Northbrook  
Amanda Enscoe, B.S., Computer Science, Chicago  Stephen Marshall, B.S., Computer Science, Chicago  
ANDERSEN  
Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer.  CONSULTING  

----~------~~ 

Thursday, April 17, 1997
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Saint Mary's College 
Student Activities Board 
cordially invites you to experience 
SMC Tostal '97 
\ : 
\ 1 


Thursday, April 17th, as we 
BAIIDBLAS7 
l

''Splash into Spring!'' 
Come listen to 3 bands! 
#,.................,_ . 
.:-/"'"\ (i
' ' ,{)' ]

Join us in the fun as "Sieavze'' """'···~ we welcome spring! 

;. 

/ '\. "Skalkoholics" 
' @ Teqt orl, Library Green 
/ 
9:30 ··t..... l0,:30 pm 
'/ 1 
Bonfire Soccer Field 9 -I 0 pm Enjoy s'mores over an open (Ire!
.1· ~~
fl'
\ SMCnic J . ., '·· Library_.,Green 4:45 -6 pm \ ~ 
~ ·-· ­

"· /:Burgers, hot dogs, cotton candy, \ f;J } ,,,,, ~ \ (p?pcorn; snow cones, and more! '·.. Sand Art ""'""'­·~· ~. Co-exes available. LeMans Lobby 12:30 pm -4:30 pm 
~ Come mix your favorite color1sand in "Twister" Tournament containers of various shapes and sizes! Angela 8 -9 pm "' ~ . \. ' " 
.. ,. .· \, Canoe Races ··· -~. /'"':~~" ~'· 
Get all tied up in kno, .,. '\win'a prize! Lake Marion 3 _ 5 pm t; t · 
i.·.. ~ ~....-.... '\ ..
• ·-~...., 1 \ ~ i ., ..,. \ . -~-.· 
Quiz Bowl )"······ "* ·M"""' FU:nhy Business · ,,_,._ LeMans lobby 7-8 pm "-Library and LeMans green 3-7 pm -, 
·\ ~allenge your friends and professors to a.gam~ of Challenge someone to a bungee run race, ' ~'Trivl~l Pursuit!" . ' /,.·~.,, / 1/ or gladiator joust, or feel fr1e t~,~try your luck /··.-.~.-in_ ___ s get to keep the boards! .. "' .. " at the velcro wall and obstac~ course!
i .._ne__r__ ·-"" i"·("cd-spdhsored by Student Academi~ Q~~-~cil)...... Scavenger H~'f) ~, 
/ H -~ ~~· /\.•.::::: '\ Start/end in LeMans lobby 4 -· 5 pm, 
1
1

STUDENT 
\ j / I '-\.~ll~r blazing i '',.L<~
ACTIVITIES 
• . (~-t ~~
8-0·A·R·D 
/""""'' f 01Jt~ide Angela 4 -5 pm _ .• t., _-'"'-· SAINT MARY'S 
-~ --~e A~'Unii campus for prizes! -"-... · 1 ~ 
COLLEGE 
, II" ;I\. 
~ 

Great prizes provided by Fitness USA, Fun Tan, ''Coach's, BW-3, Fazoli's, Grains and Grinds, Spiece, Sunny Italy, and more! 

Thursday, April17, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page7 
Cainpus groups join in initiative 
By MICHELLE KRUPA they came here because the to do something for kids who Assistant News Editor climate was different for ser­haven't had the advantages 
vice. They might have donat­that they have," said Jim 

Six campus groups have ed money to an organization, Roemer, director of communi­pledged to work toward the but that was about it," Ed ty relations. shared goals of over 1,700 del­Trifone, director of alumni "We are going to keep the 
egates to the President's community service programs program going during the Summit for America's Future. said. school year so these monitor­
''I'm very proud of the Notre "This gives them a chance ing and tutoring relationships Dame community in respond­to roll up their sleeves and can continue," Roemer said. ing so generously to the call of engage in real service." This ,year, 150 student ath­
the Summit. By doing so, The Center for Social letes involved in Volunteers in we've taken a leadership role Concerns {CSC) has taken a Service, Inc., helped pilot the in service to the community," leadership role in terms of the year-round program in six said Father Edward Malloy, participation of institutions of community centers, but in president of the University. higher education in the sum­coming years, all students will 
Each group will intensify its mit. On behalf of the CSC, be invited to volunteer. present service in some way, Kathy Royer, director of com­The Holy Cross Associates by increasing membership or munity partnerships and ser­have dedicated their efforts to its scope. vice learning, has pledged move toward the goal of 59 
The Alliance for Catholic Notre Dame's participation in members from this year's 47 
Education (ACE), which sends the summit's University by the year 2000. post-graduate students to Summit Advisory Board. The program, which recruits under-resourced parochial "We [Notre Dame and four post-graduates to give a year schools in the south, will dou­other universities] will meet of service to underprivileged 
ble the number of teachers it after the Philadelphia summit families, is spiritually based annually trains to 160. to discuss having mini-sum­and acco'rding to program 
"ACE provides a mentor, a mits on college campuses and director John Pinter, focuses stable, responsible adult, to what they will look like," on many of the goals of the these kids. It's about young Royer said. summit. people who have got the time, During these mini-summits, "Holy Cross Associates is all energy, and desire to be with colleges will compare service about helping and serving peo­kids," said Lou DelFra, associ­programs on their specific ple and living a simple ate director of the program. campuses and share ideas. lifestyle," Pinter said. 
"We are going to get more Royer feels that in this way, The Life Skills Program, put people like Notre Dame grads there will be a "cross-fertiliza­on by the department of ath­who want to help the youth of tion" of ideas and a strength­letics focuses on the "impact America in this very special ening of programs. that all student athletes can way." DelFra said. Notre Dame's Youth Sports have for youth," according to 
The Alumni Association's Program. which works in con­Life Skills coordinator Frances Community Service Program junction with the NCAA to pro­Shavers. Shavers plans to first sparked the interest of vide free summer camps to involve 250 athletes, reaching the Corporation for National over 400 underprivileged chil­800 to 1,000 elementary-aged Service. Organized a year dren in the South Bend area, students per year and hopes to ago. the Fighting Irish Retired will increase the number of extend its boundaries to reach Service Team (FIRST) solicits student counselors involved in even more young people. aid from alumni age 55 and this program to 300 and "We're trying to develop a older from Notre Dame's 200 extend its scope to include mentoring relationship to real­
alumni clubs nationwide. year-round activities. ize the impact that all student 
"Senior alumni never really "The kind of people who are athletes can have for youth," 
did too much service when involved are those who want Shavers said. 
ONLY AT AYRES! 
CLINIQUE 8-PC. FREE GIFT 
WITH ANY CLINIQUE 
PURCHASE OF $15 OR MORE 
YOUR CLINIQUE GIFT INCLUDES: 
1. 
Sun Buffer Lipstick In Blushing Buff 

2. 
Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion 

3. 
Clarifying Lotion #2 

4. 
Naturally Glossy Mascara In Jet Black 


5. Soft Touch Creamy Blusher In Sweet Cheeks .~. ' . . . 
6. 
All About Lips 

7. 
Aromatics Elixir Perfume Spray 


B. Luclte Lip Brush 
Offer valid now through April 27 while One gift per customer, please. 
official!) seem more concerned ~yoiding bad Pllblicity c<;uld bat'm tourism than im•es1tift~Ltintg the possible dan­. Although the 
<:t!llt<> i,l'lT'r\;rniJrtt.rt' $585;000 in 1995, the 
. . now making its archers. 
. need to kriow an ," Burkholdersaid. unfortunate tragedy nn>t ~..,·;·"···· don·~. know more by 
Burkholder's research indi­cates that the tiny creatures proliferate and take on a deadly form when exposed to high levels of nitrogen and phosphorous .,...... byproducts of human· and animal waste. 
~ a fut, free akin analyala, come and meet the CLINIQUE COMPUTER. Allergy IHI8d. 100% Fragrance Free. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, April 17, 1997 
In announcing the summit, ber of people [who volunteer] Clinton said that "much of the will increase and the nature of
Summit 
continued from page 1 
tide for America's youth. 
According to Ed Trifone, director of alumni community service programs and an influ­ential party in Notre Dame's association with the project, the weekend will symbolize the beginning of a long, multi­faceted mission. 
"More so than anything, it will be a call for support in a ceremonial sense for a mobi­lization to action of corpora­tions and organizations to work for the betterment of youth," Trifone said. 
President Clinton and President Bush. the honorary co-chairs. will be joined by President Ford and First Lady Nancy Reagan on the morning of Mon., April 28, to call for a pledge from the nation. 
This commitment will appeal for every young person to have access to five fundamental resources: an ongoing relation­ship with a caring adult, safe places and structured activities during non-school hours to learn and grow, a healthy start, a marketable skill through effective education, and an opportunity to give back through community ser­vice. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
(ollegium Jmusicum 
jf.$. JBacb, QCantata Jio. 150 ~einricb ]saac, Jmissa be $aneta maria 
8:00p.m. Friday, April 18 Church of Loretto Saint Mary's College 
This concert is free and open to the public. 

University of 
Notre Dame 
International 
Study Program 
in 
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
Information Meeting With Professor Angela Borelli 
Thursday April 17, 1997 5:00P.M. Room 108 DeBartolo 
work of America cannot be done by government alone. The solution must be the American people through vol­untary service to others." 
According to Kathy Royer, director of community partner­ships and service learning for the Center for Social Concerns and a Notre Dame delegate to the Summit, this is govern­ment's call for an investment of all available assets. 
"This comes coupled with welfare reform. It's govern­ment's effort to encourage the privatization of some programs that have been public. Until now, all partnerships have been about money, but this is encouraging businesses to invest resources in the future," Royer said. 
Malloy, who has expressed his commitment to volun­teerism through his work in organizations like the Points of Light Foundation and Campus Compact, hopes that through publicity of the event, more attention will be drawn to the need for service work in com­munities throughout the coun­try. 
"My hope is that this event will receive the kind of media attention to move our society toward the next level of involvement in which the num­cooperative endeavor will become a kind of interaction between organizations," Malloy said. 

Malloy and Notre Dame first became involved in the project in November of 1996, when Trifone traveled to Washington, D.C., to accept the Father Bill Mater Award on behalf of the University. 
While there. he met with rep­resentatives from the Corporation for National Service, who asked for his sup­port and that of Notre Dame in the endeavor. 
"They came to realize all that Notre Dame is doing on the alumni level of service. It real­ly peaked their interest, and they invited the Alumni Community Service Program to be a sponsor. The rest fol­lowed from there," Trifone said. 
"The rest" includes five other campus organizations, includ­ing the Center for Social Concerns and the Alliance for Catholic Education. that have made their own commitments to the summit. Malloy feels this augments Notre Dame's original promise. 
"We've been trying to mobi­lize our alumni and community groups. It's an extension of the commitment," he said. 
the world is getting smaller smell better. 
C1)
... 
ca
...
·­
·-E -
VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, April 17, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland . 

Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager..... :············· ........... Jed Peters Viewpoint Edhor ...•................. Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... joe)' Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet ~aint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofthe amhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHEN PIGS FLY ••. 
Dr. Hickey: Saint Mary's students demand respect 
Thank you, Dr. Hickey! Your recent decision to defer the recognition of The /\lliance group on the Saint Mary's cam­pus shows just how much faith you have in the student body of your own school. 
I have been here for four years get­ting the best education this school has 

Bernadette Pampuch 
to offer, and it is nice to know that you have such a deep trust in the ability of Saint Mary's to produce well-educated, well-spoken students that you took from us the opportunity to decide for our­selves what is best for the future of our college. I understand that you have been telling us in recruiting brochures, campaign drives, direct mailings and the like that we are fine, capable young women; but you also led us to believe that the Board of Governance was a stu­dent-run, student-elected board able to govern our campus with the students' wishes in mind. Apparently these are both just lip service. 
I take issue with your decision to defer recognition in such a public man­ner when, in my recent memory, I do not recall you ever having taken such steps with a campus organization before. Usually, the Board of Governance's decisions have been respected and carried out as if they truly were a reflection of the student body. I can only come to the conclusion that you do not believe that we know what we are doing. 
In our participation and our silence, in our caring enough to show up for every Board of Governance meeting or not caring to show up at any student forums at all, as students we gave our permission to the BOG to try and govern the college in our name. It seems to me that in my four years of taking philoso­phy, sociology and theology classes that I (and most of my fellow students) might be educated enough to think that The Alliance might possibly be capable of being an organization dedicated to talk­ing about and resolving some of the sexual issues on campus without engag­ing in anti-Catholic aets that undermine our Christian tradition. But that in turn would mean that I had received the lib­eral education that was so highly touted in those recruiting brochures. That would also mean that you, Dr. Hickey, believed in that liberal education and would not have to make our decisions for us. 
We made our decision and we ask that you respect it in a timely manner. 
I am worried about the rhetoric in your letter to our student body presi­dent, Jen Turbiak. You said that, while you are deferring official recognition, you are in "complete agreement with BOG in recognizing the significant issues raised by the 'Alliance' in their prepared materials." This sounds like finely worded prose to me, and while I appreciate the_ flow of words I have trouble thinking that you are doing any­thing other than trying to soften the blow of usurping our power from us. 
You said that you "read with interest the articles on the 'Alliance' that appeared in recent issues ... of The Observer," and that learning that the official title of the group was "The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College," prompted you to review their material. I cannot believe that you only just became aware of this group recent­ly because of articles in our student newspaper, because this would mean that you have been completely out of touch with the needs and desires of our students for some time now. 
You said that you established a Committee on Relationships a year ago, but it is my understanding that the · Committee has done little but bieker endlessly and arrive at few formal con­clusions. Establishing a Committee on Relationships does not in any way pro­mote campus-wide dialogue, it only pro­motes more bickering and the forma­tion of more subcommittees which · places even more distance between the student body and the administration. Very few students are even aware that the Committee exists, and if you are relying on the advising of the Committee on Relationships to direct your decision I am afraid that you will only see the views of administration reflected. 


A deferment of the official recognition of The Alliance is really adeferment in the belief that Saint Mary's students are mature and eapable enough to speak for themselves. There is no need to defer this decision until the end of the year. The Board of Governance speaks for us as a student body, not a bickering Committee on Relationships, not the parents of one student uncomfortable with admitting that gays and lesbians do exist, not the faculty member who thinks that Saint Mary's might get a reputation for being a haven for les­bians. We put our faith in our BOG and we put our faith in you to respect our decision. 

Bernadette Pampuch is a senior English writing major at Saint Mary's and a past member ofthe Board of Governance. Her e-mail address is pamp2029@jade.saintmarys. edu 
• IJOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

ACCENT

page 10 Thursday, April17, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 
Where would you most like to live? (Either real or fictional) 


"Disney World." 
.Kat Rademacher Freshman, McCandless 

"An island with a castle with all of my friends." 
John Minne Freshman, Morrissey 



"In the 1920s as a flapper in New York." 
Leslie Davis Freshman, Lewis 

"Toronto, because it's Canadian, eh!" 
Anthony Cecutti Sophomore, Sarin 



"Puerto Rico, because it's exotic." 
Be/marie Gonza/ez-Estevez Freshman, McCandless 

"Somewhere where it's always warm." 
Blanca Ibanez Freshman, Siegfied 


Emotions, Oakies and Drou 


John Steinbeck's 'Grapes of Wrl 

By JOEY CRAWFORD 
f1 
Accent Editor 
ho: 
Th1 

I I'll be everywhere, wherever you look. Wherever they's a fight, so hungry people an fan 
eat. I'll be there. Wherever thcy's cop beatin' up a guy, I II be there. And when our 
dis! 

folks eat the stuff they raise and live in the houses they build, why ... I'll be there." ver Tom Joad, the mythical character of John Steinbeck {and incidentally the focus of 
soc: 

Bruce Springstein's last album) and his family of "Oakies" make their way across the Dust 
ily i Bowl to the campus of Notre Dame. 
the1 

The Notre Dame Communications and Theatre department concludes its main-stage sea­
dr:m 

son at Washington Hall with Frank Galati's moving adaptation of John Steinbeck's classic 
n 
novel. 'The Grapes of Wrath." 
ates 

The play, based on Steinbeck's novel, which erupted onto the literary scene in 1939, tells tion,the story of the Joads. Their family exodus from the Dust Bowl of Oklahoma to the promise of a1 
of a new beginning in California is the main-stage of action. but actually serves as a back­
Pe 

drop for Steinbeck's intentions to raise the consciousness of the plights of the "Oakics" {a 
Apr!

slang term used for migrant workers). are Director Heginald Bain directs this tale of the Joads, adding a dash of his own creative fla­
Stu•voring to further enhance the experience and create a complete multimedia experience. He 

Tl 

combines the live action with photographs on either side of the stage that truly capture the 
Joa1 

trials and tribulations of the migrant workers of the Dust Bowl. These authentic pho-

By JOSEPH KRAUS 
Accent Film Critic 

D
arryl Zanuck's version of John Steinbeck's "The Grapes of Wrath" ranks as one of Hollywood's all­
time classics. Starring Henry Fonda and directed 
by superstar John Ford {"Stagecoach" and "The Searcher's"), this film became a successful Academy Award winner. However, with its simple plot and dry storyline which is so characteristic of Steinbeck novels, it may be hard for the contemporary viewer to realize why this film heralded so much acclaim. The film can seem boring at times and the dialogue is rapid, melodra­matic, corny, and not of a style that the modern film viewer would be used to. Despite all this, there are cer­tain cinematic characteristics that make this film a win­ner. 
The "Grapes of Wrath" is the story of the Joad family, and others like them. who were forced off their land in Oklahoma as a result of the dust bowl and depression in the 1930s. These "Okies" flocked to California by the thousands to the promise of plentiful work and good wages. However, what these migrant families faced when they reached the west coast never really met their expectations. There was scarcely little work and they were paid peasant wages. Often, the "Okies" found themselves embroiled in labor battles with the land owners and other fruit pickers who were fighting for better wages. 
The Joad family was no different. They packed up all of their belongings and set out to California to make a new life. The journey was hard, and the two eldest members of the family died en-route. What they encoun­tered along the way was not what they expected as they were by those who were not facing economic difficulty and those who were fighting for the same few jobs that 
were available. Often, the Joads we 
migrant camps or migrant barracks-s 
they finally did find work, there wa. 
labor dispute that put the whole pia(: 

The eldest son, Tom Joad, was on parole after murdering someo1 defense. He was just as anxious as t to start his new life. However, when also fell pray to the labor quarre another murder when the land o friend. This action ruined his chanc mal life, and the rest of the movie c of him and the rest of his family. 

The plot is simple and presents th ty populist realism. For all its melo an honest Marxist account of what that, Henry Fonda in a film wit) Visually speaking, this film des Although difficult to detect becaus£~ of the lilm, the lighting in this movi the perfect blend of focus and sh viewer an ominous sense of fore bod the film. The visual imagery also d tion. There is a scene where Ford of droves of Caterpillar tractors bu their land with the continual churnin tractors. One gets the idea that the hate of technology and industry and the migrant worker. This image le the political intent of the film. 
It was interesting to see how For There was clearly a populist ben prevalent in films of the period. Vb ed in creating this attitude. It will b how Notre Dame handles this work their production later this week. 
;
a WE 2222 & 2 
;ACCENT

Thursday, April 17, 1997 page 11 
r 
t: 'The Grapes of Wrath' 
h' is just as moving on stage 
tographs actually taken during this era, commissioned by the Works Progress Administration (WP;\,) set a context for the play and depicts the wretched conditions tlw finlds and work camps of California were in in the 1930s. Live music is also added to give the play an (Wen greater degree of authenticity. 
Onn problematic aspect of the play is the seemingly haphazard use of video. High above tlw stage looms a large video screen. At times of high drama, the screen is used to enhance the emotional aspects of the production, however, the result docs not rel1nct this notion. Instead of bringing the audience closer to the performers, it actu­ally distances them. The actors are no longer rcitl people; rather, merely images on a screen. In addition to this. the use of video distracts from the other performances that may not be captured by the camera. Despite this small drawback, it is quite apparent Bain has done an excellent job directing, judging by the tremendous perfor­mances of this ensemble cast. 
The performances were remarkable and, at the same time. stirring. The perfor­mances of Kevin Carrigan (as Tom Joad). Melissa Dunne (Ma Joad), Joe Weiler (AI load) and Chris Kudlacz (Casy) were the performers that shone a little bit brighter than the rest. Carrigan captures the intensity of Tom Joad, yet does not let this ener­gy steel from the scenes of raw emotion. He portrays Joad with just enough lunacy and romanticism to maintain the integrity of Steinbeck's original character. Dunne's performance as Ma Joad, a woman who desperately wants to keep her family togeth­er despite seemingly insurmountable odds, is quite possibly the most moving. She portray her with a very mature sense of inner strength. This strength can also evi­dent in Kudlacz's performance as the disillusioned former minister. Weiler's charac­ter. as Tom .load's younger brother, adds a degree of humor to this otherwise very dark play, but at the same time does a great job portraying a starry-eyed younger brother who admires his older brother despite his downfalls. In addition to capturing a wide spectrum of emotions, the complete cast managed to speak with an authentic dialect that Kevin Costner would be envious of. 
t and foremost. this play is about the family. During the depression, there were many rs and tragedies that surrounded a large number of our countries population. ghout this production. the one constant is the family. Ma Joad attempts to keep the together at all costs because that where she feels their strength lies. As her family egratcs and living conditions go from bad to worse, she challenges her family to perse­
nd even reaches out to help others. This mentality could be carried over to today's yin which the family has perhaps lost some of its importance. Unfortunately, the fam­no longnr the central point of our lives as it once was. Through Steinbeck's novel and lay, we can see the resiliency of the family and its ability to persevere even national rht. We can learn a lesson from this. 
) lighting and setting are immaculately done. The lighting designer, Kevin Dreyer, ere­a dark and gloomy atmosphere that re11ects the plight of the migrant workers. In addi­·cene designer, Bruce Auerbach sets are simple yet extremely effective, the sparse use 
elaborate backdrop adds to the authenticity of Joads' plights. formances of The Grapes of Wrath will run from Wednesday, April 16 to Saturday, 
19. at 7:30 p.m. and will include a matinee on Sunday, April 20 at 2:30 p.m. Tickers "8 for reserved seats and are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune .nt Center Box Office. s moving production of Steinbeck's work will certainly not be easily forgotten. Tom -you made it, you're here. 
e forced to live in yle housing. When · a hotlv contested 
on cdg;J. 
eased from prison 1e in pseudo-self­to rest of his family he found work, he Is and committed \nnrs attacked his '> of leading a nor­tures the struggle 
icwcr with a grit­ma, one does get .ppened (Imagine larxist themes!) 
•es praise also. 
the print quality , stnllar. There is w that gives the which dominates rves some atten­crimposes a shot )zing families off 1f the tread of the ctor symbolizes a .e helplessness of s no doubt as to 
mndled this film. vhich was fairly ly, Ford succeed­nteresting to see 
hen they present The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
'The Grapes of Wrath' looks at the past. 
····.AccEN1'$PEAKS 

Checking in on the world of cultural 
iiUterac~ 

By MARY ~ETg 
ELLIS 
Accent CopyEdit6r · 

. otre Dame's Communication and Theatre's production of ''Grap~s of Wrath"-first in the "Pl~ys With Fruit in the Title" ser.~~s; with ''Strawhe.rries of Angst" and "Kumquats of
N

Indecisiveness" soon to follow"'---opens tonight. and I'm worried. These kids have thrown a lot of time and work into this thing, and I'm afraid thattheeulturally illiterate amongst us won't appreciate it. The fa,dal hair, ean. Ang yve don~tneed thatLet's leave cultural illitera­cy where it ongs: Ohio State. . · · 
How to telifyou're culturally illiterate: 

Ask yourself: Have I ever seen. a film starring someone other than 
Howard Ste~~? How about John Wayne Bobbitt? 

Or anythin~that does}lOt invoJye the. wo~ >"Terminator?" 
Have I ever asked a fuember ofthe Notr~ Dame Chorale where they 
keep their hq.fses? ··· 

Is my clos~st contact with the performing arts Circus Night at North 
Diilill~ fhtll'?t . . .·. . .··•··· < ... . . • )? ··• ... > . . .. •···.··

WJ:ien [ h~~~ t}ie ~1.81.2 Overtl.l~c:i\' ~nytifu,~. anywhere, do I automati­
cally assume{bat Louis in the ar9a? ·· . . · 

Have I evetnamed or willingly played on a Bookstore Basketball team 
entitled "SM You Can Score On?" 

~.()9s n:l .. . ....• farl iri~~llectu ning .~py§lve Frank Gifford? 
Am I riot a"Ware of thefact t ourdes'' was a site of an apparition 

of the Blessed Virgin Mary long fore it became the illegitimate child 
of a bleached blonde low ontal~11t but high on iron WonderBras? 
.. "flavei e · d thl) f{}llowing 'Y~rd in ref(;)rence to ;Mozart: "sticks?" 
Dol thi ·.·....······· . en"is one of't~e prime ~gredients·6f a Milky Way? 
I:Jave I nev~r enteredJhe Hesburgh or Cushwa-Leighton library for 
purposes than peeing bet . classes? 

Do I t te is s in e boarded at O'Hare? 
. . I hi.. :i1 J1 A!l.American," pointed 
t> 1 ave ... . . that guy before?" If you the al)Qve questions, get thee to Colmnb maketh.e.restofus feel 
. . . "Filial Jeopardy."• I sus­
pept that. .. ···.·. .. might riee to ... ·. "The Grapes of Wrath," outside of 
what the rest of us refer to as "a life," is a crash course on theatre. 
fv1any pr th~atre gverflhrt .televis~~n becauseit happens live, 
a$~~o;ut~ee.. ich b[:i~~$ ~ ... ...... .il)len~i9Ji~ to a script that are often 
lost}n the tion to cellu OJ ......,. intimacy,. emotional involvement 
wi.th the auqi~nce. and adramaticJncreaselnthe possibility that one of 
the actors; ·. · attempting a ·· y movi9g scene, is going to royally. 
'UP . st~g~ spit '\y~i!~ ,talk,ing or something, all <J en . ·. .. would admissi&n. to seelti the first place.Never min .... .tual play. .. • ·. · · 
-

Where theatre is concerned, we English majors like to spend a lot of 
in " s," flin ing ar(j~nd su~h ~()rds as "characterization" 
'1pl() tt d ''ga:h~n#>;" f:Ayto~Uy, the word "garbanzo" 
·. abso u . . .... o do with theatre; or in fact English majors in 
general. It'sjt1stfuntosay. Try it: Garbanzo garbanzo garbanzo. See?) 
I'dtake y · to the. apalysissiq~ of theatre., hut quite frankly what 
~p.gl~~h rn.> J')tna;Iysi~·· I~ la;~gely ·a:• s~£~pg of impr~ssive-sounding 
SAT words . l out ofour buttsto make ourselves feel better about never hav' ....·.. ur checkbooks balanced. · What I call do for you culturt~.lilliterates, however, is differentiate 
b · · p v · ··· ·thea enresrAi 
~/ .. y ..................... 


omedy: ........ e odydie~, but y<)ti·re suppo~ed< t'J laugh about it. 
Shakespear¢: Somebody dies after a big long boring speech fraught 
by$ucb Inc .ent phras~s as, ''Whilst art thou thine ye thy Hamlet?" 
~la.rs \VJ'l i.hY p~opie too upi(paginatiyeJo come up with a plot of 
th()ir owri; they stol~ one from a book somebody else has already 
written: Mayinvolve characters that-have previously died in the book 
version. 

l\il).ISical~: ~c:m~ehody dies. of t§q much ch~reography, and then every­
bo~y else s about ~t; Musical~ deserve special attention in the the­
atre realm .· ... to their tirrcanriy. ability to get people to cough up ridicu­
lous fees to 'sitapproximately four miles from the stage in order to view 
•s?ch things ·s grown men and :ry:()IIlen claV\fing around trying to con-vu:tF~yop th.ey'I~ R~~s ev~pth.()ugltal1Y..@ot cansee that they are ·in .fact littl ro than very badly dressed actors in desperate need of a 
razor. lthink that;s·an anyone needs to· know. .So.J1o\V. n?~?d}" has an excuse to not atterid the Big Grapes-A-Thon, 
except perha,ps rue, who.·~ r really feel Ishould let you guys in on this -is always looking around for Lou when the "Overture" strikes up, anytime, anywhere. 


, ­
page 12 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Turn Back the Clock Night -The Notre Dame Baseball Team is turning back the cli)ck to the glory days of baseball on Wednesday, April 23 at 8:00 
p.m. The Irish will be outfitted in 1950s replica uniforms when they host Northwestern at Eck Stadium. Admissionis just 50 cents and hot dogs, popcorn and drinks are also just $1 each. The first 250 fans will receive a free Collector's Edition Notre Dame Baseball Cap. A free mountain bike will be given away to one lucky fan and Tony Rice, who quarterbacked the Irish Football team to the 1988 National Championship, will throw out the first pitch. For more information, contact Daniel Thornton in the Notre Dame Sports Promotions office at (219) 631-8103. 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memoria.! every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Advanced Scuba RecSports will be sponsoring Advanced Scuba Classes. All participants must be certified divers. For more info. call 1­6100. 
Drop-in Volleyball RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m,in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign­ups necessary. 
Casting and Angling Clinic ­-Clinic includes three sessions which meet on April 15 and 17th from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to stu­dents, staff,,,,and faculty. Advance registration with the RecSports office is required. 

Special Olympics 
Volunteers are needed to help 
Special Olympic swimmers•. 
Practi.(!es are at Rolf!!;~qlll)-tic 
Center on Mondays and 
Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. for more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1"5983. 
RecSports will ~e hiring two full-time, one part-time and numerous substitutes to life­guard at the St, Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
RecSports is-now accepting applications forstudent event supervisors and student issue room supervisors. Please pick up an application at the Office of RecSports on the first floor of the Joyce Center. For more information, call631-6100. 
Bar Bell Club -A weightlift­ing club is coming soon next year for novic;e or serious lifters. Learn niore about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. CaUBinh at 4-4364 for sign­ups and more info. 
AnTostal is holding a run around the lakes called · HostileTostal on Sunday, April 
20. All participants will geta free t-shirt and there is no sjgn up fee, they just need to sign up at the run itself. It starts at 2 p.m. Any questions please call4-2272 orl•7757. 
Dr. James Moriarty will con­duct a lecture on the topic of Creatine Monohydrate in Athletics on Mon., April 14 at 
7:30 p.m. The lecture will be in room 102 DeBartolo Hall. 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 17, 1997 

Boeing 747 def. We'll Shoot in Anyone's Face, including your Mama's Daddy Rocks def. Murph and the Magic Tones The Smurfs Return Again def. The Notorious BAD The Depth of the Bench def. Bend Over Here comes the RAS Team 186 def. Hoopin Ghandis That Darn Cat! def. Dick & the Miller Lite Shooters Fake Bake def. Boutros Boutros Ghali & the UN Troopers Why aren't we Ranked? def. The Eradicators Sans Clemente def. Don't know the Rules We double dribble in our Pants def. Atari 2600 Stanley's Electric Ducknu get Train def. Nachos, Flander's Style 
Dos Geses def. Fox Force Five II Gimme a Stiff DickensCider def. Four White men & an Irishman .J3ring Ou~the Gitl)P II I def. Jea!Tl21 0 t* ~: Tickle rt"'.e Gaby def. Wiiild lslc:Jnd 
Naked Women def. Fletch Lives Love, not Law Review def. Peter North: The Final Shot Farmer Ted & his Hoes d~f: All Good G-Thangz BW3-Bolivian Yaks def;dJ5 Men ~nd a Grady Team 135 def. Tearn John Black Ill Sausage, Salami, and Other PorkProducts def. Dirty Old Men Tort Feasors def. Fifteen-Point-Nine We asked Ernily if$ean Gould Play def. Team 224 Development Dogs VIV def:;.Jim Yarbough & 4 Abused SOH Geriatrics Dirt Road Oelivery INC def. Hap Hazard Team 230 def. The Shorts Danny Sirn f!andy Ron Tony def. Team 169 If we're not dancing ... def.We're Better In Math Man! Keough's Rector is hot! def. In-Flight Movie II No Dessert unless you Clean your Plate def. Team 326 Buddah's Disciples def. The House Dan Built Off Constantly def. Rengel's Rangers Big Mex and his boys def. Logan Center B Team Vertical Pleasures Ill def. Flaming Homers Vanilla Kernals def. We'll Burn you like David Koresh Awesome Backer Babies def. 47474 Street Bailers def. 4 White Guys & Dave 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Looking for roommate or 2 to  89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  ADOPTION  336·you're the cheese in my maca·  
NOTICES  share rent at cozy runaway bay this summer Call 3864  Condition.$ 1690 olbo. Call Jihad 277·3254  WILL PAY$$$. ETHAN 4·1659.  Happily married couple promises love, warmth & a secure future for  rooi·350  
your baby. Respect for you & your  t's not plural, Regis.  
THE COPY SHOP  Family seeks loving, responsible,  Spacious Oakhill condo! 2 bed·  Want to go see Sunset Boulevard  decision. Expenses paid.  
LaFortune Student Center  fun person to help care for 2 chil­ rooms,2 full baths,lofl.fire­ FREE?  Joni & Shep 1·800-528·2344  
Phone 631·COPY  dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  place;&71 ,OOO.Call Roger  Flip Side needs 1 or 2 people to  INOWORRIES  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. · Midnight  thru 6110: 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  Hibbs, Cressy & Everett,272·8668.  drive vans to the Chicago produc·  Or perhaps I'll work in Alaska. I've  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  hr. References and own transporta­ lion on Saturday.  always wanted to work in Alaska.  
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  tion needed.  Need Furniture? For Sale· Bed,  FREE admission to the play. Call  Who Cares?  
Thur.: 7:30a.m.· Midnight  Sue 233·6657  Desk, Couches, Bookcase, etc.  Tom X 1193 for details  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  Diana 271·2947  VOU MUST BE 21.  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  
Sat: Noon • 6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  FOR RENT  •FURNITURE· Futon $100 Chair  offers On Campus and Off Campus Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  Who Really Cares?  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  $50 273·8673  STEVE MILLER  Insurance. Tape and Packing  Who watches Mad about You?  
Near Campus  Materials Included. Call Now to  
- Charley's Steakery at  Homes for 97-98  GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  CENTER STAGE  Reserve Your Space at 800 3  
University Park Mall  232-2595  pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax,  FLOOR SEATS  STORE 9 (800 378·6739).  PRINT FROM DISK  
Now hiring crew and management  Repo's, REO's. Your Area. Toll  PRINT FROM DISK  
positions.  College Pk Apt (Summer) 243·  Free (1)800·218·9000 ·  FIRST 10 ROWS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PRINT FROM DISK  
Call 299-1325 or 287·7286  9357  Ext H·2013 for current listings.  COME ON DOWN!  Very high·quality full·color output is  
ILOST & FOUND I  Apt. for 11 wks. V. close to ND (May • Aug), $65 per Wk. Call Jihad 277 ·3254  Sofa, Dining rm table: good 4 dorm/apt Mike 243·9224  272·7233 PERSONAL  PANGBORN PRESENTS ... THE PRICE IS RIGHT!!!! SAT. APRIL 19 7 PM STEPAN  now available at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center. Bring in your computer disk to print your files. We support PowerPoint,  
Lost: A Dark Gray JCrew Sportcoat  SEIZED CARS from $175.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Photoshop. Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
at the WAKE.  FOR 97·98-4 Bedrooms/3 sto·  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  and many many more types of files.  
REWARD-John 271·3150  ries-5 min to campus, block to  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  HEY, SWINGERS!! Come enjoy a  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
...  LOST·Silver Olympus Stylus  Corby's & Sunny Italy-Huge park­ing lot & yard-$125/mo/person- 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1-800·218·9000 Ext A·2013  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies  chill evening of live swing and ooz· ing cool at LOUNGE NIGHT,  color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color  
Camera  233-9805  for current listings.  are now available at  Thursday, 4117 at the LaFun  copy price for over ten files. We  
on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4·11 07  THE COPY SHOP  Ballroom from 9 pm til 1 am. Come  can print directly onto overhead  
ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FALL  Furniture for sale! Call 243·9357  LaFortune Student Center  revel and relax for only $1. Brought  transparencies too!  
LOST: Nikon Camera · Last seen at  SEM 97 to live with 5 guys who  Phone 631·COPY  to you by the cats of SUB and  PRINT FROM DISK  
Campus View apartments.  love alcohol-$180/mo, own BR,  WSND.  PRINT FROM DISK  
Reward! If found, call Mike at 243·  nice big house on Sorin/St Peter­ HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PRINT FROM DISK  
9396.  will live w/dog-288·9102.  Great nbrhd, near ND  
2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500  SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING  ATTN RAPPERS:  
LOST: STRING OF PEARLS AND  5 Bdrms. in prjllate home. Near  288 7862  MAJORS  Wanna go on a booty call?  Sammy Sosa will win the triple  
A CROSS ON CAMPUS  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of  Me Tool  Crown.  
BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY & BASILICA  all facilities. 225/mo. 232·2794 PauL  TICKETS  Want the best job on campus?  Call Tom at x1193 -gangsta rappers only please  The Cubs wil finish their season 150·12, maybe 148·14.  
IN LATE MARCH. PLEASE CALL  Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  Greg Maddux is coming back next  
DELORES 1·5729 OR 234·7287 AFTER 6PM.  FOR SALE  Need Graduation Tickets  across from the Lafortune Info Desk blw 11:30-12:30 M·F or  HEY ANTOSTAL COMMITTEE!! you guys have worked hard all year  year. And I have complete faith.  
Desparately. Please help!  call Debbie at 1·6616 for ?'s  and it's going to be a great week!  
WANTED  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER Great nbrhd, near ND  Brian-287·4876 Thank You  (Any qualified student please apply)  GET EXCITED! Thank you so much-love, the queen of voice  SEATTLE (AP)-The Seattle  
2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500  mail  Mariners' star catcher has agreed  
NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH  288 7862  Family Needs Graduation  to a lifetime contract with the orga·  
NEEDED 1997·98 ACADEMIC  Do you have an extra GRADUA·  Tickets ­Please Help!  SEE TONY ROSSMILLER AT  nization~His number will be retired  
YEAR.  Sharp cond  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well! I  Christian 273·6967  SENIOR BAR TONIGHT ON HIS  at a special ceremony at the  
MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE  One owner  Please i:all Paige at X4011  FIRST OFFICIAL NIGHT AT  Kingdoms on May 19.  
CEDA/NDT EXPERIENCE  '81 Olds Cutlas  HEADACHE, BACK & NECK PAIN  WORK.  Atlanta Braves' manager Bobby  
REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH  Only 60,000 miles • brand  I need 2 xtra graduation  RELIEF CLINIC  Cox was not immediately available  
COURSE IN DEBATE.  new motor  tix · willing to pay  Kaurich Chiropractic  for comment He was. however,  
FORWARD RESUME & COVER  Call 273-2241  Please call Karen x4588  3511 Lincolnway West  Tonoght only: Yngwie Malmsteen  seen in the LaFortune convenience  
LETTER BY APRIL 19:  South Bend  LIVE in concert!  store last night Good choice,  
P.O. BOX 89  Sony Stereo ($100):  282·2828  Special guests Glass Tiger and  Catch.  
NOTRE DAME. IN 46617  CD/2·tape deck/  I really need grad tickets. Help!? I  "We Don't Feel Good Until You Feel  Whitesnake!  
OR CALL 631· 7753  radio/speakers  Diana 271·2947  Your Best"  Location: 1123 Flanner Hall  
W/OUESTIONS  CALL BEN X1718  Call John x4-1221 for details  Hey, T-dog! Two days!  


Freshman quarterback Eric Chappell is excited about offensive coordi­nator Jim Collette's new passing offense. 
TnE NoTRE DAME AFRICAN STUDENTs' AssociATION 

THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS c E N T E R F 0 R STUDENT GOVERNMENT & THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION S 0 C I A L PROUDLY PRESENT 



CONCERNS 
Kwassa-Kwassa 
The Observer· SPORTS 
QBs 
continued from page 20 
their throwing abilities in 1997. 
Even junior Jarious Jackson, who has been consistently tout­ed as an option quarterback, seems comfortable with the way that the offense is develop­ing. He indicated that the changes have actually helped to work on his overall game. 
"So far, so good," Jackson said. "My throwing has improved a lot from last year. Coach Sanford has helped me a lot as far as adding a new tech­nique onto my motion, which is holding onto the ball a little longer than I have been doing." 
Sanford indicated that. although Jackson has been pri­marily an option player, he believes the young quarterback will be just fine. 
"Jarious has a lot of talent," 
Sanford noted. "Jarious has a 
very strong arm. One of the 
things that he's going through 
right now that's going to help 
him is learning how to put a lit­
tle touch on the ball and 
improving his accuracy, which 
is something that has improved 
and something that will contin­
ue to improve with the more 
reps that he gets." 
This is definitely not to say 
that the option has been 
I, •,
• 

African Rhythms Latin-American Rhythms Middle-East &Asian Rhythms , . . Caribbean Rhythms European Rhythms American Rhythms 
Date: Friday, April 1 8 Venue: Alumni Senior Club (near Business College) Time _I: 6:30 -8:30 PM: Family Time: Kids all ages & parents Art & Clothing Exhibit-Music-Stories & Games Time 2: 8:3oPM -1:ooAM NON-ALCOHOLIC PARTY OPEN TO ALL 
Free Admission COME CELEBRATE DIVERSIIT IN HARMONY!!! 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
THE NEW SOUTH AFRICAN 
CONSTITUTION A TOOL FOR RECONCILIATION? 


A ROUND TABLE DISCUSSION BY REV. OLIVER WILLIAMS, CSC, PROF., COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADM. KATHERINE SAVAGE, LAWYER, (ENTER FOR CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS MoDERATOR, GARTH MEINTJES, AssoCIATE DIRECTOR CCH R 
Date: Monday, April 21 Venue: H~sburgh Center Auditorium Time: 7:00PM 
Sponsors: African Students' Association, The Kellogg Institute, The Center for the Study of Contemporary Society, The joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
removed from the game plan, but Jackson simply wants to adapt himself to the system in which he will be expected to perform. 
"As far as the option goes," explained Jackson, "I told Coach Davie that I'm trying to better myself for the future, and it doesn't matter to me if we don't run a down of option." 
Despite his acceptance of the smaller role of the option, Jackson is looking forward to the possibility that he will be used in goal line situations, where the threat of the option would function to keep oppos­ing defenses off-balance. 
Both he and Powlus have taken snaps with the first team in practice, but the majority of Jackson's time has been on the second team. When asked if the improbability of playing more than a few downs a game affects his play. Jackson responded that playing behind Powlus is beneficial for his own development. 
"It doesn't really hinder my 
play," commented Jackson. "I 
just have to go out and play to 
the best of my ability. More 
than anything, I think it helps 
me because I get to see the pos­
itives in the things that he 
(Powlus) does, and maybe I can 
correct that within myself." 
Powlus believes that both 
Jackson and Chappell have the 
ability to make the offense 
work. 
"I think these guys are going 
to be good in the offense," said 
Powlus. "They both have the 
ability to do real well here as 
NOTRE 
DAME 
POM PON 
SQUAD 
page 13 

quarterbacks, and I think they both will." 
In this weekend's Blue & Gold game, it appears that Powlus will play with the first team, Jackson will split snaps between the first and second squads, and Chappell will see only second team playing time. 
"He's got some things we've got to improve on in his foot­work and his throwing motion," said Sanford of the youngest Irish quarterback. "As he improves in those two areas, he's going to get better and bet­ter." 
Although he is obviously not as developed as the first and second string quarterbacks, Chappell has given Sanford reason to believe that his potential is real. 
"I think that the thing about 
Eric that's really positive is that 
he has good size, and he has a 
lot of athletic ability," Sanford 
explained. "I think he's got a 
very bright future." Sanford 
maintains that all three of his 
charges have a great deal of 
work ahead of them. 
"I feel good about the devel­
opment," commented Sanford, 
"but I think we have got to con­
tinue to improve. I feel good, 
but I don't feel satisfied. I think 
we have got to always get bet­
ter." 

Each quarterback will be 
given a chance to showcase his 
talents within the new offense 
in the coming weekends. These 
scrimmages should provide a 
clearer picture as to the direc­
tion that each of them will need 
to go in preparation for the fall. 

THURSDAY  6:30-9:30  GYM 1 UACCJ  
FRIDAY  6:00-9:00  GYM 1 UACCJ  
SATURDAY  1:00-4:00  GYM 1 UACC)  
MONDAY  7:00-10:00  GYM 4 (JACC)  

Questions?? Call Kim @ 4-0745 
*MUST ATTEND THE CLINIC ON THRUSDAY TO TRY OUT!! 
CATERINO SHIFT SICN UPS FOR GRADUATION 

page 14 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April17, 1997 
• SAINT MARY's SOFTBAll 
Belle duo grateful for the opportunity 
By KERR! NELEN Assistant Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When graduation day arrives, seniors Gretchen Moore and Katie Maxbauer will say goodbye to more than their friends. With the arrival of their final regular season game on May 3, they will retire their jerseys and end their collegiate softball careers. 
For the past four years, with the exception of Katie's junior year in Ireland, both women have played for the Belles softball team. 
Though at times demand­ing, both athletes will walk away from the field with memories they shall cherish for a lifetime. 
"We got to do something other Saint Mary's students did not get the opportunity to do," Belles second basemen Maxbauer said. "For me, it has been my greatest involvement outside of my academic life at Saint Mary's." 
Maxbauer entered her freshmen year with 16 years of previous experience. As a second basemen for the Saint Francis High School softball team, she received an award for academics and secured a position on the all-state soft­ball team. Over the years, the plaques have accumulat­ed. 
Moore, the starting catcher on the Belles, shares similar athletic experience as well as outstanding achievements. 
Since beginning her soft­ball career at the age of six, Moore has made Ohio's all­region team as well as hav­ing played for the North East Ohio all-stars. 
After spending so many years in softball, Moore has discovered that her senior status provides for a new softball experience. 
"This year really stands out. I never thought I would maintain a leadership posi­tion on the team," Moore said. 
"When you are out on the field, it doesn't matter what year you are. But there are times when you notice the other girls are looking up to you. I have really enjoyed being a senior." 
As both women hang up their cleats for the final time, they will be saying farewell to a family as well as a team. 
Though many great game moments stand out in their memories, it is the friend­ships that have meant the most. 
"There's always those great moments in the games," Maxbauer explained. "But it's the friendships that we have made that have changed our lives. It has been so amaz­ing." 
• lACROSSE 

Irish focus on fundamentals 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
Sports Writer 
Consistency. It is the holy grail that great teams possess and that good teams strive for. And it is something which has so far eluded the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team. 
Consistency will be their focus as they take on Air Force today at Moose Krause Stadium. 
"We need to put together 60 full minutes out there," said sophomore attackman Chris Dusseau. "We just need to play our game and try to dictate what happens." 
"The key is execution," added freshman Ken Yanicky. "That is something we have not been able to do for a whole game. We need to focus on our fundamentals." 
Finding their consistency against Air Force may be easier said than done for the Irish squad. "Air Force is a physical team," said Dusseau. "They are in good shape, and it should be a physical game." 
The underrated Fighting Falcons are a dangerous team who are hungry for a win. 
"They only lost to Butler by one, and their best two middies were out in their loss," said Yanicky. "We can't afford to take them lightly." 

And as both Dusseau and Yanicky emphasized, Air Force has everything to gain and nothing to lose in their game against the Irish. 
Should Notre Dame find the consistency they are looking for, it could not come at a bet­ter time. The Irish are begin­ning their final stretch of games for the season. A win today against Great Western League Lacrosse conference foe Air Force and on May 3 against Ohio State would guarantee Notre Dame a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1998-99. 
11 freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Thursday evening, April 17, 1997 at 6:30pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 
get ready for MTV's 




Tuesday, April22 

7:00 pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Join the dating pool!* by signing up at LaFortune Information Desk and in the dining halls too!!! turn in applications to the SUB office-2nd floor LaFortune 
*Limited to 1st 100 males and 1st 100females. 
sponsored by sub 

Thursday, April 17, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
.._. 
"SAY HALLELUJAH SOMEBODY!" 

Power Lunch: It was Easter Sunday and Pastor Redman had a story Action this Summer ( :: ········· ··· ·· to tell. From the pulpit he began reading the Creation Thursday, April17, Story. His voice swelled as he recounted each movement of Faculty Din~pg Room God's creative handiwork. The congregation rocked and 
fanned and sat wide-eyed as the annual re-telling of the 

Retreat for Gay and 
ancient story became a contemporary drama with new con­

Undergraduate 
notations. The pastor spoke of the earth and the moon and 

Friends 
the stars and everything that was good. And then he paused.

Friday-Saturday, Ap 
He looked up from the pulpit, raised his palms and shout­

Hall 
ed, "And then God said, 'I think I'll make me a man'." With slow and determined syncopation, his hands waved and his

Senior Class 
feet danced as God's commands echoed throughout the

Saturday-Sund Geneva Center church. Hebrew scripture andjames Weldonjohnson's "The Creation Story" were intertwined in rhythmic verse as Auditions for the drama of creation, human history and God's boundless 
Baccalaureate love unfolded. Adults and children rose from their seats as Tuesday and We if to get a better look at God's creation of them, waiting to 23 4:oo mB ,
' P.,,.' inhale God's breath life for the very first time. Then the singing began. Voices ofjoy and heartfelt praise filled the 
Campus B~~le 
air as the glory of God was proclaimed in spontaneous har­

Tuesday, ~Rrll 2 
mony. "Say hallelujah somebody," was heard from the pulpit.

Ministry­
,,~...·%:=!=!:Jq=·­
"Say hallelujah!" 
There's much to be said for this word. Hallelujah is Hebrew for "praise ye Yahweh" or "praise the Lord." We see it in the ancient psalms and we hear it throughout Pastor Redman's Easter Sunday sermon. It is timeless. It is univer­sal. It is said, it is shouted, it is sung. And it is prayer. To say hallelujah is to give praise to the creator for the breath of life which defines the sacred reality of our relationship with God. It leads us to dance and sing and speak of the good­ness of the One who lives in each of us. 
Friday, April18 is our annual Hallelujah Night! At 7:00 
p.m. in Stepan Center, the University of Notre Dame will gather as one voice to give praise and thanks for all we have been given. As a community imbued with many gifts and blessings, on Friday we will respond to God's breath of life,

WEEKEND PRESIDERS 
singing our songs, reciting our poems and dancing to the

AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
perpetual drumbeat of the Creator. As we near the end of Sat. April19 5:00p.m. the semester and the academic year, let us pause to reflect Rev. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. on Spring, Easter, graduation and renewal-our signs and 
symbols of growth and new beginnings. We are a fortunate 

Sun. April 20 10:00 a.m. and promising people. We have been given much. We have Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. been blessed abundantly. On Friday, we will gather to say "thank you." 
11:45 a.m. 
You are cordially invited to join Coro Primavera, 

Rev. David Scheidler,C.S.C. 
<•,•:;.•:· 

Mariachi ND, the Notre Dame Women's, Liturgical and ===========================· 
Handbell choirs, Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, the Hawaiian Club, the Filipino American Student Organization and
VESPERS: 
other members of the Notre Dame community as we prai~e in our distinct and culturally artistic genres. The rhythms,

Sun. April 20 7:15 p.rt), 
lyrics and movements embodied in our communal expres­

Mr. Steve Warner 
sion of prayer will remind us of our gifts and invite us into the experience and cultural contemplation of others. 

-

Hallelujah Night! is a night of collective prayer and praise. SCRIPTURE READI. We will praise and pray with our souls, using our bodies as THIS COMING instruments of exultation andjubilation! Come and take your place as we gather to witness the creative manifestation 
1st Reading Acts 4: 
of God's life and love among us. Come and say hallelujah

2nd ReadiQ.~ . 1·· · 
somebody!

Gospel &a·!H't • 
ChandraJ. Johnson 
.. (DMPUSMINISTRY 

-~-----------~ ~~--~--------------.....-.----~~-~---~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 17, 1997 
• BASEBALL • SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
McKeown leads Irish to victory Belles victorious 6-3 
By KEVlN ROBINSON Sports Writer 
On a cold afternoon at Eck Stadium with winds blowing over 20 miles per hour, Notre Dame was able to ease past Bowling Green by a score of 4­0. 
This win improves their over­all record to 25-13 with the Irish still leading their division in the Big East. Bowling Green was coming off a 16-3 victory against a solid Michigan squad in Ann Arbor. 
For the Irish, the pitching staff continued a recent trend of dominating their opponents. In the past three games, Notre Dame has only allowed seven earned runs, including only two in the past two games. 
Irish pitcher Chris McKeown started the game and allowed only one hit in six innings. He also had three strikeouts and six walks. This win brings McKeown's record to 2-2. 
In the seventh inning, fresh­man Tim Kilita replaced McKeown, and pitched two innings, striking out three bat­ters and allowing no hits. It was Kilita's third save of the season. 
"The pitching is getting bet­ter, and they are much more consistent," commented Coach Paul Mainieri. "Our bullpen is getting much better, and I owe it all to (pitching) Coach (Brian) O'Connor." 
Coach Mainieri was especially pleased with Kilita, comment­ing "his strikes were dominat­ing, and he was overwhelming hitters." 
The one-hitter was the first by a Notre Dame pitching staff since David Finnes and Chris Michalak combined for one-hit, seven inning performance back in 1993 against Detroit. The span covered 246 games over four years. 

Offensively, the Irish had nine hits, including three triples by Randall Brooks, Allen Greene, and Todd Frye. Notre Dame leads the Big East this season with 24 triples. 
The fourth inning proved to be the strongest for the Irish as all four runs were scored in the fourth. Freshman Jeff Felker knocked in the first RBI for the Irish. 
Later in the inning, Todd Frye tripled to score two runs. With two outs, senior J .J. Brock knocked in Frye to conclude the Irish scoring. 
The biggest scare of the day came in the sixth inning after McKeown walked the bases full. Luckily, Notre Dame was able to get out of the inning without giving up a run. 
Notre Dame set two batting milestones on Wednesday. Randall Brooks eclipsed the 200 hit barrier (201), becoming only the ninth Notre Dame player to accomplish that. Also, senior Mike Amrhein had a pair of hits, bringing his career total to 240, moving him into fourth place in team histo­ry. 
The Irish hope to continue their recent steak -16 wins in 18 -games into their double­header today against Indiana Tech. They host Villanova for a three game series this week­end. 
"This weekend we really need to go out and do the job," com­mented Mainieri. "This is only one of three weekend home series, and it is something we really need to take advantage of. 
By MARIANNE BANKO Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's tennis team defeated Wheaton College of Illinois in their match played Tuesday afternoon. The Belles won 
6-3 despite rearranging their singles players due to the injury of No. 3 singles player Jen Brahler. 
The Belles swept doubles matches, 3-0. Wins were also accumulated by No. 1 singles Nancy Sorota, No. 3 Lisa Panique, and No. 5 Anne 
Insight 
continued from page 20 

overtime as the Irish upset the Friars, 86-7 4. 
Rumors had begun to surface prior to the Providence game that Lalazarian was upset with his lack of playing time and was looking to transfer. There were also reports that he didn't feel that coach John McLeod's system gave him the opportuni­ty to grow as a player. 
The Observer was unable to reach Lalazarian for an official statement. 
Lalazarian has been released from his scholarship as he requested and will pursue his college career closer to home in California, possibly at Pepperdine. 
In 12.6 minutes per game, Lalazarian averaged 5.3 points and two rebounds. 
Transfer out, transfer in: The University has long upheld their commitment to deny ath­letic transfers. Admissions director Kevin Rooney claimed that missing Notre Dame's Freshman Year of Studies pro­gram would be too difficult to make up in four years. 
With two scholarships avail­able (after Lalazarian's trans-Underwood. 
"The team had a very strong showing against Wheaton," commented head coach Katie Cromer. "Hopefully it will extend into this weekend." 
The Belles' goal this weekend is to make it through the first round. Even if they do not win their first match, they are guar­anteed a total of three matches over the weekend. At the tour­nament's end, the teams will all receive official rankings. Saint Mary's hopes to improve their ranking by the end of the week­end. 
fer), the Irish are contemplat­ing allowing the first basketball transfer in over three decades to freshman center Kevin Lacey of Rider. 
At 6-foot-9, 215 pounds, Lacey was the Bronc's second leading scorer at 12.8 points per game, averaged 5.8 rebounds, and shot 63 percent from the field and 79 percent from the free throw line. 
During a regular season match against Villanova, Lacey scored 19 points on 9-for-15 shooting, grabbed six rebounds, recorded two steals, and committed only one turnover. 
Lacey visited the Irish last weekend. 
Rumor for rumor sake: If you want a unsubstantiated rumor to ponder, some are say­ing that Jason Collier is looking to transfer out of Indiana. Notre Dame was on Collier's short list prior to committing to the Hoosiers. 
Recruits: With Jim O'Brien's move from Boston College to Ohio State, top 100 recruit Adam Allenspach was looking for a home, and Notre Dame was surprisingly in the run­ning. Yet, then again, so was Clemson. But, that's a story for tomorrow. 


-~-------------------------­
-



Thursday, April 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
Corby's has put on an offensive clinic, but with the size of big men Tim Ridder (sjx-foot­seven) and Bob Baxter (six­foot-six), it is their defense that will help them live up to their No.1 seed. 
This especially holds true off the boards in the rebounding column. 
"They're REALLY big," Bren­dan Hughes of Jelly Tombskies said. "For someone to beat them. they are going to have to be as tall as them to be able to rebound." 
llughes teammate Matt Dowd added that even if that is possi­ble, however, Corby's still has it's outside attack. 
"Even after they rebound, 
they can still run [Jeff1 Kloska out," Dowd said. "So if some­one's going to beat them, they are going to have to rebound and be just as quick." 
Corby's is one of the few teams to have its second game under its belt and continues to advance. in hope of defending its top seed. 
On the other side of the Book­store extreme, Dos Goldkamps avec Duct Tape made its one and only appearance at this year's tournament but did so in style. 
Dos Goldkamps, who last year made their presence known "sans pants," decided to come out to yesterday's game in nothing more than duct tape. While each player displayed his own unique style, such as Jacob Goldkamp's duct tape skirt or his brother Seth's. fully duct­taped body, the team as a whole made one of the more unique fashion statements of the tournament. 
"Since I got in trouble last year for being uncovered, I decided to make sure I was cov­ered this year," Seth said. Although quite creative, the uniforms were quite restrictive, leading Dos Goldkamps to a 21­7 loss to We Can Drink More Than Baily. 
"I think some of the other guys had trouble with chaffing," Seth added. "But I was pretty restricted." 
In other ranked action, the only all-freshmen team to receive a seed, No. 24 Steve Masiello Fan Club, won its first game in the Bookstore Basketball tournament. The Fan Club's 21-14 victory over Yank My Doodle, It's a Dandy was led by a surprisingly strong outside performance by its big man Dan O'Leary. While the first game is always a great game to get out of the way for any team, it was especially true last night for the rookie team, and it can now take its speed and strength and aim it at some of the veterans. 
"It was great to get it over with and come away with a win," team captain Mike Pitino said. "We weren't sure what to expect. We were surprised to 
seeded so , and it was a little overwhelming at first, but now we're just glad to get the first game out of the way and keep playing." 

******** 
Referees are needed from the round of 64 through the Elite 8. $10 per game. There will be an informational meeting on Sun., 
April 20,  at 5 p.m.  at  the  
Montgomery  Theatre  in  
LaFortune.  

,.-------, 

... 
thunclay 1 0:30p• •friday aacl aaturclay 8 and 1 0:30p• 
IY€G 
Free Food!! . 

A -r -rA 
Buy a shirt at North or South Dining Hall and be registered to 
win prizes! w 
The regatta is Saturday, April 19 at l :00PM on Saint Mary's Lake 


"YA GOTTA REGATTA" 

sponsors: Coca-Cola, Subway Sandwiches & Salads, Notre Dame Alumni Association, Papa John's Pizza 
-
.. 

---~~~ --­
page 18 
• SOFTBALL 
Surging Irish ready to battle Valparaiso 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
In the midst of a six game winning streak, the Irish pre­pare for the second double­head-er of their four game homestand as the Crusaders of Valparaiso march into town today. 
The 24-18 Irish have won eight of their last 10 games, 
' including six Big East confer­ence contests against Providence and Villanova. Notre Dame's recent difficulties defeating non-conference oppo­nents have seemingly disap­peared with a 2-1 win and a 7­6 come-from-behind victory in Tuesday's double-header with Northwestern. 
"It's always good to play at home," said head coach Liz Miller. "It seems like we've had a lot of distractions this season, so it's great being home and having good weather. When you're fighting the elements, it takes the fun out of the game and makes it difficult to con­centrate on playing." 
A potent offense has put the team in the driver's seat although the pitching staff is not just along for the ride. Co­captains Katie Marten and Meghan Murray, fellow senior Liz Perkins, and freshman Sarah Mathison have been the impact players for the Irish, 
.--accounting for much of the team's recent success. 
Marten set the Notre Darrie and Big East records for triples in a season, breaking Andy Key's 1993 mark with seven three-baggers. Marten's four triples in conference games broke the former record of three, held by 10 other hitters in Big East history, including 
TEACH ENGLISH in 
EASTERN EUROP 

PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like ro teach basic conversational English in Easr~rn Eurore? Our materials profile many rewardmg reachmg opportunities with great benc:tirs. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
• ./ Used, rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 5CJ'Ia 
Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 

• Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
Sovtll Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

-
herself and Murray in 1996. 
Murray's solid defense and steady production at the plate from the number five slot have been important factors in keep­ing Notre Dame close in tight games this spring. Murray ranks second on the team in six offensive categories, including batting average, triples, home runs, and RB!s. 
Since March 27, Perkins has been on fire at the plate, hitting above .450 during that stretch to raise her average nearly 100 points. During that time, Perkins has driven in 20 runs and scored 12. Her 12 doubles lead the team and put her on pace to break the school record of 17. 
Mathison was named Big East rookie of the week after her veteran performances against Michigan and Villanova, hitting .476 with three runs scored, two RBI, and a double. Mathison leads the Irish with three home runs on the season. 
"Even when we've been los­ing, we've been hitting the ball really well," said Miller. 
"We've done a great job of putting together hits in key sit­uations." 
Angela Bessolo and Joy Battersby will take the mound for the Irish against Valparaiso, while Kelly Nichols will sit out until the weekend with tendini­tis problems in her arm. Bessolo's 11-8 record and 1.64 ERA lead the staff, while Battersby, a senior. is 3-1 in her last four games with a team low 30 walks. 
After today's double-header, the Irish hit the road for an important weekend series with Big East rivals St. John's and North Division leader Connectic!lt. 
ADVERTISEMENT 
V=VARSITY 
C=CLUB 
!=INTRAMURAL 
18 MEN'S & WOMEN'S TRACK/V 
AT Ml SAC INVITATIONAL WALNUT, CA AND AT KANSAS RELAYS LAWRENCE, KS 





19 WOMEN'S SOFTBALUV 
AT Sl JOHNS NOON 
MEN'S BASEBALUV 
VS. VILLANOVA ECK STADIUM 5:00PM 

LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND lOCATION OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH REACH HER AT COLLEEN HENSHAW@NIKE COM 
20 MEN'S LACROSSEN 
AT MASSACHUSETTS 1:00PM 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALUV 
AT CONNECTICUT 11 00 AM 
MEN'S BASEBALUV 
VS. VILLANOVA ECK STADIUM NOON 
THE GOAl OF SPORTSWEEK:END IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON (.AMPIJ; NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSilY, INIHAMUHAL OR ClUB SPORTS ON IIH"i CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULF DOE'S Nt lT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSURSHIP 
'71.~, 
Thursday 
~huraday-'Qtbursbap 

., 
-
Thursday, April 17, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

COMINC. sooN ro A fHEA1'RE N!AR tbl/.•• 
SEVE# YOtiN'G At>lJLTS 'RAI>tiATEl> 
FROM PRII'fE

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
STUNT POUBL.E? 'IJHAT DO 'tiOU M6AA! HAI.J6 
iOB5A 
STu~:re? 
l70Ue.~ 
\ I 
DILBERT 
I FOUND ANOTHER 0£f>..O E.f\1\I'LOY££. IN THE CONFERENCE ROOM. 
\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Stone smoother 
29 Mr. Jaggers's ward, in Dickens 1 Pickle 
s Klinger portrayer, in 
30 Brat's Christmas 70's-80's TV 
present 
31 Largest moon of Neptune
9Tubby 
14 Chief Whitehorse, for 33 Sounds of a leak one 34 Burdensome 15 Cousin of a possession clarinet 37 Pandemonium 16 Winning 38 Hologram 11 "Yeah, right!" producers 18 First name in 39 Cold war capital country 40 Price word 19 Explorer 41 Stand for a Amundsen portrait 20 High points 44Down 23 Places for aces? 45 Actress Tyler of Operculum 90's films 25 Opposite of 46 Small quantity post· symbol, in math 
l DON'T KNOW WHf>..T GOT HIM-THE BOREDOM OR THE HARD WORK. 5UT 1-\Ef>..OCOUNT IS DOWN ONE AND THE COt'\PANY Hf>.5 LirE IN5URANCE ON 
/ 1-\[f'/\.! 
48 Extremely 
exasperated 51 Flabbergast 53 It's next to 
Mayfair, in 
London 54 Signs 55 Director known 
for spaghetti westerns 56 It's all the same 
tomoi 57 Cut, maybe 58 Joined together 59 "It just isn't--" 60 Employees' 
ID's:Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 Swine 2 The "se" in per 
se 3 "Beats me!" 4 Shield's 
purpose 5 Ontario city just west of Buffalo 6 Gives a yegg a hand 
22 Dance 7 Biblical attire maneuver 8 Army's back 26 Enthralled section 
27 City rattlers 9 Unit of 
29 Like 19-Across's 
capacitance 
expeditions10Sailor's 
30 Rankssalutation 32 Broadcast
11 Recipe measure 33 Musical passage 
34 Horse's halter 12 Baseball's 
Banda 35 Manual 13 Anomalous 36 Door feature 21 Turns inside 37 Safer 
out workplace? 
MIKE PETERS 
GOOP, NOW HURRY UP... GARFIELI1S ABOUT ro STUFF O~IE INA Bt.ENI:)ER! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ lT L001(,.5 Ll\<..E 
., 
c
,.. I FOUND MY (/). "EMPLOYEE OF . THE WEEK."
.. ~ 
40 Pizzeria 47 Branch 
order headquarters? 
42 Twisty-horned 49 Like Silver's rider 
animals 50 Inoperative 
43 Ensure 51 It's at the end of 
45 Drew in the line 
46 Actor Hawke 52 King's name 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Elizabeth Lindsey, Harry Rea­soner, Olivia Hussey, William Holden 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on 
Sept. 2, 1963, al 6:32 p.m. Is there a 
baby in the near future? My husband 
and I are working on it at the presenl 
time. I am also curious about my 
!'lhurt·term fln~tnd~tl future durtnA th~ 
n~xt 12 months. Are there any finan­
cial wind falls? 
Baby 
Dear Baby: You were born with a 
number of planets in the mutable 
signs and this can sometimes cause 
difficulties when trying to get preg· 
nan!. In your case, I do not feel that 
it is impossible. To lend you a help­
ing hand, your fertility cycles are: 
Aprii18-April 22 
May 17-May 21 
June16-June 20 
July 15-July 19 
Aug. 13-Aug. 17 
Sept. 12-Sept. 16 
Oct. 11-0ct 15 
Nov. 9-Nov. 13 
Dec. 9-Dec. 13 
Jan. 8.-Jan. 12 
Feb. 6-Feb. 10 
Mar. 8-Mar. 12 
Pregnancy is apparent over the course of the next two years. I will be offering fertility cycles on my as­troadvice.com Web site in the near future. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): You can make lucrative investments today. If you get involvc'<l in seminars or self­~mprovement projects, you may run mto someone from your past. 
TAURUS (Aprii21-May 21): Don't overspend on luxury items for your home. Don't react too quickly if some­one you live with is hard to get along with. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): You are likely to have problems with for­

eigners today. Avoid arguments \\'ith 
colleagues or employers. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You can make major accomplishments at work. Present your ideas and don't be afraid to disagree with opposition 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You may he overly emotionaL You should trv lo spend time wilh a good friend wh(> alwaya mak~s you feel beth.•r. You aren't thinking dearly when it corm.~ to your love life. 
VIRGO (Aui 24-Sept. 22): Work at home if at illl possible. You will not get along with colleagues or emplny­ers loday. Your ability to see flaws in their work will only makt• mattt·r~ worse. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Don't get involved in debates that could lead to unemployment. It is best tt1 work in largt.• groups where vou can hide in the crowd. · 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Criti­cism has never bt..-en easv for you tl' swallow. Be prepared to-have-some­one oppose your objectives. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 211: You can chann anyone into anythmg Promote your ideas and enlist the support and help of those you en­counter. Arguments with past lover~ may be disturbing. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20!: Family members may present you with difficulties. Don't take the brunt of the responsibility; make sure th.lt you make relatives share in sorting out the dilemma. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21·Feb. 18): Tum your stress mto passion. You can please your mate by showing afft.x­tion and letting little annoyann-s shp by. Pick up books pertaming to pr<>l­ects vou'rt.• involved in. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20!: You may find that colleagues will hnst vour words around. Don't involve yourself in gossip. Work quietly on your own and the tables will tum in your favor. 
Born Today: Get ready to push yourself and your ideas this year. Presenta­tion will be everything and you better be prepared if you want to reach vour highest potential. The sky is the limit and vour high energy will pay off. · 
.. 
-


........-_.._________~.--~----~--------­

~.... 
-
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, April 17, 1997 
.. 
-
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Standout freshman transfers 
E
xcuse me coach. but isn't the object of the recruit­ing season to sign play­ers, not lose them? The NIT wins and Big East awards were supposed to .-------~ bring players to Notre Dame, but then again, nothing goes as expected when Notre Dame men's basketball is involved. 
Senior Spans Writer

On a day when the Irish hoped to hear some good news from a highly regarded recruit, freshman small for­ward David Lalazarian stepped into the spotlight and bid his fairwell. 
David Lalazarian: lf there was any freshman that showed an ouce of potential, it was Lalazarian. While not seeing much time early with Derrick Manner and Gary Bell ahead of him on the depth chart, Lalazarian was the only small forward to show any kind of shot outside of 10 feet from the basket. He ran the break like a banshee and late in the season when the Irish needed a bas­ket, he was there. 
Against a more talented Providence team. Lalazarian sparked a second half run by the Irish and scored seven of his career-high 15 points in 
see INSIGHT I page 16 

Quarterbacks adapting to new system under Colletto 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant SportS Editor 
A great number of things have hap­pened to the Notre Dame football pro­gram since USC kicker Rodney Sermons split the uprights in overtime to end 13 consecutive years of Trojan frustration at the hands of the Irish. 
Among the many transitions and adjustments is a more open and bal­anced attack which has captured the excitement of every player on the offen­sive side of the ball. And there is no group of players that are more pleased than the Irish field generals. 
During spring practice, the quarter­backs have been presented with their 
Spri:Rg Feolba!lll· o Monday 
8~, Running Backs 
1997 D Tuesday 8'" Tight Ends D Wednesday & Coaches
The Observer will be profiling a different aspect of the Notre D( Thursday 8,; Quarterbacks Dame football team each day 
D Friday •~ Ron Powlus
this week. 

Duct tape aside, top seeds advance 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
(Above) Seth Goldkamp of "Dos Goldkamps avec Duct Tape" provided the fashion, while (right) "Four Jerks + a Squirt" and "We're not good ball handlers, but Jeannine is" battled for pride. 
first taste of the new system and to this point, there are certainly no complaints. Each of the three has expressed satisfac­tion with the ideas of new offensive coor­dinator Jim Colletto. 
"Colletto is a brain," said rising sopho­more Eric Chappell in praise of the pass­ing schemes that the new coach has brought to the offense. "(The attack) is a lot like Florida's." 
Although Steve Spurrier's offense may not exactly be the blueprint that Davie, Colletto, and first-year quarterbacks coach Mike Sanford are looking to follow, it is clear that the quarterbacks will have a much greater opportunity to display 
see QBs I page 13 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 

Once again, yesterday's Bookstore Basketball competi­tion was highlighted by a victo­rious top-seeded Corby's and a team that brought to the court a very unique uniform (that also once again showed specta­tors a little more skin than desired). However, this time it wasn't in the same game. 
Corby's received their first real taste of serious competi­tion from Jelly Tombskies: A New Hope, and although they prevailed 21-4, walked away having broken a sweat and a 
bit concerned about polishing 
themselves before the next 
game. 
"We were a little sloppy today. I guess we need to be a little more patient," Tim Ridder said of his team's victo­ry. "It is our first real game, and every first game is a little sloppy, but we only have a week and a half to get better." 

Jelly Tombskies effort, al­.though not indicated by the score, gave Corby's a handful, forcing them to play some de­fense by throwing a quick offensive attack at the top­seeded giants. Thus far, 
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Under the tutela_ge of new q~arterback coach Mike Sanford, sophomore quarterback 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Janous Jackson ts developtng mto much more than just an option quarterback . 
• 
.~ 
..£1

s ·.··········
PORTS 

AT A GLANCE 
vs. Indiana Tech 
vs. Valparaiso a)

VJt • Baseball blows by Bowling Green 
•o/ 
Today, 5 p.m. 
.,[~ Today, 4 p.m . 
'C
at Big East Championship 

. Men's vs. Air Force see page 16
~-.....
rtf 
April17-20 
Thursday, 3 p.m. 

CIJ •Belles tennis beats Wheaton 
at Big East Championship 
Softball vs. Anderson U. 
Q¢
"" April 17-20 
u'' ~ 

...... t· ;,,. Saturday, 1 p.m. see page 16 


