
Monday, September 29, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 26 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ROME PROGRAM 
Earthquake rattles SMC, ND students in Italy 
By JAMIE HEISLER 1 a.m. EST while watching the director of public relations at Managing Ediror news. He immediately took Saint Mary's. "Everything was action to contact the director of fine Friday, and no one was 
Fifty-nine Saint Mary's and the program. Portia Prebys, as harmed." Notre Dame students beginning well as the parents of the stu­According to Checca, most of their term in the Saint Mary's dents. the students were not aware 
Hom<~ Program Wl~re shaken by "Soon after I heard the news that the first earthquake had 
I Assisi: Moderate quake

two earthquakes Friday during I called, and when I first called occurred. "Perhaps some were 
collapses roof of Basilica of

their orientation in Assisi, Italy. I got the front desk of the resi­awake, but most slept right 
St. Francis of Assisi killing

No students were injured in dence [of the students in through it," he said. "The 
several people.

either of the quakes, the first of Assisi]." he said. "They said aftershocks were stronger. but which measured 5.5 and the everything was calm. I was I didn't discuss the aftershocks 
At least two frescoes on the life 

s<~cond of which measured 5.6 unable to talk to Dr. Prebys much with Dr. Prebys. She did 
of St. Francis of Assisi suffered 

on th11 Hichtnr seale. The stu­because by the time I got say that they were able to go 
minor damage.

dents wnrr. aslnep at the time through, it was morning, and on with orientation as usual." of llw first <mrthquak<l. which she was out with the students." Checca was able to contact oeeurred at 2:33 a.m. local Prebys called later Friday to all of the parents of the 59 stu­I Macerata: Elderly couple time. The second occurred update Saint Mary's adminis­dents. a few of whom had not found dead in rubble of approximatdy nine hours later trators on the condition of heard of the earthquake. their farmhouse. while tlw stud!~nts were out those in the program. "The vast majority had heard nxploring the area. "The director called campus there had been an earthquake, I Foligno: Large crack formed in 
PPter Cheeca. Saint Mary's here in South Bend and talked but there were a few who were the facade of a 12th-century couns<dor for the Rome with the vice president. not aware that there had been Romanesque cathedral. Program. first heard of the Dorothy Feigel, and with Dr. quake Friday morning around Checea," said Patti Valentine, 
see ITALY I page 6 AP 

Golf course plans surge ahead after Juday Creek redirected 
By DEREK BETCHER Engineers signaled the final chapter in Associate News Editor that phase of construction. The new water course. designed to 
Last week, Notre Dame received the encourage brown trout spawning, has final permit necessary for construction been completed, but dry, for weeks. of its new golf course, and Friday Friday morning, contractors re-chan­morning contractors redirected the neled the river's flow through the 2,200 waters of Juday Creek, capping months feet of new creek bed, effectively end­of negotiations with environmental reg-ing the bevy of regulatory concerns 
ulatory agencies. ----------------which had 
"It was essential to threatened to have the permit by 'Th' · th · t impede the con-
that deadline, but lS lS more an JUS struction sched­now we have it," improving the stream on ule. director of utilities Notre Dame's property. The The time it 
John DeLee said. took for a back The Indiana Fish and stream needs help and this is hoe to connect Wildlife Agency spec-something that could provide a the stream 
ified that Juday waters to the Creek could not be great service to it.' new creek bed redirected after Oct. was compara­
1. Ronald Hellenthal tively small. "If we wouldn't .r. ifb' l · l . "It happened
proJessor o zo ogzca sczences in no time flat.
have gotten it, there would have been If I had to esti­delays. But, we got it, so we're right on mate, I'd say in five minutes the new track." DeLee summarized. one was filled," DeLee said. 
Environmental concerns for Juday Coore and Crenshaw. Inc. of Austin. Creek's native species -brown trout, Texas, a partnership of Bill Coore and for example -had thrown a twist into PGA golfer Ben Crenshaw, designed the the course's construction earlier this course. The par-71, 18-hole course is spring. To placate environmental con­scheduled to be ready for play in the cerns, course architects decided to spring of 1999. relocate Juday Creek farther north to The University hired environmental protect its waters from harmful golf engineers J.F. New and Associates, Inc. course pesticide and fertilizer run-off. to direct the restoration project and Contractors needed a legion of papers earmarked $500,000 for improvements from several state and federal agencies to Juday Creek. 
This weekend, members of the Ultimate Frisbee team honed their skills on Stepan to relocate the stream, and last week's To further enhance the fish habitat of Field. permit from the U.S. Army Corps of 
see GOLF I page 6 


Bruno succeeds Firth as standing committee chair 
By CHRIS YUNT service. was initiated by Bruno, who has been work­the committee began its ser­members of the standing com­News Writer Patricia 
ing at the University for five vice as a resource for O'Hara mittee, Father David Burrnll. O'Hara, vice years, was a member of the ad to identify gay and lesbian stu­llesburgh professor of theolo­Pasquerilla West's rector, president of hoc committee before serving dent needs while also giving gy and philosophy, and Father Sister Sue Bruno, was recently Student on the standing committee last professional advice to Notre Richard Warner, director of named as this year's chair of Affairs, in year. Dame gay and lesbian stu­Campus Ministry and coun­Notre Dame's Standing reaction to a "Our goal," Bruno said, "is to dents. selor to the president: Committee on Gay and Lesbian recommen­continue campus-wide educa­Bruno added that she Katharine Barrett. director of Student Needs. dation from tional programming for gay expects to "keep a dialogue religious education and RCIA 
Bruno will succeed last the Ad Hoc and lesbian students." going between the committee in Campus Ministry; and year's chair, Ann Firth, who is Com m itt e e Bruno She mentioned the imple­and the Office of Student undergraduate students currently on maternity leave. on Gay and mentation of panels and guest Affairs." Robert Dorton, Alyssa The committee, beginning its Lesbian Student Needs in speakers among other things Joining Bruno on the com­llellrung, and Karen second year of campus-wide February 1996. to aid in this plan. Last year mittee are two second-year Uhlmeyer. 

page 2 
• INS!OE COLUMN 

Drinking is no joke 
"I couldn't go away Nora Meany 
knowing that I'd creat­
Saint Mary's Accent ed another little pocket 
Editor 

of hate in this world." -John Lennon 
Okay, I know I'm beating this issue dead into the ground. Things were said, there was a reaction, and I should just walk away. But, I didn't want such a glaring act of miscom­munication to forever be on my conscience. So, here goes. 
To recap: Wednesday's Inside Column, written by yours truly, tackled the question of drinking in the Notre Dame community. It hit a raw chord with many of you, and rightly so. It was meant to be a satire. I was being sar­castic. I did write to an educated college com­munity, and I apologize if my quips were taken in an unintentional way. 
The column was not a humorous jaunt devoid of meaning. I was trying to describe the social pressures and unfortunate mindset of many people in college. In no way was I attempting to condone the binge drinking that is all too familiar in college. I was the one who decided not to take the 21 shots. It was me all along. I highly doubt that any­thing I say in the school paper would force someone's hand towards the bottle. 
The "friend" I was speaking of was myself. My birthday was last Monday. 
This year I chose not to drink, for various reasons. I was writing my column in answer to the pressure I have faced from people to drink, especially around my birthday. Strangers, friends, the staff at T.G.l. Friday's ... everyone I have encountered this year has shown curiosity for why I don't drink. Am I a recovering alcoholic? Am I on medication for depression? Can I not afford it? Am I trying to lose weight? When I give my response ("A lot of things, but none of your damn business") the general reaction is to voice loudly why I should just shut up and have a drink. 
It has not been easy. 
In order to get my message across, I felt I had to write in satire. If I had given a straight narrative of the trials of sobriety, many peo­ple I was trying to write to would have branded me a loser and stopped reading by paragraph two. Thus the message would be lost. 
I would like to thank everyone for giving their honest reaction to what I wrote. Especially, thanks to everyone for judging my writing for what it is, on the face value. It is great to know that I can be judged solely for what I write, instead of my byline. Your sup­port is noted. 
I do think that this subject needs to be addressed. One's reason to drink, or not, is a personal one that should be respected by the entire community. 
There is something wrong when tolerance is not extended to people who think different­ly than the accepted norm. However, it is a question of private volition, and should move from the pages of the paper. 
If you would like to discuss this topic with me further, please look me up when I'm out. I love a good conversation, and I am quite easy to find. 
I'm the one holding the car keys. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Melissa Weber  
Laura Perelle  Production  
Sports  Heather MacKenzie  
Kathleen Lopez  Laura Perelle  
Betsy Baker  Kathleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Patrick Quigley  
Accent  
Nate Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during ~xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 29, 1997 
• WORLD AT AGlANCE 
Despite contention points, Israel talks expected to resume 
JERUSALEM Israel would be permitted to enter
Current status • Total Palestinian 
After six months of violence and Israel beginning Monday.
PaleSiinian civil control control recriminations, Israel and the with Israeli security 0 Total israeli control "The main thing is to make it clear 
Palestinians said Sunday they expect to the other side that we want to go
'15 miles 
peace talks to resume soon following forward with tho process, but that
1;__3 
new signs of flexibility from both they must fight terror," Netanyahu
i 15km 

sides. told Israel Television. "There is a 
Prime Minister Benjamin change in the past few days. I think Netanyahu said the Palestinians had that finally something has sunk in." made "first, preliminary steps" Netanyahu said he expected an toward fighting terrorism. He also agreement on resuming talks to be ordered that $17 million in frozen reached Monday at a meeting in New tax revenues -about half what York between Secretary of State Israel owes the Palestinian Authority Madeleine Albright, Israeli Foreign -be released. Israel cut off tax pay­Minister David Levy, and Palestinian ments to the Palestinians after two negotiator Mahmoud Abbas. suicide bombings in Jerusalem. In New York, State Department 
In another conciliatory gesture, spokesman James Hubin said Albright Israel announced late Sunday that had been working hard in recent days more workers from the West Bank ISRAEL to get Mideast peacemaking back on and Gaza who had been barred from ;" track. 
David Brinkley signs off 
WASHINGTON 
"On this, my last word here on ABC, 
,..------....., I quote Shakespeare, who said 'All's well that ends well.' My time here now ends extremely well. Thank you." David Brinkley thus ended his final commentary on ABC's "This Week" and a 54-year broadcasting career that kept him at the pinnacle of television journalism for three decades. Brinkley, 77, announced his retirement on Thursday, less than a year after he stepped down as host of the Sunday morn­ing news show. He has continued since November his weekly commentaries on the show that began in 1981 as "This Week With David Brinkley." Brinkley launched his broadcasting career at 23, covering President Franklin Roosevelt. Brinkley's short, clipped sentences and dry wit were much imitated. Brinkley reflected on his career, "with ABC news paying me to do what I would like to do anyway, and asking only that I do it well and do it honestly." Current "This Week" hosts Cokie Roberts and Sam Donaldson paid tribute to the veteran, referring to his statement about doing it well and hon­estly. "Can you think of anybody for whom that was more true," Hoberts said in the closing moments of the show. "No," Donaldson said. "David Brinkley broke the mold, set the standard." 
CBS documents North Korea famine 
NEW YORK 
A CBS crew that flew into North Korea on a privately sponsored relief flight documented widespread human devastation from famine, including dead bodies lying along railroad tracks and an orphanage filled with ema­ciated babies. The crew entered North Korea with tbe organization Americares on what the network described as the first civilian flight from U.S. soil allowed into the country since the end of the Korean War, CBS said Sunday. The footage also shows stunted corn fields, abandoned rice paddies and lines of people waiting for relief which turned out to be nothing more than herbal tea leaves. Van Sant reports that babies, orphaned because their parents were either dead from starvation or too weak to care for them, are so malnourished they are battling life-threatening infections. The secretive country is generally off-limits to Westerners.s. Using a small digital video camera, he reported on the status of the drought ihere.International aid organizations say 5 million North Koreans -nearly a fifth of the population -will die of starvation without outside aid after three years of devastating harvests. 
Rabbi: Wig-wearers will burn in hell 
JERUSALEM 
One of Israel's most powerful rabbis has ruled thai women who wear wigs will be damned. "Both she and her wig will be burned in hell," Habbi Ovadia Yosel', spiritual leader of the Shas political party, said in a ser­mon Saturday to Jewish male seminary students. According to Orthodox Jewish religious practice, mar­ried women must cover their hair as a sign of modesty. Many Jewish women, Conservative and Orthdox alike, wear attractive, realistic wigs to temple services. However, many Orthodox Jews believe that these realis­tic wigs are immodest, distracting others during the ser­vices and constituting a ostentations display of wealth. Some wig shops catering to Orthodox women have been vandalized. Yosef said that if a woman wears a wig into a synagogue, she and her husband should be excommu­nicated. "How can she pray on Rosh Hashanah when she wears a wig?" Yosef said, referring to the Jewish New Year which begins Wednesday night. "If the woman wishes for righteous children, let her remove the wig, if not she shall have impertinent children." Yosers word is law within Shas, a party drawing most of its support from religious Jews of North African descent. In December 199(>, the 76-year-old, Iraqi-born rabbi decreed that those not respecting the Sabbath should be put to death. He recently declared smoking a sin punish­able by 40 lashes. 
Pickup hits hayride, leaving 2 dead 
SOMERSET, Ky. 
A pickup truck slammed into the back of a farm 
wagon hauling a church group for a weekend hayride, 
killing two women and injuring 17 people. Tamra 
Gastineau, 35, and Melody Estep, 34, died Sunday at 
the hospital, a day after the accident in Pulaski 
County, about 70 miles south of Lexington. Six chil­
dren and 10 adults on the hay ride were treated at an 
area hospital. Twelve of the sixteen were treated and 
released shortly after their admittance. Four were 
admitted Saturday night and three remained hospital­
ized in stable condition Sunday. Tho pickup driver, Joe 
Whitis, 38, also was injured. lie was treated and 
released. The evening had started as a fall hay ride for 
29 members of Nelson Valley Baptist Church. Th1)y 
were lounging on bales of hay piled in the back of a 
wagon, pulled by a farm tractor down Kentucky 
Highway 39 at twilight. The tractor was headed north 
about eight miles from Somerset when the pickup 
struck tho wagon from behind, authorities said. 
Authorities had not determined Sunday what caused 
the crash. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 29. 
AccuWc<Jther® forecast for duytime conditions and high temperatures 

H L 
Monday 
73 51 Tuesday 59 39 Wednesday~ 60 35 
FRONTS:

Thur~day ~ 60 41 
.............--...&...a... ............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

Friday /~ 60 42 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associated Press 
(~·..,.......S·''--./.........:...~:, 
v 

Atlanta 84 56 Dallas 92 63 New Orleans 85 62 Baltimore 76 54 Denver 83 48 New York 72 60
4,Q,Q_9,~Q (f ~ u 
Boston 71 56 Los Angeles 89 70 Philadelphia 72 57 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 66 54 Miami 90 77 Phoenix 98 76 
Vta Assoctated Press GraphtcsNet 

Columbus 67 53 Minneapolis 67 46 St. Louis 81 56 


Monday, September 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Disabled to

Saint Mary's focuses on multicultural events 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT ing among various ethnicities. The goal of dents needs, interests and contributions 
receive gift

Associate Saint Mary's News Editor this mission is to focus on equality when to the entire college community. The fac­
Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office. 
~ H.U.G.S. H.U.G.S. H.U.G.S. ~ 
~. .~ 
. . 
= . r:I1
Attention all . r::Fl. 
. 

~ . H.U.G.S. .~ = 
~. C"'J
. 
r:I1

= Members! . 
. 
r::Fl. 
•• • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • •• .
= 

~ . .~ 
~ Dates for T.B. testing C"'J
. . 
= have been changed to .r:I1 r::Fl. 
• Monday, September . = ~. 29th and Thursday, .~ 
~ C"'J
. . 
= October 2nd. The times .r:I1 
00. are stillll-3 both days. .= 
~. .~ ~ C"'J
= H.U.G.S. H.U.G.S. H.U.G.S. ~ 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!! 
Do mom and dad still not have a place to stay for JPW 1998? 
Hurry now and try to win a chance for your mom and dad to make reservations at the Morris Inn for Junior Parents Weekend, Feb. 20-22, 1998!! 
· Applications for the lottery can be picked up at the LaFortune Information Desk or at the front desk of the Morris Inn. 
. Applications must be returned to the Morris Inn by November 23. 
living in a diverse community. By becom­ulty and staff members are expected to 
Living in a multicultural society is the ing more aware and respectful of each attend these meetings. focus this week at Saint Mary's College. others' differences, the college community Newsletters were created to broaden Events at Saint Mary's will promote the and their attitudes can make a drastic the residents' outlook on cultural plural­stnmgth of attending schools with diversi­change. ism. ty and Saint Mary's own diversity within According to the Office of Multicultural Finally, there was a community out­
its student body. Student Affairs, it is proven that women reach designed to reach young women liv­
The Office of Multicultural Affairs is exposed to such environments are better ing within the community. These pro­sponsoring a series of speakers and musi­prepared to face the challenges of the grams take place during the summer cal events starting yesterday and lasting future. months, and reach out to women of ethnic until Sunday, Oct. 5. Literature from the office states that its backgrounds. 
"The function of this office is to promote goal is to promote cultural awareness and Recently, a three-year grant given by relations between students of different respect throughout the community, to the Lilly Endowment will put several new ethnicities throughout the college commu­improve social interactions within the stu­programs into action. Programs such as 
nity," said interim director for the Office dents of various ethnic backgrounds, and faculty and student mentorships as well of Multicultural Affairs Maria Oropeza. to serve as a valuable resource to many of as student tutoring will take place. "This week's events are for the students the offices throughout campus. The Faculty seminars and faculty grants for 
of every race, because if it weren't for the admissions, financial aid, academic coun­curriculum reform will promote an students our office and mission would selors and various departments are exam­approach to ethnicity, race, and gender. A hav1~ no meaning." ples of where this interaction takes place scholars-and artists-in-residence pro­
According to literature from the Office on Saint Mary's campus. gram will bring well-known artists and of Multicultural Affairs, Saint Mary's rec­"Multicultural week shouldn't be just scholars to Saint Mary's campus to offer ognizes higher education's need to ehange one week a year," said junior Stacy Davis. mini-course and do public presentations its overall structure. Being able to work "It should be integrated 'into a everyday to interact informally with the students. 
together with others regardless of ethnic lifestyle on campus as well as the larger The Sisters of Nefertiti and La Alianza differPnces enables people to open many society beyond campus. Ilopefully this are two examples of the student organiza­new economic, politieal and social doors. week is a beginning." tions that Saint Mary's has to offer to its 
The office thinks that by attending a lib­According to the office, training pro­students of color. La Alianza is open to eral arts institution, students become grams were created to increase knowl­students of Notre Dame as well as Saint aware of differences that occur when liv-edge and sensitivity to each of the stu-Mary's. 
States have trouble adjusting to welfare reform 
By LAURA MECKLER Associated Press showed fewer more difficult than some had "Many of those (parents) are AssocweJ Press \X'rirer than half the states are confi­hoped. The two-parent cases the hardest to employ. They dent they will meet the target. rank among the easiest, since have severe barriers, alcohol WASIIINGTON And at least 16 states admit having a couple facilitates and drug and other substance 
Despite a sunny economy and they are certain to fall short. arranging child care and virtu­abuse problems," said Corinne plummeting numbers of people Many others remain unsure. ally every other parental task. Chee of California's welfare on wnlfarn, many states will States that miss the deadline "It's an almost impossible agency, where 138,000 two­fail this week's first big test of potentially stand to lose mil­goal, not just for us, but for a parent families are on welfare. how well the nation's new wei­lions of federal dollars, number of other states," said Alabama has only 52 two­fan~ law works. although it's unelear whether Linda Logan of South parent families; 11 are work­
By Wednesday. states must Washington will levy fines. Carolina's welfare department. ing. show tlwy have 75 percent of Many states are betting it Some of the largest states, "It's virtually impossible ... to all two-parent welfare families won't. California, Florida and Texas consistently meet a level of 60 in jobs or job training. Hegardless, their troubles among them, will miss the to 75 percent," said Joel 
Yet a 50-state survey by The suggest welfare reform may be deadline. Sanders, director of Alabama's This is just the first deadline. welfare reform program. By 2002, states must have 90 The Department of Health 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
percent of two-parent families, and Human Services, the and half of all families, in work agency that oversees welfare,
i\ SCHUBERT CELEBR.L\TION 
activities. "Work activity" has little sympathy for states includes a job, a subsidized that are already failing to meet 
with Guest Artists 
S.\~FORD S\.L\:\~ & DAVID DREIDI1\~ 
position, community service, a requirements, said spokesmanbaritone pianist 
limited job search or, for a Michael Kharfen. States asked small group, education and for the new power and must 
training. now be held accountable, he By this week's deadline, said. 
Schubert's Piano Music 
Sun., Sept. 28, 2:00 p.m. 
states need only have 25 per­"Everybody's going to be AnnenbergAuditorium 
cent of their total welfare case­watching this," he said. load working, a goal most Yet it's unclear whether the 
states expect to meet. agency will actually fine states But they complain it is much that fail. 
Die schone Mullerin 
Tues., Sept. 30, 8:00 p.m. 
tougher to meet the second The fines climb to a maxi­Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
requirement: getting 75 per­mum of 21 percent by 2002, cent of two-parent families and Kharfen said the agency
For one ..uiH.:cn -$6 General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors 
working 37.5 hours a week will assess on a "state by state
For both concerts -$1 0 General Admission; $5 Students/Seniors 
between the parents. -basis." 
By MALIN STEARNS 
News Writer 
For some young people, several obstacles can stand in the way of a college edu­cation. But for many dis­abled students, getting a Notre Dame education just became a little easier. 
Thanks to a gift from a Fort Wayne, Ind., family, a new partial tuition scholar­ship has been set up for Notre Dame students with physical disabilities. The Mary Black Family Foundation scholarship will be awarded annually to dis­abled Notre Dame students selected by the Financial Aid Office. 
The gift for the scholarship was given by South Bend native Michael Black in honor of his late wife Mary, who was confined to a wheelchair following a battle with caneer. The Blacks also have a daughter who suffers from cerebral palsy. 
According to Scott Howland. program coordina­tor for the Office for Students with Disabilities. the scholar­ship will help to diversify the Notre Dame undergraduate community. 
"Scholarships such as this add variety to the student body, and the recipients can help to educate their peers about disabilities," said Howland. "In the future, this scholarship could make the difference for a disabled stu­dent who hopes to attend Notre Dame." 
The first two recipients of the scholarship are freshman Meaghan McCarthy of North Falmouth, Mass., and junior Jamie Przybysz of Niles, Mich. 
Please recycle The Observer 

------------------------~~~----------------------~---­
page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 29, 1997 
we deliver... 

•ga1n financial experience rivaling any on Wall Street. explore extensive domestic and unrivaled international assignments. lead with a pioneer in environmentally
Discover 
sound energy thinking. broaden your
Enron's endless possibilities 
scope with a company whose entrepreneurial 
Presentation and reception Tuesday, September 30, 1997 . spirit lets you thrive. Create with Fortune 6:00 -8:00 p.m., Main Lounge, University Club magazine's most innovative company two 
years running. 
another job description? no, a unique challenge to grow in the most dynamic and opportunity-rich firm at the threshold of a revolutionary era of energy deregulation. 
Natural Gas. Electricity. Endless possibilities. 


Monday, September 29, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

American joins Mir station crew Leiidon Fashion Week 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press Writer 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Relaxed and seemingly fear­less, American astronaut David Wolf moved into Hussia's creaky Mir space station Sunday for a four-month mis­sion that some say is senseless­ly dangerous. 
''I'm having too much fun and enjoying it too much to be ner­vous," Wolf said in a broadcast interview from the Atlantis-Mir complex. ''I'm very comfort­able. We're well trained to han­dle any reasonable emer­gency." 
His predecessor, on the other hand, couldn't wait to clear out ofMir. 
Astronaut Michael Foale was visibly moved when he spoke of his wife, 5-year-old daughter and especially 3-year-old son, whom he hugged goodbye in May. He feared space shuttle Atlantis' arrival might be delayed because of the contro­versy over Wolf's mission; it was starting to make him tense. 
"I really do want to see them badly and I would have been disappointed if the docking hadn't gone on time," said Foale, who will be reunited with his family as soon as Atlantis lands next Sunday. 
Wolf, the sixth American to live on Mir, swapped places with Foale one day after arriv­ing via Atlantis and three days after having his mission sanc­tioned publicly by NASA. Administrator Daniel Goldin waited as long as possible to review Mir's safety before giv­ing the go-ahead. 
Foale's 4 112-month stint 
included the worst collision 
ever in space, a close call with 
a speeding satellite and crip­
pling computer breakdowns. He 
said his scariest moment, by 
far, was when the out-of-con­trol cargo ship rammed the sta­tion on June 25 -"I didn't know what was going to break and how fast the air was going to rush out." 
The one good thing about the problems, he said, is that they caused the days and weeks and months to fly by. His advice to Wolf is don't count the days: "The time goes by fast enough." 
The 10 space travelers spent their first full day together lug­ging supplies between the linked spacecraft. Wolfs space­suit and custom-made seat liner for the Soyuz escape cap­sule were the first items carted Sunday into Mir, followed by his clothes, food and more drinking water. Out came Foale's Soyuz seat liner, space­suit, experiments and personal belongings. 
Wolf was impressed with his new bedroom, a decompression chamber for spacewalks. 
"Talk about a room with a view," he gushed. He watched the entire continental United States, its cities twinkling in darkness, sweep beneath him. 
"There's been some specula­tion on how much somebody would want to do this, and I can tell you after seeing that, that 10, 15-minute pass, that alone should make someone want to do this," he told Mission Control. 
Wolf had an impromptu request: He asked Mission Control if he could swipe some bags from Atlantis to use as suitcases, considering he'll have to move out of his bed­room every time there's a spacewalk. 
Thousands of pounds of equipment still must be exchanged, including new bat­teries, pressurized air tanks and repair gear for Mir. 
Atlantis' commander, James Wetherbee, whipped over a new computer as soon as the hatches swung open Saturday evening. 
Russia's Mission Control would like Mir commander Anatoly Solovyov to install the computer before Atlantis undocks on Friday. It's a replacement for the station's central computer, which has failed three times in as many weeks, most recently last Monday. 
Because of all the computer trouble -not to mention a February fire, the June collision and countless other problems 
the House Science Committee recommended that NASA stop sending Americans to live on Mir. Even NASA's own inspector general ques­tioned the worth and wisdom of long Mir stays by astronauts given the 11 1/2-year-old sta­tion's age and infirmity. 
Goldin discounted the warn­ings, preferring to rely on two last-minute safety reviews by outside experts that found Mir to be relatively safe. He announced his decision Thursday, just hours before Atlantis' launch. 
Both Wolf and Foale contend the missions, while trying, pro­vide invaluable experience for the international space station. The Russians are to haul up the first piece of this station in June. 
"The work here is not always easy and some of the experi­ments are interrupted by the repair work and the necessary maintenance that's done on this station," Foale said. "But the value in working together with our Russian colleagues is, I think, priceless." 
One more American is sched­
uled to live on Mir; he'll replace 
Wolf in January. 
.\tfreaks' 
LONDON d by cocoons and mummies. r~shlon trip to the lost underwater or Dead did a ''Beautiful 
<>1.!;~1H.U,,;;I s wardrobe' London designers seductive evening gowns to see­»n''"'""'MI skimpy shorts that demand a 
hion Week, which ends 2••000 buyers and media ·have been for the young the international fashion ~I\.1ttes1gnen hoping to follow in 
cmwc;uo•n, called "Between," -~-··--.·-cq. and exquisite sculp­show theme, the the sides like mum­brown cocoon-like 
a statement like J4E<hiclll c1in~cttlr of Saks Fifth 
among the fashion crowd, young girls to do it team: of Suzanne Clements, 

Ribeiro, 35, were another hot stretch JOinl dresses. sequin­lack slip ·dresses with white 
.,-:;::::~h 
models threw ·lollipops to the film poked fun at major fashion of their advertising slogans. to reveal a tattoo on his 
Freak.'~ 
showed shocking ~~,,_~,,,.., suits with 
outfits with plunging 



•Potential earnings: $500-lOk a month •Easy Step-by-step Proven Plan •Full Team Support 
•Must Be Motivated and Committed 
Serious Enquirees Call2 89-3394 Ifno answer, leave amessage. 


Italy 
continued from page 1 
an earthquake," he said. "Several had received calls and said they were told that all was well in Italy. They were reassured by the calls, and there was no panic on the part of parents." 
Kelly Deeney, a former Rome Program student, was in Checca's office on Friday when she learned of the earthquake. "I just kept thinking if I were there, what would my parents be thinking? And I kept pray­ing that everything was OK," she said. 
The earthquakes occurred in the Umbrian hill region with an epicenter in the town Foligno. While at least 10 were reported dead as the result of the quakes, there were no reports of dead in Assisi. 
increase the stream's canopy by as much as two-thirds. 
Ronald Hellenthal. professor of biological sciences at Notre Dame and director of the University's Environmental Research Center, has also reviewed the plans and endorses the contractors' effort to renew the stream. 
"This is more than just improving the stream on Notre Dame's property. The stream needs help and this is something that could provide a great service to it," said Hellenthal, who has conducted studies of the creek for almost 20 years. "If all developers subjected their projects to planning and improvements at this level, the creek would be in the best shape of almost any urban creek around." 
The most extensive damage in Assisi occurred at the Basilica of Saint Francis, a place of pilgrimage for many and one of the sites which Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students visit every year. The basilica houses frescoes by Italian Renaissance artists Giotto and Cimabue, many of which were damaged or destroyed by the earthquakes. 
"It's horrible. The frescoes were so old and had held up for so long. then one little tremor," said Deeney. "I feel lucky to have gotten to see the frescoes, and I hope they !the students in Assisi] got to see them. If they did, they were probably some of the last to see them intact." 
The students had arrived in Assisi on Wednesday of last week for a five-day stay before their final leg of the trip to Rome. They left for Rome yes­terday and, according to Checca. arrived safely. 
Notre Dame.,s biggest Dance Party 
ever!!! 
''·, 
', __

IS CODling. • • 

Friday, October 3rd, in the Stepan disco ball, from 8:00pm -I 2:00am. Featuring WSND radio personalities, the MEC's Taste of Nations, Troop NO free cd's, and your grandmother. Be a part of history!!! Relive the decade you were born in. Show off your innate fashion sense. Look groovy. 
Monday, September 29, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Sioux exhume Long Wolf, bury him in South Dakota 
Associated PreSs 
WOLFCREEK, S.D. 

The body of Long Wolf, a Sioux chief who died 105 years ago in London while traveling with Buffalo Bill Cody's Wild West Show, was buried atop a windswept hill in his anc~~tral land Sunday. 
''I'm very glad my grandfather is home. I feel very good now," said Jessie Black Feather, 87, Long Wolrs closest living descendant. 
Long Wolf died of pneumonia in London in 1892. He was buried with 17-month-old Star, also known as White Star, who·.· died when she fell from a horse during a London performance. 
Jessie Black Feather's mother was 12 when Long Wolf died. She returned to the United States, but the body remained in England. A British woman tracked down his relatives. who had the body exhumed last week and flown to South Dakota. 
On Sunday, family members and others gatheredat two tipis at Wolf Creek, a community 10 miles east of Pine Ridge, for the start of about two hours of ceremonies. The coffin was in one of the tipis, surrounded by flowers. Several people spoke during a ceremony that included Christian gospel music. 
Then as a strong west wind blew, tnot1rners follo\\)ed the ca~: ket up a steep hill to the grave at the Wolf Creek church s cemetery, stopping four times to acknowledge the four direc­tions. Traditional Lakota songs and prayers preceded the bur­ial. 
Seven of the nine pallbearers were .powwow dancers who wore their traditional dance regalia. The other two were chiets bedecked in feather bonnets. 
The original casket had disintegrated, so a replica of the orig­inal solid oak casket was built, holding the remains of both Long Wolf and Star. 
An Oglala Sioux spiritual leader, Wilmer Mesteth, presided, Mesteth, who had gone to England for the exhumation, said he ' understood the need to return the body. 
"We were there just a few days and I longed to come home. That's not our home. It's so different." Mesteth said. 
Tom Shortbull, president of Oglala Lakota College. said most funerals are sad, but Sunday's was different. "Tod~y we can celebrate for the Black Feather family; who have worked so long for this. 
"Many (Indians) went to Europe to perform. Many came back. But Long Wolf and White Star did not. This is a great day for them to come back." 
Dick Armey: IRS needs overhaul 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The House will pass legisla­tion this year to rein in abuses by the IRS, Majority Leader Dick Armey promised. He sug­gested an overhaul is needed to counter such excesses as IRS targeting of conservative groups unfriendly toward the administration. 
Also Sunday, Newsweek mag­azine reported the Internal Revenue Service responded to searing criticism in a Senate hearing of its treatment of tax­payers by suspending several district-level managers. 
Newsweek said in its edition on newsstands Monday that it had a memo signed by a sus­pended manager, Arkansas­Oklahoma district collection chief Ronald James. 
The document details how the IRS, in apparent defiance of law, evaluates agents by the seizures and levies they make, the newsmagazine said. 
IRS spokesman Frank Keith said he couldn't comment on sp.ecific cases because of priva­cy laws, but he noted that agency's acting commissioner. Michael Dolan, promised the Senate Finance Committee to act immediately against abuses. That could entail suspensions of employees, Keith said. 
Armey, R-Texas, told "Fox News Sunday" a bill is being put together to reform the IRS. He said it would be based on recommendations of a congres­sional commission headed by Rep. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, and Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., that the responsibility for watching over IRS activities be moved from the Treasury Department to a new board of directors. 
"We'll pass that before this year is over. I expect the presi­dent will sign it," Armey said. 
Senate action on an IRS bill this year is less certain, but Kerrey, appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation," said he thinks his colleagues will pass legislation as well. "There is an urgency to do so," Kerrey said. 
In the hearings last week, taxpayers and IRS employees recited a litany of examples of IRS harassment and abuse, including targeting for audits lower-income citizens who lack resources to fight claims. 
Armey carried that a step fur­ther. He said he "would not be surprised" if it were proven that the administration has used the IRS to attack anti­Clinton groups and individuals. 
"It's very hard to ignore the possibility that there may be a conscious singling out of people that are seen as not friendly to this administration," Armey said. 
He said two groups he was affiliated with faced audits for the first time after he became majority leader. 
White House spokesman Barry Toiv, in Arkansas with President Clinton, denied White House involvement in IRS activ­ities. Several weeks ago, friends of Paula Jones suggested she was being audited in retaliation for a sexual harassment lawsuit she has filed against President Clinton. 
White House press secretary Mike McCurry responded: "We have done some dumb things from time to time, but we're not certifiably insane." 
Lawmakers appearing on Sunday's news shows stressed that any IRS bill enacted this year would be only a first step toward more fundamental changes in the way the govern­ment collects taxes. Some want a national sales tax. Armey and former presidential candidate Steve Forbes favor a flat tax in which everybody above a cer­tain income level would pay the same tax rate, with few or no deductions. 
Abuses revealed in the past week, Forbes told the International Conservative Congress meeting Sunday in Washington, "are a symptom of a grossly, corruptingly complex tax code. If we don't get rid of the tax code, the IRS abuses will ultimately remain." 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., speaking to the same group, said he hopes to introduce by May or June of next year a "dramatic bold tax reform bill" that would save time for the American people and "dramatically shrink the Internal Revenue Service." 
Armey and other GOP leaders last week announced plans for a national tour to promote the need for tax reform. 
Gingrich told reporters Sunday that the goal is "increased awareness that will bring people to the need to replace the current tax code and replace the IRS as we know it." 

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
College sophomores and juniors are invited to apply for the CIA's Student Programs for Summer 1998. The programs are designed to give promising undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to gain practical work experience to complement their academic studies. While earn­ing competitive incomes, students will participate in meaningful work assignments commensu­rate with their academic training. Housing assistance is provided. Other work programs for stu­dents are also available. 
DESIRED MAJORS: Electrical engineering, computer engineering, computer science, mathe­matics, economics, physics, remote sensing, languages, international studies, logistics/ supply/procurement, business administration, geography, accounting and finance. 
REQUIRED: US citizenship, a minimum 2.75 GPA following freshman year and successful completion of a medical examination, a polygraph interview and an extensive background investigation. 
LOCATION: Washington, DC/Northern Virginia area. TO APPLY: Complete and return the Interest Form below with your resume no later than October 9, 1997. Prompt response is required to ensure consideration for summer 1998 employment. 
CIA INTEREST FORM 
Name: ___________________ Phone: _________ 
Current Address: __________________________ 
Fr So Jr Sr Major: ___________ GPA: ____ University: _________________Grad Date:_______ 
Personnel Representative DEPT. RAUN00997 PO Box 741628 Dallas, TX 75374-1628 

We will respond within 45 days if there is further interest. The CIA is an equal opportunity employer. 

rr)

J [') (!! J]l :,rl} 
9 pm LaFortune Ballroo1n Free Food Oct. 3rd -Frida 

abig difference 

TODAY AT 232-9958 TO FIND OUT HOW YOU CAN MAKE A REAL CONTRIBUTION TO THE NEXT GENERATION. (APPLICATIONS ARE ALSO AVAILABLE AT 
lhr.llnoTIIEnslhr.Sisn.ns THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS) 
UI'ST. Jn~hPII CIIUNIY. INC:. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, September 29, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.. . ............ Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... ) oey Crawford Systems Manager.. . ..... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assis tam Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Edimr, Spores Editor, Accem Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Phmo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's comrnurtiry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Otlice Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• JEDI MIND TRICKS 
We AreND ••• So Let's Start Showing It 
Notre Dame sucks. Ron Powlus should supposed to be different. Our athletes be benched. My section football team are different. They are students, friends, 
can score more than Notre Dame. Jim Colletta is a moron. We are not going to win another game. The sad part is, each one of those statements (and a lot worse) could be heard after the Michigan loss. The beauty is that not any one of those statements is remotely true. 
Kevin Patrick 
The cheers are waning. The fan sup­port is dissipating. Overall morale is dwindling. If "We are NO" means any­thing, now is the time to show what Notre Dame means to you and support the team. 
Let's remember who this team is. This is a team of classy people like Kory Minor, Mike Rosenthal, and Jimmy Friday. This team is made up of players who are our roommates, friends, and classmates. They are not a lot different from anyone else on this campus. They are in the same classrooms. The same dorms. The same dining halls. 
To abandon the team would be to say the players are not people -they are a commodity to use, buy, and sell only to be forgotten once their eligibility is over. 
That IS the case at other universities. Universities where a noose and a "dummy (signifying the coach)" are hanging in the coach's front yard after a loss. Universities where the athletes are institutionally segregated from the stu­dents. Universities where the students abandon and bad-mouth "their" team when the season is' not up to par. 
But this is Notre Dame. And "we" are 
• IJOONESBURY 
etc. Notre Dame fans should also be dif­
. ferent. It is well documented in the study of organizational behavior that negative feedback, while at times help­ful, achieves the desired result far less often than positive reinforcement. Does this mean we all go skipping out of Michigan Stadium happy as can be singing Debbie Gibson tunes? Of course not. But rally behind the team we should. Greatness can be found under the most unlikely of circumstances. In 1956, Notre Dame went 2-8. But that team fielded one of Notre Dame's all-time greats who won the Heisman trophy ­Paul Hornung. In 1957, a 7-3 Notre Dame team broke the greatest unbeaten streak in college football history with a 7-0 victory at Oklahoma. This victory came following two straight defeats at the hands of Navy and Michigan State. Notre Dame has also played the roll of the spoiler on may occasions. Eight times in the last 31 years Notre Dame has ended an opponent's unbeaten sea­son on the last game of the year. Most notably a 7-3 Notre Dame team beat Alabama in 1975 and an 8-3 Notre Dame team beat Texas in 1978. And let's not forget the oh-so-sweet 39-28 victory over the University of rlorida in the Sugar Bowl in 1991 when Notre Dame "doesn't even belong on the same field as Florida." Nice one, Coach Spurrier. Some nco-intellectuals will revel in the demise of the football season. "Football has too much importance, anyway," they will say. But let's not forget that football generates an enormous amount of rev­enue for the ENTIRE University. There is approximately $16 million for a major bowl appearance. Add that to the NBC television contract, plus local revenue from the over-crowding in South Bend on game weekends, and you begin to sec that football is the proverbial "golden 

IN meMOI?&RNA(%, HAVING A Tin& CFANYKIN/? IS a/IOUY VI~ASA 8A~ 
OfSHAM/3 ANPf}ISGRAC'e/ 
/ 
goose." 

There is also a direct (maybe even if subconscious -yeah right) correlation between alumni contributions and win­ning football. Sociologically damning as it is, this is a real factor in the fervor with which we support Notre Dame foot­ball. George Washington University, in Washington D.C., increased their alumni contributions ten-fold simply by fielding a basketball team that made it to the 
'To abandon the team 
would be to say the play­ers are not people -they are a commodity to use, buy, and sell only to be forgotten once their eligibility is over.' 
NCAA tournament! And as Darners, let's keep in mind that much of this money goes to needed scholarships for ordinary students -not just the athletic depart­ment. 
It is also important to remember that football is what this school was founded upon. Forty years ago Notre Dame could not compete with other universities in academics. Football was the diet which grew the university to its current stature. Any attempt to de-emphasize football for the "betterment of university development" should be summarily dis­missed. Such lunacy led a couple of farmers to kill that goose who laid the golden eggs. 
I have neither the time nor the inclina­tion to listen to someone who rises and sleeps under the blanket of finances football provides and then questions the manner in which it's provided. 
The football team is the most visible, tangible symbol of the University. We should want them to win for the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

TH&N OMY, FAIR QU£5­t{!HYPI/? TION. I HAV& Ya/81./Y SOM~ /N%CU!<­
ON&? 17YI55Ufi5, 
/ I 
University, not for our own selfish needs (needs of which I admit guilt). We get bitter because in this screwed-up society so much of our identity is tied closely to the accomplishments of others. Our bit­terness is derived from a selfishness that has us wallow in self-pity and venomous criticism. We should be able to replace this bitterness with support and sympa­thy for those same friends and class­mates who left nothing in the locker room and played their hearts out on the field. 
It is said that a person's character is revealed when adversity is thrust upon them. I don't believe this is true. We have a lot of practice overcoming adver­sity. Adversity can be found daily in all our lives, and we either overcome it or die. A person's true character is revealed when they are given power. Right now, Notre Dame fans have the power to abandon the team, sell their tickets, and make Notre Dame Stadium a comfortable place for opposing teams. 
If "We AreND," we will redouble our support for our friends and classmates. The stands will remain full and the sta­dium will grow louder. 
As I left Michigan Stadium, I could still hear the proud chants of "We arc ND" from the student section. Leaving the stadium we were still ND. After we win this Saturday at Stanford we will still be ND. And at all times before, after, or in-between, it is a blessing and a privilege to know that "We AreND." 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JD/M!JA student. lie is tragically unable to make the trip to Stanford but is sending lzis aide to speak to t!ze guy wlzo stole his 50 francs in Michigan. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing is so painful to the human mind as a great and sudden change." 
-Mary Shelley 
_,__.__ ____..._..,....-----.-----~-~
--~-----------~--­
--~ ---------~ 
VIEWPOINT
Monday, September 29, 1997 page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Are We Ready For Inclusion? 
rt of 

The_feisaform ofliterature that is all too often neglected and -rstood. It is called satire~ I suggest that some peo­s read Jonathan~wift's "A Modest Proposal" and ~c(lgrtize s~ -.sNora Meany's column was . MJss Mea viild your column and thought 
the son and gra.lldson of alcoholics. For three year __ __ nk for recreation,Jike many students here. However, due to family circumstances and the fear of my fun beco dependent on alcohol, this year I have quit drinking. 
I . ______ ---. ,____ · k on my 21st. My fti~fids have all been supportive. I have not once this 
Anyone who attended the Michigan State Pep Hally last Friday is now aware of why University administrators refuse to add a statement of non-discrimination against homosexuals to du Lac. 
Anyone who witnessed students replying to "We are Fisher Hall" with "Fisher Faggots" understands. Anyone who watched Zahm Hall's arrival at the Rally bring the ensuiag shouts of "Ole ole ole! Zahm's gay! Zahm's gay!" from the student section understands. 
And they may even agree that students showed such a lack of readiness for such a poli­cy at the rally that their behavior there surely voids every petition and written plea for that samr. statement. 
An eight-year-old asks his parents for a dog. llis parents tell him he must first prove he is rr.sponsible enough to take care of it. We, like the eight-year-old. are asking for an increase in responsibility, yet we can't understand why our parents won't encourage us have it. We are requesting this policy of non-discrimination to ensure fair treatment of homosexuals on our 
• DIGGING DEEPER 
campus, but what for? 
In our actions, we are proving that we are not responsible or mature enough to uphold such a policy. In asking the University to state their non-discrimination of homosexuals, we are holding the administration to a higher standard than we are apparently willing to hold our­selves. Until we, the students, decide that we really wish -in spirit, mind, and action -to be a campus with a Spirit of Inclusion and begin to demonstrate this desire, we are being utterly hypocritical. 
Kate Rowland Sophomore, Lyons Hall September 25, 1997 
expecting me to drink, nor ~''"''"v~1" I came to Notre freshman, I visited · I declined. I was very with had no problem with my 

uniwlr!'1itv in Boston and was Hn.uuv ''" "'-" ,,u. to a bar and drink. It received at Notre Dame was here. I have not once in 
drink. my friends and acquain­to drink this semester. next semester. But for 
"rum and cokeswithout and I will have fun, drink-
the author of the answering I have been in her shoes and is not what I am writing 
should not be treated understand the satir· · sorry foryou. 
what people say; not just not serious about eating 
Nathan Ledbetter Senior, Off -Campus September26, 1997 


The Cross Stands Firm While the World Turns 
cross: n. 1. An upright post with a transverse piece near the top. on which condemnr.d persons were executed in ancient times, 2. A sign made by tracing the outline of a cross with the right hand upon the forehead and chest as a devo­tional act. 3. A trial. affliction, or frus­tration, 4. A mark or pattern formed by the intersection of two lines, 5. One that combines the qualities of two other things (The American Heritage College Dictionary). 
I took the title for this column from the Cistercian's motto: "Stat crux dum volvi­tur orhis" (the cross stands linn while the world turns). They are a cloistered religious order much given to prayer and asceticism -pretty far removed from our lives here, it would seem. 
Yet the phrase struck me at once as 
Aaron Kheriaty 
highly appropriate. Amidst uncertainty and change, stress and anxiety, the cross always brings us back to reality. It is the perfect symbol for man in any age, because it remains forever at the center of human history. Everything before Calvary strains toward it, everything after looks back on it. 
What is the cross. that we place it proudly in every classroom on campus? What is the cross. that we elevate it to the highest physical point on campus, crowning the steeple of the Basilica with it? That gold or silver cross around your neck. my friend, what does it mean to you? The dictionary's first definition tells us that a cross is antiquity's equiva­lent of today's electric chair. What is behind this strange mania? 
G. K. Chesterton's short fantasy story, "The Ball and the Cross," begins with the two main characters -a devout but naive Catholic and a zealous atheist­sitting atop the dome of St. Paul's Cathedral in London. They are admiring the cross which is mounted on a sphere, at the apex of the dome. The atheist notes that these are the perfect symbols of their two respective philosophies. The globe is reasonable, the cross unreason­able, he says. The cross is arbitrary, a contradiction. It is primarily the conflict of two hostile lines of irreconcilable direction: a collision, a crash, a struggle in stone. The sphere is at unity with itself, certainly higher on the evolution ladder than the barbaric cross. Thus. the atheist concludes, the ball should naturally be on top of the cross, rather than the present way in which the archi­tect has placed them. This reversal would sum up his whole rationalistic allegory. 
Yet as the humble monk points out, if this were the case, the same result would occur which has occurred throughout history when atheist human­ism (the religion of the ball), has domi­nated: it would fall down.-Whenever the cross is buried, the philosophy, no mat­ter how promising, is doomed to fail. The fall of communism and errors of fascism in this century are two such ide­ologies that leap immediately to mind. 
At the center of the cross is an inter­section: the intersection of heaven and earth. Jesus Christ, who hung on the cross, is the incarnation of this intersec­tion: the meeting of the human and divine. The ball or circle is a symbol of reason, the cross a symbol of mystery. As Chesterton said, "The circle is infinite in its nature; but it is fixed forever in its size; it can never be larger or smaller. 

But the cross, though it has at its heart a collision and a contradiction, can extend its four arms forever without altering its shape." The cross grows infinitely with­out changing; so too does the one who died upon it. He opened his arms on it, stretching to infinity, embracing all. 
Two thousand years ago, God inter­vened in human history. 
I come not to bring peace, but to bring a sword. 
What was this sword, thrust down from heaven to earth? This sword was the cross. Its point is stabbed into the earth on Calvary, its handle pointed toward the heavens, the crossbar form­ing its hilt. The cross is the magnificent blade which severs our chains. Without it, paradoxically, there is no freedom. 
For the cross is foolishness to those who perish, but to those who are saved, it is the power ofGod. 
Where does the cross thrust itself into our lives? Notice the C.S.C. emblem: the cross appears also as an anchor. If we stay tethered to it, as the world turns, we have a harbor of safety. This place where the human and divine converge (the veil ofthe sanctuary was torn in two) can be seen in our lives every day, if we only take time to look. 
Ultimately, the cross is the only thing that will make sense out of the meaning­less suffering we see on the evening news or experience in our lives. Philosophers will rationalize over "the problem of evil" until the end of time. But there is a truth we often forget: Jesus did not save us by his teachings, nor by his example, nor by his miracles of healing. He saved us by one thing and one thing alone: suffering. 
Let he who would be my disciple deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. 
Christ did not destroy suffering; he gave it meaning and made it redemp­tive. This is the true cross in each of our lives, something more than that which hangs from a gold chain on our breast. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior philosophy and pre-med major at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached by e-mail at aaron.d.kh­eriaty.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
....
-----------~---~--­

page 10 Monday, September 29, 1997 
The E.dge 
Directed by Lee Tamahori 
Starring Alec Baldwin, Anthony Hopkins, and Elle Macpherson 
) /•) )
...• 
J1) ~~t) d's.) .Jil 
(our of five shamrocks) 
By JOHN BARRY Accent Movie Critic 
C
omplete isolation from society. 
Torrential downpours. Unrelenting 
blizzards and freezing winds. Sounds like they filmed another major motion picture here in good ole South Bend'? Well. not quite. These are just some of the elements faced by the enduring cast of "The Edge," a fascinat­ing drama which places its characters in a struggle with nature's worst to help reveal those internal conflicts often avoided in Hollywood. 
Intellectual billionaire Charles Morse (Anthony Hopkins) and hot-shot photog­rapher Hobert Green (Alec Baldwin). two men of extreme opposites, become stranded together when their plane crashes in the Alaskan Wilderness. While Morse might seem to have every­thing possibly desired -a beautiful wife (real life supermodel Elle MacPherson playing -and here's an acting stretch for you-a supermodel), power, and, as most billionaires have, a lot of money. However. as Bob observes, such posses­sions must lead to misery because how could such a man ever know if those around him are truly friends or if they have another agenda? 
While the men battle the elements of nature and a man-hunting bear, a much more interesting sub-plot develops as the audience continually questions Bob's motives. Is there something between Bob and Morse's wife, as their nirtations suggest'? Does Bob really intend to mur­der Morse? Is betrayal the true purpose of this seemingly spontaneous 
photographing ~~xpndition? Is 
Bob just using Morse to gel 
them out alive, as he jokes, 
only to attempt to kill him 
when he becomes of no use, 
or is this just Bob's humor 
playing ol'l' Morsn's paranoia'?. 
Among thn many strengths 
of this movie is the powerful 
connection between Alec 
Baldwin ("The llunt for Red 
October," "Malice") and 
Anthony Ilopkins ("Hemains 
of the Day," "The Silencn of the Lambs") on screen. Their characters arc interesting enough in the script, but these actors really bring out the intrica­cies of the duo's connicts. Both actors show great range in their ability throughout the film. 
Baldwin's character becomes particu­larly real when we see that he has his own worries and doubts, as revealed by his reaction when a rescue chopper fails to spot the two men. Hopkins shows his ability to act beyond "The Silence of the Lambs," using intellect for non-psychotic purposes, when his character devises a clever scheme to catch squirrels for food, surely a desirable change from liver with fava beans and a nice Chianti. 
The third man who survives the crash, Stephen (llarold Perrineau, who played Mercutio in "William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet"), shines on screen despite his mere supporting role in the film. Stephen's panic, fear and spoken doubts help to put the thoughts of the other men out in the open. 
But even these aren't the only famous and recognizable stars! Yns, that's right ladies -your favorite star of "Legends of the Fall." who eo-starred in that film with Anthony Hopkins, is also in this movie ... Bart the Bear. Bart is truly an amazing actor. While some silver-screen animals (yes, Lassie, I mean you) play the same stock characters over and over, Bart has shown time and again that his range seems to have no limit. From epic "Legends of the Fall" to a more family-friendly film "The Bear" and TV's "Grizzly Adams," and now as the unrelenting stalker in "The Edge," 
photo courtesy Twentieth Century Fox Anthony Hopkins (left) and Alec Baldwin portray two men desperately struggling for survival in the fierce Alaskan wilderness in 'The Edge." 
Bart has earned himself a place next to 
"Outbreak's" Marcel (star of "Friends") 
and "Jurassic Park's" T-Hex. 
So, why deny such a film the univer­sally sought-after Fifth Shamrock (which is of course what all major Hollywood producers are seeking -not one of those common little naked gold men called "()scars," but rather The Observer's rare Fifth Shamrock)? Well, to begin with, the subplot of possible murder between the two leads is too under developed. I found the hints of murder and savagery amongst the two men much more fascinating than build­ing a fire ... over and over and over ... and over. The previews make it seem like the two actors are going to have a Humble in the Yukon; of course, the pre­views also don't even show Harold Pcrrineau. 
There are also a few points to their survival in the wilderness which bother me in terms of realism. Does anyone know if rubbing a paper clip and placing it on a leaf in water really works as a compass? See, these are tricks they -don't teach you in Physics 229. Sure, I can do some really neat integrations with Ampere's Law. but if I'm ever stranded in Alaskan Wilderness, I fear I don't have the skills needed to become a cross between MacGyvcr and Bill Nigh "The Science Guy." 
BOTTOM LINE: It's a good movie, sus­penseful, clever. a fresh glimpse of cre­ativity in an often dull season for movies. 
ACTING: Don't think that just because Bart has put on a few ]hundred] pounds since the days of "Grizzly Adams" that he's lost his acting skills. John Travolta can be pudgy and aet, and so can Bart. 
MUSIC: It's written by "Hudy's" com­poser Jerry Goldsmith, so really you're honor bound by duLac to see this movie (see tho section on "Lofts. l'arietals, and Support of' All Those Involved With Making Budy"). 
ELLE MACPIIEHSON: Doesn't get naked. so guys, don't complain to nw about it-you've been warned. 
Some Good Home Cooking 
Soul Food 
Directed by George Tillman 
Starring Vanessa Williams, Nia Long, and Michael Beach 
q);@t:i'
.Jl 

(our of five shamrocks) 
By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS Accent Movie Critics 
K
leenex! Bring some! Tears arn falling on this keyboard as we ponder "Soul Food." This movie struck a little too close to honw for comfort. Let us just say that some friends that WP know have lost a grandmother or two, and a certain family homestead is up for sale. We digress. 
At the heart of the film stands Big Mama. At her spacious Chicago home for 40 years, Mama serves Sunday dinner lilling the stomachs and soothing the hearts of her extended family. Her three daughters !Terri, Maxine and Bird) do not make her task an easy one as they claw each others eyes out over fried catfish. Terri and Maxine have a long standing feud dating back to the '80s. Bird is out of the loop being the youngest and busy with her hair salon. 
The narrator, Maxine's son, is the surprise standout of the film. He makes the audience feel like one of the family with his kid perspective on grown-up prob­lems. The quick and the short of it is that the family goes to hell in a hand basket when Mama goes down for the count. For example, family members go to jail, cheat on spouses, lose jobs, carry handguns, etc. Most of this trauma happens to men, but no, not every male is a sleaze -this is not "Waiting to Exhale." The fact is that Lem, Uncle !'etc, and Kenny are cool, but Miles has issues. 

photo courtesy Twentieth Century Fox 
(L-R) Vanessa Williams, Nia Long, and Vivica Fox play 
three sisters who try to work things out in "Soul Food." 
All joking aside, the film does a fine job portraying the reality of a family's struggle for closeness. The characters are multidimensional and believable. They bring emotion and depth to the dialogue. The plot has many high and low moments. The inevitable does happen, but we do not feel this detracts from the overall quality of the movie. Besides, the outcome is not overly obvious. 
A high point in the film is the narrator's bond with his grandmother. This relationship fills the void when Big Mama herself can no longer. The kitchen is the symbolic heart of the family. When it goes up in flames, the kitchen acts as a catalyst, healing the wounds that threaten the family's stronghold. Mama sums up the movie's message when she says, "Like the lin?,ers making a fist, together we can pack a big 
punch. 
Our ratings: 

Best hair: With Bird spending most of her time high 
on hair spray, she still does not get our vote for best 
hair. It is Maxine's ever evolving look that wins the 
day. Special honors go to Kenny's interesting curls in 
the fight scene. Not to be forgotten is the pink hair on 
Bird's friend. 

Best clothes: The 'ROs llashbar:k at the roller-skat­ing rink is lots of fun as Maxine runs around in hot pants and a shirt sporting "Maxine" in glitter. Lem is the best dressed male. Women and men alike suc­cumb to his charming leather jacket. hip jeans, and big shirts. 
Best Scene: The little kids sneak upstairs to catch a glimpse of thoir great Uncle Pete as lw takes the crumbs left by tho door. Tlw caring unclP slams littlP Ahamd's foot in the door. They run away screaming, "Uncle Pete is messin' with us again." A close second is a woman scorned !lying out of the kitchen wielding a BIG butcher knife at a family nvent. Let's just say that every woman ean feel hor pain. 
Music: Good H&B tunes. Surprise. surprise... Miles' group is a hit with Babyface as a member. 
We recommend this movie to those who enjoy see­ing family feuds and triumphs. Avoid at all costs for the love of God if you are a homesick freshman! The combination of home cooking and grandma dying will have you crying your eyes out. 
For those Southerners out there, the food will drive you to the .edge of madness. The drool we left at the theater created a small tidal wave ... cornbread, mae & cheese, peach pie, green beans, black eyed peas, fried catfish, chicken & dumplins, sweet potato pie, etc. 
Overall, this is a warm and refreshing talc: the love and innocence of a child saves the tie that binds a family together. 



Football 
1997 

Michigan Notre Dame Irish offense dominates first half, but 
21-14 
reverts back 
to its old 

Key Stat Player of.the Gam~ Quote oft problems in Receiver Malcolm Johnson· "lri all honesty1 W(j CC\f'ne ~P Notre Dame penalties: 
caught 7 passes for 106 here to win this football second. 9 for 92 yards 
yards, including a 34,yard game, and fully intended to 
see page 2

completion in the firstquarter. win it" · ........ . 
-headcolfchliJob Davie 
Missed opportunity 


Irish jump out to quick start, fail to capitalize on Michigan miscues 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish tasted victory's sweetness, as they headed into the locker room at halftime up 14-7 against the sixth-ranked Wolverines. 
The taste quickly turned sour as Michigan, in its opening drive of the half, tied Notre Dame 14-14. Michigan's 24-sec­ond drive quickly swung the momentum in its favor. In two concise plays, Michigan quarterback Brian Griese and split end Tai Sheets connected for a 41-yard touchdown. 
"You have to give Michigan the credit," said head coach Bob Davie. "They came back in the second half which we knew they would. You also have to give our team credit for hanging on to Michigan's onslaught. They came out and ran the kick­off back. They hit us with a 50-yard touchdown pass. Then they came back and scored again. They had the two quick touchdowns in the second half and definitely had the momen­tum." 
Michigan's Chris Floyd charged into the end zone on second down and seven for the lead, leaving a stunned Ivory Covington in his path. 
"I felt like we played better," Davie said. "In all honesty, we came up here to win this football game and fully intended to win this one." 
Notre Dame looked dominant at half, leading in first downs with 11 and total offensive yardage at 227. Quarterback Ron Powlus controlled the Irish with a commanding 11 comple­tions for 138 yards. In the first half, the Irish got on the board when Powlus· found Bobby Brown, giving them the ini­
see NO UPSET/ page 2 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Michigan loss provides more frustration 
The team that took the field against the Michigan Wolverines on Saturday was a different team than has been seen this season. We l 1 ·.--------. 
maybe we saw it for about a minute in the fourth quarter against Purdue. but that was a 
team that Associate Sports was des-Editor perately reaching for some dignity in a less-than-:dignified per­formance. · 
No, this team was domi· nating. This team was con­fident. This team acted like it had no clue that it was going up against the No. 1 defense in the nation. Or if it did, it didn't care. 
For the first time this season, the Notre Dame football team IMked like the team it hoped it would be, the team it knows it can be. And for the first time this season, the dark cloud over the Irish parted and the sun shone through. 
Then came the second half. It was as though Michigan closed the roof of an invisible dome that exists over the "Big House," shadowing the Irish from their shining fitst-half per­formance, leaving them surrounded by the echoes of the 106,508 fans and a team that was ready to take back the football game. 
In the eyes of Irish fans, Saturday's game looked like two different games with two different Notre Dame teams. In the eyes of Wolverine fans, it was just their No. 6 team getting warmed up. 
On one hand, it can be said that if this were the first game of the season, the Irish would not even begin to accept the lop­sided performance. 
But it's not the first game of the season, and the Irish are now 1-3, searching around every corner for signs of improvement. 
The bottom line, howev­er, is that despite a first· half performance that exhibited top-20 potential, the Irish walked away with a loss, and it was a loss that proved more frustrat­ing than any other this sea­son. 
The reason for this is because the Irish saw the promised land, but it turned out to be a mirage. 
see INSIGHTI page 3 
-----~~~---~ ~-­
----~--~----~.-----------~-----------------------------------------------~---~-------~--~------­
page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 29, 1997 
Offense comes alive, then fizzles 
By BETSY BAKER zone. field, but the first half perfor­Associate Sporrs Editor Still, one cannot overlook the mance of the Irish definitely qui­vastly improved offensive pro­eted some of the crities. 
The offensive performance of ductivity of the Irish in the lirst The Irish used three recnivers the Notre Dame football team in half, and most importantly thfl in Johnson, Brown, and sopho­the first half of the game against fact that for the first time since more Raki Nelson, and evon sixth-ranked Michigan on the beginning of the Georgia threw fullback Jamie Spencer in Saturday almost made its fans Tech game, the Irish took the thore for a short, three-yard forget about the first three lead and controlled the tempo of gain. games of the season. the football game. "The first half, I thought wn 
Almost. The second drive of the game came out and played our best 
Unfortunately, its inability to for the Irish, that culminated in football of the y()ar," Irish head convert three yards into a first a 15-yard touchdown pass from coach Bob Davie said. "The down on three tries that could Ron Powlus to Bobby Brown, offense was abln to control the have set up the tying touchdown ineluded six completed passes, ball. We had twice as much late in the fourth quarter nulli­one of which -a 34-yard pass possession time as Mkhigan, fied the Irish's first-half perfor­to Malcolm Johnson -provided twice as many plays, twice as mance. the longest reception of the sea­many yards. We had big plays 
After coming out and basically son for the Irish. in the passing game in tlw first shutting down the nation's top The Irish offense, more specif­half." defense early, the Irish returned ically offensive coordinator Jim Not only did the passing gamn to the oll'ense of old in the sec­Colletto, has been criticized in look unstoppabln. Srmior Kon ond half. plagued by the inabili­the first three games for its Barry emerged as a threat at 
ty to et the ball in the end to throw the ball down fullback in the first half, includ­
ing a third-down conv1~rsion in which he ran for 22 yards, breaking about three tackles in tho process. Truo freshman 
Tony Driver broke into tlw Irish the first down. "[ don't know if' I've ev1~r bonn 
offensive schenw. including a "We're limited at tight end in game, since I've been a col­
49-yard punt return and a two­right now. We had four starters lege eoaeh, that has seen so 
yard touchdown run to give the out on offense," Davie said. many holding penalties." lw Irish the lead going into the half. "We went to an unbalanced line said. Driver's touchdown completed a and put both tackles to try to Overall for the Irish, tlw bad 98-yard drive by the offrnse and .create a mateh-up ... It was definitely outweighed the good was his first in an Irish uniform. extremely loud and I'm not sure without a victory, and the frus­
Notre Dame was the first team we had full communication." tration was easily seen aftm the to score a touchdown against "Once again, you have to be game.the Wolverines. and in fact, was able to make a yard and a half' "It's a tough loss. It's a toughthe first team to get within the to win a football game like this." feeling," a visibly emotional Hon red zone. Another major factor to the Powlus, who finished the day Ilowever. the second half second-half' futility of the Irish 20-f'or-27, for 205 yards. said. 
brought an all too-familiar fate was an onslaught of penalties, "We came out and played thn to the Irish ofl'ense. and it most of' which were called on way wP thought we could. walked away with a loss. the of'f'ensivP linP for holding. Obviously the game didn't end The Irish had tlw ball facing Davie did not eommlmt, without the way we wanted it to. W!~ fourth-and-two, down 21-14 in watching the tape, as to wish WP could have taken the fourth quarter, and seemed whether or not he thought the advantage of somo of those to have some communication holding calls were justified, but opportunitins. Unfortunatnly, The Observer/Brandon Candura problems that preventPd Autry was surprisPd at the sheer num­we didn't do that and we are 
Freshman Tony Driver had a breakthrough performance on Saturday, Denson from being able to get 
ber of them. walking away with a loss." 

including a 49-yard punt return and a touchdown. 

Kory Minor (left) and Lamont Bryant gave the Irish offense pleny of opportunities to win the game, but the Irish were unable to convert. 
drove in from the two-yard line. 
No Upset 
"I think he gives us a spark," Davie stated about the freshman. 
continued from page 1 
The final stats reflect how close the tiallead, 7-0. game really was. In the end, first 
The second half was plagued with downs were tied at 16. Notre Dame botched passes and numerous fumbles. ended up with more offensive yardage In the fourth quarter, Notre Dame could at 354, but not by much because not capitalize on three Michigan Michigan racked up 345 yards. 
turnovers in Michigan territory. "We could have very easily won this Numerous penalties hampered offensive football game but talk is cheap," Davie opportunities for both teams. Ten remarked. "There is two ways to look at 
penalties taxed the Irish for 92 yards. it. One, you can try to find blame and 
"I don't know if I have ever been in a point the finger; certainly there is game, since I have been in college enough directions to go with that. Or coaching, where there has been so we can look like we came up here and many holding penalties," Davie stated. played the sixth-rated team in the 
Notre Dame's second touchdown country and had every opportunity to came when freshman Tony Driver win the game." 
• REPORT CARD 
Quarterback: B+ Linebackers: A-
Another solid outing from Powlus This four-man unit was a formida­(20·27, 205 yards, 1 TDJ. The offen· ble obstacle for the Michigan offense. sive leader was finally given the Nicks played a terrific game, includ­oppm·tunity to throw the ball down ing the forced and recovered fumble. field and he proved that he is more Minor, Bryant and Friday were than capable of doing so. The inter­where they needed to be to give the ception was an outstanding defensive Irish offense plenty of opportunities effort, but his decision not to run in the fourth quarter. may have been critical. 
Defensive Backs: C Running Backs: C+ Missed tackles and soft coverage 
Denson did not appear to be 1 00 continue to characterize this bunch. pN·cent healthy as he averaged less They contributed to the effective play than three yards a carry on Saturday down the stretch, but fell asleep after (72 yards, 25 carries). Despite halftime just long enough for the mediocre final statistics, Driver Wolverines to snatch a quick lead. demonstrated some ability to break tackles. lie should receive more car­Special Teams: B ries next week. 
The kick and punt coverage teams Receivers: A· were able to contain Woodson, and the Irish return game showed some 
On the few occasions that the Irish signs of life with Driver back deep. decided to test Charles Woodson, Brown and company simply made Coaching: C-him look bad. Nelson and Johnson turned in strong performances and Davie had his troops ready to play, Brown has emerged as a true threat but how hard is that when you're for the Blue and Gold. playing in the "Big House." Colletta 
opened the game by finally stretching Offensive Line: c. the opponent's defense, but allowed the ofl'ense to revert back to its ultra­
The front line showed some very t;onservative passing game and over­positive signs in the first half and emphasized rushing attack when the gave the impression that its inconsis­Irish got behind. tency was a thing orthe past. 
Sure enough, however, it self­Overall: 2.70 destructed when the team needed it most, committing five costly penalties This game was a definite improve­in the first five minutes of the second ment from the previous two week­half. ends. The team showed great deter­
mination as a whole in the first half Defensive Line: B and the defense, once again, kept hope alive down the stretch. The 
The linemen took care of business fact remains, however, that Michigan for most of the game, but failed to did almost everything in their power put any real pressure on Griese. The to hand the game to the Irish. When Wolverines averaged about five all was said and done, Notre Dame yards per carry on the ground. just refused to take it. 
Monday, September 29, 1997 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish defense lives up to its end of the bargain 
thing they could handle. Saturday. 
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1. Florida (36) 4-0 1704 1 
2. Penn State (25) 3-0 1673 2 
3. Nebraska (6) 3-0 1606 3 
4. Florida St. (1) 3-0 1529 4 
5. North Carolina 4-0 1483 5 
6. Michigan 3-0 1404 6 
7. Ohio State 4-0 1285 7 
8. Auburn 4-0 1215 8 
9.Tennessee 2-1 1150 9 10. Washington 2-1 1111 10 11. Iowa 4-0 1103 11 12. Michigan St. 3-0 967 12 13. LSU 3-1 847 13 14. Virginia Tech 4-0 824 14 15. Washington St. 4-0 818 15 16. Colorado 2-1 637 16 17. Kansas St. 3-0 563 18 18. Georgia 3-0 513 19 19. Stanford 3-1 458 20 20. Alabama 3-1 407 21 21. Texas A&M 3-0 388 22 22. UCLA 2-2 276 24 23. Air Force 5-0 202 24. Brigham Young 2-1 186 23 25. Arizona St. 3-1 168 25 
Others receiving votes: Clemson 48, Georgia Tech 29, Mississippi St. 19, Pittsburgh 19, Kansas 16, West Virginia 14, Wyoming 12, USC 11, Texas 9, Toledo 9, Colorado St. 6, Oregon St. 6, Purdue 6, North Carolina St. 4, Arkansas 2. 
By MIKE DAY  "The Notre Dame defense played  displayed an uncanny  
Sports Editor  tremendous today," said Wolverine  knack of calling the right  
coach Lloyd Carr. "They made a differ­ blitz at the right time  
They've been criticized, ridiculed, and  ence in the game."  and matching his per­ 
poked fun at by virtually every spectator  While many expected Michigan and its  sonnel to that of the  
in America. For the past two weeks,  tremendous offensive line to run all over  Wolverines.  
Notre Dame fans would have loved the  the Irish, Greg Mattison's group had  "Coach Mattison  
chance to string them up and leave them  other plans. Aside from a six-minute  coached there and is  
for dead.  lapse at the beginning of the third quar­ familiar with their  
Indeed, the Irish defense has taken a  ter. Notre Dame seemed to have an  offense," said linebacker  
beating for its prominent role in the  answer for everything Michigan threw at  Grant Irons. "I think  
team's disappointing 1-2 start. And with  them.  that really helped us  
the daunting task of having to face  "We watched a lot of film and had a  against them."  
Michigan's high-powered offense. things  solid game plan going in," said corner­ After Michigan took a  
could not have looked worse for the  back Allen Hossum. "Other than the one  21-14 lead with 9:56  
much-maligned unit.  stretch at the start of the third, we were  remaining in the third  
llowever. with its back against the wall  ready for just about everything they did.  quarter, many expected  
and with little support in its corner. the  Coach Mattison did a good job preparing  the Irish to roll over and  
Notre Dame defense responded in a big  us."  watch the Wolverines  
way. Tlw smaller, undermanned unit  Mattison's familiarity with the  walk to another blowout  
gave the big boys from Ann Arbor every­ Michigan offense was apparent on  victory.  

The defensive coordinator But when they needed it the most, the defense rose to the occasion, completely stul'fing the Michigan running attack while forcing three sec­ond half fumbles in the process. 
Sophomore Ronnie Nicks is one of the young players called"They played aggres­upon by the Irish to fill the void left by injury and graduation. 
sive, inspired football 
and were able to force some mistakes," At halftime, the Wolverines made some 
said Carr. "I give them a lot of credit for adjustments to the Irish defense and 
making the big play and giving our came out recharged in the second half. 
offense some problems. They did a good scoring in just 24 seconds. Fullback 
job of executing their game plan." Chris Floyd added another Michigan 
Leading the way for the Irish was the touchdown on its second drive, taking 
linebacker corps of Kory Minor, Grant the ball in from 14 yards out to give the Irons, Jimmy Friday, and Ronnie Nicks, Wolverines a 21-14 lead. who were able to focus on the run while However, there was no quit in the Irish avoiding the big play from Wolverine defense as Mattison's troops countered quarterback Brian Griese. Michigan's adjustments, effectively shut­
The Wolverines were held 132 yards ting the door on the Wolverine offense. below their 4 77 -yard average and com­"We had a bit of a lapse there, but I mitted more turnovers in the second half think we did a good job of recovering," than they had all season. said Irons. "We try to improve every 
"Any time you stop the run, you have a week, and I think we played much better chance of winning," said Mattison. ''I'm than against Michigan State." proud of the way the players executed For now, the critics will have to hold the game plan." onto their rope. 
• STATISTICAlLY SPEAKING 
Insight
Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 7 0 0 14 
continued from page 1 Michigan 0 7 14 0 21 They had the opportunity to beat the No. 6 team in the nation, putting themselves back on level
Team Statistics ND UM ground (verses clawing their way up from below),First Downs 16 16 
and they just couldn't get it done. The Irish
Rushed-Yards 44-149 34-168 
teased themselves and the fans with victory.
Passing Yards 205 177 They felt what it was like to be winners, if even 
Sacked-Yards Lost 0-0 0-0 for a few minutes at halftime, but walked awayPasses 20-27-1 16-22-0 
losers. Punts 7-45.9 4-40.8 
Neither the Notre Dame football team. nor its Fumbles-Lost 0-0 3-3 
fans, are willing to settle for improvement over Penalties-Yards 10-92 6-37 
victory, but that is what we are left dealing with. Time Of Possession 35:44 24:16 
And while neither head coach Bob Davie, nor the team, is willing to chalk this up to a rebuilding season yet, the frustration is wearing on them ­Individual Statistics you could hear it in the post-game interviews.
Rushing Maybe it is not so much a rebuilding year as aNO-Denson 25-72, Barry 4-31, Driver 10-24, Powlus 3-14, learning process. A slow learning process, but aSpencer 2-8 learning process nonetheless. However, one les­UM-Howard 16-91, Floyd 7-41, Williams 6-28, Thomas 3-6, son that will not be taught, and most likely doesGriese 2-2 

not need to be learned, is how to lose. Notre Dame players and fans are not good losers, and Passing 
that is one of our best traits. What remains a NO-Powlus 20-27-1-205 
vital lesson for both players and fans to learn is UM-Griese 16-22-0-177 
how to be a loyal loser. For the players, it is essential that they keep Receiving 
the faith in their coaches, their program, and NO-M Johnson 7-106, Nelson 5-45, Denson 4-20, Brown 3­
most importantly themselves. For the fans, their greatest task is facing them -cheering for a 1-331, Spencer 1-3 team that has been swept by the Big Ten confer­UM-Floyd 4-35, Williams 4-23, Streets 3-77, Shaw 2-19, ence and faces a remaining schedule in whichShea 2-10, Tuman 1-13 there exist no guaranteed victories. 
"I think you just have to be honest. and you can't let outside things enter into it and outside expectations, because I think there's probably a 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
1st Quarter 

tendency here to always think this football team
NO-Brown 15 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) 
is underachieving, and I don't think that's fair right now with these players, and I don't think 
2nd Quarter 

it's fair right now with this coaching staff I 
UM-Williams 4 yard run (Baker kick) 
think we look at exactly who we're playing 
NO-Driver 2 yard run (Sanson kick) 
against, exactly where the problem areas are, and address each problem as honestly as we can. "Certainly there's a point where we need to win
3rd Quarter 

a football game. and the thing I don't want to do as I talked to the team. we're never going to 
UM-Streets 41 yard pass from Griese (Baker kick)· 
UM-Floyd 14 yard run (Baker kick) 
lower the standard here at Notre Dame. We went up to Michigan with every intention of winning ..
4th Quarter 

that football game. We could have won that foot­
No Scoring 

ball game. So, you know, what I don't want to do 

is get into a situation -and I don't think we will 
Attendance: 1 06,508 

-where anyone accepts losing, whether it's on a short-term or a long-term basis." -Bob Davie 

The Observer/Brandon Cardura 
Despite having another impressive performance (20-for-27, 205 yards), quarterback Ron Powlus still came up frustrated by the offense's inability to score in order to win the game . 
Michigan 
21 

Notre Dame 14 Michigan Stadium September 27, 1997 

• GAME NOTES &GUOTES Game Notes 
DRIVER MAKES MARK: Freshman Tony Driver saw the first extensive playing time of his short career on Saturday and gave the Irish a much-needed lift in the first half. After Michigan tied the game at seven, Driver returned the ensu­ing kickoff 50 yards, the longest of the year for the Irish. Driver also registered his first career touch­down, a 2-yard run with 18 seconds left in the half. "It was good to get the chance to play and contribute to the team," said Driver. "Hopefully, I can do a little more for us next game." 
SLUGGISH START: For the first time since 1987, the Irish are in thn midst of a three-game losing streak. It was during that season that the team lost its linal two regular season games before falling to Texas /\&M in the Cotton Bowl. Th!~ last time the Irish lost three straight regular sea­son games was 1985 when they began the season 1-4. That was also the last time they began a soason with just one win in their first four games. 
PIRST HALF SUCCESS?: For the lirst time this season, the Irish led going into halftime. Hon Powlus conntected with Bobby Brown from 15 yards out to give the team a 7-0 lead. Following a Michigan score, Notre Dame took a 14-7 lead on Driver's 2-yard touchdown. "It's always nice to get off to a good start, and we were fortunate to do that today," said Powlus. Prior to the seore, Michigan had not reliquished a first quarter touchdown in 27 con­secutive games. 
MATTISON LEAVES EMPTY HANDED: Despite a valiant effort from his players, defensive coordina­tor Greg Mattison's return to Miehigan ended on a sour note. Tho defense kept the Wolverine offnnse under control for much of the day, but the Irish offense could not lake advantage of it. "Coaeh Mattison came up with a good game plan, and we were ready for nearly everything they threw at us," said cornerbaek Allen Rossum. "It would have been nice if we eame home with a win, both for us and for Coach Mattison." 
Quotes from the game 

Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie: "You've got to give Michigan credit. They came back in the sec­ond half, and we knew they would. You also have to give us credit for hanging on after Michigan's onslaught early in the second half." 
(On reflecting on the game) "Let's be honest when we look at why we lost. Did Michigan really beat us or did we knock ourselves? Certainly you look at the second half with the kicking game, the first kick-off we don't kick the ball where we wanted to. We have a four-year starter get beat in man coverage for a 45-yard touchdown ... On offense we had three turnovers for second chance situations, and we don't get any points in the second half." 
Quarterback Ron Powlus: "It's a tough loss. It's a tough feeling. We came over here. We thought it was going to be a good day. We feel like we had a great effort. especially in the first half. We came out and played the way we thought we could play. Obviously the game didn't end the way we wanted it to. We wish some things would go differently, we wish we could have taknn advantage of some of thosn opportunities. Unfortunately, we didn't do that. and we arc walking away with a loss." 
Michigan head eoach Lloyd Carr: "I thought they played their hearts out. We prepared like they were going to come in and play their best game, and that's exaetly what they did. They were not going to give up ... They are definitely better than a 1-3 team." 
(On Notre Dame's last posses­sion ... ) "I wished I was out on the field, but I have eonlidence in every guy out there. I think that's what this team has, and maybe what's dif­ferent than the teams we've had in the past is that each guy trusts the next guy. It's a good fneling." 

Michigan quarterback Brian Griese: "I think they arc a good foot­ball team. They have guys who play tought. I don't care if you have tal­ent or not, they played tough." 

Monday, September 29, 1997 page 11 
• • SOAP OPERA UPDATES 'The Graduate' GENERAL HOSPITAL 
By JOE KRAUS 
Accent :Vluvic..· Critic 
H
prp's to you, Mrs. Hobinson, and your bPautiful daugh­tPr. Elaiiw. too! I was lis­tPning to my Simon and Garfunkel CD on tlw way up to Michigan this WPl'kPnd pondering what movie I should rPnt on Saturday night for this rPvit'w. As tlw CD worP on, tlw answPr hit nw like a ton of bricks: why not "The Graduate" from din~ctor, Mike Nichols? I havn sn<•n this movie plenty of timt's. but it is onn of thosn that you nPvPr gPt sick of; so, if you havP sonw timn and want to see a young Dustin llofTman make his major s<T<~en debut, this movie is for you! 
Dustin llofTman plays Benjamin Braddock, a recent college gradu­atP who wonders what tlw point of evnrything is. lie has no aim, no plans. and no o1w who under­stands him. Benjamin is proposi­tionPd and has an alTair with Mrs. Hobinson IAmw Bancroft). Mrs. Hobinson is a fritmd of Benjamin's parnnts and is twicn his agP. Like Pwrything PlsP in Bnn's life, this affair traps him. To break this cycln. Bnn starts to court Mrs. Hobinson's Daughter, Elaine (Catlwriiw Ross). All of the prob­IPms that unfold and the bizarre way lkn dnals with them makP up tlw rnst of tlw moviP. 
lkspitP !wing downright hilari­ous. this film is worth watching for many reasons, not least of which is the film's soundtrack. Tlw soundtrack is made up exclu­sively of Simon and Garfunkel songs. The three that feature most prominently are "Mrs. Hobinson," "The Sound of Silnnce," and "Scarborough Fair." Other than being great songs on thnir own, this soundtrack becomes almost another languagn for Ben and Elaine. The music conveys emo­tions that Ben and Elaine's own words cannot. 
Another reason that this movie is so worthwhile lies in Nichol's style. This movie was extremely cutting-edge when released in 1967. Nichols was tired of Hollywood's hackneyed formula for making movies and decided to steer it in a new direction by adding camera techniques that copied many of the films from the European Art circuit. These adap­tations made "The Graduate" a very new type of movie that changed the face of Hollywood forever. 
Wherever your interests lie, you can find something enjoyable in this movie. Its sheer comedy, dar­ing techniques and great sound­track made it one of the most important American movies. while launching the career of one of America's b(~St actors. Now just think, you can rent it any time for about three bucks! 

I. The Peacemaker 
2. 
Soul Food 

3. 
In & Out 

4. 
The Edge 

5. 
The Game 

6. 
L.A. Confidential 

7. 
Wes Craven's Wishmaster 

8. 
The Full Monty 

9. 
A Thousand Acres I0. G.l. Jane 


Source: Associated Press 
.AcceV\t is lookiV\9 fo~ qualified people to fill the followiV\9 positioV\s: 
• 
Associate Accent Editor 

• 
"Website of the Week" Correspondent 


• Copy Editors If you are interested, call Joey at 631-4540 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
General Hospiral Correspondent 
Brenda turns and sees Jason framed in the church door, not Sonny. Doe!i the best man lead the groom down the aisle? I didn't think so. After the initial fears of Sonny's death are put to rest, the awful truth comes out-he's gone. By the way, Justus was at the wedding; I thought he left town. Once the groom is reveled to be MIA, the church clears faster than the stadium did last week. As Ula invites everyone to her house for food, Sonny hides in the park across the street to see if Brenda is okay. Lucy runs out after she has a premonition that her Doc is in trouble. He was and now is in ICU awaiting brain surgery. 
Brenda had a bit of difficulty accepting the fact that the relationship was over. Hearts were breaking as Chris Issak was playing. Brenda relived the whole twisted relationship. From her barely being legal, to Lily and Miguel and marriage proposals, it was a long strange ride. SDnny always leaves her standing in the rain and where was Jax this time? I hear that Jax is returning to the Port soon; will he ride to the res­cue again? 
Everyone from Brenda to Mike wants to know where Sonny is. Jason refuses to squeal, and Mike figures out Sonny is gone for good. Jason meets Sonny to say good­bye andreport on Brenda. He promises to always look out for her and thanks Sonny for changing his life. All the tender scene needed was a hug. 
A.J.. promised Carly that he'll keep quiet, but only if she can prove that the baby is not his. Bobbie's ears perked up when she heard that A.J. and Carly have some unfin­ished business, and that the elopement is otT. She promises to have a sonogram and bribes a former nursing school chum to "fix'' the results. 
Monica came home without Emily, who stayed longer in Rome, where a handsome 
art student fell madly in love with her. · 
Kathy finally got some sleep with Stefan, but the next morning he dumped her. 
Either she drooled on him in her sleep or Alexis's horror at the thought of him with his 
sister was too much. If a Cassadine shudders at something, you know that it is bad. 
Nikolas had a bad day at school, like so many guys I went to high school with, he just doesn't get the whole "wait to be called on to speak" concept. Lucky ripped on Nik so badly that Sarah left the room. Lizzie told him the more he rips on Nikolas, the more Sarah will like him. She's right, Nik may have gotten detention, but he got the girl to keep him company. That never happened to me. 
Genevieve Morrill can be reached at morr8584@saintmarys.edu if you have any questions or comments. 
DAYS OF OuR LIVEs 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, 
KRISTINE HOWARD, 
and NICOLE PAULINA 
Days of Our Lives Correspondents 
Hello, DAYS fans. Salem still seems to be in the post-wedding slump, and nothing much has happened this week with the exception of the Great Jack Switcheroo. We would like to take this opportunity to bid adieu to Mark Valley: We still like Matthew Ashford better, but he did the best he could. We humbly dedicate this update to him. and we wish him well in the future. And now on to the week's events! 
In case you're still in suspense over the whole Bo·lighting-Curtis thing, don't be. Of course the good guy wins; this is DAYS, remember? So after Bo throws Curtis down to hell (and BOY did the special effects crew knock themselves out with THAT one), Billie took a decided turn for the better. She even felt well enough to put on a skimpy dress and leave that skanky hotel room. Unfortunately, they ran right into Austin and Carrie, and .even a dummy like Austin could see that Billie looked like hell. Clever Bo managed toconvince them that it was only food poisoning. Yeah right. Like we've EVER seen Billie eat ANYTHING on that show! · 
As you might have guessed, Carrie and Austin are fmally out and about. Austin was getting some bad vibes (during the whole Bo-Curtis battle), but a prayer session with Carrie seemed to help. And despite our status as "Mike and Carrie Crusaders," we are happy Carrie and Austin get to spend these few happy days together. Lord knows, it won't last long! 
Our hero, Dr. Mike, suffered a minor lapse in judgment this week when he gave Sami a job organizing files at the hospital. The Queen of Mean wasted no time in arranging for Mike to attend a medical convention in Rome. The good doctor hopes that the trip (and a visit with his son, Jeremy) will get his mind off Carrie. The poor guy was even trying to sell his car because it reminded him of her! As the week ended, Dr. Mike unknowingly checked into his hotel room right across the hall from Austin and Carrie!! 
Back in Salem, Marlena is still trying to decipher her feelings for Roman. The new "drug cocktail" has made him pretty chipper, and when he isn't playing Frisbee with Sami he's professing his love to Doe. Hurry back John! 
In the jungle, Dr. Rolfe has found a cure for Roman. Unfortunately, in the most poor­ly acted scenein soap history, a lab tech drops the vital vial. In order to make more, someone will have to go out into the jungle (and brave the restless natives, ·we kid you not) to find a crucial flower. In the Friday clifThanger, John volunteers for this mission and tells Hope to keep an eye on Stefano while he's gone. She's still convinced that she knows some secret from her stay at Maison Blanche which could ruin Stefano for good . 
As usual, Viv and Ivan provided the week's only comic relief. The dynamic duo rounded up Big Bertha and Susan to hold a seance at Jonesy's house. After a show­stopping Elvis incarnation by Vivian, the little party was broken up by Sister J\·1ary Moira. Luckily for Viv, Jonesy pulled a ''Carrie" and slept through everything impor­tant. She's still planning to somehow fmd Jonesy's "Baba," though, and exploit his mil­lions. 
And finally, the Switcheroo. Mark Valley's last scene occurred in the prison shower as he dreamed of a reunion with Jen. Suddenly we see a hand reach for his shoulder, and when Jackturns aro"Und, it's Steve Wilder. (Or the no-talent porn star, as we pre­fer to call him.) Actually, to be fair, we only heard him say two words ("Jen? What...?») before Jen made het move, but his inferiority to Mark Valley (SIGH) came across loud and clear in that kiss. Goodbye Markt 
Email us with your "Daysn comments or questions: 
Paulina. 1 @nd. edu. Freeman. 19@nd. edu. or Howard.35@nd. edu 
-~---~---..-~-----------__.,..--­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 29, 199"" 
• RYDER CUP 
Ballesteros, Europe hold off late American rally 

ByRON SIRAK must have put a thousand miles that won it. better than the Europeans," Kite birdies and defeated Jespe­Associated Press Writer on his golf cart driving from Europe got at least one point said. "But they chipped better Parnevik 5 and 4. And Tora match to match and urging on from everyone and dominated and putted significantly better." Lehman made six birdies as he SOTOGRANDE. Spain his players, watched the the team matches -alternate­Kite said he regretted "not overwhelmed Ignacio Garrido ­
The furious American rally Americans mount one of the shot and better-ball. being a little stronger in my and 6. that nearly reclaimed the Ryder great comebacks in sports. Meanwhile, thn United States request to get the guys to come But the day -in fact the Cup on Sunday proved the point Starting singles play a seem­got only 2 1/2 of a possible 13 to Valderrama" and play it more entire competition -wa;; made time and at ingly hopeless five points behind, points from Woods, Love and times before the Ryder Cup. summed up on the ninth greeu Valderrama: the Americans won seven Leonard on the week. Love was "I honestly I think the only when Costantino Rocca made L The United matches and halved two others the lone player on either team to reason we got beat was because 22-footer for a birdie and Wood; States had despite getting only a half point be shut out. they knew the golf course and missed a four-footer as HoccL the better from its three major champi­"On paper, we looked like the the weather conditions better went 4-up. golfers. onship winners this year -underdogs," said Bernard than we did," Kite said. Woods at times seemed dazm Europe had Tiger Woods, Davis Love III and Langer, who won the match that Only four times in the previous and confused as he walked alon): the better Justin Leonard. clinched the Cup, defeating Brad 31 Ryder Cups had a team come amid chants of "Hoc-ca! Hoc team. "I knew that the Americans Faxon 2 and 1. "But we knew from behind in singles play to ea!" that were answered by call~ 
The win-were injured in their heart," we had the 12 best players in win, and no team had ever ral­of "Ti-ger! Ti-ger!" ners, who Ballesteros said. "And they came Europe on our side." lied from more than two points Woods, who likes to say ht­rode the out this morning with the idea of In the true spirit of team play behind. treats every tournament th.,-, enormous energy of their fiery playing hard, and they nearly that makes the Ryder Cup so Trailing 10 1/2-5 1/2 going to same. found out that the Ryder captain, Seve Ballesteros, and a took the Cup away from us." special, Europe built a huge lead singles play, it seemed like an Cup is very different. boisterous home crowd that car­Ballesteros, who did every­in the alternate-shot and better­impossible task. But the ''I'm feeling a lot ol' pressure,' ried them in with the soccer thing but hit shots to try to give ball play, allowing the Americans, who had been tenta­Woods said before the single:­chant "Ole! Ole! Ole!" also bril­his players an edge, gave his Americans only four wins in 16 tive all week -especially on the match. "I felt it on the first day liantly exploited its knowledge of team a note before the final day matches. greens -attacked the course I'm feeling it on the second all( the golf course. of play with last words of advice. Time and again, one European and were a combined 31-under­now the third day." 
"It's a dream come true, not The note read: player would step in to bail out a par on the day."That's awesome Butch Harmon, who c.oache! only because the Ryder Cup was "Focus. Maximum concentra­teammate. Europe also got eight golf'." Kite said. Woods, said, "Tiger told me ht played in Spain but because we tion. Look for stability. Play your points from its five Ryder Cup Fred Couples got the has never been so nervous in hi: won," Ballesteros said after his own ball -medal play. Don't rookies. Americans on· l'ast, shooting a 30 life." team held onto the title, 14 1/2-look at the scoreboard. Don't let "All the talk is about Tiger on the front nine and making an Rocca made two birdies in tlH 13 1/2. them intimidate you. Don't get Woods and how great the play­eagle and five birdies in an first five holes to go 3-up or 
"We won," he said, brushing involved with incidents, Enjoy, ers are in America," Langer eight-hole stretch to defeat Ian Woods, then dosed with 11 eon aside tears with both hands. relax." said. "But we have young play­Woosnam, 8 and 7 in the first secutive pars to win the match L 
"It will go down in history It was signed: "Good luck, ers here and they showed it." match of the day. and 2. because I am the first captain Seve." Tom Kite, the American cap­Woosnam is now 0-6-2 in Love, meanwhile, lost hi: who is not British and I won the Ultimately, it was the way the tain, thought the Europeans' Ryder Cup singles play. And the match to Per-Ulrik Johansson ; first Ryder Cup played in Europeans, who entered the experience on Valderrama, a victory matched the worst sin­and 2. Leonard won the first fou1 Europe," he said. "I am a most match rocked by the removal of course he said requires as much gles defeat in Ryder Cup history. holes against Thomas Bjorn ­happy man right now." Miguel Angel Martin from the local knowledge as Augusta Kite defeated lloward Clarke by three with birdies -but coulc 
That happiness nearly turned squad, came together as a team National, was the key. the same score in 1989. only manage a halve in the to sorrow as Ballesteros, who -and they way they putted -"From tee to green, we played Mark O'Meara made seven match. 
~  Classifieds  The Observer accepts dassilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilleds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3  
cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
NOTICES  ...~ARN FA~~ tRIPs &cAsH-.. CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15  Bed and Breakfast for ND games . Private home 2 miles from stadium. Private baths. 272-9471  N~~b 4 stub fix -GA'D FOR NAVY CALL TODD 243 5609  I Need 2 Usc GA fix ­cALL §ILL 4-4912  b2 Motorcycle Tool .................... Every night when I come home,  

trips & travel free! Highly motivated 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 students can earn a free trip & over LaFortune Student Center $1 0,000! Cho,ose Cancun, Store Hours Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE  PERSONAL FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay  to Siegfried. next to Knott, I pray that the Lady on the Dome provide a parking spot.  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Florida! North America's largest stu-Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 838-6411 Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s) ••spring Break ..."Take 2"""  NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT SEMESTER 2773097 FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Margrette 2845099 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center '>/ High-Speed Copies  And Lo! Before my weary eyes, a single space unfurls, A beacon under dreary skies, untouched by boys & girls.  
Phone 631-COPY Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free. ILOST & FOUND I Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 0/www .sunsplashtours.com  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 FOR SALE  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  '>/ Canon Color Laser Copies '>/ Digital Color Printing '>/ Binding & Laminating '>/ Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  But as I peer around the bend, I find to my dismay, A teeny, tiny motor bike is standing in my way!  
Phone 631-COPY  
A black watch on a velcro band was WANTED: Greek tutor to teach lost last Tuesday night at Stepan conversational Greek, call 233­Field. If you know where it is, 1239  1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio, A/C, pwr windows/locks, pwr steering, 137 klmi, drives like a  Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service.  NO's biggest dance party EVER!  And thus my hopes have vanished, Until the glorious day, When motorbikes are banished  
please call Ryan at 4-1665. Babysitter wanted for 3 yr. old.  dream, for 1875 or best offer. call 634-3660  Call 234-5650.  This Friday in Stepan. WSND 88.9 1m's Retro 70's Dance. Free Food.  02 Motorcycle Tool: YOU SUCK!!!!  
Lost: Diamond Necklace last Flexible hours. 2.5 m from campus. Thursday at Jazzman's. 277-1037 Reward. If found, please call 284-4350. Male seeks female roommate to share 2-bdrm home. $325/mo. Inc! Lost: Videotape on Euthanasia in utilities. 243-0491. manila envelope in/near D.B. please call ASAP: 4-3915 FOR RENT $20 REWARD WALK TO CAMPUS WANTED 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON  ask for Henry Brass bed, queen size with orthope­die mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00. 219-862-2082 Moving sale: 89 Lincoln continental, new tires, excellent condition. 4,600/BO; Queen size bed, 1 yr, $190; Microware $90; JBL front speakers $200 each. 243-1128.  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S  Free CO's. Free Admission. 8pm til Midnight. Be a part of history. Married, childless white couple of 13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please call 1-800-916-5629, access code 92. Don't miss the opportunity of a life­time!! Chile applications due Oct.1 !!  Hey You, Eating. Yeah You. Come See SHOOTING CUPID Perform live at Corby's on Sat. night. You missed the show at Xtreamez. You know you did. So come see the best rock band on campus. Corby's 10pm. Be there. Is it illegal in Michigan to be in a cab with an open can? Yeah baby!  
SUPERSTAR STUDENTS NEED­232-2595 ED! Earn $ signing up friends & classmates for our credit cards. Opportunity to advance to campus "Bed & Breakfast manager involving hiring & training Have rooms for USC & Boston other students. No car required. games. 1 mi. N. of campus. Must be outgoing & aggressive! 2 night min. 272-9260 Flexible hours & great income! Call Val at 800-592-2121 X154 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR Childcare needed for infant & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND preschooler TITH all day. OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. Car req'd; 20 min from NO. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  FURNITURE MUST SELL New TV+VCR combination, futon+mattress, Call Emidio 631-8594 MOUNTAIN BIKE '95 Trek 9200 full aluminum FULL SUSPENSION sweet condition $750 080 TICKETS  271-9412. WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK. 800-243-9683. ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME GAMES AND LSU CALL MIKE 800-991-0525 Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  Two days until the first issue of Common Sense-colleen g, why do you ignore me so!! my heart is breaking! hi pagan!!! thanks for waiting  It is legal in Texas! Hey Jeannine-get all the couch! You're finally 21! Happy Birthday. Love-KDOG, Bo-BO, Fatty, Ryno &Issues. (Your Family) Despite all my complaining, I want to thank you Mike, Brandon, & Kathleen for putting up with me this weekend. -The Grip I love feeling frigid air in the middle of DeBartolo.  
Experience & ref's desired. MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. (616)663-6006. 243-0658.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551  USC game. Caii818-790-0094 or e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  I am going to do algebra now, yeah baby.  Whose life is worst?  
~  FREE TRIPS & CASH! SPRING THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and BREAK! Outgoing individuals -sell Breakfast Inn has space available 15 & go FREE. Cancun, South for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms Padre. Mazatlan, Jamaica, South with private baths, $70-$90, Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP. Toll Road, Exit #107, www.studentexpress.com 1-800-418-9487.  Wanted: NO Football Tickets Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­2850 USC GA FOR SALE! 50 YO LINE­BEST OFFER 271-7458  Poor college student needs 2 tick­ets for the USC game (for my broth­er and his wife). Please call 634­3880. NEED 4 WV GA's. call 4-3025  · Tim Horton's is the only way to go in Canada. they have spares in riley sold to the highest bidder  Nothing like a little Garth in the car! I have a new hobby, it is getting lost in the car. Yo quiero Taco Bell!  

~­
Monday, September 29, 1997 
The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• NFl 
Lions upset Packers, 26-15 
By HARRY ATKINS Associated Press Writer 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
They win when they should lose and lose when they're expected to win. It's hard to get a handle on the Detroit Lions. 
The Lions, 7 1/2-point underdogs, got another interception return touch­down from linebacker Heggie Brown and Favre rode it to a 26-15 win over the Green Bay Packers on Sunday. It left both teams with 3-2 records ­Green Bay lost just three times last season on the way to the Super Bowl title. 

Detroit's offense. stymied in last week's upset at weak New Orleans, finally opened up behind the running of Barry Sanders and the passing of Scott Mitchell. 
Sanders, who has eight regu­lar-season 100-yard rushing games against Green Bay ­including five of the last six ­scampered for 139 yards on 28 carries. Mitchell, who turned the ball over four times at New Orleans, was nearly flawless in completing 17 of 27 passes for 215 yards and one touchdown without any interceptions. 
Brett Favre was far from flawless for the Packers, tossing three interceptions. Favre, under heavy pressure much of the time, completed 22 of 43 for 295 yards and one touchdown. 
Ryan Longwell accounted for the rest of the Packers' scoring with three field goals. Jason Hanson kicked four field goals for Detroit. 
The Packers outplayed the Lions by a wide margin in the first quarter of the hard-hitting game, yet had nothing but two field goals to show for it. The Lions went three-and-out on their first two possessions, set­ting loose a chorus of boos from the 78,110 fans in the Silverdome. 
Then the defense began to bail out Detroit. 
Brown picked off an ill­advised pass and returned it 45 yards for his second touchdown of the season and suddenly the Lions had a 7-6 lead. Favre slipped to his knees on the play, but elected to throw anyway. 
That seemed to wake up the Lions. The defense held and, with Sanders picking up 20 yards on a pass and 46 on a run off tackle, they went 7 4 yards in four plays for a 14-6 lead on a 4-yard TO toss to rookie tight end Pete Chryplewicz. 
The Packers were driving again, but Favre threw into the hands of defensive tackle Robert Porcher with 30 seconds remaining. An unsportsmanlike penalty on Favre set the Lions up at midfield. Five plays later, Hanson kicked a 50-yard field goal as time expired for an unexpected 17-9 halftime lead. 
The Packers narrowed it to 17-15, opening the third quar­ter with a 54-yard scoring drive. Favre's 7-yard touch­down pass went off Terry Mickens' pads, bounced high in the air and came down in rook­ie Bill Schroeder's hands for the score. 
Hanson's 44-yarder gave Detroit a 20-15 lead 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
McGwire hits 58th home run in finale 
CubRyne Sandberg bids farewell 
By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS 

Even though Roger Maris was out of reach, Mark McGwire made a little history. 
McGwire hit his 58th home run, tying him for the most by a right-handed batter, in the St. Louis Cardinals' season­ending 2-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs Sunday. 
McGwire, who hit two home runs on Saturday, tied the mark set in 1932 by Jimmie Foxx and equaled in 1938 by Hank Greenberg in 1938. Only Maris, who had 61 in 1961, and Babe Ruth, who had 60 in 1927 and 59 in 1921, have hit more. 
The feat is all the more impressive considering 

CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON IS A LEADING GLOBAL PROVIDER OF WHOLESALE FINANCIAL SERVICES WITH OVER 50 OFFICES IN MORE THAN 30 COUNTRIES. THE FIRM IS FOCUSED ON FOUR KEY BUSINESS AREAS: CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING, SALES AND TRADING (EQUITY, FIXED INCOME, FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND MONEY MARKET), FINANCIAL PRODUCTS (DERIVATIVES) AND PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENT. 

UNDERGRADUATE INTERVIEW DATES 
• Corporate and Investment Banking Monday, November 3, 1997 Contact career services for resume drop dates. For more information about Credit Suisse First Boston, visit our 
website at www.csfb.com. 
Credit Suisse First Boston is an equal employment opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
CREDIT 
FIRST 
SUISSE 
BOSTON 
McGwire changed leagues in mid-season. Since joining the Cardinals in a trading dead­line deal with Oakland on July 31, he had 24 home runs in 51 games. 
McGwire, who has homered at least once in 12 consecutive series, entered the day one homer ahead of Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr. 
McGwire's first two at-bats were quiet, with only one swing in each. He walked on five pitches with two outs and nobody on in the first as a sellout crowd of 46,065 booed its displeasure, and took a called third strike in the third. 
After the Cubs took the lead on a squeeze bunt by Dave Hansen in the sixth, McGwire tied it when he homered to straightaway center on an 0-2 pitch, a drive estimated at 414 feet, on an 0-2 pitch. 
No. 58 was the Cardinals' 144th, breaking the team record set in 1955. McGwire finished on a quiet note, walk­ing on a 3-2 pitch from Marc Pisciotta with a man on sec­ond and none out in the eighth. 
McGwire was on base when Gary Gaetti snapped a tie with a sacrifice fly off Marc Pisciotta (3-1). 
Cardinals reliever Lance Painter (1-1) pitched two shutout innings. 
The game was also the finale for Cubs second base­man Ryne Sandberg, who was 0-for-2 with a warning track fly to center in the third in his final at-bat. Sandberg, who received a plaque in pregame ceremonies, finished with a .285 career average and a record 277 home runs as a second baseman. 

"fUl ta.lq'l. pla.<:~ frpm 4 to 6 
p.m•. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m~on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne:wM~morial. All are welcome. ;;Hp.i;~ld Hockey -Practice begins Sept. 29 and will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9,-:10 p.m.in Loftus. Any, questions, call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at 
•.~~741. 
•'" Synchronized Swimming ­<Practicest. are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8-10 p.m. and Sundays 
from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
USC Student Exchange Program -The exchange or student tickets for the Southern California game will begin on Sept. 30 at 9 a.m. Students may bring ticket booklets and ID along with $16 (Notre Dame students) or $10 (Saint Mary's students) to the ticket office at the Joyce Center on the second floor. The maximum amount of tickets exchanged is 300 for both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
Domer Run Benefit ­These 3 & 6-mile runs and 2­mile walk are scheduled for Saturday, Oct. 4, at 11 a.m. The fee is $5 if you register in advance at RecSports or $7 if you register at the race. A pancake breakfast will fol­low the race. For more infor­matin call RecSports at 1­6100. 
page 14 The Observer • NFL Monday, September 29, 1997 
Broncos hold off Falcon rally to win, 29-21 

Elway and Shanahan get revenge on former coach 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
John Elway called playing for Dan Reeves "hell," and the coach once fired Mike Shanahan, accusing him of insubordination. 
Sunday was payback time. 
Elway threw three touch­down passes and the unbeaten Denver Broncos, after building a 23-0 lead. held on to defeat the winless Atlanta Falcons 29-21. 
For Elway and coach 
Shanahan, the victory was a measure of revenge against Reeves, their former nemesis and now coach of the Falcons. 
All three men were key fig­ures in a highly publicized feud in the early 1990s, when Reeves was coach of the Broncos, with Elway as his quarterback and Shanahan his offensive coordinator. The game was the first time Elway and Shanahan had fuced Reeves. 
Denver (5-0) is one victory short of the best start in fran­chise history. The Broncos were 6-0 in 1977 and 1986 and wound up in the Super Bowl both times. 
The Broncos, one of four undefeated teams in the NFL at the start of the day, were a heavy favorite against the dis­mal Falcons (0-5). and they jumped ahead less than two minutes into the game. Elway connected with Shannon Sharpe on a 65-yard touch­down, the longest scoring play of the tight end's career. 
Sharpe finished with 119 yards on six receptions, but Terrell Davis couldn't extend his streak of four straight 100­yard games. The NFL's lead­ing rusher was held to 78 yards on 22 carries. 
Kicker Jason Elam suffered a strained hip 11exor, appar­ently on the kickoff after Sharpe's TD. But the injury actually worked to the Broncos' advantage when they were forced to go for a l'ourth­and-3 at the Falcons 10. Elway hit Willie Green with a scoring pass and Davis ran in the two-point conversion to make it 15-0. 
Denver pushed its lead to 23-0 before the midway point of the second quarter on Davis' 13-yard run and anoth­er two-point conversion. 
The Falcons began their comeback when Ed West caught a 1-yard touchdown pass from Chris Chandler with just IS seconds remaining in the first half. 
The teams swapped touch­downs in the third period, leaving Denver with a 29-14 lead. and the Falcons appeared finished when Chandler left the game with 
14:12 remaining after severely spraining his left ankle 
Chandler missed the previ­ous game at San Francisco with a bruised sternum. This was the third straight game he has started but failed to finish because of an injury. Before he was hurt, Chandler com­pleted 12-of-22 for 137 yards and two touchdowns. 
Backup quarterback Billy Joe Tolliver gave the Falcons a chance when he connected with Jamal Anderson on a 47­yard touchdown pass with 
11:18 remaining. The Faleons got the ball back twice around midfield, but failed to take advantage and the Broncos ran out the dock. 
It was the first time Denver has failed to win by a double­figure margin, and the Faleons did rush for more than 100 yards for the first time. Byron llanspard had 67 yards on eight carries, Anderson 45 on 13. 
Atlanta is 0-5 for the second year in a row. Last season, the Falcons lost their first eight games. 
Dallas shuts down Chicago en route to 3-1 start 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN down on a punt return in a 27-3 time lead thanks to a big defen­20-yard line so he could hold Carter and scored the touch­Associated Press Wrirer victory over the winless Bears sive play before Aikman finally the ball aloft and strut all the down for a 7-3 Dallas lead. on Sunday. got the offense cranking. way into the end zone for his Brock Marion roughed puntPr IRVING, Texas Dallas finished September 3-1 After a 48-yard drive set up first punt return touchdown for Todd Sauerbrun, and the Bears 
The Dallas Cowboys reversed and accomplished a goal set by Richie Cunningham's 33-yard the Cowboys. It was the longest were set up at the Dallas 28. their September fortunes of a coach Barry Switzer in training field goal, Aikman whipped in his NFL career. Chicago bogged down after year ago. camp. The Cowboys made the Dallas on a 60-yard drive. Cunningham kicked a mean­Mirer's 12-yard pass to Eric 
Troy Aikman burned the playoffs after starting 1-3 last Aikman hit Michael Irvin with ingless 23-yard field goal after Smith, and Jeff Jaeger kicked a Chicago blitz year, but couldn't overcome a passes of 11 and 26 yards Darren Woodson intercepted a 21-yard field goal. with two homefield disadvantage at before Irvin beat an all-out pass from Erik Kramer. Dallas was held to zero rush­touchdown Carolina. Chicago blitz and his man. Walt It took a big defensive play by ing yards in the first half. passes, the It wasn't easy for Dallas Harris, on a quick slant pattern Kevin Smith for the Cowboys to Emmitt Smith failed to score defense despite having two weeks to get for the 26-yard score. score their only points of the for his fourth consecutive game, hounded ready for 14-point underdog Then came the fun part for first half. Smith jumped a slant a record for futility in his career Rick Mirer Chicago, which is 0-5 and off to the uneasy Dallas fans, who route by Chris Penn and picked as a Cowboy. lie gained 43 into critical its worst start since 1969. The spent half the day booing the off Mirer's pass, returning it 21 yards on 13 carries. mistakes and Bears came into the game yield­team. yards to the Bears 6. The win reversed a 22-6 loss D e i o n ing an NFL-worst 32 points per Sanders fielded a punt and Two plays later, Aikman hit to Chicago on Monday Night Sanders game. slashed straight up the middle Anthony Miller on a pass in the Football to open the 1996 sea­pranced 83 yards for a touch-Dallas held a shaky 7-3 half-of the field, slowing down on the rtat, and Miller juked Tom son. 

Youeanget 
at our ATM! 
Just need a few bucks? 1st Source Bank has you covered. Check out our Resource Center ATM conve­niently located in the Hesburgh Library basement. 
Grab your funds quickly with no additionalfees ifyou bave a I st Source Resource® orResource Plus® card. Or you can use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
Other 1st Source locations-Saint Mary's Haggar College Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland, U.S. 23 at Iron­wood--dispease $lOs and $20s, so there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 
.-source® 
liiiiBank 
Your partners from the first® 
Member FDIC 
YOU DEMAND POWER,SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 


$200
Power Macintosh" 6500/275 32/4GB/t2XCO/Multiple Scan 15AY 
cash back*

L2/llp Orive/EthemetNideo ln/NTSC Oui/Kbd Now $:1,675 (or $s<Vmontil)*• BEFORE REBATE PowerBook•t4oocs/t33 t6/IGB/8XCD/L2/tt.3" DSTN display Now $2,o85 (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 

$100 

cash back* 
Save another 
Power Macintosh" 5400/18o t6/1.2GB/8XCD/Built·in display/Kbd 

Sso 

Now $1,550 (or $29/month)** BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 

Color StyleWriter" 4100 Now $220** BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a Umited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. 8:oo-s:oo http:/ /www.nd.ed u/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 11JOOCS/133 includes a carrying case. While supplies last! 
**Offer expires October to, 1997. No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 9o-day period will be added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be included in the repayment schedule. For example, the month of May 5, 1997. had an interest rate of 
~~·~0~t::t~=~ :~~~~/'~f$~.~:;.::.t~~~~)in°J~~~~2 ~~m~?:t~~ih~~~~~~c~f !f4l:l,~7~ra~J ~"::'=nci~~~~~at~~~!~ 1~fe~~ ~~ ~~rie:~~~~=s~:S:~ 
the Prime Rate as reported on the sth business day of the month In The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3-9'M.. The Apple Computer Loan has an 8·year loan tenn with no prepayment penalty and is subject to credit approval. Monthly payments may vary depending on actual computer system prices, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable interest rate. 01997 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. 
~~ 1tiu:~r::~r~0t~de':c~~ii~~~· c~:;~~e~~f~c~~~~e~~\r.~~s~b:r~ ~~~~~\~~r;o~ r1~f~s~~~~9~;~~~~~ ~~C~~e1;,0~~~~e~~~~ s~~~~~n~; 
and subject to availability. Void where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further rules and details. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. To team more (U.S. only), call 8oo·6oo·78o8 or TTY 8oo·7SS·o6ot. 
Monday, September 29, I 997 The Observer· SPORTS page I5 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 

Yankees chalk up gs ollover Eagles 
ByRON LESKO one of several Eagles who lowed three plays later with Associated Press Writer wO;uldn't let Seay point the an 18-yard TD pass to Cris
fifth straight win 
:: •. ;~::::w~.,:·: ..··' ··· . .M~g~r at himself;;:;::·::j:=:·t Carter. MINNEAPOLis' ''It's nobody's loss," Detmer "A lot of times he gets 1 and 
Associated Press 
The Philadelphia Eagles spe-said~ "Dallas wasn't Tommy 2 yards, 2 or 3 yards, and cia! teams left another ball Hutton's loss. I threw two then all of a sudden you getDETROIT bouncing on the turf Sunday interceptions today. We play him a hole," Johnson said.
llideki lrabu pitched five two-hit innings and Bernie Williams hit night. Robert Sm h made together as a team, and lose "He's a lot faster than thehis 1OOth career home run as the New York Yankees beat the 
sure they paid for it in: as: a team.'' defensive backs. It's unbeliev­Detroit Tigers 7-2 Sunday, the Yankees fifth consecutive win Smith scored t touch· Brad Johnson threw three able how many times he doeslumding into the playoffs. 
downs for the first time in his TD passes for the Vikings, that.''
Paul O'Neill and Williams hit back-to-hack home runs in the 
career, the second after Mark including a 48-yarder to Jake The Vikings led 14-13 at~hird inning. Jorge Posada and Mike Stanley added solo homers Seay bungled a punt return Reed on the Vikings' third halftime and were sputteringfor the Yankees (96-66), who open the playoffs Tuesday at Yankee 
deepinPhiladelphia~~rtitory, of the glime. Reed Jin-offensively when Mitch Berger 
Stadium against Cleveland. 
to lead the Minnes'uta'Vikings with six catches for J34 punted for the third time inYankees manager Joe Torre said he'll announce his playoff rota­to a 28-'19 victory. yards, setting a· team record the third quarter. Seay let thetion after a noon workout Monday. 
Smith, the NFC's leading with his fourth consecutive wo.bbly kick bounce once in
The Tigers finished the year with a five-game losing streak. But 
rusher, carried 22 times for 100-yard game. front of him, then with threeDetroit (79-83) improved on last year's record by 26 games. The 125 yards. He also caught the Dewayne Washington killed defenders closing in tried toTigers 109 losses in 1996 were the most in the American League first TD pass of his five~year tvyo Philadelphia drives with field the ball at about the 10.
since the Toronto Blue Jays in 1977. 
career and set up ~hj:JtJ:t'er interceptions: ~he ·first at the The ball tipped off Seay'slrabu (5-4) allowed a run with five strikeouts and no walks in his score with a 46-yard run as Minnesota 20 on the game's hands and then his helmet!irst start since Sept. 1. He gave up a first-inning single to Bobby the Vikings (3-2) snapped a opening drive and the second just as he was hit. Greg Briggs lligginson and Travis Fryman's solo home run in the fifth. 
two-game losing streak. inside the Minnesota 5 with recovered at the 16, and onDwight Gooden, looking for a spot in the Yankees' postseason 
-
"I pray that Robert Smith 5;54 left. · the second play Smith burstrotation, worked one inning of relief, allowing one unearned run 
on two hits. stays healthy the .. ..·..·pft~~ .: .Miiinesota's pefense, rankf:ld through a huge hole in the season/~· said def Jve end 27.th.in the NFL~ also had five middle for a 14-yard !fD run
Gooden started the sixth and gave up a double to Deivi Cruz, Derrick Alexander, referring sacks, two each by Alexander and a 21-13lead.
who scored an unearned run when Andy Fox bobbled Brian 
to Smith's history of injuries. and linebacker Dixon "I thought I could handle itllunter's single to right for an error. 
"He's one of the best backs in Edwards. at the time," Seay said. "If lGreg Keagle {3-5) was rocked for five runs on seven hits, includ­the NFL. He makes the most ·~'}:his was huge for our con­were to do it over again, I'ding three home runs, in two-plus innings. 
ofhis carries, and he.seeiU$tO 'tfi~ence," W~shirigton said; probably get away from it.'' 
Tim Raines led off the game with a first-pitch double and scored 
get 100 yards ah:riost every . :''For the defensive line to get Detmer's 20-yard TD pass toon Derek Jeter's single. Charlie Hayes drove in Jeter with a single 
time out." some sacks, all of that. It all Kevin Turner cut Minnesota'sto make it 2-0. 
The Eagles (1-3), playing for works hand in hand. If they lead to 21-19. Seay droppedPosada led o!T the second with his sixth homer, a blast off the the first time since holder don't get any pressure, we Detmer's bullet pass on the 2­third deck in right-field. O'Neill hit his 21st home run to lead off Tom Hutton bobbled the snap don't get any picks.'' point conversion, and thenthe third, and Williams followed with his 21st homer of the season to ruin a game-winning field S~ith has fl1n for 100 yards Smith's long run helped theand lOOth of his career to finish Keagle. 
goal attempt in a 21-20 loss at three times in five games this Vikings regain control.
The Yankees made it 6-0 with an unearned run on Hayes' sacri­
Dallas two weeks ago, fell into season. This performance also Minnesota won despite 11fice fly in the fifth. 
a last-place tie with Arizona was like many of his others: penalties for 95 yards, includ­Stanley hit his !6th homer off Dan Miceli in the eighth. Notes: 
in the East. He was held in check much of ing back-to-back defensiveThe Yankees have won 10 consecutive games at Detroit and won Seay, who also dropped a the night but burst free for a penalties on separate first­tlw s1mson series 11-2.... Williams finished the season with 100 tough 2-point conversion pass ~J.ndful of big plays. half drives that helpedHBI. despite two stints on the disabled list with a pulled ham­that would have tied the game · \!fhe biggest was his 46-yard Philadelphia take a 10-7 leadstring.... Brian llunter started all 162 games, the first Tiger out­at 21 late in the third quarter, run on the last play of the on the first of Chris Boniol'sfielder to do it since Rocky Colavito in 1962.... Higginson's single blamed himself for this loss. third quarter. It came on the two field goals and Irving
gave him a Detroit season-best 14-game hitting streak and 
matched the longest streak of his career. 
~Thl®~ ~~JP&rrlf
r 
M&lfrr®5)~ 
Over 40 years of experience 
Ortho~Specialist 
Fix any type leather Quick Service -Reasonable 
Open 8~6 Mon~Fri 8~3 Sat 1025 E. Madison St. 
288~6211 
m 
a.

Notre Dame 
a. 
'< 

Mario's ---­
1025 E. Madison St. • 
-7-11 

Ty Detmer, who got in a drive after Philadelphia had Fryar's 6-yard TD catch. screaming match on \he side; .. ounded from Seay's fufl1ble Fryar tied a career high with lines with Ricky Watters· dur• and Smith's second Til nine catches for 120 yards. ing the fourth quarter, was ~lose to 21"19. Johnsonf()i~ 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Sachire eliminated in semis 
Special to The Observer bracket with a 6-4, 0-6, 6-4 Carroll lost in the finals of the win over Daniel Anderson of D flight championship to University of Notre Dame Virginia Commonwealth. Fernando Garcia of Western men's tennis sophomore Ryan Oklahoma's Pavel Kudrnac Michigan by a 6-2, 6-1 count. 
Sachire lost in the semifinals won the overall singles title. Magnus Grahn of Nebraska of the consolation bracket Meanwhile, play concluded won the A flight singles cham­Sunday in the T. Rowe Price in the Tom Fallon Invitational pionship while the team of National Clay Court on the Notre Dame campus Peter Magnusson and Championship. Rafael de Sunday. Irish sophomore Matt Fernando Forte won the A Mesa of Texas A&M eliminated Horsley won the A flight sin­flight doubles championshipSachire from the tournament gles consolation with a 7-6, 5-with a 9-8 win over Graydon
by a 6-3, 6-1 score and went 7, 6-2 win over Lukas Horacek Oliver and Way Loo Cheng of on to win the consolation of DePaul. Irish junior Dennis Alabama. 
You are invited to join with fellow actuarial stu­dents and faculty members for a special presenta­tion about post-graduate job opportunities and summer internships at 
\TRUSTMARK INSURANCE COMPANY I 
Trustmark is a leading mutual life and health insurer located in a beautiful suburban setting 30 miles north of Chicago. 
Actuarial Careers at Trustmark Presentation 
Tuesday, Sept. 30, 1997 Notre Dame LaFortune Center -Foster Room 7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
Trustmark representatives will be available to answer your career-related questions following the program. Food and beverages will be served. 
To R.S. VP call len Rubnerat (219) 243-8326 by Monday, September 25 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association & The Center for Civil & Human Rights 

Proudly Present 
CRY, THE BELOVED COUNTRY 
~ FRH.".~ 
With James Earl Jones & Richard Harris 
Followed By a Panel Discussion on· "THE RECONCILIATION PROCESS IN SOUTH AFRICA" Featuring: 
1. 
Garth Meintjes, Associate Director, Center for Civil & Human Rights 

2. 
Prof. Donald Sniegowski, English Dept. 

3. 
A~nes Mabotja, Lawyer, Center for Civil & Human Rights 


.... ­
4. Wtllem Gravett, LLM Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights 
Based on AlAN PATON's internationally acclaimed novel, CRY, THE BELOVED COUNTRY· the story of a Zulu Christian Pastor's journey from a quiet Natal Province to a modern . •.s _ ter Joh~nnesburgh in search of his son, his sister and his brother-all of whom have di·s:m_•s peared mto an urban.quagmire ~f crime, sin and political intrigue. By tragic circumstan~e his son Absalom, has accidentally killed the social reformer son of a leading Natal farmer Th story plot~ the reconciliation of these two men, who have each lost a son to the violen~e in e 
South Afnca--one Black, the other White. 
• Wednesday, October 1 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
UPCOMING LECTURES: Prof. Leonard Wantchekon/ YALE Mon. Oct. 6: Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
12:15 pm: Electoral Competition, Political Violence & Democratization 7:30pm: Democracy as an Optimal Enforcement Mechanism for Power-Sharing Contracts 
,.. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 29, 1997 

Redskins extinguish Jaguars' hot streak 
By JOSEPH WHITE 
Associared Press Wrirer 
LANDOVER, Md. 
Thwarted by a pair of aging cornerbacks, Mark Brunell had nowhere to throw the ball. 
With 37-year-old Darrell Green and 32-year-old Cris Dishman batting balls away from Jacksonville's top receivers. the Washington Redskins held the league's top-scoring offense without a touchdown and halted the Jaguars' eight-game regular­season winning streak with a 24-12 victory Sunday. 
-
Green held Jimmy Smith, 
who had 100-plus yards receiving in each of the first three games, to four catches for 52 yards. Green fought off Smith and used his left hand to knock the ball in the air, caus­ing the interception that led to the go-ahead touchdown in the second quarter for the Redskins (3-1). 
Then, late in the game, with the score 17-12 and Brunell eying a another come-from­behind fourth quarter drive, Dishman punched a pass away from Keenan McCardell to cause an interception that set up an insurance TO. 
While Brunell struggled for Jacksonville (3-1), completing 16 of 31 passes for 153 yards and two interceptions, Washington's Gus Frerotte survived a shaky start to have one of the best games of his career. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
"Rutgers is a strong conference opponent, and there is even a little rivalry between the teams because of our upset win over them in last year's Big East tournament. We came out with good intensity and were able to come away with the win." 
Throughout the weekend, the Irish played tenacious defense. They have now posted four straight shutouts, and helped the team to a four­game winning streak. More amazingly, the defense has yet to give up a goal in their five conference games. 
"The defense was big all weekend, as they have been all year," Berticelli commented. "We were able to get two shutouts against two very good teams. with much of the credit going to senior midfielders Joe Gallo and David Cutler. They run the entire game and give the defense a lot of help from their positions." 
After the tough weekend, the team is off for the week. Coming up next for the Irish is a tough Texas road trip next weekend, in which they play the fifth-ranked Southern Methodist Mustangs. Although it is a non-conference game, it promises to be a big test for the Irish. 
7'e 'JtZJI s?He 
Frerotte lost a fumble on the first play from scrimmage and later threw an interception deep in his own territory, but he threw two touchown passes to Leslie Shepherd and one to Jamie Asher. He finished 16­for-24 for 244 yards. 
Washington's Terry Allen, playing with a east on his bro­ken left thumb, rushed for 122 yards on 36 carries. 
The Jaguars came in averag­ing 32.7 points per game, but Brunell frequently had to forego attempts to Smith and McCardell and instead dump the ball off over the middle or eat it for a coverage sack. 
Jacksonville had its opportu­nities early. Twice in the first half, the Jaguars started a drive at the Redskins' 20-yard line or closer after a turnover, but couldn't get the ball in the end zone. 
On the first play from scrim­mage, just as the first of many steady downpours began, tackle Don Davey forced Frerotte to fumble, and Kelvin Pritchett recovered at the Redskins 15. But the Jaguars went three-and-out, and Mike !Iollis a field goal converted from 30 yards out. 
On the last play of the first quarter, Dave Thomas picked off a pass from Frerotte, giving Jacksonville the ball at Washington's 20. Five plays later, Brunell found Smith in the end zone, but Smith was called for offensive pass inter­ference for pushing Green. 

Bucs rally to defeat Cardinals 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associared Press Wrirer 

TAMPA, Fla. 
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers used to lind a way to lose. Now they find a way to win. 
The NFC's only unbeaten team matched its best start ever Sunday, improving to 5-0 with a come-from-behind 19­18 victory over the Arizona Cardinals. 
Trent Dilfer's 31-yard touch­down pass to Karl Williams with 4:48 to go wiped out an 18-12 lead the Cardinals took on Aeneas Williams' 42-yard interception return and a 2­point conversion late in the third quarter. 
Tampa Bay also got an 8­yard TO reception from Reidel Anthony and scored when Alshermond Singleton blocked a Jeff Feagles punt and returned it 28 yards for a first­quarter touchdown. 
Once one of the most resourceful teams at letting games slip away, the Bues have developed a knack for maintaining their poise under second-year coach Tony Dungy. 
"We've lost so many games like this in the past," safety John Lynch said. "It's hard work and preparation and believing you can win. You don't just get lucky at this. You get lucky for a reason." 
Arizona {1-3) had a chance to win on the final play of the game, but Kevin Butler missed a 47-yard field goal attempt. 
"It's the same old song, dif­ferent dance," Arizona coach Vince Tobin said. "We've been in this situation three times, and we can't get it done." 
Fumbles undermined the Cardinals' chances in losses to Cincinnati and Washington. Sunday, an interception gave Tampa Bay's sputtering offense an opportunity to win the game. 
"I feel bad, bad for the defense. They played tough," said Butler. "On the kick, I gave it all I had, and I hit a wall. I'm supposed to execute in those situations. This is hard." 
The victory was a franchise­record sixth straight for Tampa Bay, which is 5-0 for the first time since 1979, when the Bues went 10-6 on their way to an appearance in the NFC Championship game. 
Since losing eight of their first nine games a year ago, the perennial NFC Central doormats are 10-2 and have won eight straight at home. They head to Green Bay next Sunday for a showdown with the champion Packers, and with the Bucs alone atop the division standings. 
Arizona trailed 12-0 before scoring 18 consecutive points to take control of the game. Kent Graham threw a 21-yard TD pass to Rob Moore and Butler kicked a 37-yard field goal before Aeneas Williams tied a team record by scoring his fifth touchdown on an interception return to put the Cardinals ahead late in the third quarter. 
The momentum shifted back to Tampa Bay when Graham overthrew Moore, who had eight receptions for 147 yards, and Lynch intercepted at the Arizona 35 with just over seven minutes remaining. 
Dilfer found Karl Williams crossing the middle of the field. just ahead of Aeneas Williams, on fourth-and-6 from the 31. The defender dived to try to break up the pass, and the receiver easily outran the pur­suit to the end zone. 
"Once the '0' gave us the lead hack," Tampa Bay defen­sive tackle Warren Sapp said. "I just looked around and told our guys, 'We have to step on their necks.' " 
Graham completed a 37 -pass to Frank Sanders to set up a 4 7 -yard field goal attempt that Butler missed badly to the right on the final play. Butler also missed a 43-yarder early in the fourth quarter. 
"It's just the same old thing. We played good for 3 1/2 quar­ters," Moore said. "It's not a matter of how good our team is. We just have to pull it out in the end. No one has dominated us. We just haven't been able to put it away." 
The Tampa Bay defense gave up 364 yards, but sacked Graham six times and had two interceptions. 
The Cardinals weren't able to generate anything offensive­ly until late in the second quar­ter, when Graham used com­pletions of 29 yards to Moore and 17 yards to Chris Gedney to set up Arizona's first touch­down. 
Special teams were the key to the Bucs' early scoring. 
NANCY HARROWITZ 
Monday, September 29 4:30p.m. Library Lounge 
Sponsored by N.D. Holocaust Project 
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 ($1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat 
Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:30 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 
Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 
,. 
For More Information Contact: 
'l~t-U' ZJa.~ee etud 
6:00-9:30

·::,:,: BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS at
will hold its first meeting this 
Come and watch Monday Night Football
800-875-4525

Thursday, October 2 
Web site: www.bianchi-rossi.com 
If you are interested, please contact 
:·· GoLocoinAcapulcotl 'OS'
..

Kelly ( 634-0595) or Erin (284-4292). 
SJliiUg Bled ·~ · 
No Experience Necessary! 
..' 
Monday, September 29, 1997 page 17
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

The following events are scheduled to take place on campus Friday, October 3, and Saturday, October 4. These events are planned not only to raise awareness about breast cancer, but also to raise funds for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research. 
-
Presenter: Robert Goulet, M.D., AssociateProfessor of Surgery, Medical Director, Indiana University Breast Care and Research Center. 
by calling Phyllis at 1-5777, on or before Tuesday, September 30. Space is limited. For more information call Jessica at 1-5829. 

Women->s Volleyball Match 
Notre Dame v. St. John-Js 
Friday, October 3, 1997 -7:OOpm -Joyce Center 
Fans can get into the match by wearing a National Breast Cancer Awareness ribbon, which can be obtained for a $2.00 donation at the gate. 
..

The first 100 Females (14 and over·) to the mateh will receive a carnation donated hy Linda's Flower· Market. There will also be a promotion to win a gift certificate from TGI Friday's restaurant. For more information call Monica at 1-6095. 
tl ~dd 
1J\. 197
.:,.II ( « 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK 
D0••• • '{.~ AND 
,~ PANCAKEBREAKFAST ...._ SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 
.. ® -­
__ 
_...~ 
~---------11_:0_0_-_S_T_E_PA_N__C_E_N_T_E_R__________l-8~~~~~~ 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
"' ..
$5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
For more information call Kara at 1-8237. 
Representatives from the Saint Joseph's Center for Women's Health and Memorial's Regional Breast Care Center will have information about breast cancer prevention and detection available at the luncheon and the run. Pink ribbons will be available for a $2.00 donation at all three events. A special thanks to all the University of Notre Dame departments who have helped to sponsor these events. 
page 18 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
Freshman Dasso captures title 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 29,1997 ­
• NFL 

Biakabutuka will face top defense 
By JOE MACENKA mcnt. Associated Press Writer Biakabutuka did not play in 
either of Carolina's first two 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. games and was used sparingly 
To the pessimist, it's a ease of' in the Panthers' second two. bad timing by the Carolina Coach Dom Capers said Panthers and Tshimanga Anthony Johnson, who rushed Biakabutuka. To the optimist, for 1,120 yards last fall after it's the best way to get a read Biakabutuka went down in the on the progress of his rebuilt fourth game of the season, knee. would start again against San 
The Panthers plan to usc Francisco. But the Panthers also tonight's game against the San think Biakabutuka has reached Francisco 49ers to give the stage where he deserves to Biakabutuka his most extensive see his playing time increase. work yet in his comeback from "He's getting closer," Capers October 1996 surgery to repair said. "lie looks more comfort­a torn anterior cruciatc liga-able out there." 
That's good news for the 
Panthers, who used their top 
selection in the 1996 draft on 
Biakabutuka. 

The bad news, however, is 
-
that the NFC West-leading 49ers (3-1) have the top-rated defense in the NFL. San Francisco is limiting opponPnts to less than 89 rushing yards per game and is the only team in the league that has yet to give up a touchdown on the ground. Biakabutuka chuckled wh(~n asked about giving his knen its 

biggest test yet against the 49ers. 
"I don't pick the teams that I get to play against," he said. "Whenever thny put me in, I'm just going to try to get the job done." 
Today marks the one-year anniversary of Biakabutuka's injury, which occurred during a loss to the Jaguars in Jacksonville. 
"It's going to take me a while before I get back to my old self," Biakabutuka said. ''I've talked to a lot of players who have been through it, and they say it takes over a year to where you !'eel like you're back totally. But I'm improving, and that's all that counts." 
Carolina (2·2) gave Biakabutuka medical clearance to rejoin the team in April. and he spent a pair of minieamps in the spring and the team's train­ing camp in July and August trying to prove that he was back to form. lin wasn't. as was evi­denced by the fact that he aver­aged just 2.8 yards per carry in the Panthers' four exhibition games. 
©.INTERRACE©. 
Wednesday, October 1st, 1997@ the CSC 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Freshman Anne Makinen racked up her first hat trick this weekend against the Scarlet Knights. 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame women's tennis freshman Michelle Dasso won the B flight singles championship while junior Courtney Haskell won the C flight singles cham­pionship as play concluded Sunday at the Joan Thompson Invitational at Vanderbilt University. 
Dasso was a 6-4, 6-4 winner over Kristy Blumberg of Vanderbilt in the B final while Haskell was a 1-6, 6-4, 6-2 winner over Aparna Ravi of Harvard. Irish junior Marisa Velasco fell in the A flight sin­gles championship to Ivy Wang of Harvard by a 6-2, 6-2 tally. 
The Notre Dame duo of' Tiffany Gates and Jennifer Hall won the A l1ight doubles championship. 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
6-1 lead with a goal off a dish from Heft, and Makinen com­pleted the hat trick at 54:48 on a rocket from 20 yards that found the lower left corner of the net. 
Irish goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene made two saves in the contest, as Notre Dame outshot Rutgers 22-5. 
Against the Villanova Wildcats, Notre Dame's fresh­man trio of Erikson, Makinen and Monica Gonzalez took con­trol of the goal scoring. Erikson
" 
scored the first goal off a feed from Gerardo and Manthei, while Gonzalez picked up her fourth goal of the season, also in the first half. Makinen contin­ued to scorch the opposition, netting her fourth goal of the weekend and her ninth of the season. 
In the second half, Erikson finished what she started, sneaking a header past Wildcats' goalie Jeanne Hennessy off a center by Manthei with 2:51 left in the game. 
. .,. 
JPW JPW 
Did you Diiss out onJPW last year? 
If you are a senior who was abroad last semester or a junior with senior status and you would like to attend JPW 1998, then come join us!!! 
•Fill out the form in Room 315 of LaFortune to get on the mailing list for Junior Parents Weekend 1998, February 20-22, 1998!!! 
•Questions call Dave Piening at x2288 
JPW JPW 

FREE Dinner will be served! Everyone is welcomed! 
Brought to you by the Office of Multicultural Students R.S.V.P. at 631-6841 
i NOTRE-DAMELAWi
Full menu is 
inside 

I REVIEW STUDENTS I
Scholastic back I PRESENT I cover. 
: "What you want to know : 1 about Law School." 1 
I I I I I , I I I I I I Wednesday I 
I October 1, 1997 Mock Court Room I I 7:00p.m. Law School I 
IL. ___________Sponsored by the Prelaw Society .JI 

Monday, September 29, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Melissa Gilbert, Toni Tmnille, 1\ll•x Van ll<~len, I larry S. Trum(ln 
DEAR EUt~ENIA: I \Vcb horn on Feb. 20, 1952, ,,l 1:12 .1.m. As you t:an St.'t', I elm d PisCL'S who is doii1g quite Wl'll profl':-.sion<llly, but 1 htn•t.• bet·n withoutlt1ve in my life for,, very long limL'. I .:1111 \Nondering: Am I hlot·ked in snmL' w.w, or cll11 I destinl'd to be .:1lone forl•vt?r? I nt•t•d to know when .1nd wlwre lo look for lo\'l' .1nd whi\t ~igns lllclh:h up wdllo ml' . 
Lur\l' Fish 
DEAR LONE FISH: Your chart does show an element of sorrow when it comes to finding love, and that you are attracted to individuals who are not likely to be available to 
you. 

One-sided infatuations can stand in the way of meeting that special someone. You also have the planet Saturn in your natal chart poorly aspected to the area that deals with relationships, and this, too, can put a damper on such happenings. This year and next, Saturn will be in a better position. Therefore, you may have better luck when it comes to companionship. You match up best to the signs Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio and Capricorn. 
ARIES (March 21-April 201: You will milkl' hL't1dw.1y proft~ssionol\y if you speak up. lk sun· to disrus~ your intentions and moke yottr sugges­tions. 
TAURUS !April 21-May 211: llusi­lll'~~ trip.., will p,1y ntf. C<1rrespon­dl•nc~ with dil'nts will lt•MI to nt•w dt•vdupm~nts. Dt)n't .lllnw y~1ur t.•mn­tions to doud vour \'it•w of reillitv. 
GEMINI (May 22-june 211: You c;m make money through trnvel and partnerships. T(1kt• Cilrt.• uf IL•gal docu­rnentlltion th.1t will in turn free up 
Bom Today: You'n• got tht• t'tll'rgy tll lllll\'l' into tast fon\\lrd and .1Cnllll­plish your dn•mns thb year. Stop !->itting around wondering what the outcome will be or \'dlt'n thing!:> will ~t.ut h11ppl·ning. Jump in and st.ut lht· h.1ll mlling. 

IT LOOKS LI'r\E THE s GIVE. lT TO ME.!\! PLANE'S GOING DOWN 
!'~ A CE.O WITH 
A.NO THERE'S ONLY ONE. PP-.f\A.CHUTE.. A H~RVA~D MeA. ~OU'RE. A. OOG ~ \
D 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Beanie 54 See 33-Across 33 With 54-Across, 55 Mormon state 
1 Cleopatra's love 
a Revolutionary 57---deaf
--Antony 
hero 
58 For rent 34 Algebra or trig
5 Dressed like 
Dracula 59 Recipe directive 35 Scarlett's estate 
10 Frozen waffle 60 Washstand brand vessel
361965 Gary Lewis and the 
14 Controversial 61 Mild oath 
Playboys hit 
orchard spray 62 Many millennia 
39 Four-star review 
15 Open-mouthed 
40 Andy of the
16--ofArc 
comics 17 Coffee, slangily 
DOWN
41 Otherworldly 18 Half note 
42 Neighbor of 
1 Capt.'s better 
19 Roof's edge Wyo. 
2 "There oughta 
20 Post-Derby 43 Reps.' 
be--!"
interview spot opponents 3 Sitarist Shankar 
23 Camel rival 44 Parts of acts 24 L-1011, e.g. 45 The "L" of L.A. 
4 Engine housing 
5 Relief carvings Aquarius 47 Flabbergast 6"1f1Had­28 Land bordered 53 Freq. quotation Like You" (1925 by the Mekong attribution 
25 Sign after 46 Dullsville 
hit) 7 Opposites of a 39-Across ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE aMany a Cecil B. De Mille film 9 Large bottle 
~.:..:..t;;..+-'--+'.c...r"-i 10 Tape deck button 11 Hockey score 
B-=+=+=+-±~ 12 Contributed 13"My--and Only" 21 Immensely 22 Legal matter -:7+'=+'-:+'-1 25-dish (lab item) 26"--toBe You" 27 Hindu Trinity member 

28 Reading lights 29 Sitting on 30 Stone mound 31 70's sitcom 32 Capitol Hill 
gofers 34 Sir's partner 35 Branch office? 37 Emulate 
Oksana Baiul 38 Stick-on 43 Bespectacled 
dwarf 44 Viewpoints 



y<lUr obligathms. 
CANCER (june 21-july 221: l!u,i­ness partnerships will he bl'ndici.ll today. You can get involved in monl•y-m<lking \'l'nttlfl'"· StKi.ll acti\' ity slwuld invoiVL' physkrll·fitncst­pn,gr.1m:-.. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 231: You can llhlkc major chan~t.'S in your profL·:-.­sion.ll direction. Opportunitk~ to pro­mote your intt.•ntions will hl'lp you <Khit.'V£' your goals . 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Scpt. 221: Get busy compll•ting hobbit'S that havt• been put .1:--.idL•. Your crt•.1h\'L' ilhilitil..... will bL• at .m ,,11-timl' high. F.dUL"<llion­.tl pursuils will hl· worthwhill·. 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 231: Toh Cr1Tt:' of pl'nding legal matter~. Mrlkt• sun• that y•mr insuranct• is up-to-dale. Don't get mvolvcd in group endeav­ors that i1ppeilr to be .l w.1ste of time. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 221: Pert­nerships h1rmt•d today \\'ill Dl' suc­n·~sfuL Sign contr<1cts <1nd .1grt.'L'­ments if ,,t c111 pnssibk. Consich.•r start­ing nr cxp.1nding your tl\\'11 bu..,ines~. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 211. Your gn.•ntest L'fforts will surfclCl' through group endecl\'ors. You can contribute a practical ohjt•ctive to Wtlrk rd.1ted miltlcrs. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-jan. 201: rut your limt• and l'lll'rg:y into im·t~t­\lll.'llt uppnrtunitit•s. You will find pkasurt• trips dnd sori(1l function!-> conducive tn met'ling 11t'\\' romtmtic pt1rtners. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 181: Go 
. ... 
twer your personal papers and t1ny legal documenti\tinn that hilS been hanging over your head. Bt• sure to check ..,.,fetv f.Ktnrs in vuur ht1111l'. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Your creati\"L' t.1lt.'nts \\'ill flourish todil\'. Try to cnmplt•tt• hohhit.~ or help chi·J. dn•n finish O\'L'rdUl' pmjL'Ct!->. You will meet nt·w ;md exciting friends or ltwl·rs through trilvel or group en­
deilvo~. 


student ticket exchange 
USC: Tues Sept 30 
BC: Tues Oct 7 
Restrictions: 

Students can only exchange tickets for two games. A maximum number of 300 tickets can be exchanged per game, on a first-come, first-served basis. Must bring student 10 &ticket booklet to the ticket office, Gate 1, 2nd floor, JACC. 

• 

-c.
Makin' Life Happy 
St Goverr1mer1t 

Football 
1997 

Michigan The agony of 
Notre 21 Dame defeat 14 

SPORTS 
s • 

The ObseiVer/Brandon Candura 
Junior Monica Gerardo capped off sophomore Jenny Heft's pass to put them ahead 6-1 against Rutgers. 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Saint Mary's weathers Rockford 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saim Marv"s Spons Editor 
A slight mist was beginning to fall before the Saint Mary's soccer team even took the field yesterday to play Rockford College. The weather just con­tinued to get worse. 
By the middle of the first half the Belles were playing a very aggressive game in the middle of a downpour. In the end however the Belles were on top, shutting out Hockford 3-0. 
By the end of the first half the game was scoreless and the players were dnmched. "It was nasty weather," said senior co-captain Debra Diemer. "but we played through it. Considering the conditions, we played really well." 
Diemer scored the first goal of the game 20:14 into the sec­ond half off an assist from freshman Alexa Hila!. Five minutes later Diemer found the goal again. Sophomore Mary Woodka was credited with the assist. 
"We had beautiful combina­tions with our passes," com­mented senior fullback Keary Sullivan. "We picked our inten­sity up a notch." 

Saint Mary's head coach Hobert Sharp saw great improvements in his team's play since its last match in which it fell to Hope College. "We needed a good home game and we had it today." said Sharp. 
"We were battling each other out for the ball and it paid off. We were going for it and put good pressure on the offense trying to put it in the net." 
Senior co-captain Eileen Newell scored the final goal of the game ofT an assist from junior middle back Monica Cernanec. 
After the game, Sharp was quick to point to the smart plays of sophomore fullback Kate Hyan as having been important in the Belles' win. "She did an excellent job in shutting down Hockford's best forward," commented Sharp after the game. "She made good offensive plays from the back side of the field." 
• Mtt.J's SOCCER 

Irish withstand defensive battles 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soccer tream made tremendous strides this past weekend in the Big East. The Irish defeated the Villanova Wildcats 1-0 on Friday night and followed up with a win over Hutgcrs yester­day by the same score. This boosted the team's record to f>­2-2 overall and 4-0-1 in Big East play. 
Villanova came to Alumni Field with a five-game unbeat­en streak. which included three Big East opponents. Sophomore Alan Woods scored the only goal of the game for the Irish. Twelve minutes into the game, Woods headed in a corner kkk from senior Scott Wells. It was Wood's third goal on the sea­son. 
Notre Dame dominated the contest. The Irish were able to maintain possession of the ball for most of the game and creat­ed numerous scoring chances, outshooting the Wildcats 14-7. 
Notre Dame's next test was Hutgers, and once again the Irish rose to the challenge. Hutgers was coming otT a big come-from-behind win over Pittsburgh on Friday. 
Sophomore forward Andrew 
see SOCCER I page 18 
Aris scored the game's only play. goal when he volleyed in a "This was a big game for us,· cross from senior David Cutler. head coach MikP Bnrticelli said Senior Bill Savarino was also credited with an assist on the see IRISH I page I ( 

The ObseiVer/John Daily 
With this weekend's wins, the Irish remain undefeated in the Big East 
~· 
at Stanford, vs. Sr. John's, 

~ Europeans victorious in Ryder Cup 
October 4, 2:30p.m. 
~ 
October 3, 7 p.m. 
•
t­
'Q 

see page 12 
"'"' 
at Indiana, 

Volleyball vs. North Park ...... 
• McGwire hits 58th 
\~ September 30, 7 p.m. 
September 30, 7 p.m. 
» 
CIJ 

see page 13 at SMU, 
Soccer at Manchester M October 3, 7:30 p.m. October 1, 4 p.m. 
~ 






