
Tuesday, September 2, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No.7 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS l!FE COUNCIL 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Though the University took steps toward campus accep­tance of gays and lesbians in the Notre Dame community with last week's announcement of "The Spirit of Inclusion" statement, the Campus Life Council (CLC) has vowed to stay abreast of the situation. 
At its first meeting of the year last night, CLC members expressed their thoughts on that most recent development in a crusade by the council and other groups to include sexual orientation in the University's non-discrimination clause. 
''I'm glad that a lot of the ideas in the statement are 
Drunk driver implicated in Diana's death 
By JOCELYN NOVECK Associated Press Writer 

PARIS 
New details of Princess Diana's fatal ride emerged Monday and the picture French sources painted was grim: a legal­
ly drunk driver, possi­bly pushing his Mercedes over 100 mph, trying to weave around slower traffic. 
It introduced a major new element in an investigation that had seemed focused on the 


role that pursuing photographers may have played in causing the crash. which also killed Diana's millionaire boyfriend Dodi Fayed and the driver. 
ln one damning -but unconfirmed ­report Monday, the newspaper Le Monde said witnesses saw photographers trying to push police and rescuers away as they snapped photos of Diana and Fayed after the crash. 
And in Tuesday issues of London news­papers, there were unconfirmed reports that the driver had taunted photographers before departing from a hotel with Diana and Fayed, suggesting that they wouldn't be able to keep up with the Mercedes. 
Police extended the detention of seven photographers taken into custody after the crash. They were expected to be placed under formal investigation Tll!~sday -a step short of being formally charged. The precise charges they might face were not known. 
Early witness reports had said the car was traveling at excessively high speed, those we have expressed, but in the same breath, I'm disap­pointed that they didn't include it in the [non-discrimination) clause," said Morrissey senator Matt Szabo. 
The statement affirms the University's welcome of all peo­ple and "will be published in all University publications," according to University presi­dent Edward Malloy. But is not legally binding, a concern of the CLC. 
"If I were in GLND/SMC, I would like to know that my rights were being looked out for. The statement is not legally binding, and they want to know that they're protected by a legal statement," Dillon senator Pat Coyle said. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean in the College of Arts and Letters, agreed and noted her hope that the University will not dismiss this issue. 
"If the point is to preclude people from asking for legal reassurance, then I don't agree with it [the statement]," Preacher said. 
But overall, council members are pleased with the University's decision to formu­late the statement. 
"The overall attitude it will be a lot more pervasive. It seems to call the University to a higher standard. We cannot simply hold ourselves to what is legally binding," said Father 
see COUNCIL I page 4 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Patrick Coyle (center) asks a question to Bill Kirk about the new 'Spirit of Inclusion' at the CLC meeting in the Foster Room on Monday night. 
ND LalV ties for top spot 

University in 3-way tie in one survey, 11th in other 
By ANNE HOSINSKI News Writer 

The Notre Dame School of Law earned a place among the nation's elite in two recent surveys. 
A recent American Bar Association report on the percentage of students passing bar examinations on their first attempt placed Notre Dame in a tie for first among the nation's top-ranked law schools. Law school graduates of Notre Dame, Yale University and the University of Chicago pass the bar at the commendable rate of 97 percent. 
"It is clear that Notre Dame holds a great reputation among the American Bar Association schools for preparing students for their future careers as lawyers," said Law School dean David Link. "Obviously we are very pleased at our ranking. It is clear­ly attributed to our intensive, required, rig­orous program and our talented faculty. 
"Our faculty works our students very hard, and does an excellent job preparing them not only for the bar exam but for their future careers as lawyers," Link continued. 
Notre Dame also placed well in a recent survey conducted by The National Jurist, ranking 11th nationally among law schools. Published in the Arlington, Va., based mag­azine's May/June edition, the survey based its rankings on five factors: quality of teach­ing, faculty-student relations, employment rate, reputation among attorneys and bar pass rate. 
Link was equally pleased with the rank­ing by The National Jurist. "A ranking of the like is very difficult to
The setting sun casts the shadow of the Dome on the western face of the Hesburgh Library on Thursday. The phenomenon repeated itself on Monday.
see DlANA I page 6 see LAW I page 6 


Notre Dame drops to 19th in national survey 
3. Duke University 
3. Yale University 

19. University of Notre Dame 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 

After a five-year streak of improving its ranking, Notre Dame dropped in the polls. 
The University placed 19th in U.S News & World Report's 11th annual sur­vey of the nation's top 25 colleges and universities, which hit the stands last week. The magazine's list was compiled from statistical data provided by over 1,400 schools, as well as information from college presidents, deans, and admissions directors. 
Notre Dame fell two notches from its 17th place berth last year, which it shared with Washington University (Mo.). In five years, Notre Dame's lowest rank was in 1992 when it placed 26th; since then, it has risen to 25th, 19th, and 18th, respectively. 
Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information at the 
University, remained optimistic about Notre Dame's place on the U.S. News list. 
'The bottom line is that we're in the top 25, and that's where we should be," he said. "There seems to be a mania for rating everything, and we hope people don't get too caught up in that." 
The magazine reported the 1997 sur­vey is the first in which it rounded the 
see RANKINGS I page 4 


-------~ -~-~-------~--------­
Tuesday, September 2, 1997

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
The Great 

Urinal Invasion 
I heard this awful rumor~""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""~ 
that they turned the bath­tubs in Knott Hall into uri­nals. Of course, this will always be a rumor to me since I will not likely cross the thresholds of the Knott bathrooms ever again. That one shower with perfect water pressure; Heather MacKenzie 
the glistening porcelain Assistant News Editor 
of the third stall ... all 
these are merely fading memories. Now they 
are letting boys use my stalls. Yuck. 
1felt like a freshman again when I arrived 
onto campus this year; instead of making a 
right onto Juniper and heading to D2, I had to 
weave around the intricacies of South Quad 
to find some dorm named McGlinn Hall. I 
know some of you are asking yourselves if 
McGlinn is one of the dorms at Saint Mary's; 
for all of you who have not heard, McGlinn is 
located on campus right next to Notre Dame's 
very own O'Neill Family Hall. And what a 
dorm it is. After two years of spacious rooms 
and bountiful closet space in Knott, I was 
forced to cram all of my worldly possessions 
into a place about the same size as my old 
pink Barbie mansion. That amount of space 
may have worked for Barbie, but then again, 
her clothes are a lot smaller than mine. 
And we have this new modular furniture. 
The term "modular" sounds like it should be 
so trendy. As in, "Hey baby, I just picked 
myself up some new MOD-ular furniture at 
Meijer. Want to come back to my place and, 
heh-heh, check it out?" 
But that is where the fantasy ends. Where I 
had light, moveable furniture before, I now 
have a huge, giantess, totally unbudge-able 
"unit." My face sleeps about six inches from 
the ceiling; my desk is enclosed in a claustro­
phobic cubbyhole. And don't get me started 
on the loft. My very first experience with this 
beast resulted in me slipping off the first rung 
of the loft's ladder, crashing on top of the air­
conditioning unit with both my legs, and then 
tumbling to the floor. The then-uncarpeted, 
concrete floor. When my rector saw my 
bruise (which, by the way, extends from my 
knee to my upper thigh -about nine inches 
by four inches) she promptly made me put 
down the refrigerator I was helping unload 
from hall storage and made me sit down. 
"You might hurt yourself," she said, eyeing 
the purple and black monstrosity. People 
stare at the dining hall. It is disgusting. 
But as much as I miss Knott, I am slowly 
learning to think of McGlinn as home. Instead 
of leaving the dorm 20 minutes early to make 
the trek to DeBartolo, I now leave seven min­
utes early and get there with time to spare. 
And sure, the Knott Angels may have become 
the "Juggerknotts" (pretty clever guys). but 
perhaps one day I may willingly refer to 
myself as a McGlinn Shamrock. I do love my 
picturesque view: I may have given up the 
dome but now I can freely stare at the bare­
chested males playing basketball outside my 
window. I still share a double with my fabu­
lous roommate, and I am closer to all my 
Grace-refugee friends who now call Keough 
home. I guess it could be worse. I could live 
in Howard. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Derek Betcher Heather Cocks Allison Koenig Matthew Loughran Sports Kevin Robinson Mike Day Viewpoint Kelly Brooks  Accent Ashleigh Thompson Graphics Peter Cilella Production Betsy Baker Lab Tech Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Princess Diana to be honored with state funeral 
LONDON 
Princess Diana's funeral at Westminster Abbey, somber yet splendid, public yet private. will be "a unique funeral for a unique person," Buckingham Palace said Monday. 
Like the princess herself in life, the ceremony Saturday eludes categories, embraces contradictions, and leaves the monarchy and government grappling with an awkward situation. 
The funeral will be a state event but will not have all the pomp and ceremony of a full state funeral, a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair said. It will reflect the princess's "modernity," the spokesman said. 
Buckingham Palace said invitations to the Westminster Abbey funeral would go out to about 2,000 people. The White House said Monday that President Clinton would not attend, and that it had not been decided who would represent the United States. White House aides said there was discussion of first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton attending but emphasized there had been no decision on her participation. 
Clinton relaxes past Labor Day 

OAK BLUFFS, Mass. 
Labor Day marked the end of sum­mer for many Martha's Vineyard vacationers, but President Clinton was still going strong. "We should have a good week. Won't be as many people here now," the president told reporters Monday after teeing off at the Farm Neck Golf Club. The White House didn't say whether Clinton 
=........__....._~ would cut his three-week respite short to attend Princess Diana's funeral at week's end. Asked by a reporter whether he would travel to London for the Saturday burial, Clinton paused then turned away to watch a Washington friend and golfing partner, Beth Dozoretz, take her turn at the first tee. Aides expected to announce on Tuesday whether Clinton would lead the U. S. delegation to London for Diana's funeral ser­vices on Saturday, a day before the president is sched­uled to return to Washington. "My guess is from lis­tening to the conversations, (any announcement) would be more likely tomorrow than today," White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said Monday. In a con­dolence letter released Tuesday, Clinton wrote Prime Minister Tony Blair: "The British people, indeed all of us, have lost a friend." 
Nudity rules at Burning Man festival 
RENO, Nev. 
Thousands of artists and free spirits headed home Monday as the Burning Man festival ended on the north­ern Nevada desert with a fashion show and the torching of a 40-foot-tall wooden man. Billed as the ultimate anarchist party, the festival climaxed Sunday night on a desert basin 125 miles north of Reno. Law enforcement authorities, who clamped down on the event after prob­lems at last year's gathering, praised the behavior of participants. Washoe _County Sheriff's Lt. Larry McGee estimated up to 16,000 people attended. "We didn't have all that many problems considering it was the sixth largest town in Nevada over the weekend," said Mary Scheuerman, fire commander for the event. The festival began 12 years ago when artist Larry Harvey built and burned a replica of a man on a San Francisco beach as about 20 onlookers watched his quirky epitaph to lost love. The story goes that the 8-foot pyre represented his former girlfriend's new lover. Two basic elements of the festival remained: Clothing was optional and drugs were acceptable. McGee said they didn't enforce nudity laws and would have made arrests for open drug use. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ \ 


Tuesd~y  q,,,... ,  
Wedn~sday~  81 63  
·l:::~ w  
Thursday  1)  Z7 64  

Frida-y ~,,,al ·63t Satqr~ar\ :"'~:{ 82 .65;j
•:__ -...~·----j -.;·· 
.•/ 

4l~~.u~.u {) ~ u
,,',,', ,,,, ...... :. ·=·.;::·.( -:...-::...-::... 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vis Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 2. 
FRONTS: 
............... ............_ ...,..-........ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Close up on the crash 
~r~~~e;sh~~a~1fe~~1~ ~~~~~ead4gv;~?9n~:P~~~~~;~~ fr~~ ~a~~~~a~z~~tomobile 
Caterpillars take over Indiana county 
INDIANA 

An army of strange-looking caterpillars have invaded this rural Starke County community. Motorists driving on Toto Road quickly notice the green stains on the pave­ment and the moving mass of black bugs coating some sections of the road as it migrate toward yards and fields on the other side. The caterpillars range from 1 to 4 inches in length, with black bodies and red ends. Near the rear end of the bug is an appendage about one­fourth of an inch long that sticks straight up and looks like a stinger. Residents along Toto Road in this north­central Indiana community have been cleaning up the bugs, by the thousands or possibly millions, for about a week. "I saw a few of these last Sunday," said Toto Road resident Karen Hagle. "By Monday they were every­where, coming across the road, across our yard and toward the house. "I put a few of them in a bucket and showed them to my husband. We've never seen a bug that looks like this before. We've never seen this many bugs before. "Sharon Flagg, who lives down the road from the Hagles, said the caterpillars are just as relent­less where she lives. "We can't do anything to stop them," Flagg said. "They just keep coming and coming. I just do anything I can to keep them out of the house. "Local residents contacted the Starke County extension agent, who was just as baffled about the insect. 
Lewis raises $50.5 million for his kids 
LOS ANGELES 

Singers, dancers, comedians, impersonators and 
celebrities helped Jerry Lewis bring in a record $50.5 
million during the 32nd annual muscular dystrophy 
telethon that ended Monday. Last year, $49.1 million 
was raised, and Lewis urged viewers throughout this 
year's 211/2-hour telethon to bring in 'just $1 more.' 
"The American people have set a new standard in 
expressing love and caring," said Lewis, who is the 
national chairman of the Muscular Dystrophy 
Association. This year's telethon featured performers 
from the musical "Ragtime" and a taped number from 
"Riverdance." Celebrities including Tony Danza. Charo 
and Jerry Springer also urged pledges. The Muscular 
Dystrophy Association funds research into the genetic 
muscle-wasting disease and sends children with it to 
summer camp and other programs. Lewis addressed 
telethon protesters who have in recent years voiced con­
cern that the money doesn't go where it is needed. "We 
have some naysayers out there," Lewis said. "Whether 
people don't like a telethon or they don't believe what we 
do is of any consequence. I think we've got a lot of peo­
ple out there that just don't get it." 
PressUre 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc11Jlfld Press 
Atlanta 89 68 Dallas 97 75 Miami 90 76 Baltimore 87 68 Denver 81 56 New York 82 70 Barbados 86 73 Honolulu 92 79 Phoenix 95 87 Chicago 85 55 Kokomo 87 66 St. Louis 89 71 Columbus 86 65 Los Angeles 88 70 Vancouver 71 59 




Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sketching God Quad ... • FUND RAISING 

The Observer/Jo Mikoels-Adechi A group of art students takes advantage of the mild weather on cam­pus yesterday to complete a class assignment 

Corporations give to campaign 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN recognizes the significance of News Writer our College of Business Administration to attract the 
Notre Dame has received very best MBA students from large grants from the Merrill such countries as China, Japan, Lynch Foundation and 
Lockheed Martin Martin for their sup­towards its $767 million port and commitment. Generations fundraising It not only assists the campaign. University in keeping 
The Merrill Lynch its commitment to Foundation donated diversity, but also $100,000 to the helps underwrite University to be used for impressive research the masters of business now under way in our administration fellow­College of ships for students from Engineering," Malloy Asian countries. This stated. grant came about after "Undergraduate David Komansky, the scholarships are a top president and CEO of priority of the Merrill Lynch and Co., 'Generations' cam­Inc., visited Notre Dame paign. This will help last winter. attract top students 
"This grant allows us and alleviate some of to diversify our class," their financial bur­said Bill Nichols, associ­dens," said executive ate dean of the MBA director of develop­
program. "Most Asian students have no financial aid available to them, and could not attend Notre Dame without these fel­lowships." Nichols also noted that Merrill Lynch has recently increased its recruitment of Notre Dame graduates. 
Two hundred forty-five stu­dents are currently in the two­year MBA program, 45 of whom receive fellowships. About $1.25 million is given each year, averaging out to $11,000 per recipient. 
"A significant portion of fel­lowships are University-spon­sored, some being supported by funds from the NBC football contract," Nichols said. 
"(This grant) encouragingly 


Malaysia, Taiwan, and Singapore," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
In a separate gift, Lockheed Martin donated $20,000 to the University in support of minori­ty scholarships for students in the College of Engineering. 
"We are pleased to partic­ipate with the University in the Minority Engineering Program and in conducting research in support of our business. In the process, we hope to attract some of the best and brightest students Notre Dame has to offer," corporate vice president Michael Smith said. 
Lockheed Martin has con­tributed $242,000 to the 
University in grants and gifts in the past three years, with addi­tional funds given by employees and a matching gift program. 
"We are grateful to the peo­
ple at Lockheed 
ment Dan Reagan. 
In 1996, 50 percent of under­graduate students received need-based loans, work-study, or scholarships from the University. 
"The resources in financial aid have been improving. However, we are not yet in a position to meet the full need of students, which is the ultimate goal of the University," said Jeff Pethick, scholarship coordina­tor for the University. 
The Generations campaign is a seven-year program which began in 1994, but was not publicly launched until this May. It is the largest fund-rais­ing campaign ever in Catholic higher education. 

We accept Credit Cards 
Mastercard American Express Visa Discover 

~------­
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
issues.
Go Deep, Go Deep. 
Student body president Matt



Council 

continued from page 1 
David Scheidler, rector of St. 
Edward's HalL 
He continued that the state­
ment will give staff members 
more ammunition with which 
to enforce standards of decen­
cy and assure acceptance of all 
community members. 
"''m better armed. I can hold it up and say, 'This is how you're supposed to live.' This Statement of Inclusion asks a homophobic student to change their ways. It's more pro-active than just ignoring that person -it's embracing them," Scheidler said. 
The council did grapple with whether or not disciplinary action will be taken upon viola­tion of the statement and if it will be considered a University policy. Bill Kirk, vice president of Student Affairs, will inform the council in two weeks about the various changes to this year's du Lac, addressing those Griffin also called for a sub­committee headed by Szabo to continue the council's discus­sion of this matter_ 
"We don't just want to leave this thing hanging in the air," Griffin said. 
Apart from the statement, another sub-committee was formed to address a new Faculty Senate resolution in depth at the next CLC meeting. 
The CLC also announced first publication of the student gov­ernment's "Campus Hook-Up" entertainment magazine_ Issues will be distributed for free across campus on Thursdays_ 
Have something to say? Use a classified 
•
lfl 

The Observer 



Rankings 
continued from page 1 
final score, resulting in eight tied scores in the top 25 alone. Notre Dame is an example, sharing its berth with Vanderbilt University, which rose three places. Harvard and Princeton split the top spot, with Duke and Yale tying for third. 
Moore stressed the administration's view that 
U.S. News' rankings should not be pivotal for prospective students. 
"If anything, our numbers are marginally stronger this year," Moore said. "The rankings are so up and down, there's just no sense in look­ing at them closely." 
Echoing the sentiments of former student body president Seth Miller after last year's rankings, Moore said that the results can be slightly skewed by Notre Dame's strong focus on under­graduate education. 

"A lot of educators tend to base their opinion of a school on its research components," he said, "and we aren't a graduate research institution to the extent that others are. 
"In general, we're leery of !the rankings]." Moore said. 
U.S. News said that this year's rankings are not as focused on freshman class statistics as in previous years, instead looking at rate of attrition and the overall quality of education at each schooL 
The college or university's reputation counts for 25 percent of the final score, as does reten­tion of its students. Faculty resources, for exam­ple teacher-to-student ratios, make up 20 per­cent, with the caliber of the school's classes counting 15 percent Other factors include finan­cial resources and alumni giving. 



OLD NAVY 
CLOTHING c 0. 
Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, TM offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 

We offer limited opportunities to learn, promotion based on talent and ability, and great personal satisfaction 
WE ARE NOW HIRING FOR THE MISHAWAKA LOCATION 


Great student opportunities! 
Pkaseapp~inpe~onat 

Old Navy Clothing Co. Princess City Plaza 4510 N. Grape Rd Mishawaka, IN 
Monday-Saturday IOam-7pm 



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Shopping for the new room...
ND tabs expert for library post 
Special to The Observer 
Jennifer Younger has been appointed director of libraries at Notre Dame effective Nov. 
1. Vacant since last January, the position will place Younger at the head of all campus libraries and their faculties. 
According to University provost Nathan Hatch, Younger will be a catalyst for change for Notre Dame's library system as the world of information technologies con­tinues to grow. 
"She's a wonderful leader and a very creative person. She has a good understanding of technological and digitized information issues," Hatch said. 
Presently serving as the assistant director for technical 

You could earn: $30°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 ifyou donate alone (first visit) 
$5°0 ifyou show college I.D. (first visit) 
$10°0 per person ifyou recruit someone and they donate twice. 

$30°0 TOTAL! 
B=ELP US SAVE LtVJR­
* ~"" '''*' ~y Must be 18 years old; proof ofcurrent address with photo I.D. 
Come to: Hours: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9:00-6:00 
515 Lincolnway West Sat: 8:00 -5:00 
South Bend, IN 46601-1117 Ph. 234-6010 
r----------------------~


Shori.n-Ryu Karate 
•Discipline •Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence •Fitness 

Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, September 9, Rockne Rm. 219 
Ru:-~ 

www.nd.e«iul-recsport 
~----------------------~ 
service and liaison for the regional campus libraries at Ohio State University, Younger has also worked at her alma mater, the University of Wisconsin­Madison, as well as at Northwestern University and the U.S. Department of State. 
Hatch thinks that Younger's experience will help place Notre Dame in an informa­tional network in higher edu­cation. 
"With her strong national and midwest connections, Younger can make links with other universities to help aid students at Notre Dame in finding information," Hatch said. 
Younger expressed her enthusiasm in joining the University community in a recent press release. 
"I am excited about becom­ing a part of the effort to build a great university. I'm looking forward to carrying out my responsibilities in the library to reach that goal," Younger said. "On my visit to Notre Dame, I was impressed by an outstanding faculty and staff, and I look forward to working with them." 
Active in several profession­al organizations, Younger has served as president of the Association for Library Collections and Technical Services and on the American Library Association external review panels. 
A nationally recognized speaker, she has also written extensively for professional journals and has served as an outside consultant for numer­ous firms. 

Please recycle The Observer 

The United States Marine Corps is looking for college freshmen and sophomores who expect to graduate between December 1999 and June 2001 to train for and become }!Iarine Aviators upon graduation from college. 
This program, called the Platoon Leader's Class (PLC) guarantees: 
• 
No interruption of your studies. All training takes place during two 6-week summer sessions at Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia. 

• 
No classes, uniforms or drills during the school year. 

• 
$1,827 pay during each 6-\veek session plus travel and meal expenses. 

• 
$150 a month in financial assistance during the school year. 

• 
Active duty as a second lieutenant after graduation with excellent pay. 

• 
Aguaranteed seat in Flight School after completion of The Basic School. 

• 
l'p to 25 hours free flight instruction while in school if qualified. 

• 
Freedom to disenroll, without obligation, after completing the first training session up until the spring of your senior year. 


SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
For more information call 1-800-878-0241 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
. 
INDIANAUNIV£RSITY 
SoUTIIBEND 
CoNTINUING EnuanoN 
Falll997 
Semester 
More than 300 classes 
• 
Professional Development 

• 
Certificate Programs 

• 
Personal Interest 

• 
Languages and Culture 

• 
Tour Programs 

• 
Health and Wellness Complete listings online: 


www.iusb.edu/-ded Or caD 237-4261 for a free catalog 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
in a chain ... that ended at the Pont de !'Alma." drop in on their professors any Dartevelle has filed a civil complaint seeking time they are available," he


Diana Law
damages against those ultimately found respon­explained. 
continued from page 1 
and on Monday a police official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the speedometer was found stuck at 196 kilometers per hour ­121 miles an hour-an almost certain indica­tor of its speed at impact. 
In a statement, prosecutors said blood tests on driver Henri Paul showed he had an illegal blood-alcohol level. They did not give the level, but a judicial source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was 1.7 5 grams of alcohol per liter of blood -more than three times France's legal limit. 
France's National Association for the Prevention of Alcoholism said that was the equivalent of drinking nine shots of whiskey ­a shot in a French bar equaling about 1.2 ounces. 
Under French law, exceeding 0.5 grams ­the level after about two or three glasses of wine -is considered a misdemeanor, while a 
0.8 level is considered a greater offense. 
The limit translates to a blood alcohol content of about 0.065 percent, and Paul's reported level to a content of 0.23 percent. Most U.S. states consider a driver to be legally drunk when a blood alcohol content of 0.1 percent is reached, although some have recently lowered that to 0.08 percent. 
France's law, toughened in 1995, is one of the strictest in Europe. 
Le Monde reported Monday that Paul was try­ing to skirt around a slower-moving vehicle when the car crashed inside a Seine riverside tunnel, beneath the approach to a bridge, the Pont de !'Alma. 
Paul, 41, a former French air force pilot, was the No. 2 security man at the Ritz Hotel, owned by Dodi Fayed's family, and the car was owned by the hotel. 
Bernard Dartevelle, a Fayed family lawyer, said Paul had been off-duty and was called from home to take the place of the regular dri­ver, who had left earlier in another vehicle as a decoy to throw photographers off the trail. 
Regardless of whether Paul was drunk, Dartevelle said, it was the photographers chas­ing the princess who were responsible for the accident. 
"That infraction," he said, "was the first link sible for the death. 
In London, The Mirror on Tuesday quoted Gilbert Collard, a French lawyer representing Christian Martinez, one of the seven arrested paparazzi, as saying: "It seems there was a short discussion between the photographers, the driver and the bodyguard before the limou­sine left the Ritz. 
"It was along the lines: 'Don't bother follow­ing, you won't catch us anyway. ' " 
The Times of London cited what it called unconfirmed reports that Paul had taunted the photographers by saying "Catch me if you can," before speeding away from the hotel. 
A spokeswoman at the Ritz -were Diana and Fayed dined before the fatal crash -told The Associated Press that Paul was an experienced driver who received special security training from Mercedes-Benz at a center in Germany. She said he also had experience handling heavy armor-plated vehicles like the car in the crash. 
Police so far have not been able to talk to the lone survivor of the crash, bodyguard Trevor Rees-Jones. He suffered a head contusion, a lung injury and facial injuries. His condition was described as grave but not life-threatening, and he remained in intensive care Monday. 
A judicial source said Monday evening that the seven photographers now in custody would be detained for another night, and that on Tuesday, a judge would take charge of the case and place them under formal investigation. 
Even if they are cleared of any direct role in the crash, France's "Good Samaritan" law might apply. It makes it a crime to fail to help someone in danger. 
Le Monde reported Monday that, within 30 seconds of the crash, some photographers were taking pictures of the bleeding victims. 
Citing at least a dozen unnamed witnesses, it said some photographers actually pushed away rescuers and two policemen who arrived on the scene, saying they were ruining their pictures. 
Police continued Monday to examine images from 20 rolls of film confiscated from the pho­tographers to learn more about what hap­pened. 
Some people seemed already to have decided. Fresh graffiti were sprayed Monday in bright red on a wall of the tunnel: "Paparazzi Cowardly Murderers." 
continued from page 1 

achieve," he said. "It pleases me very much because one of the major factors in the rank­ing is the degree of student sat­isfaction and quality of teach­ing." 
Although satisfied with the honor, Link noted that it was not the 11th-place ranking itself which he found most sig­nificant. 
"Despite having a very rigor­ous curriculum, Notre Dame law students have a great rela­tionship with the faculty, which is a wonderful accompiish­ment." 
Link attributes the "Marine Corps Mentality" of the Law School curriculum with pro­moting such great faculty/stu­dent relations. 
"We believe that only half of the teaching in our law school goes on in the classrooms. We use an open door policy with our faculty and students, and students arc always welcome to 

Link also attributes the Law School's highly selective, per­sonalized admissions standards to its success. 
"We look for high moral val­ues in students and we intend to educate our students to use their law degree to serve the public," Link noted. 
Third-year law students Amy O'Brien and Erin King were not surprised to learn of their school's high ranking. 
"It's about time," O'Brien said. "The legal education... here at Notre Dame is unparal­leled. I feel very well pre­pared." 
King believes that the school's strong core program leads directly to the success of law students. 
"I can only hope that after I take the bar the ranking doesn't go down," she joked. 
Notre Dame ranked ahead of such schools as Harvard, Columbia, and Northwestern in the National Jurist survey. Yale was rated first. 

News Friday Section Tempo 
The best source for local and Find out about cool places and Review music, comedy, theater national current events spicy tastings and books 
Official Rules: hotel accommooatioos and airtare for two to Gancun, 
1. 
ENTRY: To enter, correctly complete and return the Mexico for 4nights and 5days. Certain travel and other official entry form to the de~gnated Chicago Tnbune restrictlons apply. Retail value: $1,300. FIRST PLACE booth on campus. Must be 18 years old to enter. Proof of PRIZE: four winners will get a Chicago Bulls leather age may be required. jacket from Tnbune Store. Retail value $350 each. 

2. 
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY: You may also enter by 4. WINNERS: Winners will be determined by random wnting the required information, name, address, day and drawing on November 1, 1997. Odds to win will depend evening phone number and date of birth, on apostcard oo number of entries received. Send S.A.S.E. to above and mail to: University Contest Chicago Tnbune 435 N. address for awinners list. Winners agree to allow use of Michigan Promotions·Sune 200, Chicago, IL 60611-their names and photos by the Chicago Tnbune for pro­4041. One entry per envelope. Mechanically reproouced motion purposes. Winners must execute and return an entries will be disqualffied. Mailed entries must be aHidavn of eligibility and liability/publicity release within received by the Chicago Tnbune by November 1,1997. 3 days of notification, or pnze will be forteited. Winners The Chicago Tnbune will not be responsible for entries assume any tax liability for pnzes. Winners will be notl­lost or delayed in delivery and reserves the nght to dis· fied by phone or mail. Organizers are not responsible for qualify any mutilated, attered, illegible entries or entries any damages or injury incurred by a contestant as a which do not comply with these rules. All entries become result of winning. the property of the Chicago Tnbune. By entering this con­5. ELIGIBILITY: Employees of Chicago Tribune Company, test, all entrants agree that the Chicago Tribune has the n's affiliates, agencies and distributors and their families sole nghl to decide all matters and disputes ari~ng from are not eligible. This coolest Is subject to all federal, this coolest and that its determination of the winners state and local laws and Is void where prohibfied. shall be final and binding. 6. In faim~• to all, the Chicago Tnbune cannot discuss 

3. 
PRIZES: Prtzes are non-refundable and not the contest by phone, mall or in any other way with the redeemable for cash. GRAND PRIZE: ooe winner will get contestants. 









Enter To WIN! 
ATtip For Two To Cancun, Mexico! Or Leather Chicago Bulls Jacket 


STUDENT OFFER 
Per Week 
Including Sundays 
Sports 
In your face coverage of college and professional sports 

Sunday Paper Chicago Tribune Online 
Share views and opinions, bargain Explore Tribune Archives and shop or scan the Job section CareerPath at chicago.tribune.com 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------­
FULL TERM, 32 WEEKS HALF TERM, 16 WEEKS 57% off the newsstand price. ' 50% off the newsstand price. • D Seven day $67.20 ($2.10/wk) DEK' D Seven day $37.60 ($2.35/wk) DEJ' D Mon.-Sat. $43.20 ($1 .35/wk) DEK D Mon-Sat $25.60 ($1.60/wk) DEJ D Sun. only $56.00 ($1.75/wk) D Sun only $28.00 ($1.75/wk) DEJ 
If different from above #of full term weeks. #of half-term weeks. Payment by: D Check D MasterCard D VISA D American Express D Discover/Novus Account No .. ________________ Exp. Date,____________ 
Signature.____________ Name.__________________ Address ________________________________ Dorm Address______________________________ Aptt____City _____________State ____Zip,________ Home phone (___J,___________Work phone (___J ____________ 
Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune 2000 York Rd. Suite 124 Oak Brook, IL. 60523·0001 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 2, 1997 

Gore endorses organized labor 
By MIKE GLOVER 
Associated Press Writer 
HAMPTON, Ill. 

Vice President AI Gore sought to cement the Clinton administration's occasionally 
rocky ties with the labor move­ment Monday by delivering a rousing union-boost­ing speech at a Labor Day 


rally. Gore 
"It's time for a new unionism," Gore said. "It's time for a new effort to organize working men and women in this country." 
Gore traveled to the banks of the Mississippi River to march in a parade and appear with AFL-CIO President John Sweeney and Labor Secretary Alexis Herman at a rally attended by more than 700 activists. 
Ties between President Clinton and organized labor have occasionally been strained, but there was little notice taken of those differ­ences during Monday's parade and rally. 
Sweeney declared that Gore "has been a singular voice on behalf of the right of every worker to form or join a union free from harassment or intim­idation." 
For his part, Gore issued a ringing endorsement of orga­nized labor. 
"It means a new awareness of the fact that wages need to go up when pro­ductivity and profits go up," he said. 
Organized labor is a key Democratic constituency and Gore will be working overtime to build ties as he prepares an expected race for the Democratic presidential nomi­nation in 2000. 
He picked a Labor Day cele­bration in Illinois, which holds an important early primary, and just across the river from Iowa, where precincts caucus­es launch the nomination process. 
In making his case Monday, Gore made it clear that he'll side with labor should he seize the party's nomination. 
The union leaders also made it clear that both Clinton and Gore went a long way to heal­ing any rift when the adminis­tration refused to intervene in 

God gives each 
person one lifetime. What are youdoing with yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. James King, C.S.C. Fr. William Wack, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
the Teamster's strike against United Parcel Service. 
"I thank you for keeping the faith in the collective bargain­ing process," Sweeney told Herman. 
Herman lauded Sweeney as a leader who re-energized the nation's largest labor organiza­tion. But Gore was the focus of most attention because he's generally considered the front­runner for the party's nomina­tion. 
Gore said the Clinton admin­istration's backing for the min­imum wage increase was a clear signal that workers should side with Democrats. 
The mm1mum wage increased by 40 cents on Monday and is now $5.15 an hour. That's the second phase of an increase earlier approved by Congress. 
Republican critics "said it would ignite inflation," Gore said. "They said it would lead to the ruination of our econo­my. They were wrong for 12 years when they were running the place." 
Gore said that Republican opposition to the minimum wage showed the party's eco­nomic policies continue to be off-base. 


Baptist leader begs forgiveness 
By DAVID BRIGGS church accounts to buy expen­Associated Press Writer sive jewelry, a Mercedes-Benz and a $700,000 home with a 
DENVER woman other than his wife. 

The humbled president of the On Sunday night, a contrite nation's largest black denomi­Lyons bowed his head and nation sought forgiveness as thanked supporters at a packed other ministers pressed for his prayer meeting where speakers resignation Monday over praised him for admitting mis­alleged personal and financial takes in his handling of church sins. funds. He denied criminal 
The board of the 8.5-million­wrongdoing. member National Baptist "I think it's going to be the Convention U.S.A. was to meet greatest hour for spiritual late Monday to take up allega­redemption in the history of the tions the Rev. Henry Lyons of Christian church," said the Rev. St. Petersburg, Fla., used Acen Phillips of Mt. Gilead 

All in favor of a little GAMBLING sayt ''AYE!'' 
Okay, so it's not really gambling but come out to Stepan Center and play the 
' 


Ticket Lottery 

Winners become eligible to buy two tickets to the Purdue game. It all starts at 4:00 p.m. 
' 

on Wednesday ... One lottery ticket per student ID, two ID's per student ...Drawing begins at 6:40 
Baptist Church in Denver, a church vice president and Lyons supporter. 
However, a coalition repre­senting 350 churches announced plans Monday to fight for Lyons' ouster, even if the 200-member governing board allows him to stay on. The mechanism for overriding the board is unclear. 
"As Christians, we are taught to love everybody and forgive," said the Rev. John J. Barfield of Phillippian Baptist Church in Philadelphia, spokesman for the Coalition for a Better 
Convention. "At the same time, 
we cannot carry out and con­
duct business as usual." 
Behind-the-scenes negotia­tions between church leaders and Lyons took place through­out the day Monday. A source close to the talks who spoke on condition of anonymity said the discussions involved Lyons remaining as president through the annual meeting, then resigning. The Rev. S.C. Cureton of South Carolina, a church vice president who is second-in-command, would take over the top spot until new elections could be held. 
Lyons, 55, was elected three years ago on a reform slate that promised to open the group's financial records to its members and move it in the politically active direction the Rev. Martin Luther King envi­sioned nearly four decades ago. 
Lyons started off strong by establishing a close relation­ship with President Clinton, reducing church debt and helping form an economic development corporation for black churches. 
But Lyons' life -profession­al and personal -began to unravel in July when his wife of 25 years, Deborah, was charged with setting small fires inside a $700,000 home in Tierra Verde, Fla. Lyons bought the home with Bernice Edwards, a convicted embez­zler he hired as the church's corporate relations director. Sheriff's deputies said Mrs. 
Lyons told them she believed
Need not be present to win 

her husband was having an 
affair; Mrs. Lyons later denied 
telling them that. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
• RACE RELATIONS 
Is race a factor in police stops? !ll(g·.·;.)'·•9'%;!1d1·L'J'·'ii:··;tHii&<iu..ying is g_.J~ down/
By WILL LESTER his cool. "It doesn't matter who you Associated Press Writer "I obey the law, don't be­are. We've arrested our own ,.,: =~ ~ ..·:·.· . : ...:=·:·=· .·.· . :.:<tf\ 

MIAMI 
Aaron Campbell could see 

the sheriffs patrol car ahead 
of him in the April twilight, 
parked just south of a turn­
pike overpass. 
He wasn't worried. His Ford 
Explorer was on cruise con­
trol, just under the speed 
limit. But then, moments 
later, he saw flashing lights in 
his rear-view mirror, and he 
pulled to the side. 
"Since I know the police 
procedures, I remained in the 
car," Campbell said. "Officers 
like for you to stay in the car. 
I let my window down to hear 
his instructions." 
Campbell knew the proce­dures because he is a police officer himself-a 25-year veteran of the Metro-Dade Police Department. He would explain to the deputy that he was a fellow police officer, that he had broken no laws. There was no reason for con­cern. 
But there was reason for 
concern. 
Campbell is black. The deputy was white. And after Campbell got out with his dri­ver's license, the traffic stop quickly spun out of control. It ended with the police major being doused with pepper spray and stumbling onto the turnpike before he was wres­tled to the ground. 
Campbell now faces charges of felony assault and resisting arrest with violence. Months before his retirement, he was suspended without pay. 
And the controversy over whether race is being used as a reason to make traffic stops -whether motorists are being pulled over for what critics call "driving while black" -flared anew. 
Police consider many factors when making a stop, such as "something being not quite right, almost a sixth sense," said Stephen Hennessy, a vet­eran police officer and cultur­al awareness trainer for the International Association of Chiefs of Police in Alexandria, Va. 
But he concedes some departments "arc in a little bit of trouble in how they deal with individuals and constitu­tional rights." 
When the major got out of his car on April 9, driver's license in hand, he identified himself as a fellow officer. Orange County Cpl. Richard Mankewich, who is white, told Campbell he'd made an improper lane change by not signaling before cutting in front of a truck. Mankewich also noted, as a video camera on his dashboard silently whirred, that Campbell's license tag was partially obscured. 
That's when Campbell blew ---with me," Campbell told Mankewich. He snatched his license back from Mankewich, referring to him with a vulgarity. 
"Immediately I recognized what was happening," Campbell later told The Associated Press. 
"I frequently travel up to the house that I'm building. I see these guys profiling" ­pulling drivers over because they exhibit certain charac­teristics that are deemed sus­picious -"every time I come up. I knew what they were doing. For some reason they stopped me." 
Campbell still had a gun in his pouch. He could see that the situation was growing dangerous. He retreated to sit on the guardrail and demand­ed that Mankewich call for a supervisor. 
"I am the supervisor," Mankewich replied, and he called for backup. 
Soon, reinforcing officers approached from behind the seated Campbell as Mankewich warned them that Campbell was armed. One blasted Campbell with pepper spray; he was chased onto the highway, and was arrested. 
"I was confused and bewil­dered," Campbell said. "They said I was fleeing. I was try­ing to get away from that spray." 
Orange County officials deny they use profiling. They say Mankewich, who was working on a drug squad that occasionally gives traffic tick­ets, had no way of knowing Campbell was black because the Explorer's windows were tinted. Mankewich said he only planned to write a warn­ing ticket. 
in the past," spokesman Robert Larson said. "If they're in the wrong, they are going to pay the price. Police officers are not above the law." 
The courts will determine 
whether Campbell is a crimi­
nal, or an innocent victim. But 
the larger issue -whether 
police are unduly using race 
in looking for criminals -is 
far from settled. 
National statistics haven't been collected, but a survey of such stops from the state of Maryland to Florida's Volusia County showed minority dri­vers were stopped dispropor­tionately. 
The U.S. Supreme Court in June 1996 ruled police can pull someone over for a traffic violation, even when looking for evidence of more serious offenses such as drug posses­sion. 
The ruling did not allow for stops based on race, but said objections in such cases must be based on equal-protection guarantees in the Constitution, a standard that can be diffi­cult to prove. 
Campbell, for one, has no doubt that this kind of thing is both common and unaccept­able~ He got some encourage­ment recently from Metro­Dade commissioners, who honored him in July for 26 years of distinguished police service and for his work with young people in public hous­ing. 
"I truly resented the reason I was stopped," he said. "Being a black person in this country, I know the experi­ences we go through. These guys routinely violate the rights of black men. We're supposed to be subservient and accept it." 
.1995~..... .< 
· ··You caniread the news in the credit-card delinquency ratios (30 days or more over~ due), which rose in the final quarter of 1996 to 3.72 per· cent of all accounts. And in personal bankruptcy figures, which last year rose more than 30 percent to 1 million­
plus. · 
;'And you can find the sug­gestion of financial pressure in the latest Commerce Department report on con­sumer spending, It shot up 0.8 
percent in July, eight times fastei'thanincomes rose. 
Notjust that, but in savings too. The rate dipped to 3.7 percent in July, one of the 
· · lowest notjust in recent years but in recent decades. Admittedly, it coul!l be tempo­. maybe not. '"'T!F'I'he 11(>0.1.1lla1 explanation for avior is that con­.are confident about future, and that when so osed they tend to take apt,uuJuJ4 risks. It sounds very 
}IU..U!>WU: .:::::.,.,:~y .... 

Thinking Of Joining the Church? 
Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame inviJes you to its September RCIA classes We offer: -a parish setting on campus 
-Wednesday evening sessions -a diverse mix ofpeople and ages -a convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 
Jlli!M Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 for info. 
. Deloitte & Touche On Campus 
Which Big Six firm offers the 
best opportunities for growth, 



challenge, and advancement? 
At Deloitte & Touche LLP, our investments in our people and the technology they use is what distinguishes us from our competition. The individuals in our Solutions Group are business advisors to rapidly growing middle-market and niche companies. 
We're looking for bright, eager individuals with a variety of skillsets across a broad range of disciplines-individuals who excel in college and life and are eager to contribute, grow, and face the challenges of our practice. We'll be on campus on September 4th and September 5th to present the Solutions Group to you. Solutions is a group of Consulting professionals dedicated to providing cost-effective solutions that result in measur­able value and lasting change. Our Group services three broad areas: Information Management, Financial Management, and Operations Management. Come join us for refreshments and hear more about the great opportunities Deloitte & Touche offers. You'll also have the opportunity 
to speak with hiring managers. 
Thursday, September 4 
Presentation to Undergraduates The Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 7pm 


Friday, September 5 
Presentation to MBA Students MBA Lounge 12:30pm 
Please join us September 4th or 5th. If you can't attend, but are interested in the opportunities we can offer and want more information, send your resume and a letter of interest to: Deloitte & Touche LLP, Dept. LHIND, Two Prudential Plaza, 180 N. Stetson, Chicago, IL 60601; FAX 312/946-2778. Please be sure to visit us on the internet at: www.dttus.com 
Deloitte &: Touche is an equal opportunity employer. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran's status or disabilities. We are pleased to have been recognized by Workforce magazine and Working Mother magazine as an organi­zation committed to creating innovative work/life balance programs, and by ComputerWorld and lnfonnation Week for use of technology in the workplace. 



VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland AssiS[ant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor. ...........................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager. ................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ................... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .................. Katie: Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediwr, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Phoro Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available wall members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.c::du  

• TABlE TALK 
There is a memorable scene in the movie "Apollo 13." The astronauts are returning to Earth in their crippled spacecraft. They've shut down every possible electrical system to conserve what little energy remains in the ship's batteries simply for life support. 
David Weiss 

As they prepare to re-enter the earth's atmosphere they need to maintain a fairly precise angle of entry. If they come in at too slight an angle, they'll skip off the atmosphere and head back out into space. If they come in at too sharp an angle they'll burn the ship up in an instant. There's not much margin for error. 
Mission Control can help them set the angle of their trajectory, but there will be a radio blackout during re-entry itself. And the crew can't afford to turn on the computer to guide them. So they have to manually maintain their posi­tion. They do this by "keeping the moon in the window." That is, once their course is set, they find the moon's posi­tion through the window of the space­craft and then maintain their angle of entry by holding the moon in a constant place in their view. If the ship moves too much one way or the other they re­adjust by keeping the moon in the win­dow. 
That image is a fruitful one as we enter the year ahead of us. Plenty of things will compete for our time and commitment in the months ahead whether we are students, staff, or facul­ty: class deadlines, tenure expectations, athletic games, romantic interests (or misfortunes), social events, roommate or family tensions, financial worries, politi­cal causes, vocational anxieties, peer pressures. All of these are very real and important, to be sure. We can't just ignore them. But, left unchecked, they can easily come to run our lives. They can threaten to send us skipping off course-or, worse, they can simply incinerate us. 
Thus, each of us faces the challenge of "keeping the moon in the window" for ourselves. That is, we must find ways to maintain the balance in our lives, to keep true to our course. For some it may be a dorm Bible study or regularly attending Mass. For others it may be a daily walk or run around the lakes, or just some time spent in prayer or reflec­tion at the Grotto or in the Basilica. It might be as simple as a quiet cup of cof­fee with a close friend or by yourself. 
I'm not talking about setting aside time to have fun or relax, though that is certainly important, too. I'm talking about something deeper; about finding a regular way of remembering who we are and why we're here and where we're headed, in the midst of all the things competing for our allegiance. Obviously, our answers to these ques­tions will change during our years here; we came here to grow, not to stagnate. But these are the questions that really matter -and they can be too easily crowded out of our awareness by the less central but seemingly more pressing concerns of daily life. Only by finding ways to recall these answers regularly to ourselves can we hope to keep our lives true to them. 
Life at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, in whatever capacity you're here ­from freshman to defending doctoral student, from secretarial staff to tenured and chaired professor-is filled with unique challenges, distractions, and temptations. It's surprisingly and fright­eningly easy to lose your true course along the way. So find a view of the moon in your window and then find a way to keep it there. Good luck. 
Now, why "table talk"? My column title has two sources. Most directly it comes from the famous (or infamous) reformer Martin Luther. He often invited students over to his home for dinner and made a point of saving time after the meal to discuss all man­ner of topics. Memories of these conversa­tions were later collected by his ' dinner guests and have since been published as "Luther's Table Talks." They remain to this day fine examples of one man's effort to maintain a running commentary on all aspects of life viewed from the vantage of Christian faith. 


Just as importantly, however, "table talk" originates in the central role of meal fellowship in Jesus' ministry. Mealtimes, for Jesus, served both as opportunities to teach about the Kingdom and also as moments to enact the Kingdom, to practice the very good news that he proclaimed. Many of Jesus' parables find their setting in his table talk. A good number of the parables even incorporate food into their stories. And often the meal itself-whether on account of the persons present, the mir­acles performed, or simply the manner in which the food is shared -takes on a voice of its own. 
Meals can be particularly powerful occasions. They necessarily remind us of who we are: creatures inescapably dependent on food to sustain ourselves. But they also become prime places where we manifest our aspirations regarding who we would like to be ­both by the company we keep and by the conversation we share. Perhaps pre­cisely because meals are common to all of us, our ability to put them to uncom­mon use in building community and character makes them all the more pow­erful. "Table talk," as I intend it, is by no means "small talk." It is not simply that "you are what you eat"; you also are with whom you eat and what you say and do while you eat. There's a lot more on the menu than just food, so make your choices count. 

For my part, I hope that my columns will spark some worthwhile "table talk" in the year ahead, making meals here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's events not just of food, but also of community and character. 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics at Notre Dame. He can be reached at weiss. 7@nd. edu. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 



VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
• So, WHAT's Mv POINT? 
Arts and Letters and Empty Bank Accounts 
Well. We've been here a week. Here in our Notre Dame/Saint Mary's home. Welcome back. 
Coming back as a sophomore at Saint 
Nakasha Ahmad 

Mary's, I've been immersed in my major classes this semester. After all, I'll have to decide at the end of this year exactly what I want to be in life. Which, to me, seems a cruel and unusual punishment. I'm only 18-how on Earth would I know what I want to do for the next 60 years? In a couple of years, we'll be out on our own ... with real jobs. I don't know about anyone else, but the thought of seeing my friends holding responsible positions in "The Real World" scares me to death. I mean, come on ... how many of you would trust your classmates to educate YOUR kid? It's kind of hard to have any respect for anyone's ability to be a role model for Grade School America when you've seen them wasted at 1 a.m. But I digress. 
Back to the point, I have finally decided what I want to do for the rest of my life. I am planning on double majoring in English literature and political science. 
And this is where I run into a problem. 
• lETTERS To THE EmroR 
People don't get it. Can I get famous being an English major? Rich? Successful? 
Well, no. 
I live in a small town. And friendly, well-meaning people, will ask me, "So, what are you majoring in?" 
So I tell them. 
And they get this blank look on their face. Blank as in incomprehensible. Blank as in, "Why on Earth would you spend four years at a good, expensive school to study musty authors and impractical poets?" Blank as in why not become a teacher, or a businesswoman, or a scientist {computer or otherwise)? As in, why aren't you anything but what you are? 
Of course, they're too polite to actually say this. Instead, they ask, "So ... what do you plan to do with that?" 
Ah, there's the rub. I don't have the slightest idea what I plan to do with that. Maybe I'll write. Maybe I'll become a pro­fessor. Maybe I'll ... you know what? I think I just ran out of options. 
However, we English majors do serve a specific and important function in society. When I finally figure out what it is, I'll let you guys in on the secret, too. 
So, okay, maybe there wouldn't be a big dent in the running of the world if all the English majors suddenly dropped off the face of the earth. But would anything happen to world affairs if all the business majors suddenly disappeared? Oh, wait. I forgot. If there were no business majors, people might actually stop making MONEY! Aaaaaagh! What a tragedy! A disaster! 

No, I'm sorry. that was mean, and more impor­tantly, unjusti­fied. I know plenty of busi­ness majors, and none of them are materialistic jerks. Which shows how prevalent stereo­types are, even in a university. The business major is greedy, the humanities major is a lofty intellectual, and the ele­mentary education major is just plain bonkers. Oh, no wait. That last one isn't a stereotype. El-ed majors are nuts. Anyone who volunteers to supervise dirty, runny, snot-nosed kindergartners for the next 40 years qualifies as bonkers in my book. 
Actually, this whole idea of major-bash­ing is ridiculous. Business majors are used to calling us lit majors impractical dreamers; and we English majors (myself included) tend to think of business majors as greedy, materialistic people who sold out for money. I don't think it's occurred to any of us English majors that perhaps business majors, unfathomable as it may seem to us, actually LIKE numbers and business. Maybe they're just doing some­thing they happen to enjoy, just like us. Not everyone has the same interests or ideals. To insist that every business major is a sellout is simplistic and unfair to them. And even if somebody did go into business for the money, what's the big deal? He's not hurting you any. 

Besides, if everyone was an English major, we'd be out of jobs. It's not like there's a great demand for us as it is. Maybe we should be convincing more English majors to turn toward business. This will leave more for the rest of us. 
The point here is that instead of cutting down everybody else, we should be con-· centrating on ourselves. We are at a uni­versity, where people should be studying IN their majors, not trashing other peo­ple's. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore major­ing in English literature and political sci­ence at Saint Mary's. You can send here­mail at ahma349.5@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Reaction to the Administration's Spirit of Inclusion 

I was disappointed with the recent decision against including sexual orien­tation in the university's non-discrimi­nation policy. While the University should be commended for articulating a message of inclusion intended to make gay and lesbian students feel welcome at Notre Dame, it nonetheless failed to back up its tender-hearted rhetoric with tough-minded policy. As it stands now, gay and lesbian students may bask in the glow of the school's "spirit of inclusion," but do have protection against discriminatory policy. 
It is argued that the Catholic Church distinguishes between homosexual ori­entation and homosexual conduct, and it is feared that courts may not define these terms in the same manner as the Church. A well-written policy would easily address this concern. Making this distinction, however, leads to a tragical­ly ironic contradiction. Homosexual ori­entation is not sinful, but homosexual "conduct" is. Church and school policy is similar for heterosexuals, except that heterosexual conduct is allowed within the confines of marriage -an option which gays and lesbians do not enjoy. Regardless of one's beliefs regarding marriage and sexual relations, this is a fundamental discrepancy in Church and school policy. 
While the "spirit of inclusion" may be a small step forward, it rings in my ears as a hollow euphemism for a chronic failure to recognize the full humanity of gays and lesbians. 
Michael Deemer Graduate Student International Peace Studies September I, 1997 

Notre Dame's Logo on Backsides an 'Outrage' 
Notre Dame means Our Mother, Our Lady the Mother of our Lord who we honor, love, and revere on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. I have seen Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students wearing Notre Dame on their backside or seat of their shorts which is insulting and reprehensible to the Mother of Our Savior. Would any one of us allow the placing of our own mother's name on the seat of their trousers? 
One student informed me that such clothing is purchased at the bookstore or stores on campus, which again, is insulting to Mother Mary and certainly hypocritical when she rests atop the Golden Dome and people pray to her at the Notre Dame Grotto. I've been a resident of this campus for almost 50 years, and this practice is, simply put, appalling. What kind of message are we giving to our students when they observe this debasement of Our Lady, the Mother of Jesus Christ, Our Savior. 
This practice should be stopped immediately. Where is the stu­dent council or administration on this? I am outraged. Perhaps the practice is done inadvertently. I pray my letter will bring some action. 
Brother Edward V. Courtney Columba Hall August 28, 1997 

What kind of protection does RFRA afford? 
I would like to make a few points with respect to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA) and the Supreme Court's June 1997 decision that held it unconsti­tutional. 
First, it is true, as The Observer points out in an interview with Professor Kmiec (Aug. 28, 1997), that some scholars saw in the Supreme Court's decision "a huge blow to religious freedom." In fact, not only did scholars dissent with the Court; Justices O'Connor, Souter, and Breyer filed sharp dissents saying that the majority was making bad law in terms of religious free­dom. RFRA, they argued, might have been good in order to protect it better. 
But as Justice Scalia intelli­gently put it, concurring with the majority of the Court, "[T]he dissent's approach has, of course, great popular attraction. Who can possibly be against the abstract propo­sition that government should not, even its general, nondis­criminatory laws, place unrea­sonable burdens upon reli­gious practice?" 

The problem at stake, then, is not one of abstract proposi­tions. Most of us would proba­bly agree that freedom of reli­gion should have preferential constitutional status. So, in general, abstract terms I find no flaw in a bill like RFRA, understood as one which would eventually prevent and remedy violations of religious freedom (see City of Boerne v. Flores, Parts III-A and B of the majority's opinion, with which I don't agree). Neither do I find flaws in the dissent's historical account and theoretical defense of freedom. 
The problem is that the pro­tection of that liberty does not seem to be the primary issue at stake in cases such as the peyote case {Smith) or this case, Flores. Rather, I think, what the Court is trying to sort out is whether people may rely on federal statutes like RFRA -and even on the constitu­tion; cf Smith-to avoid legal­ly enforced policies that are intended to promote the com­mon good of political society in its different levels. And the Court said, "No." 
I agree with Professor Kmiec to a certain extent. The case Flores should not necessarily be read as a huge blow to reli­gious freedom. But since the dissent's constitutional account of that freedom is cor­rect it may well be that in future cases religion will need stronger protection, the kind of protection that RFRA was pre­cisely intended to afford it. 
Santiago Legarre Visiting Scholar from Argentina Notre Dame Law School August 31, 1997 

V!­
ACC~NT 

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 page 11 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Perhaps because of these qualities, Barela's carv­the Snite Museum Shop as well. Associate Accent Editor ings evoke a strong emotional response from the view­The exhibit includes complementary work by anoth­
er. They are both simple yet mystical, and illicit feel­er artist as well. Photographs by Michael 
U
pon entering ings ranging from tragedy to humor. O'Shaughnessy, a 1963 Notre Dame graduate, accom­
the ~entral gallery, an almost lifesize pine One facet that makes Barela especially interesting is pany the carvings of Barela, and help to portray the 
carvmg cap­Taos community. 
tures the These portraits show mem­
viewer's eye. bers of Barela's family, and 
Entitled "Carreta de Ia others such as teachers and Muerte (Death Cart)," gallery owners from Taos. By the 1933 work depicts providing contemporary, a skeletal figure human images alongside departing in his cart, these psychological and spir­ready to bring death to itual carvings, his victim. The skele­O'Shaughnessy perslJ!l~li-·~~ 
ton seems to smile, as the Taos mystique. if amused by the task Only two weeks remain for at hand, yet leaves the visitors to experience "Spirit viewer wondering if Ascendant" themselves, as perhaps this amuse­the exhibit closes on Sunday, ment will be at his or Sept. 14, with a symposium her own expense. and reception from 2 to 4 
This evocative art, p.m. with Edward Gonzalez the creation of and David Witt, the coau­Patrociiio Barela thors of the book "Spirit (1908-1964), is the Ascendant: The Art and Life subject of the Snite's of Patrociiio Barela." main summer exhibit, Also closing on this day are "Spirit Ascendant." A the Faculty Solo Exhibits of Spanish-American Maria Tomasula (assistant artist whose work professor of painting) and became popular in the Joyce Jablonski (assistant 1930s, Barela hailed professor of ceramics). The from the creative cen­stainless steel "Kinetic ter of Taos, N.M. Sculpture" of George Hickey 
Biographical infor­will also leave the museum mation describes how after this date. 
severe poverty, but while fixing a broken carving one 
day, he became obsessed with the beauty of carved his personal background. He describes teaching him­
wood. Healizing the strength of an image carved from self to carve as he walked up and down the area's 
a single piece, Barela began using juniper and pine as mountains. Yet at the conclusion of the Federal Art 
media for his unique art form. Within several years Project, Barela was forced to leave and worked as a 
his work received national acclaim, and was included laborer on farms in Colorado. 
in an exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art in New Patrociiio Barela died tragically at the age of 56 
York. while inside his studio, as the building and its contents 
Most of the pieces included in this exhibit depict caught fire. Although some carvings were destroyed, human ligures, and suggest some specific psychologi­many remain, and Barela's work can still inspire mod­cal or spiritual moment, such as joy, worry or drunk­ern audiences. enness. Photographs of Barela with his artwork compliment 
The carvings boast a primitive style, yet seem to the exhibit, as does a sitting area in the corner of the evoke a higher power, as if icons of some ancient reli­room, which offers both a video presentation and sev­gion. Some seem like they spontaneously grew out of a eral books about Barela and Taos. A hard-cover book 
tree trunk, and emit an animistic quality. on the art and life of Patrociiio Barela is available in 
Spirit of Taos inspires Barela and others 
By MARY MARGARET NUSSBAUM Traders, conquistadores, mountain men, clergy, -have contributed to the rich history of Taos. In .. 
Assistant Accent Editor painters, photographers, sculptors, ski bums, touris-addition to Patrociiio Barela, Taos is also the home to 
tos and hippies -all looking to immerse them­the Anasazi Indians -its first inhabitants -as well 
T

selves in the spirit of the place as artists D.H. Lawrence and John Marin. There is a hough today Taos, N.M., is sometimes gallery on every corner, a dozen tourists in every mocked as a tourist trap with "too many gallery and a mild black bean burrito in every artists and not enough art," it is the birth­restaurant. place of a rich art tradition centered around The art and culture which makes Taos so alive the vibrant Hispanic Catholicism of the region. are certainly not restricted to the confines of The American southwest is unique in its churches and galleries, however. Each Advent, representation of the sacred. Christian as the days grow shorter and the nights grow images as depicted in santos, bultos and colder, the streets of New Mexico are bathed in retablos are as rich and vibrant in their colors light which flows from luminarias (candles placed and textures as the region is in history. The in sand-filled paper bags). churches in Taos, often adobe mission-style, The legend of the luminarias explains the need are home to some of the greatest American to light a path for the Holy Family to find a warm folk art. Heflecting the traditional Spanish home even in the darkest night. .It is one of many emphasis on a suffering Christ and the call to be a stories which has been woven, like the crisp desert penitent people, crucifixes depict a air and the dried oil from an artist's palette, into the bloodied Christ. tapestry which is Taos. Located on the western slope of the Sangre de A group of 35 art enthusiasts, sponsored by the Cristo mountains in northern New Mexico, Rancho de Snite Museum of Art, will travel to Taos and Santa Fe Taos was first settled in the 12th century and was Oct. 18-23 under the direction of Dean Porter, direc­New Mexico's first artist colony. tor of the Snite. Among other sites, the group will the region with its blending of Native American, visit the Taos Pueblo, the Lumina Gallery, the St. Spanish and Mexican cultures, the landscape, climate Francis de Asis Church, the villages of Trampas and and quality of air, Taos has been the home of many. Truchas, the Santuario de Chimayo, the Museum of 
Folk Art and the Museum of Fine Art. 


?. 

_,... 

The Observer/Rob Finch Former Notre Dame star Derrick Mayes and his new team, the Green Bay Packers, beat the Bears last night, 38-24. 
than replaced departed Super Bowl MVP recipient Desmond Howard with punt returns of 46, 22 and 47 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
FLY 4 FUN!  NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD  Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC  HELP! Need 2 tickets (stu. or ga)  NO ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ 
NOTICES  If you enjoy working with people, love to travel, and enjoy  AREA NORTH OF NO CLOSE 2773097  or USC.243-9028  for Georgia Tech. Kelly 4-3738  ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097  
earning top $$ call 243-4946  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  For Sale: Two GA tix, Ga Tech,  MARRIED STUD.T.BOOKS FOR  
Need spending money? I'm looking  Family visiting-will pay big bucks  BC and West Va. 287-1449  SALE. 283-0920  
for responsible, early risers to deliv­ SPORTS MINDED?  for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  
er newspapers. There's a $15 bonus for the first week. Call Drew  Are you into the health & fitness fields? we're looking for team  ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  Will trade a BC, Navy, or West  Need 4 USC GAs. Will buy or trade 4 Ga. Tech. Call 634-3806  PERSONAL  
at 4-0601.  players to help with our  Virginia G.A. for one Georgia Tech  
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  expanding company. 243-4947  FOR SALE  G.A. or student ticket. Willing to negotiate. Contact Janine at  !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  ...THE AIDS QUILT IS COMING TO CAMPUS...  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN­ Used, functional bike  x1918.  Selling 2 GT tix. Leave best offer at  
UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS  call John x-4197  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ (402)341-9406 or (402) 345-2177.  We need volunteers to help orga­ 
OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL  dic Mattress set and frame. New.  PLEASE HELP ME!  nize this event.  
WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC  never used, still in plastic. $225.00.  I NEED:  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ RecSports seeks Flag Football offi­ 219-862-2082.  wvu  Interested? Please call Erin at 4­ 
FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. NC,  cials for the upcoming season.  GEORGIA TECH  NOTRE DAME  3857.  
CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  Sports/officiating background is pre­ 94 GLX Jetta V6, 47K Power,  MICHIGAN STATE  FOOTBALL TICKETS  
$80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321  ferred but not required. Call Mark  Leather, Sun-Roof, 5 Speed, Many  usc  BUY -SELL -TRADE  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
Heitkamp at 631-6100 for clinic  Extras. 1 Owner  243-1806  w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette  
Tami's Typing Service.  dates.  $15,500 277-3199  232-0058  2845099  
Will P/U & deliver.  IRISH FANS NEED 2 TICKETS  
256-9850.  Wanted: Used road bike  92 Accord LX 2 Dr. V-4,  FOR NO-STANFORD. CALL RICK  CONFIDENTIAL  0-C FOOTBALL? CALL ANNE  

 Call Aaron at 634-4346  72,000K Power, Auto, 1 Owner  AT 209-379-2249.  TICKET-MART, INC.  @ 243-4937  
ILOST & FOUND I  High School Junior needs tutor(s) for Chemistry, Algebra II, & English  Good Shape $8,500 277-3199 USED TEXT BOOKS FOR SALE ­ DOES YOUR FAMILY OR FRIENDS NEED A PLACE TO  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  WVFI-640 AM NEEDS YOU!!!!! WVFI is looking for students inter­ 
Camp. Should be able to answer  30%-40% DISCOUNTS.  STAY FOR THE MICHIGAN  674-7645.  ested in radio broadcasting.  
Seniors! Did you lend a hat to a  questions and help review for  PANDORA'S BOOKSTORE  STATE GAME; (9/20)? I HAVE 3  If you have a knack for the news, a  
random stranger at camping out  exams. Prefer to schedule tutor 2  808 HOWARD STREET  EXTRA ROOMS AVAILABLE AT  BUYING BUYING BUYING  nose for sports, or just a love for  
last Tuesday? To claim a (well­ times during school week, & on  THE RESIDENCE INN ON NILES  N.D GAONLY  great new music, and would be  
worn) white "PA. Andover Squash"  occasion, a Sunday session. Prefer  86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires,  AVE. APPROX. 5 MIN. FROM  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659  interested in participating as a disc  
hat, call Amber. 634-3719.  tutor to come to home (10min. from  exh, alter, brakes. $2200 abo. Chris  CAMPUS. GREAT DEAL!!! FOR  BUYING BUYING BUYING  jockey I on-air personality, then  
NO), but, student can drive to  x1512.  MORE INFO. CALL KESHA AT  stop by the wvfi table at activities  
tutor's location. Call282-3631 dur­ 634-1482.  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ night, Tuesday, September 2nd.  
WANTED  ing the day, or 272-9211 evenings/weekends.  Contemporary lakefront home for  Have BC and USC and/or$$  ED BY LOCAL COMPANY PLEASE CALL 273-6929  Applications are due on Thursday. September 4th. Don't miss out!  
sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre,  To trade for MSU tickets.  
PART-TIME WORK  BABYSITTER WANTED FOR ALL  $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1­ Call243-4743  Buying GA's seasons or individual  ATTENTION: GAY. LESBIAN,  
Local company filling 15  HOME FOOTBALL GAMES $40.00  888-225-RUTH.  Ask for Meaghan  games. Top dollar paid.  and BISEXUAL STUDENTS,  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  PER GAME.  Confidential service.  FACULTY and STAFF:  
$10.25 starting. Flexible hours  CALL 233-9728  New Twin Size Bed $80 Computer  Senior ticket booklet 4 sale  Call 234-5650.  
around classes. 282-2357  Desk $20 634-4243  50 yd. line  New Year. New Night, New  
Need 2 GAs for Mich St & USC Call  Make me an offer  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
PHONE RECEPTIONIST  Jaret 233-5620 or Eric 4-0872  2 FOBLL TIKTS. ONLY $600. CALL  634-3314  FOR SALE  
Part-time afternoons. $5/hr. 2-3  2773254 OR6313912.  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  The ORIGINAL campus group  
days per week. Call 12-1 pm 282­2341.  FOR RENT  MACINTOSH LC  For Sale: Senior Ticket Booklet  EVENING#: 288-2726  will hold it's first Info Meeting on Wed. Sept. 1Oth, ?PM  
COMPUTER. $300 OBO.  To Best Offer  NO TICKETS WANTED  
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ WALK TO CAMPUS  CALL BRYAN 4-1835  Call: 243-2645  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Our first Support Group Meeting:  
TIONS  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  EVENING#: 288-2726  Wed. Sept 17th, ?PM  
.­ On-Call positions available evenings 5-9 Mon.-Fri. and/or 10­ $195/PERSON 232-2595  FOR SALE: A custom crafted,  FOR SALE: MARRIED STUD TIX BOOKS 277-3864  FOR SALE  Call 236-9661 for details!  
6:30 on weekends. Our busy call  varnished, solid oak-wood  
center is looking for candidates with  IT'S NOT TOO LATE­ FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a  S.T. books avail.  N.D. G.A.'S  Do you think Bridget and Jerry  
excellent phone skills and a desire  couch and folds into a double  Leave message@ 271-1567  Maguire are related?  
to satisfy customers. Starting pay is  AVAILABLE!  sized bed. Call Greg Leone @  271-9412.  
$8.80 per hour for evenings and  2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv.  272-0915. Priced at $750.00.  NEEDED: 1 Georgia Tech ticket  Frosty and his Evil Sidekick.  
$9.05 per hour on weekends. Apply  deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo.  Will pay$$! Call Brian 4-1680  
at Qua/ex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ Dep nego, lease term nego. 288­ WANTED N D G A'S  Nice hair, Brad.  
sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  3410  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99,000 mi..  I need 2 GA's for G'Tech game.  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
Louise St.. South Bend, IN 46615.  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio,  Matt X1611  271 1526  Jamie's boring.  
We support a drug free workplace.  air.cond., new trans., and good  
EOE  Bd & Brit all football weekends  exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232­ Need 2 GTTix  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  Dan the hyphen man was in class  
near campus call 219-272-5989  5610.  Call Rob 271-6005  Tech and/or the Michigan State  today. hmmmm ... reference  
95' Alumni need many BC GA Tix.  game!!!  Friday's issue for signs of hypocrisy  
246-0849-ask for Kristin  TICKETS  Married student tickets for sale 273-1997  Please call Amy at 810-355-9140.  Whatever.  
WANT TO EARN SOME EXTRA$$  SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast  
BY CARING FOR THREE  home.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Pablo- 
ADORABLE CHILDREN? NEED  ROOMS AVAILABLE  HOME GAMES.272-6551  Married Student Tickets for  ! Feliz cumpleanos! Celebra bien  
TUES, WED, OR FRI A.M.  Football weekends  Sale. Call219-2736124  STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET  esta noche.  
CALL 287-9669.  219-674-0270  after 6pm.  CERTIFICATE WANTED!!!  -Chica  
Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W.  CALL PAUL@ 233-1741  
Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259­ I NEED 4 TICKETS TO MICHIGAN  No she's not!  
BABYSITTER WANTED FOR  SEASONS INN  1731 or during the day  ST. CALL MICHELLE AT 4-2377  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
ALL HOME FOOTBALL GAMES CALL 2339728.  Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of all sizes.  (201)316-4117. Leave message.  TRADE ANY HOME GAME GA TIX  GEORGIA TECH GA's WANTED!!!  Mr. Krupa's a cool guy.  
Spacious lots available.  (SAVE USE) FOR MSU  Pau/233-1741  Finke­ 
! ATHLETE'S DREAM! Have you always wanted a pro ath­ Reserve Now 219-674-0270.  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State game-Sept. 20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­(773)525-9373.  (517)337-2384 Looking for GA's to Any & All  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  Just because you wanted to see your name in Classifides and just because you're 'Finkelmeyer,' I  
lete's income? Rapidly growing health and nutrient co. is expanding locally. No phone  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS CALL AMY: 616-473-5825  NO Games! Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game for  h(214)351-6775 w(214)855-1180.  thought I'd pull through for you...that's what firends are for. Does this mean I can drink out of  
interviews. 271-0912 ext 10  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  LSU. Call 634-4872  I have BC GA's. Will trade for any  the boot one day?!  
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH  game but WV. Call Jill  
STUDENTS!  243-0658.  (312)744-8794  WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE  (440)779-9691.  Jaime...you were there for me. identifying with me.. .it's your turn  
Want to make 1-2k average  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE TICKETS (904)398-6146  GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 634-4196,  I NEED USC AND BC GA'S CALL DAVE @ 634-4905 $$  now... my goal begins today ...  
monthly? Expanding International sports nutrient co. Looking for motivated students looking for flexible hours. No  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED 2 GA TICKETS TO BOSTON COLLEGE  LEAVE MESSAGE. I HAVE 2 GA TECH GA'S Looking to trade for 2 Mich. St.  MARRIED TIX FOR SALE XZHANGI @ND.EDU  Mike and Mike -­you two are so cute when you're making up excuses for why you lost to a girl.  
p;hone interviews. 271-0912 ext11  Toll Road. Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487.  (904)398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  GA's, or any other GA's. Call Dan x1881  2 stud tix for sale. all home games. Call 4-3313  Day, I'm officially associating myself with production. Hasta luegol  

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•MlB 
Rose Jr. takes first step to becoming next Hit King 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press Writer 
CINCINNATI 

Pete Rose spent a career pur­suing Ty Cobb. His son has spent much of his life pursuing Pete Rose. 
When Pete Rose Jr. made his major league debut for the Cincinnati Reds today, both chases were complete. 
Petey, as he is known, started at third base and got to bat in the stadium where his father set baseball's career hit mark. With Pete Rose watching from the first row next to the home dugout. Petey struck out swing­ing against Kansas City's Kevin Appier in his first at-bat . 
Petey went to the plate with one of his father's black Mizuno bats, a gift he's been saving since 1986 for just this occa­sion. He imitated his father's batting crouch for the first pitch, then went into his nor­mal spread stance. 
The black bat fouled off two pitches before tipping a high fastball into Mike Macfarlane's mitt for strike three. 
Even before the at-bat, Petey had pronounced the day per­fect. 
"It's already successful," he said, shortly after putting on his father's No. 14. 
Pete arrived at the stadium 10 minutes before the first pitch and went to his seat. 
"It would be nice to see him get a couple of hits today, win the game," Pete said. 
Petey got a standing ovation when he was introduced as part of the starting lineup. He jogged to third base, bent over and scribbled HK 4,256 in the dirt, a reference to his father's career hit total. 
As he did so, the Hit King himself, the man who made all of this entirely possible and absolutely necessary, was mak­ing his way to his seat. 
It seemed hokey and a lot like Hollywood. It also felt exactly right. In a real sense, Petey's debut wasn't about baseball at all. It was about a relationship. 
From his earliest years, Petey has lived in his father's shadow -sometimes happily, other times not. As a 1-year-old, he was featured on the cover of the Reds' 1971 media guide, wearing a miniature uniform with No. 14. 
When Pete was leading the Reds to World Series titles in 1975 and 1976, Petey was hanging around the clubhouse, playing catch with the other players' sons. 
When Pete stroked hit No. 4,192 on Sept. 11, 1985, to pass Cobb on the career hit list, Petey went on the field ­wearing No. 14, of course-to hug his dad. 
And when Pete went off to prison for tax evasion, Petey went there to visit. While Pete settled into his banishment from baseball for gambling, Petey settled into an unremark­able and, until now, unsatisfy­ing career. 
Petey finally got his call-up at age 27. By that age, Pete had won NL rookie of the year hon­ors (at age 22) and the first of his three batting titles. 
Pete was obsessed by base­ball; Petey is dedicated to it. Pete lined single after single out of his low, closed batting crouch; Petey struggled to hit in the low minors out of a spread stance. 
Pete wanted to be the first million-dollar singles hitter; Petey wanted the chance to get a single in the major leagues. Pete wanted to be the greatest hitter of all time; Petey just wanted his time. 
Pete has survived a broken marriage, a prison sentence and the lifetime ban from base­ball; Petey has lived with the fallout. 
When Petey visited Riverfront Stadium during a break from ball a few years ago, he was invited into the manager's office and sat down in a chair below a framed picture of Cobb, a lasting memento of his father's famous chase. He told horror stories about constant taunting in the minors for his dad's problems. 
"One guy in the stands waved a dollar bill at me and said, 'Bet you can't get a hit,'" Petey said. 

v 
Petey stuck with baseball for a different reason. He wasn't chasing a record or a million­dollar paycheck. In his own way, he was pursuing his dad. 
In an interview earlier this year with Sports Illustrated, he explained why he has kept at it through nine unremarkable minor league seasons. 
"If you want to know the truth," he said, "that's what this baseball dream is all about -what I keep working so hard for, and why I want it so bad. When you get down to it, I'm like any other son. I just want 
banishment prevents ft()m going on the field or .... the clubhouse. He bought fol.lr tickets for himself and his family and sat in the front row by the Reds' dugout next to 
Marge Schott. 

stepped down as the chief executive last year another series of inflam­.. . comments. Her pun­ent from major league na:stun11l lasts through next 
everything about 
now. Wow," said 
. was the manager 
he was suspended. "I 
}ler, 'Is this the suspend-

box? How come you have to 
for the suspended box?'" 

to make my dad proud of me." 
The Reds initially were not going to call up Petey for September. At age 27, he's no longer a prospect. When Rose fans objected, the team realized it could satisfy the public, sell a few tickets and fulfill a son's dream. 
After today, there are no guarantees for Petey. The Reds will go back to playing the young guys who figure in their future. 
This might be Petey's one and only chance. If he gets a hit and ·­a hug, it might be enough. 
CANDAX McNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH PRoF. MARIO BoRELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 6:3oP.M. 
CusHING AuDITORIUM 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION CoLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL Am OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS (BLACK, HISPANIC, NATIVE AMERICAN) 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING 

CO~GEDUCATION 
GRE GMAT LSAT 
Our exam review classes will ease your mind. And the strain on your pocketbook. 
Be better prepared for the GMAT, GRE or LSAT with an IUSB Continu­ing Education exam review class. Our reviews are priced hundreds of dollars less than other exam prep programs, and offer you proven strategies for attacking even the tmSt difficult questions. 
GRE Review: Wednesdays, Sepl10 and 17, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and Saturdays, Sept. 20, 27 and Oct 4, 8 a.m. to noon. $349. GMAT Review: Thursdays, S~ 11-0ct. 23, 7-10:20 p.m. $295. I.SAT Review: Wednesdays, Sept. 10-24, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and Saturday, Sept. 27, 1-5 p.m. $2~. 
To register or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
• Nfl •MlB 
Injury cooks Rice for Moehler ends Maddux's streak 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Series, when the Braves softly hit balls in his final 
Associated Press Writer clinched the championship with inning.
rest of regular season 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Jerry Rice might have played his last game of the season. 
San Francisco 49ers coach Steve Mariucci said the team's doctor told him that the NFL's career receiving leader proba­bly tore the anterior cruciate and medial collateral liga­ments in his left knee. 
"If that is true than it looks like Jerry will be missed for the year," Mariucci said today during his KGO radio show. 
Rice has never missed a game because of injury during his 13-year career. The injury endangers his streak of 189 straight regular-season, non­strike games. He has played 176 games in a row with at least one reception. 
Rice has credited a rigorous off-season conditioning pro­gram for his durability and success. 
"It was clearly the most spectacular run," said team­mate Brent Jones. ''I'm not putting him out of the game next week. but to me what he's done is much more amazing than Cal Ripken. 
"In professional football, to be a marked man for all those years, guys making late hits on him and be able to do what he has done, yeah there's a side of me that thought Jerry Rice was just never going to get 
-· 
hurt." Steve Young, who sustained a concussion but returned to 
Fall Break Seminars October 19-24, 1997 Experiential/Service Learning Ce11ter for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service Learning at one of 15 sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology Information meeting: Tuesday, September 9, 7:30-8:00 PM CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examine issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 9, 4:15-4:45PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR Environmental Issues: Challenges and Responsible Solutions Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government Information meeting: Tuesday, September 9, 7:00-7:30 PM  
Applications Available Now at the CSC SOCIALApplications Due: Sept. 11, 1997 CONCERNS  

Checkout 
so~:=k!S 
library! 

You need cash, but 
you're at the library... 
1st Source Bank has you 
covered! 
Our Resource Center 
ATM is conveniently 
located in the Hesburgh Library basement. You can 
grab funds quick with your Resource11 or Resource Plus card, or use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
And with orher 1st Source locations at Saint 

-r 
Mary's Haggar CoUege Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland in Roseland and U.S. 23 at Ironwood, there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 
•souPcee
liliBank 
Your partners from the firs~ 
Member FDIC 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
play in Sunday's season-open­er against Tampa Bay, said the prospect of playing without Rice would be difficult for the 49ers. 
"It's going to test our met­tle," Young said. "It's going to test who we are, top to bottom. We'll be able to watch it, you'll be able to see how we do on the test." 
Rice was hurt when he was tackled during the second quarter of a 13-6 loss to the Buccaneers. He watched the end of the game from the side­lines on crutches and in street clothes. 
Team physician Michael Dillingham was to discuss the results of an MRI exam later in the day. Rice could undergo surgery as early as today, Mariucci said. 
The injury came during Mariucci's coaching debut with the 49ers. 
"It was very difficult when Jerry came off the sidelines," the coach said. "The entire team felt for him and you know he works so darn hard to pre­pare himself for the season." 
The injury occurred on a reverse late in the second quarter when Rice took a handoff from quarterback Jeff Brohm. Warren Sapp reached and caught Rice's face mask to make the tackle as Rice tried to circle left end. 
Despite the severity of the injury, Mariucci said the 34­year-old receiving great was optimistic about playing again. 
ATLANTA 
The Atlanta Braves probably wouldn't complain if the inter­league format was changed so they played only in AL cities. 
Deivi Cruz squeezed home the go-ahead run in the sev­enth inning and the Detroit Tigers ended Greg Maddux's 1 0-game winning streak, beat­ing the Braves 4-2 Monday night for yet another AL victory in Atlanta. 
"This is big -beating one of the best pitchers ever," said Brian Moehler, who pitched six strong innings for the win. "When you face a Clemens or a Maddux, you're up for it. I was up for it. Our hitters were up for it." 
Atlanta has lost all four of its interleague games at Turner Field, while going 7-2 on the road. And don't forget last October, when the Braves dropped three straight World Series games at home to the Yankees. 
In fact, Atlanta has not beat­en an AL team at home since the final game of the 1995 a 1-0 victory over Cleveland. 

The players appear to be get­ting a little testy about their lack of home success against the AL. When asked if he had an explanation, Jeff Blauser replied curtly, "No." 
Moehler (9-10), who lives in suburban Marietta during the offseason, allowed only six hits and two fourth-inning runs to a Braves team that scored 31 runs in a three-game weekend sweep at Boston. 
"I was nervous on the way to the park," he said. "My wife, Deana, made it worse. She kept asking me if I was nervous. I finally had to tell her to shut up." 
Maddux (17 -4) had not lost since a June 13 interleague game against Baltimore, a span of 14 starts in which he gave up more than three earned runs only once. 
The four-time Cy Young Award winner pitched another strong game against Detroit, allowing eight hits, striking out eight and walking none in seven innings. But he wound up taking the loss because of two 
"You've got to give them credit," Maddux said. "They put the bat on the ball. When you put it in play, you give yourself half a chance." 
With the score 2-all, Damion Easley led off with a bloop sin­gle that dropped in front of center fielder Kenny Lofton. who bobbled the ball for an error that allowed Easley to move up to second. Easley went to third on a grounder and came home when Cruz dropped a squeeze bunt in front of the mound. 
"It was a good play," Maddux said. "It wasn't a strike." 
Easley went 3-for-3 and also walked to set up an RBI single by Cruz in the ninth. 
"Arguably, this was our best­executed game of the year, offensively and defensively," manager Buddy Bell said. "And to do it against the best pitcher in the game really gives us hope." 
Four Detroit pitchers worked the final three innings, with Todd Jones retiring the side in order in the ninth for his 26th save. 

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
+Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Black Catholic Mass 

Rejoice! The Black Catholic experience at Notre Dame, will be celebrated on Sunday, September 7 at 4:00pm in Badin Hall Chapel. Rejoice! Choir, and Rev. Reginald Whitt, OP, Presiding. 
Campus Bible Study 

Every Tuesday at 7:00pm at the Badin Campus Ministry Conference Room. First meeting, next Tuesday, September 9th. For more info call Fr. Al D'Alonzo, CSC@ 631-5242 or 631-5955. 
Confirmation 

Two information sessions will be held on Monday, September 8 in Farley Chapel. For those who wish to be confirmed, at 7:00pm. If you're interested in being a sponsor, that meeting will take place at 8:00pm. Contact Tom Doyle, CSC or Sarah Granger at the Badin Hall Office, 631-5242. 
Graduate Student Bible Study 

All Are welcome! Meets Wednesday nights, starting September 3, at 8 pm at Fischer Graduate Residences, Apt. 17-2C. 
Hispanic Community Events 

Misa en Espaiiol on Sunday, September 7th at 1:30 in the Chapel of Our Lady of Guadlupena, in Keough Hall Chapel. 1:30pm. Music of El Cora Primavera de Nuestra Senora. PACHANGA 1997! will be held this Thursday, September 4th from 5:00­7:30pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. Catered dinner, OJ dancing, and Campus Ministry info. 
Notre Dame Encounter 

Sign up for the October 3-5th Retreat will take place from September 1st thru the 5th at the 103 Hesburgh Library CM Office. Call631-7800 for more info. 
Opening of the School Year Mass 
Sunday, September 14th, the Feast of the Holy Cross, faculty, staff and stu­dents gather for the Opening Mass, 12:30 in the Joyce Center. Lunch will fol­low. Basilica and residence hall masses will be cancelled on this day. 
RCIA-Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults 
For anyone interested, a picnic lunch and discussion for both candidates and sponsors, at 12:30 at the Log Chapel. Informational meeting for candidates Sunday, September 14th @ 4:00pm in the Badin Hall CM Office; meeting for sponsors is on the same day,@ 5:00pm in the Badin CM Office. Regular sessions begin Sunday, Septbmer 21 at 11:45 am. Contact Kate Barrett or Ema Osaki at 631-5242 for more info. 
Women's Liturgical Choir Auditions 
Women's Lit Choir is still accepting auditions. Contact Andrew McShane @631-5242. Choir rehearses Wednesdays at 6:00pm, and sings at the Saturday Vigil Mass at the Basilica. 
Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Minsitry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those dis­cerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett @ 631-524.2. All conversations are com­pletely confidential. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 2, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Harris reaches for career best 
Senior outside hitter continues to set records 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior outside hitter Angie Harris (Fort Wayne, Ind.) has been named the Big East volleyball player of the week after an impres­sive showing in last weekend's Shamrock Invitational, held at the Joyce Center. 
Harris, who saw her first 
"The oa

action for the Notre Dame in the '97 opener after missing the final 13 matches in 1996 for people 
to a'(!
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

due to arthroscopic knee Senior Angie Harris led the Irish with 71 kills last weekend. surgery, tied an Irish record following ~ by recording 20 kills in three ment team. the Irish record for consecu­
consecutive matches over the Harris' totals over the three tive 20-plus kill matches when weekend, as Notre Dame matches also included a team­Notre Dame faces Gonzaga at defeated Louisville (3-1) and best 38 digs (2.92/gm), nine the Spikeoff Spokane on Sept. ~ 
Oral Roberts (3-2) before blocks and four service aces. 5. falling to No. 18 Wisconsin (1-She hit .281 for the tourna­Current senior hitter Jamie 
3) in the tournament's champi­ment, including a .388 effort Lee is the only previous Notre onship match. against Louisville that repre­Dame player to post 20-plus :s'TRJ.tOS 
Each of the teams in the sents the second-best hitting kills in three consecutive Shamrock Invitational were percentage of her career in a matches, doing so at the 1995 
developing

1996 NCAA tournament partic­four-game match. Big Four Classic (held that ipants. Harris will attempt to break year at Indiana University). erver Online 
The six-foot-one Harris 
Campus Online Paper

totaled 71 kills in the three 
matches (averaging 5.46/gm 
over 13 games), including a 
career-best 27 in the seesaw 
match with Oral Roberts. 
Her 2 3 kills against Louisville included a timely 10 kills in the decisive fourth game. She capped the week­end with 21 kills against Wisconsin en route to a spot on the seven-player all-tourna­
sTUDENT UNION BOARD m~WS.~----------------~ 
TUESDAY SEPT 2-look for SUB at Activities Night at the JACC 
WEDNESDAY SEPT 3-ND vs. Purdue Football Ticket Raffle 

Bring your ID to Stepan at 4:00 pm and enter to win the opportunity to 
purchase 2 tickets for the Purdue game-drawing will be held at 6:40 pm 
THURSDAY SEPT 4--First Acoustic Cafe of the year! 
Come & listen to talented campus musicians at 9:00 pm in the Huddle 
Mov1E oF THE WEEK : Addicted to love 
Showing at Cushing-admission $2 
Thursday-10:30 pm 
Friday &Saturday-8:00 pm &10:30 pm 

...,..______......UB: The foreign obiect in vour head 

page 17

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
Receivers 
continued from page 20 
target. 
Nelson has beefed up since his first arrival on campus, and he appears to be ready to become an impact player. 
Stephens showed 11ashes of brilliance, including last sea­son's Washington game in which he had three receptions for 93 yards and a touchdown. Stephens is also considered one of the fastest players on the Irish roster right behind Allen Hossum and Joey Getherall. 
All of the receivers have had to go through quite a bit of change, from learning the new offense to getting use to the new coaches. But according to .Johnson, they will be ready come Saturday. 
"This time 12 months ago, 
the system was completely dif­ferent, but I think we're picking it up well. I think that the receivers especially are going to step to the front a little more than they have in the past." 
One aspect of the offense that has been missing since the graduation of Derrick Mayes has been the threat of a home­run hitter. Hoping to prove that good things come in small packages this season, the offense will have two potential deep threats in Rossum and Getherall. Neither will be easy to locate on the field as they both stand about 5-foot-8, but they both have a weapon that there is no substitute for, pure speed. 
Getherall has been clocked at 
4.23 in the 40 and has made his presence felt since arriving on campus, moving up to sec­ond on the depth chart behind Johnson in the split end slot. 

ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER II 6:00 .. STEPAN CENTER 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. 5 ON 5 PLUS GOALIE REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER II 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS ll-IATENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631 ..6100 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Rossum showed what a threat he can be as a return man last fall. The senior cap­tain began to work with the offense in the spring, and he has continued this fall. 
"I feel comfortable with the offense now," Rossum said. "I am just eager to play. I've been anticipating this season since December." 
The coaching staff is hoping that Rossum's reputation as a return threat will enable the offense to show. 

"I think I am supposed to show a little versatility by showing that I am a deep threat with my speed," Rossum said. "I may be just a decoy, and it's just going to help our team." "Whatever I can do I'm willing to help out the team." 
The offense is hoping that the simple threat of speed will help loosen up the defense and open up the dynamic running attack of Autry Denson behind the mammoth offensive line. 
"Anytime you have guys run­ning 4.2's, that's a big posi­tive," Johnson said. "It will make the defense back off of us, and that will open up things for Autry and the short stuff underneath. So it's a huge bonus to have those guys on our side." 
While the talent in the wide receiver corps is there, it is unproven, and the question remains if they can perform in the clutch. Johnson, Rossum, and Co. will look to answer those questions come Saturday. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Bobby Brown is one of five returning receivers looking to make an impact for the Irish this season. 
Coach Dove Wonts You. 
Notre Dame Vs. Georgia Tech Pep HalIV Fridav night • Gates open at 5:45 Cheerleaders and band at 6:15 Preferred seating for students Special guest speaker Special announcement bv 
Coach Davie 


siom> on Mon~a.ys and Wednesdays iri the Rockne Memorial. Classbegins on Sept. 8 arid is opento stUdents and staff. Class size is limited and there is dfee of $12. For more information, call 1­6100. 
Horseback Riding Les.sons-The course consists of English Style lessons on Thursdays from q16 p~;m. All levels are welcomei:.There will be an information meeting on Sept. 10, at 7 p:m. in the RecSports office. Regi~ler in 
Ball~t-Classes will be .peld dri Sundays from 3-.4 p,m>and 
We~nesdays.from s~9p.m~ 
the' fee iS $3$. Mgister in advance at RecSpo.rts .. Sign­ups begin on Sept.}&; There will be an informational meet~ ing on Sept. 7 at lH5 p.m. Spaceis limited. 
Men's Tennis-Walk-on try~··• outs will be held on Monday, ..!iiept, .8; Sign-ups will he helct lit the Eck Tennis Center .• 
•Ch~rity: run-;{P.e ~ir!>t. annual ND Hockey 2m. 5k, and !Qk PowerPlayRun!Walk 
··;=·~~~;.~ .. 


By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's SportS Editor 
After finishing last season with a 20-13 record, the Saint Mary's volleyball team is ready to kick off a new season on the road tonight at 7 p.m. against Manchester College. Losing no players to graduation, the Belles return a mature and well-skilled core of players. Last year's young squad was comprised of seven freshmen and three juniors. 
The team played a demand­ing schedule including many contests against regionally as well as nationally-ranked teams. The experience gained from the amount of court time the freshmen saw, along with the strong competition they faced, leaves them well pre­pared for the challenges they will face this fall. 
.. 
-~---~---~--­
--~-----­
Tuesday, September 2, 1997 

97 SMC VOLLEYBALL 98 
page 18 
a is instructed a.ccl)rd •.• g to Okinawan dii techniques; Register innt advance at RecSports. The fee is $18. demonstration will be held ori'*VlShere...w Sept. 10 at 6,30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial. ··· 
Women's Self-Defense-... ed. Call This course meets for 10 ses-· · ififo. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
t against Cancer 
on Sund~y. Sept. 7, at 11 a.m. in front of Stepan. CJtntt}rr The event is in memeory of Ed Slaggart, brqther ofasst. hockt;ly coach 
Andy Slaggart. Registration will beheld in Rec Sports, the Life Skills Office, ·dining halls, and with your dorm athletic commissioners. The cost is $6 Tue 09/02 


Fri 09/05 Sat 09/06 Wed 09/10 Fri 09/12 
Sat 0913 Tl)E 09/16 
Thu 09/18 MON 09/22 WED 09/24 
Sat 09/27 
·::!:#:· 

TOE 09/30 
Thu 10/02 
MON 0/06 
Mon  10/20  
Fri Sat  10/31 11/01  

at Manchester College 
at Hanover College Tournament at Hope CoHege at Ohio Northern 
Tournament 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO at DePauw University ALBION COLLEGE SAINT XAVIER 
UNIVERSITY at Carroll College 
Triangular w/North Central College NORTH PARK COLLEGE at Concordia University BETHEL COLLEGE at Lake Forest College at Kalamazoo College 
Triangular WIAlma College CALVIN COLLEGE DEFIANCE COLLEGE at Franklin at Rose-Hulman at Calvin College 
Midwest Invitational 
The Obsever/Peter Cilella 


~et'~ C~"-.Oo&o'l, ~/Ji
R~~ 
o,~,, Sunday, September 7 ~ Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Begining at 10:00 
Classes are 
forming now... 
enroll today! 

1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
*Course names are registered trademarks of their respective owners. 
in advance and $8 on-site for students, and $10 for alumni, faculty, staff, and community in advance and $12 on the day of the race. Cost includes a, t~shirt and refreshment. 
Off-Campus Football­Anyone interested in playing interhall football for the off­campus team should contact Bill Mctartey at 273-1929. 
Indoor/Outdoor Track­Prospective athletes must attend a meeting at 4 p.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 10, in the Loftus Auditorium. 

• SAINT MARv'S VOLLEYBAll. 
New coach, post-season for Belles 
Saint Mary's also has a new coach who hopes to lead the Belles in the first year of com­petition in the well-respected Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association. After serv­ing as the assistant volleyball coach last year, Jennie Joyce takes over the reigns as the Belles new head coach. As a two time All-American player at Graceland College, Joyce brings experience and exper­tise to the Saint Mary's pro­gram. This fall Joyce will be inducted into the Graceland College Athletic Hall of Fame. 

Of special interest to the Belles is the new NCAA Ill team expansion for post-season play. Starting this year the NCAA III has increased the number of teams it will take to the top six teams per region. 
Come to the Huddle at 8pm on Thursday to sign yourself up. 
Questions??? Call #1-7757 

IT ,L, 1 -o--, --~'"' 
1·· 

Tuesday, September 2, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 

MIKE PETERS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
11-\E..N I TI-\OUGIH, 
"wHOA., OOGBERT, YOU'RE BEING NI\RROW-1"\INOEO AOOUT THIS. II 
\ 


~------------~~----~~~------~~~--------~ 


G I N R U 
M MY. N 
o s~~~ 

HAT. P 
EA. M A LEAN 

E R~~~HE • B 0 N S T 
v'M

U R 
R E E T EM 
ENDS. D 0 T E R N E. EM 

u• c R o 0 I 
~~~·A 
L I N 
G. RYE 

8 READ TEE s• AS A. L SAT­
BRAN D. w INIZ EIRIOI 
ACT 0 R ASH E 0 R EIOI DES T E GEL R A MIPI 
Upcoming Intramural Deadline~ 


Grad/Fac/Staff ~;31 ~'Teii~fs~~~& w 
.Tennis Mixed Doubles 
~Baseball 
For More Info. Contact: Athletic Commissioner or RecSports-1-6100 
f~TRl' DlADLI~f: ~fPTf~BfR 4 www.nd.edu/-recsport 
60Vampire hunter's weapon 
61 Catcher locale? 62 Team for which Gretzky left the Oilers 63 Spoken for 
DOWN 
1 Groups on the program 2 Coalition 3 Penne alternative 
4 Durham sch. sCoot 6 "Middlemarch" 
author 7 What grads 
earn: Abbr. a Crying sound 9 Partisan suffix 
10 Utmost 11 Fahd or Faisal 12 Bandleader Kay 13 Rhone tributary 29 Lady Jane and 45 Raised platform 52 Ship's trail 16 Marmaduke's Zane 46 Obstreperous 53 John Irving's "A comments 31 Cartoonist Tex Prayer for -­
47 Part of a bulb 18 Confused Meany"32 Storm preceder 48 Ships' spines 22 Element #30 55 Fictional planet 33 Envelope part 50 Long nap? 
23 One of the 56 Slugger's stat 
34 Switch settings 51 Dinesen who 
Bonds 36 Ear part wrote "Out of 57 Solder material 24 Prosodic foot Africa" sa J.F.K.Iisting
37 Phys. activity 25 Do in 26 Carpenters, e.g. 
38 Catchy part of a song27 Pope who Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 42 Rub the wrong 
persuaded are available by touch-tone phone: Attila not to way? 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). attack Rome 43 Really 
Annual subscriptions are available for the impresses
28 Where the boyz best of Sunday crosswords from the last are 44 "I swear!" 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bertrand Russell, Dame Margot Fonteyn, George Strait, Reggie jack­son 
DEAR EUGENIA: My 16-year-old son has decided school is dumb and he doesn't need it. Would you tell me if there are going to be any changes in the near future in his attitude toward schooling and life in genera!? He was born on Jan. 20, 1982, at 9:49 p.m. 
Worried Mother 
DEAR WORRIED MOTHER: Your son, like so many that I see, has one of those spoon-fed charts that leads nowhere. A lack of structure, desire and most of all interest results in laziness, picking poor friends, and in most cases, drug abuse. The area of his chart that deals with education is not badly aspected, he just doesn't feel like going. 
Unfortunately, you can't make anyone learn if they don't want to. The best thing you could do for him is force him to work. His chart shows talent in the area of acting, as you have probably already watched him show a number of professionals already. See if you can interest him in an area of the_ arts like radio, tele· vision, film, wri!ing and so on. He is talented, and too smart for his own good. If he intends on living at home, insist on structure; if he moves out, make him support himself. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You 
will be in your element today. The 
pace will be hectic. However, your 
high energy will allow you to speed 
through your domestic chores. 
TAURUS (April 20·May 20): Your 
energy level is up and much can be 
achieved if you set your mind to it. 
Catch up on overdue correspondence. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Secret 
Born Today: This is your year to move into fast-forward and accomplish your dreams. You will get anxious if you have idle time. Busy yourself with constructive projects and you'll be amazed at how successful you can be this year. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
romantic affairs will develop it you get out. Avoid being blatantly obvi­ous if someone interests you. 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Emo­tional blackmail will cause friction if you allow relatives to get involved in your personal life. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your high energy will enable you to accomplish more than most people you know. Re­cognition for a job well done will aid you in reaching your personal goals. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your energy is high and competitive physi­cal events will entice you. Be sure to take a look at investments that appear to be profitable. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Self-im­provement projects will be successful if started today. Take care of minor health problems. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): In­vestment opportunities look lucra­tive. Your energy is high and competi­tive sports will be more than just sat­isfying. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your creative ability will enhance your reputation at work. Use your stamina and gusto to achieve your personal goals. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 

Your get-up-and-go persona will 
allow you to get more done than 
usual. You will enjoy pleasure trips 
and will find that the connections 
made in transit will be stimulating. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Self­

improvement projects will show re­
sults. You can learn a great deal from 
elders or those with more experience. 
Terminate relationships that have not 
been beneficial. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 

ability to communicate will help you 
when it comes to discussing your per­
sonal intentions. You will attract new 
romantic partners if you get out and 
do things that interest you. 
.. 
... 
• 

-----~ 
SPORTS 

page 20 
• fOOTBALL 
Aerial attack ready to take off 
Johnson, Rossum provide experience to young corps 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Malcolm Johnson is one of the returning starters looked to for experi­ence on the young Irish receiving squad . 
Irish prepare for battle against No. 2 Hoosiers 
Angie Harris named Big East Player ofthe Week. 

See page 16 for details. ... 
fl 
vs. Georgia Tech, September 6, 1997 
,, 
at Washington, 
ft 
\~ Friday, September 5 vs. Indiana, 
tonight, 7:30 p.m. 

• 
Volleyball, tonight, -see page 13 
@ at Manchester College 
at Gonzaga, @ Friday, August 5 
~ 


By JOE CAVATO favorable to a tight end than a Assistant Sporrs Editor game-breaker. Now, with the more open 
This year the Irish receiving offense installed and the option corps faces a new challenge. In game put to bed, the time has the past couple of years under come for the receivers to step the old regime, the flankers up and showcase the talent that and wide outs have had duties they have. that can be compared more "Anytime that there is some-

Indiana provides first major test in home opener 
By TOM STUDEBAKER Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team encounters its first major test of the season when it squares off 
r-------, against the No. 2 ranked Indiana 
... 
Hoosiers tonight at A I u m n i Field. 
It will be the second Bocklage game of the season for Notre Dame, who is currently ranked 18th in the NSCANUmbro College Soccer rankings. The Irish are coming off of a hard fought game at Pittsburgh that resulted in a tie. It will be the first game of the season for Indiana, who is currently ranked second in the same poll. 
Head coach Mike Berticelli 
downplayed the importance of 
taking on such a highly ranked
-
opponent this early in the sea­son. 
"The key games for us are the Big East games," he said. "The success of our season is based on our success within the Big East." 
The Irish face several teams in the Big East who are also ranked high in the polls. The Indiana game will not only be a good test for the Irish to see how they stack up against a top team, it will also help prepare them for future opponents. 
"Games like this one (Indiana) against top five teams are very important in prepar­ing us for teams like St. John's, Rutgers, and Connecticut, who are all highly ranked Big East opponents," Berticelli said. 
Indiana boasts an explosive offensive, led by freshman Matt Fundenburger and sophomore Dema Kovalenko. In its two pre-season games, Indiana has averaged four goals a game. However, the Irish are not going to try anything different to stop the Hoosiers. 
"It is too early in the season to prepare anything specific for Indiana," Berticelli said. "We just have to go out there and play the way that we hope to play for the rest of the season." 
thing new there's going to be excitement," split end Malcolm Johnson said. "I think especial­ly the receivers are feeling a new sense of excitement here at Notre Dame." 
Johnson returns as the only Irish receiver who can boast more than 10 receptions in his career. The 6-foot-5 senior was second on the team last year with 25 receptions and is look­ing to improve on that number with the new offense. 
"We're use to blocking and going out for a pass 10-12 times a game," Johnson explained. "But it's going to be a little bit different this year. We're all excited about it and I'm sure Ron (Powlus) is too." 
After Johnson there is a lack of experience as junior Shannon Stephens, sophomore Raki Nelson, and junior Bobby Brown are the only other names on the depth chart that have receptions in college ball. 
Brown is listed as the starting flanker with Nelson right behind him. Brown only has two career catches to his name, but he was one of the spring's most pleasant surprises and the coaching staff hopes his 6-foot­3 size gives Powlus another big 
see FOOTBALL I page 17 
The Irish will be playing without three of their top scor­ers. Seniors Hyan Turner and Bill Savarino, along with sophomore Ryan Cox, will miss the game for various reasons. 
Turner, a co-captain and the top returning scorer, is sitting out for the second straight game due to team violations. Savarino is also sitting out for team violations. Cox will be unable to play due to an ankle injury suffered in the season opener against Pitt. 
In their absence, senior Scott Wells, junior Ben Bocklage, and sophomore Andrew Aris will be called upon to create some goal scoring opportuni­ties up front. 
Although the teams are not in the same conference, this in­state rivalry has been heating up over the past few years. Two out of the past three meet­ings have gone into sudden death overtime. The first of those overtime meetings elimi­nated the Irish from the NCAA tournament in 1994. 
"We arc very excited about having the opportunity to play Indiana," said Aris. "It should be a great game to watch, very high paced and entertaining soccer." 









