
Tuesday, February 11, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 88 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Supreme Court justice visits campus today 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
In the 10 years since Antonin Scalia became an associate justice on the U.S. Supreme Court, he has made a name for himself for his ·strict interpretation of the Constitution, even while serving on a court that is already considered 
conservative. 
Scalia has carried his mes­sage to locations around the country, including the College of William and Mary last spring and Los Angeles last month, where he spoke out against claims that the Constitution implied that an 

individual had a right to die. Scalia 
Scalia will bring his analysis of the Constitution to the Notre Dame campus today, with a speech at 3 p.m. in the DeBartolo llall auditorium. The talk, called "On Interpreting the Constitution,"-is free and open to the members of the campus community. 
Scalia is well known for his stance against reading new rights into the Constitution. In a .Jan. 23 speech in Los Angeles, Scalia said that such an "evolutionist" approach to constitutional interpretation strips the document of the "immovable power it should have in a democra­cy." 
According to Scalia, the authors of the Constitution were not so "Pollyanna-ish" to believe that "we're getting better and better every day ... They wanted some things that were immovable." 
Although Scalia carries the tag as the champi­on of the "original interpretation" school of con­stitutional analysis, Scalia has said that constitu­tional interpretation transcends liberal-conserv­ative lines. 
For example, he criticized the court's ruling that gays and lesbians may not be singled out for official discriminati.on simply because of "animosity" toward their sexual orientation. 
And he denounced the court's decision striking down a $2 million punitive damages verdict as so "grossly excessive" as to be unconstitutional. Scalia said he, too, was dismayed by excessive jury awards, but added that he did not think any amendment contained that interpretation of due process. 
Scalia was nominated to the Supreme Court by President Reagan and took the oath of office Sept. 26, 1986. He had served the five previous years on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia circuit. 
A graduate of llarvard University Law School, 
see SCALIA I page 4 

SMC set to name new president 
Observer Staff Report 

After an extensive and confidential search, the Board of Trustees is pre­pared to announce the 1Oth president of Saint Mary's College. 
In a memo released yesterday, Sister Rachel Callahan, chair of the Presidential Search committee, announced that the Board of Trustees confirmed a candidate to assume the presidency. However, the name and background information of the succes­sor to current President William Hickey cannot yet be released. 


The trustees met this weekend to finalize the decision and a formal announcement should be made in the coming weeks, pending a meeting between the future president and Mary Lou Gorno, chair of the Board of Trustees. 
Alluding that the confidentiality of the process might have breached the traditional "openness" that character­izes the community, Callahan said measures have been taken to ensure that the Saint Mary's community "can take great pride ... and hopefully a sense of ownership in the decision of the Board of Trustees." 

Throughout the process, she stressed that without that promise of confidentiality to the candidates, the College would lose its top prospective candidates. The justification behind this decision was that many individu­als, such as sitting presidents at other 
see SEARCH I page 4 

• Norm: DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS 

The final days... 
With one day left until the election, Griffin and Szabo stretch their dollars 
-

. 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Even student government candidates face budget con­straints while campaigning. Both the Matt Griffin!Erek Nass and Matt Szabo/Mary Gillard tickets for student body presi­dent and vice president are pushing their spending limits. 
But neither duo expects financial ruin. 
In a rule designed to discour­age Steve Forbes-like cam­paigning, the student govern­ment constitutional by-laws place a $150 spending limit on each election ticket. 
"The limit really makes it a fair election. This isn't the real world where whoever has the most money wins," Griffin said. 
Szabo agreed. "There's a lot of temptation to invest a lot of money in elections. I think the limit's very necessary. It just means we can't flood every dorm with flyers." 
Both tickets admitted that they were keeping careful track of costs and shopping thriftily to conserve money. 
"That limit's always in the back of our minds, definitely," Nass admitted, "but just from being in SUB, I'm used to deal­ing with money and knowing 
SLF's sacred hoops 
A
s part of the 30th annual Sophomore Literary Festival, psy­chologist Prisci II a Cogan read from her book, "Wionna's 
-Web." In part, the novel explores Lakota Sioux traditions of spiritual healing. SLF will continue tonight with student readings and Wednesday with Robert Greeley, both at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 

about things like how much posters cost." · 
"If it were up to us, we'd have millions of posters. There are a lot of dorms to cover," Gillard said. 
Both tickets shared the strat­egy of spending most of their funds on posters during the primary elections. Whether patronizing Kinko's or Copy Max, both tickets agreed that the cost of hundreds of colored flyers can add up quickly. 
Szabo/Gillard admitted to spending nearly $115 before 
see ELECTION I page 4 

CEO: Technology, deregulation create challenges worldwide 
By BILL IRVINE News Writer 

Change in the maturing business world dominated yesterday's lecture on finan­cial globalization given by the president and CEO of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. David Komansky examined the causes and effects of globalization while sharing his personal observations with an audi­ence of business students. 
Komansky cited the two powerful forces of technology and deregulation as the catalysts for global change. 
"Technology allows us to reach the world over ... to recombine financial instruments to suit each client's needs and preferences," he said. "In one day, Merrill Lynch trades over $40 billion worldwide." 
"Deregulation has also served to take away each industry's protective niche," Komansky offered. "No longer is a com­pany defined by product, but by its client segment, basic mission and market pre­cepts." 
The native of New York City discusses the expanding economies of nations in Europe, Asia, South America, and Africa. 
"Globalization is dissolving barriers that protected one nation's market from another's," said Komansky. "In a way, this is great news; it allows greater returns, cheaper capital_ and better goods and services. However, it also pre­sents an enormous competitive chal­lenge." 
As the face of business changes, so does Merrill Lynch's duties to its clients. 
"No longer is our value just informa­
see KOMANSKY I page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, February II, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Sign without 
•


meaning 
Lent is upon us, my friends. Our lovely dorm altars will be decked in beautiful purple garments, our gospel acclamation will change, and the dining halls will no longer serve meat on Fridays. Some of our comrades have spent this past weekend 

Margee Husemann indulging in a fury of 
Associate Viewpoint 
hedonistic, pre-Lent 
Editor
activities down South. 
Others of us have spent 

our time roaming our lovely campuses, 
absorbed in our own thoughts. 

Every year, an inordinate number of people 
sit in their rooms trying to decide what they 
will "give up" for the next forty days. 
Chocolate, soda, even alcohol will be cast aside 
for the next month in the spirit of piety and 
sacrifice. For forty entire days, these mini­
devotionals will stand as an enticing sign of the 
future, of the magical restoration day of Easter. 
Who cares? What does forty days of depriva­
tion show? Are you thinking about Christ's 
sacrifice every time you take the stairs instead 
of the elevator? Are you considering how your 
self-denial brings about simplicity in your life 
every time you skip dessert? Does every step 
of that lap you've dedicated yourself to running 
bring you closer to God? Or are you helping to 
tokenize Lent by going through mindless 
actions? 

Easter is supposed to be a relief to Christians 
everywhere, but it is not meant to be a relief 
from sacrifice. Easter is the day Christ rose 
from the dead, not the day you finally got to 
chew gum again. 

I haven't given something up for Lent for a 
long time. I don't believe that a temporary 
devotion is going to help me to become a better 
person if I don't intend on following through. I 
don't think that God cares if I eat chocolate. I 
think that Jesus may have taken the elevator 
from time to time, if he had been given the 
option. 

I look around at Mass every now and then 
and wonder who is actually thinking about 
what the words mean. I try to concentrate on 
what the liturgy means to me. I try to consider 
why I am at Mass. I try to discover what I 
believe. 

It is very difficult to think of the meaning of 
Mass every week. When you say the same 
words over and over again, your reactions 
become automatic rather than inspired. It's 
hard to be excited about Mass when the only 
things that change are the priest and the read­
ings. It's hard to concentrate when you have 
an exam on Monday or when you just ended a 
bad phone call. It's hard to give yourself up to 
the liturgy when your mind is so filled with 
other things and so far from the chapel in 
which you are sitting. 

The point is this: You don't have to deny 
yourself something for Lent. You shouldn't 
make an effort to simplify your life for forty 
days if you aren't going to simplify your life for 
the rest of your life. Lent is a pro-active expe­
rience. It is something positive: a chance to 
chat with God, a chance fo prepare for Easter, 
an opportunity to evaluate your life. Make a 
special effort to set aside time for God every 
day. Let it become a habit. Let it become 
something you do after Lent. Lent is a gift to 
us. We don't have to exchange something for it 
to have value. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Graphics Derek Betcher Tom Roland Heather Mackenzie Production Sports Brad Prendergast Brian Reinthaler Jamie Heisler Viewpoint Chris Uhart Edward Llull Accent Lab Tech Melanie Waters Katie Kroener 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Muslim riot in western China leads to 500 initial arrests 

Envoy: Pope hopes to visit Holy Land 
JERUSALEM 
Pope John Paul II hopes to visit Israel in 1998 or 1999, according to a Vatican envoy who suggested Monday that the trip could depend on progress in the Arab-Israeli peace process. "He expressed a great wish to come ... if possible, before the year 2000," Cardinal Edward I. Cassidy told Chief Rabbi Israel Meir Lau. The visit would 

not ~e this year, but hopefully would come in 1999, Cassidy, who heads the Pontifical Commission for Religious Relations with the Jewish people, told The Associated Press. "It is something very high on his pro­gram as far as desires are concerned, but actually it depends a little bit on how the situation develops," Cassidy said, without elaborating. The Vatican seeks international guarantees to protect the religious charac­ter o~ Jerusalem and sites considered holy by Christians, Muslims and Jews. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu invited the pope to visit Israel when the two leaders met at the Vatican on Feb. 3. Israel and the Holy See established diplomatic relations in 1993. 

Officer faces charges of misconduct 
WASHINGTON 
The Army suspended its senior noncommissioned offi­cer today in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct made by a former soldier who had worked on his staff. Army Chief of Staff Gen. Dennis Reimer issued a state­ment that Sgt. Maj. of the Army Gene McKinney had been assigned to the U.S. Military District of Washington "pending resolution of the allegations." The step was taken one day after the woman who has charged McKinney with the misconduct complained on national tel~visio1_1 that he had been allowed to remain on the job while dnll sergeants at other posts had been relieved of their duties pending similar investigations. Army Secretary Togo West, also appearing on Sunday ABC's "This Week," pledged that the inconsistent policy would be reviewed. McKinney, the Army's top enlisted soldier, has denied sexual assault allegations by retired Sgt. Maj. Brenda Hoster, who said his actions forced her to leave the service after 22 years. He appears in an Army video in which leaders declare war on sexual harassment but has stepped down from a panel studying sex abuse in the Army. Reimer's statement said the action was taken "in the best interest of the individual and the institution b~cause continu.ed public attention made it increasingly difficult for McKmney to fulfill his responsibilities." 
• Sm.mt BEND WEATHER 



The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 12. 
FRONTS: 
~ ...a....a.... ...,......,_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CC ~997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

ethnic Chinese into the region, where Turkic-speaking Uighurs live. 
Chinese police said Monday that four to five people were killed in the vio­lence in Yining, a city close to the bor­der ':"ith Kazakstan in China's Xinjiang provmce. 
But a Hong Kong newspaper, Ming Pao, reported Monday that more than 10 Chinese were killed and their bod­ies set on fire. 
Modan Mukhlisi, a spokesman for the United National Revolution Front a Uighur separatist group based i~ 
AP/AiexSibirny Kazakstan, said 30 Uighurs died. 
Ismail Cengiz of the East Turkestan Immigrants Association, a pro-independence Uighur group based in Istanbul, Turkey, said 200 Muslim riot­ers and about 100 Chinese soldiers were killed. 
Security forces arrested up to 500 people, some of whom later were released, a Yining police officer, reached by telephone from Beijing, said Monday. 
Freshman dies after fraternity party 
FROSTBURG, Md. 

Eight students at Frostburg State University were charged with manslaughter in the alcohol poisoning death of a freshman who got drunk at a fraternity party. The freshman, John Eric Stinner, 20, consumed at least six beers and 12 shots of vodka in two hours at the off­campus Kappa Beta Zeta party, Allegany County State's Attorney Lawrence V. Kelly said Monday. Friends car­ried Stinner back to his dormitory room, where he was found dead on Nov. 9 with a blood alcohol content of 
0.34 percent, more than three times the legally intoxi­cated level of 0.10 percent. The defendants were indict­ed on Friday and all had been released on their own rec­ognizance by Monday afternoon, Kelly said. Seven were members of Kappa Beta Zeta, one of several unsanc­tioned fraternities that hold weekend parties in the west­ern Maryland town of 8,000. The eighth lived in the apartment building where the party was held. They also were charged with reckless endangerment and sale of alcohol without a license. About 5,700 people died from alcohol poisoning in 1994, the most recent report avail­able from the National Center for Health Statistics. Of those, 375 were 15 to 24 years old. 
'Easy' subjects top students' lists 
WASHINGTON 

Half of the high school students in a new survey feel less than challenged at school. But that doesn't mean they are eager to take calculus, advanced science or Shakespeare. Instead, basic reading, writing and math topp.~~ the list of what students found "extremely impor­tant m a survey released Monday by Public Agenda, a nonprofit research group. Ninety-four percent of stu­dents found those studies crucial. Computer skills also r~nked high, at 75 percent, as did practical job skills, at 59 percent. Good marks make them feel good, said the cross-section of 1,300 students interviewed in November. Overall, less than half the students surveyed thou?ht it so important to take biology, chemistry or physics; advanced math such as calculus; American his­tory and American geography. Shakespeare was buried rather than praised at 23. percent. The bell tolled for Hemingway and other modern American authors at 18 percent. "I think kids arc trying to get by with the bare minimum, and just get through with what they have to get through and not push themselves to their full poten­tial," said Patrick Burland, 16, a junior from Boo.thwyn, Pa., on a study tour of Washington. 96 percent of the students said that doing well in school made them feel good about themselves. 
Pressure 

H L 63 bS'I l:nJ 0 tz3 Q -Q ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

70  New York  38  28  
30  Peoria  32  23  
55  Phoenix  68  44  
5  St. Louis  35  25  
42  Seattle  51  40  


Vis Assoclsred Pres•  
Atlanta  55  33  Honolulu  82  
Baltimore  41  25  Huntsville  47  
Boston  40  24  Miami  76  
Chicago  30  22  Minneapolis  19  
Fairbanks  15  -5  New Orleans 64  
'  


.... ---­
-~ 

A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
Today... 
The 

A look at The Shirt 
For most students, The Shirt is a Notre Dame tradition that begins and ends with each football
epartments 
season. For the members of The Shirt's student 
staff, however, it is a year-long process of hard 
work.
Page
Tuesday, February 11, 1997 

The Shirts off our backs . • • 
Student staff works year-round to maintain tradition 
By JUSTYN HARKIN logo on the left sleeve. said. Departments Page Editor Another factor considered "The Shirt '97 will be ready 
Student Coordinator 
in The Shirt's design is keep­long before the the 1997-98 
The Shirt project, Notre ing the front part simple in school year begins." Dame's largest student-run order to create a one-color In addition to making the charity organization, has qui­effect in the student section. management of The Shirt eas­
appoints successor 
etly entered its seventh year. "The Shirt's student staff ier, starting early creates What began as a stunt to consists of about ten good lower bid prices, allowing The By JUSTYN HARKIN raise money for An Tostal has people with different talents," Shirt to make more money for 
Department Page Editor 
now evolved into a Notre said Walsh. "There's very charity. Dame football tradition -a few specific jobs with us. The bid process consists of 
After three years of guiding production and design of The
tradition which generates Someone in the group has to sending a packet of The 
Shirt, junior Bill Walsh has now begun the process of trainingover $200,000 a year for stu­know about art, how to man-Shirt's production specifica­his successor.
dent interests and charity a g e tions to different clothing 
Walsh has effectively established a one-year apprenticeship
causes. manufacturers who will 
to introduce his successor, sophomore Brian Emmerson, to all
The Shirt project was estimate the cost 
the responsibilities his position encompasses.
started in 1990 by of production 
Organizational skills played a major role in the choice of a
Brennan Harvath and and then send replacement, Walsh said, noting Emmerson was chosen
made its official debut back a proto­because he is "massively responsible." 
during the 1990 type and pro­Becoming executive student coordinator will require
opening home game posal. 
Emmerson to learn about licensing, marketing, and t-shirt pro­
versus the Presently, 
duction. He will also learn how to deal with the directors of
University of The Shirt 
each campus retailer, such as the bookstore, varsity shop, and
Michigan. has been the Alumni Association. 
The game fea­receiving 
"Notre Dame is a delicate kind of family. You not only have
tured a specta­the pro­to think of making money for charity but also what's best for
cle of about 85 totypes 
the Notre Dame community," Walsh said, explaining the thor­
percent of t h a t 
oughness of training.
the Notre t h e 
While the apprenticeship is a new idea for The Shirt, it is one
Dame stu­
that Walsh believes will certainly benefit it. 
dent body 
"Sometimes we [The Shirt staff1 are presented with certain
wearing the kelly appar­
moral issues," said Walsh, cryptically alluding to the business 
green t-shirt and its col­el compa­practices of other, more aggressive companies. 
lage of University land­nies return Due to a lack of response to an advertisement placed in The 
marks. with their bids. 
Observer earlier in the year, Walsh hand-chose Emmerson to
The 'office' of the The three main 
take the job.
individual who is in criterion for 
Emmerson will essentially be doing the job by himself, under
charge of The Shirt's accepting a com­
Walsh's and Assistant Director of Student Activities Gayle
design, production, dis­pany's bid include Spencer's supervision.
tribution, and general the quality of the "She has been a great help," Emmerson noted.
management, is locat­base t-shirt, the Although Emmerson's involvement with The Shirt has justed in a single on the screen quality of begun, he already realizes the importance of his job. 
third floor of Dillon the shirt's design, ''I've got some big shoes to fill," he added. "Bill's done anHall. and the price of excellent job the past couple of years."
Junior Bill Walsh the bid. 
has been the execu­During January 
tive student coordina­and February the 
tor since his fresh­staff accepts a 
man year. bid, chooses a 
He acquired the manufacturer, 
position by respond­and later sets a 
ing to an advertise­date for deliver­
ment in The Observer ing the shirts. 
and said that he was later money, "Generally 
selected for his experience in to deal with the press, and to that date of the 
the field. interact with other people." shirts' arrival will be some­
"I've been involved with In fact, Walsh attributes time in April," said Walsh, "so 
making t-shirts since I was in The Shirt's success to its stu­that we can get them to our 
eighth grade," Walsh said. dent staff. vendors before summer vaca­
Making a t-shirt is rather "The Shirt staff is an inter­tion." 
complicated, requiring knowl­esting group," he said. And while summer break 
edge of color separation and "They've managed to hold may mean an end for school­
Mandy Abdo Fund $70,000
other technical processes, he together a very complex sys­work, it does not mean an end explained. tem successfully. The Shirt is of work for The Shirt. 
Robert Adams Scholarship 30,000 
"You can sit and draw the teamwork at its finest." "As long as I've been doing 
Service Clubs 20,000
design for a This year's The Shirt we've settled on the 
NASSCY 1,500
The Shirt stu­next year's design the sum­
t-shirt in a ------------­
few days," dent staff is mer before its production," he said, composed of said Walsh. 
Student 0 anizations:
Juniors Ryan The Shirt staff will arrive at
"but to 'We're a team that 
make a t-Murphy, Notre Dame to begin work a shirt project handles about J e r e m y few days before the beginning 


Senior Class $5,000
the size of three-quarters of a mil-Scarlett, Jim of fall semester. The Shirt 1. d ll h f Laur, Matt Their first couple days of 
Hall Presidents Council 4,000
successful lOll 0 ars wort 0 O'Shaugnessy, school are spent hanging 
Clubs/Organizations 33,200
involves a retail product that brings and Scott posters, delivering shirts to Hewitt. vendors, and preparing press 
SUB Ideas and Issues 15,000
lot , more in a substantial amount
work.' T h e releases and advertisements. 
SUB Concerts 5,000
Actually, of money for charity. It University Walsh, stressing the impor­
SUB Sophomore Literary Fest 2,000
c e r t a i n is essential that we do advisor to The tance of The Shirt's team­
aspects of . b 'bl , Shirt is Gayle work, said, "We're a team 
Freshman Orientation 8,000
The Shirt's our JO respons1 y. Spencer, assis­that handles about three­
Transfer Orientation 3,800
design have tant director of quarters of a million dollars established Bill Walsh student activi-worth of retail product that 
Fallfest (Student Government) 5,000 
themselves brings in a substantial
------------ties. 
as part of its "The Shirt is amount of money for charity. tradition. a year-long process that sim­It is essential that we perform 
Floater Fund: 
One such tradition is plac­ply doesn't end with the foot­our job responsibly." ing the Alumni Association ball season, in fact," Walsh 

The Observer/Sue O'Kain 

.....
-~--------,---~~~-~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 11, 1997 
Search 
continued from page 1 
colleges and universities, would place their jobs at risk if they publicly announced their candi­dacy for the Saint Mary's posi­tion. 
According to Callahan, the community was indirectly involved in the process because the "Statement of Desired Presidential Leadership Characteristics" that was devel­oped by the community was "until the final moment, the 
Komansky 
continued from page 1 

tion, but how we comb through information to produce knowl­edge," commented Komansky. "Our lasting advantage is the ability to manage this knowl­edge and having a true under­standing of our client's needs. This requires teamwork and a diverse, multicultural work force." 
On April 15, Komansky stands to become chairman of the Board of Directors of Merrill Lynch. In regards to his promotion, Komansky drew a comparison to Notre Dame football coach Bob Davie. "We both begin the first year of our rookie season following in big footsteps, entrusted with fran­benchmark against which final­ists were considered." 
The search process was launched following Hickey's resignation announcement at last spring's Board of Trustees meeting. 
In that announcement, Hickey stated that he would retain his duties as president until the appointment of a successor. 
However, an administrative turnover will not accompany the public announcement of the next president; Hickey will end his 35-year career with Saint Mary's at this year's com­mencement exercises. 
chises respected and known the world over," he said. 
Komansky also discussed the mission of Merrill Lynch from a personal perspective. 
"We have a passion for help­ing people improve their well­being. No other industry has the ability to help people build better families, better commu­nities, and better nations." 
Komansky concluded by giv­ing three points of advice to students entering the modern work world. 
"First, find the highest possi­ble purpose and stay focused. Second, find an organization that operates on the basis of merit and reflects your person­al values. Third, get comfort­able with the idea of change. Change is the only constant in this world; it's your best friend and ally." 
Cleveland, faculty appoint­ments at the universities of
Scalia 

Virginia, Chicago, Georgetown continued from page 1 and Stanford, and government 
service as an assistant attorney Scalia earned his bachelor's general in the Justice degree from Georgetown Department. University and the University of Scalia, 60, and his wife Fribourg in Switzerland. Maureen have nine children. 
Scalia's legal career has The Los Angeles Times con­included private practice in tributed to this report. 
They were BIG, Mom! 

As part of Saint Mary's Little Sibs Weekend, younger brothers and sisters had the chance to meet Irish gridiron players. Here, sophomore fullback Jamie Spencer takes time with a sib. 
Election 
continued from page 1 
the primary. 

"We didn't want to look back and say that we hadn't pushed hard enough to even make the runoff," Szabo explained. 
Griffin/Nass' spending emphasis was also during the primary elections. 
"We've got a little less than $50 left," Nass shared, "but that's enough for the runoff." 
Independent of spending habits, both tickets have defi­nite ideas about how their campaigning will focus over the next few days. 
"When we go door-to-door, we take the time out to do more than just say hi. We want to let then know about us and we talk to them to get ideas," Griffin said. One such idea Griffin said he was given was the need for more pencil sharpeners across campus. 
"We're just going to keep meeting people and emphasiz­ing how our ideas are do­able," Nass said. The two also noted that their 'unity and diversity' plank had been well-received. 
Gillard also addressed plat­form issues: "We'll still empha­size student rights and our stu­dent trustee idea. When people look at our platform and ask 'How are you going to accom­plish that?' these ideas about improved representation are what we tell them." 
Of their platform goals, Szabo and Gillard remarked that their meal-plan reform ideas had been especially well­received. 
Voting for Wednesday's elec­tion will take place in the resi­dence halls and in the Huddle from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Fri., Feb. 7 

9:40 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
1:17 p.m. A Knott Hall resident report· ed receiving a harassing telephOne call. 
Sat., Feb. 8 

9:58 a.m A South Bend resident was arrested by Security for shoplifting in the Hammes Bookstore. 
3:15p.m. A Zahm Halt resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
4:15p.m. A Keenan Hall resident was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
7:14 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of a phone receiver and money from his unlocked room, 
Sun., Feb. 9 

::''l!li < p.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident In the 62 parl<ing lot. 
~OBSERV~~R  
is now accepting applications for the 1997-98 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Brad Prendergast by Friday, Feb. 14 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gener­rhe content of the news section each day. ating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and ~olumnists Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and decides what letters will run each day. '' and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor man­Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpressages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layouteach day. and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and rent of the Accent pages each day. printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR CONTROLLER Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. ST. MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, gen­erates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's.  

Tuesday, February 11, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
English01an shares cera01ic images 

By TATUM MENGYAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 
He began as a painter, and was told by his high school guidance counselor that if he had any lean­ings toward mainstream art, this was the only road to follow. 
Today Tony Hepburn's work is widely exhibited and published. Procuring residencies and show­ings in international collections, Hepburn persists as a leading fig­ure in ceramic sculpture. 
Even guidance counselors can lead one astray. 
Hepburn, currently the head of ceramics and the artist-in-resi­dence program at Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield, Mich., can be found in the Saint Mary's art department as a visiting artist Feb. 10-12. 
In light of this visit, students, fac­ulty, and guests, gathered last night in Moreau Hall for a slide presentation of Hepburn's work. 
"The problem with communicat­ing through slides is that the infor­mation is virtual, and therefore only a vague semblance to reality," Hepburn said. 
Hepburn began his presentation with a brief introduction that pri­marily addressed his experiences as a beginning artist. 
Born in Manchester, England, Hepburn emigrated to the United States in 1976; since then he has shifted his residence repeatedly throughout the country. 

Don)t Forget to VOTE 
Run-o E ections 
Wednesday February 12 


Today, Tuesday, February 11 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
"I've accepted the fact that I have a nomadic life. As they say, 'You can never go home,' " he said. "But for me, it's excit­ing, catalytic. There's a richness to be found out there." 
Hepburn, relying on the concepts of analogy and metaphor as the basis for his work, uses images of both archi­tectural and natural forms. A drawing of gestures accompanies each individual piece. 
Hepburn commented that these drawings play a fundamental role in the construction of his sculp­tures. 
"You can never see a sculpture or, for that matter, any three dimensional form," he said. "To do so, you must spend time with the objects. It is an cumulatively gen­erated experience." 
Hepburn, following this thought, stressed the three main functions of his drawings: to give a sense of what he might make, to give "quick information" -or to clarify some­thing while in the process of con­struction, and to offer a true under­standing of the form his structure might take. 
Hepburn spends a third of his time out of his studio, living true to his self-imposed nomadic life. On 
the road, he makes on-the­spot installations. 
''I'm constantly looking for places to work, places that put me on the edge, give me that jolt," he said. 
Hepburn commented that his work is a direct extension of his body by asserting that, "In ceramic sculpture, your body becomes directly involved with the matter, the clay; there are no intermedi­aries, no brushes, no pens." 
Reflecting on his first experience with sculpture, Hepburn recalled the conversation in which he was told to make a form. Inquiring about the type of form he was to produce, Hepburn was told, "That's entirely up to you." 
"For me, this was a moment of enlightenment, the first abstract decision I had ever made. Painting, I always had color and figure to respond to; information out there to tell me what to do. The ensuing sense of responsibility this event gave me was colossal," he said. 
Hepburn invited questions from the audience upon the close of his presentation. Juniors Jessi Lentuch and Stephanie Lancaster, after working with Hepburn, said, "It is a great experience to have the opportunity to work with someone of Hepburn's caliber, to work with a different and fresh perspective." 
Birdine: Knowing heritage and self leads to harmony 
By SEAN MAHONEY 
News Writer 
Earning respect and balance in a multicultural environment takes both self-affirmation and a commitment to action, according to Steven Birdine, Indiana University's coordinator of diversity programs. In last night's lecture, Birdine empha­sized the need for communica­tion and openness between racially diverse individuals. 
"Stereotypes are great for lazy people who don't want to do the work of getting to know people,'' Birdine said. 
He began his presentation by exploring the roots of Black History Month, describing it as an affirmation of African Americans and their culture. By acknowledging their heritage, he said, students can improve their lives at Notre Dame while increasing their awareness of cultural differences. 
Birdine explained that expect­ing and recognizing the individ­uality of every person is the first step in "chipping away the walls that keep us apart." Additionally, he stressed the need for open and honest dia­logues untouched by the con­straints of political correctness. 
"We all have to be a little uncomfortable to be comfort-

The Observer/Michelle Sweet 

Steven Birdine tackled stereo­types and diverMy during yester­day's lecture. 
able," he said. 
Last night's lecture also called for students to make an individ­ual commitment to their acade­mic and personal growth. In a celebration of the self, Birdine advised that "you should get out of the box and keep your hori­zons wide open." 
Birdine noted that many African Americans choose to celebrate their collective her­itage during Black History Month instead of championing their individual accomplish­ments. 
Steven Birdine's lecture was one in a group of events spon­sored by the NAACP in recogni­tion of Black History Month. 

~-~~ ----------~------~ .............--~-----_..---------~----~---~--~------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 11, 1997 
Rube: Don't forget prayer 
By MEREDITH JOHNSON ed on the lecture: "The talk was News Writer 
a. great .experience.··tolearn of sharing faith and howitapplies 
The art of great conversation to our conversations with oth~ can be an advantage in a per~ ers, It was a terrific way t() son's life; And acc9rdlng ~o startthe Lenten.~ea.son.~ . Jack Rube, learning to converse Tbe lecture was tlle second in with God and allowing Him into athr.ee pa,rtsedes orgl:ulized by our·-Uves ~an l:!e 4 bles!fing .of ••1$ai:q~ Ma~y's>senior·+aut;.a
greatworth. ;,-c .·....·· · · ··Lec:hm?n• ~.My,goa,l wa~ to Rube, a ~~'?fe~s()r ofmanage, gather stud(;ln · . d • facpJty. ment .. at .. Saint •Mary·~.; .\ .JhereisJ>o ..•-......•.. rir.students addressed the need for conver" ···-···to Jearn from their J!xperience. sations notonly between o.ne. The·lecture tqtilght ~as to ere· 
another ·bUt with God in a •lee. ate that opportunity;~· she said. ture last night. The panel also included Saint 
~we need to struggle to inte" Mar;y's senior . ·Hilary grate our Christianity intoour HackE)nbruck. and Mary work lives," Rtih~. said. "My one C()nnolly, associate professor of concern is that the culturalval-· mathematics at Saint Mary's. ues of work may harm the val-Connoll~ introduced the lecture ues students have learned at···· by stressing the importance of home and.atsch()ol.'' listening. 
Huhe also connected conver; · "We haV~ to think and under· sati<ms between God and coh stand what the other person is lege life. "Students are search" thinking," Connolly said. She ing for certainty. through life,"< added that conversations can he said. while citing decisions create great bonds between students face choosing majors, people, and that by discussing fulfilling degree requirements, emotional issues we get to and facing life; "Conversations know the likes, dislikes, ideas, with friends and God can help and goals ofone another. direct you. I realized that yot.l. "Learning to converse with need to be open to God's plan." G()d has made be a better con-
Junior Eileen Nieli comment·· versationalist," Hackenbruck continued. "I noticed that my life was incomplete. I was lack­ing. depth." Hackenbruck recalled that shewas able to till that loss by remembering God and allowing herself-to he open to Him. 
"God is willing to converse with us always, not just dming struggle ortime of need. It takes practice to learn that." Hackenbruck said. 
·"I liked how Dr. Connolly ta,lked of sharing conversation at meal times. Meal times should be special and not rushed. Having dinner or lunch with my friends are tho. best times of the day." said junior Angela Ginax. 
Senior April Sass invited .stu­dents to attend the Faith Sharing Group in Madeleva HalL "Every Wednesday a group ofstudehts, staff, and faculty get together. lt is a time to share their faith with one another." 
On Monday, Feb. 17, the three part series will end with the . lecture "Dating and Marriage." The lecture will be held in Stapleton Lounge with Joseph Incandala and Daniel Mandell speaking. 
'Sober-a-thon' begins this week 
Observer Staff Report 

A fundraising program that will encourage students to abstain from alcohol will begin at Saint Mary's on Wednesday, and is expected to begin at Notre Dame by Feb. 24. 
Jim Sullivan. a 1994 gradu­ate of Notre Dame and the cur­rent outreach coordinator at the Life Treatment Center in South Bend, said the program -dubbed a "Sober-a-thon" ­will ask students to give up drinking from a certain length of time and to solicit pledges from roommates and friends. The proceeds will be donated to the Life Treatment Center. 
The Sober-a-thon is set to coincide with Ash Wednesday so that students can consider giving up alcohol for Lent, Sullivan said. 
The fundraiser will start later at Notre Dame because of the extra time needed to obtain approval from University officials. Sullivan said. 
Sullivan said he hopes to have representatives from each residence hall put up fly­ers and provide pledge forms to the students. 
Life Treatment Center treats over 800 people with drug and alcohol addictions annually. About 30 percent of its patients are homeless, Sullivan said. 
Machinery giant takes heat for factory shifts 
By CHRISTOPHER WILLS parts that are currently pro­Associated Press Writer duced in York, Pa. Citing high production costs, Caterpillar is PEORIA. Ill. closing its 1,100-worker York 
Caterpillar factory workers plant. Similarly, Caterpillar endured a tough 10 days. First, closed a Canadian plant in on Jan. 28, came the news that 1991 and moved the work to Caterpillar was opening a new North Carolina. plant in South Carolina. Then But does that mean news of another plant in North Caterpillar management is Carolina. Then Kentucky. making a conscious effort to T h e n . 
move produc­Thursday, tion south? Mississippi. And will the 
Suddenly, it company end looked like up making its Caterpillar's bulldozers future was ·in and dump Dixie and the trucks solely union's future in the South was in doubt. and overseas. 
Over the as union offi­past five years, cials claim? Caterpillar has Group pres­opened, or ident Gerald announced Flaherty plans to open, scoffed at 
15 new plants in the United States. Eleven of them are in the South. where unions have little strength. 
"They say they don't want a company without a union, but they're running away from the union." said Jerry Brown, pres­ident of United Auto Workers Local 974 in Caterpillar's Peoria base of operations. "It's just an open betrayal." 
Four plants will make small 
gaad gaad gaad gaad 
such ideas; he pointed out that Caterpillar had about 35 per­cent of its workers in the Peoria area when company employ­ment reached its peak of 89,000 in 1979. Today, with employment down to 57,000, Caterpillar still has 35 percent of its workers in Peoria. 
"Caterpillar has been a signif­icant part of Peoria and Illinois communities for many, many years," he said. 
Scott Falvey of of Notte Dame. 


SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS 
__......~A~~NCE 
AT SAINT MARY'S 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM FEBRUARY 14, 15, AT 8 PM FEBRUARY 16 AT 2:30 PM 

r---~-----~---~----------~----~4~.-~-r-~r------­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 11, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
~~N.\ To GJ K:>R TWO our o!= THR£~'?
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouille< 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the scudenrs of the Universicy of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe adminisrra­rion o(eirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· rorials represem the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~maries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdirorNiewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900i884o Sports 631-4543 Sysrems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• fiRST PRINCIPLES 
Falling prisoner to American pragmatism 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOOI\!ESBURY 

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is never too late to give up our prejudices." 
-Henry David Thoreau 
When it comes to politics, Americans like to think of themselves as "pragmatic" people who refuse to mix ideological considerations with political matters. They don't care about theories or abstract principles; they care about what "works." Politics, our pundits tell us, "is 

Irian Khawaja 
the art of compromise;" therefore, appeals to principle are utopian, imprac­tical and naive. 
Well, there's nothing as naive as cyni­cism, and nothing less practical than pragmatism. As a confirmation of this truth, consider the tragic tale of John E. Cox of South Bend. In mid-October, Cox was arrested on the charge of failing to appear in court pursuant to a subpoena he'd been served. In fact, the arrest was a sheer mistake: at the time of his arrest, Cox already had appeared in court, and was a free and innocent man. Due to a number of screwups, however, Cox was arrested anyway and detained in the St. Joseph County jail, where he spent 45 days, including Christmas and New Year's. As he described it to the South Bend Tribune, the conditions in the jail were overcrowded and "filthy." He was finally released on Jan. 29, when the county realized its mistake. 
Why did this happen? At one level, it was just a series of mistakes: clerical errors, missed phone calls, bucks passed, procedures overlooked. The clerks blame the cops; the cops blame the clerks. But the underlying difficulty, according to Judge Sanford Brook of the Superior Court, is systemic: "The county has no money to give the courts." Given this, there aren't a sufficient number of clerks to oversee the relevant legal processes. 
You'd have to have lived in a cave for the last few years to believe that issue of lack of funds for government agencies is a "non-ideological" one -purely a mat­ter of pulling a few logistical strings, or dabbling with the tax code. The 1994 elections saw the rise of what has come to be called the "Freshman Revolution" which was a revolt against "big govern­ment." The ideology behind this "Revolution" is what I call "fiscal libertar­ianism:" it holds that the legitimacy of the government stands in inverse relation to its size. The bigger the government, the badder it is; the smaller the govern­ment, the better. It doesn't matter what the function of the government is, or what it ought to do. The point is, whatev­er it does should be done on the cheap. Anyone who disagrees with this, we're told, is an ideological proponent of "Big Government." 
It is difficult to dignify such views with the description of "political thought," but this is what passes for political thought on the right nowadays. 
OK, then, where is the left on the sub­ject of John Cox? Good, question. 
As John Cox sat in prison, the liberals of St. Joseph County were sitting around debating whether or not Harris Township ought to be the site of an extension of the St. Joseph County Public Library. Now, the main branch of the St. Joseph County Library is in South Bend, but of course, one county library isn't good enough. After all, any truly pragmatic person knows the "libraries provide an essential resource" that must be provided and paid for by the County, no matter what. And everyone knows that it is unreason­able to expect the people of suburban Harris Township to drive all the way to South Bend to use the library, or God for­bid, just to buy their own books. So we need a Harris Township library NOW, and anyone who's against it is an illiter­ate hick. 
Here is my question for these liberals: if libraries are an essential government function, what about a properly function­ing judicial system? 
The question being evaded by both the left and the right is a fundamental issue of political theory: What is the proper function of the government? The classi­cal liberal view -which goes back to John Locke -assets that the govern­ment's function consists in protecting the rights of its citizens. Among the most fundamental of these rights is the citi­zen's right against the unjust application of force. The radical version of this view -to which I subscribe-holds that gov­ernment's proper function consists in regulating the proper use of coercion, no more and no less. 
This latter view aside, I think it is clear that protection against coercion is a more fundamental criterion of political legiti­macy than either the size of government or whether it is building enough libraries. A County government whose judicial sys­tem is literally falling apart is much worse off than a government that hap­pens to be "big" or one that lacks a library in Harris Township. But you won't catch any of our "non-ideological" liberals or conservatives saying that, because only an "ideologue" would quote a philosopher like John Locke in an argu­ment about public finance. 
Given the Lockean diagnosis, the prag­matic solution becomes clearer: obvious­ly, the judicial system needs more money. The County should raise taxes, cut inessential government programs, hire more county employees, and fix the sys­tem. This solution will of course annoy people both on the right and the left. 
The right is dogmatically against higher taxes and more government employees for any reason, good or bad. So fiscal lib­ertarians will cook up pseudo-economic excuses for not wanting to spend "too much" on reforming the judicial system. But we ought to ask them why they are so obsessed with the size of the govern­ment. If a government is limited to its proper functions, shouldn't we require it to do the best job that it can, and pay its employees accordingly? After all, it is the right that keeps telling us that "there is no such thing as a free lunch." Is there such a thing as a free judicial system? 
The left thinks that all government pro­grams are equally essential, no matter who benefits from them and what the context. So the left will tell us that "we don't need to choose" between the judi­cial system and the library, because we can have it all. We ought to ask them about their sense of priorities. Are library extensions really more important than a (unctioning judicial system? If not, why has no one in St. Joseph County been talking about our failing judicial system, while everyone has been scream­ing their heads off about the library for months? Perhaps the problem is that lib­erals have become so sanguine about government power that they've forgotten that "liberals" are supposed to be advo­cates of liberty and limited government. When was the last time you heard a lib­eral using those phrases, much less defend those ideals? 
Well, all's well that ends well. John Cox is filing suit against St. Joseph County for what he suffered at their hands. Who can blame him? On the other hand, with a judicial system like ours -on the verge of bankruptcy -you have to wonder: who's going to pay the bill? 
On second thought, maybe that isn't such a tough question. 
Irfan Khawaja is a doctoral student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
..~....~-.----------~----~~~~..----~---...---~..........~...._..._...._~..~~~---------.-·ea.-..~u..-.&.aa~U~--~----·~....~-~5~AP~W--S........~ 
;ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, Fcbrmry 11, 1997 
Don't get snowed in b 
Winter sports for every level o 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
and MARY BETH ELLIS Accent Copy Editor 
Admit it. Who among us hasn't uttered words ofexcru­ciating boredom at least once 
during the winter months in 
.__________, South Bend? And who hasn't indulged in a few too many garlic butter-laden breadsticks from 
Papa's for lack of any better form of entertain­ment? 
Well, ·your waistline and your restless spirit will thank you with Accent's guide to winter sports in the area. Mind you, by "area" this does not imply northern Indiana. As you can plainly see by the surrounding geography, Father Sarin was not considering the needs of downhill skiers when he plunked down this university. 
But never fear, winter sports enthusiasts! Just past Chicago, there's this wonderful little state called Wisconsin, where 33 downhill ski sites are just a few hours away. Granted, if you're used to skiing Vail or Steamboat. don't expect the world's most challenging slopes. Skiing definitely takes a backseat to cheese-head wearing here, but for a weekend getaway, Wisconsin's slopes are a wel­come relief from the three-inch layer of ice on campus sidewalks. 
Also, some smaller ski areas can be found in Michigan, although the best areas are the farthest north and are often nine to 10 hours driving time. Here is a sampling of some area ski resorts, but be warned that these are simply suggestions for you to check out, not tried-and-true test­ed slopes. Some of us are mighty poor skiers, and the University probably doesn't have enough insurance to cover the medical bills if a ski review would be attempted. 
WISCONSIN SKIING 
Alpine Valley 

East Troy, WI (southeast lower area, near Chicago) 
infp line: 800-227-9395 Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-11 p.m. Sat., Sun., Holidays 9 a.m.-11 p.m. 12 runs, snowboarding Chalet, restaurant, lodging, rentals, instruction, cross-country 
Cascade Mountain 
Portage, WI (southwest lower) info line: 800-992-2SKI Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Sat., Sun., Holidays 9 a.m.-10 p.m. 25 runs, snowboarding Chalet, restaurant, rentals, instruction 
Christmas Mountain 
Wisconsin Dells, WI (southwest lower) info line: 800-289-1066 Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Sat., Sun, Holidays 9 a.m.-10 p.m. 7 runs, Chalet, restaurant, lodging, rentals, instruction, cross-country 
Devil's Head 
Merrimac, WI (southwest lower) info line: 608-493-2251 Mon.-Fri. 9:30 a.m.-H) p.m. Sat., Sun., Holidays 
8:30 a.m.-10 p.m. 25 runs, snowboarding Chalet, 
Mount La Crosse 
Superior, WI (southwest lower) info line: 800-426-3665 
Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-9 p.m. Sat., Sun., Holidays 9 a.m.-9 p.m. 
17 runs, snowboarding, Chalet, restaurant, rentals, instruction, cross-country 
Powers Bluff 
Wisconsin Rapids, WI (southwest lower) info line: 715-421-8480 Sat. and Sun., 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 3 runs, rentals, cross-country 
Skyline 
Friendship, WI (southwest lower) 
info line: 800­
SKI-3811 
Fri. 5:50 p.m. 
-10 p.m. Sat. 9 a.m.-4:30 p.m., 5:30 p.m.-10 p.m. 
Got an appetite for love? 
Wining and dining the date of your dreams just got a little easier with these romantic dinner suggestions 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
t's often true that the quickest way to a man's heart is through his stomach. However, if you cook like me, then food is also the quick­est way to land him in the ER. 
Not exactly a romantic idea, unless of course George Clooney works t your local hospital. Roman<;e is in the air, though, and with '"""""·""''s Day quickly approaching, many persons of the testos­
persuasion find themselves stuck in a box-of-candy rut. And r the cooking impaired, the thought of attempting a hand-made eal can be terrifying. This Valentine's Day, it's time to look past the 
usual gifts of chocolates and candies towards a more...filling expres­of your feelings -dinner out. 
What could be a more appreciated show of affection than a night away from dining hall cuisine? It doesn't mean you have to empty wallet, although if you'd like to, I have plenty of suggestions and 
could probably arrange to be conveniently single that night. 
The fact of the matter is, most women would love a romantic dinner more than a box of chocolates that melts after a few hours. A dinner out could very well win her heart, and is as safe a bet for first date as for a fiftieth. (Sorry, I forgot. No one dates that long 
) 

me anyway, as Accent takes a look at some of the area's best when it comes to a romantic dinner for two. By the way, whole "two" thing is kind of imperative-no, it is NOT considered vwl<UllU'-to take your date AND your roommate and some people the hall and your accounting group to White Castle for amllHUIU's Day. Or any day, for that matter. The three little words wants to hear are most likely not "Steak 'n Shake," so here's a lit­
help in the dining department, for this weekend and beyond! 
't'V"';if'Y'i t"y\:t\1"; ~ The Carriage House 
If you really want to go all out to impress 
someone, The Carriage House is the place to 

·{;;j do it. Plainly put, you will walk out of here sig­
'-"-'-"-'-"---"-=-' nificantly poorer than you went in, but you will also be euphoric having just finished quite possibly the best meal you've had during your college career. And maybe beyond. 
The Carriage House is the only four-star restaurant in the area, and they take this distinction seriously. Owner Evelyn George has created a stunning dining experience, nestled about 15 minutes northwest of campus on Adams Rd. The restaurant is extremely intimate, and staff attend to every need of their customers from the minute they step through the door into an atmosphere of wood and brick accentuated by towering arrangements of fresh roses and other flowers. One cut rose adorns each table, and guys need not worry about remembering their manners-the host pulls out each woman's chair at the table. 
Before menus are even presented, the server brings each guest a helping of pate and bread. As a testament to how little I get out, I didn't even know for sure what pate was, but even upon finding that it was made with some form of liver, it was still delicious. 
The menu itself is probably enough to scare the payer, most likely the male (hey, if you ladies are into that Dutch-thing, go right ahead. I'm all for chivalry myself. Plus I have no money. He pays. I eat. It's all good.) Prices are written out. with not a dollar sign to be found. 
For appetizers, choices include escargot ($8.50), French Brie cheese ($6.50), Atlantic oysters ($8.50), and one recipe that (thank God) the dining hall has yet to discover and consequently ruin -rabbit sausage, for a mere $6.50. 
After appetizers, the house salad or soup are served. The salad fea­tures a tomato relish dressing, with balsamic vinaigrette and oil over fresh tomato cubes and lettuce. The soup, a phenomenal beef barley, makes it next to impossible to choose between the two. Even the r.>ll<> 
are ona aked and bread plate by the server with a p 
The entrees covnr a range of most expensive is also one of the Strip steak that puts even the 0 pricey options include the $26 Beef Wellington served in a 
For the adventurous, The C specialties such as venison with ($20). (Considering the rabbit then eat here.) The thick slabs and juicy, seasoned with virgin served with carrots, asparagus 
Other specialties include Veal ask -I don't know either) smothered in onions and zucc fresh catches like lemon sole · sauce ($18) and crab cakes carrots, zucchini and bits of If your date is a vegetable lover, vegetables) is only $16. 
The great thing about The are sizable, they don't overload room for the most important owning and operating the restau and an incredible one at that. 
From fresh lemon meringue pie raspberry cake, the dessert absolutely make it worth the grams just this once. Who needs that this good? If you don't believe date and check it out for yourself. (1 just have to take my word that no 
bizillion calorie treat, unless he's th 
In all, The Carriage House is a may be a bit much for a first date, vations are available for this week checking into for that special som you will soon forget. Dinner is s through Saturday. 


The Em 
Another the East East Race 
are pleas (espedall.> thr h11 ked potatoes) is 

Tuesday, February 11, 1997 ACCENT .-­
boredom.• • 

fitness and fun! 
a.m.-4:30 p.m. 
INDIANA SKIING ·, snowboarding, 
, rentals, restau Ski World nstruction, Nashville, IN country (south of Indy) 
info line: 800-521-0687l Basin Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. reb, WI (south Fri., Sat. 10 a.m.-3 a.m. ower) Sun., Holidays 9 a.m.-10 p.m. 
e: 608-437-4135 18 runs, batting cages, basketball, music ri. 10 a.m.-theater, arcade. Stop the excitement. 
Lodge, instruction. And don't miss the un., and Holidays crazy February Winter Carnival Days,-10 p.m. including the wild and wacky Funniest Hat s, snowboarding contest. Ya just can't get stuff like this in Northern , restaurant, California, kids ...thank God. 
s, instruction. 
LOCAL TUBING
hite Tail Ridge Right here in South Bend -when there's snow 
Fort McCoy, WI (south (which, of course, usually isn't a problem), you can west lower) experience the joys of tubing! Note: sledding is not info line: 608-388-4498 allowed in St. Joseph County Parks. 
Thurs. and Fri. 4 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Ferrettie/Baugo Creek Park Sat. 9:30 a.m.-9:30 57057 Ash Rd. p.m. info: 674-9765 
Sun. and Holidays Sat. and Sun., 11a.m.-5 p.m. 9:30 a.m.-11 p.m.4runs, snowboarding St. Patrick's Park 
Chalet, rentals, 50651 Laurel Rd. instruction, cross-country info: 277-4828 Sat. and Sun., 11a.m.-5 p.m. 
Woodside Ranch SKATING At THE JACC 
Beware -skates go fast, both out of the rental booth Mauston, WI (southwest and out from under you!lower) 
info line: 800-626-4275 $1 student admission, $1 skate rental Fri. 2 p.m.-9:30 p.m. Sat., Sun., and Holidays Public skating sessions: 
9 a.m.-9 p.m. Sat., February 22: 2:30-4:45, 8-10:15 p.m. 1 run (woo-hoo!!), snow­Sat., March 1: 2:30-4:30, 8-10:15 p.m. boarding C h a l e t , r e n t a I s , Sun., March 2: 2:30-4:45 p.m. 
instruction, cross-country Sun., March 8: 2:30-4:45 p.m. Fri., March 14: 8-10:15 p.m. Sat., March 15: 2:30-4:45, 8-10:15 p.m. 
Students skate free 12-1 p.m. Mon., Wed., Fri. 
)t, and delivered to each person's was built inside an abandoned warehouse, and features woodwork · of tongs. and brass artifacts from old churches in the area. The view is espe­tinental and French cuisine. The cially pretty in the spring and summer, but even in February, the est -a $28, 14-ounce New York atmosphere is cozy and the service is classy. ack Steakhouse to shame. Other Recommended appetizers include the Skinny Dippers potato skins 
ice Australian lobster tail and the and mozzarella sticks, both $4.45, and The Emporium also offers ry with liver pate. baked Brie cheese ($4.95) and calamari ($4.75) at very appetizing .ge House offers early American prices. Salads are brought with your choice of dressing, and are j mushrooms, shallots and apples accompanied by an individual topping bar featuring sunflower seeds, 1sage, too, don't rent Bambi and cheddar cheese, croutons, and mushrooms. lamb chops are incredibly tender The Emporium features more traditional American dishes, and is live oil, garlic and oregano and known for its prime rib specials. Four steaks are offered, ranging broccoli ($22). from a six-ounce sirloin for $7.95 to a 13-ounce New York Strip for 
ata with lemons and capers (don't $14.95. 0, and a sauteed chicken breast Chicken lovers for $19. Seafood fans will find eastOOnk~ 
will savor the tato crust with white wine cream 
Polynesian eet onions and hearts of celery, chicken for with mustard cream sauce ($22). $8.45, as well vegetable timbale (layered fresh as the chicken provelone with 
e House is that while the portions sauteed mush­to the point where you don't have rooms for of all -dessert! In addition to $8.95. Seafood choices include baked sole ($7.95), orange roughy t, George is also the pastry chef, ($10.45), scampi ($11.95) and more, while lighter selections feature 
the pasta primavera ($8.45) and quiche Florentine ($5.75). apple walnut pie to chocolate and The crowning jewel is the prime rib, though, available in a six, is brimming with goodies that eight, or 12-ounce cut ($9.45-14.95). Beware-it's not always 
es to eat them. Forget about fat superb, and can be dry or fatty. Prime rib combinations include the n when there's chocolate mousse Polynesian chicken, shrimp tempura, scampi, and lobster tail. And me, I strongly urge you to find a for the less adventurous diners, who would rather just impress their nless you are a man. Then you'll date with a nice restaurant than actually EAT there, The Emporium
member of your sex is worth this offers a safety net of hamburgers and cheeseburgers. one paying for my meal.) Everything, except the burgers, comes with a baked potato, wild emendous dining experience. It rice, veggies or steak fries. GET THE BAKED POTATO. Just a subtle 
though, and only Thursday reser­suggestion. It's served with another individual topping bar with 
nd. However, it's certainly worth chives, sour cream, cheddar cheese, and bacon, and you can make a ne, and is a meal that neither of DARN good potato with this stuffi rved starting at 5 p.m. Tuesday Another great perk of The Emporium is that they serve one of our 
favorite brews, Four Horseman Ale from the Mishawaka Brewing Company, in extra large bottles. Dinner for two can easily come in trium under $30, making The Emporium a perfect choice for any kind o 
... ;reat choice for romantic dining is couple -even a couple of friends! Dinner hours are Monday through ank Emporium, situated on the Thursday, 5-10 p.m., Friday and Saturday, 5-11 p.m., and Sunday f the river downtown. The prices 4-9 p.m. While Valentine's reservations are full, they will be taking ntly reasonable, and the food walk-in diners on Friday, and reservations are available for both 
real treat. The restaurant itself Thursday and Saturday. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 11, 1997 


---
• ESPN AWARDS 
Stars gather for annual ESPY's 
By DAVID BAUDER Associated Press W rirer 
NEW YORK 

Comedian Bill Cosby, in his first live television appearance since his son was killed, honored baseball pioneer Jackie Robinson Monday in a serious moment on the usually irreverent ESPY awards show. 
President Clinton also saluted Robinson in a taped appearance and boxer Muhammad Ali was honored on the sporting awards program spon­sored by cable network ESPN, a show generally · filled with jocks struggling to make jokes. 
Cosby beckoned the applauding Radio City Music Hall crowd to sit down when he took the stage an hour into the program. 
"Hello, friends," he said. Cosby has swiftly moved back to work after the still-unsolved Jan. 16 shooting death of his only son, Ennis, in Los Angeles. 
Robinson, he said, "was a sportsman in the 
-
truest sense of the word and a role model for millions of Americans." Cosby was warmly hugged by Robinson's widow, Rachel, and thanked for his support of the late baseball star's scholarship fund. 
Robinson, a World Series hero with the Brooklyn Dodgers, broke baseball's color line in 194 7 and was the first black ballplayer elected to the sport's Hall of Fame. 
Another great second baseman, Joe Morgan, recalled walking up to Robinson once when he saw him at a baseball game and saying, "thanks." Robinson greeted him with a smile. 
'Til never forget that smile, and I'll never for­get Jackie Robinson," Morgan said. Former heavyweight champion Ali, slowed by Parkinson's Syndrome, was given the Arthur 
Ashe Award for Courage. Super Bowl MVP Desmond Howard and Olympic sprinting champi­on Michael Johnson both saluted Ali when pick­ing up their own awards. 
"I love you very much," Howard said. "I love what you've done. I love what you stand for." 
The awards show sponsored by the ESPN cable network celebrated memorable sports moments of the past year like Dwight Gooden's no-hitter, Ohio State's last-minute Rose Bowl victory and Kerri Strug's Olympic vault into history. 
It also ran tape of some lowlights, like Dennis Rodman kicking a photographer in the groin and a golfer vomiting on the course. 
About three dozen ESPY trophies were handed out. Some of them were chosen by repre­sentatives of different sports, others by ESPN executives and 10 in balloting by about a half­million fans. 
Golf prodigy Tiger Woods was named break­through athlete of the year, heavyweight boxing champion Evander Holyfield was the comeback athlete of the year and Olympians Amy Van Dyken and Johnson won the outstanding female and male athletes of the year. 
The World Series champion New York Yankees and their manager, Joe Torre, were named out­standing team and manager of the year, respec­tively. 
"George, congratulations on getting rid of all those pesky World Series heroes," host Jeff Foxworthy told Yankees owner George Steinbrenner while walking through the audi­ence. 
Football star Howard paid wry tribute to the athletes and actors struggling to show they were witty and hip. 
''I'd like to thank the ESPY for slowly turning into Comedy Central," he said. 
Canadiens hold on to defeat Sharks 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL 
Rookie goalie Jose Theodore made a season-high 47 saves and Vincent Damphousse reached the 800-point plateau with a goal and two assists Monday night, leading the Montreal Canadien~ to a 4-2 win over the San Jose Sharks. 
Theodore, making his 1Oth career start, made 21 saves in the second period while pro­tecting a 3-1 lead. 
Damphousse scored his 21st goal on a power play at 6:15 of the first period, his first goal in 10 games since Jan. 22. 
He got his BOOth career point with an assist on Vladimir Malakhov's goal at 
18:11 of the first period. 
Martin Rucinsky and Turner Stevenson also scored for the Canadiens, who are 6-0 in Montreal against the Sharks. 
Dody Wood and rookie Stephen scored San Jose's goals. 
Theodore allowed Guolla's goal 81 seconds into the game on the Sharks' second shot, but nothing else until Wood beat him with the Sharks 40th shot at 13:15 of the third peri­od. 
Coyotes 4, Blues 2 

Nikolai Khabibulin made 37 saves and Keith Tkachuk scored his 34th goal Monday night to lift the Phoenix Coyotes to a 4-2 win over the St. Louis Blues. 
Craig Janney assisted on two goals and Jeremy Roenick had a goal and an assist for Phoenix, which scored three times in the first period. 
The loss was St. Louis' fourth in its last six games at home and dropped the Blues to 11-15-4 at Kiel Center. 
Tkachuk scored 33 seconds in when he took a pass from Craig Janney just inside the blue line and skated in alone to beat St. Louis goalie Grant Fuhr. 
Roenick made it 2-0 at 2:30 on Janney's second assist, and Mike Gartner scored his 22nd goal when he deflected in Dave Manson's shot on a power play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
Classifieds 

.,. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $1191 Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
TONIGHT AT BALLROOM DANCE: SAMBA AND WALTZ II. COME AND JOIN US! ONLY $3 FOR NON-MEMBERS. IT'S A DEAL!! 
SPRING BREAK! MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND 
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ED BY OWNER. 941-642-5483 
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL 
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL 
CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. 
"""ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO 
CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET 
FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­
DA. 1-800-838-8203 
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN­
TINE CLASSIFIED FOR YOUR 
SWEETHEART OR YOUR 
FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM ON 2/13. 

MAKE A RECORDING at the sound cellar recording studio located in THE OLD KEELER WIN­ERY BUILDING & TAKE A TOUR TO SEE WHERE THE NEW CON­CERT ARENA (THE VAT) WILL BE! (616)463-0003 
HEY, EVERYBODY!!! STOP BY· THE OBSERVER AND PLACE AN AD TO YOUR VALENTINE!!! 
PACK O'LAUGHLIN THEATER. This Fri., Sat., and Sun. We need YOUR help! Buy your tickets soonII For the SMC/ND dance workshop production of "BODY TALK." 
Needed: Your help to PACK OLAUGHLIN THEATER Valentine's weekend. Buy your tickets TODAY! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
REWARD $$ REWARD $$ 
LOST -Antique silver earring on 
Tuesday night between O'Shag and 
stadium parking lot. 
It is round with an old fashioned 
screw back. 
PLEASE call Kathleen 631-6479. 
REWARD $$ REWARD $$ 
LOST: Wallet with identification and special key chain. Last seen under the passenger seat of RP's car. If found, please call Juliet at 284-5459. Thank You. 
LOST: CAMERA LEFT AT CAM­
PUS VIEW AT CASE RACE 
PARTY, CALL ERIK AT 243-9290 
AND DESCRIBE. 
FOUND: HEMP NECKLACE WITH TURTLE STONE BEHIND THE BOOKSTORE ON SATURDAY. CALL AMY 4-2880. 
LOST: Pioneer detachable face 
for car CD player. was in a 
black carrying case. if found, 
please call4-2079 (ask for Lee) 
reward 
WANTED 

SUMMER JOBS 
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
1-800-786-8373 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext.A154. 
EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching exp. required. • (919)918-7767, Ext W154. 
FEMALE AND MALE CAMP COUNSELORS needed for out­standing Maine camps! CAMP VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR for boys. Each located on magnifi­cent lakefront setting with excep­tional facilities. Over 100 positions at each camp for heads and assis­tants in tennis, basketball, baseball, volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, dance Oazz, tap, ballet), nature study, backpacking, horseback riding, ropes course, trip leaders, mountain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre­taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ing, and travel allowance. MEN­CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room from lOAM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. 
MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS! ColorWorks is currently recruiting on campus for a limited number of summer '97 management positions. Gain hands on experience in man­aging a business in your hometown. Opportunities available in SOUTH BEND, ELKHART, FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and other areas. Summer earnings $7­$9,000. To speak to a campus rep­resentative call 1-800-477-1001. 
Looking for Sales Reps to sell Weight Loss System, Vitamins, and/or Skin Care and Cosmetics. 
Direct Sale. Part time/Full time. Training. Call (219)277-6021. 
Reliable babysitter needed, ages 6,4,2. Ten minutes from campus, $5.25/hour, 15 hours/week. 277-3064 
FOR RENT 
Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595 
AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
HOUSE FOR RENT FOR 97-98 5 BDRMS; WSHR/DRYER; ALRM; DISH WSHR; .4 ML FROM ND; CALL 232-0431 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FAX 1185 
4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947 
Campus View Apartments 1&2 Bedroom Apts Avail '97-'98 Schoolyear Summer Leases Available Call272-1441 
FOR SALE 
Bed -Oueensize orthopedic premi­um mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352 
WIN A 9 DAY TRIP FOR 2 TO ND VS HAWAII GAME INCLUDES AIRFARE, HOTEL, FOOD, $1000 SPENDING MONEY. $20 TIX. CALL DAWN X4774 
SEGA GENESIS w/. 2 controllers &6 Sports games $135. 289-7481 
New Unopened External Zip 
Drive-SCSI $175 OBO 
Call Steve 280-8124 
Attention Campus Bands! I 
PA equipment for sale. Great condition! Amps, 4 Speakers, mon­itors, mics, pre-amp, etc. etc. If interested, 
call dave at 273-4318 
'90 Camry 111 K miles $3500 291-4114 
TICKETS 
NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 
PERSONAL 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
JAZZERCISE 
Very close to campus 
277-0111 
Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies 
are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
Is your band ready? Rent a full­production studio at $100 a day. I'll Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 
Is your band ready? Rent a full­production studio at $1 00 a day. I'll Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 
Attn. SENIORS 
Tuesday, Feb. 11 6-8PM Come to Bruno's Class Dinner. 
$3 ALL YOU CAN EAT 
MATT, 

I HAD TO BORROW YOUR GLOVE. MARK FUHRMAN 
MARTINI­YOU HAVE MY # SO WHAT IS YOURS?? 
Car people don't need sleep or showers. they just need Hurricanes! 
RIGHT TO LIFE Meeting, Tonight, 7:30 Montgomery Theater To include election of new officers All are Welcome 
SLF-Listen to your peers perform Student Readings tonight at Wash. Hall, 8 pm. Come and encourage NO's Literary Potential! Don't forget to bring a book to donate. 
ADOPTION: Corporate Executive & homemaker can offer newborn a wonderful life filled with warmth, security, endless love, education & a bright future. Confidential. Mark & Candace 1-888-811-1141 
MARKETING CLUB MTG! Tomorrow, Wednesday, 2/12/97 

6pm 217 DeBartolo All are welcome! Questions call 1­9330 
Sarahjane­bizz buzz!! jaw 
HEY KEENAN-­Happy Phat Tuesday!!!! Love, The Women of B.P. 

SLAMMERS UNITE!! POETRY SLAM, 9 pm at the Huddle during this Thursday's Acoustic Cafe. Wanna read your poetry? Call SUB at 1-7757. 
WILCO IS COMING!!! You saw them in Rolling Stone, come see them at Notre Dame on 2/25! Tickets go on sale this Wed. at the LaFun info desk-only $10 to see Chicago's hottest new band. 
Shannon Dunne is the most beauti­ful woman on this campus_ 
"If you like pina coladas ... You can listen to the song to find out the rest because I don't know the words. 
C-

Thanks again for such a great time. It means a lot to me. 
-D 

Shannon's got nothin' on Tenille. But, hey, that's my biased (although completely 'accurate) opinion. 
Steve, I fed your computer and watered the TV. Sorry about the cup-holder. Love, the elephant. 

Steve, I'm pregnant. Love, the ele­phant 
Happy Birthday Jimbo. You're a pal. Oh, and "you better pour some water on that. __ 
Break yourself fool! 

~ ....------~-~--~~----~~~­
Tuesday, February 11, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL •NBA 
'HoJo' back where he began Bickerstaff hired as 
By RONALD BLUM ting technique and regain bat performance with the Mets in Associated Press Writer speed. his prime. His best season was 
Bullets new coach
"A lot of things I took for 1991 when he hit .259 with 34 
NEW YORK 

In the midst of a youth move­ment, the New York Mets reached back to their past Monday and agreed to a minor­league contract with Howard Johnson. 
Johnson, 36, spent 1996 as a minor-league coach with Butte of the Pioneer Rookie League, an affiliate of the Tampa Bay Devils. In 1995. the third base­man and outfielder hit .195 in 169 at-bats for the Chicago Cubs with four doubles, one triple, seven homers and 22 RBis. 
"I think people are going to look at this and say he doesn't have a chance," Johnson ad­mitted. "They looked at me last week, the watched me swing, they watched my move around and do things. 
In 1994, Johnson hit .211 in 93 games for the Colorado Hackies with ·10 doubles, two triples, 10 homers and 40 RBis. He said his stint as a coach helped him to sharpen his hit-granted, it made me think about them a little more," said Johnson, who had signed to be a coach this season for Charleston, S.C. 
"It will be interesting to see what happens. I think that I've got it still. Obviously, answers will come during spring train­ing. I'm confident it's going to work out very well." 
Johnson's deal came together quickly, and he negotiated it by himself. 
"He asked for an opportunity to come to spring on a make­good basis," Mets general man­ager Joe Mcilvaine said. "Last Thursday, at Long Beach State University, John Barr, our scouting director, and Harry Minor, one of our scouting supervisors, worked him out. 
"They reported to me that he still has a live bat and good legs, and may be able to help us in a utility role next season. 
Johnson, hampered by shoul­der and knee problems, dropped off sharply from his doubles, 38 homers and 117 RBis. 
Johnson has a .249 career average with 24 7 doubles, 228 homers, 231 steals and 760 RBis. He is second on the Mets' career lists in homers (192), RBis (629), steals (202), extra­base hits (424) and doubles (214). 
"I really love coaching," he said. " In my heart, though, I still felt I could play. That's why I called Joe and asked him for a chance. I'm not coming here under any illusions. I know what my role is, and I think I can contribute to this team. 
"I can still run. I run very well. I expect to be able to steal bases." 
Johnson took heart when for­mer Mets teammates Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden resurrected their careers with the New York Yankees last sea­son, earning World Series rings. 
"I found it inspiring," Johnson said. 
Notre Dame Glee Club 
Singing 
Valentines 
On Sale Wed~ Feb 5th-Fri~ Feb 14th 
Campus Deliveries 
A Song &A Rose 
& 

Phone Deliveries Anywhere 
1
11 
\ I 

By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
BOWIE, Md. 
The Washington Bullets ad­dressed the future by dipping into their past Monday, hiring former assistant Bernie Bickerstaff as their new head coach. Bickerstaff. who turns 53 Tuesday, signed a four-year contract with the team that gave him his start in the NBA. 
"I feel lucky to be able to come back into a situation where I'm familiar with the community, the organization and the owner," Bickerstaff said at a new conference at the team's practice facility. 
''I'm very fortunate to be back with the organization that gave me my start, and I'm excited about the prospect of getting things done here." 
Bickerstaff stepped down as general manager of the Denver Nuggets to return to Washington, where he served as an assistant coach from 1973-1985. He was on the side­lines with head coach Dick Motta in 1978 when center Wes Unseld and the Bullets won their only NBA championship. 
Unseld, now the Bullets' gen­eral manager, was the man in charge of bringing Bickerstaff back to Washington. Bickerstaff replaces Jim Lynam, who was fired Wednesday after the Bullets staggered to a 22-24 start that hardly matched lofty preseason expectations. 
"This is not a buddy-hire," Unseld said. "I was looking for someone with the ability to handle talented players and get them to perform. I had the op­portunity to get what I think is a pretty doggone good coach, and I took it." 
Bickerstaff figured in the 1980s that he would eventually land the Bullets' top job. He fi­nally grew tired of waiting and went to Seattle, where he led the SuperSonics to the Western Conference finals during the second of his five years with the club. He joined the Nuggets in 1990 as president of basketball operations and gen­eral manager, but took over as Denver's head coach near the end of the 1994-95 season. The Nuggets went 35-47 in their 
This out! 
Tuesday: Half price pitchers of MILK-the first pitcher is absolutely free! 
Wednesday: 
Coaches award 
.
Winning Wings only 15¢. Friday: $2 Night. DJ's and dancing. 
only full season under Bickerstaff, and were 4-9 when he stepped down Nov. 26. 
Bickerstaff has a 261-276 record in six full seasons and parts of two others as an NBA head coach. 
The Bullets have struggled this season despite the addition of expensive free agents Rod Strickland and Tracy Murray to a squad that already included Chris Webber and Juwan Howard. 
Washington's 22-25 record at the All-Star break was 10th­best in the Eastern Conference -not quite what owner Abe Pollin expected when he approved the fifth-highest pay­roll in the league. 
Bickerstaff hopes to improve upon that, beginning with Tuesday's home game against the New York Knicks. 
"It's a matter of defining roles, trying to give them some confidence and a sense of ur­gency," Bickerstaff said. 
Said Pollin: "Bernie knows how to win and he's a winner. I can tell you, we have a great coach here and we have great hopes for Bernie and our team. The players have great talent, and now Bernie's going to put it together and take us up from here." 
With Washington sputtering below .500 and in danger of falling out of playoff contention for a ninth straight season, Unseld fired Lynam, coinciden­tally while the Bullets were in Denver for a game against the Nuggets. 
Charlie Lyons, president of Ascent Entertainment, owner of the Nuggets, said he will be­gin searching for Bickerstaffs replacement immediately. 
Lyons would not identify spe­cific candidates, but they re­portedly include Los Angeles Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak, former Nuggets coach Dan Issei and former Charlotte general manager and coach Allan Bristow. 
Bickerstaff, addressing ru­mors that he was in danger of losing his job in Denver after the season, said, "They talked about me being on shaky ground in Denver. Well, if I was, you should all be so lucky. You interpret that one any way you want to." 

.. 
~­

w=­

-
• 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS T uesaday, February 11, 1997 
• RECRUITING minds, but we have to eoncen­trate on what we need to do to
Hoops 

win this one." Hickey, who tallied 12 points
continued from page 16
Minor signs with Seminoles 
and grabbed seven rebounds in 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
Florida State completed its recruiting coup Monday night with the signing of Travis Minor, who was rated among the best high school running backs in the nation. 
Minor, who attended the same school as Seminoles run­ning back Warrick Dunn, called Florida State coach Bobby Bowden with the news five days after national signing day. 
"It was a hard decision. I just felt that Florida State was the best place for me," said Minor, who also considered Florida and Louisiana State, after deciding that Notre Dame was no longer on his list. 

--Catholic High coach Dale 
Duke 
continued from page 16 
"John has really stepped it up this year and improved a lot. Between him and {senior sabreist) Jeff (Wartgow) at the number three spot, we have as deep and talented sabre team as I've been around," said LaValle. 
His growth was evident as he came away with three victories and zero defeats versus Stanford. 

But what the record doesn't show is how Scherpereel came back from 3-1 deficits in two of the bouts. 
"It was nice when I re­sponded to being behind by re­acting instinctively and coming through with the win. It was really nice to have everyone behind me to get me going, but I knew I would have to walk a fine line between getting psy­ched up and staying focused," said Scherpereel. 
"If I had to pick an MVP for the weekend," said Auriol, "John Scherpereel would be that person. He came from behind when we really needed it. 
The women also continued their winning ways by soundly 
INTERNATIONAL JOB SKillS 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or Interamerican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 

• Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details. 
GRADUATE SOIOOL OF 
INTERNATIONAL SruniF.S 
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 
305-284-4173; Fax: 305-284-44~ 
NewURL: 
http:!/www.miami.edu/gsis 



Weiner, who also coached Dunn in high school, called Minor the best high school back he's ever seen. 
The 5-foot-11, 190-pound Minor was USA Today and Parade's offensively player of the year. 
He ran for 2,649 yards and 33 touchdowns last fall with a total of 4, 706 yards and 52 touch­downs in three years. 
He averaged about 12 yards each time he touched the ball while leading the Bears to the Class 5-A semifinals last sea­son. 
He caught 25 passes for 598 yards and 10 touchdowns, and his 763 return yards included another four touchdowns. For his career, he had 62 catches for a school record 1,344 yards 
defeating each of its opponents. Though no one individual stood heads and shoulders above the rest, a solid performance by all fencers provided them with no match closer than 10-6 on ei­ther epee or foil. 
"We showed well against the top teams and proved to be very prepared," said sopho­more foilist Myriah Brown. 
Brown tied with freshman foilist and epeeist Magda Krol with the most victories at 17. Brown's performance this weekend moves her season record to an outstanding 76-5, for a winning percentage of .938. 
"Myriah came through with another good weekend. She has continued to be solid the entire season," said Auriol. 
This weekend also gave the team its finale of five weekends 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
1\ SCIIUUEilT CELEUili\TI.~N 
with Guest Artists 
SI\l\..,onn SlTl.\:\:\" ~' o.\\!JD JIIIEITJt\:\' 

haritone pianist 
Selected Songs 
Mon., Feb. 10, 8:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Winterreise 
Wed., Feb. 12, 8:00 p.m. 

Annenberg Auditorium For one concert -$5 General Admission; $2 Students/Seniors For both concerts -$8 General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or in advance b callin 631-6201. 
11 11 
...TAKES THE IDEA OF 'AUDIENCE 11 ... ROCK STAR FRENZY IS ...THOSE STUDENT PROGRAMMERS PARTICIPATION' TO ITS OUTER TRIGGERED BY DELUC;\' ARE so GOOD LOOKING...WHY, IT LIMITS" -Variety -People Magazine ALMOST HURTS" -Anonymous 
Come see the Campus Entertainer of the Year .•. 
Tom DeLuca 
America's most talented, not to mention best looking, hypnotist!!! 
Tuesday, Feb. 18 and Wednesday, Feb. I9th at 8:00p.m. 
Library Auditorium Tickets on sale for $3 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Brought to you by Student Activities 

and 20 touchdowns. 

"I think he was wanting to get with his family and make sure everybody was on the same page," Bowden said of Minor's delay in signing. "l-Ie called me and we talked for about five minutes." 
Bowden said Minor thought he'd be inviting comparisons to Dunn if he chose Florida State, but added "he thinks the world of Warrick Dunn and Warrick thinks the world of him. And if he wants to wear Warrick's No. 28, he can." 
Last week, Florida State's re­cruiting class was rated as the nation's best by several recruit­ing experts. Among the signees was David Warren, the defen­sive player of the year from Tyler, Texas. 
on the road. 

A much deserved rest awaits the team before the final push for the championship, which begins at Northwestern in two weeks. 
"We've been traveling so much. It will be nice to be able to catch our breath," said Brown. 
"The next couple of weeks will give us some time to prac­tice and tune-up. We will still need to get more consistent to accomplish our goal of qualify­ing the maximum 10 fencers for the championships. Ilopefully, this time will give us a chance to improve," said Auriol. 
"We'll need to continue to work to get a chance at the championship, but this week­end proves we are well on our way," said LaValle. 
The Mountaineers also boast a pair of the league's top shooters in Seldon Jefferson 
(14.1 points) and Adrian Pledger {12.6), who shoots nearly 55 percent from the field. 
"We know them pretty well, their strengths and weak­nesses," said Irish point guard Admore White. "We have the last game in the back of our 
See tomorrow's Observerfor coverage ofthe Interhall Hockey Championship Game 
Make your feelings crystal dear. 
Valentine's Da) is Friday, February 14. 
Light up your Valentine's eyes with fresh flowers presented in afull­lead crystal bowl encircled with alovely heart motif. The Crystal Heart Bouquet is an elegant Valentine gift, and this sparkling keepsake will remind your Valentine of your love all year long. To send this beautiful bouquet anywhere in the U.S. or Canada, call or visit our shop. 

Suzanne's Floral 
Located on the Comer of Edison & Ironwood 288-7551 1-800-224-4695 
Saturday's 71-65 win over Connecticut, emphasized that the Notre Dame fans played an important part in the outcome. 
"It was nice to be able to pro­tect the home court in front of a big crowd," said Hickey. "The students were great and the crowd was really in to the game. It helps around campus to beat a big-name team like this." 
Tuesday, February 11, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-
• MEN'S SWIMMING 
Regular season ends with positive note on road 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim­ming and diving team conclud­ed its 1996-1997 dual meet season with impressive perfor­
mances against Wisconsin­Milwaukee and Western Kentucky. Although they came awav with a 


split on the Huesman weekend, defeating Wisconsin-Milwaukee and coming up just short of Western Kentucky, the Irish fin­ished the season the way they have swam the whole year: with determination and sue­cess. 
On Friday, Notre Dame wel­comed undefeated Western Kentucky to the Rolfs Aquatic Center for its last home dual meet. Last year, the lrj,sh dropped 12 of 13 events in a dual meet against the llilltoppers in one of the most lopsided losses of the year. This time would be different. 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead, 13-4, in the first event behind first and third place finishes in the 400 meter medley relay. 
After falling behind 28-27, the Irish rallied. Ron Royer took the lead back for the Irish with his first place finish in the 50 meter freestyle. After Robert Fetter, Matt Rose, and Jeff Page placed first, second and third, respectively, in the 200 meter individual medley, the Irish led 55-38. 
The Irish and the Hilltoppers then exchanged victories in events, with Notre Dame get­ting first and second place fin­ishes by Herb Huesman and Tyler Maertz in both the one­meter and three-meter diving. Clinging to a slim 114-112 lead, the Irish headed into the last 
_ event looking for a victory, but came up just short as the Hilltoppers took first, second, and third in the last event to defeat Notre Dame 125-118. "It was as competitive a meet as we have had all year," re­marked head coach Tim Welsh. "It was tough to lose the meet in the last event, but we swam very well and the improvement over last year's results against Western Kentucky is impres­
sive." 
Physically exhausted from such a strenuous meet, the Irish had no time to rest as they headed to Milwaukee to swim against Wisconsin-Milwaukee for an afternoon duel meet. Although both teams won eight events each, Notre Dame's 
team  depth  was  enough  to  
overcome  Wisconsin­ 
Milwaukee.  

The Irish won seven individ­ual events with seven different swimmers -Fetter (1000 meter freestyle), Mike Donovan (100 meter backstroke), Steele Whowell (1 00 meter breast­stroke), Chris Fugate (200 me­ter butterfly), Huesman (three­meter diving), Josh Saylor (200 meter backstroke). and Wes Richardson (500 meter freestyle). 
The depth shown by the Irish in this meet is indicative of the strides this team has made throughout their season. 
"It is very difficult to swim home at night and on the road the next afternoon," stated Coach Welsh. "We worked hard and the balance and depth of our team was what won the match for us." 
With the victory over Wisconsin-Milwaukee, the Irish finished their season with a record of 7-5, their best record in four years. Coach Welsh and the Irish swimmers deserve a great deal of credit for all the hard work they put in and the success that they now enjoy. Notre Dame swims next at the Big East Championships in Piscataway, NJ. on February 19-22 . 

• TRACK Ai\10 fiELD 
Johnson remains confident for upcoming meets 
By BERT ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEWYOHK 

If there is any doubt that be­coming the first male to win Olympic gold medals in the 200 and 400 meters in the same games would completely satisfy Michael Johnson. forget it. 
The goal-oriented Johnson has set his sights on extending his world domination of the two events at least through the 2000 games. 
"Being ranked No. 1 in the world is my main priority," Johnson, 29, said at a news conference Monday. 
"You don't want to be second in your event. I want to go to the World Championships and win. I want to go to the Olympics and win. I want to go to the match race against Donovan Bailey and win. I don't want to get silver. 
"The fear of being second keeps it exciting. Every race is exciting. It's a job and the ob­jective is to win, to be the best at what you do." 
Johnson has been the best in the world in the 200 five times, including the last three years, and six times in the 400, includ­ing the last four years. 
He owns the world record for the 200 with his electrifying 19.32-second clocking at last year's games, and the Olympic record for the 400 with his time of 43.49 in the Atlanta final. 
Johnson was so overpowering in both events that neither run­ner-up was within five meters of him at the finish. 
At this August's World Championships at Athens, Greece, he probably won't try and duplicate his Olympic dou­ble or defend both titles he won in the 1995 World Championships at Goteborg, Sweden. 
"I haven't decided between the 200 and the 400 for the World Championships," Johnson said. "I doubt I will double. This year I want to take it easier. I don't want to be un­der as much pressure as I was last year. 
"Nothing can top Atlanta. That was overwhelming. That week or 1 1/2 weeks was the realization of my dreams com­ing true. Last year was fun, but not while I was doing it. Afterward, it was fun." 
Before the World Championships, Johnson's big race will be against Bailey in a 150-meter match race June 1 at SkyDome in Toronto. 

Johnson and Bailey, the Olympic 100-meter gold medal­ist and world record-holder from Canada, are guaranteed $500,000 each with the winner getting an additional $1 million. 
Johnson is taking the event very seriously, even though it doesn't fit into the normal scheme of a track and field meet because it is rarely run and is not recognized by the world governing body, the International Amateur Athletic Federation. 
"I want to prove on that day that I can beat Donovan Bailey at 150 meters," Johnson said. "I know there's no world record and it's just for enter­tainment. But if that's a gim­mick, every sport has a giro-mick. This is something new and different. It's a great op­portunity for me, for Donovan and for track and field. One and a half-million dollars ­there's never been that kind of money for one race. It will get a lot of people involved ... even those who are not track fans." 
The race will be run around one curve, and Johnson doesn't envision any difficulties. Having run the 200 and 400 consis­tently, he is accustomed to negotiating the turns. Bailey isn't, except possibly on a relay. 
"He's been doing all the bragging," Johnson said of the loquacious Bailey. "Now, he'll have to put it on the line. I don't feel I'm ever going to lose. I will be well prepared." 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
~ VaJ~~~~~~£ay ' 
Roses -.. S29, ,,; '0pq~@r,:~ Pelivered
1 

Flower B~Kay~·v:< · :q.9~ ~ qp -Delivered FlowerihgPlahts·4 $~()~gg''-Delivered We al~;() have hometn~de chb~qlates, vases, ballo~~~~atd.s & ·~~~~~ 
MATERN-OWsi{::J'S
Please Preorder to guarantee, deli1J~ry! 
272-0970 



Half mile north ofN.D. at U.S. 31/Pendle Rd. si~p Light 
~e a ~/'e/1.~.; /-'0/.n/an/io ­/te{/uJ/.&yu:/1..;.; 
'f%eet'~/lPr;;e"
MlcM candles and &rainbow of colorful flowers. $24.95 
%:y .~eaPp Jda.;~,( 
Plush bear with a basket of red and white flowers. $29.95 
• ..%3k;e /o de t%cu..Jro/t· 
&u?u~/
Balloons, rose and Hershey Kisses. $19.95 

We deliver Worldwide! 

--------~--._.---------~--~------~------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 11, 1997 
-
• TRACK AND fiELD 


Williams, Calloway impress 
'Tuna' to w-alk 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Writer 
Divide and conquer was the strategy. 
Track coach Joe Piane split his men's and women's indoor track team last weekend. send­ing runners to the Cannon IV Classic and the Central Collegiate Championships. Both squads turned in good re­sults. Two runners tied sea­son-high times and pole vault team members placed in the top 10. 
Piane and women's coach Tim Connelly rested part of their teams. Connelly specifi­cally kept his long-distance runners home to rest in prepa­ration for the upcoming Big East championships. 
Hurdlers Dominique Calloway and Errol Williams enjoyed success at the Cannon IV Classic in Indianapolis. Calloway finished first among collegiate runners in the 60­meter hurdles with a time of 
8.35 seconds. The time tied her season-best performance. 
Williams also tied his season­best time of 7.93 seconds in the 60-meter hurdles, which he set at the Meyo Invitational last weekend. He finished in fifth place. 
At the Central Collegiate Championships in East Lansing, the Irish had a variety of men's teams post strong perfor­mances. 
The Irish also placed two pole vaulters in the top 10-junior Michael Brown and senior Dave Gerrity. Brown won the event with a vault of 15 feet, 9 3/4 inches while Gerrity's 15 foot 3 3/4 inch vault catapulted him into fourth place. 
Junior Dan Frigo had one of his best weekends of the season in the high jump. 
He finished in sixth place with a leap of 6-7. one of his best jumps of the year. 
Chris Cochran and Bobby Brown finished in the top-10 in the 400-meter dash. Cochran placed seventh with a time of 49.63, and Brown's time of 
49.95 was good enough for 
ninth place. 
Notre Dame also placed two relay teams. The 4x800-meter team finished in fourth place with a time of 7:45.97. The 4x400-meter team did not fare as well, posting a 3:35.70 time, good enough for eighth place. 

The Irish will now travel to Syracuse, New York for the Big East indoor track champi­onships on February 15-16, be­fore hosting the Alex Wilson Invitational the following week. 
sidelines for Jets 
By DAVE GOLDBERG Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Bill Parcells will take over as coach of the New York Jets immediately, under a deal bro­ke red Monday by NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue. 
New England will get New York's first-round draft pick in 1999, the Jets' second-round pick in 1998 and their third­and fourth-round picks this year. 
In addition, the Jets will make a $300,000 contribution to the Patriots' charitable foundation. 
New England had insisted that the price for Parcells would be the Jets' No. 1 pick this year -the top pick in the NFL draft. New York had the worst record in the NFL last season, going 1-15. 
"Ultimately, there were wide differences on how this would have to be resolved," Tagliabue said. "But ultimate­ly, we got it resolved." 
Parcells didn't attend the meeting, but TV crews, fans and passersby waited in the lobby in hopes of seeing the coaeh, who led the Patriots to the Super Bowl this season. 
Patriots owner Robert Kraft, Jets owner Leon Hess, Jets president Steve Gutman and lawyers for both sides attend­ed the meeting. 
The Parcells controversy has plagued the NFL since the Patriots lost 35-21 to Green Bay in the Super Bowl two weeks ago. 
Three days later, Tagliabue ruled that Parcells remained the property of New England as a coach or in a "compara­ble position" until Feb. 1, 1998, the expiration date of his contract. 
Parcells resigned following the Super Bowl and last week the Jets hired him as a consul­tant, part of a six-year con­tract signed Friday that called for him to take over as coach and general manager the fol­lowing the 1997 season. The deal calls for him to coach at least four of those years. 
Bill Belichick, his longtime associate, was appointed coach for this season just last week. Under Monday's settle­ment, it appeared Belichick would become assistant head coach. 
Kraft called the consultant's agreement a sham. and the is­sue went back to Tagliabue. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258·9996 
THURSDAY: 
DJ Dance Party
New mix of everything­

Associate Justice Antonio Scalia Supreme Court of the United States 
will speak on 

"Constitutional Interpretation" 
February 11, 3:00p.m., 101 DeBartolo sponsored by 
WEDNESDAY: 
retro, 70s, 80s, industrial, 

Open Jam 
techno, alternative, dance, & 

The Federalist Society
Michiana area's high-energy rock best bands 
and Notre Dame Law School 
... 
STOP BY YOUR DORM 
OUR GOAL IS $1 FROM EACH 
Howard Lauren, 213 Badin Elizabeth, 355 
Cav. Mary, 326Alumni Brian, 255 
Keenan Alan, 327 BP Kelly, 401 
Dillon Anne, 442 
Keough Bob, 345 Carroll Mark, 315 
Farley Dan, 230 Knott Amy, 417Planner Larry, 620 
-------------~--------~ -~--­
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


OUT HOW !)[(, MY BONUS WILL C>E.. 


E 
'0 
s
·;: 
::> 
3i 
~ ~ 
"' 
~ 
lr\ 

CROSSWORD 
"' 
FOUR. OIGITS I MAYBE. "' 
FIV£.. ~ 
. 
u. 


1 Slam-dunks 35 Swellhead's 63 1939 Andrews5 Stiller and-­problem Sisters hit 
10 Prefix with 36 Number of 
&& -~ideal
business mousquetaires (perfect model)14 Like Nash's &7 "Camelot"
38lnvited tunesmithlama 
15 Waters of song 39 Unofficial 68 Mariner Ericson
Australian "anthem" 69 Memo abbr. 
16 Amorphous 
mass 171935Cole 43 Anon's partner 10 Winter hazard Porter song 44 ---objection 71 Advanced 20 Pundit (go along) 21 Olio 45 Nurse's bag 
DOWN 
22 Disney's "-­
46 Lax and the 1 Steven of Apple
49 Garden tool

Detectives" computers
50 Molly Bloom's

25 Vietnam's Ngo 2 Once more
last word in

--Diem 3 Prefix with
"Ulysses"

26 No longer hold phone
51 Pot builder

up 40oze 53 Torture
29 F. Scott 5 Encountered chamber item
Fitzgerald had 6 Biblical verb one: Abbr. 55 Well-to-do ending 
1 "Beg your pardon" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE a Bridge action 

9 One of the Carringtons, on "Dynasty" 
10 Largest of the United Arab Emirates 
12 Author Jaffe to differ! " 
18 Pacific Fleet admiral of W.W.II 
23 Letters from Calvary 
24 Den fathers 
26 Drain 37 Daub 

wool coat 40 Demonstration ­Guinness Book 
Wanted: Reporters,
test 41 Singer Paul 42 Cobbler's tip Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

photographers
47 Slight 

are available by touch-tone phone: 48 Base runner's 1-900-420-5656 {75¢ per minute)~ stat Annual subscriptions are available for the 
and editors. 
52 Register best of Sunday crosswords from the last 54 Small hill 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Join The Observer staf£ 
Join ~cSports, Jfuman ~sources and . ~ tlie ;tmerican Jfeart ;tssociation and ~~ support tlie secondannuaf 
~~-. o/afentine}lero6ics cfass. 
~')!{ Sunday, Pe6ruary 16, J:Jo, 1?.9c~ 301 
~~ qreat CJiveaways!!! Witr CJ3ring a friend or a date! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Higher-ups will single you out for a special opportunity. Living up to 
their expectations will win you a coveted job or new perks. A cross­country move is possible if you decide on a change in lifestyle. A May-December marriage holds more appeal than in the past. Busi­ness prolits rise when you concen­trate on the overall picture. leaving minute details to subordinates. Make plans for an exciting winter vaca­
tion. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS OAY: actress Jennifer An is­ton. actress Tina Louise. band leader Sergio Mendes, auto racer John Sur­tees. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An influential person may try to flex their muscle. Show your strength by arming yourself with details and schedules. A new romance or fun outing will enliven your evening. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone pressures you to go that extra mile. Your experience and good judgment help you answer the challenge. A short business trip proves unusually successful. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Disappointment is likely if you have unreal expectations of special treat­ment. Keeping your nose to the grindstone will produce a break­through. Play your cards close to your chest. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A partnership or alliance could unravel without warning. Tensions will ease if you stay calm. Try to work out a compromise. Faraway financial developments favor you. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A lead­ership position will go to someone with the ability to make far-reaching decisions quickly. Act confident' 
ON EACH 

Your expertise and experience
DIGITS? empower you.
HAND.



27 Century plant 55 "Dancing 58 Shade giver 28 Automaton Queen" pop 60 Open delight 30 Go-getter group 
61 Scrape, as the 32 Loquacious 
56 Podiatrists' knee 33 Jockey Arcaro concerns 
62 Electee of 1908 34 ---foot oil 
64 Female with a57 Potential 

~ ~ R~s-z:-~ C\!fjjt Pe6ruary is flmerican Jfeart :Montf:/1 Learn how to leach Aerobi~l 
631-6100 
VIRGO 1:\ug D-Scpt. 22J: A 
pnHnising n:lation~hip intcnsific!-. 
when ynu discm·cr shared beliefs 
and hopes. The idea of moving to another ~tate holds certain appeal. 
Postpone making a final decision until you have talked with that spe­cial someone. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Let your ESP prevail. Investing in a family business or new home will be rewarding. Say ··no" to someone who makes unreasonable demands~ 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 1: Business allies at a distance present you with exciting new career options. Organizational tie-ins look promising. Consider buying an apartment or townhouse as an investment. Be discreet at work; the walls have cars. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec~ 21 ): Poise is essential when han­dling private deals for influential people. Prompt action will get your latest business venture off to a smooth start. Use a velvet touch in romance~ You are in tine form. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Try not to panic if a support team lets you down. You can get the ball rolling by working alone behind closed doors. Give your partner the benefit of the doubt about a house­hold matter. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will breathe much easier once you find out the truth. Instead of reacting emotionally, use logic. Renewing an acquaintance will lead to happy times. Move swiftly if you spot agolden financial opportunity. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your creativity helps revive an important business relationship. Take a calculated risk in finance or romance: the results will astound you! Someone close to you could have a life-changing experience. Be a good listener. 

6 week cia~~ 2I 1203I 26 
6:3008:00, 6ym I, Joyce Center 
Cour~e cover~ injury prevention, choreography, mu~cle conditioning, ba~ic nutrition & exerci~e technique. 
Contact 5965 with que~tion~ 
-
--~----------~----.....--~ ~----~---~---­
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 11, 1997 
• Mnv's BASKETBAll 

Irish seek to avenge tough loss to Mountaineers 

Notre Dame looks for third straight victory 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 

A must-win situation. When was the last time anyone heard that about a Notre Dame bas­ketball game? 
Believe it or not, that's what tonight's game against West Virginia has become. 
Last year at this time, the Irish, eliminated from any kind of post season competition, just went about their business play­ing for pride and respectability, but little else. 
What a difference a year makes. After winning four of their last six games, the Irish (11-9, 5-7 in the Big East) sim­ply cannot afford to lose when they host the Mountaineers tonight with a possible NIT bid waiting in the wings. 
"Our goal all along has been to play in a post season tour­nament." said forwitrd Pat Garrity. "We've put ourselves in a position to achinve that. We just have to play the way we're capable of, and the rest will take care of itself." 
It will not be easy. With a 14­6 record, including an 8-5 mark in league play, West Virginia has emerged as one of the elite teams in the Big East confer­
-
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Sophomore center Phil Hickey (right) will be expected to make his presence felt against the Mountaineers' big front line. 

The Observer/Rob Finch Derek Manner and the Irish must continue their aggressive play if they hope to redeem themselves from their tough loss in Morgantown. 
• FENCING 

Fencers out-duel competition 
By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 

When the fencing team looked at the competition last weekend at the Duke meet, they saw more than one team which had the potential to strike a mark against their stel­lar record. With two individual national champions among the ranks of the opposing teams, a strong effort was needed from each individual. The team assessed the talent of the oppo­nent, and rose to the occasion. 
By coming through with an undefeated performance on both the men's and women's side, the team made a bold statement that they were near­ly ready for the fast-ap­proaching national champi­onship. The men's perfor­mance brought their combined record to 19-2, while the women improved to 25-1. 
"We had a good \lleekend by 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
The Notre Dame fencing team cruised to victories over a number of nationally-ranked opponents this weekend at Duke. 
beating some of the top teams in the nation. You don't beat these teams without fencing well," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
The mainstay on the men's side proved to be a sabre team that individually suffered only eight defeats, while recording 37 victorious efforts. When the pressure was on against a Stanford squad that defeated both the Irish epee team and foil team. the sabres blanked the Cardinal with an 9-0 record. 
"We knew that Stanford's sabre was their weakest point. but the key was to beat them big so that we could havn a chance to beat them as a team," said Auriol. 
"Luckily, the sabre didn't have as tough of a match as the other weapons. But we really pulled it together to win 9-0," said sophomore sabreist Luke LaValle. 
One individual, not normally counted on for the key victory, who came through was senior sabreist John Scherpernel. Scherpereel had only three vic­tories to his credit before this season, but has continued to grow and develop into a solid contributor to the sabre team. 
see DUKE I page 12 
ence. On January 25, the Irish failed to protect a lead and fell 67-66 to the Mountaineers in a controversial finish at Morgantown, W.Va. 
With the game on the line, Notre Dame guard Pete Miller put the Irish in a position to win after nailing a jumper with 
6.9 seconds remaining. 
However, a controversial foul call on forward Derek Manner with just two seconds left on the clock gave West Virginia new life. And the Mountaineers took advantage of it as Owens calmly knocked down a pair of free throws to seal the fate of the Irish. 
''I'm not thinking about the foul, but that we had a chance to win, and we're capable of winning again," said Manner. 
This time around, Notre Dame must do a better job of containing West Virginia's pow­erful inside game, featuring Owens (15.8 points, 7.2 re­bounds) and Gordon Malone (11.4, 8.1). The Irish will need another strong effort from their big men -Garrity, Matt Gotsch, and Phil IIickey -to even the score with the Mountaineers. 
"All of our big guys have to crash the boards. Rebounding will be very important," said Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod. "We don't need any motivation for this game. We're ready to go." 
see HOOPS I page 12 
• TENNIS 

Sachire reaches consolation sen1is 
ByJIM ZALETA 
SraffWriter 

Ryan Sachire, a Notre Dame freshman, was defeated in the Rolex National Indoor Collegiate Tennis Championships consolation semifinals this weekend. The tournament is made up or the top 32 collegiate tennis play­ers. 
Sachire won his first and second consolation matches. On Friday, he defeated 
. Vikram Venkataghaven of Southern Methodist. 7-6, 6-3 and went on to knock off Enrique Abaroa of Kanasa 6­4, 6·7. 6-3. Abaroa, an All· American, was ranked 11th in the fall Rolex Collegiate Tennis Rankings. Sachire was eventually defeated 6-4, 6-4 by Duke's Doug Root. Sachire's career singles record moves to 22-4 overall. This season he is 7-2. Entering the season ranked 38th in the Rolex Collegiate Rankings, Sachire has been one of the most consistent players on the almost flawlMs Irish squad. 
Sophomore Brian Patterson and Junior Eric Enloe are the only players with perfect records in the singles columns. Enloe is 3-0 and Patterson is 5-0. 
The Irish will have three of their toughest matches this 
week when they face  the  
Kentucky  Wildcats  in  
Lexington  today  and  the  

Texas Longhorns and Duke Blue Devils at the Eck Tennis Pavilion this weekend. 
The 4-0 Wildcats are led by junior Cedric Kauffmann . Kauffmann was ranked sec­ond at the beginning of the season. Another player to watch on Kentucky is Ludde Sundin, a senior from Torup, Sweden, who was ranked No. 55. 
The match against Duke will be only the second match for the Blue Devils the spring season. They were ranked eighth in the nation at the end of the fall season of 1996. Sophomore Dmitry Muzyka is ranked No. 18 in singles. Muzyka, the ACC Rookie of the Year, had 29 wins, the most on the team last year. 
., Men's Tennis at Kentucky
vs. West Virginia 
• Swimmers split weekend meets
Today
Tonight, 7:30p.m.
• 
see page 13
X 
at Northwestern Meet
vs. Boston College 
February 22 
February 12, 7:30p.m. 
• Minor-FSU: 'Dunn' deal 
at Michigan 

'-\Iff, Basketball vs. Albion College 
\._ February 14, 7 p.m. 
Tonight, 7 p.m. see page 12
~ 






