,--------------~--~---~ -­

Tuesday, September 16, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 17 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC dedicates Mary's Place, chapel 
By SHANA'E TATE 
News Writer 
After a cycle of relocations, the statue of Mary has found its new home in front of the youngest hall on Saint Mary's campus. Yesterday after­noon, McCandless Hall residents hosted the dedi­cation of Mary's Place, a newly landscaped area surrounding the statue on the east side of the building. 
The celebration began in the "Our Lady of Wisdom Chapel," located on the first floor of McCandless, with a welcome by Sister Roseanne Schultz, vice president of admission and McCandless liaison. The blessing of the chapel was performed by Father David Guffey. 
The proceeding ceremony at Mary's Place com­menced with a welcome by Sister Bettina Ferraro, project coordinator. College President Marilou Eldred then expressed the school's grati­tude for this new place of worship. 
"The College is very grateful to the Hammes for their generosity with both the Our Lady of Wisdom Chapel, as well as the shrine. This sym­bolizes the ongoing charity the Hammes family gives to Saint Mary's College," Eldred said. 
The sprinkling rite of Mary's Place was also performed by Guffey. Yesterday was chosen as the day of dedication because it is the Patronal Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Mary. 
Many students felt that this event made a great impact on them. 
"I feel blest that I could be here during all of this. I am grateful to be apart of such a wonderful thing. It's nice to be able to have a place to go and pray, and now we all can just walk outside, " said Kat Rademacher, McCandless Hall vice pres­ident. 
"[The dedication was] absolutely wonderful," stated junior Mary Margaret Wilson. "It was a beautiful day for the dedication. It was 
see CHAPEL I page 4 
The Observer/Katie Vales 
Several members of the Saint Mary's communi­ty (right) offered reflections at yes­terday's dedica­tion of Mary's Place (above) and the new chapel in McCandless HaiL Both projects were made possi­ble by the Hammes family. 

• CAMPUS REACTION 

Saint Mary's w-omen unite against letter 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's Editor 
Almost 300 Saint Mary's students gathered in Holy Cross Hall last night to protest the state­ment of two Notre Dame students who referred to Saint Mary's College as "the great Notre Dame parasite." 
The purpose of the gathering was to discuss the letter that ran in yesterday's Viewpoint sec­tion of The Observer, and to emphasize the unity of the student body. 
The women decided enough was enough and agreed some-•Inside Column thing had to be done to pro­
2
tect the integrity of their P· 
schooL •Viewpoint With the support of the p.9-l0 Student Government Association the students, along with student body president Nikki Milos and vice president Lori McKeough, planned a rally that will take place on Friday at noon in Iloly Cross llalL The women plan on handing out blue and white ribbons that they will wear all weekend, and copies of the Saint Mary's College Alma Mater to show their pride for their school._ "Any attack on another woman is an attack on the women's movement," said McKeough. "We are all a part of this movement and should support one another." The reaction is a result of comments made by Notre Dame sophomores Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller. The two women stressed an underlying tension between themselves and the women of Saint Mary's based on individual incidents as the reason for the letter. "We weren't trying to speak for all Notre Dame women; we were just stating our opinion based on our experiences," said 'Fuller. "It seems that every time we meet a girl from Saint Mary's she doesn't want to admit that she goes there. I don't understand that. If you go to Saint Mary's then why not be proud of it?" Fuller added. So the women of Saint Mary's said they would be proud. Friday afternoon's rally will be called "Saint Mary's Pride Day." "I was discouraged by the attitude expressed in the Viewpoint article," said Milos. adding that friendly cooperation between the two schools presently exists on a variety of fronts. 

see LETTER I page 4 

Hesburgh shares career stories with Stanford 
By R.C. DEER 

News Writer 
As part of Stanford Hall's 40th anniver­sary celebration this week, the hall was graced by the speaking talents of Father Theodore llesburgh. 
Monday night, Hesburgh spoke to the group of nearly 100 Stanford residents about the formation of Stanford Hall and othm· grPat stories of achievement from his illustrious career. 
llesburgh began the evening by sharing some of his earliest memories of Stanford llall. Two years before the dorm was built, Hesburgh was on a trip to New York where he had dinner with Mrs. Fisher and Mrs. Stanford, two recent widows of Notre Dame trustees. The ladies were both delighted by the visit and asked if there was anything that they could do for the University. Mrs. Fisher and Mrs. Stanford each donated approximately $1 million for the building of the two dorms in their names. 
Stanford residents in attendance last 
night heard several other stories from Hesburgh's years as president of Notre Dame. 
While in Washington D.C. in the early 1960s, Ilesburgh passed two good friends, one of whom was Seargent Shriver, who were in a rush to see President John Kennedy. 
Upon inquiry from Hesburgh. the two gentlemen said that they were on their way to the White House with a proposal for the formation of the Peace Corps. Hesburgh was a strong proponent of the formation of the Peace Corps and requested that the men give him a call if the proposal was signed by the president. 
The proposal was signed, and when the men called Hesbtirgh, they were thrilled, but they had no sites for any projects. Within a matter of days, Hesburgh had sev­eral ideas and the first Peace Corps mission was began in Chile and was comprised of several members of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Stanford Hall's 40th celebration will con­tinue through Sunday, Sept. 21. 

Tuesday, September 16, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
~
:II 
I i 
• II 
I 
I: 
•INSIDE COLUMN 

Misdirected Emotions 
Fpry. Yes definitely. Fury,-;.~~~~~~ is the best word to describe the emotion running ram­pant through Saint Mary's campus yesterday after word spread about Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller's letter to the editor in The Observer. 
I wasn't there, but I Allison Koenig hear that the dining hall Saint Mary's News Editor atmosphere resembled that of an army headquarters preparing for battle. To say the least, Syner and Fuller's let­ter opened a wound in the sides of Saint Mary's women. 
And I'll admit. I had a primordial urge to lead a battalion over to Pasquerilla East and rough up these very obviously misguided young ladies. However, that's all they are: misguided, and extremely immature. 
One beautiful thing surfaced from all the ugli­ness yesterday: the pride and devotion that Saint Mary's women hold deep in their souls for their institution. 
EVERYONE has something to say about the ridiculous implications cited in the now infa­mous letter. I have never witnessed such pas­sion from so many students on one particular issue in my three previous years at Saint Mary's. 
The problem I see is that we are focusing our attention, emotion, and efforts on something that ultimately DOES NOT MATTER. 
Two Pasquerilla East sophomores called us bugs. Big deal. They do not speak for the majority of Notre Dame women, much less the entire Notre Dame community. 
COMMUNITY. There's a word. The two schools have operated as a community since their near simultaneous founding close to 155 years ago. 
Our community has serious issues dividing it that deserve more attention than one group calling their identical, homogenous counterpart different. 
The Alliance. The non-discrimination clause. The persistence of racism and sexism on cam­puses founded on Christian values. The ulti­mate lack of diversity.These are the areas that need our efforts, our passion, our fury. 
Saint Mary's women, I implore you to rise above the age-old stereotype wars and ignore Ms. Syner and Ms. Fuller's comments. Do not turn our community into a battleground. Instead, follow our Christian roots and turn the other cheek. 
Invite Syner and Fuller over to the west side of U.S. 31 for a day. My guess is that they have never set foot on campus, much less gotten to know any of us well. Take them for a tour of our beautiful residence halls. Treat them for a meal in the snack bar. 
Take them to class and introduce them to the outstanding Saint Mary's professors who can be credited with our prime regional ranking. Introduce them to our administrators, who believe firmly in the empowerment of all women, a concept which has obviously not yet been presented to them. 
Saint Mary's women, present to these two ill­advised individuals the 153-year-old tradition of women with class, women with passion. Invite them in. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•  TOOAY's STAff  
News  Graphics  
Allison Koenig  Pete Cilella  
Sarah Hansen  Production  
Sports  Allison Koenig  
Mike Day  Matt Loughran  
Kevin Robinson  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kelly Brooks  Meg Kroener  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All n:producrion rights are reserved. 
• Wt:mw AT A GLANCE 
Emmy audience has tendency to flip channels 
:::::~@*~:-3''''''' .. . ··.: .., .. , . . ····~·=~NM~~**~
PASADENA. Calif. The 1996 broadcast on ABC posted a 
49th Annual Awards 1997
The ratings for this year's Emmy 14.4 rating and 23 share. When the Awards took a hit because some rival E~~y WINNERS ' ' Emmys aired on Fox in 1995, the show networks aimed big guns like Arnold received a 12.4 rating and 20 share.
·.;:: ::·:::~:=::' 

Schwarzenegger's "True Lies" at the DRAMA A rating point represents just under ceremony, preliminary figures SERIES 1 million households, or 1 percent of the nation's estimated TV homes. The
showed Monday. "LAW & ORDER" NBC 
Broadcasters have tended to share is the percentage of in-use TV observe an Emmy gentleman's agree-sets tuned to a particular program. ment to keep their programming to a LEADACTOR "True Lies," aired by Fox, proved boring minimum and avoid undercut-it Dennis Franz tough competition in a number of ting the awards. ~ "NYPD Blue" ABC 
cities. In Los Angeles itself, heart of the 

An estimated 40 million viewers entertainment industry, the movie tied Sunday watched all or part of the !1~~-~----'~--~~---> the Emmys at one point in the evening. 49th Annual Primetime Emmy LEADACTRESS The film wasn't intended as a slap at Awards on CBS, according to the net-the ceremony, which rotates among
Gillian Anderson 
the networks, Fox said. 

work. "The X-Files" FOX 
The three-hour ceremony got an ....., "I don't feel we aggressively counter­estimated 13.5 rating and 21 share, programmed the Emmys," said net­CBS said -lower than last year's show but higher than work spokesman Jeff DeHome. "We put on a repeat in 1995. movie that had run as recently as February '97." 
Oprah to stay through 2000 
CHICAGO 

Talk show queen Oprah Winfrey will rule over daytime television for several more seasons, saying she wanted to go on helping people "lead better lives...I believe I'll run on to see what the end will be," she tofd a live audience at the taping of her show today, quoting an old spiritual. Winfrey committed to being host of' 


"The Oprah Winfrey Show" through the 1999-2000 season. Winfrey said she was undecided about going beyond this 12th season as a talk show host when the summer break in her show came in June.'Tve thought long and hard about the reality of doing 400 more shows," she said. "I want to use television not only to entertain, but to help people lead better lives. I realize now, more than ever, that the show is the best way to accomplish these goals." The show is distributed by King World Productions Inc. "'The Oprah Winfrey Show' has set and maintained television's highest stan­dards of quality for more than a decade, and we're thrilled that Oprah has decided to continue on," King World Chairman Roger King said today in a statement. Investors also seemed thrilled by the news, bidding King World's stock up $2.75, or 7 percent, to $42.06 a share in morning trading on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 
Epileptic appeals conviction 
ARLINGTON, Va. 

A man with epilepsy who grabbed a woman on a com­muter train plans to fight his assault conviction, maintain­ing his action was part of a seizure he couldn't control. Scott Vining was convicted July 17 after a trial in which he presented a letter from his doctor and testimony about the type of seizures he suffers. He faces up to a year behind bars when sentenced Sept. 23. "The law requires that an assault be a voluntary action, and he didn't have the intent," said his attorney, Alan Rosenblum, who plans to appeal. Like about 60 percent of adults with the disor­der, there are times when Vining loses consciousness and acts strangely. Medication helps control his episodes but can't eliminate them. "There are some risks necessary to have a free society, and one of the risks you take is that someone might have a seizure in front of' you," said Michaele Battles, Vining's civil attorney and a specialist in epilepsy cases. Vining's doctor and other medical experts said his behavior on the train was consistent with what are called complex partial seizures. 
Seagram to promote responsibility 
NEW YORK 
Seagram, trying to gain wider acceptance by broadc:ast­ers for its liquor ads, plans to start its television commer­cials by encouraging viewers to drink responsibly. The Montreal-based beverage and entertainment company has been taking the lead since the distilled spirits industry ended its 4-decade-old, self-imposed ban on advertising liquor on TV and radio last year. Dropping the ban drew criticism from President Clinton, government regulators and advocacy groups who warned that such advertising would encourage youngsters to drink. Seagram has denied that was its intent, and argued that it should be as free to use broadcast advertising as are brewers and winemakers. Some stations have refused to run its commercials even though they induded a written message at the end encour­aging responsible drinking. Now the company is making the message more prominent by moving it to the front of the TV commercials and having it read by a narrator, said Arthur Shapiro, head of marketing for the Seagram Americas divi­sion. "People of legal drinking age should enjoy alcohol responsibly, but don't drink if you're under 21," says the statement that takes about six seconds. The statement will also be included in Seagram's radio ads. Shapiro said near­ly 100 TV stations and four times that many radio stations have run at least one of Seagram's liquor ads since mid 1996. The four major broadcast networks -ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox -have said they have no plans to change their policies against accepting liquor ads. 
Survey: Constitution is a mystery 
WASHINGTON 
Pop quiz: Jlow many U.S. senators are there'? One in two Americans do not know the answer is 100, accord­ing to a survey released Monday. And two in live don't know there are three branches of government, let alone what they are. Mayor Edward Rendell of Philadelphia, where the Constitution was signed 210 years ago this Wednesday, said the results were disappointing. "That shows an appalling lack of knowledge for a document that determines what we do," said Hendell, chairman of the National Constitution Center, created by Congress in 1988 to increase awareness of' the docu­ment. "Every day, issues important and central to us as people and government are affected by the Constitution." Fewer than one in five surveyed were able to correctly answer at least eight of 10 basic ques­tions, such as how long senators serve, who nominates Supreme Court justices (the president) and what the first 10 amendments to the Constitution were called (the Bill of Hights). 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 16.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
AccuWcather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tcmpcruturcs 
r-............-"'"'"' ............................. 
B L Tuesday ~ 82 64 
j 

Wednesday~ 76 56 Thursday ~ 74 59 Friday ~. 77 61 

Saturday/~  70 Sl  
:Jj·-1'\~'"'''·~ ..., / .. ':....:..;  HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
V1B ASSOCIBtfld PrBSS  
Atlanta  88  61  Denver  88  58  Lexington 80  57  
q,Q,~A~Q!)  Baltimore 82  62  Detroit  81  50  Memphis 90  65  
~ u  Chicago  82  57  !'argo  79  55  Milwaukee 74  5&  
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Associated Press Graph/CSNet  Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Columbus 79  65  Honolulu 90  78  New Orleans 93  74  
Via  Dallas  96  76  Indianapolis 81  63  PitLsburgh 72  55  


--~-------~­-----~­ -----­ 
------~-·­ ~-~-------------~-~ 
-­ 


Tuesday, September 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Missionaries talk of time in El Salvador 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
At first glance, they appear to be normal American citizens and par­ents. But to speak with John and Maria Giuliano is to realize their life experiences in El Salvador have been anything but normal. 
Pastoral workers engaged in min­istry with the El Salvadoran people, the Giulianos are on a U.S. tour shar­ing storins about their missionary experiences and letting people know about the opportunities available to volunteer for a missionary during the week of !'all break or spring break. 
Students, faculty, staff and adminis­trators have the opportunity to travel to El Salvador to spend either of those weeks with Jesuit priests in a pro­gram sponsored by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, SUHV, Center for Spirituality and Justice Education. 
Participants will be able to engage in conversation with lay martyrs, visit historical sites. and spend time with ministry workers. 
"The trip was a good mix of the El Salvadorians sharing their stories of pain and finding faith through sharing their stories," said Saint Mary's stu­dent Sarah Gillen. who made the pil­grimage last semester. 
"The experience was a complete eye-opening event. Seeing how the people of El Salvador struggle every day make our concerns seem petty and selfish at times," added Gillen. 
"What interests me most about mak­ing the pilgrimage is the chance to be involved with another culture and try­ing to provide any kind of help and relief to a group of people who are dealing with terrible experiences," said senior Sarah Heynolds. 

Giuliano is originally from the Bronx. 
As a novice with the Jesuits in the early 1980s, John worked for two years with an underground railroad to help El Salvadoran refugees escape through Mexico to the United States. After being forced out of Mexico by the police, John went to El Salvador in 1984. 
Although no longer with the Jesuits, he did work with the Jesuit Hefugee Service for five years, doing organiza­tional and educational work with a team of church workers. 
In 1992. John embarked on a six­month. 8,000-mile bicycle journey from Seattle, through California and Mexico, to El Salvador. 
He visited 122 cities and many more towns, meeting with groups to discuss the problems in El Salvador arising from the war. 
"My idea was that I would go into these communities all across the United States talking about Salvador, war and violence, talking about heal­ing -my own, their own -and the need for healing in Salvador," he said. 
"So many people feel isolated. I look at myself as a king of thread, tying people together," she continued. 
In many ways, the Giulianos charac­terize thousands of other North Americans who, touched and trans­formed by Central American experi­ences during the 1980s, still find themselves energized and motivated, and who are now looking for new out­lets in the 1990s to channel these energies. 
Giuliano's bike trip dates back to the early 1980s when, as a Jesuit novice, he cared for refugees caught in a 
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
College sophomores and juniors are invited to apply for the CIA's Student Programs for Summer 1998. The programs are designed to give promising undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to gain practical work experience to complement their academic studies. While earn­ing competitive incomes, students will participate in meaningful work assignments commensu­rate with their academic training. Housing assistance is provided. Other work programs for stu­dents are also available. 
DESIRED MAJORS: Electrical engineering, computer engineering, computer science, mathe­matics, economics, physics, remote sensing, languages, international studies, logistics/ supply/procurement, business administration, geography, accounting and finance. 
REQUIRED: US citizenship, a minimum 2.75 GPA following freshman year and successful completion of a medical examination, a polygraph interview and an extensive background 
investigation. 
LOCATION: Washington, DC/Northern Virginia area. TO APPLY: Complete and return the Interest Form below with your resume no later than October 9, 1997. Prompt response is required to ensure consideration for summer 1998 employment. 
CIA INTEREST FORM 
Name: ------------~----------~~------~-Phone: ______________~ 
Current Address: _____________________________________________ 
Fr So Jr Sr Major: __________ GPA: ____ University: ---,---------------------------Grad Date:____________ 

Personnel Representative DEPT. RAUN00997 PO Box 741628 Dallas, TX 75374-1628 
We will respond within 45 days if there is further interest. The CIA is an equal opportunity employer. 


The Observer/Katie Vales 

John Giuliano talks to students in the Haggar College Center of Saint Mary's College about his experiences as a Catholic missionary worker in the war-torn country of El Salvador. 
Tijuana, Mexico, jail. 
To get inside, he and two others agreed to paint the place and soon were inside listening to prisoners' sto­ries. 
"We met two Salvadoran brothers who were being held by Mexican offi­cials for ransom," recalled Giuliano. 
"We decided to do something. We got involved, with the quiet support of 
the local bishop, in the Salvadoran underground community in Mexico." 
The group became part of the active underground railroad and for more than two years helped refugees escape north into the United States and some­times beyond. 
That work came to an abrupt end in 1983 when the Mexican police chased the group out of the country. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
vn~wp(Q)rmnll: 
R§ now aoceptting appHcattion§ for coliumni§lt§o §endl or bring a typedl §amplie coliumn~ 500,.850 wordl§9 tto The 01b§erver~ J14 LalForttuneo lFor more informadon~ pliea§e can 
6J1,.5JOJo 
DeadlHne~ Mondlay9 September 220 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 1n 
Jerusalem 
Spring 1998 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. Tuesday, September 16, 1997 4:45P.M. 21 7 DeBartolo 
:I 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
------------~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 16, 1997 
Chapel 

continued from page 1 
like Mary was smiling down on us as we dedicat­ed her statue," said Genevieve Morrill, senior. 
McCandless was built in 1964 with federal funds. Due to federal legislation on the separa­tion of church and state, the residence hall could not have a religious area on the premise. 
Saint Mary's eventually bought the building from the government. The school had attempted, for a number of years, to build a chapel in McCandless. All three of the other residence halls on the Saint Mary's campus boast chapels and other religious symbols. 
"I think it is wonderful that we have this new addition to McCandl_ess. It will be nice to pray in our own environment. I am so thankful to Mr. and Mrs. Hammes for their donation," said Gina Guerroso, McCandless Hall president. 
The statue of Mary has been shuttled from place to place in the last 30 years. Saint Mary's thought it would be fitting for the statue to be put in front of McCandless because of the life­long dedication of Marion McCandless, the first executive director of the Saint Mary's Alumnae Association. 
McCandless graduated from Saint Mary's in 1900. She also founded the Holy Cross Courier, the college magazine which today functions under the title Courier. The Hammes family desired to provide a place of prayer for the stu­dents, and spent about one year coordinating the project. 
The furnishing and appointments of the chapel are in appreciation of William Hickey's 10-year tenure as president of the college. The name "Our Lady of Wisdom" was chosen to symbolize both the educational focus of the college and the wisdom that characterizes the religious sensibili­ty of the institution. 
The statue in Mary's Place was designed by Daprato Studios, a statuary company, and carved in Italy. It was originally a gift from the students of Saint Mary's Academy in South. Bend to the school. The original academy was established in 1844 by the Sisters of Holy Cross in Bertrand. Mich., and was the early foundation of Saint Mary's College. In 1855, the academy was moved from Bertrand to the present Saint Mary's College campus. In 1945, when the college need­ed additio11al space, tho academy moved to a loeatiorr in South Bcmd now known as Erskine Manor. 
When the academy closed in 1983, the statue was relocated to tlw front entrance of Our Lady of Holy Cross Convent, a retirement facility for the Sisters of the lloly Cross. That facility closed in 1977; the statue was once again placed at the college. which conneetnd the evolving history of the academy and the eollege. 
Hammes is foundnr and chairman of the board of two bank-holding corporations and a bank. Hammes has had numerous affiliations with Saint Mary's College including serving as vice chairman of the board of trustees. · 

Student hospitalized 
By MICHELLE KRUPA The driver of the car had not Associate News Editor been drinking and was "neither arrested nor given a citation," 
Notre Dame s~~homore Bennett said. Maggie Meek was hit by a car UHe [the driver] said in the last Thursday night at 10:52 accident report that he saw 
p.m. near the intersection ofHill numerous fem~Ies crossing and Washington streets in west to ea$t as hti{was driving South Bend, according to Capt. •·•·•·-north,bonnd_on HilL St. about a Larry BennettoftheSouth Bend 1i half block in front of him,." 
police records departpient. __ __-••· __ ·~·~ Benn~tt continUed.• '~lie slowed 

~~: She is at St. Joseph Medical m lUld thought they had had-·all :~feJ1ter in the intensive ~Ne. Ullit ,t crossed and continued; He then t)nd a nurse there. _-_ J;mr in [,~( .noti~~. a fema}e lagging behind: 
•1erious conditio _ o( la~t :;; ®.d swezyed left the11 right t<>'ligbt. ·----.--< · __ ---~-~ avoid llerlju,t coUldn't." . . ••••.• 

Letter 
continued from page 1 

"The Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community collaborate on student government events, women's issues, and multi-cul­tural diversity concerns. 
"We are linked through our Catholic faith and its traditions of honor, respect, and love. Through these traditions we are united and called to sup­port one another in our endeavors." added Milos. 
Milos has sent a letter to both Syner and Fuller encour­aging them to visit Saint Mary's. 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Council passes resolution on 'Spirit' 
ByMATTHFWLOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
At its meeting on Monday night, the Campus Life Council passed. a resolution "in response to and interpreting" the "Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame" announced by the offi­cers of the University on Aug. 27. 
The resolution, which will now be sent to vice president of student affairs Patricia ()'!-lara for her response, states how the CLC expects the "Spirit of Inclusion ''to affect the Notre Dame community." It states that the "Spirit of Inclusion" should, "serve as binding University policy and that its message will be carried out and enforced in the administration of educational and admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs and athletic and other University administered programs. policies and proce­dures." · 
The document also asks the Office of Student Affairs to "take affirmative steps to encourage input from gay or lesbian student<; and will extend additional support to those attempting to integrate person­al identity and Church teach­ing." 
The council passed the reso­lution after aone-minute recess ealled, "the unwritten CLC rule that we have to review a reso­lution at one meeting before passing it." 
Morrissey Hall senator Matt Szabo proposed the resolution on behalf of the special commit­tee created at the Sept. 1 CLC meeting to address the issue. 
"When we proposed to the committee last week, I asked if we could settle this issue tonight," Szabo said. "I was told that it wouldn't be a problem, so I wonder why we shouldn't be able to suspend that rule for 
now." 
The ensuing argument lasted 10 minutes and ended with Griftin asking to see the proce­dure book. He was informed by student government chief ef staff Mary Gillard that the rule was not written anywhere, that it had just evolved as standard procedure. 
"Buies and procedures are there for a reason," argued Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of residence life. "If you throw them out, you are throwing out some very good, useful ideas.'~ 
Sister Carrino Etheridge, rec­tor of Farley Hall. agreed that the council was not ready to vote on the resolution. "You went to the committee in order to explore the possibility of addressing the topic," she said to Szabo. "Since you came back 
with a resolution, which holds a little bit more weight then just a letter or a statement, we should spend the full amount of time on it." . 


' 
Thursday Sept. 18th 8:00pm Stepan Center 

'I 
sponsored by: and Student Activities 


--~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-----~~-------........ 
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Students, lawmakers call for prof's ouste·r 
By MICHAEL HOLMES 
Associated Press Wtiter 
AUSTIN, Texas 

A University of Texas law professor is under fire for say­ing blacks and Mexican­Americans can't compete aca• demically with whites and come from cultures in which "failure is not looked upon with disgrace." 
Students, state lawmakers and others have called for the ouster of Lino Graglia, a pro­fessor of constitutional law, Ilowever, school officials said they can't remove a tenured professor simply for express­ing his opinion. 
"Personally, we find his eomment abhorrent," three top Texas edueation officials said in a statement Monday. 
Graglia's eomment last week was "an insult to thousands of University of Texas minority students and alumni.'' said the statement, signed by Donald Evans, ehairman of the UT Board of Regents; William Cunningham, chancellor of the UT system; and Peter Flawn, interim president of UT­Austin. 
The Rev. Jesse Jaekson said he would appear at a eampus demonstration against Graglia on Tuesday. ''The professor is espousing a fascist ideology. and people of eharacter across all lines of eolor should denounee such propaganda," Jackson said. 
Graglia spoke out last week at the announcement of a new organization. Students for Equal Opportunity, that sup­ports a federal court ruling that outlawed race-based admissions policies in Texas. Graglia is a faculty adviser for the group. 
"Blacks and Mexican­Americans are not academ­ically competitive with whites in selective institutions," Gragliasaid Wednesday. "lt is the result primarily of cultural effects. They have a culture that seems not to encourage achievement. Failure is not lo.oked upon with disgrace." 
On Friday, Graglia told the Austin American-Statesman that he does not see any bene­fit in mixing white children with "lower classes" because lower socioeconomic classes "perform less well in school and tend towards greater vio~ lent behavior." 
The university chancellor and president met privately with Graglia on Monday. Cunningham declined to com­ment; Flawn issued a state­ment saying they had "an open and frank diseussion of the issues" but declined to say more. 
In a phone interview after the meeting, Graglia said. "The concern was that my remarks could lead to the impression ... that blacks and Mexican Americans are some­how unwelcome at the univer­sity. That is certainly not my intent." 
Graglia. 67, said he planned to release a statement later in the week after university offi­cials indicated "anything I could say to remove such feel­ing would be welcome." 



FDA yanks diet drugs off shelves 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Two of the nation's most pop­ular diet drugs were pulled off the market Monday after the government uncovered disturb­ing new evidence that they could seriously damage 
patients' hearts. The Food Administration urged millions 
·of dieters to immediately stop taking Redux, also known as dexfenl'lu­ramine, and Pondimin, also known as fen­f1uramine. Pondimin is one-half of the wildly popular fen-phen diet eombi nation; the other half, phentermine, appears safe when used by itself, the FDA said. But doctors said phenter­mine, the sole remaining pre­
scription diet 

and Drug 
Diet drugs recalled 
The Food and Drug Administration today recommended that two popular diet drugs be withdrawn from the market after being linked with serious heart damage. 
Heart valves Diet drugs 
In a study of 291 patients who took the Total weekly prescriptions, 1997 drugs, 30 percent had abnormal echocardiograms and developed problems 250 In thousands with their aortic and mitral valve 200 

150 
Aortic 
valve 100

valve Tricuspid valve 50 

REDUX 
(Oexfenfluramine) 
L:._____________________________j 
newest 

drug, has only Source: The Human Body, The Heart; IMSAmerica 
mixed results ­and they predicted a surge of patients distraught both at the possibility their hearts were damaged and at losing their treatments. 
"We are anticipating lots of very desperate patients that need help," said Dr. John Foreyt, an obesity expert at Baylor College of Medicine. 


We'll Be On Campus Sept. 23. 
Please check with the Career Center for more details or visit us on our website: 

www.gecareers.com 

Thomas Edison's innovative spark led to the creation of General Electric more than 100 years ago. The same spark is alive and thriving today. Our people and our team environ­ment are the primary reasons. We have an open forum-a learning culture-without boundaries or barriers. A place where ideas are born, heard, and allowed to flourish. A place where people are continually exposed to new experiences and world-class training programs. 
The results are astounding. GE holds more patents than any other US company and is a global leader in each of its twelve businesses. Operating in more than 100 countries, we're the first corporation in the world to exceed $200 billion in market value. 
If you are a bachelor's or master's degree candidate and have a thirst for new ideas, solid academic performance and demonstrated leadership potential, come create your own sparks at GE! An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
•
We bring good things to life. 

"Obesity does kill," said Dr. Richard Atkinson of the American Obesity Association, 
who said many  Redux  and  
Pondimin  users  will regain  
their weight.  

The FDA asked Wyeth-Ayerst Laboratories, which sells Redux here and whose parent compa­ny makes Pondimin, to with­draw the drugs because of new evidence that they damage 
QL-------------------­
surgery.

July Aug. 4 29 
T h e 

heart valves, and the firm agreed. 
The U.S. decision prompted the French company, Servier, that sells fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine abroad to withdraw the drugs worldwide. 
The FDA had been struggling to determine the drugs' risk since it and the Mayo Clinic uncovered the first cases in July. Last week, the FDA ana­lyzed heart tests on 291 dieters and found almost a third -92 people -had damaged heart valves, even though they had no symptoms. 
That's much higher than anticipated. Less than 1 percent of the general population has such damage to their aortic or mitral valves, said Dr. Richard Bowen of Naples. Fla., who tested 200 of the patients. 
Most of the valves leaked blood, a condition that over time can enlarge the heart and seriously weaken it. 
Also, the FDA analyzed 25 patients who happened to have had their hearts tested before ever taking diet pills -and after taking the pills, about a third were newly diagnosed with valve damage. 
Those patients are in addition 
to 99 other fenflu­ramine or R e d u x u s e r s w h o s e doctors 
h a v e 
reported to FDA actual symptoms of heart damage, such as shortness of breath. chest pain or swollen ankles. Three of them died, and 17 underwent h e a r t 

AP/Amy Kranz, Carl Fox f i n d i n gs show the drugs "present an unacceptable 
risk,"  said  FDA  Acting  
Commissioner  Dr.  Michael  
Friedman.  

Wyeth-Ayerst's Dr. Mare Deitch called the withdrawal "the most prudent course of action." But he said there is still not definitive proof that the drugs are to blame, and said Wyeth-Ayerst will within a few weeks begin studying whether obese people are naturally more prone to valve disease. 
Meanwhile, dieters can return unused portions of the drugs for a refund. 
Dieters should see their doc­tors for dose heart monitoring, Atkinson said. But not everyone will need an echocardiogram, a sophisticated test that shows heart function and costs between $500 and $1,000. 






Ti.Ck:ets 
BUf:~$¢.U•Trade 
Seasons and Individuals GA's only•Confidential 
234-5650 

Study in the CARIBBEAN 
~~' 
'-:7. ~~c~ ~ ~~£:::7 
Hispanic Caribbean Study Program (Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico) Spring 1998 
Informational Meeting with Dr. Thomas E. Bogenschild Director, International Study Programs 
Wednesday, September 1 7, 1997 4:45 .. 5:45p.m. 313 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: October 1 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------~--------·--------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Setember 16, I 997 



The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes The Members of its 1997-98 Candidate Class at 

Moreau Seminary 
For information about the Holy Cross Candidate Program: 
Rev. Jim King, CSC 
Rev. Bill Wack, CSC 
Vocation Directors Moreau Seminary PO Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-6385 
Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 


Alex F. Schlich Los Angeles, CA BA English/Communications University of Notre Dame, 1992 
Kurt A. Schreyer Wheeling, WV BS Chemistry/German University of Notre Dame, 1992 




Tuesday, September 16, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
White House denies IRS investigation of Paula Jones 
By SONYA ROSS Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The White House denied Monday that it had Paula Jones singled out for an IRS audit, calling the idea of such retalia­tion "certifiably crazy." 
"It's inconceivable to me," White House spokesman Mike McCurry said in response to a question on whether the White llouso pushed for the IRS inves­tigation after Mrs. Jones reject­
ed a settlement of her sexual harassment suit against 
rlllllll...-r-"'"' President Clinton. 
"We do dumb things from time to time, but we are not cer­
t i f i a b I Y ~_,C.__Iin~t~o---'n 

crazy," McCurry said. "So don't imagine for a minute we did. We don't even call the IRS to lind out how they do those sorts of things, literal­ly." 
Mrs. Jones, a former Arkansas state employee, filed a lawsuit claiming that Clinton, then governor, asked her for oral sex in a Little Rock hotel room in May 1991. Clinton has denied Mrs. Jones' accusation, saying he does not remember meeting her. 
Mrs. Jones and her husband, Stephen, received notice last week that they would be audit­ed for their 1995 tax return, according to Susan Carpenter­McMillan, Mrs. Jones' adviser. Carpenter-McMillan called the audit "very peculiar" because it came days after Mrs. Jones ­a housewife with virtually no income -rejected a settlement plan and parted with her lawyers. 

Citing taxpayer confidentiali­ty, the Internal Revenue Service declined Monday to give details on Mrs. Jones' case. But IRS spokesman Frank Keith dis­pelled the notion of using audits as retaliation, saying "When we select a tax return to be exam­ined, we make that selection for tax purposes." 
Clinton's private attorney, Robert Bennett, called the sug­gestion that the audit was meant to harass Mrs. Jones a "tactical move" to try to delay Jones' case. He said he agreed to talk by phone Tuesday with Carpenter-McMillan's husband, William McMillan, Mrs. Jones' interim legal representative. 
"I think that it is a desperate ploy," Bennett said. "The White 
LONDONPROG  House counsel can't even call the IRS to get facts in this day and age." Speaking to reporters in the White House driveway, Bennett suggested that the IRS might have been attracted by Carpenter-McMillan herself. She became chairwoman of the Paula Jones Legal Defense Fund in July. "When this very high profile and, I understand, expensive publicist goes on the air and talks about ... how she's going to be out raising money, this is an invitation to the IRS to look into this situation," Bennett  
INFORMATION MEETING FOR FALL t98 AND SPRING t99 Tuesday, September 16, 1997 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME!  said. Carpenter-McMillan said Monday that while she does not believe "Bill Clinton personally picked up the Oval Office phone and directed the IRS" to con­duct an audit, she does not underestimate the White House's potential for officially harassing the president's crit­ics. As an example, she cited the case of Billy Dale, who was tried and acquitted on charges that he stole $68,000 from the White House travel office while serving as its director.  
Arthur Andersen presents A Panel Discussion of Service Lines Assurance Services, Tax, Business Consulting, Economic and Financial Consulting, and Computer Risk Management Tuesday, September 16, 1997 \Will®~ \Wrn~rn~~ \Will~&J~ Pizza and refreshments to follow presentation. .. Sponsored by The Finance Club and The Accounting Club .  

page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 16, 1997 
• ISRAEl 

Jewish extremists claim Arabic area 
By DANNA HARMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
.Jewish extremists hooked up rooftop surveillance cam­eras Monday in an Arab neighborhood they moved into under the cover of dark­ness, staking a claim on a part of Jerusalem the Palestinians want for a future capital. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu awaited word Monday from Israel's attor­ney general on whether he can evict the settlers, who occupied two buildings on Jerusalem's Mount of Olives. But he warned it would be difficult to take any action against them. 
Less than 24 hours after entering the Ras al-Amud neighborhood, home to 11,000 Palestinians, the 11 settlers prepared for a long stay, bringing in pots of steaming food and covering floors with mattresses. Dozens of troops were posted nearby to protect them. 
Outside the compound, Israeli peace activists and Palestinian residents set up a tent covered with placards that read: "Kick the settlers out of Ras al-Amud." 
The settler action threat­ened to trigger new con­frontations between Israelis and Palestinians at a time when both sides are trying to restore trust following last week's visit by Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
"It comes at a time when the last thing we need is another crisis," Palestinian spokeswoman Hanan 
Ashrawi said. ".We feel that r--------------. the extremists once again are 
SPRING BREAK 198
trying not just to put obsta­cles in the path of peace, but to ignite a powder keg." 
Ras al-Amud is located in ~jijli-i!Jiillfl an area of east Jerusalem ,_IIOAiilloll.,."""~-­c I aimed by the Palestinians 1..=!:..!!.!::~~=:,~,!!!~~~.=;~ as the capital of a future state. The settlers' support­ers, including Cabinet hawk LJ.~~~~=:J:r~~~~~~ 
Ariel Sharon, said a Jewish bridgehead there would break up the continuity of 
Doors open 8 :00 pm 21 and over with proper lD's $2.00 with college lD ­$4.00 without Off-Duty Uniform Police Security Lighted Parking 
Ir-------------,
Save $1 .00 with this ad I before 11 :OOpm
L. _____________.J 
WAG 
·-·s· 

for Grad Students, Law Students, Faculty and Staff 
Every Wednesday night • FREE ADMISSION 
Doors open 8pm Must be 21 or over. 
Arab neighborhoods. 
Located just outside the walls of the Old City, Ras al­Amud offers a panoramic view of the gold-topped Dome of the Rock Mosque, one of Islam's holiest shrines. 
The settlers leased the buildings from Irving Moskowitz, a Miami bingo millionaire who owns 3 1/2 acres in Ras al-Amud and hopes eventually to build a Jewish neighborhood of 50 apartments there. 
The settlers say that Moskowitz purchased all the homes they moved into from their Arab owners several days ago. 
However, Palestinians say that one of the homes was still being rented by an Arab family of eight, all of whom were out visiting friends at the time of the takeover Sunday night. It was not clear what happened to that family's belongings. 

Moskowitz, who came to Jerusalem for the settlers' move, strolled the lobby of the King David Hotel on Monday, but refused to speak to reporters. 
Instead, he issued a state­ment calling the settlers' move historic. "This is the first time in millennia that Jews come to the Mount of Olives, not to be buried, but to live there," the statement said, referring to a Jewish cemetery that covers a large part of the Mount of Olives. 
Last year, Moskowitz donated money for the reno­vation of a Jerusalem tourist tunnel that runs along Muslim holy sites. 

• NORTHERN IRELAND 


IRA group finally enters talks 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 

Associated Press Wrirer 
BELFAST, Ireland 

The IRA-allied Sinn Fein party entered Northern Ireland's peace talks for the first time Monday, frightening off all five pro-British Protestant parties. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, surrounded by party comrades, passed through gates that had boen locked to them when the talks on Northern Ireland's political future began in June 1996. 
"We do think that this could be the beginning ofthe end of conflict on this island, if the political will is there to build agreement," Adams said. Sinn Fein was admitted after the outlawed IRA stopped its vio­lent campaign against British rule of Northern ireland eight weeks ago. 
Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, whose party repre­sents a critical third of Northern Ireland opinion, boycotted the talks at Castle Buildings, a drab office block within the British administra­tive center in east Belfast. 
As expected, the two most hard-line Protestant parties. Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists and Bob McCartney's United Kingdom Unionists, failed to show up Monday. Two small but influ­ential parties linked to pro­British paramilitary gangs also rt~fused to participate. 
Paisley, however, submitted a motion in absentia calling for Sinn Fein's expulsion. The chairman of the talks, former 
U.S. Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, dismissed it because the plaintiffs weren't there. 
Three miles away, Trimble invited the British govern­ment's political development minister, Paul Murphy, to his party's downtown headquar­ters. The two discussed what Trimble called "the precise procedural arrangements for our involvement in the multi­party talks.'' 
Trimble said he would lead the Ulster Unionists into nego­tiations involving Sinn Fein "as soon as possible," but is looking for assurances that his party's views won't be overruled or ignored. 
Before that meeting, British Prime Minister Tony Blair and Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern already had offered Trimble various assurances. 
Their joint statement emphasized that the disarma­ment of the IRA and pro­British paramilitary groups was "an indispensable part" or negotiations, and any pro­posed settlement must win majority public approval with­in Northern Ireland. 
That is critical to the Ulster Unionists, who were instru­mental in founding the pre­dominantly Protestant state in 1920. 
Inside the negotiating room, moderate politicians from four parties grilled Adams about the true worth of his formal renunciation of vio­lence. Adams made the pledge last Tuesday -a requirement for all negotiators -but the IRA speedily said it wouldn't agree to the terms. 
P R INC I P L E S of S 0 UN D RET I REM EN T I NV EST IN G 
OVER ONE MILLION OF THE BEST MINDS IN AMERICA HAVE ALREADY CHOSEN THE BEST RETIREMENT SYSTEM. 



TIAA-CREF. 
W 
hen it comes to planning a comfort­able future, over 1.8 million of America's best and brightest count on TIAA-CREF. With $190 billion in assets, we're the world's largest retirement company, the nation's leader in customer satisfaction, and the overwhelming choice of people in education, research and related fields? 
The reason? For nearly 80 years, TIAA-CREF has introduced intelligent solutions to America's long-term planning needs. We pioneered portable benefits. We invented the variable annuity and helped popularize the very concept of stock investing for retirement planning. 
Today, TIAA-CREF's expertise offers an impressive range of ways to help you create a comfortable and secure tomorrow. From the guarantees of TIAA's top-rated Traditional Annuity<><> to the additional growth opportunities of our variable invest­ment accounts, you'll fmd the flexibility and diversity you need to help you meet your long-term goals. And they're all backed by some of the most knowledgeable investment managers in the industry. 
To learn more about the world's pre­mier retirement organization, speak to one of our expert consultants at 1 800 842-2776 (8 a.m.-11 p.m. ET). Or better still, speak to one ofyour colleagues. Find out why, when it comes to planning for tomorrow, great minds think alike. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 

0 13ased on a survey conducted in 1995 by an independent organization in which 96% of' respondents expressed overall satisfaction with TIAA-CREE 00TIAA is one of only a handful of companies that currentlv hold the highest marks from the nation's leading independent rating agencies for stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability, and overall financial strength: A++ (Superior), A.M. Best Co.; AAA, Duff & Phelps; Aaa, 1\\oody's Investors Service; AAA, Standard and Poor's. TIAA's guarantees are backed by its daims-paying ability. These ratings of TIAA as an insurance company do not apply to CREF. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc For more complete information, including l·harges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a prospectus. Read the prospectus l'arefully befOre you invest or send money. 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, .IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Edicor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor.. . ....... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters ­Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Broob Ad Design Manager. ................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor..... .. .......... Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor..... . ......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ...................... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by the students of the University of None Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither in.stirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Ediror, Sporrs Ediror, Accent Ediror, Sainr Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe all(hors, and not neces­~arily rhme of The Observer. Viewpoint space is avotibble to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry :md ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advenising  63!-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  6.?1-5323  Svsrems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  6.?1-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/ViewPoint  631-5.?03  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General information  6.?1-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• So, VVHAT's Mv PmNr? 

Is Anyone Cleaning the Sidewalks? 
Today I am going to address all of you about something very serious-something that affects the life of every person on this (SMC) campus. It is a truly important mat­ter. one that I'm sure most of you have already noticed. And it is time we did something about it because it is getting to be a real problem in this place. I doubt if you folks over at Notre Dame have this problem; I am over there at least three times a week. and I haven't noticed it yet. 

Nakasha Ahmad 
It is the goosn doo-doo (Excuse my high­class level of language; a year at college will do that to you). It is completely and totally out of hand this year. 
See. over here, on this campus, we have these geesn. Birds. Our nod to wildlife. All of which are euphemisms for "total and completn pests" (llow much of a nuisance they are has already been examined in one Observer column last week-but I got my idea for this column before that). Now, I am all for wildlife. but these birds have dee;ded that the territory around Madeleva is their personal outhouse. This ground is litPrally covered with the geese's little pre­SPnts. In fact. I am finally writing this in frustration aft!~r spending the 1Oth day in a row walking on tipton from Madeleva to llaggar. and from Madeleva to my car in the off-campus parking lot. With my head lwnt. intnnt on the ground, just to make sure I don't get anything on my shoes. And through this technique I don't get anything on my shoes. But I do occasionally slam my head into a tree. And I absolutely refuse to sit on the ground anymore -those little bundles of joy and digestion are much less visible in the grass. 
I mean, come on-we paid a whole lot of money to get here. We didn't come to Saint Mary's in order to walk through geese excrement, exciting as that prospect may sound -we've paid so much to get here that we should at least be able to walk around without hav­ing to tread on the walkways as though we were tiptoeing in mine fields. I have happened to visit a few third world coun­tries, where a lot of people have horses, . and don't clean up the streets after them­selves -and even they have cleaner streets. We're probably the only campus in America that lets birds use our walkways for their own personal litter box. And, let's face it, this campus isn't exactly huge. The area around Madeleva is pretty small­can't somebody hose it off or clean it or something? I can't think of any other sug­gestions. As you can probably tell, I'm much better at destructive criticism than I am at constructive criticism-it's a gift. Besides being easier and more fun. To be honest, I don't remember it being this bad last year. 

And if we can't clean up their mess, then we should get rid of the geese. And before every reader condemns me as a cold-heart­ed witch with no sympathy for the more feathery creatures of this world. I have to say that yes, I am a cold-hearted witch, if that entails getting rid of the geese for clean walkways. To be completely honest {and selfish) I care a bunch more about my shoes than I do about the geese's welfare. 
To conclude, I realize that by devoting an entire column to this situation, I have sacri­ficed all credibility I might have otherwise had. 
"Wow," people will say, "this girl really knows what she's talking about. She did a whole entire article on ... on ... goose crap." But I figure I'll probably never make a dent in all the big problems, so I may as well tackle the small ones. Kind of like New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani's philosophy, "Sure we can't get rid of crime, and police brutality is on the rise; but on the upside, you haven't been bothered by those pesky window-washers in quite some time, have you?" That's sort of my philosophy-we can't get rid of major-bashing or the lack of racial diversity here, but we can hopefully get rid of the bird poop. It's the little things like that that make the world a more peaceful {and cleaner) place, right? 
Right? 

Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore majoring in English literature and political science at Saint Mary's. You can send her e-mail at ahma3495@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

mains e Issue 
As a student of Saint Mary's, I 

feell have a responsibility to 
respond to the letter written by 
Catherine Syner and Stacey 
Fuller. I am very disappointed 
thatthis type of ignorance exists 
on a campus that is known for 
quality education. I was 
extremely insulted by the insin­
uations of these two Notre · 
Dame women. There is obvious­
confusion about Saint t;Jvtar}U> ·women and why we to attend Saint 
1 not applY, to Notre Dame. I do not try to Kpass myself off' ·as a Notre Dame student. I am very proud that I am a student at Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's is the. number one liberal arts col­lege in the midwest, for the fourth year in a row. There is a fantastic staff that inspires me as a woman about to enter the business world. Saint Mary's has given me many reasons to holdmy head up high when I tell soJme,one where I go to school. l have a great deal of respect for the student body of Notre Dame, and I am glad I have the opportunity to be involved in the Notre Dame community. I can only hope that the women of Notre Dame do not agree with the letter that took the initiative to speak for the female population of Notre Dame. Only communication can dispel these unfortunate stereo­types. 

Ann Halloran 
Senior, OffCampus 
Septemb~rl5, 1997 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU HP /(/OtJUJN'rGOFOR THe GOTA EJA£!8 ~I PRO-8A5l3 CR M/Jt-71-Yt:A~ WA~ '? M!SE3l? YOU 71!&/?13. 8/JTI t?lt? eer ya; 
AU?IiAPY.~ Y~AY/ 85% t::F 7Jfe GAlli/85%/t?XaJ5I3Me, 
8tJTAM Z 600P.~ 
' I 
/ 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don't fight a battle if you don't gain any­thing by winning." 
-General George S. Patton 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 16, 1997 
• TABLE TALK 
Embracing the Spirit: 
It crosses my mind, now and again, as I take up my proverbial pen, to author a column composed all in verse, in metered rhyme my thoughts to rehearse. You're tired of pointed prose no doubt, regarding the "Spirit" statement just out. Well, rest assured friends, there's no prose this time; just impassioned thoughts, set all in rhyme. I write as a male; white, married, and straight­and friend to a few of less fortunatefate. I've heard of their anguish and anger quite starkly, still! speak having seen but "through a glass darkly." Yet in paradise, when I "see face to face," the terror my silence has oft left in place, though heaven be such that none will need sleep, tis many of us will be due a good weep. 
The issue's complex, but this much is clear, there's still plenty to fear at the Dome if you're queer. 
" 'Strangers and sojourners,· " saith the Dome, 
" 'no longer are you,' please feel right at home. "You'll not be harassed for just being gay; "just mind that your love is not yours to display. 

"Now if you were married, your love we could praise, "but marriage is sadly off limits to gays. "Still, your kind is fine, and most weleome here 
000 
"What's that? You want to act on your love-oh dear. 
"Well, the table is set, come join us for dinner. "Each place bears a name-yours is marked 'sinner.'" 
And yet there is grace in these words of inclusion. Let your mind run along in creativeprofusion. 
Imagine a National Coming Out Day held under this banner-what could Monk ~ay'? 
He couldn't protest that it doesn't belong here, after all, you're now "strangers and sojourners no longer." 
And picture in dorm windows, offices too, bright colored signs, displayed in full view: "We've got the Spirit!"-a way to proclaim a truly safe place here at Notre Dame; a chorus of signs, in voices united, "The banquet's much bigger than those so far invited." Now suppose that these signs for a profit were sold, by a campus group spirited, inclusive, and bold; and the money thus raised might be wisely spent 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Attack Bred by A 
e 
I am writing in response to the 
Sept. 15 letter to the editor titled 
"ND Women Resent SMC 
Privileges," written by Catherine 
Syner and Stacey Fuller. 
I disagree with the broad gener· 
alizations that "ND women resent 
SMC privileges,'tandthat Notre 
Dame students do not use Saint 
Mary'sto the ~xtenfthat SMC uses 
ND.J am sorry that during your 
two short semesters at Notre . 
Dame you have never taken 
advantage of Saint Mary's facili­
ties. However, many of your fellow 
students have. Personally, I have 
Notre Dame students -both male 
and female -in two out of my six 
classes. I have friends who have 
Notre Dame students in all of their 
classes. I have yet to take a class 
at Notre Dame. 
I have workstudy (to help pay 
my tuition which is nearly equal to 
your $25,000) in Angela Athletic 
Facility. During almost all of my 
shifts there are both Notre Dame 
males and females who work out 
in our space and use our equip­ment. I~ on the other hand. have "nev(:lr been toyourathjetic facili· 
. ties;. ,,, .... 


~'iny pa ...·.. ··.·~the Le~ans AW+ ter labs. On many occasions •: , Ihaye fpui1~ll1ys~l~ sitting next to a Notre Dru.ne stud.ent Though I klJ;owyouhave computer labs in DeBartolo, Hesburgh, O'Shaughnessy,. and other build­ings on campus, I have never used one of them. 
Further, I have never attempted to pass myself off as a Notre Dame student. lam proud to go.to Saint Mary's.l was accepted to both Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. I chose to attend SMC because its art department iSaccredited by NASAD. Notre Dame does not have an accredited art department. In other words, graduating from Notre Dame with an'~~idegree means less than. uating from Saint Mary's Wit~i artdegree. 

So may I asky 'l Do you think l shoU:l ed your Univen;ity ~ t had a famo accreditatt right de 
Cgllege
:;';good name "' 

c 

I couldri' 
of you are S()p 
ing my sophom()r¢ 
Mary's thatimet . ·. .... ··•.···· y 
best friends. The$~ two women 
attend Notre Dame the three 
of us, along with .... .·....···...... SMC 
student, live happilytJinthe same 
apartment. a;,,,,\kgt&U 
Ms. Syner and Ms. Fttller, itis 
the destr{lctive nattireofyour let~ 
ter that makes the two of you the 
parasites of ol.tr ~'Notre Dame 
Community."Stepoffyour soap 
box long enough to realj~e that by 
saying the "Notre Pall1e 
Community" W(:l.refer to the town 
of Notre Dame; Iti,d~a,ria, This town 
is comprised oft · s~the 
University of rid ........... 
S$tMary's re all .. citf~epf;l in · 
of us has · 
here,.·;.. 
Tnetw 
rixniecessa.ry 
puses. You ha ...... · . 
dents atSaint· ege ltnd 
the University .of Notre. Dame. Yom: 
arrogance, selfishness and igno­
ranee .is what causes. the unneces­
sary rift between our schools. I 

A Commentary in Rhyme 
David Weiss 
on som<-1 inclusivn-f'urthering campus event. 
For thosn whom this spirit moves down to the core, 
if you'd like to do just a little bit more, 
thPn take out your wallPt or write out a cheek 
to that SOle group known as GLND/SMC ("glend-smeck")_ 
They've nary a nest or a den or a bed; 
no place on campus to lay down their head. 
I'm sure they'd be grateful your money to juggle 
as thPy faithfully carry on in their struggle. 
That address now, for those who are game, 
is PO Box 194, Notre Dame. 
And lastly an imagP -and invitation to quPPrs in our midst to takP up your station. 
Come tell your stories of wounds all too real; in the telling itself' perhaps many will heal. As we stand with our doubts, please beckon us near, to the place whnre your side was pierced by the spear. And hold up to us your hands and your feet, bearing the scars where nails and flesh mpet. 
Like Thomas, we doubt, but be patient and clear; 
as we see you before us, perhaps finally we'll hear. 
For you, too, are Christ's body; you, too, are Christ's bridP. 
You, too, have a share in the death that he died. 
And you, too, in your loving, amid so much strife, 
you carry as well, God's gift of new life. 
David Weiss is a Ph.IJ. candidate in (hristian ethics at Notre Dame. 1/e can be 
reached at Weiss,J@nd.edu. !lis column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarilt; those 
ofThe Observer. · 
Greetings ... From Saint Mary's 
Yes, Saint Mary's-a collegn of women, not girls. In response to Catherine Syner's and Stacey Fuller's letter, I would like to say I clearly recognize what school I attend, and I am proud to say I am a Saint Mary's woman. In faet, I had wanted to attend Saint Mary's BEFOHE I n~alized it was affiliated with the Notre Dame. By attending sports camps at Saint Mary's throughout my childhood, I knew SMC was the place for me. I did not choose SMC because of it's "across-the-street-conve­nience." It may seem hard to believe (after all, why would any intelligent women choose SMC at all, right Catherine and Stacey??). but it is true. 
As a senior woman (at the ages of 18-22. I would hope we are all women and have surpassed being girls), I have encountered many women from ND on BOTH campuses. I have become friends with some Notre Dame women, and I have no regrets of' befriending any of' them. I played volleyball on one of the sand courts at ND this past weekend. Though there was no need to nval­uatn which onns of us were SMC students, I found the ND women friendly, fun, and good volleyball play­ers. All in all, I had not had a negative experience with ND women until the letter written by sophomores Syner and Fuller. As an HA in Holy Cross llall and as a student leader on the senior executive board, I have told my residents and other underclasswomen of my positive ND-SMC female relationships. I never had the need to tell them of negative encounters with ND women. When talking with underelasswomen, I recognize both aspects of the ND-SMC community­that students from BOTH campuses DO take classes interchangeably amongst thll two communities. Obviously, neither Catherine nor Stacey have taken classes at Saint Mary's. 

I do not want to belabor the point, but I will say I am offended at the letter written by the sophomores who have much more to learn than they think. II' that was your point, Catherine and Stacey, well, I commend you -you damn well offended me and many other Saint Mary's women. Unknowingly, you probably offended your fellow Notre Dame women as well ­who would want such igno­rance representing them'? Not many! llowever. if your point was to create aware­ness and resolution, you did NOTHING of the sort. I hope your awareness matures as you enter the remaining years at Notre Dame. 
Note to Catherine and Stacey: I hope the two of you are not education majors. And if you are, I would like to s!le thP looks on your fac11s when you realize wh11re one of your· two majors will be 
00. 
across the street, at Saint Mary's, a premier women's college. 
Meg Winkler Senior, Holy Cross Hall September 15. 1997 









ACCENT
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 page 11 
You were varsity captain in high school, but here you just can't cut it. You're looking to improve your Frisbee game so that you can give your little brother a run for his money over Christmas break. You must work off your brew belly.you never learned how to cartwheel. Your roommates are psycho and you need a place to release aggression. You want to meet new people. You love the thrill of a perfect serve, the swish of the net, crossing the finish line, diving in the water. Whatever, you can ... 
CLUBS 

Rowing 
Around 80 members of the co-ed Irish Crew team compete at regattas in the fall and spring in 
Massachussets, Florida, Georgia and Pennsylvania. The team practices on the St. Joseph River near downtown South Bend and does dry land condi­tioning in the spring. 

Water Polo 
The Water Polo team practices and competes at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Training is available for first time participants. Both men and women train year-round with the men com­peting in the fall and the women competing in the spring. 

Ultimate Frisbee 
The co-ed Ultimate Club is in its inau­gural season. The main season is the spring, though competition begins in the fall with winter training at Loftus. 

Equestrian 
This relatively new co-ed club has sent members to national competitions. The club uses a local sta­ble for practices and coaching and hosts competi­tion at two local facilities. 

Gymnastics 
The Gymnastics Club practices throughout the year at the Angela Athletic Facility at SMC. The gymnastics team usually travels to four midwest­ern campuses each year for competition. 

Sailing 
The co-ed Sailing Club did well at their regatta last weekend. The Sailing Club has received national honors but also offers lessons for novice sailors. The team practices on St. Joseph's Lake and has their own fleet of nine. 

Skiing 
So, sure, this isn't the Rocky Mountains but the ski team still has fun. The co-ed team travels to Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin for their races. Training begins in the fall with dry land work and competi­tion begins in January. 

Bowling 
Bowling is definitely a sport for life. The co-ed Bowling Club is in its inaugural season this year. In addition to competing at regional and national tour­naments, the Bowling Club plans to help organize recreational play for the entire student body. 

Boxing 
Unlike other club sports, boxers only compete against each other. Novice training is held in the fall providing coaching and conditioning for the first time boxer. In January, training begins for the Boxing Club's Bengal Bouts. The Bengal Bout finals are usually held in the Joyce Center. The proceeds go to the Bengal Missions in Pakistan. 


Synchronized Swimming 
In the past women from the Synchronized Swimming team have qualified to compete at Nationals. They practice in the Rockne Memorial Pool. 


CHALLENGE U FITNESS 
"I will do 130 hours of step aerobics by January 22." This is the sort of goal that the ambitious and independent students in the Challenge U Fitness Program might make. Participants can either take classes ranging in activities from yoga to water aero­bics or complete a form indicating what aerobic activity they will be doing and their goal. A log book to record daily and weekly progress and keep exercise tips is supplied. Challenge U Fitness also offers assessments, demonstrations, personal consul­tations and tests. 


INTRAMURALS 
Intramurals are open to undergraduate and gradu­ate students, faculty and staff. Undergraduate intra­mural teams are formed by hall. The following sports are offered: Badminton Baseball Basketball Bowling Broomball Cross Country Football, flag (women) Football, full contact (men) Golf Hockey, floor Hockey, ice (men) Lacrosse (men) Racquetball, singles Racquetball, team Soccer Softball (women) Swimming Table Tennis Team Tennis Ultimate Frisbee Volleyball Water Polo, inner tube 

RECSERVICES 
Over 40 programs are offered by RecServices both on campus and off. Some of the classes or work­shops offered are golf, kayaking, sailing, in-line skat­ing, women's safety and self-defense, taekwondo, karate, scuba diving, jazz dance, tennis, horse back riding, cross-country skiing and ballet. 
Throughout the year, special events are sponsored through RecServices. Some of these are the Biathlon, Christmas in April Benefit Run, the Domer Run, Family Skate Night, one Night Volleyball Tournament, Three on Three Basketball Tournament, Tennis Mixer, Weekend Volleyball Tournament, Weekend Racquetball Tournament, Hoops Shoot Out, Lifestyle Olympics, Late Night Olympics and Downhill Ski Trip. 
Advanced registration is required for most RecServices activities. 
Got your sneakers on? Sign up nowISwing by the JACC, Loftus, Rockne-or caii1-8REC 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 16, 1997 
•MLB 

Jeter's single in ninth lifts Yanks over Red Sox by score of 7-6 
-
Special to .The Observer .,.,,N ....:.._________.....,;;:;.; PROVJDENCE, ill Notre Dame outside hitter Jaimie Lee became the third Irish player to.be named Big E a s t ,...----~~ Conference volleyball player of the week in as many· weeks, fol· l o w i ri g solid show-· i n g s Lee against two 
nationally-ranked teams dur. ing the weekofSept. 8-14. Lee had a team-best 20 kills on ,375 hitting in the 
Sept. 8 four• game loss to S.ec" ond-ranked Florida, She went on lastweekend to add 14 kills in a 3~1 win over Georgia before hitting for t7 kills in a three-game loss:a.t 


Classifieds 

.. then7 .. , • For the week,L~eJedt~eirishin kills, hitti rc,entr and digs. .. · .... .. ... . . . ·.. ·· The 5-f~ot·ll. ri¥ht7handet also assistedon six .blocks .. last week;. leaving her one block shy oCpeC()Illing the only player on Notre Dame's career t~p ~O,Usts for kills, hitting p~r~ent•. digs, a~e~. a~:>sists, and ~lpckSi Jen»:Y Birkner fja~h~Igth\ji~ distine· tion untilBUtrentJreshman setter Denise Bo~la,n last week humped Birkner from 10th on the career assists 
.· list. · · ·· Lee ha.s totaled 12"plus kills in each .of her six full matches this season, with 
three of those matches com­ing against ~ked teams. .She ls o.·.·.· ..·... . to challenge 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Boston ran off the field at the end of an inning. Five minutes later, the Red Sox had to come back to get the third out one more time. 
"Weird things happen in Yankee Stadium," No mar Garciaparra said after New York rallied twice to beat the Red Sox 7-6 Monday night and lower its magic number for clinching a playoff berth to six. 
A night that included Tino Martinez's first homer in three weeks and a game-winning sin­gle by Derek Jeter in the ninth will be remembered for the third out that wasn't in the sixth. 
New York tied the score off Derek Lowe following singles by Jeter and Jorge Posada, and Andy Fox's sacrifice. 
Tim Raines hit a foul pop near the third-base dugout. Third baseman Johh Valentin caught it as he fell into the photo box, and Jeter tagged up and scored. 
Posada, meanwhile, headed for third, and Valentin appeared to flip the ball past a fan to Garciaparra, who had come over from shortstop and was standing next to him. Garciaparra threw to second baseman Jeff Frye, who tagged Posada sliding into third. 
"As soon as he made the catch, I told him to give me the ball," Garciaparra said. 
Frye thought his only chance to catch the ball was to jump. 
"The fans would have caught the ball because they're higher than I am," Frye said. "I could see them. They wanted the ball." 

Boston ran off the field, thinking it was an inning-end­ing double play. 
Then Bernie Williams, sitting on the Yankees bench, remind­ed manager Joe Torre of the rule, 7.04 (c). If a fielder catch­es the ball and goes out of play, each runner advances a base. 
"Bernie is outstanding. He stored it up there," Torre said. 
"I remembered it happened in Toronto and we got two bases or something like that," Williams said. 
Torre came out to talk to crew chief Larry Barnett, who changed the call, allowing Posada to take third. 
"That's my fault," Barnett said of the mixup. "I screwed up. I did get the play right in the end." 
Boston came back on the field and changed pitchers. Wade Boggs then hit an inning­ending foul pop-to third. 
New York, which has won six of eight after losing nine of 10, can clinch its third consecutive postseason berth with any combination of Yankees' wins and Angels' losses that total six. The Yankees trail Baltimore by six games in the AL East. 
The winning run came home after Jim Corsi (3-2) walked Paul O'Neill leading off the ninth. O'Neill then tagged up and just beat the throw follow­ing Williams' fly to deep left. 
Martinez was intentionally walked, Chad Curtis struck out and Jeter singled just in front of a diving Michael Coleman in center, his third straight hit. 
Mariano Rivera (5-4) pitched a perfect ninth, stopping Boston's four-game winning streak. 
"It was a big win for us, Jeter said. "We didn't want to go extra innings AND a double­header tomorrow." 
David Wells. who had lost his five previous outings, was again hit hard, allowing 12 hits for the third consecutive start and giving up six runs in 5 1-3 innings. 
''I'm very concerned,"• Torre said. "You sure as hell want guys to do what they're capa­ble of doing and right now he isn't." 

Boston starter Bret Saberhagen got his fifth no­decision in six starts since returning from arm surgery (the other was a loss), allowing five runs and five hits in four innings. 
"I know I can pitch the way I want to pitch. It's just a matter of being more aggressive. Maybe it's time for a gut check. ... The surgery is no excuse," Saberhagen said. 
Martinez, who hit his first homer since Aug. 26, had a three-run shot that made him the first Yankee to reach 42 homers since Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris in 1961. 
"I wasn't worried about it," he said of the homerless streak. ''I've been feeling pret­ty good. I wasn't going to try to change anything just to hit home runs." 

Notes: David Cone is sched­uled to test his arm again before Wednesday's game.... Mo Vaughn, 19-for-39 against Wells with four homers coming in. was 0-for-3 against him .... Wells didn't want to talk about his verbal confrontation two weeks ago with Yankees owner George Steinbrenner. 
named player the week for her per­formance this pa~:>t weekelld: G r u h .b anchored the Notte· 
D a m <e 
defense which held Big East opp1>~ nents Pittsburgh and V\fest 
two the·~~...... .. 
to earn All~America honors in 1996, alsO At!!{'~~ thtirlsh offen$ively a~:> $fje .$~Qre<;l:her first goal the season. 

'aga' N.otre ··aten.at· 6~o~o, topcranked North ~a;ro ....... orr Friday, Sept. 19, atthe adidas/Lady FootLo<;ker ClassiC. 
Jaimie Lee: Big East tJollexball 

player.ofthe· week 

The Observer acceprs classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prep<lid. The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN· UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. AJC, CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED. $80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.. 7:30 a.m.·Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon·6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat's) 
Phone 631-COPY 
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast Home Rooms Available 10 Miles from Stadium 888-226-5545 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lose a set of keys to room 407? ask Carlo at x1862 
LOST! Silver Bracelet w/ "sisters" charm. Patti x-1363 
Lost Saturday before game: Black Fuji SmartDeluxe camera Near Portable Toilets in Parking Lot. If found, please call: 
Rachel x1467 


WANTED 
Wanted: Ride for one from Clay High School to SMC, MW, 2:45pm, $6 per ride. Call 233-4581 or 631­5068. 

Wanted: Computer Education Coordinator at the Boys and Girls Club of St. Joseph County. Provide structured computer education for school-aged youth ages 6 to 18 years old. Computer lab environ­ment: 14 multi-media computers with the Internet. 20 to 30 hours per week. $8 to $10·per hour. Must have previous youth experience and background in related field. Call Kregg Van Meter at 232-2048, ext. 371. 
bed & breakfast football weekends near ND 272-5989 


FOR SALE 
SALE HOME ON BARRON LAKE $220,000 616-792-5520 
Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter w/memory. W/xtra cartridge. $95.00. 233-4414 

2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON Looking for GA's to Any & All 232·2595 NO Gamest 
Will Beat Any Offer! YOU WILL LOVE this SPACIOUS 1 Will Trade Any Home Game for bedrm with FIREPLACE !l< OAK LSU. Call 634-4872 FLOORS. Extra storage available. $395 mo., dep. & ref. 219-234-5996 I need GA's for USC. Call Nikki @ (Get your Dad to buy this STATELY 634-2367. 4-unit and you will live FREE!) 
GAs FOR SALE toMS, Ml, BC, Rent thru May &WV 288-3975 3 bed on Barron Lake $600 furnished Wanted: NO Football Tickets 1 bed $450 616-683-5195 Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­
2850 RENT FOR FOOTBALL GAME WEEKENDS 3 BED & 1 BED 219-SELLING 2 MSU AND 2 USC GA's. 234-9836 TAKING BEST OFFER. 243-2168 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND NEED 4 MSU GA'S 
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. CALL KATE 243-1089 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 
243-0658. NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's 
call 284-5198 THAT PREITY PLACE, Bed and will pay$$$ Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms I need 5 USC tix for family with private baths, $70-$90, Will pay $$ X3872 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road. Exit #1 07, I need 2 GA's to BC. Please call or 1-800-418-9487. leave msg. for Brendan @4-3245 
Married Student TIX For Sale 273-3844 
HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED Mich/USC. CAll Me\4-1349 if want to sell/trade!! 
Need 2 Mich St tx call Sean 273-3227 

Need 2 Mich. GA's. Have GA's to 
Buying GA's seasons or individual Congratulations Colletta, you finally games. Top dollar paid. beat Notre Dame. 
Confidential service. Call 234-5650. That's original. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  NEEDED: a supervisor of a local  
FOR SALE  grade school CHESS CLUB. If  
DAYTIME#: 232-2378  interested call Maureen @ 277·  
EVENING#: 288-2726  7821  

********************************* NO TICKETS WANTED Attn: GAY. LESBIAN, BISEXUAL, DAYTIME#: 232-2378 QUESTIONING. and SUPPORTIVE 
trade. Call Erin #4220 EVENING #: 288-2726 Students. Faculty, and Staff:

TICKETS 
The ORIGINAL Student-run group 
FOR RENT I I 

Senior ticket book, unsigned FOR SALE will hold a Support Group Meeting I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO call 243-2187 N.D. GA.'S on Wed .. Sept. 17th at 7:00PM. WALK TO CAMPUS HOME GAMES.272-6551 271-9412. Highly Confidential. 
HELP! Need 3 MSU GA/stud Call for Details. upgrades. Call Dave @ 243-1868 WANTED N 0 G A'S Info-Line: 236·9661 TO ALL HOME GAMES *****"'****"*******•**************• 
'For Sale' 271 1526 Bk of Stud Ftbl tix hey not much to say here. i'm tired $125 I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Michigan and orthogonal vectors are calling Call Clare @ 1305 State game!!! my name 
Please call Amy 4sale: 2GA's tor MS 40yd line at 810-355-9140. A SECRECTMESSAGE TO THE Call: 634-4612 PANTHER 
we need carpet bacl. we will have Sale 2 GA's for MichSt ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK· to beat the money out of the large 287·3181 after 7 pm ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 one. mike is still valuable. i can 
see my desk, but don't let that fool NEED 5 USC GAs, all together or 4 SALE Married student tix 283-0920 you. my real name is M.E.G. but if not, call Dave 246-1131 the ladies call me speedo. NO Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX! END MESSGAE 2 WV GA's and 1 set married 410-737-6115 student Ticket tor sale. Call Hey, I'M still a fan. GO IRISH I 
273-4372. Have Mich St; 6 together; will 
TRADE only for USC or other Took her out, tried to win. Had a Married Student TIX For Sale game; 813-281-2339 laugh and over dinner told her I 273-3844 would like to see her agian. 
Local Models Needed for Natl NOTRE DAME Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to I'm a fan too. I'm going to go to FOOTBALL TICKETS New York! 18\o enter! No cost or every women's soccer game from 
BUY -SELL-TRADE obligation. Call 679-4745 for details now till the end of the season. 
232-0058 by Sept. 20. 
CONFIDENTIAL I've got nothing to say, but it's okay. TICKET-MART, INC. People running 'round, its 5 o'clock. 

PERSONAL 
BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI-Good Morning, Good Morning, VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. Two Words Colletta: Good. 674-7645. Job Security 
.--~--­
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-

• NFL 
Tampa Bay's 3-0 start is best for franchise since '79 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
Thn last time the Tampa Bay Bucs started 3-0 was 1979. They went to the NFC title game that season, tlw first and last highlight for a franchise that for the past 15 seasons has led the NFL in futility. 

Things seem to run in threes this season for Tampa Bay. The Bucs' 28-14 win over the previously unbeaten Vikings on 
Sunday was just their third in 14 years in Minneapolis. 
The impetus for their revival is three young draft choices -Warrick Dunn, Mike Alstott and Warren Sapp. Plus, of course, Tony Dungy, the coach who 




Ducker Research Presentation 
You are cordially invited to attend an informational presentation on Ducker Research Company, a global business to business market research and consulting firm with strategic locations in Detroit, Michigan, Paris, France and Beijing, China. 
Ducker Research is expanding its global presence and is looking for individuals interested in global market research. 
• Date:  Thursday, September 18  
• Time:  7:00p.m.  
• Location:  LaFortune Student Center in  
the Dooley Room  

drafted Dunn (supposedly too small) and Alstott (supposedly too slow). 
Dunn, who weighs around 180 pounds, has gained 268 yards on 48 carries, a 5.6 aver­age. lie's beginning to look like Barry Sanders; on Sunday, he turned a 4-yard loss into a 52­yard touchdown run. 
"I handed off and I thought 'Oh my gosh,"' said quarterback Trent Dilfer. "Then he made one move that was unbeliev­able." 
Alstott, who blocks like Daryl Johnston and probably runs better, has 132 yards and two TDs, and last year led the team with 56 receptions. On Sunday, he had a TD run that is one of the few 1-yarders to make all the highlight reels -he went into the pile, was stuffed, bounced back outside and rolled left, carrying two tacklers into the end zone. 
Those two have made life easy for Dilfer, who was too often asked to win games the last two seasons. He has thrown 70 passes without an interception and his quarterback rating of 100 is 35 points better than it was last season. 
Sapp, allegedly too slow and too troubled off the field, leads the team with 3 1/2 sacks. Like Dunn, he went lower in the first round than his college record should have indicated. Alstott, a workhorse at Purdue, was a second-rounder last year. 
How did the Bucs, losers of 10 or more games in 13 of the last 14 seaso'ls, find these guys? By looking at college achievement rather than 40-yard dash times and vertical leaps, which led the old Bucs to draft the likes of Charles McRae, Keith McCants, Broderick Thomas, Ron Holmes and Eric Curry, all top 10 picks who played like middle or low rounders. 
"Every time we looked at Warrick on tape in huge games, he was the best player on the field," Dungy says of Dunn, who has also allowed the Bucs to shop Errict Rhett, their prime running back in 1994 and 1995. 
Last season, Rhett got bad advice from his agent, Drew Rosenhaus, held out, and now stands on the sideline watching Dunn and Alstott. But his low salary makes him attractive to any team looking for a heavy­duty running back -and will allow Tampa to get another high draft pick. 
Wanna DANCE? Come to ... 
TROOPND 
DANCE CLASSES 
TONIGHT! 
6:30 , 8:00 @ 219 Rockne 
Other Classes: THURS. 9/18 6:30-8@ 301 Rock 
.•

SUN. 9/21 8:00-10@ 219 Rock TUES. 9/23 6:30-8@ 219 Rock THURS. 9/25 6:30 -8 @ 301 Rock 

VOLUME 3, NUMBER 1 ADVERTISEMENT 

l 
M 
~ 1997 



Wanted: 1997 Swoosh Team. I'm looking for volunteers who love sports and want to have a great 
~ 
time creating NIKE events around campus. Interested? Drop me a line at colleen.henshaw@nike.com 

..o ~ 
IMM·M&I 




0 ---o-----•-­
19 

20
18 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL./V 
FOOTBALL./V MEN's SoccER!V 
VS. MICHIGAN STATE AT WEST VIRGINIA VS. NEW MEXICO TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS 
STADIUM 2:00PM JACC, 8:00 PM 
WoMEN's SoccER!V 
-J

VS. NORTH CAROLINA 
ALUMNI FIELD, 7:30PM 
25 
26 

27 
MEN'S TENNIS/V MEN'S SOCCER/V FOOTBALL./V MEN'S TENNISN 
AT ITA NATIONAL CLAY COURTS VS. VILLANOVA 

AT MICHIGAN TOM FALLON INVITATIONAL .....................A.L.L.P~Y.. ALUMNI FIELD, 7:30 PM 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION [ WON'T FIT ON 26TH... [ WOMEN'S SOCCER/V 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
ALL DAY i MEN'S TENNISN j AT RUTGERS, 7:30PM 
AT VANDERBILT INVITATIONAL 
ALL DAY : ToM FALLON INVITATIONAL i WOMEN'S TENNISN j ECK TENNIS PAVILION j AT VANDERBILT INVITATIONAL 
. ALL DAY ; -· ALL DAY 


Co=Corecreational I V=Varsity I C=Ciub I l=lntramural
f WoN'fi'"i'foN28ri:t::: .. WOMEN'S SOCCERN
MEN's SoccER!V 
VS. RUTGERS 
l WOMEN'S TENNISN AT INDIANA ALUMNI FIELD 
l AT VANDERBILT 700 PM 1:00PM 
l INVITATIONAL ALL DAY 

WOMEN'S SOCCERN i MEN'S TENNISN 
AT VILLANOVA 
iTOM FALLDN INVITATIONAL 1:00PM _. 
-j ECK TENNIS PAVILION ALL DAY IN CREATING SPORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY, ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'LL-TRY NEXT ISSUE. 
Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. You're looking at the first issue of Sports1/2Page. Our goal is to plug 
you into upcoming sports and NIKE events around campus. Check here every two weeks or so for the latest and greatest 
student sports stories at Notre Dame. If you have an event to tell me about or know of an athlete or team you think 
deserves a mention on Sports1/2Page, email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com. 

WOMEN'S SOCCER!V VS. DUKE 100 PM 
28 
16 
MEN'S SOCCERN 
AT NORTHWESTERN 400 PM 

WOMEN'S VOLLEYBAuJV 
VS. MAROUETIE JACC 700 PM MEN'S SOCCER/V 
VS. EASTERN ILLINOIS ALUMNI FIELD 7:30PM 
29 30 
17 
24 
MEN'S TENNISN 
AT ITA NATIONAL CLAY CouRTS ALL DAY 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS1/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSIIY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 

Tuesday, September 16, 1997

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 

The Observer/Peter Cilella 

OLDNA·YY 
CLOTHING 


Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again. TM offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 

We offer limited opportunities to learn, promotion based on talent and ability, and great personal satisfaction 
WE ARE NOW HIRING FOR THE MISHAWAKA LOCATION 
Great student opportunities! 
Pkaseapp~inpenonat 
Old Navy Clothing Co. Princess City Plaza 4510 N. Grape Rd Mishawaka, IN 
Monday-Saturday /Oam-7pm 


-
NFL STANDINGS 
NFC EAST 
2 2 1 1 2 


-
0 3 0 3 


• S~ORTS BRIEFS ;bit:~: .•Nt \fl' Ballet ...,.-Classes will be held p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 RecSports will be sponsoring a 
on Sundays from 3to 4.p;JD.;t p;m~ on Sundays in 218 One Night Volleyball tourna­and Wednesdays fr~1ll 8to 9';w;Roekne Merp.orial. All are wei­ment on Thursday. Sept. 18, at 
p.m. Thefee is$35: Register ·······come..· ;;.,,v·w•;,. 6 p.m. at Stepan outdoor .. in advance at RecSports. ·· ..· . ynchroni~~d swimming -courts. Space is limited and} 
Notre Dame Martial Arts The first practice. will be held sign-up deadline ]s Institute_;;; TM kwon d9 andjL on Monday, Sept.l5, from 8 to Wednesday, Sept. 17. Call jujitsu practice.· for begin~ers " JO p.m. at the Rockne pool. RecSports for more informa­will take place from 4 to 6 ·''1' Y(}lleyball tournament -tion. 
•.•.. . ·: ..•,:::::=<.::-:=· ~·N :.·.-~:-••: ···<:PH:.=:::.: 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­
for Computer Science and Computer Engineering individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us at the: RECEPTION INDUSTRY DAY September 23rd, 6:30pm September 24th,1Oam-4pm University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Fitzpatrick Hall of EngineeringMonogram Room We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement. accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and much more. If ~nable to attend, please send resume to: • NOVUS Serv1ces, Inc., Human Resources, l NOVUS IT Recruiter, 2500 lake Cook Road, SERVICES Riverwoods, ll 60015, Taking charge in a changing world. Fax: (847) 405-1388 
www.novusnet.com 

The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
~ Campus Ministry This Week ~ 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesdays, 7:00pm, CM-Badin Office 
Confirmation Retreat 
Monday, September 22, St. Joe Hall 
.. ­


Freshman Retreat 
Applications for Freshman Retreat #12, September 26-27 are now available for freshmen in Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Morrissey, Pangborn, Stanford, and Welsh Family Halls. Applications will be sent to the students, or may be obtained from the Rector or from 103 Hesburgh Library Office of Campus Ministry. Applications are due in Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library by 
September 23. 
·­

Hispanic Ministers Installation 
Misa en Espanol-Spanish Mass Sunday, September 21, 1:30pm, Keough Hall 


Weekly Eucharistic Adoration 
Beginning Monday, September 22, and each Monday thereafter during the Academic Year, Campus Ministry will sponsor a 24 hour period of Eucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration will begin with Mass at 11 :00 p.m. on Monday nights and end with Mass at 11 :00 p.m. on Tuesday nights. For more information, please call 
631-7800 or 631-5242. 
' '

Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Minsitry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Welsh Hall Dedication 
Friday, September 19, 4:00pm 
, 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 16, I997 
• NFL 
Cowboys' accuser changes petjury plea to guilty 
-,.­
--· 
'·
• 
' 
BySTEFANIG.KOPENEC 
Associated Press Writer 
DALLAS 

A former topless dancer pleaded guilty Monday to per­jury. admitting she alone came up with the idea of falsely accus­ing two Dallas 
~----~ Cowboys play­ers of sexual assault. 
N i n a Shahravan, who began the day plead­ing innocent, changed her Shahravan mind during jury selection and by afternoon acknowledged lying to police. She also changed course regard­ing who would decide her pun­ishment, a jury or judge. She 
settled on County Criminal Court Judge Dan Wyde. 
The penalty phase of the trial begins Tuesday, and the state plans to call Cowboys receiver Michael Irvin and offensive tack­le Erik Williams, who were the subject of the 24-year-old Mesquite woman's accusations. 
Shahravan told police Dec. 30 that she had been raped by Williams and an unidentified man at Williams' home while Irvin held her at gunpoint and videotaped the attack. 
A day later, police held a news conference after a Dallas-Fort Worth television station first reported the allegations. Shahravan conceded on Jan. 10 that Irvin was not there and that she willingly had sex with Williams and another man, according to a police affidavit Police cleared the players late1 that day. 

Because Shahravan pleadec guilty before the court, the judge is now allowed to consider a wider range of punishment tha1 includes jail or probation. Among his choices is a form of probation known as deferred adjudication in which Shahravan legally would not be convicted of any crime if she successfully completes proba­tion, an official said. 
She faces up to a year in jail and a $4,000 fine for the Class A misdemeanor. Prosecutors have said they seek the maximum penalty. 
Neither Shahravan nor her lawyer, G. David Smith, would comment on the day's events, citing a gag order. 
In July, defense attorneys tried to have Wyde removed from the case for allegedly say­ing he would have to consider how Shahravan "inconve­nienced influential people in Dallas" if she were found guilty. Wyde has denied making the remark. 

On Monday, Shahravan stood ment acknowledging that she'd tion against Erik Williams and behind the defense table in a given police false statements Michael Irvin?" Shahravan double-breasted, black pinstripe regarding Irvin's whereabouts. responded: "Mine." dress, waived her right to a jury Asked by prosecutor Clark "Yours and yours alone," 
trial and pleaded guilty. Birdsall, "Whose idea was it to Birdsall asked. She al~o signed a court docu-come up with this rape allega-"Yes," she said_ 


International 
Study Programs 
Study at the _Ame~ican University tn Catro 
(Instruction is in English) 
ffiB trt ~~~ ~ 
Information Meeting for Spring 1998, Fall 1998 and Spring 1999 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
4:30 PM, 108 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students Are Welcome! 


Today, Tuesday, September 16 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 


--------~-------~-~-~---­
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 

Bench 
continued from page 20 
munication which resulted when junior Monica Cernanec was substituted into the defen­sivn front. 
The two main obstacles the tnam faced were the lack of a bnnch and the strength of a Division I team. 
"It is tough to play without a bench. especially when many of thn players are not 100 percent healthy. It is affecting the per-



dome 
Call the Information Desk at 631-8128 or Student Activities at 631-7308 
are now availible 
---------~~~-~~---­
The Observer· SPORTS 

formance of the team," said tive as they prepare for their senior Debbie="""'......---------upcoming game 
:::7i.~ na<e II~ ~~~t~~~~ ~~~~%. E~:~~?'~~~~~ 
team, and • ll h f Belles took a Valparaiso is a espeCia YW en many 0 day orr yester-Division I the players are not 100 day in order to team. For us. to p•.ercent healthy. It's rest and recover play man lor . from injuries. In man the entire affectmg the perfor-today's practice game against mance of the team. they will work Valpo wears us"'"' . . on improvingdown in the w; Debbze Dzemer endurance and end," said ' ,.,., ball control ­Sharp. the skills that were lacking this 
The Belles are staying posi-past weekend. 
Attention Seniors!!! 
You don't want to miss your ONLY opportunity to have your Senior portrait taken! Portrait sittings are Sept. 1 through Sept 26. Sign up at LaFortune Information Desk until 9:00PM on Sept. 17. 
Questions: 
page 17 

• SMC VOLLEYBALL 
,,,,,Coming off weekend losses, Belles recoup 
where it played four teams, two of which were nationally ranked, the S a i n t Mary's vol­1 e y b a 1 I team is looking to put the losses of the weekend behind them in order to prepare for tonight's game against the University of Chicago. 
Despite the fact that the Belles lost all four games of the tournament, coach Jennie Joyce felt that the team was able to hold its own defensively when play· ing against fourth-ranked Ohio Northern as well as 16th-ranked Wittenberg. 
"After this weekend, our defense is really beginning 
to come together and to be · proved to be their downfall. in the right place at the However, the team hopes to right time to make the bring a more aggressive defensive play,:· said Joyce. attitude into the game ver­Sh,~.~lso prais~<l, the excel-sus the University of le:q~ ' defensiye play of Chicago. As the team seniors Meg Kelly and Betsy attempts to strengthen its Connolly. Kelly, an outside [j attack, it will have to build hitter. contriQUtf)<l, 15 digs on the strong net play, · · · h ggressive attacking and · ving; and the solid block­g that it has demonstrated 
so far this season. 
c up tn the 
ly as a blocker. 
Freshman Cindy Traub also proved to be a valuable asset to the team throughout the tournament. According to Joyc(J, Traub rose to the occasion with her willing­ness to help the team out by playing a different position. 
Other players who made strong contributions at the tournament included fresh­man setter Megan Jardina, who had 16 assists in the game versus Ohio Northern, and sophomore middle Jane Ozbolt, who added nine kills versus Thomas Moore. 
Taking a 3-7 record into the game tonight, the Belles arc setting their sights on what they need to do to win this evening. 
"We need to focus on working together like a well-oiled machine, and we need to make sure we play to the end of the game," emphasized Joyce. 
Throughout the tourna­ment, the Belles' inability to hold and maintain a lead 

... 
-
... 
.­
"' 



page 18 
-... 
29 Fri. 
2 Tues. 
7 Sun. 
10 Wed. 
13 Sat. 
16 Tues 
20 Sat. 
23 Tues. 
26 Fri. 
28 Sun. 
-
3 Fri. 5 Sun. 11 Sat. 14 Tues. 17 Fri. 21 Tues. 24 Fri. 26 Sun. 
2 Sun. 8 Sat. 
14 & Fri. 16 Sun. 
AUGUST 
at Pittsburgh 

SEPTEMBER 
INDIANA PROVIDENCE at Valparaiso BUFFALO at Northwestern at West Virginia EASTERN ILLINOIS VILLANOVA RUTGERS 
OCTOBER 
at Southern Methodist at Texas Christian SYRACUSE WESTERN MICHIGAN GEORGETOWN at St. John's at Seton Hall at Connecticut 
NOVEMBER 
BOSTON COLLEGE BIG EAST Quarterfinals (Site to be determined) BIG EAST Semis/Finals 
(University of Connecticut) 
The Observer/Peter Citetla 
7:15p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
1:00 
p.m. 4:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 

1:00 
p.m. 


7:30p.m. 
1:00 
p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 3:00p.m. 

1:00 
p.m. 

1:00 
p.m. TBA 


TBA 


Thursday, September18 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree -6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadli.ne: Wednesday, September 17 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
---~-----....--.--------~~~ -~~­
The Observer • SPORTS 


SANKOFA, an AKAN word (Ghanean language) 
meaning "One must return to the past in order to 
move forward:' is the story about the transforma­
tion of Mona, a self-possessed African-American 
woman sent on a spiritual journey in time to expe­
rience the pain of slavery and the discovery of her 
African identity. 
Sankofa, a film by Haile Gerima from Ethiopia. will be screened on Wednesday. September 17. at 7:00p.m. in room ISS DeBartolo Hall. It will be followed by a panel discussion on "Lessons From The Past: How They Can Foster Our Identity." 
Chair: Prof. Cyraina Johnson-Roullier, English Department 
Members: 

• 
Iris Outlaw, Director ofMulticultural Student Affairs Office 

• 
Rodney Cohen, Director Urban Plunge & Outreach Development, Center for Social Concerns 


• 
Chandra Johnson, Assistant Director Special Projects, Campus Ministry 

• 
KolawoleOianiyan, Lawyer, LLM Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights, Law School 

• 
Raphael Kasambara, Lawyer, LLM Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights, Law School 


• Kimberly Farrow, Junior, Arts & Letters, Vice-President, African Association 
Other films are scheduled j(n· Sept. 24, Oct. I. 8, IS. and 29 at the same venue, same time 
.:·:=~~--=«.'$.=~-<: . 
~J®~~ @~~ ~(1(/'(j@~~ ~~~@]-\5~.. ~~~~~iil~~®W [p(>@Q [B~ ®041 0 LRl®~ D ·...•.•...cst\)· GLRl qJ0!iJ!i3~ lPfJu®OU@& 1~ 0.Cf)~·. ~7}~o7J~~~"o [k)~~@~g [fl)~~£ 
, ·.Mw.-... -. :::-:.;:=-;.x<:-,lfW:.&nr::~--... ·::: .-~>»-.ff..:~].:;:.w~­
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 

Northwestern is 1-5-0 this season, with its only win coming against Eastern Illinois. The Wildcats are led by seniors David Mooradian. who has three goals on the season. and Andy McDermott, who leads the team in assists. The Wildcats have been playing the competition close. All of their loses havn been by one goal. with two com­ing in ovnrtime. 
M. Soccer 
continued from page 20 
now, things are going well, but I need to keep working hard and continue to improve my play as the snason progrnssns." 
McKnight hopes to help Notre Damn rebound from a tough overtime loss against Buffalo when the Irish face the Northwestern Wildcats today at 4 p.m. at Lakefill Field. 

"Against Northwestern, we have to come out: organized defnnsively." Bertieelli said. "We gave up some goals to Buffalo that we shouldn't have allowed. We an~ very young in the back. and we need to play through and learn from early season mistakes." 
Investment Club~s Organizational Meeting 
7:00 P.M. TONIGHT SEPTEMBER 16, 1997 JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
~~~~ ~ ~$200,000/" 
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 The·Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
S~ You'RE--401NG ro H4vE -To-, -"'\ova OI.IT of" /liE AISLE. 
I'{) LIK/3 fo Sl!<, B-v-:1-_..-y----4 SEAT SEEMS -ro 1/AV/f BE/3N 7A/(EN. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DAN SULLIVAN 
-rHAi's 1T! r-vEtfAD--,.r!~.f.....,·-J .1S" TffE N~ V5#£K,rM ft.{.E~C.I!:al"'4 
I'IY ~up~FME SUPFR PI'!WE!?.! Y:t: 
HEI!RI> _,..,E! YoU'RE ov1TA /I£J(EI 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

r-----------------------~ur------------------------­
~ 


'THE COMPAN'( HA5 
DECIDED TO OUTSOURtE 
ALL OF THE FUNCTIONS THAT WE'RE. NOT ANY GOOD A.T. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 One leads to Loch Lomond
1 One of 7-Down 31 Mounted again
&Nicholas II, e.g. 10 Tattle 
35 Collection of anecdotes

14Kind of anesthetic 36 One of 7-Down 15 Roll call 38Small drum response 
39 Signal for an act 1& "I before E to end except after C." 
41 Holy chalice of 

e.g. 
legend17 Make amends 
43 Telephone18 The witch's end sound 

in "Hansel and 44 It increases byGretel" degrees19 Where India is 46 Make sense 
20 Restorative 48 The Red Baron
21 Attorney was one
General Janet 22 Ollie's partner 
49 Curriculum in slapstick 
vitae 

23 Popular oil 51 Striped additive 53 Midsection, 25 Tough as--informally 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
!!If=+:=+:=+:;.+=~ 
~:.,:.+:~:;.~ 

0 z
I~t~~~g > 
Ill 
II\ 
i' 

~r-~~~~~~0 
55 It hangs next to 
53-Across 56 "Hey, you!" 59 Growth on the 
north side of 

trees &1 Monastery staff 65 Reverberation 66 Satanic 67 1973 Broadway 
revival starring 
Debbie Reynolds 1=--+--+­68 Pour • 69 Singer Turner 70 Gypsy's deck 71 One of 7-Down 72 Midterm, e.g. 73 One of 7-Down 
DOWN 

1 Subdivision of 
land 2---Rooter 3 It's clicked on a 
computer 4 Breakfast pastry for Hamlet? 5Sophocles tragedy 27 Cartoon Viking &God with a 28Hole--­hammer 
29 The Sharks and 7 This puzzle's 
the Jets, e.g. theme 
30 Taj Mahal site 
8 "In the--" 
32 German sub(Nixon book) 33 Present 9 Impressionist 34 One of 7-DownPierre 

WHE.N'S  014-01-\ ...THE.'f'RE.  
'<OUR  NOT GOOD AT  
LAST  KNOWING WHA'T  
DA.Y\  "THEY'RE NOT  
GOOD  AT ...  

~~~~L-~~~~~~~~ 
so Clown Kelly 
52 Not concerned with right and wrong 
54 Hollywood release s&Dumas senior 
57 Glance over sa Thug's knife 60 Blinds piece &2 Peter or the 
Wolfe? 63 Half hitch, e.g. 64 Brother of Cain 
and Abel 
37 "--. Pagliaccio"10 High military (aria)

muck-a-muck 40 One of 7-Down
11 One of 7 -Down Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 12lnter-­42 Moon goddess are available by touch-tone phone: 13 Noggin 45 Grounded bird 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). _ 
-:+:-:+::+."-! 24 Ping--­47·Drivers and Annual subscriptions are available for the :;,+~=-+:~ 26 Serve to be hunters need best of Sunday crosswords from the last re-served them 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wynonna Judd, Benny Good­man, Mel Blanc, Gale Sayers 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Oct. 26, 1972. I have a degree in ac­counting, but I am now seriously thinking of changil1g my career to mass communication (broadcasting), tourism or dl'signing. Do you think thc·se fields are suitable for me" When is the best time to ch~1ngc my career? Secondly, I am very much attracted to my colleague, born on Sept 27, 196Q. He is my dream guy. I approached him, but he told me that he was not interested -at first. Later he began to treat me differently, like I am spe<ial. and I was happy. However, lately, he changed and appeared very distant. Do you see our future together' 
Searching Scorpio 
DEAR SEARCHING SCORPTO: Your dream guy is just a smooth· talking man whom you would do well to stay away from. I do not see this as a match at all. He falls in an area of your chart that deals with dead-end projects, and that's exactly what he is for you. 
Regarding career change, why not? You're in a high cycle this year and next where educational pursuits or apprenticeships are concerned. You have the fire signs (Aries, Leo and Sagittarius) in the area of your chart that represents work, and they usually lean more towards the arts, communication, travel, media and so on. If you put in the time and effort, you should be able to get ahead in one of these professions by the turn of the century. 
ARIES !March 21-April 201: Chan' nel your energy into dome~tic chores 
EUGENIA LAST 
thilt will pkc1se t;nnily ml'mbers. Rt....__ e\'lllu.tte your proft.--ssional po~ition. 
TAURUS !April 21-May 211: You will h<wt' difficulty finishing projc>cls that you st.ut today. Extravagance and tinll' '"'ill work against your ef­forts. 
GEMINI !May 22-June 21): Cct togt'ther with oldcr relatives and friends. llclp them to makl' dl'risions conet.•rning their hnanciill situation. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You mav it..'t•l !-ollllleWhclt iHn:iou~ wht'n deaiing will-. emotinn.t1 p.1rtncrs. Listen to their conrcn'ls \·vithout getting ~'ngry 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Combine work with plm,urt' today it possiblt•. Cct togt'lher with colll'agues socially. T.1ke C<lrl' ot cht· needs oi pets. 
VIRGO !Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Y11u will b~ in tht• mood for Jun. Travel and n.nndnce will go hund in hand. Sp(1rts l'Vent~ will bt_.. exciting. 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You may find that snmc of the people you rt•side with will be difficult to h,mdlt•. Don't hl'lievt· t'\·erything you hear. 
SCORPIO !Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Lt>w relatinn,hips will devdop thrnugh friends or rt>lali\·es. Your abilities in the wnrk forct' wiU enablt• vou to shine. 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov.'23-Dec. 211: Opportunitic'S to get ahead fit~<mcially will come• thwugh your ability to do your job well. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-jan. 20): Your t•motion' will fluctu,Jtt' rapidly when de(1ling with your lovl'r. Put )'tmr L'nl'rgy inh) physk.ll rKtivities. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 181: Jn­volvemt'nl with lt1rge corporations, govf'rnmt•nt ogt.'ndes or hospitak; will he HL'C('~"clfV. 
PISCES. (feb. 19-!\1arch 20): Join cluhs or organizatitm.... that will enable vuu to met..t e~t.1blishL'd indi\·iduals. \'ou will offer sound suggestions to thust• wh~l nt.'t.'ti ,'\lh·ice. 
Bam Today: You'll be chnrming ,1nd t'<l>Y lo get along with this ymr. The ones you love ar~ hkely to take advantage of vnur good nature and take• vou for granted if you let them. Organiz,ltion and the ilbilitv to say no when necessary will be the key to your success. · · 

-
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The 
·­Observer staff. 
For More Info. Contact: RecS ports -1-61 00 www.nd.edu/-recsport
\\\\e Nigll 
... 
at 

7 at 6:00 
SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

McKnight prQves to be a help to the Irish early in freshman year 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 

For most freshmen, the transi­tion to college life involves mov­ing into a dorm, worrying about dining hall food, and getting to class on time. For Notre Dame's Reggie McKnight, another con­cern exists. He has to put on an Irish uniform and perform for -the men's soccer team under many watchful eyes. Coming from Greenville, S.C., McKnight brought with him 
many high school accolades. lie was the South Carolina Gatorade Player of the Year for the '96-'97 season. He was also a four time all-state, all-confer­ence, and all-city honoree. Needless to say, the expecta­tions were high. 
McKnight had his first taste of Division I soccer in Notre Dame's season opener against Pittsburgh, where he was the only freshman to see playing time. McKnight's first offensive contribution came against Providence, where he scored a 


The Observer/Brandon Candura The Irish hope to improve their record today against Northwestern. To date, Notre Dame is undefeated in Big East play with a record of 1-0-1. 
• SMC VOLLEYBALL 
goal and had two assists to lead the Irish over the Friars. 
"The college game is much faster, a lot more physical than high school soccer,", McKnight commented. "I try to he confi­dent in what I have been taught in the past and listen to what Coach Berticelli and Coach Parsons have to say. I just try to go out there and do what I can to help the team." 
For his outstanding play, McKnight was named co-Big East rookie of the week. lie con­tinued his offensive output against Valparaiso by scoring a goal and adding an assist. 
"lie is one of tlw most intnns1~ freshman· I've coached here at Notre Damn. lie has a tremen­dous work ethic." Notre Dame coach Mike B1~rticelli said. "As a freshman, lw has stepped up and set a standard for work ethic necessary to win. He plays like a soasorwd upperelassman in terms of taking rcspQnsibility on the field." 
Most rncently, McKnight knpt his scoring streak alive with a goal against Buffalo. lie has helped tho Irish obtain a record of 2-2-1 ov1~rall and an unde­feated record in the Big East ( 1­0-1). 
"I just set goals for myself to come in and work" as hard as I possibly could and hope for the best," McKnight said. "Right 
see M. SOCCER I page 18 

Belles look to seniors for guidance 
Betsy Connolly and Meg Kelly lead SMC squad 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Ediror 
When the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team takes the court tonight against a strong University of Chicago team, it 
will be look­ing for lead­ership. The Belles need not look fur­ther than their two stellar senior co-captains 

for direction. Kelly 
Seniors Betsy Connolly from Santa Rosa, Calif., and Meg Kelly, from Union City, Calif., have been leading the young team since the very first match .of the season. Their presence has certainly been felt. 
Outside hitter Kelly leads the team with 85 kills and 146 digs. Additionally, she has been serving at an impressive 96 percent. 
Middle hitter Connolly fol­lows right behind Kelly with

• 
• 
82 kills and leads the team with 52 stuffed blocks. 
"I want to be a positive, strong leader and bring the team together as a cohesive unit," said Connolly. 
With a lineup consisting of six freshmen and four sopho­mores, this is no small task. 
A self described team player, the 6-foot-3 Connolly finds it 
"important that every player is con­tributing to the team's success." 
"We are still getting to know each other," com­mented Connolly. "That's some­thing Saint Mary's goes 
'Meglikes to lead 
by example by getting the job done. She doesn't just talk about it.' 
through every year." 
These thoughts are echoed by Kelly. "To reach our team's potential, we need to find the right chemistry," she said. 
Saint Mary's head coach Jenny Joyce has only positive words for her leaders. 
"I've seen Meg evolve as a more complete player," said Joyce. "It's her senior year, and she's picked up her level of intensity a notch. She works hard in practice and helps set the tone." 
"Meg likes to lead by exam­ple by getting the job done," said Connolly. "She doesn't just talk about it." 
Joyce stressed the leadership qualities that Connolly has brought to tho learn. "Betsy's a very positive leader. She is a 
good influence to our under­classmen and really keeps everyone together. She really drives the team." 
Both seniors, who are also frionds and 

Betsy Connolly roommates off 
the court, 
admitted to a 
difference in their leadership style from last year to this season. 
"Being the two oldest puts a different porspoctive on it," commented Kelly. 
"There's a lot more responsi­bility beeauso w1~'re seniors," said Connolly. "We're very dif­ferent peoplo, but that's very beneficial for the loam. We're a pretty good combination. We balance each other out." 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Freshman Reggie McKnight was named Big East rookie of the week. "He has tremendous work ethic," according to coach Mike Berticelli. 
• SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's falls in home opener 
By LYNETTE MALECKI and STEPHANIE VILLINSKI Sports Writers 
A dark cloud continues to shadow the success of the Saint Mary's soccer team. The Belles went into their first home game Sunday against Valparaiso after Saturday's 7­0 loss to the University of Chicago. 
"We went to Chicago with only 11 players and some­times were forced to use only 10"players. It was discourag­Ing to put people into posi­tions they were not suited for," said coach Hobert Sharp. 
The Belles' defense held off the Chicago attack until the first goal 15:04 into the first half. At halftime, the Belles only trailed by two goals. However, Chicago dominated the second half with five goals, while the Belles failed to score. · 
Despite the seven goals scorod by Chicago, goalie Jo Wagner collected 18 saves. 
''The score of this game does not reflect the hard work 
of Wagner. All of Chicago's shots were tough, but Wagner made some good saves," said Sharp. · 
Home field advantage was not a big eQough edge to help the Belles defeat Division I Valparaiso. The game began with an early Valpo score two minutes into the first half. The Belles retaliated with a fast break by senior Eileen Newell, when she found the net for her third goal of the season. 
After Newoll's goal, the majority of the game was played in front of the Belles' goal because they could not get their offense going. 
"We need to improve our passing game. The team is able to make two passes, but by the third pass. we have lost possession," said Sharp. 
Towards the end of the first half and continuing into the the second half, the Belles' defense put a stop to the Valpo offense. 
Sharp attributed this improvement to better com-
see BENCH I page 17 

@9 
vs. New Mexico, 
vs. Michigan State, 
~ 
September 20, I :30 p.m. 

September 19, 7:30 p.m. •Grubb, Lee get Big East honors 
vs. North Carolina, 

Volleyball vs. University of ~ see page I 2 
~·· 

.....
·W September 19, 7:30p.m. 

~ Chicago, Today, 7 p.m. ri:J •Cowboys' accuser pleads guilty at Northwestern, 
see page 16

Soccer at Franklin College, 
~ Today, 4 p.m. 

Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
~ 

~ 
Q) 











