
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 27 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Michigan security tosses ND students from game 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame students were forced to break Irish tradition at the University of Michigan last Saturday when security officers made them sit in their seats dur­ing the football game. 
Some students felt that securi­ty officers acted unprofessional­ly and overreacted to the situa­tion. According to senior Lee Hambrigqt. officers were not organized in their endeavor. 
"Cops came down and tried to get people to sit down. They did a horrible job; they tried to get people in the back to sit down first, and a couple of people did get tossed," Hambright said. 
"A couple of [the officers) were just ridiculous. They were say­ing things like 'You're retarded' to Notre Dame fans. It seemed uncalled-for because all of the Michigan student section was standing," he continued. 
At the end of the third quar­ter, senior Ed Adams was escorted out of the stadium, and his ticket stub was taken by 
'NO family' rallies to aid Sargent's recovery 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
On Thursday night, the senior class held a pep rally in tlw Alumni-Senior Club. 
While thn purposo of thn rally 
was to raise 
.-----------, the school spirit of seniors in preparation f o r Saturday's football 
g a m P against thn Sargent University of Michigan, it also raised almost $1,000 for Adam Sargent, a varsity lacrosse player who was partially paralyzed in an · automobile accident this sum­mer. 
"We were aware of the acci­dent when it happened," said senior class treasurer Brian McCarthy. "We felt that we should do something as a class to help. So we talked to Carrie Gulick. Adam's girlfriend, and she pretty much coordinated it with us." 
On the morning of May 29, Sargent. attending the first ses­sion of summer school, was driving to an education class at Saint Mary's College when a vehicle broadsided his car at the intersection of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard. 
The impact sent Sargent's car flying into a light pole at the intersection. Paramedics rushed him to St. Joseph Medical Center, where he stayed for a few weeks before moving to the Rehabilitation 
Institute  of  Chifago  at  
Northwestern University.  
Sargent  now  lives  in  an  

apartment in his hometown Rochester, N.Y., partially para­lyzed, and participates in out­patient care at Strong Memorial Hospital. 
"I just went to see him last week," said Gulick, also a Notre Dame senior. "He is slowly getting better. He is starting to get some sensation back and has the ability for slight movement of his fin­gers." 
Sargent, who plans on com­ing back to school next semes­ter, is the subject of a vast fundraising drive sponsored in part by the men_'s varsity lacrosse team. -·­
"We set out a goal of $500,000 over the course of three years," said lacrosse coach Kevin Corrigan. "That adds up to about $160,000 a year. It is a little ambitious, but we feel that it is the only way that this could make a differ­ence for Adam." 
The fundraising effort will go to pay for Sargent's medical 
see SARGENT I page 4 
Michigan security. He said he did not understand the basis for the ejection. 
"We were getting pelted with spitballs and cans by adult Michigan fans. Then at the end of the third quarter, ushers and uniformed police came down and started screaming, 'Sit down' to sit on the seats, so we moved and stood on the con­crete," he said. 
"Then we [he and two others) sat down, and security guards pointed at us, grabbed us and physically threw us out of the stadium. They wouldn't say why. I had my ticket in my pock­et, and they ripped it out. They manhandled us," Adams said. 
Security officers at the University of Michigan were unavailable for comment. 
Sgt. Khurum Sheikh of the Ann Arbor Police Department said that fans are escorted out of the stadium nearly every game. 
"I don't have any paperwork, but almost for sure there were people asked to leave the stadi­um," he said. 
As for actual arrests, Sheikh said that most citations last weekend involved intoxication and that no fan altercations were reported. 
"We did not take any unusual assault calls that night. If they occurred, they were not serious enough to require intervention," Sheikh said. "All the people we dealt with were intoxicated." 
He did confirm that "a Notre Dame fan punched an officer and was arrested," but noted that the incident took place out­side the stadium the evening before the game. 
AND MILEs TO Ga. • 
• 

esterday, Robb Young Hirsh added Notre Dame to list of cities he has visited on his bicycle tour of the 
U.S. since Labor Day. He is riding to raise awareness etrimental effects of fossil fuels on environmental cli­ma e c ange. 
Hirsh met with members of the Students for Environmental Action (SEA) to discuss his mission and request signatures for a petition that he will deliver to Washington, D.C., his ulti­mate destination, on Dec 1. 
"I am trying to generate interest about U.S. leadership to help prevent global climate change. There is a meeting in Japan on Dec. 1, of the Global Climate Change Conference of Parties. Nations will try to come to an agreement about how to reduce fossil fuel use. The U.S. has a tremendous role to play," Hirsh said. 
"Getting citizens involved in the issue" is an important way to convince diplomats attending the meeting that Americans are concerned about the future of their environment. Hirsh said. 
"This petition is going to the president and the Senate, and if many citizens sign it, it could have a deep impact on the 
Photos by Kevin Dalum!Text by Michelle Krupa see BIKER I page 4 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
CLC disapproves of O'Hara's response to resolution 

By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
The Campus Life Council expressed disappointment last night in vice president of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's response to the group's resolution on the "Spirit of Inclusion." 
''I'm not happy with the response," said student body president Matt Griffin. 
The response came after the coun­cil submitted its resolution to inter­pret the statement as "binding University policy ... that will be car­ried out and enforced in the admin­istration of ... University-adminis­tered programs, policies and proce­dures." 
O'Hara responded to the group in a letter dated Sept. 26, reiterating the purpose of the CLC. 
"The Campus Life Council was created by the Board of Trustees to provide a forum where students, faculty and administrators can dis­cuss matters affecting student affairs," she wrote. "I think that the Campus Life Council exceeds its purview when it attempts to inter­pret a University-wide statement adopted by the officers in the matter set forth in this portion of the reso­lution." 
Morrissey Hall senator Matt Szabo expressed his concern at the University's perception of the pur­pose of the CLC. 
"Saying that the CLC is out of place talking about issues that deal with the entire University instead of those dealing with student affairs is out of place. To use the cliche, 'What's a university without the stu­dents?"' he said. 

Echoing Szabo's concerns, Griffin said, "What good is the CLC if we can't talk about the things like this that impact the campus as a whole. Are we here to pass resolutions to fix cracks in sidewalks?" 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, interjected with a possible rationale for O'Hara's response. 
"For us to say it's policy doesn't necessarily make it policy, and I think that's [her response] a fair thing for her to say," Preacher said. 
Some members were concerned 
see CLC I page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Defining job 

success 
Success. 

Melanie Garman 
What does it mean,

how do we achieve Saint Mary's Assistant Editor it, and how can it be measured? As the members of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame classes of 1998 approach their final semester and a half. these questions become more and more important as each day passes by. For everyone the meaning of success dif­fers depending on one's own morals, values and beliefs. As the job search continues and we find ourselves in the midst of interviewing with some of the most elite companies in the world, our stress levels skyrocket. Why not? Granted, we all have different pursuits, but the bottom line is we have to get the best job. The best job being the most prestigious, highest paying salary, in a fast-paced city? Or perhaps, continuing our education to someday achieve all of this, times two. Wherever we see ourselves in the future, is it not being the best at what we do? Of course it is, and we should all strive to make the most of our top-rate educations. So, we did it! We knocked them dead in the interview with our smooth personalities and with either our cumulative GPA or our GPA in our major {whichever works best for you), and a few weeks later we receive the letter of acceptance! And not only did we get the great job we've worked so hard to get, but they even offer us a higher salary than expected with an even higher signing bonus! Who do we call first? That depends, but everyone must know because we did it! We've been "successful" in our job search and we now have an answer to the question, "So, what are your plans for after gradua­tion?" Are we pleased and accept the offer? Or just satisfied and wait to see if possibly the next interview will bring us even more "suc­cess?" It's always good to have options, so we go on in pursuit of more. Until finally, we've gone through enough interviews that we could give one ourselves, and it's now time to make our decision. We make the pro/con list, we weigh the positives and negatives of each job choice, and finally we come to a decision. A decision that could be one of the biggest we've ever had to and ever will have to make. Now, this leads me to two questions. First, are we happy with our decision? And sec­ond, what does happiness mean to us? Obviously, just as the meaning of success differs for everyone, so does the meaning of success. My point in this column is not to scrutinize against everyone in the job-hunting process who wants to find the best offer, because I am right along side you. However, what I do want to point out is that I feel with all of the hustle and bustle of finding that incredible job, we sometimes lose sight of what makes us truly happy. In the end, we all want to be happy. In reaching for your ultimate goal, don't settle for anything less than what you consider true happiness to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAff  
News  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Pete Cilella  
Allison Koenig  Production  
Sports  Allison Koenig  
Kevin Williams  Betsy Baker  
Viewpoint  Susie Sohn  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  Mike Boland  
Ashleigh Thompson  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLO AT A GLANCE 
Undersea pipeline leak coagulates off Santa Barbara coast 
LOS ANGELES 
A crude oil slick covering several square miles, apparently leaked from an undersea pipeline, was reported early today in the ocean off Santa Barbara County, the Coast Guard said. 
The slick was estimated to be two miles by four miles in size and 300 barrels, or 12,600 gallons, but there was a total of 2,900 barrels, or 121,800 gallons of crude in the pipeline at the time, Petty Office Jamie Devitt said. 
It was not known if the remainder 

had spilled out or remained in the pipe. "We're making overflights now," said Devitt. 
Oil spill cleanup companies were called and three ves­sels were on the scene deploying a boom around the areas of heaviest oil. The slick did not appear to be drift-
Clintons award arts, humanities medals 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton on Monday honored artists, scholars and philanthropists by awarding arts and humanities medals that he said showed the United States was "a nation of creators and innova­tors." Clinton told guests gathered under a large tent on the White House's South Lawn that celebrating the nearly two dozen recipients of the 


medals also celebrates the nation's achievements. The president said the country will always support artists and scholars. "It is our heritage. It must be a great gift we give to the future," he said. "By giving these awards we declare, to ourselves and to the world, we are, we always have been, and we always will be a nation of creators and innovators." First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton helped present the awards, and used the occasion to defend arts programs, saying such efforts will always be championed. This year's honorees "have strengthened the American spirit beyond measure," she said. The National Medal of Arts, established by Congress in 1984, honors those who have made outstanding contributions to the arts. 
C02 reduction may hurt U.S. industries 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. reductions of carbon dioxide to stabilize so-called greenhouse gases would put U.S. industry at a competitive disadvantage against Europe and Japan, an economic study concluded Monday. The findings by the Economic Strategy Institute {ESI), a research organization financed largely by corporations, are expected to be used by indus­try groups in their arguments against committing the United States to binding carbon reductions as part of a global warming treaty. President Clinton has said the United States will seek some binding commitments among industrial nations at a December climate conference in Japan, but the administration has yet to provide details. But the issue has prompted a flurry of activity by business groups, fearing the United States will commit to reducing carbon emissions to 1990 levels in 2010. Environmentalists have argued reductions should be even deeper and have urged the president to agree to carbon cuts below 1990 levels by 2005. The study by the ESI con­cluded that such a reduction would require sharp increas­es in energy prices to spur efficiency and a shift away from fossil fuels, especially coal and oil. It cited studies indicat­ing a gasoline price increase of up to 50 cents a gallon, higher home-heating costs, and additional energy costs. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
L  
Tuesd~y  ~  67 47  
Wednesday(f  68 48  
Thursday  ~  72 54  
Friday  ~  75 58  
Saturday  ,i~  75  53  
_jj··'\f"'''·...... ,,f  

i)
rQ,Q,~p~Q ~ u 
ing. The Coast Guard Pacific Strike Force, a team prepared for quick response to spills, was to arrive later today. 
The site is near Point Arguello, on the coast 130 miles northwest of Los Angeles. Vandenberg Air Force Base sprawls along the stretch of coast. The spill's potential effect on wildlife in the area was not immediately clear. 
The discharge was reported to the Coast Guard shortly after 2 a.m. by Torch Operating Co. The discharge occurred between Torch Platform Irene, three miles offshore, and the 
AP shoreline terminal. Torch officials did 
not immediately return a telephone call seeking details. The state's largest offshore oil spill occurred in 1969 in the Santa Barbara Channel, to the south of the site of today's spill. 
Mineral may raise HIV survival rate 
MIAMI 
Researchers say they have increasing evidence that a deficiency of the mineral selenium -found in foods including whole grains, seafood and liver-can dramat­ically lower the survival rate of people infected with IIIV. Scientists say the mineral plays a key role in maintaining a healthy immune system, and has been shown to fight cancer. A study at the Center for Disease Prevention at the University of Miami's School of Medicine showed that IIIV-infected patients with a deficiency of selenium were almost 20 times more likely to die of causes related to HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. The study of 125 lilY­infected men and women, published Tuesday in the Journal of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, demonstrated that selenium plays a critical role in the progression of AIDS. While other nutrients such as vita­mins A, B 12 and zinc affect survival, deficiencies in those nutrients produce a much lower risk of mortality, the study found. The Miami study lasted for 3 1/2 years and measured nutritional factors in the 125 people every six months. Twenty-one of the people died from HIV-related causes. "It is known that nutritional deficiencies develop in the course of HlV infection," said Marianna Baum, assistant dean of the medical school. 
New bill features enlarged Grant 
WASHINGTON 
The redesigned $50 bill will circulate starting Oct. 27, 
on schedule despite a tiny printing flaw that marred 30 
million of the bills, the Treasury Department said 
Monday. The introduction follows the March 1996 debut 
of the redesigned $100 note. A new $20 bill is expected 
next year and smaller denominations after that. The 
new $50 bill features an off-center, enlarged portrait of 
U.S. Grant, the nation's 18th president, on the front and an updated engraving of the U.S. Capitol on the back. It also has a large high-contrast numeral on the back, designed to make the bill easier to identify for older people and others with poor vision. The $50, like the $100, is packed with features designed to thwart coun­terfeiters. These include a watermark to the right of the portrait, an embedded polymer security thread that glows yellow in ultraviolet light, and color-shifting ink in the numeral in the lower right hand corner of the bill's front. But even the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing found one anti-counterfeiting feature difficult to reproduce -fine concentric lines behind Grant's portrait. After printing 150 million bills between late May and late August, it discovered about 20 percent had a small break in the lines around the portrait. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 30. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vts Associated Press 
Austin  93  67  Helena  80  42  Nashville  81  54  
Baltimore 74  59  Honolulu  90  76  New Orleans 85  62  
Chicago  66  56  Indianapolis  70  53  Pittsburgh  64  52  

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 69 55 Lexington 71 52 Seattle 67 56 
Vi9 Associated Press Graph/CsNet 
Fargo 72 42 Memphis 84 58 Tucson 96 68 
Lecture: Chemist faces Holocaust 
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
• HOLOCAUST PROJECT 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· ·--------------------------------~ 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND Security to hold bike auction 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security/Police may have stolen your bicy­cle. 
After summer school ended in late July, Security cleared the bike racks of all aban­doned bicycles, storing them in the Security building. 
"At that time, there's always a lot of bikes around campus that look like the owners no longer want them," said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. "There is a 

On Wednesday, Notre Dame Security/Police will auction off bikes that were left
point at which we 
on campus through July of this year. 

decide that they need to move." be auctioned off tomorrow, the auction." 
He encouraged anyone with according to Hurley. Students must provide a a missing bike to look through "We don't want to auction description of the bike in the ones the officers cleared off a bike that belongs to order to get it back, Hurley from the campus racks, rather someone who wants it back," said, adding that a serial num­
than assuming someone stole Hurley stressed, "so I hope ber is also helpful. but not it. The rest of the bicycles will people search our stash before required. 

Alumni name Cavanaugh recipient 

By ERICA THESING News Writer 
Holocaust survivor and writer Primo Levi addressed many ethical questions in his work, according to Nancy llarrowitz. a Boston University literature profes­sor. 
Harrowitz, who gave the second public lecture of the Notre Dame Holocaust Project last night, empha­sized Levi's struggle with morality throughout his life· time. 
"As a Holocaust survivor, Levi takes some strong objec­tions to the moral law with­in," she said. 
Levi did. however. believe in science. He worked as a chemist long before he began writing. He then used science as a medium, especially in his autobiography "The Periodic Table." 
"In 'The Periodic Table,' the elements function as a catalyst for events in the author's life,~ Harrowitz said. "Levi thus makes it clear from the beginning that science is a metaphor." 
Early in his chemistry career, Levi focused on sci­ence to make sense of the world. According to the Harrowitz, "He believed that science could unlock truths and handle the double responsibility of those truths." 
Harrowitz touched on the effect of the Holocaust in Levi's writings. Deported to Auschwitz in 1944, Levi's job as a scientist involved research of synthetic rubber. 
"He attributes his survival at the concentration camp at least partly to the fact that he was a chemist and not sub. jected to back-breaking man­ual labor," Harrowitz said. 
She also believes that Levi recognizes the impact of the holocaust in his autobiogra· phy. 
"Levi acknowledged that he is now a different man. He admits that he has trouble recognizing the man who survived Auschwitz," Harrowitz said. 
Harrowitz used Levi's first post-war writing assignment, a report on death and dis­ease at Auschwitz hinting at ethics, as an example of his moral questionings. 
"It's quite interesting that it doesn't resort to just scien~. tific reporting," Harrowitz said. "It's quite metaphori­caL" 
Harrowitz's visit to Notre Dame will conclude with her participation in the gender issues series at 12:30 p.m. today. The next Holocaust lecture will be given on Monday by Arthur Caplan of the University of Pennsylvania. 
Baker's life has been a testimo­Cal Polytech head llY to the ideals of the University, Lennon said. 
Baker receives Baker, a 1962 graduate, earned both his bachelor's andaward for service master's degrees in civil engi­neering at Notre Dame. Later 
By ANTHONY PERRI 

he received his doctorate, also 
News Writer 

in civil engineering, from the University of New Mexico. 
Warren Baker, president of Baker taught at the the California Polytechnic State 
University of Detroit from 
University in San Luis Obispo, 
1966-1979, during which he 
has been named the 1997 
was a chaired professor,
recipient of the University of 
served as dean of the college of 
Notre Dame's Father John 
engineering, and was vice­
Cavanaugh Award. 

president for academic affairs. 
The choice of Baker sprung 
While at Detroit, Baker was 
from "his progressive 
awarded a National Science 

At Work Program This REVOLUTIONARY progam is coming to ND. 
Free information/registration. Date: Thursday, October 2 Time: 12:1 0-12:50pm location: LaFortune, Foster room Contact: jessica Brookshire 631-5829 


This series starts September 25, for 10 weeks and includes all materials, cost S120. VISA/MC/Discover accepted. 
plans led to a Cal Poly renais­sance, resulting in new instruc­tional facilities and modernized laboratories for the school. 
Apart from his direct hand in improving the university, Baker has also been involved in several other charitable ser­vice organizations. 
He is a trustee of Amigos of EARTH College, a corporation established to build financial support and public awareness of the Agricultural College of the Humid Tropical Hegion. This college is an international university dedicated to devel­oping environmentally safe and economically viable agricultur­al practices for tropical areas. 
In 1995, Baker was appoint­ed co-chairman of California's Joint Policy Council on Agricultural and High Education. As co-chairman he helped further the state's goal of increased instruction, research, and public service projects concerning agricultur­al, natural resource develop­ment, and the environment. 
llis service to his country did not end in California, however. Early in 1983, President Heagan called Baker to serve on the USAID Board for International Food and Agriculture development. In 1985, he was appointed to the National Science Board. 
lie has also served on vari­ous other boards, scientific councils, and community com­mittees. 
7~e 'it'D/S?He 11f,u~ 'Da.~eee etud. 
will hold its first meeting this Thursday, October 2 If you are interested, please contact Kelly ( 634-0595) or Erin (284-4292). No Experience Necessary! 


The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
A SCHUBERT CELEBRATION 
with Guest Artists 
S~\:\"FORD S\"L\:\:\" & Di\l"ID BBEITJI1~~ 
baritone pianist 
Schubert's Piano Music 
Sun., Sept. 28, 2:00 p.m. 
AnnenbergAuditoriurn 

Die schone Miillerin 
Tues., Sept. 30, 8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library AuditQJium 
For one ..unccn -:J,o General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors For both concerts -$10 General Admission; $5 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office. 
approach, within the state edu­cational system, to emphasize service," according to Charles Lennon. executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Baker has emphasized the importance of the arts, human­ities, and the social sciences in a polytechnic university, while preparing students for leader­ship positions in society. 
According to Lennon, this "rejuvenation of community service" embodies the soul of the Cavanaugh Award. 
The award is presented annually by the alumni associ­ation to a Notre Dame gradu­ate who has performed remarkable public service. 
Fellowship and served for two years in the early 1970s as a visiting faculty fellow at MIT. 
It was when Baker arrived at the California Polytechnic Institute, however. that his career began to flourish. During his tenure at Cal Poly, Baker continually emphasized "diversity and educational equity," according to the Alumni Association. 
He established the Equal Opportunity Advisory Council, increased faculty involvement in university governance, and established the University Advancement Office which generated nearly $125 million over the past 12 years. These and other capital improvement page 4 
CLC 
continued from page I 

about the vagueness of the response, wishing O'Hara had corrected their interpreta­tion. 
"We offered an interpreta­tion and she sort of said. 'No, thank you though, and try again.' That doesn't offer us any recourse," Breen-Phillips senator Andrea Kavoosi said. 
"We didn't get the courtesy of an explanation that 'this isn't going to be University policy, but. .. ' Instead we got, 'Don't ask the question,"' Szabo added. 
In other business, the group compiled a list of ideas for discussion this year. 
Already on a preliminary list were transportation issues, including parking lot problems, hall judicial boards, student rights, du Lac policies, a student seat on the Board of Trustees and alcohol use. 
Members added classroom rights, laundry facilities, 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
diversity, and academic process. advising to this list. "My main concern is that 
Griffin also discussed a new nothing was changed sub­policy for passing resolutions stantially [in du Lac). After and then focused on the cre­changing the word 'rights,' do ation of CLC standing com­you think there would be any mittees. chance for change in the dis­
stuct~nts, profs together
''I'd like to stay away from ciplinary procedure'?" he 
ByMATTHEWLOUGHRAN by professors. 
having issue-oriented, or ad asked, referring to the mini­
Associate News Editor \\ "In order to avoid professors
hoc, committees by having mal amount of student partic­
just abusing this free meal tick-these committees," he said. ipation in the process and the 
The Student!Acad;~ic et," Kelly continued, "the stu­"I think it's important to inability for students to ques­Council Committee, along With dents Will have to ask the pro­
have these broader standing tion witnesses against them. 
the provost's office and Notre fessor to join them at the din­
committees so time isn't Kirk responded, "The pro­
Dame Food Services, will ing hall and then will have to
wasted debating little issues," cedure is primarily for an 
implement a new program this sign the ticket themselves. It is
Griffin added. educational setting, and it's 
year that will allow students a way of facilitating communi­The small committees will not supposed to be for a legal and professors to eat together cation and interaction between 
meet outside the allotted CLC setting. I think the discipli­
in the dining halls. stude!;lts and !acuity outside of
meeting time and bring dis­nary policies are very tightly "The Faculty Dining Initiative class.
cussion topics to the main written, and I think if any­
gives professors free tickets to Currently, the council is run­
meetings. thing, students can say all 
get into the dining ball that ning a pilot program in which
The sub-committees were they need to say and have 
they can use in order to eat student leaders (for example, 
designated as community life, nothing left to say at the 
meals with their students,'' heads of clubs and organiza·
academic life, diversity and end." 
said Brendan Kelly, academic tions and members of the
alcohol use on campus. Sister Maureen Minihane, 
delegate to the University's Student Union) can get ticketsBill Kirk, assistant vice rector of Welsh Family Hall, Academic CounciL from Student Activities and use
president for Residence Life, agreed. 
"After students come back them until the program's Oct.
then answered questions "I honestly feel that 
frmn fallbreak they will have 2l start-date. "We are going toabout this year's revisions to Residence Life really bends 
the opportunity to use this new run it like that until fall break," 
du Lac in a continuation of over backward to be fair and 
program..Student Affairs wilJ,.. Kelly explained~ "Anyone With
last meeting's discussion. honest," she said. 
distribute the tickets to heads"' a position can participate andSzabo brought up the limits Szabo let the issue rest to ,of 1;lie ,depar!!llents.to be us1:1d we will see how it works out.n 
and policies of students allow the group to move on to involved in the disCiplinary other business. Glynn hopes to involve the 
Sargent 
continued from page I 
expenses and other complica­tions from his accident. Like the rest of the lacrosse team, Sargent was not on scholar­ship. 
Donations for this year started with a gift of $25,000 from the Snite Foundation. According to Gulick, the Alumni Association has also promised up to 75 per­cent of the income from "The Shirt" which, so far, totals $53,000. 
In addition, lacrosse players and members of the senior class collected more than $3,000 from student donations at booths in the dining hall from Monday through Thursday last week. 
"The response that we have 
gotten from students is just organize a day with members of University in the national Fossil
Biker

great," Gulick said. "People other sports teams on campus Fuel Emission Day, Dec. 1, in have been wonderful about the on Nov. 2. "We have gone to all which no fossil fuel energy is
continued from page I
whole thing. They always ask the teams and asked if they will used at all. to increase this who Adam is and what hap­help us, and we have had good international treaty," Hirsh said. awareness even more. pened to him. The way that feedback," Corrigan said. He noted that stopping at uni­The Notre Dame stop falls everyone is being so generous, it "I think that it will be some­versities and educating students 1,900 miles into Hirsh's trip of really showed me the meaning thing like allowing people from will help his mission. 5,000 miles. He began the ride of ND spirit and what it meant the community to come in and "Notre Dame is in a position in New York City. and continued to be part of the ND family." meet with the players and do of leadership. You could set a through New England, Ohio, Corrigan agreed. "The something with them, like priority in education on this Michigan and Indiana. He will 
response has been absolutely throwing the football with some issue," Hirsh said. ride to Madison, Wis., after tremendous," he said. "It makes of the football players, shooting According to Shannon Glynn, leaving South Bend, travel me believe that the goal is around with some of the basket­co-president of SEA, students of along the Mississippi River to 
achievable." ball players, playing catch with the group will promote the peti­New Orleans, ride south to 
On Oct. 15, bars in the baseball players. But that is tion and Hirsh's message in the Florida and then up the Atlantic Washington, D.C., Baltimore, still in the process of being coming weeks in an effort to coast to the nation's capital by Philadelphia, New York City and worked out," he continued. educate students on campus. Dec. 1. Rochester will host a "game Corrigan and Gulick urged "We'll probably do some His trip is personally funded. watch" for the Notre Dame-USC anyone interested in contribut­tabling in the dining halls with and Hirsh said that he is spend­football game. "We hope to get ing or in information about the the petition in the coming ing his time and energy to bet­about 100 people to those and fundraising projects to contact weeks. Hopefully it will create ter the futurP of the world. fat $50 each] make $25,000 out them. Corrigan can be reached some awareness around cam­''I'm not funded or paid. I'm of the entire weekend," at the men's lacrosse office at 1-pus about diesel fossil fuels and doing this because I care about Corrigan said. 5108. Gulick can be reached at get people to think about biking this issue, and I love this coun­
He also described plans to home at 4-1435. or walking to campus instead of try, and this is a great way to driving all the time," she said. see it," he said. 




Got News? 
Call The Observer at 1-5323. 
Or, e-mail us: 
Observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 


Today, Tuesday, September 30 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
• MIR SPACE STATION 
Jewish ast 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press Writer 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 

He just sJ~rted his four;;:: month stay aboard Mir and ._. already he has a holiday com---­ing up: Rosh Hashana, the Jewish New Year. 
Astronaut David Wolf's mother doubts her son -the first Jewish American to live on the Russian space station ­will be able tqtake time off to .•.-. observe Rc}sh Hashana this week or th~ rest of the Jewish High Holy Days. 
But "maybe he'll get a vision of the High Holidays closer to heaven than we will," said Martha Karatz of the Jewish Community Center _,.--"····~ ..·-· Indianapolis;·;:Wolrs bo hangout. "It's alovely tnc,ugnt; isn't it?" 
And Wolf did take up a mezuza, a rolled piece of parchment in a case that tradi­tionally is attached to the doorpost of a new home. 
Mir will be Wolrs home until late January. He moved in Sunday -becoming the American to live aboard the station -and spent Monday getting to know the place and his two new Russian crew­mates. 
"I doubt really if they're going to give him time off for holiday, I really doubt th and he wouldn't even ""''",......,. 

---~~---------------------~-~--~~-----------------. 
The Observer • NEWS 
Please Recycle The Observer 
·page 5 

Judge starts Nichols case with 'clear page' 
By STEVEN K. PAULSON 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 
With a promise from the judge that he is starting with a "clear page," Oklahoma City bombing defendant Terry Nichols went on trial Monday in the same courtroom where Timothy McVeigh was convicted and sen­tenced to die. 
Nichols, 42, smiled and waved to his mother in the front row as he was escorted into the court­room where the process of selecting 12 jurors and six alter­nates began. 
Prosecutors say Nichols was a supporting player in the dead­liest act of terrorism on U.S. soil, acquiring fertilizer and other components, robbing a firearms dealer to finance the attack and helping McVeigh build the bomb. They also say Nichols helped McVeigh stash the get­away car in Oklahoma City three days before the blast. 
U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch noted there were many similarities to McVeigh's trial, including identical charges that could bring the death penalty. But he added: "This is a differ­ent case .... It begins with a clear page." 
Nichols appeared for the first day of trial in an open-collar shirt, blue blazer and khaki pants. 
In the courtroom and throughout the federal building, security was tight, with police making periodic patrols. Outside, the crowd was signifi­



2:30p.m. •Saint Mary's College s.;., ""''' Coli•··~ Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Mgf;ff,f'~ / 
Tickets on sale at lheSaint Mary's College Box Office in / c;~ THE ARTs O'Lau$1in Auditorium, open 9a.m.-5p.m., Monday-Friday. ~ NOTRE DAM£. IN 
Credit card orders phone 284-4626. 
Sunday; Oct 12 
cantly smaller than the one at the opening of McVeigh's trial. An hour before court began, there were four spectators in line, compared with about 50 for the McVeigh trial's first day. 
There was a smaller media contingent too, with many orga­nizations sending smaller staffs. 
The courtroom was only three-fourths full for the first day of jury selection; it was full when McVeigh's trial opened. 
For Charles Tomlin, who lost his grown son, Rick, in the bombing, the turnout was pre­dictable. But he said the trial is no less significant. 
"This trial is important because Nichols helped McVeigh," Tomlin said. "I don't see how they could find him any way but guilty." 
Attorneys questioned six prospective jurors Monday, dis­missing one woman because she had a chronic back problem. They dismissed another after a doctor submitted a medical excuse. The process of selecting a jury from a pool of 500 is expected to take two weeks to a month. 
Nichols' attorneys also chal­lenged an attempt by the gov­ernment to dismiss another prospective juror who was a convicted felon, arguing that the unidentified person's civil rights had been restored, Matsch agreed and ordered the prospective juror to report for questioning. 
The first prospective juror was a nurse who spoke of her concern for family members in her native Idaho, where a series of bombings had been blamed on white supremacists, She tearfully said she could impose the death penalty, 
The second, an unemployed dairy farmer, said Nichols should share the same fate as McVeigh if convicted. 
"If he's guilty like McVeigh, I feel he's caused enough damage and should be put to death," he said. "What got me the worst was there were so many chil­dren in it." 
The April 19, 1995, truck bombing blew apart the nine­story Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people and 

page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Pop Art pioneer Lichtenstein dead at 73 
By ROBERT MONROE 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Roy Lichtenstein, a pioneer of 

the Pop Art movement best 
known for his oversized comic 
book-style images, died 
Monday. He was 73. 
Lichtenstein had been hospi­talized at New York University Medical Center for several weeks with an undisclosed ill­ness and died of pneumonia, said Cassandra Lozano, his personal assistant. 
"Roy's style was known around the world.... He took things that everyone thought they knew and made something original out of them·." said Kirk Varnedoe, the curator of paint­ings and sculpture at New York's Museum of Modern Art. 
Prolific and witty, Lichtenstein used his flair for composition to create paintings with a poster-like power. His signature touches were his bold black outlines and the use of the photoengraver's Ben Day dots. 
His work was inspired by commercial art and commer­cial art in turn reappropriated his images. Lichtenstein paro­dies became common over the years, turning up on everything from greeting cards toT-shirts. 
"1 take a cliche and try to organize its forms to make it monumental," he once said. "The difference is often not great, but it is crucial." 
At their best, his works con­tained wry observation and sly humor as he appropriated images and reworked them with wit and intelligence. 
Lichtenstein initially experi­mented with abstract expres­sionism but turned to Pop at age 38 with his landmark "Look Mickey, I've Hooked a Big One!!" (1961). He took a comic drawing from a bub­blegum wrapper and blew it up into a full-scale painting, turn­ing commercial art into an object of fine art. 
He reproduced the Ben Day dots of comic strips by laying a metal screen over his canvas, spreading paint with a roller and rubbing it in with a tooth­brush. 
Some paintings, like 1963's "Drowning Girl," employed the ultimate comic strip conven­tion, the cartoon balloon: "I don't care! I'd rather sink­than call Brad for help!" 
"Whaam," (1963). had the words "I pressed the fire con­trol ... and ahead of me rockets 
Tuesday, September 30, l9CJ7 



blazed through the sky ... " in a balloon as a fighter pilot destroyed another plane. 
Not all critics agreed his work was art. 
Brian O'Doherty, writing in The New York Times in 1963, declared Lichtenstein "one of the worst artists in America" who "briskly went about mak­ing a sow's ear out of a sow's ear." 
The verdict later was gener­ally kinder. 

In 1986 Todd Brewster wrote in Life magazine that Lichtenstein was "always the most thoughtful of the pop artists ... (and) had the most to say. Those cartoon blowups may have disturbed the critics, but collectors, tired of the solemnity of abstract expres­sionism, were ready for some comic relief. Why couldn't the funny pages be fine art?" 
Lichtenstein "took something that was pulpy and base and made an art of very high sophistication out of it," Varnedoe said. 
Frank Stella, a fellow Pop artist, said Lichtenstein was a leader in the 1960s movement, which culled materials and subjects from popular culture in a reaction against the seri­ousness of high art. 
"They were powerful, domi­nant images," Stella said. 
'They really set the tone for American painting in the post­war period. Roy really led the way." 
Born in New York City on Oct. 27, 1923, Lichtenstein was the son of a prosperous realtor. He became interested in art during high school and studied one summer under Reginald Marsh at the Art Students League. 
He earned a bachelor's degree at Ohio State University and then a master's in painting -the latter inter­rupted by World War II Army service. 
He worked on his own art while teaching and doing other jobs. An interest in Americana led him to paint cowboys and Indians in mod­ern art styles. 
In 1960 he moved to Rutgers University's Douglass College whose faculty included artists Claes Oldenburg, Allan Kaprow and Robert Watts. 
It was at that time he intro­duced comic strip figures ­first Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse. He also made images of a golf ball, a cat copied from a Kitty Litter container 

CLASS OF 198 
COME PLRY 

LRZER TRG 
@ LRZER STORM 
N[Hl TO COACH'S 
TON ITE 7-9 
I' R I I\' C I I' L E S o f S 0 U N ll R E T I R E M E N T I N V E S T I :-..; (; 
, 

Average annual compound rates of total return (periods ending 6/30/97) 0 
YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 


Whether you want a fund that selects specific stocks, or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock market, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation . .;..:. The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that we believe are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more 
26.24%
J2.0J% 

28.56% 
I year 1yean Sinl:c-inception 4/19/94 
diversification, with a portfolio that seeks to mirror the experience of the 
U.S. stock market as a whole. 
Like our CREF Stock Account, the largest singly managed equity fund in America:>00 and our Global Equities Account, which actively 
seeks opportunities 

JOJ~!o126,6g/ol 24,6f/' worldwide, our 
·1 ·1 accounts are managed 

I year 'yl'ars Sim:; ~n9t~cc4tion by experienced
1 

investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the world, with $190 billion in assets under management. 
To find out more about building your portfolio-and your future -with TIAA­CREF. just call 1 800 842-2776. And take your pick. 


Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuringthefuture for those who shape it:-' 
0 The total returns shown for CREF variable annuity an·ounts represent pa..<>l perfOrmam:e. Total returns and the prirot:ipal value of investments in the accounts will fluctuate, and yields may vary. Upon redemption, your aecumulation units may be worth more or less than their original price. Investment results are alter all investment. administrative, and distribution expenses have been deducted. 00 These at:counts are a\·ailable •or Retirement Annuities subject to rhe terms ofyour institution's plan. They are available •Or all Supplemental Retirement Annuities. 000Ba.sed on assets under management. CREI"~ ct'r"fifieates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. For more complete infOrmation, 
indudlng charges and expenses, \"all 1 800 842-2733, ext. 55Qq, lOr a prospe\"tus. Read the prospe\"tus carefully before you invest or send money. 7fll7 
-----. 
Amnesty seekers await ruling 
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
• SOUTH AFRICA 
By PAT REBER 
Associated Press Writer 
JOHANNESBURG 

After Tuesday, the big ques­tion in South Africa won't be who wants forgiveness for atrocities committed during the struggle over apartheid -but who gets it. 
From army generals to ragged guerrillas, more than 7,000 South Africans have peti­tioned the Truth and Reconciliation Commission for amnesty since its creation two years ago. 
Their testimony on killings, torture and other atrocities has shed light on some of the hor­rors wrought by more than three decades of white minority rule -although others remain veiled and after Tuesday, may never be known. 
Once the deadline for amnesty applications passes, people who may have commit­ted atrocities will be subject to prosecution and may be reluc­tant to divulge their secrets. 
So far, some notable figures, including Winnie Madikizela­Mandela, the former wife of South African President Nelson Mandela. have refused to apply for amnesty for past political crimes. 
Still, almost two years after being appointed by President Mandela, the commission Jed by retired Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu appears to have more successes than failures in trying to help heal the divisions and bitterness that linger from the apartheid era. 
For a nation still struggling to understand what happened during apartheid, the process has exposed the extent of the suffering, hatred and malevo­lence that permeated the strug­gle between a minority clinging to power and a majority trying to take it. 
"(tis a painful process (which has revealed) the conflict was much wider than black and white," said Fazel Randera, one of the 17 commission mem­bers. 
While some aspects remain hidden, such as who held ulti­mate responsibility for atroci­ties committed by government forces and anti-apartheid guer­rillas, the panel's work has brought some mending. 
Bodies of missing activists have been located with the help of testimony, enabling families who had still harbored hopes of finding their loved ones alive to come to terms with the loss. 
"We should never underesti­mate the healing that has come," said Wynand Malan, another Truth Commission member. "Healing itself is not reconciliation, but it (helps) people manage their future." 
But others say some secrets remain hidden. 
"There are a lot of unan­swered questions," said com­mission member Richard Lyster. "There are ANC people who should have come forward but who haven't ... and military people." 
After the amnesty deadline passes, the panel will concen­trate on evaluating amnesty applications, deciding who is telling all they know and deter­mmmg what reparations should be offered victims of apartheid abuses. 
Under the mandate that established the commission, applicants judged to have fully revealed their involvement in abuses and able to prove they were politically motivated can be spared prosecution. 
On the other hand, people implicated in apartheid-era crimes who fail to apply for amnesty could face criminal charges based on information provided by people who have. For example, Mandela's ex­wife has been accused in the amnesty applications of at least three former associates of ordering killings. 
Originally set for December 1996, the deadline for seeking amnesty was postponed until May 10, 1997. A second exten­sion, until midnight Sept. 30, became necessary due to a bureaucratic glitch. 
About 7,000 people have applied for amnesty, but more than 2,500 were rejected with­out hearings because appli­cants denied guilt or offered no proof their actions were politi­cally inspired, said panel spokesman John Allen. 
The commission has granted amnesty to about 50 of the 150 applications it has assessed. It will hear another 1,600 cases before April, the scheduled conclusion of its amnesty hear­ings. 
Only a few of the amnesty cases so far have been sensa­tional, such as the amnesty granted former police Sgt. Brian Mitchell last year for 11 murders in an attack on a black homestead in KwaZulu­Natal province. 
Notre Dame~s biggest Dance Party 


ever!!! 
IS CODling. • • 

Friday, October 3rd, in the Stepan disco ball, from 8:00pm-I 2:00am. Featuring WSND radio personalities, the MEC's Taste of Nations, Troop ND free cd's, and your grandmother. Be a part of history!!! Relive the decade you were born in. Show off your innate fashion sense. Look groovy. 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 30, 1997 

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Misa En Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Sunday, October 5,1:30 pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel Celebrante: Padre Pat Neary, esc Todos Estan Invitados! All Are Welcome! 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #47 
Friday-Sunday, October 3-5, Fatima Retreat Center 
Pan Dulce y Jugo 
Latino students and friends are welcome to come and enjoy pan dulce and juice on Tuesdays, 7:30-10:00 p.m. in 103 Hesburgh Library with Fr. Neary for conversation and a study break. 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, October 5, 4:00 p.m., Badin Hall Chapel Celebrant: Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, CSC Rejoice! Choir All are welcome!. 
St. Francis Day-"Make me a channel of your peace... " 
Saturday, October 4, 11:30 am Join us in the campus-wide celebration of St. Francis Day! The Living Rosary will be held around Stonehenge at 11:30 am. Then cars will load up at Library Circle for an afternoon of servi<;:e and fun at "There Are Children Here." Co-sponsored with the North Quad Liturgical Commissioners. Information: Emily Reiner at 634-1489 or Tony McCanta at 634-0918 
SPEAK-OUT: African American Community in Conversation 
Monday, October 6, 9:00 pm, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
Weekly Eucharistic Adoration 
Beginning Monday, September 22, and each Monday thereafter during the Aca­demic Year, Campus Ministry will sponsor a 24 hour period of Eucharistic Adora­tion in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration will begin with Mass at 11:00 p.m. on Mon­day nights and end at 10:00 p.m. on Tuesday nights. For more information, please call631-7800 or 631-5242. 
Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Minsitry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discern­ing their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friend­ship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Graduate Student Bible Study 
Wednesays at 8:00pm in Wilson Commons 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
•INDONESIA 

Control to-wer confuses planes 
Associated Press 
source describing·. riage, a P r i n Charles' delity. a newspaper reported Monday. 
In a three­page story ahead of a re-release of the book~ "Diana: Her True Story," Times of London said · princess personally vetted ·UtiJ manuscript of the bookin 1991. The newspaper carried ·· photographs of extracts front the manuscript with annota-, tions in what appeared to be'"' Diana's handwriting. 
Critics accQ!ied .. 
Andrew Morton, whose · seller shook the monarchy made him a millionaire, of cashing in on the death of> Diana. 
Buckingham }>alace said book "is nothing new, but timing of its re-release is par~ ticularly sad, coming as it does so soon after the nr·rnr''"' death." ..•.. 
The 36-yeat~dld divorced from Ch 
By ALI KOTARUMALOS 
Associated Press Writer 

MEDAN, Indonesia 
The pilot said "right." The control tower thought "left." Seconds before an Indonesian jetliner crashed into a jungle, killing all 234 aboard in the country's worst air crash, it appeared no one knew which way the plane was supposed to turn. 
An air traffic controller momentarily confused two planes as he gave instructions for a turn, according to a tran­script of the plane's final radio conversation obtained Monday. The controller was handling two other flights at the same time ­one arriving and one departing from the two-runway airport. 
A transcript of the confused exchange between Capt. Rachmo Wiyogo and the con­troller portrays a distracted pilot getting wrong information in the critical moments before he attempted to land. 
The conversation ended when Rachmo cried out, "Allahu akbar!" -"God is great!" in Arabic. 
As details of the final conver­sation emerged Monday, weep­ing relatives threw flowers into a mass grave of 48 bodies muti­lated beyond recognition. 
The transcript shows Rachmo and the unidentified air traffic controller confusing the words "left" and "right" Friday as the plane approached Medan's Airport through thick haze caused by hundreds of forest fires on the island of Sumatra. 
At another point. the air traf­fic controller emphatically assured Rachmo that the 15­year-old, twin-engine Garuda Airlines Airbus was clear of mountains in the area. Two minutes later, the jetliner slammed into a highland jungle 20 miles south of the airport. 
The flight data and cockpit voice recorders -which should indicate what the crew and plane were doing up to a half­hour before the crash -were still missing three days after the disaster. 
Government officials had no comment on the transcript. But the official news agency, Antara, quoted sources as say­ing the crash may have been caused by human error. 
The last minute and a half of the conversation, conducted in English, showed repeated mis­understanding about which direction the pilot was turning. 
Control tower: "Turn right heading 046 report established localizer (this commands the plane to align itself with the localizer, a radio beam indicat­ing the runway's location). 
Pilot: "Turning right sir." 
Control tower: "152 Confirm you're making turning left now?" 
Pilot: "We are turning right now." 
Control: "OK you continue turning left now." 
Pilot: (pause) "Confirm turn­ing left? We are starting turning right now." 
Control: "OK (pause) OK. Continue turn right heading 015." 
That command was immedi­ately followed by the pilot's des­perate scream. At that moment, according to witnesses, the plane smashed into trees and exploded. 
"It's obvious that the plane was flying too low and left the flight path," said the Garuda pilots' union chief, Shadrach Nababan. 
Rachmo, a senior pilot with 15,000 flying hours over 20 years, was being considered for a job as a flight instructor, Garuda has said. 
An airport official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the plane's instruments could have indicated where the run­way was, and that the 100-yard visibility caused by the haze should not have been a factor. 
"The smoke is not a strange problem for a pilot," said Nababan. "There are instru­ments on the airplane and at the airport that can be used." 
One young girl tried to elbow past police to the edge of the pit. "Papa, papa," she sobbed, as the officers held her back. She tossed flower petals into the pit, unsure which coffin bore the body of her father. 

LECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • MAT 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 30, 1997 

The Letter Which Truly Deserves Attention 

• DOOI\IESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOUR H/GHNEiGS£6, Pl.£.4q; AlTfi(J(JGHtoRi? ZONK!i.R.IS 
A/.L.C¥(/MG 70PR&SiWT 7HG TITULAR. Ht:A/?OFON/3 7D Yat YatR Nt:ae3T Or /JRITA!N!3 MOST /?ISTIN­ROYAL-a:v~R.... 
(3(Jf5HW r.AM!t/69, ~AL-90 HAPP&NS 70 Be... AN/?71-Ifi<ES/ NO 07J-161< MJR1? FOR. IT., 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Edi[Or ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.... ....................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager....................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . ................joey Crawford Systems Manager.... .. ..... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper-published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Sports Editor, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  631-4542  Business OHice  63I-53U  
Managing Editor  631-4 541  Advertising  63 I-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63 I -5.123  Svsrems  6.~ 1-8839  
Sport'i  631-4543  OHice Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror/Viewpoim  631-5.~03  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.c:du  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  ob.-.erver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

So ... has everybody read the letter? 
NO, I am not talking about the Syner and Fuller letter, so please don't turn the page in disgust just yet. 
I am speaking of the OTHER letter, which was printed in The Observer the same day as the notorious "parasite" note. 
Ah. What letter, you ask? You mean there was another letter? Yes, there was another letter. one that had an important message, and that was 
Natasha Ahmad 

completely and totally overshadowed by 
the ravings of those esteemed Notre 
Dame sophomores. 
The letter I am speaking of was writ­ten by Saint Mary's sophomore Erin Donnelly, and the subject of that letter was that "racial slurs had defaced a fel­low student's private property," to quote from the letter. 
Okay, maybe it's just me, BUT ISN'T THIS KIND OF A BIG DEAL?! 
If it is a big deal, you certainly wouldn't guess it from campus reaction. What was campus reaction on the sub­ject? 
Nothing. 
Absolutely nothing. 
I don't know why this was so. Perhaps people got so angry after reading the first letter that they completely forgot to 
read the second. However, let's put these two issues in perspective: Two really ignorant and sadly misinformed 
Notre Dame women write to vent their own personal anger by calling Saint Mary's women parasites. Nothing worse, just parasites. (Calling us parasites doesn't make us parasites, you know.) A Saint Mary's student is attacked by a hate so virulent that her private proper­ty is destroyed, simply on the basis of her skin color. 
I-lmmm. Which one do YOU think is more important? 

The first issue got lots of attention. Apparently, 50 or more letters were sent to The Observer regarding the anti-Saint Mary's letter. We women from the col­lege got together and composed a letter, to be published on the following Friday, in conjunction with Saint Mary's Pride Day. We all wore nice white and blue ribbons to show the world that we really liked nur school. 
Again, I repeat, the second letter prob­ably didn't even get read by 95 percent of the student body. 
I don't mean to belittle Saint Mary's Pride Day, or any of the commotion made over this issue. All the attention allowed the hostility to come to the fore­front so that it could be handled and dealt with. 
What I find disturbing, and to be hon­est, what I am ashamed about, is that racism has a lower priority on our cam­pus than our supposed "rivalry" with Notre Dame women. Are our values really that skewed? Our aim in holding Saint Mary's Pride Day was to show PRIDE in our college. 
Our response to racial incidents on this campus is nothing to be proud of. 

Both types of hostilities are based in arrogance. However, there is an impor­tant difference -the hostility against Saint Mary's women is a small problem that is confined mainly to this communi­ty. Racism sticks with people their entire lives. I highly doubt that any one of us will spend the rest of our lives in all-white communities. In fact, I have seen projections that show that whites will be a minority within the next 100 years. Yes, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are mainly white-that doesn't mean they are ONLY for white students. 
In her letter, Donnelly makes the fol­lowing point: "As independent, intelli· gent women we need to take the oppor­tunity of a new president and aet upon 
BUT I CAN'T ffi WITI-\ YOU, MEN... I HAD THIS FLING 
WITH A DAf'\Ct.R IN MOfP:.CO. 

the issues we see here on our campus ... it is now obvious that the issue of multi· culturalism also needs to be addressed. As adults we must act. We cannot wait for the administration to change things. This is OUH school." She is right. This is our school, and only we can help light racism on campus. 
And perhaps the best time to start is now. This week is Multicultural Week, with events planned almost every day this week to highlight multiculturalism. These events are not JUST for minority students. If you happen to be white. don't just think, "Oh, that's something for Latinas, or something for blacks. I wouldn't be interested/welcome." These events are for EVERYBODY. 
So, at the risk of sounding trite, I will conclude by saying that the best way to stop racism is to keep an open mind about others. Get to know some "stu­dents of color." 
You might be pleasantly surprised. 
Natasha Ahmad is a sophomore majoring in English literature and politi­cal science at Saint Mary's. You can send her e-mail at ahma3495@saint­marys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Fate chooses our rela­tives, we choose our friends." 
-Jacques Delille 

~--------------------­

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 page 11 
• TABLE TALK 
Viktor Frankl on Being Hu01an and l01aging God 
Every month sees the death of a handful of noteworthy persons. September, with the deaths of Princess Diana and Mother Teresa, has certainly been no exception. But, of course, there are others. Recently I was struck by a 

David Weiss 
brief item that came across an e-mail list I subscribe to. It announced the death of Viktor Frankl, on Sept. 2, at the age of 92. 
Frankl was considered by many to be one of the last of the great Viennese psychiatrists, among them Sigmund Freud. Alfred Adler and Carl Jung. Frankl was a survivor of the Nazi con­centration camps in which his parents, brother. and pregnant wife were all killed. He went on to author "Man's Search for Meaning" and become one of the leading psychotherapists of his day. 
His work grew directly out of his camp experiences and focused on the moral character of our response to situ­ations which threaten to undermine our inner selves and our human freedom. He found. both in his own life experi­ence and in his clinical work, that whether one chose to withdraw in sub­mission to the powers of oppression or instead chose to remain persistently and compassionately linked to one's fel-. lows made all the difference -often even to the point of survival itself. 
In "Search for Meaning" he wrote, "We who lived in concentration camps can remember those who walked 
• GUE~T COLUMN 
through the huts comforting others, giv­ing away their last piece of bread. They may have been few in number, but they offer sufficient proof that everything can be taken from a person but one thing: the last of the human freedoms­to choose one's attitude in any given set of circumstances, to choose one's own way." 
It would be wrong, however, to think that Frankl's insight was simply that "the last of the human freedoms" is to preserve an attitude of defiance before the powers that be. It is not that one can ehoose "one's attitude ... one's own way" regardless of what that way is, but rather that one can choose to be human. 
Ilis observation is hauntingly echoed in the diary of Etty Hillsum, a young Jewish woman who also lived-and died -in the camps. Near the end of her diary, published as "An Interrupted Life," and after she had exhausted her­self through months of service to her fellows inmates, she wrote: "I have bro­ken my body like bread and shared it out among men. And why not, they were hungry and had gone without for so long." She wrote without regret, and perhaps also without a sense of the Paschal mystery in which her life had become immersed. 
Viktor Frankl's conviction, manifest so eloquently in Etty Hillsum's life, was that at its very core our humanity involves our connectedness to others. Though both persons experienced their lives through the lens of Judaism, their insights should resonate deeply with those of us who are Christian. 
Indeed, perhaps more so than our Jewish forebears, we have linked our notion of what it means to be human to a text from what was their creation story long before we claimed a share in it: "And God said, let us create humani­ty in our own image" {Gen. 1 :26). Imago Dei. To be human is to be in the image of God. 

But the term itself is uncomfortably ­or perhaps too comfortably-slippery. Throughout our history we have most often understood it to denote something inherent to us that sets us apart from the rest of creation, usually some aspect of our pereeived freedom or intellect, whether our capacity for thought or speech or technology. The ultimate axis of definition tends to be "power"; we are godlike in our mastery over nature and in our war-making on one another {whether the weapons be military, eco­nomic, teehnologieal, or soeial). 
I would counter, however, that the most authentieally biblical way to understand what it means to image God is to listen to the story the Bible itself tells. Surely God's intellect is celebrat­ed. God's creative ingenuity is recount­ed time and again. And God's awesome might is heralded as well. But the theme that shapes the entire narrative, from creation to apocalypse-includ­ing exodus and exile and incarnation and crucifixion and resurrection along the way-is simply this: Love. 
It seems almost trite, except that it is so woefully disregarded in the ways we long to picture ourselves godlike. God is love. I have even heard it suggested that for all its assorted and inadequate attempts to say something metaphysi­cally profound about the nature of God, the doctrine of the Trinity is finally the simple endeavor to name God's being as "being-with" -that is, as an existence which is able intrinsically and essential­ly to be a "being-for" -a way of declaring that God is love. 
When Jesus calls us to be godlike, he says, quite simply, "Be compassionate as your Father in heaven is compassion­ate" {Luke 6:36). And throughout the Gospels and the epistles in the early church the exhortation is that we image God by aspiring to servanthood, not to conquest. 
What Viktor Frankl perceived in the crucible of the concentration camps, and what he came to lay as the founda­tion of his clinical work in Logotherapy, is that human meaning is created in the commitment to love the other. What makes us human is finally not the mani­fold ways we devise for preserving our­selves or for dominating others. And it is surely not our efforts to be islands unto ourselves, or even to be communi­ties in isolation. Our humanity rests in our capacity to image God as we move beyond ourselves in compassion for those around us. 
Frankl's insights were born in a time and place that may seem far removed from the campuses of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. But one need not look far to see places in this community where our conversations and conduct fail to reflect the humanity we assume is ours -but is not inasmuch as we fail to image the God who created us to love. 
My point, however, is not to itemize the absences of compassion and then ridieule them; it is to announce the importance and possibility of its pres­ence, and then invite it. 
How best to commemorate the life of Viktor Frankl? Perhaps simply by renewing a commitment to incarnate true human meaning in our lives. As Etty Hillsum put it in the closing words of her journal: "We should be willing to act as a balm for all wounds." 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics at Notre Dame. He can be reached at Weiss. 7@nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Gender Studies and the Issue of Power 
A number of days ago Dean Mark Hache's remarks on the Gender Studies Program were printed in a special edition of Gender Matters. In these remarks Roehc articulated his position regarding the Gender Studies Program and offered some advice about how to make the pro­gram flourish. 
Neve Gordon 

Dear Dean Roehc: 
I was very happy to read that, as the dean of the College of Arts and Letters, you found it important to engage in a dis­cussion regarding the future of the Gender Studies Program. Gender studies, you say, will flourish at Notre Dame "in [your] eyes," if it can satisfy four conditions: 1) that it not isolate itself from other fields and that it bring a measured perspective to questions that relate to gender but which eannot be reduced to gender; 2) that it speak in a language intelligible to colleagues and students from other disci­plines; 3) that it not align itself with cer­tain late-modernist positions that arc self­canceling but embed itself within an intel­lectual tradition that makes strong, ratio­nal arguments in favor of the validity of universal human rights; and finally 4) that it bring an existential eomponent to its scholarship and learning, but in such a way as not to block out other concerns that transcend the particularity of the scholar or student interested in gender studies. 
In my eyes, the eyes of a graduate stu­dent in the government department, there are a few crucial problems with the vision you have laid out. Let me begin with your second point. the one regarding language. 
It is indeed important to try to confine the jargon used in any field and to be wary of the so-called private languages which limit discussion to small communities and exclude external criticism. Yet every time I open Kant's "Critique of Pure Reason," one of the greatest contributions to the 
Enlightenment, I begin to grind my teeth. Especially when I try to understand what he means when he says, for instance, that "the principle of the synthetical unity of apperception is the highest principle of all exercise of the understanding." As I strug­gle to comprehend Kant, reading his Critiques over and over, I realize that in order to chart a new direction. to say something original, he had to develop new concept<>. The same is true of Heidegger and many others. 
Gender studies has had to develop new concepts because it has blazed new trails in ways of examining the world. As with the writings of Kant and Heidegger, Luce Irigaray's writings cannot be understood unless one devotes a considerable amount of time and work at them. 
Only last semester I attended a seminar on Derrida given by Professor Dallmayr. In class after class students wrestled with Derrida, often with minor results. Would you consider discouraging Professor Dallmayr from teaching Derrida because ofDerrida's convoluted language? Which leads me to a much more troubling aspect of your remarks on language. In my eyes, once one begins censoring language, aca­demic freedom is at stake! 
Regarding your third point, I agree that the commitment to human rights has cer­tainly improved the quality of life for mil­lions of people around the globe, not least women. Human rights opens up opportu­nities for increased freedom and equality, while our understanding of human rights needs to be examined and revised. However, that is not to aver, as you do, that "the best arguments of gender equali­ty are ones that focus on human rights, not those which presuppose that all values are reducible to power relations." 
In my eyes, Michel Foucault had a point when he argued that social values are cre­ated by power relations. Consider, for example, homosexual relationships. The Greeks, who discussed homosexuality at length, not only thought homosexual rela­tionships "normal," but considered them to be more spiritual than heterosexual relationships. The Catholic Church, on the other hand, believes that homosexuality is abnormal and needs to be suppressed. One could credibly argue that the Church's decision not to adopt the Greek point of view concerning homosexuality, is a question of power relations. One might say that attributing abnormality to homo­sexuality is a social fabrication construct­ed by powerful heterosexual men. One could understand Father Edward Malloy's decision to follow the Church on this mat­ter, rather than the Greeks, as one condi­tioned by power. I for one, do. What do you think about the human rights of homosexuals? 

We should also continue rethinking the question of rights, as Marx did in "The Jewish Question." Marx was suspicious of "the rights of man" as they were articulat­ed in the French Revolution. As we all know, in the wake of"the rights of man" property was abolished as a criteria for voting, and the poor as well as the rich ean now vote. Yet following Marx, we also know that universal suffrage has not achieved universal equality. Much more than rights needs to be considered if equality is to be attained. 
This brings me back to your first point, the one against reductionism. I too am against reductionism. But as someone who worked for a human rights organization {for several years I worked with the Israeli Physicians for Human Rights in the West Bank and Gaza Strip), I know that looking at everything through the lens of human rights is also a reductionist approach. Such an approach presupposes the neu­trality of rights and the existence of a gen­derless individual, and in the process ignores the specific problems that beset women. 
Your last point concerning an existential approach is also close to my heart. I have learned from the existential tradition to be suspicious of transcendental claims, claims that are used as an Archimedic point for the universal standards and for­mulas to which you appear to subscribe. The existentialists claimed that these stan­dards must be constantly criticized and reevaluated. They also thought that instru­mental rationality, the kind of rationality to which you seem to be referring, was very limited and. in fact, confined our understanding of human existence. 
Most professors in the Gender Studies Program whom I know believe that having the capacity to decide is a question of power, while deciding for others inevitably involves disempowerment. While you make it clear in your remarks that what you say is your view, that the proposals are from the perspective of your eyes, it is also evident that your eyes carry weight. My eyes are different from your eyes, not only because we are different people, but more importantly, because the influence each one of us wields is different. 
I find it disconcerting that you did not choose to present your views as if they were part of an open discussion, where decisions are not reached by decree but by active listening, by negotiation and per­haps even by consensus. Would you have made similar remarks and suggestions to any other department in the college? That they must use language that other depart­ments understand? That they must not reduce their analysis to a specific mode? That they must adopt universal stan­dards? Perhaps if the Gender Studies Program were a gender department this would not have happened. 
Finally, isn't it ironic that a man, and yes a white man, is in the position to decide what direction the Gender Studies Program will take? 
Neve Gordon is a graduate student in government. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

r---------------------­
page 12 
>
(]) 
c 
0 
..c. 
!..... 
:J 
0 
> 
Q. 
E 
:J 
1J 
-1-J 
c 
0 
1J 
.... 
-
$ 
0 
..0 
-
co 
(]) 
~ 
(]) () 

:J ~ 0 
> 
c 
!..... 
:J 
-1-J 
(]) !..... 

;ACCENT 
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
I I I 
I
I I I I



:Let's Go to the Mo~ 
Dear Lola. 

I am writing in response to the letter sub­mitted by "Klepto in Keough" (Observer 9/23). I too am a kleptomaniac, and I wanted the opportunity to tell "Klepto" that there are others on campus who are strug­gling with this smuggling disorder (includ­ing my roommate). Will you please print my letter? Thank you. 
Dear Klepto from Keough, 
Welcome to the world of pillage, and con­gratulations on your dining hall successes. My roommate and I are confessed klepto­maniacs, and I myself have championed an ND tray. Our next mission: a dining hall chair. I understand the difficulty you face everyday, having to feast your eyes on those items just waiting to be snatched. You don't have to go through this alone. We must get together sometime to discuss our mutual hobby. 
--Plundering in McGlinn 
Dear Plundering, 

Now you're published. Good luck with that chair, I hear the dining hall staff have eagle eyes. 
Dear Lola, 

I am a freshman from Chicago (who isn't?) and I've talked my problem to death with my friends and have nowhere else to turn. I hope you can help. My boyfriend and I have been together over two years and the thought ofbreaking up when I went away to college was unbearable to both of us. He goes to U. of Chicago, so it's not that far. At first we could bear the dis­tance, but last week he called me and he wants to see other people! He says he doesn't want to hold me back from all the wonderful opportunities ahead of me. I want so badly to make it work, but I feel him pulling away. What should I do? 
--Confused in Cavanaugh 
Dear Confused. 

This happens very often, and many oth­ers are feeling exactly as you do now. It's tough, I know. You say you feel him pulling away. There is a commonly held view that men are like rubber bands: they feel a need to be independent, so they pull away and stretch and stretch like a rubber band. When they've fulfilled that need and can't stretch anymore, the need to be intimate and then Snap! they bounce right back. The hard part is the tension in between. Distance complicates it further. It sounds as if he's really telling you that you're hold­ing him back. What to do? Let him go. It's trite but true: if it's meant to be it'll happen again, if not, then it wasn't. I promise that once you get used to the idea, you too will begin to enjoy the freedoms of being young, single and surrounded by incredible people. One last thing: give yourself time. There is no instant remedy for a broken heart. The sun always shines brightest after a storm. 
We know you have problems. You're flunking chemistry, your roommate flosses her teeth 24/7, you can't dance, a diet ofApple Jacks and yo-cream isn't doing it for you, you are being stalked, you spend too much time on-line and not 
enough time studying ... 
You need to ask LOLA. Remember 
she's not a real doctor, she has a 
master's degree in 
therapeutic touch. Hmmm ... 
Drop offor mail your questions to 
The Observer, 314 LaFortune. 
I [::::r:::::::r:::::r::::::r:::::r::::::J Cinema at the Snite 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

The Joyless Street (1925) 
"Fascinating, expressionistic account of economic and moral decay, focusing on the inhabitants of one sorry Viennese street after WWI. Greta Garbo, in her third feature, play's a professor's daughter who attempts to keep her family from starving. Marlene Dietric·h is an extra in this."-Leonard \1n1Lin 
Medium Cool (1969) 
Director Haskell Wexler uses a TV cameraman as the eyes through which the 1968 Democratic Convention riots are viewed. lie cre­ates an idyllic romance framed by the realities of death, political hypocrisy and racial hatred. 
Wend Kuuni (1982) 
In Gaston Kabore's lilm, Wend Kuuni is the name given to a young, mute boy who is found in the bush. Set in the west African past when the Mossi civilization was at its height, the film weaves the story of Wend Kuuni's life with his adoptive family (and especially with his adoptive sis­ter Pongere) with the details of Mossi village life to provide both a sympa­thetic portrait of Mossi culture and a critique of the role it assigns to women. 
Drawing on the conventions of an oral storytelling convention, and employing a style of editing and cine­matography that emphasizes the characters' relation to their social and natural environment, the film produces an excellent example of an alternative to Hollywood filmmaking style. 
Love Me Tonight (1932) 
"One of the best musicals ever made: Maurice Chevalier plays a tai­lor who falls in love with a princess (Jeanette MacDonald). Along the way they get to sing Rodgers and Hart's 'Lover,' 'Mimi,' 'Isn't It Homantic?' among others. Mamoulian's ingenious ideas keep this fresh and alive."-Leonard Maltin 
Singin' in the Rain (1952) 
Considered by many to be the finest musical-comedy of all time. Betty Comden and Adolph Green wrote the screenplay about the time when films changed from silent to sound. Starring Gene Kelly, Donald O'Connor and Debbie Heynolds with memorable songs "Make 'Em Laugh," "You Were Meant For Me" and of course, "Singin' In The Rain." 
Cinema at the Snite Film Series 
mondays 
Oct. 6 Wend Kunni 7p.m. Robocop 9p.m. Oct. 13 Sin gin' in the Rain 7 The Big House 9 Oct. 27 Citizen Kane 7 Making Mr. Right 9 Nov.10 The Conversation 7 Hardware 9 Nov. 24 Term. 2: Judgement Day 7 
tuesdays 
Oct. 7 Love Me Tonight 7p.m. 
Mean Streets 9 Oct. 14 Le Million 7 Oct. 28 Footlight Parade 7 
Stranger Than Paradise 9 Nov.4 Jezebel 7 
She's Gotta Have It 9 Nov. 11 The Philadelphia Story 7 Nov.18 Rules of the Game 7 
Nov. 7/8  Crash  
Nov. 14/15  Ulee's Gold  
Nov. 21122  Lost Highway  


fridays & saturdays 
Oct. 3/4 Microcosmos Oct. 10/11 Brassed Off Oct. 31/Nov.1 Face/Off 7:30/9:30 p.m. 7:30/9:45 7:15/9:45 7:30/9:45 7:15/9:45 7:15/9:45 
Dates and times may be subject to change. For complete up-to-date information call the Film Hotline at 631-7361. 
The~
"l'he or· set the pa: it's still g~ 
OBI ofW gu~ roles. (Fsnces 
Hecordin~ 
Jolm Garl sh•f in th LeDnard 
s 

~ exy, b Le3's fin an=! elect! of stacatl an=! confi1 era. At I No·a Darl tm• indep1 ti€3 of h 
h~~er-c 
sp01wned televisio yo-u kno· 
?"
kllUW. 
f'he 
~Brilli 
vf!illanc wl110 m bl eomin fir ds h" ar d hi, Ccppola'! mCJ.kes I vocy and ur billed .O::re of 
1 <70s." 
Thes, 






ACCENT
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 page 13 
ies! Stamper Bob Grooves On, Grooves Well 
A
By MICHAEL PEPPARD ed some new personnel. Senior Megan Band at last year's Collegiate Jazz Festival Accent Writer McCormick joins the band as a female lead and this year's tryouts. Butte! comments singer, blending with the Glee Club-trained that "when you work with jazz musicians s September gives way to October, the voices of Butte! and Cummins for a solid you have no limitations ... the talent we new school year is in full swing, and vocal trio. While the band may have lost found in these jazz musicians makes a song the campus music scene is starting to some flashy stage presence with the depar­from any genre sound funkier and more come alive. Each year produces different ture of Nina McDowell, they have gained exciting." 
House (1930) conversations between campus bands; some much more with the refined intonation of And exciting they are. Their first two gigs I prison drama, this years a dialogue develops between two McCormick. Similarly, the band lost its lead were among the finest performances in the for all later copies; musical pillars, and other years we students guitarist Ricky Zalamea to the real world, band's history, and their potential for . hard-bitten stuff with are swarmed by a cacophony of diverse but recruited the spell-binding Brendan growth is electrifying. Butte! and Mirro Berry's best tough­groups. This year offers no lack of diversi­Mowery from this year's freshman class. As glue the band together with a unified funk Oscars for writing ty, but the band that has been around the their new sound demanded, they traded in rhythm, while Cummins tickles the ivories, arion) and Sound longest will soon emerge as the dominant Zalamea's rugged, hard-rocking guitar riffs dancing in and out of his music theory -Leonard Maltin force. Stompcr Bob is back again, and they for Mowery's theory-based yet still funky training. The vocal lines arc superb as have finally evolved into the musical experi­solo jams. always, colored by McCormick's well­ence that their talent has always warranted. So what is this new sound? While formed stylizing. The two horns are learn­Under the leadership of senior bassist Stomper Bob's live act could mistakenly be ing to play well off each other, Erskine t Parade (1933) Matt Buttel. senior keyboardist Joel labeled as rock, it is more aptly described bringing an experienced foundation to plays a stage Cummins, and sophomore percussionist as jazz, ska or jump-swing, depending on Syska's wailing sax. But the all-star thus to outdo himself Mike Mirro. Stomper Bob has returned when you walk into their show. And that is far has been the spider-fingered guitarist musical numbers. strong, expanding its musical horizons but where the final two members of the new Mowery, who is sure to be a mainstay on still entertaining like veterans of the indus­Stomper Bob fit in. Juniors Keith Syska, the campus music scene. Ilis jazz-based try. Upperclassmen may remember them as alto saxophonist, and Phil Erskine, trom­solos seem to fit the groove in every song on 

~~ley numbers back-to­a solid college rock band, based out of fine bonist, have been added to comprise the the set list, and his reserved personality n Hotel,' 'By a establishments like Bridget's, Jazzman's swinging horn section. These two additions completes a dichotomy that every one in the nd 'Shanghai Lil.' Film and Finnigan's. Indeed, they will still fre­enable brassy sounds on popular tunes like audience relishes. argue over whether it's quent the same old watering holes, but their David Lee Roth's "Just a Gigolo" and The best new sound on campus can be 
d who gets one brief sound is all new. Madonna's "Material Girl" or other jams found in the revitalized Stomper Bob, play­tter dance number."­Although the triumvirate of Butte!, like Patsy Cline's "Walkin' After Midnight" ing Thursday, Sept. 25 at Finnigan's (with tin Cummins and Mirro could have formed and Maceo Parker's "Pass the Peas." The Tashi Station opening), and Wednesday, 
, quite a jazz combo on their own, the band found Syska and Erskine, along with Sept. 30 at Bridget's. Stomper Bob evolutionary process mandat-guitarist Mowery, in the Notre Dame Jazz 
's Gotta Have It (1986) 
and raunchy. Spike aturc is freewheeling an exuberant collage 

montages, still frames 
By JOEY CRAWFORD events including a pumpkin carving demo, magic shows and
tial asides to the cam­
Acccm Editor Halloween storytelling. In addition, lucky children under 12 receive a 
center of the vortex is 
mini pumpkin is they go on the hayride. 
. a free-spirited woman 
This year, the scariest thing in Michiana is not the incumbent win­This is the 18th year the Haunted House has terrified the souls of 
ent to fall for the vani­
ter, in fact it actually has nothing to do with the weather at all. The Michiana. Not only has it been a source of entertainment for thou­
thrce male lovers. Lee's •
reign of terror began Sept. 20 with the annual Niles Haunted House, sands, but it has also benefited the community. Last year the project
racter Mars Blackman 
which has remained one of the most popular autumn attractions over raised more than $51,000 for area children's organizations, civic
line of memorable Nike 
the past couple of years. The house, which is located at the Old Bell groups and other charities. Proceeds benefited 44 local service organi­
with the phrase, "Do 
School in Niles, Mich., has been completely renovated with new zations from the Boy Scouts to Pet Refuge to high school cheerleading 
, do you know. do you themes and all new scares, that promises to be more terrifying than and booster groups. In addition to helping these local agencies and previous years. And it definitely lives up to its promise. clubs, the project has been a beneficial source of income for those 
Upon entering the house, which consists of nearly 100 volunteers pursuing higher education in local high schools. The Niles Haunted decked out in full costume every night the hapless journeyman is pre­House has funded two college scholarships at Niles High School and sented with over 90 possible routes of doom. Everything from the typ-two at Brandywine High School. 
versation (1974) 
The Haunted House will

film about obsessive sur-ical ghosts and goblins to 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
the more obscure dinosaurs be open every weekend 
·pert (Gene Ilackman) 
and alligators climb out of through Nov. 1, between the
professional mistake of 
the woodwork to offer a 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. on
volved in a case, and 
scare. Friday an Saturday, and 
· involved with murder 
Paths can lead to a hidden from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. on
-level power plays. 
cavern and even an alligator Sunday. Weekdays will be
'lliant. disturbing script 
infested swamp on which added to the schedule as 
r statements about pri­
has to be crossed with the Halloween approaches
nal responsibility. An 
aid of cargo net that also (important to note, all times
ert Duvall has a cameo. 
hn best films of the presents problems to the are Michigan time!). The ­weary traveler. Some pas­
cost is a mere $4.50, well

Leonard Maltin 
sages lead to .familiar 
worth it for the scare con­favorites such as a haunted sidering a movie costs $7. bedroom, others detour to a Additional tours for that strange laundry room 
or a night are $2. frightening library that 
Both projects arc located would cause any late night 
at the Old Bell School on veteran of Hesburgh or 
Bell Road, a quarter mile 

-
Cushwa-Leighton to hang 
west of Bell Plaza and their head and run in fear. Shelton's Farm Market, In addition to the supernat­
between U.S. 33 and Third

ural phenomena, the house L__________________________________j Street. For more informa­entices visitors with favorite scenes from classic horror movies such tion call, 616-445-3872 or visit two relevant Web sites: www.haunt­as "Cujo," "Scream" and the not-so-classic "Lost World." ed.org and www.huantedamerica.com. For those with a lower fright threshold, there is a Small Scares Fun So next time you think there is nothing to do in South Bend, take the were supplied House that is ideal for younger children. Founded last year, it has 15 minute drive up to Niles some night, and be prepared to be scared by the Snite decorated rooms, revolving floors, face painting and an unusual pet­out of your wits. That chemistry test or that English paper won't seem Museum ofArt. ting zoo. The Small Scares Fun House is also the home of a variety of so important. 

league's current scheduling and it will feature a reunion games are going to get a Jot format because, with 11 of sorts. more difficult, and hopefully teams playing eight confer­First-year Indiana coach we'll be ready to go." ence games, every team has Cam Cameron was a 10-year Indiana is 1-3 after losing two schools it doesn't face in assistant at Michigan, work­its Big Ten opener 27-26 at a given year. ing with Carr on the staffs of Wisconsin on a last-seconds 
Of the five unbeaten Big Bo Schembechler and Gary field goal. 
Need tickets? Use Observer Classifieds 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
a major factor in the Belles' vic­tory. Highlighting the defense with 15 digs was senior Meg Kelly.. 
With the team looking strong on both offense and defense. Joyce was pleased with the abil­ity of the team to regroup and end the weekend with a win. 
"I attribute the win to the fact that we re-focused as far as offense and defense and we were functioning as a team," Joyce said. 
Now halfway through the sea­son and posting a 6-10 record so far, Joyce said that to contin­ue to win, the team must work on staying focused, staying low. and communicating continuous­ly. She added that the losses did not have to do with skills or the lack of skills but rather with the need to focus mentally in order to win. 
"Every team is a challenge from here on in. We need to show up mentally and physical­ly for every point. every game. and every match for the rest of the season," Joyce commented. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHlce, 314 LaFortune and !rom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content and without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
I am so glad that you love me.  
··spring Break.. .'Take 2" ..  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  that's all folks  sweetheart.  
Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  dic mattress set and frame. New.  FOR SALE  You have far better taste than The  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  NO's biggest dance party EVER!  Observer does.  
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ 219-862-2082  EVENING #: 288-2726  This Friday in Stepan. WSND 88.9  With all of me.  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN­ 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  1m's Retro 70's Dance. Free Food.  Water Sprite  
UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS  Moving sale: 89 Lincoln continental,  NO TICKETS WANTED  Free CO's. Free Admission. 8pm  
OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC  FOR RENT  new tires, excellent condition. 4,600/BO; Queen size bed, 1 yr,  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726  til Midnight. Be a part of history.  Hey You. Eating. Yeah, you. Come see SHOOTING CUPID perform  
INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ $190; Microware $90; JBL front  Chewy,  live at Corby's on Saturday night.  
FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. NC,  WALK TO CAMPUS  speakers $200 each. 243-1128.  NOTRE DAME  What is the purples of this?  You missed the show at Xtreamez.  
CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  FOOTBALL TICKETS  Chevy  You know you did. So come see the  
$80-$100. CALL 616-695-6321  $195/PERSON  MOUNTAIN BIKE  BUY -SELL -TRADE  best rock band on campus. Corby's.  
232-2595  '95 Trek 9200  232-0058  Don't miss the opportunity of a life­ 1 o p.m. Be there.  
•  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  full aluminum  CONFIDENTIAL  time!! Chile applications due Oct.1!!  
LaFortune Student Center  Bed & Breakfast  FULL SUSPENSION  TICKET-MART, INC.  Yo quiero salir.  
Store Hours  Have rooms for USC & Boston  sweet condition  02 Motorcycle Tool  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  games. 1 mi. N. of campus.  $7500BO  WANTED N D G A'S  Yo quiero Taco Bell.  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  2 night min. 272-9260  TO ALL HOME GAMES  Every night when I come home,  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  TICKETS  271 1526  to Siegfried, next to Knott, I pray that the Lady on the Dome  Ace & Gary. Can't wait to live with 'em next year. If only they'd buy a  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK.  provide a parking spot.  car, I know there's the right vehicle  
Phone 631-COPY  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  800-243-9683.  out there somewhere ...  
ILOST & FOUND I  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  HOME GAMES.272-6551 HAVE 2 USC GA's.  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME GAMES AND LSU  And Lo! Before my weary eyes, a single space unfurls. A beacon under dreary sk1es,  Kevin, it's nice to see you finally learning the art of reading.  
243-0658.  Call 4-3615.  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  untouched by boys & girls.  
Lost: Diamond Necklace last  Chicle!:  
Thursday at Jazzman's.  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Wanted: NO Football Tickets  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  But as I peer around the bend,  -Slap-you got that cuz you wit' him.  
Reward. If found, please call  Breakfast Inn has space available  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­ USC game. Call 818-790-0094 or  I find to my dismay,  You're also the Scat Man.  
284-4350.  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  2850  e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  A teeny, tiny motor bike  
with private baths, $70-$90,  is standing in my way!  Brad doesn't know. He just does  
Lost: Videotape on Euthanasia in  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  I Need 2 USC GA TIX-CALL BILL  NOT know, he blatantly doesn't.  
manila envelope in/near D. B.  Toll Road. Exit #107,  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  4-4912  And thus my hopes have vanished,  
please call ASAP: 4-3915  1-800-418-9487.  243 5609  Until the glorious day,  Day, there's a note on your desk for  
$20 REWARD  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE  When motorbikes are banished  you.  
Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  Need 2 USC tix  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  02 Motorcycle Tool: YOU SUCK!!!!  
would appreciate anyone who finds  Private home 2 miles from stadium.  Call Rob at 271-6005  JOHN AT  You'd better come up and read it, or  
keys to room 308 to call x1862  Private baths. 272-9471  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  Hey girlies. Saturday is going to be  else there won't be ANYONE up to  
If you find the little grit who stole  Need 7 ND-SC tickets. Call collect  awesome. I can't wait. Rock On,  work tomorrow night.  
them, you can also call x1862  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  after 5pm 219-324-3241  PERSONAL  D.J.  I mean it.  
black-grey sweatshirt wl keys taken  4 USC GAs  Hey-­ 
at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre  NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT  703-590-9374 lv msg  wicket, i miss not having you here  Wanna buy a sundial?  No, realli! A moose once bit my sis­ 
dame security  SEMESTER 2773097  by my side. R2D2 is okay. but i'd  ter.  
- WANTED  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  Married stud tix for sale. 4-4610 (even.)  much rather have you. nawni nawni nawni. love. C3PO  Quick! Someone call IX I I !!!!! That you, Comma Queen?  Kathleen -­I quit. I'm really sorry about this, since I'm leaving you  
SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  high and dry and all, but I can't take  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! SPRING  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  LaFortune Student Center  We're looking for a bassist ... Here  another 'Day.'  
BREAK! Outgoing-individuals-sell 15 & go FREE. Cancun, South  FOR SALE  674-7645.  ,J High-Speed Copies ,J Canon Color Laser Copies  bassist. here bassist ... That's a good bassist. Cal Jim if interested  When you're alooon  
Padre. Mazatlan. Jamaica. South  Buying GA's seasons or individual  ,J Digital Color Printing  about playing bass-x0677  And life is gettin' yu looonely.  
Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best  1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio,  games. Top dollar paid.  ,J Binding & Laminating  yuuu can alweeeys gooooo...  
Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  NC, pwr windows/locks,  Confidential service.  ,J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  OCH!!  
www .studentexpress.com  pwr steering, 137 klmi. drives like a  Call 234-5650.  Phone 631-COPY  NO student looking for ride to  Doontoon.  
dream, for 1875 or best  Madison Wisconsin this weekend.  
Male seeks female roommate to  offer. call 634-3660  FOR SALE  I hate not having long reach  Will pay gas, tolls. etc. If you can  Personally, I prefer Dante's contem­ 
share 2-bdrm home. $325/mo. lncl  ask for Henry  N.D. G.A.'S  help please call 4-3252 and ask for  porary works to Milton's Inferno.  
utilities. 243-0491.  271-9412.  whats up for fall break  Joel  

Tuesday, September 30, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 



Discover 
Enron's endless possibilities 
Presentation and reception Tuesday, September 30, 1997 6:00 -8:00 p.m., Main Lounge, University Club 




we deliver.... 
ess 
-








•

ga1n financial experience rivaling any on Wall Street. explore extensive domestic and unrivaled international assignments. lead with a pioneer in environmentally sound energy thinking. broaden your scope with a company whose entrepreneurial spirit lets you thrive. Create with Fortune magazine's most innovative company two years runn1ng. 
another job description? 
n01 a Unique Challenge tO grow in the most dynamic and opportunity-rich firm at the threshold of a revolutionary era of energy deregulation. 

-

Natural Gas. Electricity. Endless possibilities. 
page 16 The Observer • BOXING Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
Boxer loses more than fight 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
LAS VEGAS 

Johnny Montantes came to this boxing capital still carrying the slim hope he might finally become a contender. He ended up losing his life for a $2,000 payday in the main event he so eagerly sought. 
What was supposed to be the start of a renewed career for the 28-year-old journeyman boxer turned instead to tragedy when he died Sunday after being knocked out in the fifth round of a fight two days earli­er with James Crayton. 
"My heart goes out to his family," said Nevada Athletic Commission director Marc Ratner. "He was in my office the day before the fight and he was excited about it. lie was in 
-
great spirits just talking about what he was going to do." 
Montantes, who had fought most of his fights in Minnesota, moved to Las Vegas with his girlfriend and their two young sons to try and jumpstart a boxing career that had seen him win 26 of 29 fights, mostly against mediocre opponents. 
The fight against Crayton was to be the first step toward the ranking that Montantes so cov­eted. It was the main event of a club card at the Orleans hotel­casino off the Las Vegas Strip, and it was a fight where Montantes hoped to get some attention. 
Montantes, who had fought most of his fights as a light­weight, moved up to junior wel­terweight to fight Crayton, who was known as a respectable fighter but one that didn't carry much of a punch. Certainly, Crayton's record of 23-8 was comparable to those of lighters Montantes had faced before. 
"I told Johnny Wednesday that if he didn't get by this kid or if he didn't win impressively, he should get out of the busi­ness," said Wes Wolfe, Montantes' manager. "lie was totally confident. He said he had no doubt he was going to win." 
Montantes, by all accounts, started well Friday night, win­ning the first round on one scorecard. But though Montantes hadn't taken a beat­ing, Crayton was sharper and was winning the fight easily going into the fifth round. 
Wolfe said he didn't notice anything unusual in his boxer's condition. 
"When he came back to the corner in between the fourth and fifth rounds, his only con­cern was the other guy getting tired and his eye swelling up," Wolfe said. 
In the fifth round, a right hand from Crayton landed solidly and Montantes went down, probably already uncon­scious. His head hit the ring canvas hard, and referee Ken Bayless did not even bother to finish the account. 
Ring Dr. Robert Voy was between the ropes and tending to the fighter almost immedi­ately. A waiting ambulance crew had him to the hospital and in the emergency room at University Medical Center 19 minutes later. 
But there was nothing that could be done. Doctors tried to relieve pressure in the brain in a Friday night surgery, but Montantes never came out of his coma. 
He was declared brain dead Sunday afternoon, and his fam­ily agreed to donate his organs. 
"It was just a fight you'd never dream anything like this would happen," Ratner said. "These are things that just can't be explained." 
The death was the third in a little more than three years in Nevada, where casinos stage the biggest boxing events in the world. Before that, it had been 12 years since a boxer lost his life in the ring in the state. 
Under Nevada regulations. boxers are covered for $50,000 in medical expenses stemming from a fight, and have a $50,000 accidental death bene­lit. 
The $50,000 will likely go to Montantes' two sons, 4-year­old Marciano and 2-year-old Sonny. The money would be the biggest payday the boxer ever had. 
Tammy Brunette, Montantes' girlfriend and the mother of his sons, said she was setting up a trust fund for the boys. 
"I wanted to make sure my kids get through college, so they don't have to ever enter a boxing ring," Brunette said. 
Brunette said Montantes had been perhaps the most popular fighter in Minnesota for years. and was the state lightweight champion there. They came to Las Vegas about a year ago, but the fight was his first in the state. His previous light was in Costa Rica in May when he was stopped after being knocked down three times. 
"First of all, he was a beauti­ful father," she said. "When he came out here to Vegas, he was chasing his dreams. lie felt this is where he had to be." 

Tyson gets sued for past brawl 
By SAMUEL MAULL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Heavyweight Mitch "Blood" Green went to court Monday hoping that a 1988 street fight with Mike Tyson will give him the payday he could not win in the ring against the former heavyweight champion. 
Green, 39, is suing Tyson for $25 million in Manhattan's State Supreme Court for civil assault because of a "savage" beating Tyson gave him on a Harlem street at 4 a.m. on Aug. 23, 1988; 
Tyson's fists broke Green's nose, cut up his face and knocked him cold, Green's lawyer, Alan Rich, told the jury in opening statements. Rich said Tyson hit Green so hard that he broke his own hand on his client's face. 
Tyson's lawyer, Robert Hirth, said the former cham­pion tried to walk away but fought back only after Green grabbed and ripped his shirt. Hirth said Tyson finished Green off when Green tore a sldeview mirror ofT his car. 
As the lawyers spoke, Green sat in a front row seat in the courtroom next to his mother Charlene, muttering aloud while his mother some­times wept. 
Although the defendant is Tyson, Rich spent about 30 minutes of his 40 minute opening telllng the two men and four women of the jury how Green had been cheated and broken in spirit by pro­moter Don King. 
Rich said Green and Tyson were to receive similar purs­es for a fight in May 1986. But Green learned that Tyson was getting $450,000 to his $30,000. Rich said a cheated a dispirited Green lost the 1 O­rounder on points. 
When he saw Tyson two years later at Dapper Dan's, a 24-hour leather store on 125th Street, Green spoke to him. He just wanted another bout, Rich said, adding that business is done in all kinds of places, at all hours. 
"Hey Mike, I want a rematch," Rich quoted Green. "I already heat you," the lawyer said Tyson replied. 
"You didn't beat me. Don King heat me. You know that." 
"OK. We'll take care of that right now," Tyson allegedly said. 
Rich said Tyson "sucker­punched" his client. He told the jury that Green is the only heavyweight fighting these days who has never been knocked off his feet by Tyson in the ring. 
Green filed criminal assault charges against Tyson after the street fight. He says he dropped the charges after Tyson promised him a rematch. 
Hirth said that after the 1986 fight, Tyson moved on, winning six more fights and the championship. He later lost the title to Buster Douglas. 


Tuesday, September 30, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-


-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
•NBA
-• SAINT MARv' S CROSS COUNTRY Garden prepares to be plowed 
Belles place well in 
By RICHARD LORANT Longtime electrician Bobby expected to rise in its place. Associated Press Writer Hall clicked off the main lights, The Garden was dedicated 

y,eekend tournament 

bank by bank, until only a pale Nov. 14, 1928. President BOSTON glow shone over the peeling Coolidge switched on the lights 
By MOLLY MCVOY mine where Saint Mary's willBoston Garden is officially in yellow paint, stacks of chairs from the White House. A boxing 
Spo;tsWriter rank in its conference.the hands of the wreckers. and empty trash cans. match opened the arena a few 
The Belles are coached byTwo years after the old arena Cables that had held up the days later. 

The members of Saint Jim Trautmann and the teamwas closed to the public, its scoreboard hung limply in the The Bruins and Celtics were 
Mary's first varsity cross coun­consists of one senior, fivemaintenance crew turned off center of the arena. The the main tenants, winning 
try team improved their times juniors, five sophomores andthe lights and locked up one FleetCenter management is enough championships over the 
and their places as they ran in four freshmen. For most oflast time before the yearlong looking to give charities what's years to give the Garden mythi­
the . MIAA Jamboree at the. team members, this is thedemolition begins. left. cal status. Elvis Presley played 
Adrje .. eCollege on Saturday. ·first time they have run com­"That's it," said Rudolph By day's end, workers were there. So did the Beatles, and 
Her · competed against petitivelyin two or three years.
"Spider" Edwards, as he to begin sealing off the building almost every other top pop act snapped a padlock on the doors for removal of asbestos and of the 1960s, '70s and '80s. \t...dtytsion..•• riyals. Consequently. ·the team has leading to the floor where he other materials. Circuses and ice shows were fuade l yery. strong ged and improved dra­
•Jila<;ing sixth and !illY•since the beginninghad watched Bill Russell and The building itself is sched­regular visitors. 
ghsome 011tstanding season, and the runnersBobby Orr play. uled to be ripped apart section "You don't see arenas like 
· al performances. expect to continue to do so.
Edwards spent 33 years on by section in January. Nine this any more. They're gone, Jenny Avello place 20th, Trautmann could not be
the Garden crew before moving months later, it should be the way of the past," Hall said. 
Qtrrie Ferkenhoff placed 38th, happier with Saint Mary's per­to the adjacent FleetCenter, reduced to a vacant lot. "Like everything, the time has 
and Katie Hummer placed formance on Saturday, and
along with the Bruins and A high-rise hotel, residential, come. You've got to go with the 47th; helping the Belles defeat looks only for bigger and bet­Celtics on Sept. 29, 1995. office and retail complex is new." 
Adthmne College, Defiance ter things as the season contin­Coll~.ge _and Olivet College. ues.·
• Nfl ANALYSIS 
CalVin College won the meet "The girls did really well iUid ~?Pe College finished sec-Saturday. They competed the best they had all season; they
.. ~~d:;:.:i•ii .. ·.. . . . .
Green Bay faces undefeated Tampa 
tl\i!l'liiS•wasthe frrst of two diVI· really worked well against the 
sion me S(!.il1tMary's, competition. On Nov. 1, we'll n~ the MIAA be able ·to compete for the top ipson Nov. 1 at three place because we are OUvet College. In November, going to improve so much By DAVE GOLDBERG overcome much more. handed Larry Centers fumbled tbe Belles will face the same faster than the other teams," 
Bay with hopes of division victory 
teams and the meet will deter-Trautmann commented.
Associated Press W rirer If they win next week, howev­as they were running out the er -and the Bucs are due to clock. And they lost in overtime 
The Green Bay Packers never lose; they got lucky Sunday -to Washington. thought they'd be facing a criti­things don't look so bleak. John Elway finally got to beat cal game in the sixth week this Tampa might challenge in the Dan Reeves on Sunday, but the season. Central, but Minnesota (3-2) quarterback who may have 
But that's what they've got doesn't have enough defense enjoyed the day most was Dave next week at Lambeau Field and Detroit (3-2) is as inconsis­Brown of the Giants. when Tampa Bay comes in. If tent as ever. Apparently, he's been harboring the Packers should lose to the The next two weeks may tell a a grudge not only against Bucs (5-0). they'd be three lot: after Green Bay-Tampa Bay Reeves, his former coach, who is games behind in the NFC comes Dallas at Washington in 0-5 in Atlanta, but Beeves' good Central, with two division losses. two weeks. friend Mike Ditka, now 1-4 with And they'd have to begin think­Overall, the NFC belongs to New Orleans. ing about defending their title as Dallas, San Francisco, Green So when Brown threw his sec­a wild card. Bay ... and the Bucs. ond TD pass in the Giants' 14-9 
The disappointments? The Arizona Cardinals, whose win over the Saints on Sunday, 
Oakland is 2-3. Keep it close losing tradition is almost as long he pointed a finger right at and the Raiders will find a way as Tampa Bay's, might be the Ditka, who had criticized him on to lose~ the Jets, Chiefs and Bucs with a little luck. NBC the past two years. Oilers all beat them that way. On Sunday, they lost in Tampa "He's just another ex-Dallas Jeff George has great stats, but by a point when Trent Dilfer assistant coach who thinks he he finds ways to lose. completed a fourth-down pass knows it all," said Brown, who 
And add Indianapolis (0-4) to Karl Williams for the winning has made progress under Jim and Tennessee (1-3). Sure the TD and Kevin Butler missed two Fassel he didn't make under Oilers remain homeless, but it's field goals. Reeves. obvious Steve McNair needs That's three losses they could "He's like a lot of older coach­more on-the-job training. have won and a win they could es in the league now who aren't 
The Colts? How do you blow a have lost. winning any games -a bunch 26-0 lead? The victory was in their only of know-it-ails. Look at their Is the guard changing? To an home game, coming back from records. They think they know 
7:00P.M. 

extent, if you believe the Bucs a 15-point second-half deficit to so much because of their past arc for real -and they are, beat the Cowboys in overtime. link to the game, but football 101 LAw ScHOOL although they might not yet be a In their other losses, they blew has changed and they haven't. Super Bowl team. a 21-3 fourth-quarter lead in They sit t!-Iere and eritieize me, 
In fact, the team to watch is Cincinnati, with the winning but what have they done late-Washington (3-1). score coming after the sure-!y.?" 
The Redskins have built slowly to this point, adding free agents like Cris Dishman to good drafts. And they've won despite a slow Campus Shoppesstart by Gus Frerotte -he threw an interception and fum­1837 South s·end Avenue bled in the first quarter Sunday. 
South Bend, Indiana 46637
The defense, a weak spot for years, held Jacksonville to six 
2 blocks east of Notre Dame
points and turned the game. Still, it would be no surprise if on St. Rd. #23 

Green Bay. Dallas or San Francisco made it to the Super Bowl. 
The Cowboys (3-1) are getting nothing from Emmitt Smith, and the offensive line is showing its ~ age. But the defense (surprise) Ceod-,.at1M loealion &.led. Notvdd with 1111 otber a&r. seems good enough to win most 
Salhenualy. Waftlec:eaeatn. Toppimpe~~n. EipUa 10/31/97 
games and there are still Troy 
L. 01995 I Cu't Bdiete lt't Y~ Lid.
Aikman, Michael Irvin and Deion Sanders. Not a dominant 

=------------------~ 
team, but a good one. The 49ers also live by defense, 
~--so~-oFFr
particularly without Jerry Rice. And they play in a division that almost guarantees six wins Get 50~ OFF a regular
-
(Atlanta, New Orleans and St. 
or large cup or cone or

Louis). That 13-7 loss to Tampa now hardly seems bad, consid­
frozen yogurt! 

ering Rice got hurt and Steve Young missed most of the game. 
The Packers are hurting (Edgar Bennett, Craig Newsome, Frank Winters, Mark Chmura) ~ and don't have the depth to I Coed only II tlle leeatitalilted. Not n&:hrilluaytd.ere&r. Sell 
1 ~emoaly. ODeeaopoDperCUitGIDerpenilit. Elpim 10/31/97 " L 01995 ICaa't BelitTelt't Yoprt, Ltd. 
-------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• GOLF 
Vernon leads Irish in victory 

Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame sophomore Todd Vernon ran away with tournament medal­ist honors in record-setting fashion while leading the Irish to a comfortable 32-stroke vic­tory in wind-swept, final-round action Monday in the Big East conference men's golf champi­onship, held at Blackthorn Golf Club. · 
Notre Dame claimed its third straight Big East title behind the historic effort of Vernon and steady play from seniors Brad Stanis and Bryan Weeks, with each earning a spot on the seven-member all-confer­ence team. Notre Dame's George Thomas also repeated as Big East conference coach of the year, his third confer­ence coach of the year award in 10 seasons with the Irish. 
Seton Hall rallied to a run­ner-up finish at 627, edging out three teams that tied at 
629: Connecticut, Georgetown, and St. John's. Georgetown sophomore Greg Koush totaled a 14 7 to edge Stanis by a shot for runner-up honors. 
Monday's early action includ­ed the conelusion of Sunday's round that was suspended due to darkness, with the final three teams -Notre Dame, Seton llall, and Georgetown ­having a combined 11 holes left to play among their respective five-man teams. 
Vernon. playing as Notre Dame's No. 3 man, had to fin­ish the 17th and 18th before beginning his second round. Despite a bogey on the ,par­four 17th. Vernon completed his first round with a tourna­ment-leading, two-under 70, leaving him two shots ahead of three other golfers. 
Vernon -who had to three­put just once in the 36-hole tournament -then carded a one-under 71 in the second round, despite harsh wind con­ditions that reached over 30 miles per hour. His 141 total bests the 18-year-old Big East championship record of 142 set by Providence's Matt Zito at Willimantic Country Club in 1979. 
Notre Dame golfers have captured five conference medalist trophies during the 1990s, with that group includ­ing Mike O'Connell Jr., Chris Dayton, Brian Donohoe, and Bill Moore. 
Vernon's three-under 141 also represents the best 36­hole tournament score by a Notre Dame golfer in the recorded history of the pro­gram (since 1963) and the best 36-hole tournament by an Irish golfer in any competition since Mike O'Connell Sr. totaled a 137 during a 1964-65 quad­meet against Air Force, Western Illinois, and Iowa. Vernon's 141 equals the third­best recorded 36-hole score by an Irish golfer since 1963, with O'Connell owning the only other recorded sub-140 score, a 136 in a 1962-63 quad meet against Northwestern, Ball State and Bellarmine. 
After a clarification of first­round scores, Notre Dame headed into Monday's comple­tion of the opening round with a 19-stroke cushion on Georgetown and a 22-stroke lead on Villanova and Seton Hall. But Stanis bogeyed his only remaining hole, Vernon bogeyed 17 and Weeks fin­ished with three straight bogeys, yielding the Irish a team score of 293 in the play­five, count-four format. Georgetown, meanwhile, played even-par over the course of the first-round com­pletion, making up five strokes on the hosts en route to a first­round 307. 
As the second round began to unfold, Notre Dame pulled away from the field amidst a day known for gusting winds that often quickly changed direction, adding to the chal­lenge of the 7,1 05-yard course, which included tough pin placements throughout the 36­hole event. 
Stanis proved his worth as Notre Dame's No. 5 man, a role in which Vernon excelled as a--freshman last year. Stanis finished all alone in third place with a 148, after an impressive final-round 73 that included nine pars and a birdie over the first 10 holes. Weeks, who entered the second round two shots behind Vernon, made the turn at two-over before carding three straight bogeys en route to a 79, good enough for a 151 total and share of fourth. 
Seton Hall rallied to its run­ner-up finish behind a second­round 75 from its No. 3 player, freshman Eugene Smith. The Pirates' 312 second round was rounded out by a 78 from Mike Costigan, a 79 from Ed Shannon. and an 80 from Scott Cawley. 
page 19 

Soccer Top 25 
1. 1ndi~fi';l!iilt 
2. 
St. John's 

3. 
u 4. 


5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11T. 
11T. 13. -1 
1-4. -1-1 
15. 1-0 
16. -3-0 17. 1-1 18. 6-2-2 19T. 5-1-2 19T. 6-3-0 21. 4-1-1 22. 3-1-1 23. 6-2-2 24. 6-2-1 25. 5-1-1 
-The exchange of tickets<for the Southern a game will begin at 9 a.m. ro Students may ticket booklets and ID with $16 {Notre Dame or $10 (Saint Mary's to the ticket office at Center on the second The maximum amount tickets exchanged are 300 both Notre Dame and Saint 
students. 
Run Benefit -These 6-mile runs and 2-mile are scheduled for 
...~...~ .... , Oct,/4; at 11 a.m. 
$5 if you register in at RecSports or $7 if register at the race. A pan­breakfast will follow the

YOU DEMAND POWER, SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 

$200

Power Macintosh" 6500/275 
32/4GB/t2XCO/Multiple Scan 15AV 
cash back*

1..2/Zip Drive/EthemetMdeo ln/NTSC Oufl)<bd Now $2,675 (or $st¥monthJ** B£fOR£ REMTE PowerBool( 1400cs/133 
t6/tGB/8XCD/l2/11.J" DSTN display 
Now $2,o85 (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 


$100 

cash back* 
Save another 

Power Macintosh" 5400/18o 
t6/t.2GB/8XCD/Built·in display/Kbd 

Sso 

Now St.sso (or $29/month)** BEFORE REMTE 
cash back* 
Color StyleWriter" 4100 Now $220** BEFORE REMTE 

WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. 8:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ . 
Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 14oocs/133 includes a carrying case. While supplies last! 
f NOTRE-oAMELAWi 
I REVIEW STUDENTS I I I
PRESENT 

: "What you want to know : 1 about Law School." 1 
I I I I I I I I 
-:­

I I 
I VVednesday I I October 1, 1997 Mock Court Room I 
-Offer expires October 10, t997· No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 90--day period will ~ added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be included in the repayment schedule. For example, the m~nth of Mays. 1997, ha~ an •nterest rat~ 12..4o% with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 1).82%. A monthly payment of S49·75 for the Power Macmt_o~h 6_5oo/275 system IS an estimate ba 
on a total loan amount of $2,872.)4. which includes a sample purchase price of $2,675 and a 6% loan ongmat1on fee. Interest is variable based on 
the Prime Rate as reported on the sth business day of the month in The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3·9'*'· ~e Apple Computer Loan has an 
8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty and is subject to credit approval. Monthly payments may vary dependmg on actual COf!lPUter system prices, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly ":ariable inte.rest rate. 01997 Apple Computer, Inc. All nghts reserved. Apple the Ap le logo Mac. Macintosh PowerBook. Power Macintosh and StyleWnter are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, i!'c. One~nner and O'uickTakf are trademarks of Apple' Computer, Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer valid from July 12. 1997 thr~ugh Octob~r 10, 1997, while sup~he;; lasJ and subj~ to availability. Void where prohibited by taw. See participating reseller for further rules and detaJls. All Maantosh computer5 are es1gne to be accessible to individuals with disability. To learn more 015. only). call Boo-6oo-78o8 or nv Boo-755-o6cn. 
I 7:OOp.m. Law School I 
L__s::s:d.::t~P:.•::o:.ty__J .. 
Tuesday, September 30, 1957

page 20 The Observer· WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Defensive play of Souers helps Crime sweep Chicks for first win 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Off-Campus quickly turned score as the game clock wound Sporrs Writer the ball back over, but Lewis down. Upp made a reception once again was called for two for a first down. After one 
Assisted by the many penal­penalties. The second penalty incomplete pass, Kelly Dillon ties called against Lewis, the was declined by Off-Campus caught a pass and ran with it Off-Campus Crime turned its because the pass had been for a 40-yard gain. play around Sunday, defeating intercepted on the play. The Lewis had two more com­
Lewis Hall for the team's first first half ended with a score of plete passes and almost made win of the year. Off-Campus 6, Lewis 0. it into the end zone, but 
The game was determined on Lewis started off the second couldn't get the ball to fall into the first possession, as quarter­half with four straight posses­the right hands. Off-Campus back Jenifer Roe ran for a 45-sions, and seemed in good ran down the clock for the 6-0 
yard touchdown on the third position to score. On the next win. play of the game. Off-Campus play, the Chicks were hit hard OfT-Campus head coach John then failed on its two-point by a 10-yard penalty. Steele said, "I'm really happy conversion. Safety Kristin Souers for Off­with our girls, and with our 
Later in the first half, Lewis Campus intercepted Talaricio's offense for finally coming began its possession with a 1a­pass to keep the Crime in the together. Our defense came up 
yard run, followed by an lead. big for us at the end with two incomplete pass and a short Off-Campus was unable to interceptions." pass. Captain and quarterback reach the end zone, but on Lewis coach John Broussard Liz Talaricio's 20-yard pass Lewis's first play on its next said, "We tried hard and was then completed to Carrie possession, Souers once again weren't able to make up for Upp for a first down. Lewis was intercepted the ball, running it early mistakes." hurt by two penalties, and was back for a gain of 10 yards. Stephen Putthoff. another forced to punt the ball. The This time, it was the Crime Lewis coach, added, "Now punt went into the end zone, who was stopped by penalties we're going to put this one and Off-Campus got the ball on consecutive plays. behind us and move on to with 60 yards to go. Lewis was fighting hard to Pasquerilla East." 
Meehan tosses game-winner 
remained undefeated, Clements pass and put a stop

Breen-Phillips 
improving their record to 2-0-to a potentially dangerous 
1. Badin drive. Breen-Phillips quarterback The Banshees defense

gives Badin its 
Katie Meehan found tight-end played tough throughout the Megan Speaks in the back of game to preserve the shutout.

first loss 
the end zone for the game's Wide receiver Natalie Kelly, By BRIAN KESSLER first and only touchdown. one of the team captains, SportS Writer Meehan and Speaks also had caught two touchdown pass­
great games on the other side es, but both were called back 
Despite having two touch­of the ball. because of penalties. downs taken away due to Meehan, who also plays Badin's captain and middle penalties, the Breen-Phillips defensive line, made a few linebacker Fran Maloney was Banshees still pulled out a 6-key tackles, while Speaks unhappy with the team's 0 win against the Bullfrogs of came up from her safety posi­play: "The team was not Badin Hall. The Banshees tion to intercept a Prissy motivated and didn't come 
out ready to play. We didn't execute as well as we could have and didn't put it all together." 
Badin was short one receiv­er due to injury, but Clements still played a good game. Stephanie Frigon had an interception for the Bullfrogs. 
Badin will test its luck against Lyons this Sunday and try to improve on its 0-1­1 record. 
•. 


Second-half touchdown puts 
Walsh ahead 6-0 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sporrs Writer 
The Wild Women of Walsh prevailed for a 6-0 victory in a hotly contested battle against Pangborn Hall on Sunday afternoon. The tone of the game was set from the very beginning when a player from each team was ejected in the first two series. Both teams were upset with the referees, but played through the contro­versy. 
At the end of the first half, the teams were involved in a scoreless tie. Both defens­es came to play, but it was the long pass that was the downfall for Pangborn. Walsh's quarterback, Carolyn Parnell, and Luz Maria Rodriguez were a dangerous duo all after­noon. Parnell connected with Rodriguez late in the second half for the only scoring of the day. The con­version failed, but Walsh's defense was able to hold off a late threat by Pangborn. Captain Sarah Morrill had an interception for Walsh and was the team's leader on defense. 
Pangborn's captain Natalie Young was impressed with the play of Walsh's Hodriguez: "She is a really great receiver and they killed us with the long passes." 
Pangborn's quarterback Jen DePaul played well in a losing effort. Pangborn was solid on both sides of the ball despite the fact that it doesn't have a full roster and has to play a lot of peo­ple both ways. 
Pangborn dropped to 0-3 while Walsh improved its record to 3-0. 


Tuesday, September 30, 1997 The Observer • INTERHALL 
Sorin College beats Siegfried 
Siegfried fumble gave Sorin a back-and-forth possession
Fourth-down 
possession inside its oppo­battle between the two teams. nent's 25-yard line. Siegfried's Both sides had difficulty

converszon 
defense was able to hold the putting together successful line to bring about fourth down offensive fronts, and the sec­proves successful with five yards to go. ond half featured failures to The next play featured a achieve first downs and forced
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN dose rundown, but the quar­punting on both sides. 
Sports Writer terback found his receiver and Following the game, 
completed the pass for a first Siegfried's coaches remindedSorin College, ranked sev­down. Sorin ran the ball across the players they need to getenth going into Sunday's game, for a touchdown and scored more fired up both on the fielddefeated eighth-place Siegfried the extra point to go ahead 7-and on the sideline. The team7-0. Both teams previously had 
0. received a bye this weekend,records of 0-0-1. 
Hindered by rain, the while Sorin will face a very
Early in the f'irst quarter, a remainder of the game proved strong Fisher team. 


PW's offense too much to handle 
ByMATTYUNG the end zone. To the Weasels' ed Mary Laflin's hands, who Sports Writer dismay, officials called back the muscled through a defender touchdown after freshman Kori and marched into the end zone. 
After Sunday's rain, the Yelle threw an illegal block. Laflin's touchdown was the Pasquerilla West and McGlinn The penalty hurt PW's drive, only score in the first half, and interhall football teams faced which resulted in a punt, but gave PW a 6-0 lead. off. PW attempted to rebound the play s·hook the confidence PW had the first possession of from last week's tie, while of the McGlinn defense. the second half. on· the drive's McGlinn had its sights on Both teams' second offensive third play, McGlinn freshman improving to 2-1. McGlinn drive's were similar to their cornerback Leah Ashe made an started the game with the ball. respective first drives. McGlinn incredible leaping interception On its first drive, McGlinn was again held to a three-and­and run-back to raise failed to gain any yardage out by the blitzing PW line­McGlinn's spirits. McGlinn had against a fired up Purple backers. excellent field position and Weasel defense, and resorted When PW got the ball back, hoped for a needed score. That to punting the football. McKillop and Kriegel ran hope would soon be extin­
PW quarterback Liz McKillop another option, for another guished by PW defensive back ran the option on PW's first two touchdown, which was again Christine Olberholzer. plays. On PW's second play, called back. After the penalty, Olberholzer recorded a sack McKillop pitched the ball just in PW went to the airways. After and batted away a would-be time for running back Allison hitting an array of PW first-down pass to stifle Kriegel to find the daylight she receivers, McKillop threw a McGlinn's end zone dreams. needed to race 30 yards into tight spiral into the sure-hand-Both defenses were extreme-
Pasquerilla East will maintain highest ranking after victory 
with four touchdown passes Welsh all game long despite
Welsh falls to 
and another touchdown on a Welsh's variety on offensive run. Plummer threw a 30-play-calling. PE's defense wasPyros 35-0 in yard bootleg and connected led by sophomore Stephanie on the conversion to make it Trautman who had some keyoffensive rout 8-0. sacks and supplied tough She then ran one in from 40 pressure on Welsh's quarter­
By TIM CASEY 
yards out and again made the back, sophomore Stephanie
Sports Writer 
conversion to take a 16-0 lead Eden. into halftime. Sophomore receiver Kristen
Pasquerilla East showed 
PE came out strong to start McGregor and junior tailbackSunday why it is the highest 
the second half with another Ann Searle played a major
ranked-team in women's touchdown strike to make it role in Pasquerilla East's
interhall football. PE ran out 22-0. On its next possession, offensive explosion. 
to a quick lead and never Plummer threw another TO Welsh played with much oflooked back in a 35-0 win 
on a great catch by the tight intensity throughout the gameover Welsh. 
end. The game ended with yet led by defensive standout
Junior quarterback 
another touchdown pass to junior Jodi Lucena. Eden and
Elizabeth Plummer had 
make the final 35-0. sophomore receiver Sarah
another great performance 
The PE defense shut down Lett led the Welsh offense. 


The Observer/John Daily 

Footing proved difficult after Sunday's thunder showers. 
ly tough throughout the game. near the end of the game when PW's Mary Hepburn, Lauren McKillop handed the ball to Voitier, and Mary Kenney, as Erin Place for a long, but quick, well as McGlinn's Ashe made touchdown run. The score put big plays to stop the offense. PW up 13-0, which was the The decisive difference was in game's final score. the caliber of the offenses. McGlinn QB Courtney Blake 
PW's McKillop made McGlinn best described her team's play. hesitant with her hard snap "Our defense made the stops count, and her exceptional corp it needed and gave our offense sof backs and receivers were opportunities, but our offense able to move the football. PW failed to convert when we finally got another big play needed points," she said. 

By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Sunday's game between Cavanaugh and Lyons was really two games in one: before the delay and after. 
Before lightning and rain interrupted play, the Lyons Lions were in total control. They ran out to a quick 6-0 lead early in the first half when senior quarterback Kathy Tschanz threw a short touchdown pass to senior Kim Rosenkoetter. 
On their next offensive pos­session, Lyons continued moving the ball with ease, highlighted by a halfback option pass from sophomore Katy Yanez to freshman Lindsay Goodwin, who made a spectacular diving catch to make it 12-0 before the 20­minute delay. 
Pasquerilla West's quarterback tries to draw McGlinn offsides. PW was able to beat McGlinn. 
The Lions defense shut down the Chaos on their first few possessions but Cavanaugh came back after the delay with a quick score on a quarterback keeper from to end the half at 12-6. 
The second half was a defensive battle with neither team able to score again. Both offenses struggled because of the field condi­tions and neither team could move the ball down field. 
The Cavanaugh de~nse was led by senior Katie McCoyd who had some big plays. Two receivers, junior Allison Krilla and senior Meghan McNally, had some nice catches for the Chaos as well. 
Cavanaugh's coaches were pleased with the effort, espe­cially after battling back from the early deficit. 

l 
l 
I 
I 
I 
' 
-
• 
·­


,-­
I ~ 
I 
I 
I The Observer • MEN'S INTERHALL Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
I 
~ Knights shut out Roos in 16-0 thriller 
By ANTHONY BIANCO to go for a two-point conversion Sports Wrirer rather than bring out their kick­ing team. They worfl successful, 
Despite both teams' fine fin­making it a 8-0 ball game. That ishes the week before, Keenan was all the Knights rweded on llall dominated the Kangaroos this day. of Keough in tho second wonk of The second half brought mon~ play with a 16-0 victory. domination by tlw Keenan 
The contest began with a offense. Due to the rain, the Keough possession that lasted Knights favored their running only three plays, being shut game this time around. One of down by a solid Knenan defense. such drives rflsulted in a Joe Keenan's offense took ovnr, Klopp rushing touchdown. putting together a drive that Scoring on another two-point lasted much of the first quartor. conversion, Keenan made it 16­
"Our passing game was click­0. ing early on," comments Keenan The Kangaroos threatened captain D.J. Ilartman. late in the game with an offen­
Led by freshman quartnrback sive drive of their own, but the Craig Venvertloh, the Knights' Knights again stepped up. The passing game carried them dur­clock ran out after Keenan's 
-
ing the drive. It was capped olT Spencer McKee and John with Vcnvertloh's pass to split Scolaro sacked quarterback end Nelson Rivera. Travis Alexander. 
Scoring right before a heavy Next Sunday, Keough (1-1) downpour, the Knights decided will face Dillon while the Knights {2-0) take on Alumni. 

Zahm leaves O'Neill scoreless 
By ALISON WEL TNER over once more. Completing a Zahm. and ANTHONY BIANCO pass, Zahm moved about two Sports Writers yards off the goal line and ran Dillon 8, Off-Campus 0 
the ball in for a second touch­In a game dominated by the 
Zahm Hall shut out O'Neill down. defenses, Dillon llall was 16-0 Sunday at Stepan Field. O'Neill's olTcnse operwd the finally able to score for the This, the second straight win third quarter strong, but on a victory againstOff-Campus. 
for Zahm, boosts its record to fourth down short by onn yard Playing on a slick field after 2-0, while O'Neill becomes 0-1 the quarterback keeper failed, a mid-al'tnrnoqn downpour, to start its season. and Zahm started another there was no score in the Zahm head coach Jerry drive. After a failed pass to game until the last four min­Fitzpatrick was pleased with the end zone, Zahm brought in utes. Dillon was called for a his team's performance. its kicker for a field goal, penalty, and it became third "The guys did a great job upping the scon~ to 16-0. down and about twenty yards. today. They had a responsibil­The fourth quarter brought Senior quarterback Stephan ity to fulfill and fullilled it suc­about several lucky breaks for Molina connected with Durran cessfully," Fitzpatrick com­O'Neill's weakened offense. On Alexander for a touchdown mented two occasions, O'Neill was pass of nearly 80 yards. The 
O'Neill began the game with forced to punt but regained two-point conversion was run several third-down conver­possession due to penalties in by Greg Kuzma. sions but failed to score. Zahm called against Zahm. Each Alexander said. "Tiw defens­then stepped in, quickly gain­flag, the first thrown for es were playing really tough, ing momentum. A 30-yard roughing the snapper and the but we linally hooknd it up for pass helped inspire the team's second for roughing the kick­a big bomb." drive, and two plays later, er, was a 15-yard automatic Dillon, ranked fourth last Zahm ran for a touchdown, first down for O'Neill. Failure week, moved up to 2-0, and making the score 7-0. to capitalize on these errors, will facB Keough Sunday. Off­
O'Neill's offense then had however, brought the game to Campus dropped to 0-2 on the another chance, but a costly a dose with a huge victory for season. fumble allowed Zahm to take 
• 
Stepan North 1 p.m. Keenan vs. Alumni 2 p.m. Off-Campus vs. Morrisse 3 p.m. Dillon vs. Keough 
Stepan South 1 p.m. Sarin vs. Fisher 2p.m. Knott vs. O'Neill 3 p.m. Carroll vs. Siegfried 
_.. 
Sunday 10/12 
Stepan North 1 p.m. Stanford vs. Off-Campus 2p.m. Alumni vs. Dillon 3p.m. Morrissey vs. Keough 
" 
Stepan South 1 p.m. 
Zahm vs. Knott 2p.m. 
Fisher vs. Carroll 3 p.m. 
O'Neill vs. Siegfried 
O'Neill hopes to change its losing ways when it plays Morrissey on Sunday. Zahm will face Knott next. 

The Observer/John Daily 

This pass proves to be a little high for the receiver to bring down . 
. Men•s IH Football Schedule 
Sunday10/5 

.. 

Tuesday, September 30, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 



DO ANYTHING ELSE? 


48Wee 
49 Swaps 
51 Resell at a 
profit 53 Philosopher Mortimer 


For More Info. Contact: RecSports -1-6100 www.nd.edu/-recsport


197 J 

• 
DoPIII .K& 6 M;LE RUNS, ~~h!;~~g~g;~~CAKE 
BREAKFAST 
® 

• 


MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 

40 Singer Crystal 

30 Bed-and­
41 Down 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
breakfast 
44 Sushi bar order are available by touch-tone phone: 31 River through 45 Window 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Frankfurt treatments 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 47 African best of Sunday crosswords from the last others antelope 50 years: 1-8C8-7-ACROSS. 
·~ 
w 
Vj• 

64 Church officer &5"0r--!" 66 Big Apple 
section 

67 Logician in space 
&a Sunbeams 
DOWN 
1 Place to start a ride 
2Check voicemail, perhaps 
3 Be plentiful 4 Student 5 Judge's order 6 Fabled fast 
starter 7 Oklahoma city aDischarge 9 Type of mutual 
fund · 1oTook the bait 11 One of Frank's exes 12 Krazy-­13 Opposite WSW 21 Fund 22 Sky light? 25 German river 26 Peacock's pride 
39 Hideout 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BOR'\ ON THIS DAY: Marky Mark, Bili \lover>. Bill Hayes, Andre Lacroix 
DEAR EUGENIA: I ····"born on March 12, 1951,at 12:UOa c1 
I am the father of five-~t.'male chi!· dren and, due to the relar. 'nship with my ex, they ha\'e bt..--comt_ :-trangers. I want to get my life Loge1:-d so that I may take-my rightful r:·'"' in their lives. 
\'.G 

DEAR V.G.: Half the battle is rec· ognizing the slump to begin with. Your chart has been hit harshly for some time now and, although you aren't out of the woods, vou are on the way to recovery. Your depression can be turned around if you use your added discipline to get achve in pro­ductive groups and organizations. You are in a high cycle where learn~ ing is concerned, and your yearning for awareness is just the 1:-eginning of a long, adventurous road that hopefully will lead to your success. You have to be happy with vourself before you can offer your daughters any kind of relationship. )ou will be moving into a period in 1998 that will change your home environ· rnent. Your children may e\·en spend more time with you. You are in a high cycle where meeting better po­tential partners is concerned and this should help you move into a more settled position. Once you've be~ come secure in your own l1fe, your chil<lren will come to you and your wife will feel better about ,·our be­ing with them. You match up well to the signs Leo, Libra and Aquarius. 
ARIES (March 21-April19•:Social events will be a must to att:::--.d. You will enjoy lavish forms of t::-:ertain· 
Born Today: Use vour 5<::-~:tive nature to your advantage this year. If you really want something badlY·::ou should be able to convince others to help vou make it so. You'll be able to ;·Jt your creative talents to \·\'ork if you let your irnagination flow. 
ment and should consider making arrangements ~arly. 
TAURUS !April 20-May 20): Your home cn\·ironment will be unstabiL· todav. Be sure not to ruffle the feath· ers o'f those vou care about most 
GEMINi (May 21-)une 20): You will be able to contribute a great deal tu groups that you joiri. Your rommuniG1­tion skills will bring you popularity. 
CANCER !June 21-july 221: You will be in an overly generous mood to-­day. Do not give to children or rela­tives when they really don't deserve it 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Your cha­risma will no doubt attract a lot of at­tention. Use your intellectual ap­proach to get the best results. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: Op­portunities to make advancements through good business sense are evi­dent. Do not allow colleagues to counteract your intc.ntions. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): New ro­mantic partners will evolve through group endeavors. However, the asso­ciation is notlikelv to last. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Lov­ers may prove un\,·orthy of your af­fection. Do not give your heart to someone who mav not live up to your standards. · 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Opportunities for romance will flour­
ish through travel. You can gain valu­
able cultural knowledge. 
CAPRICORN IDee. 22-)an. 19): 
Investments will cost more than you 
anticipated. Do not get involved in 
joint financial venturl's. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
will be emotional if vou allow vour 
lover to take advantage of your good 
nature. Changes in your domestic Sit-­
uation will be beneficial. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do 
not overspend on entertainment. You 
will find that children will be a hand­
ful. 


Please recycle The 0 bserver 
-

• 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "Shoo!" 5 Bishop of old TV 10 Like some furs 14 Forbidden: Var. 15 Ballroom dance 16 Novelist--S. Connell Jr. 17Gobs 18 Sharon of Israel 19 Behind schedule 20 Righteous Brothers' musical style 23 Cool fabric 24 Crisp fabric 28 Coda's place in a score 29 House of-­33 Thingamajig 34 Think about 
36 Old-time actor Wallace-­371967 Van 
Morrison hit 41 Handel oratorio 42 Say again 43Teamed up 
(with) 46CD player 
maker 47 Corp. giant so They practice 
girth control 
52 Less convincing, as an excuse 
54 Popular Southern vegetable 
sa Lima's locale &1 Sao-­&2 Touch down 63 1934 Pulitzer 
writer Herbert 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
l__ __ 
-----~---~----------------------, 


--SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, September 30, 1997 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Irish hope to continue domination against IU 
Notre Dame looks to continue 
7-1 series lead 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assisrant Spons Ediwr 
Domination is the word which comes to mind in the Irish series with the Hoosiers. Currently, Notre Dame leads the series, 7-1, which contin­ues tonight in Bloomington. 
Last year, the two squads met twice. once in regular season and once in tourna­ment play. The last meeting between the two occurred in the first round of the NCAA tournament with the Irish trouncing the Hoosiers, 8-1. 
• 
came against Villanova. 
The Hoosiers are returning nine of their starters and are looking to improve on last year's record of 11-11. They finished seventh in the Big Ten. 
In last year's game, the Irish were lnd by sophomore Jenny Heft who registered a hat trick, only the second hat trick in NCAA tournament play ever for the Irish. Sophomore Jenny Streiffer contributed two goals in the tournament game. 
Notre Dame is looking to improve on its record of 9-0­
1. The team has about a month to fine tune its game before tournament play begins. After Indiana, Notre Dame will face Boston College at home on Sunday. 



Freshman Meotis Erikson flies past a defender in recent soccer action. 
1. North Carolina 
2. Notre Dame 
3;.+w .,,Y\~~inia
4t---,:Texas A&M -$.~ nll!iii.iPortland 
6. 
Santa 

7. 
Duke 

8. 
Will' 

9. 
Hartford 

10. 
Nebraska 11 T. Connecticut 11 T. Maryland 


13. Wake Forest 
~ ~: ~~i~~~~~~~~11,1~~~~7 
16. Southern Methodist· 1?. Brigham Young 
18. 
Harvard 

19. 
Florida 

20. 
Massachusetts 


4~3-0 
6-0-1 5-2-0 6-2-0 4-1-0 
6-2-0 
6-1-0 6-1-1 7-1-0 
5-2-0 
7-1-0 6-2-0 8-0-0 4-1-0 4-2-1 
6-0-0 
The Observer/ Peter Cilella 


• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
-Belles have mixed success 
SMC falls to North Central but ·beats Carroll 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY r Spons Wrirer 
Weekend play for the Saint Mary's volleyball team brought a win and a loss as the Belles traveled to the Carroll College Triangular that also included North Central College. Although the Belles got off to a slow start, it was a different team that showed up to chal­lenge Carroll College in the final match of the Saturday event. 
The Belles played North Central College first and lost 
-
15-1, 12-15, 15-12, and 15-10. 
Coach Jennie Joyce, com­menting on the low score of the first match, said that the team did not come ready to play. However, the Belles redeemed themselves with strong offensive efforts coming from 5-foot-4 freshman setter Megan Jardina who had 28 assists, and sophomore middle Jayne Ozbolt who added three service aces. Contributions from sophomore Mary Rodovich and senior Betsy Connolly, who had 10 and 11 kills respectively, aided in the Belles' effort. 
Sophomore middle Agnes Bill led the defensive game with 17 digs. In assessing the efforts of the team versus North Central. Joyce said, "We did serve aggressively but our passing and communication broke down and that is why we lost." 
In their next match, versus Carroll College, the Belles exe­cuted their game plan in a completely different fashion than in their previous match against North Central. 
"All of our systems were bet­ter and we looked like a com­pletely different team. North Central was our wake-up match," Joyce stated. 
The Belles rebounded from the loss to North Central, defeating Carroll 15-8, 15-13, 6-15, and 15-3. A key in the offensive effort once again was Jardina, who had 44 assists. Also, the impressive play of outside hitter Mary Rodovich, who had four service aces, was 
see BELLES I page 14 
• MEN's SoccER 
Velho named Big East player of the week 
Special to The Ob$erver 
University of Notre Dame goalkeeper Greg Velho. who helped the Irish men's soc­cer team to three straight 1­0 victories last week, has been named Big East defen­sive player of the week. Velho collected 16 saves in victories over Eastern Illinois, Vlllanova, and Rutgers in earning the honor for the second time in his career. 
A junior, be has played every minute of every game this season and has yet to yield a goal to a conference opponent in five games. 
Against both Eastern Illinois and Rutgers, Vehlo made a season-high six saves. He has a .84 goals against aver­age this season in 10 outings and a .816 gave percentage. Velho has seven shutouts in 1997 and 20 in his two-plus seasons. 
Notre Dame, currently 23rd in the National Coaches Association of America/ Umbro rankings, is 6-2-2 overall and 4-0-1 in the Big East. The Irish are in first­place in the league regular season standings. 
The next game for the Irish is Friday at SMU. 


at Stanford, 

vs. St. John's, 
a) 
• Men's soccer top 25

~ October 4, 2:30 p.m. 
@!) October 3, 7:30 p.m. 
'C 
see page 19

It '~:so at Indiana, 
Volleyball vs. North Park, .....
S0
\~ tonight, 7 p.m. 
tonight, 7 p.m. 
~ 
• Men's golfwins weekend tournament 
')~ 
at SMU, 

Soccer at Manchester, 
see page 19

S0 ~ 
M October 3, 7:30 p.m. ~ October I, 4 p.m. 
~ 
• 





