
441 -= 
Wednesday, November 5, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 47 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Five ND professors to receive awards for works 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
News Writer 
The research papers of five Notre Dame management pro­fessors in the College of Business Administration will receive two 
.--------, of the top four prizes awarded by the Decision Sciences Institute at its annual meeting this November. Conlon 
;\ collabo­rative effort by Edward Conlon. chair and professor of management, Sarvanan Devaraj, assistant professor of management. and Khalil Matta, professor of manage­
ment was selected as the b"st application paper. The paper is entitled "Is Quality Perception a Self-Fulfilling Prophecy? The case of the Automotive Industry." 
Another paper. "The Effective Use of Supply-Chain Flexibility," written by Lee Krajewski, the William R. and 
F. Cassie Daley Professor of Manufacturing Strategy, and Jerry Wei, associate professor of management, received the honor of Best Theoretical/ Empirical Research paper. 
The Decision Sciences Institute is "a~academic group of people interested in deci­sion-making in organizations," said Conlon. At the annual meeting, the institute awards four prizes in the areas of best theoreticaVempirical research 
paper, best application paper, best interdisciplinary paper, and best environmental issues paper. This year the winners were chosen from more than 1,000 entries. 
The award winning paper written by Conlon, Devaraj and Matta explored the idea of the perception of quality and deci­sion-making. 
"We had access to a data­base on the maintenance of cars from a car dealership," Conlon said. This database showed a direct correlation between the perceived quality of a car and the manner it is maintained. 
Conlon hopes to use his developed theory of perception of quality and decision-making in his classes. 
"All three of us will talk 
about the theory in class," he said. Further, he hopes that the paper will eventually gen­erate into the body of knowl­edge about quality perception. 
"When a paper gets recogni­tion, it will have an impact that goes beyond Notre Dame," he said. 
Krajewski expressed the same interest in using his the­ory of supply-chain flexibility in his classes. 
"This next term, this [the theory] will be a major section of my course," he said. 
Krajewski and Wei researched the correlation between a flexible supplier and the increased efficiency of a company. The two professors explored the "company and supplier relationship" of three pairs and found that "a lot of dynamics occur between a company and supplier which forces the supplier to act quickly," Krajewski said. They discovered a number of rea­sons why these dynamics occur and they developed a model to demonstrate the reasons. 

Both Conlon and Krajewski said they were surprised and honored at winning the awards. 
"This really motivates us to take this a step further," Conlon said. 
"This is quite an honor, I am very satisfied, pleased and humbled," Krajewski respond­ed. 
The awards will be present­ed at the annual meeting of the Decision Sciences Institute in San Diego the weekend of Nov. 23-25. 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
The idea of extra-terrestrial life surrounds us and will grow to permeate our lives even more, becoming a major issue in the next century, according to author Steven Dick. 
Dirk. a historian. astronomer and public rela­tions offio~r for the U.S. Naval Observatory, deliv­erPd a lecture yesterday afternoon about the his­tory of the debate regarding the existence of ''xtra-terrnstriallife. 
To Dirk. the extra-terrestrial life debate is more than just another idea in science. "It is compre­hl~nsive enough to qualify as a world view, and it's fairly testable." he said. "[The issue] defines our plm~P in the universe. This importance accounts for the passionate nature of debate surrounding it." 
Dick traced the century-old controversy con­cerning life on Mars, including how the search for life has evolved from looking for intelligent life to looking for vegetation, microbes and even fossils in the search for evidence of anv kind of life. He also discussed the implications that would have to be faced if we were to find proof of alien beings and the ways our culture has been fascinated with the red planet. 
"Popular culture has reacted to the possibility of life on Mars through books, music and a number of other avenues for a century," Dick said, refer-
Would you like coffee with that? 
Dick fuels extra-terrestrial debate 
ring to the release of H.G. Wells' "War of the Worlds" in 1897. "There has been more interest in the '90s in the implications of making contact with extraterrestrial life." 
Dick compares the view that humanity is not alone with world views put forth by earlier philosophers of a heliocentric solar system and the existence of other solar systems. 
"Modern science fiction is a good way for popu­lar culture to absorb this new world view," he said. 
While the possibility of intelligent life existing on Mars today is extremely slim, scientists are now studying a piece of rock which traveled to Earth from the planet and was found in Antarctica in 1984. Some say small fossils have been found which may point to the existence of past micro­scopic life on Mars. 
"We'll hear a lot more about the rock in the next few years," Dick stated. He also predicts the fur­ther investigation of other possible locations of life. 
"The planet Europa has become a prime suspect for exobiologists hunting for life," says Dick. Europa is a planet in a neighboring solar system and is currently being photographed by the Galileo spacecraft. Pictures sent back from Galileo show bodies of water on the planet," he said. 
Dick declined to say if he believes thatintelligent 
National Survey Results 


Students Who 
I Students Who Binge Drink 
L Binge Drink F~equently 
-=--c-=o-~ -~--~ ~~-~-~~~-~~-· 
~-~-~-~~~~~~-~--~" ~-' 
Men: ! 50o/o 2a~/o \
I 

I \ 
Women: ! 39°/o 'I 17o/o \
i i i 1 
Total: I ,44% 119~o ] 
.. , I / ; 
• 17,592 students at 140 ~ampus~s wt;~-~frv,~d. 
• 
Binge =5 drinks in a row for men, 4 or:!l!torrren 

• 
Freque1t Binge =~or more binges i two weeks 


see E.T. I page 6 


By MELANIE GARMAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 
A recent survey has brought the facts about alcoholism on college campuses into the spotlight. In the national report, titled "Health and Behavioral Consequences of Binge Drinking in College," 17,592 students from 140 col­lege campuses were ques­tioned. 
According to the survey, 44 percent of students were clas­sified as binge drinkers and 19 percent as frequent binge drinkers. Binge drinking is defined as having five or more drinks in one sitting for men or four drinks for women. Frequent binge drinking is classified as participating in three or more binges within two weeks. 
The Saint Mary's College Counseling and Career Development Center offers assistance to help students determine when the casual use of alcohol crosses the line to abuse or dependence. 


"I believe students need to think about the consequences of their choices, especially in relation to alcohol," said Mary DePauw, director of the Counseling and Career Development Center. "Too often I hear students say what they thought was going to be a go·od time turned into a painful situation because alco­hol was used irresponsibly." 
Statistics in the survey also reveal a significant difference in the behavior of frequent binge drinkers and non-binge drinkers. Eight percent of non­binge drinkers forgot where they were or what they did after consuming alcohol in. comparison to 54 percent of frequent binge drinkers. Only 

two percent of non-binge drinkers were hurt or injured while consuming alcohol, while 23 percent of frequent binge drinkers said they had been hurt or injured while under the influence of alcohol. 
"People's bodily reactions to alcohol varies depending on the individual," DePauw said. "Certain situations can lead to different reactions, such as whether or not the individual is taking a prescription drug, or for women, pre-menstrua­tion has an effect on the influ­ence alcohol can have on the body." 
Recently, with the fatal acci­dents caused by alcohol abuse on college campuses, students feel the need to speak out on how they view the issue and what they can do to prevent such incidents. 
"I feel that the alcohol awareness week acknowledges the problem at hand. However, I feel that it should 
see ALCO H 0 L/ page 6 


-wej IPP 
I I I 'I I '' 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Just Don't Call Me 'Red' 
Every day, dozens of peo--;:::::::::::::~ ple are born into this world, opening up to even more dozens of parents the mira­cle of life. 
Hopefully not too many of you shuddered at those words when recalling that high school health class video that had half the girls in the room yelling, Dan Cichalski ''I'm NEVER having Assistant Managing Editor kids!" 
But only one or two out of each dozen births is an even bigger miracle -the honor of being born with red hair. 
Yep. not too many of us are so blessed. Those of us who are have proven ourselves worthy. Really. Those not up to the standards of the red hair-archy (got that from the Internet -more on that in a moment) go brown or white as they age. Others just can't handle it and dye it a hideous brown, blond or black. 
Think about it. There are hundreds of sites dedicated to redheads. Granted, some of them fall into the "Society and Culture: Sexuality: Fetishes: Hair: Redheads" category and have disclaimers making you swear you are 18 years of age so that it's not illegal for you to print out these photos and tape them to your friends' backs when they're not looking. 
Many of these sites will show you wonderful pictures of famous redheads, the most popular being Nicole Kidman-see, even Tom Cruise picked a redhead. Lea Thompson is also easily found, but some of the photos are from the "Howard the Duck" big-hair 80s days. Bet she doesn't show the kids those pictures too often. 
Other sites listed are fountains into the won­derful world in which we carrot tops live. One in particular, "The Gallery 0' Internet Redheads," has hundreds of further links to redheaded men, women. celebrities and infor­mational sites. My personal favorite is Laura from Stanford. 
To be a copper top like myself is truly a phe­nomenon of nature. Or freak. Whatever. The gene for red hair is recessive, so it takes two extraordinary parents to produce someone with the auburn locks. And for those parents to produce two children with red hair-when they are more of the brown-hair variety-just furthers the point. 
To continue with this column that really means very little, there have been two United States presidents with red hair in our glorious 221-year history, both quite spectacular ones at that-Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson. We are an exclusive club. And there has only been one blond president-James Garfield, I believe, who held. office for almost 200 days before getting popped in a train sta­tion. 
Insert blond joke here -regarding the one blond president, not the incident in the train station. That's just not funny. 
But, like everything else in this world, being blessed with the best hair color invented has its drawbacks. You know, you can't have your cake and expect the candles not to melt onto the icing. 
Usually, redheads have rather fair skin. Fifteen minutes in the July sunshine and we're pink and tender. 
Freckles are another issue, but not for this redhead. They can be cute and attractive, but when people are looking at you trying to find the 3-D image in your back, even leopards experience a little bit of spot envy. 
But it's a small price to pay. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Sean Smith Melissa Weber Anne Marie Mattingly Production Anne Hosinski Tara Grieshop 
Sports Michelle Krupa Brian Kessler Sean Smith Viewpoint Anne Marie Mattingly 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Lab Tech Accent 
Shannon Dunne Rachel Torres 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th~ Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Wednesday, November 5, 1997
The Observer· INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
UK professor was victim of murder, police say 

LEXINGTON 
A University of Kentucky architec­ture professor was found dead on a rural Fayette County road Monday morning. Police found the body of Paul "Pete" Pinney, Jr., on Cleveland Road, said Julia Smyth-Pinney, his ex-wife and an associate professor in the College of Architecture. She declined further comment. Pinney was 58. 
Police 'identified the death as a homicide, but would not say how the victim died or if a weapon was involved. Because the college is a close-knit community, the news has hit the school hard, said architecture junior Jessica Walker. 
"He was definitely one person that everyone knew," she said. "T-Ie was always around the school." She said he was "comforting to see" in Pence Hall. While Walker never had Pinney for a class, she said that makes little difference. 
• UNIVERSITY OF OREGON • UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Halloween party becomes violent riot Professor goes to trial in abuse case 
EUGENE 
Eugene police once again used tear gas to break up a Halloween party-turned-riot Friday night in which an esti­mated 300 people broke bottles and tore down light poles in addition to other destruction. According to a police report, officers responded to the scene but were met by a large group outside the house that threw rocks and bottles at the officers. The police retreated and called for addi­tional assistance. University of Oregon student Daniel Smyth said several fights took place, cars were being rocked back and forth and people were firing gunshots into the air. "It was insane," he said. A male resident at the site of the party, who did not want to be identified, said, "We called the cops," he said. "We didn't want to be held responsible for what was going on." The resident said the problem began when he and other house residents prevented people from entering their house, which creat­ed the crowd on the street. According to the report, a total of 40 officers from the Eugene Police Department, Springfield Police Department, Lane County Sheriff's Office, Oregon State Police, and the University Office of Public Safety helped break up the crowd. 
• TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY 
Student dies of self-inflicted wound 
FORT WORTH 
Former TCU marketing major Matthew Schrum, 21, 
was found dead at 10 p.m. Friday from a self-inflicted 
gunshot wound to the head. Three campus escorts were 
the first to discover the body of the young man in the 
parking lot between the Mary Couts Burnett Library and 
the Tandy Building. Schrum withdrew from school in late 
September and returned to San Antonio to live with his 
parents, said Susan Adams, assistant vice chancellor and 
dean of campus life. Schrum was in Fort Worth over the 
weekend visiting friends. Schrum's mother, Nelia Ibsen 
Schrum, a former TCU political science faculty member, 
said his family brought him home to help him deal with 
the complicated breakup of a relationship. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

''''' 
FRONTS: 
......_._

Saturday ~ __ 48 32 .....,......... 
...-AT­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

Sun~y r~J 41 26 .
H L a &SJ [Til 0 ~ 8 !) u u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

(,.'i',....,j:..~··-......v_.....\1 .~ ···~"'"1~"' thk=, ·:·: 
Atlantic 72 59 Fresno 75 58 Kennebunkport 22 17 Berrien Springs 55 44 Geneseo 54 3B Logansport 3B 24

4,~,~888 (t ~ ~ Cincinnati 42 35 Helena 37 24-Milesville 24 18 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries _Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Davenport 68 47 Iowa City 56 32 Newton 20 15 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Emme1sburg 45 32 Jasper 47 36 Orchard Park 27 22 

"We've all had personal contact with him," she said. "He would always give you a comment on what you were working on if you asked him. We're kind of a small communi­ty, and for something like this to hap­pen to us is shocking. We know what goes on in the daily lives of every­body." Architecture students often have their GWn parties, Walker said, a couple of which she remembered Pinney attending. 
Neil Meyers, an architectuMl junior, ANN ARBOH 
A nationally recognized University professor and sexu­al abuse expert faced the first day of trial yesterday on charges that she and her staff emotionally abused a child during a 1992 interview. The lawyers for defen­dant Kathleen Coulborn Faller, who heads the University's Family Assessment ·clinic, faced Judge Donald Shelton yesterday. The University has spent more than $600,000 to defend Faller in the case. Lawyers asked Shelton several times to dismiss tlw case, but Shelton rejected the pleas on Thursday. Larry Champney, an Engineering alumnus. is suing Faller and the University, claiming that his 8-year-old daughter was emotionally abused by one of the clinic's employees when she was 3 years old. The employee allegedly tried to get the young girl to "say something bad about her father." Faller, who supervised the interview, wrote a final report stating that Champney may have sexually abused his daughter. Champney denied the allegations and claimed that his former wife should not have been able to assist in the interview because she was a biased participant. 
• Ut\HVERSITY Of WISCONSIN 
Garbage chute fall injures freshman 
MADISON 
Halloween festivities are suspected to have played a 
role in the mysterious fall of a University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, freshman down a trash chute Saturday morn­
ing. Eighteen-year-old Eric Schwanke was found cov­
ered with garbage by a University Housing custodial 
employee at approximately 7:40 a.m. in the basement 
his dorm. lie was partially unconscious and treated by 
the Madison fire department before being taken to UW 
Hospital to undergo surgery. Schwanke is currently list­
ed in critical condition. UW Campus Police, who are 
investigating the case, have not yet been able to specify 
either a cause for the fall or the circumstances sur­
rounding it. 
said Pinney always was accessible_ to students. "There was no one better to talk to," said Meyers, who took a class Pinney taught three years ago. "He really knew his stuff. You could ask him about anything and he'd give you a great story about it." Simple designs were Pinney's forte, said Mark O'Bryan, who studied under Pinney in the late '70s and is now an associate professor of archi­tecture at UK. "One of the hardest things to do is something simple," he said. "His whole aura or persona was that of being direct, succinct and clear in your approach." They had been officemates. "He was my rock," O'Bryan said. "I had a great deal of respect for him as a critic, an architect. a thinker." In the classroom, "He had a way of pulling out what was inside of you," he said. 

Vsa Associaled PIIISS 
·, .\ 



aid underresourced neighborhoods ·Provides an opportunity for service in various 
educational arenas ·Emphasizes group reflections and prayer ·Earn one credit hour 

:':Y.;:h~~:%:~ 

For additional information please contact Jennifer Weigel 243-2656 Christine Haley 243-8262 
The Natural Law Institute 
presents 

The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
eorge 
Upcoming Lectures: 
November 18 
DAvmNovAK 
April17 

josEPHRAz 

By ARIANN BUTLER 
News Writer 
Reading poetry based on his political and social experi­ences, teacher Harvey Crawley recited his poetry last night at Dalloway's Coffee House. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activity Board and the Sisters of Nefertiti sponsored last night's reading. The evening began with the reading of Crawley's poems and ended with a question-and-answer forum. 
"You name it and I've writ­ten about it," Crawley told his audience. 
The poems he read dealt with a range of topics from child abuse to a woman falling in the street and were a huge success with the audi­ence. 
Crawley feels that "each one of us has a story inside" and he wants his poetry to "extract that story." 
"If I can [express my story poetically]. then you can do this," he said. 
In addition to poetry, Crawley also takes everyday situations and weaves them into short stories. 
However, he said that most of his short stories have never been copyrighted or published because they are more private and personal than his poems. 
"I didn't get into writing or publishing for money, [but to] help people," he commented. 
Crawley is a graduate. of Western Michigan University and presently teaches litera­ture and sociology to "at risk" ninth graders in a Michigan program known as ACE (Alternative Continuing Education). 
Crawley's long-term goal is to be a philanthropist and his goal for the interim is to be the best teacher to his stu­dents. 

Saul Friedlander 

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6 
7:30P.M. 
CCE AUDITORIUM 

SpoJJsorerl by the Notre Dame Holocaust Projert and the Reilly Centerfor Scimre, Technology aurll!alues 

Wednesday, November 5, 1997 

The Eugene B. Clark Lecture Series Presents: 

•

UCIO 


Chairman and CEO 
Mobil Corporation 
and Notre Dame Alumnus 
''MEETING GLOBAL CHALLENGES'' 
Thursday 
November 6th at 10:45 A.M. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and faculty are welcome! 
Coordinated by the College of Business Speakers Series, Investment Club, MBA Association, Notre Dame Council on International Business Development, and SRB. 
Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Jury sentences radical Texan 
ALPINE, Texas 

Hepublic of Texas leader Richard McLaren was sentenced to 99 years in prison and his top lieutenant got 50 years Tuesday for plot­ting an abduction that led to a week-long standoff with police. McLaren and Robert Otto, whose group believes Texas is not part of the United States. were the first of five Hepublic members to be tried in the April 27 abduction of Joe and Margaret Ann Rowe. The kidnapping eventually brought some 300 state troopers and Texas Hangers to the remote west Texas resort where the HPpublic maintained its headquarters. They laid siege to the group's so-called embassy until McLaren and others agreed to lay down tlwir weapons May 3. Judge Kenneth DeHart scntPnced the separatists after hearing testi­mony in the punishment witnesses, including TPxas Hangers and the Howes, and three frinnds of Otto's who appeared on his behalf. No onn spoke for McLaren. The Howes testi­fiPd that they remained frightened long after their captors left. Joe Howe told the court that he now carries a gun at all times. Margaret Ann recalled that as she watched thn separatists finally leave, "I didn't know that maybe they couldn't shoot us anyway." 
U.N.: Iraqis are executing political prisoners 
UNITED NATIONS 

Iraqis live in "a climate of fear" and hundreds of political prisoners may have been executed at a single prison this year, a 
U.N. 
human rights investi­gator reported. About 200 prisoners reportedly were executed at Abu Gharaib prison ncar the Iraqi capi­tal. Baghdad, between Fnb. 12 and March 21. said Max van der StoP!. special investigator on Iraq for the 

U.N. 
Human Rights Commission. The execu­tions arn said to have increased in number after a visit to the prison on March 12, 1997, by Qusai Hussein, Saddam Hussein's son who is in charge of Iraq's special security and military forces, van der Stoel said. His report, rrdeased this week, was based largely on secondhand information because he has not been allowed to visit Iraq for human rights investigations since 1992. The former Dutch fon~ign minister said he had received reports of many people dying under torture or after being poisoned in prison. These included 10 former refugees who were arrested after returning from Saudi Arabia in May. Some of those refugees were released after being tortured, van der Stoel said. Bdore dying, the victims said prison personnel forced them to eat "unusual food." 





+1.77 638,810,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

COMPANY TICKER 'lo CHANGE SGI>.IN PRICE 
ADV Technical PR ATPX 800.000% +13.750 15.750 Glassmaster CO GLMA 48.960% +1.750 4.469 CORTECS INTL·ADR ALVRY 47.273% +4.000 20.250 Magnum Hunter MAHI 45.455% +0.125 2.000 Laser CORP LSER 36.111% +1.000 6.125 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

Signal Apparel  SIA  29.825%  -1.190  2.500  
Purus Inc.  PURS  27.586%  ·1.090  2.625  
AmerCraft BREW I  ABREF  27.273%  ·0.250  2.000  
Learning Tree  l TRE  26.354%  ·8.125  25.500  
PENN NATL GAMING PENN  22.727%  ·3.625  12.750  

Defense lawyers contest British nanny's sentence 
THE AssociATED PRESs 
With protesters outside holding up signs such as "IQ Tests for Jurors," Louise Woodward's lawyers acknowledged Tuesday that their ali-or-nothing strategy "can be seen as a mistake" and asked a judge to reduce the English au pair's mur­der conviction to manslaughter. 
Millions watched on tele­vision -among them, Ms. Woodward from her prison cell -as the defense focused on getting the ver­dict down to the very charge her lawyers fought to keep the jury from even considering. 
Superior Court Judge Hiller Zobel said that he could rule as early as Wednesday. 
And he said he will take the extraordinary step of issuing the decision on the Internet through media and legal Web sites. 

During Tuesday's hearing, defense attorney Harvey Silverglate said the strategic decision to let the jury con­sider only first-or second degree murder in the death of 8-month-old Matthew Eappen now "can be seen as a mistake." 
In hindsight, he said, "by any definition, the evidence in this case could fit into manslaughter." 
But prosecutors said Ms. Woodward and her lawyers are just shopping around for a better deal and should not be allowed a reduced charge unless she admits what she did. 
"The defense theory, if it worked, would have been brilliant. It did not work," said prosecutor Martha Coakley. "You cannot come back in and say, 'The devil made me do it."' 
A jury found Ms. Woodward, 19, guilty of second-degree murder Thursday, determining she fatally shook and slammed Matthew on Feb. 4, the day she called 911 to say the child was having trouble breathing. He died five days later. Ms. Woodward, a round-faced young woman from the English village of Elton, denied hurting the boy. 
The dispute has put the judge at the center of a case that has grown from the subject of local fascination to an international cause celebre. 
The judge can declare Ms. Woodward innocent; over­turn the verdict and order a new trial; reduce the con­viction; or uphold the ver­dict. 
Second-degree murder, defined as intentionally killing another person with malice, carries a mandatory sentence of life in prison with the possibility of parole after 15 years. 
Manslaughter, defined as causing a death by a reck­less action that showed dis­regard for life, is punish­able by up to 20 years, but there is no minimum sen­tence; Ms. Woodward could be released from prison immediately. 
Defense attorney Barry Scheck, gesturing forcefully with the same aggressive style he brought to the O.J. Simpson case, told the judge the case hinged on complicated scientific evi­dence -a hint at an article Zobel once wrote in which he said jurors often are asked to consider matters too complex for them. 

Whitman edges McGreevey in NJ nailbiter tough challenge from McGreevey, who With 17 percent of precincts report­Giuliani, Gilmore also fa..'ihioned a campaign that took advan­ing, Giuliani had 121,831 votes or 56 tage of New Jerseyans' ever-present percent and Messinger had 92,921win for Republicans anger over high auto insurance and votes or 43 percent. THE AssociATED PRFSS property taxes. co:::l Whitman became the first governor Republican Jim Gilmore, riding a TRENTON, N.J. in modern state history to win two promise to wipe out Virginia's hated Gov. Christie Whitman, who won terms without gaining 50 percent of car tax, was elected governor Tuesday, office four years ago by barely beating the vote. leading an unprecedented GOP sweep an incumbent, avoided being upset 000 of the state's top three offices. herself Tuesday by pulling out a razor­Mayor Rudolph Giuliani swept to re­Gilmore, the former state attorney thin victory in a surprisingly dose race. election Tuesday as New Yorkers general, got 841,032 votes, or 56 per­With 99 percent of precincts report­rewarded the Republican they credited cent, while Democrat Don Beyer got ing, Whitman had 1,107,225 votes, or with curbing crime and making the 637,724 votes, or 42 percent, with 89 47 percent, to McGreevey's 1,085,639, nation's largest city more livable. percent of precincts reporting. or 46 percent. The former mob-busting prosecutor A majority of those surveyed, 55 per­Whitman, a moderate who gained becomes the first Hepublican in 56 cent, said they made up their minds national prominence by making good years to win a second term in this about the race more than a month ago on a promise to cut taxes, overcame a heavily Democratic city. and would vote for Gilmore.  

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
E.T. 
continued from page 1 
life exists on other planets, but he commented that there are so many variables involved that he is "skepti­cal that we could understand and communicate with any life that did contact us." Dick notes that while astronomers point to the incredible number of stars in the universe to suggest that we are not alone, most biologists say the difficulties of evolution make intelli­gent life very unlikely. Even if thinking organisms had evolved, skeptics say, they would be nothing like the human race. 
Dick has written two books tracing the history of the search for extraterrestrial life. The second one, "The Biological Universe: The Twentieth-Century Extraterrestrial Life Debate and the Limits of Science," was published in 1996. 
He has also attended a 1992 NASA workshop on the cultural aspects of the search for extraterrestrial intel­ligence, which addressed the question of what to do if we find such intelligence. He also worked in a confer­ence convened by vice president AI Gore to discuss the implications of the Mars rock. 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
be a topic of discussion all year round," said senior Sarah Brady. "No one talks about alcoholism because they are afraid of offending someone. Perhaps professors could address the topic more often in class and that would move students to open­ly discuss the issue with friends." 
Another important factor affecting the decision to drink is one's genetic family history with alcohol, according to DePauw. 
"A person's response to alcohol is part situational and part genetic," DePauw said. "Some people appear to have a pattern of craving alcohol once they start drinking, and these people often drink to excess. This pattern has been observed in relatives. Like any genetic pattern it's not 100 percent, but it is important to know one's family history." 
Alcohol abuse can disrupt academic performance, relationships, and feelings of emotional well-being. "Think-before-you-drink" is a valuable guide in any college environment, according to DePauw. 
"If you are going to drink, use alcohol for respon­sible legal recreation, not for relaxation," he said. 
'··:, ,.,. J•>:'f"'· '· ·s·: ···: ·· · ··:-:::. :c;c;· ..,w.'''
Keough program to expand in Ireland 
Special to The Observer 

.Not.hr Dame announced, for illitlie<liate implement~tion, a $13 million expansion plan for its Keough Institute for Irish Studies. The plan includes the creation of a multidisciplinary Notre Dame study center in Dublin, Ireland, and ahistoric trans-Atlantic coop­erative agreement between Notre 
Dame. University College Dublin (UCD) and Trinity College, Dublin. 
University President Father Edward Malloy made the announcement during a meeting of the University's Ireland Council. Joining in the announcement via live video teleconferencing from Dublin were Art Cosgrove, presi­dent of UCD, and Thomas Mitchell, provost of Trinity College. 
"Thanks to the magnificent gen­erosity ofDon Keough, who gave it lifeJl~ 'Well as an identity, and to the brilliant leadership of Seamus Deane, who, together with a team of exceptionally talented scholar­teachers. has given it distinction as well as substance, the Keough Institutein a very shQrttime has ¢reated.a.. truly .extr<W'rdinary rep· utation in Irish studies," Malloy
said. ·· The plan also will create three new endowed professorships in the Keough Institute, an endowed directorship for the Dublin center, a Ftdbrlght initiative for faculty exchanges between Notre Dame and the Irish universities and fel­lowships for Irish students to attend Notre Dame and its Dublin center. Other plans include additions to Notre.. Oame's library collections in Irish studies, expansion of Irish language studies and Keough Institute conference programs, a major new publication series in 
Irish studies to be published by the press and new offices for the institute in the renovated Flanner Hall at Notre Da:me. 
· The Keough Institute is under the direction of Deane, professor of English and Keough professor of Irish Studies at Notre Dame, A foremost Irish intellectual and general editor of the landmark 
'Thanks to the magnifi· 
cent generosity of Don Keough ... the Keough Institute in a very short time has create a truly extraordinary reputation in Irish studies.' 
Father Edward Malloy President ofthe University 
"Field Day Anthology of Irish Writing," Deane today is more widely known as author of the novel, "Heading in the Dark." A bestseller and multiple award winner in Ireland and Britain, the book has earned critical acclaim throughout Europe and in the U.S. 
The expansion plan has been underwritten by a principal gift from ·Donald Keough, chairman of the board of Allen & Company Incorporated and former chair­man of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, as well as additional support from Thomas O'Donnell, managing director of Oppenheimer & Company. Chicago, prominent Irish Lusiness­men Michael Smurfit, chairman of Jefferson Smurfit Group, and Martin Naughton, executive chair­man of Geln Dimplex. 
"But this has been only the beginning. Now, with the addition­al support of O'Donnell, Smurfit, and Naughton; and in partnership with two great Irish universities, we can legitimately aim to create a premiere international vehicle for Irish studies and to engender a genuine partnership in teaching and scholarship with Ireland," Malloy said. 
The Dublin center, to be known as the Keough-Notre Dame Study Center, Ireland, will be located at No. 86 St. Stephen's Green which is part of the histot'ic Newman House, where in 1854 Cardinal John Henry Newman founded the original Catholic University of Ireland, now UCD. James Joyce is among its many noted alumni, and the room occupied by the Jesuit priest and poet Gerard Manley Hopkins is still preserved in the building. 
Kevin Whelan, a preeminent social historian and leading mem­ber of the Irish academy, will be the director of the Dublin center. Beginning in fall 1998, some 70 Notre Dame students, rising to 100 by 2000, will travel to Dublin for a semester or full year of study. 
They will be housed in student residences at UCD and Trinity and will be enrolled at courses in both institutions. At the same time, they and UCD and Trinity students also will take courses offered by Notre Dame -in disciplines such as theology and philosophy -at the Dublin center. 
In addition to coordinating these activities, Whelan and other Notre Dame and Irish faculty will struc­ture courses year-round for Notre Dame students, alumni and others wishing to deepen their knowledge and understanding of Ireland. 

''TJ~ Nl~l~l) Yf)tJ! 
(and you need free pizza) 
Are you interested in talking with small groups of fellow students about your faith and learning about the Scriptures? 
Are you_ interested in meeting new people? 
(you won't have to shout and you won't get beer spilled on you) 
·ffriil~~~r; 
'i :=: i 
!!L ~~I
0,. 
..t;;!r.._ 
.~· 
Campus Ministry is preparing to launch a new peer-led Scripture study program in conjunction with Communities NO and we'd like to hear from YOU! 
Come give us your ideas.
181 

0MPUS This Sunday, November 9 MINISTRY 
5:00 -7:00 p.m. Walsh Hall basement social space free pizza, drinks and dessert 
Please RSVP by Friday to John, Sylvia or Kate at 1-5242 so that we can order enough pizza . 
• • • ~· ••• 't ............... .
r ; : . , r-r· 1 • 
ww 

VIEWPOINT 



Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Bred ow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Con<roller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Pho[O Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame du L-1c and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insriturion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor neces­sarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror·in·Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror  631-4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sporrs  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  G.~ 1-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Editor/ViewJ)Qint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
Generallnformarion  631-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

page 7 


• AWAKENINGS 
Take a Stand on the Education of Our Youth 
Digest these figures: 40 percent of sec­ond-and third-graders read at a level unworthy of promotion to the next grade, according to proposed standards which will be implemented next year; more than 
J.P. Cooney 

half of 1Oth-and 11th-graders read below grade level and only 15 percent read pro­ficiently; 37 percent of third-graders, 55 percent of sixth-graders, 72 percent of eighth-graders, and 89 percent of 10th­graders possess below-basic math skills for their grade level. 
According to the results of standardized test scores published last week, that is the condition of public education in Washington. D.C. Not to mention the fact that eight D.C. public schools remain closed under court order because they fail to meet minimum fire and safety codes. That is the plight of the children residing in the capital of the richest and most pow­erful nation in the world. Does the tone of that last statement make my opinion clear on what I believe our federal government should be spending its time and money on? 
Since our nation's policymakers are too busy quibbling over trivial tax credits and subsidies for special interests to deal with solving the real problems which affiict society, I think it's time the citizenry take matters into our own hands. Conser­vatives shouldn't jump out of their seats just yet-I haven't turned an about-face on the issue of the proper role of govern­ment in addressing societal dilemmas. The prospects of the children in our nation's capital and other inner city sec­tors have turned so grim, however, that the time has come for fierce grassroots action. 
Sharon Pratt Kelly, the estranged for­mer mayor of Washington, D.C., made a mantra of the phrase, "We must do more with less." Kelly, who was unjustly thrust from office in 1994 because of the excess­es of the administration which preceded her, was challenging private citizens to take action. While she was largely unsuc­cessful in motivating the rank-and-file, she is the first politician I can remember who seriously advocated tapping into our under-utilized human capital. What Kelly really meant is that if we want to get seri­ous about solving problems like those fac­ing D.C. public schools, we have to get creative. 
John McCarthy is an individual who got creative. He spearheaded an after-school baseball and reading program, utilizing the incentive of athletic participation to inspire a commitment to improving the literacy of D.C. youth. Mel Labat of Alexandria, Va., devised a similar pro­gram. He created temporary tennis courts out of decrepit parking lots to give underprivileged kids something produc­tive to do in their otherwise dormant summers. Kids who demonstrate leader­ship and a commitment to their education receive scholarships for year-round tennis lessons. 
These type of programs, which inte­grate fun activities and academics, pro­duce results. The thing is though, they cost money. McCarthy received a federal grant and Labat paid for scholarships out­of-pocket-and both sacrificed countless hours of their own time. We can do these things without grants, but it requires organization and a commitment to suc­cess. 
Have you ever attended an "extended­hours" program at an elementary school? More often than not the directors of such programs force a noisy overcrowded room of kids to try to do homework for an hour. Afterwards they just throw out one of those red bouncy balls and tell the kids to have fun. These programs tend not to be goal-oriented and lack structure and discipline. 
You can't blame the directors of such programs though -they need help. That's where we, the citizens, come in. Of course who has the time to donate five hours a week during daycare hours? Certainly working people do not; and even college students' schedules are often incompatible with the needs of school sys­tems. This is where we have to get cre­ative. 
For example, like most cities, three rel­atively affiuent suburban public high schools with students capable of tutoring elementary students lie right outside D.C. Couldn't a system be devised whereby high school students receive academic credit for participating in community ser­vice consistently? It could be done on a rotating basis, so that students donate only eight weeks and then a new set of students begin-that way the time com­mitment is not overwhelming and stu­dents with seasonal activities are not pre­cluded from participating. 
Pardon the phrase, but these high school students are cheap labor. The only cost is transportation to the site. The agreement would be that they help the kids with their homework for one hour and then play basketball or do arts-and­crafts with them for the other hour. If the kids don't have homework than they can read out-loud or do their times tables instead -but they must do something productive other than sitting around after school. This type of program requires lit­tle money. 
The type of resolution I'm proposing is by no means monumental. Actually it's painfully obvious. However, oftentimes nobody thinks to do the obvious -like utilize capable high school students as tutors and program coordinators. If we do think of it, we wait for a government program to endorse and implement it. We can't afford to wait any longer, how­ever. We must go to our at-risk schools and get something started. It must be somewhat organized, incentive-based, and there must be a definite mission ­otherwise the kids will not respond. 
The question is, do we care enough as individuals to make a difference? Our government's paralysis on social prob­lems like those of D.C. public schools is partially due to the fact that we do not demand change. But sit down and con­template the state of inner cities and any­where else that poverty or inequality is prevalent -are you comfortable living in the midst of it? We need to stand up and play our part. Meaningful change will come from the grassroots, from those of us that have the means to make a differ­ence. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major living in Knott Hall. He can be reached at Joseph.P.Cooney.6@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• [) OONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"playing 'bop' is like playing scrabble with all of the vowels missing." 
-Duke Ellington 

-~~~---~~--.-­
VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
• THE COLUMN OF REASON 
Design Human-Sized Spaces and Inviting Art 
Editor's note: This is the latest install­ment in a series written by students in the School ofArchitecture. These columns. under the byline "The Column 
Shelley

ofReason. "focus on the built environ­ment ofNotre Dame. in particular on recent additions and changes to the 
Hoenle

campus. 
An alluring aspect of the Notre Dame campus is the sculpture. Sculpture gives importance to spaces, designates axes, boundaries, and focal points. It represents or symbolizes traditions and concepts. One such piece that exemplifies all of these issues is the Christ statue entitled Sacred . Heart, located on axis with the Dome and sculpted by Robert Cassiani. This single fig­ure aligns the central axis from Main Circle to the Dome, provides a focal point, and serves as a symbol. This concept of sculpture can also refer to buildings and to the spaces created by the built environment. 
The traditional buildings of the Notre Dame campus such as Lyons and Morrissey, both built in 1925 and designed by Francis Kervick and Vincent Fagan, have a unique sculptural quality in the way they are detailed and in the way they address space. There is a variety in the facades and ornament that provides interest to the eye and to the mind. The arch of Lyons frames the lake beyond, making the view of the landscape part of the building. The athletic sculptural figures on the side of the Rock announce the function of the building. The front loggia has a sculptural quality which breaches the realm of interior and exterior both visually and physically. The spaces created by buildings take on a character of their own, such as the intimate courtyard between Hayes-Healy and Hurley which is created by the void between the two buildings. 
However. as time has gone on, it seems to have become less important as to how forms participate in the space they create. This can be seen in some of the buildings on North Quad which reflect the changing trends in the architecture of that time. 

Keenan and Stanford Halls, built in 1957, serve almost solely as boundaries to the quad, rather than participants in it. Pieces no longer jut in and out to mingle with the space and ornamental detailing is sparse if at all present. This stark feature is seen in most of the buildings of Mod Quad. Mod Quad demonstrates no certain boundaries or entrances to its buildings. The idea of sculptural entrances is a signature of the earli­er buildings on campus. This is exemplified in the difference between North and South Dining Halls. Unlike North, South Dining hall announces its importance, used daily by at least half of campus, by making the entrance a significant occurrence. The building aligns with an axis and can accommodate all of the students through a com­mon entrance. 
The question now is how will the future buildings of campus be built? Will they industrialize education by using a massive repetitive building for a single function such as DeBartolo Hall? DeBartolo creates a bottlenecked entrance, failing to provide an adequate gathering space in relation to the amount of students it attempts to serve. The scale is out of proportion with the campus, which creates impersonal spaces. The building makes valid industrial references but does not carry through with the notion in terms of detailing or ornament. Bond Hall, the newly renovated architecture building on the other hand, is built in proportion to the number of stu­dents it serves and, therefore, creates a more personal space. The front stairs and curved front wall become sculptural elements embracing the space, providing a place for the students. The plans for the new bookstore also maintain this attention to detail and to the traditional character of the campus. 
These comparisons are a reflection of the times in which the buildings were built. The same evidence of the influence oftime can be seen in campus sculpture. There is an obvious difference between the statues on the main axis of campus and the abstract sculptural pieces to the side of Riley. There is a difference in how pieces are displayed, the statements the forms themselves make, and how they intend to relate to the average passerby. The student sculptural work is displayed as thought the pre­sentation was an afterthought. Perhaps a sculpture garden or planned display area would better present these works. The reflection of diverse time periods and building types in such a small area is unique to the Notre Dame campus setting. The cohesion of such variable forms is unsurpassed by other universities. We must continue excel­lence and remember that while beauty and validity of public work can often be objects of opinion, quality is not. We must first ask and then define what characteris­tics we want the future of the campus to exhibit. 
We must attend to the future of campus while attending to the present. There are areas of campus such as Stepan Center and the brick fountain space between Nieuwland and LaFortune that are missed opportunities. The simple brick fountain exudes potential. It is on axis with the architecture building, next to the student cen­ter, and in front of administrative offices. Students pass by daily, but this area has been neglected, treated like an alley instead of a centerpiece. This area would be ideal for the students to design a sculptural space, embodying the enchanting and intimate qualities that define so much of what is Notre Dame. 
Shelley Hoenle is a .fifth-year architecture and sociology major. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Goo 'N liFE 
Thou Shalt Not Kill (Oneself) 
Thou shalt not kill.  not due to alcoholism. can lead to illness  
This may be "olde English," and at first  and death.  
glance may be understood as a warning  The same can be said about drugs.  
against taking the life of someone else.  Sure, marijuana may have medicinal  
That's not all there is to it, though. It  purposes for people with glaucoma or  
means keeping oneself alive, too.  eancer. But how many people on this  
There can be no doubt that this is  campus have glaucoma or cancer'!  
taken to extremes at times. All too fre­ Cocaine, crack, LSD ­what purpose do  
quently, we hear reports about some  these drugs have, other than to kill  
food product or chemical additive that  (brain cells, especially)?  
may endanger our health. Eggs equals  This is not to say that I am unsympa­ 
cholesterol; salt equals high blood pres­ 
sure; saturated fat equals heart disease.  
Some people follow the rules for healthy  
eating down to the letter. Others main­tain the attitude, "If we don't eat some­thing we'll die anyway. So, what's the  Julie  
big deal?" As a confirmed chocoholic, I sort of agree with the latter point of  Ferraro  
view, but it is possible to find a mid­ 
point.  
The way we eat is just one aspect of  
observing this tricky commandment.  
Driving habits come into play, as well.  thetic to a person's need to "escape"  
Though air bags may not be the safest  from the pressure of books and being  
option in an accident, seat belts do help.  away from home onee in a while. Putting  
Abiding by the posted speed limit gives a  substances into one's body which do far  
driver time to react in the event of prob­ mon~ damage than the temporary "high"  
lems ahead. This has been proven many  smoking, drinking or drugs give isn't  
times-even locally-when wrecks  worth it. I speak from experience: I was  
have occurred because of excessive  in the Navy many years ago, and saw  
speed. As one who likes to drag-race  more of this than I care to remember.  
down deserted country roads, the wise  There are alternatives. Taking a walk  
words of a friendly priest (including the  provides a person with fresh air and  
word "sin") showed me how important it  unique beauty. depending on the season.  
is to be courteous behind the wheel.  A bike ride into Michigan can be invigo­ 
Another controversy surrounds ciga­ rating, and offers the opportunity to buy  
rettes. Whether or not tobacco compa­ some fresh fruit at road-side stands (and  
nies falsified reports on the addictive  places to pick your own). It's conceivable  
nature of nicotine, it has long been com­ to jump on the South Shore and go to  
mon knowledge that indulging in chew,  Chicago for a day or weekend.  
cigars or cigarettes puts human beings  Join a club on campus. Take advan­ 
at risk. Since it is "legal," however, it is  tage of any of the abundant volunteer  
considered "okay."  opportunities through the Center for  
Sorry, friends, it's not okay to kill your­ Social Concerns or Campus Ministry.  
self. Crush the butts and get on with  There are so many things a person can  
your life.  do to get "high on life," as they used to  
Another "legal" source of innumerable  say. It's not necessary to kill oneself to  
problems is alcohol. From the earliest  do it.  
days of recorded history, a "touch of the  
grape" has been acceptable, especially in  Julie Ferraro is a local administratiue  
places where the water was unsafe to  assistant. Her column appears every  
drink. Overindulgence, nonetheless, has  other Wednesday.  
always gotten people in trouble ­from  The views expressed in this column are  
nausea and hangovers to drunk driving.  those of the author and not necessarily  
Persistent overindulgence, whether or  those ofThe Observer.  
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR  

We Are Not Laughing 
I am writing to you in regards to the tasteless and ignorant comic strip that was printed in the Oct. 31 issue of The Observer. Dan Sullivan illustrated a comic strip titled "Quick and Easy Halloween Costumes," which depicted several human beings with dehumanizing titles. Oddly enough, none of the characters were humorous especially the "alien," who was depicted by a Mexican immigrant. Obviously, Mr. Sullivan and his family were never called "aliens," and he thought using a Mexican immigrant as an illegal "alien" would be funny. Well Mr. Sullivan, IT WAS NOT! Our people have struggled to provide for their families and themselves. Telling by your last name (Irish) you should know what I'm talking about. And, if you want some history on our residence here in this country, pick up any Southwest history book and you will learn that we have been residents in this country before the Pilgrims. 
I think if you really wanted to make a point about immigration you should have depicted every race and culture in this country. Every race, with the exception of the American Indian, migrated to this country and, therefore, is an immigrant. The term "alien" is derogatory and dehumanizing. I believe most agree that when we think of an "alien" we think of little green martians. Is that what you think of when you refer to the Mexican people-my people'! I would think that with the intellectual and reli­gious integrity of this University, the student body would be better than this. 
It is a true shame, Mr. Editor, that with the intellectual and spiritual reputation of this institution it is still plagued by ignorance. Senor Gringo, even us Mexicans dreamed of coming t::-Notre Dame. We, the Mexican-American students and alumni of the University of Notre Dame, demand a public apology by you and Mr. Sullivan. And we would like to hope this act of ignorance would no longer be tolerated on this campus or on our school newspaper. 
Miguel A. Levario Junior, Sr. Edward's Hall November 3, I 997 
Speak Up! 

Drop your letters off to 314 LaFortune or e-mail us at Observer. Viewpoint. I @nd.edu. 



VIEWI101N'I'
Wednesday, November 5, 1997 page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ignorance and Insensitivity: Why Does It Hurt So Bad? 
M
tre Dame has expressed throughout the world 
community that a special goal exists among the 

Notre Dame family. Part of this goal is to be a strong and true Catholic family. The University would like to present not only a religious family, but a univer­sal family allowing the true definition of Catholic to be established. However. after reading the racist remark in the cartoon. "Men About Campus," published last Friday, I asked myself a question: How Catholic is Notre Dame? 
We are required to take two theology courses as undergraduates at this University. The first course is a foundation course where the New Testament is stud­ied. Have people failed to comprehend the teachings and messages of the Risen Christ? In the Gospel, Jesus said whatever we do unto His sisters and brothers. we do unto Him. Well Notre Dame (students, faculty, administration, alumni. and staff) I ask you this ques­tion: by allowing incidents like this to happen whom do we hurt? Ourselves? Others? Christ? As I recall, Jesus manifested Himself to the world and not just one group. If this is a true Christian belief and Notre Dame claims to have strong Catholic roots, why do these acts continue to occur at Our Lady's campus? 
Monday's Observer read. "Notre Dame students reacted angrily this weekend to a panel of 'Men About Campus."' I would like to inform you that the students acted out of hurt and offense. not anger. My grandpar­ents were born in Mexico and came to the United States because they had no choice. Like many immi­grants, the choice to leave their mother country was not easy. They didn't come to the United States because they wanted to, but because it was a choice of survival. 
The University of Notre Dame is said to have strong Irish inl1uence. How is an Irish immigrant different from a Mexican immigrant? Is it because one group is better than the other? From several history courses that I have taken, the Irish came to the United States because they wanted opportunity. They had no money or food in Ireland. Is the solution to the problem edu­ration'? 
The University took a stand a couple of weeks ago when Stanford University's band performed a halftime 
I Don't See Any Tears 
In light of all the recent criticism of Dan Sullivan for his llalloween comic strip, I would like to offer my own opin­ion into an already vast overreaction. For all of you out there who have slammed Mr. Sullivan (and in some cases the University) over this issue. this Jetter is addressed to you. But. I must warn you: I will be blunt and I will not apologize for my opinion, so the easily offended should not read further. 
I've heard about the meetings and I've seen the fliers, the articles, and the apologies. Enough already. I serious­ly doubt that Dan Sullivan or the great majority of this campus has anything against Hispanics. As difficult as you make it sound. I believe that students of the University are mature enough to see past one's race. 
Much of the offense to this comic strip has come as a result of a terrible prac­tice: people looking too far into anything that could have a racial or gender motive in it and exploiting it. And, in an equally sicken­ing practice, everyone feels they must concede that they wem wrong when this happens. I don't know if it comes from people fearing pushing any controversial but­
tons. or if they just don't want to put up with 
being labeled as a racist for defending them­
selves. Whatever it is. we are fooling ourselves if we 
deny that this anxiety exists. But that is another topic in itself. Getting back to the topic at hand ... 
An example of people looking too far into things comes in Monday's Observer. In her letter to the editor Mary Wesley wrote "(Sullivan's) comic strip ... suggests a belief that Mexican/Hispanic Americans are not welcome." Where was that in the comic? Point it out to me because I don't see it. Had he written something to the order of "A Hispanic: a Mexican without a green card" then I, and many others, would agree with you. However, Sullivan's message was nothing of the sort. The joke was that you should be expecting a big-headed green thing with suc­tion-cup lingers, and then you look down and see that it 
.... . . 
show making fun of Irish Catholics. The University took offense to this because it was offensive. Several people have commented that the incident was different because it offended the University and Catholics. Well aren't people of Mexican decent part of this University? More importantly, aren't Mexicans human bein6s? Also, one important fact is that within the next half cenLury, Latinos will make up 50 percent of the country's Catholic community. 
I could go on and on giving reasons about how the cartoon was offensive. However, the truth is that peo­ple don't understand why we were hurt. Yes, we did hand out fliers because we were offended, but more importantly because we were hurt. What hurt even more was that it had to be done during Parents Weekend. My parents drove up 22 hours to see me and had to be exposed to this horrible incident. l couldn't even enjoy the weekend because I was so hurt and dis­gusted. 
Sometimes I just wonder why things like this happen. Do things like this happen because people are ignorant or because they honestly don'.t care? And if they don't care, where does this problem stem from? Society states that violence often comes from broken families. Does racism also stem from the family? Moreover, does diversity exist on this campus, and is it a priority for the University? 
Sometimes I wonder about the future. If this problem is not addressed, will kids like those who think Dan Sullivan's idea of "humor" is funny offend and hurt my kids? How can students want a world of equality and peace when equality can't exist on the 1,250 acres we reside on? 
The University is said to promote a family atmos­phere among the student body. Well what kind of fami­ly would insult its own members because of their eth­nic background? I guess in the end, Notre Dame's true sons and daughters will march onward to victory., 
Michael Fierro 
Sophomore, Alumni 
November 4, 1997 
is just an ordinary person. If you really want to read into something, maybe the comic strip was saying that it would be easy to dress up as an illegal alien because, besides not having a green card, how could one tell the difference? 
But I realize that some of you still don't understand how I could defend this horrible act of injustice against the Hispanic people of the world. Well, for one, I don't really think that it is. Secondly, I cannot believe that any­one can argue against the wording. He referred to an 
"alien" as "a Mexican without a green card." Well, let's do a little quiz. What do you call someone who is a citizen of Mexico? Right, a Mexican. And what would that person be if he were here without a green card? Correct again, an illegal alien. It seems 
~~~f; 
1\0-+ 
Ahe.V'\S: 
w~ o..re, 
Nb· 
thought about it realistically would know that. But sometimes people feel the need to go searching for something to be offended by. I guess they need to be the victim so they can get some pity. And it is to those people that I write this letter. 
As you insist on your well-distributed fliers: "We are not aliens: We are NO." Well, nobody has said that you weren't. The only message that you have gotten is that which you have wanted to find. 
Matt Wohlberg Sophomore, Morrissey November 3, 1997 
like that comic may be in the clear after all. Maybe not, though. Maybe someone should apologize to the writer of that 
comic strip for all the unwont­ed bashing it has received by those who fail to really understand what the car­toon was about. The 
cartoon was about being funny, not trying to hurt the feelings of anyone on cam­pus, or elsewhere for that matter. Anyone who 
theA 1 Who Skipped 'Class 101 '... 
T
he end of the Notre Dame-Navy football game was intense, asmost every member of the Notre Dame family breathed a col­
. .. . leciive sigh of relief when the officials ver­.thatwe had won~ However,! had to breathe arSE~CO!td sigh ofrelief, as mrVi~iting friend and I near brawl in the stnnds of the south 
know, one ?(thg~~.boririg sections tdu:tris that ruin the wave all the because he hap a Navy hat that his brother had given him. 
. of the game, I said to roy friend, 
to wait to hear the Alma Mater." .... ·· . · , as we all know, Navy decided to go about with its tradition of taking a knee at the 50­yardline by walking into our band. Having cheered for Navy a couple times, roy friend was confronted by a raging alumnus who was cursing 
.the entire 'Naval Academy--:-yes, degrading · · aboutthe entire United States Naval friend said, "Itfeels unpatriotic that ""'"''"'''"'theU.S. Nava.l.Academy, when resp(;)J~sil~lefor our freedom.'' Upon hear· alumnu!'i turned, got right 
face, and called my friend an · . · lpleaded with the raging man to back off,yethewould not. With that, I said, "Sir, since you called my friend an a#%hole for no reason, I am going to have to say that you're the real a#%hole." Suddenly, I was met by the hand of another "classy ND gentleman friend of his" who 

been openly chugging beers the entire game the Student Affairs watchers uuCiu,,UJ,~· and cameras and adults~ or put some of the ushers from the student section stands}~ He shoved me into the 
slew of choice words, a tight, and put his fist up to my face. 
the cool heads of my friend and I pre­va:iled. We did what was right and ignored it, and waited until they had left before us. It is unfortu­nate, since I should have been arm and arm with 
·these alumni, singing the Alm.a Mater. However, because of their poor breeding, l was nearly forced to fight them back in self-defense. I really don't think that the behavior of these two men was what the students, players and coaches had in mind when they discussed ways to fire up the 
.GA sections stadium . ... . . .. •lackof classdisplayed by these • • poor reflection o,n our University. 
· rest ofND shdwert a lot of self· 
class and did noftbllowthe uncivil example otthese two men. We take so much pride at Notre Dame in being number one when it comes to class, yet these disgraceful adult­members tarnishea the family name. Whether Navy should have waited for our band to clear, or their traditional end-of-game kneel at mid-field 
as a calculated poorly-timed sit-in, etc., have caused mature adults to resort lov\is~ Tensions run high at games, but we 
.,h,,nu1·n.r.t allow this to be an excuse to act like mtistn'tforget that we are all simply of a game. Ifphysical battle and occur, let it be settled only on the 
repeatedly told my friend that these two not the true Notre Dame, and that our is a bastion ofclass; that maybe in the 
spirit of Halloween season, these two men were. Miami Hurricane fans engaging in a futile attempt to disguise themselves as ND alumni. 
In the face ofignorance, anger, stupidity, or lackof respect, whether it is a Notre Dame foot-
ball. e, a. game of tiddlywinks; or a walk down 
name to he so disgraced again. 
I would have loved my friend to see ND win by 17points or at least not leave three seconds on the clock. I would have loved him to see and par· ticipate in the post-game ND ceremonies without · · their traditional post-game ritual in 
uw.u•..~·u• ours. However, none of that hap· whenthing!i don't go our way, these most .diffic~lt, but .most defming and rQomentsto.de!llonstrate class. As I men skipped or fai~ed a course that Dami'l aces aridl'riust strive to ace . .· . • ···•·· "Class 101.'' To the two men in 
·.· .· · lstillsay, "Go ND;; With all my heart, nowi,can't help butthink; «Go Navy, beat 
,. 
Matthew G. Saracino Junior, Morrissey November 3, 1997 




;ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
5o, You Want To 



I o 0 I I I I • • , I I I I 
·-:-,-:P~.~.""'!',~.4~.•as.-!,,lll!l,•.llll!la;u=ll!"',':-',_...------~--------~-,.JP_____~------··-·---------~-·-~~.. 

Location: 1710 Turtle Creek Drive (just off South Bend Avenue, and about two blocks from campus) ephone: 272-8124 How Many Spaces?: 192 apartments and townhouses can accommodate over 430 resi­dents 
How Much Do They Cost?: from $675 per month for single apartment to $975 per month for townhouses accommodating 3 to 4 
Perks: outdoor pool, sand volleyball on-site laundry facilities ' Pros: close to campus, party-friendly Cons: may be a little too party-friendly for some 
Campos View 
Location:1801 Irish Way (behind the Martin's shopping plaza, about three blocks from campus) 
Telephone: 272-1441 How Many Spaces?: 96 units can accommodate 1 to 4 residents each 
How Much Do They Cost?: between $599 per month for single unfurnished apartment not including utilities a~d $999 per month for up to four people in furnished apartment including utilities 
Perks: indoor pool and Jacuzzi, tennis courts, weight room, on-site laundry Pros: included utilities and furnishing options can be big money savers Cons: sometimes less than clean 
Col ege Park 
Location:18039 Bulla Road (past the Fischer Graduate Residences) 
Telephone: 272-0691 
How Many Spaces? 56 units usually housing 3-4 people each 
How Much Do They Cost? between $760 and $890 p.er month, depending on upstairs or downstairs accommodation Perks: each unit has its own washer and dryer, and wooden porch or balcony 
Pros: ca~hedral ceilings of the second floor unrts. This is one of the more quiet off-campus communities 
Co~s: c~n take a long time to get broken th1n f1xed 

Is it possible to I parietals'? Is students can all night" cou "party all nig mecca studen without the of residen 
Yes there is, This magical.p off-cam pus Surely, the move off cam 
ous one and prompted by hardy motives parties, or m Living off c chance to ta step toward Shertered life 
little more a 
are given the 
face more of I 
sibilities. Ma 
see off-campu~ 
transition thj them before J. have to be o own. 
It's not that isn't great. Ca 
is where everla of friendship However, once 
· tion is laid, so opportunity tlieir wings a sheltered nest 
Once you decision campus, 
decide where y_o Accent has hel way_with this ha off-campus livi 

-
A
at c t ; F, , 4 ; : ; , A . " u;:&l 4 . J.;t. . . , sy;. a -=>-a = 5 • ::zza ' & T, I 4¥\ o I 
ACCENT
Wt>dnesday, ,\;uvember 5, 1997 page 11 

ove Off Cat11pus? 


Location: 3902 Saint Andrew's Circle Mishawaka (abour a block away from' Movies 10) Telephone: 271-901 o How Many Spaces? 31 ounits with 1 to 3 bedrooms each 
How Much Do They Cost? between $525 and $765 per month my friends. 
Perks: indoor/outdoor pool, Jacuzzi, sauna,
e is called 
weight room

housing. ecision to Pros: It's far from campus; you can go home s is a seri­
and not have the party follow you there. 
ould not be 
Cons: It's far from campus; you might feel 
such fool­
too removed from campus life .
as parties, re parties. mpus is a e another freedom. nes just a stuaents 
chance to 
Some TiPs For Makine Your Move: 

Ask yourself honestly just how many parties you want to participate in. Whether you want to .or not, as an off-campus student you may find yourself in the middle of a big weekend bash. How much will 
you tolerate uninvited drunkards from a party next 
.,. 

Find out if the lease covers the school year or the full year. Most complexes offer a school year lease which is obviously a better deal if you won't be in 
South Bend for the summer months. 
[] 

door trampling throughout your abode? How much will you want to clean up after him or her? 

Will the distance from campus be a factor if you won't have a car? Make sure you have some form of reliable transportation. Ill Find out about safety and security in the complex ~itself and in the neighboring area. 
Most off-cam­pus housing complexes require applica­tions to be com­pleted for spaces early in the year. Since the appli­cations are reviewed on a first come, first served basis, and since a limited number of spaces are available, it is smart to get your applications in early. 


Find out what furnis~i~gs and amenrt1es your apartment will offer, and what 
you will need to supply on your own. For example, bedframes and mattress­es don't always come with the place. 
'*1 
-. 
.,...+ 
I 


u: GlW '•:pe I r :-.f. F' pI 4 ;
14-1-· • ­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Boston's Garciaparra named best AL rookie 
Phillies' Rolen wins in NL 
By CLAIRE SMITH Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
As Ken Griffey Jr. stood talking to reporters in the hubbub of the American League's All-Star locker room last sum­mer, a young man in a Boston Red Sox uniform wHh a shy smile reached through to shake Griffey's han~. stated his plea­sure at meeting the game's premier cen­ter fielder and asked for an autograph. 
Then, as if introductions were still needed, as if he, too, weren't an All-Star, the reed-thin thin infielder told Griffey his name was Nomar Garciaparra -the 

<-. hottest rookie in the game. The goodwill gesture registered. Griffey commented on how nice a person Garciaparra seemed, like his own young All-Star teammate, Alex Rodriguez, like . the Yankees' Derek Jeter. And Garciaparra did spend much of the summer joining the personable Rodriguez and Jeter as the game's brightest young talents at the shortstop position. And like Jeter. before him, the 24-year-old Garciaparra forged a season so impres­sive that it was rewarded Monday with a unanimous designation as the American League's rookie of the year by the Baseball Writers Association of America. The award, which is named after Jackie Robinson, has been voted unanimously six times in AL history. In receiving all 28 first-place votes (two writers from each league city), Garciaparra easily outdis­tanced Jose Cruz Jr. of the Mariners and Blue Jays, 140-61, in a point system tabu­lated on a 5-3-1 basis. The rout was as understandable as it was expected in light of a season in which Garciaparra batted .306, hit 44 doubles, 11 triples and 30 home runs, drove in 98 
runs and scored 122. He led the league in hits (209). multi-hit games (68) and triples and tied Cleveland's Sandy Alomar Jr. for the AL's longest hitting streak (30 games). 
"It's definitely a great honor," said Garciaparra, a first-round selection in the 1994 amateur draft and the fifth Red Sox player to win the award. "I look back, the most important thing when I look at that trophy on the mantel, I'll think of all my teammates. You're not successful by yourself, and they really supported me along the way." 
The other unanimous selections for AL rookie honors have been Red Sox catcher Carlton Fisk (1972). Oakland Athletics first baseman Mark McGwire (1987), the Indians' Alomar (1990) and California Angels right fielder Tim Salmon (1993). 
What sets Garciaparra apart from most of his predecessors is the manner in which he ascended -he took the short­stop job away from John Valentin, a play­er still considered in his prime. 
That Garciaparra did so with such ease was matched by the grace in which he handled a situation steeped in controver­sy before Valentin moved to second base. 
And as the season progressed and it became more and more obvious that something special was unfolding, Garciaparra maintained his unpreten­tious demeanor. When asked earlier this year where he fit in with Rodriquez and Jeter, Garciaparra said: "I don't know. I just go out there, and I hope you know I'm enjoying the game every day. And I hope the fans are enjoying it as much as I 
am." 

And Garciaparra does enjoy the game. "Nothing gives me greater joy than being out there on the field and playing among the best," he said Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame ofllce. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilleds for content without issuing refunds. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANT-WALK TO CAMPUS ED 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES
NOTICES 
please call 219-271-0633 $195/PERSON 232-2595 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
NO Prof. needs babysitter for 
LaFortune Student Center infant next semester Tffh: . HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98. 

Store Hours 

11 :30-3:30; MWF flexible. Call 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 

Dr. Braungart-Rieker: 631-1 DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 

6914 FRIDGE. NEW GAS FUR­
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. 

Part time computer position at Looking to·move off campus? 
from NO campus on U.S. 

The Healy Group. Must be Subletting space in Turtle 31/33. Call (616)684-4633. 
familiar with Windows NT, Creek-Call Meghan 243-7894 Windows for Workgoups 3.11, 
Ever Dreamed of Your Own 

and Windows 95. Knowledge ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME Business? 
of basic data base and Internet FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
TASP International seeks stu­

also helpful. Duties include AND OTHER ND-SMC dent$ for next summer who 
advising employees on use of EVENTS. 
want entrepreneurial and man-

system and software, trou-VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­agement experience. Positive bleshooting small hardware 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. 
attitude a must. Full training. 
and software problems, WALK. 
Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­
installing and updating soft-243-0658. 
800-543-3792. 

ware and entering data. Hourly ILOST & FOUND I compensation. Fax resume to THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed Barbara Tarwacki 271-6999. and Breakfast Inn has space 
available for football/parent FOUND FOUND FOUND Wanted female helper for wknds. 5 Rooms with private Did you lose your NO umbrella errands and babysitting. Call baths, $70-$90, at the library Sun. nile (1 0/26)? 234-8938 after 5. Middlebury, 30 miles from I have it. Call Mary Beth campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, @x2510. Music Merchandiser: WHR 1-800-418-9487. FOUND FOUND FOUND Inc., CD supplier to The 
Hammes Notre Dame 1,2 &3 BDRM Found: Bookstore, is looking for a mer-HOMES.GILLIS PROPER-Two Abercrombie &Filer chandiser for 1 0-15 TIES. sweaters at a Sarin tailgate. hours/week. Must be available 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Scott Rolen of the Philadelphia Phillies was unanimously voted National League Rookie of the Year on Tuesday, breaking the Los Angeles Dodgers' five-year hold on the award. 
The 22-year-old third baseman became the youngest NL player to reach 90 RBls since Darryl Strawberry in 1984, and led NL rookies in batting average (.283). runs (93), hits (159), doubles (35), homers (21) and RBis (92). 
"I think I exceeded anything I could have fathomed," Rolen said. "I hope I haven't reached a pinnacle now. I hope there's something more for me in base­ball and in life." 
Rolen was the Phillies' second-round pick in the June 1993 amateur draft. He became the first Philadelphia rookie to lead the team in homers and RBls since Greg Luzinski in 1972, and had the most homers and RBis for a Phillies rookie since Willie Montanez in 1971. 
And Rolen accomplished this while playing for a last-place team that went 68-94 and finished 33 games out of first. 
"It wasn't difficult to go out and play hard and play to win," he said from Philadelphia. "We won four games in June. That doesn't mean I'm just going to come in and say, 'We'll be better in two years.' 
"In July, August and September, we turned it around. Hopefully, we can go into spring training and take it from there." 
Holen wouldn't have been eligible for the award if Chicago's Steve Trachsel hadn't broken his right forearm with a pitch on Sept. 7, 1996. Holen had 130 at-bats at the time --the maximum a player is allowed before losing his rook­ie status. 
Call x2627 to claim. M, TH, F mornings. Pick up 272-6551 

NOTRE DAME 
application at Bookstore office. 
"At the time. I wasn't really happy with him," Rolen said. "Now I might give him a call and thank him." 
Los Angeles players had won the award since 1992, an unprecedented streak established by Eric Karros, Mike Piazza, Raul Mondesi, Hideo Nomo and Todd Hollandsworth. 
No Dodgers even received votes this year. Wilton Guerrero, their top candi­date, hit .291 with four homers and 32 RBis. 
Rolen received all 28 first-place votes and 140 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
Livan Hernandez, the Cuban defector who went 9-3 with a 3.18 ERA in 17 starts for the Florida Marlins, was tied for second with Matt Morris, who was 12-9 with a 3.19 ERA for the St. Louis Cardinals. Both had 25 points. 
Rich Loiselle of the Pittsburgh Pirates was fourth with 22 points. followed by Andruw Jones of the Atlanta Braves with 15. 
Rolen, who made the minimum $150.000 last season. earned a $25,000 bonus for winning the award. He became the became the eighth unani­mous NL rookie winner, joining Jackie Robinson (1947), Orlando Cepeda (1958), Willie McCovey (19591. Vinee Coleman (1985), Benito Santiago (1987), Piazza (1993) and Mondesi (1994). 
Combined with Nomar Garciaparra's unanimous election as AL Rookie of the Year on Monday, it marked only tlw third time both rookie winners were unanimous choices. It also happened in 1993 (Piazza and Tim Salmon) and 1987 (Santiago and Mark McGwire). 
Rolen is the third Phillies player to win, joining Jack Sanford (1957) and Hichie Allen (1964). Allen introduced Holen at a news conference in Veterans Stadium. 

Brand New Computers ­ BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND  nothing to sAy  
200MHz, 32 MB RAM, 33.6k  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  
modem, 1.6 GB hard drive,  674-7645.  Bodrain player looking to form  

20X CD-ROM, Sound Card, 60W speakers, 14" monitor . $1250 +shipping. Call Julie at (970) 221-0494 
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m. 

(office); 233-1268(home). NACE. Honda Accord Hatchback 
631-8672 
TICKETS 
I 

Wanted: Individual wants tick­ets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752­1208 or (318)747-8820. 
NO VS.W. VA TIX FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MESSAGE 
4 GA's W. Virginia 4sale Best Offer 44982 
++++++++++++++++ For Sale: 2 West Virginia student tickets (not GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435 ++++++++++++++++ 
ALUMNI DESPARATE for W Virginia tix (2-4). Carrie (713)526-6393/(713)753-5324 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 LOW PRICES Celtic band-if you play Iiddle, flute, etc. call Dan x3652 
ADOPTION Happily married couple with lots of love to share with newborn. Can help with · doctor bills. Please, call 1-800­Sun.: Noon-Midnight 

2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS 1987. 93K miles. WANTED N D G A'S 484-6399 X2706. 
(closed home football Sat's) 

Tutor wanted for basic com put-SECURITY SYSTEM. v. good condition. 1 owner. TO ALL HOME GAMES 
Phone 631-COPY 

er help. Call 234-8938 after 5. 289-4712 $3,000 271 1526 SELF ASSESSMENT: THE 
We NEED 2 GA's for WV lv. msg. (800)321-411 Ox10986 
PERSONAL
I 
ADOPTION · LOOK NO FUR­THEA A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE &MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them to adopt my baby. They're wonderful parents and I couldn't be happier with my choice. I'm thrilled that they want to adopt again! They're fun, affectionate, professional, stable &easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with you too. (888)690-BABY or check their web site at WWW.MEETUS.COM 
000 Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center KEY TO SUCCESSFUL DEC!­SIONS. 3 Session workshop for any student beginning the career search process. November 5, 12, and 19th from 
4:00 to 5:30PM, Dooley Room, LaFortune. Presented by Career and Placement Services and the University Counseling Center. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
-J High-Speed Copies 
'-1 Canon Color Laser Copies 
..J Digital Color Printing 
..J Binding & Laminating 
..J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY 
Hang in there, kidde. Things will get better. 
Between you and the Mona Lisa. 
Man, I have a GREAT body. 
Free. Hot destinations! Free 

orthopedic mattress set and 
LOST -ROOM KEY -#406. Parties, Eats, Drinks. 

frame. New, never used, still in CONFIDENTIAL thanks to all my friends 
CALL JILL 4-3196. SunSplash 1-800-426­

plastic. $250.00 219-862-TICKET-MART, INC.
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 

2082. martin will die for spending WANTED FOR SALE 25% of the day studying soI FOR RENT '87 BMW 325, hard
I I 
miss us.

Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited 6CYL,5SPD,EXC., COND.· N.D. G.A.'S 
classifieds myself. OK? 
Marc, Greg, Steve, Joe and Gabe: How're things over in O'Neill with out us? Must be quiet. Don't pretend you don't FOOTBALL TICKETS 

Lost: Set of Keys FOR SALE That's the impression that I get. 
BUY-SELL-TRADE the big day is over 
With Chrysler Remote ''Spring Break..."Take 2"*' 4-4982 Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 I am just going to fill out these
Brass bed, queen size with 232-0058 big Jim, it's do-nut time! 
earning potential!! 6 BDRM HOME NEXT MECH. &BODY. $5750. 291-greek hist is the panthers love 
Ahhhhh .... 

616-461-6772. F ALL.272-6551 8361 (LV.MSG.) 271-9412. slave 
r--= ~~~·~ed~n~e=s~d~,~~·~N~o~ve~m~b~er~5~,~~~99~·7~==--cu 
• NFL 
Chiefs' Grbac out indefinitely 
11 48 40 20 
_._ .. ._________·_-_= • "''
_____~·T~h~:~O~:--~s~er~v~e~r~·~S~P~~·()~~~1[~S~-·~·=·~·~so----~·:-_____ *~p~a~g~e-~--~ 00 0 
""'l 

I
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
I

Vols have a chance at SEC title game bid 
Associated Press "I have talked to our football 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Kansas City quarterback Elvis Grbac will be out indefinitely after breaking his collarbone in Monday night's 13-10 victory over Pittsburgh. 
The Chiefs also said tight end Ted Popson spent the night in a hospital with a mild concussion sustained when he was hit on the chin by Steelers cornerback Donnell Woolford's helmet. 
"Elvis sustained a fractured clavicle," coach Marty Schottenheimer said at his weekly news conference. "It was his non-throwing arm. It will not require surgery." 
Grbac was hurt in the fourth quarter when he was sand­wiched between end Nolan Harrison and linebacker Jason Gildon. 
how long Grbac might be out, other than this week's game at Jacksonville. 
"I think it's best we look at it in terms of he'll be out indefi­nitely," Schottenheimer said. "It doesn't make any sense ... trying to project injuries ... to say he's going to be two weeks, four weeks, eight weeks or whatever. Everybody heals at a different rate and speed." 
Backup Rich Gannon will start at Jacksonville. 
"The prognosis at this point is optimistic. But we still need a little more information before we can say everything is going to be fine," Schottenheimer said. "There's no evidence of anything serious, but he did suffer a mild concussion." 
The game was stopped for several minutes while Papson being placed on a stretcher. 

Papson had caught an 7-yard pass and was caught from behind by linebacker Earl Holmes. Papson was still up when Woolford came up and hit him on the chin with the top of his helmet. 
Papson was injured just in front of the Kansas City bench. His teammates huddled around him and Steelers coach Bill Cowher came across the field to talk with Kansas City coach Marty Schottenheimer as Papson was attended to. 
Grbac was flagged for inten­tiona! grounding on the play on which he was hurt. He was replaced by Gannon, who com­pleted all five of his pass attempts and helped put the game away with a 13-yard first-down run in the fourth. 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn 

As soon as Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer got rid of one problem, he inherited another. But this one he'd rather have. 
Fulmer no longer has to fight to keep his No. 8 Volunteers interested in their final few games while Florida marches to another Southeastern Conference title. 
Instead, he has to keep the Vols from getting carried away, now that the Gators are pretty much out of the way after a 37­17 loss to Georgia last week. Before that, it was a 28-21 loss to LSU. 
"We've been close the last two years, finished in the Top 10, and those are nice things," Fulmer said Tuesday. "But now we have a real chance to com­pete for a championship. We'll try to squeeze every ounce out of this opportunity th.at we can." 
This opportunity, of course, is a clear road to the SEC cham­pionship game on Dec. 6 in Atlanta. For the first time this late in any season since 1992, the Vols can get to the title game without any help by win­ning the rest of their SEC games against Arkansas, Kentucky and Vanderbilt. 
"It's really a great opportuni­ty for this team," Fulmer said. "We need to be sure we take advantage." Phase I, the last non-conference game of the season, comes Saturday against No. 24 Southern Mississippi. 
The Golden Eagles come to Knoxville with one of the top defenses in the country, a 6-2 record and a reputation for beating SEC teams. 
1

~T'-s tk~ I S~~SOJ\. to :. &~ Fk.££ZI"/l · 0~ 15 IT? t-<J..~""/' hck~ts G-..-~""( tJo.Clvic~ . . rv,c~_l~op_(~  
~ondon $256 Paris $232 r. 'Cancun $238. ~San Jose, CR $280 ·~.  
fun AA! '"0" INDIAMAPOUS Uu••A•UloiOOIARf""'!HASf.fd!SDOIOOIDIUUDfl.u:f!i,WHJI:M(AN f' :0:':~:~~~:~:.1 f:s~~· :!"m"~:."~:~r~~~~~!i:::~!::~l ~~~~' 10 · !iUIJUITOCII.llOW.R!STII{I100K~l.("'-lfOIOU.LO•DO"l!intf.UISAIIO f ..U TO 0100(1 MlllD.ml PISTIIoATtOII'i. ' lj.l!i!I411Travel ~·~ CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 1-800-2-COUNCIL 1-800-226-86241 

team about the intensity and effort we have to prepare and play with," Fulmer said. "We talked about execution, about how important ball security is for us, about not giving any­body anything easy. We spent a lot of time talking about those very things." 
Southern Miss is in the same slot on Tennessee's schedule that Memphis occupied last season, and all the Vols remember what happened that day: a 21-17 upset by the Tigers. 
"I hope we've learned our lesson over the years and will respect every opponent, pre­pare like we're capable of preparing and play to the best of our abilities," Fulmer said. "That's the long term. 
The short term is we need to make sure everybody under­stands that Southern Miss is a very good team. They're well coached on both sides and they have a history of getting an upset or two every year." 
Fulmer then reeled off a list of those so-called upsets, which have gotten less and less sur­prising among people who fol­low Southern football closely. 
The SEC victims include Alabama, Auburn (twice), LSU and, most recently, Georgir. last season. 
"It's not somebody we need to take lightly at all," Fulmer said. 
The Vols and Golden Eagles last played two seasons ago in Knoxville, with Tennessee tak­ing a 42-0 victory. That was the last time Southern Miss was shut out. 
The Eagles have lost to both of their SEC opponents this season, 21-6 to Florida in the season opener and 27-13 to Alabama on Sept. 27. 
"They're 25th in total defense in the country and ninth in pass defense," Fulmer said. "They're very multiple. You're not even sure at the snap of the ball what you're getting . 
"They've been forcing a lot of turnovers and getting a lot of sacks. It's been no coincidence they're doing as well as they are." 





Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Information Session: TONIGHT November 5 Haggar College Center Room303 7:00p.m. 
Students disCU!iS sports and clubs at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 

r ..~. 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Coach Jim Fassel has divided the New York Giants' season into four quadrants, and the goal for each one is a 3-1 record. "If that happens, then we're 12-4," Fassel said. "That might ~.e the best anyone could expect. 
At the midpoint of the 1997 season, the Giants have a 5-3 record. 
When you consider that the Giants, who had the National Football League's worst offense last season, have lost five starters on offense because of injury -including their best 

• 
lineman, center Brian Williams, and their top draft pick, wide receiver Ike Hilliard -a 5-3 record looks better and better, whatever your expectations. 
The Giants, with 38 players returning from last season's 6­10 team, have relied on a solid, reliable defense and have found new stars in defensive tackles Robert Harris and Keith Hamilton, quarterback Danny Kanell and fullback Charles Way. And they have had a remarkably good sense of tim­ing, making big plays at big times. Some people would call this luck. The Giants would tell you it is the essence of winning football. 
The Giants, who used to run on first down so often you would have thought it was New Jersey law, have passed the football 16 more times than they have run it this year. Last season, Giants quarterbacks 
· The concert is free and open to the public. 
• NFL 
By BILL PENNINGTON 
Associated Press 
Wednesday, November 5, 1997

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
Giants stand atop NFC East with surprising 5-3 mark 

followed by 

were sacked 56 times, more than any other group in the league. 
This season, they have been sacked 13 times. Moreover, the ratio of sacks yielded to sacks created has been altered dra­matically. The Giants' defense sacked the quarterback 30 times last year. This season, it already has 27 sacks. 
"That's been the biggest change of all," Fassel said. If the Giants are going to keep getting better, they will have to continue to protect Kanell, who has won both of his starts and has posted numbers (40-of-78 passing, with three touchdowns and two interceptions) compa­rable to those of the previous starter, Dave Brown. 
Kanell's greatest asset has been his imbuing his team­mates with confidence. The offensive line has protected Kanell better than it protected Brown. It has blocked better for the running backs. Maybe the line was on the verge of matur­ing, anyway, but it has hap­pened under Kanell. Only injury will keep Kanell out of the starting lineup now. 
Another Fassel goal for the 
Giants was a change of attitude. 
After successive losing seasons, 
too many players expected the 
worst when things started to go 
sour. After a bumbling 1-3 start 
this season, the Giants may 
have bee.n one more defeat 
from a downward spiral. 
But they pulled themselves 
out of that funk with small, 
steady steps -most of them 
led by the defense, a unit 
loaded with play makers. If the 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Notre Dame S~mpbon~ Orchestra 
Daniel Stowe, con~uctor 
Smetana, "The Moldau" from Ma Vlast Mahler , Ruckert Lieder -Georgine Resick, soprano Beethoven , Symphony No. 7 
Thursday, November 6 8 pm Washington Hall 

Giants are going to shock the football world and become a playoff team, it will be the defense that will lead the way. 
Safeties Tito Wooten, Percy Ellsworth and rookie Sam Garnes each have made inter­ceptions that have altered games. And the Giants' coaches have so much faith in corner­backs Phillippi Sparks and Jason Sehorn that the rest of the defense is allowed to gam­ble. 
The front four is destroying other teams' game plans with penetration. The linebackers are vastly underrated. 
But the Giants have several weaknesses. They have yet to prove they can control the foot­ball. Way has bailed out the running game, but he is not an every-down back. Tiki Barber gives the offense a much-need­ed big-play threat, but Barber has sustained an injury in every game he has played. And Tyrone Wheatley has yet to prove he can get significant rushing yardage game after game. 
As successful as the first half has been, and as pivotal as one would expect the season's final quadrant to be, it is the next four games that may decide how favorably the Giants' sea­son is judged. 

Of the Giants' next four oppo­nents, three have losing records. The Giants play host to the Cincinnati Bengals (1-6) on Sunday, followed by a game at Tennessee (3-4) on Nov. 9, a home game against Arizona (1­
6) and a game at Washington (4-3). 
A 3-1 record in those games would assure a nonlosing sea­son and a legitimate shot at making the playoffs. 
And that is more than anyone could have expected. 

Wednesday, November 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL 
San Francisco improves record to league-best 8-1 
By THOMAS GEORGE 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN FHANCISCO The San Francisco 49ers have re-invented themselves. 
This franchise has a knack for that. It won big in the 1980s and has continued to do so in tlw 1 990s, the freshest achieve­m!'nt being a crucial 17-10 vic­tory over the Dallas Cowboys here at :Kom Park on Sunday. This season, with an 8-1 record. the 49ers have so far produced the best results in pro football. 
This latest retooling, howev­er. is intriguing. passionate and crafty. It all started with Dallas. It began with Jimmy Johnson. 
Carmen Policy, the 49ers' president, was beaming after this latest clash with the Cowboys, with wide eyes and a sparkling smile and a glow that he equated to being "emotion­ally orgasmic." For the 49ers, little equates to beating Dallas. 
"Wn lost to Dallas in the '93 and '94 NFC championship ganws," Policy said, referring to tlw 1992 and 1993 seasons. "That really woke us up. We could spe that we would need a JlercuiPan effort or we would self-destruct. It was a fight for survival. In one of those years, we had home-field advantage throughout the playoffs and lost to tlwm lwrr. Tlwy stopped us from winning two Super Bowls W!~ fpJt we could have won. And it was disgusting." 
Yes. Dallas and Johnson. then 
the Cowboys' coach. won those 
NFC titl1~ matchups, and for the 
game here in January 1993, 
.Johnson guaranteed a Cowboy victory. Dallas won with style and with big plays and with trash-talking. The 49ers were taken aback at how much trash the brash. young Co,wboys served. Most teams in those days met San Franeisco with a respect bordering on awe. Those Dallas teams simply knocked the 49ers off their enviable perch. 
San Francisco still had enough talent to win a Super Bowl in 1995. Despite that, Policy said, those earlier losses to the Cowboys made it all come to this: "They became our entire focus. We decided that we would rather not make the playoffs than make the playoffs and lose to Dallas again. We decided we'd rather be 8-8 than lose to Dallas." 
Thus, the latest reinventing of the 49ers began. It has evolved over the last two and a half seasons to include four primary aspects: 
ACTIVE FHEE AGENCY: "We saw that to compete with Dallas, that we needed even more stars who could make star plays," Policy said. "So, we started by getting one of theirs, Ken Norton. Then we got Deion Sanders." This season, it is players like defensive end Kevin Greene and tailback Garrison Hearst, who both con­tributed mightily in the victory on Sunday. 
MAHIUCCI FOH SEIFEHT: 
George Seifert is a wonderful 
man, and a wonderful coach, 
but the 49ers' brass felt that 
there was an energy lacking, 
that there needed to be a fresh­
er approach with new ideas. 
Enter Steve Mariucci, whose only head-coaching experience had been at the University of California. 


"This is not a league that hires many college coaches as head coach," Policy said. "People grilled us. 'What are they doing?' They laughed at us. But Steve is doing just what we had hoped. He is an excel­lent combination of enthusi­asm, character and brains." 
A PEHSISTENT RUNNING GAME: The 49ers have run the ball 308 times and passed it 241 times. Not since 1992, and only 4 times in the last 17 sea­sons, has this franchise fea­tured the run more than the pass through nine games. Forget that old finesse label about the 49ers' offense. Forget those short passes that served as running plays. The 49ers are as smash-mouth as teams come now, and they show a willing­ness under Mariucci to stick with the run. That was the for­mula against Dallas on Sunday. 
Their run-pass ratio in the first half was 8 to 14, and the 49ers trailed by 7-0 at halftime. By game's end, the ratio was 33 to 23, and San Francisco won the rushing war by 128 yards to 87 yards. 
THE DEFENSE LEADS: For so long with the 49ers the offense has grabbed all the glory; the defense, while of championship caliber, was simply workman­like. Now there is no question that the defense rules, especial­ly with the All-Pro receiver Jerry Rice sidelined. 
There are stars everywhere on defense: cornerback Rod Woodson, another free-agent acquisition, and safeties Tim McDonald and Merton Hanks, who are Pro Bowlers. 


SafeRide will operate Friday and Saturday from 1Opm to 3am. The SafeR ide hotline is 631­9888. SafeRide is always looking for volun­teers to drive vans and to answer phones, call Mary @ 1-9888 for more information. 

Project Warmth is currently underway. Student Government, along with the CSC, Gear for Sports, and a number of other sponsors, is proud to be a co-sponsor of the project that last year collected nearly 1600 coats for distri­bution to sites throughout the country. Drop off your coats at any number of sites, includ­ing the student government office, and receive 25o/o off a Gear for Sports jacket at the Bookstore. 
The place to find out what going on with Student Government. email us at: nd.stugov.l@nd.edu 

The exchange will start Tuesday, November 11. Students can only exchange tickets for 2 games. Maximum of 300 tickets exchanged per game. Must bring student id and ticket booklet. Exchange at the ticket office, Gate 1 , 2nd floor of the JACC 

Phone books for off-campus students are now available in the student government office on the second floor of LaFortune. 


The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 1997 


www.nd.edu/-sub 

E c B H A T N 

D 
FREE ADMISSION 
LAFOR IONE BALLROOM 
Th•LIJPf 
SAT. NOV 

(Two in a Series of Many) 


Industr.lai , Progress.lve , Hefro , Aiternat.lveDance 
fr1111 lldrDIIIID.D rll.b rlllld DDI/11111 fDA propt~r ldii.DIIf/DIIIID.D 
No". 7 
P.S. Dump your Boyfriend 
EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, Ali-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 . 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
page 16 
Lyons 
continued from page 20 
season." 
"Our offense and defense came through when we needed iL BP got inside our 20-yard line three times. and we shut them down every time. We'll play Pasquerilla East, and everybody knows they're the best time in the league. We just 
want to go out and play our best against them." Breen-Phillips ended up 3-1­3 for the year. 
"We're really proud of the girls," said coach Brian Shannon. "We were ranked dead last in the beginning of the year." 
Lyons will play Pasquerilla East in the second round of the playoffs. The game will be played Sunday at 1 p.m. at Stepan. 
•NBA 
Ewing leads Knicks over Pitino's Celtics 

I I 
Associated Press 

' NEW YORK Patrick Ewing scored 26 points Tuesday night as New York toyed with Rick Pitino's young Celtics in a 102-70 victo­ry, the Knicks' 20th straight regular-season win over Boston. 
Ewing scored 15 points in the first half when the Knicks defensive pressure for easy baskets and the Knicks domi­nated inside, outrebounding the Celtics 54-29. 
Chris Mills, traded by Boston to New York for four players last month, added 17 points and 10 rebounds. Mills and John Starks helped the Knicks blow the game open in the sec­ond quarter. 
Travis Knight led the Celtics 
opened a 17 -point .-------------, with 13 points. lead en route to Boston, which evening their Knicks stunned the Bulls 
home record at 1-in their home 
1. New York has opener last week, won 10 straight 102 looked like they home games might give the against Boston Celtl•CS Knicks a game
and hasn't lost to early on. the Celtics since The Celtics went 1993. on a 7-0 run in the 
70 
Boston's point total was its low­est against New York since the 24-second shot clock was introduced in 1954. 
Pitino, who coached New York from 1987-89, was mak­ing his first appearance at Madison Square Garden as an NBA coach since he quit the Knicks following a power strug­gle with former general man­ager AI Bianchi. 
Whether inspired by Pitino's return or Charles Oakley's crit­icism of his teammates' lack­luster effort in practice and in a home-opening loss to Detroit, the Knicks put together their most complete effort in three games this season. 
New York had little trouble breaking Boston's relentless first four minutes 
of the second 
quarter to tie it 31-31 before the Knicks, led by Starks and Mills, closed the half by outscoring Boston 25-8. 
Starks scored five points and assisted on two baskets by Mills in an 11-0 burst as the Knicks began to pull away. Mills scored again on a follow and hit a spinning layup to ignite an 8-0 run as New York built its lead to 52-37 with less than a minute left in the half. 
The Knicks shot 12-for-18 from the field in the second quarter and with Ewing, Oakley and Mills doing most of the work inside, New York out­rebounded Boston 27-13 in the opening half. 
Recycle The Observer 
IAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
NOVEMBER 6TH FEATURING 
TASHI STATION 
(WITH A GUEST BAND) Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
Coming Thursday, Nov. 21 SKALCOHOLIKS Don't get evicted-Hold your off campus party at Jazzman's-no rental cost-must be 21 or over 
233-8505 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Senior captain Melvin Dansby played an outsatnding game last Sunday against Navy, but he is just one of the many banged up Irish players who will use the bye week to make sure he is 100 percent for the LSU game. 
r ad a

S range One 
Astartlingly original novel 
love, hate and intelligence ­human and other. 
by Random House/Vintage www.ndbookstore.com 

page 17 
::.

Friday 
continued from page 20 
Jarvis Edison, Autry Denson, Brad Williams, Jay Johnson, Joey Getherall, Lee Lafayette, Ty Goode, Melvin Dansby, and no running for Ron Powlus due to a bruised knee. The good news is that all of them are hopefully expected back in time for the trip to Baton Rouge. 
"I want the extra week," Davie commented. "First of all, we desperately need that extra week with that injury report we have. I just want to see us have our whole football team healthy." 
That will be necessary if the Irish plan to beat the No. 14 Tigers at LSU. 
Davie is happy with the progress the team has made and feels that if the team can heal itself by next weekend, the Irish have a good chance to fin­ish the season with a winning record. 
'Tm looking forward to this challenge," Davie said. "I mean, to go play LSU and come back home and play West Virginia, two top-25 football teams is a big challenge. But I like our football team right now. I think we've made con­tinuous progress. If we can get our football team back healthy for LSU, I think we're going to be a good football team down the stretch." 
MOREAU CENTER­
I..ITTlfTHEATREH E NOV. 13,14,15 at8pm &NOV. 16 at2:30pm 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'laughlin Auditorium, open Mon. -Fri., 9am to 5 pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 

AN IMPROBABLE FARCE IN THREE ACTS 
MgM()
by ~.,..,~~.., I c~ THE ARTS

NOH COWARD ~ NOTRI! DAME, IN 
Cordially invites you to a presentation and reception given by 
T• . ..· · , ·•·· . ··•·· --~.
z·~··· ·a..,~
1""&17n.·

~. Ja .·· ..,,;.-Je t.L9v! 'o,../ "''" 
. I
~ris llull (NlJi '93) 

Market Research Department 7:30PM, November 6, 1997 at the University Club 
Procter and Gamble bases its successes on its people. Being a global leader in the consumer products industry with annual sales of more than $35 billion, J];,.t;rG proxjdeSmany dynamic opportunitiesfoiqualified peoplefrom all disciplines. 
Tim and Kris~~~~p~ovide an overview oftlzese opportunities and hf!W P~(i's Market Reseach · Department managifts proVt(/.epro-active analytical skills and strategic lead(trshiptixour Global business. There will also be information provided regarding P & G's recruiting process and interviewing schedule for those students interested in pursuing a career with one of the world's most admired companies. 
Refreshment will be served... 


~-------..1 
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
• WOMEN's INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

No. 2 seed Walsh hands Off-Campus an early exit 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
By JEFF GORRIS Sporrs Writer 
This first-round playoff game was a show of contrasting atti­tudes and styles. The Walsh team took the game very seri­ously and used a well-disci­plined and balanced attack to win the game. The Off-Campus team was less organized and saw the game as an opportunity to have some fun. 
The Walsh team was led by quarterback Carolyn Parnell. She was involved in all three of 
Lewis, who defeated P.W.13-6, is next in line for the Walsh Wild Women, who blanked Off-Campus this weekend, 18-0. 
come. Field Hockey Practice wi1l' 

Walsh's touchdowns. in the second half on a touch­
The first Walsh touchdown down pass from Parnell to Luz came on a pass from Parnell to Maria Rodriguez. Vandy Hench. r-------------, The Walsh 
Hench got behind 
the Off-Campus cornerback and Parnell threw a strike for the 25­
yard score. 
The second Walsh touchdown came on a quar­terback keeper by
Parnell just c__ tions by Sarah
_________j 
before the end of the first half. Morrill and Beth Wladyka. This tally was set up by a long The Off-Campus sqaud was pass from Parnell to Laura led by receivers Katie Phelps McGrimley. and Ann Dubay. Both had sev-
The final Walsh score came era! key receptions for first 
Q)QQQQ 

International Juggling Champion Q 
Q

Mark Nizer 
Q

will be performing at Washington Hall Friday, November 7th at 9:15 p.m.Q <0 Free admission 
(() 
Comedy and Juggling
0 
on the Edge
0 Come see Mark juggle 41aser Beams, 5 ping 
0 
pong balls thrown 20 feet in the air using only his mouth, a running electric carving 
knife and a 16 pound 
bowling ball (not at the same time). 
rF\ ((?\ (?'\ r,{>ponsored by Student Activit.ies and '-__) "-__) "--.) '\.) C() the ND Juggling Club 
Walsh 
defense was also 

spectacular. It managed toJS come up with big plays every time
Qff C 
0 f f-C am p u s -amPUS started to move the ball. Two ofQ these big plays were intercep­
downs. Quarterback Jen Roe also had a good game both passing the ball and running the option. 
The most exciting play of the day for Off-Campus was Katie Phelps' interception return for a touchdown that was called back on a pass interference call. "Katie Phelps had a great game for us," said Anne Dubay. 
The Wild Women of Walsh look forward to an important second-round playoff game this week when they face the Lewis Chicks. If they are able to maintain the level of play that they showed against Off­Campus, things bode well for them. 


I ' ' I 
Wednesday, November 5, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
But you've got to drive me 
SOBER!! 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 



YOU TWO WILL BE IN CHARGE. OF RE.WRiiiNG 
OUR COBOL CODE TO 
FIX THE MILLENNIUM 
PROBLEM. 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 26 Wasn't fast ... or was fast?
1 Flaccid 
27 Joke's target

5 Writer Ferber 28 Darling of 9 Port of Iraq 
baseball 14 Neighborhood 
31 Car crime 15 Picture of a 
35 Practice piecephysician 37 Folk singer Phil1&01d-time 

38 "--I Don't

strongman Have You" 17 Alternative to a (1959 hit) tuning fork 40 Holm oak 
19 New York city or 41 Makes holes
its college 43 Practical
20 Mil. entertainers experiment21 "Sorry 'bout 45 Lennon's widow
that!" 46 Potter's need
22 Some binary compounds 
48 Guy's date 49 "Missing You" 

23 Apollo as god of the sun 
singer John 51 Stanches

25 Preserved for later 55 Some T-shirts 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

YOU DRIVE ME 
CRAZY 
YOU DRIVE ME 
WILD 
YOU DRIVE ME 
NUTS 
YOU DRIVE ME 
BANANAS 
,. 
0 
~ 
0 "'® 
,.
"' 
• ::"' 0 
0 
~ 
57 Piano-violin piece 58 Stage signal 59 Masseur's offering 60 Get sick in the winter &2 Lacking sense &3 Melville novel 64 Church area &5 Shot out beams &&Actress Armstrong 67 Symbol on California's flag 
DOWN 
1 Drink like a cat 2--Sweeps Derby 3 "I want to, as well" 4lt washes Wash. 
6 
Nerds 
7 Siestas 
I REtoUlE YOU'VE NEVER WORKEO WITH COBOL BEFORE 1 ~~OK. THAi'S 
WHY I'M TEAMING YOU 
WIT\-\ B05, SO '<OU CAN 
LEARN FROM HIS VAST 



8 Nautical assent 9 Pri,ncipal ore of 
aluminum 10 Room at the top 11 Obsolete math 
aid 12 Family of man 13 Gray and others 18 White House 
architect James 22 Neighbor of 
Man. 24 Expunge 25 Light weight 27 Russian novelist 
Ivan 
0 
29Someold poetry 30 Waiting room call 31 Wandering soul 32Computer image 33 Dispose of 34 Search messily 
36 Library catalogue heading 
39"Viewof Toledo" and "Adoration" 
42Adept Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday cros~words from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: This is not the best day for bucking the system or fighting the power. Go with the program even as you celebrate your indi­viduality within the privacy of your mind. Keep moving for­ward to leave all this behind. Taurus: Expect another day of getting back to basics, It's easy to move off in a new direction when your starting point is fixed and solid. Financial decisions are favored today. Gemini: An old, familiar pattern takes on a disturbing new mean­ing. Say what is necessary, but do not engage in needless gossip. This may be the day to start con­sidering alternatives to your pre­sent career.· Cancer: You feel like a little child today, open and exploring, yet completely sheltered. An extreme action requires an equally extreme reaction. Before commit­ting yourself, be aware that corn­fort has its price. Leo: Beware of having too much fun today. If you let some of the details slide by, your actions will be less effective. Help a young 
person or a new recruit prepare for the future. Virgo: You are fast and efficient today. Familiarity with your rou­tine liberates your mind to wan­der as you do your work. You can't help feeling as if you are the inventor of logic. Libra: It's hard to be nice when everyone else seems indifferent. Relationship trouble may drive 

lnt!f'llships: Winning Strategies 
...•..... prks~qp will take place in the this afternoon,
Sday, Nov. 5~'fronf4 to 5 p.m. Among the topics covere~ "fll be Wbjit)nterviewers are really looking for; therwwest interviewing techniques and the iinportant'do's anddon'ts ofa face-to-face interview. This workshop will be presented by Kitty Arnold, Director of Career and Placement Services. 
S~;f ~=::;:~;nt: The,, Key to Successful Career Decisl()ns is a tbree-sessiop. workshop for students beghming,the.cateer Search process. Sessions will be held ?nW~dnesdays!Nov. 5, 12 and 19 from 4 to 5:30 p~ni. in. the Dtieley Roo!Jl• LaFortune. Students are encoti el:l to.. attend all three sessions. Presented by Judy , C ····..·.· apd Placement Services and Domi ... versityCounseling Center. 
you to striking out at those who don't deserve your anger. Keep in mind that the entire human race is just one big dysfunctional family. Scorpio: Authority figures are on your side today. Others appreci­ate your loud, clear voice and precise choice of words. A feeling of safety empowers you to move forward in your life. Sagittarius: Legal matters grind slowly along today, no matter what any..me says or does. You feel obligated to attend a social function that holds no personal appeal. If you let your mind wan­der too far, you may miss some­thing. Capricorn: Decisions made today will be the right ones, and they will stick for a long time. You pass unchallenged on your way to glory. Relaxation may not be in your vocabulary, but you can afford a little bit of it right now. Aquarius: A repetitive explana­tion or sequence of events wears away at your patience. Revolution fantasies are not pro­ductive and should be kept quiet. Research and fact-finding, no matter how tedious, present you with a way out. Pisces: Linear and lateral think­ing are fine, but some situations require an in-depth approach. You draw inspiration from the moving water of an ocean or fountain. Connect telepathically ;,_.ith someone who understands 
you. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
.... 

. l 
44 Vader of "Star Wars" 47 "--a Living" 50 Coeur d'--, Idaho 51 Cars 52 Purview 53 Oklahoma city 
54 Passover meal 55 Be up and about 56 Actress 
Washbourne 57 Lady's title 60 Male swan &1 Semi part 
,­


I t • ' 

I [ . SPORTS 
' 
I• 
.... 
•· 
page 20 Wednesday, November 5, 1997 
• FOOTBALL 

Irish try to find some consistency doW"n the stretch 

Need bye week to heal key injuries 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Regardless of how good or how bad a season turns out, it can be assumed that the first season in every head coach's career is a learning experience. 
And even if Notre Dame htJad coach Bob Davie would prefer being the for­mer part of that state­ment, he can't deny that this season has presented him with very unique, and even more importantly, formidable chal­lenges. 
Through nine games in the season, Davie has experienced a gamut of challenges. both physically and emotionally ~ probably more than any first­year coach could hope for. One of the most unique experiences came last week against Navy, in which the Midshipmen almost ended the Irish 33­game winning streak on a last­second "llail Mary" pass. 
It kind of makes one wonder. how much more adversity and surprise can one coach tako? 

Davie and the Irish have been Clement Stokes has been one of unexpected surprises for the Irish this year. They will need a big game out 
on all sides of the spectrum this of Autry Denson and Stokes to have a chance against LSU in two weeks. season. From barely pulling 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL. fOOTBALL 
Lyons gets job done 
1 I against Banshees 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Rosenkoetter ran in the touch­Sports W ritet down,'' said coach Norm Beznoska. "ltwas. kind .of 
Lyons Hall capitalized on big unexpected and, really gave plays with a touchdown late in our team a big boost going into each half of its playoff game ha.l~time ..•.. . . +if • •itil !i¥ against Breen-Phillipt o~ In the s half, neither Sunday to Win 13-0. ·+Y • £V · team was able t<:rpiltpoints ori. · 
It was a defensive battle' theboarduntilthelastminnte 

until near the end of the· trrst ofplay.half when .------~---'-'-~"---"'-':"-1. 
senior tfgbt Luons 
end Kim , Rosenkoetter caught a pass 13 from quarter­
back Kathy Breen-Phi.III.PS
Tschanz. A penalty was called on the 
0 
play as a BP d e f e· n d e r pulled Rosenkoetter's flag. Rosenkoetter was able to run the ball into the end zone for the TD, and the extra point was good. 
"Some of our biggest plays came as time ran out, as when see LYONS I page 16 
. 
defensive hack, ran the ball backto BP's 20-yard.line. 
'We're real pleased with the win," said Beznoska. "We tied Breen-Phillips in the regular 
!'Thekeyplay was an inter~.: .. ception by Lisa Thomas when Breen"PhHlips was in scOring 
position with
30 secon.ds to go," said cap­tain Angie Fister. 
Thomas, a 
out the season opener to break­ing an 11-game winning streak with a loss to Purdue. From losing handily to Michigan State to blowing a two-touch­down lead on the top defense in the nation in a self-inflicted loss to Michigan. 
From going out w1~st and allowing two of Stanfurd's run­ning backs to amass over a hundred yards each. to running over a virtually defenseless Pittsburgh team with a 45­point offensive performance. From losing to USC by three at home to rebounding and crush­ing Boston College by 32 points the next week. 
No doubt exists that this sea­son has been a roller coastm ride for the Irish ~ one that better end soon bocause people arc starting to get nauseous. 
The Irish are now 4-5 and looking for some smooth sailing for the remaining thn~e games of the season. 
The team now has a week off to figure out how its going to accomplish this feat~ one that will not come too Pasily as it faces LSU away then West Virginia at home. And don't forgPt about that little four­time zone trip to Hawaii, that seemingly appears to bP an easy win for the Irish. But thPn again that's what Lou Holtz thought in 1991 when the Irish pulled out a slim 48-42 victory over the Rainbows. 
What remains the major con­cern for the Irish right now is the disabled list it has once again compiled. including names like Jimmy Friday. 
see FRIDAY I page 17 

at LSU, ~:• vs. Bowling Green, 
• ~ 
November 15, 3:30p.m. 

;. "!.. November 7, 7 p.m. a) 
• Walsh/Off-Campus 
vs. Villanova at Rutgers, 

Men's Swimming at Rice, 
November 7, 6 p.m. 

November 7, 6 p.m. see page 18
.--= ..... 

Women's Swimming at Pitt,
at Seton Hall, 
r/J • MLB Rookies of the Year 
November 9, I p.m. 

November 7, 6 p.m. 
see page 12 

Swimming at Hope,
vs. West Virginia, 

• ~
~ 
November 7, 7 p.m. «~ November 8, I p.m. \ 



