
Thursday, February 27, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 100 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT GovERNMENT 
Leadership forum stresses intercampus communication 
ND, SMC 
leaders discuss 
. 

common zssues 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE News Writer 
A small but enthusiastic group of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student govern­ment leaders met last night to improve the lines of communi­cation between the two schools. 
This meeting established a forum that will continue into next year's student administra­tion. This brought to life a vision of current Saint Mary's student body president Jen Turbiak and Stacy Davis, Saint Mary's representative to the Notre Dame Student Senate. 
"Students at our respective schools are familiar with each other but are still very unaware of overlapping issues," Turbiak said. "This forum will be high­ly beneficial if enough people are dedicated to it." 
At the meeting, current stu­dent body presidents, vice­presidents, and committee heads mingled with some of the newly elected administration. Matt Griffin and Erek Nass, the Notre Dame student body pres­ident and vice president-elect, discussed the idea of improved ND/SMC relations in-depth with Turbiak. 
"This forum is going to be a very positive addition to stu­dent government," Griffin said. "Notre Dame can learn a lot from Saint Mary's, and I'm sure we have things we can con­tribute as well." 
Turbiak and Davis empha­sized a relaxed atmosphere for the discussion, stressing that communication is facilitated by a raised comfort level. Impromptu speeches by Turbiak, Griffin, and Notre Dame vice president Megan Murray and Saint Mary's presi­dent-elect Nikki Milos, were followed by conversation regarding current issues at the two schools. The lack of stu­dent involvement in student government was raised as a pressing problem at both school. 
"Students at Notre Dame do not realize that they have a voice in government," com­mented Mark Leen, a Notre Dame student senator. "They 
see ND/SMC I page 4 

Notre Dame student body president-elect Matt Griffin (right) and vice president-elect Erek Nass (center) discuss communication with Saint Mary's student government leaders Lara Becker, Beth Beatty and Kaylynn DeCarli . 
• STUDENT SENATE 



Senate moves closer to change 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
In yesterday's meeting, the Student Senate took major steps towards both placing a student on the Board of Trustees and amending the student gov­ernment constitution. 
The senate unanimously approved a letter that will be sent to John Kaneb, chairman of the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. That letter proposes the idea of a stu­dent trustee and asks that the Student Senate be allowed to make a full presentation at the trustees' May meeting. 
"We think it pretty much sums up the senti­ments of the senate," said judicial council presi­dent Ryan Mcinerney. 
Reform committee chair Brendan Kelly followed by explaining the proposed constitutional amend­ments which the senate will vote on at their next meeting. 
Heform has four targets, he said: Student Union coherence, clarifying the student government con­stitution, creating a more effective executive cabi­
see SENATE I page 4 

Creating a facade 
Saint Mary's students painted masks and talked about the perception of women as part of a two-part workshop spon­sored by the women's studies and psychology departments yesterday in Moreau Hall. 

Morris defends U.S. News rankings, slams rivals 

By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
U.S. News and World Report's college ranking is the only survey that fairly and completely evaluates universities, according to Robert Morris, its director. 
That, he said, accounts for the fact that the survey garners more attention from schools than most others. 
In the magazine's 1997 college rarik­ings, Notre Dame ranked 17th in a sur­vey of 1,422 accredited four-year schools. The rankings are based on a school's performance in categories ranging from the opinions of other schools' presidents to alumni dona­tions. Other publications. such as the Gourman Report, also put out ratings on colleges. 
Closer to home, Notre Dame officials say they consider these rankings as only a part of their efforts to improve the University. 
"We look at it (Notre Dame's standing in the ratings} as one of the elements we are concerned with," said Assistant Dean Samuel Gaglio of the College of Business Administration. "It would be unfair to say that it is the focus of our efforts." 
In regards to how other publications compare with his own, Morris said, "I think U.S. News works with schools and uses actual data that is understood by the public to be performance indicators of the schools." 
"Gourman is a total sham," he went on. "Nobody has ever received a survey from Gourman." The Gourman Report ranked Notre Dame 19th nationally. 
As for Princeton Review, Morris said it is more of a non-academic study focusing on the best party schools and the most aesthetic schools. This survey does not have an overall ranking, and the categories' primary focuses are non-academic. 
The divisions of the "Politics" catego­
ry are "Students most nostalgic for 
Reagan," "Students most nostalgic for 
George McGovern," "Most Politically 
Active," and "Election? What 
Election?" 

In the "Schools by Type" category of 
Princeton Review, one of the divisions is "Birkenstock-Wearing, Tree­Hugging, Clove-Smoking Vegetarians," and those results are "based on a com­bination of survey questions concerning political persuasion, the use of alcohol, ·marijuana and hallucinogens, the prevalence of religion, and the popular­
ity of student government." 

Notre Dame did appear on a few of 
Princeton Review's lists. In the 
"Activities" category, the university is 
number one in the "Students Pack the 
Stadiums" division, and number four in 
"Everyone Plays Intramural Sports." In 
see RANK I page 8 


AP/Carl Fox 

r------------------~---­
page 2 

The rise and fall of Flanner Hall 
During the last couple 
Shawn Nigg of weeks there have 
Ad Designer 
been some misconcep­tions about Flanner Hall and about the people who live there. Unfortunately, these people possess certain biased views of this hallowed hall when they really do not have much of an idea of what Planner is truly about. As a resident of Flanner, it makes me extremely sad that these people have such a skewed view of existence that they would try to pin all of their petty personal shortcomings on the peo­ple of this dorm. 
What really makes this situation doubly bad is that these attacks have occurred dur­ing Planner's final year as a dorm. Have these people no shame? 
Personally, it is my view that Planner is the best dorm on campus. If nothing else, it is definitely the most unique dorm on campus. Over the years Planner has assumed its very own personality that could not be recreated anywhere else. 
Besides being home to the best dances on campus (except for the disastrous Planner Rave, but everybody is allowed one mistake), Planner also boasts some of the most presti­gious interhall sports teams on campus. Even though they didn't win, the underdog and unrespected Planner football team nearly pulled off the most miraculous run in the his­tory of interhall football to fall just short of the championship this past season. No one will be able to forget that momentous day. Planner has also been host to the critically acclaimed Cock Rock series that was tragical­ly cut short in its budding infancy. Many other events that only the glorious Planner Hall could pull off will never again see the light of day. 
Perhaps the most distressing experience for me personally will be coming back to campus 10 or 20 years from now and trying to relate to my children something about my experi­ences in Planner. I can just see it now, "Well, son, do you see where the faculty spa is? Well that is where I met your mom at one of Planner's dances. Oh, and look here! This is the room that I used to live in. Of course now it has been turned into Patty O'Hara's Rumpus Room, so I just can't bear to look at it anymore." 
When I think about what will happen to Planner it almost brings me to tears. In fact, I couldn't imagine living anywhere else than Planner. Almost like adding insult to injury, they plan on moving the poor unfortunate residents of Planner to women's dorms, Siegfried and Knott. No one wins in this situ­ation. All of the storied traditions of Planner and Siegfried and Knott will be blotted off the face of the earth. 
In the end, the friendships that we have formed in our years at Planner can never be broken no matter how hard the administra­tion tries to make it that way. So please, if you see a Flannerite walking around campus, instead of chastising him, tell him how much you will miss Planner next year and how your life will never be the same without it. 
But even if all else fails we Flannerites can always take pride in our motto: "Once a 'Cock, always a 'Cock." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• lontw's STAFF  
News  Production  
Matthew Loughran  Heather Cocks  
David Freddoso  Maureen Hurley  
Sports  Graphics  
Tom Schlidr  Brian Blank  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Joey Crawford  Joe Stark  
Viewpoint  
Eddie Llull  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 27, 1997 
Thai army pushes refugees back to Burma, rebel base falls 



The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 27. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
shelter from the fighting. 

The numbers could not be confirmed, but TV Channel 7 showed film of what it said were Karen refugees being taken by truck to the border and turned over to the custody of a Burmese district official. At least five large trucks were being used in the operation. 
The footage appeared to confirm a report from Karen sympathizers which said that women and children refugees had been taken by logging trucks from camps in Thailand's Kanchanaburi province, south to the border in Ratchaburi province, 60 miles west of Bangkok. 
Thai army officials said yesterday that only Karen men were being sent back and a high-ranking Thai army officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the order came from Army Commander-in-Chief Gen. Chetta Thanajaro. 
"Because of our concern for human rights we will accept women, children and the disabled, but not men," the officer said. 
Vatican appeals for ban on cloning 
VATICAN CITY 
Responding to the cloning of an adult sheep in Scotland, the Vatican newspaper appealed Wednesday for a ban on the cloning of humans, saying people have the right to be born "in a human way." President Clinton has asked a bioethics advisory commission to review the implications of the technology for humans. In testimony yesterday, the director of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Harold Varmus, called the prospect of cloning humans "repugnant." The Vatican editorial, by theologian Gino Concetti, was headlined "an urgent appeal to reason and to humanity." People "have the right to be born in a human way and not in a laboratory. Going against these principles should be interpreted not as opposition to science or as a brake on progress, but as safeguarding those values which constitute the human being and its existence," Concetti said in L'Osservatore Romano. He also called for swift passage of laws banning human cloning. In another comment on the breakthrough sheep experiment publi­cized earlier this week, Monsignor Elio Sgreccia, direc­tor of the Bioethics Institute of Rome's Catholic University, urged respect for animals. 
Abortion supporter admits lying 
WASHINGTON 
A prominent supporter of abortion rights acknowledged he lied when he said that so-called partial-birth abortions are performed rarely and only to save the mother's life or to abort malformed fetuses. Ron Fitzsimmons, executive director of the National Coalition of Abortion Providers in 
·Alexandria, Va., a coalition of 200 independently owned clinics, made the admission in an article to be published March 3 in Medical News, an American Medical Association publication. Fitzsimmons, who had insisted the procedure was rare in a November 1995 interview on the ABC show "Nightline," now says abortion opponents are right when they say the procedure, intact dilation and evacuation, is common. The article was first reported in today's New York Times. Fitzsimmons could not be immediately reached at his office. In the article, Fitzsimmons says that in the vast majority of cases, the procedure is performed on a healthy mother who is five months pregnant with a healthy fetus. 
Via Associated Press 

Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Nanni: Community must center around service 
By SARAH CORKREAN Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 
For Lou Nanni, executive director of the South Bend Center for the Homeless, the reward from a profession-serving the homeless is not in the ser­vice but in the way he has been influenced by the residents of the center. 
"All my life, I have been tempted by power, pos­sessions, and prestige of the material world. The people at the center ground into me what is godly and simple in life", said Nanni. 
Nanni reflected on how to create a community within the Center for the Homeless as well as in the larger community. 
Drawing on a Biblical passage, Nanni defined community as 'one body with many parts.' 
But Nanni pointed to the 40,000 people in the world that die each minute from malnutrition and asked where the community response and action was. 
"As Christians, we are called to be intimate with birth of his own daughter to that of a baby born at the outcast and marginalized of society. When the center a few days apart. There were signifi­reaching out to the poor, the effort is a tall order cant developmental differences in the two after considering how easy it is to ignore the less fortu­only a few months of life. According to Nanni, nate," noted Nanni. whether or not the baby from the center has psy­
As personal testimony, Nanni compared the chological or physical handicaps, the child has an 



Af"ii'FRTI:)EMfNT 
V=VAR51TY C=CLUB lziNTRAMURAL 
28 
1 
MEN'S BASEBALL/V WOMEN'S SOFTBALL./V 
VS. ARKANSAS 

AT NCFA LEADOFF CLASSIC MILLINGTON, TN, 6.00 PM 
COLUMBUS, GA 
MEN'S lACROSSE/V 
MEN'S BASEBALL./V 
AT PENN STATE, 700 PM VS. MEMPHIS, AT SERVICE ACADEMIES CLASSIC 

MILLINGTON, TX, 300 PM 4T NFCA LEADOFF CLASSIC 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALL./V 
MEN'S BASKETBALL./V 
COLUMBUS. GA AT BOSTON COLLEGE, NOON 
MEN'S TENNIS/V M/W/SWIMMING & OIVING/V
PACIFIC COAST DOUBLES 

IRISH SHAMROCK CLASSIC CHAMPIONSHIP, LAJOLLA, CA 
ROLFS AQUATIC CTR. 
M£N'S & WOMEN'S TRACKIV WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT USA TRACK, ATlANTA, GA 

VS. DUKE, ECK TENNIS PAV., 11:00 AM MEN'S HOCKEY/V 
VS MICHIGAN STATE, JACC, 7:00·PM 

LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND LOCATION OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH REACH HER AT 
•t 
COlLEEN.HENSHAW@NIKE.COM 
2 

M/W/SWIMMING & DIVING/V 
IRISH SHAMROCK CLASSIC 
ROLFS AQUATIC CTR 
WOMEN'S TENNISIV 
AT NORTHWESTERN, 9 00 AM 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL./( 
VS. PURDUE JACC AUXILIARY GYM, 700 PM 
THF {i(J1\I OF Sf'OFHSWEEKEND 15 TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS N111.1 lJOI', J\lf1f $1 1 \lN~~ l!f ANY W\INil, INiflfiMI!R/\1 \lH f'l UB SI'URTS ON THIS CAMf'U~ AND lHIS SCHEDULE DOES N<JI IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCII St'ONSCJWSIIIP 
extreme disadvantage considering the medical and monetary resources available to his daughter. 
"It is so difficult and trying to see others hurt and not being able to help out. As an individual it is easy not to include the communi­ty of the homeless, but as a community, great strides can be achieved in helping some if not many," said Nanni. 
According to Nanni, a distinguishing characteristic of homeless people is that they don't know the feelings and emotions associated with a relationship. They are distinguished by a level of detach­ment, not poverty. 
To walk through the center doors, people walk in on their last thread ,of hope with a weak support structure, he said. The center then offers hugs, nurturing, and encouragement, telling people to cut that last thread of toughness that is required to survive on the street, he said. 
Nanni indicated that cutting that thread is a bold proposition to make for someone who feels so alone to move forward to trust oth­ers and themselvmffor building a meaningful community. 
To accept responsibility and gain the respect of others within the community of the center is a dangerous and terrifying proposition to people who have lived without these feelings for an extended period of time, Nanni said. 
He further explained that many residents are afraid of feelings of success and fmding meaning in life. This leaves many residents terrified that they won't be able to continuously meet the expecta­tions of the community, he said. 
Thinking back on his six years at the center, Nanni remembered many moments when he did not know if he had the strength to carry on in an occupation filled with doubt and questioning. 
''I'm just as grateful for the moments of joy and seeing progress in the residents as I am for the moments of despair and fear. I am forced to confront my human limitations as an individual and see the need for a community to make a difference," said Nanni. 
Addressing the community involvement of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, Nanni said that student volunteers provide a great deal of inspiration and hope to the residents. The two schools are unique­ly situated to offer not only time, but monetary donations, he said. 
The most critical needs of the center are good volunteers, whom Nanni sees as invaluable to the services the center provides, and donations for the expansion of the center. The center has collected donations to buy an additional building to house more single p~r­ents and adults which the center turns down daily. 

Finance Club Elections 
Stock Exchange Booth 
(Atrium in COBA) 
Vote for Next Year's Officers 
(Finance Club Members Only may Vote) 
Monday & Tuesday March 3rd & 4th 11 :30am -1:45pm 

TEACH EllllLISH in , · . · · .. • -EAST-ERN EUROPE­
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our 
materials profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefits. For informdion, call: (206) 971-3680 
Wr.utareeearch&publilh~('O.. Ext. K55845 
../ Sucx:ess rate of 50% ./ nme required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219J 232-8444 


• 
page4 
The Observer • CAMPUS .=.N..:.:E=:W:...:..:.._S.=_____________T_h_u_r_sd_a-'-y,_F_e_br_u_a...:.ry_2_7_,_1_99_7 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
net, and recreating the senate. 
·The fourth goal will be met by giving each resi­dence hall one representative on the Student Senate. Kelly said that the broadened member­ship would enable the creation of several stand­ing committees. He has in mind committees focusing upon issues ranging from gender rela­tions to academic affairs. 
These subgroups are not possible with the cur­rent senate because many current members are serving double-duties, Kelly said. Ft>r example, hall presidents and class officers currently make up nearly half of the voting senate, although their time for involvement is limited by their other capacities. 
Explanation and debate of proposed constitu­tional reforms dominated the rest of the senate's agenda. One significant change emerged from the debate, which centered on three specific issues. 
The senate examined class representation, the distinction between hall presidents and the pro­posed hall senators, and the president's pro­posed veto power. 
Senior class president Bill Hammonds raised the question of how class representation would be affected by the proposed reforms. It was noted that in the future, one off-campus senator will be responsible for representing roughly 1,200 seniors. 
"My opinion is a majority of these [proposed senate dorm representatives] will be juniors, and that puts the other classes in jeopardy," Hammonds said. 
Student body president-elect and class of '98 president Matt Griffin offered a response. "We need to look at the broader scope of things and focus on the overall improved representation," he said. 
On the same note, senator Mark Leen explained that the proposed senate is not a spe­cial interest body, while class officers are a spe­cial interest group. 
"Under this new system, there are plenty of avenues for your concerns to be addressed," Kelly told Hammonds. One such example would be ex-officio membership for class officers on senate standing committees. 
Later in the meeting, the senate compromised by agreeing to reserve one of the senate's 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
Campus Life Council spots for the off-campus 
senator. 
The second round of debate beg~n when Hall 
Presidents' Council co-chair Mike Tobin ques­
tioned the distinction between the new senators 
and hall presidents. Primarily, he wondered how 
the two would divide duties. Erin Hoffmann, stu­
dent body treasurer, offered an explanatory 
analogy comparing halls to states. 
The analogy suggested that a hall president's 
roles should resemble those of a state's gover­
nor; both are responsible for internal operations. 
The student senator, concerned with larger 
directional and representational issues, would 
have duties resembling a state senator's. 
Finally, Student Senate debate questioned pro­posed changes in the resolution and amendment processes. Members questioned the ability of the new senate's president to effectively veto resolu­tions and amendments. One of the proposed con­stitutional changes in question reads: "Resolutions must also contain the signature of the student body president." 
"The spirit of this document is that we have to propose the administration with one voice," Hoffmann explained. 
The idea of a single person being able to block senate action did not sit well with all the sena­tors. 
"The question is, who do we want to empower [the senators or the senate chairperson]?" Mcinerney stated. 
"I think there needs to be an override," Hammonds said. 
A five-sixths majority override was later accepted as a friendly amendment to the pro­posed constitution. 
"As far as I'm concerned, I don't hear anyone who opposes the idea of our new system," Kelly concluded. "Basically, what we're asking for is your approval of our basic idea." 
In other news: 
• 
Hoffmann nominated Nerea Arrien to suc­ceed her for the next school year. Arrien and her assistants, Ryan Harding and Tim Wolfe, were unanimously approved. 

• 
Senior class president Bill Hammonds report­ed excellent student turnout and poor faculty turnout for last Friday's luncheon at senior bar. The event, at which liquor was served, was tar­geted to improve faculty-student relations. 

• 
Student body president Seth Miller shared that over 300 students used Saferide last week­end. He thanked both those who used and those who staffed the program. 


ND/SMC 
continued from page 1 
don't know what could happen if they got involved." 
Turbiak reiterated that, at Saint Mary's, students have become more integrated into government. "The communica­tion back to the student body really helps them to stay informed and involved," she said. ''I've already seen this inter­action at Saint Mary's with some positive results." 
Nass stressed that the key to effective and communication resides with informative leadership. "If people know what student government is doing, then they are going to get involved," Nass stated. "Matt and I are trying to continue the communication that Seth and Megan started." 
Part of the long-term outlook of the forum will include stu­dents from both campuses in discussion with student leaders on many issues that touch both schools. The major obstacle 
'Jfpeople know 
what student government is doing, then they are going to get involved.' 
Erek Nass 


that Murray sees is making students aware of the fact that spe­cific problems are not the only reason a forum should be held. 
"It would be 
nice if this type of forum wasn't always crisis-driven," she said. "A casual discussion would be great, but it is always hard to generate attendance." 
Turbiak suggested that a specific issue that has particular importance on both campuses could possibly generate the kind of enthusiasm needed for improved relations. But the first step in heightened involvement is alleviating the negative stereo­types that flow between the two schools. 
"We have two student governments working with the same issues," Turbiak said. "The leaders need this interaction with each other to make the schools comfortable with each other. Students have no need to be afraid or unaware of each other." 
Davis and Turbiak both stressed that both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame representatives need to have more specific and important role to truly reach a sense of community and aware­ness. 
"Hepresentatives need to be utilized in a more effective way," Davis stated. 
Turbiak agreed. "When people don't know who their leaders are and what they represent, nothing is achieved. It all comes back to communication." 
The leadership summit took place in the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's at 7 p.m. The forum will reconvene several times per semester. 




1111m1m Order Fer 01111111 01111111 Elitl Dll Cam111 NDI IIIII Wllb Ani Dlber Dller 

Friday and Saturday February 28 and March 1 8 and 10 pm $2 


-------, 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
Today ... 
~--.;_ 
~ 

A look at the Notre Dame's security/police. 
Notre Dame's Security/Police do a lot more than wrote parking tickets or prevent would-be underage drinkers from bringing beer on campus. Let's take a 
Thursday, February 27, 1997 
closer look. 




Security /Police serve Notre Dame community 
Specially trained personnel investigate sexual assault cases and offer classes in rape evasion for female students 
By JUSTYN HARKIN Departments Page Editor 
The Notre Dame Security/Police department has over 100 people on its staff who are committed with providing a safe and orderly environment for the stu­dents, faculty, and guests of the University of Notre Dame. 
Whether they .are walking, on bicycles, or in their patrol cars, the Notre Dame security/police staff are a constant presence on campus, patrolling the 1,000 acres and protecting the resident population of over 7,000 students. 
Rex Rakow, director of Security, explains the differences between security and 
police personnel. 
"There are about 25 sworn police officers 
who are certified by the Police Academy and
'There are not mariy 
have all the rights of a police officer [whichpolice depart­is primarily the power of arrest]." The police personnel complete state man­
ments nowadays who 
dated training requirements established forwill unlock your vehi­law enforcement officers and have the same cle, jump your car, . legal authority as any other police officer in 
Indriana.

escort you at night, or 
"Security does the same job [as the police], perform many of the but they cannot make arrests," added Rakow.
services we offer for 
Rakow noted that the police officers gener­
free.' ally patrol in cars and that security staff 
Charles Hurley patrol on foot and on bicycle. Security.staff 
also serve as night monitors in female resi­
dence halls during evening hours, and spe­cially trained personnel are stationed at the Snite Museum, the Basilica, and the administration building. 
In addition to the day to day duties, the department has people who are trained in dignitary protection, and it is not uncommon for the security/police department to work in conjunction with the F .B.l. and the Secret Service when important people come to campus. 
Justice Scalia's visit to campus was the most recent case where Security and the Secret Service have worked together. . "Since I've been here we've had Reagan, Bush, and Clinton on campus anum­ber of times," said Rakow. 
Rakow also mentioned that there have been a few children of foreign leaders who have attended Notre Dame over the years, but that they did not require day to day protection. "We're just happy that Chelsea Clinton got accepted to Harvard," joked Rakow. 
Security also boasts a staff that includes three criminal investigators who can apply for search warrants and a team of personnel who are specially trained in the investigation of sexual assault cases. 


Serious Crimes Reported to Notre Dame Security 
1/95 to 12/95 1/94 to 12/94 1/93 to 12/93 
Perhaps one of Security's best services to the Notre Dame community is its 
Rape Aggression Defense, or RAD, classes. The class, which is exclusively for 
women, is a 12-hot.Ir program featuring four instructors who teach the basic 
techniques of how to escape a rape situation. The RAD class features a full-contact "final" in which one of the instructors dons a padded suit and simulates a rape scenario. Rakow commented on the effectiveness of the program, specificly citing the self assurance the women walk away with from successfully escaping an aggressor. 
"We've run about a half a dozen RAD courses, but we've had a problem get­ting students because of the time commitment," said Rakow. "Eventually we'd like to have about one course a month," he added. 
With all of its duties and responsibilities, Security still considers itself primarily as a ser­vice agency. 
Assistant director Charles Hurley said, "There are not many police departments nowadays who will unlock your vehicle, jump your car, escort you at night, or perform many of the services we offer for free." Security staff regularly provide information to The Observer for news stories and for the column "Security Beat." Also, in the event of a serious crime or incident on campus that may pose a threat to students, "Crime Watch" notices may be posted around campus in resi­dence halls and in other campus buildings. 
Hurley cited theft as the greatest security prob­lem on campus, and many of the "Crime Watch" notices are warnings to students regarding cur­.rent thefts, their locations, and how to avoid them. 
"Very rarely do we have violent crime on cam­pus," said Hurley, "It's almost unheard of. We do [however] deal with crimes involving stolen prop­erty." 
Safe Walk is a program that Security runs in conjunction with student government. Between the hours of 8 p.m. and 2 a.m. students can request an escort to walk with them to and from any campus location. Students can even request an escort to meet them in any of the parking lots from security gate location. And, of course, any­body can request a Security escort after Safe Walk's hours of operation. 
An interesting fact to note about the security/police department is that Safe Walk is not the only area in which students can work. 
"We have a fair number of students working for us," said Rakow, "There are students who work with our dispatchers and students who help 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum write parking tickets among Other duties." 
A Notre Dame Security dispatcher fields calls from students and relays those calls to officers in the field. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 27, 1997 
WHAT DOES IT MATTER THAT I AM HERE? 
It's a question we occasionally ask ourselves ... what does it matter that I am here? As I pose the question, I don't mean in a strictly existential sense ... oh no, that's too big for me to take on. I'll leave that for the resident philosophers to tackle. My question asks simply ... what does it matter that I am here... at Notre Dame, as opposed to just about anywhere else that I might otherwise be? What difference does it make? Please God, it makes some difference. 
Ultimately, it's a question that each of us must answer for ourselves. But it isn't a question only for second semester Seniors who have to figure out who they are and what they want. It is for all of us, all of the time. It's a question about people and relationships, about faith, and about ourselves. It's a question that will have a different answer for each one who attempts a response. The only right answer for you is your own. The only wrong answer is not to take up the question.'" There are all kinds of things to think about. All sorts of things to reflect upon. Let's consider a few. 
Who am I for having been here as long as I have? Am I a better friend to my friends than I was before I came to Notre Dame? To my par­ents? Do I think differently? For all the work I've done, am I any smarter at all? Do 1 care more now about things that I might never have before considered? Do I attend to the needs of others? What does service mean in my life? Do I do any? Should I? What about faith? Do I really have any ... in anything? Do I pray? Am I any more faithful to the God in whom I profess faith than I was before I arrived? Do I even believe what I say I believe? Am I, in the end, a better man, or a better woman, for having come to this place? 
I'm telling you, Lent is a terrific time to get at some of these ques­tions. It's basically a gift... a time during which we can stop, reflect and pray, on who it is that we are, and who we want to be... and on who we're called to be. Is it enough to believe that God loves us or that we're exactly where God would have us be in this moment? I don't know, even as I believe it is somehow true. But even with that, I don't believe that we can content ourselves to stay where we are. Our being here is a great privilege and not to take advantage of it, not to revel in it, could later prove to be one of the greatest regrets of our lives. There is much to do on the way to becoming who we are meant to be. There are relationships to attend to ... with others and with God. There are studies to pursue. There are changes that need to be made in our lives. There is a Kingdom to build. 
In my work in Campus Ministry I have had the great privilege of meet­ing a whole variety of people from across this campus... with students particularly, but with staff and faculty and administrators as well. We are not all so different really. We all struggle in much the same way to understand ourselves in relation to our world, and to our God. Whether it be in our respective families, or residence hall communi­ties, in our intimate relationships with others or with God, we all struggle with the challenge of becoming all that God intends us to be, all that we want to be. Let us not shrink from it. 
Please God, we won't look back year!: from now and wonder why we 
didn't spend more time at the Grotto... or delight, when we could, in 
the company of friends ... or take more chances. Let-it not be said of 
us that we avoided the big questions or that we failed to examine the 
limits of all that we could be while we were at Notre Dame. Just how 
we do that is going to be different for each us ... but I can tell you, it's 
about God, and about faith, and about relationships. It's about talk­
ing to one another about the things that matter, and about love and 
forgiveness, of ourselves and ofothers. The value of your experience 
at Notre Dame, in the end, will not be measured by your personal 
populari~, or by how much you can drink on a particular weekend 
night, or even by your academic success. It will ultimately be mea­
sured by how well you have learned to love. 

jim Lies, C. S.C. (Z\MPUS
MINISTRY 
Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Branch sets possible 01odels for Catholic universities 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
"No color, no culture, no faith." 
This chain of causality provid­ed the skeleton for Father Edward Branch's speech last night, in which he connected the importance of race to all aspects of one's life and faith. 
Branch, once the student chaplain at Catholic University of America, rejected the common notion that one's color is insignificant, and argued that people of each culture have key characteristics which can be traced back to their ethnic ori­gins. For all Christians. he said, and in particular for Catholics, these characteristics are essen­tial in one's life and faith. 
"Color," he said, "is more than skin deep." 
He quickly established that Catholicism has deep roots in the third world, not only in its mem­bership today, but also in its intellectual tradition. 
"The intellectual heritage of the Catholic Church comes from Africa, the Middle East, and Europe, in that order," he said, referring to early African Christian writers such as Origen, Saint Augustine, and Saint Jerome. 
Christianity, he declared, is not a European or American phe­nomenon, particularly as today it is "a Third World Church," of whose members over two thirds are neither White nor European. 
Branch examined the roles of institutions in the Church, such as Catholic universities, as well as the role of individual relation­ships of friendship and respect in helping students and Catholics of all backgrounds to live their faith and to accept members of other races and cultures. 
He laid out two models of a Catholic university which could work toward this end. In the first model, he said, "the University is seen as a functioning unity, and a unit of the Church at large; it is a part of the Church's identity and mission, a part which includes canonically and legally established control by the Church authority." 
This first model also "carries expectations of theological faith development as well as main­taining Catholic practice. In this model, the religion program is geared to broaden and deepen religious perspectives of a domi­nantly Catholic student body." 
The other model, he said, is that of universities which "receive government support but are not secular." In these, he stated, "the religion department is a department of religious stud­ies, in which religious study is based on the premise that reli­gion is part of the human experi­ence, and as such, has a rela­tionship to all other disciplines." 
Which model one prefers, he said, "says something about what you value and what you expect here as a student." 
This notion of student expec­tation led Branch to treat the issue of racism and how it can form the expectations of some students. He focused his discus­sion around an incident that occurred at Notre Dame earlier this year, which he referred to as the "affair Hannah." 
The incident occurred one night last semester when junior Nikole Hannah became the object of a racial slur. Her car had broken down on Bulla Road and she and a friend were push­ing it toward the parking lot D2, when a car full of white students pulled up to her. Orie of them shouted at her, using the word "nigger." 
Branch said the incident only became more unpleasant for Hannah when she was treated rudely by campus security. 
"The affair Hannah," Branch noted, "is a barometer of stu­dent vision of the university experience." He also implied that it is a sign that Notre Dame has much room for improve­ment in this area. 
Branch said knowledge of the affair Hannah was not wide­spread in the Black community. However, he added, "I hasten to say that not a single Black Catholic in this country would be surprised." 
In addition to work which institutions like Notre Dame can do to create an atmosphere of respect, Branch stressed the role of individual relationships. 
Friendship, he said, was a key to affecting the sort of changes which would stop incidents such as the one suffered by Hannah. However, he said relationships of mutual respect between members of different races would be effective for this goal. 
As a relationship possible without friendship, Branch said, "There were some of my college professors that I didn't like, but I respected them." 


Beta Sigma Gamma welcomes 
Mr. Frank A. Potenziani 
Notre Dame Class of 1967 
as featured guest speaker 



at the 34th Annual Initiation Banquet 
and congratulates new Beta Gamma Sigma inductees 
Krisanne Schlachter '97 Michael Zinser '97 Kimberly Kogovsek '97 Co-President Co-President Vice-President 
Beta Gamma Sigma is the College ofBusiness Administration Honor Society. 
Member ship is limited to the top 5% ofjuniors, 10% ofseniors, and 20% ofgraduate business students . 
. il'.....-~,...-cr-------------•-----------------· 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 27, 1997 

Rank 
continued from page 1 
"Demographics," Notre Dame is number 10 in "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative," and number eight in "Students pray on a regular basis." 
Morris said that no one does the ratings in the same manner as U.S. News and World Report. The magazine bases its rankings on acade­mic reputation, student selec­tivity, faculty resources, retention rate, financial resources, alumni donations, and comparisons between actual and predicted gradua­tion rate (based on test scores and expenditures). 
Of all the factors, academic reputation was the most weighty, accounting for 25 percent of each school's score. 
Fifteen percent of the point total was determined by selectivity. This segment included figures concerning acceptance rate of appli­cants, the percentage of accepted students who actu­ally enrolled, test scores, and high school class ranking of entering freshmen. 

U.S. News allocated 20 per­cent of each score to the cat­egory of faculty resources combining factors like the student-faculty ratio, the per­centage of faculty with doc­torates or terminal degrees, faculty salary, and class size. 
Notre Dame has historically 
excelled in the category of 
student retention. Counting 
for 20 percent of the final 
score, this segment of the 
study was based on the aver­
age percent of students in a 
university's 1986 to 1989 
freshman classes who gradu­
ated from that school within 
six years and the average 
percent of freshmen entering 
in 1991 to 1994 who 
returned the following fall. 
Finally, the value-added and alumni donations cate­gories each made up five per­. cent of the score, while finan­cial resources constituted the 
remaining ten percent. 
The highest score for each was 100 points. All other scores were taken as a per­centage of that score, weight­ed, and totaled. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


REAT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
is looking for a 

CONT ·€)LLER 
PURCHASI ANAGER. 
Call 1-5313 w'ith questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 
Candidates for Conu ·~• must be a sophomore or junior accounting major. 
Clinton defends White House guests 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton today defended his choice of overnight White House guests, saying the vast majority were personal friends but that it was "entirely appropriate" to include political contributors. 

He added that none of the costs for the 938 guests over the last four years "were borne by the taxpayers." 
"Some people did come and stay with us who helped me and I think that is entirely appropriate," he said, adding that seven out of eight of the visitors were personal friends. 
He also broadly defended the use of White House coffees to entertain donors, saying they abided by "strict legal advice" about what could be done inside the White House. 
"There was to be no price tag on the events," he said. "There was no solicitation at the White House." 

Ill 





::z:: 
1­

ALUMNI
Ill

SENIOR 


::z:: 
1­

Nomination forms are available in the Student Government office for the Student Government 
)()~o~~~a~mg~~~~~~n:;~~~~
community 

and the Frank O'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 


For more information about the awards and nomination deadlines call 

1-7668 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 27, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrimrion. The news is reported as accurately and objecrively'as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the auchors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -4 54 I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Sports 63 I -4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 63 I -5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 63 I -5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
page 9 

• WHEN PIGS FLY••• 
Risk being arrested: 
I was a normal sort of child who same dorm party repeated over and played with blocks and Lincoln Logs and over again. Three months of "I Saw the that sort of thing, listened to far too Sign." Three months of warm beer in much Belinda Carlisle and was trash cans in the back corner of a renowned for my ability to sell dozens of crowded dorm room with a guy in a bars of Morley Candy to unsuspecting Superman t-shirt body-surfing and land­neighbors every time softball season ing on my head. 

Then, like manna descending from the desert, I heard something new: Sabor Latino. 
No, actually, I just got a crush on the

Bernadette 
guitar player and started following the band around. It's just much more dra­matic to say that I heard the first strains of salsa and merengue in Haggar Center at Saint Mary's one night and gave myself over to the music. That eventual­ly did happen, but I was mme interested in getting the guy with the ponytail to 


Pampuch 
rolled around. Times have changed. I look up from the sheet music and paycame to college thinking that I would attention to me.
eventually enter law school and bring international corporations to their So thus began my stalking of Sabor knees, never suspecting that four years Latino, early in my freshman year when 
later I would have managed to switch I was just getting acquainted with the my major six times and become a vast differences in Latin music and was groupie of Sabor Latino. dumbstruck that we had an actually real live band with horns and timbales and a
My musical tastes have changed dras­new sound in the middle of Indiana. Itically since the whole Belinda Carlisle had always been a closet Selena fan,affair. Like most of my friends I passed 
back before it was cool to listen to

through the Michael Jackson stage, a tejano music (not like today), and mybrief flirtation with Bon Jovi, several roommates used to ask me what the hell vinyl originals of the Bangles and a I was listening to poka for, and I intro­
three-year period of Amy Grant and 
duced most of my floor in LeMans HallGloria Estefan, all on cassette. Then to the Mexican rock group Mana at athere was Vanilla Ice, MC Hammer and 

decibel usual reserved for air-raid

the New Kids on the Block, although no 
sirens. But merengue and salsa and

one except my little sister would admit cumbias were new to me, and in orderto having their tapes. I remember when to keep up with the band I resorted toMichael Damian was cool. Rock on. 
the most desperate of all schemes. 

This changed my freshman year in You can argue all you want about the college, obviously. Ace of Base was orig­problem of bands playing off campus, inal, trendy. Real McCoy was a year and I'll believe you. I can personallyaway from superstardom, but we had attest to being kicked out of Club 23
Erasure. I heard techno and house 
three times before I turned eighteen; Imusic for the first time and sort of liked passed myself off as my Korean neigh­it. I used words like "hook up," "tool" bor for the better part of a semesterand "kegstand" and thought dorm par­before the cop noticed that I was 5'7"ties were pretty neat. 

and 5'3" and not Korean and confiscat­

It took exactly three months to get 
ed my card. I begged, I borrowed, I 

over that phase. Three months of the snuck in back doors and tried convinc-



The music is worth it 
ing bouncers that I 11111111111111111111111111~1111111111111111111111 didn't speak English and wasn't aware that you needed an ID card to enter bars in this strange coun­
try called America. All for the love of Sabor Latino and the guitar player. 
It is a little known fact that if you date a member of a band you can occasionally sit in on band prac­tices and sometimes accompany them to gigs hours before the show actually starts (which is also hours before the bouncers show up), and if you use your car to help cart sax­ophones and guitars 
aroundh and hhelp
carry t ose t ings 
23, you will eventu­

into places like Club •---------------------• 

ally be mistaken for just another mem­ber of a 12-piece band and learn to sit quietly in the corner until enough people show up in the bar, and the cops won't even notice that you're 17. (So, thanks, Luis...) 
Anyway, four years later, and I can finally walk into Club and Jazzman's without breaking a sweat at the sight of the Po-Po. I think I've dated most of the brass section but no longer trail Sabor around with the same determination, mostly because it's not fun when you're legal. Yeah, I've done the LaFortune Ballroom thing, the Center for Social Concerns, the little concerts all over campus and sometimes over at Saint Mary's, too. I'll go anywhere there's merengue. I'm just saying that I wouldn't trade my illegal exploits for anything in the world -I think every freshman should have the chance to go through the same hell I did, whether it's for the Skalcaholiks or Stamper Bob or Cod in Salsa (which, might 1 add, doesn't play salsa), and learn that if you're going to appreciate the campus music scene you have to pay the price. Risk arrest. 
For now, I'm still going to pay homage to the best band around, wherever they play. Keep up the good work, guys. I'll see you Friday night at Jazzman's. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior writ­ing major at Saint Mary's College. Sabor Latino will be performing Friday night at Jazzman 's, and you can probably find her out on the dance-floor. Contact pamp2029@jade.saintmarys. edu to reserve your dance now. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 


Thursday, February 27, 1997
page 10 
-tl:-tl:-tl:

various artists Lost Highway 
( out of five stars) 


T
rent Reznor's soundtrack for David Lynch's upcoming film, "Lost Highway," represents everything that is good and bad about the music industry today. Bookended by the charismatic David Bowie, on one hand you have the basics of Angelo Badalamenti's jazzy ambiance and Barry Adamson's original score (Adamson also did the score for Blue Velvet) while on the other hand you have the nauseating screech/scream of music's self-proclaimed king of shock, Marilyn Manson. 
Reznor, who also produced the soundtrack for Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers," seemingly creat­ed this soundtrack to complement the mood of the movie. The album is like flipping through the radio stations at 3:00 in the morning; the music is eerie, hypnotic and lonely. 
The album opens and closes with David Bowie's song ''I'm Deranged," which appeared on his last album, Outside. This psychedelic song represents everything that is good about Bowie and proves that this legendary rocker still can play with the best of them. 
Trent Beznor performs back to back, beginning with his solo "Videodrones; Questions," which explores the sexual nature of Lynch's film, and followed by Beznor's Nine Inch Nails' "The Perfect Drug." This song, the album's first single, is a testament to Reznor's willingness to push the musical envelope. It is the sort of radical experimentation with drums and bass that have made Nine Inch Nails who they are today. 
Badalamenti and Adamson appear throughout the soundtrack, often interlocked with some samples from the lilm. The bright spot is Badalamenti's hypnotic "Haunting & Heartbreaking." 
A very different sounding Smashing Pumpkins appears on the album with their contribution "Eye." It is a new sound with more a techno/electronic sound but has the same haunting lyrics that Pumpkins fans have grown to expect. Lou Heed offers an off-beat interpretation of the classic "This Magic Moment." 
Marilyn Manson appears twice too often in this 23 song compilation. However their lack of talent and potential for screaming is overshadowed by the German band, Hammstein, who had enough originali­ty to name one of their songs, "Hammstein." Their music is quite interesting though (especially "IIierate Mich"); it's the screaming in German that I could do without. 
The album is a tightly wound package held together by the strings of ambient sound. The transition from song to song runs extremely smoothly. Often the rmd of one song is the introduction to the next and vice versa. Clearly Reznor spent a great deal of time in perfecting this. "Lost Highway" is a good album, but with any compilation there are bound to be weak spots. This one just happens to have a few too many. 
Classic Cheese

KNIGHT LOVER 


8 
y now most of the free world is probably aware of the disturbing fact that "Baywatch's" David Hasselhoff is a record­ing star in Germany. What most people don't realize is that 'HolT was belting out tunes, and releasing them in the USA, way back in the haleyon days of the mid-80s. As you may have guessed by the title of this LP, and the fact that this title is spelled out in a red faux-LED font, "Knight Lover" is a produet of the bygone era when Hasselhoff and his ear KITT ruled Friday nights, and Pamela Anderson Lee's breasts were just a gleam in some plastic surgeon's eye. 
The CD eonsists mostly of 'Hoff covering timelessly cheesy love songs ranging from the Highteous Brothers' "You've Lost that Lovin' Feeling" to the Bee Gees' "How Deep is Your Love." His singing style and voice are most aptly describnd as 'smarmy' -think Tom Jones with less gusto and more chest hair. The musical backing consists mostly of a synthesizer so annoyingly artificial and high-pitched that it some­times overshadows the mild vocals altogether. Throw in a guitarist whose riffs sound as meehanical as a robot's, and what you get is an album that leaves you longing for the rich, human sound of, say, Devo. 
If I could ignore the faet that the person singing on this album is. in fact, David Hasselhoff, I'd classify it as a mediocre-to-poor attempt at lounge music. The mere presenee of 'llo!T, however, pushes this album right over the top in terms of entertainment value, especially when one takes into account the laugh-out­loud highlight of the album, an 'original' (though not aetually written by llasselhoff) song, "Night Rocker." Faster-paeed than the rest of the LP, its chorus goes "I am the night rocker/1 want to rock you all night long/! am the night rocker/1 want to love you with my song." Imagine the kind of music they would've used on "Knight Rider" if that show had had the same extraneous music vidPo sequences as "Baywatch," and you can pretty mueh get the idea. 
"Knight Lover," like the various shows and TV­movies (rnmember 'The Arizona Ripper'?) of its vocalist, is enjoyable only if you have a healthy appreciation of the depths to which pop culture can sink. I have seen the denizens of these uncharted depths, and rest assured that one of them wears a leather jaeket open halfway and croons a cover of "All the Hight Moves." 
by Tom Moran 
-c.,-tl: -tl: i.

shudder to think 50,000 B.C. 
(out of five stars) 


G 
etting signed to a major label changes a band. Whether or not it is for the better or the worse is open to argument. In today's casr. we shall examine Washington, D.C.'s Shudder to Think. Over their decade long eareer, Shudder to Think has transformed from a post-hardcore outfit to dreamy lOOrpm pop to deconstruetive art rock. Now on their second LP for "the man" at Sony, the boys have gone arena-glam while maintaining subtln elements from their earlier excursions. Perhaps the glitter rubbed ofT after opening up for Smashing Pumpkins. 
On 1994's Pony Express Record, silence was the fifth band member of Shudder. Atypical rock riffs stuttered and stopped, piereed with discordant melodies and solos. Hollow acoustic guitars eerily propelled songs. Drums and bass were used conserv­atively and eeonomically. The new tunes take all that 
· emptiness, cut it out, and smash what's left over together to form melodic, indie-tinted guitar thunder. The old trademarks stick out like orange chunks in meatloaf. But, hey, it's those kind of chunks that stick between your teeth and dislodge to make a scrumptious mini-meals four hours later. Craig Werden's off-Broadway operatie vibrato sets Shudder to Think apart from other random, Johnny­come-lately, sassy alterna-bands. At times it's a bit 
like Mandy Patankin or Michael Crawford belting lead vocals for Jawbox or Stone Temple Pilots. The dramatie flair will either turn you off or have you erooning along in front of the mirror. 
Shudder to Think's veer towards the mainstream succeeds due to the diehard adherence to inventive chord strueturing. The ehorus to "The Man Who Bolls" sinks and soars in a hum-along rollereoaster, while the refrains on "Resident Wine" and "Survival" mix late 1950s' ballads, Weezer, and Fugazi. Throwbaek chugging on "Kissesmack of Past Action" inf1iets air-guitar syndrome on listeners' arms. The drugged, poetic love song, "Red House," returns from the 1991 LP, Funeral at the Movies, in an amped up form, but it's still the fantastic pop crescendo of old with a swirling interlude of "Dream/Dream/Dream" voeals. 
Drummer Adam Wade's departure wounds the records, for the new guy pounds like a beefier Bingo Starr without the fills, rolls, and stop-starts of Wade. Add that with some "The Cars" level (over)produe­tion, a couple throwaway tracks, and a persistent yearning for a pineh more abstract flair and what's left is a groovy, not great, album of hooks, style, leather and vinyl clothing, fist raising, and invention. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

Thursday, February 27, 1997 
page 11 
-
-cr -cr -cr -cr ~ 
(out of five stars)
blur blur 

F
orget your saucy firestarters, arrogant uni-brow copycats, spacy Muppet-voiced 
singers, slap-fighting siblings, over­
drugged DJs, spicy new girls on the 

block, bushy-haired grunge audio-Xeroxers, teensy zit-faced punks, and the whole lot of "what's-the-scene-now?" Brit-bands, because Blur is the only UK group that matters to you right now. 
Tired of the Anglo-centric, sociological, ba-ba­ba pop scene, that they gave birth to after 1994's masterpiece Parklife, Blur expands like the known universe on their self-titled fifth LP. Blur's postmodern collage builds up on the multi-leveled foundation of the band's older eclectic b-sides, mixing Beck, brackish beats, the Beatles, breakneck barre chords, and bouncy melodies into their sonic concrete. Shedding stereotype, Blur completely disses the "Girls and Boys" cockney rock of the last two albums. It took a lot of chutzpah to bring the boys out on such a shaky branch. You see, the British press and fans are far too unforgiving. But they'd be hard pressed to knock Blur. Unlike other bands, Blur doesn't grow fat and complacent in the safe home of their past sounds, and each new explored musical territory is firmly claimed with the mark of the Blur flag. Plus I guarantee that more lame bands than you can shake a stick at will soon sniff the trail of our pioneering Essex boys and crank out a self-titled "slacker" album. 
Graham Coxon is the most innovative guitarist in England. Every song sounds as if a different legend steps in, while still maintaining Coxon's trademark fret-sliding speed melody picking. "Look Inside America" sports a neo-George Harrison solo. 

easily as changing socks for Coxon. Some sounds will make you scratch your head in contemplation of their origin. The Atari-doodling palm mute on "M.O.R.," the aqua-fat pick-scrapes and finger slides on ''I'm Just a Killer For Your Love," and the flaming theremin scream solo on "Movin' On" should befuddle senior editors at Guitar World magazine. 
Aside for "Theme From Retro" (a strained dub instrumental), every song is ace. "Beetlebum" tastes like pure candy, sounding like a track off The Beatles White Album, but modernized with a buzzing raygun riff up and down the E string. "Song 2" and "Chinese Bombs" punk and sweat in short time with bass heavy, cracking intensity. "Strange News From Another Star" floats through drenched organ chords a la Radiohead at their trippiest. The Dust Brothers drop some block rocking beats on "Death of a Party," a loopy head­bobber. The most bizarre and most intriguing track is "Essex Dogs," for it smooshes Sonic Youth, Dr. Dre, David Bowie, and the Byrds in a blender. What comes out is a delicious, crazy, lazy, ambi­ent, key-changing, ill "pop song" with "Na-na-na­na-na-na" chorus and looped guitar effects. 
Blur will lose English fans over this album. But they will be gum-smacking teenage girls who con­tract goosebumps whenever Damon Albarn winks. Some will say "Bollocks" to the rejection of cock­ney aesthetics. However, ears that want some fla­vor, spice, sugar, kick, and Ia-la-la in their modern pop should run for Blur. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 


upcoming concerts in 

Morphine 2/28 Live 3/1 Space 3/11 Wallflowers 3/13 Big Head Todd & the Monsters 3/14 Jewel 3/20 Korn I Helmet 3/22 Presidents of the USA 3/25 Cardigans 4/5 The Cheiftains 4/25 
Double Door ­Riviera Theatre Metro Riviera Theatre Aragon Ballroom Chicago Theatre Aragon Ballroom Metro Metro Rosemont 


1. 
Pavement-Bri ten e Corners 

2. 
Chisel -lt,s Alright, You ,re OK 


3. 
Various Artists-SubUrbia Soundtrack 

4. 
Built to Spill -Perfect From Now On 


5. David Bowie -Earthling 
6. Superchunk-Laughter Guns 
7.Man or Astroman?-Live Transmissions from Uranus 
8. 
Helmet-Aftertaste 

9. 
C. Gibbons Review -Sincerity,s Ground 


10. 60 ft. Dolls -The Big 3 1. Wilco -Being 
2. Space -Spiders 
3. 
September '67 -Lucky Shoe 

4. 
Dodgy -free peace sweet 


5. Beck -Odelay .. 
6. Redd Kross -Show World 
7. Lazlo Bane -11 Transistor 
8. Corduroy-Out ofHere 
9. Spookey Reuben-Wendy McDonald 
..
10. Kula Shaker-K 
page 12 The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS Thursday, February 27, 1997 
Mantey, Phillips move closer to defending titles 
By BETSY BAKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The bigger they are the harder they fall. 
Such was the case for last night's Bengal Bouts semifinals in the 180­pound to the Heavyweight, especially that of top-seed Mike Mantey in the 190­pound class. 
Mantey put opponent Craig Prins on his back 1:14 into the first round. The two-time champion, who received a bye in the first round, was happy to collect the win, but disappointed with the amount, or lack there of ring time he has thus far. 
''I'm a little disappointed because this is my last time around and I've barely been in the ring," Mantey commented. "There's no substitution for ring time." 
The right-handed Mantey will face another south paw, as was Prin, in the finals against Todd Carcelli, forcing him to adjust once again. 
"I was cold at first, I felt like I was fighting a righty," Mantey said of his semifinal match. "Carcelli is another lefty, but I'll hopefully be a little more ready for the left hand instead of having to warm up." 
Carcelli used a barrage of one-two jab combinations to beat Mike Velten in his semifinal match. Carcelli's jab was so powerful it gave Velten it opened up the side of Velten's nose, causing the referee to stop the match 1:18 into it due to injury. 
The 180-pound semifinal between Brian Gaffney and Mike Romanchek got the crowd on its feet in what was arguably the most exciting semifinal. Gaffney, who brings with him a relent­less attack in a crazy style, usually finds success first intimidating and later wearing down his opponent. However, Romanchek did not budge, taking Gaffney's attack and delivering one of his own, provoking a standing ovation but also a split decision in favor of Gaffney. 

On the other side of 180-pound class, second seed Mike Debiasi defeated Aaron Yoder with a unanimous decision. Yoder defended his face well, but Debiasi's speed overwhelmed the fresh­man. Yoder delivered a strong lead jab, but Debiasi usually answered with a one-two combination. 
The 180-pound final will be a rematch of last year's in which Gaffney upset the top-seeded Debiasi. 
In the 200-pound class, reigning champ Troy Phillips will return to the finals with his unanimous decision defeat of Chris Craytor. Phillips played it conservatively by not throwing any excessive punches, therefore saving his energy, while Craytor wore himself out by throwing himself out at Phillips. 
Phillips will take on Dave Butz whose fight against Chris Conoscenti only last­ed 1:24 into the first round. Butz' left jab immediately dazed Conoscenti, earn­ing him the quick win and a shot at the champ in the finals. 
In the Heavyweight division, top seed Dave Monohan defeated Justin Harkin in another crowd-pleaser. Monohan start­ed out strong and controlled the first round, but Harkin came out swinging in the second round and unleashed a rage of boxing in the third. Although Monohan fended it off well and con­trolled much of the match, Harkin showed some resilience and spirit, mak­ing the match a split decision. 
"It was a lot closer than I expected," Monohan said. "He landed a lot of punches on my body." 
"It was an exhilarating fight," Harkin said. "But by the end of the fight I just couldn't go any more." 
Monohan will take on Mike Romero, who in the last fight of the evening defeated Steve Smith. The fight was very evenly-matched, albeit a little slop­py, and despite an unleashing of energy in the third round by Smith, Romero was able to pull off the split decision. 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
have to face his fellow captain in the finals of the 165 pound weight class, junior Ryan Hans. This final could prove to one of Saturday's best. 
"It is going to be fun," said Christoforetti. "I see him every­day and every night. He did very well tonight. I am looking forward to Saturday because it will be a good fight. It is unfor­tunate that only one of us can win it." 

-
"John on Saturday has been in the back of my head all week," said Hans about this 
anticipated Bout. "He is a great friend and a great fighter. It is going to be a great fight. It is a privilege to get to fight him on Saturday." 
Christoforetti felt that not see­ing action in the first round might be a huge disadvantage, but it did not appear so. 
He quickly dispersed all nerves, along with his oppo­nent, freshman David Remick, in his first appearance in the ring. Within seconds of starting the first round, Christoforetti backed Remick into the ropes and landed a barrage of punch­es. The barrage of landed punches earned Remick his first standing eight count of the match. 
"I like the way that Dave Remick fought," said Christoforetti. "Mainly I wanted to go in there and get some time in ring, so I didn't want to blow anyone off the top of the ring. I just wanted some practice." 
Remick appeared a bit timid against the veteran. On the other hand, Christoforetti appeared calm and focused on what the coaches were yelling. 
In the other match, Hans found himself being matched punch for punch by senior Ben Host. 
The first round of the fight was fast paced and intense. Host landed a few of his combi­nations, but Hans landed lots of his jabs. In the end, Hans won by unanimous decision. 
"Host came out really hard, and he was throwing a lot of good punches," said Hans. "He was right there the whole time. 
I was impressed with how many punches he was throwing, and how well we both fought in that fight. I was really impressed with him, because he is such a tough guy." 
Maciariello looked a bit over­matched as far as size goes, but the defending champion quickly turned the size factor into an advantage. He used his height and his quickness to get inside against junior Sean Mahoney. 
"The deciding factor was probably my ability to get inside quickly," said Maciariello. 
He dominated the inside, while Mahoney managed to land a couple of lefts. Maciariello pinned his opponent against the ropes, and landed several combinations. Both brawled until the final bell, and Maciariello won by unanimous decision. 
"I think it came down to a tiny thing, experience," said Maciariello. "lie (Sean) is a great fighter and a great ath­lete. I am glad that I won't have to fight him again." 
In what was somewhat of a surprise in the middle weights, junior Norm Beznoska dis­missed senior Seth Roy by unanimous decision. The fight was much closer than hinted at by the decision. 

"My main goal was to come out and mix it up a bit," said Beznoska. "In the first round, I just fought straight up. In the second round, I switched to tighting left handed. And in the third round, I knew I was behind so came out swinging." 
Roy landed several straight punches in the first round, but in the second round he had a hard time evading Beznoska's lefts. 
In the second, Roy and Beznoska fought evenly. Finally in the third, Beznoska landed an intense combination, which earned Roy a standing eight count. 
"I give him all the credit," said Beznoska about Hoy. "He hits so hard, and he is such a tough guy, and that made it a tough fight." 
The finals for the 175 pound weight class will be No. 1 versus No. 2, as Lefere will face junior Andrew Hebert. Lefere's semi­final match appeared to run more smoothly for him. 
He came out from the begin­ning and took control of the fight against junior Chris Dobranski. 
Lefere dominated the middle of the ring, and forced his oppo­nent into the ring on several occasions. Lefere advanced with a unanimous decision over Dobranski. 
Hebert ousted experienced senior Matt Dowd, by unani­mous decision. Dowd made an appearance in last year's final. Hebert had the size and the reach advantage in this Bout. In what appeared to be one of the more tame fights of the evening, Dowd and Hebert played it conservatively. 
"I just wanted to stay con­trolled," said Hebert. "I didn't have to throw as many punches because neither of us were the aggressor. We both waited for the other to attack. The fight didn't get sloppy, it stayed pret­ty technical, so I was happy with that." 
The question remains whether these same three, Christoforetti, Maciariello, and Lefere, can conquer their oppo­nents again. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Lost: Navy blue backpack in SOH at dinner on Wed. Important CPA  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Details on how to  JAZZERCISE Very close to campus  Adoption: A very loving, financially secure, well educated young cou·  
books are inside! Please return if  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  find a high-paying job with excellent  277-0111  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  
SPRING BREAK  picked up by mistake. No questions  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  benefits (transportation + room &  Close and caring extended family.  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  asked.  Call4·3397.  NEAR LAKE PLACID  board). For information: 600-276­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!! I  We offer a special life for your child.  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  1-600-766-6373  0654 ExtA55641 (We are a  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!II  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  Found -Blue paperback Bible on  research & publishing company.)  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUSI!!  Joe 1-600-376-6660.  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  2/20 on sidewalk near Galvin Life  CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLY- The highest quality color copies  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  Science. Call Julie @ 1-6065.  MENT -Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean),  FOR RENT  are now available at THE COPY SHOP  To Heather I am 1 of 3 Carroll Hall Vermin from  
BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1·600-466-6828  WANTED  imcomparable benefits, & good pay. Find out how to start the application  Homes for Rent for 97-98  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  St. Louis. My first name begins with "R," ends  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  process now! Cruise Employment  ADT Security 232-2595  with '1," and has "ober" in between.  
FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  Services provides the answers. Call  TOP TEN GYMNASTICS QUOTES  From your "left-handed secret  
THE COPY SHOP  COUNSELORS needed for out­ 800-276-4946 Ext. C55646 (We are  AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  FROM IU  admirer from Carroll Hall"  
LaFortune Student Center  standing Maine camps! CAMP  a research & publishing company)  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  10. I'm drunk, what's your excuse?  
Phone 631-COPY  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  9. I've been initiated in OTHER  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  for boys. Each located on magnifi- Going to or through southern Illinois  272-6551  ways  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  cent lakefront setting with excep­ for spring break? I need a ride and  6. Grab your gat, we're going to get  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  tional facilities. Over 1 oo positions  will help pay for gas and tolls. Liz ­ NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  some food.  ATTN: SRS./FB FANS  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  at each camp for heads and assis­ 273-3943  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  7. I don't know if I should judge him  B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES- 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  !ants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  ND2773097  or spot him.  GRAD/FR OR/FB wknds.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  Wanted: DRIVER to take student  6. Carter, the unstoppable sex  291-7153  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  from Clay H.S. to SMC. M, Tu, Th, 2:45pm. $18/wk  FOR SALE  machine. 5. I think she likes me, but even I  ••••••••Hey JUNIORs•••••••••  
water-skiing, archery, weight train­ 233-4581 or 631-7531  have standards.  Send letters to your friends abroad.  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho- Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ 4. Fitz, should I do giants?  Drop letters off at 213 LaFun by  
..  OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL. CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, danceOazz, tap, ballet), nature study, backpacking, horseback rid- NEED RIDE to Kansas City -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  urn mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352  3. Why am I already naked? 2. I just gave my teammate a ­1. Oh Fitz!!!  Friday 2/26. ..............................  
ing, ropes course, trip leaders,  SABOR  LATINO  
Do you think you can handle it?  mountain biking, riflery, general  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  1990 HONDA Civic OX HB.  New  Friday Feb. 28  
We dare you! Come party for 7  (w/youngest campers). Also looking  Make a difference in the life of a  tires, new exhaust, new timing belt,  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  10:30 pm-?  
straight days with students from all  for secretaries, maintenance,  child! Summer therapy camp for  great mileage, CD player.  KATE WILDASIN  Jazzman's  
over the U.S. College Tours  kitchen. Camp dates approx. June  handicapped children. Located on  $3900/best. 233-6124  (even though we're not dating)  (SR 23 & Hill St)  
Cancun Spring Break '97 for 7  21-Aug 21. Top salary, room,  the shore of Lake Superior near Big  College Night-18 & over!  
nights. Call 1-800-244-4463.  board, laundry, clothing, and travel  Bay, MI. Positions available for  Bianchi mtn bike for sale. Never rid- Attention all gay, lesbian, bi, and  All-night dancing!  
"!  ................................  allowance. MEN-CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Beacon Street,  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  den. Last year's model. Paid $550. Sacrifice $450 abo. Call  questioning students! nts! Support Group Meeting  SABOR LATINO................................  
Last minute deals to CANCUN!!!!!  Brookling, MA 02146,  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  243-1306 ask for John  Thrus. Feb. 27th at 7:30pm  
See Anthony Travel  ccedarme@aol.com, 1-886-844­ and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  Call the Q-line for location  Ken, put your socks on!!  
Lafortune Student Center ····················••*•········  8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  responsible, and love children. June 15 through August 10. Salary, room  IBM Thinkpad w/ Canon Printer $600 or best offer call Jen  236-9661  Liz, there's a new delicacy, I don't  
ILOST & FOUND I  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, 1-600-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  & board, and experience of a life­time provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Heatlh Camp, 310 W.  284-4407 PERSONAL  ADOPTION: Corporate Executive & homemaker can offer newborn a wonderful life filled with warmth, security, endless  know if you're familiar ... it's called "Lame Duck Soup." I'm warning you, Ken, get out of  
LOST. One black leather  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  love, education & a bright future.  that drawer now.  
ladies glove with white fur lining.  Room from lOAM to 4PM. NO  Ml49855,  Electrolysis by Rebecca  Confidential. Mark  
Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  {906) 226-5770.  Blend Method 67 4-6933  & Candace 1-888-811-1141  Yellow blue bus.  

Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
onships last year with a record of .308 with four home runs "and 23 
39-20 and finished fourth in· the RBI.

Baseball 

Southeastern Conference. Six teams will take place in the ­Returning Razorback players tournament overall and the top twocontinued from page 20 
include junior righthander Matt will face each other in the champi­the championship game 4-2. Carnes, who was 10-5 last year with onship game on Sunday. 
Army is hoping for big offensive a 4.31 ERA, and junior third base­Notre Dame will continue to look to contributions from junior Mike man Matt Erickson who had a .391 the versatile Mike Amrhein for Scioletti. The shortstop, who average and knocked in 52 runs. offense this weekend. The senior knocked in 45 runs and had a .331 The Irish will have a chance to has hit .533 and driven in three runs batting average last -season, is their avenge their 1996 title game loss to in just 13 at-bats. 
top returning player. The Black Memphis when the two teams face If the Irish are to be successful Knights closed out 1996 with a off on Saturday afternoon. Memphis though, they will have to find some record of 20-21, good enough for returns its two best hitters from last other sources of run production. fifth in the Patriot League. season's team. Senior outfielder Sophomores Jeff Wagner and Paul 
In Friday's game, Notre Dame will Ronnie Barassi hit .360 with 12 Turco, and freshman Jeff Felker all play a tough Arkansas squad, who home runs and 40 RBI and senior showed positive signs last weekend 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

qualified for the NCAA champi-first baseman Heath Bender batted at Long Beach State. 
Amrhein has been an offensive force for the Irish. 


·Thursday, February 27, 1997
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 

-• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Fan 'on mission from God' confronts Belle 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn star in 

-
cfu3l f?;t J!ife 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 
For information, 
call219/284-4626 
One large 1topping for $7.9s +tax ·Delivery Special 


through the press room to the and hollering. If he is hooting what he wanted to talk about." clubhouse after an outdoor and hollering, you definitely White Sox general manager news conference. They were don't feel real comfortable," Ron Schueler said the security several yards apart. Belle said. "I wasn't going to staff acted quickly to remove 
"I had my back turned to take any chances to see what the man from the building and him. I just heard a guy hooting this guy's approach was or escort him out the front gate. 

a~ympo~ium addreuing iuue~ concerning the direction, current di~coune and major theme~ in American Art 
Keynote speaker: Eleanor Heartney contributing editor, Artin America, and noted critic of contemportary art 
~peakers: 

Amtin Collins, Richard 6ray, Joyce Jablonski, and Maria Tomamla from Notre Damels Department ofArt, Art History, and Design 
for more information, contact: Gina (o!ta, Curator o(Educatlon, The ~nite MU!eum, Univenity of Notre Dame (11q) 631·4]10 
Sharon Sullivan 
Executive Director, Human Resources Eli Lilly International N.D. Econ '78 
Thursday, February 27, 1997 8 p.m. 117 DeBartolo 
Co-sPONSORED BY: STUDENT GovERNMENT GENDER RELATIONS DEPT. ARTS & LETTERS ExEcuTIVE-IN-RESIDENCE PROGRAM 
• All are welcome and encouraged to attend! 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
SARASOTA, Fla. 
A man who said he was "on a mission from God" drove from Ohio to Florida, then scaled an 8-foot fence at spring training to confront Albert Belle. 
Belle was not hurt in the inci­dent. which occurred last Friday near the White Sox clubhouse. 
David Henry, 38, of North Ridgeville, Ohio, apparently was upset the outfielder left the Cleveland Indians for Chicago. 
Henry, charged with felony burglary and misdemeanor loi­tering and prowling, remained in the Sarasota County Jail Wednesday. Bail was set at $10,223. 
Police said Henry told them his business with Belle was not complete because the $11-mil­lion-a-year outfielder needed to atone for his treatment of Cleveland fans. 
''I'm not sure what his inten­tions were," Belle said Wednesday. "You figure a guy who jumps a fence and comes in through the back way, his intentions aren't very nice. Security did a tremendous job of stepping in. You kind of have a tendency to think about what happened to the tennis player (Monica Seles) where security was a little lax and it almost ruined her career." 
Seles, stabbed by a fan while sitting courtside at a match in Germany in 1993, was side­lined for 27 months. 
Henry scaled a chain-link fence at the complex, police reports said. He confronted Belle as he was walking 
~----~~-------~----~----­

Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
-

Baseball dedicates season to Jackie Robinson 
. 

By RONALD BLUM moment then. It's still baseball's umpires will wear "Breaking broadcasts; 'The Robinson challenge was Associated Press Writer proudest moment, and I believe Barriers" arm patches this sea­• the All-Star game in not just to the pitcher, but to it will always be baseball's son; Cleveland will be dedicated to society as a whole," said NL NEW YORK proudest moment," acting com­• all teams will use balls with Larry Doby, the flrst black player president Len Coleman, the 
Baseball dedicated its 1997 missioner Bud Selig said. the commemorative logo in their in the American League, and he chairman of the Jackie Robinson season to_ Jackie Robinson on "Should it have come earlier? home openers; will be honorary captain of the Foundation. Wednesday and will donate $1 Certainly. There never should • 100,000 gold and 200,000 AL team. "He was my hero, my champi­
million to the foundation estab­have been a barrier." silver commemorative coins will "The residue of racism is still on. He carried my every hopelished for the player who broke At a news conference attended be sold by the U.S. Mint; with us and the struggle is still and aspiration on his shoulders," the sport's color line 50 years by Robinson's widow, Rachel, • teams will show Robinson on," Rachel Robinson said. "We said Coleman, who was inspired ago. Selig said: video spots created by filmmaker need to have a vision and we by Robinson when_he was young 
"It was baseball's proudest • all major and minor league Spike Lee on their stadium need to have a plan." and has become baseball's pointplayers and all major league scoreboards and television When Robinson made his big man in organizing the tributes. league debut for the Brooklyn Selig said baseball will make a 

NE N eighl>orhood Service 
Vans leave from Main Circle every Tues and Wed. @ 3:30 
For only $8 try the favorite For more info about this rewarding 
recipes of your Classmates. mentoring program. 

Available at LaFun Info Desk Call Bill@ 1-5117 EVERYONE'S WELCOME "Don't Liquidate your 
Assets"
Free Food Nite 
Join Soberathon. For more infor­

Next week. NS Club @ 7 pm mation--See your dorm rep.
More fun than Student Gov't a&er two. 
Queslit~ns Call 1 -5111 



Dodgers on April 15, 1947, he renewed effort to increase became the first black in the minority hiring, asking each major leagues since Moses team to establish goals and Fleetwood Walker of Toledo in promising to monitor their the American Association in progress. 1884. AI Campanis, then the general 
President Clinton said Tuesday manager of the Dodgers, created he will attend ceremonies at a furor 10 years ago when he Shea Stadium on April 15 to said on national television of mark the anniversary and will blacks: "I truly believe they may speak from the field during the not have some of the necessities game between the Los Angeles to be, say, a field manager or Dodgers and the New York Mets. perhaps a general ma,nager." 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p r e s e n t s 
r11t r1metlca1t eex texxlal eelehatlo1t 
performed by Faculty Member 

Wllllam e~t.~tu 
/\~ p1amst -~ 
~-:-) with works by 
<......___--------__ ( d William Grant Still, 
~~~\''
«..-;---... 1 / 1 Virgil Thomson, Roger Sessions, ~~ ------~/ Howard Hanson and Peter Mennin 
l 

Sunday, March 2 2 pm Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and o ~-11 to the ublic. 
.. 

Leave the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! Friday and Saturday 10 p.m. -3 a.m. 
631-9888 

.. 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME !iTUnFNT C.nVFRNMfNT 

page 16 

-Bengal 
continued from page 20 
classes are no exception. 
In the 150-pound class, reign­ing champion Doug Polina beat Steve Allen in last night's semi­finals when the referee stopped the match in the second round. Pollina will take on freshman 
J.R. Mellin, who in his first year has proven himself worthy of a shot at the title. 
Mellina defeated Stefan Schroffner last night with a unanimous decision in what was one of the more colorful matches of the evening. Although Schroffner's kamikaze style ofthrowing himself full­fledged at his opponent initially appeared to throw Mellin's nor­mally controlled style off bal­ance a bit, he recovered to land some powerful jabs and get the win. 
"I really didn't have time to get to get out," Mellin com­mented. "So I just tried to punch and grab his arms." 
Mellin knows the challenge that is ahead of him, as neither of Polina's matches have gone the full time, but feels he is up for it. 
"Doug Polina's been my goal since I first came to the pro­gram," Mellin said. "He's the epitome of what I think is a good boxer." 
So what is it going to take to knock down this ideal? 
"It's gonna take a lot of con­trol because he is such a con­trolled fighter," he added. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Pete Titterton defeated Matt Berilla in last night's semifinals to earn him the chance at Damon Affinito in the 155-pound class final. 
BENGAL BOUTS SEMI-FINAL RESULTS 

*WINNERS IN BOLD 
125 
Matt Peacock 
David "The Gingerbread Man• Seerveld Chris "Little Mac" Owens 
Brian "Humpty" Dillon 
135 Tommy "Go Ahead and Sign Your'' Will 

Sean 'Razor" Sharpe 
Michael "The Roof is on Fire· MaguireLucas ''EI Mariachi" Molina 

~ ~ 
Fred "Irish Stour• Kelly 
· · 
Matthew Ramarge 
Thomas 'Killer' GronleyTed ''Thll Ragin' Roman" Pagano 
150 Doug "Pistol" Pollina Steve "''m gonna beatyou silly" Allan Stefan "The Hatchet Man" Schroffner 
Jeffrey "Maddog" Mellin 
155 175
Damen "Bronko" Afllnilo John "OUCH" DeSplinter 
Ted "The Bear'' Lefere Chris "Doom'· Dobranski 

Pete ''Tilo''Tillerton 
Matt "MOJO" Berilla Matt 'WaHher~ Ewr Any" Dowd Andrew "ffie BraZillim Bruiser'' Herbert 
The championship match of the 150-pound class is shaping up to be one of the most excit­ing matches of the finals because it places the reigning champ of the class up against the highly-touted newcomer. 
"To have one of those guys just stop and drop my name is a real honor," Mellin said of the club's veterans, like Christoforetti, who have cited Mellin as one of the top rookies. "You watch those guys and they are so good. They teach you what boxing is." 
In the 155-pound class, Damon Affinito defeated John DeSplinter in his second split decision of this year's bouts. The match was very even through the first two rounds, however, Affinito's upper cut finally wore DeSplinter down. Affinito, who in his senior year will make his first trip to the finals, found himself nearly speechless after the win. 
''I'm elated right now," Affinito said. "It's my fourth year in the program and my first trip to the finals. There's not even a word to describe how I feel right now." 
Affinito gave much credit to DeSplinter for a great match. 
"John's a great fighter," he said of the sophomore. "He is a lot better than I was as a sophomore. He's got a great future ahead of him." 
Affinito will take on fellow senior Pete Titterton. who knocked off Matt Berilla in the semi-finals. Berilla came out strong with a tough right hook, but Titterton's jab was a bit too 

180 Chris ''The Polish Prince~ Sikora 
157 
Brian ''The Nutty Irishman" Gaffney
Brendan "Dog -Dog" McGuire Michael 'Guns Don't f Do" Romanchek Tim "DooDah" Irwin 
Aarim ''May.the Force Be With You" Yoder 
John "Place Your Belt' Kmett •••. Mike ~'King of the Ring• DeBiasi 
The Observe1/Brandon Candura 

Junior Doug Polina, the reigning champion of the 140-pound class, will fight newcomer J.R. Mellin in the 150­
pound championship match on Saturday. 
much to handle as Berilla start­ed showing signs of fatigue in the third round. 
The 157-pound class will bring a familiar sight at it will bring together two finalists from last year with John Kmetz and Chris Sikora. 
Kmetz looked like a man pos­sessed in last night's semi-final against Tom Irwin, as the refer­ee was forced to stop the fight 
1:28 into the second round. 
"I stepped into the ring and have never felt like that before," Kmetz said. "I got in there and was like, boom, a surge of energy." 
"I don't know what got into me." 
Whatever it was, Kmetz will be looking to do it again against the top-seeded Sikora on Saturday. 
"I didn't really do anything special today," Kmetz said of his preparat-ion for the semi­
165 John ''You Won't Lasf' Christoforelli 
David "Drop the Smack" Remick Benny "Ranger" Rost 
Ryan ''The Scar" Rlins 

170 Pai''Take Two of These.." Maciarlello 
Sean "Strong Enough ..."Mahoney Norm ''The Barber'' Beznoska 
Seth "Take Your Last Breath" Roy 
190 Mike ''This Blood's For You" Manley
(Craig "Sasquatch" Prins Michael "Piston" Velten Todd "Damage Inc.' Carcelli 200 Troy "C-Bass" Phillips
Chns "Maverick" Craytor 
Chris "The Conzanian Devil" Conoscenti Dave "Kickin"' Butz 

Heavyweight 
Dave "Kid Arcola" Monahan Justyn "The Pudgy Pugilist: Harkin_ 
Michael "Phantom of the Hood" Romero Steven."Ainl~o Myth" Smyth 

final fight. "I didn't sit around and think about the fight, I actually thought about every­thing but the fight, so I guess I was just a little more relaxed going into it." 
Kmetz will lind quite a chal­lenge in Sikora, who won on a unanimous decision over Brendan McGuire. Sikora's clean, straight fighting wore McGuire down, as McGuire started looking tired by the end of the first round. McGuire hung it there, though, going the distance with the reigning champion. 
The 160-pound class will place Rich Molloy up against two-time finalist Chip Farrell. Molloy has been the mystery man of the tournament, coming in as a graduate student in his first year of the Bouts and earning a top seed. 
He solved the mystery last night with an impressive per-formance against Tom Biolchini, winning on a unani­mous decision. Molloy had never stepped in the ring previ­ous to this year, but looked like a seasoned veteran in last night's match. 

Molloy is takin'g a laid-back approach to Saturday's match as he hopes to get rest up in preparation for the finals. 
"Chip is awesome. It is going to be a tough match," Molloy said of his up-coming match. "There's not much I can do now, just go get some rest. 
Farrell knocked opponent Tom Hoderick down at the end of the first round last night, appearing as though the match was over. 
However, Roderick dug down and got back up, giving a valiant effort that unfortunately for him ended up in a unani­mous decision in favor of Farrell. 


Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS 
Bouts offer a little of everything 

By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
Blood, sweat and controversy. That's boxing at its finest. And when it was all said and done last night at the Joyce Center, that was the story of the semifi­nals at the 67th annual Bengal Bouts. 
First, there was sweat. After receiving a bye in the quarterfi­nals last Sunday, the 125­pound class proved to be worth the wait. A quartet of well­trained, technically sound box­ers kicked off the evening with a pair of barn-burners. 
Sophomore Chris Owens' strength and power proved to be too much for sophomore Brian Dillon and his reach advantage. Owens effectively pounded Dillon's mid-section but was unable to put away the resilient Dillon. 
The two exchanged punches for three rounds, tiring one another out to the point of com-
Dear l(ate, 
Happy 22nd Birthday! 
We are proud of you and we love you very much. Lots of hugs, 
Mom,Dad & Chip 
· GoM,,$3 per person 
!~~a::.sft ~~7~~:~~ 
1. :)oltet,7-l>;ia. ~irii.47~?{}1 I L----·----"""~J..--~-•r.._ __J
Michiana Paintball 
plete exhaustion. However, when it was all said and done, Owens came away with a split decision. 
"It was a tough battle all the way through," said Owens. "Fortunately, I was able to get some shots to the body and that really helped me in the end." 
Owens will meet David Seerveld, who defeated veteran Matt Peacock in a unanimous decision, in the finals on Saturday. 
The 135-pound class turned out to be highlight of the night. No. 2 seed and favorite Lucas Molina and surprise newcomer Mike Maguire battled for three stirring, breath-taking rounds before Molina was awarded the Molina. "He was effective in tying me up, and he threw some pretty heavy punches. If I'd have been any less condi­tioned, the outcome would have gone the other way." 

unanimous  
decision.  
After dis­ 
covering he  
couldn't  
trade punch­ 
es with the  
hard-hitting  
Molina,  
Maguire  
opted to use  
a more con­ 
servative  
style that  
included  
tying up  
Mol-ina to  
avoid any  
sign of trou­ 
ble.  
"He is an  
extremely  
smart fighter  as  we  saw  
tonight," said  a  gracious  

No. 1 seed Tommy Will also looked strong, relentlessly attacjdng veteran Sean Sharpe in a unanimous decision victory to earn a finals matchup with Molina. 
The 145-pound class was not to be outdone. Blood and con­troversy were rolled into one in a bout that featured No. 2 seed Ted Pegano and Tom Cranley. 
Not more than 30 seconds into the fight, both boxers were bleeding profusely and it only 
·got worse. The two warriors 
slugged it out for three rounds 
with each spending a consider­
291-9462 Buy 16 wings, 
Swiss Valley:
1/2 price • SS par person 
get 10 free.

Coli ohood lor lacollan ond ronrvollano! 
2 lift tix + 2 rentals 
One coupon per couple. Not valid wl any other for $32 befoer 2 p.m.offers. 
Buy one sandwich ~ or salad, aet 1/'l oH a 
'lnd one. 

~ 
b ... J/1197. 

Hofferth Chiropractic I Massage 256·1008 112 hr. $19 and 1 hr. $38 Either deal can be between dates! 
page 17 

able amount of time taking care of their tremendous gashes. 
When the final bell sounded, it was anyone's guess who the victor would be. Pegano was awarded the win by a split deci­sion, leaving Cronley in a state of dismay. 
But there was nothing contro­versial about No. 1 seed Fredy Kelly's first round TKO of Matt Ramarge. Just 33 seconds into the fight, Kelly delivered a right cross that caught Ramarge's chin and sent him stumbling to the canvas. 
"I threw a good right cross. but it surprised me that it was so effective," said Kelly. "I was lucky enough to end it early, but I know that my next fight (against Pagano) will be a tough one." 
Stay tuned for one final round of blood, sweat and maybe a lit­tle controversy. 
S~C?WC?S_e_ your talent and win a prize!!! Come to the ... 
4th Annual 
Troop ND 

f•l••f Shtw 
,,,•••• 
When: March 3 Where: Washington Hall Call x0939 for sign ups 
2 week-3 credit courses $850 (includes tuition & room and board) 
FIELD BIOLOGY FIBERS PAINTING 
SCULPTURE May 19-31, 1997 Sponsored by 
Department of Art 
Saint Mary's College For more information or application call: 
284-4655 or 284-4631 
-
.. 

-

.. 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 27, 1997 
something that's under adju­brought up against the "A person's past is his own admitted back in January that dication," said university pub­University of Arizona coach­business. It doesn't have any it did not come as a surprise -Moore lic relations director Dennis ing staff in 1980. Several influence on how this team to him. 



H u R R y 

' ' ' 
... 
,

Iclub Registration Packets for 1997-1998 are due ln 
I 
continued from page 20 
finale, Davie notified Moore that he would not be returning next fall. 
Moore has filed a right-to­sue request with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in January and has since received approval from the EEOC. 
When Davie began forming his new coaching staff. the young head coach talked about moving in a new direc­tion and wanted a five year commitment from his assis­tants. 
According to Moore, Davie said that he didn't believe the 65-year-old offensive line coach could make this type of guarantee. 
Notre Dame also reportedly made it clear to Moore that 

jJ he did not measure up to the standards set by Davie and the university. Moore is cit­ing this as a defamation of character. Attorneys will not allow Moore to talk about the law­suit at this point in time, and Davie refused to comment on the case. "It's one of those situations when nobody will discuss 
~· 
Moore, in an interview with Wildcat assistants, including, the South Bend Tribune. 
This isn't the first time Davie has been involved in a scandal. 
In 1984 as defensive coor­dinator with-----------------­
Tulane, Davie and head coach Wally English were sued by graduate assis­tant Jerry Materne on the count that Materne was sent by the coaching staff to spy on Mississippi State prior to a game. The case was settled out of court. 
Davie was also involved in the well-known lawsuit 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your JOb search in National Parks, Forests, and Wildlife Preserves. 
Learn from the #1 Source that uncovef$ hundreds of employment opportunijies in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefrts 


Davie were indicted on seven charges of fraud and conspir­acy. 
Since Moore's accusations include defamation of charac­ter, the former assistant and his attorneys are likely to bring Davie's past to the sur­face in an attempt to discredit the new head coach. 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 

feels about Bob Davie," said quarterback and captain Ron Powlus last December in regard to the Arizona scan­dal. 
Immediately after his ter­mintation, Moore told The Observer that he planned to remain in coaching. 
"I already have two offers to coach," Moore said. "One is in college, the other is a pro job. I also have an offer in business." 
Although Moore is not tak­ing the news lying down, he 
"I can read people," Moore said. "You learn by watching people, not listening to the. I knew at mid-season coach Holtz would be leaving. I could tell I would be too." 
Nearly three months after being let go, Moore is expect­ed to file a complaint in the 
U.S. District Court in South Bend. 
Davie could not be reached for comment. 
The South Bend Tribune contributed to this report. 

.: 
the St11dent Activities Office 315 LaFortune
' ' 
Friday, February 28 by 5:00pm! 
Thursday, February 27, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
l'VE HEARD TI-\A.T SOME PRIMITIVE CULTURES HA.O NO MATHEMATICAL CONCEPT OF "Z.ERO." 
"'0 
() 
.... 
"' 0 ® 
"' 
"' 
c 
"' 
~ 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 


SOMETIMES I THINK YOU'RE LIKE THA.T 
WHEN I I HAVE 
TELL YOU ZERO TIME 
0 
c THE CO~VER5ATION WENT DOWNHILL !=ROM THERE .
~ 
~ 
"' NO~ T~~T'S "ZORRo.''
"' 
e 
~ 
. 'fOU'RE ~T LIKE 
., u. 
. 
ZORRO!!
c 
" 
... 
.~//
0> 



CROSSWORD 
ACRos·s 
1 Ships' contents 7Show 
appreciation 11 Setup punch 14 Tennessee's 
lizard 15 Ding-donger 16 Smeltery pile 17Kew 20 Olden dagger 21 Woman's name 
that has another woman's name inside it 
22Tea 27 Hard fall? 28 Singer Lovett 29 Site of a 1976 
uprising 31 Cake toppings 34 Bamako is its 
capital 35Advanced deg. 38 Cockpit 
reading: Abbr. 39 Like the OE2 41 Work unit 42 Hardly a mark of 
distinction 43 Old pantry supply 44 Witt or Yamaguchi, 
e.g. 46Yellow 48Zippo 49--salts 52Ti 55 South American 
plains 57 Where to wear a 
muumuu 58 Queue 64 Suffix with 
absorb 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~=+;+=+=-+==-! 
-=+=+:..;+::~ 
65 Skin-colored &&Bloom in movies 67 Comic Louis 
&BTie 
69 Babe Ruth's middle name 
DOWN 
1 "Smoke" 2--Khan 3 Capek play 4 Diplomat who 
negotiated an 18531and purchase 
5 Upright 6 Comparatively 
reasonable 7 Greek letter aActor Chaney 9 Fit 
10Cue 
11 She played Nell
in "Nell" 12 Stood 13 "John Brown's 
Body" poet 18 Six, in Seville 19 Court plea, 
informally 22 It starts "Sing, goddess, the wrath of Peleus' son ..." 23 Full course 
~~fjAj··· 24 In crowd
.!:: 25 Wandering .:;+,;,..+:+~,.+;+;-+-;.~ 26 Actress Nancy -=-t-=-+-=-+-7---+-=-+ 30 Crimson rivals 

51 French toast 60 Fresh ingredient? 
61 Endeavor 53 Noon event 
62 Second 54 Colonel's Amendment insignia supporters: 56 Offshoot Abbr. 59 Gilbert &Sullivan 63 Kind of princess mother 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best ofSunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF Y.OUR LIFE: Spend some time delving into life's mysteries. Spiritual growth will make you more appreciative of what you have. An exhilarating on-the-job experience could alter your career plans. Heart-to-heart talks will nur­ture a promising love relationship. Your social life accelerates in late summer. Exercising tighter control over family spending will make a vacation possible late in '97. Reach out to a newcomer who lives alone. A business alliance flourishes. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actress Joanne Wood­
ward, author John Steinbeck, first 
daughter Chelsea Clinton, consumer 
advocate Ralph Nader. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Not a good time to make impulsive 
changes at work or home. Maintain 
the status quo in a romantic relation­
ship. A lesson learned in the past 
influences your plans for the future. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
member of the opposite sex is inter­
ested but shy. A friendly gesture or 
invitation could melt the ice. Be 
punctual to all appointments. A good 
financial adviser is worth his weight 
ingold. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It is 
up to you to promote domestic har­
mony. Avoid choosing sides in a 
spat. Someone may ask you to pay 
bis expenses on a special outing. Are 
fOU ready for a bigger commitment? 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Major decisions are best postponed 
until after lunch. You are more like­
ly to chalk up financial gains late in 
the day. Investments involve a cer­
tain amount of risk; rely on expert 
advice. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Avoid 
getting in over your head even if 
you are brimming with confidence 
and enthusiasm. Your friends and financial resources are not inex­haustible. Be affectionate. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Greater self-assurance will convince others that you know what you are doing. Someone from your past wants to hear from you. Consulting an old address book will yield valu­able information. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Retirees have a lot to offer their community. Stop being a spectator and get involved! Your organization­al skills will make a big difference to a charitable organization. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Be cautious where a new business 
venture is concerned. Although the 
road ahead appears clear, there 
could be pitfalls. Let a romance 
develop in its own sweet time. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): New acquaintances may not be 
all they seem. Forgive someone who 
made a mistake. A tolerant attitude 
is the key to better rapport with a 
sibling. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Someone may not be interested 
in hearing your plans. Instead of tak­
ing offense, seek a more receptive 
audience. Your romantic partner 
would like to take the initiative for a 
change. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
You and a co-worker may be on dif­
ferent wave lengths now. Try to stay 
out of this person's way. An unusual 
assignment gives you a chance to 
impress higher-ups. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Face a relationship problem head­
on. Calm discussion is needed, not 
heated debate. Be honest if you have 
not done as much as you can to help 
a loved one. 

WANTED: REPORTERS, PHOTOGRAPHERS AND EDITORS. JOIN THE OBSERVER STAFF. 
-
.. 

-
33 Reminder of a duel 35 "I want in!" 36 Sportscaster Musburger 
37 Side (with) 40 Memorable periods 
45 Forming a ring 46 First-class 47Valley 49 Sitcom set in a bookstore 
so Author of "Historia naturalis" 

BANDS! BANDS! 
-
NAZZ applications
10:30pm tonight at Cushing 
with a demo tape DUE 
8 & 10:30pm Fri. & Sat. nigh 
5 pm THIS WED., March 5 
once again, courtesy of Q 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 27, 1997 
• FooTBALL 

Former offensive line coach may sue Notre Dame 

Moore accuses Davie of age discrimination and defamation of character 
By MIKE DAY Assisranr Sports Editor 
Bob Davie decided he wanted to start from scratch-meaning out with the old and in with the new. Offensive line coach Joe Moore was just one of the casualties. 
Now, the veteran assistant coach is planning on taking Davie and the University of Notre Dame to court, accusing them of age discrimination and defamation of character. 
As an assistant under Lou Holtz for the last nine years, Moore earned a reputation for being one of the best in his field. However, just two days after the Irish fell to USC in the season 


• BASEBALL 
Irish hope to build off tough losses 

.. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sporrs Writer 
The baseball team showed a number of positive signs in their opening week­end, but were unable to tally a win in contests against three nationally renowned programs. Beginning tonight, the Irish will play five games in four days as they look to transform those positive signs into victories. 
Notre Dame will face Christian Brothers at 1:30 p.m. this afternoon, before taking part in the Service Academies Classic which begins at 5 
p.m. this evening. All four contests will be played in Millington, Tenn .. 
Christian Brothers, a member of the Gulf South Conference, finished with a record of 27-27-2 in 1996. They are looking for a great of production from infield returnees Darrin Lay and Dustin Allison. Lay hit .331 with eight home runs and 46 RBI while playing third base last season and Allison, a second baseman, batted .347 with three home runs and 26 RBI. 
The Irish can either go back to open­ing day starter Darin Schmalz against the Buccaneers, or give the start to one of two sophomores who saw relief action last weekend. Righthander Alex Shilliday gave up eight runs on seven hits, walked five and struck out three in four innings of work against No. 2 USC on Saturday. Southpaw Chris McKeown, the other possible starter, looked strong as held Long Beach State to just one run on two hits and three walks, whiJe fanning five batters over four innings. 
Tonight, Notre Dame will take on 

... Army in the first game of a tournament in which the Irish were runners-up a year ago. The Black Knights were among Notre Dame's three victims in the 1996 Classic before Memphis took 
see BASEBALL I page 13 

-
~ 
., 
see MOORE/ page 18 
• BENGAl BOUTS 

Boxers battle through semifinals 
Only the best remain after rigorous evening 
By BETSY BAKER who have conditioned, trained, Assisranr Sports Editor and dedicated themselves to the task that lies ahead of 
Those who were in it just to them -the Bengal Bouts have a good time are done. championship. Those who got by on sheer "This is the best finals' line­power or by stunning their up I've seen in my time here," opponent with some unknown John Christoforetti, club presi­style of boxing have been dent and two-time champion, weeded out. Those who did it said. just to get in shape will by The final match-ups for the watching from outside the 150 to 160-pound weight ring. 
It is now down to 30 boxers see BENGAL/ page 16 
Chris Sikora (top left) will meet John Kmetz (below) in the 157-pound finals. Rich Molloy (left) will go up against Chip Farrell in 160-pound class. 
Few surprises as all No. 1 seeds advance to finals 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Ted Lefere all advanced into the Sports W rirer finals for the last time of their Bengal Bouts career. Christoforetti 
Simply put, they came, they saw, and Maciariello look to defend their they conquered. In the middle titles, while Lefere looks to gain his weights, all of the No. 1 seeds pre­first on Saturday night. vailed. Senior John Christoforetti, The veteran Christoforetti will senior Pat Maciariello, and senior 
see BOUTS/ page 12 

vs. Michigan State, at Boston College, 
\_ aJ
February 28, 7 p.m. 
•Indian fan confronts Belle 
March 1 Women's Tennis 

~ 
at Big East Tournament, see page 14
at Wisconsin, 

., ......
March 1-4 Today 

riJ • Baseball honors Jackie Robinson 
Men's Tennis Indoor Track see page 15at PC Championship, 

at USA Track, February 28-March 2 February 28-March I
• ~ 






