
Friday, March 7, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 106 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Shields to speak at commencement ceremony 
Observer Staff Report 
Syndicated columnist and polit­ical analyst Mark Shields will be the principal speaker at the University's 152nd commence­ment exercises on May 18. 
A 1959 Notre Dame graduate and member of the advisory council for the University's College of Arts and Letters, Shields has played a role ­either as a participant or analyst -in every American presidential election since 1968. 
Since 1987, he has formed half of the popular and respected team of political analysts first known as "Gergen and Shields," with U.S. News & World Report editor-at-large David Gergen, on The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour. 
After Gergen joined the Clinton White House staff in 1993, Wall Street Journal columnist Paul Gigot foined Shields to form "Shields and Gigot," now seen every Friday on the NewsHour With Jim Lehrer. 
Shields also is moderator of CNN's Cable Ace award-winning "Capital Gang" of political ana­lysts, aired each Saturday. 
Author of "On the Campaign Trail: Wise and Witty Dispatches from the Front Lines of the 1984 Presidential Race," Shields pro­vided analyses of the 1988, 1992, and 1996 elections for PBS, as well as for CBS and NBC at vari­ous times. He was a principal contributor to the 1988 election coverage that won a Peabody Award for the NewsHour on PBS. 
Shields brought his under­standing of the American election process to the Notre Dame cam­pus in October 1995, when he gave a speech outlining the aspects of the nation's political history that have helped deter­mine the winners of presidential elections. 
In that speech, Shields said for­mer President George Bush lost the 1992 election partly because voters thought he had lost touch with the electorate. 
"People felt Bush didn't know what was going on in their lives," Shields said at the time. 
Because Americans felt a new leader would give them renewed hope for the future, Shields said, Bill Clinton became president. 
Shields' weekly newspaper col­umn first appeared in the Washington Post in 1979 and is distributed nationally by Creators Syndicate. He has taught at Harvard University and the Wharton School of Business. 

A native of Weymouth, Mass., Shields studied philosophy and history at Notre Dame. After graduation and service in the Marine Corps, he moved to Washington, D.C., as a legislative assistant to then-Sen. William Proxmire ofWisconsin. 
He subsequently worked on a series of national political cam­paigns, including the presidential runs of New York Sen. Robert Kennedy in 1968, Maine Sen. Edmund Muskie in 1972, and Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona in 1976. 


• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 
W
orkers from Christman Construction Co. have been at work for six 
weeks renovating the interior 
surfaces of the dome. Using 
careful techniques, they will 
restore the 100 year old murals 
to have an enhanced appear­
ance without destroying any of 
the original work. Construction 
on the building is scheduled to 
be completed in the year 2000. 
In addition to work on the dome, 
a great deal of internal renova­
tion will take place. 
Crew takes on dome interior 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Although the Main Building has shed its pelt of scaffolding after having its exterior reno­vated last year, construction on this facility is far from over. For the past six weeks, crews have been working to refur­bish the aesthetics of the inte­rior of the building's dome. 
"We don't want to eradicate any of the old artwork," said Michael Smith, director of facilities engineering. "We just want to enhance it and allow for the original work to be preserved." 
Preservation is a thread that winds through the entire pro­ject of rotunda and dome restoration, according to Chuck Dwyer, artist foreman for Conrad Schmitt Studios. "We are putting back every­thing that used to be here. 
Before we started, everything was really dirty, so we're cleaning it all and making it new again," Dwyer said. 
The artwork being purified was designed for the University nearly 100 years ago by Luigi Gregori, a Vatican muralist, artist in residence, and art professor at Notre Dame. Because of the age and significance of the work, much care must be taken in its upkeep. 
The year-long project began six weeks ago when workers from the Christman Construction Co. and Conrad Schmitt documented all the original art in the work area for preservation purposes. 
Since the inside of the dome is lined with tin with a sand finish, it needed to be vacu­umed to filter dust. A barrier finish was therefore applied, in order to consolidate any fading paint and protect the original work. Now, any touch-up work can be done without detriment to Gregori's original murals. 
"They are very crude paint­ings [on the dome's ceiling] because when you're looking at them from a few hundred feet away, they really don't need to be that detailed," Dwyer said. "But we're doing some touch-up painting." 
In addition to the murals themselves, work is being done on the "trompe'oeil murals," those painted on the walls that give the appearance of being 3-D but are in fact two dimensional. They will be covered with a fiberglass adhesive, repainted, and pro­tected with a reversible var­nish so as to allow for the future re-exposure of the orig-
see DOME I page 4 

Lipset: Democracy 

results in equality 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY ologies and influence of citizens News Writer of the United States on their neighbors to the north and 
Sociologist Seymour Lipset south, and the general senti­compared the history and state ments of the rest of the of the fledgling democracies in American states. many Latin American countries He attributed the economic to the state of American democ­and social gaps between Latin racy yesterday. America and the United States 
Lipset's lecture, held to the varying social conditions Thursday which have afternoon at fostered
~.~:':' ,,,,,:,: ·:, i .• ..,·..':.:.:,.o::h·''· k. ·o;::vi:::
':.:;:;;''' , 
t h e ' ,person;;w o nows democracy Hesburgh only one country in these Center countries.
knows no countries.'
Auditorium Over the for an audi-Seymour Lipset course of ence of his speech, 
teachers and students, was titled "The Development of Democracy in the Americas: Latin America and Anglophone America." 
The George Mason University professor is well known throughout his field for analyz­ing and contrasting the states of 
different countries.  Lipset, who  
has  taught  at  Columbia,  
Harvard,  and  Stanford  

Universities, was involved in a number of organizations that, at one point, attempted to cre­ate a University of the Americas in Costa Rica. 
"A person who knows only one country knows no coun­tries," Lipset said, stressing the advantages one can get from comparing two or more nations. 
Lipset then related to his audience the striking disconti­nuities in annual income, living style and educational standards between the United States, Canada and the countries of Latin America. According to Lipset, Canada remains the best comparison to American poli­tics in the Western Hemisphere. 
Lipset focused the remainder of his talk on the differences between Americanism, the ide-
Lispet made it clear that the United States has led the Western Hemisphere in industrializa­tion, technological advances, and education. He referred to this notion as "American excep­tionalism." 
Lipset's idea of "American exceptionalism" was reenforced by his references to the United States' long record of egalitari­anism, the unique character of American religion, and its abili­ty to fend off the influence of communism. 
"Karl Marx would be bedev­iled by the existence of democ­racy in the U.S.," Lipset told the audience. 

The British advantage that some Latin American countries enjoyed has allowed them to emerge from the post colonial era with freedom of speech and assembly in addition to an elec­toral democracy similar to that of the United States and Great Britain. The ability of these countries to avoid a sharp break with the governing politi­cal system has ensured their immediate success in the global 
see UPSET I page 4 



page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, March 7, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Liberal Arts vs. the real w-orld 
The search for Mary Beth Ellis summer employment Accent Copy Editor continues ... 
1) Name: 
Mary Beth Ellis 
2) Sex: 
Yeah, right. 
3) Measurements: 
750 on SAT verbal, 3.7 GPA, 19 credit hours. 
4) Academic institution: Saint Mary's College 
5) Looking for a husband, huh? 
Yes. The only reason I am attending a women's college in a town which boasts an actual establishment named "Mr. Moo's Udder Place" is to get me a man. 
6) Major{s): 
English writing, political science. 
7) And you actually expect to find a job after graduation? 
That's my plan. 
8) You poor disillusioned child. Position applying for: 
Anything not involving a drive-through window. 
9) My dear, you're spending your undergraduate years absorbing large quantities ofShakespeare and memoriz­ing the powers of the secretary of agri­culture. Your entire livelihood is going to involve a drive-through window. 
At least I won't have to add. 
10) Hair color: Blonde. 
11) Is it natural? 
Can't you tell? 
12) Have you applied to other compa­nies for employment? 
I applied for an internship with The South Bend Tribune, which did not hire me, but sent me a lovely parting gift in the form of a personal letter reading approximately as follows: "Dear Applicant, We appreciate your interest. Unfortunately, we have received a great many applications and think yours sucks in particular. Have a great summer." 
13) At least you're not bitter. Not at all. 
14) Number ofhours it took you to set up voice mail, Saint Mary's new techno­logical wonder courtesy ofSatan: 
Four hours. 
15) Number ofhours it took someone calling youfrom Notre Dame to figure out how to leave a message on this new technological wonder: 
Eight hours. 
Please read and sign the following: I understand that, ifhired, I will spend the entire summer performing menial tasks having absolutely nothing to do with my major for little to no pay. only to turn over what I do make to the book­store in the fall, in order to purchase a single used copy of ''The Pearl." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Bridget O'Connor Jon King Michael Lewis Production 
Sports Heather Cocks Joe Cavato Bridget O'Connor Viewpoint Lab Tech 
Ayana Fakhir Joe Stark Accent 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Vehicle with missing students, graduate found in river 
WINONA, Minn. 
For five days, no one knew what happened to a group of friends from Saint Mary's University who vanished after leaving a nearby tavern. 
Then they learned the tragic answer. 
Several hundred people, including relatives of the five, gathered Wednesday afternoon along the Mississippi River as a tow truck pulled a Nissan Pathfinder from the S.D. clear, frigid water. 

Four of the five friends-three stu­dents and two graduates of the uni­versity -were inside. Two Labrador retrievers also died in an animal car­rier attached to the roof. L.~.:..J,__-'====:.____j__j 
"This is a terrible loss for our AP/CariFox 
school," said Diane Schneider, a professor at the pri-cruising the river in an airboat spotted tire tracks vate, four-year Roman Catholic university of 1,300 stu-leading down a river embankment. 
Rather: Brokaw going 'soft' 
NEW YORK 
Are two of television's golden voices at each other's throats? There's an unusual feud brewing between two titans of TV news. CBS News anchor­man Dan Rather criticized NBC's new top-rated nightly news program for "going softer" on the news. That angered NBC's Tom Brokaw, who mocked Rather as "Mr. Hard News." 


Brokaw has been riding high the past two months as "NBC Nightly News" overtook long-time leader ABC in the ratings. Yet NBC's decision to run fewer and longer stories, with more on lifestyle issues, has drawn fire. Rather, whose broadcast is stuck in third place, says the "CBS Evening News" wants to set itself apart from its two rivals as "anti-news lite." "Like a rock, we are hard news," Rather told the Philadelphia Inquirer. "I like it that the other two are going softer. We have to distin­guish ourselves from them.... 'CBS Evening News' is a brand name. We want that name to constantly be a bea­con of real hard news. 'News lite' is not our game." Brokaw defends his broadcast, saying it contains sub­stantive reporting even if it doesn't meet Rather's defini­tion of hard news. 
Swiss support Holocaust survivors 
GENEVA 
Swiss companies are contributing $46 million to a fund set up by banks to aid victims of the Holocaust, the Swiss federation of industries said Thursday. The donation means there is now $188 million in the fund begun by the three largest Swiss banks a month ago under pressure from Jewish organizations. That money is in addition to a Swiss government plan announced Wednesday for a $5 billion fund to aid victims of the Holocaust and other genocides or disasters. The banks set up the humanitarian fund to help impoverished Jews, Gypsies and other Holocaust victims while inves­tigations continue into the banks' handling of the assets of people murdered by the Nazis. Jewish organizations claim the banks owe the heirs of Nazi victims up to $7 billion in assets and interest that went unclaimed after the war. The banks claim it is much less. In 1962, they gave 9.5 million Swiss francs (now about $7 million) to Jewish charities as a settlement, but subsequently have conceded that may not have been enough. An interna­tional panel headed by former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker is looking for any missing assets. 
• SOUTH Bnm WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, March 6. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
..,..........-....a...a... ..,....ay. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pr9ssurfl 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associall!td Pras5 
Albanians reach tenuous cease-fire 
TIRANA, Albania 

Seeking to stop Albania's armed revolt from sliding into full-fledged civil war, the president and opposition leaders agreed Thursday that the military would not launch any attacks for 48 hours. But in southern Albania, the heart­land of the insurrection, where insurgents have seized control of a number of towns, protesters refused to put down their guns. "We won't turn over our weapons until our demands are met," said a civilian leader in the town of Saranda, identified as Captain Tato. Dozens of men around him fired automatic weapons in the air as he chanted about the president: "He wants our guns, we want his head!" Insurrection leaders in Saranda said before the announcement that they were demanding the resignation of President Sali Berisha, the formation of a coalition government until new elections, and compensa­tion for those who lost money in the collapse of shady investment funds, which led to the violence. Sharp north­south divisions have emerged in the last two months in this impoverished Balkan nation, where most Albanians lost money in the schemes. Southerners, who were gener­ally wealthier, lost more than northerners and support the opposition. Berisha, whose base of support is in the north, imposed a state of emergency Sunday after weeks of protests erupted into violence. 
Sri Lankan rebels renew attack 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 

Tamil Tiger rebels broke a two-month lull in Sri Lanka's civil war by raiding an army base and an air field in coordinated, pre-dawn attacks Thursday that left 213 people dead. The guerrillas overran the base at Vavunativu about 1:45 a.m., but later withdrew under a withering strafing from helicopter gunships. The attack on the China Bay air base, which took place the same time 50 miles away, was repulsed hours later with the help of reinforcements, the military said. Four rebels with explosives strapped to their bodies were shot dead before they could detonate the bombs inside the base, said military spokesman Maj. D. Ranawaka. Another 160 guerrillas and 48 soldiers died in fighting at the base, and an airman was killed and a plane destroyed at the air field. The attacks were the heaviest since Jan. 9, when 223 soldiers and 350 guerrillas were killed in an unsuccessful rebel onslaught on a northern military base. The rebels are fighting for a homeland for minority Tamils, who account for 18 percent of Sri Lanka's 18 million people. They accuse the Sinhalese majority of discrimination. More than 48,000 people have been killed in the 13-year-old war. 
dents. "It's a close-knit community. That's one thing that draws students here." 
Classmates, professors, sorority sis­ters and relatives had hoped the five had gone on a spur-of-the-moment road trip when they disappeared early Saturday. 
But no one answered the pager or cellular phone they had with them. The phone's signal eventually faded away. 
Searchers scoured ravines and bluffs. woods and waters around Winona, a city of 25,000 about 118 miles southeast of Minneapolis in the rugged, rocky country along the Mississippi. 
On Wednesday, a marina owner 
Dan Cichalski 
Q~~&~o i) ru u

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
S~~;e~; T-;t~~s Rain ;,~;;;~~ 'i~~·~:· ~~-=. Sunny Pt. C~oudy Cloudy 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 


Atlanta  69  42  Detroit  39  26  New York  40  28  
Baltimore  50  29  Houston  70  60  Philadelphia 47  29  
Boston  35  21  Kansas City  51  36  St. Louis  60  38  
Chicago  48  29  Los Angeles 71  54  Seattle  46  40  
Dallas  67  43  Memphis  67  48  Washington  53  33  


~tkUJo;d/.1 
This spring, join Tour de Cure­one of the biggest diabetes fundraising events in history. 
ll...A~~~i~:~~betes Association 

)II..JI" ~n wd.1.•. ot: 
i -800-TOUR-888 
(H00·868·78881 
Cf VISit US at wwW.diabetes.org/tour 
~ ..,.,..... 
I ·w:, .!''J ~:--·· 
. ct;UJ~1!)~~?!~ .~,q}.l
~~~t.r·_ 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly. profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Laurliry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse ct>se to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or smp by today and v.e11 showyoo howgre<tlving at Hickory Village ca1 be. 
272-1880 


+llCKORlJ 

DlLLA~E-


L-----.J L-----.J 


Attention All CSC Service CSC' Seminar Participants: CENTER FOR SOCIAL Enjoy your Urban Plunge? Appalachia Seminar? CONCERNS Washington? Interested in Service Learning? Leadership? Apply for: EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCil COORDINATOR This position is a creative leadership opportunity made available lhro~gh the ~enter for Social Concerns. Ifyou are interested in s.ervtce·le~ng, enjoy creative work and leadership, and would lik~ ~ posttlon working to coordinate various seminar efforts factlitated by the Experiential Learning Council, PLEASE APPLY!! Applications available in the CSC Applications due by Thursday March 20 Questions? Call Lauren Stein 271-1699 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 63!-5293  WIEIDIDIINGS & IBANQUIIEliS FOR YOUR SPECIAL DAY... THE BILUIIE HIIE R.ON AT BlACKTHORN ° 219/233•3091 FAX 219/233·0298 5440 W. NIMTZ PKWY.. SOUTH BEND. IN 46628 •5 MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME  

WOLFF BEDS CLEAN • FAST • GENTLE Buy A sessions at the regula.price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 &get 3 FREE ... Buy 6 &get 4 FREE... ' ' 1 Month & 3 Month Unlimited Tanning Packages Availablel··--·)[rmcAGO IIAIR & TANij 5804 Grapr Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 27 •  at Fazoli's with any adult entree purchase. r-------------FIEE--lEMO-N--ITA[IA-N--rct-------------, 99<t value with purchase ofone adult entree 5277 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend One coupon per person, per order at participating Fazoli's only. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 5/31/97 L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~  

page 4 



Dome 
continued from page 1 
inal work. New 23 carat gold leafing is also being added to detail the walls. 
Many of the buildings win­dows, including the "monumen­tal windows" on the walls of the dome, were replaced during the exterior construction and are being cleaned again during this project. Lighting is also being installed to allow for viewing through the building. 
Paula Carlaccini, project manager for facilities engineer­ing, commented, "We can all remember not being able to see through the dome when driving down Notre Dame Ave. because of the grime. 
"Now, with the new windows and lights, it should be quite clear," she said. 
The project is only one part of the dome's planned $50 million renovation , which will last until the year 2000. The work will include electrical and duct maintenance, painting, and wall demolition and reorganiza­tion of space. 

Friday, March 7, 1997 
HaPPY St. Patrick~s Day from The Observer 
@].@1 
New Spring Arrivals ~ 
1Oo/o off with student ID ~ 
• Hemp, Beaded & Silver Jewelry ~ 
• Unique Dresses We ~ 
• Urban Outfitters Buy ~ 
HOURS: • Toe Rings Used F.!l M -F: 10-7 Let?i's @
Sat: 10 -6 • Mexican Purses ~ 
• Vintage Levis ~ 
TilE 1912 s. 11th st. Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line ~ 
(U.S.31) ~ 
STfLE B~:::sPI~~a 1687-91231 ~ 
c. -~--~ ~ • VISA ~
co., IN ­
@].@1 
TEACH ENGLISH in 
EASTERN EUROP 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW Learn abom teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, and Krakow. Travel E. Europe reaching English! Call Globa1 Information Services. 

TEAR OUT THIS COUPON INSTEAD OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S HAIR. 
When your roommate gets on your nerves, just tear out this coupon and chill out with a FREE Lemon Italian Ice 

Friday, March 7, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 




FIN TPANTS 
SPRING BREAK FAVORITES 
• BEACH PATROL • OCEAN PACIFIC 
•JANTZEN •SASSAFRAS 
•REBEL BEACH •MYSTIC BAY 

$52 
BEACH PATROL BOY-CUT BIKINI Juniors' Swlmwear. 

-~ ~--~ 


VIEWPOINT 
Surfing the Internet uncovers many Notre Dame surprises 


page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ........... ~ ................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor. .................. Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the indepc:ndem newspaper published by rhi:: studems ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objeccively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion ofthe majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Edicor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
Andy Rooney would have been proud of me last night. I asked myself, "I won­der what I can find on the Internet by typing 'Notre Dame' in my search?" After thousands of listings were com­piled, only one-tenth of them were con­sidered for my project. The content is stranger than fiction, as only the real world can create. 



Gary Caruso 
Listings generally fell into three cate­gories: Notre Dame students or alumni, high school students (some from Notre Dame High Schools) and Notre Dame haters. Students tended to love sports, sex, beer and partying while quoting various campus slogans. Many students loved everything ND or characterized the university as "the greatest." 
A random sampling of most students' AOL screen names included some refer­ence to ND. They were: Domer98, NDforever, G MAN UND, ND1996, ND MBA 97, NDArkiTek, Dame Notre, IRISH61, NDPeter614, HWatND and GoNdin95. 
Others contained names that were either cute or sassy, such as: BigDog Jay, MShmooz, TetraLover, Air lite, XRayRJ, Polaks, Duchesses, Chapps2, and Mad Dogg. Chapps2 and I share the same birthday (Feb. 23). Some of the others only share a good laugh or a disgusting comment, depending on the reader's val­ues and sense of humor. 
Mad Dogg's hobbies are: "Everything. Football, Notre Dame, Parties. Being and doing friends. Quote: I like living an alternative life. I am as I feel. I'll try everything once." 
One of the screen names above wanted "sex with hot dudes. Occupation: stu­
• DOONESBURY 
7HANKS FO!?. 7Ht; 
JOHNHANax:K, 
M!?..SJARR/ IM '':· GOING 70 HANG 
·~··· 17/1/eXT 70MY 
FRANKZAPPA I 
dent/sex slave. Quote: I am 21, 5'11", 160 lbs, 32 waist, 42 chest, tight bod, very preppy, brwnlblu ... for you ..." 
The MBA student's quote was, "Our relationship was fast & furious. I was fast, she was furious." 
Some mostly had sex on their minds. "Occupation: STUDENT, send me sex! ! ! Quote: 'LIVE LIFE TO IT'S FULLEST IN EVERY WAY POSSIBLE!' " or "Hobbies: COMPUTERS AND WOMEN. Occupation: STUDENT AT NOTRE DAME. Quote: SHEEEET!" 
Typically, male students mentioned females, many under the hobbies sec­tion. For example, "Hobbies: Music, Sports, Girls, Sports, Girls. GO GIANTS!, 49ers!, GO NOTRE DAME! Occupation: Student. Quote: 'uh...I dunnno?' " 
Another student also listed women as a hobby. "Hobbies: kickin it w/friends, tak­ing care of the ladiez. Occupation: Student -University of Notre Dame. Quote: It's all good." 
While diversity certainly abounded throughout the sampling, ar.ything ND seemed acceptable. One listed his hob­bies as "Computer games, cycling, col­lege football, partying, flirting" while another listed "PARTIES!!! and moun­tain biking, frisbee, Notre Dame every­thing!!!!" 
Or, "Hobbies: Hockey (ice & roller), traveling, anything cool. Occupation: Student & Band Manager (X-Ray Roger Jimmy). Quote: 'I was on it yesterday!"' And, a female student listed "Computers: I love to party!!!!! Hobbies: Water Skiing, Modeling, Nine Inch Nails and The Grateful Dead. Quote: LOVE THE LIFE YOU LIVE, LIVE THE LIFE YOU LOVE!!!!" 
Some (students and alumni) had varied hobbies but felt obligated to quote the fight song or football slogans, "Hobbies: fishing, writing, reading, Notre Dame football. Occupation: writer. Quote: Cheer Cheer for old Notre Dame." 
Or, "Hobbies: Football, Fishing, water skiing, outdoor activities, moonlit walks on the beach. Occupation: student ­University of Notre Dame. Quote: 'Play 
Friday, March 7, 1997 
• 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
H&Y, IFANYQV& CANHANPL../3 
f}{JALAGEN~9, !T5 Y0/4 5/R! 
YOU'RE: 7H& MANMIOS/MUL-?JWE­0/JSL-Y!NV6STIG/tl$/?Cl-INTON 
(,(!Hit£!<£Pf?6g&NTJNG7H~70/J,t/W !NPtlSTR.YlTHAT/UA<JIVAY.APJ5(JH~! 
I 


Like a Champion Today!'" 
A Saint Mary's alumnae lists, "Hobbies: Running/fitness, water sports, Notre Dame FootbalVNotre Dame/Saint Mary's College Alumni Activities. Occupation: Financial Counselor, Tall. Hospital; Grad. Student, Economics, FSU. Quote: 'God Made the Irish Number One!' " 
One female lists her profile as "Hobbies: playing tennis, swimming, SINGING IN THE SHOWER. Occupation: student at Notre Dame. Quote: 'Live each day as though it were your last.' " 
Several students were romantic, sophisticated or quite academic. Domer98 lists her screen name as "little miss magic" with "Hobbies: boats, beaches, bars, and ballads, quietly mak­ing noise, and wasting away in Margaritaville. Occupation: Notre Dame Philosophy Major. Quote: 'If we weren't all crazy, we would go insane.' -Jimmy Buffett." 
Female students included more acade­mic interests in their lists, "Hobbies: Lacrosse, good literature, and classical music.'' However, women on campus seemed diverse and tough. For example, one lists, "Hobbies: rugby. basketball, crew, animals, boating, and pathology. Occupation: Notre Dame student and aspiring to attend USCGA. Quote: Every day we live is one day closer to death." 
Fantasy speckled many profiles, none more visible than the one for "Kuazi Modo" from "Le Cathedral de Ia Notre Dame (in the bell tower) Paris, France with a Birthdate: circa 1756, Sex: Male, Marital Status: Single, Hobbies: Ringing bells, watching people, hiding out, admiring inner beauty." His Occupation: "Bell-Ringer, Cathedral handy-man and protector of truth and beauty from evil. Quote: 'Sanctuary!' " 
"Catholic stufl"' did not appear often in the listings. The only one found in the sample had "Hobbies: Reading (history, philosophy, Catholic stuff) Writing, Fantasy Football. Occupation: Marketing Program Coordinator (automotive), MBA Student, Notre Dame Fan. Quote: Ideas have consequences." 
Notre Dame football, on the other hand, ranked high with many. A public relations associate for Earle Palmer Brown lists "Travel, Notre Dame football, reading, writing." An Electronics Executive notes "Notre Dame, golf, NOTRE DAME ALUMNI THINGS.'' 
One listing was shared by husband and wife, Tim and Cindi. "Hobbies: TIM LOVES GOLF AND NOTRE DAME FOOT­BALL, CINDI LOVES COOKING. Occupation: TIM IS A SALES MANAGER, CINDI IS A STUDENT. Quote: GO IIllSH!" 
Hate pervaded the Internet search. Some ND fans hated other schools: "E­mail me if you wish to join the anti­Boston College football club!" Others hated ND, "Alabama football, Watching Notre Dame and the Cowboys get beat" or "Hobbies: Sports (watching and play­ing), video games, roller coasters, root­ing for Purdue and whoever plays Indiana & Notre Dame." 
Of course one ND student could have replied nicely to the last ND hater with this profile, "Hobbies: Football, Golf, Fishing, Watching Notre Dame Football, Watching Letterman. Quote: When you like Notre Dame, everything else is just Purdue.'' 
Naturally, ND students liked other teams too. G-Man lists "Hobbies: Sports (Minnesota Vikings and Notre Dame)." However, more importantly, he and a fellow female student who lists herself as "Hobbies: European History, Star Trek. Occupation: overworked student" seem to sum up this exercise in their quotes. Quote: "G-MAN NEVER BLUFFS. 'If you ain't the lead dog, the scenery never changes,' " and " 'Never eat more than you can lift.'-Miss Piggy." 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUEJ in W~shington, D. C. /lis column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com . 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"What's drinking? A mere pause from 
thinking." 
-Lord Byron 

-------~--~-~~---~­


ACCENT 


page 7

Friday, March 7, 1997 
Flags of the gods 
By ELENA MILLNER 
Accent Writer 
D
rums beat. Bared arms and legs flail wildly in rhythm to a ritual chant, the voices ris­ing up into the night sky with the black smoke from a centralized fire. fueled by sacrificial offerings. An old, wrinkled man sits cross­legged, his eyes fixated on the blazing flames while his hands mechanically stab a small cloth doll repeatedly. Five hundred miles away, an innocent victim, with features mirroring the doll, writhes in pain from numerous, invisible stabbings. 
Ah yes, a realistic glimpse into the world of vodou. 
At one time or another, we all 
have probably witnessed this 
Hollywood depiction of vodou. It 
has long been viewed as a form of 
evil magic. In reality, it is an 
established religion with a long 
history and strong following. 
"It is a religion to help people," said Doug Bradley, curator of the Arts of the Americas, Africa and Oceania at the Snite Museum of Art. 
The people of the Vodou religion 
communicate with their loas 
(gods) through a hougon (priest) or 
mambo (priestess) in order to ask for 
protection, advice, love, strength, or any 
other aspect of their lives. 
In the rotunda of the Main Building, the 
Snite Museum of Art has displayed vari­
ous flags of the Vodou religion which 
portray symbols, images and pictures 
that represent various loas. Each loa has 
a veve (symbol), which is found on a par­
ticular flag, specifically dedicated to the 
deity. Clotaire Bazille and Antoine are 
the two featured artists. They were both 
priests of the Vodou religion and made 
their flags between 1960 and 1970 -the 
high point of Vodou flag-making in this 
century. 
Layers of cloth, such as burlap with a 
satin, overlay compose the make-up of 
the flag. There is usually some sort of 
cotton backing to give it rigidity. The 
cloth is stretched out on a quilting frame, 
where each individual sequin is sewn on 
by hand to design the symbols and 
images relevant to the loa to which the 
flag is dedicated. 
This painstakingly long process results 
in an intricate design that contains unbe­
lievable detail. It is difficult to do the 
pieces justice with words, for the beauty 
and originality of each of the flags can only be appreciated through personal inspection. 
After looking at a flag as a whole, look closely at the countless individual sequins that compose it (press your nose against the glass if necessary). If you take noth­ing else from this exhibit, it'll give you an opportunity to see the virtue of patience manifested in each handsewn sequin. 
"The purpose of exhibits such as these in the rotunda," stated Bradley, "is to highlight the artistic accomplishments of th~e who come from wide, diverse, eth­nic backgrounds. Notre Dame has been known as a predominantly white, Catholic institution for 150 years. The University wants all students to feel wel­come from all backgrounds. The rotun­da, being the interior area of the Dome, is the symbolic heart of the University. Much activity takes place and many deci­sions are made in this building, so it is a wonderful place to display such pieces of artwork." 
It was fascinating to examine each flag and figure out the story or message behind each symbol and image. A four­armed cross represents the loa, Legba Atibon, lord of the Crossroads, and can be found on almost every flag, regardless of the main loa the individual flag repre­sents. In order for humans to contact the spiritual world, all communications must go through Legba. In ceremonies, Legba is addressed first and last. 


"However, Legba is a trickster," said Bradley. "He is demanding and stern. You don't take him lightly. If your suppli­cation doesn't work, you're probably not paying close enough attention to Legba." 
When asked if Legba was the loa you would least like to meet in a dark alley, Bradley immediately pointed out the flag of Baron Samedi in response. Samedi (Bat Man) -you'll know it by the huge red wings -watches over the land of the dead and is the one loa who will "kill at will." If someone is abusing the power of vodou by requesting evil to come upon an enemy in worship, Samedi may turn the evil back around on him or her. This is an effective and rather efficient way to keep corruption in check. 
The Vodou religion believes in the God of Christianity. However, the Christian deity is perceived to be so remote and distant that it does not affect everyday life and, therefore, is to be dealt with after death. Worshippers concentrate on improving the quality of life, so requests go to the specific loas of the Vodou reli­gion. Emphasis is put on paying the debts to the deities here and now that affect day-to-day life and are ever pre­sent. 
In admiring each of the flags, one sees veves of more than one loa present on a flag. Usually the main loa's veve or image is the focus, with other images strategically placed in the background. Twin snakes which represent Damballah, the god of fertility; an anchor to symbol­ize the Agoue Royo, the lord of the sea; and the brazier, sword and serpent which represent Brise, the chief of the forests and cultivator of fruit trees, are some of the common symbols one will see present in these flags. 
This exhibit in the rotunda began in 
February and will continue until March 
17. After that, the flags will be displayed two at a time on a rotating basis in the Snite. This flag collection is on loan from Peter David Joralemon. 
After learning about the true history and culture of the Vodou religion, one has to laugh at the ignorance of the sac­rificial chanting fireside ritual scene that has been the predominant popular para­digm, especially in American culture. It is interesting to see Vodou as a legitimate religion striving to help its believers in a positive way. 
And unless you've seen the flag of Samedi, don't be so quick to dismiss the power of that loa. 
a 

page 8 
(8) Syracuse (18-11, 9-9) 
11:00 am ESPN 
(9) 
Notre Dame (14-12, 8-10) 

(4) 
Providence (19-10, 10-8) 


1:00pm ESPN 
(13) 
Rutgers (11-15, 5-13) 

(5) 
West Virginia (18-8, 11-7) 


3:30pm ESPN 
(12) 
Seton Hall (10-17, 5-13) 

(7) 
Miami (15-11' 9-9) 


7:30pm espn2 
(1 0) St. John's (13-13, 8-10) 
(6) Pittsburgh (16-13, 10-8) 
9:30pm espn2 
(11) Connecticut (14-13, 7-11) 
(3) Boston College (18-8, 12-6) 

First Round Quarterfinals Wednesday, March 5 Thursday, March 6 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Babysitter Wanted for 1 yr old in our Electrolysis by Rebecca Adoption: A very loving, financially 
NOTICES FOR SALE
-Fishing Industry. home 50 hrs/wk, Castle Pt Blend Method 674-6933 secure, well educated young cou-
Learn how students can earn up to 243-0785 eves, 616-683-3140 days pie, long to adopt your newborn. Make money over Spring Break. $2,850/mo + benefits (room & Bed -Oueensize orthopedic premi-Are you looking for additional Close and caring extended family. You can work on a PC or Mac to board). Call Alaska Information CRUISE LINES HIRING-um mattress set. Never used still in income while pursuing your college We offer a special life for your child. enter survey data. Approx-imately Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841. Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. career? Are you interested in help-Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & $9.00/hr. Call Mark world travel (Europe, Caribbean, (219) 674-2352 ing people help themselves? Joe 1-800-378-6680. Gunty 289-2011 evenings. etc.). No exp. necessary. Are you interested in good nutri-
NANNY/MOTHER'S HELPER (919)918-7767, ext. C154. Beautiful 4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2 lion? You are a phone call away HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY, JESSICA Thank you St. Jude, for prayers POSITION near Vail, Colorado (Member, Better Business Bureau office home on 3/4 acre, wooded from changing your entire future! 1-BALSTER (March 11 ). answered. beginning mid-May. Room and CARE Program.) and private with pool, 10 minutes 800-927-2527 ext. 1051 
board, salary. Must have car, insur-from campus. Many extras. Boo. Our other third is missing. 
ance. Call Rick or Deb Travers (H) NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-$129,500. 271-7640 or 631-7459. .......···························-.
ILOST & FOUND I 970-328-7203 or (W) 970-476-7646 Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Class of 1998 Know what I hate? People in your or send letter/resume to P.O Box Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, A&L classes who are unnecessarily Found: Green & Purple Sierra 127, Eagle, CO 81631. $12/hour. Nationwide openings. Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 Bob Davie addresses the CLASS rude. It's just so uncalled-for. 
"'--Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik-Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154. min. in the OF 1998 on Mar. 20th at 7:30pm. ing boots and other items. Please The Early Childhood Development U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card, Tix at LaF. info desk this Wed. Mike Day. That's really all anyone call277-6982 to claim! Canter at Saint Mary's College has PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN FREEI!II!I needs to say about life. 

FOR RENT
employment opportunities over 46947 

The Observer/Rob Finch Sheila McMillen will need to continue to provide a spark from the bench with her sharpshooting as tournament time is upon the Irish. 
The Observer • SPORTS 


Madness 
continued from page 12 
ment." 

Three of the squads' losses came at the hands of the Volunteers and Huskies, two perinnal powerhouses. The remainder of the losses came out of conference. The Irish did not fair well when they traveled into Big Ten country as they lost to Purdue, Wisconsin, and Ohio State. 
The team has been as close to perfect as they can be with the Huskies on their schedule as they have won 17 of their last 19 with thE( two losses coming at Gampel Pavilion in Connecticut. 
But those contests against the Huskies may be the most valuable when the Madness begins. 
"Playing at Connecticut and a team like Connecticut has to have an advantage going into the NCAAs," Owens said. 
"We've played the best team that is out there and we played 
Semifinals Championship 
Friday, March 7 Saturday, March 8 

right with them. Going into the 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber I Jon King 

tournament we don't see any-
Friday, March 7, 1997 
body being as good as them." 
"I think playing the best team in the country was a great experience for preparing us for the tounament," Morgan said. 
Many times during the course of the year the support­ing cast of seniors Jeannine Augustin and Rosanne Bohman, perimeter players junior Mollie Peirick and sophomore Sheila McMillen, and freshman post player Julie Henderson have stepped up their games when opponents focus on the stars, Morgan and Gaither. 
Besides having a solid all­around squad, McGraw and her staff also have the pleasure of working with a senior laden squad that knows that each game from here on out could be its last. 
"The seniors know that this is it for them," Owens said. "So they will be going all out and I know we'll be getting a 110 percent from them." 
For the team that has already accomplished more than any other in the history of the program, the Madness is just about to begin this Sunday with the selection show. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 



WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­MENT -Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext. C55846 
Spring Break (March 10-14) for individuals who enjoy young children. If you are available to work either 7:30-1:15 or 12:00-6:00 (Monday through Friday) and are interested in spend­ing time reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, contact Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 as soon as possible! Have fun and get paid too! 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154. 
AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
Staying on campus for the sum­mer? Rent our College Park Condo. Clean, close to campus, air-conditioned. Call 273-5833 
New 5 bedroom home. two bath, two car garage. Central air, dish­washer. disposal, fridge/icemaker, washer/dryer included. $1500/12 mo. lease. Call 232-4527 or 638-5038. 


PERSONAL 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies 
are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
...................................... 
Alison Howard Turns 22! 
Buy her a hedgehog I **********************.. *"'*"'******"'**** 
"*"'"'*********"'*****•*•***"'********"'* Paul-Have a marvelous time in Padre del 
Sur. I'll miss you. -Holly C-Dog: Hey sexy Calc girl. What 
was your name again? -A :) Chana, Tami, Meg-Can't wait till 
Denver!! Jana -Wish you were coming! I Love ya, Amy:) The few, the proud, The Observer 
Seventeen years ago yesterday, the wonderful Erin kennedy was bought by her parents from a pack os delirious gypsies 
"Have you ever been so alone you spend the night confusing a man in a coma?" 
HA! I beat you! I'm done for the week! Shout out to VIRGINIA, mulva (you owe me!O and of course all of 3A. Why your finding 40, I'm slaving, but hey, who's got the love? -Wiskey Tango King 
Brad thank you for wearing socks 
Friday, March 7, 1997 

Junior Allen Rossum will change out of his pads and helmet to com­pete at the at the NCAA championships in the 55-meter sprint. 
Track 
continued from page 12 
"Dominique's time is fifth or sixth in the country so she has a really good shot at making the finals," said Connelly. 
This year's .contingent that will be attending the NCAA's is a far stronger team than last years. The Irish sent only three participants last season, and only Hojnacki will be returning. 
Ill 



::z:: 
1­
Aside from numbers, the run­ners also are stronger than last year. 
The distance team of Calloway and Hojnacki have posted times that are among the best in the country so far this season. 
If these tracksters do as well as expected, the weekend in Indianapolis could be more enjoyable than the sunny loca­tions of Florida, Texas, or Mexico where their school­mates will be. 

The Observer • SI,>ORTS page 9 
-
shores of Florida. 
The men's team will begin their spring season six months after winning their second consecutive Big East champi­onship. Unlike their female counterparts, the men's team is dependent on all the mem­bers playing well. 
The team is led by senior co­captain Joel Hepler. Hepler has been a four-year member of the team, and was a key component to the team's cap­turing their first Big East championship. 
During the fall, he led the team to a tenth place finish 
Expen'ence the natural serenity if North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums. from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided Come visit us at o¢o;::,~v 


North Shore Club {_;,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
Irish. 

His 77 on the par 71 Olympic Club Lake Course (site of 1998 
U.S. Open Golf Tournament) enabled the men's team to capture 14th place at the pres­tigious San Francisco Invitational last fall. 
The golfer that impressed people in the fall was sopho­more Brad Hardin. 
Hardin established himself as a top-notch golfer by shoot­ing a 71 in the final round of the campus championship, and won the championship ahead after Donohue with a stroke average of 73.8. Hardin's sec­ond place finish at the Big East Championships in Maryland enabled the Irish to keep their first round lead over the com­petition, especially Seton Hall and Georgetown, enabling them to win the title again. 
Hardin also led all Notre Dame golfers with a stroke 
ed the Irish to fifth place out of 17 teams. Both will be looked upon next year with the dis­missal of Hepler and Donohue. 
The newcomers for the team are freshman Jeff Connell and Todd Vernon. Both were im­pressive in their debuts, espe­cially Vernon. Vernon finished thirteenth at the Butler Invitational, finishing first for the team. 
His opening round of 75 led the team during the opening round. Over the next three years, Connell and Vernon will be the future, and Coach Thomas will expect them to step up an establish them­selves by the time they become seniors. 
After spending spring break in Florida, the Irish will travel around Indiana, to Kentucky, and finally Ohio to face tough competition around the coun­try. 
Diamond Price Quotations™ 
219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 

The Diamond Authority®
A Divisioo ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright © 1997 by John M. Marshall 

Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Umo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back lo school. No hassles, no problems. 
For Information and schedule qsutt your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
llNITFn IIJ\~0 
"""' I .. • • ..-...I 'f • ......., 
Your Allport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leaw Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­Tennlnals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minUtes later)
4:00a.m. 

6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 6:00a.m. 
8:10a.m. 
8:20a.m.
8.:00 a.m. 

10:10 a.m. 
9:55a.m. 

9:00 J.lll· 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 
11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 

2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 
1.:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 
2:55p.m.
21lO p.m. 

4:10p.m. 3:55p.m.4:a>p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m.
6:a>p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 7, 1997 
• SWIMMING


-Fencing 
continued from page 12 
Swimmers hope to make splash at NCAAs 
petition to individual will have positive effects on some, while others may have difficulty not having cheers from the sideline. 
"It should prove interesting who will react well to the differ­ent format. Some tend to do better as a team, while others like to compete individually," said head coach Yves Auriol. . In order to make a solid run at the championships, ten fencers in the five events will need to qualify. Similar to the regular season, the team will need to depend not upon their stars, but upon the second-tier fencers. 
One of those members who will need to step up will be junior epee captain Anne Hoos. Hoos and fellow epeeist Nicole Mustelli will.be battling to ftll the role of second fencer behind probable top qualifier freshman epeeist Magda Krol. 
"When you compare Nicole and I, we are neck and neck. I don't think this one tournament will be able to determine which one of us is better, either," said Hoos. "Both of us are great competitors, and I'm sure who­ever qualifies will do a great job." 
A similar difficulty occurs in the men's epee. Junior epeeist 
C.J. Jackson has the inside track to qualify, but junior epeeist Brian Stone and senior epeeist Brice Dille will be competing to fill the final spot. 
"C.J. and I have been close ever since fencing in high school, so it just feels natural to compete with him. But Brice has been here a long time and put in his dues. It would be really nice if all three of us ended up in the fmal to determine who goes on," said Stone. 
So though the stars of the team will be leaders in the competi­tion, it will be the depth that will determine whether the 1997 fencing squad has a destiny with victory. 

Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team has qualified two swimmers for the 1997 NCAA swimming championships March 20-22. 
The championships will take place at the Indiana University Natatorium at IUPUI in Indianapolis. The Irish will be represented by senior All-American Erin Brooks and fresh­man Alison NewelL 
Brooks will swim the 100-and ZOO-meter backstroke and will be making her second appearance at the NCAA championships after earning All-American honors in 1996 as a junior. The Millington N.J._, native place lOth at the 1996 NCAA championships in the ZOO­meter backstroke and was thirteenth in the 100-meter backstroke. 
Newell will swim in the 1 00-and ZOO-meter butterfly in her first appearance in the NCAA championships. 
The Parker, Col., native won the ZOO-meter butterfly at the Big East championships in a University record time of 55.86 seconds. 
The pair recently lead the Irish to their first ever Big East women's swimming and diving championship on Feb. ZZ. 
Brooks won both the 100 and ZOO back­stroke titles last month for the second consec­utive year. 
The 100-meter butterfly and backstroke will be swam on Friday, March Zl, with thr, ZOO­Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information meter backstroke swam on Saturday, March 
Senior Erin Brooks, an All-American from a year ago, will look to continue her success this 
ZZ. 
weekend as she competes in the 1 00-and 200-meter backstroke events. 


~lMBERLY, 
\\~lSHlNG YOU A VERY HAPPY 21ST Bt"lRTHDA y. 


NEED HELP JOB HUNTING? 
READY-TO-WORKsM will electronically market your availability to potential employers throughout the Internet for as little as $10!!! 
* 
RTW will easily & quickly, put YOU on the net 

* 
RTW will give you international visibility 

* 
RTW will bring employers directly to you 

* 
RTW will forward your resume to employers 


Advertise your availability through READY-TO-WORKSM! EMPLOYERS, search our database for FREE! 
For details, call: (847) 604-2452 Or visit: www.readytowork.com 
READY-TO-WORK, L.L.C. P.O. Box 7470 Libertyville, IL 60048-7470 (847) 680-7894 

NEED HELP JOB HUNTING?SM

Fax: (847) 680-7917 
E?!1PLo<r~E,NT IN AMERICA'S
ERASMUS BOOKS 
NATIONAL PARKS
~ Used books bought and sold 
• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 I-!anlbacl< & PaperbacL, 


books in stocl< ­•Out-of-Print Search Sen~ce::!52.00 
•Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
~~la~~~~~~a~s~~~~~~r~~~ ~~J~~ 
Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncove'11. hundreds of employment opportuMies in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent R.:.r'!cf;t& 



[!].[!] 

I I. I
·I
II THAl HousE II
RESTAURANT 
ISpecializing in Authentic Thai Cuisine I 
~ Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food ~ ~ Dine in or Carry Out ~ 
~ ~ 


I ~ 257-4875 I ~ 
~15% discount when you bring in ad! I ~ rHAIHOUSE c BUSINESS HOURS ~ I • D 0 t ~~:-~::~ I 
Martins K-Mart ~ Fri.-Sat. 11am-10pm ~ 
508 W: McKi:ev Mish::~k~:m I~ 
~ 
Private Parts R 
1:30 4:30 7:00 9:45 
Star Wars PG 
1:45 4:45 7:30 10:15 
Jungle 2 Jungle PG 
1:00 4:00 6:45 9:15 
Absolute Power R 
1:00* 4:00 7:00 9:50 
Absolute Power R 
2:00* 4:45 7:30 10:10 
*Saturday & Sunday only 

DANGEROUS GROUND (R) 12:20. 2:30, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 ROSEWOOD (R) 12:15, 3:15, 6:45, 9:45 MARVIN'S ROOM (PG-13) 12:00, 2:20, 4:40, 7:25, 9:50 STAR WARS: ANEW HOPE (PG) in DTS 
1:30, 2:15, 5:00, 7:45, 10:30 SW: THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK (PG) in DTS 11:45, 2:30, 5:15, 8:00, 10:45 
DONNIE BRASCO (R) 1:20, 4:10, 7:00, 9:55 EVITA (PG) 12:45, 3:40, 6:50, 9:35 
HINE (PG-13) 1:10,3:35,5:50, 8:10,10:25 
HE ENGLISH PATIENT (R) 1:00, 4:30, 8:00 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 
.-----­
Friday, March 7, I997 The Observer • TODAY page II 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-


DILBERT 
OUR BOS) Hfl.~ FALLEN UNDER IHE SPE.LL OF A CONSULTANT. 
E 
".; 0 
=g 
E 
~ 

MU5T... MAKE ·;: 
:I 

A5SUMHIONS. I 
) 
CROSSWORD 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Taking on a second job will improve your finances and build your self­confidence. Be willing to go out on a limb for a friend; your efforts will be richly rewarded. Experience real­ly is the hest teacher. Ask an older person to be your business partner. Learning new skills is more impor­tant than ever. A legal matter will eventually be settled in your favor. Avoid risking money you cannot afford to lose. Say "no" to unse­cured loans. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: 'Today Show" weath­erman Willard Scott, auto racer Janet Guthrie, TV evangelist Tammy Faye Bakker, Disney execu­tive Michael Eisner. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take care of routine chores and clear your desk so that you can look for­ward to an especially fun weekend. Using public transportation may be a better bet rhan driving. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A change in a personal relationship will not be easy to accept. even if it is lung oYcrdue. At-home activirics ~.:an h~ a source of real pkasurc this n·t:ckcnJ. 
GEI\111':1 (May 21-Junc 20): A great day for advancing your profes­sional ambitions and improving your financial status. Put your best foot forward when dealing with YIPs; someone with clout will be
SCOTT ADAMS 

impressed. CANCER (June 21-July 22): A home improvement plan or property
JUST BECAUSE. WE PA'(
r"\UST•.. WRITE ... LARGE 

deal gets the green light. Seek your
INEXPERIENCED STRANGERS 

mate's input before rearranging a favorite room or disposing of old 
CHECKS TO CONSULTI\NT... 
TO \ELL US HOW 10 DO OUR
~ECAU5E .•• EMPLOYEES.. . 

furnishings. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A spur­
J"OB~, THAT
ARE ... MORONS. 

of-the-moment invitation is ex­
OOE~N'T 1"'\EAN 

tended this morning. Exciting devcl-
WE'RE 


IT'S A 
1"\0RONS! 
COINCI­
\ DENCE.. 

opmcnts are on the agcn<.la 1 You will blossom under the anentions of a new admirer. 
VIRGO (Aug. ::!3-Sept. 22): Your personal plans move along smoothly now. Be prepared to take off at a moment"s notice if you get an opportunity to further your pro­fessional aims. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Peo­ple at a distance otTer you an at­tractive way to increase your in­come. Carefully investigate a neigh­borhood before committing yourself to a major move. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Beneficial influences are evident where your career and finances are concerned. End a squahhle with your romantic partner before going out this evening. Love deepens. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Arguments over money could continue. Resolve to withdraw from the scene of battle. Look for recre­ational activities that will appeal to the entire family without wrecking your hudget. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-.lan. 
llJ): Take a practic~tl :tpproach Ill a 
llnancial dikmm:t. ,\n,th"lc the ,itu­
ation carl!rull,. thL·n l~'llll\'-\uut 
inslincts. Bchiild-ilh:-~c.:nc="' a~ti\ i­
ties designed to improve a relation­
ship will work as planned. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Check the details of an employment contract. Look for clauses that could trip you up later. The social scene will be in full swing tonight. Try not to appear overanxious. Give romance time to develop. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-1\tarch 20J: Be 
certain your comments are upheat. 
Saying the right thing puts you <!l 
the head of the class. Loosen up and 
have some fun. A change of sccncn· 
is ju<;t what the doctor ordered. ­
ACROSS 30 1963 Martin Ritt 55 Disinclined film 
57 Medical or "23 skiddoo" 
1 "Cowabunga!" 
31 Complimentary dissections close 
59 "--luckl"

10 Formulated 
33 Kind of farming 
60 Garden bloomer 15 Home of the 

35 "Who knows not 
&1 Campaign tactic where a wasp 
Hittites &2 Volcanologist's16 Like H. P. 
does wear his 
instrumentLovecraft stories 

sting?" speaker 17 Onetime Sting 
37 Tryout
operation? 
39 Jewish months DOWN 18 Go after 
42 Census entry 1 McDonald's 19 Farm areas 
43 "Skin Deep" star 
freebie 20Accepted 
45 "Bonne--!" 
2 Where butts are 21 Mirrored 
47 Yellow fruit parked 22 Ode subject 49 Common joiner 3 Establish a link with
23Atall 50 Aberdeen 24 Adulterate 
negative 4 Fear is one 
51 Satirist Idle 5 Med. care 52 Depression 
26 Tao, literally providers
28 Letter box deposits 53 Terra-­a Humorist Shriner 


------~--~---------~----~--­
-


SPORTS 
page 12 Friday, March 7, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Irish poised to make noise in March Madness 

falling to the top-ranked and between the five and ten slots undefeated Connecticut though their strong perfor­Huskies. Despite the nine­mance in Connecticut gives point loss to the dominating them a shot at hosting. 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Track squad sends seven to Nationals 
By WILLY BAUER East champion in this· event. Sports Writer He ran at the NCAAs last sea­son. but failed to qualify for 
Seven lucky Notre Dame the finals in the 800. ·· students will he spending the "He should do real well," first weekend of their spring said assistant coach Tim break in the exotic paradise Connelly. ''He can make the some call Indianapolis. fmals and he an All-American 
The Irish indoor track team as well. He has to run in the will be represented at the relay two hours after the 800 NCAA indoor track champL· final, so he has a bl!SY day," onships by seven team mem~ Allen Rossum will make a hers this weekend down state. return to the NCAA champi-
The men's distance· medley onships.. after a, two year. hia­team qualified just in the nick tus. He ran in the 55-meters, of time, posting the third the event he will run this highest time in the nation this year, in l.~95, and r.eceived season at the Silverstori All-American honors with>a JrtvitationaJ lasfw~e hnd' seventh placefinish in the 
The t~aw h~.s i.a 4e(!.~lit~ .....Jlnals. .........·········>···•·· ...... .
chance· of placirtg higli this ···· ''l tell you What:'~ (;()tmelly weekend with senior Danny said of Rossuxp, ''If youlook Payton hnining the 400-meter at his marks, he has a real leg;· Jeff HojnackFrnnrung the · chance ofgettiJ:lg lrito the final 800-meter, Derek Seiling the and,.dt,tplicl}t~l,lg his fr!'lshmen 
1,200-meter and Jason yedrresults;" ..... . w . Hexingfinishing in the anchor Two fr!;lshtnan. women spot inthemile run. ....... ·• round out the team. 
Hojnacki will be pa,rtidpai-Doininque Ciilloway will turi ing in anotM~·evant.beside$ ·.~he·55·UJ.~~ · h~rdles•anq the medley•....the ~QO-meter Jennifer En ardt will par-run, his best ~vent Jiojnackl ticipate in hjump. is the reigning. two,f,jrp.e.atg :if'~.···........;,....;,,__,__..,.;,.,_;.,..,;,-....,...,,---.,.. 
NCAA Tournament TBA 
Softball at Oklahoma Tournament March 7-9 
Midwest Regional X Qualifiers March 8 

By JOE CAVATO  Huskies, the Irish were still  "I think we should do very  
Sports Writer  encouraged by their per­ well," Owens said concerning  
formance in Storrs, Conn.  the selection and seeding pro­ 
March is upon us and with it,  "Throughout the tournament  cess. "A lot of people are say­ 
as every basketball nut knows,  we saw a lot of leadership from  ing that we could possibly host.  
is Madness. Last season Muffet  or seniors and vast improve­ That would be great, but you  
McGraw's squad got just a  ment from everybody else," as­ just never know so we're not  
taste of this Madness as they  sistant coach Carol Owens said.  banking on being a host site.  
won the school's first ever  "Overall we just were playing ,  But if that happens we'll be  
NCAA tournament game before  well together and rose to the  very excited."  
losing in the second round.  occasion in March. For us to  Last year the Irish entered  
This year the Irish are looking  continue to fight against UConn  the Big Dance with a 12 seed,  
to feast on the Madness.  to the end was encouraging go­ but their national ranking and  
This year the Notre Dame  ing into the NCAA tournament.  HPJ power ranking of 24  
women's basketball team has  Despite losing there were a lot  should provide the Irish with a  
made history as it has set a  of good things."  more favorable seed.  
record for most wins in a sea­ Notre Dame is hoping that  "I think last year was impor­ 
son despite numerous injuries  those good things translate into  tant for us to get that first tour­ 
depleting the squad to a  a favorable seed in the field of  nament win under our belts,"  
Hickory Husker type bench.  64 that will be announced this  Morgan said. "Last year we  
Head coach Muffet McGraw  Sunday night on ESPN. The  were expecting a higher seed  
has seen a volleyball player  first round will begin while  but got the 12th seed. It was  
and the team's manager suit  many Darners are still basking  great to get that tounament  
up for contests late in the sea­ in the sun of their spring break  experience. But this year I  
son as Kari Hutchinson and  vacation spots.  think we have a great opportu­ 
Adrienne Jordan feirto injuries  "I think we deserve as high  nity and we will make some  
late in the year.  as a four seed," Morgan said.  noise in the tournament."  
The injuries have not slowed  "Obviously we'd like to host  Earlier in the year the Irish  
the Irish as the core of seniors  and that would be ideal for us,  tangled with several highly  
and Notre Dame's top two ca­ but it is tough to say where  ranked teams and did more  
reer point leaders, Beth  we'll be."  than hold their own. In the  
Morgan and Katryna Gaither  Those first and second round  pre-season women's NIT the  
have earned first-team all-Big  contests are held March 14-17  Blue and Gold came up short to  
East honors while leading their  at the sites of the top four  then No. 2 ranked Tennessee  
squad to a 27-6 record.  seeds in each of the four  but they knocked of then No. 6  
Morgan and Gaither were  regions provided the availabili­ Iowa and then No. 8 North  
also named to the all-Big East  ty of the school's facility. The  Carolina State.  
tournament team as the Irish  thirteenth ranked Irish are  "We had some losses early,  
cruised to the final before  looking at a seed anywhere  but they weren't bad losses,"  

Owens said. "Those losses were against teams that will possible all go to the tourna­
see MADNESS/ page 8 
• fENCING 


By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 

For the fencing team, the preparation is over. Now it is time to get down to business. 
The squad will be traveling on Saturday to Wayne State to compete in the Midwest Hegional Qualifiers. Those who finish among the top five will be lucky enough to compete in the 1997 NCAA Fencing Championship in Colorado Springs, Colo., 
• Women's Tennis vs. Michigan 
• a)March 8 Baseball vs. Penn State, in San Antonio ••--= 
March 8 

• ~ riJ 
Track at NCAA Indoor Championships March 7-9 
The format of this tournament will differ from many of the regular season meets. Instead of com­peting as a team, each fencer will compete individually. The fencers will be put into a pool to compete against other Midwest competitors. The top 80 percent will continue to the next round, where the process will be repeated until the quali­fiers are determined. This change from team com-
see FENCING I page 10 
•  Women's swimmers in NCAAs  
•  Men's golf preview  see page 10 see page 9  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






