
• The 39th annual Collegiate Jazz 
McGraw will stay with Irish 
All 
Pow-wow
Festival will hit campus this week­• Muffet McGraw turns down South 
That end. 
atND Carolina's job offer to continue coaching Irish women's basketball 
p. 5 p. 23
Jazz 
p. 14-15 


Friday, Aprilll, 1997 • Vol. XXX No.l22 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC names new college presid.ent 
Mary's, taking office June 1. the College's rich tradition of a "A new era in leadership for year career in higher education. Trustees to "With its long history of excel­strong, effective leadership," said Saint Mary's is about to begin. That realm of experience made lence, Saint Mary's is poised to Mary Lou Gorno, chair of the Marilou Eldred is this leader," Eldred an ideal candidate,
present Eldred become an even stronger college College's Board of Trustees. "We Brandee Carlson, student trustee according to Trustee members. to serve women of diverse back­believe she is the best person to and a member of the presidential "The reference point for the grounds and to continue as an lead Saint Mary's into the next search committee said. "Her entire search was the leadership 
to College today 
enthusiasm for and experience in statement, designed by the com­influential presence in the South 
century." 1~ZD~tl 

women's Catholic education is munity," Carlson said. "She best Saint Mary's Editor ties," Eldred said on assuming share that •'J~Monct1y's¥~~:
By LORI ALLEN Bend and Michiana communi­Gorno willl 
inspiring." fulfilled those expectations of the and MAUREEN HURLEY the helm of the College. enthusiasm Observerwill. 
In her role as vice president community." Assistant Managing Editor After a year-long search, the with the College carry complete 
and academic dean of the College The search was initiated last presidential search committee 
of Saint Catherine -also a spring, following current This afternoon, Marilou Eldred and the Board of Trustees agreed ~~~~ ~h~ i jJr~ ~i~;~~= ~of~ 
Catholic women's college -President William Hickey's resig­will be presented to the. Saint that Eldred's experience made mal announc~-appoin~~l\(~'. · 
Eldred was responsible for over­nation announcement. Mary's community as the her the perfect match for Saint ment at noon m · ·· · · 
seeing all academic programs, Hickey will continue his role as College's lOth president. Mary's College. a presentation at O'Laughlin curriculum, fct.culty, educational ninth president of the College 
Eldred. the current vice presi­"Dr. Eldred's breadth of acade­Auditorium. Additionally, each policies and a budget of over $10 through commencement. dent and academic dean of Saint mic experience and her affinity member of the College communi­million. The presentation will take Catherine College in St. Paul, for women's education, particu­ty received a memo from Gorno Furthermore, Eldred has held place today at noon in O'Laughlin Minnesota, will be the first lay larly in a Catholic, liberal arts announcing the decision this numerous roles throughout col­Auditorium. The College commu­woman president of Saint context, prepare her to carry on morning. lege administration in her 31-nity is encour-aged to attend. 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Conference joins ROTC cadets
Senators open term 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 

They came looking for leadership under the

tackling new kinks 
golden dome. By DEREK BETCHER "This is totally new and 
Yesterday afternoon, Naval ROTC participants Associate News Editor there will be growing pains. 
from 40 universities across the country flocked to But, you have to set the 
Notre Dame for a leadership conference, seeking Explanations, introductions precedent for senates to 
to add to their military training through interac­and committee selections come," delegate Brendan 
see ROTC I page 6
dominated the first meeting Kelly told the group. of the new Student Senate. While the senate's role has The 27 
been primarily streamlined, recently its composition has changed elected sen­significantly. Formerly, four a t o r s district representatives and a 
o p e n e d dozen organizational heads their terms (class presidents, HPC and by slowly SUB members, etc.) com­acquainting posed the senate. Now, each themselves residence hall has one sena­with the Nass tor. duties and Half of the new senators procedures of their offices. admitted to having no experi­
Unlike past years, this sen­ence with formal parliamen­ate has the burden of forging tary procedure, so overall a fresh path; this spring's inexperience was perhaps as reforms in the student gov­large a hurdle as. adapting to ernment constitution dramat­the new legislative structure. 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Members from collegiate Navy ROTC units from
ically changed the senate's Also, over 80 percent of the 
across the nation met yesterday for a social in
composition. 
Sacred Heart Parish Center to kick off this week­
see SENATE I page 4 



Students welcome Alliance decision 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Overwhelmingly positive reaction has greeted the Board of Governance's (BOG) decision to officially rec­ognize The Alliance as a campus organization. Formally known as The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight. and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College, the group was granted offi-_l-"1:::t::tr!,~"f•J:r cial club recognition in an historical decision at Monday's BOG meeting. • Editorial 
"I've heard nothing but positive P.l2 feedback from the students and facul-.________, 
ty. The students know that this is for everyone, and I am excited to see where it is going to go," said Carol Jones, one of the founding members. 
The Alliance aims to provide students with a safe and welcoming atmosphere in which to hold discus­sions on sexuality. 
BOG, the central student organization which pro-
see ALLIANCE I page 6 
end's leadership conference. 

:!friday Feature 
Committee examines insurance 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 

ealth Insurance for Graduate Students 
Last year, the Graduate School Medical Insurance CatagoffesiLE::fOurrent Costs Current Costs Review Committee released a report containing their k Lh, C L (~0 Subsidy) .i. (50% Subsidy) recommendations to the Office of Student Affairs and Student $432 
$432 

University Health Center. ..f!+ Primary a.mongst those rec?mmenda.tions was that Student and Spouse $2215 
$1324

student affmrs create a standmg committee to further ··;t~ a~dress the pro~lem of I?ro~iding graduate. students Student and Spouse $2905 
$1669 

With a~equate, mexpensive .msurance .. This rec.om-and one child mendatwn was met by creatmg a standmg committee ~ _, , 
chaired by Fat~er Peter Rocca, assistant vice president Student and Spouse >PY$+J595 
$2014

for student affairs. . 
"The [current] cost [of graduate health insurance] is ~a~n-:-d~tw_o_c-:'h~tld=~-=-="~.;;;;;.;;----=~==-----1prohibitively high for a student family with children," TotaiCosttoUniversity for%5Usubsidy of spoo.ses~anilcfillif!iin $434,575 said Rob De Haan, former president of the Graduate figures from 1996 Reportol GraduattrSchool Medicafinsuraftce Review Committee 
Student Union, one of the groups that was instrumental MBA student have insurance whether or not it is the in the creation of the committee. "They can spend policy that is provided by University Health Services. almost one-third of their stipend on insurance, the ben-While spouses and children are not required to carry efits for which do not always meet the complete needs the insurance, many do at a significantly higher cost of the students." than a single student would pay. According to the 
The University requires that every graduate, law, and see INSURE/ page 6 
• INsmE CoLUMN 

Where's the love? 
Where were you Wednesday night? 

What was so enthralling and important that you could not come out to hear the new head football coach of the Fighting Irish talk frankly with the stu­dents about his job, our 
team. and us? 
A meager crowd ­let's just say good seats are STILL available-

Dan Cichalski Viewpoint Editor 

Friday, April 11, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Bus crash kills truck driver, two students 

I 
i I· 
t 
.i 
attended the free Bob Davie "lecture" in the 
DeBartolo auditorium Wednesday night. A 
Friday morning freshman calculus class in late 
April brings more people to that room than 
Davie did. 
Do you think if it were the previous coach there would have been enough room to put your feet up on the seat in front of you? 
I realize that by voicing my disappointment at the low turnout that I am assuming a lot and generalizing. But judging by the number of students who attend football games in the fall (99 percent) and the number who com­plain when the team does not play the way they'd like (about 90 percent), there are a lot more people who care about our football pro­gram than the dozens who showed up the other night. 
I bet a lot of the absentees are from the same 
1,000 who did not buy season tickets to watch 
men's basketball and then stormed the ticket 
office when the team reached the postseason. 
Or they fall into that category of people who 
did not attend one basketball game this year 
and then complained when they did not get to 
buy tickets to the third round of the National 
Invitation Tournament. 
Those who did attend listened to a man 
intent on continuing the integrity and success 
of Notre Dame football. They also talked with 
a coach -the coach of the most prestigious 
college football team in the country -who is 
truly interested in advancing the relationship 
of the student body with its football team. 
We could also attribute the sparse crowd to 
the season. It's April; true sports fans are fol­
lowing baseball. Who cares about football? 
That outlook is understandable, but I can 
guarantee one thing: anyone who attended 
the talk left counting the number of days until 
Sept. 6. 
Having Davie make the time to share his 
thoughts with the students and listen to their 
concerns shows a genuine interest for the most 
important aspect of this (or any) institution. 
After his prep_ared speech and answering all 
the questions students asked him, Davie hand­
ed out envelopes addressed to his office with 
blank sheets of paper inside them. He encour­
aged us to write down anything we wanted to 
concerning the football team and the student 
body. He also wanted our names and phone 
numbers; these are no anonymous 
teacher/course evaluations. 
What this all comes down to is that if you did 
not attend and do not take the time to offer 
your suggestions, then you have a lesser right 
to protest if the team does not live up to your 
expectations in the fall. 
At a school where every day brings a new 
reason to complain about the administration, 
to have someone this prominent care about 
our feelings is something we should appreci­
ate. 
Hopefully, come Sept. 6, the students can put 
more effort into supporting Bob Davie and the 
Fighting Irish than a few scattered seats in 
DeBartolo. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Michael Lewis  Jon King  
Sports  Production  
Joe Cavaro  Michelle Krupa  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Ayana Fakhir  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Nate Willis  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
MONTICELLO, Minn 
A school bus slammed into a gravel truck that had driven through a stop sign Thursday, killing the truck driver and two elementary schoolchildren. 
Eight pupils remained hospitalized Thursday afternoon, at least four with critical injuries. 
The truck, which had just emptied its load, did not yield at the intersection marked with a stop sign, Wright County sheriffs Capt. Gary Miller said. "The bus had the right of way," he said. 
The crash happened shortly after 8 a.m., when pupils were riding to begin classes at Pinewood Elementary School. Many were left bloody and others uncon­scious. 
WIS.
S.D. 100 

e:s IOWA 
100km 

L---~----------------~~ 
Clinton picks Foley as ambassador Texas aviator takes Earhart route 
WASHINGTON HIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil 
Former House Speaker Thomas 
The wind slackened, a "window" opened and Texas Foley is President Clinton's choice as millionaire Linda Finch was airborne for Africa on ambassador to Japan, The Associated Thursday, retracing the round-the-world flight of Amelia Press has learned. Foley, 68, would be Earhart. Under cloudy skies, the San Antonio native nominated to replace former Vice nosed her plane down the runway at Augusto Severo President Walter Mondale in Tokyo International Airport and took off from the Brazilian 
· unless there is a last-minute snag in coastal eity of Natal, 1,300 miles northeast of Rio de deliberations, administration officials Janeiro. "The wind is steady and the weather's good for said Thursday, speaking on condition flying," Cesar de Souza of Brazil's-Varig airlines said by of anonymity. Mondale left in December, leaving a criti­telephone after Finch lifted off at 4:28 p.m. For much of . cal diplomatic post vacant. Foley's name is on a lengthy the day, the takeoff was uncertain. Stiff headwinds had list of tentative Clinton choices for several vacant ambas­thwarted her plans to leave a day earlier. But Thursday sadorships. The selections will be announced after back­afternoon, the wind was a steady 11 knots, and Finch ground checks are completed and foreign capitals are gave the go-ahead. "All she needs is a window when the given courtesy notifications. Aides said that work might winds drop below 15 knots," said Joe da Silva of United not be completed until next week. The Senate must con­Technologies Corp., parent firm of the company that firm Clinton's choices. Felix Rohatyn, a major built the engine for Finch's plane. Finch is flying a Democratic donor, has been mentioned for a Lopdon or restored Lockheed Eleetra 10E, a duplicate of Earhart's Paris posting, but the White House is concerned about twin-engine propeller plane. Flying into a strong head­nominating political supporters amid the controversy winds would reduce the "safety time" before her fuel about Clinton's fund raising. Still, aides said Rohatyn ran out. "Every 10 knots adds an hour to flight time," appears to be the front-runner for the French vacancy Finch said. "With no wind, it should take 13 hours," caused by the death of Pamela Harriman. Aides have with a safety time of about three hours. The trans­said Clinton's picks are a mix of politicians and career Atlantic hop to the West African nation of Senegal, 2,000 diplomats. The president said this week he planned to miles away, is the longest of her journey so far. Her only soon announce a "large number" of new postings.. special preparations were to sleep late and pack a lunch. 
Lover on trial for slaying wrong sister Arafat will help prevent suicide attacks 
DEDHAM, Mass. JERUSALEM 
Blond and blue-eyed, the Brown sisters lived together Raising hopes for an end to the deadly Mideast and looked so much alike that strangers would confuse impasse, Palestinian police helped Israel crack a cell of them. The resemblance was a source of amusement -the Islamic militant group Hamas on Thursday and offi­until Kimberlee Brown's jilted boyfriend went gunning cials said Yasser Arafat had pledged to work with Israel for her and mistakenly killed her sister, Dawn. Three to stop suicide bombings. Prime Minister Benjamin years later, the former boyfriend, John Anthony Diaz, is Netanyahu credited the Palestinians for helping to find on trial for murder, testifying Thursday that he acted out the body of a missing Israeli soldier, and said the Hamas of hatred -not of Kimberlee Brown, but of himself. He cell that killed him also was responsible for at least said he felt the Brown family rejected him because he is other 13 deaths, including a March 21 suicide bombing black. "I hated my skin color. It was something so in a Tel Aviv cafe that killed three women. Arafat minor, but it was major in society's eyes," Diaz testified. promised to help stop such bombings this week in a "I couldn't control anything any more. I was always by meeting with the head of Israel's Shin Bet security myself, depressed, in my own world, always in my ageney, Israeli and Palestinian officials said Thursday. room." Kimberlee, now Kimberlee Brown Goldstein, The meeting was the first high-level contact between and other relatives sat in the front row as Diaz described Israel and the Palestinians since Israel broke ground how he hid behind a tree at the Brown family's home in three weeks ago for a new Jewish neighborhood in the Quincy on a July afternoon in 1993, the day of her bridal part of Jerusalem claimed by the Palestinians. It raised shower there. Diaz jumped out and shot 25-year-old hopes that the daily-and deadly-clashes in the West Dawn between the eyes. She died six hours later, and Bank could end. But in the town of Hebron on Diaz disappeared. Diaz's lawyer contends Diaz's judg­Thursday, hundreds of Palestinians threw stones and ment was clouded by self-loathing. Diaz, 28, could face a firebombs at Israeli troops who responded with rubber lesser charge than first-degree murder, which carries a bullets, injuring seven people. The body of 20-year-old mandatory life without parole. Sgt. Sharon Edri was discovered Thursday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·r·,......./:.:................_____:lij tJ L i/.._ 
! 
I 
Friday 43 36 
Saturday c::::1 .. ~.2r:g

lt;.110il 
Sunday ~ ..48. 30 
i tt''~tiWTt•J••·· 
Monday 
~ -~7 .30
r">r> ·· · Tuesgay ~.;1'60 42 
Lf····--r--·-·\... :'''·,) --.J i~iWJl\{!WiMlW 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, April 11. Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. FRONTS: ......._._ ~ ~ COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Pre_ssure AH L a ESl [!}] 0 ~ 8 {) ~ u HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

V1s AS$ocisted Press 

.·.Aw,:.:.:... ·. Atlanta 67 57 Detroit 50 39 New York 76 59 
Baltimore 60 42 Houston 68 58 Philadelphia 59 42 
~~-r9lu~&~ ~ u 

Boston 52 37 Kansas City 40 30 St. Louis 52 43 
............~..~ ...... :. ·=·.::=·.;:!' ~-=--=­

Chicago 40 38 Los Angeles 72 56 Seattle 59 38
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Cleveland 55 45 Memphis 65 55 Wash. D.C. 6t 46
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

"Some were just moaning weakly," said Jerry Ingeman. who called 911 to report the crash. "One kid was asking if he was dreaming. He just didn't know if it was really happening." 
One pupil and the truck driver died at the scene. A fifth-grader died at a hospital. Their names and ages weren't released. 
Three boys and a girl were in critical condition at hospitals in the Minneapolis area, about 35 miles southeast of the crash site. Three boys and two girls were also hospitalized. The bus driver was treated and released. 
"It's a pretty dark day," school Superintendent Sheldon Johnson said as school staff, clergy and hospital staff coun­seled students about the deaths. 
Friday, April 11, I 997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Shields discusses graduation speech 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 
Syndicated columnist Mark Shields commented on his role as this year's keynote speaker at Notre Dame's commence­ment exercises on Sunday, May 18. 
"I defy anyone who has ever attended a college commence­ment to remember a com­mencement speech," Shields said. 
"I promise to be brief." he added. "and for those that are still listening, I hope that what­ever I say would cause them to smile. 
"I promise, it will be no threat to the Gettysburg Address." he noted jokingly. But as a moder­ator for CNN's Capital Gang and a contributor to the Washington Post, it is almost certain that Shields has much experience addressing an audience. 
"I was kind of surprised to get Mark Shields," senior Daniel Druckenbrod said. lie admitted to not having a tremendous amount of exposure to Shields' work. but from what he had 
seen of him he said, "Overall, I think it's a good thing." Other students. however were 
' lpro:mise to be brief, 
and for those that are still listening, I hope that whatever I say would cause them to smile ... [The speech] will be no threat to the Gettysb~rg Address.' 
Mark Shields 
not quite as optimistic. 
"I must say, I'm kind of disap­pointed. I thought that Notre Dame would have been able to get a speaker of more esteem," senior Jeremiah Maloney said. 
''I'm a little perturbed by it," he added, later conceding that he believed Shields would do a fine job. 
Maloney's disappointment stemmed from comparison of 
this year's choice with former commencement speakers such as George Bush and Albert Reynolds, the prime minister of Ireland. 
As an alumnus however, Shields brings the benefit of shared experiences with this year's graduates. 
Shields said that he planned to comment on "what Notre Dame has meant to me," and on what a Notre Dame education could mean to graduates in the future. 
Senior Sarah Forquer did not really have an opinion about Shields' credentials or elo­quence, but she did insist that, "He just better be good." 
The Notre Dame graduate has worked as an analyst for the McNeill-Lehrer NewsHour for 10 years and has covered the presidential elections since 1980. 
In addition, Shields is the author of "On the Campaign Trail," a book documenting the presidential race of 1984. He has taught at Harvard University and the Wharton School of Business. 

Please recvcle The Observer. 
University of Notre Dame 




Educational Media 
Office ofInformation Technologies 
Due to sudden vendor changes, Photo of Educational Media will no longer be able to offer next day processing of individual's color snapshots. We will still offer E-6 color slide processing and the handling of larger custom color printing orders. The bookstore will continue to service student & faculty's next-day color print needs. 




Lewis Chapel 

SM~...,ju_niors welcome moth~rs to campus 
By MELANlE GARMAN Center from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saint M:yis Associare New$ Editor on Saturday. There, various South Bend businesses will The 1997 Junior Moms come together to offer their Weekend will take place this services to the Saint Mary's weekend on the.Saint Mary's mothers and daughters. College campus. This year's Cosmetic representatives from theme. "Like Mother, Like Hudson's, a florist, hair stylists, Daughter,"'marks the annual and a masseuse will be on hand traditiono! bringingtogefher to answer questions and repro­mothers ·and daughters for a sent their businesses. memorable weekend. ....... Throughout the event, an A variety of activities arK. English-style tea buffet will be 
plannegfor tl:lis weekend'§ offered. 
ev<lnt. begi~ning with a wine After the relaxing day, the 
an? che~s~,fec~ptio"ll fro1ll .~•• ·•···•.···· community will come together 
p,m. to? p.m~ fil Stapleton t! for a Mass in the Church of 
Lounge. The eveningwill con-Loretto beginning at 5 p.m. 
tiiiue with a showing of the • The weekend will come to a 
sp~ing production, "Picnic," in close with a brunch on Sunday 
the Moreau LittltJ:Theatre at 8 morning from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
p.m. at the Mishawaka Athletic Club. 
According to (!hairwoman So now, students are antici-
Katie Brown, this is the first pating the arrival of their 
year. the majority• ofeY(lnt$ will .. , moms. 
take place on the college cam-··· "I am looking forward to 
pus~ .,_ .· ..-::::~::=;;:~::·:;;:::::;:-::··.. spendi:Qg some quality time 
"l:It going to a very with my mom and taking her relaxed, laid })l:lck weekend in ,. out with all of my friends," which everyone can come and · · junior Courtney Reagan said. go as they please~? Brown said. Brown is looking forward to a "By the time we are juniors, we weekend that will allow her to know what thtlarea has to take time out to view her life offer, so we thought it woUld be with a different perspective. nice to h some structured "With the end of the year events that ould allow free-approaching, this weekend will dom aswelL~ t. . .... be a good time to put all of our 
The newest event' added to work aside and remember how the progra!ll thi.s year isthe we got here, through the exam­Women's Day Tea which will ple and guidance of our be helg in l:laggar College:~t moms,n Brown said. 
=':[i[J:':·· }!)}:-!:::.:'.· --:'·~: :;,:;.;' ... :4!/:'='=''·:.·-·····':·~=:.;:-··, 
NO's Sorin Society selects president 
Special to The Observer 
Cathleen Black, president of Hearst Magazines, is the new chair of the University of 
American Heart Association 




Sunday April IJ, 4:00PM 

Notre Dame's Edward Frederick Sorin Society, com­prised of alumni and other benefactors who contribute $1,000 or more annually to Notre Dame in unrestricted gifts. 
Black, who also is a member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, has been president of Hearst Magazines, the world's largest publisher of monthly magazines, since November 1995 and was elected to the Hearst Corporation board of directors in January 1996. 
Named one-of the 50 most powerful women in the U.S. by Ladies' Home Journal, she was president and chief exec­utive officer of the Newspaper Association of America from 1991-95 and served in a suc­cession of executive roles with Gannett Co .. Inc., a major media corporation, from 1983-91. Her positions at Gannett included president and publisher of USA Today, executive vice president for marketing, and member of the Gannett board of directors. 

When named a publisher of New York magazine in 1979 -a position she held until joining USA Today -Black was the first woman to become publisher of a weekly consumer magazine. Previously, she had worked in advertising for a number of magazines before being named advertising manager and later, associate publisher of Ms. 
A 1966 graduate of Trinity College in Washington, D.C., Black has been awarded six honorary doctorates and is a director of the Coca-Cola Company and IBM. Her hus­band, Thomas Harvey, earned his bachelor's and law degrees from Notre Dame. 


REINVENT TKiE AMERICAN 
JDREAM~~~ 


National Deliberation Day 

FIRST·· Foundation for Individual ResponsibHity and Social Trust is sponsoring
Saturday, April 12 

"Natio11al DclibcJ~ation Day"
9anL-lpnt nt -various sites tltmughont the nation~ including Notre Dallw's calltpus.
Center for Social Concerns NDD is a ltalf day 
convcrsatiou desigued to develop n netv vision of tlte
'Ib participate email: 

Antericnn Drenut for the next cenhtry. For JJtOJ~ infonJtatiou visit Brougltt to you by tlte FIRST tvebsite at: tVlVlV.libeJ1yllCt.OJ'g:80/ rv fiJ"st/

Student Government 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
newly-elected senators are underclassmen. 
"I think it went well, considering we have a riew constitution, a new administration, and new rules," senate chairman Erek Nass said. 
Yesterday's meeting was, in fact, so deliber­ately paced that the LaFortune building manag­er had to approach the senate and ask them to conclude their meeting; the room, 202 LaFortune, had been reserved for another group soon thereafter. 
In addition to the growing pains, regular business also took place. 
Foreshadowing what could become defining issues over the coming term, senator Matt Mamak introduced a proposal concerning du Lac. 
Specifically, his proposal advocated action on revising student rights and the non-discrimina­tion clause in du Lac. 
After some debate the measure was passed, creating two select committees to research the issues. 
"Timeliness is a key concern here," Mamak said. pinpointing the immediacy 
of the issue for the senate. Any senate 1-l"'"'"-~'hrllrnc Andrea KaVOOSI· 145 B. . p 4•3097 SOph action needs to be forwarded to the DanNisbet 317Carroll I] 4-0096 Soph Campus Life Council, which is the sen-Lauren Herring 257 Cavanaugf! 4-1465 Frosh ate's official link to vice president PatrickCoyle 274Dillon ······· • 4-1764 Soph Patricia O'Hara and the Office of Student Katie Hamess 225 Farley. 4-4060 Frosh Affairs. The CLC will meet only twice Chip Warden 438 Fisher · 4-3091 Soph more before summer break. Meghan Knapp 328 HoWard 4~2513 Soph 
Judicial Council president Jen Dovidio, MattMamak 326Keenan 4-3320 Frosh a senate and CLC veteran, advocated a A.J. Boyd 105Keough 4-4047 Frosh course of restraint. Matt Tomko 710Aanner 4-0549 Soph 
"Trying to crunch all of this into 1o Angie Sowar 241Lewis 4-2156 J 
d ·d .. h 'd MaggieMeek 31Slyons_,, 4-1346 Frosh

d ld b 1
ays wou not e a goo ea. s e sai · Heather DeJesus 229McGiinn if" 4-4935 . Soph Kelly partially agreed, noting that similar 11nnr·r""''"" MattSzabo , 102Morrissey 4l3451 .J action on student rights has been unsuc-Raj~Basu +··· :!!HO'Neil 4-1356 Soph cessfully tried by the senate in the recent ...~nnnnrn Eliza Hommel ~'{· 225 Pangborn 4-2374 Frosh past. Other action on the same issue is PM:nll~'rill!! Julie Reising 838 P.E. *:#v. 4-4553 Frosh still pending in the University's Academic "'~cmoo,rru~ Kelly McMahon 421 p.W. ili1ktiHM4,0760 Junio Council. he said. Jody Penton "419 St Ed's .. 4·0843 vFrosh 
The proposal passed nonetheless. and Ross Kerr ~26Aannerr~·> · .4-1023 Frosh various senators then offered to join the Kevin Grugan t'325ASorin a> 4·0795 Frosh select committees. Jake Cooper 127Stanford 4-2121 <·Soph
Beth Wladyka {'iii" lOOWalsh 4·2693 ., Frosh

Earlier, committee placement occupied TracyGonnan if!' 431 Siegfried 4·0781 t>Soph much of the meeting. Senators divided BrandonWillfams 319Zahm 4·1126 Sophinto the senate's six permanent standing 4·1901 Ju committees: academic affairs, residence '---""-'-------'--"'----'---'.......,'---------'----....J 
life, gender relations, multicultural, ethics, and oversight. 
Attendance policies were also enumerated. Three unexcused absences by a senator will be grounds for his or her impeachment, student government secretary Mark Higgins explained. 
"We want to have an effective senate, but if we don't have a quorum we can't do that," Higgins said, alluding to difficulties last year's senate occasionally had in seating a mandatory quorum at their meetings. 
In other news, the senate formally accepted several student government appointees. Chief of Staff Mary Gillard, secretary Mark Higgins, senate parliamentarian Tim Keller, Judicial Council vice president for elections Lori Mrowka, and Judicial Council vice president for peer advocacy J.P. Cooney were each approved by the senate to formally assume their posi­tions. 
Beginning next week, the senate will settle 
into Wedn its regular  schedule esdays at 5:30 p.m.  of meeting  on  
BobChapski Cheri Ught  103Aiumni 302 Badin  4-1008 4-3774  Soph Soph  

L:t"'1 ........._tion ­

icsaga 
an iceberg sl~htid a in the ship's hull. 
'"''·."'"'"''"·v happened was the iceberg caused the seams of the hull to sentdirtg in a rush of icy to the worst mar­ll,l:>itl.btt'r of all time, they 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland in 



Robinr 
Hooa 
$1 Students 

LITTLE THEATRE 
For information, call 219/284-4626 
Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Thurman Bear (left), master of ceremonies for Sunday's pow-wow at Stepan Center, bows his head in prayer during the invocation. Prior to the event's grand entry, Sara Brandon (center photo, far left) and Otakuye Conroy (far right) have their hair braided by Joline Cruz (middle left) and Nebeesh Shognosh (middle right). At far right, Wayne Cleland, the head dancer, peers below two posters advertising the pow-wow. 

Wesley Cleland, of Pontiac, Mich., exhibits the "Fancy Dance" during the ceremony Sunday (above). The two bustles of his headdress are designed to move in rhythm with the beat of the drum. 
T
hey represented over a half dozen different Native American groups. They danced, gave invocations, and bought and sold necklaces, jewelry and T-shirts. And it was all part of the Native American Students at Notre Dame's campus pow-wow. 
"It was small. but it was a good start for our first time trying," said Nebeesh Shognosh, one of the organizers of the event, held last Sunday in Stepan Center. "We wanted to show the Notre Dame community our culture -something that we take a lot of pride in." 
A young boy (above), performing the role of the grass dancer and wearing yarn that repre­sents the swaying grass of the American prairie, concentrates while a group of Potawatomi Indians from the South Bend area bang the Big Thunder Drum (left). 
photos by Rob Finch • text by Brad Prendergast 


military topics" such as war theory and classes and majors, but all have one com­marine systems. mon interest: the desire to gain valuable Along with the lectures, the cadets will leadership training in a scholarly setting. 

ROTC Alliance 
continued from page 1 
tion with other ROTC units. The confer­ence spans the entire weekend and will incorporate various leadership seminars and lectures by guest speakers, including Admiral Patricia Tracey, chief of Naval education and training in Pensacola, Fla., who is responsible for every scholarship gleaned by NROTC candidates. 
"This is an outstanding opportunity for the future naval leaders of the nation to gather together in a learning environ­ment to discuss ideas," said Tim Monahan, Notre Dame Battalion com­manding officer and student coordinator of the event. "It is really fortunate that Notre Dame has the opportunity to make this event come together." 
The students arrived yesterday and will stay at Notre Dame until Sunday, attend­ing a total of six lectures on "pertinent have many opportunities for social inter­"This is the first time I've been this far action with each other. Sacred Heart north," drawled Alex Burch, a senior Parish, located near Moreau Seminary on NHOTC student from Texas A&M. "I am Douglas Road, will host the students really interested in meeting people from throughout their stay. other schools and getting some new input 
"It is the highlight of a lot of these kids' about their programs." ROTC careers," said Notre Dame naval David Atwood, a junior Marine option officer Joe Quast. from the Citadel. agreed. 
"This conference allows a diverse "Notre Dame is a big name school with cross-section of students to experience a great HOTC program. We are all hop­the teachings of ROTC units from around ing to get a difl'erent perspective on train­the country while hearing flag officers ing an.? how leaders handle their com­like Patricia Tracey speak. This could be mand. the only time most of these cadets have a The conference includes one intense chance like this." day of lecturing on Friday, with Saturday 
The 167 students participating in the and Sunday being more relaxed. An Leadership Conference hail from south­<~qually important part of the weekend ern points like Texas A&M and the will be dedicated to students to meeting Citadel to universities closer to Notre each other and discussing their individ­Dame like Miami of Ohio. These HOTC ual schools' policies on a more casual 
members represent a 


Insure 
continued from page 1 
report that the original commit­tee released last May, a family of three could spend $2,905 for the University coverage. 
The recommendation that was presented by the original com­mittee to combat this price hike asked that the University subsi­dize the insurance payments for the spouses and children of stu­dents. "That is up to the officers of the University to decide," said Jim Powell, assistant director of the graduate school, the chair­man of the original committee, and a member of this current one. 
"They will probably take it up sometime in the spring or the summer," Powell said. 
The report of the Graduate School Medical Insurance Review Committee asked that the University provide a 50 to 60 percent subsidy. 
"The University mandates the policy," Powell said. "Since it is imposed on the students and there is a tremendous cost involved in the policy, we have got to balance the concerns of the graduate students against those of the providers. 
This committee helps keep an ongoing dialog between the Office of Student Affairs, the stu­dents and University Health Services to help facilitate this." 
Powell described the first meeting of the committee, which took place at the end of March, as organizational. "We had some discussion about what to address and how to address it," he said. 
"We revised the findings of the original committee," agreed Rocca. "We decided to focus also on better communication. We plan on making it more inclusive by putting things in plain English to make it easier for graduate students and their 




Bj2~[.C£(1 
Take a break from the artificial semi-Mexican food of the giant chains, and introduce your tastebuds to authentic Mexican cooking. La Esperanza-for when you are in the mood to indulge your taste buds, 
but not vour wallet. 
r----------------------------,
I Please COifte and EN.IOY 1 1 I $'1 oFF any lunch 1 I 
1 or 1 1 $2 oFf any dinner 1 
I I 1 Expires 4/17. Not valid for dinner Fri. & Sat 1 
L----------------------------~ 
wide range of basis. 
spouses to understand all that is available to them." 
Hocca also indicated that a survey will be distributed to fam­ilies to see how good they feel the service has been. 
"Suzanne Coshow, one of the Graduate Student Union repre­sentatives to the committee [and recently elected president of the GSU] developed the survey and will send it out this month. 
"The data will be gathered sometime this spring and over the summer. The committee probably will not meet again until the fall to discuss the results. If there is any urgent matters, it can be convened before the summer but that is not likely," Rocca said. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use(J books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-<Jf.Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
The 

continued from page 1 
vides forums for discussion of issues and policies that concern and affect students as well as the College community, granted the group recognition after almost a month of deliberation. 
"The decision insures the dignity of all Saint Mary's College women. and it is a vietory for justice. I am proud of the stu­dents who have worked so hard, and also of the leadership and courage that the women of BOG showed in making this his­toric 'decision," said Joe lncandela. chair and associate professor of religious stud­ies. 
Linda Timm, vice-president for Student Affairs, was not available for comment and the College has yet to release a state­ment on the decision. But Patti Valentine, director of public relations, agreed with BOG's decision. 
4th Annual 
CONCERNS

No Summer Plans?? 

Available(No students only) • $1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications Available: at the Center for Social Concerns Projects Available in: 
University of Notre Dame 

Spring Programming Contest 
brought to you by 
Tell Labs & the University of 
Notre Dame computer Club 
.................................................................... 
sundav, April 13th, 1997 
Fitzpatrick computer Lab 
10:30 Registration 
11:00 start 
2:00PM End Teams of two, c and C++ programming 
.................................................................... Register by e-mail cseclub@cse.nd.edu Visit our web page at http://www.nd.edu/-cseclub/contest971 

[Cfl 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

Alabama Alaska Aurora Austin Tx Detroit Raleigh, NC Ft. Wayne Hilton Head, SC Indianapolis Louisville, KY Kokomo, IN Maine Michigan City, IN Ocala, FL So. Louisiana Plymouth, IN Mpls/St.Paul Dixon, IL So.Louisiana and more women transitional housing Respite Ctr. for physical and emotional Mooseheart home for kids (21) male-Hispanic youth program-parish 
two; LaSed, Red Cross Food program (includes garden) Boys & Girls Club 
(Car) -Boys &: Girls Club 3 projects male-Outreach programs 
YWCA shelter for women and kids 
small home for teen aged girls 
(Car) -Elderly 
tutoring/ recreation for kids 
transitional housing-women, kids 
Boys &: Girls Club 
housing program 
Disabilitiesprogram 
transitional home/women/kids 
Stop in for more information or call Sue Cunningham, 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer, 4-1384 
-__..,______....,._ .......:... .....--------------­

Friday, April 11, 1997 page 7 
The current, .,,.T.,."""h"' ed political and the fOrmer monty referred to as 
Backlash Effect; · · questions aboUt parties did not die communism, according .to<Madolrbf Castle. 
They are, in fact, now u·rosoer throughoutthe region, 
Castle, a visiting a··ssi!ltli.~ sor of government and al studies, presented tion yesterday rent political sue communist parties in 
"The survival and p u"•"·l'"''xr almost every former col:n:trmn pa_rt~ present2 a 
sa1d. ,. .ix". 
To piece that puzzle tn<ir<>tl'"'"' pointed out several ..,,.,.,..,.""" for the success of these 
"Successor parties endowed in [physicall · endowed in the tional skills ... and in the sotia.l ass knowledge and trust/' 
"'1'"!"''~"""""~~:-:-::--:---"""'!"'-::-:::----,
at 'S Up , 
Pau17. , 
Countdown 3 
2 
1 
21! 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Ro 
• BOSN!A-HERZRGOVINA 

War-torn Sarajevo hopes to find strength in Pope's visit 
By MORT ROSENBLUM Downtown, restaurants jam with politi­Associated Press Writer cians and businessmen eating fresh shrimp at $30 a plate. For some, new Mercedes SARAJEVO cushion the jolt of unfilled potholes. But 
The guns are quiet, and Pope John Paul II Klapuh's life is more typical. can visit at last the city he declared martyred Up on Gypsy Hill, everyone plans to get a by war. But Sarajevans, now martyred in glimpse of Pope John Paul II. Mostly Muslim, peace, want him to bring a miracle. like 70 percent of Sarajevans today, they see 
From the airport, the pope will travel down him as an ecumenical symbol who might Sniper Alley past a 
unblock stalled relief. scrawled sign no one has But after what this town has seen, illusions seen fit to paint out: are few. "Welcome to Hell." "Nothing will change," snorted Mehro Bosnians hope he sees Tahirovic, 38, a demobilized soldier with that, ·for many, the mes­four kids and no prayer of a job. "We could sage still applies. have 100 popes here, and we still have no 
Just beyond Sarajevo future." airport, Hajra Klapuh, a So far, barely $1 billion of pledged interna" very old woman at 61, sits John Paul II tional aid has reached Bosnia. Surveys esti­on her doorstep amid mate six to 10 times that amount is needed buildings so elaborately devastated that they just to repair public buildings and get basic seem like some nightmarish work of art. services working again. 
"He must see this," she said, although But donors are dragging their heels, dis­knowing she is not on the 24-hour papal itin­couraged by separatist politics and fearful erary. "He must understand how we live that war might start again. The Dayton now. No one else seems to want to help us. peace process, diplomats concur, is essen­Maybe he can." tially moribund. 
After four years of huddling alone in her "The humanitarian aspects of Dayton have front-line basement, with no power, water or hardly been implemented," said Kris heat, Klapuh now huddles in a single room Janowski, spokesman for the U.N. High above ground, with a single light rigged up Commissioner for Refugees. "We have a very frnm a neighbor's house. long way to go." 
•----------------------..... This week, he said, two Muslims
living in Sweden tried to visit their home in the Serb city of Banja Luka, but an angry crowd attacked the house and forced them out of it. 
Most Bosnian refugees still abroad are Muslims and Croats who cannot go home to Serb-held territory, he said. Another 900,000 Muslims, Croats and Serbs are dis­placed within Bosnia. 
Even when safe in their own eth­nic enclaves, few people have the means to repair homes. Jobs are scarce, and meager reserves are dissipating fast. 
Sarajevo receives the most aid, but 70 percent of its 350,000 inhabitants have no work and, psy­chologists say, perhaps as many suffer mental effects of the war. 
~~® 
and 

The Nature Conservancy 

r 
'I'

f 
j 
I.l 
i 
I 


W CHRISTIAN LITERARY CLUB W 
DISCUSSION OF ANNE MER'S SAINT MAYBE MONDAY APRIL 14 6:30-7:30 PM 
(All AKE WElCOME-EYEN IF YOU HAYEN1KEAD mE BOOK/) 
THE SPIRITUALITY CENTER EPWORTH MEMOIUAL UMC Z404 UNCOLNWAT WEST 
SOUTH BEND (PH) ZIIB-P79 

Tuesday 4/22 Dating Pool Sign Ups start Friday 4/11 ­
,.ha-e•s 7odayt 
Go to LaFortune info desk Limited to Ist I 00 members of each sex! 
Cool prizes for da•es! 
·"4'··L------------------' 


~ee~q t"e ~e~ ol t.i~~ '"~ "i 

• ZAIRE 

Mobutu looks for military support 
By RON KAMPEAS Associated Press Writer 
KINSHASA 
Abandoned by some of his best foreign friends, offered a humiliating out by a longtime foe, Zairian dictator Mobutu Sese Seko turned Thursday to the one compatriot who has always been there for him: the military. 
His new prime minister wore a four-star general's uniform on his first day on the job, underscoring his commitment to "restoring order" to the war-racked land. 
Rebel leader Laurent Kabila stopped his advancing forces to give Mobutu time to mull over a three-day ultimatum to step
down. But he made clear that rebels will march on the capital -the president's last strong-hold-if the answer is no. 
Two of Mobutu's once loyal foreign backers. Belgium and the United States, intensified pressure on him to resign. 
His former allies were out­raged when Mobutu cronies ­including his son -blocked opposition leader Etienne 
Tshisekedi from taking his seat 
; cumbed last week to domestic ! and international pressure to ; name Tshisekedi as prime min­. ister. 

Tshisekedi promised to over­haul corruption and work toward elections, but the exper­iment in democracy didn't last long. After two days of pro-Tshisekedi rallies, Mobutu cracked down on activists, declared a state of emergency and appointed an old army buddy, Likulia Bolongo, prime minister. 
A senior aide to Tshisekedi 
1............... ~............................... '::.:.:.,.; • .-;;......:..:::.;,::;;..,:::::..::...--.... LJ; promised further resistance, 
and said the Tshisekedi admin-as prime minister on istration -which considers Wednesday. itself Zaire's legitimate govern­
"Mobutuism has no future, ment -would seek to tryand now we have to sec how to 
Mobutu for high treason. get to a transitional govern-Joseph Yaone said ment," Belgian Foreign Tshisekedi's path would contin­Minister Erik Derycke said in ue to be non-violent. "We don't 
Brussels. 
have to prove ourselves againstThe White House called barbarians," he said. 
Thursday for rebel-government Leaving little doubt about the negotiations on "interim new government's direction, arrangements for new constitu-Likulia wore his general's uni­tiona! authority in Zaire," form and was saluted by his 
McCurry said. guards as he left his luxurious Mobutu, ailing and having Kinshasa home for his first 
lost more than a third of his meeting with Mobutu as pre­
country to the rebels, had sue-mier. 
April 11, 1997 

Dear Notre Dame Students, 
This weekend, April 11 and April12, the University , will host approximately 7 SO members of The Edward · Frederick Sorin Society, a financial support group for Notre 
Dame. Made up of alumni, parents, and friends this gener­ous crowd gathers once every other year for what we call "A Weekend ofRecognition," an effort on the University's part to say thank you for all that they do for Notre Dame. The group is responsible, for example, for funding $2.2 million annually in expendable scholarships. They have 
also supported a variety of campus improvements. 
During the weekend there will be several events, a couple of which will, unfortunately, inconvenience your usual schedule. In particular, on Saturday evening we will hold our closing event, a dinner, in the North Dining Hall. As a result, those who normally eat in the North Dining Hall are asked to use the South Dining Hall for Saturday dinner. 
On behalf of the Sorin Society, please accept our sin­cere gratitude for your great cooperation. Special thanks too, to all the students participating in the weekend-the event simply would not occur without you. 
Kathleen M. Webb Executive Director The Edward Frederick Sarin Society 
h~--Putside your lc?at 4:00! 
'\.·. l ,. 
. t i 

~,..;;._,.,.,.,.Mtn ofAlumni during the WAJ(E they travel across campus handing outflowers to allyoung ladies 
Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
Lott: Estate taxes won't be killed Clinton's plan draws ire 
ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Bowing to political and bud­getary realities, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott said Thursday that capital-gains and estate taxes would not be eliminated this year. His remarks came a day after House Speaker Newt Gingrich said he wanted both 

ELIZABETH DOLE 
"AN AMERICA WE CAN BE" APRIL 26 AT 8:00 JOYCE CENTER GATE 10 
TICKETS: $3 STUDENTS (W/10 AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK) $5 NON-STUDENTS (AT JOYCE CENTER TICKET OFFICE) 
levies abol­
ished. "I personal­ly don't think we should have taxes in either of those areas," Lott, R-Miss., told reporters. "And I'll always be looking for an oppor-


all done in one year, when you're dealing with an overall By JOHN KING budget situation." Associated Press Writer 
On Wednesday, Gingrich, R­Ga., said he wanted a zero tax in both areas. The estate tax is paid President on large amounts of property Clinton's when it is transferred after early conces­death. The capital-gains tax is sions in bud­paid on profits from the sales of get talks have land, stock and other property. H o u s e 
The speaker's comments were Democrats a continuation of his campaign alarmed that to redeem himself with conserv­they are atives, who have been criticizing being ignored him. as he seeks to tunity to vote to eliminate them. But I don't think we can get that 

from House Democrats 

Because today is mystery meat daY. 
p .· 

-..ft.;t-ere 
It' ever)' vv'I ~ 
s b '" 
you want to e. 
©Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1997 

WASHINGTON 
strike a deal with Republican 
congressional leaders. 
Several Democratic lawmak­
ers complained pointedly at 
meetings Thursday that Clinton 
should not be negotiating with 
Republicans until the GOP offers 
a detailed budget plan of its 
own. House Democrats also crit­
icized Clinton for opening this 
week's budget talks by offering 
additional Medicare cuts with­
out getting any Republican con­
cessions in return. 
House Democratic leader Dick 
Gephardt and Senate 
Democratic leader Tom Daschle 
were meeting with Clinton 
Thursday evening, when 
Gephardt planned to relay the 
complaints from his caucus. 

The complaints go beyond lib­eral differences with White House policy decisions. Democratic leaders and a grow­ing number of rank-and-file olawmakers have complained in the past few days that Clinton appears so eager for a deal with Republicans that he is willing to relegate House Democrats to 
the sidelines. 
Gephardt, for exap1ple, was not informed in advance that the White House planned to open budget talks this week by offering an additional $18 bil­lion in Medicare cuts. The White House did provide an advance briefing to Daschle. 
Angry at what they perceived as a deliberate slight, Gephardt aides complained Wednesday to several White House officials. By day's end, White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles apolo­gized to Gephardt, administra­tion and Democratic sources said. 
"It was a mistake," a senior White House aide said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "But the motive was not malicious." 
House Democrats also were miffed that the administration failed to send a representative to their weekly caucus meeting to explain its budget strategy. 
Gephardt and other House Democratic leaders contend the White House should put more political pressure on Republicans before entering negotiations. Instead of drafting their own budget plan, Republicans have said they would use Clinton's proposal as the starting point for negotia­tions. 
TfACit EllllLISH in "'·, i EA 'I TERN El'ROPE 
~GUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basir 
ConVersational English in Eastern 
:Europe? Our materials profile manv 
r-ewarding tea.chi':'\f; opportunities with 
great benefits. For mfonnation, caJI: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
w~ •re' raearch• pubUN\ine;co. 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 
WOLFF BEDS 



5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
·some slate &federal regulatJons ma.y apply." copyright 1996 Chical)u Hau'tuttmg Co. 


~---------~-----~ --------~~ 

Friday, April 11, 1997 
Three speakers delineate air pollution issues 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
The point at which financial concerns supersede those deal­ing with human health was the issue at the heart of yesterday's panel discussion, sponsored by the Environmental Law Society. 
The focus of the discussion was a 1994 lawsuit filed by the American Lung Association (ALA) against the Environmental Protection Agency. The suit alleged that the agency was dragging its feet in reassessing its air quality standards, and was filed partly because the ALA believes that such a reassess­ment will result in stricter stan­dards in the future. 
The problem with these stan­dards, and most pollution con­trols, is that at some point the financial burden of meeting them will be too much for indus­try to bear. The question thus becomes. "At what point must the staggering cost of these measures supersede their threat to public health?" 
Debating that question were Anthony Patton, the director of environmental health for St. Joseph County; Lawrence McHugh, a partner of the South Bend law firm Barnes and Thornburg; and Mark Anderlik, a member of the St. Joseph County Greens, an environment­friendly political party. 
The ALA is in favor of stricter 

governmental standards for the 
control of both of these pollu­
tants. Stricter standards could 
help improve the health of those 
affected by the pollutants, but 
they would also be extremely 
expensive, and the costs could 
likely be passed on to consumers in terms of higher utility bills. 
The first speaker, Patton, took the middle ground on all of these issues and argued that more information is needed. He pointed out that in Indiana's case, very little is being done in terms of measuring the levels of these pollutants, and much more information -four or five years' worth -is needed to properly assess the effects that ozone and particulates could have on pub­lic health. 
McHugh, the second speaker, seemed to lean toward the notion that the pollution controls need not be stricter. He mostly discussed ozone pollution, and pointed out that it is diflicult to set a limit on it because any amount of.ozone in the atmos­phere, no matter how small, can be detrimental to human health. 
"The question becomes, 'What number [of people] is affected?'" McHugh said. 
Various studies, he noted, 
have shown that ozone can have 
detrimental effects on human 
lungs, especially in the cases of 
susceptible people like asthmat­
ics and those who spend a great 
deal of time outside. 
He stated that ozone "causes 
lung irritation ... but the body 
reacts to it and the reactions dis­
appear. or else the body makes 
temporary modifications." 
He also argued that the sug­
gested pollution controls would 
affect perhaps 10,000 people but 
would cost so much to imple­
ment that utility prices would 
rise as much as 15 to 17 per­
cent. Various estimates of the 
cost of these suggested mea­
sures, he noted, range anywhere 
from $2.5 billion to $35 billion. 
He summed up what he felt were the sentiments of industry, as well as state and local gov­ernments. 
"Take your time -don't throw this terrible bureaucratic burden at us without proving your science," he said. 
Anderlik, the last speaker, argued in favor of stricter con­trols of pollution, both in the ALA case and in general. He pointed out that controls like this reduce public health to a cost/benefit analysis, but initiat­ed a personal perspective. 
"I can't put a price on the health of my son -there is no price," Anderlik said. 
He also emphasized that con­trols such as these are necessary because they will never be implemented by industries of their own accord. 
"Industry is not about to make sure the public health is safe­guarded. You can't serve the public good and profit at the same time. When the two come to a head, you have to choose one or the other," Anderlik said 
He, like the two other speak­
ers, made a point about the pros 
and cons of this question, and 
together the three offered a 
complete picture of an issue that 
is of major importance to the 
future of pollution-control legis­
lation. 
Anderlik, however, ended his 
remarks by bringing up larger 
issues. He argued that "regula­
tions arc necessary in the short 
run, but only necessary as part 
of a long term !movement to!... 
lay the groundwork for a sus­
tainable economy: one that only 
takes from nature what nature 
can replenish and only puts into 
nature what it can absorb and 
make harmless." 


The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Yesterday, speakers attacked different facets of modern issues dealing with the danger and legislation of air quality and pollution, including their financial and medical effects. 
~OBSERVER 
The Accent department is looking for people interested in the following paid positions: 
Assistant Editors Copy Editors Music Editor 
We are also looking for music critics, film critics, advice column writers, and writers in general. For more Information contact Joey Crawford at 1-4540. Applicants should prepare a one page personal statement. 
Are you gay! Lesbian! Questioning! Are you a friend ofsomeone who Is! 
Please come to Campus Ministry's FIRST ANNUAL RETREAT for gay and lesbian undergraduate students and their friends. 
APRIL 18-19, 1997 
* Explore your gifts and the milestones In your life *Meet nerv people 

* Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ 
*Examine wavs to reach out to the Notre Dame/St. Marv's community 
* Student-led For more information or to *Student talks register, please call 
• Conversation Kate: 1-5242 *1taver Tony: 273-2578 
-(tMPUS 

Alyssa: 4-3352
MINISTRY 

or e-mail: katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu 
~----------------------~------------------------------~----------------------------------~--------~~-~~-----­
Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
. Woman, daughter freeze to death 

based on the novel by
Friday, April 18 
7:30p.m. John Steinbeck 
adapted by 

Saturday, April 19 
7:30p.m. Frank Galati 

Sunday, April 20 directed by 
2:30p.m. Reginald Bain Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

By CHRIS TOMLINSON Fl d" . th th I . 
AssociatedPressWriter 00 lng In e nor ern p alnS -=-===..:....:=::_:.:....:.=::_____The region's worst flooding in decades started last week KENT, Minn. when temperatures hit the 60s, quickly melting the winter After her car slid into a snow that was up to twice as deep as normal. 
half-frozen creek, Pamela 
Jean Wagner and her 3­
year-old daughter escaped 
out the driver's window 
and began walking in the 
dark to a farmhouse for 
help. Soaking wet with the 

temperature at 8 degrees, r·,...,,,,:;cx;:;c"<' they walked about a mile for more than three hours and got within yards when more water blocked their way. They collapsed and died in a field, frozen and exhausted. "To make it as far as she did, she's a very strong woman," said a sobbing Jennifer Tschakert, who owns a bar where Mrs. Wagner worked part time. Mrs. Wagner, 29 and three months pregnant, had a cellular phone, but it had apparently been soaked in the accident Tuesday in the usually calm Whiskey Creek. Searchers in helicopters after the silver car was found in leading out of it. spotted the bodies the next day, the creek, along with footprints "They were lying in the field 200 yards from the farmhouse, 
huddled together," said Lt. Cmdr. Doug Menders, who spot­
@].@! 
ted the bodies from a U.S. Coast Guard helicopter. "It's not how
~ New Spring Arrivals 
we like our rescues to end." Here in Kent, along the Red
~ 1Oo/o off with student ID 
River near North Dakota, many roads are covered with ice or
~ • Hemp, Beaded & Silver Jewelry 
blocked by snow from severe 
~ • Unique Dresses We 
flooding that began last month 
~~ii!l • Urban Outfitters Buy 
and a blizzard that hit over the 
ii!l HOURS: • Toe Rings Used 
weekend. Like other motorists,
~~ M -F: 10-7 Levi's 
Mrs. Wagner had taken a detour home because major 
ii!l Sat: 10 -6 • Mexican Purses 
~ • Vintage Levis 
roads were impassable. She had already made it 40
~ TJIE 1912 s. 11th st. Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 

~ (U.S.31) 
~STYLE :!1::sj,r:a
1 
~ CO ~rc
~ 
. , u• . 
Celebrate! 

The following members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community will be Confirmed in the Roman Catholic Church: 
Emily Affeldt, Juanita Alejandro, Angela Anderson, Cheryl Asci, Lisa Bugni, Antonia Dey, Jamie Fanning, James Fees, Jeff Fox, Megan Gallagher, Cynthia Garcia, Wendy Gebert, Jalaima Graham, Christina Hernandez-Kolski, Meghan Lynch, Elizabeth Moriarty, Kelly Puzio, Mark Tate, Nicole Varner, Carmen Walker, Rebecca Welch, Kathryn Weston-Overbey 
Rite of Confirmation and Mass Sunday, April13, 1997 2:00p.m Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop John M.D' Arcy, presider 

Please Come and Support These Candidates 
miles from Fargo, N.D., where she worked as a secretary, had
1687-91231 
picked up her daughter Victoria from day care and gone grocery shopping. Next, she stopped at
•-~ ~1!!\~:: ~ 
~ ~~,;wb~r:t1.v· ~~~"'*''<»:$ 
the Barley Bin bar in Wolverton on her way home so Victoria could go to the bathroom. 
uaranteed Wait List 
we guarantee an apartment for you THIS FALL! we provide: 
• 
washer & dryer in your home 

•Gas 
heat INCLUDED 

•Mini 
blinds on all windows 

•Fitness 
center, pools, & club­house 

•Central 
air conditioning 

•12 
Month lease 

•Cats 
allowed 


• 
JUST 4 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 


One, '1\vo, & Three Bedroom Apartments & Townhomes from $415 to $700 
INDIAN SPRING 
272-5011~:--..~~..--­
-~--~-~~ 
-~ ---~­

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 63I-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager..............................jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager. ......................... Wendy Klare Spons Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's .Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller. . ............................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either inscirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Edimr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Ed1tor, and Ao;socJate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre.Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters 1s encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 63I-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 63I-4543 Office Manager 63I-747I Accem/Saim Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpomt.l @nd.edu General Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

an s Dame, one of the most monu· mental decisions in the debate quietly r·'"<:mr1re from the ~aint Mary's call).pU$; Early this Y'f~ek, the College·~ s~u~ 
dent Boal'd 'of Goverfia.fice {BOG) mfunds; ~Its ~~eccess to use of College 
granted offic.hiJ recognition t(} The facilitie~ _and ~ervices; and h~s 
·Alliance _-·of"Le$bian, Bisexual, fundraismg privileges, as stated m 
Straight and Questioning Wotpen pf the Student~eadership Manual. 
Saint Mary's College. l'flibi!!''stn·~~ .Thtl1\lliance successfully inte~rates 
ln light of th~ G~ntinuou~ r~Je.ctiqn ...,the .991l~ge mission and ~atbohc tra­
of GLND/SMC's petitions for rl;l~ogrii-ditit:tn; and applies that dtrectly to the 
·the)p:~o.st_J.'tlfil~rkahle .. ~b..ing nor ____· · ' wn.•Ifiission and ~~n­., -...~..·• theidecision is not that Saint sti n~ -•--• Mary's College,beiogaCatholigins~~ l!'(iili•By ttt; , ~ Je~s-confrontation~I ·_ tution, offitiallyre~ognized a sexuali-approac _1n the. quest for recogn1­
.. ·--··---·'···'·-·· · * · ........ tion~,·l'he Alliance is well7grounded in 
its foctis ()ti education and honest dls­
cusslori regarding sexuality and 
rel sues. . ....._.. _... _.·..·. _. ___,. 
< T earch;that went into the 
.,1 ;grg;tl1!~~ti 0 !);:,~-proB9si~~on,_ an.d ;the 
-·•·· endbrSementofthe· charr · of religwus 
qrl~arll.ill'Lti(m ·~ adyiser,
·a strong 
._ tthey chose to on . and make a deti­.sion for the.student body, .as stucient 
leaders~ii? l} ··>-. .-. 'HI: •-'· The stl;lderit board ·deliberated and decided and the College· is now com­· nlitted ~tdeclsion. -··-. •-i§ the · ~m in The Al ce'and hi :B ~f' Go~'et'Irance exhibited!:.. ssedJ11_the Saint···· 
\,, Ma t e community: · ,,-.. Withthere<;ognitionfrom_BOG, The, Alliance may now be inCluded in the··· College ~cti~ities calendar; is eligible for allocation of student government 

Friday, April II, 1997 
Advertisements must not have the final word 
Dear Editor, 
So, Dave Freddoso wants his audience to accept the fact that we all die. Sure, I can accept that. I don't believe any self-respecting person disagrees . But I can't accept his arguments about eating disorders to fit the so rial para­digms of body image. Why do smokers smoke? I hesitate to say it's because the tobacco industry lured them in with mere words. No, they did so with images not unlike the ones used for other products. The tobacco ind~s.try caught the attention of women with images of gorgeous women stnkmg glamorous poses; the industry seduced men with the rugged, Hemi~gwa~ type in the Marlboro man; and teenagers got the message through cool images saying to them, "Smoke, and you'll fit in." Our culture is about image, as much as it is about money, fame and the accumulation of power. Whether they're selling Versace dresses or Camel cigarettes is irrelevant; the message is still the same: "Buy our product, and be powerful." The irony is they all have the power. What does it matter to the CEOs whether you live or die? Consumers are replaceable. 
I take further exception to Mr. Freddoso's negative attitude about exercise. Does he honestly believe we do it for body image? And is it really bad for us? Here's a true story for Mr. Freddoso and his cohorts who scoff at those of us who exercise. A few years ago I was helping a family friend clean his house. He had been an avid smoker since high school, and was 65. lie car­ried an oxygen tank wherever we went. His car had to be sterilized. He could no longer speak properly because the lining of his throat had been destroyed. And he could barely lift a golf club without suffering. At one point he leaned over to me and whispered, "You're lucky. Your dad is only a couple of years older than me and he's still living. I used to pick on him when I'd see him out there running, or he'd talk to me about working out in the gym. But he can still walk, play with his grandchildren, and eat solid food. I've learned that there is only one truth about dying; you don't take your money or good times with you. I'd trade the fortune I made to have the body your father has." 
The reality is, Mr. Freddoso, that the tobacco companies sold this man the same image and arguments for smoking they sold you and your friends. My father, a Notre Dame graduate of 1950 with a bachelor's degree in physical education, never bought into the image and continues to outlive, and outper­form, many from his generation. He didn't strive for an unobtainable goal. He exercises to enjoy his life for as long as he can, his 10 children, his grandchildren, and now great grandchildren. There is something to be said for that other than, "He's going to die." 
JOHN-ANDREW MURPHY 
Senior Library Specialist 
Hesburgh Library-Reference Deparrmenr 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
" 
"Nothing in the world is 
single, all things, by a 
law divine in one spirit, 
meet and mingle." 

-Percy Bysshe Shelley 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, April 11, 1997 page 13 
• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN Down 
You can lead the house to order, but you can't make it think 
The prevailing view is that everyone has a right to his or her own opinion. Some people know better -they know that some people have no right to their own opinion because they don't have the faintest idea what they are saying. 
It's not that they're bad people. Often they have the finest intentions you will 

Christopher 
Regan 
find anywhere; they have conviction as well. But they are stray-confusing what they would like to believe with what is actually the case. 
No. this is not a column about stu­dent government. 
Many people believe that smoking kills people who don't smoke. They see smoking as dangerous and attack smokers and tobacco companies alike. Their principle is simple -personal choice shouldn't extend to harming others. The problem is that their premise is false. 
Widely quoted and even believed is the Environmental Protection Agency's study claiming to show that there are 3,000 annual deaths from second-hand smoke. 
Cited even more frequently are the financial woes smokers bring to America through their increased med­ical bills. The burden of their unneces­sary risk falls on the rest of society when they get cancer. we arc told. 
That is the conventional wisdom. The fact is that there is no significant risk to non-smokers from environmental tobacco smoke (ETS). The fact is that smokers don't drain the economy of a single dollar on account of their smok­ing. Any attempt to prove otherwise is futile, because it's just not true. 
The EPA study was a meta-analysis. 
It was a study without experiments which just combined the results of other studies. Of about 30 ETS studies, 24 found no correlation between ETS and poor health. The EPA didn't count those studies. 
Instead it counted the ones which found the correlation for which they were looking. However, the correlation found was less than 30 percent, which is the standard cut-off for epidemiolog­ical studies. That doesn't sound like a big deal, but what it means is that ordinarily, no correlation would be reported. The 30 percent standard was thrown out in this case because the correlation was so obviously meaning­ful. 
It turns out that even in a heavy smoking environment, it takes a non­smoker 16 years to smoke the equiva­lent of a carton. Of course, smokers go through dozens of cartons every year. The risk of smoking is less than the risk of living in a developed country with the attendant pollution. 
As for actual smokers draining the economy, the data don't support that conclusion either. The years smokers lose from their lives are the least pro­ductive years -the ones at the end. 
Someone took" the time to add up all the social security we don't have to pay and all the medical expenses that are saved because smokers die closer to the end of their productive years. Turns out society turns a profit on smokers, something like 50 cents paid in taxes for 33 cents spent. 
So smokers are actually good for America, unless you don't want them to die. We'll soon see how selfish that is of you. 
The anti-smoking crowd pursues the curtailment of choice on the basis of shaky evidence or no evidence. That's a little scary, but in the grand scheme of things, smoking is no big deal. 
There's another group with the same principle -personal choice does not extend to harming others-and a false premise. 
These are the population growth 
people. About two months ago, $385 million of U.S. taxes went to curb the birth rate in "underdeveloped" coun­tries. 

Everybody knows the world is over­populated, just like everybody knows smoking kills non-smokers. The only question is what will we do about it. 
In western industrial nations there are a wide variety of birth control drugs and devices. The $385 million is supposed to bring these things to Africa, South America, India and simi­lar population "trouble spots." 
What can't be brought to Africa is the lifestyle that allows western people to tolerate these treatments. This leads to terrible side effects for women in these countries. 
After being coerced ·by their employ­ers to accept western standards of family planning, women in poorer countries are suffering horribly from treatments for which their bodies are not prepared. 
Of course it's also true that the cul­tures into which we inject our millions don't necessarily want to control their population. Many of them see our attempts to help as attempts at geno­cide. 
Never mind. The population control principle is, in P.J. O'Rourke's memo­rable phrase-"Just enough of me and way too much of you." Way too many Chinese, too many Africans, too many South Americans. Just enough Americans with good intentions. 
My use of the word "coerced" is poor, though. These are "voluntary measures." Right. We put $385 million where average annual salaries don't add up to a week of minimum wage. It's voluntary very much in the same way that you might voluntarily pay your bookie while he holds your family hostage. 
There are no requirements for the population control people to explain which treatments are preventative and which are the equivalent of an abor­tion. Consequently no explanations are given. 
Never mind that the idea of overpop­ulation is terribly unscientific and that corrective measures, even when undertaken, might not work. Once the false premise is taken for granted, any harm to these people can be justified. The Messianic complex of the popula­tion control people cannot be overrid­den. 
It is poor foreigners who have to change -not us. Not only are those people making their own lives miser­able, they're making everyone poorer. We have to stop them. 
Nothing that seems wrong about that can overcome the call to action from the population control people. Personal choice does not extend to harming oth­ers. 
Now wait one more second because here comes the funny part. 
The anti-smoking people and the population people are, by and large, the same people. These people are also strongly in favor of a position they call "pro-choice." This position utterly rejects the notion that personal choice does not extend to harming others. You have to admire them. They are so pro-choice they will deny education and pay bribes to ensure that people make the right "choice." Everyone is pro-choice. The difference is what choices you're "pro." 
Notes and Asides: 
• 
To my detractor in the College of Science: I went on the record regard­ing Duesberg and now so have you. Let's hope for a final answer sooner rather than later. 

• 
I'm not going to bat for sexually explicit Bookstore team names. But names which satirize public figures on campus, including columnists, ought to be protected speech. With that in mind, the odds on favorite as far as I'm concerned is Pontius Pilate, Judas Iscariot, Mike Wadsworth and two other traitors-Alias: Team 507. 

• 
In response to Tuesday's column in this space: The word education does not appear in the federal Constitution. 


Chris Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday . 
• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS, AND GENERAL RAMBLINGS 
Every step you make, every inch you take, Mrs. Smith is there 
Every neighborhood has a Mrs. Smith. It's inevitable. Sooner or later the parents of the neighborhood will realize that no matter how desperately they try, no matter how many pairs of eyes they install in the backs of their heads, no matter how many network-

Kathy Scheibel 
ing systems and monitoring devices they employ, they still cannot oversee every movement made and every word uttered by their children, and so they import someone who can; they import a Mrs. Smith. Mrs. Smiths are super­human creatures -they see all, they know all and they inform all. They are on a mission from God to ALWAYS be there WHENEVEH you mess up. 
When you were riding your bike down Main Street during rush hour on the wrong side of the road, balancing Johnny on your handlebars and drag­ging Sarah on a skateboard behind you, Mrs. Smith just happened to be driving down Main Street, too. 
When you pushed Simon off the swingset and made him scrape his knee (even though it was only a little push, and Simon is a crybaby anyway}, Mrs.. Smith saw it. 
When you hid your lima beans under your plate, when you dressed up the Jones' cat like Pollyanna and when you made Arthur cry because you told him his wagon wasn't as shiny as yours, Mrs. Smith was watching. 
When the lifeguard at the public pool yelled at you for diving in the "no div­ing" section of the pool (even though Johnny did it first), guess who saw it! 
When it was two degrees below zero, and you took your hat off before you even got to the bus stop; when you only walked the dog to the Jones' mail­box instead of all the way to the cor­ner; when you deliberately walked right past the newspaper on the drive­way without bringing it into the house, Mrs. Smith saw it all. 
When you had just gotten your license and w.ere driving Mach two down residential streets with the win­dows down, the radio blaring and the sunglasses on (even though it was dark outside -but you looked really cool); when you came in three minutes past your curfew (and the parents probably wouldn't have noticed), guess who was well aware?.! 
Yep! Mrs. Smith is there to catch it all, and then it is only a matter of mil­liseconds before the parents find out, and well, it's all downhill from there. But, this is the way of the world. From time immemorial, as long as there have been kids messing up, there have been Mrs. Smiths. For generations and generations, across cultures and around the world, the Mrs. Smith informational system has been the sys­tem of choice -a system loathed by children and loved by parents ... at least until our Mrs. Smith, anyway. 

Our Mrs. Smith defied the traditional system with her extraordinary efficien­cy-and in her spare time (to the delight of children everywhere) she began to monitor the parents as welll 
When Mr. Harvey watered his yard at night during the drought when watering wasn't allowed, Mrs. Smith noticed. 
When Mrs. Jacobson used a Betty Crocker mix to make her cake for the annual Ladies' Luncheon and then claimed it was from scratch, Mrs. Smith told all. 
When Mr. Caffrey celebrated his 50th birthday for the fourth time; when Mr. McDanield had 63 beer cans in his trash while his wife was out of town; when Mr. Jones didn't bring his cat in for shots, Mrs. Smith knew. 
When Mrs. Donovan didn't buy Suzy Samp!Jon's Girl Scout cookies; when Mr. Farleigh suddenly sprouted a full head of hair; when Mr. Kapinski tossed his leaves into Mr. Chen's yard when nobody was watching, Mrs. Smith was. 
The neighborhood was in an uproar. Committees formed and commissions were established. Parents united with a common rallying cry. 
"There has been a breakdown in the system," they declared, "and we won't tolerate it!" 
Wringing their hands and wailing, they confronted Mrs. Smith: "Mrs. Smith -you have gone above and beyond the call of duty, and quite frankly, your overzealousness is not appreciated!" 
They pointed to her contract and said, "Look -it says right here that you 'shall monitor our children while they are awake and while they are asleep, whether they are in the neigh­borhood or at a distant locality, in rain and in sunshine, in sleet and in snow ... ' Nowhere ... NOWHERE does it mention anything about monitoring US, the parents!" 
Mrs. Smith, for most likely the first time in the history of Mrs. Smiths, was speechless. 
"You must understand," they said as a tear trickled down her cheek, "your work here has been remarkable and much appreciated, but perhaps it is best if you move on to a neighborhood that more adequately suits your abili­ties, where you won't be so tempted by excess time." 
They fired Mrs. Smith. 
And for two wonderful, joyous hours, the children of the neighborhood rejoiced in a Mrs. Smith-free environ­ment! We shoved pretzels up our noses and blew bubbles in our milk! We made mud pies in our "Sunday bests" and played kickball in the street! We reveled in euphoric ecstasy! We shout­ed the praises of the glorious day! Life was bliss! 
UNTIL ... aU-Haul crawled up the street and pulled into the driveway directly across the street from mine, and out popped a new Mrs. Smith! 
I have not seen the light of day since. 
Kathy Scheibel is a junior Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Friday. 
;ACCENT
page 14 Friday, April 11, 1997 
-·-·­

--~~---~~-­
·,
''· -~;;_;:c 
-t;>1 
' 
··' 
Sir Roland Hanna 
By ELENA MILLNER 
Accent Writer 

J1 
his weekend, April 11-12, marks the 39th year of the nation's oldest college jazz festival, the Collegiate Jazz Festival at Stepan Center. Talent from schools as far as Northern Ariz versity and as close as our own 
University of Notre Dame Jazz Band will be participating as the festivities kick off Friday evening at 7:30 
p.m. and close 
with the last event, the Judges' Jam, Saturday 
night at 10:30 p.m. The festi­
val is a great opportunity 
to mix com­pany with some promi­nent jazz artists, who serve as the judges and also see some new talent through the student 
bands. Jazz has its own flavor and the festival will serve to not only to entertain, but to perhaps interest some in a different genre of music. 
The schools that will be participating include: Notre Dame, Virginia Commonwealth University, Northern Arizona University, University of Iowa, Central Michigan University, Western Michigan University, Purdue University, and the University of Illinois. 
"We solicit about 150 schools in September," said Lisa Zimmer, this year's chair­oerson of the festivaL "Then around November, interested schools return the application packets and from there we audition and select the line-up. This year we were able to host bands from as far as Arizona. I hope the trend for the fes­
tival to expand nationally continues." "The Collegiate Jazz Festival is something different to do on campus," con­tinued Zimmer. "I know a lot of people bring dance dates there or just 
hang out. It is especially popular in the South Bend community. The judges that are coming are professional artists, recognized by jazz fans. To be able to see them all perform together in the Judges' Jam will be a rare occurrence. It is witnessing jazz history because although many have seen them perform individually, it is a big 
deal for them to come together on one night." 
Nick Brignola, a baritone saxophone master, is the first judge that will be involved with the festivities this weekend. 
He is renowned and respected worldwide for his talent with the baritone sax, and is also accomplished with other sax­ophones and alto clarinets and flutes. He won a Grammy 
nomination for best jazz instrumental performance for his 
album L.A. Bound. Besides traveling all over the world to countries such as Ireland and France to perform, he edu­cates and puts on clinics also. 
Sir Roland Hanna is a pianist born in Detroit and is .known for his flexibility and individuality as a musician. tHe attended Eastman and Julliard Schools of Music and :was knighted in Liberia in 1970. That's right -not only 
talent, but nobility will be present this weekend on cam­pus. He has over 50 albums to boast of, his catalogue includes over 400 compositions, and he is a writer as 
welL 

Louis Hayes is a drummer also hailing from the motown city of Detroit. Apparently, Mr. Hayes started his drumming career early in life by beating on objects as a child. By 18, 

Friday, April 11, 1997 page 15
ACCENT 



Nick Brignola 

was playing with Yusef Leteef, beforP moving onto New York to play in the band 1968 to 1973. He is on the faculties of the Manhattan School of Music and Purchase Horace Silver. During this time, the jazz magazine, Downbeat, awarded him thP College, SUNY. While having a 30-year ew Star" award. Hayes claims that "one of the best experiences of his life" was career with the Gil Evans Orchestra, 
when he joined the Cannonball Adderly Quintet. A man he has recorded five solo albums dedicated to his music, Hayes continues to practice that are produced on the European daily. Bellaphon Label. 
The fourth judge is Marc Johnson, who The weekend is sure to bring is a bass player and was born in appreciation by all through Nebraska. He played other instru-established talent, represented ments such as the piano and the by the judges, and the new tal­cello before trying the bass at . _"-,..~*"".......,. .. ent of students, who are sure 
16. While at the University of =·c:·· . :: to have a spin of their own to
cl)"
North Texas, he began play-bring to the jazz scene. 
ing with the Fort Worth · "The purpose of the jazz fes-Symphony at age 19. He is ' · tival is not to award one band -,1 a member of Bass Desires, . . with a title of the best, but to 
which is one of the biggest allow the musicians to gain jazz groups of the mid to feedback from the judges and late 80s. He has also been a ~,··__
.. audience," said Lisa Zimmer. part of the John . "Each judge has his own opinion Abercrombie Trio for over 10 and specialty. Therefore, we give each years~ He is known for his "warm, .... , .•~ judge his own certificates so that they can rich tone and versatility" when playing. -·~.,; award the musicians individually or on a 
There's a critic in every crowd. And the ··-·•-'" .~ ..~'2.,:;.'£,. group level in an area in which they excelled Collegiate Jazz Festival has fohunfidf ha wdell-reshpected, prof~sh-...... -,.,.:-.:.~~:..,., ....·
,._ ···~ sduch as rhythm or tone. The festival is meant to be 'Sional one. Dan Morgenstern is t e 1 t ju ge w ose accomp1 IS -. .... __.-~-an e ucational experience rather than competitive." inents include director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers '" For all you jazz junkies out there, or those of you who University since 1976, chief editor of Downbeat magazine from 1967 to . _ are willing to venture beyond the realm of the traditional 1973, and author of Jazz People. He has taught jazz history at several universities, "hip" college music scene, all-weekend passes for students, faculty, and seniors are is former vice-president, trustee, and New York chapter governor of the National only $6, while they are $15 for the general public. Tickets can also be bought for Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, and has worked with the Jazz program of individual nights. Being broke is no excuse to miss because the Saturday afternoon the National Endowment for the Arts. He has won six Grammy Awards for Best performances are free for students, faculty, and seniors. Album Notes. On the brink of its 40th year in existence, the Collegiate Jazz Festival is yet The final judge is Lew Soloff who is a trumpet player and has performed with another contributor to the many long traditions that are Notre Dame. such names as Barbra Streisand, Dizzy Gillespie, and Frank Sinatra. He became famous as a soloist with the Grammy Award winning Blood, Sweat, and Tears from 

-
Ticket Prices , 

students, faculty, seniors 
7:30 Universi~ of Notre Dame 

1:00 Nortnern Arizona Universi~ ······. ;30 Central Micnigan Univers~ Jazz
All·weeKena pass 
~6.00 ~15.00 
8:15 Virginia Commonwealtn Universizy Graauate Se~tet 

1:45 Universoty of Notre Dame
rriaay evening: 
Co moo 
~3.00 ~8.00 
9:00 Puraue University 

2:30 Jonnson County lanamarK
Saturaay Afternoon: (University of Iowa)
9:45 University of Illinois Trio+ 11 211 
rree ~1.00 

Saturaazy evening: 
10:30 Virginia Commonwealtn 

3:15 Nortnern Arizona University Universizy 
Comno
.00 0.00 


Percussion ana Steel Drum ensemble 
8:15 Western Micnigan Universi~ 
9:00 University of Micni~an 
9:45 Western Micnigan Universizy 
10:30 Juagels Jam trum~et: lew Soloff bass: MarK Jonnson saxo~none: NicK Brig Drums: Louis HaJes ~iano: Sir Rolon Hanna critic Dan Morgenstern 
--~--­
,-------·-~------­
r 
;ACCENT 
page 16 Friday, April 11, 1997 
Wllill~ \If(B(Bh\(BID~ na ~nilIDa ill(i)JfJS)~ ~(J)llll (9~(9 
v~ t~e-~~~ct 1~~ A-tittte-~~~A-~c-e-? A-tittte-c-~~e-ct'T? 
By MONICA WAGNER Of the two, Irma (junior Anne Marie Joseph) is the crazy, outgoing Accenr Writer one, while Christine (freshman Shannon Ryan) is the • 
g\tt 
8 
shy, nervous one that wants to fit in. This t .at 0 you've all seen those pretty green signs all over campus saying is the first show for both e.:. 0•• "Picnic" across the top. "Picnic?" What's that? Well, "Picnic" is a Joseph and Ryan, tt.aU ~ three act play. a light romantic comedy that is set in the 1950s small ~ oU .••• with Joseph com-town Kansas in a yard shared by neighbors. It is set around that • ,.e e menting that it has "been good 
all so complicated topic of "love." According to direc­tor Mike Morris, "We all look at the 1950s as idealistic, _. simple times, but (as the play shows), in 
a etiO•• 
terms of relationships it is the O \1. same as today." ~.:. o-r-.JI --~ ~ r
l.-.,.3• eJ 
SaiUt 
Along with the 
crew (those doing lights 
and props and the stage managers) 
there are eleven ch~tracter actors in "Picnic." These performers have been busy with rehearsals since mid-February and are very excited to finally get to open. 
Magde Owens, as played by experienced actress and Saint Mary's College senior Amberly Hershberger, is one of the leading characters. Hershberger describes Madge as "someone who has been trapped in a china doll body and is not taken seriously because of it." As Madge says in the play, "It's no good to be pretty." Of the rest of the cast, Hershberger comments that it is "the strongest that I've every got to work with." 
Madge's younger sister is a character by the name of Millie. Millie Owens is being portrayed by freshman Megan Bodary, who thinks of her character as the "mis­understood tomboy." Bodary comments that her favorite line of the play is, "no one's gonna call me a goon and get away with it." 
Freshman Catherine Flannery is playing the role of Madge and Millie's mother, Flo. Flo is a very overpro­tective mother with lines such as "Shut up and let me do the talking." 
Along with Madge, Millie and Flo there is the "very desperate woman, who is longing and yearning for the love that is eluding her." This woman is named Rosemary Sydney and is being played junior Tiffany Bowman. Bowman comments that she is "very excited about the play and happy to be working with such a great cast and crew." 
Next up is their neighbor, Helen Potts. Mrs. Potts is being played by junior Nora Meany. Mrs. Potts has been described as being "Alice Brady like" or "the wacky next door neighbor." This is Meany's first main stage at Saint 

{ ,-o.eU working in a show finally." Along with that0 'J[" Ryan also commented that she is "glad to be in her first Saint Mary's play." 
The young vagabond Hal Carter is being played by senior James Bozer. Bozer 
pretty much sums up the play by saying, "It has romance, violence and a little bit of 
comedy. Its made for everyone-A good date play." Bozer also comments that 
Picnic has been a "great experience" and that "the cast, as a whole is very professional." 
Senior Billy Giles is playing the part of the preten­tious and yet naive Alan Seymour. Alan starts out at the beginning of the play as Madge's beau, but as time goes on she eventually dumps him for the more dan­gerous Hal. Giles also states that he would like to "thank the director for the opportunity." 
Bomber Gutzel, the town paperboy, is being played by sophomore Chad Kalmes. Kalmes describes Bomber as being kind of "rude," which could be part of the reason that Madge tells him no when he asks her out. Kalmes's favorite Bomber line is "I can't send you flowers baby, but I can send you." 
Last, but not least, is freshman Adam Witmer. Witmer has the role of Howard Bevans. Howard is "semi-funny and trapped by his controlling girlfriend, Rosemary," according to Witmer. The line of "who's gonna see ya, everyone in town is at the picnic," sticks out as one of Witmer's favorites. 
Other main contributors to the production of "Picnic" are Thomas ll. Boelman (scenery and light­ing). Rebecca Peters (costumes). Laura Kalgren (assistant stage manager). Jennifer Stokes (stage manager) and others who have helped with essential things such as props and make-up. Of those above, Kalgren states that the show has "been a lot of fun, and everyone should see it!" 
William lnge's "Picnic" will be showing April 10, 11, & 12 at 8 p.m., and on April 13 at 2:30 p.m. in Moreau's Little Theatre on the campus of Saint Mary's College. Tickets range in the prices of $4 for students, $6 for the SMCJND community, $7 for Senior Citizens and $8 for adults. They are on sale Monday-Friday at the SMC box office in O'Laughlin Auditorium from 9-5 
The ObsPrver/Kimm Micralik p.m. So if you're not too busy on any of these days come on out and see it.
Mary's and she's "very psyched" about it. This being . . , .. . . , . . Bring your boyfriend/girl-Junior Mom's Weekend she would like to thank her own William lnges PICniC opens this weekend at the Moreau Little fri(•nd bring your roommate and friends SMC mom, who sewed all of her costumes for grade school Theatre on the campus of Samt Mary's College. junior~ -bring your mom, or hey, just l~ne it. plays. Whatever it takes, come see it, it is definitely worth Also involved are the schoolteachers, Irma Kronkite and Christine Schoenwalder. it. As stage manager Jennifer Stokes said, "This isn't any ordinary picnic!" 

By AMY SHEPHERD 
Accent Writer 
'm so busy I haven't even talked to my mom in two weeks.""! know, I never have the time."Complaints such as these are recurrent themes 

-''!}amid the halls of Saint Mary's College on any given weekday near the end of the semester. As students attempt to balance their acade­mic and social pursuits in the tumultuous weeks prior to exams, they lind themselves in a familial limbo of sorts, playing phone tag with parents and friends who are suddenly jadBd by the tirrie difference. For juniors, the solution to this dilemma is Junior Mom's Weekend, three days of activities sponsored by the Junior Class Board that allows mom and daughter to play catch up and to get some nifty beauty tips in the process. The title of the weekend, "Like Mother, Like Daughter" seems to sum up the feelings of the weekend. 
"On Friday, there's a wine and cheese reception from 5 to 7 p.m in Stapleton Lounge, and on Saturday there is Women's Day in Hagger College Center," said Katie Brown, responsible for heading and organizing the weekend. 
Women's Day is an extensive enterprise, offering everything in the way of pampering from a masseuse to nail technicians to computer imaging. 
"Some cosmetics people from Hudsons will be giving facials, and we have samples of the cosmetics and fra­grance to distribute," said Brown. A florist will also round out the day. 
"I think it's cool. there's a lot to do. and the events are geared toward honoring womanhood with the per­son who gave it to you in the first place," commented Amy Hedley. 

"It's a great opportunity to relax and socialize," Brown agrees. 
Woman's Day runs from 11 to 2 p.m. on Saturday, leaving plenty of time beforehand to explore South Bend, tour Saint Mary's campus or sample the culinary delights of the dining hall. At 5 p.m. there will be a Mass at the Church of Loretto on the campus, which moms and daughters will already conveniently be made-up for after the mid-afternoon beauty treatment. 
"I rarely get the chance to go to church with my mom anymore, it'll be nice to have it be just me and her," said junior Meghan King. 
An optional brunch is scheduled at the Mishawaka Athletic Club on Sunday, which will officially end Junior Mom's Weekend. Instead of handing out the traditional photo frame with a picture of mom and daughter as a parting gift this year, the Junior Board has opted to do something a little more creative. This year, the parting favor for Junior Mom's Weekend will be a collage of pictures of moms and daughters, as well as friends, all on video. 
"We titled it 'Looking Back on the Past Three Years as We Look Ahead to the Last,"' said Brown. The video will include all of the moms and daughters that choose to submit pictures. 
"It's a kind of metaphor for the entire weekend," said junior Molly O'Hourke. 
Amid the turbulence of the dosing semester, a week­end with Mom presents the opportunity to relax and reconnect with that is truly important -our family, and the women that shape our lives. 
entative Schedule of Events 


Friday, April11 
f$i5:00p.m.-7:00p.m. Wine and Cheese Reception Stapleton Lounge 


~a:oo p.rn. -"Picnic" -"'eyf. / Moreau Little Theater 
Saturday, April ,,.•1.,,~, ~ ,>Ju' .· 
" 
"~"'·

l1 :00 a.m.-2:00 p1m. Women's Day Tea i <iii .·. /.. '.'· Haggar_College Center \., :;;;.;/-,,zr"'"' // p.ar1or ·if¢' \{.ff: .::;_("'", 
Mass" Church of Loretto 

8:00p.m. "Picnic" Moreau Little Theater 
Sunday, April13 
11:00 a.m. Brunch -Mishawaka Athletic Club 
l 
I 
Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

• THE MASTERS 
Azinger leads after one round 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press Writer 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 

Paul Azinger got past the treacherous front nine at Augusta National in 3-under­par today and was leading the first round of the Masters on a day where trouble lurked at every turn. 
None of the first 20 players who complet­od their rounds under brisk, breezy condi­tions managed to break par. 
The closest was Duffy Waldorf, who tied for fifth last year and came to the 18th at even par until a double bogey left him with a 74. 
He was tied with Dan Forsman, Jeff Sluman and Dudley Hart among those who finished early. 
Temperatures in the 50s, gradually warming as the day went on, and super slick greens were all it took to make Augusta a menace. 
"We got to that first green and it was blue," said John Cook, who shot a 77. 
The swaying Georgia pines and whipping nags -and mostly a lot of big numbers ­gave Nick Faldo, Greg Norman and other late starters something to think about. 
Larry Mize, who won the Masters 10 years ago with his unforgettable chip-in on the second playoff hole, began with three pars and then bogeyed the next seven holes. He finished at 79. 
Looking at a board that showed 1 under as the best score on the course, Mize shook his head. 
"If 71 is the best score today, that lets you think something is a little awry," Mize said. "You've got to scratch your head a little bit." 
Augusta National officials had said Wednesday that the greens were "substan­tially the same" as a year ago, when Norman opened with a 63 for a two-stroke lr.ad over Phil Mickelson. 
Classifieds 
YPah. right. 
1\.en Green five-putted on the par-3 16th for a 7. Ed Fiori parred the first seven holes until he got to No. 8, a par 5 that some players can reach in two shots. 
After driving into the woods, his next shot caromed off a tree into an azalea bush. He took a drop, played out of trouble and hit a wonderful shot to within 15 feet. 
And then he three-putted for an 8. 
It took two hours and 11 groups to start play before anyone got below par -Fuzzy Zoeller, with a birdie on No. 2. He gave that back two holes later and finished with a 75. 
Norman belted his first drive over a fair­way bunker, the start of his quest to put last year's final-round 78 behind him. He and Mickelson both took double bogey on the second hole. 
So many others looked like they would survive until trouble hit. Bob Tway was leading earlier at 1-under-par until a dou­ble bogey at No. 7 and a bogey at No. 9 for a 38 on the front. 
David Duval was at 1 under through 10. By the time he was finished with Amen Corner he was at 2 over -a double bogey at the par-3 12th and a bogey at No. 13. 
New Zealand's Frank Nobilo, always a contender in major championships, got off to a quiek start with birdies at No. 2 and No. 3. Then he bogeyed the next two, fin­ished the front in 38. 
"The greens are going to kill you out there," said Doug Ford. ''I've never seen greens like this in 60 years of playing golf." 
Ford broke the Masters record with his 45th start today and despite shooting an 85, he won't be at the back of the pack. 
Green, who qualified by virtue of his top­16 finish at the U.S. Open, shot a 46 on the front, made quadruple-bogey at the par-3 16th and finished with an 87. Green had 40 putts in the first round. 
"This course doesn't need to be windy to be tough," Jose Maria Olazabal said earlier in the week. 

NOTICES I ILOST & FOUND I I FOR RENT 
THE COPY SHOP Lost -Gold woman's watch -LaFortune Student Center Citizen's Elegance on Thur 4-3 on 
Phone 631-COPY campus. Call4-3745 Marti Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Great personal value Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30'a.m. · Midnight REWARD: Lost yellow labrador Thur.: 7:30a.m. · Midnight puppy, about 45 lbs. & 6 mo.s. last Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. seen stray at St. Louis Street party Sat.: Noon ·6:00p.m. on Saturday night taken away by 2 Sun.: Noon ·Midnight ladies. Please call Dave at 288­Open Early, Late, & Weekends 9102 with any info at all. 
Interested in Making Extra $$$? LOST: STRING OF PEARLS AND 
A CROSS ON CAMPUS Large Phys Therapy Practice look-BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY ing for students to make follow up & BASILICA IN LATE MARCH. phone calls to see how our patients PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729 are doing. Filing and computer OR entry also available. Flexible hours. 234-7287 AFTER 6PM. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­
5754 WANTED 
Charley's Steakery at SUMMER JOBS University Park Mall ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Now hiring crew and management PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS 
Near Campus Homes for 97·98 232-2595 
College Park Sublet 
for June and July '97. 3-4 People 2BR. 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt. Call 273-3054 
...College Park Apartment ... 
-$175 per person. per month -subletting for June & July -washer, dryer. air cond -call X1266 
Must see nice 3 bdr home. 2 blocks/campus. Avail -now or Fall. 273-1566 
Staying in South Bend for the summer?? Sublet our College Park apartment!! CALL 284-4347 for details! 
•NHL 

St.)nLouiS"Dlakes Toronto sing the Blues 

A];~~iated~;~~~ '" 'i 

Blues ~~Maple Leafsl 
4, Penguins 3 
TAMPA. Fla. 

On a goalpost-clanging. third­peri9d shot by Dino Ciccarelli, Tanipa Bay kept its postseason 
~nces ~live one more day, defeat­Pittsburgh 4-3 Thursday night. 
win moves the Lightning one point of Hartford and for the Eastern 's eighth and final play-

Zamuner and Ciccarelli the tyingand winning goals third. The comeback was the time Tampa Bay has rallied 
behind after two periods. 2;;,;.,,.,.,,)W" a great win and a must win," said. "That's all you can 
is what hockey is all Ciccarelli said. "This feels hockey to mc;l. We cer­
needed the two points." Lightning led 2-1 going into until Petr Nedved scored Pittsburgh ah(;lad.
.... .ft 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT YEAR? NEED FURNITURE??? For Sale: 2 Full Size Couches. Nice Kitchen Chairs, Thin Beds, Dresser, Entertainment Center. Coffee table and end-tables. Call Kate at 288-9278 for more informa­lion. 
Bahamas cruise for two, at less than $398 actual cost (+expenses). Call Noman @277-4269. 
BEAUTIFUL 2 BDRM CONDO ON THE WATER,5 MIN FROM N.D. GARAGE,APPLIANCES,POOL,CL UBHOUSE.BRAND NEW.$92,900. 235-3259. 
TICKETS 
*********************************•• Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help! 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
•••••••LEGION OF JUSTICE SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING · SUPERHEROES....... 
MAJORS 

Want the best job on campus? 
Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11 :30-12:30 M-F or call Debbie at 1-6616 for ?'s (Any qualified student please apply) 
Family Needs Graduation Tickets-Please Help! Christian 273-6967 
................................... 
Tons of Furniture! ...Really, Really Cheap 
Couches...Chairs...Dressers... Tables ... Beds ...Bookcases... Lamps...Kitchen Stufl...and some! We can even deliver! 
The Beginning is over. Now Gamehenge Commences Meet at Grotto at 3:11 p.m. Look quick 
You know the players. you know the rules, now it's time for the race... for the honor of your department ... ok. just for the sheer fun of it... tonight-11 p.m. BE THERE! 
Emeritus team ..what's up with that? 
Bald is Beautiful. Pat is Bald. Hey, make your own conclusions. Our Patty Cakes is committed enough to shave his head because he has THE LOVE. 

-
-:­
positions. ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
Brian-287-4876 Call287-4876 Come support him at LeprechaunCall 299-1325 or 287-7286 NEAR LAKE PLACID Thank You *********•****************••••••••• 
tryouts. For every person that 1-800-786-8373 4 BDRM EXECUTIVE TYPE HOME •••••••••••••*****************••••• shows up, we increase our chances 

-
EUROPE $229. CLOSE TO CAMPUS.SUITABLE 
to see a SAO ATTACK while doing Within USA $79.-$129. CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY-FOR GRAD 
HEADACHE, BACK & NECK PAIN pushups! An amazing feat that he Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t MENT -Discover how workers can STUDENTS.PROFS,ETC.2 
RELIEF CLINIC will unvailto us IF he gets the sup-Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!! earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise CAR.APPLIANCES,FIN. Do you have an extra GRADUA-Kaurich Chiropractic port he so richly deseNes. 
http://www.airtich.org Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum-BSMNT.QUIET CUL-DE-TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!! 
3511 Lincolnway West Remember: Tryouts @ 4:30 this AiRTICH 1-800-326-2009 mer in the Land Tour industry! Call SAC.AVAILABLE JUNE 1. $1300. Please call Paige at X4011 
South Bend saturday in the Pit (by the boxingCruise Information SeNices: 800-235-3259. 
282-2828 room) Enter gate 3 and down the Hey everybody!!!! 276-5407 Ext. C55846 
stairs. 

Tuesday. April15 from 9-11pm 
I need grad tickets! Will pay. Call "We Don't Feel Good Until You Feel WE LOVE YOU PATTY. WE in the Lafortune Ballroom ... FOR SALE Ethan, X1659. 
Your Best" KNOW WHO'S BEST!!!!!!!!!! 
A George & the Freeks NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH Benefit Concert for Farley Hall's NEEDED 1997-98 ACADEMIC HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER ~ 
A famous Zen philospher once said:Patti Kwiat Memorial Fund. YEAR. Great nbrhd, near ND a flute with no holes is not a flute,(Patti was a member of the Class of MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 PERSONAL ADOPTION and a donut with no holes is a dan­1997 and a resident of Farley Hall.) CEDA/NDT EXPERIENCE 288 7862 Happily married couple promises ish. He was a funny guy. 

So, stop on by with some friends .. REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH love, warmth & a secure future for . drink some Coke ... eat some COURSE IN DEBATE. 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! 

your baby. Respect for you & your How am I funny? Like a clown. am Ipretzels ... listen to great music .. FORWARD RESUME & COVER BEAUTIFUL 2 BDRM CONDO ON COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! decision. Expenses paid. funny? Am I here to amuse you? 
. and most of all SUPPORT A LETTER BY APRIL 19: THE WATER,5 MIN FROM N.D. COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344 GOOD CAUSE!!! P.O. BOX 89 GARAGE,APPLIANCES,POOL,CL The highest quality color copies Hey Erika! Give us our remote!
(A $3 donation is requested.) NOTRE DAME, IN 46617 UBHOUSE.BRAND NEW.$92,900. are now available at 
-
OR CALL 631-7753 235-3259. 

THE COPY SHOP HI!
THE COPY SHOP W/QUESTIONS 
LaFortune Student Center 
It's easy to grin when your ship 

LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
comes in and you've got the stock 

Phone 631-COPY New sterling store in University BEDS, COUCHES, TABLES 
DO YOU HATE THIS market beat. But a man worth
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Park Mall needs par-time sales and FOR SALE. CALL 243-9390 
PAPER???We do! while. is a man who can smile,
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight full-time manager. Good pay. Retail 
HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! 
Classic Sunday Spin, 11 :pm-2:am, when his shorts are too tight in the
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight experience and a very good attitude Sharp cond 
Friday, April11. Join your ND/SMC WVFI 680AM seat.
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight required. 1-800-903-1614. 
One owner family in an experiencia religiosa. 

Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. 
'81 Olds Cutlas Open to Notre Dame and Saint Hi annie 
We don't have a cow. We got a

Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. I need somebody to ride with Only 60,000 miles -brand 
Mary's students. sponsored by I have missed you and i hope your bull.
Sun.: Noon-Midnight me to Veisha next weekend!Call new motor 
Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat Neary week gets easier. 
I'm ganna go brush my teath. 

Open Early, Late, & Weekends Connie at X1833. 
Call 273-2241 at 631-7712 for more info. Love, Jimmy 


~-­
-• NATIONAL lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Fernandez flirts with no-no as Marlins beat Cubs 
Associated Press 
Marlins 1, Cubs 0 
CHICAGO 

Alex Fernandez came within two outs of the major league's first no-hitter and overcame some dreadful fielding Thursday to carry the Florida Marlins to a 1-0 victory over the winless Chicago Cubs. 
The one-hitter marked a sen­sational return to Chicago for Fernandez, who pitched for the crosstown White Sox for 6 1/2 seasons before signing a five­year, $35 million contract with the Marlins in December. He also had a one-hitter in 1992 for the White Sox. 
Just when the Cubs thought they couldn't do any worse, they almost failed to register a hit in falling to 0-8 for the first time in the franchise's 122­year history. They lost their first seven games in 1962 and went on to finish with their worst record ever, 59-103. 
Chicago's only hit was Dave Hansen's one-out pinch single in the ninth -a hard one-hop­per that went under Fernandez's glove and off his right leg before settling in the infield grass where no one could field it. 
Official scorer Don Friske made the call immediately and there was little doubt that it was a hit. 
Fernandez (2-0) then had to scramble to help Florida improve to 7-1 and become the only team in the majors with
--fewer than two losses. He got Brian McRae to ground to third baseman Bobby Bonilla, whose throw 
pulled first baseman Jeff Conine off the bag for an error. The next batter, Brant Brown, grounded to short but Edgar Renteria bobbled the ball and had no play at first. But Jose Hernandez, pinch-running for Hansen, rounded third base too far and was thrown out by Renteria. 
Fernandez took care of the final out himself, fanning Ryne Sandberg for his eighth strike­out. 
Fernandez had no walks and, in fact, would have entered the ninth with a perfect game if not for Renteria's fifth-inning throwing error after fielding Shawon Dunston's grounder. Dunston then stole second and went to third on catcher Gregg Zaun's throwing error before Fernandez retired Kevin Orie on a chopper that was fielded nicely by second baseman Luis Castillo. 
Ignoring the chilly conditions at Wrigley Field -37 degrees with 10 mph winds and a threat of snow in the air ­Fernandez threw only 37 balls among his 117 pitches and was ahead of almost every batter. 
He outdueled Frank Castillo (0-2), who allowed seven hits in eight innings. 
The Marlins scored the only run Fernandez needed in the first inning, when Luis Castillo singled, stole second, went to third on Renteria's sacrifice and scored on Gary Sheffield's single. 
The Cubs, who haven't been no-hit since Sandy Koufax pitched a perfect game against them in 1965, next host defending NL champion Atlanta with a chance to have the worst start in league histo­ry. 
The NL 20th century record is 0-10 by Atlanta in 1988. The all-time NL record is by the defunct Detroit club of 1884 ­0-11. The major league record is 0-21 by Baltimore in 1988. 
The Cubs had an eight-game losing streak last September, part of the 2-14 finish that has them at 2-23 since Sept. 14. They were 74-72 and NL Central contenders before that. 
Astros 5, Braves 3 
ATLANTA 
Jeff Bagwell went 3-for-3, including a solo homer, and drove in two runs Thursday night to power the Houston Astros to a 5-3 victory over Atlanta, ending the Braves winning streak at six games. 
The Astros, who had lost two in a row, also handed the Braves their first loss after five wins at Atlanta's new home, Turner Field. 
Bagwell's drive over the cen­ter field fence on a 3-2 pitch was his first homer of the sea­son and his first ever off Smoltz in 63 at-bats. 
It gave Houston a 3-2 lead and pinned the loss on Smoltz (1-2), who didn't lose his sec­ond game last season until June 24 (14-2) en route to the NL Cy Young award. 
Smoltz allowed six hits, three runs, walked four and struck out five in six innings. Rookie Chris Holt (1-0) won his first major-league game despite allowing 13 hits over seven innings. 
Braves manager Bobby Cox was ejected in the seventh 

SMART OPTIONS FOR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
City Staffing, specializing in temporary and permanent placement, deals with a variety of Chi~ago's most prestigious companies. 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 
CALL US TO SET UP AN APPOINTMENT THAT WILL 

312-346-3400 
-
•
• S--A_LAD ft. STICKS 
$4.99 
ORIGINAL SALAD lt GARLIC STICKS.. 
BE O<EATf\/E lf_ ADD 
TOPt::1/'.JGS TO YOUR 
SAL4QIIll 
$8.99 
2 CHEESE
•
•
•
•
•
• 
$5.99 •
•
CHEESEYBREAD + •
•
GARLIC STICKS+ 
•
•
2SODAS • • 
L-MITED TME OFFER 
•
•
• 

• 
.99 • 
: CHEES_E_:'fB_RE.AD • 
•
•

• WITH .ANY PIZZA 
EXPIR:~~HASE. 
inning by plate umpire Ed Montague for arguing balls and strikes. 
Bagwell walked in the first, doubled in the third and had an RBI triple off reliever Brad Clontz in the seventh and scored on a wild pitch by Alan Embree. 
The Astros first baseman missed an opportunity to hit for the cycle -needing a sin­gle -when Brad Ausmus grounded into a double play in 
27_1~030_0 
ALL OFFERS VALID FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY. 
PIZZA SUB$ 
•
•

• 1SODA
•

• ASK AROUND..
• THEY'RE AWESOME•
•
•
•
• 

the ninth inning for the third out with Bagwell on deck. 
The Astros had taken a 2-0 lead in the second inning on a two-run homer by Bill Spiers, his first of the season and only the second home run by Houston this season. 
The Braves scored on a sec­ond-inning leadoff homer by Fred McGriff, an RBI single by Ryan Klesko in the third and a run-scoring double by Chipper Jones in the seventh. 
-
Friday, April 11', 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 


The Observer/Brandon Candura The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Shannon Stephens hopes to get more involved in the offense. Malcolm Johnson is one of the more experienced Irish receivers. 
page 19 

Receivers 
-
continued from page 28 
offense," Nelson said. "Last year, third down would come and we'd be forced to pass. Next year we could pass three downs in a row if we want." 
Leading the receiving effort will be senior split end Malcolm Johnson. At six-foot­five, 205 pounds, Johnson boasts the most size and expe­rience (25 completions for 449 yards, two touchdowns). will be key in the development of the young group. 
Following Johnson are juniors Shannon Stephens (9 for 193, one touchdown) and Bobby Brown (2 for 84), and sophomores Nelson, Jay Johnson and Lewis Dawson. 
"Malcolm's our oldest and he's our leader," Nelson com­mented. "Then we have other people who can fill in the roles." 
Nelson also speculated that with the new offense, every­body should see significant action. 
The only question mark remains the group's ability to adjust to the new, more com­plex passing scheme. 
Head coach Bob Davie's 
intention is to implement the 
new offense immediately in 
order to work out all of the 
kinks early. 
"Coach Davie said he's going to throw it at us all now. so that we have time to adjust to it," Nelson said. "And by next season, we'll be ready to go." 
With a well-developed, tal­
ent-laden receiving corps, an 
experienced, record-setting 
quarterback and a young and 
powerful backfield that fea­

-
tures such names as Autry Denson, Jamie Spencer and a group of blue chip recruits coming in, the Irish offense should be able to attack any foreign territory and claim it for the Blue and Gold. 


LooKING FOR A CHALLENGE AFTER GRADUATION? 
E 
ExciTING OPPORTUNITIES TO SERVE AND LEARN! 

Where Miracles Become Reality 
organizational & interpers une 2, 1997. 
.l(lter than April 18 to the 
, E>ir.ector of Administrative Services 

Unlimited Tanning 1week 
Voted: 
$lS ~Until 
,r,.,••LJ"1l's BEST TANNING CENT£ 
Graduation 
(May 18) 
$40 

Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
University Commons Grape & McKinley ~--. 
by UP Mall near K-Mart 
272-7653 256-9656 
-
Love, 
d, z and b 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS 
• AMERICAN lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Stellar pitching from Witt lifts Texas over Milwaukee 
Associated Press 
Rangers 2, Brewers 0 
MILWAUKEE 
Bobby Witt scattered three hits over eight innings in his first start as the Texas Rangers beat the Milwaukee Brewers 2­0 Thursday before a sparse crowd at County Stadium. 
A game time temperature of 38 degrees and 12 mph winds kept the crowd down. Although the announced attendance was 5,638, there were only about 1,000 fans on hand, and the upper deck was closed. 
Witt, the Rangers' fifth starter. twice had his first start delayed by weather postpone­ments. He didn't give up a hit until the fourth, when Fernando Vina and Qave Nilsson singled. He then retired 10 straight batters before Marc Newfield singled with two outs in the seventh. 
Witt struck out five and walked one. John Wetteland, signed by Texas in the offsea­son after winning the World Series MVP award with the Yankees, pitched a perfect ninth for his first save with the Rangers. 
Mark McLemore and Ivan Rodriguez hit consecutive RBI singles off Scott Karl (0-2) with one out in the fifth to drive in the Rangers' runs. 
Karl surrendered just five hits -all singles -in 6 1-3 innings. but three of those came in succession. He struck out four and walked three.

-Blue Jays 4, White Sox 0 
CHICAGO Juan Guzman gave up three hits in seven shutout innings to outduel James Baldwin, leading the Toronto Blue Jays to a 4-0 victory Thursday over the Chicago White Sox. 
Guzman, (2-0), the American League's reigning ERA leader, gave up a leadoff single to Tony Phillips in the first and a one­out single to Ozzie Guillen in the fifth. He retired the next five batters before Chris Snopek doubled with one out in the sev­enth. 
Guzman walked four and struck out three. 
Guzman, who gave up one run in his season opening start against Milwaukee, has now pitched 14 consecutive score­less innings and has an ERA of 0.64. 
Tim Crabtree, Dan Plesac and Mike Timlin closed out the com­bined four-hitter. 
Only a couple thousand fans were actually in attendance out of the announced crowd of 14,180, braving a game-time temperature of 39 degrees and choosing Comiskey Park over Wrigley Field where the Cubs were playing host to Florida and former White Sox pitcher Alex Fernandez. 

Baldwin, (0-1). allowed three hits in eight innings with four walks and four strikeouts. 
Toronto added two runs off Tony Castillo in the ninth on a pinch-hit RBI double by Robert Perez and a bases-loaded walk to Otis Nixon. 
Baldwin walked Shawn Green with the bases loaded and one out in the second and Carlos Delgado scored on a wild pitch for Toronto. The Blue Jays had loaded the bases on a walk to Ed Sprague, a single by Delgado and a walk to Benito Santiago. 
Twins 7, Tigers 3 

DETROIT Before another tiny crowd in Tiger Stadium, Paul Molitor 

drove in two runs and Ron Coomer homered to lead the Minnesota Twins over Detroit 7-3 Thursday. · 
Just 6,381 tickets were sold for the game, and with a 39­degree temperature, the actual crowd appeared to be half that. Only 6,477 tickets were sold for Wednesday's game. 
The Tigers hadn't drawn so few for a home game since Aug. 
21. 1989, when 6,197 saw the Tigers play Oakland. 
Detroit rookie Bubba Trammell hit his first major league homer, a three-run shot. The Tigers were trying for their first sweep of Minnesota in four years. 
Scott Aldred (1-0). starting because Rich Robertson has an upper respiratory infection, gave up three runs and four hits in five innings. Mike Trombley finished with three scoreless innings. 
Auditions for: 
~hakrsprarr-in-1 
Jrrfnrmantr 
for Q'· ·II semester. *Open ··fo<(tJIJ. majors* 
. ·/· "'···,;,·<t···· A''>,.
C 31 -586~~lt(~r 232­

TODAY & TOMORROW Presents: Friday Saturday Students & Faculty: $3 Students & Faculty: Free General Public: $8 General Pub lie: $1 7:30pm ND Jazz Band Afternoon Session & lots more bands! begins @ 1:00 pm Students & Faculty: $5Judges General Public: $10 Trumpet: Lew Soloff Evening Session Bass: Marc Johnson begins@ 7:30pmSaxophone: Nick Brignola Drums: Louis Hayes Judges' JamPiano: Sir Roland Hayes All-Weekend Passes Critic: Dan Morgenstern 10:30 pmStudents & Faculty: $6; General Public: $15 Friday & Saturday~ April 11-12 Stepan Center  

-
.... 

4' 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• ACADEMIC All-AMERICANS 
Four Irish garner Academic All-American Honors 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior women's soccer players Jen Renola and Amy VanLaecke and senior fencer Bill Lester have been named GTE/CoSida first team Academic All-Americans for the 1996-97 fall/winter at-large division. Junior hockey player Steve Noble has been selected as a second team All-American. Renola also was chosen as the Academic All-American of the Year for the women's fall/win­ter at-large division. Renola, VanLaecke and Lester were second-team selections in 1995­96. 
The GTE Academic All-
American awards, as chosen by the College Sports information Directors of America, recognize 15 males and 15 female stu­dent-athletes on each of the three award levels (first, sec­ond, and third team). 
A native of Los Gatos, Calif., Renola led Notre Dame to the NCAA women's soccer champi­onship in 1995 where, as goal­keeper, she shut out all six of Notre Dame's post-season opponents on the way to the title. She started all 98 games in her career, posting an 87-8-3 record and played in the NCAA title game in each of the last three seasons. Renola was rec­ognized as the National Soccer 

..--------------..::;__-----~--------.,, 
Come learn the strategies that have helped students of a1l disciplines take final & comprehensive exams... 
Exam-Taking Strategies in Graduate School 
Presentation & discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the University Counseling Center, will cover: 
1. 
Overcoming "Academic Choking" & performance anxiety; 

2. 
Techniques to improve concentration & performance; 

3. 
Organizing thoughts under pressure; 

4. 
Avoiding the "Anxiety Contagion" spreading through your program. 


Date: Sunday, April13 Place: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Ctr Time: 4pm-5pm 
Come learn what works from students who have already succeeded in your program! 
•sponsored by Foscher·O'Hara Grace ReSidences the Unoversity Counseling Ctr & Campus Minostry 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 


Coaches Association of America player of the year and was recipient as one of the NCAA Today's Top VIII. She presently boasts a 3.67 cumulative grade­point average and will graduate in May from the College of Arts and Letters with a degree in English. 
VanLaecke, fr.om Granger, Ind., was named the most out­standing performer of the 1995 Big East championship when the forward led the Irish to the title by scoring the game-win­ning goal in both the semifinals and final. 
~ She set and NCAA champi­onship record for goals in a game with three against
Wisconsin n 1996 in a 5-0 sec­ond round win for the Irish. She presently has a 3.67 cumu­lative grade-point average and will graduate in May from the College of Engineering with a degree in chemical engineering. Lester, who hails from Windsor, Ontario, led Notre Dame to the 1994 NCAA com­bined fencing championship, runner-up finishes in 1996 and 1997 and a third-place finish in 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Jen Renola's efforts have earned honors on and off the field. 
1995. Lester broke an 18-year old record to become Notre Dame's winningest fencer in 1997 with 213 victories. 
You've come a way, Baby! 

Happy 21st Birthday!} Joyce! 
LfWe, 

~, Z>d, &~4«1l4 
Lester, who has a 3.47 cumula­
tive grade-point average will 
graduate in May from the 
College of Science with a 
degree in biochemistry. A native of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Noble is a second-year team captain of the Notre Dame hockey team. Noble has played in 106 of 107 games in his tree­year career at Notre Dame while recovering from major back surgery during the sum­mer of 1994. Noble also recently was one of seven play­ers named to the Central College Hockey Association All­­Academic team. He was awarded the CCHA's 1997 Terry Flanagan Memorial Award, presented to a player who has overcome personal adversity to achieve success both on and off the ice. A junior finance major, Noble carries a 3.98 cumulative grade-point average. 
-
Next weekend: THE ENGLISH PATIENT 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

• SOFTBALL 

i--·­
"Angela pitched well,Tough luck for (Michigan} had a tough time touching her," said Perkins. 
Lady Irish as The Wolverines committed two errors, but Notre Dame they fall twice failed to capitalize on the mis­cues, with a lack of clutch hits,
By ALLISON KRILLA 
stranding five baserunners in 
Sports Writer 
the game. "We dominated the games,Leprechauns and shamrocks but they got the hits at the right couldn't bring the Irish the luck time." said Perkins. 
they needed in yesterday's dou­once again
Michigan
bleheader against the Michigan 
squeaked by in game two,
Wolverines. The softball squad drilling a triple and two singlesdropped a 2-1 decision in eight in the bottom of the seventh to 
innings and suffered a 5-4 
erase a 4-3 lead for the Irish defeat in game two of the dou­and grab a 5-4 victory. 
bleheader against last year's 
Notre Dame jumped out to a Big Ten champs in Ann Arbor. 
1-0 lead with a two out Katie 
"We did very well in both Marten walk followed by a 
games," said Liz Perkins. who 
Perkins single and Meghan
drove in the only run for the Murray's infield single to third. 
Irish in game one, and went 3-3 Perkins slammed a three-run 
with three RBis in game two. 
double, her 11th of the year, to "We could've won both games. 
the centerfield wall in the third 
but we were just a little 
inning, giving Notre Dame the unlucky." 
lead until the seventh. 
In the first game. Michigan 
Joy Battersby took the loss took a one-run lead into the 
after relieving Kelly Nichols in sixth, when Perkins lined a sin­the third. Battersby gave up
gle to left to score Kara 
two runs on six hits while fan­McMahon and knot the score at ning four, and Nichols allowed 1-1. Michigan struck back in three runs on three hits in two extra innings. using two walks innings of work. 
and a two-out single to seal the The Irish travel to Villanova 
2-1 win. 
for a four game series with the 
Notre Dame managed four 
Wildcats this weekend. Firsthits in the contest, with catcher place in the Big East south divi­Kris McCleary leading the way, sion hangs in the balarice, with going 2-2. 
the Irish hoping to regain their 
Angela Bessolo pitched a 
lead. 
gem, allowing two runs on "We're going to attack three hits in 7.2 innings. 
Villanova." said Perkins. "The Bessolo struck out five and -team is fired up to move ahead 

walked four. but fell to 8-8 on in the Big East." 
the season. 
Big<East$tandings.lot:rWomen'·.S'.SQftball 
Big East Overall North w l PCT. W l PCT. Connecticut 2 0 0 14 14 0 
Boston College 4 2 0 19 5 0 St. John's 4 3 0 8 13 0 Providence 1 6 0 8 15 0 
South Notre Dame Rutgers' Villanova Seton Hall 
Specializing in the following: 

-
• RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) 
• Multi-Test Allergy Testing 
•SNORE NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction 
No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
•Tattoo & Birthmark Removal 
• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

•Spider 
Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel Injection 

• Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 


•Heal Pain 
(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive 

-
(Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, IN 46635 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • ClosedThurs.•••. 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 11, 1997 
Michigan sneaks by Notre Dame in doubleheader 

Have something 

KHOOL OF MEDICINE 
KHOOL OF YITERINAUMEDICINE 
Fully equipped state of the art basic science facilities Tradlllomol U.S. Veterinary school cun1culum Graduates licensed & practicing In the U.S. Ross Veterinary School faculty have. DVM or Ph.D Clinical affiliations with hospitals In the U.S. Clinical affiliations with U. S. Veterinary Schools
to say? Use 
High pass rate on U.S. Mad Licensing Exam Low student·facully ratio 
YOU Can Oblllln Our SChOOl CBIIIIOIII On ThB IIIBrDBII 
WEB SITE: www.rossmed.edu 
WEB SITE: www.rossvet.edu 

Email: admlsslons@rossmed.edu Email: admlsslons@rossvet.edu 
Observer 

Financial Aid Available For Those Who Qualify Accepting Applications For Fall ,Winter and Spring terms. For further Information, call, write, email, or visit our web sites 
ROSS UNIVERSITY
classifieds. 
•· .. •<"<•<•:• ~! 
& 

~~>edin es da yl 'i;,~!!l1p:;;'r il 1"' 6 
~~,:~OOpm~ ·~ 
.!.:::u.·==·· 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 

Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
McGraw rejects offer, stays on Irish sideline 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 
Baseball ­
continued from page 28 
In addition to going three for four versus the Metros, thereby boosting his batting average above the .400 mark. Wagner extended his hitting streak to 12 games. The slugger now has 14 base hits in his last 21 at-bats. 
Two freshmen hurlers, right­hander Steve Szczepanski and southpaw Tim Kalita received credit for their first wins as Notre Dame pitchers in sweep. 
Szczepanski took the hill for his first start in just his second career appearance. The fJ·osh threw four innings of six-hit baseball. allowing three runs -only two earned -while walking two and striking out four. Szczepanski's classmate Tom O'Hagan came on in the fifth and mowed down Metro hitters for the final three innings. In fact, O'Hagan refused to allow a base runner as he added four more strike­outs to the Irish total. 
Kalita followed Szczepanski's performance with a four inning showing of his own in th.e nightcap. The lefty gave up three runs on four hits and struck out four while walking just two. 
After senior Wally Widelski 
shut down IUPUI for the 2 1/3 innings, left-bander Mark Lapinskas stepped out of the bullpen to complete the day of freshman pitching firsts. Lapinskas fanned one batter in the process of retiring the final two hitters of the game to earn his first career save. 
The Irish will take their 21­12 record on the road once ­again this weekend as they look to improve their position in the Big East standings. 

By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The woman's basketball trip to the Final Four brought the program into the national spot­light. The team received media attention during its tremendous tournament run. 
The program is also receiving attention after the season's end. 
Yesterday, head coach Muffet McGraw turned down an offer from South Carolina, choosing instead to remain on the side­lines of the Joyce Center. 
"My heart is with Notre Dame," McGraw said. 
"I was offered the job and I looked into it, but this is the place I've always wanted to be. " 
McGraw finished her 1Oth season under the Dome with a 213-96 record at Notre Dame and a 301-136 overall in her 15-year career. 
McGraw has built the Irish program into a Big East power with national recognition, reaching its pinnacle this year. 
EXCLUSIVELY for FACULTY an{) STAFF 
R 
or fast relief from the nagging ache .of taxes, as retirement income, the money you don't send we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs to Washington can work even harder for you. are tax-deferred annuities designed to help build What else do SRAs offer? A full range of additional assets-money that can help make the investment choices and the financial expertise difference between living and living well after of TIAA-CREF -America's largest retirement your working years are over. organization~ 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted To find out more, stop by your benefits office from your salary on a pretax basis, so you pay or give us a call at 1 800 842-2888. We'll show less in taxes now. And since earnings on your you how SRAs can lower your taxes. SRAs are also tax deferred until you receive them Do it today-it couldn't hurt. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
*Based on assets under management CREF certificat~s are distributed by TIAA.CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. For more complete infor·mation. including charges and expenses. l·alll 800 842-2733, ~xt. 5509, For a curr~:nt CREF prosp~ctus. Read the prospectus c.:arefull.v before you invesl or send money. Dale offlrst use: 2/97. 

The squad's 31 wins shattered the previous high of 23, and this year, McGraw became the 56th coach in women's basket­ball htstory to record 300 wins. 
The Irish trip to Cincinnati and the Final Four took them right to the failed courters of South Carolina. 
McGraw coached the squad to wins over Alabama and George Washington for the East Regional championship held in Columbus, S. C. 
"I was flattered by the offer," McGraw said. "We had a great season, and they saw us play in their gym. So it was a nice compliment for me." 
Although South Carolina offers a coach the opportunity to compete in the best women's basketball conference around -the Southeastern Conference -McGraw is happy right where she is. 
"This is the place for me, and there's no place like home." 
Considering what McGraw has done for the program, Notre Dame is certainly happy that she calls this her home. 

The 
ickor~ 
Uillase Love Affair 
Look At What 
$295 
Can Get You: 

• 
A3reat One·Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, i wo Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Povl and Sundeck 

• 
S'lautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 


• Laundry Facil~ies 
• 
Cable TV Available · Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 


2'l2-1880 


Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORU DlLLAqEfJ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 &Sun. 12-4 

·c-. 
-
-
~-~------~­
-
-
-
J
-
The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
The sights and sounds of Bookstore Basketball will be around practically every asphalt court this weekend. 
Bookstore Basketball Results for Thursda , A ril10 Snow Bridget and the RFFD def. 5 Napoleans 4 jerks and A Squirt def. Kazaam Broken Noses def. Deez Nuts We're Better in Math def. ISB Boeing 777 and 4 other guys ... def. Bono Vox Big Max & His Bogs def. We've Got thin Candy... Dop'tBe Hasty, Just Sleep on It def. Tupac, Biggy, 3 other Guys St0mper Box Chomper Bob def. 2 Asians and A short guy Brotherhood of Justice def. Slow, Ackward & White Harryhood def. Team 131 Doc Root & the Four Skins def Team 111 Eleven Nipples def Team 333 Knick Knack Patty Wack def. Sesquipedalien Pargnomastics www.passtheball.com def Buenos deez nutz Brickhouse def Fox Force 5 In-Flight-Movie II-Ramon Props a Dook def Hey It's a Hole Team 230 def Carpe Swinum II Make Love not law Review def. The Amien 5 
Planner's First & Last 

1im 1111 
Have you always wanted to compete? Now's your chance to swim! When: SUNDAY, APRIL 20 FROM 2-4PM 

Where: ROLF1S AQUATIC CENTER 
ALL NON-VARSITY SWIMMERS FROM NO & SAINT
Who: 
MARY'S, NO FACULTY & STAFF, AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS 
Ewencs: 50 FLY 50 BACK 100 IM 200 MEDLEY RELAY 200 FREESTYLE RELAY 
Sllsn-ups: LAFORTUNE 1ST FLOOR ELAVATOR LOBBY APRIL 5 & 6 (1-SPM) APRIL 12 & 13 (1-SPM) 
Faculcy &. scaH: CALL PHYLLis CARLsoN 1-5777 
Encrance Fee: NoNE <CouRTEsY oF FLANNER) 

Cluescllons or Problems: 
CALL MATT PHELAN (4-1204) OR DEREK MULLEN (4-1176) 

.~..; 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Freshmen thrive on the opportunity to be a part of the tradition. 
the actual tournament and not lose in the preliminary
Bookstore 
rounds," stated Adams. 

Interestingly. with the 
chance of tournament victory at glory for doing well and ad­out of the question, freshmen vancing." have found other, more cre­
Surprisingly, no freshman ative ways to draw attention to was intimidated by the size of themselves. the tournament or its tradition­"It's almost as important to al lore. get a good name and don cool 
"I knew that this was a big clothes," observed Adams. deal because I had read about Without exception, the fresh­it in Sports Illustrated," men stated that they would recalled Connors, "but I wasn't definitely participate for the intimidated by the whole next four years. ordeal. My only concern is "I can guarantee you that," that I've heard that thr, only stated Adams. teams that win it have seniors "! will absolutely play in it and athletes on their teams, the next four years," addr.d and we don't have either of Connors. "It's a great chance those." to play against good competi­
"I just wanted to be a part of tion." 
continued from page 28 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 

Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
HAYDN/ HANDEL 
Excerpts from  Concerto Grosso  
The Creation  in D Minor, Op. 6, No. 10  
8:00 p.m.  Wednesday, April16  

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 



SK & lOK RUNS 
PLUS 

:b.
2MILEWALK 
SATURDAY, APRIL 12, 11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTitANTS . 
ltEGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF llACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL SPONSORED BY • 
~~ ., 
r 
I~ 

Friday, April 11, 1997 The Observer • SAINT MARY'S SPORTS page 25 
• StUNT MARY's SoFTBAll 
Belles drop a nailbiter to Hope 
By KERR! NELEN 
Assistant Saint Mary"s Sports Editor 
Despite chilling tempera­tures. the Saint Mary's softball team suited up to face Hope College yesterday afternoon. 
The game remained score­less until the top of the third when Hope's Gina Zamin hit a line drive to right field. bring­ing home teammate Heather Ozinga. 
Though down by one. the spirit of the Belles never dwin­dled. Defense remained strong and in the bottom of the fifth. the offense stepped up. 
Belles third baseman 
Andrea Arena tied the score when she brought home Becky Miller. 
In the bottom of the sixth, Miller returned the favor when she knocked in Tricia Klockner to break the tie and increase the score to 2-1. 
Hope wasn't ready to give up. After two scoreless innings Ozinga hit a double, giving Hope a 3-2 edge. 
Though the bottom of the seventh allowed one final scoring attempt for SMC, the runs never came. 
Hope kept the 3-2 edge and picked up the win. "I think we just have to jump on it more from the beginning 
with our bats," Belle star third baseman Andrea Arena said after the loss. "We're strug­gling a bit. I guess there's just some small things we need to work out." 
Despite cheers from fans and encouragement by play­ers, head coach Jan Travis views game intensity as one of the things which needs work. 
"We are not playing with any intensity on offense or de­fense," Travis stated. 
"Until we step up we are going to continue on the same path. We came to play but we didn't come to play with our minds. We seem to be doing that quite often lately." 

-
_,.. 
-
, two ofthe goals """"'"''"' been met. They.
,,.,,,,._r,_.·d and recently invitation to the ed "'Midwest 111 the past, the had two brackets teants in each' This . . top 12 teams are · with a draw to see ach team faces. to Cromer, this is 'fa hinuo>~h,nt" and will a chance to play 
n ... •--........, ...d opponents. we1ekend, the team will 
College and Chicago. The be continuous 10 a.m. The be held on the per­



• 

' 
Friday & Saturday • 10pm-3am 
Student Government 
A MEMBER OF TilE STUDENT UNION 

' ' 
-~-----~-----------------~-.... --------~ 
-
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish split team to solidify chances in the Big East 

By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track team will take its show on the road this weekend, traveling to com­petitions in Knoxville, Tenn. and Oxford, Ohio. 
The Sea Ray Relays in Knoxville will host the long-dis­tance team, while the field event teams will be at the Miami Invitational in Ohio. The Irish runners are coming off their only home meet of the season last weekend and are looking strong going into the upcoming meets. 
"It was a nice meet," said coach Joe Piane. "We made some nice improvements, and the younger kids did well. It will only help us for the Big East championships (May 3 and 4)." 
Among the younger team members who caught Piane's eye was sophomore Antonio 

Arce. His time of 14:59 in the 4000-meters was his best ex­hibition of the season. Robert Lythgoe, whom Piane called an "unknown," posted his best performance in the 1500-me­ters with a time of 3:53. Another freshman, Tim Kober, also impressed Piane with his time of 1:54.7 in the 800-me­ters. 
Looking ahead to this week­nnd, a few runners will be look­ing to maintain their present status on the track scene. 
Errol Williams, who excelled at the home meet, will return to the site of one of his best per­formances last year. Williams won the 11 0-meter hurdles at the Miami Invitational in Ohio last season and hopes to become a back-to-back winner. 
Jeff Hojnacki also competed well at the Miami Invitational. lie linished second in the 800­meters and won the 1500­meter event. Hojnacki domi­nated in the 800-meter event and should be able to top last year's standing. 
On the women's side, Nadia Schmiedt return to the friendly conlines of Ohio. She won the 400-meter hurdles last year and finished sixth in the 100­meter hurdles. 
Alison Howard also enjoyed success at Ohio, finishing sec­ond in the 400-meter dash. 
"We feel line," said Piane. "It will be a good meet for NCAA qualification and preparation for the Big East. Some people won't run, to rest for the Big East." 
Among those not participat­ing are Matt Althoff and Jason Rexing, because they have al­ready qualified for the NCAA meet, while other long-dis­tance runners will participate in events other than their nor­mal ones. 

ltiI~ I~ I'J r!, ;i:•.~I ~!l. :tlt-1
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
The Women's Water Polo being awarded to all partici· 17th from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes 

....... l--. :r.!.,Ti•l.!.,::.<r.•
z·~......l_~...~··:::~-:=-·~• 
Team will host the Colligiate pants. Bring your own racquet, are held in the Joyce Center, 
IEdison @ Hickory 254-9685 Water Polo Association Midwest but racquetballs will be provid-Rolfs and campus lakes. 
ALL FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO I Division Championships Sat. ed. Also, refreshments will be Equipment is provided, but par-LIAR, LIAR (PG-13) 12:1o. 2:40,4:50,7:15,
Aprill2 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. served. You must register in ticipants are encouraged to 
9:55
They will play Miami University advance in the RecSpotts office bring their ·own. The fee is $8 
SW: RETURN OF THE JEDI (PG)
of Ohio at 11 a.m.• Ohio by Apri110. There is an $8fee. for the class. Advance registra­
12:00,3:00.6:40,9:35
University at 3:30 p.m. and Christmas in April Benefit tion with RecSports is required. 
SW: EMPIRE STRIKES BACK (PG) 1:2o. 
~

Bowling Green State at 8 p.m. Run "'-April 12 is the date for Special Olympics 
3:55, 7:20, 10:05
Climbing Wall Orientations this 5K or lOK run and 2-mile Volunteers. are needed to help 

MARVIN'S ROOM (PG-13)9:30
are available in the Rockne walk. All registrants will be Special Olympic swimmers. 
THE ENGLISH PATIENT jR)1:oo. 4:30, 6:50
Memorial every Sunday at 1 awarded a t-shirt. The cost of Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic 
LOVE JONESjR)12:3o, 3:10, 5:40, a:o5, 10:35 
p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. the run is $5 in advance and $6 Center on Mondays and 
DONNIE BRASCO jA}1:2o. 4:10, 7:oo. 9:50
Sign-up outside the wall. the day of the event. Call 1~ Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
CATS DONT DANCE (G) 12:40. 2:55, 5:05,
Advanced Scuba-RecSports 6100 for more information. p.m. for more info, call coach 

7:10
will sponsor Advanced Scuba Drop-in Volleyball -Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
THE DEVILS OWN (A) 12:20, 2:50, 5:20, 7:50.
Classes. All participants must RecSports will be offering Drop-RecSports will hire two full­
10:20 
be certified divers. For more In Volleyball on Tuesday's from time, one part-time, and 
GROSSE POINTE BLANK (A)* 12:05,2:30,
info, call1-6100. 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. numerous substitutes to life­
4:55, 7:35, 10:10 
Weekend Racquetball No established teams or ad~ guard at the St. Joseph Lake 

DOUBLE TEAM (A)* 12:15, 2;45, 5:oo. 7:30,
Tournament -This tourna-vanccd sign-ups necessary. Beach this summer. Please 
10:00 
ment will be on April12 and 13. Casting and Angling Clinic -contact Greg at 1-5100 or come Times valid through next Thursday
There will be men's and Clinic includes three sessions to RecSports at the Joyce women's divisions with at-shirt which meet on April 15 and Center. to flll out an application. *No passes 
If you're interested in.... 
Visual Basic, OLE, Active X, Visual C++, Custom Control Building, SQUODBC, M, QuakeC Client Server, or Web Programming 
... then we're interested in you. 

At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you have a BS or better in Computer 
.... 
Science (or related field) with excellent grades, then send your resume to. 
-
Epic Systems 5301 Tokay Blvd. Madison, WI 53711 jobs@epicsys.com 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and is an Equal Opportunity Employer 

.-April 19th, 26th 
1:30 p.m. 
}Yloose Krause Stadium 

Students can pick up Free tickets for Jhe April 19th scrimmage starting on April14-16 at the Joyce CenterTicket Office Gate 1, Second Floor 8:30am­5:00pm. One student can bring up to 4 ID's. 
Free tickets will not be available the day of the 1 
**Due to limited seating-No free tickets will be available for the April 26 scrimmage. Advance ticket sales are $6.00, $8.00 day of game. 
(Call631-7356for more information) 

Friday, April 11, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
The Observer • TODAY 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
l DON'T CARE WHAT IT "LOOKS" LIK.£. ON THE. 
01\G CHI\1\T! 't'O U'RE AN 
rNTERN, NOT f'\Y BOS5! 
~\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Chinese mafia 38Swamped
1 To the limit 40 Old photo 16 Unfortunate 41 Tracy to meeting Hepburn, often 11 Hightails it 42 Museum pieces 
18 Needle point? 
43 Bacchanal 19 Ferments 
45 One of the 20 LAX regulators Flagston family, 21 Edward G. in the funnies 
Robinson's role 46"Mamma" in "Little follower Caesar" 49 Guardianship 
22 Provoke 51 Cold and blustery
24 Certain 54 Steamy 1973 Louisianians best seller 27 Hidden 57 Route for a31 Dweller on the Liverpool ferry, Gulf of Masirah in song
32 Crowning point 58 Rosamunde 
on a building 
Pilcher novel 35 Small version made into a TV 36 Selenic movie 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 24 "The 
s H A GIB RA SIJ 
A R. 
P Y L E R I T A L U B E S 
UPANDADAM ELENA
DESER.NTILOG 
ROO REHA~ 

P E C A N S L I "S'A 0 P S 
AMATE BOTTL,DUrp 
LANE.SAGAS PITA 
MIDDLETON RHETT 
SLV.ACHS T I EDVE IIIIC A R T S E L M 
SPANISH TREETOP 

ORNOT BILE AMES .LSU APER LENT 
l JUST SAW THE. NEW 
ORG CHART. CONGRt>.T­
ULATIONS ON '(OUR 
PR-OMOTION, 1>.501<.! 
DOWN 
1 Sighed line? 2 Hans, in Ireland 3 Mountebank 4 Suffix with 
cannon 5 "Semiramide" 
composer 6 Funny business 1 Jerk a Lay, e.g. 9 Senior 
10 Hurriedly mumble 11 Pantywaists 12 Suffix with ideal 13SonofWilly Loman 14 Gwen in "Damn Yankees" 15 "Orinoco Flow" singer 21 Encounter 23 Bearings? 
Katzenjammer 
Kids," e.g. Puzzle by Bob Klahn 25 Kind of acid 

com1ng on 
them hical battle of the bands 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: joel Grey, Ethel Kenm•dy, MichellL• Scarabdli, Oleg Cassini 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Sept. 14, 1958, at 3:19p.m. I have be-en a widow for eight years. 11uee months ago, I started seeing someone that I care for 1·ery deeply. He is divorced with two kids, 10 and 13. My daugh­ter is 9. He was born on Nov. 22, 1955. Do you see marriage in our future and the joining of our two families? 
Virgo 
DEAR VIRGO: Without having the birth charts of the three children involved, it is difficult to get a dear 

. u 
E 
. 
" ~ 
0 
~ 
(/) 
~ 
~ 
" 
~ 
0 
:::> 
..... 
"' 
" 
r­
<:r 
-
:r 

picture. I can tell you that I was not impressed with your comparison. Al­though I do believe that anything is workable if both parties are willing to compromise and put in the effort, I feel that problems regarding child­ren will arise. You match up well to the signs Taurus, Capricorn and Pisces. I can see that the past several years have not been that terrific. You are in a transition year right now and you will find that 1998 will be one of opportunity. Don't be too eager to settle for a relationship that is just 
OK. 

ARIES (March 21-April 20): You will be quick-witted and charming, which will aid you in obtaining aUies. Friends and relatives will give you good advice. 
TAURUS !April 21-May 21): You must be concerned with legal matters and formulating contracts rather than finalizing your objectives. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): II you try to manipulate emotional situa­tions you will find yourself somewhat alienated. 
. Born Today: Your year ahead will be filled with opportunities. Do not let nunor setbacks result in a negatiw attitude that will re\'erse or slow down the 
STI\t>.TE.GlE.S 

degree of success that you should be able to acquire this year. 
I>.ND PRETEND 
IT'S WOR.\<..! 
50 Sci-fi writer 53 Reasons Fred erik 
55 Daughter of 51 Trojan horse, Hyperion for example 
56 Where 
52 "Ain't She Mindy Sweet?" honeymooned, composer in1981TV 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
CANCER (june 22-July 22): Tlll're will be• hidden matters that you may find disturbing. Don't bl' afraid to speak in the defense of others. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): You will get somt..' of your self-estet•m back if you gt..'t inn>lved in orgc1nizational functions. You can meet new friends that will let vou know just how valu­able you ar,• 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): If you address those in a position to grant you favors you should get the sup­port you require. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You may want to look into vacation spots that are conducive to vour needs. You should take a break with the ones you love. You can quit bad habits if you put your mind to it. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Be prepared to counteract the damage that adversaries are about to create. You will have to keep your wits about you and be sure that you can trust those you confide in. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You can take ad vantage of opportuni­ties if you are quick to make a move. Your self-confidence will attract mem­bers of the opposite sex. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): You can make financial gains through your unique and creative approach to business. You're on to something tan­gible and you need to act fast. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): Children will intrigue you with their innocence and clarity. You can learn a great deal from observing as well as interacting with youngsters. Get in­volved in creative projects. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You n1ay experience emotional setbacks if I'OU and your mate don't see things eve-to-eye. Get caught up on house­hold duties and avoid senseless argu­ments. 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
LET'<j GO 1"\AK.E SOME 


-
26 He looks both ways 
28 Handwriting features 
29"The Untouchables" composer Morricone 
30 "Dancer at the Bar" painter 
32lnjured 
33 Buck 
34 Shock absorber 
36 Liberality 
39 On the swarthy side 40 Well-groomed 42 Language sound unit 
44 Streisand's directorial debut 
45 Some Millers 46 Siege 
protection 47 Creep 48 One to grow 
on? 

--
I 
l 
~ 
-
-· 
-
r--------------------------------~~--------~------­
~-~-----------~ 
.& 

, 
..... 
SPORTS ~ffeekend 
page 28 

Fresh01en have Bookstore Fever 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
Like any event defined by tradition, the Bookstore Basketball tournament's very existence depends on its per­petuance, which depends on the enthusiastic participation of freshmen. 
Freshmen represent the tour­nament's future; if they were to shun and avoid it, the eventual death of the tournament would be inevitable. 
But such a scenario is ludi­crous. Freshman are as avid as ever. 
What inspires most fresh­men to play in the tournament? 
Friday, April 11, 1997 
• BASEBiUl 


Irish don't 01iss a beat as they take two 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
The baseball team finally got back into action today after being forced to sit through two days of cancellations this week. The Irish took full advantage of the opportunity and pounded IUPUI 11-3 in the first of two seven-inning games before closing out the Metros 6-3 for the sweep. 
The offense jumped all over lUPUI starter Michael Kocher for six runs in the opening frame of game one. Second baseman Brant Ust delivered the key hit in the inning, a two-run single to centerfield. 
The freshman, who was recently named Big East rookie of the week, raised his batting average to .379 and drove in five runs in the doubleheader. 
Also receiving conference honors this week was sophomore JetT Wagner, last year's rookie of the year. The catcher/designated hitter was named Big East player of the week, and continued to live up to this billing last night. 
see BASEBALL I page 23 

1..........•...-... ..· '. ••..L········..
--·11. I
', ...·. ~ll8' ..... ,·~•r~_ 
Certainly not winning, as that honor is reserved for senior, athlete-laden teams. The prevalent reason seems simple but powerful-to have fun. 
''I've never even played bas­ketball before," stated Elizabeth Brown, freshman and captain of the all-girls team called, appropriately, "Team." "We just want to have fun. We might embarrass our­selves, but that's no big deal. We aren't expecting to go far at all." 
Being part of the great Bookstore tradition was an­
other reason for involvement in 
the 591-team tournament. 
"It's part of spring at Notre 
Dame," said Dan Adams, 
whose all-freshman team won 
its opening game Wednesday 
evening, "and it has a great 
tradition of which I want to be 
a part." 
"I love to play basketball," stated Brad Connors, whose Waukesha Space Monkeys play this Wednesday. "This is a great opportunity to compete. . But there's always the chance 
see FEVER I page 24 
•

Receivers look to take advantage of new offense 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
A well~balanced offensive attack is every offensive coor­dinator's dream. If a team has the ability to mix up its ground and aerial attacks, leaving defenses spinning, it has the power to outscore nearly any opponent. 
That dream has become a goal for Jim Colletto and the Notre Dame football team this season, and it appears that they might have the right artillery to get the job down. 
One area that has been con­sistently strong for the Irish offense over the years has been its receivers. and this year's corps looks to be no different. 
Although on the surface, the corps lacks experience, featur­ing only one senior, two juniors, and one sophomore with any significant playing time, its talent should be able to cover the margin of error created by the lack of experi­








