
----~­
---~---~------~~----~­
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 12 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY~S 
• CoNSTRUCTION BEAT 
Students voice approval of renovations 
Despite mid-game 
flood, students are 
happy with stadium 
By DEREK BETCHER Associate News Editor 
Not even the unexpected addition of a third campus lake could mar Saturday's rededication of Notre Dame Stadium. 
Although plumbing problems flooded the lower concourse with up to two inches of water early in the second quarter of Saturday's contest, student and administrative reaction to the inaugural game in the new stadium has been positive. 
"Generally, everything went very well. The water is. of course, a problem we'II be addressing," summarized Mike 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

·Smith. director of facilities engineering. 
Tours of the newly renovated Notre Dame Stadium were given to Notre Dame and local community members last week. 
Contrary to rumor, a burst water main did not r.ause Saturday's flooding; eventually triggering the flooding. the toilets, in fact, need full water pres­closed valve. overflowing toilets did. The problem "Once pressure dropped, all of the sure to shut ofT, DeLee explained. "It may have been closed last winter began when valves were mistakenly toilets began to run wide open instead "If I had to guess, I'd say 1,200 gal­when the stadium was winterized, but left closed on one of the two six-inch of just flushing and stopping. They then lons a minute -possibly more than I'm not sure why it wasn't reopened," water mains which service the stadi-overflowed," explained director of facil­that -were spilling into the con­Smith said. 
' urn. With the one water main shut off, ities John DeLee. While attributing course," De Lee estimated. It wasn't University officials will meet today water pressure in the stadium dropped flooding to a lack of water may counter until roughly 2:30 p.m. that plumbers to half of what it should have been, intuition, the flushing mechanisms on were able to locate and reopen the see STADIUM I page 4 

Gifts for a .Justice 
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

Saint Mary's Student Activities Board members Katie Wehby (far right) and Tysus Jackson present Indiana Supreme Court Justice Myra Selby with gifts after her speech Monday afternoon. 
See story on page 3 

WVFI hopes for FM status by fall of 2000 
By HEATHER COCKS News Ediror 
The road to a berth on the FM band is getting rocky for Notre Dame's student-run AM radio station, WVFI. 
The station, which has, researched the transition for the past three years, may not broadcast on an FM frequency until close to the year 2000, station manager Boo Gallagher said yesterday, cit­ing difficulties in finding an available FM frequency. 
Last April, the officers of the University granted the station per­mission to seek FM status with the Federal Communications Commission. The switch would expand WVFI's listening range as much as four miles, encompassing Saint Mary's College and some areas of South Bend. 
After getting the financial go-ahead from the University, WVFI hired its lawyers and is currently working with the FCC to find an open frequency over which the station can broadcast. 
"We're conducting a search, but it doesn't look like there's much available right now," said station manager Boo Gallagher. "We're going to have to keep working hard at this." 
Grant to supplement Center for European Studies 
By ANTHONY R. PERRI 
News Writer 
Robert and Elizabeth Nanovic made a $5 million endowment to the Center for European Studies at Notre Dame that will transform the center into a full­fledged institute. 
"The Nanovic Center will cre­ate a critical mass for European studies ... building on the existing strengths pre­sent in the Arts and Letters College," commented director Robert Wegs. 
Wegs hopes that the Center will improve the academic lives of students and faculty alike. 
This sizeable endowment did not come as a surprise. According to University presi­dent Edward Malloy, "The shared concerning European Studies' mission is to focus, Nanovics have been friends and Studies. The Nanovics began improve, and complement the benefactors of the University their direct support of the pro­pre-existing programs in the for many years." A 1954 gram with a $25,000 donation College of Arts and Letters con­Notre Dame graduate, Nanovic, for lectures. cerning European history, cul­upon retiring from financial Their gift has culminated ture, and current issues. From counseling, has served Notre over the years to the present the beginning, according to Dame as a member of Wegs, the center has the advisory council for always been "student the College of Arts and oriented." Following Letters. that strategy, much of 
The Nanovics' generos­

the new funding will ity came to fruition while 
benefit students as well voyaging down the 
as faculty. Danube from Vienna to 
An increase in student Istanbul during a trip 
grant money in the form sponsored by the Notre 
of ten $10,000 under­Dame 
graduate grants for Association. summer study in Europe, a 
The lectures on the cruise by comparative graduate pro­Wegs set ablaze the spark of gram, and an increase in facul­interest that the ty grants are some of the first 

$5 million donation, which will be credited to the "Generations" capital program. The Center for European 
fruits of the Nanovics' dona­tion. 
The center plans to comple­ment the grants for foreign study with an expansion of on­campus sponsorship and co­sponsorship of student organi­zation proposals concerning European studies. 
The most profound result of the Nanovic Center becoming a full institute is the creation of the Second Major Program in European Studies. Using the existing faculty, Wegs believes it will give students "a chance to intensify and deepen their [European] studies." The pro­gram complements the experi­ences of Notre Dame students who studied abroad in Europe. 
see NANOVIC I page 4 

----------' 

Tuesday, September 9, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Consider these 
legal terms 

For purposes of this col­umn, the student who is the subject will be referred to as Brian. This is not his real name, but he asked that he not be identified. 
In March, Brian pro­posed to his longtime, hometown girlfriend. They agreed to get married in the summer. 
In September, both returned to their respective schools. Brian began his junior year at Notre Dame and his wife started hers at a university in the south Texas town in which she lives. 
One week into the school year, a student, without knowing the effect of his words, asked the rector of the dorm that Brian lived in what he thought about Brian being married. The rector was surprised to hear the nP.ws and called Brian down to talk to him about it. 
The rector informed Brian that he could not 
live in the dorm because he was married. The 
rector referred him to the housing contract 
which said that residence halls are reserved 
for single members of the Notre Dame com­
munity. 
A one-person off-campus apartment can run 
from $250 to $500 per month. University 
Village is a married student complex run by 
the University and exists on the cheaper end of 
that scale. 
Brian was told that he could move into the 
University Village housing complex, but that it 
was full until Sept. 15. So he had to find anoth­
er place to live while he waited for an apart­
ment at the Village. 
The University refunded Brian's housing 
eost, but charged him $25 a day to continue 
living in the dorm while he waited. Instead, a 
friend agreed to let Brian move into a one­
room apartment with him until mid­
September. 
In addition to the inconvenience of waiting 
for a spot to open up. Brian had to bring his 
wife to South Bend; University Village is 
specifically oriented towards families. 
So his wife now has to drop out of school, 
quit her job and move out of Texas to face a 
South Bend winter. While here, she has to find 
a job and maybe wait until Brian graduates (in 
two years) to return to school. 
The questions of "Why doesn't she trans­
fer?" can be answered with the same reason 
ofwhy Brian does not transfer. She doesn't 
want to. Why should she be forced by her hus­
band's University to make a different decision 
about her academic career than the one she 
has already made? 
When contacted, a University official said 
that the rule is in place so that the dorm rules 
(parietals, limited overnight visitors) do not 
inhibit a married couple from being together. 
He also said that Brian's is the third such case 
he has dealt with this year. 
The message in all of this is that you should 
always read the fine print. This University 
expects you to know all the eonditions of every 
one of the pieces of paper that it sends to you. 
There are no exceptions. Much like the civil 
courts, ignorance of the law is no defense. 
In a school that is so concerned with legal 
language in its book of rules and legal mis­
interpretation of its non-discrimination clause, 
it is amusing how legalistie the school can be 
when it comes to every document that you 
sign as a student. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Pete Cilella  
Sean Smith  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Kevin Robinson  Allison Koenig  
Viewpoint  Matt Loughran  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  Shannon Dunne  
Ashleigh Thompson  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Overloaded ferry boat capsizes, killing 400 passengers 

MONTROUIS, Haiti 

A severely overloaded metal-hulled ferryboat capsized when passengers rushed to one side as it was leaving port on Haiti's central coast Monday, killing as many as 400 people trapped inside, survivors said. Hundreds more made it to shore. 
The 60-foot boat was certified to safe­ly carry between 80 and 260 people, according to varying estimates. About 700 had been jammed aboard, police and coast guard said. Thousands of Haitians wailed in grief on the pebbled beach of this fishing village as U.N. divers and a half-dozen fishing boats searched 200 yards offshore for vic­tims. 
Others helped carry bodies from coast guard boats to shore. U.S. Coast Guard and U.N. helicopters hovered 
Mickey takes over Miss America 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 
Regis is out. Soap stars are in. Call-in polls are out. A professional journalist is in. The Peacock is out. Mickey Mouse is in. As for Miss America, she may have an "innie" and she may hae an "outie." Either way, the producers of the 77th annual Miss America Pageant, which airs 9-11:30 p.m. Sept. 13 on ABC-TV, say the show will have more 

new twists than a bag of pretzels. ·It better. The pageant, a prime-time staple since 1954, endured its worst-ever television ratings last year despite a well-publicized call­in vote allowing viewers to cast their ballot fr Miss America 1997. The telecast drew a 13.1 rating and a 25 share, which means about 12.7 million households tuned in. The call-in poll itself was a flop, too. Technical glitch­es plagued viewers, just as in the 1995 telecast, when they got to vote on whether the swimsuit competition should be held. Both times, millions couldn't get through.The low ratings prompted NBC -which tele­vised the event for 30 straight years -to end its reign as Miss America's network. Enter ABC, which is owned by the Walt Disney Co. Produced and directed by Jeff Margolis, the telecast will retain its basic ingredients ­the parade of states, the talent segment performances, the on-stage interview and the last-minute crowning But there are lots of changes in the trimmings: For the first time ever, contestants are being given the choice of wearing a one-piece or a two-piece swimsuit. 
Fair to display molesters' names 
POMONA, Calif. 
The Los Angeles County Fair will offer cotton candy, carnival rides and a chance to check out the names of the state's 64,000 registered sex offenders. The state Justice Department will set up eight computers in an exhibition hall that can display offenders' names, pic­tures, zip codes and crimes. A similar exhibit at the state fair in Sacramento last month drew 4,000 inquiries. "It's a perfect place to disseminate information families can use to protect their children," department spokeswoman Sara Brown said. Critics say the fair, which opens Thursday, is an inappropriate place for the information. "This appears to be a publicity stunt to drum up view­ers," said Liz Schroeder, associate director of the Southern California branch of the American Civil Liberties Union. The information was made available under the state's Megan's Law, which requires police to release information on known sex offenders. 
• 

above the spot where the ferry, The ~..-l Pride of Gonave, disappeared in 75 
~~~~~:s :~::~r::dhbue~~:~~!c~~.its pas­"The boat was overloaded. When it maneuvered to disembark, everybody ran to one side and the boat tipped over," said survivor Benjamin Joseph, a 38-year-old civil engineer. The brand new ferry -it had gone into service only 10 days earlier-had no life jackets, and doors that were bolted shut prevented many passen­gers from escaping, Joseph and other survivors said. The ferry sank early this morning in the Saint Marc Channel off Montrouis, 50 miles northwest of Port-au-Prince, Haiti's capital. It had left from Anse-a­Galets on Gonave Island, about 12 miles to the southwest. 
Squirrel brains are a deadly delicacy 
FRANKFORT, Ky. 
Squirrel brains are a lip-smacking memory for Janet Norris Gates. They were the choicest morsels of the game her father once hunted in Tennessee. "In our family, we saw it as a prized piece of meat, and if he shared it with you, you were pretty happy. Not that he was stingy," said Mrs. Gates, an oral historian in Frankfort, "but there's just not much of a squirrel brain." Now, some people might want to think twice about eating squirrel brains, a backwoods Southern delicacy. Two Kentucky doctors last month reported a possible link between eating squirrel brains and the rare and deadly human variety of mad­cow disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Creutzfeldt­Jakob disease, thought to strike one person in 1 million, produces holes in the brain. Symptoms include loss of muscle control and dementia. It may take years, even decades, for symptoms to appear. Dr. Eric Weisman, a behavioral neurologist who practices in rural western Kentucky, reported in the distinguished British medical journal The Lancet that he has treated 11 people for Creutzfeldt-Jakob in four years, and all had eaten squir­rel brains at some time. Six of the victims, ranging in age from 56 to 78, have died. The normal incidence of the disease in the area should be one case in about 10 years, he said. Weisman and co-author Dr. Joseph Berger, chairman of the neurology department at the University of Kentucky, cautioned that the number of cases is small, and no squirrel brains have actually been examined the disease. They said many questions remain, including how the squirrels would contract the disease, since they do not eat meat. 
Army voids trial for discharge 
FORT LEONARD WOOD, Mo. 
An Army drill instructor accused of having sex with a female trainee received a discharge instead of a military trial that was to begin today. Sgt. 1st Class Robert F. Parrish, a drill sergeant with the 1st Engineer Brigade, was given an "other than honorable discharge." He faced a special court-martial on charges of sodomy and failing to obey two general regulations. Parrish was the third at Fort Wood to request and receive a discharge instead of a court-martial in sex-related cases. Five oth­ers have been charged, but no trial dates have been scheduled. Sgt. Christopher L. Burns, a drill sergeant, also faces a general court-martial Wednesday on charges of failure to obey rules, adultery and committing an indecent act. Eight others at Fort Wood have been convicted or pleaded guilty since the investigation into a military sex scandal that came to light in November at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 9 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/-~-.. -· ·············----­

f~ ... __......·' 
! H L Tuesday ,,,,, 76 55 Wednesdayd 72 52 
I 

Thursday ~ 66 49 Friday Q-70 55 
j 

Sa~rday .I~~ 70 52 
\ ....~t-..A.._~~-, ..,/ '"·t:·· 
' 


NATIONAL SUMMARY: Hot, humid weather wilt stretch from Texas to South Dakota today. Thunderstorms wdl igmte along the eastern edge of this air from North Dakota to Missouri. Additional thunderstorms wilt rumble near the Eastern Seaboard. Dry weather wilt comfort the Great Lakes as a lew showers and storms dot the Northwest and the Rockies.  
Atlanta 88 63 Dallas 97 72 New Orleans 85 72 Bahimore 80 65 Denver 70 52 New Vorl< 74 66 Boston 65 63 las Vegas 96 78 Philadelphia 79 59 Chicago 72 61 Miami 89 73 Phoenix 106 85 Columbus 80 61 Minneapolis 82 69 St.louis 81 69  

4-~-~q~Q (f ~ u 
Showers T·storms Ratn Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pres• Gmp/!icsNet 
r-------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
_Tl_ue_s_da~y_,_Se~p_te_m_b_e_r_9_,_19_9_7________________________~T~h~e~O~b~se~r~ve~r_•~C~~--P__lJ_S__~_E__~__S______________________________________~p~ag~e__3 

'Whaddayathink' luncheons foster dialogue at SMC 
By SARAH CORKREAN tive learning experiences stu­resenting all areas on the Sainr Mary's News Editor dents in each department. College are asked to sit with Members of the 'think tank' someone they don't know in 
Based on the goals Saint that created the monthly lun­order to create dialogue and Mary's President Marilou cheon meetings include generate ideas among different Eldred set forth for the College, Lorraine Kitchner, registrar, departments. administration and staff mem­Deb McCarthy, assistant profes­Each week a topic of discus­bers gathered for lunch yester­sor of chemistry, Suzie Orr, sion is presented in which day to discuss the role individu­director of Residence Life, and groups spend the lunch hour als and departments will play Patti Valentine, director of discussing and brainstorming. to support and enhance the media and community rela­This week's luncheon invited College community. tions. members to think about how 
Funded by a grant for the The lunches provide an their efforts and those of each Improvement of Post-Secondary opportunity for members from department support and Education (FIPSE), various departments of the enhance Eldred's goals for the Whaddayathink luncheons Saint Mary's community, who College that were presented at were created in response by do not normally interact with the College Forum when she faculty and staff who saw a each other, to share thoughts was named president last need for dialogue and interac­and ideas about the future of Spring. tion among members of the Saint Mary's. Eldred's goals are to develop Saint Mary's community. "The luncheons not only cre­a plan to stabilize freshmen 
The overall goal of the ate an opportunity for positive enrollment and increase fresh­ics in student recruitment, stu­the recommendations from the 
Whaddayathink lunches is to interaction that encourages men enrollment for 1998-99; to dent services, and other related audit of the College Relations 
improve community interaction socializing, but a chance for develop and implement an issues; to develop a College­division and stabilize staffing in 
within the Saint Mary's commu­members of each department to enrollment management plan wide marketing plan that will that division. 
nity, in an informal setting get to know each other on a that will include student include student recruitment After each luncheon, the 
where members of different more informal level," said recruitment. financi-al aid, strategies, College advertising, ideas generated are compiled 
departments are able to con­Valentine. tuition, payment policies, reten­and local South Bend commu­and shared with each depart­
verse about concerns and posi-At the luncheons, those rep-tion issues, the place of athlet-nity involvement; to implement ment and the president. 


Selby lists trademarks of heroes 
By SHANA'E TATE how they influence others lives. "Saint Mary's College tells us 
News Wrirer She said that heroes are not that we can and will be what 
always described correctly, and we want to be and Justice 
Many graduates of all­feels that some people think Selby reinforced that," said women's colleges challenge heroes are the chronicled char­Student Activities Board cultur­students to show their college acters, which are false images al chairwoman Tysus Jackson. and themselves what they can of television stars. The speech Selby gave last do. Yesterday, Indiana Selby believes that true night solicited various reactions Supreme Court Justice Myra heroes are people such as Colin from the students who attend­Selby stressed the importance Powell, Susan B. Anthony and ed. of such goals. Mother Teresa. "[Heroes are] "I thought that it was encour­
Selby spoke to a group of those people who have the abil­aging for all ethnic groups pre­approximately 65 women at ity to reach out and touch those sent here today," said senior Saint Mary's College about the less fortunate ... They are the Jennifer Warner. roles and challenges women people who have courage, "She proved to us that are confronted with in college integrity and honor," Selby women can be successful in all and in life. She addressed said. aspects of life," said Sarah questions that students deal "Being a woman in society is Gallagher, junior. with such as. 'what am I going a challenge in and of itself, Selby graduated from to do after college?' and 'what because women can't be every­Kalamazoo College with a am I going to be?' These ques­thing and be excellent at all bachelor's degree, where she tions led to the central theme times," insisted Selby. The was awarded the Kellogg acad­of her speech 'who has influ­more difficult choices to make. emic scholarship. Selby is a enced you?' in her opinion, are the ones 1980 graduate of the University 
Selby focused on heroes and that take moral courage. of Michigan School of Law. 
Are you going back to your high school to visit your friends? Why not do it in style? 
Become a High School Amhassador. 


Help the Admission's Office by returning to your high school and speaking to prospective students about Notre Dame over Fall Break or Christmas Vacation. 
REGISTRATION MEETINGS WILL BE HELD IN THE HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM (ROOM 122) TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 AND WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER I 0 7:30 P.M. 
ATTENDANCE IS NECESSARY AT ONLY ONE OF THE MEETINGS. 
Everyone is welcome. 

(Alltronics location) 
BUY YOUR CHANCE TO WIN 2PAIR OF MICH TIX 
$1 OR 6 FOR $5 
Today 2-Spm213 LaF. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 

An evening amongst friends 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
Students enjoy dinner and discourse in the dining hall on Monday. 
Stadium 
continued from page 1 
with the stadium's contractor, Casteel Construction, to look into the issue. "We don't want it to happen again, obviously," Smith empha­sized. "Other than that, the day was a success." 
Smith's assessment may have been on target: Wet feet, dry throats and $2 cups of ice irked many students but could not put a damper over Saturday's game. 
"There was a lot of hype for the rededication and the historic­ness of the day was pretty well publicized. In the end, I'd say the excitement met its billing," said Pangborn junior Anne Iasella. 
Many students agreed, although some with reservations. 
"I thought it was incredible, but it was unfortunate with the water," offered Lewis senior Elizabeth Dewey. "It was kind of strange because even though they increased the seating, it didn't feel any larger. Tradition definitely seemed intact, and I hope that feeling carries over to the rest of the season," she added. 
Some student spectators would have preferred a crowd that broke with tradition and filled the stadium with unprecedented noise. 
"It was very much like the old stadium -it wasn't as noisy as I thought it would be," remarked Keough junior Brian Dylong. "They should fill those seats with crazy people." 
Indeed, many enjoyed the new stadium but did not view all of Saturday's fresh changes as improvements. "I think the Bob cheer really needs to be revamped," said Anita Arockiasamy, a Walsh senior. "Maybe we should bob instead." Even spectators without memories of the original stadium appreciated the significance of Saturday's rededication. "Overall. it met the hype," said Knott frosh Mark Lorenz, "but I'd have to say the stadium was at least as much a part of that 
excitement as the product on the field." 






why's 

ben folds five jon spencer blues explosion boss hog pavement silkworm man or astroman? smashmouth yatsura superchunk velocity girl girls against boys built to spill 

wu tang clan a tribe called quest the pixies 
SMC alumna donates $2 million 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's College alum­na Joyce McMahon Hank of Moline. Ill... has· established two endowed chairs with a total value in excess of $2 million. marking the largest single gift thus far in the Sesquicentennial Campaign. 
"The real significance of this gift goes far beyond the exceptional generosity of Joyce Hank. It represents a belief on Joyce's partthatthe unique character and quality of education offered at Saint Mary's tnust be preserved for future generations ofyoung women," sai~former College president William HiCkey. 
.. 

"l]lis Is .•~ P()1'\'erful statemeJ).t . coming from a<person so · 
knowledgeable about, .and .so involved in>the life of this institution.'' . . · . The Joyce McMahon fla;n~ Aqllinas GhairofCa;thplic .·•·· Th~ol<>~y···w!~~· br4lg retl.~'Wed ·prqminence ~o t~e stl!dy and 
te~Qhip.~<of ~he tti~o~pgy ()f'
;Thomli~ A.q~Inas•·.·af Saint· 
.. ~libb·~~[.~J~ti~~j~nl~W~~i; 
.•. tlH-!~ght fr3rO.theper~pect~_fl:l • 
pline.is still in the planning 
stag~s. 

"By promoting the serious 
study of .. Saint .Thomas 
Aquinas, Saint Mary's has the 
unique opportunity to guide 
studentsto an appreciation of 
the compatibility of faith and 
reason.'' H~mksaid, 

Keith Egan, professor of religious studies and director of planning for the Center for . Spirituality, has been named 
the first holder of the theolo­gy chair. 
..(The chair) is most ofall a tribute to the Catholic tradi­ti.on which lies at the heart of the mission ofSaint Mary's Gollege and tothe generosity and vision of Mrs. Hank," J;:ga!} $ai<L .. . . •...·.· ... . . ·· .. Hank. who graduated with honor~ froTJ1 Saint Mary's fn 
·... of.a. dift'~reJ!.~ ac~gt}IUi£ disci£?' P,ir~btor$; ·hh~~first •..·national 
·195 2 with a bachelor's ~egreein philosophy and art. lias serv~d the College in numefOU$~~1-H.\fitiesoverthe ~ear~; Sh~ has been a mem­.~er o~ tbe;6oard of Trustees 
. s.l.rt.•···~(j·······.•l.98......·~·.t.<Pre......$Jde.Jl~ or....··•.•·•..the 
$ai~~M~·~y·s Qu~d. Ci~Jes 
~~f~~~~s~!~~~t:;g!g~t1l~;~:·•··· 
.,!$spei~ti~l).•·•··•Bo3:rd ·..•......... of 

--.::::~;];~::~·:;~;:·:: ---
Nanovic 
continued from page 1 
Further in line with improv­ing the faculty of Notre Dame, the Nanovic's endowment gave the means to begin the Nanovic Scholars program. Each year a European scholar will be invited to teach at the University for one or more 
:-.::·:~-~~>--. .. .. :·:::·:::%~:::: 

semesters. He will join the 
European panel of experts, 
including an ltal'ian Fulbright 
scholar, a Warsaw Program 
Polish scholar and a German 
scholar, housed at the Center's 
Flanner Hall offices. 

Interaction is also the focus 
of this year's summits spon­
sored by the Center for 
European Studies. Wegs hopes 
to increase "the student dimen­
sion" in guest speakers' visits. 
fi got such a bad rap? 
archers ofloaf beck 


smoking popes wilco the smiths son volt violent femmes the sex pistols rl burn,side angry samoans tuscadero uncle tupelo 

goldfinger reel bigfish suede .shellar weezer braid sweep the leg johnn_y the multiple cat fish bone talking heads citizenfi.sh flaming lips john coltrane miles davis 

the mighty mighty bosstones ministry dinosoor jr. 
chair ·of the · Madeleva Society. · Hank and her husband 

.Jerry have been longtime philanthropic supporters of the college. In 1995. ·Mrs. Hank was presented with an honorary doctorate of humanities degree in. ponor of her many contributions to the College. 
Hank~ an accomplished artist, painted the portrait of outgoing president Hickey. which was presented. to the College last spring on behalf of the Board of Trustees. She has served as a member on the ·Board of Directors of the . Catich Gallery of Art, Saint Ambrose Uriiversity1. Notre 
. Dame's Snite Museum of Art Advisory Council, and tbe Dayenpprt Art Gallery Guild. A former elementary school te~cher~ she is the mother of five children. Her oldest daughter, Kathryn Hank Collett; graduated from Saint· Mary's in 1975. 
l'.he ....•.. SesquJpenten.ni(.ll
Campaign ..for Saint ·Mary's 

..• j~~~g:~s·f~~~~-!~;;~h~: 
$28 million)owatd ils $.30 
Il:dlliori. goal. · 
Already with the current visit of Tony Jut, a member of British Parliament, student dinners and discussions are scheduled separately from the faculty events to provide the maximum benefit to the stu­dents. 
Wegs noted that Europe's problems and successes often affect the U.S. profoundly, making it imperative to expand students' knowledge. 

archers of loaf firehose foo fighters 
DJ APPLICATION DEADLINE HAS BEEN EXTENDED! PICK UP YOUR APPLICATION OUTSIDE OF WVFI's BROADCAST STUDIO (2ND FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE) TODAY. APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL NOON ON THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER I ITH. DoN'T MISS OUT!!! 
r---------------~----~--------~--~--------~------------~----------------~--------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 

RHA to hold hall elections today 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU 
News Wrirer 
Due to a lack of interest at election time last spring, the Saint Mary's College Residence Hall Association will be holding executive board elec­tions tomorrow. Polls will be open for residents of Holy Cross, Annunciata, and Hegina Halls from 
7:30 a.m. until 7 p.m. on the ,....-------------...., Amy Moore, vice president; 
Suzie Orr, department of Residence Life director, said. advantage.' "The tickets running have had more time to plan and are more cohesive." 
One ticket is running in each of the three residence halls. Running for Holy Cross Hall are Mary Ellen Blumreich, presi­dent; Jennifer Appleton, vice president; Anne Pangilinan, secretary; Vera Nackovic, treasurer. 
Their platform is based on social, spiritual and fund developments. 
Candidates in Regina are Amalia Gonzalez, president; Sarah Martin, vice president; Janelle Dombrow, secretary; Mary Jones, treasurer. They are placing an emphasis on hall unity in a build­ing that consists mostly of singles. 
Annunciata's ticket is Gina Drew, president; 
LeMans side of the dining hall. Run-offs, if necessary. will be 'The extra time has 
held on Friday. "The extra time has allowed allowed candidates to candidates to develop plat-develop platforms that will 
forms that will work for cur­rent residents. In the spring, work for current residents. there isn't that advantage, .. In the spring, there isn~t that 
Suzie Orr 

Sara Grudzinski, secretary; Eileen Newell, treasurer. 
Their platform encourages the social interaction of resi­dents. 
LeMans and McCandless 
halls, who elected their exec­utive boards last April, will be forming their hall councils this week. RHA is inviting residents of all halls to apply for chairwoman positions. 
"We're really excited by the strong turnout at 
Activities Night, but we still need people for chairs. Everyone is welcome to apply," Barbara Nolan, RHA vice president and election coordina­tor, stated. 
. ,.
Amencan Heart ~ Association...~ 
F.ghhng Heor1 Dosuu ond Slrol<o 
. ,.Amcncan Hearl ~ Association-V' 
Foghhng He•rr D•sec~~ 
•nd SttOI<e 
page 5 

Just under par ... 
·'"'"';.,.............,."_ ,__ i~vestiglJitor~ today ·\fnrk~<J J(lidentify.s~eletal .r~m~~s ashe.rlff sa.ys..•rnay })e
tf\ose ''oftwo. chilpren reported missing tWo months agQ1 > •_.. 
· ·•··• 'tbe,, r~l}l~ins. dJs.~c)y~red
Satl1rdayi~woods aboutt_hpee' miles from the home where the children were last seen, wer¢ take!\ to the Miami Valley f:rime Lab-in.Dayton for -· positive idepttfication. A man· 
btofher.~ · Qd[l)is~mg 
J_ ··

O"fi.JQly9., .·. /:q 
She:riffDaVid -Deskins ha~ said ·heiis awaiting the results ofdental and othertests: · ·· · Deskins said the rell1ains appear to be ()f a male and female•. Investigators .belieye t4e si~!,'l and appearance of the skeletons mayJink the1U'to-the children. 

The College of Business Administration 
presents: 



FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 9:00AM-4:00PM 
ATRIUM oF THE CoLLEGE oF BusiNEss ADMINISTRATION IST, 2ND, AND 3RD FLOORS 
Choose what is right for YOU! 
Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Complex for a listing of companies, session times, and resume critiques 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 

Student beneficiaries 
criticize Bishop Estate 
By BRUCE DUNFORD Associated Press Writer 
HONOLULU 
Kamani Kuala'au -student body president, a senior bound for Princeton -had reason to be nervous. 
He had been summoned from his classroom at Kamehameha Schools to a meeting across town at the headquarters of the Bishop Estate, the $10 billion foundation which supports the nation's wealthiest private school. 
A day before, he had helped draft a letter in support of embattled school president Michael Chun. And now he was reduced to tears by Lokelani Lindsey, one of the Bishop Estate's five trustees -and thus, one of the most powerful people in all of Hawaii. 
''I'm not going to do this," said Mrs. Lindsey, in the col}rse of what Kuala' au described as a 2 1/2-hour interrogation, "but how would you feel if I wrote a letter to Princeton and told them that you're a rabble­rouser?" 
This private confrontation would soon become part of a very public commotion -an eruption of criticism of the Bishop Estate's trustees. high­lighted by a protest march some two weeks later by 1,000 alum­ni, students and supporters of Kamehameha Schools. 
They accused individual trustees of trying to microman­age the school, usurping the administration and getting involved in such things as home­coming T-shirt designs and school yearbooks. 
But the outpouring of censure hasn't stopped there. Critics say the trustees, appointed by the members of the state Supreme Court, have an incestuous rela­tionship with the judiciary, and have failed the children they claim to serve -kids of Hawaiian ancestry . 


SPRING BREAK 198 
CANCUN MAZATLAN SOUTH PADRE JAMAICA 

Gov. Ben Cayetano has ordered an investigation into the affairs of a trust that is "so big and it impacts so many peo­ple ... I think it warrants the attorney general moving for­ward and taking a look as objec­tively and as fairly as possible." 
The trust. fueled by revenues from 337,000 acres of once royal lands, was established in 1884 under the will of Princess Bernice Pauahi Bishop, a descendant of King Kamehameha, the 18th-century chief who conquered and uni­fied the Hawaiian Islands. 
Her will established Kamehameha Schools as the sole beneficiary. Today, the tranquil campus of aging but well-kept buildings sprawls across 600 acres of wooded tropical hillside overlooking Honolulu's downtown high­rises. It serves 3,100 students. 
Although it began primarily as a vocational and trades school, Kamehameha Schools today bills itself as a college prepara­tory school for Hawaiian chil­dren of exceptional ability. 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 



Calls could hurt Gore in election 
By WALTERR. MEARS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON D.C.. 
For AI Gore. this could be a hazardous autumn in the pur­suit of the presidency. and he can't control the risks just ahead. Put a special prosecutor on the Democratic fund-raising case, and it probably would · haunt him wolUnto campaign year 2000. or longer. 
Once installed. special prose­cutors in high-profile cases. don't hurry. And they can hurt the political fund-raising calls he made from the White House, seeking Democratic donations for the 1996 elections. At least 46 connected, according to telephone records given Senate investigators early in August. 

..On a few occasions, I made some telephone calls from my office in the White House,'' Gore acknowledged five months earlier, after his role was disclosed. 
But the number that counts now is six. Those calls from Gore produced $120,000 in 
a political figure without bring~ · donations the party put into its ing charges. with what they·. campaign account, instead of say, and simply because their using it for unregulated, party operations can keep a trouble-. purposes. T)}e Democrats say some issue going. . he wasn•ttold. 
The .~r::tn-Coit.tra counsel. . Candidate contributions are whose final accusations hit ;:;~ited pyla'\-\1; thf) unrestricted Ge()rge .• Bushjl.i;stbefore th~ ·;;(lgpa~io~a to.• political parties 
.. 1992 eleetiun. had been at it for :ar~ ~X:eriJ.pJ. ,., r•< ·...· .•.. seven years. ······•·•············. iMGore.·.has said ·repeatedly .• that 
Gore's problem is in the he did no wrong, asked only for prQCess Attorney General Janet· lawful. donations, and breached Reno began on Sept. 3. a pre-.. no ~ule py .t;~Uing from the Ufllill.ary r~vi~.'r .that may.·b~ J;9fliee b~c~use the practice is 

.. ··... ~!! first st~p t~~ard appoint8.'':·;f;,J1,9t,otbid~!i~to vice presidents 
He said he is confident the Justice Department review will find ..what I did is legal and appropriate." 
Reno has had four special counsels appointed in cases involving top administration officials. most notably Whitewater, although President Clinton actually asked for that one himself~ But she has resist~ ed Republican demands for an outside prosecutor to deal with Democratic fund-raising excesses. 
In doing so. she told the Senate Judiciary Committee that the Gore calls were not subjectto such an inquiry because they were for unregu­lated .. soft money" donations, not the ..hard money.. that can be spentdirectly on campaigns. 
But when the Democrats had to admit some of the money went to the campaign account, saying the transfer was unknown to Gore or to the donorf), the admission undercut Reno's earlier argument against an independent coun­

. m.ent of;:a t;pe~ial 
counsel Into ··.·.·•·. ()r. presidents.. sel.
..<Ab:: . ·::-:~;:·· .. ..·.·:·:\j~M::::::. 






Refreshments, catered by Macri's, will be available in the Atrium. 
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 



Evidence focuses on Fowler 
Weld blasts Helms about hearing 
ByJIM ABRAMS soul of the Republican Party. Associated Press Writer The White House urged Weld to continue waging a 
William Weld says a rival public battle. uwe•ve encour­Republican 's refusal to hold aged him to make his very Senate hearings on his nomi-impressive case publicly," nation to presidential spokesman Mike be ambas· McCurry said today. "And sador to now's the time to do it with Mexico was Congress." u n He said Clinton would stick American with Weld "until he gets con-
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press Writer 
Former Democratic National Chairman Donald L. Fowler routinely contacted federal agencies on behalf of donors, documents show, in one case contacting the CIA on behalf of a Lebanese fugitive despite a warning that he not do so. 
Setting the stage for a con­frontational hearing Tuesday, Senate Hepu blican investiga­tors said evidence of the con­
tacts surfaced in some 22,500 pages of documents the Democratic Party recently 
turned  over to the  
Governmental  Affairs  
Committee.  

Fowler is the only witness scheduled to testify Tuesday in the committee's hearings on campaign finance abuse. 
According to the investiga­tors, Fowler will be confronted­by documents showing he con­tacted the CIA on behalf of Hoger Tamraz 
Tamraz was a substantial Democratic donor who visited the White House frequently in 1995 and 1996, even though he has been sought by a Lebanese court since 1989 on embezzle­ment charges. Tamraz has denied the allegations. 
Fowler has said he didn't recall asking the CIA to vouch for Tamraz, but the GOP inves­tigators, speaking only on con­dition of anonymity, said the documents make clear he did so. 
and sent firmed." the wrong . Weld expressed confidence message to that ·he would-prevail, citing t h e a l(}tter Friday by Sen, Dick Mexica:Jl Lugar, R~hid.,>and three people. other members of Helms' 
· The former governor of committee asking Helms for Massachpsetts said Sunday a ''special nieeting;' to con­there is little precedence for sider the". nominatipn. an ambassadorial nominee to "Obviously17this thing is be denied a hearing. "It•s going forward/' he said • 
._just.. no~the An}~rican-.way," Butin a ..t1..N:N interview he declared on ABC's ~'This broadcast Saturday. Senate --w:ek." • -__ --__ -_--__--·--··· _ Majoritytea~er Trent Lott, 
. r-Weldh(ls ~eenlocked in a R-MisS,f$~idtlienomination five-month battle with Sen. was deadLaD.d that Weld was Jesse He~s. H..N.c., the con-to blamefor; ~cting ''not very servativechairman of the diplomatic~lly,;i,!in..his cam­Senate J'toreign Re-lations paign for the post. Cotn.mitt~.e.mk Helms has Th~ .\Vh.ite f{ouse brushed refused i{)~'hoid hearings on off i.ott's comment.. "We the. nomination•• saying the think that's Wishful thinking politicalJY.sri:l()derate W~ld by the,<;maj()tlty leader,.. has-disqQalified himself for McCurrysaid. _ therp?st 8Y ll~~ pa~tsupp?rt Weld 11~s_had harsh thingsfol; the lli~dic(ll use ()f ma:ri;. to say .!ll;lout Helms. and the 
'Wju~na ·-al'ld· for· n~edle· senatol'~~sp~kesman, Marc 

~F~W~;~!:.r:p ~i~~!~~~::;:rt~:
t nors'fjip t() campaign for the-· those comtif€tits in his televi­arn.bassadorship, has compli.. ·sion interview>"Jesse Helms cat~d.th~:situ1l.gonby lashing . is not going... ~9.~X._insulteqJ>y out at H~'IJ:n_s and suggesting William Weld.io-holding a 
.__ tbaJ their quarrel was in a _hearing on tpis," Thiessen #larger sense ~Jightifor the said._ . pgt;::tw!tii7< 
~ f:{"· 

The University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 
• 
Do you 


• 
Did you f. year abroad .,.. Notre


... _··,·-•~M-·•· Dame tt~iftfl:!!~ 

programs? 

· ns by attending an 
When: September 10, 1997 Where: Hurley Building around the globe! Time: 4:30 p.m. Hosts: ISP Staff, 109 Hurley Tel. 631-5882 
ie~wdtk~! 


·on given by 

Controls 
er in the consumer vides many dynamic 



page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
Spencers shower Diana's grave with flowers 
By AUDREY WOODS 
Associated Press Writer 
The people's flowers. heaped outside the Spencer family estate, were gathered up and scattered on Princess Diana's island grave Monday, and Britain's tabloids pledged to stay out of her sons' private lives. 
Diana's brother Charles, the 9th Earl Spencer, thanked peo­ple around the world for flowers and letters that "have genuinely helped us to mourn her death." lie released photographs of the island carpeted in blooms. 
"The knowledge that Diana's life gave so many people so much can now be balanced by the hope that, in death, her legacy will be immortal," Spencer said. 
As the nation returned to work Monday on a perfect early autumn day, the crowds of mourners that lapped around the gates of royal palaces and Diana's ancestral home abated but did not cease. 
Reminders of grief were abundant: flowers and candles, newspaper headlines and every­where, Diana's expressive face -images of a woman inces­santly photographed throughout her life. 
The government began dis­cussing a fitting public memori­al for the "people's princess." And the Spencers rejected Buckingham Palace's offer to consider restoring in death the honorary title "Her Royal Highness," stripped in last year's divorce. 
In Paris, the bodyguard who was the sole survivor of the Aug. 31 crash that killed Diana, her boyfriend Dodi Fayed and their driver was reported to be conscious but not yet able to assist police. 
Trevor Rees-Jones underwent surgery four days ago to recon­struct his badly injured face, his parents said Monday, adding that he would be unable to speak to police for "some time." 
French authorities are investi­gating what, if any. role paparazzi pursuing the princess's car may have played in the Paris crash. On the day Diana died, Spencer said editors who had bought paparazzi pho­tos of Diana through the years had "blood on their hands." 
"Spencer's bitter attack on newspapers will force every edi­tor and every journalist to reflect deeply on the way they conduct themselves," The Sun, Britain's top-selling newspaper, wrote Monday. 
"The Sun, for its part, has no intention of carrying pho­tographs which invade the pri­vacy of Princes William and Harry," said the tabloid, which has a circulation of 4 million. 
Other tabloids joined in the commitment to ban intrusive photos from their pages and 

respect the privacy of William, 15, and Harry, 12. Even The Independent, a respected broadsheet, said it will never again carry photographs of the young princes in private situa­tions. 
"If we are not all sadder and wiser," we ought to be, The Independent said in a front page editorial Monday. "The hunt became a blood sport. The quarry dead, let us find gentler pursuits." 
Spencer has directed his pointed words at the royal fami­ly, too, eulogizing his sister Saturday as someone who "needed no royal title to contin­ue to generate her particular brand of magic." 
Hours later, Buckingham Palace raised the possibility of restoring to Diana the title "Her Royal Highness." 
The H.R.H. designation was bestowed on Diana when she and Charles married in 1981. It is held only by senior royals, and she lost it when she and Charles divorced in 1996. Officially, Diana relinquished the title voluntarily, though she made it clear afterward that she resented doing so. 


Royal Standard ======================== 
Queen Elizabeth II shattered royal protocol on Friday by making her first live, televised address since the early days of her 45-year reign to pay tribute to Princess Diana. In another sign of great respect, the Queen allowed the use of her own royal flag to drape the coffin of her former daughter-in-law. Normally this version of the British Royal Arms can only be used by the Queen. 
PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Information Seminars Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, October 7 
6:30pm 
.~ (800) 424-8580
e www.peacecorps.gov 
Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, ™ offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 
* s 
LES 
YAILABLE * 
We offer limited opportunities to learn, promotion based on talent and ability, and great personal satisfaction 
WE ARE NOW HIRING FOR THE MISHAWAKA LOCATION 
Great student opportunities! Please apply in person at: Old Navy Clothing Co. Princess City Plaza 4510 N. Grape Rd Mishawaka, IN 
Monday-Saturday 
I Oam-7pm 


CLOTHING c 0. 

------~~----------------------------~----------~~---------------------------­
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 page 9 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Scientists: Volcano may collapse 
By KEITH GREAVES 
A~sociared Press Writer 
MONTSERRAT 

Scientists warned residents to stay in the northern tip of Montserrat on Monday, saying an "explosive event" from the island's smoldering volcano seemed all but imminent. 
Rapid buildup of' lava and pressure inside the volcano may cause the dome to collapse "at any time," the Montserrat Volcano Observatory said. 
A collapse could send avalanches of super-heated ash and rock -or pyroclastic flows -as far as the central coastal town of Salem, it said. Previous eruptions have rained volcanic pebbles and ash on the town, which lies on the northern edge of the evacuated zone. 
The observatory said volcanic activity had increased to a "dangerous lever' and urged all residents to head north "imme­diately." A series of small pyro­clastic flows raced down the 

Thursday, September 11, 1997 7:30-9:30pm COBA Atrium 
• 
meet with recruiters from 40 companies 

• 
bring your resume 

• 
learn about Summer Internships & permanent jobs 

• 
Sample of companies attending: Bank ofAmerica Deloitte & Touche LaSalle National Bank Proctor & Gamble 


Sponsored by ~00 ~~®[]0 G)[) 
Events of the Week: 
volcano's western flank early Monday to within a half mile of Salem, according to scientist Stephen Sparks. 
More than half of the island's 11 ,000 residents have left since 
·the Soufricre Hills volcano awoke in July 1995. The south­ern two-thirds of the 39-square­mile island is off limits, but resi­dents sometimes ventured back to check on homes and tend livestock. About 5,000 people are packed into shelters and homes on the north. 
Mir hobbled again by computer breakdown 
By MITCHELL LANDSBERG Associated Press Writer 
The Mir's onboard comput­er, which seems to have a mind of its own, broke down again Monday and forced the crew to shut down most of the space station's equipment. 
Russian and American space officials downplayed the seri­ousness of the computer crash, the third aboard Mir 
JAZZMAN~s 
NITE CLUB 

525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS SEPTEMBER 11TH FEATURING SKALCOHOLIKS 
(7 PCS. SKA & FUNK BAND WITH HORNS) Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
since mid-July. The station 
was able to maintain its orien­
tation toward the sun, and its 
power supplies were in much 
better shape than during the 
previous breakdowns. 
Ground controllers said they 
hoped to repair and restart 
the computer Tuesday. In the 
meantime, they said, the crew 
was in no danger. 
"Why do these malfunctions 
happen?" asked Vladimir 
Solovyov, the chief of Russia's 
Mission Control. "Do you 
know why your car breaks 
down? ... It's hard to say what 
the reasons might be." 
Space agency spokesman Valery Lyndin may have put it best: "The computer has become capricious again." 
Capricious is as good a word as any to describe the Mir's endless, and endlessly vexing, journey around the Earth for the past eight months or so. The space station, which has been aloft for 11 years, has spun from one mishap to the next -from a fire to oxygen system breakdowns, from a collision with a cargo ship to the repeated computer break­downs. 
Mir's computer became unplugged on July 17 when a crew member accidentally dis­connected a cable, then broke down again on Aug. 18 during docking of a cargo ship. 
In the latest fumble, the computer shut itself off about 11 a.m. Monday (3 a.m. EDT), and the crew responded by turning off most systems to economize on power, Lyndin said. 

. t 
··;';. 







OINT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Noue Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor. .......................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. ......................... .Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller. ................ ................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . .................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reHect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Spom Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  63I-4541  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-454.3  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  .  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• All ABOUT Vou 


Wildlife Abounds Underfoot 

News flash: We are not alone. The wildlife population has soared tremendously while we were home this summer. The number of squir­rels has reached a record high. Experts recommend staying indoors until the situation is under control. 
Shouldn't the squirrels be doing 

Bridget Rzezutko 
something? Building a nest? Hibernating? Falling out of trees? 

I don't even know what squirrels do but they aren't doing any of these things. Why not? Because they are too busy harassing me. I have already had numerous vicious encounters with rampant squirrels this semester. They are starting early this year, everyone-Beware! Take guard! I was leaving the din­ing hall with two friends when who should cross our path but an over­grown rat with a fluffy tail. I tried to remain calm. I had to remember to breathe. Mv one friend. God bless her. knows· my fear of these critters and said, "Go on ahead, I'll distract it" Nice try, but I was its one and only victim. I was his target, and he had me lock~d. 
The squirrel stood up on his two hind legs. 1le carne charging at me with full speed. I understood this as a sign of attack, but I decided to hold my ground this time. I don't give in to terrorists. 
That was my plan anyway. I thought it was a good one. However. what actually ended up happening was I ran like the wind instead. That plan wasn't so bad, either. Yes, I scur­ried from a rodent that probably weighs less than my hand alone. It wasn't a pretty sight. I ran a good distance before the squir­rel decided I had surrendered. I had to stop to catch my breath. That squirrel had given me quite a workout, but at least I was safe. 
(Until the next encounter, anyway.) 

If that isn't enough, I have also been chased by a goose. Apparently there are spots on campus that need signs stating, "Private geese property, trespassers will be attacked," because no one warned me of this problem. I thought I was being kind to Mother Nature and all of God's creatures when I let a herd of geese cross the sidewalk in front of me while I patiently waited. My exam could wait, after all. But no, I accidentally made eye contact with the leader and my pride and dignity quickly vanished. This lone goose took it upon herself to waddle crazi­ly after me. with her neck bobbing back and forth. She wasn't as fast as that little squirrel, but she held her own. 
Did you know that geese hiss? Well, they do and it doesn't exactly create a friendly atmosphere. 
So what did I do? I ran. What else could I do? Some men's sports team was running by just then ljust my luck), so I jogged with them and tried to blend in. I wonder if they noticed me. 
Yes, you could call me a coward, but I prefer to label it as "giving the underdog a chance." Instead of thinking I am an embarrassment to myself I believe I provide entertain­ment for the people lucky enough to witness these distressing situations. Humor me and believe that, too. And trust me, there is always plenty of people around. This is probably not going to help my dating scene when SYHs roll around. 
Everyone, please learn from my examples and take heed in my warnings; the abundance of wildlife is for viewing pleasure only, and only then at a safe distance that is preferably far, far away. After all, who knows when these ferocious, vicious, 1 0-pound animals might attack at large? I know I could sure­ly spare another degrading wildlife moment in the course of my day. I can humiliate myself on my own; I don't need any help. 
Bridget Rzezutko is ajunior English major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Tuesday. She can reached at Rzez 1904@sainlmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obserller. 
• LETTER To THE EDITOR 

Time for Unity Among Dorms 
The women ofHoward Hall would like to openly express a feeling of disapproval toward the final comments made by Heather MacKenzie in her Sept. 2 Inside Column entitled, "The Great Urinal Invasion." 
It is one thing to write a column centering on the discomfort and unfamiliarity associated with change. However, it is another matter entirely when one takes the opportunity to openly libel the home of another.To single out our home. and prodaim it to be an undesirable or.inferior place, is to attack the very core of our community. Dorm rivalry has its appropriate time and place -··interhall sports, pep rallies, or promoting dorm spirit. The fostering of friendly inter-dorm adversaries is arguably part of the mystical "Notre Dame experience." However, the act of public dorm bashing doesnot fall under the auspices of good sportsmanship. Neither Howard Hall, nor any other dorm, should be regarded as the subject oftaglines following a bad anecdote. 
Indeed, all 28 residence halls on this campus are intensive communities of men and women -individ­uals who live and worship,and build lasting rela­tionships with one another. When a community such as this is openly mocked, it is not the mere outer structurethat is insulted, but also the souls who dwell within. If MacKenzieJeels discontented with her current living conditions,.perhaps she should stop to think that there are people in the world who would be grateful for her "MOD·ular furniture" or something the size ofher "old pink Barbie mansion" to have shelter. We are very fortunate men and women to have the accommodations we do, and to be at a place like Notre Dame. We should not be forcing barriers between each other. but rather should be working together as a family and sharing our blessings with those· who are less fortunate. 
The Women of Howard Hall September 4, 1997 
• 000NESBURY 
fT5 NOT JU9T 77-1!3 5TV~ 
M(Y.;f£y.--I'M CATCH/NO HeAT fl<OM 7H!3 AWMNI, 7lJO, t</8 8~TTE31< FIN/? A NE31AJ FOOT-
BAlL. CQ40f M~T.' 

t&TS 6!3TA NAM/3 THIS 7/Me-A FORM&f<N.F.t.... PRO/ 50M£0N!3UifKJCAN &IV& 7Hli 7EAM Si?M&' 
!?&At V15181U7Y/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE Of THE DAY 

GCXJI?!PM, 511<., 81/T UM... OKAY. 
''It often happens that I

/QH~AR&/118 GO!$ I NE!el? fltl',(lAEKX.JT TO RNI?AN /JX·PRO A CHANG&. GUSH! ONPITA? 
wake at night and begin

/UIU!NG 7V TAl<& Ou:R 711!3 ~T5M/JU:C{)/..­
to think about a serious 

~7lfAM IN 'T!ErmttrJKYf \ 
problem and decide I must tell the Pope about it. Then I wake up completely and remember that I am the Pope." 
-Pope John XXIII 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 page 11 
• STAT CRUX DUM VOLVITUR 0RBIS 

Pilgrims, Paris and the Pope 
Two Mondays ago eight other students and I returned to Notre Dame exhaust­ed, jet-lagged, and badly in need of a shower. We nevertheless arrived on campus in a sort of holy fervor, for we had just spent a week in Paris, where World Youth Day had taken place. This was an enormous gathering of Catholics from nearly every country in the world, invited by Pope John Paul II to pray, worship together, and to grow in zeal for 
Aaron Kheriaty 

our faith. 
The numbers alone tell an astounding story. Six thousand priests, 500 bishops and cardinals, and the Holy Father him­self celebrated the final Mass Sunday. Over one million Catholics joined them, making it the largest Mass in France's history. The New York Times covered these statistics, but I wish to go beyond numbers and tell more than what the newspapers. with their decisively secu­lar slant, were apt to report. 
Driving through Chicago on the way to the airport, we passed a huge sign paint­ed in block letters on the side of a brick building. It used to read, "Respect Life." Two men were on a scaffold painting over the sign with white rollers. so that it now reads "Respect Li." It was a subtle and strange reminder that though Chicago was home to a million Catholics, like anywhere else, it was not immune to 
• lETTERS To THE EonoR 
the influences of a godless secular cul­
ture. Why mention this? Because World 
Youth Day gave reason to hope that 
though America is shackled by what the 
pope calls "the culture of death," our 
generation still has the will and the 
courage to "repent and believe in the 
Gospel." A moral war is raging in 
America; World Youth Day was the 
Gospel of Life's battle cry. 

Paris was bursting at the seams with Catholics. Flags waved in the streets from nearly every country in the world. Throngs of pilgrims crowded into Notre Dame Cathedral, the Basilica of Sacre Coeur, the magnificent Saint Chapelle. Thursday afternoon, 700,000 gathered at the Eiffel Tower to greet the pope. Cardinal Jean Marie Lustiger, archbish­op of Paris, presided over the ceremony. Incidentally, the cardinal is a Jewish convert, who, at the age of 14, read the Bible from cover to cover and decided that he believed every word of it. His inspirational leadership was second only to that of the holy Father himself. Our pope's saintly and unwavering dedica­tion to the Gospel has earned him the deep respect and admiration of the faith­ful. The pilgrims' unreserved love for the pontiff was apparent for the world to see. 
We camped out Saturday night, along with 800,000 others, at the place where they held the Mass the following day. That night there was a three-hour bap­tismal vigil. where the pope himself brought 10 catechumens into the Church. After Mass Sunday, the Holy Father announced in October, St. Therese of Liseau, to whom the opening mass was dedicated, would be made a Doctor of the Church. This was truly a historic moment, for she will join a select few saints whose writings con­tained such erudition and insight to have been of fundamental importance to the development of Church learning. This is even more astonishing considering that St. Therese died at the age of 24. Her letters and autobiography surfaced only after her death, but they have cast their spell on pope and peasant alike; her lit­tle way of spiritual childhood has influ­enced the interior growth of countless men and women in our century. At the announcement, the crowd erupted, showing its unanimous approval. 

Pope John Paul II took the theme for World Youth Day from St. John's Gospel: "Master, where do you live? Come and see." The Holy Father invited us as indi­viduals to a personal encounter with the living Christ. We also experienced collec­tively, in a most profound way, the unity of our one, holy, catholic, and apostolic Church. The body of Christ was not just a quaint metaphor, but a visible and substantial reality; it was physically and 
We are all Children of God, Including GLND/SMC 
There have been, are, and will be many Holy Cross Heligious who are homosexuals. I am one of them. 
There is an old cemetery on Notre Dame campus. In it arc buried Holy Cross priests. brothers. and some few laymen. Among the many some were homosexuals. If one denies that, he is not dealing with realities. 
The assumption is that those homosex­ual Holy Cross Heligious buried on cam­pus contributed a lot to God and country, and for some, to Notre Dame as well. We honor them in death as we never hon­ored them in life. 
Unfortunately they lived during the Time of the Great Silence. Because the very Church they sought to serve shamed them, they could never speak their name. Because the culture they were born into excluded them, they lived in Shadowland. Never allowed to be whole, they lived fractured lives, doing immeasurable harm, primarily to them­selves. but also their associations. There was always an important part of them they were not allowed to share. What you saw was the half you got. The other half remained in hiding, fearful of the judgment and condemnation and punish­ment of the "real" ecclesiastics and peo­ple. 
In former years it was very difficult to be Catholic and homosexual. It was even more painful to be Holy Cross Religious and homosexual. We were not allowed to speak our name. We lived shamed lives in the shadows, always afraid to show ourselves in the light. We could only whisper our names in the confessional or to spiritual directors. Even there some of us experienced fear and pain when. instead of Jesus. we got homophobic judges. 
All of what I have written is praeno­tanda for the outrage I have felt con­cerning Notre Dame's treatment of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs has "denied the request of GLND/SMC to be recognized as an official student group, saying that the group's purpose was inconsistent with the mis­sion of the University and the moral teaching of the Catholic Church" (as reported in Notre Dame Magazine). 
As for the "moral teaching of the Catholic Church," I assume GLND/SMC promotes the distribution of condoms. Jansenism is alive and well on campus when the promotion of condoms is con­sidered a sin, horrendous enough (and, in conjunction with other matters) to incur the punishment of official exclu­sion (more weight is given to condoms than those dying of AIDS). 
Why does the University give more weight to red-neck ecclesiastics than to the students, the parents. and even members of the faculty and administra­tion who encourage the students who are about to have sex to play it safe? We're talking about life and death and the administration is talking about ban­ning on campus the sale of the preven­tive medicine. 
The homosexual community (GLND/SMC) is above-board and honest about their sexual behavior, some forms of which, as they see it, are consistent with their orientation. It's because they are being honest that the are being pun­ished. "Who asked?" administrators ask. "They would have done better not to tell. It's because they told that they must be punished." 
"Everything was done in the darkness and shadows before. Why didn't they leave things alone!" administrators say. "But they have come out into the light, telling us who they are, and how they behave, and what rights they demand ­and for all that they must be punished." 
The GLND/SMC members speak their names openly and proudly, daring to come out of the shadows where before 
they were assigned. They speak of the 
need for affirmation from the Notre 
Dame community. They list the rights 
they demand as human beings, and the 
dignity they expect as children of God. 
For these reasons, among others, the 
administration feels that homosexuals 
must be punished. As a group they do 
not belong at Notre Dame. They must 
not be allowed official recognition. 
Only a few hundred showed up for the rally on campus last spring. A thousand should have. When the right to assemble officially is denied to one group there is always the threat it will be denied to oth­ers as well, possibly under the reason: "not Catholic enough," or "not Catholic at all." The Church has been too long too concerned about sexual matters, as if that is what makes one "Catholic." 
GLND/SMC are not outsiders, not sec­ond-class citizens, not lepers. They are Church as much as anyone in adminis­tration. They are the people of God, the beloved of Jesus. Like all men and women they have a God-given con­science which they must use personally and responsibly as they make their own individual journeys to God. 
Let them on campus as an official body. Bless their assembly. Otherwise, you break faith with those homosexual Holy Cross Heligious who lie buried in your midst. 
Donald W. Whipple Congregation of the Holy Cross Cocoa Beach, Fla. September 2, 1997 
spiritually manifest. This unity of believ­ers confounded the secular world. No one expected or could explain the sheer numbers, the euphoria and energy, the faith and hope that for a few short days. lit a consuming fire of love in a corner of the world. "I came to cast fire upon the earth, and how I wish that it were already kindled!" In Paris, two weeks ago, Catholics furthered our Lord's wish. I can still hear the echoes of a million voices at Mass saying, "Amen" in unison and the shouts of ecstatic pilgrims, "Viva Ia Pope!" 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior philosophy and pre-med major at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached by e-mail at aaron. d. kheriaty.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Has Campus 
Newspaper 

Done its Job? 
As a new student at this University, I can only. say that your front-page article of Sept. 1, which covered faculty reac­tion to the "Spirit of Inclusion," has given me greater assurance that my decision to attend Notre Dame was the correct one. 
First, let me say that I am happy to see that the major student newspaper is such a progressive institution. I refer to the fact that the reporter who wrote this story was able to measure the fac­ulty's reaction by talking with a mere two professors (and those of similar opinion). It is indeed pleasing to see that obsolete principles of journalism such as that which once required reporters to get both sides of the story (and which unfortunately hold sway at more retrograde newspapers like The New York Times) have apparently been discarded at The Observer. 
Second, I am pleased to discover that certain members of the administration of this Catholic university are possessed of a great ecclesiastical authority. For example, take assistant dean Ava Preacher's declaration that the Catholic Church ought to "reflect the milieu" in which it finds itself. Were it not for Preacher's clarification, without doubt my own ignorance would have led me to suppose that the Church ought to follow St. Paul's admonition to "be not con­formed to this world." 
I eagerly await further enlightenment from your newspaper! 
Emil J. Kiehne 
Notre Dame Law School 
September 3. 1997 




;ACCENT
page 1'2 Tuesday, September 9, 1997 


"I wanted real adventures to happen to myt 
~; 
. 
Mexico City and Monterrey, Mexico 
"There were five of us from Notre Dame living with one host family in a house -four women and one man. We were all from different cultural backgrounds. At Notre Dame it sometimes seems hard to break through those types of barriers, but in Mexico we all became really close." 
---Clare Murphy '98 

li 
I 

SMC around the World 
"My mind is a blur of feelings, impressions and ques­tions. Travelling through Japan, China, Singapore and Malaysia has created a never-ending series of stories and experiences." 
---Julia Vodicka '99 

Jerusalemm, Israel 
..In Jerusalem we were in different people's shoes; we were living right on the border. It is the home to three world religions, so I gained a knowJ.. edge of history, a new understanding of how things work politically, peace treaties and such. I also took home a new appreciation of the USA and all the things we t~ke for granted." 
...., Mark Rincon '98 
London, England 
"Eight ofus lived in a flat downtown. None of us knew each other before we went over, but we're all best friends now. We brought back an appreciation for the American sense of efficiency. Everyone was way more laid back there. We're not used to waiting in lines." 
---John Gordon '98 
Maynooth and Dublin, Ireland 
"My year in Ireland was incredible-the people, the Guinness and the heritage brought an irreplaceable dynamic to my ND experience as a whole!" 
---Heather Campbell '98 
-



happen to people who remain at home; they n 
. I \
i 
-I I 
I 
!_ --------.:____J 


"1t fh<U 4 ~ dedA rl~, d«t it U4:U tkt made ~ 1'v.e ~ • ~~.. ~~ 
~ ~, ~ dee4e, 4 ~!" 



Tuesday, September 9, 1997 page 13



ACCENT 

self. But real adventures, I reflected, do not nust be SOUght abroad." ---James Joyce, "Dubliners" 
Rome"~ 
Italy 


''s.a
If you wall{ 
ant1 

anywhere., you"re 
·bJe en f!o cornbin
th lllronrn 
e en ents
d to see some-
th ern 
e ne"t dY Of a v·b·
2000 ld 
"' You 

years o ., 
Of these . can tak · 
Offer fll1ce e adv. Clf~
d d b
e y tee 
don't hs, a.nd llot:rogra.rns ;nta.ge of ~nd 
cream shops and 
. ave e~ nteer . otre D ne l , 
A.'s incredizctricity_ rh'Nelfh PeoPle arne .pizza par ors. 
'vtountains le: desert variety . Who 
1

---Ingrid Soens '98 
and ev s, the A n Chile en Qla. . ndes ......M south!'' Cters in fh egan h e 
erste nfetd '9a 

"Fremantle, Australia 
I grew more durin Australia than I havg ?ne semester in Notre Dame., . e In three years at 
~.· 
---Claire Kittle '98 

Innsbruck,Austria 
"It's nearly impossible to pinpoint 

Toledo,
nzyfavoriteaspectofthelnnsbnuck Progranz, but the first thing that 
Spain

comes to my mind is the mountains -the Alps encircle the town and 
"One of the most interesting
Wut ta 96 ta 
. things about ~pain was the
provide endless opportunitiesfor 
nightlife. Personally, I could
skiing, hiking, snowboarding and 
never quite get used to going
nzountain biking. Not much can 
out at 1 a.In. and coming _ 
home after sunrise the next 
morning. One time I was at 
conzpare to walking up to their sim­
ple yet majestic beauty every day for 
this bar at 5:30 a.m. and it
nine nzonths." 
was still completely packed." ---Andria Wisler '98 
-Kelsy Hamilton '98 
,_ 
~ 
-. . 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
• NFL 

Chiefs slip by Raiders with three seconds left 
Grbac proves he can play in crunch time 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Elvis Grbac and Andre Rison, newcomers to Kansas City, know little of the Chiefs' decades-old feud with the Oakland Raiders. On Monday night, they became part of the rivalry's lore. 
Grbac threw a 33-yard scor­ing pass to Rison with three seconds remaining to give the Chiefs a 28-27 victory over the shocked Raiders. 
The Chiefs (1-1) got the ball at their own 20 following a punt with 61 seconds left in the game. Grbac got the drive going with a 21-yard comple­tion to Lake Dawson and fol­lowed with a 20-yard comple­tion to Brett Perriman. 
With 11 seconds remaining on the clock, Grbac faded back and found Rison in the end zone for the touchdown. Rison was mobbed by his teammates 

after making the winning catch. 
Jeff George, making his home debut for the Raiders (0­2}, had third-quarter scoring passes of 37 and 16 yards to Rickey Dudley as Oakland built a 27-13 lead. But George was intercepted twice late in the game, and one of them was returned 55 yards for a touch­down by Darren Anderson. 
That pulled the Chiefs within five at 27-22. Oakland pre­vented the Chiefs' offense from moving effectively after that ­until the final dramatic drive. 
Grbac, Rison and Perriman all were free agents signed by the Chiefs this offseason. George was a free agent signed by Oakland. 
Grbac, who was 21-for-35 for 312 yards, also threw a 5­yard scoring pass to Kimble Anders. Pete Stoyanovich added field goals of 24, 23 and 23 yards. 
Bison had eight receptions for 162 yards. Tim Brown caught 11 passes for 155 yards for the Raiders. 
George, who went 19-for-39 for 295 yards, was back on national TV for the first time since his sideline tirade at Atlanta coach June Jones got him suspended for most of last season. 
Napoleon Kaufman added a 10-yard scoring run and Cole Ford had field goals of 34 and 32 yards for the Baiders, who have lost eight of their last nine games against the Chiefs. 
The Chiefs nearly were undermined by three fumbles, two by kickoff and punt returner Tamarick Vanover and one by Marcus Allen -a former Raiders great playing his last regular-season game before a Raiders crowd. 
Trailing 13-10 at halftime, George drove the Raiders 76 yards in three plays following the second-halfkickoff. His 37­yard scoring toss to Dudley, who shrugged off a defender on his way to the end zone, came one play after the two combined on a 22-yard com­pletion. 
Allen's fumble gave the Raiders the ball again, and they needed just 42 seconds to score on Dudley's second scor­ing catch -which was set up by Kaufman's 41-yard run. 
Vanover fumbled the ensuing kickoff, leading to Ford's 34­yard field goal and a 27-13 lead. After Stoyanovich's third field goal, George -trying to avoid a sack -shoveled a pass that was picked off by Anderson. 
The Chiefs went for a 2-point conversion and, with a wide­open and frustrated Greg Hill waving in the end zone, Grbac threw incomplete toward Bison to leave the score at 27­22. 
With the win, the Chiefs tied their regular-season series against the Raiders -one of the most bitter rivalries in sports-at 36-36-2. 
Tempers flared several times between the teams, but there was no renewal of the bench­clearing brawls that often accompanied Chiefs-Raiders games in the 1970s and 1980s. 
The 63 ,000-seat Oakland Coliseum was nearly full despite a mass transit strike that made commuting to the game a nightmare for many fans. 
Joe Bugel failed for the sec­ond straight week to get his first win since taking over as Raiders coach. Oakland tied its 
season opener on the final play of regulation time at Tennessee, but lost in over­time. 
Grbac, who had just 115 yards passing in a season­opening 19-3 loss at Denver, threw for 133 yards in the first half alone against Oakland as the Chiefs took the halftime lead. 
Kaufman's touchdown around left end capped an 81­yard drive that included a 26­yard reception by Tim Brown and gave Oakland a 7-0 lead midway through the first quar­ter. 
After Stoyanovich's 23-yard field goal, the Chiefs took a 10­7 lead on Grbac's scoring pass to Anders. Allen, who spent 11 seasons with the Raiders and has been their nemesis since joining the Chiefs in 1993, made a key 14-yard catch to keep Kansas City's first touch­down drive of the season alive. 
The teams traded field goals just before halftime. Ford tied the game with 63 seconds left, but Grbac's 43-yard pass to Rison led to Stoyanovich's 24­yarder with two seconds remaining. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
1990 Geo Metro XFi 39,000 miles, Wanted: NO Football Tickets I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia Lost: charcoal gray sports bra, last good condition, runs great, $2200. Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255-Tech and/or the Michigan State seen Walsh Hall bathroom, info call 
~-N_O__ __ ~~__ __ __ Air conditioner game!!! 41126.
T_Ic_E_s ~l F_O_R_REN_T ~ 2850 
(Kenmore) $150. Washer Please call Amy THE PRIMROSE PATH BED & WALK TO CAMPUS (Kenmore) $100. NEED TWO TICKETS at 810-355-9140. Need formal dates for 13th! Call BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN· 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Call x 9039 or 232 4204 Steve or AI at x2090 UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS $195/PERSON to Michigan state I NEED USC AND BC GA'S OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL 232-2595 Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter CALL DAVE @ 634-4905 $$ Drummer looking for bandmates. WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC w/memory. W/xtra cartridge. and Call Jim at x0677. INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK­QUIET, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD! $95.00. 233·4414 ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. AJC, PRIVATE 3 ROOM FURNISHED two tickets to ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 DJ APPLICATION DEADLINE 
CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED. APARTMENT 5 MILES FROM EXTENDED!!!
TICKETS
$80-$1 00. CALL 616-695-6321 CAMPUS. NO SMOKERS OR Navy. Married Student TIX For Sale wvfi -640 am will be accepting 
PETS. UTILITIES PAID BY LAND­273-3844 disc jockey applications until thurs., SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast LORD. 257-8521 I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND Please call 4-267 4 sept. 11th at noon outside of our home. HOME GAMES.272-6551 ask for Karen. I need 8 (eight) that's right 8 GA's office on LaFortune's 2nd floor. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR to the Mich. St game. I'll take all Pick up an app. and get it to us Football weekends FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. For Sale: Two NO/Purdue tix. offers and as many tickets as I ASAP. Don't miss out!!!! 219-67 4-0270 OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259-Best offer. 243-1623. can get -X-3530 Ask for JOE 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 1731 or during the day Frosty and his Evil Sidekick! 
SEASONS INN MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. (201)316-4117. Leave message. Need tix to Purdue? I have 4. Call Need Michigan State Tickets!! Welcomes Motorhomes/Campers of 243-0658. Grant at 287-9027 Call Ryan @ (312)938·8984 I feel goopy. all sizes. WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC Spacious lots available. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Family visiting-will pay big bucks NEED 2 MICH FOR SALE -Purdue Tlx matt at I have chartered a course to the 
Reserve Now 219-674-0270. Breakfast Inn has space available for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028 TICS mhorsfie@bach.helios.nd.edu. Vineyard. but tonight I am for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms $$ Willing to trade. Nantucket bound. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 with private baths, $70-$90, Looking for GA's to Afro/ &All CALL JOHN C LaFortune Student Center Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. NO Games! 716 848 1268 SALE Married student tix 283-0920 We are the knights who say Ni! Store Hours Toll Road, Exit #107, Will Beat Any Offer! 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 1-800-418-9487. Will Trade Any Home Game for NO Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX! The Griffey countdown: 11 in 19 Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. LSU. Call 634-4872 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 410-737-6115 games to tie. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD ND ALUM IS IN NEED OF 2 GA'S Sun.: Noon-Midnight AREA NORTH OF NO CLOSE WANTED: TO USC. GUARANTEED TO Have Mich St; 6 together; will So, how we doing on ttie 
(closed home football Sat.'s) 2773097 3 MICHIGAN STATE BEAT ANY OFFER. CALL ASAP TRADE only for USC or other Stylebook? Phone 631-COPY GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 2435887. ASK FOR MIKE. game; 813-281-2339 ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL 634-4196, 
Hey, www.fansonly.com has pic­WEEKENDS 2773097 LEAVE MESSAGE. NOTRE DAME Local Models Needed for Nail tures from the game and the Dillon FOOTBALL TICKETS Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to Pep Rally. Look for someone YOU ACHTUNG, BABY!!! bed &breakfast football weekends Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a BUY -SELL -TRADE New York! 18 to enter! No cost or know. near NO 272-5989 pair of USC, Michigan, or Stanford obligation. Call 679-4745 for details 
Come to first German Club meeting tickets to trade. Call 901-755-4273. 232-0058 by Sept. 20. Ask about the free plant. Wed. night @ 9:30 Montgomery Theater, FOR SALE NEED TO TRADE: I have 4 W.Va's CONFIDENTIAL NO FOOTBALL SUCKS! Go abroad to CHILE!! see the La Fortune and need 4 for Navy. Call Connie TICKET-MART, INC. All Home Game GA's for sale. andes mountains, deserts and glac­
86Mazda 626 runs good. New tires, at 243-2794 $25 Each. iers. info meeting this thursday at GERMAN CLUB! exh, alter, brakes. $2200 obo. Chris Call Disgruntled Bill at 634-4340 4:30 in 205 DeBartolo. Don't miss x1512. Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­it!! 
G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. WILL TRADE 2 ND HAWAII 30 
ILOST & FOUND I 

TRADE for Mich. St. and USC so 674·7645. YARD UNE GA' s FOR 2 USC SMC Cartoonist Wanted! 
Contemporary lakefront home for can bring family with! Call Casey GA;s 2773097 Call Lori @ 631-4540 Lose a set of keys to room 407? sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre, 289-3349 Buying GA's seasons or individual ASAP if interested ask Carlo at x 1862 $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1-games. Top dollar paid. 
PERSONAL
888-225-RUTH. I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST. Confidential service. 
KATIE DREW: LOST: STUDENT TICKET BOOK­CALL JIM AT 634-3985 Call 234-5650. 
You doni have too much time to LET ON GOD QUAD SATURDAY 
MEMORIAL AIDS QUILT think about this decision ... AT 1 PM IN SECTION 30. SIGNED 1988 Chevy Nova 111 ,000 miles. Have BC & USC or $$ 
-~ COMING TO CAMPUS Remember, it's always worse to ILLEGIBLY. CALL BELINDA ABER Automatic. AJC. Starts Great. To trade for MSU tickets. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED regret something that you DIDN'T AT 4-2652. Looks Nice. $1600 OBO. 287-Call243-4743, ask for Meaghan. FOR SALE IF INTERESTED CALL do... 6604 
DAYTIME#: 232-2378 ERIN AT 4-3857 I sell three student ticket 
WANTED EVENING #: 288-2726 When they look back see every­87 Ply Colt, 136K mi, 1 owner, very booklets, $199 for each. • * *****. * ••••••••• * **** •••••••• * ••• 
thing he's done, they will realize dependable, $800 OBO. Call 255-(You need an ID!) 
CLASS that Nixon's the one. 
Driver wanted to transport 4th 1317 for more details. Call ASAP 634-4465 
ND TICKETS WANTED OF grader between school and 
DAYTIME#: 232-2378 1998 i need michigan tix. EMERGENCY!! afternoon activities each Tues. NEED MSU, LSU TIX EVENING #: 288-2726 
Pick up the OFF CAMPUS DIREC­call ashleigh at 634-3663. and Wed. Female preferred. FOR SALE BC GA'S 
TORY outside the '98 office door Contact D. Bennett at 631-8298 CD PLAYER 
CALL AN X2855 (213 LaFort.) Limit one per apart­haapy anniversary ingrid and pat. 
' 

or bennett@ nd.edu. dual cassette,auto-reverse sys­FOR SALE 
ment or room. you two are the cheese in my tem,w/ detachable speakers USC ALUMNI FAMILY, NEVER 
macaroni! 1 yr old-NO DEFECTS $50 BEEN TO USC V. NO GAME, N.D. G.A.'S RecSports seeks referees and call1183 WANTS TO COME BRING A FAMI­
The were surfing for souls to the linespeople for the upcoming LY OF 6. NEEDS FOOTBALL 271-9412. NEED A JOB??? -Student beat of Rock and Roll. All right!

Intramural Soccer season. 

TICKETS. PLEASE HELP! 
Activities is accepting applications Sports/officiating background is pre­
213/951-4202. for LaFortune student building man­It was totally rockin' ferred but not required. Call Mark NEW Women's Wooden Lacrosse 
WANTED N D G A'S agers. Must be willing to work Heitkamp at631-6100 for clinic Stick! $20 
I need GA's for MSU, BC, and TO ALL HOME GAMES nights and weekends. Apply in 315 We out dates. 
Call Lisa 271-8361 UMich. Call Nikki@ 634-2367. 271 1526 LaFortune. 
-~------------------------------------~--~--~--------­
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•MlB 
Griffey named AL player of the week 
Associated Press 
Griffey led the league with homers in his final 19 games six home runs, 12 RBis, 10 to tie Hoger Maris' all-time sin­NEW YOHK runs and a 1.080 slugging per­gle-season mark. 
Ken Griffey Jr., who hit his 
centage for the period Sept. 1-For the year, Griffey is hit­
50th home run of the snason 
7. ting .306 with 50 home runs 
Sunday, was named the 
Griffey, who is the 15th dif­and 134 HBis. He leads the 
Amcriean League's player of 
ferent player to hit 50 home league in home runs, RBis and
the week Monday. 
runs in a season, needs l1 slugging. 


Today., Tuesday., September 9 For time and location of n1eeting, call: 1-8041 NDI.JGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
The Office for Student with Disabilities is looking for students to be Readers and Note Takers for students with visual impairments. 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
Readers are needed for courses in: 
Biology  Chemistry  
Government  Political Sciences  
Theology  English  

Note takers are needed for courses in: Accounting Business 
These positions are paid $6.35 an hour for undergraduates and $6.85 an hour for graduates. 3 to 5 hours per_week. Schedule for readers is flexible depending on reader's and student's schedule. Note takers must be able to attend class with student. 
For more information, please call the Office for Students with Disabilities at 631--715 7 or stop by 109 Badin Hall. 
•NFL 

Young's retUrn still 
up in the air 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS Francisco's season-opening Associated Press Writer 13-6 loss at Tampa Bay, sat out Sunday's 15-12 win at St. . SANTA CLARA, Calif. Louis on the recommendation 
Concerned concussion-of his neurologist. Dr. Joseph prone Steve Young could be Lacy. one hit away from being dri-He visited Lacy on Monday ven into retirement, the San and.went C;ver the results of a Francisco brain scan taken last 49ers took Thursday. The scan found no a cautious abnormalities but Young was approach scheduled to see a neurosur· to his play-geonfor a second opinion. • ing status ·•The neurologist has met Mo n d a y, with Steve a couple different s a y tn g; \times and feels that he•s OK there's a to gti~" Mariucci said. ''He chance he ... Young wants another test, another m~,¥. ge;<.. -)$; .·· ( '''•;c ; opinitit1Ju$f~q,y~rifywhatheanother weekoff. firids.. ;;.;· ············ 
·~ifhaf c.ertainly •• will be , ··w~ want•. to be right. We soii1ethingtbat .w~ivvill •. tallc -~~~nt•·~~ doth~fight.thing.so I 
~~2~! ~~,1u:~t~~f~;•...fwiX·i;~;~!ri~~;:~~n~~··.~~~~·~•·•·~re~ 
another W(fek minimize Ther"e are concerns that .,.<ri~ks) evell mbre~~~~nl going r~p.~~ted>tt.g.~.g."(ISSions ea~ 


.to ask that question. so I can ~ti' cause' permanent brain· dam~.·' giy~ you an answer until I }age. ....... hear from the doctors," On his show on KNBR 
M.¥iucd did say t)Jere wrur.. radio., Y2ung•'said he would a possibilitythe 35..year-old ·· listen to th'e doctors and Young, who has had three abide by Mariucci's decision concussions over his last 12 as far as his/return to the 
games, would r~surne playing fie.l.d. :tfe also made clear he next Sunday agll,ipst New wanted to play again. Orleans. He said more would "The three concussions, be known about his possible and I've talked to a lot of peo~ return onTuesday. • ple and they're fluke shots," 
Young's agent, .. Leigh Young said~ "It's not like Steinberg, said Friday that something that happens every another concussion would day".But pretty soon. a fluke trigger a serious Jook at turns into something normal retirement for Young. a two~ if it keeps happening. So I time NFL MVP and a five.. think you just play and hope 
. t~~. passing champion who ·. thattllls kinclQ!thingdoesn't led the 49ers to their fifth ; keep~omingu,p.·• ·····~·· . · Super Bowl title inJ994. Mariucci did not rule out 
Young, who sustained his} starting rookie Jim. 
iilate.st concussion when h~> .Druckenmillerfor a second was•kneedyin the> head bf't'straight wee.~· and having Hardy Nickerson during San Young as his backup. 
Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 9  Sept. 10  
7:00p.m.  7:00p.m.  
Haggar College  DeBartolo Classroom  
Center, SMC  Building  
Room 303  Room 117  

Student panel talks about study abroad at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland Everyone welcome! 
--·l ­
.. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 

-----~-----~---------------, 
PGA Tour Mone;M, Leader 
Through September 7 
:··· 

eve Elkington. Scott Hoch 
7. 8. $1,132,523 9. $1 '121 ,990 
10. $1,093,505 
11. $1 ,077,587 
12. $1,044,560 
13. $987,445 
14. $943,276 
15. $930,556 
The Observer/ Peter Cilella 


Interested in planning the activities for your class? 
Freshman Class Board Elections Coming Soon ... 
Mandatory Informational Meeting September 8 & 9 at 7:00pm In Haggar Parlor 
g'e 7~/ 
•PGA 



Jones tops Norman in Canada 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press Writer 
MONTREAL 
Somehow it was fitting that the fascinating head-to-head showdown between Steve Jones and Greg Norman in the final round of the Canadian Open was won with a good bogey. 
These are two of golfs more durable players. 
Jones has bounced back from injury, oblivion and now the bitter disappointment of not making the Ryder Cup team. 
And through it all he has maintained good humor while still being underappreciated by many golf fans. He is, after all, a guy with seven career victo­ries, including the 1996 U.S. Open. 
Norman has no problem with the recognition factor, it's just that sometimes he is more remembered for what he hasn't done rather than what he has done. 
He endured just about every disappointment the game has to offer, and it is a measure of his greatness that winning the British Open twice among the Grand Slam events is consid­ered underachieving. 
Finishing one stroke behind Jones at Royal Montreal Golf Club gave Norman his 31st second-place finish on the PGA Tour. Eight times he was run­ner-up in a major. 
Both golfers played with admirable heart Sunday. 
Starting the final round with a one-stroke lead he never sur­rendered, Jones never caved in to the pressure applied by Norman. And Norman never quit trying, even when he made a double bogey on No. 11 to fall four strokes behind. · 
"I just told myself there are still a lot of holes to play," Norman said about his pep talk to himself after an adventure in the trees. 
It was good old-fashioned match-play golf. 
''I'd throw one in there and he'd throw one in there," Jones said. "It was a lot of fun for a while out there." 
In a nine-hole stretch, from Nos. 4-12, only one hole was halved. There were five birdies, three bogeys, a double bogey and a pair of two-shot swings during that stretch as Norman bobbed between one and four strokes behind. 
"Every time I gave a punch 
he gave a counter-punch," Norman said. 
Norman cut J<>nes' lead to one stroke when he rolled in a 45-foot birdie putt on No. 16. An exchange of pars on No. 17 brought the match to the final hole. 
"I knew if I made a par I would win," Jones said. "That hole is just so hard to birdie. And when Greg drove into the rough it almost put more pres­sure on me because now it seemed like I should hit the fairway." 
llitting the 18th fairway was not something Jones had done all week and on Saturday he made a great par after landing his ball on the edge of the water on the left side. 
"I just knew I didn't want to put it in the same place I put it yesterday," Jones said. 
He drove into the right rough, near Norman. When his first swing moved the ball only 50 yards, leaving 150 more to go to reach the green and leav­ing the ball still in the deep rough, it looked like Jones would let it all slip away. 
"I was just hoping I'd make a bogey then," he said. "I was hoping there would be a play­off." 


----------~--------~----------------------------------------------------~--~-------~ 
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 





+ Campus Ministry This Week + 
http://www.nd.edu/-ministry/ 





OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Opening of the School Year Mass 
Sunday, September 14th, the Feast of the Holy Cross, faculty, staff and students gather for the Opening Mass, 
12:30 pm in the Joyce Center. Lunch will follow. Basilica and residence hall masses will be cancelled on this day. 
Campus Bible Study "· 
Interfaith Christian bible study-all are welcome! Every Tuesday at 
7:00pm at the Badin Campus Ministry Conference Room. First 
meeting on Tuesday, September 9. For info call Fr. Al D'Alonzo, esc@ 631-5242 or 631-5955. 
Catechist Program 
We are looking for students who are interested in teaching Religion 
for a South Bend Parish ~eligious Education Program. The 
Catechist Program, oganized through Campus Ministry, provides 
placement, transportation, formation, and support for the student 
catechists. Openings are available in Elementary, Junior High and 
High School classes. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 for 
information about this very popular program. 
Eucharistic Minister Workshops 
Wish to serve as a Eucharistic Minister during this academic year in your hall, at the Basilica or at any mass at Notre Dame? You are RE­QUIRED to participate at one of these workshops: Tuesday, September 9, 10:00 pm, Basilica Sunday, September 28, 3:00 pm, Basilica 
Graduate Student Bible Study ~­
All Are welcome! Meets Wednesday nights, starting September 3, at 8 pm at FOG Apartment 17-2C. 
RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults) Informational meeting for candidates S1:1nday, September 14@ 4:00pm in the Badin Hall CM Office; meeting for sponsors is on the same day, @ 5:00pm in the Badin CM Office. Regular sessions begin Sunday, Septbmer 21 at 11:45 am. Contact Kate Barrett or Ema Osaki @ 631-5242 for more information. 
Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Minsitry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning the.ir sexual orientation, to come together for con­versation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
I
I 
'' 
. . 
' 
. 
. 
I 
~--·-·-·­
Tuesday, September 9, 1997

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 


Legal problems plague Buckeyes 
. Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Three players -including last year's leading rebounder and a top scorer -have been removed from the Ohio State men's basketball team, coach Jim O'Brien said Monday. 
The players are Shaun Stonerook, Jermaine Tate and Trent Jackson. "While I continue to evaluate 
\ the direction of our program, I 
; feel that Shaun, Jermaine and 
\ \ Trent have failed to live up to 
ii their obligations as student-ath­letes at Ohio State University," said O'Brien, the former Boston College coach in his first year at the Columbus school. "Thus, I have concluded that it is in their best interest and the best inter­est of the Ohio State basketball program that they continue their education elsewhere." 
The Buckeyes finished 10-17 last season under coach Randy Ayers, including a 5-13 Big Ten 
~ 
\ record. Stonerook, a 6-foot-7 forward, was the Buckeyes' leading 
l ( 
\ Join The Observer
I 
~ Production Staff 
"Mark has lots of candy -> -to share!" 

rebounder as a sophomore last season and was sixth in the Big Ten with 7.7 per game. 
He also ranked third on the team in points (11.6) and was second in assists (3.7) and steals (1.6). 
Stoneroom recently was declared academically ineligible for the fall quarter. 
Tate, a 6-9 junior, sat out the final 11 games of the 1996-97 season after being diagnosed with cardiomyopathy, a heart condition. He averaged 14.1 points and 6.4 rebounds before being sidelined. 
Jackson, a 6-4 sophomore guard, played in 14 games last year. On Aug. 22, he and team captain Damon Stringer were charged with disorderly conduct and resisting arrest after a scuf­fle with police outside a Columbus bar. · 
They pleaded innocent in Franklin County Municipal Court. No court date was set. 

< .. ·.· )······•·•·>···.················negme ··.···•·•.· · i<•·•.···•r 
< BigcEast·.' · •.. ·... ·..· .•· .•.. the >... leadirlgthe l .•· .• ·.·•..···••·•·· .·.·· ...............·.. 
to their first victor§ofthe seast?l1 In a 3·0 win over Provj~erice on Sunday~ McKnig~t accounted~9rall three goals in the game, · '1' scoring one.·and assisting on th() other two. 
McK.nig~t, who is the only fre~hman to have played in allthr¢¢ 
· outings; earned hisfirst collegiate start against the Friars. He assisted on Notre Dame·s first t~~ goals illthe first half and then tallied his frrst score atthe 55:20 markofthe contest. 
T..Jbdove:rau rec(lrd andare 1~0*1 


At Work Program This REVOLUTIONARY program is coming to NO. 
Free information/registration. Date:Thursday, September 18 Time: 12:1 0-12:50pm Location:LaFortune, Foster room 


Contact:Jessica Brookshire 631-5829 -r 
This series starts September 25, for 1 0 weeks and includes all materials, cost $120. VISA/MC/Discover accepted. 
J887 Geacler Stttclies Opeaia• fte~eptiea 


Gender, Race, and 
...­
Alumni Student Networking


I I
I 

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER I I TH 4:30 -6:oo P.M. LA FORTUNE BALLROOM 



Tuesday, September 9,__::1~9_::_97:..._______________~T~h~e__::O::::_:b~s~er~v~er~•___.:S~P...::O:::..~RT:-....S:::_~=================================='=====p=a=g=e=l=j9 
• l\t1U3 

Tiger's Blair wins three in a row 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Damian Easley's two-run homer powered Willie Blair to his 16th win Monday night as the Detroit Tigers handed the Texas Rangers their fourth straight loss, 6-2. 
Ivan Rodriguez hit a two-run homer for the Rangers, who have dropped 14 of 22 overall and are 10-3 in their last 13 road games. 
Blair (16-6) won his third straight start and fourth in his last five. He allowed two runs on five hits, walked two and matched his season high with seven strikeouts in seven innings. 
Bobby Witt ( 11-1 0) fell to 1-6 in his last 11 starts, allowing five earned runs on six hits in 6 1-3 innings. He is 0-3 this year and 5-13 in his career against Detroit, including 3-7 and a 5.88 ERA in Tiger Stadium. 
Witt trailed 5-0 after two innings. He has not won since Aug. 12 at Boston, his only vic­tory since the All-Star break. 
Easley was 3-for-3 with three HBis. 1-Iis 20th homer made him just the fourth Tiger with at least 20 home runs and 20 stolen bases in a season. Kirk Gibson did it three times, Alan Trammell twice and Chad Curtis once. 
Detroit got its fourth win in five games and has won eight of 11. 
Brian Hunter led off the first with a walk before Easley went the other way and homered to right. Two outs b.ter, back-to­hack doubles by Travis Fryman and Bob Hamelin made it 3-0. 
The Tigers added two more in the second after Raul Casanova walked and took second on a wild pitch. Witt then dropped Deivi Cruz's sacrifice bunt for an error. Hunter singled to score Casanova and send Cruz to third, and Cruz came home on Easley's sacrifice fly. 
Rodriguez hit his 16th homer ofT the right-field foul pole after Tom Goodwin walked with two out in the fifth. 
Easley singled in the seventh, took third on Tony Clark's dou­ble and scored on Travis Fryman's sacrifice fly. 
Notes: The Tigers announced they have extended the con­tract of general manager Randy Smith for three years, through 2001. ... The Rangers activated left-handed pitcher Eric Gunderson. He went on the 15­day disabled list Aug. 26 with a strained rib cage .... Hunter has led off the Tigers' first with a hit or a walk and scored in four straight games. He's now scored 100 runs, the first Tiger to score that many since Tony Phillips had 113 in 1993. 
Be a part of the LIVE video tapin  For Students, and Families  
OM PAGNA  
presents  

..UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALL.. 


6 Monday Evenings, 7-9p.m. starting September 15th Jordan 
Seminar topics: Offense, Defense, the Kicking Game, Demonstrations & Particpation 
Auditorium, UNO TOM PAGNA Former Offensive Backfield Coach for Reservations Call Sponsored 219/233·3486 
Armchair

~a~~~~ent Servicef~-..._.;F~e;.:e~:.$:.:6~0;_.__,.-Welcome! 


Head for the Hills! 

• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & fol!ow-u? classes 

• 
Offers service work through various sites in Appalachia 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordmators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


INFORMATION SESSION 

Tuesday, September 9,1997 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 11, 1997 $40 deposit with application 
FURTHER INFORMATION 

Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 
• NFL 

Steeler defense shows inconsistent play 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 

PITTSBURGH 
Troy Aikman and Michael Irvin played an uncontested game of pitch-and-catch against them. Gus Frerotte 
had so many 
o p e n receivers, he almost seemed con­fused at times which one to throw to. 


Remember Stewart Blitzburgh? Rod Woodson? Chad Brown? The zone blitzes copied by so many teams? They're just a memory now in Pittsburgh, where the Steelers are putting up their best defense not on the field, but in post­game interviews. 
For all of the attention being paid to the up-and­down travails of new quarter­back Kardell Stewart, the Steelers' biggest problem is on the other side of the ball. They're not sacking anybody, they're not stopping anybody and even they confess to feel­ing fortunate to be 1-1, not 0­2. 
The Steelers will take this week off following two of the most uneven defensive per­formances of Bill Cowher's coaching tenure. Some might contend it will be the third consecutive week off for a 
defense that is missing not 
only Woodson and Brown, but 
the chemistry and combative­
ness that made it one of the 
NFL's best for years. 
"I think we're just not exe­cuting the defenses," Cowher said. after the Steelers with­stood Frerotte's 270 passing yards to beat the Washington Redskins 14-13 Sunday. 
Last week, Aikman threw four touchdowns in a Dallas' 37-7 romp that became all the more puzzling to dissect when Arizona's defense held the Cowboys' offense without a touchdown Sunday night. 
Bur the Steelers' statistics are not so difficult to compre­hend. They have allowed an average of 367 total yards and 285 passing yards per game, as opposed to 273 total and 184 passing yards last year when they were the NFL's No. 2 defense. 
After leading the league in sacks last year with 51, Pittsburgh has none this year. 
"Some of it has been those guys throwing it quick," Cowher said. "But there's also times we sat back there and gave them way too much time to throw. We've got to look at it as a coaching staff." 
New defensive coordinator Jim Haslett is trying to get by at cornerback with Donnell Woolford, rookie Chad Scott, and, after Scott sprained an ankle Sunday, Randy Fuller, instead of Woodson and Willie Williams. 

The University of Notre Dame International Study Program at: 

..r 
-----.
------------------------~--------------~-----------------r----------------------------~--­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
• COllEGE SPORTS 

Goss selected to head Michigan athletics 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 


ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Accountability, integrity, excellence and tradition. Tom Goss believes in all of that and more, espeCially where the University of Michigan is con­

'· cerned. 
His great love for his alma mater, coupled with his vast business background, helped Goss become the university's ninth athletic director Monday. His stiff resolve and fierce per­sonal pride make him think he can restore an image many once saw as squeaky clean. 
''I'm pretty clear on what I want," Goss said at a news conference in the stately Michigan Union. "There is no gray. And once you know what I want, I hold you account­able." 
Goss, 51, will inherit several problems. 
He is arriving about the same time that a private law firm is expected to conclude an inter­nal investigation into alleged wrong doings in the basketball program. He also will attempt to halt a series of embarrassing off-campus incidents involving players and coaches. 
"Everyone should know the rules," said Goss, an all-Big Ten defensive tackle for the Wolverines in 1968. "They're there in black and white. When I was playing, if you screwed up one of the rules, even if you were a star player, you weren't there. You were gone." 


As Goss spoke at a podium in the front of the wood paneled room, Michigan basketball coach Steve Fisher leaned against a wall, listening intent­ly. 
The men's basketball pro­gram has been under investiga­tion for more than a year as the NCAA and a Kansas law firm ­hired by the university -dig into allegations that players received money and other improper benefits from a boost­er, who now is banned. 
"I don't know Tom," Fisher said in the hallway afterward. "But I know of him, and what I know excites me. I like what he stands for and I think it will be 

.•S' 
good to have him in charge." 
In addition to the basketball woes, Goss also may face pres­sure from alumni if the football program fails to rebound from four consecutive four-loss sea­sons. The football team hasn't played in a Rose Bowl game since the 1992 season, the longest drought since the 1960s. 
Goss made it clear, however, that he admires football coach Lloyd Carr. 
"We like to win the Big Ten every year," Goss said. "That's our goal. But if you talk to Lloyd Carr, I'll bet you he wants to win the Big Ten. too. So. with a little support, maybe he will." 
Goss said he would not sacri­fice the integrity of the univer­sity in order to win games. He also said he would see that equity prevailed in the athletic department. Yet he made it 

-~ clear that the minor sports would be held just as account­able as those that proGuce the bulk of the revenue for his $38­million budget. 
"All the ADs-before me had integrity," Goss said. "One of the things we will do is build upon that integrity. There is some confusion between win­ning and success. 

"Winning is winning on the field and in the classroom as well." 
Goss' immediate predeces­sors -Don Canham, Bo Schembechler, Jack Weidenbach and Joe Roberson -all attended the news con­ference. Several ex-players, including Rick Leach, Jim Brandstatter, John Kolesar and Jim Wangler also attended. 
"After you've heard Tom talk, you know he's a tremendously intelligent guy," Schembechler said. "He's good with people. And I like his idea of account­ability. I think he's going to be outstanding." 
Through the years, Goss has maintained close ties to the university, serving as president of a local alumni club in the 1980s and spending 15 years on a special advisory commis­sion to the Big Ten. 
"He has tremendous integri­ty," Canham said. "I don't think you could find a better candidate than Tom. He's kept in touch with the university and the athletic department. I'm really sold on this guy." 
Roberson, who told university president Lee Bollinger several months ago he wanted out, leaves Goss a department revamped in many ways. Before bowing out, Roberson set up a code of conduct for athletes, created a vehicle reg­istration program and tight­ened the free ticket policy. 
Roberson also guided the department through a certifica­tion process which means the department, overall, is meeting NCAA standards. 
"I knew of Joe before I became president," Bollinger said. "I admired him then, and I admire him today. I thank him for a very fine job." 
Goss joins Michigan State's Merritt Norvell as the only black athletic directors in the Big Ten. 
"I think it's significant," Goss said. ''I'm proud of my race. All my life, I've been a role model." 
Goss continues a trend in which university presidents look to people with business backgrounds to run their ath­letic programs. 
A native of Knoxville, Tenn., Goss was recruited to Michigan by then-coach Bump Elliott. He played defensive tackle for three seasons, earning all-Big Ten honors his senior year. The 1968 team, Elliott's last before Schembechler took over, fin­ished £-2. 
"We lost our last game, at Ohio State (50-14)," Goss recalled. "I made 16 tackles in that game. I vowed I never would go to that stadium again, but now I guess I will." 
Goss has been in business since graduating with degree in communications. Goss began his business career with Proctor & Gamble in 1969, while playing semi-pro football in northern Michigan. He quickly gave up football and flourished in the business world, rising quickly into man­agement. 
Goss became district manag­er for R.J. Reynolds Foods in Houston. in 1977; he was vice president of sales for Faygo Beverages in 1986; executive vice president and general manager of National Beverage Corp.'s Western Shasco Division in 1989, and president and CEO of PIA Merchandising from 1994 until he left the com­pany. 
Top 25 Football Schedule for Saturday, Sept. 13 
No.1 PennState vs feiJ)ple, 1 p.m. No.3 Washington vs. San Diego State, 3:30 p.m. No.5 Florida State vs Maryland~ 3:30p.m... No.6 Nebraska vs. Central Florida, 1 :30 p.m. 
North()(lrol!na vs. No;w1hStcmfC)rd,.E3p.m.. 
. ·:::~;: ---·-· ----... ·:·:;;;;:;:;;:;.;:: 
Colorado at No. 14 Michigan, Noon 
feb,.,,.:.::.: ·········2:n!2:§!!t2::~~·.,~<>wtin9··~·r~!n~111~~~r>'~~9J:::;-~ 
No.1 0 LSU at Mississippi State, 9 p.m. 
PRI~CII'LES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTI~G 

~: 
.


Average annual compound rares of <oral rerurn (periods ending 6/30197) 0 
YOU'RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WAYS TO INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH. 
'"l~ Thether you want a fund that selects 
V V ~pecific stocks, or one that covers the market, we're on the same page. Our CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock market, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation.00 
The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that we believe are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for more 
l I\I I I .II! 1\\ I II \ l lllll'\ I 
diversification, with 

28.56o/' 26.2~~~ 
a portfolio that
J20J~• 

!t seeks to mirror the 
I year 1 

y•m sin<;/~~e~tion experience of the 
U.S. stock market as a whole. 
Like our CREF Stock Account, the largest singly managed equity fund in America_?00 and our Global Equities Account, which actively 
ll\llll.lllll) l'\111\ Hlllll'\1 
seeks opportunities 

JOJgl• 26,6g/o 24,6f" 
worldwide, our accounts are managed 1y~ar J years Sinc.; i,;;c ~tion by experienced
11 

investment professionals. They're the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the world, with $190 billion in assets under management. 
To find out more about building your portfolio-and your future -with TIAA­CREF, just call 1 800 842-2776. And take your pick. 

Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 
0The total returns shown for CREF va.riahlc annuif:'' an.:ounts represent past pcrformanl·e Total return5 and the prir'll-·ipal valu<'" of inv('stments in the accounts will Jluc.·tuare. an< Iyif'IJs may vary. Lipon redemption, your accumulation units may lM' worth more or less than their original price. Inve-stment results arc after all intestment. administrativl(', and distribution ex.~nsc-s hav<'" been Jc·du..:tcd. 00Thcsc ac.:,;ounrs arc available tOr Rt>tircmcnt Annuities subj~·t to th~ t~rms ofyour institution's pl.a.n. Thf!y a~ .a.v.a.il.. ble for .,JI Suppl~m~ntCll R~tir~ment Annuiti~s. 000 8a.s~N.J on assets umJ~r management. CREF (."Crtifi<:alrs arc tlistriburrd by TIAA·CREF Individual and Institutional Strvic.:cs. For more c.·omplrte infOrmation, 
induding charg~s and ~xpt:mll"S, c.·all I 800 842-2733. ~xt. 550G. tOr a prosprctus. Rl"aJ th~ prospt:c..·cus c..·arr.full_v betOr~ you invrst or send monr,v. 7fl)7 
Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Belles weather difficult road trip 
By MAHA ZA YEO Sporrs Weiler 
The task that faced the Saint Mary's soccer team this week­end could be called anything but easy. With only 13 play­ers able to compete. the Belles went on the road to t'acc Denison University on Saturday and Ohio Wesleyan on Sunday. 
Although the Belles played tough, it was not enough to keep up with the experience and depth of the opposing teams. The Belles were beat 7-0 by Denison and 6-0 by Ohio Wesleyan. 
"The opposition was well coached and have good pro­grams," said Saint Mary's head coach Bob Sharp. "They have experience and depth which is something we need to gain. 
"With more games and more experience, the women will have success because the many inexperienced players are learning more and more each game." 
The Belles' next game will be at 4 p.m. on Tuesday at Alma College. 

The English Department University of Notre Dame presents· 
The 1997 Joseph M. Duffy, Jr. Lecture 

Njabulo S. Ndebele 
THE IMAGING OF SOUTH AFRICA: Some reflections on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 8:00P.M. CCE Auditorium 
Njabulo Ndebele is president of the Congress of South African Writers and vice..chancellor of the University of the North in Sovenga, South Africa. Among his many writings are Fools and Other Stories (Ravan Press, 1983), which won the NOMA award in 1984, and South African Literature and Culture: Rediscovery· of the Ordinary (Manchester University Press, 1994), which Nadine Gordimer has called "an essential book." Hailed as "a prophet of the post..apartheid condition," Doctor Ndebele is primarily concerned with the ways in which literary culture functions in such a rapidly changing political and social world as contemporary South Africa. 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­oriented professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty amazing feats. 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for individuals in the College of Business with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us: 

September 12th, 9am-4pm University of Notre Dame College Of Business Administation Building 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning 
services, ATM. softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and 
. . much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to:
.~. NOVUS S~rvices, Inc., Human Resources, ~NOVUS 
· IT Recru•ter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, LWriiM SERVICES\ I · Riverwoods, IL 60015, Taking charge in a changing world. 
~,. Fax: (847) 405-1388
n
www.novusnet.com 
The Observer/John Daily 

The Irish were able to win the second game of the match against Florida. 

V-ball 
continued from page 24 
18 kills on 38 attempts. Rodriguez was one of four Florida players who had double­digit kills. Senior blocker Nina Foster led the team in blocking, _scoring six assists and two solo blocks. With the win, Florida improves its perfect record to 7­
0. 
The Irish were led once again by Lee, who led both teams with 20 kills and a .375 hitting per­centage. She was supported by Leffers and senior hitter Angie Harris, who scored nine and eleven kills, respectively. 
LetTers was the leader in the blocking category with five block assists and one solo. Junior Lindsay Treadwell also turned in a solid performance, scoring seven kills on 16 attempts. Freshman setter Denise Boylan again ran the Irish offense, leading the team with 39 assists. Boylan is just 31 assists shy of knocking for­mer player Jenny Birkner from the 1Oth spot on the Irish record book. 
Once again, the team strug­
•
gled with its serve, giving up 14 serving errors while scoring just two aces. There was also a huge disparity in hitting, as the Gators had a .333 team percent­age compared to a .222 for the Irish. 
"Overall, I think it was an average performance," Brown remarked. ''I'm definitely disap­pointed, but it's not just the players. As coaches, we need to prepare them better and be more demanding of them in cer­tain aspects. We have a long way to go and a lot of improve­ments to make." 
"I think we had a very strong second game," Lee commented. "But we were not intense enough emotionally throughout the match. I think that's what caused the slip in the third and fourth games." 


;f 
• 
T 


------·~·---~~~ 
~ 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
The last of the three knee injuries belongs to freshman wide receiver Joey

Football 

Getherall. continued from page 24 In becoming the first freshman to 
start for the Irish since inside line­up Lance Legree will fill in for Davie's backer Mike Kovaleski in 1983, defense despite not having played a Getherall grabbed five passes for 4 7 
dtho.w n p r i ~ r t o :•:/''"'Ai%:W""'"''''''''•'%·:··········· ,, . . ... ........ ····:·::·::•::8:·• ·::•::•::·:··:<:<:;•{i yGa r d s . a g a i n hst 
IS season. :··· ·········:.'····:.:···.·:·· :: :.,::,· · · >:} corg1a Tee . 
1

~ 0°n~:~~:ci li~~~ '·B.:·obbie H~;ard andJimmy .. · ~~-~~oet~~~· 1 ~~~ backer did come . Friday are great role mod· pound receiver ou_t of spring els and have helped me out su_ffered a dnlls as the slight knee starter at nose a lot. I'll be ready ifthey need me.' injury running guard prior to for a pass late Bennett's move in the game. from defensive "It was kind end. Grantlrons of a freak 
"''ll try to take thing that is advantage of kind of hard to any opportunity a void," said I can get," said Legree. "I played a lot Getherall. "It's disappointing to get in practice and will try not to let my hurt especially, but I guess it's better to teammates down when my time get hurt in the first game than later in comes." the season." 
~ J 
< 
( 
I 
j· 
\ 
I 
~ 
-:,..:.' 
{ 
l.i\ \ " 
'\r 
11·,I 
~ ( .~ 
; 
(I:~ { (
!~~ 
j f~ 
n. 
; ,p
; i 
')· 
i i· 
~ :1' 
((:
l i': 
1l~ 
\·' 
(~
(j) 
{dl: 
I ~ 
I I h 1 ' 
•"I
I 
iij { i ·+ 
·•,, 
> 


Tueaday, September 9, 1997 
Stepping up and Stepping out: Several knee injuries in last Saturday's game will force Grant Irons (left), Lance Legree, and other members of the Irish to step up their level of play in the up-coming game against Purdue. Freshmen Joey Getheral (below) and Corey Bennett (95, bottom left) will be unable to play next week­end. 
Photos by Brandon Candura 




Tickets 
Buy•Seli•Trade Seasons and Individuals GA's only•Confidential 
234-5650 
s 


Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 
The conznzitteefor this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is lookingjor a Sopho1nore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one ofthe 1nost exciting events ofjunioryear. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
•Applications are now available at the 
Lafortune Information Desk. 
•Applications must be returned to 
315 Lafortune by September 26. 
IF YOll HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL jEFF jONES AT XI6JI. 



Catch the Action!! 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 13 Round Trip Bus Transportation to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Buses leave at I 0:30am from Stepan Center Tickets: $20.00 at the 
LaFortune Information Desk Bus tickets will go on sale at I O:OOam on September 9. 
For more information, contact 
Student Activities at 631-7309 

Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 




Upcoming Intramural Deadline~ 
lnterhall 
Grad/Fac/Staff Soccer-Men Soccer Cross Country 
Campus 
(Open to All NO Stud/Fac/Staff) 



Outdoor Volleyball 
For More Info. Contact: Y·
Bowling 
Athletic Commissioner or RecSports -1-61 00 fNTI!l' DIADLI~f: ~fPTf~Bfl! II www.nd.edu/-recsport 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
--··~:­
DAN SULLIVAN 
~1(.4. T 15 Rll;HT BRINl,IN(,'/OtJ IJI£ HoT~T MUSIC Fit....., ll 'TC> 2 AM EVERY 1'16HT oN IVOCTIIRN£. 
/VOW IICRE'S AJioTIIER J:>l N C> f:AI/OICI TE 0-'i f'l ' 
MIKE PETERS 
M~ .. ~~.ln<-. 


SCOIT ADAMS

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Prefix wilt1 59 Monastery figure -gramme
1 Free ticket 60 Rendezvous 37 Secret
s Watercress unit 61 Change for a ten 
competitor

10 Throw off 62 Argentine dance 40 Beam14 Neighborhood 63 Wings
15 Fraternity~-41 Liqueur flavoring 64 About
16 Fast feline 42 Kind of stock: 65 Product ofAbbr.
17 Cheery tune Bethlehem 18 Bewildered 43 Sunrise 66 Basketball's
direction. in 

19 Kind of ra1n ArchibaldSonora
201980 Neil Diamond hit 44 Pre-Revolution leaders
23 Yalie DOWN 48 Solo in Berlioz's 
24 Barker and "Harold in Italy" 1 T elemarketer 
Kettle, e.g. 25 "Siddhartha" so D'Amatoor 2 Baltimore bird author Dodd Abbr. 
3 Litigator Belli 27 ---car 52 Formerly 
4 Toast topping 29lnjure 53 1978 Oscar­
s Alexander,32 Nickname winning prison formerly of "60
documelllary

33 Creature caught Minutes" only by a virgin 58 Pessimist's 
6 ''Designing maiden comments 
Women" co-star 1 Hurry 8 Words of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
understanding 
9 Trucker's cho1ce 1oPart of NASA 11 Snake oil 
salesman 12 Go-between 
--t-+-:-i 13 June honoree 
r----1-'-+-+~ 21 Saudi neighbor 
22 Physicist Georg 26 Bruised item 
-=+-+-+-''---~ 28 Not go straight -:-+7±::.-+:::-i 29 Guts ~HB~-=--1 30 Lincoln Center subject ----''---''--'---'---' 31 Memo starter 
HOW CAN 'lOU DON'T YOU TELL SE.E ANY IF IT'~ LABOR WORKING? HI\PPENING 
I 1\ROUND HERE1 


34 Lupino and others 35 Copper 36 Tacks on 
37 Masons, coopers and the l1ke 
38 Glance 39 Big insurance carrier 40 N.J.'s Whitman, 
e.g. 
43 Pitcher part 
45 Bassett of 
''Waiting to 
Exhale" 

Answers to any three clues 1n th1s puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Boh Dylan, l'ri,cill,l l're,lt•v, 1'.1tti L1Bdlt-, Rosanne Ca~h ­
... 
DEAR EUCENII\: I <.i.lted a guy for over two yt•ars ,1nd my mother di!x1pprowd of him. Fin.11ly I hrokt• up with him <1nd found a nl'W hoy­friend. My mother and fatlwr both know him and like him, but tlwv w.1nt u~ to lx· ju't friends. Iam in lt>\;C with him and we have so much in common. This feding is the same ior l11m. Do mv parl'nts fed th1s w,1y al:>out my 11ew boyfriend t>.•c.1use of my l<1st boyfriend? Will my new rela­tionship last? Will my parents finallv, someday, let me choose my own boyfriends' 1 was born on Mard1 3, JCJ78, at 1:00 p.m. 
Mom-Butts-In 
DEAR MOM-BUTTS-IN: You didn't give me your parents' birth data, so I really don't know where they are coming from. I do know that you will continue to experience limi­tations and frustrations at home for the rest of this year and part of next Last year you were going through a difficult time where relationships were concerned, and although your chart has cleared up considerably, without your boyfriend's birth data, I can't run a comparison. You will be in a much higher cycle where love is concerned late next year. You should be concentrating on your educational pursuits for the time being. Your par­ents probably should be happy that you are dating a boy that they like and lighten up a little. Afkr all, you could have chosen someone similar to your last boyfriend. 
... 
ARIES (March 21-April19): \\'ark­rdateJ partnerships can be establislm.i tluuugh friendships that develop..'<! by your involvement in intellectual orga­nizations. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: Co-
Born Today: Your aggressin• naturt• will l:>ackfire this year. Don't be too quick to jump into risky venturt'S. Your need to push V(>urself to the limit mav result in exhaustion. Don't negll>ct the on~'S you ion~ and they'll be there to take care of you when you really nt>ed tender, kwing care. 

-=-r 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
workers may b._· l'Vasivl'. Ask qu..,­
tions to narrow down the extent of 
the problem that t•xists. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Chil­
dren willlx· eager to hdp. Involve tlw 
whole family in home-impnlV~·ment 
proj<.'l:ts or excursions. 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Get inn>lv'-'<1 in familv functions. Your d­forts on the dom'estic scene will not gn unnoticed and may saw'you from unn<.'Cl'Ssarv confrontations. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pleasure tri~ will promote nt•w romantic con­nt•ctions. You can catch up on over­due correspondt'nce. Self-awareness courst'S will be beneficial. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Family members may get out of hand today. Your tempt•r will explode if you don't have a physical outlet for your anger. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get in­volved in activities outside your do­mestic scene. You need to be around close friends who can relate to your personal concerns l:>y offering sound advice. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Visit friends that have been confined. In­vite relatives over for a get-together. Make decisions regarding your do­mt.'Stic scene. 
SAGITIARIUS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can open doors that have been dosed in the past. However, some of the contacts you make will givt• you empty promises. 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: Put your time and energy into mak­·­ing domestic changes or inviting friends over. Your ideas regarding money-making ventures will l>e satis­fying. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): In­laws or relatives will cause friction to­dav. Minor accidents and arguments wiil de\'t'lop if you aren't cautious. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Do not lend or oorrow money or possessions. Relati,•es or children may cost you dearly if you gin• in to their whims. 

46 Warm up, as leftovers 47 Living room piece 49 Rancher's rope so Put on 51 Flynn of film 
54 New1s ss "Phooey!" 56 Kind of curve, in 
math 57"--old COW'1and. 58 Constrictor 



. 
·, 
i 
\:
t' 
q
., 

;! 
.} 
~~ 
n
.
' 
·f 
; 
'1
I. 
;: ; 
I· 
·..j
'! 
\( (
If' 
\. f 
ll :' (l 
'if
k(
:t! 
.;, 
l-' 
~~ 
,, .· 
''·j 
.. 
I, 
,;­
i t~ 
.f ~­~ .~ 
i I 
. ­


SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, September 9, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish fall to second-ranked Florida in four games 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 

Any match against a ranked team is difficult. especially when the team is a national powerhouse. While the Notre Dame volleyball team has played against many top teams in recent years, last night's episode proves that it never gets any easier. as the Irish lost a four-set struggle against No. 2 Florida. 15-7, 10-15,15-6,15-3. 
At the start, the Gators took a quick 5-0 lead before the Irish called their first time out. Florida continued to dominate the game. taking another 7-2 run to set the game at match point. Despite battling back from three match points, an Irish rally fell short. 
In the second set, the Irish bounced back with strong hit­ting and heavy blocking. In the set, the Irish had a hitting per­centage of .426, scoring 22 kills on 39 attempts. They also had four of their nine blocks in the set, mostly due to sophomore blocker Mary LeiTers. 

"We were having trouble con­taining Aurymar Rodriguez, the outside hitter. so we rotated Leffers in order to block her out," head coach Debbie Brown said. "I think our comeback was a combination of seeing them in game one and getting to know their patterns and then responding properly in game two." 
• FooTBAll 


Knee injuries knock off three key Irish performers 
Despite a strong rally from four points down, the Gators' offense was completely shut down, as the Irish had a 4-0 run to even the match at one game apiece. 
"I think in the second game," senior hitter and co-captain Jaimie Lee said, "we were able to take them out of their offense by making our serves a little tougher, while our offense became fairly diversified. 
"We were able to get the ball to our middles, and because of that, combined with blocking out some of the key Florida players, we were able to play a solid second game." 
In the third game, the Gators composed themselves, getting off to a 3-0 start before Notre Dame got on the board. A quick 4-0 run following that gave Florida a five-point lead. It was stretched to seven before the Irish started to rally, bringing the score to 9-5 before the Gators called a time-out. Regrouped, the Gators went on to win the game and take a 2-1 lead. 
In the fourth game, an early 2-1 lead by the Irish was quick­ly nullified by a rally which quickly turned into a 10-0 Florida run. Despite a half­hearted Irish rally, the Gators went on to take the fourth game and the match. 

The Gators were led by Aurymar Rodriguez, who had The Observer/John Daily 
The national powerhouse Florida proved to be too much for the Irish. Notre Dame fell 15-7, 1 0-15, 15-6, 15-3. 
see V-BALL I page 21 


By MIKE DAY Sports Ediror 

Now that the first victory of the season is officially in the books, it's time for the bad news. And unfortunately for the Irish, there's plenty of it. Knee injuries will sideline three starters for this Saturday's match-up with Purdue. 
Junior inside linebacker Bobbie Howard will most likely miss the next six weeks after suffering a knee injury late in the third quarter on Saturday. While the coaching staff is waiting on further tests, the prognosis does not look good for Howard and the Irish. 
"That could be a big injury for us, especially with his experience and the leadership he brings to this team," said defensive coordinator Greg Mattison following the game. "Bobbie Howard is a guy who does a lot for us, so we can't afford to lose a player like him." 
With Howard out, Mattison will most likely turn to true freshman Grant Irons or sophomore Bonnie Nieks as a replacemrmt. Irons filled in for Howard in the fourth quar­ter against Georgia Tech. 
"For his first game, I think Grant Irons did a great job for us," said Mattison. "He's big, strong, and a quick learner. If we need him, he'll do a good job filling in for us on Saturday." 
Although he did not expect to be pressed into duty this early in the season, Irons is confident that he will be able to help ease the loss of Howard come Saturday. 
"I know I've only been here a short time, but I've been able to learn from the older guys on the team," said Irons. "Bobbie Howard and Jimmy Friday are great role models and have helped me out a loL I'll be ready if they need me." 
If losing Howard wasn't enough, the Irish will also be without the services of nose guard Corey Bennett for this Saturday's game against the Boilermakers. The 6-foot-1, 255-pound senior also injured his knee against the Yellow Jackets and will need at least a week of rest. 
"Corey Bennett will not play against Purdue, but hopefully, he'll be back for Michigan State," said Davie. 
Bennett's injury means back-
see FOOTBALL I page 22 

ar Pinsburgh, September 12, 7: I 5 p.m. 
vs. Valparaiso, September 10, 4 p.m. 

page 18 
vs. Purdue, September 13 
Soccer at Alma, Today, 4 p.m. 
• 
Michigan chooses athletic director see page 20 

• 
Ohio State basketball loses three see page 18 







