
Thursday, October 16, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 39 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

• FACUlTY SENATE 
' TJ/e're building our endowment as a f f way ofcontrolling our destiny. ' 
-Father Edward Malloy University president 
Malloy outlines goals for senate 
By DEREK BETCHER endowment] is probably the most goal of raising $767 million by Dec. Associate News Editor critical area we need to control," 31, 2000. Malloy said. "We're building the To illustrate the growing impor­
Notre Dame will continue to endowment as one way to control tance of gift and endowment fund­increase financial aid offerings, our destiny." ing, Malloy cited figures from the student body diversity, campus The demand for flat tuition rates University's standing plans to add construction and its academic of increase constrains annual 150 faculty by the year 2000. rankings pursuant to expanding its funding, Malloy explained to Salaries for nearly all of the 35 funding, University president assembled faculty. The University, faculty who have been added thus Father Edward Malloy said during he noted, has set a five percent far are drawn from the his annual address to the Faculty mark as its average rate of tuition University's annual operating bud­Senate last night. increase. get -a trend which Malloy says 
Greater financial resources -"The national inflation rate is needs to stop because every year especially in the form of perma­clearly different than the academic over 50 percent of the University's nent endowment-based funds -one," Malloy noted. budget is locked into salary and will help alleviate nearly every Rising utility and maintenance benefits costs. issue touched upon at last night's costs, "significantly higher" health "Our flexibility, presently, is dri­meeting, according to Malloy. care costs and this spring's staff ven largely by our success in 
"Financial aid continues to be reclassification all contribute to fundraising campaigns," Malloy one of the great challenges which Notre Dame's growing operating noted. faces this University," Malloy told budget, Malloy reported. The need Funding success in any field will the senate. to offset these rising costs rein­help raise the University's ranking 
Student aid has increased the forces the role of the Generations in publications such as U.S. News past six years, he said, but contin­fundraising campaign, another and World Report. Despite the uing and even accelerating that University endeavor upon which arbitrary nature of such listings, trend will rely on expanding the Malloy briefed the senate. moving Notre Dame closer to the University's already growing "We're a little ahead of sched­top of ranking experts' lists is endowment. ule," he said; Notre Dame is 70 
"As a private institution [our percent of the way to meeting its see MONK I page 6 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Committees report, but no new proposals 
By TIM LOGAN the Gender Relations committee News Writer was security at the University. Specifically mentioned were the Discussion at yesterday's lack of lighting and security call­Student Senate meeting focused phones in University parking lots on reports by the various senate and around the lakes and the committees updating their twenty-four hour Detex at progress during the past week. women's residence halls. The Residence Life Committee Student Body president Matt informed that they were still Griffin also reported on the working on the repairs of the Student Govern-ment's upcom­
ing report to 
ketball
courts. the Board of Another issue Trustees. w h i c h The report Residence Life will propose has been dis­the creation cussing is the of a trans­introduction of portation a shuttle ser­. iggins pool for the vice from 
~t!tw:u, g~~~~r;;n:
South Quad 7::7~~~~~tm;m 

dorms to the the Center 
02, 06, and off-campus parking for Social Concerns provides 
lots. These issues have been dis­transportation for student 
cussed for several weeks. groups. The report will be pre­
The Gender Relations sented to the Board of Trustees, 
Committee reported on its meet­who are on campus for this 
ing from earlier in the week. One weekend's USC game. 

topic it discussed, which has also Attendance at the senate 
been covered by the Residence meeting was too low to reach a 
Life Committee, was the provi­quorum. Twenty of the 28 sena­
sion of laundry service for men tors attended the meeting, which 
who live in dorms which do not was rendered informational due 
have facilities of their own. One to the poor attendance. Without 
proposal brought up by the com­21 voting members present, no 
mittee was that one night each formal decisions can be made. 
week be set aside in women's The poor attendance was 
laundry rooms for students from attributed to last-minute change 
the affected men's dorms to in meeting time. The meeting 
wash their clothes. However. was moved because its time con­
this would only present a tempo­flicted with the student govern­
rary solution. ment's review of its upcoming 
Another issue brought up by report to the Board of Trustees. 

· The Observer/Sam Assaf 
Sociologist Jack Levin spoke about the nature of sociopathic killers in last night's lecture. held last night. 



Levin reveals killer traits 
By PATRICK McGOVERN entertaining. After all, they "I deplore the celebrity sta­News Writer could happen to anyone. tus bestowed on serial But murder can be so extra­killers. It adds tremendous Jiow do you tell the differ­ordinary, so hideous and so insult to injury to the vic­ence between a sociopathic grotesque that it might as tims' families and gives the killer and an innocent man? well be fiction." killers exactly what they 
"The answer is simple," Levin then noted how this want. according to Jack Levin. fascination can be problem­"Take a random sample "The sociopathic killer will atic. asking someone to name give you a better story. He'll "This distinction between five serial murderers. Then look more innocent than the a character in a movie or a ask them to name five vice innocent guy." book versus a real life killer presidents. There would be 
Last night Levin gave a is sometimes lost on people a lot of trouble with the vice lecture titled "Overkill: who are fascinated by mass presidents," said Levin. Serial Murder Exposed." He murder," he said. Levin also spoke on the spoke on the misconcep­Levin illustrated how seri­popular misconceptions tions the public has about al murderers attain celebri­about serial murderers ver­serial murderers and the ty status and become glam­sus the real life characteris­glorification of murder in orized by displaying trading tics. Serial killers, he popular culture. . cards for murderers such as explained, are not the 
"Many people actually David Berkowitz and paint­crazed, glassy eyed lunatics escape into murder," said ings by John Wayne Gacy. that the public expects. Levin. "Muggings and car­"They would not be worth "The frightening truth is jackings are all too real. 50 cents if he hadn't mur­Therefore, they arc not very dered 33 people," he said. see KILLER I page 6 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, October 16, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Euthyphro II 
I: "Ah, sir. I see by your Dave Freddoso clothes that you must be Assistant News Editor a business major." 
BUS: "What do you mean? I'm only wearing shorts and aT-shirt." 
I: "Never mind." 
BUS: "No, really, how could you tell? What's your major, anyway?" 
I: "Classical Greek." 
BUS: "Classical Greek?! Ha! I've never heard of that major." 
1: "(Sigh) My friend (the other Greek major) and I put up with a lot of flack from friends about our major, although I don't know why." 
BUS: "But how on earth did you decide to major in Greek?" 
I: "Several reasons, I guess. Most importantly, I like it." 
BUS: "You're studying something because you LIKE it?" 
1: "Yes. Also. I was lucky enough not to get a certain unethical Freshman Year advisor who steers young students away from Greek and Latin. But I don't have any hard evidence to ver­ify that, so I just won't mention it at all. But mainly because I like it." 
BUS: "But Classical Greek? That has no job market. That's totally impractical!" 
I: "Nonsense. Greek is much more practical than your major." 
BUS: "What?! What could you do with a degree in Greek? Flip burgers?" 
I: "First, tell me what you can do with your major." 
BUS: "Why, all sorts of things. I can go into the whole 'REAL WORLD' of business!" 
I: "Do you think TillS world is fake or some­thing?" 
BUS: "Well, no, but ... you know what I mean." 
I: 
"Well. as for me, with a major in Greek, I, could flip burgers, if I wanted. Or I could go to law school, or go into journalism, or politics, or education, or I could go to graduate school, I guess. I'd be very qualified to do any of those interesting things if I work hard now." 

BUS: "Well, uh, but I'm the only one who can go into business. I'll have a much better paying and more secure job than you will. That's why I started in business in the first place." 

I: 
"Oh, I forgot. After I finish in Classical Greek, I could also get an MBA, or start a small business when I get out of school, or go into something like sales, or management, or data­base work, or I could even get hired by one of those consulting firms. As it turns out, many of the ones who are coming to campus this year have bought books full of senior Arts and Letters resumes." 


BUS: "What? Are you trying to say that your major is more practical than mine just because you will be qualified to go into all those different fields, while I can go into just one or two of them?" 
I: "Yes ..." 
BUS: "And I suppose that next, you are going to tell me that Greek is more fun than spread­sheets?" 
I: "Yes ..." 
BUS: "And then you will say that I should change my major to something more interesting than business, like Greek, or maybe philosophy or even history, because I could get a fine job an~ay wi~~ any of those majors?" 
I: 
Yes ... BUS: "Oh, I see ... " 

I: 
"Well?" BUS: "Hmm ...uh ... well ... maybe ... oh, no, 



• WORLO AT A GLANCE 
Quake kills seven, causes building damage in central Chile 

SANTIAGO, Chile 

A powerful earthquake rocked much of Chile on Tuesday night, crushing some homes, sparking several land­slides and killing seven people, author­ities reported. 
The 10:02 p.m. tremor measured 6.8 and was centered near Illapel, more than 300 miles north of Santiago, according to the National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo. But it was felt along a 750-mile north­south stretch of Chile, including this capital city of 5 million people, and even across the Andes mountains in Argentina. 
Interior Minister Carlos Figueroa said seven people were killed, inelud­ing an entire family of five, in the cities of Ovalle, Coquimbo and Pueblo Nuevo, which are near lllapel. They were 
Kaczynski may claim schizophrenia 
SACRAMENTO 

Court documents show that attor-
.-----= neys for Theodore Kaczynski may claim the Unabomber suspect suffers from paranoid schizophrenia, whieh makes some people think that others are "out to get them." U.S. District Judge Garland Burrell Jr. gave the defense until last Friday to hand over to the government information about any mental disease or defect Kaczynski, 55, might claim to have. Prosecution spokeswoman Leesa Brown confirmed Tuesday that the defense had provided details on Kaczynski's possible mental claims, but declined to elaborate. However, prosecution court fil­ings make several references to paranoid schizophre­nia, which is associated with delusional feelings of being persecuted or plotted against. According to the definition of the disease in a manual of psychiatric dis­orders, "the combination of persecutory and grandiose delusions with anger may predispose the individual to violence." Nearly 3 million Americans, or 1 percent of the population, develop schizophrenia during the course of their lives, according to the National Institutes of Mental Health. Some reports -if true ­seem to tally with hallmarks of the disease, ineluding a report that Kaczynski kept a list of enemies. 
AIDS researchers resign from board 
NEW YORK 

Two prominent AIDS researchers resigned from the New England Journal of Medicine's editorial board to protest an opinion piece that attacked federally funded AIDS studies in developing countries. Dr. David Ilo and Dr. Catherine Wilfert, the journal's chief advisers on AIDS, quit the board because they say the journal did not consult them before publishing an editorial that compared the AIDS studies to the notorious Tuskegee experiment, in which poor black men with syphilis were left untreated: "The reason you have an editorial board to help with policy is to get some input when you have major issues like this one, and that clearly did not take place," Ho told the newspaper. The studies criticized by the Journal are designed to find an inexpensive drug regimen to prevent women with the AIDS virus from passing it to their infants. The studies involve 12,000 infected pregnant women in several African nations, as well as Thailand and the Dominican Hepublic. Some of the women receive AZT, a drug that has had some suc­cess preventing transmission of the virus to infants in the United States, while others receive a placebo. 
crushed by collapsed walls. 
The most heavily damaged ama was around the epicenter, where a number of old adobe houses caved in, especially in the cities of Vicuna and lila pel. 
Some roads were blocked by slides and an emergency bridge built to replace one that had been swept away in last July's storms collapsed, interrupting traffic on the Pan American highway. 
Telephone and electric power were temporarily interrupted in some of the afl"ected areas. 
Rnnan Fuentalba, regional governor of the epicenter region, told the state tele­vision that "after the seare, the situation is under control." 
In some parts of Argentina, people rushed from their homes, fearing the structures would buckle, but no serious 
damage was reported. 
Driving instructor orders car chase 
DUHHAM 

David Cline, a driver's education instructor for Durham Public Schools, was suspended for allegedly ordering a student to pursue a car that had cut them off and then belting the car's driver. Cline also was charged with simple assault aftnr the Sept. 19 incident in nearby Chapel Hill. The Herald Sun of Durham quoted unidenti­fied officials as saying that Cline, 36. was teaching two female students how to drive when another ear cut them off. Angered, Cline instructed the student driver to chase down the car. Macklin then took off and the instructor had the student give chase again. Poliee spokeswoman Jane Cousins said a police officer pulled the driver's edu­cation vehicle over for allegedly speeding. She didn't know how fast they were going. She said while the offi­cer was talking to Cline, the other driver, Jon Macklin, pulled up and told the officer Cline had assaulted him. She said Macklin swore out an assault warrant against Cline, who was arrested and released on $400 bond. The girl was not ticketed. Shirley Arrington of the Durham Publie Schools personnel department said a decision was expected later today on whether Cline should return to his job or be recommended for dismissal. Several of the Cline's supporters said Tuesday that the outburst was out of character. Cline could not immediately reached for comment; there was no answer at a phone listed to a David Cline this morning. 
Link to missing art discovered 
BOSTON 

Paint chips purportedly from a Rembrandt masterpiece stolen in one of history's biggest art heists were turned over to the FBI Wednesday by a newspaper that said they had been authenticated by an expert. If genuine, the chips support the claims of a jailed art thief and his accomplice who say they have aecess to the $300 million in art works stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston seven years ago. Convicted art thief Myles Connor Jr. and William Youngworth III say they know where the paintings are being kept and will arrange for their return in exchange for immunity from prosecution, Connor's early release from prison and the $5 million reward offered by the Gardner Museum. The Boston Herald said the ehips were made available to its reporter as evidence the offer to return the stolen art works was legitimate. The newspaper refused to say who gave it the chips. An expert hired by the newspaper, Walter C. McCrone of Chicago, said the chips were almost certainly from a Hembrandt. Two Hembrandts, "Storm on the Sea of Galilee" and "A Lady and Gentleman in Black," were among the stolen paintings. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
what am I thinking! I can't do that! Don't you see? I need business to fall back on! No Arts and Letters majors ever get good jobs. They all just starve to death on the streets after they gradu­ate!" 
I: "(Sigh.) Never mind. Nice meeting you." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Ton;w's STAFF 
News Graphics Heather M·acKenzie John King Anne Marie Maningly Production Sports Heather MacKenzie Anrhony Bianco Anne Marie Mattingly Viewpoint Betsy Baker Guillermo Tijerina Lab Tech Accent 
"Photo" Joe Stark Joey Crawford 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

5 Day South Bend Forecast 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 16. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·r......___ ....../.r.....................~········ 
H L 
I

Thursday ~ 58 38 Friday ~ 58 37 Saturday c::1 60 43 
FRONTS: 
~ ......_._ ....,..-......
Sunday c::1 l 58 42 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
Monday, ~ / 56 41 
Vis ~SOCittted Press
~)'·<\'-' ..-, 
( 




Abilene 74 44 Helena 70 37 Paducah 63 42 



Buffalo 52 35 Juneau 49 45 Rockwood Point 61 47 Cincinnati 58 38 Little Rock 69 48 St. Thomas 92 79
4,~,~8c61Q :!) ~ u 
El Paso 74 40 Milwaukee 53 41 Tampa 87 66 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Flagstaff 65 32 Nashville 64 42 Wilmington 60 45
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
By MARY ZAKAS News Writer 
While Notre Dame students are enjoying their fall break next week. 36 professors and teach­ing assistants will be attending workshops in order to gain use­ful classroom skills. 
The workshops will be spon­sored by Notre Dame's John A. Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. Barbara Walvoord, who is heading the workshops, commented that next week's programs will "give the faculty and T.A.s a chance to talk with one another about what they do in the classroom," and illustrate "Notre Dame's emphasis on the quality of teaching and student learning." 
-- -­-­ 
----­ 
---­ 


The first workshop, called "Making Large Classes Interactive Without Labs or Recitation Sections," will take place on Tuesday, Oct. 21. It will consider the value of various researched methods for teaching large classes. A student panel will also provide its opinion on this issue. 
A second workshop concern­
-------. -=--=--: 
-_,,_­
--. -­

MORGAN STANLEY 
invites members of the Class of 1998 interested in career opportunities in 
Investment Banking 
to our presentation on 
Thursday, October 16, 1997 
7:00p.m. 

Notre Dame Room LaFortune Student Center 
Reception to follow 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorpomted 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 www.ms.com 
Stanley is an Opportunity Employer 
Thursday, October 16, 1997

page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Elizabeth and Patrick Schiltz, associate professors 
Even before Petey Schiltz was born in August 1995, Lisa and Pat knew that he had Down's syndrome and that
of law at the 
their family would need expert support and guidance. They
University of found both through Logan Center, a St. Joseph County United Way agency.




Notre Dame 
"It's especially important in the first three years to provide early intervention to help kids like Petey keep up as
and 
much as possible," Lisa says. "The state of Indiana has very

contributors 
good early-intervention services, but the services are of little value if local agencies aren't available to implement them. At

to the 
Logan, we have found an unbelievable collection of caring and 
competent professionals who have provided Petey with the help he needs, and provided us as parents with the support 
United Way. 

we need to help him." 
At Logan, Petey works once weekly with a speech therapist and, with both sign language and some words, he now communicates at an age-appropriate level. He also works twice each month with occupational and physical therapists to develop self-help and mobility skills. 
In addition, Petey's 4-year-old sister Anna is involved in another Logan program, Supersibs, in which student 
volunteers from Notre Dame provide some extra special attention to the siblings of children with disabilities. Thanks to the various therapeutic programs, Petey is ~-~~1 now a fully included member of the 2-year-olds class at the Early Childhood Development Center, the on-campus child­
:; :: :: ~
* 

:: q i care facility for the children of Notre Dame faculty, students, 
:: * 
:: !~ ~ staff and alumni. 
., 
=~: 
"He's just one of the gang at ECDC," Lisa says. "I see 
that as the first step in a life in which he's a productive mem­
ber of our society." 


~---~-~-~-----~--------~---~-­
-
Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Discussion focuses on class rings 
Did you make 
h. . '·?
t tsone. 

C a II 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 

-

AT&T 
It's all within your reach. 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Writer 
Yesterday morning, the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting centered around the issue of class rings. There are currently two companies which serve Saint Mary's: Balfour and Jostens. There have been some problems with having two companies. 
Competition between the two is the biggest problem. On "Ring Days," the two compa­nies present their products at tables that are placed in close proximity to one another. This situation makes people uncom­fortable because they feel pres­sure from both companies to make a split-second decision. 

Sandy Vanderwerven, the bookstore manager, addressed the issue at the BOG meeting. She said that she had received many complaints over the years from students about the sys­tem. In addition to Vanderwerven's comments, others on the board said that they felt uncomfortable with the situation as well and would like to resolve it. 
Several solutions were sug­gested. One of the suggestions was to choose only one compa­ny to represent Saint Mary's. Another suggestion was to change the set-up of the "Ring Day" so that the students would feel less pressured wh·en it came time to choose a ring. A decision on the issue was not reached because board mem­bers felt that they should think about the issue for a week and get student feedback. 
Go, go, go Joseph ... 


Students in the campus musical "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat" show their true colors. See Friday's Accent section for show information. 

TIPS FROM AMERICA'S EXPERTS 
Join bestselling author Jane Bryant Quinn, Sound Moneys Chris Farrell, Nobel laureate James Tobin, and other top financial experts for a lively informative look at personal investing. 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997, 2:45PM-4:30PM Center for Continuing Education's Auditorium (Space available on a first come basis) 
A University of Notre Dame Human Resources Employee and a TIM-CREF representative will be available to answer your specific questions following the teleconference. 


----~-~-­
page 6 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
Monk 
continued from page 1 
another goal Malloy shared with 
the Faculty Senate. 
"They are much more signifi­
cant than we originally 
thought," he said, noting that 
rankings play an important role 
in luring top-quality students to 
campuses. 
To find ways to improve Notre 
Dame's standing, Faculty 
Senate subcommittees are cur­
rently investigating the criteria 
U.S. News uses to rank schools. Complementing that initiative, Malloy devoted a significant portion of his address last night to discussing Notre Dame's comparative strengths and weaknesses. 
Underscoring Malloy's emphasis on the importance of increasing funding, financial resources were listed as one of the two categories which have consistently dragged down Notre Dame's overall ranking. Academic reputation, as evalu­ated by heads of peer institu­tions, represented the University's other key short­coming. 
Academic reputation is driven 
by the quality of graduate and 
professional studies, according 
to Malloy -areas which suffer 
in the face of Notre Dame's 
emphasis on undergraduate 
education. 
Despite his efforts as a self­proclaimed cheerleader to edu­cate other universities' officials about Notre Dame's excellence, Malloy noted that other highly­ranked institutions simply have more resources for graduate students and larger number of highly-decorated faculty -key components for ranking acade­mic reputation. 
"Let's face it, we have had no Nobel Prize winners," Malloy admitted. "We've had a very limited number elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences." 
Undergraduates, however, have helped the University gain in standing by earning more Marshall, Rhodes, and Fulbright scholarships over the past few years, Malloy noted. He cited necessary improvements in aca­demic advising as another way Notre Dame can continue to advance its academic reputation without de-emphasizing under­graduate education. 
Diversifying the faculty and student body is another area administrators have targeted for improvement. While affir­mative action will continue to 
figure in University policy. 
greater funds for endowed 
chairs and student scholarships 
could be put to ample use in this 
arena, Malloy explained. The 
president linked the University's 
slow progress in luring African 
American students to campus to 
its limited ability to offer disad­
vantaged students scholarships. 
The faculty, he noted, has 
proven equally difficult to diver­
sify. 
"We've made glacial progress 
in the faculty ranks," Malloy 
admitted. "Maybe the goodwill 
is not lacking, but the results 
are." 
Malloy reiterated that he is 
"firmly committed" to using 
affirmative actio!) to offer 
opportunities to racial minori­
ties, women, Catholics and 
other historically under-repre­
sented groups. 
Campus-wide construction, on 
the other hand, offers a visible 
sign of recent successes. Malloy 
updated the senate on some of 
the most significant construc­
tion projects. 
Funding for a long-awaited performing arts center to crown DeBartolo Quad is now "assured," the senate learned. Five benefactors have formally agreed to fund the project, according to Malloy. 
"Of all the projects I thought 
would have a transforming 
effect on the University, this 
was the one," the president 
said. 
Ground-breaking for the cen­ter remains on the horizon; cur­rently, ten architectural firms are competing to develop the plans for the project. 
Construction on a new book­store/visitors center south of the Morris Inn proceeds without delay and another "mega-pro­ject" is still in planning-a new science teaching facility. 
Increasing pay and benefits for adjunct professors, reducing the numbers of adjuncts teach­ing at Notre Dame, and expand­ing health care coverage to include University graduate stu­dents were among the other issues Malloy touched upon dur­ing his hour-and-a-half at the podium. 
Prior to Malloy's address, Faculty Senate committee spokespersons updated the sen­ate on their groups' goals for the year. Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher reported that the Student Affairs Committee will target three issues; the absence of a student bill of rights, a review of the University's alco­hol policy and the gap between academic life and residence life. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Is accepting membership applications for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College & Holy Cross Faculty and full--time staff. 
Dues = $50 per year 
Call631A678 for membership applications or for more information 

Killer 
continued from page 6 
that serial killers ... like Ted Bundy and John Wayne Gacy ... are extraordinarily ordi­nary. That is why they are so very dangerous. They do not look like the killers they are," said Levin. 
"It's very difficult to distin­guish between a monster and a good guy. The problem is serial killers just don't look like the strangers our mothers warned us about. They have families, they tend to have jobs, they attend religious ser­vices and they attend college," said Levin. "And then they kill part time." 
Levin used this summer's search for killer Andrew Cunanan to illustrate this idea. 
"People saw him every­where, he was everywhere at the same time," said Levin. "lie didn't have to conceal his identity. He didn't have to wear a disguise because he looked like 20 million other people and at the same time he looked like nobody inpar­ticular." 
Levin warned that people should not assume that every­one around them could be a serial killer. Jeffrey Dahmer's neighbors, he noted, could smell the stench of dead bod­ies coming from the killer's apartment but believed that it was just a broken refrigerator. Levin says that it was natural to believe such a claim. 
"I would hate to think that we would come to a point in this country when we suspect that an odor in the hallway is decomposing bodies," he said. 
Levin closed by attempting to put his remarks in perspec­tive. 
"It may be frightening to think that serial killers look and act so normal," he said. "I want to ease your fears a little bit and say that serial murder is a very rare phenomenon." 
Levin is a professor of soci­ology and criminology at Northeastern University in Boston. lie has co-authored 18 books and has appeared on television shows such as "Good Morning America," "The Today Show" and "The Oprah Winfrey Show." 






Recycle. 



LaSalle Partners, a global leader in the commercial real estate industry, invites you to learn about LaSalle Partners' reputation as an innovative creator of value for real estate owners, investors and users. 
Position 

Financial Analyst for LaSalle Partners Inc., an international real estate firm providing Advisory, Management Services, Tenant Representation, Investment Banking and Land Services to corporate and institutional clients. 
Location 

We are hiring for offices located in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, ' Los Angeles, New York, Sacramento and Washington, D.C. 
Education 

All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative aptitude and sound 
communication skills are preferred. 
Presentation 

A presentation outlining the Financial Analyst Program and LaSalle Partners will be held: Wednesday, November 19 
6:30 -8:30 pm Foster Room. Lafortune !casual attire) 
Interview Date 

On-Campus interviews will be held on November 20 and 21. Additional information is available at the Career & Placement Office or visit www.lasalle.com. Please submit your resumes to the Career & Placement Office October 27 and 28. 
Atlanta • Chicago • London • Los Angeles • Mexico City • New York • Paris • Washington D.C. 
Public Welcome... 
Irish Courtyard 
Hours: Friday 3:00pm-1 0:30pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and 
on the campus ofNotre Dame 
football weekend fun!" 
Phone (219) 631-2000 

• Grilled Burgers & Brats 
Exit n 


Interstate 80-90 • Cold Beverages 
• 
Big Screen T. V.s 

• 
All Under a Large Tent 


The ...A. 

..A. Nolto 
Morrta]....{ 

W Dame 
Inn Stadium 

Dining Room 
• Casual Dining Serving 
Angela 
AIRPORT 
Daily, Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner 

• Reservations SOUTH BEND. INDIANA Recommended 
• 
Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
Live "Irish Band" Fri. 4:00pm-10:30pm Sat. 1 0:00am-2:00pm 


Cocktail Lounge 
• 
Sandwich and Appetizer Menu Available Daily 

• 
Popular Campus Gathering Spot 



-----~---~ --~---~-------------~ 
Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

With AT&T? Get AT&T Call Organizer: FREE. 
One phone. One bill. Two roommates. No math. 
Get AT&T Call Organizer-FREE-just for being with AT&T. And we'll also give you 10¢ a minute with AT&T Simple Rates~ 
• 
AT&T CALL ORGANIZER: no more fights over the phone bill-use your personalized code before you dial, and we'll tally your bill by roommate (up to 12 people per bill). 

• 
10¢ A MINUTE-AT&T Simple Rates-on long distance calls to anywhere in the U.S. from 7pm-7am weekdays and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. 


AT&T Simple Rates is avarlable to AT&T residential long distance subscnbers, rs subject to billing av:ailability and can't be combined with any other domestic savings optrons. Thrs plan 
also offers rates for other types of calls on your mam-billed account call for details. Enroll by 11/30/97. Plan is available until 12131/97.1f AT&T Simple Rates btlling isn't available in your 
area, you'll be enrolled rn the AT&T One Rate Plan. 
Get 10¢ a minute and AT&T Call Organizer. FREE. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 

-------------~----~..r-._.....-......-------~ ~ ----­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
• Sm lANKA • STUOENT ACADEMIC COUNCIL 
Five die in bombing, Academic council plans events 
By KARA KEZIOS process of choosing a major. awareness and communication
shooting by rebels News Writer Following the presentation, regarding issues of sexuality. Lori McKeough, vice president All opinions that are expressed 
By NIRESH ELlA T AMBY 
Associated Press Writer 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 
Four people were killed in a series of bomb blasts in down­town Colombo early Wednesday, and security forces shot a suspected Tamil packed with explosives. 
There was no immediate comment from the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, whieh has been fighting the govern­ment for Tamil independenee since 1983. 
It was the first major terror­ist attack this year in the Sri 

rebel to death 
Lankan capital, in a gunfight where security near the presi­
has been dential office. stepped up as About 80 the war in the people, includ­north with the ing 62 tourists, Tamil rebels were wounded intensified. in the explo­President sions, which Chandrika could be heard Kumaratunga as far as 15 was at her miles away, home about a hospital mile away. She sources said. rarely uses the 
The nationali­ties of the tourists were not immediately known. 
The sound of automatic gun­fire echoed for 20 minutes through the business district as rebels battled with poliee and soldiers. 
Two explosions ripped through the parking lot of the Galadari luxury hotel just before the 7 a.m. gunbattle began. At least one of the bombs was eoncealed in a car. 
A third explosion was heard some two hours later, followed by more gunfire near Lake House, headquarters of the government-run newspaper publishing house. 
The ball room of the Galadari Hotel was destroyed and parts of the newly built twin towers of the World Trade Center were damaged, witnesses said. 
Army helicopters hovered over the distriet looking for suspected assailants. Gunfire could be heard from Lake House, and hundreds of sol­diers surrounded the building where rebels were believed to be holed up. 
"I saw one of the rebels run­ning toward me and I opened fire and shot him dead," said Rohan Wijenaike, an army corporal who was at a military eheckpoint near the hotel. 
Bomb squads were trying to detonate a gray jaeket on the corpse that was apparently 
AP 
p r e s i d e n t i a l office, an old Dutch building that once served as the parlia­ment building, opposite the seafront. 
The explosions and gun bat­tle were barely 200 yards from the site of the 1996 bombing of the Central Bank that killed 88 people and injured 1,400. A suicide-bomber rammed an explosive-laden truck into the Central Bank building. 
Police eordoned off a square mile that included a major railway station and some of the city's largest hotels and business houses. Main roads leading out of the city were blocked. 

The bombings came less · than one week after the U.S. State Department added the 
The Saint Mary's Student of the student body, will share Academie Couneil met Tuesday some personal insights on the to prepare for three upeoming subject. Students arc invited to events which it is responsible speak one-on-one with student for planning. The events representatives from each aca­indude: demic department for the 
• Choosing A Major Night will remainder and majority of the take place on Tuesday, Oct. 28, time. at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. The • A forum on sexuality is program will begin with a brief scheduled for Monday, Nov. 3, hands-on presentation regard­at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor, in ing the decision-making an effort to promote dialog, in a respectful manner are wel­comed and encouraged at this event. 
• A Book Drive will be held the entire month of November to help educate students study­ing in Africa, where Saint Mary's alumni have opened a school. Students should gather old books from home during fall break to contribute to the school. 


Salmonella may slow cancer growth 
By BRIGITTE GREENBERG As$odated Pres$ Writer 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Scientists believe they have discovered a novel use for deadly salmonella bac­teria -as a possible treat· ment for cancer. 

Yale University School of Medicine scientists reported in today's issue of the jour· nal Cancer Research that genetically engineered strains of salmonella were found to target and slow the growth of tumors in laboratory mice. 
The method was applied successfully with human melanoma, breast, colon, prostate, lung, and renal tumors that were injected in live mice. 
Salmonella carrying anti· tumor genes were shown to somewhat prolong the life of the mice but did not nec­essarily eradicate the tumors, the scientists said. 
"After the salmonella are introduced into the mouse blood stream, they seek out tumors, multiply there in great numbers, and -by mechanisms not fully understood -dramatically slow the rate of tumor growth and prolong lil'e," said John M. Pawelek, a Yale cancer biologist. 
In no case did the researehers cure cancer, although some tumors were destroyed. 
Salmonella bacteria, in their unaltered form, can cause food poisoning and septic shock. The mutated salmonella do not kill the animal because the bacteria can only survive inside the tumor, where they are fed with necessary sugars and amino acids, Pawelek said. 
"We have genetically engineered the salmonella so that they do not set off 
Tamil Tigers to its list of rec­


ognized terrorist organiza-r---------------------­
tions, outlawing its activities and fund-raising in the United States. 
The Tigers, calling the U.S. action unfair, said it would only escalate the war for Tamil independenee. 
A unit of the U.S. Green Berets, in Sri Lanka to train Sri Lankan soldiers in non­lethal operations like rescue missions, normally stay at the Galadari. It was now known whether they were at the hotel Wednesday. 
The incident came during a holiday, the Buddhist Full Moon Day. 

THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
OCTOBER 16TH FEATURING 
FLORIDA EVANS SHOW BAND & REVUE 
WITH GUEST BAND "8U1TERFLY EFFECT" 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $2.00 with Student ID -$4.00 without Uniform Security Police -Lighted Parking 
the immune system alarm. Thesw things are now like stealth bombers." he said. 
"We've made Salmonella both safe and effective for laboratory animals, and now the challenge is to do the same for humans. •· 

Donella Wilson. scientific program director in the research department of the American Cancer Society in Atlanta.· said the findings are promising because until now, scientists have been unable to find a way to tar­get tumors alone. 
"They have a few more questions to answer experi­mentally ... but the idea is very good.'' 
Savio Woo, director of the Institute for Gene Therapy and Moleeular Medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. said the new strategy is attractive and deserves further study, but he had some reservations. 
MEET 


THE AUTHORS! 
Published by Pocket Books 

.._...-~--~------·­
--..----~ -~~·-·­
Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALED OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
If you're majoring in computer science, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law, contact your Placement Director for more information, or write to: Assistant Director, Corporate Human Resources, Three State Farm Plaza-K I, Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
State Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Blmmington, Illinois • An Equal Opportunity Employer www.statefarm.com 
Any plans for after college? Don•t miss these eye-opening euents! 
Insiders discuss schools and the admissions process. 
~Sunday, October 26th,6:00pm 
~ Notre Dame Law School Courtroom, 220 Law School, Notre Dame 
Scheduled Guest Speakers from DePaul University College of Law • Northwestern University School of Law • Notre Dame Law School • University of ll!inois College of Law • Santa Clara School of Law 
t:f:IQI:11' 
1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

"MCAT is a regtslered trademark olthe Auoc~ation ot Amencan Medical Colleges 
the bari on 

any age. But the policy .. . . says the trustees. may all9W exceptions in des" ignate · ces or for certain 
even ·x:;; 
i1i 1We says violat6~ sho\11 he subject to dis­missal, but also says the cam­puses should provide strong alcohol ,education programs for students. 
Board. member Howard Jaco saJd.he wass()rryJt wo impractical to pass a total , 
''I'd Iik.e to see no alcohol at all," he said. "I think that's impossible for us to do." 
it was unclear 

bars. 
"The reality is that we're forcing stl)dents off campus," he saidN? 
Call for Details: 
~ 
tACA• 
our urse. 
~ 

9 Pit\ -MIDNIGHT 





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, October 16, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. . .................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.. . ............... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... .jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.........................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . .. . ............... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represerir rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assiscant Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoint Ediror, Sporrs Editor, Accent Ediror, Sainr Mary's Ediror, Photo Ediror, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor neces­sarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 6.~1-531.1 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5.n3 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• lET ME CLEAR MY THROAT ••. 

U.S. Taking Right Stance in Refusal to Sign Treaty 
The Nobel Committee this week awarded its 1997 peace prize to an anti­land mine activist from Vermont named Jody Williams. The award was yet anoth­er notable event which has put the issue of land mines and their place in modern warfare in the international spotlight of late. In recent months a number of nations from around the world negotiat­ed a treaty which, when ratified by a 

Scott 
Cullen 
majority of countries, will ban the· use of land mines. In addition to this. opposing land mines was a pet project of Princess Diana, and her passing last month only served to bring more attention to the issue. As it stands right now, about 90 countries will end up signing the treaty in Ottawa in December, and the United States is on a noticeably short list of countries who will not be participating in the ceremony. The recipient of this year's Nobel Peace Prize is lashing out at our decision, calling into question the president's ability to lead, and one of the most universally popular, admired, and mourned figures in recent history has now had her memory intricately linked to a crusade that our nation will not align itself with. Admittedly, at the moment, our national policy on land mines looks very bad. Unfortunately, it is the policy we must stand by. 
This is of course a very difficult thing to do because land mines are inherently bad things. Quite simply, they are designed to kill or maim by blowing a person's legs off. Land mines are a cheap and effective way to kill your ene­mies by surprise, and consequently they are deployed all over the world, particu­larly in poorer areas of the globe where the forces fighting the battles did not have astronomical military budgets. But as bad as they are in wartime, land mines are worse when the fighting is over and neither side can remember where they left theirs. Then when the civilians, who are generally poor, of these third world countries try to live off the land, they are the ones who end up getting killed or maimed by leftover mines. About 26,000 people a year sufTer such a fate. 
In addition to this, our decision to refrain from participation in the interna­tional treaty banning the usc of land mines puts us in a rather poor light in the international community. Only a handful of notable states throughout the world are withholding from the treaty. In addition to the United States, Iran, Iraq, China, Cuba and North Korea are among them. 
This is indeed some unusual company for us to keep. By our abstention it per­haps looks to the rest of the world that we are joining up with the very band of global villains we are usually busy taking issue with. Even Russia, one of the two biggest producers and exporters of land mines agreed to sign the treaty. 
Yet despite the awkward appearance of our position on the treaty, it is precise­ly because of the countries that are not signing it that we must also refrain. The simple reality is that in a great many places around the world, the United States is depended upon in various capacities to insure security, be it more or less individually, as the leader of a coalition, or as a powerful regional influ­ence which will deploy its military force if need be. Our government bears responsibility for seeing to it that our military maintains peace and stability in many corners of the globn. To this end, they must see to it that our military is prepared to counter its opposition in the places where we may be called to fight. As such, we must retain our right to deploy antipersonnel devices in hostile regions. The most commonly citod ease 


••.AND OlUEl< \=W~m-...-&1-t-~---. 
I TTlr.i ATlQN\.-\ \ \~\ \ •••••• ·  ~'1/ER: ON AN ONION·  
~R'I-IC.  
e.4Ge-L... W~Y  
\70  YOU A'71<?,.  

in this scenario is North Korea. where thorn arn :H,OOO U.S. troops stationed at the moment. We currently have tho southern border of the Korean demilita­rizncl zone heavily mined. as does the North Korean army. For the U.S. forces in the rngion to be suddenly denied the use of land mines would put us at a decided disadvantage and compromise our ability to counter the North Korean army. But tho situation in Korna is not 
'Yet despite the awkward 
appearance of our posi­tion on the treaty, it is pre­cisely because of the countries that are not signing it that we must also refrain.' 
tho only argument in favor of tho United States rnfraining from the land mine treaty. It is not outside the rnalm of pos­sibility that we might find ourselves in conflict with either Iran or Iraq at some point in the future. The other countries refusing to join the treaty are no doubt the ones we consider to be troublemak­ers in the international scene. It is pre­cisely for that reason that the United States, given its role in the international community, would be acting irrnsponsi­bly in its actions if it were to agree to eliminate its use of antipersonnel mines. Unpleasant as this is, it is a basic conse­quence of our nation's position in the world. 
It should also be noted that the Departmont of Defense assures that the current mines bning used by the U.S. military are incapable of hurting civil­ians and are only active for a matter of days or even hours, unlike the oldnr more common versions. Moreover, it points out that the Pentagon spends approximatnly $153 million per year deactivating land mines around the world in former war zones. Indeed, it is this kind of aetion that is most needed. While the signing of the ban treaty is a positive step, the nations participating ought to make f'urthnr efforts. along with our own, to loeate mines left in what arc now eivilian populated areas and destroy thmn. 
President Clinton thus finds himself in a very difficult position because, as notnd earlier, land mines are not the kind of things one wants to bn known or rnmem­
ben~d for endorsing. Yet at the same time hn must, as commander-in-chief of our military, preserve our right to employ them when necessary if we are to eiTectiw~ly play our role in thn global community. 
It just so happens that recent events have addnd momentum to thn anti-land mine movement and turned his eurrPnl position into a public relations night­marn. As for .Jody Williams' criticisms of the Clinton administration's policy, they are rather narrow in their seopn. Indend. Williams appears to be looking at the issue with tunnnl vision, as many activists are wont to do, and ignoring thn eireumstances that go beyond her work. 
This takes nothing away from her organization's ell'orts; the treaty to be signed in Ottawa in December is a great accomplishment, and one that will hope­fully have practical significance. But it is not an appropriatn treaty for the United States to sign at this time. President Clinton has made the only decision he rightly could in this situation, given his myriad obligations. Jody Williams deserves a great deal of credit for her humanitarian work. But war is a nasty inhumane reality, and if the possibility exists that we might find ourselves fight­ing it, we must sen to it that we are pre­pared. 
Scott Cullen is a junior Arts and Letters major. /Jis column appears every other Thursday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer . 
• DOONESBURY 
/,./~, aH!iN SOYI&tW&!3Mli$­
/N(i P/1711 YaiRHeAl?, TRYING 
10 eern-orrJHe &AMe, 
If/HATAR& Yalst/PfOStfil? 70 
ASK )()(Jf<!iieL-r? HUHr 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
/JUTCOACH 
UOUWJU!iT EJetCH ANI? /rlOVf; ON 70 
PIMU.~. 
COM/
I 
./ 

• f1UOTE OF THE DAY 
"So long as man remains 
free he strives for nothing so incessantly and so painfully as to find some­one to worship;" 
-Fyodor Dostoevski 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 16, 1997 page 11 
• AROUND THE WORLD IN AHUNDRED DAYS 
The Double Life of an American Girl in India 
COCHIN, India 

Sometimes I have to pinch myself to make sure I'm not dreaming. I'm in India, living, learning, studying and shop­ping (it's so cheap!). These past two weeks have been wonderful. Finally set­tled into one "dorm," day by day Cochin is becoming mor.e and more like home. This way of life has completely enveloped me, and I'm now captured with all that it 
Juliana Vodicka 

brings. Which is the duality of a life abroad. The U.S. seems so distant and detached. but never before have I felt so American. I call home more. but miss it less. I'm longing for my roommates and also forgetting things like the birthday of my roommate for the past two years (Happy 21st Stephanie, I love you!). This cocoon I'm in is both claustrophobic and confusing. I'm living in a world of extremes where elation and sorrow seem to fit naturally hand in hand. 
This past Saturday was a perfect exam­ple of what causes such a range of emo­tions. It was one of the first times the group has experienced authentic Indian life and hospitality. First of all, I was sick, I mean SICK! Thus far I had not had as much as a sniffie, but last Friday I was hit hard. If you have ever had a cold or flu, I had it all -every symptom and then some. I even missed school. Anyway, on Saturday I was feeling much better, but definitely not at 100 percent and we 
• TABlE TALK 
had a long day ahead of us. We began at a big hill with a church on top of it. I was in no way ready to make such a climb; so I stayed at the bottom of the hill alone with my pen and paper waiting for the group. I had a nice shaded area in front with chairs and a small wood table. Having no other options, I plopped down, started up some Dave in my walkman and began to write. After a few minutes there were five old Indian men gathered around me, just watching. They smiled. I smiled. I stopped my letter and walkman, deciding to attempt conversation. Well, their English was as good as my Malayaman. We reverted to pointing and saying "cat" and I waited for their response in their native language. We played that game for a while, then they all returned to their respective stands ­a car of potential customers just arrived. So frustrating yet so enjoyable at the same time. 
Everyone came back from the hike hot, sweaty, smelly, muddy and very hungry. We collected everyone at the bottom of the hill and headed to lunch. We were invited to a professor's house from Sacred Heart for our meal. I was unsure of what to expect but excited to see a real Indian home. Disgusting and hungry (actually everyone but me), tramped into this stranger's home. Family members were all around and food was ready to be served. It was all so open, I did not even notice any doors, just the subtle breeze flowing through the house. I immediately went to the backyard. It was not hard to find; I could see it from the front room. 
Banana and palm trees, cows, a river further back-this was unlike any back­yard I've ever seen. We could hardly fit a swing set in mine at home. The women of the family sat out back and watched us and had as great a time as we did. Proudly, they looked on at our wonder and excitement. The group filled up on fish curry and many other dishes, contin­ually being asked to "eat more." This hospitality to 27 complete strangers, let­ting them in your home and treating them like family was just amazing. Everyone spent the next hour digesting, talking to the family and relaxing, getting ready for the rest of the day. 
Next we were invited to a fellow stu­dent's house to have snacks. I was just expecting tea and some fruit. A late snack. Oh no, We had another meal of assorted Indian goodies. We sat down at a large table set up for us, surrounded by children and other family. It all happened so fast -oconuts fresh off the tree with a straw to drink the mild, fermented coconut milk, tea, the hugest bananas you have ever seen, sugar cane, nuts and more and more and more. After being sufficiently stuffed, for a second time we again went into their "backyard." A small path through the trees leads to a field of rice patties. As I walked through the rice patties onto a small dirt road, I felt as close to heaven as I ever had in my life; God was smiling ... tranquil, lush and comforting. The sun was setting over the palm trees with the distance and that glow that you only get from that time of day, rejuvenated and touched each of us. We spoke casually about the day's events, but it was unnecessary to talk about the moment around us. We all knew. 
After a few hours that felt like seconds, we moved onto our final destination: Church festival. All I can think of to describe this event to you in a way you can easily understand is Las Vegas. This church was decked, lights everywhere. I'm talking flashing, blinking, red, purple, white, so many lights! But saying Las Vegas cheapens the experience; the real light from the Indians gathered there made it an actual spiritual experience. Everywhere there wasn't a light there were plastic toys of all sorts, any kitchen supply, posters of Gandhi, Mother Teresa, Jesus, Ganish, and some with them all together; half carnival, half chaos. As I made my way toward the church, my feelings of pure silliness, hav­ing been surrounded by such craziness, dissipated and transferred into the excitement of all these people coming together in the name of God. 
A procession. led by men with trumpets and horns, made its way around the church; large colorful umbrellas and stat­ues held up by a seemingly never-ending stream followed closely behind. I walked into the church unprepared for what I saw. No pews, just people sitting, stand­ing, talking praying all while the drone of the procession continued on. I was giddy. When have I ever been giddy? Christmas when I was young, but Julie does not get giddy. I sat in the church for a while, not long enough, but knew as I got up I would never experience this again. 
On the two-hour ride back I sat back, looked out my window and just thought. What an amazing day. Yet as I said earli­er, sadness and joy are quite compatible. I thought about the lunch and then my mom's cooking; the rice patties and then sitting on the quad and knowing every­one who walks by; and the future; and Sunday Mass singing with folk choir ­these all come together as I processed the events of the day. After all of that though, living two extremes is not that bad. I could get used to it. 
Juliana Vodicka is a junior English and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The .opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 

Move Aside Ted Turner, God is One Step Ahead of You 
Ted Turner recently committed one billion dollars to UN efforts over the next decade. That's almost one bil­lion dollars more than I even expect to make in the next decade. let alone give to charity. 
Still. I have to say, big deal. Charity is cheap-com­pared to justice. Turner's net worth increased by one billion dollars in the first nine months of 1997 alone. IIe was already worth just over two billion dollars at the end of last year. Realizing he can give away every­thing he's made so far this year-and still b.e obscene­ly wealthy, he declares, ''I'm putting the rich on notice. 

David Weiss 
They're going to be hearing from me about giving money away." Well, as someone within the lower tiers of the econo­my-and as a Christian-I'm unimpressed. 
Jesus put the rich on notice long before Ted Turner did. Among other things he said, "Sell all that you have and distribute to the poor; and come, follow me" (Luke 18:22). And, "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matthew 6:21). And finally, "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich person to enter the Kingdom of God" (Luke 18:25). 
While Jesus' views on wealth sit rather uncomfort­ably beside our own, he didn't have a problem with material goods. He knew how to throw a party; he entertained thousands (albeit on rather simple fare: loaves and fishes) and still had leftovers (Mark 6:30-44 and 8:1-1 0). He turned water into wine -and not cheap booze; we're talking a vintage wine that impressed the connoisseurs (John 2:1-10). And he didn't mind at all when a woman of some means (despite her reputation) bathed his feet with costly per­fume in a scene so suggestive that it unnerved even the Calvin Kleins of the first century Jewish community (Luke 7:36-50). 
Yet Jesus saw a clear priority between goods and people. Goods are here to serve the needs and cele­brate the joys of people. People are not here to accu­mulate goods; nor simply to labor so that others might accumulate goods; and certainly not to become pawns in a system where wealth assumes a life of its own bending human lives at all levels to an inhuman and inexorable yearning to increase itself. 

When Jesus said, "The Sabbath is made for humans and not humans for the Sabbath," (Mark 2:27-28) he extended the critique made by the prophets centuries earlier. They railed against Israel because the wealthy spent the Sabbath impatiently waiting for the stock exchange to reopen the next morning (Amos 8:5) and because the injustice rampant in Israel's social life betrayed the piety pretended at the altar (Isaiah 1:13). 
Jesus saw that in his day the powerful sought even to sacralize injustice, employing the Sabbath to keep oppression in place. And once even the Sabbath becomes twisted to serve human designs, then the cause of the poor is truly precarious, because now the . rich "put the rich on notice." Now "charity" flows freely. Now Ted Turner can claim the spotlight. 
And now the God ofjustice can be quietly kept back in the shadows because charity has the frightening capacity to dull our senses to God's call for justice. 
St. Symeon speaks for many of the early church fathers in declaring, "Charity which flows from your surpluses is merely the return of stolen goods." Instead of celebrating Turner's huge gift, maybe we should ask why he gets to run his fencing operation in the public limelight with accolades all around? Is it to distract us from asking why one man can have so much to spare 
.(and get praised for it!) in a country where poverty 
(especially among children!) is on the rise? 
So. why is it so difficult for the rich to enter the 
Kingdom? Surely not because God doesn't love the 
rich, though perhaps it begins in that the rich may find 
it difficult to love God. If indeed our hearts make their 
homes in our treasures, the rich are ever in danger of 
having hearts tethered to treasures that not only can't 
be taken with them -but may instead keep them from 
going anywhere worth going at all. But even this stops 
short. 

Jesus' ominous lament lies in the character of the 
Kingdom itself. When Jesus' phrase "the Kingdom of 
God" is cast into English we inevitably lose some of the 
dynamic character of the Aramaic expression. Jesus 
isn't talking about the place or the time where God is 
King, he is describing the dynamic and omnipresent 
activity ofGod as King. The Kingdom that the rich find 
so difficult to enter, to participate in, is this: the activi­
ty ofGod making justice. 
God doesn't give Pharaoh a billion dollars to ease 
Israel's plight; God says "Let my people go!" (Exodus 
5:1). God doesn't thank the rich for their charity, but 
instead counters, "It is you who have devoured the 
vineyard, the spoil of the poor is in your houses. What 
do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the 
face of the poor?" (Isaiah 3:14-15). Indeed, when God 
in Jesus took the decisive action of the Kingdom, he 
"emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, ... and 
humbled himself and became obedient unto death" 
(Philippians 2:7 -8). No wonder the rich would rather 
serve up notice on their own terms. 
I don't think charity itself is bad. And I'm not sug­
gesting that the UN spurn Turner's gift. Even the 
Israelites accepted the silver and gold of the Egyptians 
as they left the land (Exodus 12:35-36). But let's not 
make it out for what it isn't: some heroic gesture of 
generosity. Charity is cheap-compared to justice. 
Until Mr. Turner and the others in his league dis­mantle the economic empires that suck the wealth of the many upward into the fortunes of the few, I remain unimpressed. God put the rich on notice long before Ted Turner did. The challenge wasn't to lead the way in charity. The terms are the same for all of us: "To do justice, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God" (Micah 6:8). 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian Ethics 
at Notre Dame. His column normally appear every 
other Tuesday. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 






can't find a betterman than in brad 
W
ith the weekend approach­ing, a friend asked me what my plans were. ''I'm going to see Brad in Chicago," I 
answered. "Brad who? And why in Chicago?" he immediately asked. "No, listen Brad's a band. They're playing in Chicago on Sunday." 
"Brad has a band?" 
"Nevermind ... just forget it," I said, shaking my head. 
Despite the hassle in trying to explain my weekend plans, the Oct. 5 Brad con­cert at the Cabaret Metro was definitely worth the frustration (in addition to the hours of sleep I lost Sunday morning trying to get to Chicago). 
Although characterized as a Pearl Jam side group, Brad shares very little in common on a musical level with that band. Its music deeply reflects the Seattle heritage of its members, all of whom have been in legendary Seattle bands. Lead singer and keyboardist Shawn Smith and Regan Smith are cur­rently in Satchel, one of the most talent­ed bands from Seattle right now, and Smith also played in Malfunkshun 
catherine wheel 

the refreshments 


alongside with the mythical Andy Wood. Stone Gossard. in addition to his rhythm guitar work with Pearl Jam, has played in other numerous bands such as Grr,en River, Mother Love Bone and Temple of the Dog. 
The band devoted much of the night's setlist to the second album, Interiors. They opened with "Lift," perhaps one of the best songs in their repertoire. With Stone Gossard's trademark guitar rifts leading the band, Brad started the show off with a huge bang. Even though the attendance was not at capacity, the crowd -consisting of teenagers sport­ing Pearl Jam shirts and drunk1m adults -responded incredibly to the band's enthusiasm. However, the band's vivaci­ty began to wane. Compared to when l saw them last July, thn band just wasn't as interactive with the crowd this time. Only once or twice did Gossard ever look at the crowd, and although he is backup on vocals, he never went up to the microphone. Smith tried to cover up for his bandmates' dedining interest in the show. Whenever he had a chance to leave the keys, like on the headbanging "Sweet AI George" or the moving "Upon My Shoulders," he would approach the edge of the stage and shake hands with the audience. 
The problem with Brad is that their material is either sort or heavy, nothing in between. For example, the band's decision to follow the mellow yet aes­thetic "The Day Brings" to the distorted and heavy "I Don't Know" was poorly made; the transition was too extreme, and many in the crowd eouldn 't adapt to tho incredible acoustical difference. 
The show did not end on a high note. With bassist Mike Berg moving to the keys and Stone taking up bass (it was weird to see him without a Les Gibson in his hands), Brad played a cover of Elton John's "Benny and Tho Jots." Immediately after, Stone approached center stage, waved to the crowd, and walked ofT. The rest of band and the crowd were greatly surprised by Gossard's abrupt departure because the band still had a good 15 minutes loft to play. With the key member missing, the show came to a rather sudden end. 
Despite the band's somewhat apathet­ic performance, being able to see so many Seattle legends in a small club environment was enough of a thrill for me. Ijust wish l were that dose to Stone Gossard at a Pearl Jam concert. 
-r:c ~( ~ 'f,'f

Adam and Eve 
(out of five stars) 


ter three major label releases, the British 
uartet Catherine Wheel has finally achieved 
mature balance between their notoriously 
rash wall of sound and dynamic and lyrical variety with Adam and Eve. The name Catherine Wheel, a medieval instrument of torture, seemed quite appropriate for the band's earlier material (founded in 1990), as it revolved around the volumi­nous and relentless guitar textures of axemen Bob Dickinson and Brian Futter. Their previous lack of dynamic contrast has been abandoned, and with their latest release, the thick guitar textures play an integral but selective role. Catherine Wheel's new­found edecticism and variety shape this album, and the result is dramatic and poignant, as the album's fluidity astonishes and coaxes the listener. The key­board work of Tim Friese-Groen adds a new dimen­sion to their sound, while making the Pink Floyd influence just a touch more obvious. His additions, however, often provide for a perfect counterpoint to the band's sound, and they consistently support the band's attentiveness toward achieving a new edecti­cism on this album. 
Dickinson's role has changed as the band has matured; his vocals are now at the forefront of their sound. His melodies soar above the textures (much like those of his cousin, Bruce Dickinson, of the famed Iron Maiden), as his airy baritone quality fits perfectly with either an electric or acoustic sound­scape. lie has achieved a number of attractive vocal nuances along with the ability to instantaneously switch from gritty somberness, a Ia Peter Gabriel, to wailing bursts of energy, a La Adam Duritz, with con­vincing ease. liis keen sense for inventing melody has taken a huge step forward since the days of Chrome, and undoubtedly, this; only marks the begin­ning of his development beyond a purnly melancholic and sardonic lyricist. His melodies have become brighter, catchier, and consequently, much more ironic and intriguing. 
The band's strengths are all apparent on the disc's final track, "For Dreaming," as Dickinson's melodies display his aforementioned vocal durability, while the alternating acoustic and electric textures move the 
. listener to. introspection, only to suddenly reconsider and blow the listener away with a wash of thick dis­tortion and d1~speratnly pleading vocals. Dickinson's brilliant irony does not go unnoticed, as he frighten­ingly whispers, "Bring on the good times oncn more/'Cause we love the good times/On the other side of your green door/It's only there for dreaming." The song closes not with the programmed fade that seems to proelaim the end, but an acoustic segue into another piece unmentioned anywhere, a perfect sur­prise and contrast for an album that is full of pleas­ant surprises and contrasts. 
by Joel Cummins 
~( t,"{ ·~ -r:c ],'f


The Bottle & Fresh Horses 
(out of five stars) 

H
ey barkeep, another Mekong ploase! The Hefreshments have returned strong with another mund of drinks and Southwestnrn music on thnir sophomore nffort, The Bottle & Fresh Horses. The Arizona-based band's sound was once described as "Campnr Van Beethoven and the Lemonheads beatling) up They Might Be Giants bnhind a 7-11," and I have bonn looking forward to buying this album since last spring whnn l first heard it would be out this fall. 
After a great deal of success on thnir 1996 d11but album, Fizzy Fuzzy Big and Buzzy, which produced the mainstream hits as "Banditos" and "Down Together," The Refreshments return stylistically more mature while remaining true to their ironic lyrics and Southwestern twang. . 
The album's first single, "Good Year," charts nnw territory with a searing guitar driven sound providnd by Brian Blush and a solid driving bassline of bassist Buddy Edwards and drummer P.H. Naffah. The band recently completed their video for this song to appnar on MTV. The songs of singer and rhythm guitarist Roger Clyne are written from various expnriences ­from travels to places such as Thailand to life in Arizona. lle explores his favorite Mexican territory on "Wanted" (which I bolicve to be the best song on the album) and "Una Soda," which provides a great moody and sensitive ending to the CD. "Fonder and Blonder" is a cute take on a standard tale of love incorporating lyrics from their first album in the cho­rus: "Cars bn1ak down and pnople break down and other things break down too." This is a CD you want to pick up. 
The Hnfreshrnents were formed in 1993 in Tempe right around thn corner from where the Gin Blossoms got thnir start. Tlwy sp1mt 1996 touring the country with Poe and The Goo Goo Dolls, and I was fortunate enough to have weaseled my way backstage to meet them at a show at the 9:30 Club in Washington D.C. Tlwy nxprnssed an interest in playing at Notre Dame but I am sum that the $10,000 they wern going for this spring is just a wee bit higher now that their sec­ond album is out. They are currently on tour and are appearing at the Metro in Chicago on October 26th. 
by Nate Rackiewicz 
--~--­



the verve 


~~~~~

Urban Hymns 
(out of five stars) 

"Weeping Willow" expose the band's desire to show
A
fter a few moderately good releases, The off its songwriting skills while still continuing toVerve has finally hit the high point promised please the listener. "Lucky Man" marks the begin­by their earlier work with its newest album, ning of a very strong finishing sprint, a drawlingUrban Hymns. Yet another English band try­singer performing to the best of his considerableing to achieve success in the United States, the van­abilities and hinting at perhaps even better things to
guard of its campaign is the admirable "Bittersweet Symphony," currently receiving much playing time come. "This Time" shows some insecurity yet man­on MTV; elegant and magisterial, with stridently con­ages to remain optimistic. "Velvet Morning" sounds 
fident vocals, this is surely one of the tracks of the just like its title, and the final track, "Come On" clos­year. The level of achievement is maintained by es the album in typical fashion with jangling guitars "Sonnet," a slower, more subtle piece which man­and a notable finish. Perhaps what distinguishes 
ages to sound both questioning and fragile simulta­Urban Hymns from most of its competitors is its 
neously. As a counterpoint to this, "The Rolling reflection of the sheer ability of the band combined People" exudes a brashness which appears through­with their intensity of performance; not many people out the remainder of the album. can do this these days, and those who do find it hard 
With "The Drugs Don't Work" comes a tune to to maintain. Nevertheless, an album as excellent as equal the opener -a haunting ballad sung to perfec­this one will be remembered for a long time. tion and highly characteristic of The Verve's ability to combine quasi-orchestral arrangements with the conventions of contemporary Britpop. "Catching the by Julian Elliott Butterfly" is a rasping affair which precludes the somewhat odd (but still enjoyable) "Neon Wilderness," whereas "Space and Time" and 
kmfdm 

' No pity for the ..majority" is what "KEIN MEHRHEIT FUR DIE MITLEID" (or the acronym KMFDM) loosely translates to. With an auspicious name like that, one would hardly expect Kenny G covers. In fact, ever since its inception in 1984, KMFDM has been a bas­tion of counter-culture angst. Described as less of a band and more of a musical experiment, this Seattle-based German band has con­tinued to revolt against musical tradition and entitled its ninth album an apparent meaningless row of sym­bols: a flash, a skull and cross bones a Ia Jolly Roger, a lit cherry bomb, a spiral, and a pounding fist. Your guess as to what this means is as good as mine, and probably the band's as well. This latest offering, which I will refer to as The Album Formerly Known as KMFDM's Ninth CD or more simply The Album, is a techno/electronica/industrial fan's heaven. Stereophonic tricks, synthesized frenzies and sampled tracks run rampant through The Album's 10 tracks, all of which flow smoothly into the next. Fans of Trent Reznor's style of mixing will certainly enjoy this album's continuity. Devotees of Ministry's destructive flavor will be ecstatic over tracks such as "Stray Bullet" and "Anarchy," which is not too far removed from Downward Spiral's "Mr. Self Destruct." The Album begins with a tweaky introduction to "Megalomaniac" that had the glasses rattling on the 
~~~~ 
(out of five stars) 

coffee table and my neighbors banging on the walls. The remainder of the song was just as furiously mod­eled on the nearby play of angry giants. Combining incessant organic drum lines with electronic sam­pling, KMFDM may have managed to produce its first radio friendly single since 1995's "Juke-Joint Jezebel." The Album continues with "Leid und Elend," a highly danceable club groove sung in German. But if you had any hopes of deciphering the lyrics for some project for your German class, go to the liner notes included in the nifty CD case because your ears will bleed, and your sinuses will be cleared from the nonstop bass of the entire album. 
Later songs on The Album lack the flair that the first three seem to have until repeated listening. Then the album takes on a distinctive NIN feel as you dis­cover "new" tracks that had been previously ignored before. However, even KMFDM cannot overcome the greatest downfall of industrial music -the unbear­able feeling of having been locked in a cement mixer with thousands of bricks after prolonged listening. 
KMFDM never ceases to redefine itself, and this lat­est album is no exception. If you like Downward Spiral for more than just it's naughty lyrics and "alternateen" appeal, The Album is a definite must listen. 
by Dominic Caruso 

upcoming concerts in the ~~-ia 


Chumbawumba/Moloko Oct. 27 Metro (Chicago) 
-·
Tonic/Summercamp Oct. 30 Metro (Chicago) Primus/Limp Bizkit/Powerman 5000 Nov. 5 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Chemical Brothers/Death In Vegas Nov. 8 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) David Byrne Nov. 11 Vogue Theatre {Indianapolis) 
G. Love & Special Sauce Nov. 15 The Vic (Chicago) Fiona Apple Nov. 21 State Theatre (Detroit) Green Day Nov. 23 Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Atari Teenage Riot Nov. 28 Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac) 

1. 
Sweep The Leg Johnny -ents-Horses 

2. 
Chisel -Set You Free . Various Artists -Before You Were Punk 

3. 
Radiohead-OK Computer . Moby -I Like To Score 


_.,.~ 
. Grifters -Full Blown Possession . Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot 
5. 
Pixies -Death To The Pixies . Bob Dylan -Time Out Of Mind 

6. 
Smoking Popes -Destination Failure . Chumbawamba-Tubthumbing 

7. 
The Sundays -Static & Silence 7. Catherine Wheel -Adam And Eve 

8. 
Cub -Mauler! 8. The Verve -Urban Hymns 

9. 
Yo La Tengo-I Can Hear The Heart Beating As One . Arkarna -Fresh Meat 

10. 
Buck-0-Nine-Twenty-Eight Teeth 10. Save Ferris-It Means Everything 


The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
•NBA 

Pitino returns to Kentucky 
Associated Press "It was real nice to get back throws put the Nets up 116­to a place you know," said 104, Travis Knight, Walker and LEXINGTON, Ky. Walker, who played with Dana Barros hit consecutive 3­
Rick Pitino enjoyed his return Mercer on the 1996 title team. pointers to pull Boston to 116­to Hupp Arena, even though his "I left on real good terms, and 110 with 1:38 remaining. new team lost at his old home. the fans have such a respect
l<icAA 

Pitino, who left Kentucky in for us, being from UK. It was Grizzlies 103,scheduled 
May to coach the Boston nice to see the appreciation Trail Blazers 83 
oflthodels 

Celtics, was back on the bench and support."
college ad 

Wednesday night at the school Although the Celtics' presea­VANCOUVEH
basketbalL 

he led to the 1996 national son record fell to 0-3, Pitino Shareef Abdur-Rahim scoredOdom. 
championship. said the team was making 11 of his 27 points in the third
1:£; tnVEl$\lgl~~~-r:~··:,::.¥.,:'"'·· ~,.,..~·· y.'''··"·=~I''"'''''!il'l •>~,>··ullk·' '-l~·tt Arne:rican q~u~~gE~ : The Celtics lost an exhibition progress. quarter in the Vancouver
above-average store after · said he game to the New Jersey Nets ''I've seen so much improve­Grizzlies' 103-83 exhibitionvisit next week, Odom, now a allegations and oe(:tOEla 123-115, but Pitino received a ment tonight from our lirst two victory over the Portland Trail
part-time Rhml~lsland stude~t. play a(UNLV. 
standing ovation before the games," he said. "They rotated Blazers on Tuesday night. 
could play for tpe Rams .and ·· A UNLV assistant coach has game from the crowd of properly on defense, and when Ahead 54-50 at the half, thecoach Jini Harri¢k next semes'-deliled wrongdoing. Stein, 15,010. they missed shots, they got Grizzlies broke the game open
ter. ,. . ·. ,.· bas(;)djn Las Vegas, insi 
"It was very good to be back back. I was very pleased with a 13-2 run, and eventually~I'm· very op~tic;" Odyrn•s Odom did not cheat. 
in Kentucky," Pitino said. "It tonight." built a 23-point edge five min­
lawyer, Steve ~tein,toJdthe As al7·year~old, Odorn 
was great for our players and Sam Cassell led the Nets with utes into the fourth quarter en
Providence Jo'l~nal~Bulletin. signed a letter of intent 
coaching staff to be back here 32 points and 15 assists. route to their first victory in"I'm looking forward to s~eing UNLV~ the letter was because it was our home for Casse II hit three jumpers three preseason games. 
him play, I tliirtk any team he his biggest obstacle eight years. We wish we could during a 19-7 run that gave Abdur-Rahim, who openedj.oins will beeorne ~, Tl)p gs '¥it1l Rhode Is•. ~, ..~, .,..,. ,. have won, but it was great see­New Jersey a 59-53 lead with the exhibition season with a te<trn·" ·.·, •... ··,.,. •••/ ,,·,... i ... '·,··, ing old friends." 3:20 remaining in the lirst half. 32-point performance in a loss
Odom, a 6·foO't~9 forward 
Also returning to Lexington The Nets led the rest of the to the Los Angeles Clippers,

· New York; attended three were three former Kentucky game. has 81 points in three games.
schools thf~ y~ar <tml }'lis 
stars who now play for the Boston closed to 71-69 on Otis Thorpe, aequired in a 
s were not strong. He 
Celtics -Antoine Walker, Ron Walker's layup in the third deal with Detroit last August,
to study part time at 
Mercer and Chris Mills. period. But New Jersey went added 14 points on 6-for-7
Island for the first 
Walker led the Celtics with on a 13-2 spurt, including live shooting and had 12 rebounds
t:S•~rn~~sttJr to his grades 
29 points, while Mercer scored points by Kevin Edwards, to for the Grizzlies. 
enroll the win­14 on 7-for-11 shooting. Mills take a 84-71 lead. Stacey Augmon led the Trail finished with eight points. After Cassell's two free Blazers (2-1) with 18 points. 
The Observer accepts classificds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  2 BC GA's for sale  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ FOR SALE:  Joseph Notes  
NOTICES  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  (757)671-1649  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  TWO Navy GAs  Caanan thanks 2 PE and our prod. staff and anyone else that has  
with private baths, $70-$90,  Call Peter  ONEW. VaGA  screamed and/or cried over this  
ILOST & FOUND I  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  634-1579  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE  Call Colby @ 4-4903  musical. Tonight our night and yours.  
1-800-418-9487.  USC stud tix $30  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Go Irish!  
would appreciate anyone who finds  287-9998  EVENING#: 288-2726  2 pair USC and  Zebby  
keys to room 308 to call x1862  Orchard Cottage B&B 15 min. from  1 pair BC 4 sale  
If you find the little grit who stole  campus. bd room, LR, bath  For Sale: 6 USC GAs. Call  NO TICKETS WANTED  271-6005  Congradulation to 3A's favorite  
them, you can also call x1862  & kitchen. sleeps 4. continenetal  (800)808-2221 x254 (Rob W.)  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  --------------­ son's The Barbarian a.nd The  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  breakfast included. last min. can­cellation for USC Oct 18 &  USC Tix 4 sale, 4 GA's & 2Stu GA's  EVENING#: 288-2726  PERSONAL  Panther. Way to dole it out to the enemy.  
on 10/1. if found call steve at x- BC Oct 25 games. call 288-3923  call 273-9608 leave b/o  FOR SALE  Rimming .... but no, Pyscho.  
2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  --------------­ ARE YOU A VEGETARIAN?  
LOST: key ring with TAZ key  FOR SALE  I need USC GAs!!!!! Call Mandy at 243-4783.  N.D. G.A.'S  We need to hear from you!  Beware the DONKEY PUNCH!!!  
chain. last seen on lakeside of  271-9412.  Join us for a focus group after  Nocturne Jocks Beware! The  
Bond HaiL please call Mike at  Clean House near campus!  I NEED 8 USC TIX  fall break to voice your opinions to  Queen Bee is on the prowl tonight  
X3528  7 46 Marquette ave $98,500  312-951-5008  WANTED N D G A'S  Notre Dame Food Services.  (12 to 2am) and I think she's in one  
1 ,600 sq ft 3 bdrm, FM, 2 bath  TO ALL HOME GAMES  Call the marketing office at 631­ of those moods.  
WANTED  2car garage,a/c call 287-6868  Need two BC GA's x2721 -Eileen  271 1526  5589 for more information.  "We S" (clap clap) "N D". WSND 88.9 FM's NOCTURNE.  
"4 HORSEMEN" NCAA FOOT­ usc BOSTON.. NAVY  000 Looking for a unique gift?  
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  BALL, ABSOLUTE MINT CONDI­ 2 BC tickets for sale. $32 each  W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272-7233  Bring in your favorite pictures  Did I mention how awesome Jon  
earning potential!!  TION. AUTOGRAPHED BY THE 4  Don (310)334-5837  and we'll create a personalized  King is?  
616-461-6772.  HORSEMEN. MAKE OFFERS TO  GARTH BROOKS  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  
SEAN MOLLOY, 94 CROSS  Two USC GA'S For SALE.  IN CHICAGO 272-7233...  THE COPY SHOP  He's pretty darn cool ...  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  RIDGE, GREENVILLE, SC 29607.  Call Brett at x3361.  LaFortune Student Center  
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  1-864-675-6222  FOR SALE:  This is a classified for Tony  
Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ MARRIED STD TKTS  NO vs. USC Tickets  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
ALS, student ORGANIZATIONS, or  -89 Buick LeSabre,4D, 96K, V.  271-7042  273-3911  LaFortune Student Center  This is specifically not a classified  
small GROUPS wanted!! Call  good, Clean,One owner, $4000  ~ High-Speed Copies  for Bob  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at  Call:232·3707  $45 For Sale  BC TIX For Sale (Best Offer)  ~ Canon Color Laser Copies  
1-800-327-6013 or  -91 Ford Taurus,HBack, 4d, 72K,  1 USC GA  288-3975  ~ Digital Color Printing  what kind of person drives in the  
http://www.icpt.com  One owner, V. clean, Call: 288­ Call Brian 243-5638  ~ Binding & Laminating  middle of the night...  
2808  $45 For Sale  ... usc ...  ~Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  by himself ...  
..Spring Break .. .''Take 2"••  2 GAs4-SALE  Phone 631-COPY  to Hammond, Indiana ...  
Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  Need 1 BC GA  1-77471eave offer  to wait at a pier for an hour. ..  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  -86 Honda Prelude, 20, V. Clean,  273-3227  LONDON PROGRAM  for a guy that gives him high fives ...  
Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ V.G condition Just $1800, Call:  2 G.A.tickets For Sale USC, .Navy,  oh yeah, a rich guy.  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  277-3254  GA's for sale at cost: 4 Navy  W. Virg.  APPLICATIONS  
-90 Honda Civic, V. Clean, like  and 4 WV call Jill 3850  Jeremy: 612-427·3444  FINCH -I am so sorry that I  
WANTED-VOLUNTEER  new, 5spd, Low Milge, Just $3800,  are due  neglected to thank you for putting  
Girls Volleyball Coach  Call: Hamad, 277-3254  FOR SALE  STUDENT TIX BOOKLET  no later than  up with me at Michigan. You obvi­ 
7th & 8th Grade  2 USC GA's  FOR SALE: Best offer.  5:00PM  oulsy didn't see the billboard on the  
Our Lady of Hungary School  91 Saturn SL2, V.G. condition,  289-4384  4 remaining home games.  Friday, Oct. 17  way frorn Chicago. I just didn't  
South Bend  call:631-7629.  MEL  Call 243-8409 and leave a  think a classified was enough  
Need own transportation  lv msg  message  
Contact Sue Mason 289-3272  CONDO FOR SALE! PERFECT  Taco! Burrito!  Day, you make my day! Is that bet­ 
CONDITION ALL NEUTRAL HIGH  Married stud tix sale 273-1997  2 BC GA'S NEEDED  Happy Fiesta Week!  ter?!  
FOR RENT  CEILINGS SKYLIGHTS FIRE­PLACE 2 BRS. ALL APPLIANCES  I need three GA's for USC (in a row  call Jen @ X 0849  (Happy week to Cavanaugh's other wonderful football coaches as well)  FREE ICE SKATING LESSIONS!!!  
BASEMENT AND GARAGE! CALL  or as close as possible). Call Brian  I need 2 USC GAs.  Call Matt at 1968  
BULLA RD, MCKINLEY TERRACE,  SANDY 235·3561 IMMEDIATE  @ 4·2872  Call X3880  Pimp,  
SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  POSSESSION!  Do NOT forget the Shiner Bock  Susan, sorry, no Minnesota in this  
r_.  HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS  You know you want 'em!  from A & M!!!  issue. Maybe next time.  
ALSO. 2726551  NOTRE DAME  BC GA's -call4-1471 (B/0)  Your Lover  
FOOTBALL TICKETS  Log cabins constructed at the drop  

 BUY-SELL-TRADE  BC stud GA $55 Call 44465  I have to much to do! r need to go  of a dime!!! Call Steve at 1966  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  on the 28 hour a day schedule  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  HOME GAMES.272·6551  232-0058  Need 2-4 tickets for Navy  What the ? Am I some kind of  
OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS.  Call Vince 4·1690  good job keough boxers:  show to you?  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  Need BC GA's. Grandparents are  CONFIDENTIAL  martin, nate, daniel, mark, frick,  
MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK.  coming in and will pay good money!  TICKET-MART, INC.  Sdt booklet 4 sale $50  mighty mick, and anyone else I for·  Everything's heavy underground,  
243-0658.  Call Frank, 4·2340.  289 5298  got  right Mark?!  

----·~--~ --­

page 15 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
•NHL 
Avalanche remains alone in unbeaten column 
Associated Press Avalanche beat the Edmonton over Edmonton in seven days. Oilers 6-2 Wednesday night to Edmonton outshot Colorado EDMONTON, Alberta remain the NHL's only unbeat­50-19, including 24-7 in the Patrick Roy made 48 saves en team. third period. 
and Peter Forsberg had a goal The Avalanche improved to 5-Colorado took the lead 4:26 
and five assists as the Colorado 0-2 with their second decision into the game on Adam 

• Our planet produces more than 
enough food to feed the world's population. 
•Today 35,000 children will die as a result of hunger and malnutrition. 
World Hunger Coalition 
Wednesday Lunch Fast Thanl<sgiving Basl<ets Easter Basl<ets 

7~ tme ~ Ml't ~tk ~? SD-M-ate. 
To join, call Karen at x2297 

Deadmarsh's fourth goal of the season moments after Roy made a glove save off Jason Arnott. Deadmarsh streaked into the Edmonton zone and slid Forsberg's pass off the post and past goaltender Curtis Joseph. 
Just over two minutes later, Forsberg deflected Adam Foote's shot from the point past Joseph for his third goal of the season. 
The Oilers threatened when rookie Steve Kelly dodged past Foote, who stumbled, but the shot sailed wide. On the ensuing rush, Sandis Ozolinsh burned Joseph with a low slap shot from just inside the blue line at 
11 :48 for a 3-0 lead. Edmonton made it 3-1 at 
13:13 of the second period when Boris Mironov's shot glanced off defenseman Uwe Krupp past Roy. 
But any momentum the Oilers may have gained was quickly lost when Ozolinsh took a loose puck during a Colorado power play and sent his second goal of the season past Joseph at 14:45. 
Ryan Smyth got the Oilers within 3-2 at 3:16 of the third period on a power play, ending Colorado's penalty-killing streak at 36. 
But Forsberg collected his fourth and fifth assists of the night on power-play goals by Joe Sakic at 5:08 and Jari Kurri at 16:58. 
Penguins 1, Rangers 0 
NEW YORK 
Tom Barrasso, limited to five games last season because of a shoulder injury, was at his best 
,-­

in his sixth start this fall. 
The Pittsburgh goalie made 36 saves -22 in the second period -for his 24th shutout as the Penguins beat the New York Rangers 1-0 on Tuesday night. 
"There are nights when you find the puck in traffic," said Barrasso, wbo improved to 3-2­1 and dropped his goal-against average to 1.98. "Sometimes you look the other way and you don't see it. I was fortunate." 
In/ the second period, Barrasso stopped seven shots by Rangers defenseman Brian Leetch, including three each by Pat LaFontaine and Kevin Stevens. 
"We had opportunities and chances and Barrasso made some big saves," New York star Wayne Gretzky said. "We had 22 shots in one period and kept peppering him. He was making key saves." 
Ron Francis scored the only goal of the game at 17:56 of the second period. Francis redirect­ed Kevin Hatcher's shot from the right point past goalie Mike Richter for the forward's third goal of the season. 
"I was trying to get to the front of the net," Francis said. "Hatcher took the shot and I was able to tip it down between Richter's legs." 
The Rangers pressed the play in the third period, but the Penguins went into a defensive shell and Barrasso was up to the task, making key saves on Gretzky, Alex Kovalev and Adam Graves. 
"New York had plenty of good chances and our goalie really won the game for us," Penguins coach Kevin Constantine said. 
1 l<noc.\Cout WorKout ­
\Zound 1 Beginnerf> 
Monaa~f> ~ we:anef>aa~f> 
4:1?-?:'30 

1012-q to 12./10 $2.0 
····················­
\Zound 2. Mvanc.ea 
Tuef>aa~f> ~ 1hurf>aa~f> 
{p:?0-1:4? 

10/2.~ to 12./q 
$1? 

.. ::-~~~­
~l):}'$ 
•
• 
~ign-upf> 
begin 1hurf>dai, Dt:tober \{p, S:OO am 
:~pace is \imited!
•
•
•
•
• Contad 1-')q(p')
•
•
• with an~ • 
-
' 

~-~7~-,..­
~,~­
~_.,, 
, .... 

Burbe""rrysOF LONDON FACTORY OUTLET STORE 
LADIES' AND MEN'S WORLD FAMOUS RAINWEAR, CLOTHING AND FURNISHINGS AT SAVINGS OF 
30 TO 60% 
SOSB LIGHTHOUSE PLACE MICHIGAN CITY, IN • 219-874-7777 
~-----~-l 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
._ I I I I 
I I 
---_j 
r 
' 
Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
.. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Baseball to get face lift with realigniDent 
The Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

In a move that likely will result in Kansas City or Milwaukee switching to the National League next season, baseball owners finally approved a realignment plan Wednesday. 
Detroit will go from the AL East to the AL Central, and the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays will replace the Tigers in the AL East. The AL team to switch leagues will be designat­ed after the World Series, and owners and officials said the Royals had first choice. If Kansas City declines, Milwaukee has agreed to move, they said. 
"We did support radical realignment, but this does not appear to be radical realign­ment," Royals general manag­er Herk Robinson said. "I would say this is more of an adjustment that a realignment. But I cannot speak for {team chairman) David Glass or the board.'' 
Owners approved· the plan 27-0 during a telephone con­ference call shortly before Game 6 of the AL champi­onship series. The San Francisco Giants, who threat­ened to sue to block a larger 
realignment plan, abstained, and the two 1998 expansion teams were not allowed to vote. 
"We have taken care of the two most immediate concerns, moving Tampa Bay into a more agreeable geographic division and creating a 16-14 league alignment," said acting com­missioner Bud Selig, who also owns the Brewers. 
Tampa Bay had spent months trying to avoid an assignment to the AL West, the only open division spot last January. Arizona was put in the NL West during the January vote, and the Tigers said they were will­ing to switch to the AL Central, but Kansas City refused to move from the AL Central to the AL West, forcing the realignment debate to drag on for nine months. 
With the switches, the NL will have 16 teams next season and the AL 14. That enables owners to bunch interleague games into specific periods of the sea­son, as was done this year, the initial season of interleague play. 
Under the 15-15 format own­ers originally approved in January, an interleague game would have been needed nearly every day to keep teams from having days off on weekends. 

1997 LAW FAIR 
October 27 10 a.m.-2 p.m.

l J 
I I JACC Concourse 
I··::~·~:=:::=~·=.-:::·7.:::J 


List of U ni versi ties/Colleges Attending:
Ill
i I I 
! 
r 1 ir 
'l ; 
II
(!i 
': i 
ill 
'l 
I!I I 
I! 
i1I
I , 
, I 
l II~ 
! i i 
1 
11
! ,, 
,, I
I. 

Lewis & Clark La-w School Loyola Law School-L.A. University of .Maine 
Marquette University Northeastern University No. Illinois University Northwestern University University of Notre Dame Ohio Northern University University of Pennsylvania University of Pittsburgh Quinnipiac College University of Richmond Roger Williams University St. Louis University St. Mary's Univ.-Texas Univ. of San Francisco Seton Hall University Syracuse University Temple University Univer~ity of Texas University of Toledo Tulane University Valparaiso University Vanderbilt University Vallanova University 
Wake Forest University Washington & Lee Univ. Widener University 
Yeshiva University I: KAPLAN f 
I 

University of Akron 
Albany Law School-Union Univ. Am. Univ.-Washington College Univ. of Arizona College of Law Boston College Law School Brooklyn Law School Univ. of California-Davis Univ. of So. California-L.A. Catholic Univ. of Am.-Columbia Chicago-Kent College of Law University of Cincinnati Columbia Law School Univ. of Dayton School of Law Univ. of Denver School of Law DePaul Univ. College of Law Detroit College of Law-MSU Univ. of Detroit Mercy Dickinson Univ. School of Law Duke Univ. School of Lnw Duquesue Univ. School of Law Emory Univ. School of Law Fordham Univ. School of Law George Washington University Hamline University Univ. of Illinois-Urbana Indiana Univ.-Bioomington Indiana Univ,-Indianapolis Univ. of Iowa College of Law John Mar~hall Law School 
I'
:I 
i 
oI •t 
'j 
! 
. I 
I I 
l 
I 
'Jll' 
::' 
! 
I 
' 
I 
! l ! i i 1 ! i 
i 
1 
! 
! 
; 
! 


~ 17 
I I I 
vs. (l}
I. 
I 
I 
I Georgetown
: .c­
7:-30pm 
William Mitchell College 
l:.__,_::__--1 

I l Williamnette University I I 
DON'T MISS IT! 
I ; 
' 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I ! 
i I 
! 
I 
I ' 
' 
j 
I 
! 
: 1 
' 
: l 
! ~ 
i ! 
i ; 
!i 
dl
Ill 
I 
~ 
I 
l 
I ! 
I 

........_____.-w• ~~------------·----~..•~.­
Irish Volleyball llsiJ vs. North Carolina 
Friday Oct. 1 7 8:00pm 

; I 
1 
.. 1 

Free admission to all students! 
page 17

Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~l 
l I 
+Campus Ministry This Week + 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Appalachian-Washington Diversity Seminars Send-off Mass 
Saturday, October 18, 10:00 pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Celebrant: Fr. Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Eucharistic Adoration 
From 11:30 p.m. on every Monday through 10:00 p.m. on Tuesday, there will be Eucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration begins after celebration of the 11:00 p.m. Mass and end with Benediction. 
Folk Choir concert for the Missions 
On Saturday, November 1st, the Folk Choir will offer its annual Concert for the Missions. "Song of the Saints," a program celebrating saints' lives through the year, will take place on Saturday, the 1st of November at 7:30pm in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. It's also Navy weekend and the first Parents' Weekend on campus. Mark your calendars now and bring your parents! 
Freshmen Retreat #13, Nov.7-8 
Application forms for the retreat for residents of Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Siegfried, Walsh and Zahm are available through the rectors and at Campus Ministry at 103 Hesburgh Library. Deadline: October 30. Don't miss the sign-up! 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Sign-up for Retreat #48 (Nov. 14-16) 
Monday-Friday, October 13-17, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Small Faith Sharing Groups 
At the beginning of the semester, many students signed-up to express their interest in belonging to a Small Faith Sharing Group and/or to participate in a student led Bible-Study Group. We are now ready to gather together all interested students to talk about a Campus Ministry vision for Small Faith-Sharing/Bible Study Groups and to hear from you about what your hopes and needs are. Please join us for a pizza dinner and listening session on November 9 from 5:00-7:00P.M. in Walsh Hall's basement social space. We need a head-count for dinner so please R.S.V.P. at 631-5242 and ask for Kate, John, or Sylvia. 
University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students who are interested in doing 
some volunteer work at University Village, the Married Student Housing Complex on campus. Students are needed to volunteer in a "Mother's Time-Out " program that meets in the community center on Wednesdays from 9:00A.M.-11:30 A.M. This ministry would entail working with two mother's to plan activities and games for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. "Mother's Time-Out" will not meet during breaks or vacation periods. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
World Mission Sunday 
Sunday, October 18 

--~ ~ ---·~--~ .........-~------------~­
-----------~----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
• MLB PLAYOFFS • COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Tribe wins ALCS, set to Gator quarterback out too late 
East at 3-1. Since Florida has already beaten the Volunteers, all it has to do is win their remaining SEC games to reach the conference title game. 
But it starts Saturday in one of the most difficult places to win, Jordan-Hare Stadium, against an undefeated Auburn team that is off to its best start since 1993. 
Auburn is the only SEC team to have beaten Florida in con­secutive years -1993 and 1994 since Spurrier returned as head eoach in 1990. 
Palmer sought out Spurrier when he decided to come to the United States, and even asked to wear No. 7, the same jersey Danny Wuerffel wore when he won the l-leisman Trophy last year and led the Gators to their first national championship. 
In four games, Palmer is 9­of-15 for 145 yards and three touchdowns. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 (219) 232-8444 

Records 
ME THE IRISH CD INTRODUCES THE NEXT GENERATION OF NOTRE DAME MUSIC. 15 ORIGINAL SONGS FEATURI:!'I"HE SENSATIONAL NEW HIT "HERE CoME THE IRISH': 
WRITTEN AND CO-PRODUCED BY J 
NFL VETERAN FROM 1981 TO 
PERFECT GIFT IDEA-ALLOWS F 
EXPERIENCE INTO THEIR HOMES 
"SINCE GRADUATING AFTER THE I SOMEONE WHO CAME FROM NOTRE IN ALL MY ENDEAVORS." 
Available NOW at the N 
Or to order, call the Notre Da Center today at 1-800-647-4641 
play bigger fish in Series 
The Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

These are not the same Cleveland Indians that Albert Belle led to the World Series. 
They win close games. They win in extra innings. They play smart defense and steer clear of controversy. 
Even while their sluggers kept swinging and missing, the Indians got a clutch homer from Tony Fernandez, a slap hitter who wasn't even sup­posed to play in Game 6 of the ALCS on Wednesday. 
The Indians clinched their second AL pennant in three years and fifth in history with another amazing victory, 1-0 over the Baltimore Orioles in 11 innings. 
Jose Mesa, who got the last out of Cleveland's 1995 pen­nant-clinching victory at the Seattle Kingdome, struck out H.oberto Alomar for the final out of this one. 
All four of the Indians' wins in the series came by one run -the only time that has hap­pened in a league champi­onship series -and two came in extra innings as they were outscored by the Orioles 19-18. Cleveland lost three games by one run in the 1995 World Series, won by Atlanta. 
They will meet the Florida Marlins in the World Series on Saturday with a lineup filled with different players and per­sonalities. 
Fernandez, who has barely said a word all season, provid­ed all the bashing Cleveland needed with his homer in the 11th off Armando Benitez. 
"I had confidence all the way," said Fernandez, a late insertion into the lineup when Bip H.oberts was scratched because of a bruised thumb. "Nobody gave us a chance, but everybody had faith." 
Following Belle out of town was Lofton, traded to the Atlanta Braves in a stunning spring training swap that sent Marquis Grissom and David Justice to Cleveland. 
Grissom, who replaced Lofton in center field, was named MVP of the ALCS. He won Game 2 with a three-run homer off Benitez, then scored the winning run in Game 4 on a bizarre steal of home as Vizquel missed a squeeze bunt. 
Justice, who beat the Indians with a homer in Game 6 of the 1995 World Series, was a steady force in the lineup and clubhouse since the day he first tried on an Indians cap. 
The Indians overcame anoth­er stunning performance by Orioles starter Mike Mussina to clinch in similar fashion as 1995. The Orioles stranded 14 runners in Game 6, partly because of stellar defense by the Indians -once known as the Bashers and Bullies of Baseball. 
"It's not like in the past when we tried to win with home runs," Vizquel said. "We've got little plays. We beat them with defense. That's even more special." 
The Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Florida quarterback Doug Johnson was suspended Wednesday for what his father said was a curfew violation, keeping him out of the Gators' crucial showdown Saturday at No. 6 Auburn. 
Johnson, a 19-year-old sophomore, was coming off his worst game for No. 7 Florida. He threw four interceptions, including one that was returned for the go-ahead touchdown in a 28-21 loss at LSU that knocked the Gators from No.1. 
His father, Doug Johnson, told The Associated Press the violation took place before the Gators left for Baton Houge, La., but that Spurrier didn't find out about it until Tuesday. 
"Evidently, someone came forth and said they had seen him out after curfew," the father said. 

Replacing Johnson will be Jesse Palmer, a true freshman from Canada who has seen only mop-up duty this year. The only other quarterback with experience is fifth-year senior Noah Brindise, a former walk-on. 
"I made a mistake and I plan on paying the consequences," Johnson said in a statement released by the university. 
"Hopefully, I can come back as a smarter player. This is going to make me look at things differently. It will proba­bly help me in the long run." 
The one-game suspension comes at a perilous time for the Gators, who are trying to become the first team since Alabama in the early 1980s to win five straight Southeastern Conference championships. 
The loss at LSU left Florida with a 5-1 overall record and tied with Tennessee in the SEC 

Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Calendar of Events 
10/16/97 

Since the very first days of the Clinton presidency, I have been disap­Appalachian-Washi pointed by what I can only describe as an "in your face" approach to issues derived from the Catholic Church's defense of life concerns--abortion, death
Seminars Send-off 
penalty, euthanasia, policy considerations and consequences derived from 
Saturday, October 
our Just War tradition, and the defense and promotion of poor people as they
10:00 pm -.;T~InTnr·n_ 
all too frequently barely eke out a living under all difficult circumstances. 
Celebrant: Fr. Jim 
Before the Clinton era, I was painfully aware of the empty promises of the previous Republican presidencies. In my opinion, they lip-synched the 
Freshman Retreat words of our position, but did little to change the underlying causes sur­7-8) Sign-up rounding these issues or to promote any real change. The Church insists that we defend life at every stage from conception 
Application 
to the moment of natural death. A majority of Americans do not agree; some Catholics do not, either. The late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago stated this position 
.. are 
best when he described the inter-relatedness of these life issues as a "seam­
r:e<;tolrs and at 
less garment." To weaken any portion of the whole cloth garment, he told 
rgh us, causes the garment's complete destruction. Just as you cannot pull a string on your favorite woven sweater without eventually winding up with only a pile of yarn, so you cannot pick and choose among the life issues. The way Cardinal Bernardin approached his own death is a martyr-like confirma­tion that he really believed what he taught. And I am certain that he only arrived at this position after many hours of thought and prayer, and, in the least analysis, the leap of faith that can sometimes seem to be just beyond our easy reach as believers. 
Ten years after the Cardinal's insight, Pope John Paul II's "Gospel of Life" urges us to abandon the culture ofdeath our society accepts and pro­motes, and to choose life. 
As Catholics, we are asked to oppose abortions, executions, misguid­ed welfare reform, the right to choose the moment of our life, and counter­population targeting of nuclear weapons for the same reason. 
"Thou shalt not kill," is the injunction of the Author of life. 
President Clinton recently vetoed, for the second time in less than a year, a Bill prohibiting partial birth abortion, a procedure which comes as close as possible to infanticide. He did so because the proposed legislation 
Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time did not permit exceptions for reasons of health --wording his opponents found too vague. 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica There is no longer a debate in our culture of death regarding whether 
Saturday, October 18 
or not abortion on demand should be the law of our land. 
half hour after game 
There is no longer a debate in our culture ofdeath regarding whether 
Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
or not executions should take place. We are only concerned about how to 
Sunday, October 19 
make the procedure appear painless, to avoid challenges on the basis of 
8:00am 
"cruel and unusual" punishment, and how to accelerate the process by limit­1 
I 

,-I
Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C 
ing the number of appeals. 
10:00 am 
There is just barely a debate in our culture of death about whether or 
Rev. James King, C.S.C 
not individuals have the right to seek assistance to hasten the moment of 
11:45 am 
death. 

Rev. Roger Cardinal Mahony, D.O. 
The number of politicians who are truly and consistently pro-life con­
at Stepan Center 
tinues to decrease. 
Saturday, October 18 
I hope a new generation of bright and talented young men and 
45 minutes after game 
women will enter fully into the political system and its processes. I think we 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
are in need of this kind of new blood. 
at Keenan-stanford Chapel of the Holy Cross 
In thinking about these vital matters, it is important for all of us to 
Saturday, October 18 
keep our eyes firmly fixed on the person of Jesus Christ, the Living Word of 
half hour after game 
God, always present in Scripture and ready to cut us to the bone if we but 
Sunday, October 19 
dare allow God's Word to transform us. 
12:00 noon 
So what do we do about the President's veto? 
Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C, . 
Write to the President, expressing your strong opposition to the veto he signed. 
Scripture Readings 
Write to your Congressional representatives. Insist that they override 
1st Reading Isaiah 53:10-11 
the President's veto. 
2nd Reading Hebrews 4:14-16 
Probe deeply into the positions on life issues of both political parties 
Gospel Mark 10:35-45 
and of all movements before you even think of supporting with your vote 
candidates for Local, State and National office. If the seamless garment 
approach to life issues is not clearly visible in the voting record of any candi­

date, he or she is most likely a proponent of the culture ofdeath. 
0MPUS 

May we avoid becoming unwitting accomplices in the culture of death. 
MINISTRY 

_j 

•NBA 
Cavs keep Kemp with $107 million contract 
The Associated Press Terrell Brandon, Tyrone Hill 
r-­
Shawn Kemp moved a step closer Wednesday to getting his renegotiated megacon­tract, a seven-year deal with the Cleveland Cavaliers that will be worth about $107 mil­lion. 
It will make Kemp the fifth NBA player in the $100 million club and will end the salary saga of the ex-Seattle All-Star whose anger with his old con­tract played a big part in dri­ving him away from the SuperSonics. 
According to a source close to the Cavs, the sides have agreed on the amount of 
... money Kemp will be paid ­approximately $8.3 million in the first season with 20 per­cent raises in each of the next six years. Several details remain to be worked out. Cavs spokesman Bob Price said the team would have no comment until an agreement is finalized. Cleveland had about $9.5 million of salary cap room when it acquired Kemp from the Seattle SuperSonics in a three-way trade that sent 
I I I 
Taking Applications for Fall '98 
i 
~ ~ 
I 
and January '98 
'?ALL StD&e1AL 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) ••THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES.. 
402 E.Madison 
SouthBend Open 1 days a week 23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) Must be 21 to enter just a 3 minute walk from downtown 
Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 
XIS 
FRI., Ocr. 17 
11:00pm 

Season Tzckers 10 
, Player of the Year Candidate: Pat Garrity 
AIR.Faxes 
ND T-sbzxrs ro 
a~+as pRST 1,000 Fans 
t. t 1l1 FR.ee admzsszon TO all
Con Inen a ~) 

Express • } ce CenTeR 


and a first-round draft pick to Milwaukee and Vin Baker to Seattle. 
When the agreement is final­ized, that money will be added on to Kemp's current $3.3 mil­lion cap slot. With the 20 per­cent bumps, it adds up to about $107 million. 
That number would put Kemp among Kevin Garnett ($126 million), Shaquille O'Neal ($120 million), Alonzo Mourning ($112 million) and Juwan Howard ($100.8 mil­lion) as players with nine-fig­ure contracts. 
Under collective bargaining rules, the Sonics weren't allowed to discuss a renegotia­tion until Oct. 8 -three years to the date after Kemp signed his last contract. Kemp demanded a trade anyway. and he got it last month. 
The Cavs also had to wait until Oct. 8 to discuss a new contract, but the sides have been negotiating since then on the new deal. 
Kemp. a 6-foot-10 forward, has averaged 16.2 points and 
9.6 rebounds in eight NBA 
seasons. 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 1997 

Walsh 


Sun 11/2 5 p.m.~-----~ West Quad 
....------------------------------------, 

Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
-
THE BEST PRICES * THE BEST IN DENIM 
..... 
.. ~ 
~ 
z 
Q
... 
0 
0 
Grand Opening Saturday, October 18th 
Stop by for a free gift. While supplies last. 
Free Old Navy caps 
Supply is limited to the first 500 customers this Saturday; please come early. 
now open PRINCESS CITY PLAZA DAY RD. BETWEEN MAIN ST. & GRAPE RD. 
9:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sunday 
Umited quantities on all items. Some items not available in all stores. 
1-800-0LD-NAVY 
. "' 
' I 
. I 
I I 
l I 
I 
j I 
. 1 I 
' 
I 
1 
I I 
, J 
I 
I 
I 
i 
I I I 
I 
I 
-1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
I 
----------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
r 
! 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 16, 1997 
~ 
.. Robinson 
I I I continued from page 24 
I 
' • but said that there were no major decisions made. "We talked on the airplane. We didn't have some crisis meeting in Malta," Robinson said. "We have just made an opinion and a consensus of how we're going to do it. "I want what's best for USC. I've always wanted the best for USC. In those 13 years, I've done an outstanding job providing for that. Right now, I'm not provid­ing that in terms of our success." After Arizona State's decima­tion of the Trojans, Robinson 
I ~ said that the team was "sleep­
I walking" through the second 
I ~ half. 
I I He said that there is either a 
~ 
I lack of confidence in the team or I I an issue of not being as talented I as he thought they would be. 
I 
I ... Either way, Robinson said, the
I ­I team has to perform better in I 
crunch time. 
"The one thing that is happen­ing is, there is a choking or an inability to perform when it comes down to it," Robinson said. "I told them after, and I told them a lot of things, that if you can't do it, for whatever rea­sons, don't tell me that you care or try hard in practice. 
"If you can't perform when it comes down to it, you've got to step aside and let somebody else do it." 
However, Robinson didn't put all of the blame on the players. 
Later in the luncheon, Robinson took a good part of the blame for the team's troubles and made no excuses for the team's performance. 
"We all go through something in life where you've got to say, 'Hey man, there's no excuses. It's nobody else's fault. It's not the weather. It's not El Nino. It's me. I've got to stand up and do the best that I can,"' Hobin son said. 
"I've worked hard this year, the coaching staff has worked hard and the players have worked hard. We have nothing much to show for it, so we had better get going a little faster and try to solve some of these problems and play to our abili­ty." But Hobinson said there has been no shortage of support from fans across the country, citing numerous faxes on his desk that are all positive toward Robinson and the team. 
"You can say my team's in trouble, I'm going to support the people that are there, and we're going to do the best that we can," Hobinson said. "When it's time to decide the future, we'll decide. 
"But I am not going to be a part of a situation where I let the team slide into the gutter. Wc'm going to do that the best we can. There arc 10,000 (fans), and after (the Notre Dame game) there may be 10,307 marching back from South Bend. 
"If it doesn't work there. then we'll start marching again next week. That's how wo'rc going to do it." 

Boylan 
continued from page 24 
blocks (two solos). Four Notre Dame players have been recognized by the Big East in 1997 during the 
seven weeks of conference awards. The Irish opened the 
season with consecutive player of the week honors going to senior hittor Angie Harris, 
junior middle Lindsay Troadwcll and senior hitter 
Jaimie Lee. Two-timo defending Big East
champion Notre Dame is 12-5 overall and 4-0 in conference 
pl~~;ch 
of the Irish losses in 
1997 have come to ranked 
teams. including three current­ly in the top 10 (No. 3 Florida,
No. R Wisconsin and No. 10 Washington S~ate), plus current No. 12 Texas A&M and No. 19 
Colorado. 
The Irish next have th re c important non-conference tests versus North Carolina at the 
.Joyce Center on Friday, at No. 11 Texas and at Houston. 

USA TodayI AVCA Women•s Volleyball NCAA District Ranking 
1 
2 3 
4 5 6 
7
8 9 

Notre Dame Vl'llanova Rhode Island 
T. I emple Con nectl'cut Syracuse 
Massachusetts
Dayton West VI' rg I. nI· a 
1 0 George Washington 
~;=======:::==============~
Come support the Notre Dame volleyball team I 
h 't t k 

w en I a es on North Carolina Friday following . the pep rally at 8:30p.m. at the Joyce Center : 
I 

ATTENTION ALPP MAJORS 
~0~ 
~~ 
THERE WILL BE AN IMPORTANT MEETING FOR 
ALL ALPP STUDENTS 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16 in 210 DE BARTOLO HALL ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE: 
SENIORS JUNIORS SOPHOMORES 
4:30-5:00 5:00-5:30 5:30-6:00 
PMC 

Portfolio Management Challenge 
--------~~-------------------­
• 
$2,000 in Prizes 


• 
Learn how to invest for your future in the stock market 

• 
Make trades using the internet, e-mail, or fax 

• 
Separate division for Freshmen and Sophomores 

• 
Attend one of our informational meetings on Oct. 27th & 


28th to learn more about our contest. Time and place of meetings will be announced in the Observer. 
BONUS 

Register now and receive a free booklet on how to invest. 
Pre-Register for your Convenience Name: 
Addres~.>: 

Phone: Year: 
--------·--------­
E-Mail: 

Send to PMC, 302 Stanford Hall, Campus Mail with a $20 check for your registration fee made payable to NDCIBD. 

Thursday, October 16, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-


t/o: 

~EALIZE/.l 
JVH"hl:. PETERS 


DILBERT 
DOG~ERT MUTUA.L FUND "' 
~--------------------------~8 
_.. 
0 

I DON'T UNDERSTAND ,~ Wl-1'< ~N'( INiELLtGENT ~ WOULD PUT ~ 
I TR'< TO SIEER CLEAR OF INTHLIGENT INVESTORS. 

SCOTT ADAMS 

DO '(OU W~NT 1"\'Y 
NAM£. AND 
ADDRES5'?

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Like most houses
1 Sitar music 36 Change the fight 5 Gyro bread 
card? 9Weightofa 
38 "---takers?" 

stone 39 Cheerleader's 14 NATO member: actAbbr. 
40 Fi leader 

15 Dark horse 41 Omit the 
16 Duck 
lettuce? 17 Buy everyone 
44 Dutch genre beers? 
painter 19 Paint ingredient 
46 December 

20 "Go Tell It on the ocean Mountain" family phenomenon name 
47 Colorado · 21 Japanese Governor Roy seaport 49 Beneficiary 23 "Enough!" 51 Meal 25 Works on 54 Off. helper pumps, maybe 
56 Walk quietly 30 Historical trivia 
58 "Sweeney 32 Didn't shuffle Todd" prop 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

&2 Join the cast? 64 Napoleon's punishment 65 Hydrox alternative && Humorist Bombeck &7 Things to worry 
over 68 Henry VIII's Vlth &9 It holds the line 
DOWN 
1 Actress Diana 2 Sampras and 
others 3 "Sawy?" 4 Apple-pie order 5 Oktoberfest 
toast 6 Letters of credit 7 Kind of top 8 Legalese 
conjunction 9 Keyboard instrument 

52 Look and look 58 Yank's foe and look 
59 Dismiss 53 "Bewitched" 60 70's-80's singer, 1950 Pakistani 55 Mitchell 
president mansion &1 Part of O.T. 57 And others, in &3 Plop brief preceder 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Aries: Someone finally recog­
nizes what you are worth and may 
soon pay you accordingly. When 
you feel good about yourself, oth· 
ers begin to notice. 
You are happy to tackre new 
obstacles. 
Taurus: As an earth sign, this is 
your day to play in the mud. All 
inhibitions vanish as you pursue 
your goals or satisfy your 
appetites. Others will be impressed 
by a side of you that they may 
never have seen. 
Gemini: When faced with 
today's set of limitations, you sur­
prise yourself by drawing on hid­
den strength. Be patient in the face 
of adversity. Retain your charm to 
keep others wondering what 
you're really up to. 
Cancer: When the Moon visits 
Taurus' house, expect guests at -your own home. Social activity is favored today, no matter where you go. If you are looking for col­laborators, be prepared to share 
your ideas. 
Leo: Your reputation or legal 
status may be on the line today. A 
display of arrogance or bad judge­
ment will have most unwelcome 
consequences. Stabilize yourself by 
exercising moderation in all things. 
Virgo: Your day is productive, 
but on a much deeper level than 
just stacking boxes or shuffling 
papers. You reach a deep and 
unique understanding about the 
way you operate. You are beautiful when you're this self-assured. 
Libra: Your personal magnetism puts you at the spotlight, but you may not measure up on closer 
inspection. Conduct health mainte­nance activities in private. Polite answers to personal questions save everyone from embarrassment. 
Scorpio: Try to be open to changes in yotir relationship today. Stubborn attachment to an imper­manent situation will make you a liability in business or romance. Re-meml,er the retailer's motto: "You break it, you bought it." 
Sagittarius: Your recent plea­sure cruise may show signs of turning into a bad trip today. Small stones make big ripples in a still pond. Pa:y your debts now before those finance charges pile up. 
Capricorn: The truth about your feelings is too good to hide from your loved one today. Be faithful to an ideal, and everything else will line up perfectly. Tasteful celebra­tions are favored today. 
Aquarius: Your low energy level leaves you uncomfortable in the presence of exuberant, free-spirit· ed people. You reflect on the things that money can't buy, no matter how much you have. Embrace any early signs o change. 
Pisces: Follow your intuition 
wherever it leads you today. Your 
mind is quick. Your words are pre­
cise. You are creative in a way that 
often seems too good to be true. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
... 
10 Prize televised onMTV 11 Cagney epithet 12 Suffix with some fruit names 13 Cowboy's monicker 18 Fix, as a sofa 22 Assail 24 Fiesta Bowl site 2&Symbol of sovereignty 27 Relaxed 28 Draw out 29Take hold 31 Energy choice 
33 Display stand 34 Spat spot 35 In competition 37 King of old 
movies 39 AI Bundy sells them 42 Daughter of 
Ingrid 43 Star in Scorpio 44 Photo tint 45 Hide seeker 48 Temporary 
skylight? 50 Bar, by law 


student union board 
----~ 
-
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, October 16, 1997 
, 
I I 
I 
! 
' 
I 
t 
I L ~ 
I 
I 
I 
' 
! ' ~­
1 
! I 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Newell on pace to set scoring record as season draws to close 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
There is a record to be bro­ken and three games left to do it. At the rate Saint Mary's soc­cer player Eileen Newell is going, the single season scoring record title will be hers by the end of the season. The record was set in 1992 by Megan Dalsaso. who scored 15 goals during the season. Newell cur­rently has 13 goals. 
"No matter what happens, if I break the record or if I don't, I've enjoyed playing the game and playing with the women on the team," said the senior for­ward. "It's something I'd like to beat, but winning the next three games is more important." 
It is this team attitude which truly defines Newell's playing style. As a senior and co-cap­tain Newell feels that it is one of her responsibilities to keep the team together. Being a team leader is a responsibility that Newell is willing to take on.· "What happens to the team is important to me," expressed Newell. "I'm proud to be a teammate and I'm proud to be a Belle." 

In her throe years as a starter for the Belles, Newell has played every position on the field. She has done' so because there were positions which needed to be filled. As an underclassman Newell was will­ing to step in and play where her team needed hnr. This year Newell has lwen placnd in pnr­haps the most natural position for her on the field. 
Iler scoring success demon­strates her ability as a forward. In Tuesday's game against Defiance College Newell scored three timns. This itself puts hnr in the record book for most goals by a player vnrsus onn op pon ()11 t. She also scored three goaIs wlw n pi ayi ng against Franklin Collnge in SeptembPr. 
Soccer has been a part of Newell's lifo for quite a long time. The Allen Park. Mich., native started wlwn she was only four years old by playing on a recrnation team in her city. At Cabrini High School in Allen Park, Nowell was a member of the varsity soccer team for four years. She holds school records in most assists in a season and career assists. In 1994, the Detroit FrPe Press named her one of 10 Michigan Student Scholar Athletes. 
A "love for the game" keeps Newell active in the sport after all these years. 
"I get the biggest rush being 
on  the  field,"  commented  
Newell.  "I  enjoy being  out  
there."  


• VOLLEYBALL 
Big East honors for Boylan 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame freshman setter Denise Boylan has been named the Big East conference vol­leyball rookie of the week for Oct. 6-12. 
The 6-foot-1 Boylan ran the Irish offense for 10 of 12 games during the week as Notre Dame extended its winning strnak to six matches with victories over Illinois StatP (3-2). at Boston College ( 3-1) and at Provide nco ( 3-0). The Irish hit a combined .331 for the week, with Boylan averaging 16.40 assists per game. She was second among Irish players during the week with 34 digs. including a match andca­reer-high 21 in the exciting win over ISU. Boylan added livP blocks assists. a snrviee ace and six kills on .375 hitting for the week. 

Boylan is the llrst freshman to open tlw sea­son as Notre Dame's primary setter since 1988. She has helped the Irish surgn to a Big East-leading .258 season hitting pet.. which ranks third in team history and second bnst by a Notre Dame squad since 1986. 
Behind Boylan's setting and a veteran (:orps of hitters. the Notre Dame offense is running away with the Big East offensive statistics. The Irish arc averaging .357 hitting in conference matches (Seton llall is second, at .2701 and 
17.92 kills per game in leagun action (Villanova is next, at 16.00). 
Boylan leads the Big East in overall matches with 12.11 assists/gm. which ranks fourth in Irish history. She also ranks third on the '97 Irish squad with 133 digs (2.46/gm) while her other season totals includn 36 kills on .247 hit­ting, 11 service aces (third on the team) and 28 
see BOYLAN I page 22 
.FOOTBALL 

USC coach Robinson vows to turn tide 
Trojans need win Robinson said. ''I'm a really good football coach who's not doing too well right now. If we 
to save season 
don't do better, then I won't be here.

and head coach 
"But right now what I'm doing is trying my absolute best 
ByJASON SPENCER 
to get this football team to play

Sports Editor, Daily Trojan (USC) 
to its maximum potential. We 

With all of the talk surround-intend to do that. We're not ing USC head coach John going to be distracted by other Robinson and his job security things." these days, Robinson quelled all As a solution to the 1·ecent speculation at his weekly media funk that the USC football pro· luncheon Tuesday and vowed gram has fallen into, Hobinson to turn the team around. said that he, USC athiPtic direc­
"In terms of the speculation tor Mike Garrett and USC about me or President Steven B. Sample are anyone else, if ...----------==----. w o r k i n g 
we don't turn t o g e t h e r this program through the around, if we "crisis," and don't face this that they are issue and doing their make some-best to solve thing happen th1-1 probiPm. ... then our "There will football team be no· divisive-should go in a ness among new direc-us," Hobinson t 1 o n , " said. "There R o b i n s o n will be no one said. saying any­
"I'd be the thing other llrst to say that ... if we <:.an get than, 'We're going to be togeth­out of it, then we'll move for-er and we'rfl going to faee this ward. If we don't, then 1 think it issue and do the best we can.' would be appropriate for us to We are going to do this as change." Trojans." 
Hobinson said that it was time Hobinson said that he had "a to band together in a sort of series of conversations and an "Million Man March" to bring understanding" with Sample support together from a multi· and Garrett after Saturday's tude of sources. loss to Arizona State in Tempe, 
"Don't write me nasty letters, don't tell me this or that," see ROBINSON I page 22 


vs. USC, at St. Cloud State, October 18, 2:30 p.m. 
October 17, 7 p.m. 
~ aJ •Indians to meet Marlins in Series 
. --~
at Syracuse, at Central Collegiate, 

~ 'C
October 19, 12 p.m. 

October 17, 4 p.m. see page 18
......
Q ..
vs. Georgetown, Volleyball at Franklin,

uC' riJ •Florida quarterback suspended 
........,
October 17, 7:30p.m. 

October 19, 31 p.m . see page 18 vs. North Carolina, 
Soccer vs. John Carroll U., October 17, 8 p.m. October 17, 3 p.m. 
sc ~ 





