.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Thursday, March 20, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 109 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Notre Dame recognizes 25th year of co-education 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR ' 
each of those schools, none of which applied to Assistant News Editor Notre Dame. In addition, the concept of co-residentiality was Issues such as co-residentiality, as well as the too new to discern whether it was more beneficial 
hiring and tenuring of Notre Dame women faculty, for students academically. surfaced in a panel discussion yesterday, which Twenty-five years later, the issue is still in the allowed reflections on 25 years of co-education at forefront as evidenced by the fact that it was the 
Notre Dame. first topic brought up in the audience participa­
The panel included alumni from different eras, tion portion of the discussion. During that discus­the vice president of Student Affairs at the time of sion, students, faculty, alumni and rectors com­the transition to co-education, and a doctoral stu­mented on the pros and cons of co-residentiality. dent whose dissertation topic is the transition of Both perspectives of the issue were brought up by Notre Dame to co-education. the audience, including the idea that some impor­
Kathy Cook, a Loyola University doctoral student tant leadership positions for women may be lost in history has devoted her studies to the Notre in the co-residential setup. Dame's process of incorporating women. She "From my perspective, the move to co-educa­explained that she was particularly interested in tion was seamless," said Mike Frantz, a 1973 how the 325 women who first entered the alumnus. "I am a strong believer in a diverse stu­University in 1972 changed Notre Dame and how dent body, including those groups which had not it changed their lives. She explained that "there been represented in the past." were both internal and external factors that "In order to survive in this environment as a prompted the University to admit women." female ... you've got to be competitive," added­
"We certainly made our mistakes, but on the The Observer/Kevin Dalum women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli, "and I other hand, 1 feel that the positives outweighed Father Thomas Bantz, vice president for Student Affairs as Notre Dame don't see anything wrong with that." the negatives," said Father Thomas Blantz, who moved towards co-education, spoke last night at a panel discussion. Ed Trifone, a 1988 alumnus and director of 
was thn vice president for Student Affairs at the time of several examples of co-residential arrangements at Alumni Community Service also added to the alumni the conversion to a co-educational institution. schools like Northwestern and Loyola. The group decid-perspective. Since increasing numbers of women have 
He explained that the first decision which the Office of ed against co-residentiality at the time, however, joined alumni associations there has been a move Student AITairs faced, was housing. Blantz recalled that because in each school co-residentiality was a solution he and several others traveled to Chicago to look into to a specific problem; problems which were particular to see ANNIVERSARY I page 4 
Leader dispels myths of •REsmENCE HALL AssociATION 
• 

disabled quality of life SMC elects executive board 
By COLLEEN NUGENT 
ByKATYSOBY 
News Writer 

~~~-­
News Writer 
With the turmoil of the past Residence Hall 
SaintMary.'s College
Mary Jane Owen, the execu­
Association (RHA) elections behind them, stu­
tive director of the National 
dents from Saint Mary's College gathered in line 
Catholic Office for Persons with 
at the dining hall to cast their votes for the 
RHA ELECTIONS 
Disabilities, indicated last night 
1997-98 executive board. The only ticket con­
that then~ are problems with 
sisted of four women for the upcoming junior 
common conceptions of the 
and senior classes. 
value of the lives of disabled 
Missy Lind and Bridget Sullivan, current 
persons. Her presentation was 
juniors, as well as Barbara Nolan and Laurie 
dedicated in honor of Edna K. 
Pater, current sophomores, gathered their ideas 
Miller. a strong advocate for 
and made the decision to become actively
people with disabilities. 
involved with Saint Mary's RHA board. 
OwPn was intent on aiding in 
Although there was only one ticket up for yes­
the e!Torts to "turn disability on 
terday's election, the women were prepared to 
its head." So, while waiting for 
take on the student body with their many pro­
the passage or 504 regulations, 
posed improvements for the Saint Mary's cam­
which protected people with dis­
pus. Ideas such as a second annual all-campus
abilities from discrimination by 
formal, increase support of admissions within 
groups that received govern­Mary Jane Owen spoke last night the RHA. and more school spirit are only a few 
ment f'unds. she joined others in Ticket: Bridget Sullivan 
as part of Disability Awareness of the ideas that these women want to bring to a UN rally to try to speed the Week. 
the school during the 1997-98 school year. Barbara Nolan process up. It was during this bodies but didn't because then 
By honoring each of the halls for a week at a Missy Lind rally that she gained much of "we wouldn't need each other." time and by creating a stronger sense of com­
Laurie Pater
the insight that she shared with A main theme of Owen's lec­
munity in the dorms, the tickets hope to
the audience in her lecture. The Observer/Brian Blank
ture was the fact that "Everyone increase participation of the student body. Of"God doesn't make mistakes," 
is vulnerable, and that catastro­the students who voted, 80 percent of the stu­students in the upcoming year. 
she said. "We arc God's cre­phe could strike any of us at any dents voted for the ticket. Six percent voted ''I'm very pleased by the voter turnout and I'm ations. and we arc a rel1ection time. against it and 13 percent abstained. The turnout looking forward to the exciting opportunities that of part of the essence of the Holy She stressed that people for this year's elections was higher than in they will be able to pursue, and I wish them the Father, the creator of life." She should not attempt to eliminate recent years. Some officials hope that this, best of luck," said Nikki Milos, current RHA presi­stressed the fact that God could along with the landslide nature of the results, dent and student body president-elect. "It will be have placed us in indestructible see DISABILITY/ page 4 will mean better participation by Saint Mary's great working with them." 


Hesburgh program introduces spring Chicago tour 
By HEATHER COCKS County Hospital, Hyde Park, and many $10 for lunch. The day will culminate esc in providing contacts and helping News Editor nearby communities, according to with a prayer service led by Jesse coordinate the event. McKillop. Jackson. "We are hoping to do this several times 
In an effort to expose students to more "There's so much to McKillop credited the every semester," McKillop said, "since we than the sporting and shopping attrac­observe," he said. "At program's inception to want to keep it to ten or eleven students tions of Chicago, the I-lesburgh Program the hospital, I think the joint efforts of the per trip." He predicted that, based on the for Public Policy will ol'fer an in-depth we will sit and watch CSC and Hesburgh response to the upcoming excursion,
tour of the city this spring. all the people waiting, Program director Peri another tour would be scheduled before 
"We want to get people right into the getting treated -it Arnold. exams in May.neighborhoods, the grassroots communi­provides new perspec-"[The Hesburgh Applications are available in the CSC ties," explained Dan McKillop of the tives on urban prob-Program] is relatively building or in the Hesburgh ProgramHesburgh Program Office. !ems like overcrowd-Dan McKillop young," noted Office in 346 O'Shaughnessy. The dead­
The "Chicago Experience," co-spon­ing and violence." -------------McKillop, "and he line is March 24; forms should be labeled sored by the Center for Social Concerns, The tour will be on April 5, leaving at [Arnold] wanted to institutionalize a regu-"Chicago Experience" and directed via will give a small group of students the 7:30 a.m. and arriving back to campus at Jar activity with which it can be associat-campus mail to: Rodney Cohen, P.O. 766,chance to visit an area prison, Cook 8:30 p.m. Students will be asked to pay ed." He stressed the importance of the esc. 


.----------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 20, 1997 
• iNSIDE COlUMN 

Smokers begone! 
For all of you Saint Mary's College students who enjoy sucking on tar, nicotine, and all of those countless other poisons contained in a cigarette, you might want to stop reading this column now. 
You, Saint Mary's stu­

dents who believe that-Allison Koenig 
smoking in the communal Assistant News Editor 
environment of the resi­

dence halls is your God-given right, you may 
want to stop reading. 

You, Saint Mary's students who insist on yel­lowing the dormitory walls, stinking up the halls, and dumping ashes in section trash cans, you should probably stop reading now. 
Stop reading, unless you want to be confront­ed with the sheer ugliness and unfairness of your habit. 
The Saint Mary's College Department of 
Residence Life and Housing is on to you. In the 
fall of 1996, the department formed a housing 
committee whose main objective was to investi­
gate the smoking policy on campus. 
Currently, there are three non-smoking floors 
on campus. All other floors on campus allow 
residents to smoke if their doors and transoms 
are closed. 

Out of all on-campus students who responded to the housing committee's survey, 72 percent wished to see a change in the current policy. This change would affect not only individual liv­ing situations but communal vending areas in the residence halls as well. Of those who desired a change, 71 percent thought that smoking should continue to be allowed in vend­ing areas, but NOT in individual rooms. 
Based on the committee's findings, this past 
week the department announced two, new non­
smoking floors in the residence halls, effective 
in the upcoming school year. Each dormitory 
now has a non-smoking floor. 
I am in complete support of this move to 
extend more options to non-smokers. I recog­
nize that this decision will be accepted by most 
students, smokers or not, because it does not 
seem to inflict inconvenience on either group. 
However, it is simply not enough. 
Saint Mary's College should be a smoke-free 
environment, especially in the residence halls. 
By choosing SMC, a choice is made to live in a 
communal environment: 90 percent of students 
live on campus. Community entails sharing. 
Community entails respect. The filthy habit of 
cigarette smoking violates not only the lungs of 
the smoker, but the community. 
An incredibly obvious example of smoking 
violating the community is the fire in Holy Cross 
Hall just over one month ago. The lire started 
in a trash can and was believed to be caused by 
cigarette ashes and paper. 

Just ask the residents of Holy Cross who were 
treated for smoke inhalation, or those that 
returned to a blackened hallway that reeked for 
days. They will tell you that their environment 
was marred, thanks to a smoker. 
I realize that there is not a single policy that 
will please every Saint Mary's student. 
However, I do not believe that the College 
should accommodate smokers. 
Five non-smoking floors, out of 24, are a 
start. However, they are simply not enough. 
There are still going to be a number of students 
who do not like tinted walls, stinky couches, 
and clothing that reek of smoke. These are the 
students who will end up living on a smoking 
floor next door to, directly above, or across the 
hall from Queen and Princess Nicotine. The 
lovely stench from their neighbors will infiltrate 
their walls and stick to their belongings. 
Saint Mary's students, stop reading now. 
Work to change the smoking policy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Matt Loughran  Brian Blank  
Sean Smith  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Tom Schlidt  Maureen Hurley  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Brandon Williams  Brandon Candura  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Smoking during pregnancy affects newborns 

ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Newborns whose mothers smoke during pregnancy have the same nicotine level as grown-up smokers and almost certainly spend their first days of life going through withdrawal, a new study finds. 
"The baby of a smoking mother should be considered to be an ex-smoker," said Dr. Claude Hanet of St. Luc University Hospital in Brussels. 
The study, conducted principally by Dr. Laurence M. Galanti of Mont-Godinne University Hospital in Namur, Belgium, was presented Wednesday at a meeting of the American College of Cardiology. 
In the United States, smoking during pregnancy is on the decline. But the latest data show that 15 percent of women still use cigarettes while pregnant. 
Exposure to tobacco in the womb stunts 

Passive smokers
fetal growth so babies are born small. 
'Average

After birth, these babies are more likely to 
Source: American College of 
Cardiology

suffer sudden infant death or have lung 
Campaign controversy surrounds Gore 
WASIIINGTON 
As he prepares to visit Asia next week, Vice President AI Gore faces a dilemma with implications on both domestic politics and foreign policy: whether to press Chinese officials about allegations Beijing illegally fun­neled money into last year's U.S. elec­tions. Despite the political furor at home about the allegations, most 

architects of administration foreign policy are of the view that Gore should tread lightly on the subject in meetings with Chinese officials. Whether Gore should raise it has been discussed among Gore advisers as well as in the National Security Council and within the State Department. Gore has not decided what to do. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright raised the matter when she visited Beijing recently and said Chinese officials vehe­mently denied any effort to influence U.S. elections. The Chinese also have issued forceful public denials. Last week, Premier Li Peng said: "China will be the last coun­try to interfere in any form in the affairs of other coun­tries." 
Chess game leaves 13-year-old in coma 
OMAHA, Neb. 
Two teen-agers got into a fight over a school chess game, then left the school without visible injuries. Within an hour, one had to have brain surgery and lapsed into a coma. Thirteen-year-old John Slack was on a respirator in critical condition Wednesday. His 15-year-old chess opponent was arrested on suspicion of assault, released and suspended from school for at least for live days. ''I'd just tell him I'm really, really sorry and I didn't mean to hurt him as bad as I did," Joshua Simms told WOWT-TV. The two boys had been allowed to play chess Monday for the last five minutes of their math class as a reward for good work, said Blackburn Junior High Principal Glenn Mitchell. They fought after Joshua threw a piece of card­board and John threw it back. "I just swung two or three times and one of the blows hit him in the head," Joshua told WOWT. "I knew I hit him hard once." A witness said John also may have hit his head on a table when the two fell to the floor. Police reports say the younger boy was hit on the head four times. School officials said they did not call emergency services because John did not appear to be seriously injured. His stepfather, Dennis Lind, took him home before the school nurse arrived, intending to take him to the doctor. 
trouble, among other health problems. 
Robert Merritt, a behavioral scientist at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, said the latest data "support what we have been saying all along: Smoking is not good for you, peri­
d .. 
0 . 
The study was conducted on 273 chil­dren, including 139 babies just one to three days after birth. The researchers checked their urine for cotinine, the sub­stance that remains when nicotine breaks down in the body. It lingers for several days after exposure to nicotine. 
Cotinine levels in the newborns of smok­ing mothers were about 550 nanograms per milligram of urine, virtually the same as the level found in the smoking women. 
Amounts in toddlers with smoking mothers were much lower -about 200 nanograms -but still considerably higher than in adult nonsmokers exposed to
AP/Amy Kranz 
smoke at home. 
Two major fraternities to ban booze 
CINCINNATI Hang up your togas: The days of animal houses are 
endangered. Two major fraternities have become the first in the nation to ban alcohol in chapter houses, and more are expected to follow suit. The new policy by Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu is aimed at a new breed of frat boy more serious about earning a degree than chug­ging beer. The ban is supposed to go into effect by the year 2000. "They're coming to school to get an education and they need a family and sume friends. They want a clean, safe house were they can study and hang out," said Robert Pasquinucci, a spokesman for Phi Delta Theta, which announced its policy this week. A spot check of University of Cincinnati's fraternity row found few brothers willing to embrace the new trend. "It's a fad. It's all politically correct," scoffed Eric Thurston as he tossed a football Wednesday outside the Alpha Tau Omega house. ''I'm 21 years old," added chapter presi­dent Raj Ghia. "Why can't I have a beer?" But many fra­ternity officials are fed up with the problems alcohol has caused on campus and believe it's time for a change, as excessive drinking at fraternities over the years has led to deaths and injuries and ruined academic careers. 
Police seek 'polite gunmen' 
WASHINGTON Police are on the lookout for a pair of polite gunmen with British or Australian accents who have been robbing homeowners in moneyed neighborhoods of suburban Montgomery County, Md. The masked duo has struck seven times since Jan. 25, usually entering the homes through the garage or unlocked doors. The intruders are unfailingly polite and so far no one has been hurt. "We've been lucky so far that there've been no confrontations, but there is the potential for a real tragedy to occur," said a Montgomery County police spokesman, Cpl. George Ludington. "The robbers are calm, perhaps so as not to make their victims nervous or hysterical, and all they ask for is cash," said Ludington. A homeowner in Potomac, Md., was robbed last week after letting his dogs outside at about 5:30 a.m. and leaving a sliding glass door unlocked. Instead of the dogs coming back in, the homeowner was confronted by one of the robbers, who pointed a gun at his · head. The gunman "was quite polite throughout the whole episode," the homeowner, who asked not to be identified, told The Washington Post. "We got into a conversation as if he was a buddy," the homeowner said. "By the time he 
left, I put my arm on his shoulder and said, 'I'm sorry I 
didn't have more money."' 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Thursd~y ~ :f48. 
~~:t::: ~b~;f.!~~1if! 
Friday ~ 55 ~ '''<l9111 
Saturd~y Sunda~i ~ l!~;47!.''
J( 

Mon~'y ~~Ji,&45·!: 

33.: 
·= ·: ::::·==:n; 
41 
2sw:: 

41 3l 
~:~, ;-..... ~..f''''''-,/"...\r·~ 


4,~,~9Q.~ (f ~ u 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 20. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl.r Associated Press 
Atlanta 76 50 Helena 54 30 Minneapolis 62 41 Baltimore 60 35 Honolulu 83 69 New York 53 36 Boston 49 30 Juneau 42 30 Philadelphia 58 35 
Chicago 67 40 Kennebunk 42 26 St. Louis 78 49
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Denver 66 42 Miami 80 70 San Francisco 64 49
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
,----------------­
-~­

Thursday, March 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





University awards Laetare·Medal to Elizondo 
on the role of religion in main­stream America. 
"I say this with great certain­ty: The Mexican expression of faith could be the salvation of 
U.S. Catholicism. My people have a lot of things to learn, but what we have to offer is a rich, personal and collective expres­sion of faith," Elizondo said. "I more and more appreciate the incredible treasures of faith that our Mexican tradition has." 
According to Carol Mooney, associate provost and member of the recipient screening com­mittee, Elizondo was chosen from a large group for his dedi­cation to the faith. 
"This is not the first year that we have considered him [Elizondo for the award]. He's a very dynamic leader and has offered a great deal of aid to the American-Catholic Church," Mooney said. 
Elizondo, a native of San Antonio, Texas, is presently the pastor of the city's San Fernando Cathedral. After join­ing the priesthood in 1963, his ministry took a scholarly turn as he served as Archbishop Robert Lucey's translator and aide dur­ing the 1968 meeting of Latin American Catholic bishops in Medellin, Colombia. 
During the early 1970s, he became an influential advocate for underpaid and exploited Mexican-American laborers, establishing the Mexican­American Cultural Center at Assumption Seminary as the community began to assert its political and cultural privileges. 
Elizondo received two doctoral degrees in theology -from the Institute Catholique in Paris in 1978 and in 1979 edited the 
LAETARE MEDALISTS 
1991 Corinne Boggs, Congresswoman 1992 Daniel Moynihan, Senator 1993 Donald Keough, Notre Dame 
Trustee 

international theological jour­nal, "Concilium." He has also published nine books and his weekly Spanish Mass is televised to more than one million house­holds worldwide. 
He will join a long list of pres­tigious award recipients, includ­ing President John F. Kennedy {1961), author Dorothy Day (1972), the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin (1995). and death penalty abolitionist Sister Helen Prejean (1996). Established at Notre Dame in 1883, the award serves as an American counter­part to the Golden Rose, a papal honor. 
The award's name is derived from the Latin word meaning "rejoice." It is so named because its recipient is announced each year on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent. The medal itself bears the inscription "Truth is mighty, and it shall prevail." 

By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Father Virgil Elizondo, a min­ister to the poor of the southern 
U.S. and Mexico, author, theolo­gian and scholar, will receive the Laetare Medal, commonly regarded as the most presti­gious honor awarded to American Catholics, from the officers of the University. They will present him with the medal at Notre Dame's commencement ceremony in May. 
The medal is awarded annual­ly to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sci­ences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity," accord­ing to its mission statement. 
In a March 7 press release, Father Edward Malloy, University president, said that the award honors Elizondo's heritage and how his cultural perspective has impacted the faith. 
"Elizondo's scholarship and ministry celebrate Mexican­American culture as an invalu­able gift to the whole church. In honoring him, we mean to honor as well our Hispanic brothers and sisters, who soon will constitute the majority of the Catholic Church in America," Malloy said. 
Elizondo says that the customs of his people can and should have a more prominent impact 


GRADUATION 
CATERING 


STUDENT WoRKERS NEEDED 
$$May 10-18 $$ Free Room/Board Special Graduation Pay Rate 
Room contract sign-ups begin on: Tuesday, March 18 ( 1 0:00AM-5:00PM) Last day to sign contract is April 3 
Catering Office 631-5449/8792 
Lower level-South Dining Hall 
• If you have never worked on campus, please bring a picture ID & either an original social security card, birth certificate or unexpired employment authorization document (please call Catering for further information) 


llnh>erSit't' 
of •

Graduation 
Notrt Damt 

Phone, mail, fax orders: Balfour Co. 234i So. Lynhurst Dr. #500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 8001236-4639 
fax-317/241-0430 Place orders in person on: 
March 25 & 26, Tues., Wed. LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room, 9:3oam-4:3opm 
AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 
"...make the most 
gorgeous ·sound 

you're likely to bear 
tliTJ'Wbere.., " -STEREOPHILE 

Friday, March 21 
8:00PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $6/SMC-ND faculty and staff; $5/Students 



-------~ 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
of a class-action suit brought against one doctor who was not


Disability 
giving enough care to preven­tion of pain for people with~ continued from page 1 Multiple Sclerosis. Two patients 
people with disabilities because, of this doctor, she pointed out, "disabilities are a result of went to Michigan to "get killed fragility of humap, and result of by Kevorkian." risking being alive," she said. Additionally, Owen claimed 
Owen coined the phrase, that the right to die with dignity "Disabilities are the normal, should be respected, but that it expected, anticipated outcomes can be accomplished through of the living process itself." means other than euthanasia. This quote was later to be "If a person has a choice of a included as part of the rat-infested nursing home or 
Americans with Disabilities Act. death, the person would choose 
Owen used it to stress the death," she said. She urged the importance of the need for uni­importance of creating "com­versal access to policies and munities in which there are programs. more choices so that death is 
"We need more people with not the lesser of the two evils." Downs syndrome," she said in She also suggested that efforts response to the congratulations be taken to teach doctors to 
awarded to the state of better deal with pain and heal­Washington for its low rate of ing. mental retardation. The rea­She concluded her presenta­
son that Washington's rate was tion by stressing the problem of so low, Owen bitterly pointed negative attitudes, particularly out, was because of its high rate those of doctors, which make of abortion. She suggested that people with disabilities more more people with disabilities vulnerable. are needed because, "those of Owen received her Master's 
us without disabilities need Degree from Berkeley, and went those with disabilities, more on to teach at San Francisco than they need you." State. In the seventies, her eye­Owen claimed that people sight became bad and she start­
have to recognize "the catalytic ed her mission as a disability effect that people with disabili­rights activist. In her lifetime, ties can have in any environ­she has started such programs 
_ment." as the University Year of Action Owen attacked Doctor at-Vista, served as the 
Kevorkian and pointed out the Congressional Liaison on the dangers of Euthanasia. She President's committee on people claimed that people are going to with disabilities, and fought for Kevorkian because doctors are passage of the American not doing their jobs. She spoke Disability Act. 
',---T-!Je_N_OT_R_e_D_a_m_e_D_e_p_a_R_TO-Jt:-I-1T_O_F_M_LlS-lC-pR-e_s_e1_1T_S--, ~ 

FleuR. de tzs 
Music FOR an 18rh CenruRy GaLLeRy 
lVOJ.I.kS l_;y HandeL, ScaRLaTTI, CaReLLI and Rameau 
7:15pm Sarwt.oay, MaRch 22 ) IBrh Cenrwt.y GalleRy, The Snzre Museum OF Au 
~ Lwmei! SeaTllu:;; Tickers ReQUIRed; No CIJaRt;e; 
~; CaLL 631-6201 FOR Tickers OR moRe InFORmaTIOn. ~ 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 

Alec AI Aidan Wmona Kevin 
BALDWIN PACINO QUINN RYDER 
"TWO THUMBS UP 
•••WAY UP!" 
Jan~.~~n,. 'r~.~---~-~ ..~.9~~.TI~ 
"ATRUE REVELATION! 
Funny A~~., Illuminating!" 
..... ii"".. 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY MARCH 21ST AND 22ND 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
l-----------· 






WORKSHOP on DREAMS, 
Come learn: 
• How to interpret dreams. 
• 
Techniques to remember dreams. 

• 
How to get the most from dreams. 


• How dreams can be a guide ­psychologically and spiritually. 
This Sunday, March 23 4-5 pm FOG Community Center 
All Welcome. 

HALLELUJAH NIGHT IV Friday, April 18, 1997 7:00p.m. Stepan Center 
Accepting submissions for 
Poetry Readings 
Material submitted should be J-5 minutes in length . Four participants will be chosen to read their poetry at this event. 
Submit hy March 21, 1997 Hallelujah Night Committee Campus Ministrv 112 Badin Hall 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


Anniversary 
continued from page 1 

toward community service activities rathnr than male-oriented activities like game watches and social events. He explained that, from speaking with female friends of his who were at Notre Dame during the late 1980s, the competitive environment was good experience for the work world in which women are often presented with the same sort of uphill struggle. 
Professor Teresa Ghilarducci served as moder­ator for the discussion and injected some thoughts on Notre Dame as a workplace for women. She pointed out that although the University is a female dominated campus in terms of stalT, "Whern we arn at an imbalance is in terms of women faculty." 
"There might be supply problems in that quali­fied women don't apply here, but there are also entrenched demand problems," Ghilarducei added. She cited the colleges of business and science as particularly weak in the areas of hir­ing and tenuring women. 
"It's wonderful that we're celebrating 25 years 
of co-education, but we still have a long way to 
go," said senior Katie Hazard of the Women's 
Resource Center. She pointed out that the Notre 
Dame tradition is one of Catholicism and foot­
ball-both male oriented traditions. 
She also expressed her frustration with the 
status of the Women's Resource Center. Its rank 
as a student organization prevents it from having 
the budget, space or resources which she feels 
would make the Center an effective tool for 
advancement. 
"Issues that all"ect women don't all"ect women 
only," said Sister Kathleen Cannon, associate 
provost. She pointed out the gender inclusive 
language policy which has been in eff!CJCI since 
1991 and the establishment of the Early 
Childhood Dnvclopment Center as two programs ·which have benefited both men and women. 
The celebration of 25 years of co-education at 
Notre Dame will continue through this week with 
a blues band performance on Friday at 4 p.m. at 
Fieldhouse Mall, an address from Father 
Theodore Hesburgh on the steps of the Main 
Building at 4 p.m. Saturday and a Seventies 
Mixer at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
page 5 

Thursday, March 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Film, panel examine state of African education 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Corporal punishment and authoritarianism are rampant in African education, according to the first film in this month's African film series. The film, Sango Malo, depicted educa­tion and life in a post-indepen­dence Cameroonian village and was followed by a panel discus­sion on the state of African and global education. 
The battle for independence against an unrelenting regime is the focus of the two-hour film. Malo Bernardo, a new teacher in the small village, attempts to instill new teaching practices in the colonial-influ­enced school system of the vil­
!age. But trying to reconstruct the traditional curriculum proves to be a difficult task; while Bernardo wants more influence on educating the stu­dents in practical skills like agriculture and carpentry, the headmaster insists on main­taining the British system with focus on less applicable learn­ing. Bernardo eventually wants to revamp the entire economic base of the village; when he sees that the local store is cheating the cus-· tamers, he creates competition by opening another store, thus driving down prices. He also establishes co-operative farm­ing, a new technique to the vil­lage that greatly profits each individual involved. 
The notion of authority even­tually overtakes Bernardo, however, as he is swept away by his hunger for power. The co-operative in overtaken by Bernardo's control, and the vil­lagers become increasingly dis­satisfied. Eventually the estab­lishment in the village causes Bernardo's arrest, but his ini­tial reforms remain intact. 
The panel discussion raised both the film's positive and negative insights regarding education in Africa. Joseph Karanja, a visiting professor from Kenya, raised some of his concerns. 
"Information collected on Africa and then presented to an audience who doesn't have a great knowledge of the conti­
10% 
.....sodium nitrite 


nent adds to our existing pre­conceived notions," he said. "Africa is everything you find in this film, but-there is more than the slapping of women and the rudimentary buildings. There is also a status quo; you wouldn't have a problem send­ing your children to many parts of Africa." 
Karanja also raised the issue of the relationship between education and politics. 
"Reforming of the govern­ment should come before the reforming of education can begin," Karanja stressed. "No matter what you do, the gov­ernment is going to interfere. Start reforming education by changing the political system." 
Ann Loux, a professor at 
~8% 
you don't want 
to know 


1-800-COLLECT ® 
.. 
'44% 
SAVINGS 
Diall-800-COLLECT and save up to 44o/o.* 
*For lonu·dlslance calls. Snings based on a 3-minule AT&T oparalor-dialad lnllfst!li call. 
Saint Mary's who spent a year 
teaching in Cameroon, empha­
sized that the film's portrayal 
of African education, at least in 
this region, was accurate. 
"The physical problems in 
Cameroon ar.e overwhelming," 
she said. "There are almost no 
books...the children have to 
pay three cents for even a , 
piece of paper. There are few 
facilities and too many students 
per teacher; these problems 
make effective education diffi­
cult." 
Loux went on to emphasize 
the still-rampant colonial influ­
ence in African education. 
"The system is totally British­
based -there is a definite neo­
colonial nature to the curricu­
lum." 
All of the panelists stressed 
that the film depicted just one 
area of Africa, and was not 
representative of the country 
as a whole. Don Sniegowski, 
the panel mediator, comment­
ed: "Africa is a huge continent, 
with many different cultures 
and problems. You cannot 
generalize on the basis of one 
view." 
This film series will continue 
throughout March and April and will be held each Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. All films are sponsored by the African . Student's Association and 
Educational Media. 




~ 
I I 
t 
I l 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 20, 1997 
Calendar of Events 
Freshmen Retreat #10 

Friday-Saturday, March ~1-22 for residents of Alumni,~Howard, Keough, Keenan, Knott, Lyons, ~9~querilla W~st, Sarin and Saint Mary's;:;!)l1; 
·:t~JI.~t 
Palm/Passion Sunday 
Sunday, March 23 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, March 2 7:00p.m. Campus Min 
Campus-Wide ..:+•:o+ii~"" follwed by Adorat · · Confession 
Tuesday, March 2 7:00p.m. Grotto 
Kairos {4th Day) 
Wednesday, • 7:30p.m. Chapel of 
Holy Thursday 
Thursday, March 27; 
Good Friday 
Friday, March 28 
Easter Sunday 
Sunday, March 30 


Palm/Passion Sunday 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, March 22 

5:00p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
Sunday, March 23 

10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Joseph Crowley, D.O. 
12:00 noon Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for This Coming Sunday , 

1st Reading Mark 11: 1-10 2nd Reading Philippians 2: 6-11 Gospel Mark 14: 1-15, 47 

Hey You Seniors Out There! 
Well, we've entered the home stretch. I wish I could provide here some pearl of wisdom that could make these final days at Notre Dame all that you would have them be. There won't prove enough time in each day, especially as the weather improves, to spend with friends and to visit those places on this cam­pus which mean the most to you ... much less study! 
As I think back, oh so long ago, on my waning days at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, what I remember most are the late nights spent with those who had come to mean so much to me over the years. The gatherings I remember with particular fondness weren't the occasions when we happened into one another as we often did in the places we normally frequented. It was those intentional times, those times that we went out of our way to gather and to do something special together, that I remember most now. As our days together grew fewer we found ourselves particularly attentive to just such gatherings... an overnight at the lakeside cottage of one of our number... a Mass that we coordinated with a priest friend at one or the off-campus hous­es ... a walk with a friend on the meandering paths beside the Mississippi which borders the campus. 
I remember one night in particular whkh seems almost corny in the retelling but which meant the world to me then... and does still. Eight of us who had been particularly close during our years together at St. Thomas decided that we weren't going to leave that place without ritualizing in some way all that we had known together and celebrate all the ways that we had grown together. Although we were all busy folks, the reality of our imminent departure com­pelled us to make the time that we seemed never to have. _Our schedules dic­tated that we would gather very late and very local. We settled on a weekend night in late April. We decided that we would head to the other side of the river by car and then wade out to a large sandbar which was easily accessed from that side and which had always beckoned us from the campus side... however much the signs to the cotitrary might have discouraged more timid spirits. 
It was Midnight before we arrived with our provisions and a guitar in tow. We settled into a large circle, stoked up a small, albeit illegal, campfire and pro­ceeded to remember, and to sing and to pray. We didn't really have an agen­da, and I don't remember that any one of us felt particularly competent to lead prayer, but we just knew that it was what we had to do... we knew it was, somehow, the men and women we had become over the years together. We had become people who knew that we were somehow bound up not only with each other, but with God... and because of God. As we entertained... and feared... life beyond the community that we had come to know and love, we knew ourselves to need something more than each other to sustain and nur­ture us ... and in some sense, something more than ourselves to keep us together. We were headed in a variety of directions and vocations... to great professional opportunities, to the Peace Corps, to professional and graduate schools ... and to unemployment. We talked and we laughed and we cried... and as the sun was peaking up in the eastern sky we each took time to pray aloud for one another and for those things which most consumed our minds and our hearts on that early spring morning. 
There was nothing particularly noteworthy about this gathering other than the fact that it happened... that eight people took a little time to be together and to mark the holiness of their days together. It will surely go unnotecl in the recorded history of human events, but for those of us who were there it is one of the more memorable moments of our young lives. There is irony in the fact that the moment during which we gathered to remember all that mat­tered most to us has become the moment we most remember. I'll close by simply urging each of you to attend to just such moments. Think twice before you say yet again that you're just too busy or that you don't have enough time... it's all the time you've got. Finally, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns are co-sponsoring a retreat for seniors on Saturday and Sunday, April 19-20th. (Applications will be made available from the Library Office of Campus Ministry during the first week ofApril.) There is limited space but we would welcome all seniors to considerjoining us for this time 
away. 

(Z\MPUS 
Jim Ues, C.S. C. MINISTRY 
-------~ ----------~------·---~-~-~----~-----·-----~----------­
Thursday, March 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Ferraro: Discipleship has risks Discussion addresses 
By SARAH CORKREAN tismal fonts. Saint Mary's News Editor The very first fonts were built in the shape of 
diversity, human rights
tombs. Ferraro noted that the testimony of the 
Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro warned students women were carried on in early history, and ByANNE HOSINSKI "No matter how deplorable (the about what she considers to be the dangers of women today need to reflect on their own bap­News Writer living conditions), it is often the discipleship in a lecture yesterday afternoon. tism into the community of God to find and rec­case of a better situation to live 
After a successful career in various organiza­ognize their voice. The leaders of La Casa de here than in their own country," tions such as the Pennsylvania Department of "The danger of being a disciple for both men Amistad, the Hispanic organization Nanni mentioned. Transportation, Ferraro joined the Sisters of the and women is to choose as Jesus did to live in of St. Joseph County delivered a Zulma Prieto, editor in chief of Holy Cross and now serves as 
solidarity with God and all forum Wednesday as part of the El Puente, focused on the lack of the assistant to the vice presi­Christian members and to Human Rights Week and Diversity knowledge by the Hispanic com­dent for Mission and the Center continue the message of Jesus Day Celebration sponsored by munity of their rights as legal resi­for Spirituality. through spirituality," said Keenan, Lewis, Pasquerilla East dents and citizens of the United 
Ferraro noted from the Ferraro. and Siegfried Halls. States. "Because of the language beginning of the lecture that With God and all Noting that the credibility of Representing La Casa de barrier, many Hispanics have no women of every culture have women is respected more in Amistad was director Chris Nanni, idea of their rights, " Prieto always struggled to find a voice. Christian members.' private spheres rather than a 1988 Notre Dame Graduate, and stressed. Before El Puente. began Ferraro pointed to the story in public, Ferraro explained that Zulma Prieto, editor-and-chief of publishing six years ago, Prieto Luke of the women at Jesus' Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro the resurrection is not under-El Puente, the Hispanic newspa­said, Indiana had no newspaper empty tomb during and after stood as an isolated event that per of northern Indiana, as well as serving the Hispanic community of the resurrection, as an important story where the women told, but as a message and· ministry the next director of La Casa de the state. She also stressed "how not only women find a historical religious voice, to all people in both public and private spheres. Amistad. important it is to educate people but both sexes listen intently to the women. Closing out the lecture series, Sister Rose Anne Their talk, entitled "Human of their rights, whether they are 
"The significance of the story in Luke is not the Schultz, vice president for Mission Center for Rights: A Local Perspective," documented or not." mere proof of the resurrection, but. the meaning Spirituality, said, "As we begin this holiest of focused upon the growing Prieto also touched on the com­of the women's words describing the resurrec­weeks, remember the endless possibilities of the Hispanic community in northern mon misconceptions of the tion, which is a story of recreation," said Ferraro. empty tomb and the people that empty tomb sig­Indiana and the defining rights Hispanic population by the leaders 
Asking the question of who Christ is for nifies; all people of different colors, race, gender, that they have. According to of St. Joseph County. Prieto stated 
women. Ferraro pointed to the historical bap-and creed." Nanni, St. Joseph County has the that the Hispanic community is largest Hispanic community in seen to be a burden of society Indiana, most being migrant because of their perceived abuse workers. of the welfare system. 
"The larger community of this "However," continued Prieto,
~OBSERVER 
area sees the Hispanic community "these people cannot collect wel­as one body, with similar back­fare if they are undocumented." 
llll!¢11!1p1~1JBII¢!1ftl!.1ft1pi•Jil!iji-"1Bfltii!IIIJ!$1i!l;t¢111:fi11;,1pMQ 
grounds. The danger in this is She stressed the need to remem­
that there are a mix of races in ber the categories of Hispanics this community, and it is sad to (Migrant Workers, Mexicans and see the frustration of the Mexican-Americans) because Hispanics from South America each category has separate and when they are classified with the different needs. 
is now accepting applications for 




Cartoonist 
people of Mexico," Nanni stressed. Nanni stressed that the issues Nanni stated that the majority of facing the Hispanic community of the Hispanic immigration to St. St. Joseph County are very com­
Applicants should submit five samples of their • 
Joseph County is predicated by plex and need to be approached in 
proposed comic strip, along with a brief statement 
the employment opportunities in a way that would "put a human describing what the strip will be about. 
the factories of this area. Many of face to their problems." He stated the workers, Nanni stressed, were that the solution will only come
Applications and questions should be directed to 
recruited to work in this area and ·when the "Hispanic community
Brad Prendergast, 314 LaFortune, 631-4542. 
are lured here and subsequently will begin to organize and become Deadline is Thursday, March 20 
provided with deplorable living a player at the table to better conditions. advocate for its people." 


Leave the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! Friday arid Saturday 10 p.m. -3 a.m. 
631-9888 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STBnFNT C:nv~JtNU~NT 


page 8 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
Hayden dogged for radical past 
By SCOTT LINDLAW 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

Even as he courts the main­stream in his race for mayor, Tom Hayden can't seem to escape his past as a '60s radical who led the opposition to the Vietnam war. 
To his annoyance, Hayden's background looms as large as his current political persona, that of a 57-year-old liberal but conventional state senator who wears a suit and a neat haircut. 
Hayden vented his frustration on a newspaper reporter who suggested not long ago that his reputation might hurt his effort to bring people together. 
"I can see that your image of me is colored by my back­ground," he snapped. "For a guy like you it really doesn't matter that I've been in the Legislature for 15 years. You've never spent a day there with me ... because that's not interesting." 
Best-known as the ex-husband of Jane Fonda, who made a con­troversial visit to North Vietnam at the height of the war, Hayden was a co-founder of Students for a Democratic Society and one of the Chicago Seven who was tried for intent to riot at the 1968 Democratic National 
Convention. 
These days, he rails against Republican incumbent Richard Riordan for his ties to big busi­ness and "abandonment of the inner city." And he has carefully tailored his message to avoid alienating the middle class, pushing suburban issues like lower small-business taxes, more police and more jobs. 
The 66-year-old Riordan, meanwhile, exudes sincerity but comes off as a kindly senior citi­zen, devoid of charisma. His speeches are stilted and unpol­ished. 
Elected four years ago on a 
pledge that he was tough enough 
to turn around a city reeling 
from race riots and money prob­

1 e m s , 
Riordan 
must nur­
ture the 
perception 
that Los 
Angeles is 
no longer
out of con­trol. A Los Angeles Times poll found most people think he is succeeding at that, with 52 per­cent of those surveyed saying things are going well in the city, and 54 percent supporting Riordan. "I don't think people think things are going OK in Los Angeles," Hayden counters. "I have to persuade people that we have a remote mayor who's not telling the truth about the situa­tion here." 
efine eX~lre~;sio,nisrn.· and macJe him one 0 20th century's greatest painters, died in his stUdio Wednesday; He was 92. 
De Kooning's abstract expressionist· works. included traces of the earlier. $urreal~ is~ movement and p:r~figuredP{)p art..Along. With Jackson 
. PpJ1pck, he lf)d the groupof 
. arti~tswho helpedNewYork replace J?~~is asthe center or tbe art world in the years after World War II. 
'T don't paint to live, I live· to paint," he said in his· 80s. .. "It's a nice thing to look for­ward to." De Kooning painted daily until the late 1980s, even 


diagnosed with A.l~~heimer•;'s · ln 1989, 
9ourt fight, he was declared mentally incompetent ·and control of his estate,was given to his attorney and his daughter, Lisa, who is his only sur­vivor. 
De Kooning's death came just two months after New York's Museum of Modern Art opened· an exhibit of his late paintings, entitled ''Objects of Desire." 
Among his meticulously composed canvases was his 1944 "Pink Lady,'' which brought $3.63 million at auc­tion in 1987. Two years later his 1955 masterpiece "Interchange" sold for a stunning $20.6 million. Vintage works consistently sold for over $1 million . 
Born in Rotterdam, he was the son of a wine and beer distributor and a barmaid. 

Speaks to the stud 
Game today,Bob Davie will speak to ND students on: Wednesday • April 9th • 7pm 
All tickets are still valid and can still be obtained for free at the LaFon Info Desk. 




Class of •gg Trip March 23 
Buses leave Stepan at 9:45 a.m. 
Tickets: $30 AvaiLable at LaFortune Information Desk 
Sponsored by the elas.s of 1999 eouncil 
S?phomore Class Tutoring 

LaCasa Tuesde1ys and
. . 

3:30·4:30 p.m. <'Thursdays 
Pick-up CJt 3:10 p.m. CJt the Libr2ry C1rcle, 3:15p.m. CJt the M2in Circle Questions? CCJII1-5136 

• ALBANIA 
• ISRAEL 
Court refuses to block Har Homa construction 
Officials appeal for judicial help 
By JUDITH INGRAM 
Albania protested that the Associated Press Writer KORSOVO returnees surpassed the 
\...· 

agreed-upon number of 
TIRANA, Albania 200, and· many turned out 
Looted -warehouses and to be children or adults with empty prisons left officials no criminal records whatso­struggling Wednesday to ever, said Justice Minister lind a way to get humani­Spartak Ngjela. tarian aid past the armed He said Albania's 1,700 gangs terrorizing much of prisoners -including 700 Albania, while southern hard-core criminals -have rebels ruled out using force been freed, and nearly all for the first time in their its courthouses burned and bid to oust President Sali their judicial files Berisha. destroyed. 
At least three more peo­The government's first
-.GREECE
ple were killed Wednesday priority was to restore the in the southern city of courts, police, prosecutors Korea, which has been AP/Carl Fox a:nd prisons, Ngjela said. caught between rival orga­A delegation from the
Kociu's comments followed
nized-crime gangs. European Union stressed the
signs of support for Berisha
But southern rebels backed need to re-establish security
both from the government led 
away from threats of further before much-needed massive
by Prime Minister Bashkim
violence. aid shipments can begin.
Fino and from a newly estab­
Comments by Xhevat Kociu, Italian Foreign Minister
lished vigilante force calling
the top commander of the Lamberto Dini said Wednesday 
itself the Committee of National 
rebel-held south, increased .the that EU officials want a "secu­
Salvation.
chances that weeks of turmoil rity force" to accompany
Warning Fino against trying
could soon end. humanitarian aid.
to negotiate with rebels in the
The crisis in Albania, which "Aid will have to be accom­
south on Berisha's resignation,
began with anti-government panied by a security force to
the vigilante force said it would 
protests after nearly every make sure that it reaches the
mobilize thousands of armed
Albanian family lost money in right destination," Dini said
men to punish those who incit­
the collapse of shady invest­after meeting with members of
ed mayhem. 
ment schemes, has grown into an 11-member EU fact-finding
In a statement, it said it was
near-anarchy. delegation to the chaos-ridden
"determined to protect under
Kociu said that southerners country.
any circumstances all the
still would work to force Dini did not say how big the
democratic institutions of the
Berisha out but "we are plan­force should be or what coun­
country, property and the free­
ning to do this in a democratic tries would provide it, but that
dom of citizens from a possible
fashion." it should come from EU
military attack."
The former general told nations.
Europe was trying to contain
Associated Press Television in Deputy police commander
the turmoil that has wracked
the southern town of Saranda Brig. Gen. K.C. Roos of the
Albania for 2 1/2 weeks, with
that Albania's 12 rebel-con­Netherlands said it was essen­
Italy returning 292 would-be
trolled districts of the south tial to restore law enforcement, 
refugees Wednesday, saying
would meet Friday to chart perhaps by sending in interna­
they were suspected of crimi­
their next moves. tional police trainers.
nal activities. 

Bethlehem. • 
AP/Carl Fox 

But as expected, the judges refused to issue the order and instead told the government to explain its planning considera­tions within 60 days. 
Palestinians want to establish a future capital in east Jerusalem, which Israel cap­tured from Jordan in the 1967 Mideast War. 

• 
By SAMAR ASSAD Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
Teen-agers threw rocks and prisoners rioted in Israeli jails, but most Palestinians obeyed their leader's call for peaceful p r o t e s t 
no-,..,..----,--.___.., Wednesday li""'!'IOI'l!IIII"C~'...,:..~ after Israel's Supreme C o u r t refused to block con­struction of a Jewish n e i gh b o r -Arafat hood in Arab east Jerusalem. 
At the construction site, Palestinian marchers re-enact­ed the crucifixion, tying a man to a large wooden cross sym­bolizing the loss of Jerusalem. At another protest, followers of Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat prevented clashes by steering a crowd away from Israeli army checkpoints. 
The massive unrest and vio­lence anticipated by Israeli intelligence did not materialize -even after the court ruling, and after yellow bulldozers started carving up the Jerusalem hillside under the guard of dozens of troops. 
Arab landowners, Israeli peace activists and the opposi­tion Meretz Party had peti­tioned the Supreme Court to issue a temporary halt-order on the 6,500-apartment pro­ject. 
page 10 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
• GERMANY 
Global TB epidemic levels off 
-or Directly Observed Treatment, Short­
Eastern Europe faces course -method could cut the number of TB cases in half over the next decade, saving 10 million lives, as well as prevent the develop­
explosion of cases 
ment of drug-resistant strains. But the method is still not being used inBy PAUL GEITNER 
Eastern Europe, and economic and social
Associated Press Writer 
upheaval in Russia and other former Soviet bloc countries since the end of communism has con­BERLIN tributed to a tuberculosis explosion there. 
Better treatment has stabilized the spread of Since 1991, Russia has seen a 70 percent rise
tuberculosis worldwide for the first time in 
in TB cases and a 90 percent jump in TB death
decades, but U.N. health officials said 
Wednesday that a growing TB epidemic in rates, said Richard Bumgarner, deputy director triumph was of the WHO's Global TB Program. dent (rom the
Russia is threatening Europe. 
The global TB epidemic has leveled off Lethal drug-resistant strains account for 6 Griffey's office.. in percent of the TB cases in the Baltic country of gal Department; the
because health care workers are being trained 
Latvia, 14 percent in Estonia and 18 percent in 's busiest container
to make sure patients take the full, six-month course of medication,· World Health Lithuania, he said. phalanxes of glittering 
"Make no mistake," Bumgarner said. and a paved-overOrganization officials said at a news confer­
"Europe has been heading slowly but surely to had once beenence. 
another TB crisis."
They said widespread use of the new "DOTS" .•..-...v•~· Navy's anchorage. "Ecortorn ically it's fantastic, 
• about that,;, he

• SOUTH AFRICA 
, ta.ua.'"-'"u, his Bristol accent dilut by 18 years in Kong.

Clinton memorializes apartheid victims 
t this civil servant was also seeing his last three

By SONYA ROSS planting a tree in remem­had people like herself come 
· 4 years of work unraveling,

Associated Press Writer brance of victims of those in is important for enhancing 
since the election laws he had

crimes. public belief in the intrinsic drafted will soon be annulled.
CAPE TOWN, South Africa "What you are doing here in credibility of the commission." 
A Chinese-organized provi­

First lady Hillary Rodham South Africa is a testament to During their meeting, Tutu sionaJ legislature will replace Clinton praised South Africans what can occur when rage and said, commission members a democratically elected oneWednesday for seeking the anger are turned to hope and heard Mrs. Clinton's views on and serve until new electionstruth about the horrors of possibility," she said. "The the role of memorials, such as 
are held, probably in mid-

apartheid. work of reconciliation is to the Vietnam War Memorial in 1998. Controls on rights to
Mrs. Clinton acknowledge history, not to Washington, in helping a demonstrate and have politi­
huddled with forget it." nation heal its wounds. · cal links with foreign bodies, 
members of Tutu, who won a Nobel "It wasn't just a courtesy 
loosened in recent years, will

the Truth and peace prize for his efforts to chat," Tutu said. 
be tightened again. 

Reconciliation end apartheid, called Mrs. Mrs. Clinton would not say 
The Democrats, Hong

Commission, Clinton's meeting with his how she answered the ques­
Kong's largest party, see

which is panel a "very, very important tions, but said she was these as signs that China isinvestigating symbol" in the attempt to set­"impressed by the breadth of saver· already imposing its authori­
apartheid-era tle apartheid's atrocities in a their efforts." 
nl'nlAI'tll•rl growth tarian ways. Chris Patten,
political fair manner. "What this commission is 
PeJ:c.eJtlt a nest egg Hong Kong's last British gov­crimes, then joined the com­"There are people who have doing is important not only for on in foreign ernor, has protested, as havemission's chairman, former not taken kindly to the com­South Africa, but for the rest 
U.S. officials.

Archbishop Desmond Tutu, in mission," Tutu said. "To have of the world," she said. 


Tlhe Pann-Afri~&rrl C'u~hllir&~ Center &RH~ dw s<'!ll[)n~ Jc l'Amitie, nn iCI[)((]IHll<en-&tnon with the Afll'i(~&n &ndl Afu·icau1 Annernc&rrl Studies Pu·ogr&m am~ (he IDceu)&rhnena of Anthi'«)nj)o]ogy 
Present: 

PROFESSOR OLABIYI J. YAI 
PROFESSOR OF YORUBA LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE CHAIR, DEPARTMENT OF AFRICAN AND ASIAN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA, CAINSVILLE 
YORUBA LANGUAGE SEMINAR March 22-26, 1997 
Every Day, 7:00--8:30 PM, Room 203A O'Shaughnessy Hall 
"The Yoruba Lanquage and the Construction of "SURVIVANCE ET DYNAMISME DES CULTURES African Identity an Africa and the Americas" AFRICAINES DANS LES AMERIQUES"
Monday, March 24, 1997 
Saturday, March 22, 1997 at 4:30 
12:00 PM: 802, Charles Martin Youth Center, Lincoln Way West, South Bend Hesburgh Library Lounge, University of Notre Dame 
4: 30 PM: Room 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall, University of Notre Dame 
(Presentation in French; Reception follows) 
"From VoJun to Maim: Monotl.eiom anJ Hiotory in tl.e Fon Cultural Area, Weot Africa" 
Tuesday, March 25, 1997, 12: 15, Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Center (Free Lunch 
"N11.na Versuo Ogun: Affirming tl.e Female Voice in Yoruba Oral Literature" Wednesday, March 26, 12:15, Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Center 
Yoruba is a major West African language spoken by scores of millions of Africans (over 22 in Nigeria alone) in Africa, North America, South America, and the Caribbean . • 
For more information or to register for Seminar, please call Christophe Kougniazonde at (219) 273-1843 or e-mail: Kougniazonde.l@nd.edu 
CO-SPONSORS: Kellogg Institute, Graduate Student Union, Student Gol'•rtUill!llt, Mullicultural ExeaJtive CounciL St. Mary's College Office of MulliaJitural Affairn, Community Relations, Notre DaJre Bin Alumni, CoUe e of Business Administration. 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 20, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219).631-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE; 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager )amie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager..............................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ..............•............ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universicy ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administracion of either 
institucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing EdirorNiewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Dav Ediror/Producrion  631-5303  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoinr.1 @nd.edu  
Ge;1eral Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observcr@darwin.cc.nd.eJu  


• DIGRESSIONS, 0!STORT10NS AND GENERAL RAMBLINGS 
It's not a pretty sight. when the brain rebels 
This is a true story. 
My roommate lost her toothbrush the other day ... I, however, lost my cogni­tive functioning. 
OK. so that's a blatant lie. I didn't actually lose my cognitive functioning; it ran away. Actually, I drove my own mind to mutiny. 

Kathy Scheibel 
And the thing of it is, I should have seen it coming; I mean, I did see it coming ... well, at least I was given adequate warning of my brain's rebel­lion. 
It all began as a case of a few moder­ately discontented factions. They said that I had become tyrannical and that they, quite frankly, didn't appreciate it. They began a phase of mild resistance, which was only outwardly manifest in the development of frequent conversa­tions with myself. And, well, that was all fine and dandy with me, because I now had the capacity to entertain myself in the most boring of situations. I no longer had to resort to counting the tiles on the ceiling of my English classroom; I no longer needed to pick my scabs for entertainment when the relatives visited; there was no longer a need to bring my Legos to the doctor's office or a book to the DMV. No, indeedy! My constant bickering with myself provided sufficient amusement for myself and for everyone within a 50-meter radius of me. 
Then, some organization began to develop, and amid the ceaseless bab­bling and the discontent, a representa­tive voice spoke up. I was in the local Amoco when this announcement was made: 
We, the cells of your brain, charge you, the pathetic owner, with negli­gence on the following grounds: 
1.) Frequent layoffs and panicked, mass re-hiring: We can't go dormant during the summer months and then be expected to function at full capacity the morning of your first exam! We demand at least 24 hours to recover from our hibernation and ease into a work schedule! 
2.) Irregular working hours and overtime: We don't do late nights or early mornings. End of discussion! 
3.) Extraneous usage: Why must you always choose "fun" hobbies that require thinking or coordination?! Why can't you pick such extracurricular activities as staring at a blank wall or chewing gum? 
4.) Lack of rest: Come on -all we ask is three hours a week. Is that so outrageous?! 
"Bah!" I said and paid the befuddled clerk for my gas. 
My memory was the first to defect, taking with it as hostage my accumula­tion of stored facts and names. But, I didn't perceive this as a particular problem, since my test scores drastical­ly improved with the implementation of the "random guessing" method of test­taking. I'd always been the designated loser at Trivial Pursuit anyway, and people generally learned to respond to "Hey you!" when I couldn't come up with their given names. 
The motor functions division retreat­ed shortly afterwards. It now became necessary for me to tie on a large plas­tic bib before sitting down at the table (the rest of the family wore rain pon­chos in self-defense, as I was prone to catapult large pieces of food with my corked utensils), and I had to be hosed off out back after every meal. Walking became a perilous task as my feet developed an animosity for one anoth­er, each taking great pleasure in step­ping on the other. I began to fall on my face much more fre­quently than before, and stairs were just absolutely out of the 
question. But, the in­juries incurred gener­ally weren't life-threatening (as long as I wore a helmet 
and heavy padding). so I stumbled on as best I could, refusing to acknowledge any mental discord. 
The remaining fac­tions, however, united and declared official rebellion, stating: "We hold this truth to be self-evident, "You couldn't even begin to pick your nose with­out us. Face it ­Because of the pitiful way you run this con­traption, you can't even pick your nose with us!" 
"Bah!" I said. 

"Do you really think you can function with­out us?" 
"Bah!" I said (mostly because that was the only accessible word left in my limited vocabulary). 
"Are you challenging us? ... Is that a challenge?" they asked, incensed. 
"Bah!" I said. 

They flattened me and left me for brain-dead. 
I eventually managed to peel myself off the floor and enlisted the aid of caf­feine as a cerebral substitute. At this moment, I am committing my "no caf­feine" New Year's resolution violation number 1,468. (Actually, make that vio­lation number 1,467.5 -only half of my vat of coffee actually made it down my throat; the rest is dribbling down my chin and sitting in a pool on my lap.) 

I'm looking for a new chair (since the one I'm in has no arms, and Biff at the computer next to me is starting to get annoyed every time I fall out of it and land on him), but I can't seem to turn my head to locate a new chair and focus my eyes at the same time. My random muscle spasms have given Biff a black eye and me a bloody nose, and somehow the computer screens in front of me have multiplied. 
My roommate lost her toothbrush the other day; I don't remember what I lost. 
Kathy Scheibel is a junior Arts and Letters major . 

• DOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fil!OTE OF THE DAY 
" A good cure for insom­1-\.nia is to get plenty of sleep." 
-W.C. Fields 


spice girls 

Spice 
B 
y now the Spice Girls need no introduction -number one singles in more countries than most of us can name and an album embarked upon a quest !'or global domina­tion have caused vomitous reactions amongst self­respecting music lovers everywhere. Five "birds" who cater to almost every taste (the big question is, of course, who's your favorite Spice Girl?) project an image of energetic "girl power" leading to the prospect of a cultural "spice revolution," apparently. 
Before this golden era arrives we are left to con­front an album as inane as it is disposable. The chart-topping "Wannabe" kicks of the proceedings, and then it all goes even further downhill; "Say You 'II Be There" is like listening to a parody of Janet Jackson, and the execrable "2 Become 1" is a strong contender for worst song of the decade. No description is required for the next seven tracks as they all sound remarkably similar to the first three -a trend which speaks for itself. Great moments 
zero (out of five stars) 

come with lines such as "boys and girls feel good together," "keep searching, who knows what you may find," and the classic "set your spirit free, it's the only way to be." Never has the human condition been analyzed by any artist in such penetrating fashion, and for those beguiled by these profound ideas we can only offer our sympathy. Perhaps the best way to think about this talentless bunch of no­hopers is as the price Britain pays for the brilliance of Oasis, Blur, Pulp, Radiohead, etc. In any country musical karma must somehow balance itself, and across the Atlantic the opposite of excellence arises in horrible Spicey form. To answer the first line of the album, what you want, what you really really want, is not this total crap. Avoid at all costs; listen at your own peril. 
by Julian Elliott 
the mighty mighty bosstones 




Let's Face It (out of five 
stars) 
S
o you're standing in the music section of a Wal-Mart looking for a "ska" record. The new No Doubt won't cut it, because they sound more like Madonua meets Def Leppard than Madness. What are you to do? I mean, you hear skanking is quite fun. You have a closet full of plaid. You've seen The Skalkoholics at Jazzman's five times. And MTV told you that ska and electronic music are the "next Nirvana." 
Don't fear! The doctors at Mercury Records have scrubbed up the Mighty Mighty Bosstones, neutering the malignant-throated bark of Dicky Barrett, deck­ing the boys in Armani suits, and polishing the guitar roar to a dentist-office-safe gleam. They offer their services to your dorm party needs. 
Let's Face It pick-it-up-pick-it-ups with more ska flava than any Bosstone release since the second LP, More Noise and Other Disturbances. Well, at least for the a-side, which speeds along to a distant dream of the Clash and the Specials. 01' B u-turns back into the bumpy road of the Metal Metal Bosstones. 
Typically this makes for a welcome punch on a Bosstones disc, but with the production sound processed down to Ilungry Man meat and potatoes rock, the songs taste more like damn good salisbury steak rather than a bacon-wrapped filet mignon. Also, shame on the sequencer for the two faced struc­ture of the album. Apparently that person never underwent "boy-girl-boy-girl" elem1)ntary school lines. 
The Bosstones' latest offering is more cohesive than 1994's Question the Answers and has its dancehall moments. but I kept on yearning for more of the spontaneity and aggression of Question. Rest assured though. the Bosstones live show will give the fresh tunes a well needed kick in the arse. Shame on Mercury for pushing the premium ska/punk band in the land too far for the tarnished gold ring of com­mercial radio airplay. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

I
nnovative, accesible and downright fun, Chicago's newly-opened House of Blues is a no-miss alternative to the local entertainment scene in South Bend. Combining the grittiness of an authentic Southern juke joint with the flair of a European opera house, the unlikely blend gives rise to a music club that offers more than just music. 
Fourth in a line of clubs opened by ex-Hard Rock Cafe founder Isaac Tigrett, the Chicago location is also the largest in the U.S. with a capacity of over 1,500. Clubs in New Orleans, Los Angeles and Cambridge, Mass., follow the same eclectic restaurant/concert hall format that makes the House of Blues so unique, and new openings in Myrtle Beach, New York City and London are soon to follow. 
The House of Blues is housed in the renovated Marina City Complex, gateway to the River North neighborhood and Chicago's historic "Loop." Home to a former movie theater, the club will be best recognized as the building beneath the two corncob-shaped apartment structures ••• that hover over the Chicago skyline. The 55,000-square­foot venue just underwent a $70 million overhaul in order to house two restaurants, the music hall, televi­sion production, interactive multimedia and radio broadcast facilities. 
For now, the jewel of the House of Blues is its restau­rant and B.B. Blues Bar. The restaurant offers up a selection of reasonably-priced Southern dishes rang­ing from babyback ribs to tequila-lime crawfish with linguine. Appetizers run from Mississippi catfish bites and tartar dipping sauce for the faint of heart to crawfish cheesecake (crawfish tails and smoked gouda cheese) for the more daring. The Grilled Jumbo Asparagus and Crab Salad and the House of Blues Caesar are vegetarian alternatives to the half-pound burg­ers priced at $7.50 that are big enough to warrant more than one meal, and the brick-oven pizzas have four varieties to cover nearly any taste. For dessert, New Orleans-style bread pudding and green apple ice cream are tempting enough to break most diets, and the chocolate bourbon cake steeped in more than one layer of chocolate and liquor is a Southern favorite with a House of Blues twist. Prices start at $6.25 for the Mississippi Cat Bites to $11.95 for the Tequila-Lime Crawfish. 
Sundays at the House of Blues bring the renowned Gospel Brunch, a family-style sit-down brunch offering all-you-can-eat barbeque chicken, cornbread, shrimp, cat­fish and omelets made to order. Local and nationally acclaimed gosped choirs sere­nade patrons in a non-demoninational, highly-energetic setting. 
The atmosphere in the bar, restaurant and concert hall can best be described as 
by Bernadette Pampuch 

Southern-with-a-flair. The House of Blues lays claim to the largest collection of American Southern folk art in the world, a great deal of it hanging on the walls and the ceiling of the Chicago location. Vibrant and occasionally gaudy, the home­grown art covers every inch of available space making for a busy interior that rivals some Baroque cathedrals. The ceiling is illuminated with bas-reliefs of blues masters and their contemporaries and it is not unusual to find Bonnie Raitt hanging next to Stevie Wonder. 
As electronically-driven as it is down-to-earth, 100 of the seats in the restaurant have Internet hookups and the capacity to sup­port laptop computers. Video conferencing and worldwide communications links contribute to an environment billed as the first "intelligent" music venue in the world, and video monitors showcase run-downs of music by Big Head Todd, Etta James, Eric Clapton and John Lee Hooker being played out in stereo. The House of Blues website can be accessed at http://www.hob.com and offers perfor­
mance schedules, artist profiles, and real-time con­certs. 
Not content with just being a restaurant or having a presence on the Web, the House of Blues is also home to one of the most unique musical experiences available 
in the Midwest. The concert hall is intimate and mostly standing-room-only, with most seats being within 100 feet of the stage. Opera-style boxes line the room mod­
eled after the famous Estate Theatre in Prague but the venue itself is highlighted with a decidedly modern neon and flourescent flair. Ticket prices start at $10 and rarely 
go above $30, with the upcoming Aretha Franklin concert being an exception at $65. The House of Blues is located at 329 N. Dearborn and 
phone orders for concerts are taken at (312) 923-2020 or Ticketmaster from 9 a.m. until midnight daily. Sunday Gospel Brunch seatings are from 10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in 
the Music Hall, and lunch begins at 11:30 a.m. during the week. 
Some Upcoming Concerts: 
Fri. March 21: De La Soul, opening act Sovory/Cassius Clay, $18.50, 18 and over. Tue, March 25: Chick Corea and Friends, $22.50, 21 and over. Sat, April 5: Aretha Franklin, $65, 21 and over. Sat, April19: JGB (Jerry Garcia Band), $20, 21 and over. Fri. April 25: Delbert McClinton, $22.50, 21 and over. 

Thursday, March 20, 1997 page 13 
Beck I The Roots  418  Stepan Center  
Cheap Trick  419  Metro  
Morphine  4111  Riviera  
Prodigy  4114  Metro  
The Samples  4123  The Vic  
Bush I Veruca Salt  4124  Rosemont  
They Might Be Giants  4129  Metro  
Built to Spill  5122  Metro  
The Mighty Mighty Bosstones  616  Riviera  
2. Blur -Blur  
3. Morphine -Like Swimming  
4. Pavement -Brighten the Corners  
5. Sloan -One Chord to Another  
6. Chisel-It's Alright, You're O.K.  
7. Helmet -Aftertaste  
8. Built to Spill -Perfect From Now On  
9. Cibo Matto-Sugar Water  
10. e -Spiders  
2. U2-Pop  
3. September '67-Lucky Shoe  
4. Prodigy -4-Track Sampler  

~ I 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
-

WANTED: 
Music editor and music critics Call Brent at 1-4540 
morphine 
Like Swimming 
~~ 
(out of five stars) 

S 
Jeep is the first thought that comes to mind when you say the word "morphine." It is also the end result of the latest album by the band of the same name. Like Swimming, Morphine's fourth major label release and first for the mega-label Dreamworks, proceeds from a slow. instrumental groove to slow grooves with words. Morphine has always had an unusual style -two string bass, sax and drums -and for fans of the band this album is just further exploration of this type of odd talent. Vocalist Mark Sandman has moments when his perfor­mance brings to mind comparisons with Jim Morrison. A good example would be the second song on the album "Potion." The album flows well. with each song setting up the next and no jarring contrast between songs. Dana Colley's omnipresent saxophone lines add a spice to the band's sound that is actually its main attraction. llis performance on songs such as "I Know You (Pt. III)" and "Early to Bed" give sort of a funk edge to the album. This album earns its stars 
Courtesy of Dreamworks 

because of the innovative, jazzy approach to music that gives Morphine its unique sound. Some of the songs on this album are actually very cool. "Early to Bed" and "French Fries with Pepper" are interesting musically. The lyrics are odd, especially on the latter, but that does not diminish from the intricate saxophone parts and solid rhythm that makes these and songs like "Empty Box" interesting listening. Altogether, Like Swimming is aptly titled. It is long, slow, and after it is over you feel very sleepy. 
by Matthew Loughran 
upcoming concerts 
5. 
Mighty Mighty Bosstones -Let's Face It 

6. 
David Bowie -Earthling 

7. 
Ben Folds Five -Whatever & Ever Amen 

8. 
Helmet -Aftertaste 


9. Dodgy-Free Peace Sweet 
10. The Lost Highway Soundtrack 
.... 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 1997 

WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Regionals Second round First round March 22 & 24 
WEST 
1

(1) Stanford 111-59 ,.-----,;;.;St;;;.an;:,;;fo;.:rd---'-'-(). 
r---------1-----~~w~!~J~~) 
(1) Stanford 67-45 


·-----!!!.~J.~) 
Montana (9l Ulah (5l 

5i)~Ut~ah~6~6-~~~-{====;;~;J~:
Iowa State (12) 
(4) Virginia 65-46 r 

Virginia (4) (4) Virginia 96-74 
Troy State (13)

National Missoula, Mont Vanderbilt (6l (6lVanderblll 74-62{-------­
.....-...---Washington (11) Kansas (3l (3l Kan~~~•.J'------'--'
! Detroit (14) Arizona (7) Western Ky. \!_~ Georgia (2l 
--~~emK~) 


Old Dominion (1). 
Final Four. Mollie Peirick has battled
(1) Old Dominion 102·52 ..........~.........~ ....-...······~-·..·: 116 
This Saturday the Irish an ankle injury all year will battle with Alabama in long but has not let it slow 
Liberty ): 

OT (B) Purdue 74-4B Purdue (B), 
---------..--...............j Maryland (9) · the Regionals in hopes of her in leading the fast continuing their finest sea­break or finding the open 
L...._._______,.,...______... I 
(12l Marquette 70-66 --·--..-~~~~~~-~-....(.~)I 
son ever. This season has player underneath.
(4)LSU 71-SB Marquelte (12) 
included a rash of injuries, Peirick's classmate Kari
LSU (4) 1 

(4) LSU BB-79 but the senior .leadership of Hutchinson has come off 
Maine (131, 

Morgan, Gaither, Bohman, the bench with the versatil­

Southern Cal. (6l 
point guard Jeannine ity to play in the post or the
San Francisco (11) 
Augustin, and Adreinne perimeter. She has also 
(3)Fiorida 92-7B Florida (3) 
Jordan has not allowed recently bounced back and 
-~..:.~t.J:~! 

torn ACL's or sprained returned to action after 
Auburn 17), 

ankles to slow their pace. suffering a broken hand '''"''"'""''""'~~~.~.:~,i!!~..~~.?J "At one point in the sea­shortly before the end of
I 

(2} louisiana Tech. 74-48 I
--~}~!._T~~j?J son McGraw found just the regular season. 
St. Peter's (15)

( ) seed seven scholarship players Sophomore Sheila AP dressed. She also saw the McMillen has provided a team's manager Christy spark off the bench with Grady and a former Irish her ability to drop the big 
pick up their 30th win of they year, but they can also
NCAA 
continue to play and con­continued from page 24 tinue a season that can be 
described with one word, history each scored 29 in special. the corralling of the Morgan and Gaither's Longhorns. Gaither simply names can be found all owned the paint in the first over the record books. It is half as she poured in 21. not often when the two 
With the majority of 2,000 career point scorers those wearing the burnt can be found in the same orange packed around lineup. This season has Gaither in the second stan­also seen the maturation of za, Morgan and senior Bohman and Augustin who Rosanne Bohman picked have stepped into leader­up their play. Morgan had ship roles being essential ice water flowing through to the team's success. her veins as she hit 14 of The squad's underclass­18 free throws and now men have followed the the Irish find themselves leadership provided by the just two wins shy of the seniors. Junior guard 
volleyball stand-out, three. Freshman forward Kristina Ervin, suit up. Julie Henderson's size has
Scott Hamilton diagnosed with cancer 
The team's character has provided strong play shown through as they under the glass.
Associated Press Foundation. best form of treatment is 
have made history with McGraw, Notre Dame's
Hamilton, 38, performed in chemotherapy, and confirmed that their 24th win of the year all-time winningesi coach,LOS ANGELES Peoria, Ill., on Sunday night 70-80 percent of men with the which marked a record for has had a terrific mix of
Figure skating star Scott despite suffering from severe condition are curable. 
most wins in a season and players with which to
Hamilton, a four-time world stomach pain during the last sev­'Within the last 48 hours, I am their run into the Round of work, and they have pro­
champion and the 1984 Olympic eral weeks. blessed to have had the assistance 
16 marks the furthest an vided the program with a
gold medalist, has been diagnosed On Monday, Hamilton went to of such a remarkable team of Irish squad has traveled. historic season.
with testicular cancer, his public the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, medical specialists, the unwaver­
The Irish remain as They have also teamed
relations firm said Wednesday. where he underwent tests which ing support of the cast of Discover focused as ever as the con­with their male counter­The diagnosis was made by Dr. confirmed a tumor in his lower Stars On Ice, my management and parts, giving lri_sh fans that
Eric Klein, a urologist, and Dr. abdomen caused by cancer cells those friends and colleagues clos­test against Alabama pro­
Ronald Bukowski, an oncologist, within the testicle region. est to me," Hamilton was quoted vides greater opportunity sweet taste of March for recognition. They can Madness.
of the Cleveland Clinic Both doctors agreed that the as saying in a press release. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Need ride to Philly for Easter  Furnished upstairs apartment avail­ NEED NO GRAD. TIX.  Need some info but don't know  No, a fiasco is when you think  
Will help pay NOTICES Bridgette X2580  able to subled for summer. College Park Condominiums­ PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  where to turn? Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs  you're somewhere near the flats and you look up and see  
washer/dryer/air conditioning/dish  from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear  Parliament.  
THE COPY SHOP ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  washer. Call4-0745. GREAT  Do you have an extra TICKET(s) for  professionally audiotaped materials.  
LaFortune Student Center -Fishing Industry.  OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE!!!  GRADUATlON? (will pay!) Please  See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone­ Don't Worry Buckaroo  
Phone 631-COPY Learn how students can earn up to  call Paige @ 4011  book for a list of tapes.  We'll take care of you!!  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight $2,850/mo + benefits (room &  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  Sponsored by the UCC and  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight board). Call Alaska Information Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841.  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  PERSONAL  Psychology club. Let Counseline help you!  Another cheesy Top Ten List: From the Home Office at La  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  lnternacional, South Padre  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  Electrolysis by Rebecca  ATIENTION ALL LESBIAN, GAY,  10. "There are styrofoam balls in  
Sat.: Noon -6:00p.m. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  Blend Method 674-6933  Bl, AND QUESTIONING STU­ this ice." ''That's OK, it adds  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  DENTS!  roughage."  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends Food/Lodging( Get all the options.  5 BDRMS lN HOME -close to cam..  FAX IT FAST!!!  SUPPORT GROUP  9. "Fill me in."  
Call (919)918-7767, ext. A154.  pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all  Sending & Receiving  TONIGHT AT 7:30!  8. "This ain't a hairbrush, it's a sex  
HALLELUJAH NlGHT IV  utilities & kitchen privileges.  at  CALL THE Q-LINE FOR LOCA­ toy."  
Friday, April18, 1997  $225/mo.  THE COPY SHOP  TION  7. "Free friends!"  
7 p.m. Stepan Center CRUISE LINES HIRING - 232-2794 -Paul  LaFortune Student Center  236-9661  6. "Let's see those monkeys fly!"  
Accepting submissions for Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  5. "What was his name? I know it  
Poetry Readings world travel (Europe, Caribbean, Submit by March 21, 1997 etc.). No exp. necessary.  FOR SALE  FAX IT FAST!!!  Adoption: A very loving, financially secure, well educated young cou­ started with an 'M.' " 6. "Are you guys rented?"  
To: Hallelujah Night Committee (919) 918-7767, ext. C154.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  ple, long to adopt your newborn.  5. "Julie, I am NOT this limber."  
Campus Ministry, 112 Badin Hall (Member, Better Business Bureau  Beautiful 4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2  219-291-7153  Close and caring extended family.  4. "Let me tell you two names you  
CARE Program.)ILOST & FOUND I  office home on 3/4 acre, wooded and private with pool, 10 minutes from campus. Many extras.  Class of 1998  We offer a special life for your child. Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & Joe 1-800-378 ..6680.  can't scream out in a moment of passion: Oliver and Brent." 3. "Pole check!"  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ $129,500. 271-7640 or 631-7459.  Bob Davie addresses the CLASS  2. "Shack Attack!"  
Found: Green & Purple Sierra Plus Forest, Beach Resorts,  OF 1998 on April 9 at 7 pm. Tix at  ###########################  1. "Why didn't we get you drunk  
Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik­Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to  LaF. info desk FREE!!!!!!  ATIENTlON all LESBIAN, GAY,  earlier?"  
ing boots and other items. Please $12/hour. Nationwide openings.  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  
- call277-6982 to claim! Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154.  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the U.S. SASE to : Free  students, faculty, and staff: That group you know and love is having  Happy Birthday Jen Carlson! Love the Gamblers  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with Need to sublease your Turtle Creek  Phone Card, PO Box 1041,  I'm driving to Pittsburgh for Easter  a support group meeting TODAY at  
my name written in gold on the Apt. for Spring 98??  Logansport, JN 46947  and have room for 3. Leaving Wed.  7:30. Call the Q ..UNE at 236-9661  Jen Carlson, Can you believe  
cover. Extremely important infor­Call Melissa@ 4-0740  or Thurs. 234-9533.  for more information.  that you are finally 21, South Bend  
mation inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291 I FORRENT WANTED I Near Campus L--------------' Homes for 97-98  Studying for the LSAT or GMAT? I've got lots of test prep books, & am willing to sell them at half price. Call Mary at 4-4892.  Now accepting applications for: GENERAL MANAGER of the STUDENT BUSINESS BOARD  ########################### •••••••••cLASS OF '98 ......... SEND LETIERS TO FRIENDS ABROAD. THE LAST CHANCE OF THE SEMESTER. DUE BY  look out! Who rocks the house­Jan rocks the house-And when Jen rocks the house She rocks it all the way done  
SUMMER JOBS 232-2595  DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING  -Oversee and advise operating  TUES. MARCH 26th AT 213  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean  decisions for the student-run busi­ LAFUN.  ) told her, Holly. You happy now?  
I·  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS Furnished upstairs apartment avail-·  down coat for sale-great cond., men's S-this is the warmest coat  nesses on campus (Irish Gardens, ND Video & Adworks)  You'd better be.  
NEAR LAKE PLACID able to sublet for summer.  you can find! will keep you warm on  -Create & review financial  riiiiiiik-ola! hey, isn't there an  
1-800-786-8373 Washer/Dryer, wooQ. floors, and  those walks to & from D2, D6, C1­ Statements  IF YOU ARE GOlNG TO THE  anniversary soon or something like  
dishwasher. College Park Condos.  great deal for $125!  -Run monthly meetings for the stu­ BLACK HAWKS  that?  
Call ASAP x-1291.  call Wendy @ 243 9430  dent senate  VS.  
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ REDWINGS  Campus band Sabor Latino is look­ 
MENT -Discover how workers can New 5 bedroom home, two bath, earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise two car garage. Central air, dish­ TICKETS  Applications can be picked up in Stud Act. off. (315 Lafortune)  ON SUN. MARCH 24th WITH THE CLASS OF '98  ing for good musicians to fill the following openings:  
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  and are due Mon. 3/24  BUSES LEAVE@ NOON  bass, trumpet, keyboard  
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call washer/dryer included.  NCAA FINAL 4  FROM STEPAN  )f interested, caB 277-5240 or 289­ 
Cruise Information Services: 800­$1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527  2 Tix for Semi's & Finals  not 1Oam like originally planned.  9025  
276-5407 Ext. C55846 or 638-5038.  Darcie: I didn't come here to make  
in Indy. B/0 Chris 243-9025  friends, I came here to drink.  et tu, Judy?  

----·~-----·-----------~--------­
NIT Basketball Tournament Sweet 16 
Texas Christian 

Have something to sayf Use Observer classifieds. 
ADVERTISEMENT 
V=VARSITY 
C=CLUB 
!=INTRAMURAL 
21 M!WTRACK/V 
AT STANFORD (SPLIT SQUAD MEET) 
M!WTRACK/V 
AT ALABAMA RELAYS TUSCALOOSA. AL (SPLIT SOUAD MEET) 

MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 


Texas 
Regionals Semifinals Regionals 
WEST EAST 
Utah 
Louisville 
DIA 

1------. 
Indianapolis, Indiana
MIDWEST March 29 
National 

~---l Syracuse, New York 
Championship 

March 21 & 23 
Indianapolis, Indiana March 31 
N. Carolina 

March 29 
Kansas
Minnesota 
Arizona
Clemson 
San Antonio, Texas 

L----l Birmingham, Alabama 
March 20 & 22 1----...J 

March 21 & 23 
UCLA 
Tenn.-Chattanooga 
Iowa State 
Providence 

.. 
..,. 
AP 
NATIONAL 
California 
CHAMPION 

Indianapolis, Indiana 
SOUTHEAST 

Irish open strong despite loss 
By FRED CHIU 
Sports Writer 
Ever since becoming a var­sity sport, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team is a promising 2-1. 
Once a club sport, the women adjusted quickly under the guidance of Tracy 
Coyne, a highly touted coach. 
After falling to Vanderbilt 20-13 on Wednesday, the team stands at 2-1. 
Over break, thtl women's lacrosse team beat Fairfield 18-11 in their first-ever varsi­ty competition. 
Stephanie Fox scored five goals and had two assists, 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
R£AT\VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South ,Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 

LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND LOCATION OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH REACH HER AT COLLEEN.HENSHAW@NIKE.COM 
22  23  
MEN'S BASEBALL!V  MEN'S  
AT SETON HAll  BASEBALL/V  
NOON  AT SETON HALL  
MEN'S LACROSSEN  NOON  
VS. DARTMOUTH  SAILING/C  
MOOSE KRAUSE FIELD  VS. MICHIGAN  
2:00PM  
MEN'S TENNISN  
VS. BALL STATE  
ECK TENNIS PAVILION  
100 PM  
SAILING/C  
VS. MICHIGAN  

ltl[ (.jQAI. ur SI'ORISWE.lKLNL) IS 10 INfORM SIUI>I Nl~ Al!(XJI SI'URIS ON CAMI'U~ NIII.LIXJLS NOI ~I'UNSQR ANY VARSIIY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUS SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDUU: DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SI"ONSORSHIP 
while Kerry Callahan had five 
assists against the Lady 
Stags. 
Catherine Simmons started 

the game in goal for the Irish 
with two saves, while Beth 
Murray played the second 
half and recorded three 
saves. 
The lacrosse team won its ·second game against Gannon winning decisively 17-8. 
Mara Grace led the Irish 

with four goals while Cara 
Buchanan and Tara Pierce 
both had three goals in that 
contest. 
Catherine Simmons allowed 

eight goals while making nine 
saves. 
The Irish outshot Gannon 

31-12 on goals. 
Last Wednesday against 

Vanderbilt, the team lost in a 
valiant effort by Stephanie 
Fox, scoring four goals, while 
Eileen Regan, Cara 
Buchanan, Holly Michael, and 
Kerry Callahan each scored 
twice. 
The team rallied from being 

down 7-0 to a close 12-8 
before halftime. 
The highlight came when 

Holly Michael scored twice in 
28 seconds to cut Vanderbilt's 
lead to 10-8 with 1:16 left 
before halftime. 
Tl}_e team played good 

defense headed by Debbie 
Prisinzano. The Irish cut into 
the lead but trailed the 
Commodores throughout the 
contest. 
When it was all said and 

done, Vanderbilt walked 
away with a 20-13 victory. 
The women's lacrosse team 

plays its first home game 
against University of Denver 
at Moose Krause Stadium on 
Friday, March 21, 4:00 p.m. 
The team hopes to improve 
their record to 3-1 on Friday. 
r 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
f ~ 
l 

I 
I 
nephew. On Monday, Michigan offi­
Insight 

cials announced that they continued from page 24 were hiring an outside law -----------firm to investigate allega­game. tions that a Wolverine boost­
When the Notre Dame foot­er had been providing ball program declined bids money and gifts to UM play­to lesser bowl games back in ers. December, many quickly The story goes that the labeled the decision as arro­booster slipped cash to the gant. The critics screamed Wolverines after games. that Notre Dame is always And you thought the only whining about something. professionals from Michigan 
Well. it seems Michigan were in the NBA. can do a pretty good job of But that's not all folks. being ungrateful too. The Lansing State Journal 
Michigan star Maurice reported Tuesday that alco­Taylor has gone on record as hol and marijuana were pre­saying he really doesn't want sent at a 1996 party which to be playing in the National several Wolverines were Invitational Tournament. In attending. fact, the squad was strongly The significant part of the considering declining the story is that the party took NIT bid in protest of not place on Feb. 17. being awarded a bid in the Later that same evening, NCAA tournament. UM forward Maurice Taylor 
In an act that can only be fell asleep at the wheel of his seen as UM's attempt to grandmother's 1996 Ford make the world a better Explorer, causing a rollover place, the Wolverines accident in which Traylor reached deep down into broke his arm. their hearts and finally Grandma must not hav·e decided to grace basketball been too happy with little Mo fans with their presence in after that. the Little Dance. And speaking of family, 
Aren't we the lucky ones. what generous relatives they 
Actually, Irish fans are seem to have. pretty fortunate. The Blue The story gets better couldn't be coming at a bet­though. ter time. A female student who also 
But at this point, the simi­attended the party, held in a larities between the schools Detroit hotel room, claimed end. Taylor was brandishing a 
Last week, a story surfaced roll of cash and was in the regarding Robert "Tractor" mood to spend some. Traylor and his very gener­"He wanted (us) to dance ous aunt. It was revealed for the money," said the stu­that the $4 7, 906 custom dent, Alexandria Tithof. built Chevy Suburban that "We said we would. Then he 
• Traylor has been driving said, 'Naked,' So we said around the Ann Arbor cam­no." pus is officially leased to Well, at least Taylor saved Traylor's aunt. some of his hard-earned 
The aunt, a machine oper­money. ator, makes lease payments So, with all the going-ons in excess of $700 each of Wolverines hoops, that old month. Infer what you will. Michigan fight song (the NO 
At the very least, "Tractor" version) seems pretty appro­must be one heck of a priate. Don't you agree? 

For those who don't know it, I'd love to print the words for you but I'm not so sure the fee is $20. 
the higher-ups here at The Observer would let it by. So, 
women's teams to signup will Ctoss Country Skiing _....
try this version instead: 

be Friday, March 21, through Rentals are available from Fri., Tuesday, March 25, from 11 Sat., and Sun., from 11-4 p.m. 
Hail to the money-grubbers 
a.m. to 5 p.m. in LaFortune. The rentals are located in the
Hail to the booster-lovers 
The signup cost is $15 per Golf Shop. Call 1-6425 for
Hail, hail to Michigan. the 
team. more information.
best-paid in the North 

Tae Kwon Do -Students
Hail to the free-car drivers 
are instructed in accordance Clin1hing Wall Orientations
Hail to the big connivers 

with World Tae Kwon Do are available at the climbing
Hail, hail to Michigan, the 
Federation techniques. This wall in the Rockne Memorial
richest in the NIT 

semester -:long course me.~ts every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Sundays from 3·4 p.m. tn Wednesday at 6 p.m. Slgn upAnd you thought the colo!' Rockne Rm. 301. You must outsidethe wall. · 
of money was grocn. Try 
register in advan(:e at
Mai:z;e and Blue. · 

. Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Finance Club Run-Off Election 
Voting: When: Wednesday, 3/19 +Thursday, 3/20 11:30 AM-1:45PM 
Where: Stock Exchange Booth in COBA 
Attention: 
Only Finance Club Members May Vote.' 
Celebrating Z5 Years ef ceeducatienl 
friday, March 21-Fieldhouse Mall celebration 
from 4-6 p.m. (co-sponsored by SlTB) Featuring Shooting Cupid) Skalcoholics FREE popcorn, soda, cotton candy, 
and sno-cones! 
Saturday, March 22 -4 p.m. -Join Father Hesburgh as he addresses the student body from the steps ofthe Administration Building. Rain site is Lafortune Ballroom. Also featured-Mary Davey Bliley, '72, ND's first female baccalaureate graduate. Reception to follow. 8 p.m. -George and the Freeks will perform at the 70's mixer also at Fieldhouse Mall. (rain location is Knights of Columbus Hall) 
-Questiens? Centact Patrick at 1·7668 
-~--~------------~--~------~-~-----~~ 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Bruins ho·pe to outrun Cyclones 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN ANTONIO 

UCLA likes an expressway pace. Iowa State thrives on half-court slowdown. Something has to give in their NCAA tournatnent Midwest regional semifinal. 
"UCLA has athletic ability far beyond ours," Iowa State cen­ter Kelvin Cato said. 
"They are a fastbreak team we won't try to slow down. We'll just try to control them. We know all their guys can jump. Only a few of our guys can jump." 
The Bruins {23-7), cruising with an 11-game winning streak, are six-point favorites over the Cyclones {22-8) in Tursday night's game of con­trasting styles which follows 

t;J,i~t4d~'7 ~~u~~! 
Minnesota vs. Clemson. 
Iowa State has lost all five games it has played against UCLA, but the Cyclones said they won't be awed. . 
"UCLA is more athletic than Kansas and have four guys that probably will go into the NBA but we don't think the environ­ment will be too much for us," said Iowa State guard Dedric Willoughby. 
"We watched these guys win the national title two years ago and have some players who can do anything at anytime but we still think we can do the job." 
The Cyclones, who knocked off a quick, athletic Cincinnati team 67-66 in the second round, hope to frustrate the hyper Bruins. 
It won't work, said UCLA guard Cameron Dollar. "It will be a lot of fun playing 
half-court," Dollar said. "We've done it time and agajn in our conference. " 
"We've played 18 games like that because most of the teams in our league (Pac-10) won't let us run," said forward Charles O'Bannon. 
O'Bannon smiled when told of the praise from Iowa State. 
"They're just trying to pump UCLA up a little," O'Bannon said. "We know they play well together and do what they do very well." 
Steve Lavin, who was named UCLA head coach Feb. 11 when Jim Barrick was dismissed, said Iowa State's tempo was definitely a factor for concern. 
"We do like that expressway lane but we've played well at different speeds this year," Lavin said. "We can play a half-court game." 
BE A PART OF PLANNfNG YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR A POSfTfON ON THE 
1998 IPW EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE!!! 
DON'! MfSS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY SPM MARCH 21 

page 17 

n llopes it swell 
heads and make a name for 
the. University of Minnesota," 
$~id guard Bobby Jackson. "I 
. . tAi'!'lk we pretty much did 
. . ... .. they def~nd. When you defend and have some anS'\>Vers offensiv:ely and repound the ~/~y they do; yo:Ulvegota ch~U.9!'l.:'' . .·. 
T]:).e Gophers 1?9-3) hay() had an the answers during the NCAA tournament They held Southwest Texas State and Tulsa to a combined 30 per-Cytlt from t~e field and 
thitt?' . 
the Gophers have a potent combination of size, depth and balance. Coach Clem Haskins has nine players who average <ttleast .12 min11tes per game. 'V\tpile the Gophers score 78 phints per ganie, Jackson's average of 14;3 is the highest on the team. 
that kind of balance stems 
om unselfishness, which in 
Jnnesota's case is due in 

.. ·. . o · sehior J~il:dership and :a desire to make up for last Year, when the Gophers weren't even extended an NCAA tournament bid. 
Jiaskins said the. players set ~]:)eir goals l<tstspring -win ~0 or more games. challenge for the Big Ten title and make a strong run atthe Final Four. They have accomplished the first two and are two victories away from the hitter. 
"I started outwith a lot of 

confidence in this ballclub at 
the end of this last season," 
Haskins said. "The key word I 
said was, No. 1. if we stayed 
healthy. If we stayed healthy, 
9u.t~(;o~e!i.then;rpy ~n average..••.we had a chanGe to accom­
of?S,5 points, : ••.••..·.••··•.. ·. · • pli~h great thin~s this season ·· Minnesota is. shooting 48 and so far we've stayed percent in the tournament, the healthy." same as it did in rolling to its Fourth-seeded Clemson (23­first Big Ten title si}lce 1982. 9) has been fit most of the And speaking.otrolls, the year. The Tigers started out Gophers are. ~:11 <1: n,~t::e 1.me<c-"' l, but closed out the year 
. th~yhave won l4:''of 15, with losing eight of their final the only loss coming· in a 13. meaningless road game with Barnes said the biggest con• 
sin afte • they had tributor to the skid was play-the itig in the Atlantic Coast Conference. ; . 'Sl.lt there was a more. subtle 
.. reason. which he said was underscored in the Tigers' loss to Maryland in the ACC tournament. 
Notre Dame's Public Radio Station is Now Interviewing for the following PAID Positions: 
~Nocturne/Specialcy Director 
~Chlef Announcer 
If Interested or for General Information Leave a Message for Nate at 631-4069 By Sunday March 23 to set up an Intervie"r! 
I I I I 
I 
~ 
~ 1 I I I 
l ~ 
r 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
• COlLEGE BASKETBALL 
Stanford rig!tt at home Evans to remain at Ole Miss 
for regional semilnru.· 
By ROB GLOSTER Montgomery said~ "I don't Associated Press Writer know that neutral crowds get 
SAN JO.§Et Calif. 

Utah'~ player~ sp¢n.t the days, leading up to the NCAA West Regional taking finals and getting their first wide­eyed glimpses of the .. alterna­tive lifestyles" in nearby San Francisco. 
Stanford's players picked out fresh vegetables for dinner while accepting good luck wishes from the produce department clerks at their neighborhood grocery. 
While the Utes (28-3} are a

I ­
time zone and a 12-hour drive 
I 
away from home, the Cardinal 
I 
(22-7) are a bike ride away
I 
from campus .,---where they went 12;.0 this season. 
Will Stanford's virtual home­court advantage· make a dif­ference in Thursday's regional semifinal? Both coaches say it won't. 
"No one has ever come out of the §tands and scored on us yet," Utah coach Rick.Majerus said. "ln my entire career, I've always shut down the oppos­ing crowd." 
Stanford coach Mike Montgomery, who cl:l~cked his playersTnto a San J(lsehotel so theY wouldn'tenjoy too many ofthe comforts of home. agreed that nothing can match the intensity of a campusgym. 
"I think the advantages and disa ge;$ p ·.much offset. thli:. lves," 
r  
r,­r r  THURSDAY: Bucket Night! DJ Dance Party!  
I  Free Pool &  
!  Dart Lessons for Ladies starting at  

8 PM. After the lesson, your first game is free!!! 

! 
f 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's,=: and Douglas on and good times for all! 
~ US31-33 

"' AI · ·... ·····.··· · ' ·1 3 
f\'··· 

ways open ·ti AM 
M·F open at 3pm, Sat open at no~n 
4~ f!Xcited about ' 1lte disad~ 

s """':'· tb:e ~Jot of 
ns.'' ··.o.;;J>·· .. · 
Instead, the coaches argue, 
the game will sWing on a cou­
ple of key matchups. 

Stanford will try to. shackle 
All-All1erican forV\[atd Keith 
Van Horn the S;atrte way It 
stymied All-American center 
Tim Duncan in a second­
round victory over Wake 
Forest. And the Utes' Andre 
Miller will be responsible for 
slo~ing Stanford point guard
Brevin Knight, a second-team 
All-American. 

Van Horn, who averages 22 
points and nine rebounds a 
game, said he doubts. tho 
Cardinal -who r()taled three 
big men in and outagainst 
Wake Forest -will bt~ able to 
pound on him the same way. 
"I think they're going to try to push us a little bit," Van Horn said. "But I do a lot of my work from the QUtsidel so.I don't think it Will affect me 
that much." 

Stanford center Tim Young 
called Van Horn ''a more ver· 
satile player" than Duncan, 
anqi~ontgmnerr~gteed the Dunacan defens~.won't workagainst him. · · < .. 
"You're talking about a power forward that can go inside, he shoots the 3, he runs the floor.,'~ t\1bptgomery 
·s~id of Van H J;~s much 
Mrder to help perimeter
player." · 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 

DJ Dance Party! Mix of newest and hottest high-energy rock 
Associated Press OXFORD, Miss. 
Rob Evans will remain the University of' Mississippi's bas­ketball coach, bypa'ssing an offer to become LSU's new coach. 
"The overriding theme with me was our players. I just didn't feel like I could walk away from these kids when they have shown so much trust and loyalty in me," Evans said of his decision Wednesday to stay at Ole Miss. 
"They came here when there was nothing to como on but a promisn, and I feel like it is my duty to see them through," he 

:tc~~~s~a;~thm(ff~t~i~s ~~~~ 
letic director Pete Boone to finalize a new contract. The two had previously roached an agreement in principle. 
Boone told The Associated Press late Wednesday after­noon that the new contract would include an extension and a raise. Evans currently makes about $180,000 a year, includ­ing base salary and other bene­!its, on a contract that has two years remaining. 
Tho decision by Evans leaves LSU athletic director Joe Dean's still searching for some~ one to replace Dale Brown. In a 
~a:Jde~[~~i~:r~1i~~~~~;;p~~ 
remain in Oxford. 

"I will go back to the list of candidates and move quickly to hire a basketball coach," Dean said. "I appreciate the time and consideration given to us by Hob Evans." 
Dean had offered the job to Evans, 50. on Tuesday. The deal was reportedly worth about $500,000 a year. 
Evans, who just completed his fifth and most successful season at Ole Miss, said he decided to stay put "after much deliberation and consultation with my wife and my family." 
'~ 111!'1~ ~:t·
e,.~\.1· 
___... 

Signed petitions are due TONIGHT at 10 p.m. in the Student Government office. No exceptions! Questions? Calll---4553 
F.Y.I. -CLASS OFFICE ELECTIONS ARE ON MONDAY MARCH 24! 
..­

With millions at stake, Anderson sits for NCAA tourney 
By STEVE WILSTEIN get through it again. The fresh, the NCAA tournament." now. If coach changes his mind of his game was back, which is Associated Press Writer jagged surgical scar on his right Pitino said he made his deci­and tells me to go in, I'm going amazing to me. He looked the knee matched the old one on sion after thinking about what in." best on the team, to be honest SAN JO-SE, Calif. his left, and he knew exactly he would do if Anderson were The way Anderson swished 3-with you. That was scary. Not 
Two months ago, when a what he had to do to return to his son coming back so soon pointers and sprinted in prac­only that he looked so great, seemingly harmless bruise the court before season's end. from a torn ACL. tice, he looked as if he hadn't but that we don't have anybody turned out to be a torn knee lig­Now he's ready, sooner than "I wouldn't let my son play, lost a bit of his touch or speed. as good as him. " ament, Derek Anderson's lock anyone except he expected, and and I decided I'm not going to He wore no brace on his knee, Kentucky hasn't quite been on a multimillion-dollar NBA eager to prove he deserves to let him play," Pitino said. "I no bandages. bereft of talent, boasting the contract vanished and be one of the top picks in the feel the extra three weeks to a "It would be fun to play in likes of All-America and NBA­Kentucky's chances of winning NBA draft, starting with month is in his best interest to these games, but if I don't I'm bound sophomore Ron Mercer. a second straight NCAA title Thursday's game against St. be a pro. If we're going to win going to prove myself in the The star of last year's national dimmed. Joseph's in the NCAA West this, we're going to win it with­NBA camp. Believe me, I'm title game victory, the 6-7 
The big, sweet-shooting Regional semifinals. out him." going to make myself known to Mercer assumed a larger role senior guard heard everyone Kentucky coach Rick Pitino Though disappointed, the 6-the pros." in the offense when Anderson, call his injury "season-ending," wanted to give him that oppor­foot-6 Anderson was relieved a The No. 5 Wildcats also the leading scorer in the even "career-threatening," and tunity, but after much soul­decision had been made and he announced Wednesday that Southeastern Conference with the fearful words floated searching decided at last he could concentrate simply on guard Allen Edwards would an 18.6-point average, went through his mind like some shouldn't. getting ready for the pro scouts. miss the rest of the tournament down. menacing mantra he could dis­"Derek has proven his point," "It could be the best thing for with a hairline fracture in his· But Mercer missed practice pel only by grunting through Pitino said. "He's practiced me," Anderson said Wednesday foot. Wednesday because of a minor (~xercise and more exercise. three times with us, and it is between jumpers at practice. Edwards sat forlornly alone strain in his back, opting 
He would not give in or give obvious that he's ready to play. "It's two weeks versus 10 years on the bench, a well-signed cast instead for a swimming work­up. Too much money· was at We'll continue to get him ready in the NBA. You don't have to on his right foot, as he watched out. stake. Too many dreams. And for the NBA camp in Phoenix be too smart to think about his teammates shooting. His For Anderson to return so he had too little time. He'd been April 4, but we will not risk his what's more important. absence left Kentucky with just quickly and strongly, and to through this before and would pro career by playing him in "But I'm ready to play right eight scholarship players outplay Mercer and every other 

The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 
The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for considera, tion in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department office, 132 O'Shag, by 3:00 p.m., Monday, April 7, to be eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. Rules governing the com, ptitition are available in the Art Departt_nent Office.. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. For additional information you may contact Prof. Charles Rosenberg, 128 0' Shag, ext. 1,5672. 
because of injuries and depar­Wildcat in practice, is nothing tures. less than astonishing. Nor, from 
Torn anterior cruciate liga­Anderson's point of view, is it ments once ended careers, and anything less than expected. nowadays usually take four to He pushed himself past a torn eight months to recover from ACL in his left knee as a sopho­after surgery. more at Ohio State, where he 
For a basketball player, two averaged 15 points, 4.9 assists months is virtually unheard of, and 4.9 rebounds. and worthy of a chapter in He then sought to flee the medical journals. beleaguered Buckeyes amid a 
"I am blown away by it," scandalous mess of recruiting Pitino said. "He played (in violations involving other play­practice) yesterday and it was ers and the arrests of several as if he never left. Every part teammates on various charges. 
Be our guest for the premiere . al ethics lecture of the year. A time to share your irations with dlumni 
.. 

ON NATIONAL TOUR 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND Main Auditorium -Northside Hall -MARCH 25-30, 1997­Tues. 7:30 p.m. • Wed. 7:30 p.m. • Thurs. 7:30 p.m. • Fri. 8 p.m. Saturday 2 p.m. &8 p.m. • Sunday 1 :00 p.m. &7 p.m. EST 
Tickets -$27.50 to $49.50 
For tickets Call 219-235-9190 (Morris Civic! 
Mon. -Fri. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. -till 4 p.m. Show Week Show Nights from 6 p.m., Weekend from 11 a.m. Call 237-4203 (IUSB) 
Cl1arge to VISA. MasterCard & Amex 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
-------~ ~-~-­

, ~ 
r 
~ -~ 
r 
r 
, ! r 
' 
! 
r 
' 

I I I I I 
I
' 
~ ..
' 
~ 
J 
' 
I 
t ... 
I I f 
~ 
I
t appears to be a simple game. You throw the disc. You catch the disc. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, sometimes it rains. But appearances can be deceiving. 
The Notre Dame Ultimate Frisbee Club hosts its first tournament in the history of the program this week­end, as 12 men's teams and four women's teams will compete on the Stepan fields. The Irish are a young program nationally, yet have made strides through off-season training to the point where the squads expect to fare well against the healthy competition. 
"We should be pretty competitive," club president Luke Mullany predicted. "It's an all-year sport, but the big months are March and April, and we've been practicing three times a week since August. Conditioning is very important, and we're in much better shape than last year." 
Notre Dame's two men's teams will welcome several highly-touted foes, including Carlton College, who lost in the finals last season to take the second spot in the country. 
"There will be a wide range of competition, but we think we can hang," assessed club member Andy Pascale. "Carlton's team is like a varsity sport; they 
An Ultimate Time Story by Dave Treacy 
Photos by Mike Ruma 


take ultimate very seriously. But we think we're a pretty top team." · 
The women, who struggled to field a seven-member team for tournaments last year, will also field two squads. Captain Michelle Paduch believes that the tournament should give the group a chance to see how they stand. 
"We're excited to be having some teams come here," Paduch offered. "It's an opportunity to help us get some pride in our team and get some more people addicted to the sport." 
Although it can become a free-for-all, the offenses and defenses employed are rather structured. Notre Dame, like most teams, runs a stack offense where three people handle the disc, another player runs middle routes, and three more head deep. In getting the disc down the field, the handlers act like guards in basketball, distributing around the perimeter and get­ting it deep to the open teammate. The middle-man is the "go-to-man" in case other options are shut down. 
Games are scheduled to start at about 9:30 a.m. on both Saturday and Sunday, going continuously until the afternoon, although Paduch explained that "ulti­mate time is a little more relaxed." 
Jason Conrad (top), arm extended, is acknowledged by the team in the dis­tance prior to the start of a new point. After this exchange, team tradition is to yell "ultimate" prior to throwing the disc. Michelle Paduch (left), president of the Notre Dame women's ultimate team, stretches out in a defensive attempt to block a throw by Julie Dintaman. 

------------------~---~----------------­
Thursday, March 20, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
NBA prospect Maurice Taylor would have been playing in the 
(12.1 ppg.). When that duo second half," Fisher said. "We'll
NIT 
draws a crowd, leading scorer have to wait and see." Louis Bullock has capitalized. As for the Irish, forward
continued from page 24 
Bullock scored 28 points Derek Manner and recent addi­against Oklahoma State and. is tion to the starting lineup, cen­not complaining about playing considered one of the nation's ter Phil Hickey, may be playingat Notre Dame. I just wish we 
top marksman, averaging 16.4 the best basketball of their
were playing Friday and not 
points and shooting 48 percent lives.
Thursday." 
from beyond the arc. Manner's ability to break
It's also no secret that 
"I don't know if there's a bet­ahead of the Texas Christian
Michigan wished they had 
ter three-point shooter in the pack proved to be a major fac­received an NCAA berth. The 
country than Bullock," tor and will be again tonightNIT is usually a consolation 
MacLeod lauded. "His percent­against an up-tempo Wolverineprize for any Big Ten team, but age is awesome." team.
with two solid victories in the Wolverine forward Maceo Hickey will need to be readyearly round, the Wolverines are Baston sprained his toe in the to bruise with the Michigan big no longer whining. 
first half of the Oklahoma State boys tonight and neutralize the
"Our kids said they wanted to be there and proved they did," game, did not return and is now rebounding advantage as he did questionable for tonight's con­against TCU.
Fisher added. "It has shown 
that we are ex-cited to be play­test. If unable to play, Michigan "fie's (Hickey) the kind of will be deprived of his 10.3 player who is developing confi­
ing." 
points and 6.7 rebounds per dence," MacLeod added. "YouAs usual, Michigan possesses game. can see him grow. He's begin­an imposing frontline led by Robert Traylor (12.5 ppg.), and "It must be painful or else he ning to blossom as a player." 
Attention Hospitality Program Members: 
Ifyou missed last night's meeting, please don't forget to come Tonight (Thursday, March 20) ~Vhere: 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall Time: 7:00p.m. 
Please bring your personal calendar. Ifyou have questions or concerns, please contact: 
Jennifer Carrier  Colleen Walton  
Admissions Office  Student Coordinator  
1-7505  4-4986  

SAVE A LIFE FOR FREE! 

Join the Bone -­Marrow Donor Registry. 

Friday, March 21, 1997 
8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 

Remember: If you have already joined the registry, you do not need to
LaFortune Ballroom 
re-register. Your membership is good for (2nd floor of LaFortune) life! 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! ALL WELCOME 
Sponsored by The· Minority Pre-Medical Society (MPMS) 

The Observer/Rob Finch Sophomore center Phil Hickey has provided some muscle and offense in the paint for the Irish. 
"As You Wish".,~-{..~ Imports~ 
Lots of Bali Rings, Great Jewelry, Bali Dresses!, Wooden Beaded Curtains, Bamboo Jewelry Great Selection of Environmental Jewelry 
Clearance Sale 
Stop by to look, buy or just visit! FREE gift with every purchase! 
Portion of proceeds funds the education of6 Guatemalan children. ANY coins dropped in ourjar would be greatly appreciated! TilEYADD UP! LaFortune Room 108 (By telephones) March 17th-March~lst5daysONLY! 10am-5pm ~J Early b1rd gets the worm! ~? 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 20, 1997 
Game goes on despite the show 

By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Edimr 

Basketball and bathtubs. Fans and flowers. The Irish and irises. Unlikely pairs? Yes, but they 
will blend together on Thursday night due to the unexpected success and home court advantage earned by the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
Following the Notre Dame Band Concert on Monday, the Joyce Center has been con­tracted through the weekend to a Home and Garden show that will conflict with the third con­secutive NIT tournament game hosted by the Irish. The Home and Garden show will have more of an impact on the sell~ out Joyce Center crowd than just giving it an opportunity to plan their spring gardens or get ideas for a new sunroom during halftime. It will decrease the capacity of the crowd by over 3,000 seats. 
While the 8,000 tickets allot­ted for Thursday night's game sold out quickly yesterday, that leaves 3,812 scats empty as the Irish take on the mighty Wolverines of Michigan. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
"So many people use the Joyce Center," assistant direc­tor of athletics Tony Yelovich said. "There are concerts, games, and shows all the time, and they are all planned so far in advance." 
In theory, it should comple­ment the Irish team that when all that planning took place, no one stopped to consider that the Irish might still be playing basketball, but it also compli­cates the situation for the dri­ving team. Still, it did not hin­der the decision by NIT officials to allow the Irish to host their third consecutive game, as the past two performances of both the team and the crowd proved the Joyce Center's worth. 
"I think it is probably a dif­ferent scenario," Yelovich com­mented. "We could guarantee that it was going to be sold out by our past two performances." 
"I think they looked at the total picture and decided the Joyce Center was a better choice." 
Yelovieh also added that the Wolverines, who once boasted one of the most successful pro­grams in the country with such players as the Fab Five's .Juan Howard, Chris Webber, and Jalen Rose, have been having trouble filling the 13,609-seat Crisler Arena. In fact, drawing only around 5,000 a game, the Wolverines had very little to claim in their argument for the home-court. 
So despite the depleted capacity, the Joyce Center was the clear choice for Thursday's match-up. Yelovich added that the cooperation with the coor­dinators of the Home and Garden show greatly aided the Irish in making their bid for the home court advantage. 
"We're very fortunate that the people at the Home and Garden show have been so cooperative," he said. "The biggest thing is that we've worked together as a team to work toward a common goal." 
The home court advantage has proven to be a major factor in the success of the Irish this season, as shown by their 14-3 record at the Joyce Center and will look to continue to do so on Thursday. 
"I think it's a great advantage for the team," Y clovich said. "Especially for the youngrn kids to play in the NIT in front of a home crowd." 

Junior forward Derek Manner's impassioned style of play has keyed the Irish's up tempo offense. 
Now reviewing '97 graduates resumes for those interested in pursuing a career in 
·­
trading futures & options on the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. 
i~eed a job for the 1997-98 academic year? 
If you are: •Aggressive
Student Activities is now 
•Disciplined
acceptir g applications for: 
-----------•Ath letic 
Lafortune Building Manager~ Stepan Center Manage'r:i •Strong Background Information Desk Attendants 
in Mathematics 
Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound T~(hnir:iam 
send resumes to: Norm Singer
Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew First Options of Chicago
2 4 Hour Lounge Monitars 
30 South Wacker Dr.
ND Cake Se1 vice 
Suite 1105 Chicago, IL 60606 
History in the making••• 
e game'lt Notre Dame. challeng enver at 4:00 p.m. 8~ """.~atch the nationally ranked. men's lacrosse team at 1:00 p.m. 

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
'f'OU ARE GUILTY Of BEING A TECHNICAL E WRITER WITH A~ 8
.,; 

UNNATUR,_L ATTR.A.C.TION 'g TO A.N ENGINEER. ~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Wee bit 4 Sticking point a Ethanol, to 
dimethyl ether 14Longtime 
Frazier foe 15 Flunky 16 Actor William of 
"Knots · 
Landing" 17 Sunday reading 19 Wilderness 
home 20 Explosives and such 21 "The Raggedy 
Man" poet 23 Frostiness 24 Latitude 25--Verde 
National Park 
3Gymnast's finale
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Airport queue 5 Bravo, e.g. 
6 Any one of the Magi 7 Song from 36·Across a Nothing doing? 9"Bye!" 


-':'-i..::::-tr.-ir:=-1Ei 10 Fertilization sites 33 Suffix with sometimes 60 Part of Italy 
-==-+=+=+::+:=-! 1160's-70'sTV sleuth 
12 Uncut -:-t:::::+::+::-1 13 End a shutdown -=+.::+.+:-! 18 With 27-Down, 
song from 36-Across 
Make checks payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
is a vital source of information on people and D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address _____________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­
City--------State _____ Zip______ ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.! 
c 
::J 
~ 
~ 
26 "Bird on--" (Gibson film) 28 Together, musically 

29 Upbeat, in music 56 Mint-­31 The yoke's on 57 Beer, them sometimes 32 Patrick Ewing, 59 Pacific divider 
for one 61 Popular 34 Quechua, e.g. Hershey bar 36 Musical that 62 Repute 
premiered 63 B.&O. stop 3129151 
64 Furtive
39 "The Faerie Queene" 65 TV Guide span character 66 Guitarist 40 Thatched Nugent 43 A.L. player 46Smack DOWN 48 Coty of France 
1 Southeast 
49 Places for hats? 

Florida city 51 Fraternity letters 
2 Pie preference 
MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
~==========~--~u~--------------~ 
IT~  !\lOT A MA.'JOR  •  SIT DOWN  II.NO TYPE,  
5IN,  50 YOU ONLY  "l  PROACTIVELY  
GO TO HECK. I'M PHIL 1 'THE PRINCE OF INSU!="HCIE~T LIGHT.  LEVERAG.E 1"\'< 5'l'NERGIE5," A HUNDRED TIMES. \\\ ~o-o-O···I  
II/  
52 Lot  
53 Kind of card  
54 Golden Horde  
member  

22 Psychiatrist/ 42 Pool area 50 Chateaubriand author R. D.--43 Footprints 55 Pretentious 25Sell 44--56 Weight lifting reason maneuver
27 See 18-Down 
45Con 58 Reggae

30 States of alarm 
47 Pep talk, variation 

slogan 35 Actress Sue --Langdon Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
37 Not suitable 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).

38 VISTA worker, 
Annual subscriptions are available for the
perhaps 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 41 Understanding 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
11.\1'1'\ llllrl llll \\! I'\ 'I liE :\ F:\'I \ F \I{ 0 F \0l' R 1.1 FE: rilL' hll,llll'"\ (lll\ltHli-. \\Jll ~i\L' \"UU ln:"h hop~ l111 Ill~ lllllll"L'. ·1;;kl' fa-llli­1\ lllLillhLT'-llllP \ ULIJ L'Dill"itkilC~ ~'ou \\ill m:th· ~~ ll.li.ll{ll di..,n)\i.'l"\ 111 June. lrL'L'Jng ~~1u .ln)lll thL· p:t..... l. Tra\ l'l :1hruad \\111 hnll!..! both 11Hll1~­tar~ and Cllllllllllli.JI r~\\arJ~ Rc­llC\\ 1ng :111 nld Ltcqu~tllllancc c_1nild 
lead IO i.l IK'\\ pi.trlllCJ"\IJlp. l:illdlH.."Illt! the purL·ha ... c ll·r <t Clllldu ur huu .... c ..,Jmuld hL' c:l'... tLr a" tilL ~ l'i.lr dra\\.., to a clu~c. Count un L"i.l1"L'LT-rL·Iatcd ac­ti\ itie~ to ~ccp_\IHJ ()11 thl' run cad) in 'YR. 
CELEBRITIES BORl\ 0~ THIS DAY: acu·e'·' Holly Huntn. haskethall mad1 l'at Riley. dtrcctor Spike Lee. actrc" TherL'\it Ru"cll. 
ARIES !March 21-April 191 ln­stcaJ of hanging out with your usual crowd. ~0 on Oil \'OUr own. Dress your hc;t and tl\ <lid talktng ~hop. Savor the start-up ol a platonic rela­tionship. 
TAL'Rl.;S !April 20-Ma\ 201: You lind voursell a11racted to "'me­one who' is really not your type. Take a chance on romance. Some­one mav trv to 111sh \Oll into making 
a majm: de~ision -~ 
GEMINI iMav 21-June 20): Do the unexpected. Keep llthers gues,­ing and ) our allure will gro\1. Your willingne>.s to accept more responsi· 
bility will let higher-ups know that you are ready for promotion. 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): If you let someone else take the lead. you will not he blamed if a plan goes aw1-v-. AdYenture beckons when you call on old friends. Be gracious to a phone caller. 
LEO !July 23-Aug. 22): It pays to get the details nailed down before tackling an important work project. 
Tc;\111\I.UI"~ I~<,,IL"Ih pr~~~~l·..., ..... f)l·l~ 
!.!<IlL' J"Otl{iJlL' l<t.._,~..._ hl "llhlll"t.[JJl;I!L"'-. 
~ \'IHCO 1.·\u~ 2'-SL'J'I 22,1 lf1giH:r-up" \I. ill ra~L· ~~~u .11 ~~JLII word. Your lncnd.... hlp 1.1.1\h ;, lllL'lll her Of thl' 1lflj)O.">fll' '\l'.\ j)rtli.L'~ l"\ 
cepllonalil ilelplul. lk IIH>rL' rellcctll ahnut vour r·inanual arlair.., 
LIJIRA tSept 2.1-0u 221 c;" ing. a partJll..:r llllll"l' rrcl'thllll L"tJLtld enhance your rcbtio11\h1p l)n Jh>l hL· taken in h\ -.,umconc \\hu ci<.Jilll"> 111 he on You~· ..,tdc. If vuu h;r\c lh1uht ... ahout ,; joh oi'ler. pi<;) lm tllllL' 
SCORPIO tOct. 2.1-Nm 21, An on-aga1n. oil-again rumancl' 1-.ccps you guc~~111g Lool.. l"or way:-. to gauge this. person·~ commitment to vou. You have good luck when re­ncgotiatin~ a hu~i~1cs~ contr<.lL't. 
~SAGI-J'TARIUS (Nm. 22-Dcc. 21 l: Be willing to forego immediate pleasures for huge hen~lit' in a J'c\\ month's time. Scrutinize contract> lor any clau>es you may not under­stand. Stop letting pushy people dic­tate to you' 
CAPRICORN (Ike. 22-Jan 19): Participating in a heated debate ''ill only put yo~u on the spot. Refuse Jn be drawn into other people's quar­rels. Show a 1\\ o-timing lover the 
door. ~ AQlARil.S (Jan. 20-Fch. IHi Ne\\· insights \\ill make you change your priorities. Im·ite a former men­tor to join your team. Be fnendly to a newcomer. but avoid confiding too much too soon. PISCES !Feb. 19-March 20): Your rapport with a member of the opposite se\ comes in handy now. Be sure to keep your relatiOnship on a husiness le,el. A financial decision could cause a family member dis­tress . 


The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
... 
.. 
.... 
.. 

-
SPORTS 
page 24 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish, Wolverines will be ready 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Senior Sports Writer 
Late Tuesday night, Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod and his staff had little time to savor their most recent NIT victory over TCU. 
That's what the off-season is for. 
Instead, the Irish coaching staff was burning the oil until midnight, preparing for third­round opponent Michigan. In 
.. 
the post-season world, moments are precious when teams only have an abbreviated time to get ready. 
"It's a short prep for Michigan, it's a short prep for us," MacLeod said. "There's not a Jot of time here to get ready." 
The short prep doesn't seem to be bothering Michigan. 
"It's not all that complicated," Michigan head co&ch Steve Fisher said. "We'll be pre­pared, and I'm sure Notre Dame will also." 
What is bothering Fisher may be the short rest period between Michigan's 75-65 win over against Oklahoma State Tuesday night and tonight's quarterfinal. A quarterfinal to determine who earns a trip to the NIT Final Four at Madison Square Garden. 
"The disadvantage for us is playing on the road less than 48 hours after our last game," Fisher said. "That's a concern to me, yet that's what we have to deal with." 
The Wolverines will be deal­ing with a Notre Dame team terfinals will be held. 

However, the only possible way for the Irish to play host was scheduling a Thursday date since a Home & Garden show will invade the Joyce Center on Friday. 
"I don't feel slighted, I feel disappointed," Fisher said. "It's doing our kids and our program a disservice if there are games on Friday and we have to play on Thursday. The NIT has the privilege of putting a team wherever they want, so I have no complaints. My con­cern is why couldn't we not have had one more day. I'm 
see NIT I page 21 
The Observer/Rob Finch (Above) First TCU and now Michigan cry favoritism as the Irish host their third tournament home game. (Left) Senior center Matt Gotsch has provided an offensive punch off the bench during the NIT . 
that has won eight straight at home. Considering the obvious rivalry and the growing excite­ment about this Irish team, tonight's game is already sold out. 
"One of the things we said we needed to do was that if we're going to be a good team, we need to protect our home floor," MacLeod said. "This year we've been able to build a good home floor. Our kids are comfortable here." 
Because of the late tip of Michigan's game on Tuesday, Fisher expressed a desire to schedule the quarterfinal on Friday, a day when other quar-

Success makes March sweet for Lady Irish 

Senior forward Rosanne Bohman's 16 points helped Muffet McGraw's squad was key a three point victory over Texas. 
at NIT tournament vs. Michigan, 
r 

Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
t .... 
X 
at NCAA tournament 
Vjf

vs. Alabama, 
.. 

March 22 at NCAA tournament 
?

March 20-23 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant SportS Editor 
Spring is upon us, and the Notre Dame sports fan has more to talk about than the fall and how next year will be our year. March Madness comes with spring and every­one is talking about basket­ball. The only difference this year is that we are talking about OUR basketball teams. No, not our Bookstore clubs, our real teams wearing the Blue and Gold. 
John MacLeod's squad has taken advantage of its NIT bid as they are playing the best basketball of the year while providing the cheerleaders opportunities to stay sharp on their skills. 
The women's program has found their way into the spot­light and is finally earning the recognition that they deserve as they are in the Big Dance and are Sweet Sixteen bound.
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

slighted with a six seed despite its regular season 27-6 mark. They responded to the NCAA selection committee as the Irish made quick work of the Memphis Tigers in a 30 point win in the first round. 
On St. Patrick's Day they disappointed the burnt orange of the Texas Longhorns in their own place. The dramatic 86-83 win gives the women's squad a trip to South Carolina and more recognition. 
Last year Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither earned hon­orable mention All-American honors in guiding their twelfth seeded team to a !'irst round upset of Purdue in the NCAA Tournament. 
Being garnered the same honor this year, McGraw's dynamic inside-outside duo has continued to lead the Irish on their road to Cincinnati and the Final Four. 
The top two all-time leading point scorers in the school's 
see NCAA I page 14 

vs. IUPUI, Today, 5 p.m. a) 
~ 

vs. Indiana, 
..... 

March 25, 2 p.m. 
riJ 

vs. Dartmouth, March 22, I p.m. 
~ 

• lmsH INSIGHT 
Similar tradition, different modes of transportation 
B
elieve it or not, there are a fair amount of similarities between Notre Dame and Michigan. 
I know that may hurt a little bit. but some­
times we just have to face ,--------~ 

reality. 
In fact, these similarities 
only serve to help make the 
rivalry between the schools 
all that much more intense. 
Both are midwestern uni­
versities that have earned 
national prominence for '-----'-'-"----' 
both academic and athletic Tim Sherman 
prowess. Senior Sports Writer 
At both schools, the suc­
cesses on the athletic field arc a vital part of 
their identities. 
While Notre Dame has the Four Horsemen 
and the "Notre Dame Victory March," 
Michigan can claim the Fab Five and "Hail 
to the Victors." Even the schools' colors are 
rather similar. 
And judging by the recent reaction of 
members of the Wolverine basketball squad, 
the schools even seem to be engaged in a bit 
of the "anything you can do, I can do better" 
see INSIGHT I page 16 
• 
Women's lacrosse off to quick start see page 14 

• 
Wildcat Anderson won't play see page 19 








