
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 103 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By MICHAEL LEWIS News Writer 
The high tuition costs and other expenses associated with attending the University of Notre Dame cause many families to make significant sacrifices, but the Financial Aid Office and the President's Office claim they are working to make attending this school feasible for every student who is admitted. 
University President Father Edward Malloy addressed the issue in his 1993 Colloquy Report; his leading recommendations dealt with providing more accessible financial aid programs for students by the year 2000. 
"The University's ideal and goal should .be to provide each undergraduate with a financial aid package which meets 100 percent of demonstrated financial need and is only 

moderately dependent upon loans and work. Additional funds for financial aid should be sought primarily through enhanced endowment," wrote Malloy in the Colloquy. 
Father Richard Warner, counselor to the presi­dent, recalled a time nine years ago when tuition was going up at seven, eight, and nine percent per year, adversely affecting the student body. 
He cited recent increas­es in financial aid and decreases 'in the rate of tuition increase as steps he believes are in a good direction. 
"Let's not kid ourselves, 
many people make huge sacrifices to come 
here," Warner stated, acknowledging that 
see SQUEEZE I page 4 
Aid tries to improve upon 'conservative fiscal policy' 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Unlike many leading universi­ties, the Office of Admissions at Notre Dame does not guarantee to meet prospective students' full financial needs upon acceptance. 
The admissions catalogue, in fact, states in plain language that there are "a number of students who choose to go elsewhere because they cannot afford to go here." 
Incomplete financial packages can be a severe deterrent for a high school student evaluating Notre Dame as one of his or her college options. 
Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney believes that "while Notre Dame has a more conservative fiscal policy than most universi­ties," the movement to upgrading financial incentives for students has been obvious over the past ten years. 
Rooney indicated that in the past decade, the number of need­based scholarships has nearly doubled. Ten years ago, there were 300-350 scholarships used by a freshman class. Since then, the average class size has increased by roughly 30 students, but the number of scholarships for that class now totals close to 700. 
"Progress has definitely been made," Rooney said. 
The admissions literature asserts that "many families rec­ognize the unique qualities of a Notre Dame education and make financial sacrifices to provide the education." Rooney provided parental loans as an example of familial sacrifice for a Notre Dame education. About 10 per­cent of the freshman class' guardians have taken out similar loans to help finance their chil­dren's educations. 
Nonetheless, there is still that "number of students that choose to go elsewhere because they cannot afford to go here" to whom the admissions catalogue refers. 
Each year, Notre Dame admits about 3,800 new students, which is twice the number of spots available. Fifty percent of those accepted enroll, filling every bed at Notre Dame. Rooney noted that the national enrollment aver­age is between 35 and 40 percent of students accepted. 
The Office of Admissions sends surveys to students who decline their acceptance to Notre Dame. 
see AID I page 4 
GETTlNGAID 
Notre Dame students receive a total of $110.4 million in assistanc~, only 14 percent of which comes from the University itself. 
The Obse 


• CAMPUS l!FE COUNCIL 

Du Lac revisions, alcohol policy top agenda 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus Life Council dis­cussed possible revisions to du Lac at last night's meeting. Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for the Office of Residence Life, told the council that alcohol policy will be among the issues his office considers for revision this summer. 
"We have gotten a few of these [ideas] from resolutions passed by this council," Kirk said. "We will be looking at reformatting du Lac to make it more user-friendly. We in the Office of Hesidence Life are very interested and excited about making the document more accessible to students. 
"We will also look at the poli­cy about driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs," Kirk continued. "In light of recent national surveys on binge drinking and alcohol abuse, the alcohol policy itself will be under closer scrutiny for possible revision. That is not to be construed in any way to say that we will be consider­ing going to a dry campus. We ~ill simply be scrutinizing the policy much closer." 
He said that among changes in the alcohol policy, all-hall semi-formal dances -com­monly referred to as SYRs ­will be examined to see how they can be used to cut down on binge drinking. 
The revision topics will be discussed by the du Lac revi­sion committee of the CLC, a committee created in accor­dance with a policy that was started last year. Through this outlet, the CLC can discuss the revision topics and suggest any changes or additional topics to the Office of Residence Life. 
"Patty [O'Hara] has reiterat­ed the importance of this twice, so we should hold up our end of the policy," said Mark Leen, chairman of the revision com­mittee. They will meet on Wednesday to discuss the top­ics. 
One change that the Office of Residence Life will not make was discussed in O'Hara's response from O'Hara to a res­olution passed by the Campus Life Council at their last meet­ing. The resolution called for the expectations of students in disciplinary hearings to be enu­merated and relabeled as rights. 
In her letter of response, O'Hara said that the word 
see CLC I page 4 


----------,
-------~--­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
---~ 

• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Preparing for 

the next step 
I have written many inside columns over 
the past year. All of these columns have con­
cerned topics which I hoped would be of sig­
nificance to all of the Notre Dame communi­
ty, or at least to all of 
the undergraduates. 
Now, as midsemester 
break looms, I will 
write of what is fore­
most in my mind: grad­
uation. 
I, like about a quarter 
of the other midergrad­

uates on campus, am a 'senior. Like this quar-Macgee Husemann 

Associate
ter of campus, find myself more and more Viewpoint Editor reliant on what news comes to me through the mail. Commencement information has arrived, but, beyond that, the post brings letters of accep­tance or denial of admission into graduate schools, job offers or rejections, responses to application to service organizations, or other solutions to the uncertainty which lies after all of the mid-May celebrations. Although Notre Dame is a definite glimpse into what the real world will offer, many of the problems and pleasures of complete independence from our parents have not been realized. Being one of the lucky people on campus, I will graduate without signifi­cant debt. However, as a graduate of the College of Arts and Letters, I will be at a dis­advantage in the job market. This, as many of my fellow members of the college under­stand, is a clear stumbling block for the future. Rent, insurance, and other consequences of financial independence threaten us all as we leave Notre Dame. Even the small essentials of cooking or relating to a new environment can seem daunting. Hopefully we will all be prepared. As seniors, many people such as our par­ents, professors, administration, and hall staff have attempted to help us equip our­selves with the life skills that we'll need. They help us to realize that it's time to leave. Not only have we successfully filled the requirements for our major and for gradua­tion, but we have also (hopefully) experi­enced all that we came to Notre Dame to experience. We have sucked the marrow out of this life. Notre Dame has shown us some of the greatest joys, sorrows, and passions that we have known. We have lived through four years of extremes, and now it's time to go. We should be ready. We should be prepared. Even for the people who have jobs or who are engaged or who have something secured for their lives after graduation, the future. brings uncertainty. It's something that we all feel at this time. Hopefully, however, this uncertainty is accompanied by a sense of completion. Even if we don't have anything definitive for next year, we should be beginning to feel the need to leave. For some people this need to leave is a feeling of anxiety and fear. For some people this need to leave is a feeling of longing for escape. For others it is a sense of satisfaction. When we leave here, we leave the SYRs, the 10 p.m. dorm masses, and the Bookstore Basketball. This last quarter of a semester is a transitional time. We will have to move out of our comfort zone here at Notre Dame and begin confront the future. Good luck to everyone. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Derek Betcher  Production  
Heather MacKenzie  Chris Uhart  
Sports  Derek Betcher  
Kathleen Lopez  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Katie Kroener  
Eddie Llull  Graphics  
Accent  Peter Cilella  
Melanie Waters  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Five children die in Baltimore house fire 

BALTIMORE 

Six children sleeping in a sec­ond-floor bedroom died in a rowhouse fire early Monday as their screaming father tried to save them. 
The children, a girl and five boys ranging in age from 2 to 12, are believed to have died of smoke inhalation. 
Their parents and a 23­month-old boy who was sleeping with them escaped out the win­dow of a back bedroom, Battalion Chief Hector Torres said. The father returned and tried to rescue the others, but the fire was too intense. 
"He kept yelling, 'My children are in there! My chil­dren are in there! Someone help me!'" said Milton Mehlinger, who lives a block away. "The whole front of the house was on fire. You could sec it spreading. The smoke was unbelievable." 
"I wanted to go kick the door in but I couldn't get near there. It would have been suicide," said neighbor Steve 
• 
Gore denies fundraising violations 
WASHINGTON 

Vice President AI Gore, under fire for his aggressive role in campaign fund raising, acknowledged Monday he made solicitation calls from his White House office but denied any wrongdo­ing. "Everything I did, I understood to be lawful," Gore said. Yet, he added that he had decided never to make such fund-raising calls from his office 


again. "I never did anything I thought was wrong," the vice president said. Gore defended his actions in a high­stakes White House news conference, markedly different from his occasional appearances on behalf of adminis­tration initiatives. This time, Gore was trying to protect his political honor as looks ahead to the presidential race in 2000. Gore said, "On a few occasions, I made some telephone calls from my office using a DNC credit card" -a reference to the Democratic National Committee. He said that as vice president, he was exempt from laws that generally prohibit people from fund raising in public buildings "I never did anything that I felt was wrong, much less illegal," the vice presi­dent said. 
Schools may sub yogurt for meat 
WASHINGTON 

Kids who have a beef with their school menu are get­ting a new alternative with the government's blessings: yogurt for lunch. Over strenuous objections of the cattle industry, the Agriculture Department has decided to allow yogurt as a meat substitute in the nation's school lunchrooms. Child-care providers and the food industry have been clamoring for the change for at least 15 years. School officials predict yogurt will be a hit with kids. "They love it," said Katie Wilson, who runs the school lunch program in West Salem, Wis. "The little kids we have now grew up with yogurt." Yogurt is low in fat and will offer a needed -alternative for children who cannot or don't eat meat, said Mary Ann Keefe, USDA's acting undersecretary for food, nutrition and consumer ser­vices. The department already allows schools to substi­tute cheese, beans, eggs and peanut butter for meat. Yogurt will be added to the approved list of substitutes by the end of this week, Keefe said Monday. Many schools already offer yogurt at salad bars or as an a la carte item. Now schools will be allowed to serve it as a main lunch item, giving children a new choice. 
Street. "I was up all night just thinking about the children." 
The blaze broke out on the first floor of the east Baltimore rowhouse and spread up the stairs, trapping the children. 
The cause of the fire was under investigation. The owner of the house, a police officer, said there was a smoke detector in the kitchen but not on the second floor, Torres said. 
AP The victims' names were not 

immediately released. The par­ents and the surviving child were treated at a hospital for smoke inhalation and released. 
Neighbors wept as they walked by the house. Charred mattresses were piled up under the window of the chil­dren's room, and the pavement was littered with a yel­low plastic bowling pin, blue toy telephone and Lego blocks. 
"It's sad, sad," said Cheryl Nixon, who recalled watch­ing the children play outside as she passed on her way home from work. "Six babies, sad." 
Blackbeard's flagship resurfaces 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Treasure hunters have discovered what is believed to be Blackboard's flagship less than two miles offshore, nearly three centuries after the pirate ship went down. "We've not found the smoking blunderbuss yet, but we have found enough artifacts to make us think this may be Queen Anne's Revenge," said Jeffrey Crow, director of the state Division of Archives and History. The wreck was found in November by lntersal Inc., a treasure hunt­ing company, in just 20 feet of water in Beaufort Inlet. "If you could have seen through that dirty water, it was right there," said lntersal's Mike Daniel. Queen Anne's Revenge, flagship of the fearsome English buccaneer Edward "Blackbeard"-Teach, sank in 1718 after run­ning onto a sandbar. So did the Adventure, a sloop in Blackboard's fleet that went to its aid. The wreck site is dominated by a mound of cannons encrusted with coral. Queen Anne's Revenge is thought to have carried up to 40 cannons, and their position is consistent with a ship that ran aground and tipped to one side, Daniel said. A blunderbuss barrel was brought up from the wreck, along with a bronze bell dated 1709, a 24-pound can­nonball and a sounding weight. The discovery ended a decade of research. 
FCC approves national radio service 
WASHINGTON 

After five years of work, federal regulators approved a plan Monday that would bring a new form of news and entertainment to people who spend a lot of time in their cars: radio stations that travel with them. The Federal Communications Commission's action creates two licenses for CO-quality digital radio that is transmitted nationally or regionally by satellite. Like cable televi­sion, customers of the new service -at least three years away -will probably have to pay to listen. The broadcasting industry opposes the action, saying it's a threat to local radio service. The FCC will auction the licenses beginning April 1. The four companies expected to bid are CD Radio of Washington, American Mobile Satellite Corp. of Reston, Va., Digit'ftl Satellite Broadcasting of Seattle and Primosphere of New York. To receive the service, a customer would need a special radio and a tiny disc-shaped antenna. Ideally, a single radio would receive both the new service and local broadcast signals. The broadcast industry plans a switch to digital technology so local stations also will have top-quality sound. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high tern eratures 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Tuesday, March 4. 
Thesday 


Wedne~day~ Thurs~~y 

Friday) 
Satu~day 
{t-'\;"'~'--.,j···. 
....) 

g,~,~QQ.Q(f~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Ff~,;ies S0oW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

_.__._ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L B ESl [Til 0 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES 
Vl.IAs.soc:mltKIPross 
Akron 40 32 Daytona 84 Atlanta 71 58 Fargo 28 Beaumont 68 61 Green Bay 30 Charleston 79 62 Honolulu 83 Corpus Christi 75 64 Juneau 29 
0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
fZ3 8 (l-~ U 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
63  Las Vegas  70  38  
5  Milwaukee  33  24  
21  New Orleans 73  65  
71  Sl. Louis  44  33  
20  Salem  52  37  


-------~-­
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Davie uses luncheon to discredit accusations 
Tulane situation, assistants and recruiting covered 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
According to Bob Davie, head coach of the Notre Dame foot­ball team, the key to a success­ful football program rests in the quality of the assistant coaches that the head coach hires. 
"I have had a chance to sur-. round myself with some good people here [at Notre Dame]," Davie said. "I think that with their coaching style, families and the type of people they are, I hav@ assembled a really great staff." 
Davie, the focus of recent allegations of age discrimina­tion from former offensive line coach Joe Moore, spoke to the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph's Valley at a luncheon yesterday. He addressed questions about his coaching staff, recruiting, and his goals for the Notre Dame football program. 
Davie highlighted the strengths of every member of his new coaching staff. He had special praise for his new offen­sive coordinator Jim Colletta, saying, "he really is the perfect fit for Notre Dame, in both the schemes he runs and in the type of person that he is." 
Early in his speech to the alumni at the Morris Inn, he responded to the suit brought upon him by Moore and the allegations of misconduct at Tulane University, where Davie was the defensive coordinator, that were brought up last week. 




Thlnkofus 
as yourscfiool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to 
school. No hassles, no problems. For information and schedule qsutt your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I INITFn 11~~0 
~I 'iii • ---·· 1' • """ Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day.•. Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Arrive O'Hare
Leave Notre Dame ·Arrive Midway Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­
Terminals 1, 2, & 3 
(International terminal 15 minutes later) 4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. &..ilOa.m. 8:10a.m. 8:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 9:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
transfer in Portage) 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m.. 12:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 
1.j)() p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m. 2:00 p_m_ 4:10p.m. 3:55p.m. 41JO p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
"I want to address the one letes," he said. "They want to issue [of the allegations] win, but they want to do it because I have so much respect right. They want to do it with for the Notre Dame Clubs, and integrity." if anyone deserves an answer it Davie also mentioned the stu­is you," he said. "But unfortu­dent body as one of Notre nately I cannot say anything Dame's advantages. "This stu­specific. I can say that the dent body is hard-working, thing that I am most proud of is focused, and they want to get in my reputation. involved," he said. "Ninety-five 
"A lot has been made of a percent of the student body 
past that I didn't even know attends football games here. This is because Notre Dame
'} can say that the thing that I am 
football is most proud of is my reputation. I obviously important,
know that all five of the programs I 
but it is also 

have worked for would hire me back.' because they 
that I had," Davie continued. "But I know that all five of the programs that I have worked for, including the one [Tulane University] that was brought up this week, would hire me back." 
Davie praised his players as the reason that his job is, what he calls, "the best head coach­ing job in the country. 
"The greatest thing about this University are the student ath-
Bob Davie have a lot of respect for the student 
athletes that are on the field." 
He then outlined the different speaking engagements that he has planned with various stu­dent groups and his plan for getting four different dorms involved in every pep rally next year. "I have a very hands-on approach," he said. "I want to get [the students] in there and let them get involved." 
Davie said he would return the recruiting base for Notre 

AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT. 
" ... make the most 
gorgeous sound 
you're likely to hear atlJ'Where... " -STEREOPHILE 

Friday, March 21 
8:00PM 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Tickets: $6/SMC-ND facultv and staff; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's.College Box Office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 am-5prn Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
TREATSEATS discount coupons available at area Target stores. 

Dame to the Midwest. "We have already made contact with the entire state of Ohio," he said. "When recruiting season opens up, my assistants and I will take the first day and cover Chicago just to show how important that city is to us. Then, on day two, we will move up north and cover Detroit. The next three .days will be dedicated to the state of Ohio. 
"We have to re-establish our­selves in this region, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois. We have a good class this year. And while I do not think that we will win a national championship this year, next year we will have one of the absolute top recruit­ing classes in college football." 
He described his goal for the recruiting class as combining "integrity and balance. I need to find kids that are going to fit in and stay here." 
Davie finished by describing the different look that Notre Dame football will have in the coming season. "We are going to be a big-time blitz team," he said. "On offense, we will be more of a dropback team. We have very few superstars. But we have pretty good depth and will play a lot of players." 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph's Valley hosted the lun­cheon as part of a continuing series. Earlier in the series, athletic director Mike Wadsworth spoke about the search for a new head football coach days before announcing Davie had been given the job. 

•
I 



Discussion 
1111ith the Nanni brothers 
from La Casa de Amistad & Center lor the Homeless 
7:30piJI • Wednesday ND Roo111 • 2nd floor LaFort. 

A discussion olhow to getinvolved and opportunities available to Juniors now and alter graduation. 

Gonzaga-in-Florence Italy 
Tours of Italy and Course Work 
Renaissance Summer Program May 13-June 27, 1997 -and-Junior Academic Year Abroad Progam 
Open to college students, professionals, seniors and other adults. 
Apply by April 1 
STUDIES ABROAD 
GONZAGA UNIVERSI1Y 
Spokane, WA 99258 509-328-4220, Ext. 3549 or 800-440-5391 reynolds@gu.gonzaga.edu 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
lion. The diversity subcommittee, "The rate of tuition increase chaired by Allyson Luck, has
Squeeze CLC Aid 
is the lowest in three decades," spoken to First Year of Studies 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame's policies on tuition and financial aid may squeeze out the middle class. 
"Father Scully [vice presi­dent and senior associate provost], Father Beauchamp [executive vice president], the Budget Committee, and the Financial Aid office are very aware of that and they have worked very hard to provide a feasible solution," he added. 
Warner further noted that, if" not for the Financial Aid Office, many people would be in trouble. He said that the sticker price of attending the University is only one factor, as the core mission values are what makes Notre Dame worthwhile. 
"The ideal goal would be that we want to make a Notre Dame education feasible for every student admitted," he stated. 
"By a combination of resources, we hope to be in a position to someday allow stu­dents to choose Notre Dame for the right reasons," agreed Joseph Russo, director of Financial Aid. "We're working to close the gap between costs and available assistance. 
"Every time costs increase, our challenge gets bigger," he explained. "The rate of increase in scholarships has been dramatic." 
Notre Dame students are receiving $110.4 million in monetary assistance in the 1996-97 school year, toward which the University con­tributes $15.6 million in schol­arships. That total is amassed from $10.7 million of the $1.3 billion endowment and $4.9 million from annual giving. 
Seventy-one percent of undergraduates receive aid, while 86 percent of the gradu­ate students do. The under­graduates get $71.9 million; graduate students, $38.5 mil-Russo said. "We're making it (a Notre Dame education) more· feasible every year." 
Russo estimated that a four person family (two children, one enrolled at Notre Dame) that has an annual income of $50,000-$60,000 might demonstrate $15,000 of finan­cial need. Loans and work­study provide $7,700; the remaining $7300 would be supplied through a scholar­ship, if the student is a Notre Dame Scholar. 
The office starts with self­help, according to Russo, and then tries to provide the neces­sary assistance to make atten­dance at Notre Dame possible, and about 75-80 percent of those admitted apply for aid. 
"Affording a higher educa­tion is becoming one of the major concerns for all fami­lies," he said. 
A recent edition of the New York Times reported that one item in President Clinton's five point agreement with GOP Congressional leaders was providing families with finan­cial educational help. 
Additional recommendations concerning Notre Dame as an option for qualified members of the middle class included increasing the percentage of grants in financial aid pack­ages for top students and giv­ing more aid to law, MBA, and 
M. Div. students. 
Though attending the University causes many fami­lies to make significant sacri­fices, the administration is working to ease the financial pressure on students and fami­lies. 
continued from page 1 

"rights" was too legalistic and that she preferred to call such an enumerated list entitle­ments. 
Ryan Mcinerney, judicial council president and the member of the CLC that pre­sented the original resolution from the Student Senate, wrote a personal letter to O'Hara that he read in the meeting as a response to O'Hara's letter. 
In the letter, Mcinerney states that, "The term [O'Hara] recommended, ["entitled"] is equally legalistic and in fact synonymous with our recom­mended term, ["rights"]." 
Father Pat Sullivan, Faculty Senator, agreed that the term "entitled" was legalistic and added, "it has a negative con­notation in modern politics. If they are legally the same, why not use the one that receives more popular acceptance?" 
O'Hara's response also noted the close vote by which the resolution had passed; details included a procedural point that allowed it to pass. This angered some members of the council. 
"The resolution passed and she should have dealt with the body of the resolution, not the vote," said Ava Preacher, asso­ciate dean of the college of arts and letters. "She keeps refer­ring to the vote, but we had a quorum with most of the peo­ple here and she should have dealt with the resolution." 
To finish the meeting, the CLC subcommittees summa­rized their years' accomplish­ments for the body of the coun­cil. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 

HEY! Interested in winning a new car? If so, sign the Safe Spring Break Pledge! 
By taking the pledge, students promise not to drink and drive, not let their friends drink and drive, or ride with an impaired driver. When you sign the pledge, you become eligible to be a nationwide drawing to win a FREE 1997 Jeep Wrangler or a Plymouth Neon. 
tBy signing tlie p{etfge, you wi{{ afso be e{igibfe for otfier prizes. 
Sign your pledge forms  on  March 3rd &  4th.  
Sign-ups  are  between 5-7  p.m.  in the  
North and South Dining Halls!  
Sponsored  by:  
Office  of  Alcohol  
and  Drug Education  
•  

about setting up a multicultur­al program during orientation that will be much like the peer counseling program. 
Mcinerney, chair of the alco­hol subcommittee, introduced the three points that have topped the agenda for his com­mittee. "Sorin's success in their no-tolerance policy could be seen as a model that other dorms should ascribe to," he said. "We are also interested in increasing student-faculty interaction and the awareness of and availability of aware­ness classes on wellness issues." 
Shane Bigelow, chair of the student life subcommittee, asked that his committee be allowed to remain a standing committee, to be known as the Student Concerns Committee. 
"We have done a lot that has seemingly fallen through the cracks of the CLC," he said cit­ing the possibility of a new shuttle service for students and working with director of facili­ties operations Gary Shumaker to fix the drainage problem on the North Quad. 
The CLC will meet again on March 17. The last meeting of the current CLC will take place one week later, on March 24. 
continued from page 1 
From the 900 or so that are returned, about 200 indicate that they would have chosen to attend had the school been more affordable. 
According to Rooney, these students instead choose to attend other major national private schools or flagship state universities such as Virginia, Michigan, or the University of California system. 
It was under Father Hesburgh's term as University president that the idea of con­sciously including relatives of Notre Dame alumni in each class. He felt that because of their outstanding support of the school, legacies should be continuously welcome! at Notre Dame. 
Hesburgh suggested the number involve about 25 per­cent of the student body; this figure has remained constant, as 21-26 percent of students in each current class have legacy ties to Notre Dame. 
Rooney was quick to clarify that this number "...is a goal, not an absolute quota. 
"We do not take (academical­ly) weak students for the sake of fulfilling that number." 
REST ASSURED, YOUR PET WILL ,
r 
I I I I 
: at the newly opened ~~
1\. 1 

! ~*~o '· BITTERSWEET '~t~~~-! 
.~.... f:.'.. / -: 
L 0~ --PET RESORT & STABLES _______.J 0 Full service modern animal boarding 
· facility 0 Playtime available 0Luxuries of home-air conditioning, heating, piped in music & a soft blanket 0 Professional grooming service 0 Pickup & Drop off service available 0 Horse boarding, riding lessons &training 
2100 Weaver Road • Niles, Ml • 616-684-7361 
Easily accessible (Only a few miles from Indiana State Line off US 12) 
BRING IN THIS AD AND GET 10% OFF 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn star in 
cfuJf 





J!,je 
$1 Students liTTLE THEATRE 
For information, 
call 219/284-4626 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
SMC Woman of the Year emphasizes diligence 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
Ask Susan Vance about her special relationship with Saint Mary's College students and she will tell her story of teaching at Saint Mary's 
while study­ing alongside her students for the CPA test. 
"There were certain sections of the test I felt I 


was over-pre­pared for, especially the law section. With my law degree, many students jokingly asked if they could sit by me during that portion of the exam," Vance laughed. 
There are hundreds of stories Vance could recite about pursu­ing her education and earning a law degree, doctorate, B.A. in education, and reaching the post of lieutenant commander of the Coast Guard Reserves. 
But perhaps Vance's most cherished stories are about her family of four children and suc­cessful relationship with her supportive husband. 
For her myriad of personal and professional accomplish­ments, Vance has been selected as the Woman of the Year at Saint Mary's. Sponsored by the Student Academic Council, nominations for the award were mailed out to the Saint Mary's community. A special committee on the Student Academic Council, the Women's Month Committee, selected Vance. 
The associate professor and chair of the business adminis­tration and economics depart­ment reflected yesterday after­noon about what it means to be a woman and the challenges that accompany that title. 
Raised in a traditional blue­collar home in the 1950s and the oldest of six children, Vance assumed her life would follow that of her mother's. 
"My parents stressed hard work and the importance of education," said Vance. "Being the oldest, I was expected to set the example for the younger five." 
Vance succeeded in setting the example, as all six children graduated from college. 
"To this day, my mother is so proud of her childrens' educa­tion accomplishments that she introduces me to people as her daughter who is a lawyer," Vance said. 
As Vance labeled her college experience the "Donna Reed Years," she remembers there were few academic paths for women to take in the past besides education and nursing. Later, Vance found herself pregnant, without a job, and with the opportunity to step back and reflect on her role in society and where she fits in as a woman. 
"I was empowered by the realization that I could do what I believe and enter into new 
unchartered  worlds  as  a  
woman," said Vance.  
By joining the U.S.  Coast  

Guard Reserves, Vance wanted to support the country after the taboo image given to the service sectors following Vietnam. Serving in the Reserves also allowed Vance the opportunity to spend more time with her family. 
Vance felt that joining the Reserves was the beginning step of her personal women's movement as a mother and pro­fessional. 
Her second step was deciding to go to law school. She kne:w of no woman before her who had graduated with the full-time demands of a family while at the same time balancing the demands of law school. 
Graduating third in a class of 160 students with only seven 
. women, Vance wanted to dis­
prove stereotypes that women 
were unreliable. 
Seeking a flexible career, 
Vance returned to teaching 
academics at Illinois State, 
while earning a degree in 
accounting. In 1980, Vance was 
t~nured at Saint Mary's. 
"Achieving tenure at Saint 
Mary's increased my self­
esteem. Being at the same eco­
nomic income level with my 
husband greatly enhances our 
relationship," she said. 
Junior finance "major Beth 
Phelan said, "She is an incredi­
ble professor, but an even more 
incredible woman. Her classes 
are not only academically stim­
ulating, but her personal stories 
show a deeper side 'to the 
woman as she encourages us to 
never doubt our dreams and 
goals in life." 
With the incredible female 
role models in fields of science, 
medicine, government and law, 
Vance indicated there is no 
going back for today's genera­
tion of college-aged women. "One gift granted to this pre­sent generation of women in 
college is the balancing of fami­ly and work has been taken for 

Attention All Students 
interested in the 
granted and viewed as a given," Vance explained. "It takes time to develop healthy relationships 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
between family, spouse, and work. Women have to be dili­gent as I now pass the torch
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. 
onto this next generation of women."

will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
See news happening?
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 Call The
6:00p.m. 101 Law School 

Observer 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B 

at 1-5323 
O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 


Cl/ afree ride.~~ 
•, 
Announcing the AT&T "Ultimate Road Trip" 
sweepstakes.  
Going abroad this AT&T would like to your way.  school help pay  year?  

10 Grand Prize Winners ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. 
Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable 
than the air transportation) . 
To enter, call 
Or you can enter on-line at 
http//www.e~tt.com/Jtudent_e~broe~d 
Do it today. 

No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. Sweepstakes ends 5/1/97. Open to residents of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled at a U.S. college or university during the '97~'98 school year and traveling internationally for 14 days or more. See your Study Abroad Counselor or http: //"W!tM.att.com/student_abroad for official rules and details. 
© 1997 AT&T 


is looking for a 
CONT o/€)LLER PURCHASI ANAGER. 
Call1,5313 with questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 
*Candidates for Controller must be a sophomore or junior accounting major 



t:f~J:O!:~j~~~~ SYRACUSE
t:t -:~ 0 ~·""" 
~ ,-.· ·~ J·x STUDY ABROAD 
~ \\}(/t~)~-.~~1 



~~~__:v;G
~J'§g~i: 
• 
Generousgrants & academicsdrolarships 

• 
Coursework, internships & more 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • sua broad@ syr. e d u · http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
Warner receives first ROTC faculty award 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC detachment named Father Richard Warner, coun­selor to the University presi­
dent, the first recipi­ent of the annual Air Force ROTC Facult.y Appreciation A w a r d Monday. 

The award Warner is designat­ed for a Notre Dame faculty or staff member who has shown continued support for Air Force ROTC. 
Air Force ROTC members say Warner is the inaugural recipient because he not only attends all awards ceremonies and special Air Force ROTC events, but he also makes himself available to Air Force cadets for counseling and spiritual guidance. 
David Slaydon, the cadet commander of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC, and Jennifer Clavenna, the vice comman­der, presented Warner with the award. Slaydon stressed the importance of the support Warner gives. 
"Without faculty support, Air Force ROTC would not be nearly as successful as it is. University support is essential to our presence and prosperi­ty as a Catholic university," Slaydon said. 
"It means a lot to the cadets for Father Warner, being both a senior administration offi­cial and a clergyman, to devote so much of his valu­able time and energy to help­ing Air Force ROTC," he con­tinued. 
Slaydon also said that this award was created and its recipient was chosen by the student cadets, not by the Air Force faculty, showing the appreciation of the cadets for University support. 
The award consists of a plaque and a $100 donation to the South Bend Center for the Homeless in the recipi­ent's name. 
The award is expected to become an annual presenta­tion. 

If you are interested in writing for The Observer, please calll-5323. 
~OBSERVER is now hiring for the following paid position: 1 • if you are good with people and are looking for valuable business experience, I· 1 please call Jed Peters at 631~6900.  

Deloitte& 

ToucheLLP 
0 
Congratulations to the following seniors who have accepted employment opportunities with Deloitte & Touche. We look forward to working with you 
AngelaAuth Valery Bauduin James Berezniak Alisa Bobay Weigang Bo Tiffany Buki Elizen Cadavona Maria de lo Rivera Christina Fajardo Robert Fincutter David Freitas Karen Galioto Kirsten Harter Jessica Heieck Robert Ho 
Michael Starzan Gretchen Stephans Thaddeus Wojcik Cleveland Los Angeles Chicago Indianapolis New York Dallas Indianapolis San Juan San Francisco Chicago Chicago Pittsburgh New'Yt 
Parsippany San Francisco San Francisco Los Angeles 





Finance Club 
Elections 
Stock Exchange Booth 
(Atrium in COBA) 


Vote for next year's Officers 
(Finance Club members only may vote) 
=== 
Monday & Tuesday March 3rd & 4th 

Need a job for the 1997-98 academic year? 

Student Activities is now accepting applications for: 
Lafortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound Technicians Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew 2 4 Hour Lounge Monitors ND Cake Service 

Ilill 
:~~il: 

I I :JOa.m. to I:45p.m.
Applications are available at 3 1 5 Lafortune. ''''l 
Deadline for applying is Friday, March 21. 
I 
::~::::!:!t!t:!~::&::;s.::;::::":?.::§~:!l:~~:t::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::~::::::::::::::*:~:::::::!t::::::::::::::::;::::::::::*:::::::~:::::::~:::::::::;::::::::::::*:::::::::::::~:::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::::;:;:::::::::;:: ~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


• 
• ... ... ... • -.. ---.. ---! _........... -......... -• ~ ­




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAII'IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia CarsoO Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is rej>orted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the. opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer, Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising · 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marke<ing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 



Users are losers: Ju01ping off the Internet bandwagon 
"Imagine a place with no age. No race. No gender. Utopia? No, the Internet," answers a haunting, profound voice in a commercial. What in the hell kind of misguided, propagandist crap is 

Sean O'Connor 
this? Maybe I am unenlightened, but I just cannot grasp this comparison of the Internet to a heaven-like state of perfec­tion. This is ridiculous, and anyone who would buy into this arrogant marketing attempt is a fool. 
Granted, the Internet has real '\alue as a tool for business and communications. I know it saved. me many letters written when I was overseas. But who has access to the Internet? Certainly not the majority. And of those who do get access, how many use it only as a toy? It is no great equalizer. Age, gender, race and every other human quality still exist in the user of the Internet. Users are not suspended in some weird alter­nate-reality cyberspace like Tron or Lawnmower Man, but remain actual corporeal beings. And, of course, any­thing that is placed onto the Net by a user is filtered through the perception of that user. How, then. is there no age, gender or race? Apparently only visual­ly, in those chat room things. 
I am perplexed by those things. Once I entered one called something like The. Worthless.Blabber.Hotel@www.losers. com to investigate. The witty repartee of the participants consisted mostly of lurid and perverted references to things unprintable in a medium that consists of words on paper. All of these lonely souls -who actually might have been genderless, or at least gender-confused judging by some of the exchanges-had clever handles (this is the CB word for the call sign; I do not know the Internet word). Particularly impressive were "MCNetStud" and "BigDongl." 
Who are these people, and do they have contact with other people in the world outside of electrical signals? If I said something to "MCNetStud," using my larynx and tongue, would he respond using like mechanism, or would he scurry away to some dark den and respond via computer hours later under cover of night? Perhaps "MCNetStud" resembles Robert Duvall's Boo Radley in "To Kill A Mockingbird." 
Or perhaps he is a more sinister char­acter, after the manner of one J. Orlin Grabbe. This Harvard Ph.D. maintains a web site which gives detailed accounts of a host of conspiracies being foisted onto the public by such agents of evil as the U.S. government, the Israeli Massad, the killers of Ron Brown and Vincent Foster, and many others. Thank God I was made aware of the horrible, apoca­lyptic plans of these characters; I will now spread the word to all my "friends" in the chat room. · 
In an illuminating "60 Minutes" inter­view, my boy Grabbe, while pulling on a Guinness in a bar in Nevada called Area 51, explained to Leslie Stahl why ­although he had no proof for any of his ridiculous theories -he should still be able to distribute them over the web. When Stahl asked the apparent delu­sionary -with his long, bedraggled locks falling past his wild-eyed visage onto the supple, chained leather of his jacket-if he himself believed the con­spiracy theories, Grabbe replied that he did not believe in "much of anything." Excellent. Maybe I will create my own conspiracy page today, if someone will show me how to use a computer. 
I am a big fan of the Boba Fett discus­sion group, a web site devoted to the raging debate over the true nature of that hardest of bounty hunters from the Star Wars Trilogy. Now in the movies, as you all know, this character is quite 

mysterious, without many r------------------------, lines and usually tertiary to the scene. Yet, because 
of his hardness, a cult fol­lowing seems to have blos­somed. And where better to propagate strange cults than over the Internet? 
So, the argument goes, BOBASBOYl: "I heard that Boba Fett is actually a Jedi warrior who was overcome by the power of the Emperor." WebWarrior: "Is there any truth to the rumor that Boba Fett escaped from the Sarlacc's pit by using his mandolarian armor's built-in ion exchanger tt'l ignite the mucus of the Sarlacc's gut, thus causing a subatomic implosion

which caused the Sarlacc '-----''-----.:....:..._-=---------------' 
to cough him up, but at the same time horribly disfigured him and ruined his 
armor?" LLKoolVillo: "The other night I was walking home and I saw Boba Fett outside the liquor store and he told me over a bottle of Captain Morgan's that he did indeed escape the 1,OOO year digestion by using his ion exchanger, but that he had spare armor on his home world of Softcor." 
.d d
These guys need to go outs1 e an 
play catch or something. 1 do not remember any of this from the three movies 1 saw (but of course, "Return of the Jedi: Special Edition" is not out yet). Basically, they are trying to determine the "truth" about a minor fictional char­acter by discussing hearsay gleaned from the Internet based on paperbacks written by authors who apparently have licensing agreements with George Lucas. Well, 1 heard Boba Fett was actually Luke and Leia's triplet. I won­der what J. Orlin Grabbe heard? 
Perhaps the Internet will profoundly change our culture -perhaps for the better, perhaps for the worse. God for­bid somebody pick up a book, when they have access to one, instead of "surfing 

the Net" for watered-down versions of 
information which could have been post­
ed by anyone maybe even 
"MCNetStud." Hell, I like flirting with 
girls using e-mail as much as the next 
guy, but hopefully letter-writing will not 
perish. The benefits of the Internet are 
real in many ways, but they are not all-
encompassing and transcendent of the 
humans who use the Net. Is it not dan­
gerous to over-hype something tpat may 
eventually disappoint? The world can­not be saved over the wires, but they might help. 
So I sit here like a hypocrite using Word 6.0 to type this, and I am remind­ed of the words of a wise man (not J. Orlin Grabbe): "Do not be too proud of this technological terror you have con­structed. The power [of the Internet] is insignificant compared to the power of the force.":-) 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. His e-mail address is Sean.B.O'Connor.43@nd.edu. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QurinOF THE DAY 
'~Ninety-nine percent of the 
people in the world are fools and the rest of us are in great danger of contagion." 
-Thornton Wilder 

----------~-----------­


ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, March 4, 1997 








By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
I 
knew it was time to look for an internship when the thought of repairing just one more Whac-A-Mole coin jam in Sea World's "Coco Loco" Arcade made me dizzily wonder what the heck I was doing with my Notre Dame education. 
"I am an English major," I thought, "and here I am shoving rolls of tickets into Skee-Ball machines. I find lost children. I mop up Slushee spills. I rewire games in three inches of standing water every time it rains. I make $4.85 an hour. I think I am insane." 
At the end of the 1995 season I hung up my coveted game keys and vowed that I had whacked the last mole of my career. It was a bittersweet moment. as I realized that the "real world" was beckoning ... at least, that's what my accounting major friends were saying. 
The next spring, I launched my search for a summer internship that would somehow justify my choice of a major by offering reassurance that Morning Biscuit Maker Chief at Mickey D's was not my, only career option. I was appre­hensive, but I soon learned that there are internships of all shapes and sizes available, for whatever your career-to-be might entail. 
Everyone knows that certain majors are not only led to their career down the internship path-they skip down the Yellow Brick Internship Road to the land of nOZeating amounts of money. But internships can be a valuable train­ing tool for all college students, from MIS and CAPP majors to theater-types to 
wanna-be political gurus. disk to upload the resume 
Before you panic that you have yet to organize your · ent\S\5, and information into the thoughts as to what to eat for lunch, let alone \}·\ora\ sC\ Career and Placement data-how to go about finding the right \O be\1a O"'e base, and should remembor SUmmer internship, rest ord\n9 , r"\s o' I I tO report any changes Or assured that there is a {:\CC . pr-eSS\01 1 revisions. plethora of helpful informa-p\e'S \\11 1 d' Career and Placement tion right here on campus. peO base . can do the "dirty work" 
And right now is the perfect thef are earance for you when it comes to 
time to be in the internship al\0 .\I of on a?P \e scheduling on-campus hunt, accordipg to Career and 60 JO ''\n9 5\'J interviews, but there are 
Placement Services summer t/ "' speal' plenty more opportunities beyond those Fortune 500 compa-duced a thorougl internship coordinator Robin 33°10 01 1 nten\ . i•~ nies that recruit here. A particularly valuable rPsource, said the most obscun Sulli~an. . . . 101 on col I . Rondom \\••"'?tin"'" R•• Sullivan, is the Career_ Li~rary, located right in the office. these pages, witl 
"Smce the begmmng of this JO • 1,1, 1nsni? B•~1 ••
1

semester it has been the opti-~··''d "'"' ' mum time for summer internship searching," Sullivan said. "It's starting to slow down a little bit," as far as companies coming to campus to recruit for the summer. 
"Companies will tell us exactly what they're looking for -what class~es, what majors -it just depends," she explained. "Then we publish a bulletin every Monday and Tuesday that lists the-companies that are coming to recruit specifically for summer internships." 
Often on this list are firms who also recruit heavily at Notre Dame for post­graduate jobs. According to Sullivan, it's a mutually beneficial relationship for both the companies and the University. 
"It's a way for the firms to get a head start," she said. "They often will hire students who intern for them, so it's good for the company since they get to teach them ahead of time. For the students, of course, it's fantastic. We get very good feedback about Notre Dame students. Their quality and reputation precedes them, so it's really beneficial for both." 
Sullivan said the the internship search process begins when the student comes into Career and Placement, located in the basement of the Hesburgh Library, to prepare a resume. This is probably most easily and professionally done by using Resume Expert software. Of course, the disk is available at 

Career and Placement for a mere $18. 
Sullivan believes it is money well spent, however, as the program can prepare several different styles of resumes as well as cover letters. She notes that the disk is especially helpful for students who may not have any previous experience in preparing a resume. 
After popping out a resume, the student might then opt to check out Career and Placement's counseling services. 
"We have career counselors that are available, either by appointment or dur­ing our on-call hours, which start at 1:30 and again at 3 p.m. each afternoon;" 

Sullivan said. "It's a first come-first serve basis, if students want to come in briefly to get some feedback on any issue that's pending for them." . Assu?Jing that the student is satisfied with his or her resume, the next step IS to pick a plan of attack. Often, several search strategies can be used sue­cessfully at the same time. Career and Placement can help directly through the on-campus recruit opportunities for interviewing. 
The first step in this process is to pick up a copy of the brochure that lists which companies will be recruiting on campus in the weeks to come. To get weeks later, the list of selected candi­dates and schedule of interview times is posted. One week from the posting, on-campus interviews take place. 
Sullivan notes that it is important to use the Resume Expert program in order to have your personal data and class schedule entered into a campus data base. This way, "it helps us to schedule interviews properly." In addition, firms that might be seeking only a certain kind of major can have Caree)· and Placement compile a list of all the resumes that fit their specific criteria. 
Sullivan stresses that students need to 
bring in their Resume Expert 

The Wall Street Journal all pertinent Readers n accordingtoAmericarToplnternshipr,RondomHouu/PrincetonReview utes. Thept 
from friends 
Here, the student will fmd rows 

of filing cabinets stuffed with brochures and information on businesses, as well as floor-to-<:oil­ing shelves full of books aimed at the "do-it-your­self' job or intern searcher. 
Sullivan recommends starting with the intern­ship books and binders on the left hand wall of the library. 
The binders are organized by the date of receipt of the information, yet are color coded by due date. Sullivan reassures students that many dead­lines do not fall until late March or April, so there's still plenty of time to check out the possi­bilities. The binders contain internships in a vari­ety of fields. "There are a lot of good government internships, and we have a lot of internships through academic institutions, businesses, and non-profits," Sullivan said. "Some are paid, some are volunteer, and some you have to pay. Also, we have a summer bulletin board that we try to keep timely and fresh with new postings." 
The library also offers a slew of internship books, grouped by both geographical location and area of interest. General guides like Peterson's Internships 1997 and the Princeton Heview: America's Top Internships give the name, address, contact person, eligibility, benefits and availability of select internships across the country. 
More specific guides include the Complete Guide to Seasonal State Park Employment, the National Directory of Arts Internships, and the Big Green Internship Book {environmental work). 
"I think it's important for sophomores and juniors especially to know that there are people here to answer their questions," said Sullivan. Iler final advice? "Become familiar with the pro­grams. We ha.ve a lot of great information regard­ing summer internships, even summer camps for working with kids." 
And yes, amusement parks such as Cedar Point, Disney World, and probably even Sea World recruit here as well. So if that Whac-a-mole urge beckons, at least you know that you can intern in park management. You might even get some free games. 


Do's: 

• 
Short sideburns and haircut 

•White 
shirt, stiff col­lar •Small, repeating pattern neckties •Single-breasted suits; solid or pin­stripe, navy blue or gray 

•Black 
lace-ups or loafers 


Women •Hair at or above the collar; longer 
hair should be pulled back •Single color suits, 
skirts no higher than knee 
•Minimum 
or no fra­grance 

•Low-heeled 
pumps 

•Button 
earrings 


-~----~------~~-----~----------------~--­


ACCENT ­
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 page 9 



e 
s ... 
•
I 
e rnship Guides 

eign affairs to biomedical research, or clothing design to motorcycle marketing. The Internship Bible is truly a resource, and at only Summer Interns for the $25, a worthy purchase for anyone pursuant of such 
Cowboys. MTV. Disney an opportunity, especially considering the return; the Playboy Magazine. guide points out that employees who have Nike. When compared interned earn thousands more 
of babysitting or mowing than those who have vacation, working as an not. air-co'nditioned office may~ Perhaps the most 
romantic notion. until interesting additions e flips through the 700 to The Internship of the 1997 Internship Bible however, are the to be overwhelmed. inserts. Each page prides itself on its contains a highlight, be Oldman and Samer it a photo of a former gged the "Internship intern at work, or inter­who portray interning views with celebrities reading through who once interned. list of opportuni­Astronauts and actors rool: the prospect of candidly comment about award Stern's slave their experiences, and seems only too provide both inspiration and advice for the reader. Statistics break down salary by field, cartoons add humor to the competi­tive mood of the guide, and itemized charts share the 
secrets for interviewing and cover letter success. 

After exploring this so­a thorough overview in min­~-'-"'M" called Bible, the average col-at Random House. with help lege student may choose either at the Princeton Review, have pro­to worship the interning God or ward him off altogeth­and worthwhile publication. Even er. The process does appear taxing, but as Oldman ·interest can lind fulfillment among and Hamadeh suggest, should certainly prove reward­
internships in everything from for-ing. 
Interviewing Do's and Don'ts Don'ts: 
-
Men 
•Long 
hair, beards, moustaches 

•Bright, 
button-down collars 

•Loud 
or bold pattern neckties 

•Check, 
plaid, or bright colored suits 

•Penny 
loafers 

•Musk 
fragrance 


Women 
•Ponytails, 
big hair 

•More 
than one ring 


per hand; dangling earrings 
•Revealing 
neck­lines 

•Blazer 
jackets, short skirts (don't 


cross your legs during interview) 
•Clear 
hosiery 

•High 
heels, open-toed sandals 



Art by Kevin Trovini 


-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Junior Mollie Peirick helped boost the Irish past the Hoyas, 83-43. 
Women 
continued from page 16 
stated. 
Whatever the case was, after 12 minutes of play, the score was Gaither 20, Georgetown 18 (the Irish had 32 as a team at that point). 
The outside part of Notre Dame's game was also present, as Morgan knocked home 11 in the first half. 
The Irish wasted no time in sealing the deal in the second half. 
Mollie Peirick's second three­pointer of the half at the 15:51 mark capped a 13-2 NO run that stretched the score to 61­27. 
This was quite a contrast to the early meeting between the two squads. 
Back on Jan. 25, the Hoyas stayed even with the Irish throughout the game, eventu­ally falling 6 7-63. 
"I don't have a coherent an­swer as to what was different," said Knapp. "There were just way too many things." 
McGraw singled out experi­ence. 
"We knew what to expect," she said. "We've been here be­fore." 
And they will be there again. 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 


Manager debuts in semifinals 
plained. ''I'm going to call my dad." The team erupted in excitement as the ball went through the net. 
"That was the most we celebrated all year," said McGraw. "To have something like this hap­pen was good for us. We've gone through so much and to have this was great." 
Grady will never forget it. 


By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 

STORRS, Conn 
With about eight minutes remaining in Notre Dame's 83-43 destruction of Georgetown, Muffet McGraw sensed that the time was right. 
Soon after, the Notre Dame coach inserted Christy Grady into the contest. 
In her six minutes of play, Grady scored two points, grabbed three rebounds and made a steal. . 
In fact, Grady stole the show. 

A junior manager for the Irish, Grady was forced into action, as Notre Dame had just seven healthy players. 
"I jokingly said something to an assistant coach last night on the bus," Grady explained. "I wasn't serious." 
McGraw was though. 

Though Grady had played high school basket­ball, she has not even fully participated in an Irish practice, let alone dress for a game. 
"I got a phone call at about 2 a.m.," Grady said. "I couldn't get to sleep until 4 a.m.. I was very nervous." 
After a crash course in the offense and defense, Grady put on the blue and gold. That was one thing. Playing was another. 
''I'm going to start her the next game," joked McGraw. Once on the court, the team's sole purpose was to get Grady into the scoring column. That happened with 1:40 remaining on a lay­up. "That was a great because my roommate, Mollie Peirick, passed me the ball," Grady ex-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
The Irish will have to face the Huskies tomorrow on their home court, In front of a sellout crowd of 10,027. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
SUMMER JOBS  CRUISE &LAND-TOUR EMPL Y- The Early Childhood Development  Beautiful 4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2  Adoption: A very loving, financially  
NOTICES  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS  MENT-Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean),  Canter at Saint Mary's College has employment opportunities over  office home on 3/4 acre, wooded and private with pool, 10 minutes  secure, well educated young cou­pie, long to adopt your newborn.  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  imcomparable benefits, &good  Spring Break  from campus. Many extras.  Close and caring extended family.  
SPRING BREAK  NEAR LAKE PLACID  pay. Find out how to start the appli­ (March 10-14) for individuals who  $129,500.  271-7640 or 631-7459.  We offer a special life for your child.  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  1-800-786-8373  cation process now! Cruise  enjoy young children. If you are  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  Employment Services provides the  available to work either 7:30-1:15 or  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  
- RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  answers. Call 800-276-4948 Ext.  12:00-6:00 (Monday through  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  C55846 (We are a research &pub- Friday) and are interested in spend- Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  COUNSELORS needed for out­ lishing company)  ing time reading children's books,  min. in the  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  standing Maine camps! CAMP  building with blocks, and singing  U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card,  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  
BIGGEST PARTY.  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  songs with children, contact Cindy  PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  for boys. Each located on magnifi­cent lakefront setting with excep­ -Spring Break-call Jen X1485 .  Hestad at 284-4693 as soon as possible! Have fun and get paid  46947  Derek-no, Derrek:  
THE COPY SHOP  tiona! facilities. Over 100 positions at each camp for heads and assis- ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  too!  PERSONAL  I guess it is my style after all. You rock my world.  
LaFortune Student Center  !ants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  -Fishing Industry. Details on how to  Babysitter Wanted for 1 yr old in our  -Your Valentine  
Phone 631-COPY  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  find a high-paying job with excellent  home 50 hrs/wk, Castle Pt  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  field hockey, roller hockey, swim- benefits (transportation + room &  243-0785 eves  Electrolysis by Rebecca  HoJo homered for the Mets  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  board). For information: 800-276­ 616-683-3140 days  Blend Method 674-6933  Sunday. And all it right with base- 
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  water-skiing, archery, weight train­ 0654 ExtA55841  (We are a  
 ball.  
Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  research & publishing company.)  FOR RENT  FAX IT FAST!!!  Yeah, well Jim Thome AND Julio  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m.  dance  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  Sending &Receiving  homered for the Tribe. Albert Belle  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, &Weekends  Qazz, tap, ballet), nature study, backpacking, horseback riding,  Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for  AFFORDABLE 1,2, &3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  at THE COPY SHOP  couldn't even horner in the Pepsi celebrity softball game last week- 
ropes course, trip leaders, moun­ handicapped children. Located on  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  LaFortune Student Center  end! And what is with the Pirates  
Longing white beaches, crystal blue water, a suntan and great parties? Sign up now for College Tours Spring Break Cancun '97. Call 1­ lain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secretaries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June  the shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts &Crafts/Recreation,  272-6551 Staying on campus for the sum­mer? Rent our College Park  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  changing their logo and colors? Is that supposed to make up for Jay Bell leaving??  
800-244-4463.  21-Aug 21. Top salary, room,  Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  Condo. Clean, close to campus,  Hey Breeze-thanks for stopping by.  
ILOST & FOUND I  board, laundry, clothing, and travel allowance. MEN-CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Beacon Street,  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 15 through August 10. Salary,  air-conditioned. Call 273-5833 New 5 bedroom home, two bath,  Anyone heading back to S.B. on Sat, 15 or Sun, 16 from the D.C. area (or within a few hours  Have a nice break Kdawg. Peace When HoJo is on the road, does he  
Lost backpack. Reward $100.  Brookting, MA 02149, ccedarme@aol.corn, 1-888-844­ room &board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for  two car garage. Central air, dish­washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  of it)? Will help with gas,driving, &tolls. Please call Steve @  stay at the Runs Batted Inn?  
Lost black MONTBELL backpack at bookstore on  8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA02332,  application and information.  washer/dryer included. $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527  232-7324 or Scott @ 243-9430.  Foxtrot Foxtrot Foxtrot!!!  
Feb 26 bet. 4-4:30pm. Dissertation disk &irreplacable photos inside. Pis call Yukiko @ 1-4861 HELP!! Green Eddie Bauer Backpack lost from the cubbies at  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.corn, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room from 1OAM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Bay Cliff Heatlh Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml49855, (906) 228-5770. NANNY/MOTHER'S HELPER  or 638-5038. FOR SALE Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­um mattress set. Never used still in  FIESTANG FILIPINO 3 WAS AWE­SOME! THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUP­PORT: FASO's devoted members SUB  Too bad the Tribe played a t~am (the Tigers) with a bunch of Little Leaguers on the mound. If we're keeping score: Butch Huskey, Preston Wilson AND HoJo home­red for the Mets, who are now 2-0.  
NOH Monday at lunch. Slats books, wallet etc inside. REWARD call 4­4985. I need my folders for midterms!  Elementary Ed. Major to tutor 5th grade girl, 11.After School &/or Weekends. 52136 Lilac Rd(N of  POSITION near Vail, Colorado beginning mid-May. Room and board, salary. Must have car, insur­ance. Call Rick or Deb Travers (H)  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352 NAVY ROTC Seniors -Ex. Nuc  CCC Asian Studies Dept St. Mary's Multicultural Office OMSA  Really, Melanie-I didn't look. ATIN: SRS./FB FANS B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES­ 
WANTED  Cleveland and S of Auten on St Joe River),$15/hr,call277-7403 before 9PM  970-328-7203 or (W) 970-476-7646 or send letter/resume to P.O Box 127, Eagle, CO 81631.  L T has plenty of good uniforms and other mise items for sale size 42/XL. $199 for all. 287-4609  thanks, FASO officers  GRAD/FR OR/FB wknds. 291-7153.  

Tuesday, March 4, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 

Swimmers set new records 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's women's swimming team, after placing first in the Big East Championships a week ago, 
they hosted t h e Shamrock Classic over this week­end at the R o I f s Aquatic Center. While there Suddarth were no scores for the two-day meet, the results showed that the Irish continue to swim with the same intensity they have had since the beginning of the sea­son. 

The final meet of the year before the NCAA Championships, the Shamrock Classic runs by a different sys­tem than other meets the Irish have competed in this season. Swimmers from Notre Dame, Michigan State, Illinois, Northwestern and Miami (Ohio), competed against them­selves rather than each other. The Classic is designed so that swimmers can better their times and possibly reach the NCAA Championships later this month. 
There was no shortage of fallen re.cords at the pool. A total of seven pool records were broken by various teams over the course of the week­end, three by the Irish team. 
Shannon Suddarth led the Irish both days by setting two of those records, in the 100­yard backstroke and the 100­yard breaststroke. 
Alison Newell recorded the top time of the season in the women's 400-yard individual medley relay with a time of 
4:27.48 during the trials. 
"It was nice for the team to break some pool records before the end of the season." head coach Bailey Weathers said. 
"The meet allowed swim­
mers who didn't get to com­pete last week to compete one more time, and improve their times for the season." 
There were two NCAA con­sideration times posted, but both were recorded by other teams. 
Emily Wang of Illinois set a pool record in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 51.41 seconds, while Jami Archambault from Michigan State swam a time of 55.99 seconds in the 100-yard back­stroke. 
For the Irish, it is a period of waiting to see which of their consolation times will earn them a spot in the NCAA Championship. There are 20 times. posted by 10 individuals and two relay teams that could 
possibly  qualify  for  the  
Championships later  this  
month.  

So far, Erin Brooks is the only Notre Dame swimmer to post an automatic qualifying time with her performance in the 200-yard butterfly. 
page 11 
• TRACK 

Medley qualifies for NCM Championships 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
They finally did it. 

Notre Dame's distance med­ley team qualified for the NCAA indoor track championships this weekend in Indianapolis, by posting the third highest time in the country in their last meet of the season. 
The medley runners were close to qualifying early in the season and entered the Silverston Invitational with one last chance. 
The medley team, Derek Seiling, Danny Payton, Jeff Hojnacki, and Jason Rexing, finished in second place at the Silverston meet, with a time of 
9:39.39 minutes. They shat­tered the University record by four seconds. 
"It was a great performance," said assistant coach Tim Connelly. "They ran the third­highest time in the nation. It was really the highlight of the 
EXCLUSIVELY for FACULTY and STAFF 

UNFORTUNATELY, THIS IS WHERE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS. 
E
ve? year, a lot of l~eople make a huge mistake on since earnings on your SRAs are ta.;. deferred, your money their taxes. They wmd up sending Uncle Sam money works even harder for you. they could he saving fo1· retirement. What else do SRAs offer? The investment choice, flexi­
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can avoid with bility, and expertise of TIAA-CREF -America's foremost SRAs-tax-defeiTe!l annuities from TIAA-CREF. SRAs I'etirement organization. not only ease your current tax bite, they offer an easy Why write off the chance for a more rewardinrr retire­
" 

':ay to hnil1l n~tirt>ment pension all!l Social Security bene­ment? Stop by your benefits office or call us at fits may not cover. Because your contributions are made 1-800-842-2888 and find out how TIAA-CREF SRAs can in hefm·e-tax dollars, you pay less in taxes now. And help you enjoy many happy returns. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it:M
E 
.:: ~ g ~~.~~;;~~~~~~~.~.~~.~;~~.~·t" ~lis~ri~.HIIt·~l5~~ ~1..-~A-~~~F l(:di~}~!ual anti ln~tiluliunal St-rvit·c·s. Im·. Fnr mm·t-emnplt·tt• infunuatiun, indutling 1·lwr"t>S ami t>XJWIISt~s 
Q~-------------------_.._·_''_t_"'_"_"'_'·---·-'_"_"_"_n_'"_"_t_R_·_·_I'_"_,sl-"'-''t-u._s._R_t·a-•1-tl-w~p-n-,sl~'"-"'_u~_··-·u_•···-o•_ll~yl_w_o_
...~~y~u~u~in~ve~st~u~•·:st>~lu~l=m=nn~ey~.~D:ut:e~~~fi:~r:st~u.:st•~:~:Jf9~7~.·--------__j 
meet. Three other teams quali­fied at the meet along with us. If they can duplicate their per­formance they can do really well at the NCAA's." 
Only the men's team compet­ed at the Silverston Invitational in Ann Arbor, Michigan, but they produced fine results. 
Junior Allen Rossum contin­ued to fly around the track. He won the 55-meter dash with a time of 6.26 seconds in only his third race of the season. 
"He won the 55-meters and ran a 6.26," said Connelly of Rossum. "To be honest, the competition wasn't that great. In his first couple of races he was just trying to get to the fi­nal. It was a good experience for him to run in three heats for the NCAA's. He's running well and used this weekend to work on some technical things like his start." 
Marshaun West returned to the spotlight by winning the long-jump event with another considerable leap. His jump of 24 feet, three inches was nearly four inches longer than the sec­ond place finisher. 
"He's been jumping real 
well," Connelly said of West. 
"As a freshman he's done real 
well. The standard (for the 
NCAA) in the long-jump is hard 
to attain. It's 25-11 to qualify 
outright, and 24-11 to qualify 
provisionally. He would have 
had to jump over 25 feet this 
season to qualify. He came 
close, though." 
Errol Williams had a photo 
finish in the 55-meter hurdles. 
He finished in fourth place with 
a time of 7.37 seconds, but was 
only two-tenths of a second 
behind the second place fin­
isher. 
Pole vaulter David Gerrity 
posted a fifth place finish with 
a vault of 15-5. Mike Stany 
also competed but did not 
place. 
The team now sets its sights 
on the NCAA indoor champi­
onships. The Irish will send a 
fair contingent of tracksters to 
the meet down south. 

uar.n EJillLISH in 1 • • • • ' 
~£.. ·• -EAST-ERN£VRP PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our materials profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefits. For 
inforrndic:n, nil: (206) 971-3680 
w..~ • -·""'• pubioh~~ Ext. 1<55845 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS Find out how to begin your JOb search in National Parl<s. Forests. and Wildlife Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncoveo; hundreds of employment opportunrties 1n the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



-
-
-
-

-~----------~-----~------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 4, 1997 


-Irish set to fight Huskies in ultimate battle 
• POINT GUARD 
-
#11 Jeanine Augustin vs. 
#23 Rita Williams 
This will be a classic point guard match-up, as both Augustin and Williams arc quick, solid floor leaders who apply tremendous defensive pres­sure and like the transition game. 
All season long, the 5-foot-4 Augustin has conducted the Irish offense, making sure the ball is in the hands of who it needs to be. She dishes out over 5 assists a game, doing so with a solid assist/turnover ratio of 1.7. Now she is beginning to add a little offense of her own. The senior has chipped in 27 points in the final two games, mostly off the fast-break. Not a great shooter, Augustin will have to knock down a few open jumpers if the Irish are to have a chance. 
Williams, like Augustin, doesn't put a lot of points on the board, just seven a game, but her presence is always noticeable. An opportunistic defender, the 5-foot-7 Williams was third in the league in steals, with three a game . 
• CENTER 

-
-
#12 Katryna Gaither 
vs. 
#52 Kara Wolters 
Two of the nation's top centers will be the fea­tured matchup of the game. It will be a show­down of size, the 6-foot­7 Wolters, against 6-foot­3 Gaither. 
Not an overly talented player, Wolters domi­nates the game based on her sheer size. -The Big East Player of the Year is an immovable force down low, collecting rebounds before anyone has a chance. She also provides an enormous target, making entry passes all that much eas­ier. 
Gaither will attempt to use speed and savvy to combat the giant. 
Gaither has a nice touch and should be able to beat Wolters up the floor to score st~~me easy points. She'll have to, as points in the half-court set may be tough to come by. 
Wolters also clogs the middle of the floor on defense, helping team­mates and allowing them to overplay. She is an undeniable force . 


• POWER FORWARD 
#33 Rosanne Bohman vs. #31 Carla Berube 
This was one area that UConn really was able to exploit in the first game between the two teams, as Bohman was in foul trouble, especially 

-
early. 
After picking up two quick fouls, Bohman had to be removed, and her absence really showed. The Irish were not able to matchup size-wise 


with the Huskies, and Katryna Gaither was left with little help against Kara Wolters. Big (6-foot-1) and strong, Bohman will be able to bang Wolters and help on the glass. 
Berube, an experienced senior like Bohman, is a bit more of a finesse player. But she is a fine one. Often, she triggers the Husky of­fense with passes from the baseline. 
In addition, she is athletic and dangerous in transition. Her versatility is invaluable to the Huskies. 
Finally, she is an intense leader. Her teammates rally around her. Look for her to help double down on Gaither. 

Stories by Tim Sherman, Photos by Mike Ruma 
• OFF GUARD 
#:l Mollie Pcirick vs. 
#22 Amy Duran 

Plain and simple, Duran is a shooter­a long range shooter to be more exact. Peirick, on the other hand, is a good shooter who can do a lot more. 
Standing six feet, Duran can play both the guard or wing forward position, but her strength is her shot. The sophomore made nearly 40 percent of her three­point attempts (23-58) this season and provides a nice outside compliment to Kara Wolters. She hurt the Irish from long range in the first meeting, as she was 3 of 4 from outside. 
When the Irish go to a man-to-man defense, it will likely be the task of 5­foot-11 Peirick to hawk Duran. 
In her own right, Peirick has the talent at the offensive end. In basketball lingo, the junior could be described as a "com­bination guard." Right behind Augustin in assists, Peirick can also make the out­side shot. She was very much slowed by an ankle injury in the first meeting but is back at full speed. 

• SMALL FORWARD 

#21 Beth Morgan vs. 
#42 Nykesha Sales 
Instant offense versus intense defense will be the storyline of this matchup. In reality, the high-scoring Morgan will probably be guarded as much by Amy Duran as anyone, but Sales' great ability to defend makes her someone to watch. 
In the Feb. 9 meeting, the Huskies held Morgan in check. The senior could manage just eight points. 
However, Morgan's stroke from the outside and great movement with the ball makes her tough to defend. 
Morgan must do the same with Sales who has a great talent of doubling the ball and creating turnovers, as she did six times last night. 
In addition, she is very adept at converting the fast break opportunities. She, too, can step back and hit the tray when presented with the opportunity. 
With Notre Dame likely settling into a zone, she'll have the chance. 
Morgan will see no such luxury. 


---~------~~--~---~-~~~---~----~ 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
·and· 
swimmers from 
Michigan iinp .J\1iaU1J ()f.The meet was unscored, no team rankings, but only in~r dividual rankings. The Irish; characteristic of their perfor• mance throughout thi~, year, swam well and "clos~(t.out .a successful year with a s\i,ccess­
ful meet. ..•_,.G .·.···········. 
observed head c 

The Observer • SPORTS 

Garrity 
continued from page 16 
carrying some hardware out of tonight's banquet. With no real standout team in the confer­ence this year, the Big East Coach of the Year award is up in the air. 
Notre Dame was the biggest surprise of the season, but solid campaigns by sleepers West Virginia and Pittsburgh put Gale Catlett and Ralph Willard, respectively, at the head of the pack. 
East MVP may be the pinnacle

Please Recycle The Observer 
of his career and the culmina­tion of a somewhat trying sea­
son. Toward the start of the year, 

r--------------------------..Garrity found himself succumb­
[ng to being under the micro­5cope. 


CENTER FOR 
"I don't really know how it SOCIAL Enjoy your Urban Plunge? 
changed during the season," he Appalachia Seminar? 
said. "I think I just took a lot of 

CONCERNS 
pressure off myself which made me play more loose." The award would be a reflec­tion of that. 

Washington? 
Interested in Service Learning? Leadership? 
"To get that type of an award in a league like this is huge,"Apply for: 

Garrity commented. Huge support follows Garrity EXPERIENTIAL LEAR!'-.lJNG COUNCIL COORDINATOR 
•••. p..,.......,,_.,,,,,.. . the 
"It would be a big honor," MacLeod said. "Unexpected,· second and but a big honor." 
.Royer, Rob Given another ballot, Garrity
Kuna, 
would not be afraid to put a ... -. 100-yard check next to another familiar
· a and John 
name.
first and second~ 
"I'd vote for coach0-yattt butterfly. 
(MacLeod)," Garrity said. "Just .. _. . ·· . Steve yyhowell also 
because of the way peopletdpk t _.. · top two spots. 
picked us to finish and the way 


· F~p~Uy,iPc t~e ~oo..yarq butter· 
we did finish. A lot of it was

"The meet Weflt ~n.PH>v~l tly, .Ryan .Beville tl.irnedin tho 

due to the positive attitude he
fastestt@eof~he day. 
created on this team." . As for himself, Garrity recog­nizes that being named Big 

He's not quite sure how it happened, but Garrity learned Attention All CSC Service 
to become more relaxed, clear­Seminar Participants: 
[ng a path for his late season tear. 

-
The Observer/Mike Ruma Junior Pat Garrity turned in 27 points against Miami last Tuesday and 
33 points against Boston College on Saturday.­
wherever he goes. His refresh-(player of the year) if Notre ing personality and consistent Dame wins a few more games." play have made him popular in Since then, the Irish have the conference. won three more games, dis­
" As far as I'm concerned, missing the theory that Garrity Garrity is the ·best player in the would have to play for a more Big East," Syracuse guard successful club to receive votes. Jason Cipolla said. He's got at least one right 
''I'll tell you what, that Pat now. Garrity is one of the top players "Ifl could vote for anyone, I'd in the.league," Providence for-vote for Danya Abrams," ward Jamel Thomas added. Boston College head coach Jim 
"Garrity, as I've been saying O'Brien said on Sunday. "But 
-
all along, is maybe the best since I can't, I'd vote for Pat player ·in the league," Garrity." Connecticut head coach Jim So with returns in from a few Calhoun said after Garrity tal-precincts, the Big East is left to lied 25 points to beat the make their own projections Huskies Feb. 8. "He's the until tonight's announcement. 
This position is a creative leadership opportunitv made available through the Center for Social Concerns. If you ;re interested in service-learning, enjoy creative work and leadership, and would like a position working to coordinate various seminar efforts facilitated by the Experiential Learning Council, PLEASE APPLY!! 
Applications available in the CSC ' Applications due by Thursday March 20 
Qu.,.;ons? Call Lauren Stein 271-1699 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 

-

-
~~~ 
CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor 
The Food oflove 
Contemporary Choral Settings of Shakespeare 
Friday, March 7, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Today~ Tuesday~· March 4 

Tickets $10* 
For time and location of meeting~ call: l-8041 
This COfiC~rt is sponsored by a grant from Elizabeth M. Cullity and June H. Edwards 
*Discounts for campus community members, 

NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ c~·S.C 
senior citia:ns. students and groups. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in 
'Mih ltle suppotl at m. 

Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C.S.C.
O'Laughlia Auditorium. open 9-5 Monday-Friday. Indiana Ms Cornmiuion an<J 
..
Nar;c, £ndowmef!J b NAils. 

Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 2191284-4626. 
Treatseats discount coupons available at area Target stores 
All Meetings are private and confidentia I. 


------------------. ··-~ -·---------·­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
• SOFTBALL 
Poor defense plagues Irish 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Between studying for midterms and writing papers this weekend, the Notre Dame softball team managed to squeeze in a four-game stint in Columbus, Ga. at the National Fastpitch Coaches Association Leadoff Classic. When the dust finally settled, the Irish had battled through a decisive nine­inning upset win, an eight-in­ning nail-biting loss and two more one-run defeats. 
In a marathon game lasting until 1 a.m. Saturday morning, the Irish downed 13th-ranked Southwestern Louisiana. Senior outfielder Liz Perkins blasted a home run in the ninth inning to put the game out of reach for
-
the Lady Cajuns. 
"I didn't feel too much pres­sure because Meghan (Murray) had hit Kara (McMahon) in be­fore me, but I knew we needed insurance (runs)," said Perkins. 
A mere 10 hours later. the Irish took the field against a tough Texas A&M team, bat­tling evenly until the bottom of the seventh, when Aggie short­stop Jamie Smith singled home the winning run. Senior Joy Battersby struck out four and allowed only four hits in a los­ing cause. Battersby received little run support, as the Irish managed five hits and stranded two runners in both the sixth and seventh innings. 
Poor defense plagued the team against Illinois State, a six inning, 8-0 loss. The Irish
--
committed four errors, while the Redbirds' Kerri Bartlow held the offense to just four hits. Designated hitter Katie Marten went 2-for-3 at the plate and starting pitcher Angela Bessolo allowed only one earned run, providing two of the few bright spots for Notre Dame. Sunday came with no respite ' for the weary Irish, who dropped two close contests to Massachusetts, 1-0, and South 
-
-

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 


Baseball 
continued from page 16 
nament against the Black Knights of Army. The veteran righthander allowed just two hits, while recording eight strikeouts and giving up no. walks. 
"This was one of Darin's best games," commented head coach Paul Mainieri. "lie had his typical pinpoint control." 
Notre Dame's bats were still cracking against Army and four hitters turned in two-hit perfor­mances for the Irish. Among the group were Wagner, who doubled and connected on the first of his two weekend home runs, freshman third baseman Brant Ust who doubled and tripled, senior Handall Brooks who singled twice and sopho­more Allen Greene who tripled and stole a base. 
After completing the 8-0 drubbing of the Black Knights, Notre Dame prepared for its most highly awaited contest against Arkansas. 
Sophomore righthander Brad Lidge recorded the win in his first career start by tossing five steady innings of two-hit ball. The Razorbacks managed four runs in the five innings, but their pitchers were not able to hold Notre Dame at bay. 
Four balls left the yard off of Irish bats on the day, en route to an 8-5 Irish victory. It began with an opposite field blast from Ust in the first inning and concluded with a shot from se­nior J .J. Brock in the fourth. The second baseman added two singles to go 3 for 3 against Arkansas, with an RBI and two runs scored. 
"I was seeing the ball well (on Friday)," stated Brock. "You have a lot more confidence when you're seeing the ball." 
The level of play in the infield this weekend was another posi­tive for Brock. 
"We turned the double play ,and we were solid throughout the game," Brock said. "We made the routine plays that you have to make in order to win games." 
"It (the defense) was really a highlight for us after last week (four Irish errors in each game)," commented Mainieri. "(Todd) Frye did a great job filling in for (Paul) Turco at shortstop (on Thursday)," said Mainieri. "(Justin) Scholl also made a couple of highlight-reel plays." 
Scholl and Amrhein were re­sponsible for the other two home runs against the Razorbacks, and sophomore righthander Alex Shilliday recorded the save in relief of Lidge. 
The win over Arkansas was particularly significant because the Irish will not face another ranked opponent for some time. 
"Arkansas was a big game for us," agreed Mainieri. "Honestly, I thought we thor­oughly handled them." 
The Irish were denied the op­portunity to avenge the title game loss that they suffered at the hands of Memphis in the Classic a year ago. 
Rains invaded Millington on Saturday and washed away the remainder of the weekend's scheduled action. 

Carolina, 3-2. In the eight-in­ning game against Massachusetts, the two teams combined for only four 'hits, with -the winning run coming on an RBI single to left field in the top of the eighth. Hard­throwing Kelly Nichols suffered her first loss of the 1997 sea­son, but managed to lower her team-leading ERA to 1.52. 
Notre Dame faced a familiar foe -South Carolina -in the final game of the weekend trip. South Carolina defeated the Irish 3-0 in NCAA Regional ac­tion last season. Although Notre Dame managed two runs against the Lady Gamecocks this year, the outcome re­mained the same -a 3-2 defeat of the Irish. A wild pitch and an RBI single by Kara McMahon put the Irish on top in the second-inning, but two­unearned runs in the bottom of the third knotted the score at 2­
2. South Carolina used a dou­ble and a single off losing pitch­er Battersby in the bottom of the seventh inning to win the game. 
"It was a tough weekend, but we know what we're capable of as a team if we can step it up. It has to be an entire team ef­fort." said Liz Perkins. 
The team looks to rebound from its dismal 2-7 start at the Sooner Classic in Oklahoma City, Okla. March 7-9. before a spring breaK trip to California. 



WORK~ BRITA.IN 
Student Exchange Employment Program 
Campus Presentation 
Speakers From London 
Tues., March 4, 6pm DeBartolo Hall, Room 120 
Display/Info Table 11:00am 4:00pm Lafortune Student Center, Elevator Lobby Sponsored By 
Career Planning & Placement Office 
BuNAc 12191631-1414 •c'~~•"'n"!l"lf41!Jl'r.' 


will be speaking to members of the Class of 98 (the future senior class) about the coming year at Notre Dame. Tickets are free and will be available starling Wednesday at the Lafortune Information Desk. 




Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIXED MEDIA 




-=-1--:'-+:+::c-i 25 Tax filer's dread 37 Colorado city ~nnual subscriptions are available for the ..:::+7+;:+.-:-1 26 1978 Gerry 40 "I saw," best of Sunday crosswords from the last Rafferty hit Caesar-style 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


staff. 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Ending a dead-end romantic or busi­ness relationship will lead to won­derful new opportunities. Close the door on old fears and doubts; you have what it takes to be highly suc­cessful! Finding a new use for a piece of property will bring fresh financial gains. Repay a special favor or career boost as soon as you can. A job offer that is made early in 1998 deserves serious consideration. Someone may take you for granted if you are always available. 

OOE5 TI1E.tR. 5Tf\~TE.GY INVOL.VE 5!iTtWG AROUND ~NO M~K!NC, tP.RELl\IANT COMP~RtSONS TO OiHtfi­C01"\P"NIE5? 
) 
55 Kind of chop 
56 Kovic of "Born on the Fourth of July" 
57 "Designing Women" co-star 61 Pinochle 
combo 62 Food bar 63 An archangel 64 Baseball's Rose 65 Talon 66 Litigants 67 Hullabaloo 
DOWN 
1 Light in a light show 2 Lauder of cosmetics 
3 "The Most Beautiful Girl" singer 
4"Yo!" s Tackle box 
gizmos &"Andso--" 7 Hold sway over a Imitate 
27 Ammonia­43 Oedipus' foster derived father
9 Spectacular 
compound 44 Marine fishes
failure 10 Part of MOMA 28 Parts of dollars 47 Servilely defer (to)
11 "Unaccustomed 30 Played a flute in 49 H-L connectors --am .. ." a march 
51 Wild card12 Spot in the mer 31 Temporary 
52 Conductor
13 Visual O.K. protectors 
Georg19 To avoid the 32New alternative Hampshire's 
21 Parliamentary state flower 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 


Join The Observer 
24 Current status and others 1-900-420-5656 (75<t per minute). 

DILBERT 
"~ ~~;,.. "I I ..-.r.. CONSUL.T~~ 
"W~\.-r-\"~i'S'' t!lU~tNE$:, STP..~TE.Q,V WA~ VERY $UCClS~fUL. '<OU C,.,_N 
l.t..RN r~OM il-li.'tR 
EY.AMPI.E. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: anthropologist Dr. Jane Goodall, Supremes singer Mary Wilson, boxer Ray "Boom Boom" 
MIKE PETERS Mancini, Metallica's Jason Newst­ed. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your creativity energizes your asso­ciates. Tackle a difficult project with renewed zeal. Exercising at noon wi II help relieve stress. Romance thrives on considerate gestures. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your powers of persuasion are so strong now that you are even able to influence a rival. A bold strategy works great when dealing with a loved one. A long-distance phone call proves revealing. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sign an employment contract as soon as possible. However, seek legal advice first if unsure of the meaning of a specific clause. A­brief, tactful answer will rescue you from a potentially embarrassing sit­SCOTT ADAMS uation. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your ESP is working overtime. You know what you will receive from others' Group gatherings enjoy 
favorable influences. Joining a pro­fessional or social organization will give your social life a boost. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
60 It neighbors Braz. 


editors.
61 AWOL hunters 
JEANE DIXON 

make significant career or linancial gains this month. Higher-ups admire your initiative and creative ideas. You have considerable influence with your siblings. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The soft sell proves more effective than being pushy. Spend time with peo­ple who like you for who you are, not for what you do. A legacy or gift comes your way. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your influence continues to grow. Use it only for a good cause! An emotional experience teaches you a valuable lesson about loyalty and truth. Check references. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If the financial forecast is cloudy, con­sult your accountant or broker. Chances are, you are better off than you think. It now becomes even harder to separate business from pleasure when dealing with friends. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Remain calm when dealing with a domineering individual today. A careless remark could set off fire­works. Welcome new responsibili­ties; you will handle them well. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Others will resent you if you demand special treatment. Perfoml­ing more services for yourself will save both time and money. Get together with someone who nurtures your soul. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Completing projects on time will earn you an enviable reputation. There is no excuse for you to feel lonely. Pick up the phone and make a lunch date with someone you have not seen recently. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Cast off the dead weight of a disap­pointing relationship. A slight bud­get revision will help you with any unexpected expenses related to home or fa111ily. 
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Poland's Walesa 5 Fine violin 
10 With 39-Across, featured boxing match 
14 "As Long-­Needs Me" ("Oliver!" song) 
15 Two-door 16 Capital on a fjord 17 Gallows 
reprieve 18 Quite healthy 20 Eternally, to 
poets 21 Downwind 22"We--the 
World" 23 Not firsthand 25 Biting 29 Patisserie 
employee 
\ 
30 Application information • 31 Downhill runner 33 Amusement park features 35 Uncles and others 36Around 
38 "--Ruled the World" (1965 hit) 
39 See 10-Across 41 Rope-a-dope 
exponent 42Angers 45 Angers 46 Rural way 48 Comes to tlie 
rescue 50 Teaches the 
ABC's 51 Self-defense art 54 Like some 
humor 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZRE 

..
are II 2 price after break! 
Sign-ups begin Wednesdav 3/5, 8:00am @RecSports 631-6100 Contact 105965 for detail~. 






SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, March 4, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 
And the winner is. • 
• 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Senior Katryna Gaither contributed 26 points in Notre Dame's victory over Georgetown, 83-43. 

Irish topple Hoyas in semis 
By TIM SHERMAN reaching that goal. The 40-point victory shat~ 
The Observer/Mike Ruma
tered the Big East tournament record.
Sports Editor Junior Pat Garrity may fend off stiff competition to win the Big East "We really, really played well," Notre Dame Player of the Year honors tonight. STORRS, Conn head coach Muffet McGraw said. "We shot the Finally, they can look ahead. ball very well." 
Garrity, MacLeod await possible 
By virtue of a 83-43 manhandling of second­In fact, the Irish shot over 50 percent for the seeded Georgetown in last night's Big East tour­• second straight game. announcement of Big East honors nament semifinal. third-seeded Notre Dame Senior center Katryna Gaither was the major earned a long-awaited rematch with Connecticut. force, as she was 12-16 from the floor en route to By JOE VILLINSKI he said. ''I'm concentrating 
Now, the team can focus solely on the top­a 26 point game. Associate Sports Editor on Syracuse. Wednesday's my ranked Huskies, something they have been want­"Katryna was unstoppable in the paint," big day." ing to do for a long time now. McGraw admitted. Given a ballot, even Notre Still, receiving this honor or 
"Our goal has been to get to this point," said Georgetown coach Patrick Knapp saw it anoth­Dame forward Pat Garrity, any for that matter, enhances Beth Morgan, who scored 15 on the night. "We er way. one of the most unselfish play­Notre Dame's chances in the wanted the opportunity to go head to head "Our defense was very poor on her," Knapp ers in the nation, would put a recruiting wars. Garrity, against Connecticut." check next to his name. along with unanimous first­
The Irish have been absolutely dominating in see WOMEN I page 10 A check mark right next to team conference selections the category of Big East Player Croshere and Page, are the of the Year . obvious front-runners for the
• BASEBALL 
Not that Providence's .Austin award. Croshere, Georgetown's Victor Among those three players, Page, or preseason favorite Garrity ended the season on

Bats ignite weekend's victories 
Danya Abrams of Boston the highest note. Garrity fin­College are less deserving ished with a flourish, scoringBy BRIAN REINTHALER Notre Dame sent senior left­lowing an elbow injury. 
candidates. Garrity merely 27 points against Miami last 
Sports Writer hander Greg Henebry to the "It felt great," said Mobs, who -recognizes the breakout year Tuesday and posting 33 points
mound against CBU, and the pitched two scoreless innings, he has enjoyed. in the Irish loss to BostonIrish bats came alive this southpaw delivered by pitching giving up just one hit. "It was a "I know it's a huge honor," College on Sunday.
weekend and sparked an out­five solid innings, giving up just milestone for me. Now, I'm just Garrity said. "To be in the Those numbers left him the burst that brought Notre one run on two hits. concentrating on helping the group with some of ~he guys second leading scorer in the Dame's record back to .500 In that time, the Irish jumped team in relief." 
who have received the award Big East, sixth in field goalwith wins 
out to a 6-1 lead as Jeff Wagner Last March, Mohs underwent previously is really !1attering. percentage and seventh in over three and Mike Amrhein led the "Tommy John surgery," a re­But I think I've had a pretty rebounding. Even thoughsquads, charge. constructive procedure named decent year and I'd probably head coach John MacLeod isincluding No. Wagner singled in his first at­after the ex-major leaguer in vote for myself." not allowed to vote for his own25 Arkansas. bat and doubled twice in his which a tendon is transplanted Since Big East coaches players, he realizes the weightThe team next four plate appearances. from the wrist to the elbow. 
determine the winner, of this possible accomplish­opened its Amrhein went 3 for 4 in the "I started throwing again in Garrity's exercise of his natur­ment.
trip on contest, including his first July," explained Mohs, "And I al right is academic. Garrity "It would be a shot in theThursday l--.-..-' home run of 1997, knocking in got back on the mound (for the will learn the election results arm for Pat Garrity," MacLeodwith games Mohs three runs and scoring three of first time) right before tonight in New York before his added. "It would be a shot inagainst his own. Christmas. I've still got a long Irish open the Big East the arm for the program. ItChristian Brothers University Notre Dame finished strong way to go, but I feel strong and Tournament against Syracuse would give us additional expo­and Army at the USA Baseball and defeated CBU by a score of really confident now." 
Wednesday morning at 11 sure. Whether it happens or
Field. The Christian Brothers 12-1. The squad tallied 17 hits Later Thursday evening, the a.m. not, we don't know. We do game was separate from the on the afternoon, seven of Irish pitching staff continued to The game, of course, is the know one thing. If it doesService Academies Classic in which went for extra bases. impress as senior Darin real reason Garrity is antici­happen, it brings about noth­which the Irish were scheduled Perhaps the highlight of the day Schmalz turned in a complete pating a trip to New York. ing but good things for us." 
to participate for the remainder though, was the successful seven-inning game, shutout "It would be nice to win the Less likely, but also a possi­of the weekend before rain return of senior Larry Mohs to performance to open the tour-award, but that's not what I bility, is MacLeod, himself,forced cancellations on the Irish lineup who had been am really looking forward to."
Saturday and Sunday. out of action for 22 months fol-see GARRITY I page 13
see BASEBALL I page 14 
vs. Syracuse 
Baseball at SW Texas State 
_at Big East Tournament 
., a;
Friday, 3 p.m. • UConn matchups 
Wednesday, 11 a.m. on ESPN2 
Softball ~ 
.. see page 12..
vs. UConn 
.....
at Oklahoma Tournament 
at Big East Tournament 
March 7-9 •Irish host Shamrock Classic 
~
Today 
Women's Tennis vs. Michigan see page 11
Men's Lacrosse at Delaware 
.,•
.,• 
March 11, 3 p.m. Friday, 7:30p.m. ~ 





