--------------------------------------------------~----------------­

Monday, March 3, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 102 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Fire does no permanent damage 

Residents return to Center for Homeless 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 

The Notre Dame and South Bend communities rallied around the Center for the Homeless this weekend after a fire Thursday night forced resi­dents to vacate the premises. 
"Response was incredible," said Lou Nanni, executive director of the center. "Everyone was out there helping, even the mayor." 
Structural damage caused by the blaze was minimal, but Nanni reported that water damage affected the entire building, prompting the evac­uation. 
"We were concerned that water had gotten into the electrical system," he said. "We had to make sure everyone was safe." 
Nanni added that Notre Dame quickly sent an electrician, while staff helped remove excess water from the ground floor. Volunteers doused the flame with sprinklers and hoses until the South Bend Fire Department responded. 
"Thanks to that effort. the 80 male residents were able to sleep in the building that night," Nanni stated. "The fire chief said that volunteers accomplished 90 percent of what needed to be done." 
He also praised students from Sorin Hall, who wanted to chip in by moving the pews out of their chapel and con­verting them into cots. 
"Fortunately, the lower floor was usable, so the extra beds weren't required," Nanni said, "but the offer was wonderful." 
TRANSPO, the South Bend public transit system, provid­ed two buses at the scene so that residents could keep warm while the cleanup crews took care of the building; in addition, the Salvation Army brought coffee and dough-

Observer Staff Report 
In addition to their exhibi­tion game Sunday afternoon. the Harlem Globetrotters appeared in the Joyce Center to visit and sign autographs for local children. 
The Freshman Class Council sponsored a pizza party and reception for close to 30 youths ranging from pre­school to fifth-grade level. 
"We got them together in the Monogram Room," said Julie Heising, of the council's ser­vice committee. "Three play­ers came by for about 45 min-nuts. 

"Fifteen women and 35 children went to the Hope Rescue Mission for the night," said Nanni, "but thanks to all the help we received, they returned Friday." 
All clothes, furniture, and other items owned by the fam­ily living in the burned bedroom are completely ruined, but no one sustained any injuries. Children playing with cigarette lighters reportedly started the fire. 
"St. Vincent De Paul is helping replenish the family with clothes and beds," explained Nanni. He estimated that the family would be able to return by the end of the week. 

Rooney moves to First Year 
Special to The Observer 
Kevin Rooney, director of undergraduate admissions at the University since 1984, will leave that position July 1 to 
b e c o m 
assistant dean of the First Year of Studies, according to Nathan Hatch, the University's 
provost. 

"The First ooney Year of Studies will benefit greatly from Kevin's many talents, his long experience at Notre Dame, and his in-depth knowl­edge of our students," Hatch said in announcing the appointment. Eileen Kolman, dean of the First Year of Studies, con­curred. "Kevin's expertise in admissions makes him ideally suited to help create programs for especially talented first­year students, to assess the relationships between admis­sions criteria and students' performance at Notre Dame, and to provide overall support in the administration of the First Year of Studies." A search committee to iden­tify Rooney's successor will be 
see ROONEY/ page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, March 3, 1997 

• INSIDE COLUMN 


To be an RA... 
This year I took part in an experience 
unlike any other: I opted to become an RA. A 
resident advisor. One of the few, the select, 
the insane. 
The experience has been interesting, to say 
the least. 
It started out fairly Lori Allen 
innocent-a little paro-Saint Mary's Editor 
dy on the blockbuster 
summer hit "Mission: Impossible" to get all of 
the RA's acquainted with one another. 
Little did any of us know on that sweltering 
August morning our lives would soon change 
dramatically. 
Gone would be the days when we could 
walk into our respective halls and head up 
the stairs without stopping at the front desk 
to check and initial messages. 
Gone would be the days where we would 
walk into our rooms and find roommates 
sprawled out watching Days Of Our Lives. 
We would soon discover that we would 
always be interrupted if we actually found 
the time to watch Days. 
Never again would my room be "mine." It 
would soon belong to a section of 23 women. 
Twenty-three women who are all individuals, 
with individual interests and individual prob­
lems. 
Their lives would essentially become mine, 
their problems bigger than any I could envi­
sion. 
I would become the shoulder to cry on for 
freshman who are scared and alone and in 
need of someone to talk to. 
My light would be the one that is always on, 
and my door would always be open. 
I've learned a lot since that disgustingly hot 
week of rather intense training. 
I've learned that not all problems can be 
solved with a smile -that some require 
weeks of simply listening. 
I've learned that some things are more 
important than others when it comes to shar­
ing good news or studying. 
It's been an incredible learning experience. 
Overall, I've learned more about myself than 
anyone or anything else. 
Back in August I didn't think that I could 
"bust" anybody. I thought I'd be the "cool 
RA." 
I all too quickly realized how ridiculous 
that assumption was. Contrary to popular 
belief it's not always fun being "on call." 
Imagine if you will a certain Friday 
evening. All of your friends are either out or 
going out. Where are you? Exactly. You're 
in your room. You've been conditioned to 
believe since freshman year that it's abnor­
mal to do homework on Friday nights, and 
there you are, reading 'The Fairy Queen." 
You discover, however, that you're not 
alone. The best part about being an RA is 
you will always have a support group -a 
network of RAs who soon become your clos­
est friends. 
You find yourself sharing your deepest, 
darkest secrets with people you never in a 
million years saw yourself even talking to. 
And you love it. 
You share moments together where you 
don't know whether to laugh or cry. 
You wind up in a canoe in the middle of a 
lake with another RA who, like yourself, has 
never set foot in one before. You try really 
hard to stay away from the lily-pads. It 
doesn't work. 
To relieve stress you discover the many 
uses for a mattress. You realize how much 
fun pretending to be seven years old can be. 
You look back on the past seven months 
and are amazed at how much you've grown. 
You decide to become an RA again next year. 
You wonder if you really are crazy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Man Loughran Sue O'Kain Laura Petelle Production Sports Heather Cocks Brian Reimhaler Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Laura Petelle Jenny Metzger Lab Tech Accent 
Katie Kroener 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Zairian rebels capture refugee camp in Tingi-Tingi 
LONDON Zairian rebels said Sunday that they had captured the Tingi-Tingi refugee 
Z A I R E camp, driving tens of thousands of refugees north toward the government stronghold of Kisangani, which the rebels say is their next target. 
Nyembwe Kazadi, a spokesman for rebel leader Laurent Kabila, told the British Broadcasting Corp. that rebels faced little resistance from govern­ment forces when they took Tingi­Tingi and the nearby town of Lubutu on Saturday. 
There was no immediate way to con­firm the report. 
Since September, when the revolt began, Kabila's Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo­Zaire has captured a 900-mile strip of eastern Zaire and is pressing steadily west towards Kisangani, the country's third-largest city. 
"They are bombing us from Kisangani. We won't just cross our hearts and wait for them," said 
Chelsea celebrates 17th birthday 
NEWYOHK 
When Chelsea Clinton turned 14, it 
,------.,......., was a White House slumber party with girlfriends. On Saturday, the sleepover was moved to the Waldorf Astoria as the first daughter celebrated her 17th birthday in high style on Broadway. President Clinton, first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton and a team of Secret Service agents chaperoned Chelsea and three school friends on their rainy Big Apple adven­ture. The entire party -with more than a dozen press types in tow-took in a matinee of the sold-out Broadway show "Rent." Looking New York chic in black slacks and a pale gray turtleneck, the guest of honor's spirits appeared undampened by a persistent cold rain as she strode across the LaGuardia Airport tarmac with­out an umbrella. She skipped the presidential limousine, opting to join her friends in a red van. Chelsea turned 17 last Thursday. She celebrated then, too, with a private family dinner at Washington's Bombay Club. 
Heathrow thieves steal U.S. aid 
LONDON 
Thieves at London's main airport last week stole $2.5 million in U.S. government aid bound for Russia, Scotland Yard said Sunday. The cash disappeared Tuesday from a high-security cargo compound at Heathrow Airport, moments before it was to be loaded on to a British Airways flight to Moscow, a spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said, confirming a report in The Mail on Sunday newspaper. The cash, in high denominations, came from New York's Republic National Bank, one of the banks the U.S. government uses to deliver aid pay­ments. The stolen cash was in one of four bags holding a total of $10 million. The money had been moved from a safe at the airline's cargo center to a sealed container that was supposedly under constant watch by a British Airways guard, who later noticed that some seals on the container had been broken. Detectives have interviewed all the cargo and security staff and have searched their lockers. No arrests have been made. 
• 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forcast 
H L EB f:Sl cnJ 0 [ZJ 8 (;} ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl.t Assoclttred Press 

Kazadi, who said he had just spoken to Kabila. 
Kazadi said another column of rebels was headed for the northwest­ern town of Gbadolite, where Zairian President Mobutu Sese Seko has a jun­gle hideaway. The rebels' ultimate aim is to overthrow the Zairian ruler, who has been in power for three decades. 
"This is a national liberation (war). It is not something in a particular area," he said. 
However, he said, the rebels were willing to return to peace talks in South Africa with Zaire's government. 
"The negotiation windows are open," he said. "The ball is on the Zairian side. Let's wait for them and hear what is their story." 
The BBC said tens of thousands of Hutu refugees are on their way from Tingi-Tingi to Kisangani, 385 miles to the north, and that Kabila has offered to allow United Nations workers access to the refugees to ease their 
'Cheers' script brings $10,000 
BOSTON 
An autographed script for the last episode of "Cheers," purloined during a masked charity gala and returned just as mysteriously, finally hit the auction block Saturday and brought more money than expected. The buyer was Tom Kershaw, owner of the Bull and Finch Pub on which the long-running TV series was based. He bid $10,000. Before the Feb. 15 theft, the script had been expected to draw only $1,000. The money will go to the Handel & Haydn Society, the classical music organi­zation that was in the process of auctioning it off when it was stolen. The script of the "Last Call" episode of "Cheers" was donated by George Wendt, who played Norm Peterson. It was signed by the eight principal cast members -including Woody Harrelson, nominated last month for an Academy Award for his role in "The People vs. Larry Flynt." The script disappeared during a $250­a-plate fund-raiser and auction for the 182-year-old music society's educational programs. About a week later, an anonymous caller said it had been placed on the rectory steps at St. Joseph's Church in Medford. 
Breast implant trial pushed back 
NEW ORLEANS 
The nation's first class-action lawsuit over silicone breast implants, originally set to begin Monday against Dow Chemical Co., has been postponed. Attorneys are still ironing out pretrial matters, Civil District Judge Yada Magee's office said Friday. Jury selection could begin later this week or as late as March 10, court offi­cials said. The Dow Chemical trial is expected to last four to six weeks. Eight women will represent 1,260 Louisiana women who had Dow Corning breast implants. Dow Chemical owns half of Dow Corning Corp., once the largest maker of silicone gel implants, and Corning Inc. owns the other half. All lawsuits against Dow Corning were frozen when it filed for bankruptcy protection in May 1995. About 1 million U.S. women have received breast implants, about 80 percent of them for cosmetic reasons. Many thousands claim that they developed seri­ous immune system disorders when the implants leaked or ruptured. 
Shannon DunneNate Willis 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Atlanta 74 48 Fairbanks 12 -19 New Orleans 74 54 Baltimore 54 33 Honolulu 83 71 New York 39 31 Boston 37 27 Los Angeles 71 49 Philadelphia 47 32 Chicago 47 30 Miami 83 74 Phoenix 75 43 Denver 43 25 Minneapolis 28 22 St. Louis 58 40 
~----------------------~----------~-----­
Monday, March 3, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Moreau features 'extraordinary' new exhibits 
By SARAH CORKREAN materials he uses. Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor The driving force behind Bleem 's work is his belief that 
Taking ordinary practical ordinary objects in our lives materials such as paper and are the source of constructing natural materials of reed meaning for our living. Bleem defines the work of sculptors thinks of these pieces as medi­Jerry Bleem and Donna tations, as much of the infor­Hapac. mation contained can only be 
The pair described their seen upon close examination works last night as a part of and careful scrutiny. an opening reception for their Bleem earned his master of exhibits at the Moreau fine arts degree from The Gallery. School of the Art Institute of 
Bleem said he has always Chicago and his master's of been fascinated by the human divinity from the Catholic need to create meaning and Theological Union at Chicago. order from reality. lie said His work has been exhibited taking the disparate elements across the country and repro­of life and making sense of duced most recently in them has always been a cul­Fiberarts magazine. tural task. Hapac's basic premise of 
Botanic forms and the work is sculpture as a con­human body have strongly tainer of space. The space influenced Bleem's work. He occupied by the work becomes said he draws upon humani­charged with meaning by the ty's long history of construct­manner in which it is con­ing containers for both practi­tained. cal and symbolic purposes. Hapac cited basketry as an 

He feels these hollow forms art form an important source imply both a presence now of inspiration, as the work out position gives tension to of fine arts degree from and "Recent Sculpture byabsent and a potential not yet pairs order with disorder. 
the work." Northern Illinois University Donna Hapac" opened Fridaypresent. The design uses geometry, but Hapac's abstract basket­and bachelor of fine arts from night in the Moreau Galleries"I make work to contem­the natural and flexible mate­inspired sculptures have the the University of Illinois at at Moreau Center for the Arts
plate life and the mystery rials resist that order, with 
appearance of stark black line Urbana. at Saint Mary's and will run
inherent in living," said Hapac creating casually geo­
drawings floating in space. Most recently, her work has through March 23. 
Bleem. metric structures. 
Shadows from the works often been exhibited at the Wood The exhibits are free and
He uses nontraditional and "Tension, posture, and ges­make mirror "drawings" on Street Gallery, ARC Gallery, open to the public during
nonprecious materials such as ture are ideas that I thought Gallery walls as well. and the Textile Art Center, all gallery hours: Tuesday
devotional cards, postage about in creating this work," 
Hapac utilizes natural, flexi­located in the Chicago area. through Friday, 10 a.m.-12
stamps, and laundry labels. said Hapac. "The flexibility of ble materials, such as reed, to The two art exhibits p.m. and 1-4 p.m.; Saturday,Bleem 's art process, stapling, the reed is ideal for evoking construct her sculptures. "Ordinary/Extraordinary: 10 a.m.-12 p.m.; and Sunday,is as nontraditional as the these ideas, while its tendency Hapac received her master Sculpture by Jerry Bleem," 1-3 p.m. 
to seek a relaxed, stretched 

The Production Manager is currently accepting applications for 
PRooucTION AssiSTANTS 
Interested? Submit a resume to Mark DeBoy in 314 LaFortune by 5 p.m. on March 7, or contact him at 1-5303. Applicants should have familiarity with Madntosh computers; experi­ence with Quark Xpress or Pagemaker is helpful, but not required. 


ersonalized otre Dame 
Uni\'t'r~tt\' 
of " 
NotrtDamE'

Graduation 
Phone, mail, fax orders: Balfour Co. 2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. #500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 800/236-4639 fax-317/241-0430 Place orders in person on: 

March 5, Wed. March 25 & 26, Tues., Wed. LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room, 9:3oam-4:3opm 





Deadline: March 3rd 

African American & Hispanic 
cr•rr• roa SOCIAL CONCERNS 

$2300.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits 
HA  AA  
St. Procopius-Cgo  St. Agatha-Cgo  
San Diego  St. Ben's-Detroit  
(South Bend)  (South Bend)  

Applications available and turn into: 
Center for Social Concerns or Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
page 4 





Republicans question Gore fund solicitation 
By KEVIN GALYIN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Democratic Party had telephone lines installed in gov­ernment buildings for use in Vice President AI Gore's drive to raise millions of dollars for the 1996 campaign, a former top aide to President Clinton says. 
Gore's direct role in soliciting donations was inappropriate, two Democratic senators said Sunday. 
But a White House lawyer denied any illegality or impro­priety, and Dick Morris, who was a key campaign adviser, said he was "tickled to death" that Gore was so aggressive. Without the vice president's efforts, the Clinton-Gore would have lost re-election, he said. 
Gore's fund-raising network raised $40 million of the $180 million collected by the Democratic National Committee for the 1996 campaign, The Washington Post reported. 
George Stephanopoulos, for­mer senior adviser to Clinton and now a regular panelist on ABC's "This Week," said on the program Sunday that the Democrats were broke in 1994 and 1995, and "of course the vice president was raising money." 
Asked by correspondent Sam Donaldson to elaborate, because political fund-raising on govern­ment property is unlawful, Stephanopoulos said: "You put in different lines, but the legal counsel sets it up. You put in special phones, special faxes, special computers that are for political work, for the fund-rais­er work." 
Donaldson: "But still inside of a government building?" 
Stephanopoulos: "Sure." 
Donaldson: "A government residence." Stephanopoulos: "Absolutely." Another panelist, Republican 
strategist William Kristol, said, "You cannot raise money in or from a government building." 

Stephanopoulos replied, "Well, I mean, that's nuts." 
The White House counsel in 1995, Abner Mikva circulated a memo that said: "Campaign activities of any kind are prohib­ited in or from government buildings. [N]o fund-raising phone calls or mail may emanate from the White House." 
Had he known that the DNC was arranging money-raising events in the White House, Mikva said in a Newsweek mag­azine interview published today, he "sure as hell would have been upset about it -and we would have put a stop to it." 
Mikva said he was unaware of coffee klatches at the White House that Newsweek said the DNC budgeted as "fund-raising events" and listed the amount "projected" to be raised from each event. 
"Any lawyer knows you don't raise money in a government building," Mikva said. "And if they were budgeting money for them, that's raising money." 
Stephanopoulos alleged that as vice president, Dan Quayle held "fund-raisers at the Naval Observatory," site of the vice presidential residence. Kristol, Quayle's chief of staff, denied it. 
But Rep. Henry A. Waxman, D-Calif., demanded an investiga­tion by the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee of a reception Quayle gave at the observatory on Sept. 23, 1990, in honor of "the Republican Senatorial Inner Circle," a group of major GOP donors. 
Sens. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn., and Sen. Robert Torricelli, D­N.J., criticized Gore for making the calls but denied Republican claims that administration offi­cials violated the law. 
''I'm not going to be in the business of defending the unde­fendable, and what is more I do not personally believe it is appropriate for the president or the vice president of the United States to directly solicit contri­butions," Torricelli said. 


Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Umo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule eqgsutt your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 

I lNITt=n IIA.AO 
....., .... ii ...ii,;" ....i i -~ 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leaw Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­Tennlnals 1, 2, & 3 transfer In Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later) 
4:00a.m. 

6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 6:00a.m. 
8:10a.m. 

8:20a.m. 
8:00a.m. 
10:10 a.m. 

9:55a.m. 
9:00a.m. 

11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 

12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 

2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 
1.j)() p.m. 

3:10p.m. 2:55p.m.2110 p.m. 
4:10p.m. 3:55p.m.4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m.
6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 

Rooney 
continued from page 1 
formed immediately under the direction of Timothy Scully, vice president and senior asso­ciate provost, Hatch said. 
During Rooney's 13 years as director, undergraduate appli­cations to Notre Dame have increased by more than a third, 
""'"'"'·"'··•·•"'-'t..,.., ·~ 
enrollment of women has grown from 27 percent to 45 percent of the undergraduate student body, racial and ethnic minority representation has doubled to 15 percent, and the mean SAT score of enrolled students has climbed more than 40 points on the original scale. 
A 1970 graduate of the University, Rooney was the assistant director of admissions from 1979-83, then served as 
is that the review threat­ens t(i cut off the government 
. from the only people who can proyid~...valuable information on tert(.}dstcells and arms*pio­liferation cartels·~ the partici­pants. 
" cal correctness has r;•;•,.,,,;nb ,,,.... r,..+..,,ri the clandestine Cannistraro said. "If you're going to be collecting information on bad characters. you're going to be dealing with bad characters ... DisClosure of the agent scrub could play an important role in the current battle over Senate confirmation of Anthony Lake next CIA director. has said he will block Lake's approval. ilk 
associate director of admis­sions at Yale University before returning to Notre Dame. He was assistant director of admissions at Pace University in White Plains, NY, from 1973-78. 
A New York City native, Rooney earned his bachelor's degree in English and also holds a master's degree in counseling from the State University of New York at Albany. 


LifePaths. 
There are times when we all feel lost. When that tim.e comes there i~ a path to take,~ pa~h to where you will find a full and sati,sfying life. ~hat. path IS L1fePaths. Where you'll find comprehensive psych1atnc treatmen.t yrog:ams. We believe in using a team approach where admuustratwn, nurses., therapists and physicians work together for your benefit. All under the direction of board certified psychiatrists. The right path? 
LifePaths. 
800-491-8888
Ill 

Memorial Hospital ~JLifePaths 
Fifth and Pine Streets • Michigan City,JN 46360 • (800)491-8888 or (219)873-2888 
---------~-----~~---~----~---~--~ ---~----~---~--~-------­
Monday, March 3, 1997 The Observer • REGIONAL NEWS page 5 
Students attend union rally in Chicago Apartment 
Huerta urges on support for berry harvesters 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Edi ror 

CHICAGO 
In an effort which has been compared to the grape boy­cotts of the 1960s, the United Farmworker's Union (UFW) is taking on California strawberry growers. In its largest contem­porary effort, the UFW is tak­ing on the $650 million-a-year industry, in which 20,000 Latinos pick 75 percent of the nation's strawberries. 
Deeming the effort one of the most important organizing campaigns in the country, the AFL-CIO, the umbrella group for the nation's unions, has pledged to contribute millions of dollars in its support. 
Last Thursday, the UFW kicked off the Chicago leg of its effort in a rally at Pius V church in the heart of the Latino community, Pilsen. Chicago was cited as one of the prime targets of the campaign, because of its strong union ties. 
"We're going to be making history in the next few months and this is where its all start­ing," said Delores Huerta, a close friend to the late Cesar Chavez, founder of the UFW and leader of the union in her own right. 
Twenty-three students from the Migrant Experiences Seminar and 15 students from La Alianza attended the rally. 
The aim of the strawberry effort is to gain basic rights for the lieldworkers; for example, a living wage, clean drinking water and bathrooms in the field, job security, health insur­ance and an end to sexual harassment and other abuses. 
Huerta was the keynote speaker at the rally, which also featured Alderman Ricardo Munoz and two strawberry harvesters, Celso Munoz and Delfina Garcia. 

"When the bosses say work­ers don't want a union, that is a lie," said Garcia. "Even the dumbest worker wants the union. Even the dumbest worker wants better wages and better treatment." 
"At this point in time, we're not saying to boycott strawber­ries," said Huerta. "What we're saying to the strawberry growers is, 'Just obey the law."' 
The UFW has taken a differ­ent approach to the strawberry struggle. Instead of heading directly for a boycott as has been their custom, this time the UFW is fighting on two fronts-neither of which being a boycott-yet. 
The first front involves the actual workers. The UFW hopes to be able to elicit sup­port in the private sector for the effort by targeting the actu­al field workers to join the union. Leaders hope that if enough workers take the risk to join the union, the extent of the problems they face may be understood. 
Supermarket chains are the 

to change these condi .. tions.' 
Celso Munoz 
other target of the campaign. By signing on to support the strawberry workers, UFW leaders say that their bargain­ing clout is enhanced. With the possibility of a diminished marketplace looming, the growers will be much more likely to agree to the UFW requests which include the improved conditions for work­ers and a promise not to appeal should the workers vote to unionize. 
"We're bringing all the pro­gressive elements of America together as one big activist family to win rights for the strawberry workers," said Huerta. 
One of the biggest problems facing the effort to unionize field workers is the fear of anti-union retaliation for their support of the unions. 
"Workers are threatened with physical violence and deportation for speaking out about the conditions," said Munoz. "We're going to fight, we're going to organize, we're going to change these condi­tions." 
Ifyou're interested in writing, contact The Observer News Department at 1-5323. 
Fina.nce Club 



Elections 
Stock Exchange Booth 
(Atrium in COBA) 

Vote for next year's Officers 


fire ruins property 

23 injured; police suspect arsonist 
By STEVE FARR Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
A pre-dawn fire swept through a downtown apart­ment complex Sunday, forcing residents to leap from win­dows and sending 23 people to hospitals. 
A 2-year-old boy was in criti­cal condition and 153 people were left homeless. Investigators said the blaze was set. 
Firefighters who arrived at the Canterbury Apartments at 
6:40 a.m. found flames shoot­ing from the four three-story brick buildings, said Lt. Vernon Brown of the Indianapolis Fire Department. 
"There were people coming out of the windows from the second floor and the third floor," he said. "Firefighters actually caught children that were being dropped from win­dows by their parents." 
Firefighters went inside to assist in the evacuation but were forced out by fears that the roof would collapse, Brown said. 
Residents who smelled smoke raced along hallways just ahead of the fire, pound­ing on doors and waking up neighbors, witnesses said. Delisa Johnson, an evangelist with Wings of Love Ministries, said she was stirred by her 16­year-old son at about 6 a.m. 
"He was saying, 'Mom, come on and get out.' I didn't know what he was saying," Johnson said in a telephone interview from Mt. Olive Missionary Baptist Church. 
Johnson, who escaped in only her nightgown and an overcoat, was one of about 45 people taken by Red Cross workers to Mt. Olive's crisis center for the night, said the Rev. Samuel Whitlow. Others were sent to the Dayspring Center. 
"All of their personal prop­erty is gone. They have no shoes and no clothes," Whitlow said . 

(Finance Club members only may vote) is looking for a 
CONT :DLLER 

PURCHASI 
ANAGER. 
Calll-5313 with questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 
*Candidates for Controller must be a sophomore or junior accounting major 

------·~-­
Monday, March 3, 1997
The Observer • NEWS 
• ALBANIA 



Parliament declares emergency 
By MERITA DHIMGJOKA The government hopes the ist elements" in the Socialist Associated Press Writer political shuffling will mollify Party the renamed protesters, who blame the Communists-for the chaos. TIRANA, Albania Democratic Party-led adminis-Just before the vote. several 
Facing growing anti-govern-tration for not warning them foreign journalists were ment unrest, parliament about the riskiness of the pyra-attacked outside parliament by declared a state of emergency mid schemes, in which nearly several men the reporters on Sunday, allowing the army every Albanian lost money. The believed were secret police. An to be deployed to ensure public schemes pay generous interest Associated Press reporter was order and weapons to be used rates to early investors but col-violently shoved and staff from to protect public buildings and lapse when deposits dry up. the British Broadcasting Corp. key roads. Berisha, who did not say he and World Television News also 
Police, though, will remain would resign, said the new gov-were attacked. It was not the first line of defense in ernment would face huge chal-immediately clear if there were quelling riots and protests that lenges, including restoring pub-any serious injuries. have grown out of public rage lie order and winning the trust Protesters in Vlora, the town over the collapse last 70 miles south of Tirana month of popular, high-that exploded in vio­risk investment schemes. lence on Friday, rejected 
In a televised address Berisha's offer of a new Sunday afternoon, . Cabinet. They called for President Sali Berisha ijj,Jta;ur(ls:C!S!%J him to announce by called the unrest "a com-Sunday night that a gov­munist rebellion backed ernment of non-partisan by foreign intelligence technocrats would be agencies. We promise formed. you we will employ all If he did not meet the measures under the law, Aleksander Meksi deadline, the protesters even the most difficult------------------pledged they would ones, against this rebellion." of the political parties in march to Tirana, the capital, on He gave no further details. Albania, tucked in between Monday to press their 
Bending slightly under pres-Greece and Yugoslavia on the demands. sure from protesters, Berisha Adriatic Sea. But after Berisha's announce­on Saturday announced that his By Saturday, Albania's south-ment, protest organizers urged Cabinet would resign to be ern region had erupted in law-the thousands of people massed replaced by new ministers -lessness. Carloads of weapons outside Vlora University not to still from his Democratic Party were distributed throughout make the march. but approved by the Socialists the countryside, and young "We don't want blood," one and other opposition groups. men in the port city of Vlora organizer yelled through a 
Prime Minister Aleksander fired a constant barrage of bul-megaphone. 
Meksi told The Associated Press lets into the air. Inside the university, about 
on Sunday that a new govern-Meksi said it would take at 40 students entered the 11th 
ment would not stop the coun-least a year to regain control of day of a hunger strike aimed at 
try's descent into chaos. He the country's arsenal. forcing the Democratic Party to 
said he agreed to step down "It will be difficult to gather step down. 
only because a government again tens of thousands of guns Unrest also broke out in the 
must resign "when it's not able that the Defense Ministry left in southern border city of 
to handle a situation." the hands of criminals, rebels Gjirocastra on Sunday evening. 
"The situation is more seri-or desperate people," he said. People fired guns at the police 
ous than ever," Meksi said. He blamed "the most extrem-station, a local reporter said. 

IT'S ONCE AGAIN TIME FOR NAZZ, ND'S 
BAITLEOFTHEBANDS!! NAZZ applications are now available outside the SUB office (2nd floor Lafortune) and are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 5. Along with the application, please turn in a demo tape. All applicants will be contacted by midnight on March 5 informing them if they made the lineup. N AZZ will be in Stepan Center on Thursday, March 20. 
Any ?'s ... please call SUB @ 1-7757 

Monday, March 3, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• ISRAEl •IRAN 
Troops fire on Palestinians Quakes plague Asia 
By JACK KATZENELL Netanyahu's Cabinet was to a future capital in east Associared Press Wrirer meet this Tuesday to decide Jerusalem. 
leaving 3,000 dead 
how much land Israel would In protest of the Har Homa 
JERUSALEM hand over in the first withdraw-building plan, the Palestinian 
With tensions already high al, but the meeting was post-legislature on Saturday called over Israeli building in east paned until Thursday. for a general strike Monday. Jerusalem, Israeli soldiers fired Israel has already withdrawn Palestinian leader Vasser on Palestinian workers Sunday, from major Palestinian cities in Arafat left on Sunday for injuring four, and Israel hinted the West Bank, retaining only .a Washington to meet with it would miss a deadline for a small part of Hebron, and has President Clinton. West Bank troop withdrawal. granted autonomy to about 28 Arafat angered Israeli offi-
In Hebron, about 15 Jewish percent of the West Bank and cials by suggesting during a settlers scuffled Sunday night to most of the Gaza Strip. visit to Cairo on Saturday that with a Palestinian he m.ight declare an policeman near an independent state ancient Jewish cemetery because of Israel's deci­where gravestones were sion to build Bar Boma. found smashed earlier The interim Israel-in the day. No one was Palestinian peace agree-injured, and both Israel ments grant the and the Palestinians Palestinians autonomy in sent extra troops to the West Bank cities and sur­site. rounding areas, but leave 
A senior aide to Prime the final status of Minister Benjamin Palestine for talks on a Netanyahu conceded -------------------permanent peace sched-Sunday there might be "logisti-Speaking to about 2,000 uled to start later this month. cal delays" in completing the activists from his Likud party American Jewish leaders vis­planned Israeli troop pullback on Sunday, Netanyahu, facing iting Jerusalem on Sunday from the West Bank. But Israel Palestinian anger over last added their support for the Bar radio said Sunday that opposi-week's decision to build the Homa project, which the tion from inside the ruling 6,500-home Bar Boma housing Clinton administration has said coalition was delaying the with-project in east Jerusalem, it opposes on the grounds that drawal. pledged to keep all of it erodes trust between the par-
Israel has committed to three Jerusalem under Israeli con-ties to the peace agreement. troop withdrawals from rural trol. "Our position is to stand with areas of the West Bank, the "Jerusalem is ours," he told the government of Israel on the first of which was supposed to the gathering. "Whoever asks right to build on Bar Boma," be completed by Friday. Israel to give up the unity of said Malcolm Hoenlein, execu­
"There might be logistical Jerusalem doesn't understand -tive vice chairman of the delays," said David Bar-Illan, a how this chord plays on our Conference'I>Of Presidents of senior aide to Netanyahu. "It's hearts." Major American Jewish a military matter." Palestinians hope to establish Organizations. 
By ANWAR FARUQI 
Associared Press Wrirer 

SBIRAN. Iran 
Temperatures plunged and a blanket of snow covered north­western Iran on Sunday, ham­pering efforts to reach villages devastated by a massive earth­quake that rescuers say claimed 3,000 lives. 
The official toll from Friday's quake stood at 554, but was expected to rise. The govern­ment said at least 2,000 were injured. 
The Iranian quake was one of a number that jolted Asian countries over the last couple of days, including temblors in Armenia, China and Pakistan. Scientists said there was no evi­dence that any of them were connected. 
Iran estimated the quake's magnitude at 5.5. The U.S. National Earthquake Informa­tion Center in Golden, Colo., said it was 6.1. 
The narrow roads leading to the villages were covered with sheets of ice Sunday, making access difficult. Most villages had received some help, but survivors whose homes were destroyed needed tents and fuel to cope with temperatures that 
fell Sunday to 19 degrees. Some aid workers said 

TEAR OUT THIS COUPON INSTEAD OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S HAIR. 
When your roommate gets on your nerves, just tear out this coupon and chill out with a FREE Lemon Italian Ice at Fazoli's with any adult entree purchase. 
r--------------~=~~:~:--t:t:f\lf<:)l'J-1"1f~-t:r~r\f-t~-~:--------------, 
99¢ value with purchase of one adult entree 

5277 US Route 33N, 227-4008, South Bend 
One coupon per person, per order at participating Fazoli's only. Not valid with any other offer. Expires 5/31/97 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




Attention All Students 
interested in the 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 6:00p.m. 101 Law School 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
string of villages beyond the Sabalan mountains, made impenetrable by the snow, may have been the hardest hit, but they have been unable to reach the area to make an assess­ment. 
Shiran, a farming town 15 miles southwest of Ardabil, was devastated. 
Reza Azizvand was among only a handful of people who remained here. and he sat in the only room of his house that remained standing. 
His wife of five months was among the dead and he esti­mated that half of the village's people had been wiped out. 
The death toll in just six vil­lages visited by reporters in Ardabil province was more than 2,000 people. 
Buses and cars crammed with people began arriving in the vil­lages at the weekend, carrying families seeking news of rela­tives. 
A more powerful quake struck western Pakistan on Friday, killing at least 100 peo­ple. Pakistan and Iran are hit by numerous quakes each year. 
In the remote· corner of west­ern Pakistan -1,200 miles southeast of the Iranian quake site -some of the injured began 
arriving Saturday in Quetta, the 

a nearest big city, about 400 miles southwest of Islamabad. Stretchers lined hospital corri­dors and doctors made an appeal for blood donations. Rescuers said more than 100 people were killed and dozens injured when the magnitude­?. 3 quake shook Baluchistan province early Friday -the hardest hit region was the remote Sibi district. Rescue workers were ham­pered by the remoteness of the area and damage to roads lead­ing to the region. 
TEACH EJII:LISH in 1 • '. •• ' -· • ·--EASTERN '£{Jfl, '£ 
PRAGUE o BUDAPEST o KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational EngLish in Eastern Europe? Our materials .P.rofile _many rewarding teaching 
~pportu_ntttes wtth great benefits. For 
mformdJCm, caU: (206) 971-3680 
We•r.'raot'!'Ch<Lpublilh~co. Ext. K55845 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

NATIONAL PARKS 
Fnin~a~~~~~ta~:.e?~~~~rJ~~ wfJ~~ 
Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncove~ hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



Buy 4 sessions at the regular price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 & get 3 FREE.. . Buy 6 & get 4 FREE... 
1 Month & 3 Month Un;li~ii~ Tanning 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 3, 1997 
Teens overdose on Baclofen at dance party 
By BRIAN MELLEY 
Associated Press Writer 
WOBURN, Mass. 
Parents and friends prayed Sunday at church services for the nine teen-age girls and two boys still hospitalized for over­dosing on a muscle relaxant at a youth dance. 
The drug, Baclofen, was taken from a mail-order ship­ment sent to an unidentified man who said he never got the medication, Middlesex District Attorney Tom Reilly said. The man is not related to any of the teens, he said. 
Police are looking for a sec­ond bottle of pills containing the antibiotic Hiprex, which was part of the shipment, Reilly said. 
Five of the 11 teens still hos­pitalized remained in critical condition Sunday, at least four of them on respirators. All of the victims should recover fully, hospital officials said. 
Sunday's services came two days after 14 teens were felled by overdoses of .the prescrip­tion muscle relaxant Baclofen at a Boys and Girls Club-spon­sored dance. 
Most of the girls were cele­brating their selection as school cheerleaders, and the teens gobbled as many as 35 pills before they started "dropping like flies," as an emergency medical technician put it. 
Baclofen is often is used to treat cerebral palsy and multi­ple sclerosis. 
While some Woburn middle school students are aware of drug use at their schools, they say the teen-agers who over­dosed were not part of that crowd. 

"They were, like, wicked good students in school," said James Caterino, 14, who left the dance before the teen-agers began falling ill. 
"I think this was an aberra­tion. The facts are that there are bad things available to our kids," said Jan Fuller, a parent and church leader. "I think things like this can happen anywhere -they're just chil­dren." 
0. aaclofen (6:Jjl) Q 
lf!a~fen helps relax certainQ 
<4fluscles in the body, relieving spasms, cramping, and tightness. The drug is prescribed to those with multiple sclerosis or certain spine injuries. / 
Signs of overdose !..) 

• 
Blurred or double vision (J 

• 
Convulsions (seizures) 

• 
Severe muscle weakness 

• 
Shortness of breath 

• 
Unusually slow or troubled breathing /:i

• 
Vomiting ·..#' 



Source: AP research AP 


sa"'gc!~Y 
rnusicland
-P.!J>o·• 

FREE SINGlE 
Purchase any two compact discs with a regular price of $9.99 each or higher with your MasterCard• card and receive a FREE CD single or cassette single. 
Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. Offer and coupon valid 211/97 to 5131/97. Offer valid only on pur· chases using a MasterCarct-card. Coupon must be redeemed at the time of purthase. Umit one per customer. cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupon or offer. Any reproduction. copy or facsimile will not be accepted. Offer valid on regular-priced. in-stock merchandise only at any participating Sam Goody or Musicland store 
STORES: ENTER MARKDOWN CODE 1046 UPC CODE 00100.00046 
ExclusiveS"
• 
EXPRESS T W E E o s· 

SAVE 15% SAVE 15% SAVE 50% 
The hottest fashion trends from London to Save 15% on your first order when you use your 1 ''Get organized" and plan your busy schedule with the Tokyo-all ln one place. Use this coupon and MasterCard• card. Call 1-800-433-3600 to company tlut invented the persona) organizer. Pay just your MasterCard® card to save 15% on every­request a FREE catalog. Mention code GGWA 
$19.95 for the complete Day-Timer portable loose-leaf system-a savings of 50% when you use your
thing you want from Express. Express. What's when making purchase. 
MasterCard• card. System includes: 
new. Now. 
• Black zippered binder Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. • Full year of dated pages
Offer valid 211197 to 5131/97. Offer valid only on purchases using a Offer and coupon valid 211197 to S/31197. Offer valid only on pur­• FREE binder personaliz.ation 
MasterCard" card. Offer void where prohibited, taxed, or restricted. chases using a MasterGarct-card. Coupon must be redeemed at • FREE AM/FM stereo headphones
Coupon may not be combined with any other coupon or discount. 
Offer does not apply to sh1ppmg and handling. Limit one order
the time of purchase. Offer does not apply to prior purchases and • FREE shippmg 
per person.
cannot be used to purchase gift certificates. This coupon cannot be 
Call Day-Timer,l11c. at 1-800--225-5005. Mention Key
combined with any other coupon or discount. It is valid in all 
# 153294 to get this trial offer for students. Use product 
Express stores lor Express merchandise only. It is not valid in 
#AFP7529X to otder.
Structure or Bath & Body Works stores. Associates at Express and its affiliates and immediate family members are not eligible to Offer valid 2/1/97 to 5131/97. Offer valid only on purchases using a receive th1s discount. MasterCartr card. Limit one order per person. 100% SATISFAC­
TION GUARANTEED.
AUTHORIZATION 1503. 

ExclusiveS" ExclusiveS" ExclusiveS" 
FOR COLLEGE FOR COLLEGE FOR COLLEGE 
TheA~hlete"s 
~· 
SAVE 10% 
Save 10% on any purchase of $50 or more when you use this coupon and your MasterCard• card at partictpating stores. To locate the store nearest you, call 1-800-353-FOOT (1-800-353-3668) or visit us on the lmernet at www.theathletesfoot.com 
Dller Not Valid Without This Coupon. Offer and coupon valid 2/1/97 to 5131197. Offer valid only on pur· chases using a MasterCard" card. Coupon must be redeemed at the time ol purchase, Offer not valid with any other ofter or discount, or previous purchases. Offer valid at alt participating The Athlete's Foot stores in the U.S. 
CODE: 10 

ExclusiveS" 
FOR COLLEGE 


----·-------~--·-~-------~--------·---------~­
---------~--·~~-~ 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, March 3, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advettising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sporrs Editor ..................... Timorhy Sherman Productjon Manager..........•..•••...... Hearher Cocks Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­corials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing E<iiror, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views ofrhe authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdirorNiewpoinr 63I-454l Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

The secret daytime life of South Bend bars 
I can still vividly remember the first time I patronized a South Bend bar. I suppose that within the alcohol-soaked social universe of Notre Dame your first bar visit is a little bit like your first kiss -you hold on to every detail. I was a first-semester sophomore, and my 

Christopher Kratovil 
friends and I collectively decided that we were too "mature" for the beer-in­trash-can dorm parties that our home -poor, doomed Planner Hall -so prided itself on having. So off to Cactus Jack's it was. 
As we waited in line to be carded by the pseudo-cop at the door, my tension grew; palms began to sweat, and I was fervently questioning the wisdom of using an "ID" purchased quite legally as a "novelty item" back at a flea market in Texas. But it was too late to back down, and I suddenly found myself face-to-face with the hulking minion of law enforce­ment blocking my path to manhood and a better life. "Hi," said this servant of The Man as I handed him my treasured acquisition from the Trader's Village flea market. "Ahh, ummm, ahh...Good evening" I managed to stammer, some­how able to simultaneously seem clue­less yet pretentious (a common "townie" stereotype of Domers}. "All right," said the bouncer as he returned my "Washington State" driver's license, "two bucks." 
And in that moment my Notre Dame social life was forever transformed. Of course, Cactus Jack's itself is long gone, the victim of a South Bend law enforce­ment crackdown on underage drinking that seems to somehow mysteriously miss Bridget's and CJ's every year. And that actual first night at old Jack's really wasn't that great; we knew next to no one in the bar, and the concept of hav­ing to pay for beer was still somewhat alien. But after that evening, Milwaukee's Best.from an ice-filled garbage can would never again suffice to quench our thirsts. In our won eyes at least, we had crossed some invisible social line and become Notre Dame men. 
The ensuing years would, of course, carry me to a whole litany of bars. From the Robitussin-cup sized shots at CJ's (which have lead to many a far-fetched tale, e.g. "Dude, I know this guy who did 30 CJ's shots on his birthday, drove himself home and then wrote a philoso­phy paper") to that bastion of "Gangsta"-ism, Jazzman's (where they're more concerned with what you're packing than how old you are), I thoroughly explored South Bend's limit­ed nightlife options. 
Then one blessed day I traded in my old flea market special for a bonafide little piece of state-issued plastic. And with that, whole new realms of social possibilities were thrown open to me: late nights within the swirling madness of the Linebacker Lounge, encounters with the ever-friendly bouncers of Club 23 or even trips to our University's own semi-secret little watering hole, Senior Bar (easily the shadiest operation in town). 
But as with all things, eventually the fun and the exhilaration of South Bend's bars simply disappeared. I was standing in the human maelstrom of a Thursday night at Senior Bar, feeling hot and claustrophobic, drinking beer that I wasn't enjoying (despite having waited almost 20 minutes to be served it} hav­ing innumerable 30-second "small talk" conversations with people I only half­know and may not ever see again after this May. I realized at that moment that I didn't really want to be "out" and that I was only doing so because my four years here had so conditioned me to regard any weekend night that doesn't involve a trip to a bar as a social failure. I wanted to be in a quiet room chatting with my friends, I wanted to be taking a walk with my girlfriend around the lakes, I wanted to be in the library hav­ing a good talk with a classmate as we waited to get computers-in short I wanted to be anywhere in town but the very places I had spent so long waiting and/or scheming to get into. It was indeed an odd sensation, but I had final­ly had enough of the crowds, the artifi­ciality, the tasteless beer, the cramped conditions, the handful of unpleasant people I actively try to avoid but keep crossing paths with, the loud music and the interminable wait for service. So I renounced the proud legacy of Cactus Jack's, turned in my wings and left. 
The next week was filled with intro­spection; what was wrong with me? I'm a second-semester senior who knows what he's doing next year; I'm supposed to go out six nights a week and love every minute of it. Yet all I really want­ed to do was spend time with the people I'm close to regardless of the environ­ment. 
And then, as if by divine revelation, an answer to my quandary presented itself. A phone call from a neighbor on a recent Friday afternoon informed me that "We're going to the 'Backer, want to come along?" So I made my first day­light pilgrimage to the Linebacker Lounge and entered a different world than the one I had come to know and be weary of. To all appearances, we walked into a neighborhood tavern. There was no cover charge, no SWAT 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

team at the door, no sweaty, drunken mob to jostle with, no football players starting fights. A few local guys in their union jackets were seated at the bar drinking bottled beer as country music at a reasonable volume filtered from a juke box I never know existed despite many a trip to the place. A friendly waitress came over to our table and apologetically half-carded us before tak­ing our order. There was relatively free (and damn good) chili to eat; our beer was served in real glasses; we had a rel­atively clean bathroom to use and easy access to the bar, pool table and dart board. For perhaps the first time I felt comfortable, welcome and relaxed at the 'Backer. As a few more students trickled in, I vaguely felt like I was on "Cheers." 
Satisfied with my afternoon experi­ence at the Linebacker, I felt a more in­depth study of the daylight "nightlife" in South Bend was in order. The same trends continued at some of South Bend's other hot spots; what I had only known as crowded hellholes double in the afternoon/early evening as friendly, half-empty establishments where you can find real conversation, a game of pool and even reasonably priced food in some cases. 
Ever since returning from NO's London program, I have bemoaned the lack of English-style "pubs" on this side of the Atlantic, particularly in South Bend. But while an afternoon visit to a South Bend bar will not convince you you're in Britain, it may be the closest thing to an American "pub scene" that I've encountered. Maybe it's a sign of impending middle age, but I'll take the Linebacker at 3 p.m. over the Linebacker at 3 a.m. every time. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Monday. 
• Qm.m: Of THE DAY 
"The first day of spring is 
one thing, and the first spring day is another. The difference between them is sometimes as great as a month." 
-Henry Van Dyke 





Friends to the End 
Donnie Brasco Direcred by: Mike Newell Srarring: Al Pacino and 
Johnny Depp 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOSH BECK 
Accent Movie Critic 
I
t's not often that the American movie­viewing public is treated to a dark film. No. a dark movie is not one filmed with little light; rather, it's an ominous look at the dark side of the soci­ety in which we live. We are often scared and somewhat amazed by this, and although we appreciate the movie for what it is, it is still one that we have trouble watching. When the film is entirely based on a true story, then our feelings about the situation become strengthened because we not only feel for the characters involved, but we also have an overwhelming sense of fear. We realize that this could happen in our own backyard. In this case, the dark film is "Donnie Brasco," and it is one in a 

Depp stars as FBI Agent Joe Pistone, alias Donnie Brasco, who infiltrates the Bonanno mob family. 
long line of movies dealing with the mob. It is based on the factual story of an FBI agent -the movie's namesake -and it deals with his trials and tribulations while infiltrating a sect of the mafia. The film takes place in Brooklyn, but as the story goes to show us, organized crime goes on everywhere. However, the painfully obvious message of the film is the painful easiness with which an undercover agent can become so attached to the men that he is trying to catch... so attached that he forgets his original goal. 
During the 70s, the concept of the mob first became popular. With the release of "The Godfather" in 1972 and the subse­quent sequels, America was blasted with its first real vision of the mafia. Other movies would follow afterwards, but none of them described the inner work­ings of a mob family better than 'The Godfather" series. The particularly good facet of "Donnie Brasco" is that we find ourselves not caring as much about this particular sect of the mafia as much as we care about the FBI agent involved. Just as we see the mob going through its own tough times with wars and such, so too we see Donnie Brasco in the line of 
fire, and our hearts go out to his character. 
The statement that "Donnie Brasco" is not so much about the mob as it is about the relationship between two people is well-founded. Donnie (Johnny Depp) starts out the film as a jeweler before a mob enforcer named Lefty (AI Pacino) tries to lay a diamond ring off on him. After Lefty finds out that the ring is fake and Donnie backs it up, Lefty decides to introduce him to his mob friends. We see later that Donnie is an FBI agent through the reports that he types up. However, the movie doesn't center on his ties to the mob as much as the friendship that he has with Lefty. A luckless man in life, Lefty unknowingly makes the grave mistake of befriending Donnie, taking him into his own home and introducing him to his mob ties. However, besides centering around the relationship between the two men, this movie also delves into the heart of Donnie, whose job tears apart his family and as well as trans-forms him into a mobster himself. Often is his dignity and patience tried through­out the course of the movie, and his ties to the FBI begin to disintegrate as he plunges deeper and deeper into the heart of the mob. 

Masterfully directed by Mike Newell, this movie not only penetrates into the heart of a crime family, it also looks deep inside the hearts of two men who grow to be the best of friends. It also does the painful job of looking into Donnie's heart as he tries to balance the mob, his family. and the FBI in what looks to be one of the most unappealing jobs in the world. The acting is superb, especially from Johnny Depp, who had yet to impress me in his prior roles before I saw this film. Ilis portrayal of the emotionally charged, determined undercover FBI agent seems to go beyond his previously demonstrated capabilities as an actor. AI Pacino, hav­ing the mob movie experience under his belt with "The Godfather" as well as "Scarface," plays a different role as a mob assassin but is marvelous nonethe­less. The screen shots are nothing to write home about, however, save a few. The music is what I found to be particu­larly enjoyable, as the 70s eult tunes will take some people back and influence some who have never before heard the style. 
To say that this film is dark would be putting it mildly. Although it's no "Godfather," the content and the charac­ters make us take a closer look at an organization that is still very much in existence in our society. The facet of this film that makes it all the more dim is the fact that it is a true story. However, as wo watch it, we lose that distinction and bogin to enjoy the film for what it is. As other films display undercover cops as being compatible with the ultimate goal, this movie shows what I think is more realistic. It shows the agent involved as being torn between both sides, and while he has to do his job, emotionally, he can­not send the men that turn out to be his best friends to jail. Above all, the real gem that shines in this film is the rela­tionship between Lefty and Donnie as they explore the different faces of love, trust and friendship. In the end, this film is appreciated better than it is enjoyed. Although the ending gives us a sense of closure that we always desire, it is, disturbingly, not the one we long for; still, it was always the one we saw com­ing in a world that is not perfect at all. 

• RENTAL REVIEW 
Video Pick,nf the Week 
COURAGE UNDER FIRE 
By MIKE MCMORROW 
Accent Movie Critic 

Ef~:1E{:!7ii:E:¥·~r:~~~t!w1 
reflecfthe discrepancies in each person's story). 
The body of the film is essentially the interviews and flashbacks. nnd part of the enjoyment is trying to piecetogether the mystery. Did Walden really act heroically? Or was she a coward? 
Man hl:lr questions. arise throughout this film, all 


~~!· ~~~:~h"!NfF!.~!l:,f.~,~J!~ZE:f:ii~'~t~

battlefield. It is filled with different characters, all of (Scott Glenn). But "Courage Under Fire" does not whom contribute one way or another to the question allow itself to become infested with cliches and han­of "What is courag~?" Not very often i~ .American dies .i;he Glenn character with a great dealof class; movies today do we ~eta film that issolpyally devot~ not a stereotypicaln:;,edia leech, but rather, a edto a subje~t .\'V~th?H~ ~~ing overbearing~ 1.I~i~ is no~ ... .. p might be ~bje to relate to Was~ington' s 
a seiHmportant drama. . .. > •••,. ..• •dil as involving both Walden and his own past; 
The film stars.Denzel Washington as Lt. Colonel Sterling in the Gulf War, who is haunted bya dread· ful mistake he made in battle. Apparently; he fired one of his own tanks, thinking it was the enemy, and killed one of his own men. He is constantly. stalked by this feeling of guilt, and this leads to problems with his family and With dril1king. But since tijiswaswhat one would call an ''honest" mistake, he is soon given formal consolation bythe army, and they think noth· ing further of it. Still active, he is assigned to investi­gate the possibility of a Medal of Honor for Captain Karen Walden (Meg Ryan), a Gulf War pilot who died on a mission. He interviews a series of people who were on this heroic mission with Walden and gets some very conflictingJnformation, t11 ~~t.urn. The story ofWalden·~.mi$Sipnistold throggp<vseri¢s.• 9f flashbacks (each with a different spin in order to·· 
TM., performances are powerful. Denzel Washington does a credible job portraying the angst of his character's soul. His character is movingly per­sonable, and we as the audience can relate to his series of predicaments. Meg Ryan gives a strong a performance as Captain Walden. She is able to pro· vitl.e Jbe sort of necessary ambiguity to her character in which she comes across as both courageous and cowardly, as each of the individual stories com· mands. It is a different type of role for her, and I was impressed at how successfully she was able to leave her "Tom Hanks co-star" cutesy appeal and still remain credible. Lou Diamond Phillips and Matt Damon are two of the .interviewees, and the complex­reporter out to help, not squander. 
itie  .oftheir characters come out well through the  
P.e  ·  ·.ances. And, asmentioned·above, Scott·Glenn  
giv  11 altogether cla'ss~filled performance as a  


The only problem I have with the film lies in a cou­ple of details. There is a certain unnecessarily melo­dramatic. quality to Sterling's "drinking problem." Notto say that it is unrealistic, but the subplot seems both ex:cessive and overwrought. In real life, Sterling may have had a problem with alcohol, but it seems to me that it is an issue deserving far more thorough examination. The film fails to present the idea of alcoholism with enough examination, and therefore, it comes across as gratuitous. That objection aside, "Courage Under Fire" is a powerful and affecting film. 
It has hecollie a cliche in n1odern Hollywood cine~ rna to tell a story using flashbacks. This fact given, 01mmakers are required to have a genuine artistic justification for their usc, and in "Courage," Zwick has found the appropriate application. Half the story is the actual telling about the flashbacks, and the interviews are not standard but rather show certain sides to the involved characters. So the origin of the flashbacks serve to a .. tell their own story and b. show their own reaction, Thi$ double purpose gives the film that much more depth. 
Denzel Washington was thought to be a possible Oscar candidate for his role here. I would have liked to have seen him nominated. His performance deserves recognition; it provides "Courage" with its heart. Coming out of this movh1. you will feel that the questio~ "What is cgurag(\?'' has not necessarily been given a Clearcutanswer, but rather, an alto­getherthorough examinatipn Of the very idea itself. 


-
Monday, March 3, 1997 page 11 

Fools Rush to the Theater 
marry Isabel in a typi­
Fools Rush In 
cally sitcom-styled
Directed by: Andy Tennant 
Vegas wedding.
Starring: Matthew Perry and 
However, the movie 
Salma Hayek 
doesn't end there (although you'll cer­tainly wish it did). as the newlywed couple (Out of Dvc shamrocks) faces conflicts with cul­

By JOHN BARRY 
Accent Movie Critic 
T
raditions are an important part of Notre Dame, and apparently, they are also an important part of Hollywood. Following in the steps of his fel­low "Friends," Matthew Perry makes a poor selection for his first big-screen appearance. In the supposed romantic comedy "Fools Bush In," the movie not only seems to completely ignore the "comedy" aspect of their genre, but it rather poorly devel­ops the "romantic" part of the plot, as well. 
Matthew Perry plays Alex Whitman, an uptight corporate New Yorker building a nightclub in Las Vegas, who has a fiery one-night stand with Mexican­American Isabel Fuentes (Salma Hayek, "Desperado"). Three months later, Isabel reappears at Alex's home with the news that she is pregnant with his baby but willing to take care of it herself. After meeting her family, howev­er, a tightly-knit group which contrasts sharply with the distant relations he endures with his own family, Alex decides to 
.-----------------------------­
1. 
The Empire Strikes Back 1. Phenomenon 

2. 
Donnie Brasco 

2. A Time To Kill 


3. 
Star Wars 3. Kingpin 

4. 
Booty Call 4. The Rock 

5. 
Absolute Power 5. Escape from L.A. 

6. 
Dante's Peak 6. Fled 

7. 
Vegas Vacation 7. Tin Cup 

8. 
Fools Rush In 

8. Chain Reaction 


9. 
Marvin's Room 9. Fargo 

10. 
Rosewood 10. Island of Dr. Moreau Source: Associated Press 


Source: Billboard Online 

ture, family, and occu­pations. 
Both pairs of disgustingly stereotypical in-laws object to their children's marriage, as well as to the differences in each other's cultures. You would think that, by now, Hollywood would be finished preaching to the pub­lic about tolerance on such an exaggerated level, but poorly­written movies like this one keep such subplots alive. Also, both couples are such two-dimension­al representations of Hollywood cultural groups, as well as highly distorted in their bigotry, that we have difficulty finding any sym­pathy for either. 
Matthew Perry is a talented actor; while his primary forte is comedy, he is still essentially capable of drama. Unfortunately, this movie focuses on the weaker of his two skills; "Fools" contains several long dry spells where humor is completely forgotten, reminding us of how unexcep­tional Perry can be when it comes to the dramatic, and how much we miss his biting humor. On a half-hour comedy show like "Friends," where twenty-some­things sit around a coffee house and exchange little packages of 
Photo courtesy Columbia Pictures Salma Hayek and Matthew Perry star as a young couple who get preg­nant, get married and then fall in love in "Fools Rush ln." 
wit, Perry is consistently funny because of the high density of the humor. But in a two-hour movie with painfully slow plotlines, Perry's skill is stifled, and the punchlines are few and very far between. 
However. this movie does not deserve to be completely forgot­ten because it does contain some positive qualities. The film does have remote amounts of charm when Perry is allowed to strut his comedic talents, delivering lines with his characteristic style. It's lighthearted at most times, occa­sionally amusing, and there is even the occasional one-liner worth a few laughs. Unfortunately, most of those laughs were neatly molded into the preview. Basically, this movie should still suffice for a good "date" movie ("gasp" -dare I mention dating at Notre Dame?). But the movie did not make me laugh nearly as hard as the quote on the poster (Taylor Baldwin, KFMB-TV, San Diego), declaring it "The Best Romantic Comedy of the '90s!" I suppose that Mr. Baldwin doesn't get out much, otherwise he might have noted such superior films as "Sleepless in Seattle" and "Sabrina," both of which would surely have stopped him from making such a ridicu­lous statement. 
The flaws of "Fools Rush In" are all fairly typical. We've seen this movie before: certain lines might have been directly lifted from "Nine Months," such as when Alex complains about the ineffectiveness of condoms. Also, the plot is horribly predictable. Anyone with even remote skills in logic can determine the ending of the movie, even though I've only addressed those plot highlights given away in pilots. The entire story hinges on signs from above, blatantly obvious messages from Fate telling the characters what to do next. The film is supposed to be based on a true story, actu­al events that allegedly happened to the screenwriter, and yet the audience is supposed to believe that the entire story happened because of ingenious interpreta­tions of these signs. 
In the future, if the offers con­tinue, I hope that the cast of "Friends" will make more careful selections in their movie endeav­ors. Matthew Perry is a talented actor and a skilled comedian, but a movie such as this forces him to try to drag his TV character onto the silver screen while eliminat­ing the comic flare that makes his character enjoyable. Although "Fools Rush In" is a disappoint­ment because it hides Perry's potential, it is still worthy for consideration as a date-flick, but you might want to wait until it's out on video. 
was threatening, 

M<mi<cate~;tifles the affair went on 
problems. Later, 
down to prot(1ct 
Dad congratulates 
around; then, they go 
pocket flask is revealed. 

Alan, you . . ..· • . Jason confronts the nurse and 
vows to prove that she lied. Monica is afraid of what 
Dorman Will do ifhe loses, andthe judge is ready to rule"' 
Days of Our Lives 
By JILL PENTIMONTI, COLLEEN HERBERT and FRANK 
WITTMAN 

·AccentDays ofour Lives Corresponden~s 
Sami still doesn't remember her shady past four years, 
other than her husband Austin and her son Will. Test 
results.were mthis week: there is a possibility. that·Sami 
may have permanentlyiost her memory and all movement 
ofherlegs. Carrie is upse~ again by the added delay on 
marriage, bqt Austin assure~ her that his heart is really 
with· her. Kate reduces .Sami ·to tears· as she tries to make 
her recallwhere. she hid some papers that include evi­
dence of Kate's connection to Franco. . 
Jack's lastnight of freedom is full of Abby's stupid com· 
ments and Jen's lustful thoughts. There is hope for Jack in 
the· slammer; a· fellow criminal ·tells him that he may be 
able to help out 

Bo, who is undercover, is still single-handedly fighting 
the Drug Underworld in Salem.· Abe won't allow Bo to tell 
Hope about the operation; thus he is forced to push Fancy 
Face away when she comes towork things out. Bo must 
srieakthrough the ducts of police headquarters intoAbe's 
office to snagevi4imce on King. However, Abe's new high­
security offic(;) has become "Laser Storm," but don't fear­
Bo knows lasers: He successfully gets the documents and 
must meet King at the classy dance spot "Snake Pit." 
The claws are all out in the catfightbetween Billie and 
Hope for Bo. Each of them has decided "to go all out» for ·Bo's love. They both show up at "Club Snake Pit" in their best new dresses: Billie merely follows•Bo there, but Hope 
is trying to do her.own detective work on drug lords. She 
figures her modeling will give her an in on the drug scene. 
Susap;, Kfist~p;s former pregnant body double, is now out oftlie pictllre be<;aus!} sh~ has been sent to· a private hospital and henceforih. out ofSalemforever. The baby, wpm>(} t~am~ vv~1ye heard onlyas ''little slugger" according to John, isinri1'l~d ofheart su_tgery. Kristen has spent the week tryingto lureJohninto b(;)d, because she knows that once the marriageis consu!l1mated, an a.nnulment will be difficult...·Sh!' }lopes John then be· comu1itted to her even if and when Doc the dirty truth. Kristen's strange · to John ~which is not didn't notice that his wife . ar()vnd her waist for several 
Captain Obvious; John Black. 
J •truth again because of 
.s llliiJ:lllltmt "···· ·· ··' ··· ·· · , • after talking to 
·to tell John the truth. 

IHJfSPif~aJ · Marlena stumbles upon a 
lwant you" lri his fabulous 
· c towards him...ending 

-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 3, 1997
-
• COllEGE BASKETBALL 

Upsets mark season finales as Carolinas prevail 
By MIKE EMBRY "If it's not a charge, it is a South Carolina went 12-of-14 onship for them: Our team, shots inside. Associated Press Writer block," Pitino said. "My frus­from the foul line down the having won it (the ACC title), Cota's putback with 5:41 left 
tration at the end of the game stretch to hold off Kentucky's didn't have that edge in the in the half tied the game at 29­
LEXINGTON, Ky. was from the Vanderbilt and late charge. first half." 29 and Jamison's breakaway 
Sixth-ranked South Carolina Tennessee games. I'm tired of "Kentucky was the team to Duke trailed by nine points at layup at 5:24 gave the Tar proved it's the best team in the certain things. I'm not pleased beat at the start of the year," halftime but trimmed the deficit Heels their first lead of the Southeastern Conference. with the things have been Davis said. "We used that as a to three on a three-point play game, 31-29. 
BJ McKie scored 22 points happening." motivational tool." by Ricky Price with 11:18 left. Duke's only baskets during and Larry Davis added 20 as McKie hit the free throws North Carolina asserted its the run were 3-pointers by the Gamecocks claimed their after being fouled by Allen No. 8 North Carolina 91, size and inside muscle to push Wojciechowski and Langdon. first SEC title, defeating No. 3 Edwards and Davis made both No.7 Duke 85 the lead back to 10 with 8:33 North Carolina led 45-32 with Kentucky 72-66 Sunday to end after the technical foul for the left and to 82-69 with 5:33 re­2:30 left in the half, but the Wildcats' 27-game home final margin. Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski maining. Wojciechowski and Capel hit 3­winning streak. Epps hit a 3-pointer from the conceded the obvious Sunday Duke then mustered a 14-5 pointers to help Duke draw to 
"I told the team that we could right wing to trim South -no one in the Atlantic Coast run to cut the lead to 87-83 within nine at halftime. do this coming in," South Carolina's lead to 65-64 with 31 Conference can keep up with with 1:51 left, but the Tar Heels Carolina coach Eddie Fogler seconds left, but McKie came Antawn Jamison when he's made four of six free throws Virginia 81, said. "I could tell that everyone back six seconds later with two playing at his best. over the final 39 seconds to seal No. 16 Maryland 74 believed it. The better team free throws to push the margin Against the Blue Devils, the win. won here today." to three points. Jamison was at his best. Steve Wojciechowski scored His face flush with emotion, 
South Carolina (23-6, 15-1), Epps then missed a game­Jamison scored 33 points and 18 points to lead Duke, while Virginia coach Jeff Jones was completing a regular-season tying 3, and then fouled Melvin grabbed 11 rebounds to lead Jeff Capel added 15, Price 13 almost speechess. In his mind, sweep of the Wildcats, were 33-Watson, who hit one of two free No. 8 North Carolina to a 91-85 and Trajan Langdon 11. the mission was accomplished: of-44 from the free-throw line throws for a 68-64 lead with 13 victory over No. 7 Duke, the Serge Zwikker added 14 his Cavaliers had cleared the and held Kentucky to a season­seconds to go. Tar Heels' eighth straight win points and 10 rebounds for the NCAA tournament bar with low 32 percent shooting (23-of-Kentucky's Ron Mercer, who in the ACC after an 0-3 league Tar Heels, who outrebounded Sunday's 81-74 victory over No. 71). In the first meeting at declared last Wednesday that start. the Blue Devils 49-18. 16 Maryland. South Carolina on Feb. 4, the he is turning pro after this sea­Jamison, who came within Shammond Williams, Vince "It's a big win. I'm kind of at Gamecocks won 84-79 in over­son, connected on an 18-footer three points of his career high, Carter and Ed Cota scored 12 a loss for words. There's a lot time. off a long rebound to slice the atoned for a 1 0-point, four-re­points each, and Cota had 11 swirling around inside," Jones 
"They are better than us margin to two points with 1.8 bound performance in an 80-73 assists. said with a near-dazed expres­right now," said Kentucky seconds left. He led the loss to Duke on Jan. 29. "Their boards were tremen­sion. "To say there wasn't pres­coach Rick Pitino, who was Wildcats with 25 points. "Tonight, I just kept moving. I dous," Krzyzewski said. "We sure would be an outright lie. ejected with .04 seconds to After timeouts by both teams, was patient and didn't rush couldn't keep Jamison out of There was a huge amount of play. "It was not a fluke. They Epps tried to draw a charge anything," Jamison said. "The there. He was magnificent. pressure.... (The victory) was are more experienced than us from McKie on the inbounds first time we played, you When Jamison is playing well, emotional because of what was at four positions. They are just play. Pitino then charged out to couldn't find me on the boards. you can't stop him." at stake in terms of the NCAA better right now." Patilla when a call wasn't made Some games, I'm just lazy. For Jamison, it was all part of and how badly the team wanted 
It also marked the first time on the play. Tonight, I gave it my all." the game plan. to get back there.·· in 33 years that Kentucky (27-South Carolina shot 43 per­The Tar Heels (21c6, 11-5) "I was out to get a lot of re­Jones will have to wait a 4, 13-3) lost on Senior Day. The cent (17 -of-40) and held a 43-finished second in the confer­bounds tonight," he said. "Zwik week to see if the NCAA tourna­Wildcats held the nation's sec­37 edge on the boards behind ence and have ended the past and I were pretty determined to ment committee will go six ond-longest homecourt winning Ryan Stack's eight rebounds. 33 seasons no worse than third do a good job. We were both deep in the Atlantic Coast streak, behind No. 1 Kansas' Kentucky, missing 12 of its in the ACC standings. concentrated on that." Conference -and a victory or 
44. first 14 shots, fell behind 17-6 The win also moved North Smith started Webb Tyndall, two in this week's ACC tourna­
The victory before 24,326 after South Carolina's Arthur Carolina coach Dean Smith Charlie McNairy and Zwikker ment wouldn't hurt -but he fans in Rupp Arena was a confi­Carlisle drilled a 3 from the within four of tying the career -the three seniors playing in feels there's no doubt the case dence boost for the Gamecocks. corner. The Wildcats titd the victory total of Kentucky's their final home game -along for the Cavaliers 118-11, 7 -9) is 
"It's a stepping-stone for game at 23 on Wayne Turner's Adolph Rupp at 876. with Jamison and Williams. now closed. things that are to come," McKie layup after a turnover with 4:02 Krzyzewski said his Blue After Duke scored the first "I know what I felt we had to said. "It could take us a long left in the half, and took its first Devils (23-7, 12-4), had to fight five points, Smith replaced the do; we did it," said Jones, way in the SEC tournament and lead at 33-32 on Edwards' a mental letdown Sunday after seldom-used Tyndall and whose team had lost five of its the NCAA." three-point play 39 seconds clinching the regular-season ti­McNairy with Carter and previous seven. "Whether we 
"It's the start of a dream sea­into the second half. tle by virtue of Florida State's Ademola Okulaja. get into the tournament or not son that I thirik the season will Kentucky opened a 49-45 win over Wake Forest on The Blue Devils built a 26-17 -I think that we should; I end in the Final Four," Davis lead on Turner's free throw Saturday. lead with 10:07 left in the half think that we will-we've done said. with 10:14 to go. South "Certainly, the psychological after a 3-pointer by Langdon. what we can do." 
Pitino was ejected after ve­Carolina went on a 15-6 run barrier in winning the regular But a putback by Carter and a Conversely, there's no ques­hemently disagreeing with a behind six points by McKie to season championship -you're layin by Zwikker started a 26-6 tion Maryland (20-9, 9-7) will non-call by referee Andre' lead 60-54 with 5:50 left. afraid of losing your edge," he run over the next five minutes. make the NCAAs. The Patilla on an inbounds play in "They were just playing said. "You know Carolina's go­The Tar Heels' defense rele­Terrapins' problem is finding which Anthony Epps of the awfully good defense," Mercer ing to be ready to go and cer­gated the Blue Devils to some momentum after losing Wildcats went to the floor try­said of the Gamecocks. "Bottom tainly their fans reacted like it perimeter shots during the run seven of their last 10 following ing to draw a charge. line. No excuses." was a regular-season champi-while their offense generated a 17-2 start. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Found:  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  STEVE MILLER BAND  
NOTICES  A watch in front of Nieuwland on  COUNSELORS needed for out- Make a difference in the life of a  PERSONAL  at the JACC on April 25  
3/3.  standing Maine camps! CAMP  child! Summer therapy camp for  $18 tix at the LaFun info desk  
Contact The Observer at 1-4541.  VEGA tor girls and CAMP CEDAR  handicapped children. Located on  starting tomorrow,  
SPRING BREAK  for boys. Each located on magnifi­ the shore of Lake Superior near Big  JAZZERCISE  Tues 3/4 at 10 am  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  WANTED  cent lakefront setting with excep- Bay, MI. Positions available tor  BECAUSE SUB LOVES YOU!!!  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  tiona! facilities. Over 100 positions  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  Very close to campus  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  at each camp lor heads and assis­ for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  At this very moment I am missing  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  SUMMER JOBS  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  Nurses. Therapists, Food Service,  277-0111  the one TV show that keeps me  
TUB. SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  from destroying the set in my room.  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  field hockey, roller hockey, swim- responsible, and love children. June  Electrolysis by Rebecca  I am not happy.  
BIGGEST PARTY.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  15 through August 10. Salary, room  Blend Method 674-6933  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  NEAR LAKE PLACID  water-skiing, archery, weight train­ & board, and experience of a life- Tenille, aren't you glad you still get  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  1-800-786-8373  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ time provided. Call or write for  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  classifieds written'to you? This is  
tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  application and information. Bay  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  definitely a non-date thing.  
THE COPY SHOP  dance Uazz, tap, ballet), nature  Cliff Heatlh Camp, 310 W.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  
LaFortune Student Center  WE NEED A DRUMMER for our  study, backpacking, horseback rid- Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  The highest quality color copies  Kate: [  
Phone 631-COPY  band!!! If you have your own equip­ ing, ropes course, trip leaders,  Ml49855,  are now available at  The plans are in place; we strike at  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ment and are interested, call  mountain biking, riflery, general  (906) 228-5770.  THE COPY SHOP  midnight!  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. · Midnight  Michelle at 3821.  (w/youngest campers). Also looking  LaFortune Student Center  --The Scarlet Avenger  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  for secretaries, maintenance,  Phone 631-COPY  
FOR RENT 
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPL Y- kitchen. Camp dates approx. June  WANTED: One (1) butler. Job  
Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00 p.m.  MENT -Industry offers Travel  21-Aug 21. Top salary, room,  **************************************  entails opening doors and generally  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean},  board, laundry, clothing, and travel  AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  obeying orders to make life that  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  imcomparable benefits, & good pay.  allowance. MEN-CAMP CEDAR for  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY  much nicer. Contact KEN if you're  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Find out how to start the application  boys, 1758 Beacon Street,  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  interested in the position.  
process now! Cruise Employment  Brookling, MA 02146,  272-6551  TODD DAPREMONT  
Services provides the answers. Call  ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888-844­ "Shut up and treat rne like an  
Do you think you can handle it?  800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are  8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO  Staying on campus tor the sum­ .......,. .....,..,. .............,..,.....,...,..,..,..,...,.  object!"  
We dare you! Come party for 7  a research & publishing company)  Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  mer? Rent our College Park  
straight days with students from all  jobs@campvega.com. http://cam- Condo. Clean. close to campus,  Adoption: A very loving, financially  Mark DeBoy is the cutest thing  
over the U.S. College Tours  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  air-conditioned. Call 273-5833  secure, well educated young cou- Production has produced.  
Cancun Spring Break '97 for 7  -Fishing Industry. Details on how to  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  
nights. Call 1-800-244-4463.  find a high-paying job with excellent  CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  FOR SALE  Close and caring extended family.  Hey, Tim, if I promise not to treat  
benefits (transportation + room &  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  We offer a special life for your child.  them like objects, do you think I'd 
ILOST & FOUND I  board}. For information: 800-276­ Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  get rnore of them?  
0654 ExtA55841 (We are a  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi- Joe 1-800-378-6680.  
research & publishing company.)  um mattress set. Never used still in  "Hey, where'd my breast implants  
Lost backpack. Reward $100.  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  go?"  
Lost black MONTBELL backpack at  Elementary Ed. Major to tutor 5th  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  (219) 674-2352  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  
.......  
bookstore on  grade girl, 11.After School &lor  "The guy who bags her gets ulti- 
Feb 26 bet. 4-4:30pm.  Weekends. 52136 Lilac Rd(N of  Babysitter Wanted for 1yr old in our  Bianchi mtn bike for sale. Never rid- ATIN: SRS./FB FANS  mate braggine rights!"  
Dissertation disk & irreplacable  Cleveland and S of Auten on St Joe  home 50 hrs/wk, Castle Pt  den. Last year's model. Paid $550.  B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES- 
photos inside.  River),$15/hr,call277-7403 before  243-0785 eves  Sacrifice $450 obo. Call  GRAD/Ff1 OR/FB wknds.  Hi.  
Pis call Yukiko@ 1-4861  9PM  616-683-3140 days  243-1308 ask for John  291-7153  

Monday, March 3, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-
M. Hoops 
continued from page 20 
the Irish still had a chance when Woodward converted just the first free throw. 
However, Eagle forward Keenan Jourdon grabbed the rebound after the missed attempt caromed to the side­lines. 
Adding temporarily to the drama, Jourdon, too, missed one of his free throws, leaving Notre Dame a chance to tie the game with a three-pointer. 
But before they could get a chance, Admore White was fouled on the floor with 4.2 sec­onds to go. . 
"We work on it in practice," said O'Brien of the foul strat­egy. "The percentages were in our favor, especially with the way (Antoni) Wyche and Garrity were shooting the ball." 
White made the first, but Abrams grabbed the rebound after an intentional miss and ran out the clock. 
"We had opportunties," MacLeod noted. "We battled back (down nine with 10:36 to play), but that offensive re­bound after the free throw was big." 
The win was even bigger for Boston College. 
After being upset by Pittsburgh last week, the Eagles needed the victory to secure their share of the Big East reg­ular season title, a first-round bye in the league tournament, and an NCAA berth. 
"It was a very, very emotional game for us," said O'Brien. "It's significant to say that we're the Big East champs (shared with Villanova). It's a significant accomplishment, and it assures us of getting into the NCAAs." 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame's chances to earn an in­vitation to the National Invitational Tournament (NIT) 

TheObserver/MikeRuma 
still look good. The Irish, boosted by Garrity's outstand­ing play, have received a fair share of positive media atten­tion. Plus, Notre Dame has played their best ball down the stretch. 
"We've come on with a rush," MacLeod said. "That's appeal­ing (to the selection commit­tee)." 
One reason for the improve­ment has been Antoni Wyche. 
Wyche, a sophomore guard who had struggled with injuries earlier in the season, has raised his level of play. 
The athletic Wyche nailed three three-pointers en route to a 14-point total. 
"Pat's going to get his, and Admore (White) will score too," said Wyche. 
"Between Pete (Miller) and myself, I just want to be a third scorer to take some pressure off Pat." 
Wyche's third trey narrowed the score to 69-67, and White tied it a minute later with a jumper from the top of the key. But Jourdon answered with a jumper of his own to put the Eagles in front for good. 
Still, the Irish went toe-to-toe with a Big East power on the road for the second time in two weeks (a 75-70 loss at Villanova on February 16th). 
"We are making progress," MacLeod summarized. And turning a few heads of their own.. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special 
Observer ad 
•NBA 



Houston pours in 28 as Knicks beat Cavs 
Associated Press 


-
E~~~a~Soo~ePMndri~s~~A~ooiW~~oo~~~~-~-b===========·d~~~~~=~~~===~~~==~=======~ 
... 
l PC0RDER.COM IS NOW ACCEPTING RESUMES. 
pcOrder.com has been called the hottest Internet start-up in the country, and industry analysts predict that pcOnder will emerge as ··a billion dollar company w1th an entrenched. defensible position" by the end of the decade. Since sp1nn1ng off from Tnlogy 1n June, pcOrder has established 1tselfas the lead1ng electromc commerce prov1der for the computer industry. In the past SIX months, pcOnder has been featured 1n Forbes, Busmess Week, Fortune and USA Today and been recogmzed as the "Best of Class" Internet Commerce ApplicatiOn and as the 1996 Excellence Award Winner for "Electronic Commerce over the Internet." 
pcOrder.com is looking for Notre Dame's top graduates to serve as account managers. 
Please fax your resume to the pcOrder recruiting office at 512.342.0200. 
For more information, call pcOrder recruiting at 512.342.0 I 00 x442 or visit our web site www.pcOrder.com 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 3, 1997 
• BENGAL BOUTS
-

Lightweights set tone for night 
By MIKE DAY the 67th annual Bengal Bouts, pound division. Even though he Assistant Sports Editor only one could be crowned was a finalist in the 140-pound champion. For Ted Pagano, division a year ago, Pagano It's kind of like the old adage Tommy Will and Chris Owens, struggled through his first two about the unstoppable force it was their day to walk away fights, raising doubts whether and the immovable object. with a smile on their face and a he could survive the strength Something has to give. championship in their back and power of top seed Fred 
And when the top two fight­pocket. Kelly. ers in each weight class No. 2 seed Pagano was given After all, Kelly had been un­squared off in the final round of little chance to win the 145-stoppable in his first two fights, 
displaying one of the most fero­cious right hands in the tour­nament. The defending 145­pound champ easily defeated Brendan Walsh by TKO in the quarterfinals before knocking off Matt Ramarge with a right cross just 33 seconds into the first round of his semifinal with his workmanlike style, Said Will, "It could have gonebout. 

who captured the split decision either way, al)d fortunately, I "I was fortunate to have been victory. came out on top. It's too bad pretty successful ending these Controversy marked the we can't all win, but I feel the two fights early," said Kelly fol­championship round of the decision was the right one." 
lowing the semifinals. 

135-pound division. No. 2 seed Owens and sophomore David-However, Kelly, having spent Lucas Molina and Will, the de­Seerveld set the tone of a ter­little time in the ring to this fending 130-pound champion, rific night of boxing onpoint, tired late in the fight 
clashed in one of the night's Saturday, squaring off in a
against the well-conditioned most entertaining fights. high-ac_tion, down to the wirePagano. After suffering a nose The fundamentally sound Will contest in the 125-pound divi­

bleed early in the contest, 

used his jab effectively and was· sion.
Pagano settled down and pro­fairly successful going to the Seerveld's reach and lethalceeded to do what he does best: body. jab gave the shorter Owens all 

wear down his opponents. 

But Molina seemed to dictate he could handle. 
A barrage of shots to the body the pace of the fight while con­Yet Owens, quick as a cat andleft the seemingly impenetrable sistently landing shots to Will's deceptively powerful, showered

Kelly looking and feeling dazed. Seerveld with a
face. barrage ofThe relentless Pagano kept 
"His face was about as bloody shots to the body. When it wascoming at Kelly, and all of a as my hands," said Molina. all said and done, Owens, an
sudden, the defending 145­

"His eyes were swollen, and impressive newcomer to Bengalpound champ was just hoping just looking at him, I knew I Bouts, captured the 125-poundto make it through the final had won the fight." title.
round. 

But the judges thought differ­"I was able to go to the body"I've faced some good fight­ently, awarding a split decision which loosened him up some," 
ers, and I've been tested in 

victory to Will, much to the dis­said Owens. "He got a little each of them," said Pagano. 
may of Molina and many in the slower, and I was able to take''I'm glad I had the chance to crowd at the Joyce Center. advantage of that. He is a greatwork on some of my weak ar­"He may have gotten the deci­boxer, and I'm just glad I waseas." 
sion, but he didn't beat me," able to come out on top."
Kelly did make it through the said Molina. "Tonight, the de­Indeed, something had tofinal round, but it was Pagano, cision went the wrong way." give. 

• BENGAL Bours 

Veteran Christoforetti closes career with victory 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
For the past four years, he has embodied what a Bengal Bouts boxer should be, and on Saturday night he bid his farewell with a victory. Senior John Christoforetti said his final goodbye to the tournament with a unanimous deci­sion over fellow captain, junior Ryan Rans. 
"There has only been one other moment that comes close to this, and that was when I received my black belt," said Christoforetti. "But that moment really could not equal this. It was everything that made this the best. All the people buying the merchandise, the turnout, and the publicity. The outcome of the fight didn't matter. It just felt great going into it." 
Despite the unanimous decision, Rans managed to challenge Christoforetti throughout the fight. Like in earlier rounds, Rans relied on his jab, but this time it was not enough. He managed to land a few of his trademark punches and caught Christoforetti off guard. 
The three-time champion simply bat­tled back. He threw hook after hook to fend off jabs. For the first time in the tournament, Rans received a standing eight count. Rans just could not match the energy, the explosiveness, and the 
height and reach advantage, but he was "Because of all of the wrestling, grap­dominant. Lefere transformed himself sheer determination of Christoforetti. not. Maciariello entered the fight with pling, we were both drained by the into the standout by the end of the 
"Ryan is bigger than me," said 
the same approach that he took in the third round." finals, as he prevailed by split decision Christoforetti. "He is a straight fighter, semifinals, and that was to get inside. Maciariello achieved one of his main over junior Andrew Hebert. 
and my main strategy was to block as "I was surprised that he did not come goals for this tournament, and that was In a lackluster first round, Lefere and opposed to moving around. My hook out left handed," said Maciariello about to repeat as champion in the 170-pound Hebert merely felt each other out and worked well. He never gave up though. 
his opponents strategy. "My strategy weight class. tested each other's strategies. Lefere This was one victory that I had to work was similar to the semifinals, and it was "I don't have enough good things to was aggressive in the second round, and 
for."
-. to get inside to overcome his reach say about the program," said landed a majority of the jabs that he Following Christoforetti was another advantage. Norm is a smart, experi­Maciariello about the Bouts. "I feel very threw. Hebert tried to combat Lefere's senior looking to defend his title, senior enced fighter so it was tough." honored to win such a tough weight jabs by ducking and weaving. In the Pat Maciariello. In what was predicted Both of the fighters traded punches, class." third, Hebert tried to rally but fell short 
as being a very physical fight, there 
with Maciariello looking dominant in the In the initial stages of the Bouts, the in the end. When all was said and done, were no surprises. Maciariello and first round, and Beznoska looking strong 175-pound weight class appeared to Christoforetti, Maciariello, and Lefere junior Norm Beznoska came out intense in the second. By the time the third have no true standouts, but senior Ted all defended their No. 1 seeds. in the first round. To the newcomers at round came about, both were fatigued. Lefere rose to the occasion. Lefere was Christoforetti racked up his third title,
the fight, Maciariello looked like the 
"Norm did a great job tying me up in the top seed in the bracket but in his Maciariello chalked up his second, and underdog because Beznoska had the the first rounds," said Maciariello. opening match he did not appear that Lefere claimed his first. 



------~ ~-------~~_..-~~----~­
Monday, March 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-


Carcelli shocks Mantey, crowd en route to title 
By BETSY BAKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Upset. Make it a noun, make it an adjective. Make it what­ever you want, there is no other word to describe Saturday night's Bengal Bouts' finals. 
The top story came from Todd Carcelli's dethroning of the 190-pound champion, Mike Mantey. 
On a controversial decision, Carcelli took the title from Mantey by defending him the only way possible, not defend­ing him at all. Although Mantey came out strong in round one, landing a barrage of jabs to Carcelli's face, Carcelli soon adjusted to a game plan that found great success in han­dling the overpowering Mantey. 
It was pointless to try and match Mantey's strength, and realizing that, Carcelli defended himself by moving out of the way. Carcelli frustrated Mantey by not standing around and taking his powerful punch. He conserved energy and in­creased his confidence. 
"I was very concerned with Mike's experience going into the match," Carcelli com­mented. "I had a great respect for his strength so I knew I was just going to have to keep mov­ing." 
"I think my inexperience helped me be able to relax." 
Round two set the tone for the finale of the match. Carcelli did much of the same, but with added confidence, was able to land four or five strong right jabs. Round three brought in­creased confidence as Carcelli was able to get in a few jabs in addi­tion to his hook. 


The split deci­sion brought mixed reaction from the crowd, but a clear, upset reaction from Mantey. Carcelli was happy with the win, but even admitted that he didn't think he had won and put more emphasis on the experience as a whole. 
"I was very happy with the fight I fought, but I didn't think I 

had  won,"  he  
said.  "What  I  
kept  thinking  

about was the overall experience and the uncanny amount of good, solid people I've met through the program." 
In the 180­pound final, de­fending champion Brian Gaffney defended his title with ease as he put senior captain Mike Debiasi on 

• The Observer/Brat Hogan 
~ts back four Sophomore Brian Gaffney strolls toward a neutral corner after flooring captain Mike t1mes before final-DeBiasi for the fourth and final time as Gaffney improved his career record to 6-0. 
ly ending the match 35 seconds into the sec-head to see who could over­ond round. power who. In what was one of 
Gaffney got Debiasi off-hal-the sloppier fights of the ance early by counteracting evening, the match saw moves Debiasi's defense mechanism of more the likes of a wrestling trying to duck Gaffney's match, including Phillips almost onslaught of punches. falling out of the ring at one 
In the 200-pound final Troy point. Phillips will hold onto his title In the heavyweight division, for another year with his unan-Dave Monahan defeated Mike imous decision over Dave Butz. Romero in a unanimous deci-It was a battle of strength as sion. Although Romero had a Phillips and Butz went head to packed punch and a size advan­tage, Monahan was too quick for Romero, moving around the ring and evading Romero's punch. 
Round two opened up with Monahan on fire, landing three or four quick punches, but Romero responded with a few shots of his own. Eventually, Monahan's right hook was too much for Romero to handle, handing Monahan the win and the title. 

of the other fights were kind of crazy." 
Bouts 
Affinito was most happy 
continued from page 20 with the achievement of his -----------first title in four years' expe­
round two. Despite rience with the Bouts. Titterton's surge of energy at "I feel great, " he said. "It 
the beginning of round three, is a nice way to go out." Affinito was able to wear In the 157-pound class, 
Titterton down. Affinito's senior Chris Sikora used his most effective tool against endurance and some inspira­Titterton was the upper cut tion and instruction from his he had used successfully family to squelch John throughout the Bouts. Kmetz' burning for a title. 
''I'm really glad it was a Sikora outlasted Kmetz for all boxing match and not a three rounds to pull off a split brawl," Affinito said. "A lot desicion over the senior offi-cer. 

Sikora named his younger brother Joe, a Golden Glove boxer in Chicago, as a major influence in his ability to defend his title. 
''I'd say conditioning and the fact that I had my brother in my corner," Sikora answered as to what allowed him to beat Kmetz. "I had a lot of people -out in the audi­ence too. I fight for me, but I also fight for them. They give me inspiration." 
Although Kmetz came out strong early, Sikora main­tained his control to wear down Kmetz. After ducking many of Sikora's punches and landing a few good upper cuts early in the match, Kmetz could not withstand Sikora's straight jab, taking a lot of hits in the last round. 
The 160-pound final between Rich Molloy and Chip Farrell served as the hardest fought match of the evening, in terms of good, strong boxing. Both Molloy and Farrell delivered an array of powerful punches, bruising each other. 
What Molloy landed on Farrell's body, Farrell answered to Molloy's face. After being given a standing eight-count half way through the third round, Molloy mus­tered up one last ounce of energy to give a final onslaught of punches. However, it was not enough to convince the judges, as Farrell walked away with his first title in three trips to the finals with a unanimous deci­sion. 

125 
David "The Gingerbread Man" Seerveld Chris ..Little Mac.. Owens 135 Tom ..Go Ahead and Sign Your.. Will Lucas "EI Mariachi" Mol1na 145 Fred "Irish Stout" KellyTed ..The Ragin' Roman.. Pagano150 Doug ..Pistol.. Pollina Jeffery "Maddog" Mellin 155 Damon .. Bronko.. Affinito Pete "Tito" Titterton 157 Chris ..The Polish Prince.. Sikora John "Place Your Betz" Kmetz 160 Rich "Rachel's Dad" MolloyChip ..Off The Old Block.. Farrell 
165 John ..You Won't Last as Long as My Name.. Christoforetti Ryan "The Scar" Rans 
170 Pat ..Take 2 of These and Call Me in the Morning.. Maciariello Norm "The Barber" Beznoska 
175 Ted ..The Bear.. Lefere Andrew "The Brazilian Bruiser" Herbert 180 Brian ..The Nutty Irishman.. GaffneyMike "King of the Ring" DeBiasi 190 Mike "This Bloods Fro You" ManteyTodd ..Damage Control, Inc ... Carcelli 200 Troy .. C-Bass" PhillipsDave "Kickin" Butz HW Dave ..Kid Arcola.. Monahan Michaei"Phantom of the Hood" Romero 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 3, 1997 
-
..... 
Flying high 

The Observer/Brandon Candura A member of the Notre Dame Gymnastics club performs her rou­tine on the high bar. 
The Notre Dame baseball team improved its record to 3-3 by going undefeated this weekend. See tomorrow's Observer lor in depth cover­age of the weekend's action. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 




R£AT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
r
1 REST ASSURED, YOUR PET WILL , 
I I 
: at the newly opened .-d.. : 
I ..( .1-~~ I 
! .. ,(:.""~(:.o ~. BITTERSWEET ·'~£~'· :
•v ~v / _ 1 
L 0~ --PET RESORT & STABLES _______j 0 Full service modern animal boarding 
facility 0 Playtime available 0Luxuries of home-air conditioning heating, piped in music & a soft blan'ket 0 Professional grooming service 0 Pickup & Drop off service available 0 Horse boarding, riding lessons &training 
2100 Weaver Road • Niles, Mf • 616-684-7361 
Easily accessible (Only a few miles from Indiana State Line off US 12) 
BRING IN THIS AD AND GET 10% OFF 
• HOCKEY 

Spartans end Irish season 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
In a game that caught the spirit of their season, the Notre Dame hockey team dropped a Central Collegiate Hockey Association contest to visiting Michigan State, 3-2. 
"In a lot of ways tonight was a microcosm of our season," explained head coach Dave Poulin after the game. 
The loss was the Irish's tenth in the past eleven games and dropped them to 9-25-1 overall and 6-20-1 in CCHA action. 
"It was frustrating," lamented sophomore forward Brian Urick. "It's hard to understand. We played so well for two peri­ods, and then, in the third, it seemed like every mistake we made ended up in the back of our net." 
The game began auspiciously for the Irish. At the 7:11 mark of the first period, junior for­ward Lyle Andrusiak bought the sold-out Joyce Center crowd to its feet when he knocked home the rebound from his own shot for a 1-0 lead. Notre Dame continued its domination of the first period defensively, limiting the potent Spartan offense to a meager 4 shots on junior goaltender Matt Eisler. 
The Boys of Winter also struck first in the second period on a textbook goal from junior captain Steve Noble. Sophomore forward Brian Urick maneuvered behind the Spartan net and sent a pass into the slot for a streaking Noble, who had only to redirect the biscuit past bewildered Spartan goaltender Chad Alban for a 2-0 Irish lead. 
Senior forward Steve Ferranti began the Spartan comeback with a power play goal, his eleventh goal of the season. Ferranti hovered with the puck at the left circle, then wristed a shot that just snuck inside the post, eluding Eisler. The teams headed to the locker rooms at the second intermission with the Irish ahead, 2-1. 

The Spartans stormed to a lead early in the third period on goals separated only by one minute and forty-five seconds. Junior Spartan forward Mike Watt notched a power play goal at the 2:26 mark of the third period, and sophomore Mike York followed suit on a shot that deflected off Eisler pads and trickled into the net for a 3-2 Spartan lead. 
Despite several power play opportunities, including a brief 5-on-3 advantage, the Irish were unable get the equalizer. 
"We have to score a goal there [the power play]," stated Poulin. 
So how would one assess Notre Dame's progress this sea­son? 
"We made large strides this year," explained Poulin. "But they're not quantified in wins. We lost 12 one-goal games this year. If we had gotten four goals at one time or another in those games, our season would hav~ been completely differ­ent. 
"We're definitely moving for­ward," stated Urick. "Last year there were games that we weren't even in. I remember getting blown out by Michigan by a score of 13-1. But this year we were in every game. We lost a lot of close ones. We're definitely more competi­tive this year, and now we just need to learn how to win the close ones." 
That's a difficult lesson to learn, but it's one the Irish will try to master during the spring and summer. 
"This is a huge time for us," observed Poulin. "We need to get to a new level." 

HEY! Interested in winning a new car? If so, sign the Safe Spring Break Pledge! 
By taking the pledge, students promise not to drink and drive, not let their friends drink and drive, or ride with an 
impaired driver.  When  you  sign  the pledge, you  become  
eligible to be a  nationwide drawing to win a FREE  1997  
Jeep Wrangler  or  a  Plymouth Neon.  

'By signing tfie p{ecfge, you wi{{ aLso 6e e{igi6fe for otfier prizes. 
Sign your pledge forms on March 3rd & 4th. Sign-ups are between 5-7 p.m. in the North and South Dining Halls! 
Sponsored by: 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Junior winger Lyle Andrusiak tallied the first Irish goal against Michigan State this weekend. The Spartans went on to win the game 3-2. 


Monday, March 3, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• fENCING 
Fencers defend home arena 


page 17 

-
... 
,_ 
By DAVID FRICK Sports Wrirer 
The Irish fencing team found themselves in unfamiliar terri­tory when they approached the strip this weekend. For the first time since November, the fencers battled in the friendly confines of JACC. With the emotional lift of an enthusiastic crowd, the Irish overpowered their opponents in capturing the Midwest Team Championships crown. 
The Irish breezed through the first day of competition with an unblemished record. The op­ponents that lay in wait were seven other teams who pro­ceeded to the second day of competition. Among that com­petition was rival Ohio State. It was obvious early that the top prize would fall into the hands of one of these two teams at the end of the day. 
"Ohio State has really im­proved themselves with a cou­ple new fencers since we last saw them. The foil in particu­lar had two strong fencers. We knew we would have to do very well in order to win," said 
sophomore foilist Myriah Brown. 
The women's foil squad would provide the greatest drama of the event by coming from behind to overtake the Buckeyes. Sophomore foilist Sara Walsh proved she is mor­tal by falling victim twice in the final round to record her only two losses of the season thus far. The team would need an emotional lift if they were to overtake Ohio State. Senior foil captain Rose Saari's victory at 4-4 provided that crucial lift which eventually led to a 9-7 victory. 
"Rose has improved a great deal over the year. The way she stepped up mentally and physically today was inspiring to all of us," said Brown. 
"I think we all really pulled together as a team. The sup­port we gave each other was incredible, and having the fans there really helped, too," said Saari. 
The men's competition lacked the drama of the women's, but was amazing in its relentless­ness. The men's foilists, the fi­nal fencers of the day, were 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
almost routine in the disposal of their opponents. 
"The entire squad did well to­day. We had a couple bouts that we dropped that we prob­ably shouldn't have, but it did­n't hurt us today," said foil cap­tain Jeremy Siek. 
Though the weekend may not have been particularly strenu­ous, it provided the team with a look at the competition for next weekend's Midwest Regional Qualifying. The qualifying will be part of the format for de­termining what individuals will be advancing on to the NCAA tournament. To have a solid chance at the title, two individ­uals in each event will have to qualify. 
"This weekend gave us a good chance to see what the competition is like and to get a good feel for how they fence," said Siek. 
But the fencers did enjoy the moment of victory before look­ing ahead to next weekend. One moment of celebration was an award given to honor for­mer head coach Michael DeCicco. 
DeCicco is the man responsi­ble for building the fencing team into a perennial con­tender for the national title. Coach for thirty-four seasons, the list of accomplishments for DeCicco impresses: five na­tional titles, almost 100 All­Americans, and four-time na­tional coach of the year. But the impact DeCicco made went well beyond numbers. DeCicco holds a love for Notre Dame that is difficult to compare. 
"All of our accomplishments never would have been possible if I were coaching at some other school. Notre Dame made that possible. For that I will be eternally grateful for the lady on the dome," said DeCicco. 

Club Coordination Council: Attention all clubs! Signups for meetings with CCC representatives will begin Tues., March 4. Sign up on the sheets located outside our office at 206 LaFortune. Meetings will be held from Mon., March 17 through Thurs., March 27. All clubs must meet with a CCC representativein order to be considered for funding. 
OMSA Interrace Forum: Meeting Wed., March 5 at 5:30PM in the CSC. This month's topic is: stereotyping, attitudes and mis­conceptions about inter and intra racial friendships and romances. Dinner will be provided. For more info, call 1-6841. 
Notre Dame Physical Therapy Club: Monthly meeting, with the South Bend Center for Medical Education Mini-Medical School Series. Ora Pescovitz, named among the "Best Doctors in America," presents "Too Tall-Too Small: Growth Disorders" Tues., March 4, 7 pm, 102 DeBartolo. All are welcome. 
Recydin' Irish: The following dorms have their Adopt-A-Day this week: Mon.-Lewis; Tues.-Lyons; Wed.-Morrissey; Thurs.-O'Neil!. To get involved, please contact your dorm's Environmental Commissioner. For more info, call Helga @4-3486 or Cristin @ 4-4408. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the 
Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
~------------------------------------------------------------------·---­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, March 3, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll
-
.... 

W. Hoops 
continued from page 20 
a semi-final showdown tonight with second-seeded Georgetown. 
"I was very pleased with our offensive game, especially Beth and Jeanine," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Notre Dame was 30 for 57 from the floor (58 percent), including eight of 17 from beyond the three-point arc. 
"It looked like we ran into a freight train," said McGraw's counterpart, Vivian Stringer. "We needed to stop the transition game, but it didn't happen." 
Indeed, the contest was never really close. 
The No. 14 Irish streaked out to a 13-2 lead in the first four minutes of the game, as every starter except guard Molly Peirick scored. 
After the Irish had established the balanced scoring attack, Morgan took over. 
The senior stand-out nailed three treys and was seven of nine from the free throw line in the first half, en route to a 20 point effort in the ini­tial 20 minutes of the contest. 
"When a couple dropped, it became easier to get a bunch to go down," Morgan explained. 
Her three free throws at the 1:10 mark of the half stretched the Notre Dame lead to 46-32, a margin with which they would enter the locker room. 
"We kind of fell apart and once we did, they started getting easy lay-ups," Stringer said. "We were turning the ball over too." 
Rutgers was short-handed in the contest as forward Susan Blausner had to miss the game after spraining her left ankle in Saturday's win over Syracuse. 
"She's our go-to girl and we missed her," said Scarlet Knight Usha Gillmore, who paced her squad with 21 points. 
But even the presence of Blausner couldn't have prevented what happened to Rutgers in the second half-an offensive explosion from point guard Augustin. 
Never one to think shot first, the senior floor leader piled up 13 points in the first seven min­utes of the half. Her free throw with 12:16 remaining pushed the Notre Dame lead to 30 (71-41). 
"Their game plan was to stop Beth and Katryna (Gaither)," Augustin said. "As a result, l was wide open. l got a lot of good looks." 
The outburst certainly caught Rutgers off guard. 
"We knew she could handle the ball and pene­trate," Stringer noted. "But she was capable of hitting the shots too. That just speaks to the 

great balance of Notre Dame. Not to be forgotten, Gaither chipped in a quiet 15. "We didn't get her the ball enough," said McGraw. "But we didn't need to." The 26th win of the season Uust five losses) did not come without a price. 
Senior guard Adrienne Jordan went down in the second half with a hip injury. She was taken to the hospital for x-rays. 
"Losing A.J. is another blow," said Morgan. 
All in all, the romp was a nice start on the road to a possible rematch with Connecticut. The defending national champions also sailed to vic­tory, defeating Villanova 63-45. 
"It's hard, but we can't look ahead," Augustin said. 


WIEIDIDIINGS & IBANQUIIEliS 
FOR YOUR SPECIAL DAY... 
THE 

IBILU!IE IHIIEI~ON 
AT IBILACKliHORN ° 
219/233•3091 FAX 219/233'0298 5440 W. NIMTZ PKWY.. SOUTH BEND. IN 46628 

•5 MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME 







COMING TOGETHER 

Class of •gg Trip March 23 

REDWINGS 
Buses leave Stepan at 9:45 a.m. Tickets: $30 
Sponsored by the elass of 1999 eouncil
Available at Lafortune Information Desk 


DILBERT 
Po.~TBERT, I.'M GOING e,ACK lNTO THE CON5ULT­tNG eu&tNES5 AND ! NEtD YOO TO L;E. MY ENGAGEME.Ni 1'-\ANAGE.I\. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Western hero 31 Keeps away 
1 Garb for fromSuperman 33 "Whose Life 5lce cream 
--Anyway?"
dessert (1981 movie) 10 Work detail, for 34 Suffix with cash short 37 Factory on a14 Singer Guthrie stream15 Ness of "The 38 Department at Untouchables" an auto shop16--Strauss 40 Fairy tale starter 
ueans maker) 41 Tally (up) 
17 What a ghost may give you 42 Bundled cotton 19Coupd'-43 "Well said!" 20 Boundary 45 Honkers 21 Meat cuts 48 A Musketeer 22 Stockholmer 49Pass-­23Wiseone 
(makethe grade)
24 Pay no attention so Poll amts. 
26 Georgia city where Little 
52 Bar for a bird Richard was 53 California lake born resort 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

SCOTT ADAMS 

'10U'I.L. SEE.l"\ VERY 51"'\~t'.T lT~ I.IK.E. >~WAL·MAP.\.'' tF 'YOU P.ANOOI"\I..Y t'\tGI\1\it "<OUJ\ VALUE COMe,lNE ii;E WOR05 lNiO ~t WH!T'E. &P~£5 ON 1'14!5 LISIT r-.ND MAKE OF iHE t'\ANY ~EFE~ENCES TO EtO~Y!;TEI'I\. ''WAL.. 1"'\t..~i. II 
\  
55 Notwithstand­ 
ing, briefly  
58 Actress Chase  
59 With feet  
pointing in  
61 Above, in Berlin  
62 Not moving  
63 Singer  
Fitzgerald  
64 Articulates  
65 Go along (with)  
66Enemy's  
opposite  
DOWN  
1 Hamster's  
home  
2 "East of Eden"  
brother  
3 Slog (through)  
4 Dawn goddess  
50bscure  
6 Hardy and  
North  
7 Bearing  
8 Most  
domineering  
9Numerical  27 Enthusiastic  47 Globe  55 Auto  
ending 10 Quite a few,  28 One way to quit 30 Personnel  49 Opera star Nellie  commuter's bane  
after "a"  person  51 "Veddy" British  58 "War is--"  
11 "Network"  32 Outpouring  actor Robert  57 Singer Anita  
co-star 12 Dodge, as a question 13 Commend  35 Reverberate 36 "Cheers" actor Roger 39 Emulating Paul  52 Papal name 54 Finish for teen or golden  59 Actress ladora 60 Wonderland drink  
18African  Revere  
antelope 22 Perturbed state  40 Inning parts 42This and that  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone:  
23Loam  44 Granola-like  1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).  
25 Grain for  46 Katharine  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
grinding  Hepburn has  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
28 Baby doll's cry  four  50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Your creativity will know no limits! 
A loyal adviser will help you capi­
talize on a special talent. Be realistic 
about your financial needs; careful 
planning is essential for career or 
business success. A reconciliation is 
possible if you attend a summertime 
reunion. August brings powerful 
psychic revelations. Close an impor­
tant deal early in the fall, then watch 
prof1ts grow by leaps and bounds. 
Domestic bliss makes this one of 
your best years ever! 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: heptathlon athlete Jack­
ie Joyner-Kersee, movie legend Jean 
Harlow. fashion designer Perry 
Ellis. football player Herschel Walk­
er. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): A 
heavier workload is part of the pic­
ture. To speed progress, consult ex­
perts near and far. Influential friends 
lend support when you emerge from 
your shell. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Events at a distance convince you to go ahead and launch a project. Stay in close touch with key people. Keeping them well informed will prevent both misunderstandings and financial loss. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do­mestic harmony will make your work load seem lighter. Emphasize common goals and the special mem­ories you share. An old rival now wants to be on your team. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22!: A partnership could hit the skids today. Wait until tomorrow to talk things 
out. Your nurturing manner will per­suade someone to start over. Look forward to smooth sailing. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Special­ized knowledge can help you move mountains today. An impossible dream will soon be achieved. Expect 
partners, allies and creditors to be 
amenable to your requests. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Op­
posing views could threaten an im­
portant pact or contract. However, a 
calm, objective discussion could 
bring about a solution. Seek a medi­
ator who can broker a compromise. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do 
not let a minor tiff leave you feeling 
defensive. Kind words will make up 
for previous critical remarks. A 
small token of affection binds you 
and your mate even closer together. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Others look to you for guidance this 
month. Rely on both your experi­
ence and your vision for the future. 
Launching an all-out public rela­
tions campaign will deliver impres­
SIVe results. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Heed that inner voice that says "handle with care." A colleague "s daring ideas may be too complicated or costly. Insist on seeing all avail­able financial figures. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will accomplish more by working on your own this morning. Complete pending projects before starting any new ones. A diplomatic approach helps you put an older rel­ative's mind at ease. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An excellent day to announce a business or financial project. Lady Luck is with you! An ongoing fami­ly problem will be easier to handle if you remain patient and kind. Be 
willing to admit mistakes. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The good things in life are headed your way. Take a less aggressive approach in business and domestic matters while concentrating on spiri­tual growth. 

thanks its drivers, dispatchers, and riders for another successful weekend! 

Join us after break: call 631--9888 Brought to you by Student Government 
V•••nuu<>•Mouo ll••• 
lloo•o••t:••nn••• 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. Join The Observer staf£ 

-
-
.1' 
-




SPORTS 

page 20 Monday, March 3, 1997 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 
NIT berth still in doubt as post­season begins 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
CHESTNUT HILL, MA 
Danya Abrams turned a few heads two Saturdays ago when he guaranteed a Boston College victory over Notre Dame. 
He turned a few more this Saturday, delivering on that promise by scoring 25 points, including a decisive lay-up with 56 seconds remaining in the Eagles' 76-7 4 victory over the Irish. 
Despite the stellar effort, Abrams, who was projected as the 1996-7 Big East 
Player of the Year, was over­shadowed by Notre Dame's Pat Garrity, a strong candidate for that award. Garrity poured in 
-


33 and kept the Irish in the contest. 
"You saw the two best play­ers in the Big East out there in Danya and Garrity," said BC coach Jim O'Brien. "We tried to junk it up on Garrity with different looks. We tried chas­ing him." 
Though the Eagles did not have an awful Jot of success in shuting down the 
Irish star, they were able to overcome Garrity's effort on the strength of eight of 16 shooting from beyond the three-point line, including four from guard Duane Woodward. 
"They are very good perime­ter team," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "They're prob­ably the best in the Big East." 
Still, MacLeod's unit had their chances to even their Big East mark at 8-8. 
After Abrams' late layup put the Eagles up 74-71, Garrity converted two free throws to cut the lead to one with 37 sec­onds remaining. 
But with just a two second difference between the shot clock and the game clock, Notre Dame waited 26 seconds before fouling Woodward. 
"We waited too long before fouling," MacLeod said. "We didn't convey the message clearly enough to them. It was so loud." 
Despite the strategic error, 

seeM. HOOPS 1page 13 Probable Big East Player of the Year Pat Garrity goes up to defend Boston College's Danya Abrams, the pre-season favorite for the honor . 
• BENGAL BOUTS 


Bengals champions crowned Scarlet Knights roll 
By BETSY BAKER Pollina went straight to Mellin's face in round Assistant Sports Editor one, dazing the rookie and slowing down what 
over in 86-58 romp 
was normally a very aggressive attack. Although 

The crowd saw exactly what was expected the referee stopped to give Mellin a standing By TIM SHERMAN They just couldn't help it. from the 150 to 160-pound weight classes at eight count in round two, Mellin hung in there Sports Editor On the strength of 23 points Saturday night's Bengal Bouts finals -four against the veteran Pollina. However, Pollina from Beth Morgan and 19 from hard-fought exciting matches. eventually overpowered Mellin, holding onto to STORHS, CONN. Jeanine Augustin, the third­
In the 150-pound class, junior Doug Pollina his title. With scouts from Georgetown seeded Irish cruised to an 86­wore down rookie J.R. Mellin 1:07 into the third ''I had a lot of respect for J.R. going into the and Connecticut looking on, the 58 victory over the sixth-seed­
round to capture his second straight title. match," Pollina said. "I knew I had to be at my Irish may 
not have wanted to ed Scarlet Knights at the 
best to beat him." showcase their complete game Gampel Pavilion on the UConn "He came out and surprised me a little bit. I to the upcoming opponents in campus. kept telling myself that I had to give a 100 per­Sunday's Big East Tournament The win earned the Irish cent for six minutes and I was able to do that." quarterfinal matchup againstMellin allotted much credit to Pollina, who has 
Hutgers. see W. HOOPS I page 18 been a role model for Mellin in his first year with 
the Bouts. 
"He came out aggressive, which is what I expected," Mellin said. "I've said before that the only way to beat Doug Pollina is to be aggressive and controlled, but he was just non-stop. It was like going up against a robocop." 

-
One of the highlights of the 150-pound title was after the match as the two fighters walked out of 
the ring, both smiling and laughing with each 
other. 
"It was just great," Mellin commented about his first Bengal Bouts final. "Win or lose, I wouldn't want to be anywhere else. That's the best part about Bengal Bouts. You can hit a guy and then go shake his hand." 
The match-up between seniors Damon Affinito and Pete Titterton in the 155-pound division was also everything it was cracked up to be. Although Affinito controlled the center of the ring in round one, forcing Titterton into the cor­ner, he looked winded at the end of the round. However, he was able to continue his attack in 
see BOUTS I page 15 
Syracuse, 


Baseball at SW Texas , • Women's Tennis splits Friday, 3 p.m. 
see page 17 

Women's Tennis vs. • Fencers continue to role 
-
Michigan, 

see page 17 Tonight, 8 p.m. 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 








