
Tuesday, January 28, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 78 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The light at the end ofthe tunnel ... 
1997 career outlook brightens for college grads 
-~~:-;:::·-:::·;-~:k;-ng
u-pfoe 

college seniors. 
According to the 26th annu­al Recruiting Trends survey conducted by Career Services and Placement at Michigan State University, a stronger economy in 1996 means more jobs and increased job securi­ty for 1997 college graduates. 
"Growth in job opportunities 
for new college graduates is 
predicted for the 1997 gradu­
ates," said Patrick Scheetz, 
director of the Collegiate 
Employment Research 
Institute at Michigan State. 
"When characterizing the 
overall job market for new 
college graduates this year, 
employers described it as 
stronger than a year ago." 
Employers surveyed for the 

study expect a 6.2 percent 
increase in job prospects for 
new graduates. 
Additionally, 19.7 percent of 
surveyed employers reported 
an increase in job security, 
while 68.2 percent reportedl 
no change. 
Kitty Arnold, director of 

Career and Placement 
Services at Notre Dame, also 

Estimated Srtin~ 
aries For New Colle~e Graduates in 1996·97 

reported a marked increase in the strength of the job mar­ket. 
"We've definitely seen an improvement this year," Arnold said. "We haven't nec­essarily seen an increase in the number of companies vis­iting campus, but we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of companies 
posting individual job vacan­cies with our office. That, I .think, is indicative of an 
improving market." 
The Michigan State study 
also reported that job 
prospects appear high 
throughout the entire country, 
although some regions ­
particularly the Midwest and 
Southeast -show more 

Mooko: Color, creed tangle easily 

By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
For many. affirmative action is thought of as a political controversy. but according to Darren Mooko. the issue has a distinctly racial nature. 
"We must also examine [it) in terms of race, racism. and racial politics," he said during last night's lecture, "Decoding the Politics of Affirmative Action." 
Mooko, the assistant director of multi-cultur­al student affairs at Ball State University, delivered the address to kick off Notre Dame's Asian Heritage Week 1997. 
Mooko opened by first exploring an Irish immigrant's experience in the United States, to later contrast with the present situation Asian Americans face. Mooko examined the Irish group's stereotype in America as the "inferior people of the world," reiterating that these poor immigrants had only poverty-stricken homes and disgusting labor conditions to con­tend with. 

The Observer/ Megan Welsh 

Darren Mooko addressed issues of affirmative action and discrimination in his lecture yesterday. 
"But that was one group of people who could overcome," he said. "The Irish, as all 
see MOOKO/ page 4 


Oh 

Brother... 
P
lanning for Sophomore Sibs weekend has hit full stride among the Class of '99. Erin Wysong, a Farley sophomore, did her part stuff­ing envelopes yes­terday in prepara­tion for the event. 

promise than others. 
Furthermore, starting salaries are expected to be higher this year, with employ­ers reporting a three to four percent increase over 1996. 
The study reported that graduates with bachelor's degrees in engineering can expect to make the most, with average starting salaries ranging from $32,000 for civil engineering majors to $42,000 for chemical engi­neering majors. 
Additionally, accounting majors can expect to make approximately $30,000 in their first year, while those with liberal arts degrees can expect to earn $24,000. 
Scheetz noted that employ­ers have become increasing­ly interested in students who demonstrate proficiency in programming, World Wide Web design, e-mail, and other computer-related tasks. 
Students with technical skills, Scheetz said, will often find jobs even though they may not have the spe­cific academic majors desired by certain compa­nies. 
Arnold also noted the importance of computer skills in today's job market. 
"The nature of work has shifted so much toward using technological advances," Arnold said. 
"It would only make sense that those who are more com­puter literate will have more opportunities." 


Palestinian stability may prove illusory 
By DAVID FREDDOSO served in the Israeli military News Writer and in Physicians For Human Rights functions in Israel. did 
Two weeks ago, Israelis and not think so. Palestinians signed an accord "[Netanyahu] is being containing provisions for pushed by political forces into Israeli troop withdrawals from this agreement," Gordon said. Hebron and other parts of the "He is really an enemy of the West Bank. The agreement peace process, and of peace. appears to be a move toward That is how he is conceived of stability, but two members of in Israel." the Notre Dame community Gordon, who studies in the who come from the Middle department of government, East caution was not opti­that this con-------------mistic that the ciliation may agreement be deceiving. would bring They wal'n that 'It's not a fair peace real peace. In peace in this accord. It's not the fact. he was 
region is still a unsure that long way off. one they were strug-any reconcilia-
For any gling for.' tion could be bystander who est a b I ish e d has seen its u n d e r limited cover-Jihad Hamad Net any a h u 's age in the rule. American news "Netanyahu media, the new Hebron is no peacemaker," he assert­accord seems to raise more ed. questions than answers. For Jihad Hamad, a Palestinian example, Israeli Prime resident of the Gaza Strip now Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, studying in N·otre Dame's the right-wing politician who department of sociology, was elected last year, shared Gordon's distrust of appeared willing to end the Netanyahu's leadership. He peace process upon assuming commented that the prime office. Thus, the idea that he minister's executive style is would now consent to with-bad not only for the drawing Israeli troops from Palestinians, but also for the the West Bank seems rather Israelis. out of character. "I don't think that 
Has Netanyahu simply had a Netanyahu is the right person miraculous change of heart? for the Israeli elite society, not Nev,e Gordon, a Notre Dame 
see PEACE/ page 6

graduate student who has 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 28, 1997 
• lttsm~: Cm.uMN 
A Dlatter of 
•


tgnorance 

"They go through life -------­deliberately disrupting Laura Petelle the status-quo; what's News Writer good enough for every---------­one else is obviously not good enough for them. They insist on making life difficult for their teachers, parents, and friends. They are emo­tionally starved, behaving this way for atten­tion's sake. Their behavior must be corrected, for their own sakes as well as society's." 
Who are they? They are left-banders. This sort of rhetoric was used up until about the 1930s to refer to the southpaws of the world. 
Left-handedness was often perceived as 
something that was a choice by the leftie -a 
deliberate decision on the southpaw's part to 
be a southpaw. An abnormality that must be 
corrected for the individual to function normal­
ly in society, a society that was predominantly 
right-handed. 

Lefties were oppressed, reprimanded, some­
times despised. Schoolchildren in the 1920s 
and 1930s would be beaten for using their left 
hands to write. Sometimes a teacher would 
tie a leftie's left hand behind his back, forcing 
him to write with his right hand. 

Lefties could count on being told to override 
their instincts, to put aside their natural habits, 
simply to fit the notions of the majority. The 
right-handed majority didn't understand the 
difference and feared it. 

They were told they were wrong, forced to 
conform to a right-handed world. Parents 
implored them to stop being difficult, to stop 
acting up -in essence, to override genetics 
and conform to society. 

But now we understand left-handedness. We 
know that left-handedness is simply genetic, 
something that's determined in the womb, 
something that lefties have no control over. 

And now we realize that being left-handed is 
no handicap. Being left-handed is no deliber­
ate denial of societal norms. Being left-handed 
makes one no different from the bulk of the 
population -except that the leftie uses his left 
hand. 

The cultural rhetoric that reviled left-hand­
edness is gone, and now we know that such 
rhetoric came from ignorance -ignorance 
about the causes of left-handedness and pre­
conceived ideas of what being left-handed 
meant. 

People fear that which is different, and lefties 
are different -but not dangerous. People 
feared that lefties were somehow dangerous to 
the culture, to the prevalent ideas of the time. 
People feared that lefties were somehow trying 
to undermine society. 

We would laugh at anyone who suggested 
that lefties are somehow inferior or are delib­
erately choosing to be left-handed to fly in the 
face of social norms and disrupt society. We 
would laugh if someone suggested that lefties 
are looking for attention or are emotionally 
starved. 

The preconceived notions and pseudo-scien­
tific ideas that were tossed about regarding 
left-handedness, no matter how ridiculous they 
may now sound, were believed by enough peo­
ple that left-banders were subjected to ridicule 
and worse. Rhetoric is called rhetoric because 
it has emotional power, regardless of its truth. 
Knowing what we know, and having gone 
past the rhetoric and conquered our prejudices 
through this knowledge, we can accept lefties 
as perfectly normal human beings, in no way 
inferior to anybody else. 

Now go back through this column and 
replace "left-handed" with "homosexual." 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Pete Cilella  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Production  
Derek Betcher  Jamie Heisler  
Sports  Chris Uharr  
Brian Reinthaler  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Katie Kroener  
Eddie Llull  
Accent  
Melanie Waters  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


~,~,~~~~ i) ~ £21 
Showers Y:.storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
MOSCOW 

Classes 

keep it in line. 
The Chechens were in a buoyant mood Monday as they headed to the polls in snow-covered towns and villages. 
"This election is about our freedom," said Hassan Khalidov, a former busi­nessman who served as a rebel fighter in Chechnya's war against Russia. "The Chechen people have waited hundreds of years for this." 
Turnout was heavy at 450 polling sta­tions across the republic, with lines of people forming well before some sta­tions opened. Voting was extended two 
AP hours to handle the crush. 
Preliminary results from the presiden­tial race were expected Tuesday. If no one gets 50 per­cent of the vote, a runoff vote will be held in February, though no date has been set. Some 400,000 Chechens were eligible to vote. 
Security was tight as soldiers with automatic rifles guarded the polling stations. 
Garbage man collects in lottery 
NEW YORK 

Sergio Martini became a rich man overnight but is still reporting to work, doing a job some people wouldn't do for a million bucks. ''I'm not the kind of guy to stay home and do nothing," the 12-year New York City garbage man said Monday, working hatless in 15-degree wind chill during a shift that started at midnight. "I feel more energetic now since winning," Martini added, tap­ping dripping coffee cups out of the bottom of a litter basket. "I only have to work one job now." The 50-year­old father of four won a $10.3 million Powerball lottery 
. jackpot on Thursday. He will get about $370,000 a year for 20 years. Up until last week, Martini had worked double shifts for the city Sanitation Department and drove his brother's taxi to pay the bills. He quit the taxi job a day after winning the lottery. But Martini, who according to the city makes a base salary of about $40,000 and a total of around $70,000 with overtime, insisted he will stay on the garbage beat for at least 2 1/2 more years to qualify for his pension. In the mean­time, he said, "I've got to find a hobby or something." Martini's beat includes some of the most stylish neigh­borhoods of his native Manhattan but still is dangerous. There are rats, chemicals, toxins, needles -name the nastiness of New York City, and Martini's handled it. Four New York City sanitation workers have been killed on the job since 1992. 

Families honor dead of Apollo 1 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 

The families of the three Apollo 1 astronauts killed in a launch pad fire 30 years ago gathered in the rain Monday to remember their courage and contributions to America's race to the moon. It was the first public cere­mony in decades in memory of Virgil "Gus" Grissom, Edward White II and Hoger Chaffee, who died inside their burning capsule on Jan. 27, 1967. "It's still a sad thing, it really is. Yet it's uplifting," said Whi-te's daugh­ter, Bonnie Baer, 40, standing next to brother Ed and 37 other relatives who hugged each other in front of the astronauts' memorial at Kennedy Space Center. "I wasn't sure that I wanted to be here, but I'm really glad that I'm here." For Martha Chaffee, the astronaut's widow, the hardest part was hearing daughter Sheryl Chaffee Marshall, 38, a NASA employee, pay tribute to her father. "I don't see that they need to have some­thing like this all the time," Martha Chaffee said. "But 30 years, you know, OK. It did happen. These guys were a part of the space program. They were footsteps" to the moon. 

Tuesday, January 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Shapiro's poetry traces her relationships with men 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 
"Longing makes you close your eyes and wonder makes you open them," explained poet Myra Shapiro last night. 
After reading selected poems from her first full­length book, "I'll See You Thursday," Shapiro explained the difference between the emotions: longing and won­der. 
The presentation, co-spon­sored by the Women's Resource Center and the Gender Studies Department, traced the progression of her own feelings toward the men in her life from early child­hood through maturity. 
Shapiro's depiction included "the history, or a history, of women on either side of the women's movement." Frustrated with her father, who moved the family to an unfamiliar house, Shapiro continued the story through her development as a woman and into marriage, capturing a feeling of urgency in her struggle. 
"I felt dirtied, sometimes desperate, but tough," she 


MARRIOTT 
\Vttnt to get yourfoot in the door with a major corporation? 
MARRIOTT Educational Services at Saint Mary's College is recruiting people to fill various part-time positions, including student management. 
Hours are flexible between Gam and 1 Opm, 7 days a week. Contact Mr. Jamie Wright, Food Service Manager, at 284-5542. 
writes in her poem "My Husband Sits." 
This gritty, determined nature became clear in her reading of "On Being Pushed When I Was Seven," a poem about her refusal to swim-on­command as a young child. After throwing her in the 
'Writing does so 
many things. It gives you, it teaches you, it surprises you.' 
Myra Shapiro 
water, Shapiro's father and his friend were forced to save her, much to her satisfaction. "That's one poem I feel to the bottom of my toes," she remarked. 
Conversely, her lighter side shone forth in "Family Jokes," a poem incorporating poems that she heard as a child, but could not comprehend. According to Shapiro, jokes were part of her family dynamic, allowing everyone to unwind and say things that they would otherwise not con­sider. 
Perhaps Shapiro's versatility stems from her vast range of experiences. Born in the Bronx, Shapiro taught English and became a librarian before she began writing at 50 years old. 
In that time she married a man from Little Rock, Ark~. and raised two daughters in Georgia and Tennessee. After returning to New York City, her poems appeared in the Harvard Review and she was awarded the New School's Dylan Thomas Poetry Award as well as two fellowships from The MacDowell Colony. Earning her degree from Vermont College, she current­ly serves on the Board of Directors of Poets House. 
"I don't know [why I started writing]," Shapiro admitted. "I was a teacher and always liked to teach poetry, so the fact that I wrote poetry was no great surprise." She won­dered aloud: "It was the year my mother died...lt was the year my youngest daughter went off to college... Maybe that was it." 
Incorporating emotions like love for her husband, sexual delight and her love of poetry, Shapiro's works recount the often conflicting emotions that a woman experiences during the women's liberation move­ment. In "How I Learned to Kiss," Shapiro shares how she learned to kiss from watching movies, adding that, "In the '50s, when you learned to kiss it wasn't long before you mar­ried." 
Encouraging all prospective writers, she said, "Writing 
• CANCELLATION 

The Asian Heritage Week lecture "Bilingual Education: The State of Affairs" has been cancelled. It was originally scheduled for tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
does so many things. It gives you, it teaches you, it surpris­es you." 
Shapiro noted, however, that being a female poet today is different than it was in the past. 
"What we could write before the women's movement was a different subject matter. We didn't have many women in the books we read -cer­tainly not in school!" She noted ironically that, "The greatest complement [a female wri~er] could receive was, 'Great Paper. A. You write like a man."' 
This mindset, she explained, 
Tig~~ts a.t~ $3... Buy:~ne, 
;;:,::Get One FREE! 

ared on·.. P 
APPeI oef Ja01,

"68 s search, 
atll star W'»' he lrnprovi Brought to you by: ivities Student Programmers 
DO ~OU LO~I 140~1111 it\UIIC! WltiTIMG! 

The Observer wants YOU. 
Accent is looking for a few good people from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College for these positions 
• 
Music Critics 

• 
Film Critics 


• 
Soap Opera Correspondents 

• 
Copy Editors 


• 
Assistant Editors and Writers in general 


Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions, please contact Joey at 631-4540 


INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
English Classes for Speakers ofOther Languages 
English for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. Mondays, Feb. 10-April28, 7-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Ideal for MBA students 
Specially designed to improve your business presentations. Wednesdays, Feb. 12-April30, 7-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for more information, call IUSB Continuing Education, 237-4261 
opposed the employment of  
domestic images in her works.  
One example of such a pattern  
is her depiction of preparing a  
grapefruit  - a  talent she  
inherited from her mother,  
which she later passed down  
to her own daughters.  
As to the increased number  
of successful female poets,  
Shapiro  speculated  that,  
"We've heard from a popula­tion never heard from before. Surely there's some news in that."  I I I I I  
She  also  noted  that ·the  
female population consists of  
"more that part -more than  
half' of the population.  



page 4 The Observer • NEWS ently inferior and not qualified es of members of the Asian 
to be in the classroom or the American community. 

Mooko 

future business world. "[These successes] are "They say that, by having almost more pressure and dis­continued from page 1 
this policy, white men will crimination. Saying that all 
think of all people of color, all Asian Americans are so smartEuropean immigrants, insisted women in law school and med­or such good citizens doesn'ton whiteness, relied on white ical school, to be unqualified. help the problem. And there'ssupremacy, and tried to claim We will then be placing an really no such thing as theAmerican acceptance by using entire piece of legislation on general Asian American any­their whiteness. They gave up 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK iri$ist on protecting their
the fears and expectations of a way. Don't try to tell me that a
being Irish and adopted the 

Associated Press Writer links with Britain, while thesmall group, and those fears Loasian has the same experi­American way of life." 
province's Catholics demand

are so rarely valid," Mooko ence as a fourth generation
According to Mooko howev­BELFAST, greater ties with the rest of

said. Japanese American. Theyer, Asian Americans do not 
Northern Ireland Ireland, which gained inde­
Other opponents, Mooko can't be clumped together,"
have this option; this makes Against a backdrop of pendence from Britain in theargued, eschew affirmative Mooko emphasized. 

an unquestioned initiation into renewed bombings, Northern 1920s.

action because they feel that Continuing to deal withthe American lifestyle difficult.· 
Ireland politicians met for The umbrella group for the
problems of the past, Mooko
This difficulty sets the stage -----------­the first time in six weeks two main pro-British para­
addressed the "individualistic
for problems when dealing 

Monday, only to bicker about military groups, the'Things like years of argument" where opponents of with affirmative action. 
each others' right to attend Combined Loyalist Military 
the policy ask that since "I
Citing various decisions that subjection can't the peace talks. Command, has refused to
didn't throw your grandma
arose from unrest during the Bomb attacks blamed on accept or deny responsibility 

correct themselves in into a concentration camp,
'60s, Mooko focused on the 

Northern Ireland's pro­for the new bombings. So
and I didn't have slaves, why
Civil Rights Act of 1964. one generation, or two 
British paramilitary groups, have their two affiliated
do I have to compromise my
He specifically emphasized which officially are sticking political parties. 

Title Seven, which marks the generations, or three, spot at Notre Dame because of 
to a 27-month-old truce, ff the loyalists are barred,
affirmative action'?" 

first time that discrimination and they haven't have jeopardized the contin­as other Protestant politi­
Mooko claims that we cannot
on the basis of "race, color, 

stopped today.' 
uing participation of their cians demand, they would
remedy history, but that the
creed" was declared illegal, 

Protestant representatives in join the IRA-allied Sinn Fein
past still exists within the
and also another case in 

talks on Northern Ireland's party outside the negotia­
implications it has on the pre­
which racial quotas were Darren Mooko 
future. tions that began last Junesent.
determined to be against the The pro-British loyalists but have proven an exercise

"You have to ask, 'What kind 
law. 

have killed some 900 people in frustration. 
academic and personal of impact does slavery and
"This is the first time this since 1966 in a bid to intimi· Sinn Fein, supported by aachievements, not ethnicity or oppression have on genera­way of acting was officially date the province's minority sizable minority of Catholics, race, should earn someone a tions of people?"' Mooko said.

termed illegal, but even more 

.Ca~holic community. They was excluded because the
place in the classroom or "Things like years of subjuga­importantly during that time are suspected of retaliating IRA decided last year toworkplace. tion can't correct themselveswas [Lyndon] Johnson's ratio­for recent Irish Hepublican resume attacks against"They say we must be in one generation, or two gen­
nale that you can't just say, 

. Army viol once by planting British rule. 
judged on our merit, not our erations, or three, and they.
'Everything's open to you now bombs under the cars of two David Ervine, a Protestantethnic background. It is a very haven't stopped today." 

-go out and get 'em,' that IHA supporters and a negotiator, admitted that

idealistic argument, because When asked what youngyou have to give people oppor­Catholic family, injuring one pro-British loyalists havethere is true meritocracy for adults could do in response totunities to work from," Mooko man. "been responsible for vio­some, but what about others affirmative action, Mooko saidsaid. 
Monday marked the first lence" in recent weeks, butwith whom we must compete that students, especially thoseMooko also addressed some time since December that all he wouldn't say who waswho are not good enough to in college, can have a pro­common misconceptions sur­nine participating political behind the bombs. 
get rid of nepotism?" Mooko found influence on legislation.
rounding affirmative action, parties met under the direc­The British government'sasked. "College students are at theincluding one in which adver­

tion of former U.S. Sen. main negotiator, Michael
"It's like the golden rule of forefront of societal change, tosaries of the issue claim that George Mitchell at Stormont, Ancram, said he would
business, 'It's not what you educate the mass society of
racial discrimination no longer center of British administra­oppose expelling the two loy­know, but who you know,' and these truths and to look pastexists in American society. 

tion in Northern Ireland. alist parties for now -a
then merit is not being the rhetoric on the right and"One would hope that if they ¥?Wer-key contacts among position that both Sinn Feinenforced." the left, speculating and look­thought [discrimination] did J?Oliticians resumed two and other ProtestantsMooko also chastised those ing for their own truths toexist, they would want to do weeks ago. attacketl as hypocritical.
who claim that the concept of determine the real truth in the
something about it, but the 

The British and Irish gov· ''Clearly the governmentaffirmative action is unneces­world," Mooko said. 
truth is that these opponents ernments last year appointed have been operating doublesary now. He warned that it The lecture was sponsoredsay that all affirmative action 

Mitchell to oversee the standards for some time,''
was wrong to place all Asian by the Asian Americanis reverse discrimination," he search for a compromise said Nigel Dodds, a negotia­Pacific Americans into one Association and took place insaid. 
government for the province. tor for Ian Paisley'sgroup, as "model minorities," the LaFortune Ballroom at 8
Mooko also explained that 

Northern Ireland Protestants Democratic Unionist Party. 
regardless of the past success-p.m.
expectations rather than 


truths fuel these reverse-dis­crimination cries, emphasizing that "one must not mistake the right to attend a particular college with the expectation to attend that particular college." 
Another argument Mooko debated was the claim that the acceptance of minority stu­dents to universities on the basis of affirmative action leg­islation can cause white stu­dents to assume that all minority students are inher­



'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258·9996 



Don't let the winter blues get you down ... 
Sign up for the 






LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leadership course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utilizing University resources. 
Applications are available from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309 
Tuesday, January 28, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

• SWiTZERLAND 
Ambassador's remarks prompt Jewish outrage 
By BALZ BRUPPACHER 
Associated Press Writer 
BERN, Switzerland 

Switzerland's ambassador to the United States resigned Monday after outraging Jewish groups and their supporters by likening his country's Nazi gold crisis to a war that had to be won. 
Carlo Jagmetti described alle­gations from Jewish groups and U.S. politicians that Swiss banks profited from World War II as a "war" Switzerland must "fight and win on two fronts: foreign and domestic." 
In a confidential report, he also spoke of "opponents" who "cannot be trusted." 
The report, sent to Switzerland in December, was leaked Sunday by a Swiss newspaper that said the "oppo­nents" referred to Jewish orga­nizations and U.S. Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R.-NY. 
Jagmetti's remarks prompted protests inside and outside Switzerland. Israel's Jewish Agency called for an immediate apology from Switzerland. D'Amato had said he was shocked by the ambassador's choice of words and Swiss­based Jewish groups demand­ed Jagmetti's immediate sus­pension. 
D'Amato welcomed Jagmetti's resignation, saying "We have heard this language and sentiment all too often in the not too distant past. It is frightening." 
Swiss Foreign Minister Flavio Cotti said the 65-year-old ambassador's decision to resign was his own, and had not been forced by the govern­ment. 
Cotti condemned the leaking of a confidential report and said he would ask the Cabinet to authorize a criminal investi­gation. 
While distancing the govern­ment from the ambassador's language, he said he regretted that "a truly successful and conscientious diplomatic career should end in such a way only a few months before planned retirement." 
DE-ICE YOUR DANCING SHOES AND COME AND "SWING" A LEG WITH 


BALLROOM DANCE 
TONIGHT, JANUARY 28 6:00-8:00 PM STEPAN CENTER ALL ARE WELCOME! 
• ANTARCTICA 
Scientists flock to polar summer 
By WILLIAM HEATH 
Associated Press Writer 
MARAMBIO BASE, 
Antarctica 

The bitter Antarctic win­ter has given way to sum­mer and scientists from dozens of nations are rac­ing to make use of two months of nearly perpetual daylight and "balmy" tem­peratures. 
For many, this Argentine air force base on Seymour Island on the northwestern edge of the Weddell Sea is 
a port of entry for the WSWW%'""'1>.. Antarctic Peninsula and CONTINENTHISTORY islands off its coast. 

~Arrqr~«ca. Wf!S ftr~t 
•In 18 months, scientists from 67 
The tiny island, 625 miles 

··· ifii8Zo:2t;yerno'on~ countries study the continent. The 
Summer in the Antarctic 
The Argentine Air Force base on Seymour Island is the port of entry for the Antarctic Peninsula. Scientists are taking advantage of summer's two months of perpetual daylight, and business at the island's 1 ,200-meter­long airstrip is brisk. 
across the stormy Drake 
on the continent unti/1895.
Passage from the southern tip of South America, has • HMS Challenger steamship the only air strip in crosses the Antarctic Circle on Antarctica where planes a scientific cruise in 1874. can land year-round with­
out skis. • The first base was built "We are beginning the by the British in 1904. 
busy time·" said Lt. Col. • Norweigan team reaches Ricardo Valencia, who the South Pole in 1911. 
arrived in November for a 
one-year tour as base com-----------------------------------------------------J 
mander. 
Although Marambio is a mil­itary base, "we give logistical support to the scientific com­munity," Valencia said. "Most of the work takes place over the next two months although we do some all year-round. 
"The base has about 30 people in winter and adds 50 temporaries in summer plus about 60 scientists who will be working on projects involv­ing fauna, flora, geology, pale­ontology and glaciology." 
Argentina, which set up its first research facility in Antarctica in 1904, now oper­ates 12 bases, six of them year-round. 
It was one of the 12 original signers of the Antarctic Treaty 
number ofbases increased from 28 to 40 from 1957-58. 
• The Antarctic Treaty signed on Dec. 1, 1959 curbed territorial squabbles over claims by various countries. The treaty facilitated the pursuit of research on the continent and installed guidelines for protecting the environment. 
THE 
WEATHER 

From November to February it is light around the clock. 
In June and July there is continual darkness. 
in 1959. The pact shelved conflicting territorial claims, set aside the continent exclu­sively for peaceful purposes, banned nuclear testing and explosions, and restricted mil­itary activities to supporting scientific work. 
"No armed ships or planes are permitted in the area," Valencia said. "We are here with the idea of promoting peace and the study of the environment.'' 
Twenty-eight nations oper­ate a total of 45 bases on the continent. A winter population of 600 to 800 swells to 4,000­5,000 in summer. 
The headquarters building houses living quarters, mess 
hall, conference room, recre­ation facilities and a phone booth, for calls to the conti­nent. 
On a recent day, the outside temperature hovered at 10 degrees above zero. In winter, temperatures of 20-below are more common in this warmest part of Antarctica. 
Inside, Dr. Andrea Concheyro, a University of Buenos Aires micropaleontol­ogist and two companions prepared for a two-month research stint on James Ross Island, 45 miles from Marambio. Antarctic research "is a very important profes­sional and personal experi­ence," she said. 

Participate in the Wednesday Lunchfast. 
B
y giving up just one lunch every week, you can make a significant contri~ bution to the world hunger relief efforts. 
S
ign up in North and South Dining Halls during your lunch or dinner on Monday or Tuesday. 
You've already got your foot in the door••. 
Bet you can't wait-Just six months more! 

Earn a Graduate Degree from Georgia tech and discover Europe. 
GEORGIA TECH LORRAINE 
The European Platform of the Georgia Institute of Technology 
DH'ering • ftlasters and Ph.D. sin Electriwl 
Georgia Tech Lorraine 
and Computer Engineering from 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
the Georgia Institute of(ec.hnology 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0250 USA Tel: 1 404 894 0076 • Doo61e Degrees with European and Fax: 1 404 894 2997 
French universitioo andengineering
gtl-academic@gtl.gatech.edu http:/ /www.georgiatech-metz.fr ochools 
~--__..--------·-----·-----------~~---~--~---~-­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 28, 1997 



Peace 
continued from page 1 

just the Palestinians," he said. "Before he was elected, they used to· call him 'the liar.' He is not a trusted person." 
Netanyahu is even more mistrusted now; his post-elec­tion popularity has fallen drastically among Israelis. Not only did nearly half of Netanyahu's hand-picked cab­inet furiously oppose the Hebron accord, but many offi­cials in the higher circles of the Israeli government are beginning to question whether he is even fit to rule. 
Many Israelis are unhappy with Netanyahu for conceding anything to the Palestinians. But Hamad, who was tortured for 30 days by the Israeli authorities in an Israeli prison, did not believe that the Palestinians would be helped much by the accord. 
"It's not a fair peace accord," he said. "It's not the one they were struggling for." 
According to Hamad, the Palestinians are struggling for an agreement which would allow for an independent Palestinian state. They are attempting to form a democra­cy suited to the culture of Palestine, not a "rental democracy" modeled after western democracies. 
Although Netanyahu has sent a strong message against an independent Palestinian state, Hamad believes that the Hebron agreement is a step in the right direction for the Palestinians. 
"The accord has some ele­
ments which provide the 
Palestinians with a state ­
though not an independent 
state," he said. "I see the 
accord as a peace agreement. 
It's not the fair solution, but it 
was the only solution at this 
particular time." 

In a certain sense, the fulfill­
ment of the agreement is only 
fitting, if not long overdue. 
Despite the uproar regarding 
the Hebron pact, Gordon 
explained that the current 
accord is really only carrying 
out promises which were 
made in an earlier Oslo treaty 
signed in 1993. 

The previous prime minister, 
Yitzhak Rabin, had promised 
to draw troops out of the West 
Bank by a much earlier date. 
But ever since Netanyahu 
defeated Rabin's successor in 
last spring's election, Gordon 
said, the new prime minister 

has used every means avail­able to avoid following through on his promise. 
"Netanyahu has been trying to suspend the deployment," Gordon stated, "but there were agreements, and the international community was pressuring him." 
The Hebron accord also rais­es the question of whether the violence will be continued by extremist Palestinians and Jews now that Palestinian and Israeli leaders have com­menced the peace process. 
Gordon described the ter­rorism in the occupied territo­ries of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip as a seemingly eternal cycle. As long as the turmoil continues, he said, more of the inhabitants of the region will continue to suffer under the poor economic con­ditions, possibly nurturing more conflict. 
"If there is no peace in the region," Gordon went on, "then people do not want to invest in the region. And in the past four years, the annual per capita income of the Palestinians has gone down by 30 percent. The Gaza Strip is really poverty-stricken." 
Gordon believes that this poverty can only lead to more violence. "When [the Palestinians] dreamed of peace, they thought they could have their daily bread and come home from work to live a normal life, like you and me." With their economy suf­fering so badly, however, there is no such normal life for most of the Palestinians The current peace accord is unlikely to drastically help these people. 
Thus, despite the relative silence of militant Islamic groups during the past month, Gordon believes that there 
could be a great deal of vio­lence in the near future. 
"There's going to be an explosion," he predicted, explaining that he expected massive protests in the streets. Sadly, Gordon said, there could even be suicide bomb­ings, much similar to the ones in late February of last year which claimed 63 lives in one week. 
"Violence is in the air," he said. "This might have stopped it for a few weeks, but if the peace process does not continue to progress. and the economic situation does not improve, there will be vio­lence." 
Hamad went so far as to say that the lack of stability in the Middle East threatens peace all over the world. 
"If there is no stability there. then there is no peace in all the earth," he said. "It is writ­ten in the Bible, it is written in the Koran, and it is written in the Torah. 
"And in terms of economic stability," he continued, "that's the region that makes the whole world stand upside down.'' 
Gordon believes that the sit­uation could be improved with help from the United States and the international commu­nity. "This is where the U.S. has to come in," he said. "The World Bank can help alleviate the poverty of the Palestinians." 
As for a long term solution, Hamad believes that if the Israelis and Palestinians com­pletely changed their own world views, the Jews and Arabs across the Middle East would have to stop despising one another. 
"We do not want leader­ship," he said. "We want peo­ple to trust each other." 
Clinton seeks tax credit to aid welfare recipients 
The Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

President Clinton is expect­ed to ask Congress to give tax breaks to businesses that hire welfare recipients, according..._ 
................. to a New York Times report. 
But some govern­ment and academic economists 
are ques-Clinton tioning whether such benefits, beyond giving a windfall to businesses, will actually increase the number of poor people who get jobs, the paper said in Tuesday editions. The tax credits. promised by Clinton during last year's campaign, aro osi)ential to his plan to croate 1 million jobs for welfare recipients by 2000. The welfare reform bill Clinton signed last August requires welfare recipients to get jobs within two years of going on public assistance. The Times said Clinton's proposal, to be included in his budget next week, would give employers a tax credit of 50 percent of the first $10,000 paid to people who have been on welfare for at least 18 months. Though such tax credits have been allowed, in one form or another, for 25 years, the Clinton proposal would offer a larger subsidy 
than has been available in the past, the Times said. 
Currently, employers can take a credit on 35 percent of the first $6,000 paid to people who have been on welfare for nine of the previ­ous 18 months. 
Charles Marsten, inspector general of the Labor Department. said his 1994 study of a welfare tax credit offered to employers between 1978 and 1995 showed the benefit had "vir­tually no impact on employ­ers' decisions to hire" wel­fare recipients and other poor workers. 
"I can only conelude that the tax credit is a windfall for employers since the pro­gram is inconsequential in encouraging the employ­ment" of welfare recipients and other targeted groups, Marsten said. 
Labor Department auditors concluded that the earlier program cost $374 million a year but produced only $140 million in wages for people who would not otherwise have been hired, the Times said. 
A senior adviser to the president, Rahm I. Emanuel, told the paper that adminis­tration officials believe Clinton's proposal will be more effective than earlier versions. 
Other factors inelude child care, an increased minimum wage, health insurance for people leaving welfare and transportation to help people get to their jobs. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Celebration 
Reviving the Dream Deferred 



A CALL FOR ESSAYS ... 
Kings stalwart faith in the true potential good of humanity is unmistakable. To what extent does social contentedness hinder the fulfillment of King's dream? 
THREE $250 UNDERGRADUATE PRIZES TWO $250 GRADUATE PRIZES 

Deadline: February 1 
Information: Campus Ministry (1-5242) Center for Social Concerns (1-5293) Office of Multicultural Student Mfairs (1-6841) 
Sponsored: African American Student Alliance, Amnesty International, Campus Ministry1 Center for Social Concerns, Filipino American Student Organization, Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Student Affairs and Student Government. 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday January 28, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insrimrion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Phoro Ediror, Spores Ediror, and Saine Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present che views ofche amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of che None Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 63I-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63 I-454 I Adverrising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Maty's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 63 I -5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.ed;, General Information 63 I -747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• fiRST PRINCIPlES 

Might makes wrong: The case of Paula Jones 
Plato's Republic contains a memorable confrontation between a character named Thrasymachus, depicted as the defender of immortality, and Socrates, the defender of justice. The essence of Thrasymachus' position is that might ­especially political power -makes right: "Justice," he says, "is the advan­tage of the established rule. Since the established rule is surely stronger, any­
lrfan Khawaja 

one who reasons correctly will conclude that justice is the same everywhere, namely the advantage of the stronger." Socrates famously disputes this proposi­tion, and takes the rest of the book to refute it. 
For decades, the American "left"-the public intellectuals and persons of affairs who call themselves "liberals" ­have styled themselves as the true heirs of the Socratic ideal. In academic cir­cles, the term "left" is virtually synony­mous with justice, conscience, compas­sion, principle, and integrity in politics. A "person of the left," we are told, is a person who "speaks truth to power" -a person who takes the life of the mind, spirit, and morality seriously, as distin­~uished from the Thrasymachuses of 
the right," the catch-all term for the "non-left." The right consists of anti­intellectual amoralists who lust after power, treasure, blood, and glory. A right-winger is the kind of person who will run over his grandmother to commit insurance fraud. The pages of Common Sense or The New York Times provide ample confirmation of the existence of the relevant set of attitudes, in case one were inclined to doubt their existence. 
Like most stereotypes, this one is as fraudulent as it is widespread, but to gauge its distance from reality, let's con­sider one of the stranger scandals that has beset the den of iniquity we call our nation's capital. Consider the strange case of Paula Jones. Jones is a woman who alleges that in 1991, President Clinton, who was then governor of Arkansas, sexually harassed her in a motel room in Little Rock. If Jones' alle­gation is true, Clinton's actions would constitute a violation of Title VII of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's guidelines on sexual harassment. For more than a decade now since the 1986 case of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, such cases have been used against corporate CEOs who have been charged with sexual harass­ment; a sizable number of "very impor­tant" CEOs have lost their jobs on this basis. As the EEOC sternly reminds us, "a single, unusually severe incident of harassment may be sufficient to consti­tute a Title VII violation," where such an incident can include an employer's fail­ure to insure a "non-hostile" working environment for women. 
In light of this, you would expect the allegations against Clinton to be taken seriously by people who regard them­selves as defenders of law, justice, and women's rights. But you would be seri­ously wrong, because instead what you will find are people who insist that Clinton not be required to endure the indignity of defending himself in a civil trial because Paula Jones is an unreli­able slut and President Clinton is above the law. 
To evaluate the hypocrisy of this atti­tude, let's take stock of some recent American history. 
Richard Nixon resigned the presidency in disgrace after it was discovered that he had been behind an attempt to bur­glarize the Watergate Hotel, then the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee. An independent counsel, Archibald Cox was appointed by the Justice Department to investigate the charges. Nixon has gone down in history as a right-wing president who thought he was "above the law". 
Clarence Thomas was accused on national TV of sexual harassment, and attempted to answer the charges, with­out benefit of counsel or settled rules of procedure or evidence. The polls tell us that he didn't succeed; most Americans believe that he sexually harassed Anita Hill. Whether that is true or false, Thomas holds a place of special scorn in many people's eyes; he is the erstwhile chairman of the EEOC who "broke the rules" of his own agency. Well, what would expect of an opportunistic right­wing Reagan appointee who benefitted from affirmative action but wants to abolish it? 
What happens, however, when the first Democratic president since 1980 is charged with moral impropriety and illegality? Well, people make as many excuses as possible. When the ~oing gets tough for our President, left-wmg moral tough guys get going; that is, they run ­away. As a representative voice in this chorus of moral rectitude, consider the words of Susan Estrich, manager of Michael Dukakis' 1988 presidential campaign, and now a professor of law at USC. Estrich claims that the Jones accu­sations are "just one more weapon in the anti-Clinton business." In response to an argument in The American Lawyer that the charges against Clinton are both more weighty than those made against Thomas, Estrich asserts that Clinton must be innocent of Jones' char~es because Clinton "has more class' than to be a sexual abuser. I guess that makes Thomas not just guilty, but "classless." And I suppose that we are to infer that there is no such thing as a "classy" sexual abuser. If only those hapless CEOs had used the ''I'm classy" defense to defend themselves against charges of sexual harassment! What a field day that might have been for the unscrupulous! 
More "reasonable" people have protested that we should not take Jones' accusations seriously. One reason adduced is that Jones' story is not credi­ble. But this assertion be~s the question: strictly speaking, Jones story has not been heard because it hasn't yet been made in a court of law. She may be lying, she may be telling the truth. That is what the trial is for. 
Another reason adduced is that the president is "too important" a person to be subjected to "frivolous" lawsuits. This begs the question, too, but there is something stranger still about it. It seems not to have occurred to the peo­ple who make this argument that Clinton is not the only target of "frivo­lous" lawsuits in this country. The same liberals who derided Dan Quayle's efforts at tort reform and deregulation now find it expedient to believe that when women with "big hair" file sexual harassment suits, they must be doing it "just" for the money. These same liber­als seem to have made the amazing dis­covery that sometimes, government reg­ulation can kind of cramp your style. Welcome to litigation and regulation, American style, where your whining complaints are a first mortgage on the energies of productive people precisely because they are made loudly enough. 
Consider another oddity. Clinton, we are told, is "too important" to stand trial, and his office is too "dignified" to be besmirched by the necessity of hav­ing to defend his name. What a gentle­man! But that didn't work for Nixon, did it? Come to think of it, the only place where that kind of defense would work is in a monarchy or a dictatorship, where the head honcho is explicitly above the law of the land. Could youimagine someone excusing a sexist CEO on the grounds that he was "too impor­tant" to the economy to be put out of commission during a trial? The obvious response would be: justice doesn't yield to expediency, and besides, there are other CEOs out there to take his place. 
It is somewhat disorienting to watch "persons of the left" dance around these issues, shamelessly making apologies for one of the biggest con artists to have inhabited the White House since, well... George Bush. (No sense in being parti­san on this issue.) From "speaking truth to power," the left seems to have fallen to the likes of Professor Estrich, who speaks falsehoods just to prop it up. No surprises here: the same left that has "problematized" the concepts of truth, principles, objectivity and the rule of law has brought us falsehood, opportunism, confusion and "professors of laws" who defend the political equivalent of gang warfare. 
If this is the wave of the future, I think it's time to leverage my abilities as a philosopher into the "Thrasymachus for President" campaign in the year 2000. It may be immoral, but it certainly beats teaching a freshman seminar. 
Ir{an Khawaja is a Ph.D. student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• tlUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Human salvation 
demands divine dis­
closure of truths surpassing 
reason." 
-St. Thomas Aquinas 



------~­




ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, January 28, 1997 
International Business Hits Ho 
NDCIBD programs bring global experience to undergr 
By MARY PELZER, DANA KOVARIK, AND panel, who makes the final decisions in early While the NDCIBD is a truly unique organi­that offers its participants the MIKE MONROE February. zation insofar as the variety and depth of its learn valuable lessons about Accent Writers In addition to establishing overseas intern­projects, competing 
ships and supervising tho application there is still ;c-----....-------, prizes. Th 
As the winter semester gets underway and process, NDCJBD's Internship Division also much work assignments quickly accumulate, it seems aids interns with housing and travel arrange­to be done in inappropriate to start anticipating next sum­ments. making it a mer. However. that's exactly what the Notre fully pro­Dame Council for International Business Building a Bridge active orga­Development (NDCIBD) wants students to do. A bridge is a structural support whieh pro­nization. 
Since January 25, NDCIBD has been inter­vides an eager traveler a reliable way to go However, in viewing candidates for its summer internship from point A to point B. However, in today's a world of program. NDCIBD internships, which gener­world the bridges reaching beyond comfort­miscommuni­ally last ten to twelve weeks, focus on anum­able surroundings are often made to look cation, irra­ber of different fields-from finance and treacherous through a lack of knowledge and tional wel­marketing to engineering and political analy­cultural understanding. These shaky bridges fare, and sis. are the only current means of reaching tho unethical 
Positions extend across geographical bor­far corners of the globe. It is increasingly treatment of ders as well. Last year, NDCIBD arranged becoming the responsibility of this genera­humanity, over fifty internships in thirteen counties, tion to patch those bridges and rebuild them the NDCIBD including Argentina, has provided 
the opportu­nity for Notre Dame stu­dents to make a dif­ference and strengthen the bridges which our predecessors have built. tlir..lal•:i411l 
T h n NDCIBD is a younger me
Notre Dame Council for International Business 

testament to the Notre
Development students participating in the Summer 1996 

young people Saint Mary's
Exchange Program enjoy a day at Wrigley Field in 

who arc will­Chicago. nity to parti ing to take the contest th<i initiative having to and dedicate themselves to the future of the competing against uppnr level stud world. In preparation for roles as future may have had classes what would world leaders, they are starting to make an advantage. 
help in the develop-their mark now, expanding their horizons The PMC has attracted signi ill ent 0 f I-I 0 n e y weII .s Photo courtesy Kim Rosenkoetter beyond the boundaries of Notre Dame. freshman participants than last However, they cannot do it alone. They rely sophomore class is the most
d_istribution _and s~r-The NDCIBD offers internships, contests, and exchange programs like on the relationships which they are constant­SPnted in the contest. Thesev1ce network m Russm. this Summer 1996 one that sharpen and develop international business 
In addition to intern-skills. ly establishing in the international arena. It help ensure that freshrnanlsoph ships with private is necessary to learn from our predecessors. ipants return to the contest in the companies, Notre Dame students can also into a solid support system over which a It is necessary, for the legacy of the Notre increasing the probability that they work in the private sector. NDCIBD interns great new exchange of awareness will travel Dame Council on International Business a good experience and be corn will be placed with the Center for Post-Soviet from one end of the world to another. Development, as well as the advancement of the other contestants. Students, the Morozov Project, the American The Notre Dame Council on International humanity. PMC organizers also plan to host Chamber of Commerce, and the Governor's Business Development (NDCIBD) has chan­series throughout the course of Office of International Trade. neled a great enthusiasm for global knowl­The Portfolio Management Challenge as a way to expand the 
It's not surprising that the application edge into a legacy of student leaders who In the Fall of 1995 the Notre Dame Council ties available. The 1996 PMC process is rigorous. Students are asked to have taken their vision of peace through on International Business Development's to be an excellent educational submit a transcript, a completed application commerce and capitalized on their education Finance Division held the first annual those who participate as well as form, and a list of preferences. Following by implementing these ideas around the Portfolio Management Challenge (PMC). The who are working on it. this, all applicants are interviewed by a globe. PMC is a stock market simulation contest 
The appetizers are more esting than the beer. T wings, which offer a moderal spicy taste, are comparable
ai-ed l.J\p very 
the quality of any wing joir They are deep-fried with re wine sauce, and cost $4.75 

The shrimp cakes are ly as tasty, but the m 

r?cipes lure local diV\ers 
.Wt' 
to SahV\ Thai 
Numerous pieces of exquisite Asian art dot the walls and give the restaurant a museum-like, while the stan·. mostly dressed in Thai attire, also lend to the feeling of authenticity. The owners, Phromphan 
riving along Grape Road, a Kongpolphrom. Nuttaporn Chalearnchaiphucksa, Navara road with the neon Charoonchaiprucksa, Jackchai Vasunirachom, and Jennifer Barker did a . $tgl)S · restaurants, fine job in creating a unique eating environment. ' 
Ifis if there is Additionally, the staff is quite cordial. They talk to their guests and try ofTaco Bell to get a general feel for Uteir tastes. From there, they help the patrons . ... From decipht;rr the menu and recommend certain foods according ttftheir e restaurant (it tastes. Foods·range from the red hot and spicy to the mild and sweet. found where the Gra:pe. Road Macri's was formerly located} appears to But don't get the wrong opinion, Thai food is not for the mild at heart 
fro~,thesa;.ne IJ1~ld as fbe··majority qf ~hfl ot~E:l" resta?rants•.in the Each dish has a very original and interesting taste that is very pleasing 
Nestled deep/in thff plaia across from Best Buy, Bahn Thai gets but sometimes, judging by the unique appearance of the food, is not with its relative pbtinness. ·With the exception ofthe sign, the outside always expected. r.ornoletelv ba,te. Qjlite fraJ))dY•.it~pp¢an;.t9 be $ijte a dive, but upon The Thai experience hegins when ordering drinks. The restaurant lontorli'fl(T one is tak:enJnto a whole new world, the world of the exotic ori-offers a broad range of beverages,· including Thai tea, soda, and even reliance on vegetables, Thai beer. The Thai beer (they also servn domestics) is very smooth and much more interesting 


ACCENT
Tuesday, January 28, 1997 page 9 


e 
isions. provide ith an which to learn the 
speaker contest portuni­ld prove for those distributed on moving day. Apartments 

M
were subletted, jobs and school were put on hold. aybe it's every college student's dream. Within two weeks, their worlds were upside down, Maybe it's the fabulous cities, the fabulous and that was before the unique six month experi­house, or the seemingly fabulous people. ence even began. ever the fascination with MTV's "The Real The after shock has been equally as strange. Kat World," the mystery became a known quantity last and Lars admit that their groups of friends have Friday, as students listened to two members from changed a lot, since some were unable to adjust to the London cast describe their brush with stardom. their new lifestyle. Kat, a recent graduate of New 
More than 100 students flocked to the LaFortune York University with degrees in Anthropology and Ballroom last Friday to see Kat and Lars in person, Archeology, shared that those departments were and whatever they hadn't already gleaned from forced to make policies to stop fellow students from watching their lives on television was asked in an harassing her during classes. Fans turned into informal question and answer session. stalkers. When asked if she'd do it again though, 
Lars related his frustration with the format of the she said yes. "I'd rather show, explaining how he had to notify the MTV staff regret something I did members every time he changed location, calling in than regret something I at 3 a.m. after he left a club, for example. Kat didn't do," she anwered. and Lars joked about the "stone fire-Perhaps it is this atti­place" made out of styrofoam, tude that landed them flashing tlw camera so spaces on the show. that some pri-Both were sighted and vate informa-pursued, instead of tion wouldn't be auditioning like aired, or many other hope-strangers stop-fuls. And remark-ping them on the ably, both needed stred for auto-convincing by graphs. MTV producers to 
Both adjourned to accept the offer. Alumni Senior Club Perhaps the for the evening's all-opportunity for ages show, with DJ adventure(the Lars at the turntables. on London cast Clouds of techno and nle\gnlno<"l's t rave I e d house floated through \neO'OserJe<ii'S as t h r 0 Ugh the bar. while students . s\ r(ida~ Europe as packed on the dance . \f'JS~O \a well as f1oor fought for air. · \f'J\Jf\ a~0 n \30a(0· A f r i c a . ) 
Lars confined himself to , .... . ·on ,o·s \O\~oen\ 1Jn'0 proved the biggest the DJ booth and looked o(d sta\l \O( tne S drawing card. Perhaps Lars like a caged zoo animal, as 0 \..a(S (ecea(ance stated it best when he remarked, curious students peered y..,a\ an, \nei( a?? "Being on "The Real World" does open a lot of inside. Kat, 21, tried to ?a(\O · doors for you, but you have to walk through them." blend in with the young Kat hails from a small town in Washington, while'' crowd. relieved to finally relax Lars calls Berlin home. Both now reside in New after a week of final exams. Although Lars and Kat York City. Sitting with them in the Olive Garden for have only visited a few colleges for speaking engage-lunch seemed almost surreal. Their celebrity status ments, both cast members reacted to the antics of vanished as we sat and joked about Jenny McCarthy the evening with patience and class. or the club scene in South Bend. These two interest-
But despite their public composure. both privately ing people experienced something out of the ordi­
reflected upon the downside of the experience as nary, nothing more. Even Kat and Lars themselves 
well. The majority of their audience sees less than marvel at the countless requests they, along with the 
five percent of the actual tape shot, and producers other veterans from the series, receive for speaking 
mixed pieces of week one with others from week ten engagements. After talking to them about the fan­
in order to construct episodes. To some extent, Kat fare for a while, it seems like both of them are hold­
and Lars feel their images have been manipulated ing their breaths until, ironically enough, the can 
by what MTV chose to represent. Contracts con-once again re-enter the true real world. 
iug in 


No Banker Needed 

MonefiTalks is a new feature here at Accent that W,ill appear (!very other Week. We wei­com~ anysuggesctions or rnqney questions you might have, !phich can liJ{iiddressedto the author do The Observer. 
.... 
page 10 

Spartans 
continued from page 16 
game)." 

"Everyone has a good feeling," said freshman center Ben Simon. "We're clicking, we're having fun, and we're working hard. Last week we worked a lot on the basics, like passing, skating, and 2-on-1 's. We know that if we get some goals that Matty [Eisler) will keep them to one or two goals per game." 
A large part of the outcome of this game rests on junior goaltender Eisler's shoulders. 
He has been hot lately, allowing only five goals over the past three games. In doing so he has lowered his goals­against average to 3.22, which would be the best finish for an Irish goaltender since 1971. "Matt's playing terrific," stated Poulin. If Eisler is on, the Spartans will have a difficult time solving him. Just ask opposing coaches whose teams have been stumped by Eisler­Alaska-Fairbanks coach Dave Laurion, after a 6-2 Irish win, said, "he [Eisler) had our number tonight. He made some excellent saves," or St. Cloud State Husky coach Craig Dahl, after a 5-2 Irish vic­tory, who stated, "their goaltender made some outstanding saves." 
Other key factors will be Notre Dame's ability to play consistently at a high level. Over the past three games, the Irish have made large strides towards that goal, turning in solid performances every night. "We've had consistency and good efforts," quipped Poulin. "As the players' standards increase, I can demand more from them, too." 
With the play-offs hanging delicately in the balance, every game looms large, especially for a young team fighting for the final spot. Poulin, who after 12 sea­sons in the NHL is no stranger to play­offs, summarized it best when he said, "every game is simply a fight." 

Tonight the Irish will attempt to avenge a 4-3 loss to Michigan State suffered earlier in the season. Notre Dame is coming off two positive outings against St. Cloud State 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Canseco headed back to Oakland 
By ROB GLOSTER Associated Press Writer 

OAKLAND, Calif. The Bash Brothers are to­gether again. 
Jose Canseco returned to the Oakland Athletics in a trade from Boston on Monday and will be reunited with Mark McGwire, with whom he formed one of the most explosive combos in baseball in the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
With Canseco and McGwire combining for 200 homers in 1988-90, the A's won three straight AL pennants. Canseco had five seasons of more than 30 homers for Oakland, including 44 in 1991 and 42 in 1988. 
"If McGwire and myself can stay healthy the whole year, I think definitely we're going to win our division," Canseco said in a conference call from his home in Miami. "Potentially we can lead the league in home runs." 
Canseco was sent back to Oakland for right-handed pitcher John Wasdin, who was 8-7 with a 5.96 ERA last season in 25 games, 21 of them starts. The Athletics also got cash, apparently to pay part of Canseco's $4.5 million base salary this sea­son. 
A's assistant general man­ager Billy Beane said Boston was paying the Athletics more than $500,000, but would not be more specific about the amount. 
The trade had been antici­pated for several weeks. The outline of the deal had been in place since last week, but Canseco first had to undergo a physical exam demanded by the Athletics. 

MIAA 

continued from page 16 
will cause more incoming stu­dents to be interested in the Saint Mary's athletic program," sopho­more soccer player Jo Wagner said. 
People hope the conference will be a selling point for students interested in attending Saint Mary's College. 
"The conference will allow the athletic teams to become stronger which will help recruit more students. The MIAA will be good for Saint Mary's overall because it will help fulfill our goal of increased enrollment," Travis said. 
Both the coaches and players are enthusiastic about the new conference. They have a positive outlook at their chance for a NCAA bid. 
"It is difficult to get into the NCAA tournament if you are not in a conference. Our team can now set a goal to win conference so we can get a bid _to the NCAA tournament," basketball coach David Roeder said. 
It is also felt that the MIAA will help the Belles evaluate their performance. 
"We will be able to measure our performance and progress with other teams in the con­ference. Before all we looked at was our record," sophomore bas­ketball player Charlotte Albrecht said. 
The Belles will begin their pro­visional year in the MIAA at the start of the '97 -98 season. Saint Mary's will be a full-fledged member in the '98-99 season. Because the MIAA also includes cross-country and golf, the Saint Mary's Athletic Department hopes to add cross-country to the program in the fall and golf in a few years. 
The MIAA has an outstanding academic/athletic record. There have been 83 academic all Americans since 1980 and 37 students have received NCAA scholarships for post graduate studies. The MIAA used to in­clude all Michigan schools until they addition of Saint Mary's and Defiance College in Ohio. Other teams the conference includes: Adrian, Albion, Alma, Calvin, Hope, Kalamazoo, and Olivet, all who the Belles have played in past seasons. 
There are many benefits for being part of this conference. 
First, the student athletes will have a greater visibility. The conference also provides post­season play recognition which will help get the college name out. Finally, there will be many opportunities for academic recog­nition for the student athletes. 
The time put into deciding to and choosing a conference demonstrates the importance the athletic program and athletes are to Saint Mary's College. 
"This is an exciting time for the athletes. When I played at Saint Mary's we were a part of the NAJA, then when I began to coach we joined the NCAA, and now we are in a conference. This shows Saint Mary's athletics is constantly improving," volleyball coach and SMC alumna Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
There is also a hope that mem­bership in the new conference will cause more Saint Mary's stu­dents to support these athletes. 
"Just by watching the Olympics this summer, it is obvious that in­volvement in women's sports has increased. It is also clear that so has spectator involvement. Our student athletes work hard to represent Saint Mary's College and I encourage people to go watch them," Timm said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I ILOST & FOUND I  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) &earn an excellent income in the Cruise &Land-Tour  If you're looking for a part-time job with flexible hours, then consider joining the United States Tobacco sales and marketing team as a part- POTATO HOVSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  PERSONAL  
Spring Break Bahamas Party HELP!! Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Lost my class ring between  Industry. For details, call 1-206-971­3550 ext.C55845  time sales trainee. This is a terrific opportunity to gain some  FOR SALE  • Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  
Meals, Parites, &Taxes! Great Sorin, SDH, and D6. Great  real world experience. Applicants  Meals, Parties &Taxes! Great  
Beaches &Nightlife! Leaves From sentimental value. If found,  must be self-starters with a valid  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi- Beaches &Nightlife! Leaves From  
....  Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 please call John at X2213 or  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing  drivers license, car, and insurance.  urn mattress set. Never used still in  Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  
springbreaktravel.com drop by 319.  Industry. Many earn up to  Please only those 21 years of age  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  springbreaktravel.com  
$$REWARD$$  $4,000+/mo. during peak season.  or older may apply. To find out  (219) 674-2352  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  Benefits often include  more about this great opportunity,  Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars LOST: Blue winter coat at  Transportation  contact our Consumer Marketing  WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM  Room With Kitchen Near Bars  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Jazzmans on Saturday night.  and/or Room &Board. For details:  Representative at 1-800-934-4878  CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900  $119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa If you accidentally took the wrong  (206)971-3510 ext. A55849  box 6501#. We are an equal oppor- TA'MARA 273-5166  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­coat please call. Todd X1569  tunity employer.  Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ 
el.com  BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT  el.com  
1-800-678-6386 LOST DOG  NOW HIRING: University Sales and  Driver: To transport child every  TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/  1-800-678-6386  
Pembroke Welsh Corgi DUSTIN #1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On near ND Ave. Small, Tan and campus, convenient. Call White, Pink and Purple Collar.  Marketing is hiring. Marketing, Sales and Promotions positions available. Work on campus, Flexible  Tuesday at 3:40 pm. Female preferred. Call 631-8298 (day) or 277-1859 (evenings) or email:  BEST OFFER. 289-1347-ERIK '92 HONDA ACCORD LX.  .....,.. ........"""*••························ CLASS OF 1998  
Margrette 284-5261 REWARD Call Pete at 287-4876.  Hours, Great pay. Call 800-562­ bennett@nd.edu.  BEAUTIFUL.  Send letters to your friends abroad.  
8524.  $8,500 OR B/0.  Drop in envelope outside class  
Simon Says ... "Come to LNO on WANTED1/31/97 -Joyce Center and see  Babysitter Wanted. Afternoons.  Volunteers Needed for FOOD­SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless  233-5537.  office at 213 La Fun by Jan 29th. LONG SLEEVE !·shirts are in. $15  
Sgt. Tim McCarthy."  Must have own car. $5/hour.  for 1 hour a week.  USED MACS AND PRINTER  in the class office or from your dorm  
SPRING BREAK SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT  Katy 277-5207  If interested call Mike 234-1076.  FOR SALE Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac  rep................,..............................  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA Minnesota coed children's camp SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH seeks enthusiastic cabin counselors  A few good people needed. Camp  FOR RENT  Plus system: HD, software, key­board, and mouse $150.  Extremely funny, great sounding,  
RESORT 3 POOLS. 1 INDOOR and instructors for over 30 activities.  Birchwood, a small Minnesota chi/­ Mac SE system: HD, software, key- Indiana State Trooper ISO ND/SMC  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT Rep in St. Mary's LeMans Hall and  dren's camp, seeks applicants with  Homes for Rent for 97-98  board, and mouse $175. Great sys- students to play Simon Says at  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE UN D's Lafortune from 10-2 today!  qualifications to teach land sports,  ADT Security 232-2595  tams for word processing! Used  LNO 1-31-97. 1-6100  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE Camp Foley 218-543-6161 or sbf­ waterskiing, windsurfing, sailing or  Mac hardware also for sale: key- 
BIGGEST PARTY. house@ us/ink. net  horseback riding. Lifeguards, and  Near N.D. Furnished  boards, mice, external floppy drives.  Come learn all the right moves:  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  wilderness trip leaders also needed.  1 Bedroom Apt.-$265  Arts and Letters Computing Office,  STRICTLY BALLROOM at 7:30 at  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT- For an application and additional  in student occupied 3 flat.  216 O'Shag. x17021  Cushing tonight for $2. Free vouch- 
National Parks hire forestry work- information call 1-800-451-5270.  -6 blocks from campus,  er for a ballroom dance lesson!  
BEST HOTELS &LOWEST ers, park rangers, firefighters, life- Heat and water included  94 2 dr Jeep Cherokee Sport air  
PRICES for SPRING-BREAK guards, + volunteer and govern- CHILDCARE WANTED for our two  755 South Bend Ave.  cruise 2 yr. ext warranty. Must sell,  JAZZERCISE  
BEACH destinations. Florida, ment positions. Excellent benefits +  sons, ages 7 and 9, after school  (corner of St. Peter &S.B. Ave.)  returning to school. Good condition,  Very close to campus  
Cancun, Jamaica, etc. CALL NOW bonus potential.  in our home three days a week.  deposit, references  $12,500/or best offer. 233-1020  277-0111  
for rooms or SIGN-UP as INTER-Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55641  $6.50/hr Transportation and  1-800-582-9320  
CAMPUS REPR. 600-327-6013  references requred. Call 1-8301  4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys- Second semester senior year, and  
http:/!www.icpt.com  daytime and 277-4422 evenings.  BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high  tern, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime  my class schedule SUCKS!!!  
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY- ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER  location, 109 N. St. Peter  
MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by  MONTH! near campus -female  233-9947  ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS  
Texts 25%0ff! teaching basic conversational  Volunteers needed to help autistic  non-smoker-move in ASAP.  $10.00  
24 Hour Service. English in Prague, Budapest, or Buy/Sell/Trade. Krakow. Inexpensive Room &  children at local school learn play skills at recess, 10-11 and 12-1, M- call Julie @ 288 7284  TICKETS  CALL MIKE at 288-0116  
Open 7 Days per week Board + othllr potential benefits.  F; other times possible to assist in  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  Qball -Still can't wait to hear the  
ND at Howard Street Find out how to succeed in this  classroom. Training provided.  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  I need one JPW ticket for one or all  Wheateaters. Thanks· for coming  
233-2342 field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext.  Close to ND, but car needed. Call  IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS  of the events. Please call Shannon  through in the "clutch".  
Pandora's Books K55844  288-7026 for info.  2773097  at X 1833. Thanks.  

r 
Tuesday, January 28, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• NFL -
Tagliabue to decide future of Parcells, Patriots 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 

NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue will decide whether coach Bill Parcells, who took the New England Patriots to the Super Bowl, is free to leave them behind. 
A conference call involving Tagliabue and both sides in the dispute over Parcells' contract is set for Tuesday with a deci­sion possible by Wednesday. 
Parcells claims he can coal:h whereve'r he wants in 1997. The Patriots requested the con­ference call, and owner Robert Kraft says Parcells cannot coach or take a comparable position with any other NFL team next season. 
Despite the Patriots' success­ful season, ending with Sunday's 35-21 Super Bowl loss to the Green Bay Packers, Kraft and Parcells have had a cool relationship. 
A Tagliabue decision in the team's favor would give Kraft leverage to demand compensa­tion from any club that wants to hire Parcells. 
Patriots players and coaches seemed to be in the dark as they prepared for their trip to the airport for their return home. 
"I didn't get any inclination of what he's going to do," said guard William Roberts, who also played for Parcells on two New York Giants championship teams. After the game, "he was saying that no matter what happens, you all stick together and commit yourselves." 
Dante Scarnecchia, a defen­sive assistant, said all Parcells' coaches hope he stays with the Patriots. 
"lie's an impact guy in so many ways," Scarnecchia said. "This guy is a special guy, he's a special coach, he's a special person." 
The Patriots motorcade ­seven police motorcycles, two stretch limousines and four buses -left for the New Orleans airport late Monday morning without Parcells. 
He reportedly did not leave New Orleans on the team char­ter flight but said he would be in New England on Tuesday. 
Parcells said after the game that he hadn't thought about his future. 
"My whole time has been oc­cupied with getting to this point," he said. 
As of Sunday, the Jets had not contacted the Patriots for permission to talk with Parcells, according to Patriots spokesman Don Lowery. He also said the team had no firm plans to interview possible suc­cessors. 
"We have a coach," Lowery said. 
A report last week said San Francisco defensive coordina­tor Pete Carroll, who coached the Jets for one year in 1994, would meet with Patriots offi­cials Thursday. But Tagliabue's ruling may not be issued by then. 
The Patriots have been in two Super Bowls, both losses, and woke up both times to more turmoil. 
Exactly 11 years earli~r in the same Superdome, they lost to the Chicago Bears 46-10. The next day, they voted to accept a voluntary testing pro­gram amid reports of drug use by players. 
As players filtered into their hotel lobby to check out Monday, they were peppered with questions about their coach's future. All said Parcells didn't talk about that after Sunday's game. 
"If he's done, I wish him well," said cornerback Otis Smith, who was burned by 
Andre Rison for Green Bay's first touchdown. "Hopefully, I can play with him again." 
Smith also said he didn't feel empty about the Super Bowl loss. 
"It's just something that hap­pened," he said. "We came up short. We gave it a valiant ef­fort." 
Before this season, Kraft agreed to shorten Parcells' original five-year contract by one year, advancing the expi­ration date to this Saturday. 
Conflicting interpretations of what that revision means for next season are at the heart of the dispute. 
Kraft claims Parcells can't coach or hold a similar job with any other NFL team in 1997, while Parcells says other parts of the contract allow him to work wherever he wishes. 
If the Jets were to negotiate with Parcells before Tagliabue rules, it would violate the NFL's tampering regulations. Kraft has not suggested that has hap­pened. 
After the 1994 season, Tagliabue punished the Carolina Panthers for tamper­ing with Dom Capers, then Pittsburgh's defensive coordi­nator, and awarded the Steelers a third-and fifth-round draft choice. 





~imon ~a~s ......"Come to Late Night 0\~mpic.s and see the one, the on\~, ~gt. Tim Mc.C.arth~ of the Indiana ~tate 'Po\ic.e!!!" 
£ver wonder what Tim Mt:.l.a~ of the Indiana ~tate 'Po\ic.e \oo\Cs \i\Ce??? Come to \..NO and see the fac.e of the man whose voic.e signa\s the start of eve~ 4th quarter at Notre Dame ~taaium! 
Sgt Tim McCarthy of the Indiana State Police as ... Simon! 
friaai, Januari ?1, 1qq1 • l:OO ?tv\ -4:oo f\M • Joic.e. C-e.nte.r • [p?I-(QIOO 
All LNO Medal:; Were l/onated by the Notre l/ame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were-Donate-d by <J:~ 

January 25  -ll:OO AM  Deadline  -January 23  
February J ­ 10:00 AM  Deadline  -January 30  
February J ­ 2:00 PM  Deadline  -January 30  

Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 
Equipment Rental Available -$3.00 Charge 


Ree!-~ 

-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 1997 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Night Olympics Late Night Olympics XI is scheduled for Jan. 31 at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. Team entries are due by Jan. 
27. For the name of your Hall Representative or for more information call 1­8237. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-Students are instructed according to Okinawan tech­niques. This semester-long course meets in Rockne Rm. 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18. Call 1-8237 for more information. 
Tae Kwon Do -Students are instructed in accordance with World Tae Kwon Do Federation techniques. This semester -long course meets Sundays from 3-4 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $20. 
Ballet -RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. The Beginner classes are for dancers with 0-4 years expe­rience and the Advanced class is for dancers with 5 or more years experience. Both classes are semester long classes with a fee of $35. The Beginner class meets on Saturdays from 10:15-11:45 
a.m. and Mondays from 7:30­
8:30 p.m. The Advanced class meets on Sundays from 1:15-2:45 p:m. and Wednesdays from 7:30-8:30 
p.m. All classes will be held in Rockne Rm. 301. Sign-ups will begin at 8 a.m. on Jan. 27, in the RecSports office, space is limited. Classes begin on Feb. 1. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Monday and Wednesday from 6-7:15 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 
219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. There will be an information meet­ing on Jan. 26 at 2 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $30 for the semester and sign-ups will begin at 8 a.m. on Jan. 27 in the RecSports 

-
office. Classes begin on Feb. 3. 
RAD -RecSports in conjunction with Notre Dame Security/Police will be sponsoring a RAD class for women only from Jan. 21­
30. The class will meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:30-9:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. The central focus of this 12 hour program is learning and practicing physical tactics to defend against assault. The program is taught by RAD certified instructors who are uni­versity police officers at Notre Dame. Register in advance at RecSports beginning today. Class size is limited. There will not be a fee for this class. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsor­ing three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Jan. 25 at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Feb. 1 at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $3 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross country clinics. 

Recruits 
continued from page 16 

ply looked too polished for the high school level at times." 
Kurt Vollers: The Irish have continued to mine California for talent and struck gold in Anaheim's all-American offen­sive tackle Kurt Vollers (6-7, 275, 4.8}. Vollers committed to the Irish less than a week after Rego. 
Vollers has the frame and the athleticism to be a great offen­sive tackle. USA Today listed him on their preseason all-USA first team, NRA ranks him as the 38th offensive player in the nation, and Wallace considers him the second best tackle. 
"He's legit," Wallace explained. "He is rated by nearly every school as one of the nation's top ten offensive linemen." 
Casey Robin:, Offensive line­men Casey Robin (6-6, 290, 5.0} of Covington, La. was a surprise commitment to the Irish. Not that he was expected to commit elsewhere, but that he was a rel­ative unknown. 
"He has exceptional size and strength," Wallace commented. The silent three: Kustok, 
Hego, Vollers and Hobin were the only known commitments prior to Lou Holtz resignation, but four other all-Americans were consid­ered either "silent commitments" or heavy leans for the Irish. 
All-American athlete Tony Driver {6-2, 205, 4.4) of Louisville, Ky. was the gem of Holtz's and offensive coordinator Dave Hobert's recruiting cam­paign. He was the leading con­tender for USA Today's Offensive Player of the Year and is a prototype multi-purpose back who could fill needs at run­ning back, wide receiver and cornerback. 
Most importantly he had vis­ited the Irish three times on his own, professed a love for the school and announced that the Irish were the big leaders for his services. Hecruiting analysts later announced him a "silent" commitment to Notre Dame. 
Norfolk, Virginia's cornerback James Whitley (6-0, 180, 4.5) was named the number one cor­nerback in the country by NRA. In early July, Whitley confessed that Notre Dame was his favorite. In September, College Hecruiting Services announced that Whitley was a "silent" com­mitment to the Irish. He would be the first big name cornerback prospect ' signed by the Irish since Bobby Taylor. 
The third, athlete Billy Dee Greenwood (6-2, 175, 4.4) of Norwalk, Conn. was another cor-· nerback/athlete prospect that had the Irish drooling. Going into November, the Irish were number one on Greenwood's list. NRA and Wallace considered him a lock for the Irish and many expected a commitment during his official visit in December. 
Driver, Whitley and Greenwood were later named to USA Today's all-USA first team in December. 
Holtz's final days: Lou Holtz had almost been prophetic. The Irish we·re finally going to fill the corner and receiver speed posi­tions that had hurt him against Ohio State. 
Three blue chip recruits had already committed, and four more where awaiting test scores and official visits before joining the list. 
Nothing could stop the Irish recruiting campaign this year. 
Then Holtz resigned, the ad­missions department hesitated and the fragile class fell apart. 
See Thursday's Observer for part two of Notre Dame football recruiting. 





Grand Opening 
Come 
~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
1<11 

Combo Plate Beef Taco 
Loco Chicken Burrito Beef Burrito Bean Burrito Beef & Bean Burrito 
Nachos Loco Nachos Platter 
Thursday! 
Wed. and Thurs. January 29-30, 1997 11 :00 am -2:00 pm 
. ·n 0 ur Fiesta! 
JOI 
Prizes! 
3.39 .69 
1.49 1.09 .79 1.09 
.69 1.99 
Win aT-shirt or Taco Loco coupons 

~J. ;Music 
., artac~ 1:00 pm 11:00 af11
~ ~ ~ 




~ TlleHuddle 
~
• in Lafortune Student Center 
• .J 
Junior Class Dtnner 
$3 

LaFortune Ballrm 5-7pm 

----~-··--------­
page 13

The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish sweep rival Hoosiers in weekend showdown 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's indoor track team dominated in-state rival Indiana in its dual-meet home opener on Saturday. 
The men's squad cruised past the Hoosiers by an 86.5-75.5 tally, while the women posted a 84-66 victory. 
Junior Errol Williams posted two victories on the day, in the 60-meter hurdles and the 200­meters. Teammate Jeff 

Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Tuesday~ January 28 For time and location of meeting~ call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 

~ 
' I
• l_ 
--,~ 
APPALACHIA  SPRING  
BREAK  
SEMINAR  March 9-14,1997  

The Appa~achia Seminar during the ~pring brea~ presents a unique service-learning oppor~ru~.. Students travel to vanous states m the Appalachia region: Kentucky, West _Yirgtrua, Te~essee, a~d Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examme .the political, soci.al, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appala~an peop~e. These Sites focus on several issues including self help, housing constructi.on, envuonme'ltal well-being, rural health care, and race relations in Appa~ach1a. Through. physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students exp.en~nce the cu.ltural nchnes~ of the area and begin to understand and analyze the soaal torces that mfluence the hves of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 

• 
Is a I -credit Theology course 


• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn with other volunteers. 


INFO SESSION: (optional) 
APPLICATIONS: 
For further information: 

Wednesday, January 22,1997--7:30-8:00 P.M. At the Center for Social Concerns 
Available at the Center Applications are due: Wednesday, Jan. 29 by 5:00P.M. 
M.J. Adams, 634-3880 or Lauren Stein, 634-3690 Rachel Tomas Morgan, 282-2209 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
Hojnacki also tallied two victo­ries in long-distance events. He won the 600 and 800-meter races. 
For the women, freshman Dominque Calloway continued to shine. She placed first in the 60-meter hurdles, the 60-meter dash and 200-meter races. Calloway's time in the 60-meter hurdles, 8.28 seconds, qualified her for the NCAA indoor cham­pionships. She has already set the Notre Dame record in the 200-meter event, and advanced to the 1996 U.S. Olympic Trials. 
JoAnna Deeter was the long­distance star of the women's team, posting two first place finishes. Deeter took the 3,000 and the mile, in which team­mate Patti Rice was the runner­up. 
The Irish men opened the 
meet with Jay Hofner's first 
place finish in the 35-pound 
weight throw. Freshman 
Marshaun West won his second consecutive long-jump event. He placed first at the Michigan Invitational last weekend. 
The women did not fare as well as the men in the be­ginning of their meet, but relied on a strong finish to post the victory. 
Rice's high finish in the mile pushed the Irish past the Hoosiers, who were leading the meet after the first four events. 
Nadia Schmiedt won the 600­meter race and Alison Howard won the 400-meter to seal the women's victory. 
Notre Dame placed first and second in the men's mile and the pole vault. Mike Conway and Jason Hexing topped the mile runners while Mike Brown and Dave Gerrity vaulted past their competition. Pat Mousaw won the triple-jump, rubbing salt iii. the wound of the visiting Hoosiers. 
This ad was designed and submitted by Tara Thomas of St. Mary's College. 

• fENCING • MEN's TENNIS 


Irish fall despite solid effort Talented squad 
By DAVID FRICK which he earned second team good result. Anne got off to a Sports Writer all-American honors, let it be great start, and once she gets 
remains undefeated 

known that he will continue on a roll, she won't stop," said CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 28, 1997 

The Irish fencing squad went to the Penn State meet with a mission to place themselves sol(dly at the top of the colle­giate compe-,------,-,-=:-------, t i t i o n . Though the team failed to achieve their goal of defeating the top school, Penn State, the weekend Hoos was far from a waste. "The weekend was disap­pointing because of our loss, but it was encouraging in how we measured up against the best," said sophomore foilist Stephane Auriol. The team faced the toughest competition in all of the nation. Penn State won a convincing victory in the NCAA Championships last year, and St. John's also competed well to finish a strong third behind the Irish. To overtake these solid teams, the pervading feel­ing of the men's team was that perfection would be the only way. Though they performed well, the other two teams proved to be just slightly bet­ter. "Against Penn State, every­one had to fence their best. They are a very solid team from top to bottom. We had a few people who just had an off day, which will happen, and we fell just a little short," said head coach Yves Auriol. Sophomore epeeist C.J. Jackson and freshman foilist Chas Hayes provided the two brightest points for the Irish on the men's side. Jackson, com­ing off a layoff since his out­standing freshman year in  where he left off. "C.J. did well the entire day. He was a real leader out on the strip for the epee team. His best moment came when he finished 3-0 against St. John's, who is probably better than Penn State in the epee," said the elder Auriol. "For C.J. to do as well as he did in his first meet back in a year and a half is just awe­some," said the fencer Auriol. Hayes provided a consistency all day long that would be more typical of a seasoned veteran. But by going 2-1 against Penn State, Hayes announced that he would not lay down in the face of pressure. "Chas fenced with a Iot of emotion. I knew he could do well, but for him to step up in his first big collegiate match against the best teams around is incredible," said the younger Auriol. Hayes could not deny the great pressure, but his effective way of fighting through it helped produce his outstanding results. "I was kind of nervous, espe­cially at first. But all I could do is block it out, let the team give me a push, and try to hold my own weight," said Hayes. The women's team per­formed well, but also fell to the strong Penn State squad. A particularly strong perfor­mance was turned in by junior epee captain Anne Hoos, who continues to grow stronger by the week. "Anne did a very solid job during the whole competition. She just keeps making progress in leaps and bounds," said the elder Auriol. "It really inspires us to see our captain come in with a  freshman epeeist Magda Krol. By JIM ZALET A more, still possesses an untar­Krol continued her excellent Sports Writer nished record. Other winners play on the strip despite a loss were Ryan Simme, Eric Enloe,in her first match against Penn With two wins this past and Vijay Freeman. State. Faced with the early de­weekend the men's tennis team In the second match of the feat, Krol could have packed it is off to one of its best starts in afternoon, the Irish beat Miami in and just called it a bad day. recent years. Two team wins (Ohio) 5-1. Again, the Irish But her unyielding relentless­this past weekend against were led by Sachire and senior ness pushed her to dominate Depaul and Miami (Ohio), captain Ryan Simme. Simme all but one of q1e rest of her improved Notre Dame's defeated Chris Ritchie in No. 3 matches. already perfect record. With a singles by a score of 6-2, 6-2. "After the first bout, I was win againist the University of Simme's career record is now worried that I would do poorly Illinois this Thursday, the team 85-52 and he is the the onlythe entire day. I was happy will have its best start since Irish player with NCAA singlesthat I recovered and I felt I did 1992, when they finished the tournament experience.well from that point on," Krol season with a No. 2 ranking. "He will need to be leader said. Freshman Ryan Sachire im­and set an example for this So though the team failed to proved his singles record to 4­year's team," head coach overtake the best, the whole 0, with a No. 1 and a No. 2 sin­Bobby Bayliss commented ear­squad could take pride in their gles win Saturday. Sachire's lier in the season. positive progress during the career record improved to an The younger players this sea­weekend. impressive 19-2. At No. 1 sin­son are stepping it up, follow­The eight weeks until the gles, Sachire defeated Alan ing the leadership of their co­NCAA Championships will give Pintaric of DePaul 6-3, 7-5, and captain. Bayliss is confident in the team time to make the defeated Miami's Dave Abelson Simme's chances to once againadjustments to make a strong 6-4. 6-0 in the second position. qualify for the singles tourna­run for the title. Againist Depaul. in the first ment at the end of the season. "Even though we got off to a match of the day, the Irish won Other winners in the match rough start against Penn State, all six singles matches. Notre were Dan Rothchild, Enloe, and it just gives us reason to work Dame only lost one set in the Freeman who won their No. 4,harder during the season to entire match. Brian Patterson 5 and 6 matches respectively. overcome them in the tourna­won the No. 2 singles match 7­Jakub Pietrowski was defeated ment," Krol said. 6, 6-3. Patterson, a sopho­6-4, 6-4 in No. 1 singles. When the Great American Dream isn't great enough  
Have you considered  
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR?  
- A one,year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a life, time of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available.  
Call or write for information:  
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. (219) 631,6385  

..... =-• 
, 
4 -.. ·­
page 15

Tuesday, January 28, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You will have a heightened aware­ness of what others are saying and doing. New professional triumphs are likely if you work independent­ly. A damaged relationship can be mended if you make the first move. Apologize for any neglect this per­son may have felL A climatic career event will occur in September; you enter a wonderful period of transi­tion. Short-term agreements are favored over multi-year contracts. Put pat1 of every paycheck into sav­ings. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Marthe Keller, s~ulptor Claes Oldenburg, author Susan Sontag, activist Jose Marti. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Someone goes all out to please you. 
Asking for a favor or tinancial sup­
port will help you make an impor­
tant purchase. Weigh a job offer 
carefully. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Meetings with professional col­
leagues go well. You discover mutu­
al interests beyond work. A former 
associate returns to town with a spe­
cial request. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Delegate as much responsibility as 
possible today. Long-term planning 
is helpful, even if things do not 
always work out. Be smart. Sched­
ule regular medical and dental 
check-ups for yourself and your 
loved ones. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Unfinished household chores 
deserve your prompt attention. 
Resist the urge to procrastinate. 
Playing uplitiing music will invigo­
rate you. A romantic partner or fami­
ly friend shares good news. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your 
·personal magnetism is working 
overtime. Passions run high. Be true 
to your values and ideals. Make sure new relationships are built on a foundation of mutual respect. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Fin­ish a project that is long overdue. Discipline is the glue that keeps your work team intact. Reinforce your natural optimism through prayer and meditation. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Go that extra mile to ensure victory. True grit will put you in the driver's seat at work. Plant the seeds of pros­perity and watch them blossom. Conservative investments are favored over high-risk gambles. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Keep your nose to the grindstone until you see the light at the end of the tunnel. Tried-and-true proce­dures are favored when it comes to money management. Postpone sign­ing a new agreement. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Mental clarity is essential to 
business or career progress. Concen­
tration will be easier if you seek a 
distraction-free environment. Some­
one could experience a change of 
heart in romance. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Recent obstacles disappear as 
new doors open. Make amends to a 
loved one who wants more of your 
time. Do not expect too much too 
soon where an investment is con­
cerned. These things take time. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Talk frankly with family members. 
Putting all of your cards on the table 
will convince them of your sincerity. 
Extravagance and greed are taboo. 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): 
Welcome new experiences. En­
hanced communication skills will 
vault you to prominence. Offer to 
take on a writing or public relations 
assignment. Superficial people are 
best avoided. Jog or work out at a 
nearby gym. 


DILBERT 
THE. NE.TWORI<-WENT DOWN AND I LOST MY WORK.. 
THE SERVER Cf\ASHE.O. 

CROSSWORD 
fROt-'\ NOW ON I I WANT ADVANCE.O 
NOTICE OF AN'( UNPLAI\\NE.D OUTAGE5. 
ACROSS 25 Savage 46 Browning 26 One of the 
automatics1 Bushy coif 
Greats 48 EHrontery 
5 Belle or Bart 29 Half step, in 49 Menlo Park10 "Dancing music initialsQueen" pop 32 Partner of ways 52 Shut noisily

group 33 Shack 53 Kind of combat
14lt goes w1th runners 
34 Corn crib 56 Gambling, e.g. 
35 Early Andean 57--orange Engineers 36 More rational 58 Mitch Miller's construction 37 Diplomat's skill instrument 
16 Burrow 38 Fr. holy woman 59 Squint 17ln direct 39 Burger Kmg, to 60 Firefighting competition McDonald's need 
19 Mid 40 Where the loot 61 Old TV 12th-century gets left detective Peter date 15 Army Corps of 
41 Autumn drink 20 Long fish 43 Crave, with "for" 
DOWN
21 Rich Little, e.g. 44 "You Must 22 Drew out Remember 
1 Connors This" author defeater, 1975
24 Three-sided sword 45 Kennel cry 
2 Hightail it 3 Not imagined 4 Roulette bet 5 Inclined 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Snicker 7 Say it's so 
Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
a New Deal proj. 9 Jesus Christ, 
27 Slowly, in music with "the" 28 In-person, as an 10 Virtually 
interview 11 One after the 
29 Sub detector other 30 Recess 
1-'::'-1-'::-+-'-+'=+-,_,.. "'-+''-'+'=+"-_,..-'-+=+'--1-='-l 12 Ill temper 
31 Computer command
BR~=-i.iEB-=+::-.Iii-.;ERF-1-=:::-l 13 Saharan 
10Usesa 33 Wealthy ones camcorder

36 Two-headed 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ ~ND I ~ NEED IT I YESTERDAY . 
"'. 
.~ 
LL 
" 
~ 
c 
::> 
,..
.. 
"' 
42 More tranquil 43 Horse restraint 45 Sheriff's star, 
e.g. 46lnvitation letters 47 Tennis's 
Nastase 
E 
0 
u 
.; 
'5i 
E 
'0 
!Y 
'2 
! ::> 



lady exhibit, Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Copper e.g. 
are available by touch-tone phone: Mountain 37 Part of LS.T. 1-900-420-5656 (75G per minute). 
"""1-'-++=-1 24 Soprano Berger 39 Liturgy Annual subscriptions are available for the 25 Angle on a gem 40 Film producer best of Sunday crosswords from the last 26 Plain People Ponti 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Hair &rafters 

Notre Dame 

~"'-=­
<Cf/}1
s It
OIJ,f,

DOMINO'S <9rs Notre Dame Varsitlj Shop ~.(5>
Notre Dame Sports Marketing 0 


Wanted: Reporters, 

-

photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
Chili's ~ro 
ov 
~ 
CIRCLE CAMERA ro;:;T A.Ppl£.8 *":J~ 
'££'5 rtJ.v 









SPORTS 
page 16 
• fOOTBALL 

Irish feel the need for speed 

T
he needs had been obvious, especially to Lou Holtz. During his press conference after the loss to Ohio State, Holtz 
pointed to a lack of speed as his team's Achilles heel. 
Not that this should be a surprise. For 

the past three L..dB~iiiiBiiilii years recruit-Thomas Schlidt 
ing analystshave criticized Recruiting ... Notre Dame Correspondent for their in­ability to sign top cornerbacks and receivers. Yet, when Holtz complained about the Irish's lack of speed, he made a surprising announcement. He guaranteed that this recruiting 
class would have speed. He promised that on February 5 the Irish would have a class of track 
stars. 

By November. Holtz looked like a prophet. Three blue-chip recruits had committed to the Irish and three of the top athletes in the nation were Notre Dame's to lose. 
Zak Kustok: Prior to Ron Powlus' announcement to return for a 5th season, the Irish planned to sign two quarterbacks. Zak Kustok (6-3, 185, 4.6) of Orland Park, Ill. was the first-and now only-quarterback to commit. Actually, he committed to the Irish as a sophomore even though Holtz didn't offer a scholarship until this April. 
Kustok entered his senior sea­son with much acclaim as the National Recruiting Advisors' fifth ranked pass-run quarterback in the nation. As a junior, he completed 90 of his 165 passes for 1,260 yards, 12 TO's and only 3 INT's. He. also rushed 33 times for 450 yards and 9 TO's. 
As a senior, Kustok's team fell apart. He lost both starting wide receivers to academics and bas­ketball, and most of his offensive line to graduation. Thus, behind a weak line, Kustok completed only 48 percent of his passes for close to 1000 yards, seven TO's and three INT's. He was forced to scramble for over 600 yards and sixTD's. 
According to Bobby Burton of the National Recruiting Advisor (NRA), "[Zak Kustok] is simply too good to pass up. He fits the Holtz­style of offense. He can run, pass and doesn't turn the ball over very often." 
Cooper Rego: Tailback Cooper Rego (5-9, 190, 4.38) of Montvale, 
N.J. was the second commitment to the Irish and, presently, the rose of the class. There was some concern about Rego's speed, but during Notre Dame's 1996 sum­mer camp he ran 4.38 and 4.41 second 40 yard dashes. The Irish wasted no time offering the shifty speedster a scholarship, and Hego committed on August 23. 
Even with the scholarship in pocket, Hego did not ease up as he led St. Joseph's to the New Jersey Parochial Group 3 State Championship. In the champi­onship game Rego rushed 33 times for 288 yards, five touch­downs and three two-point con­versions. He scored all of his team's points in the 36-20 victory. 
For the season, Rego rushed for 2,542 yards and scored 35 TO's. He was named USA Today's New Jersey Player of the Year, was named to USA Today's all-USA second team and is considered a top 15 running back by recruiting analysts. NRA named him one of the top 25 players in the nation prior to his senior year. 
"A real scatback, this guy is a lot of fun to watch," Allan Wallace of SuperPrep statod. "Hego sim-
see RECRUITS I page 12 


Stability, competition expected in MIAA 

By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI Sports Writer 
It is always an honor to be asked to join a particular orga­nization. The Saint Mary's College Athletic Department felt such an honor recently when they were invited to apply for membership into a number of college sports con­ferences. 
The Saint Mary's Athletic Department has been a Division Ill member of NCAA, but as an independent. Thus, it was time for them to join a conference. 
There was a great doal of
-
time spent deciding on which conference would be the best for Saint Mary's College to join. "We looked at the best con­ference for the Saint Mary's student athlete always keeping in mind the primary role of the student, but also their dedica­tion to their sport," Vice President for Student Affairs Linda Timm said. Saint Mary's was notified in November that they were accepted to the oldest colle­giate conference in America, the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA). The MIAA has a strong history in both athletics and acade­.. mics. The MIAA is a good aca­demic match for Saint Mary's because they share similar philosophies. They both believe the student comes first. "Saint Mary's College has a The Observer/Manuela Hernandez long tradition of academic Belles' sophomore Sheila Sandrine (right) is one of the many Saint excellence and legacy of athlet­Mary's athletes who will benefit from their membership in the MIAA. 
ic competition that compli­ments the MIAA," Director of Athletics and Hecreation Jan Travis said. 
During the past few years, the Belles have been at the mercy of the other teams they played. This was because those teams belonged to a con­ference. Saint Mary's had to work around the other teams' conference schedules. Consequently, the Belles were left with an unfair schedule which caused these athletes to miss too much class time. 
Joining the MIM will allow the Saint Mary's athletes to have a uniform schedule because more matches will be played on the weekends. The athletes will also not have to travel as far. 
"I think joining the MIAA will create a consistency in who we play. We will not have to travel as much OQ weekends so we will not have to miss as many classes," junior soccer player Keary Sullivan said. 
Another advantage of becom­ing a member of the MIAA is the opportunity for student ath­letes to receive athletic and academic recognition. The new conference will also bring closure to the Belles' seasons. All the teams will now end their season with a conference tournament. 
"The MIAA will help give our team realistic goals and let us know where we stand. I also think being in this conference 
see MIAA I page 10 
• HOCKEY 
Spartans 
come for 


rematch 
By CHARLEY GATES Spons Writer 
The Michigan State Spartans hockey team (14-6· 
2) rolls into the Joyce Center for a Central Collegiate Hockey Association game tonight against the Irish at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. The Spartans, who defeated the Irish 4-3 on December 6, are looking to protect home­ice advantage in the play-offs while the Boys of Winter, tenuously clinging to eighth place by one point, will try to defend the final playoff spot in the CCHA. 
The Irish are coming off a strong showing against No. 8 ranked St. Cloud State, whom the Irish. pummeled on Friday night and to whom the Irish lost a dose game on Saturday night. 
What does such a strong showing do for a team? "It tells us that we can play," observed head coach Dave Poulin. "We had a terrific effort both nights. We were focused, we created offensive chances, and we played good transition hockey. 1 really hope that we can carry those things over [to tonight's 
see SPARTANS 1page 10 







