
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 22 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
WVFI fires announcers after 'reckless' broadcast 
By SARAH J. HILTZ average SAT score of Notre Dame against all those regulations. They 
i 
[?flUor's Not~: This letter from the Station 

News Writer girls and SMC chicks is like compar-knew what they were doing," 
Manager and.s'ta.ff of WVF!-AM is being run in

ing 1300 with your shoe size," he Gallagher said. 
Us entirety because the views on the program

The debate surrounding the posi-continued. The two men have since been 
were not those ofWVF!.

tion of Saint Mary's College within WVf<'l station manager Marisa fired. the Notn• Dame community entered Gallagher expressed concern and As for preventing shows like this in 

The views reflected during the broadcast on a new phase Sunday the future, which Gallagher 
unday night,Sept. 21, from )1 p.m. to 2 a.m.night with a heated ~~~~~~~----------------has referred to as "an aberra­
· · ~n no wa r.esentative of the views held bybroadcast from WVFI-tion from our normal opera­
~I. The . . · ers themselves were solely

AM. 'It could not come at a tions," she emphasized that 
r~sponsible J1 .... e content, submission and pay-

Two male Notre worse time. The University the station is now in the 
<ment of the Fri(lay, Sept. 19 advertisement inDame students, whose process of discussing and rein-
The Observer, \vhich made derogatory state­names have been with-could rescind its decision forcing ideas of professional­
.ments about Saint Mary's College. The announc­

held. were scheduled [about FM] at any time.' ism. 
Yt\rs responsiblef()r the advertisement and broad­to host a music show "We have been watching 
ca~thave bee~te~minated.

from 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. [other deejays'] shows to make ··• · .WVFl apologize:s for the extreme disrespect
Instead, the students Adele Lanan sure that they adhere to our 
that these announcers showed to the Saintheld a discussion pro-standards." 
Mary's and Notre Dame communities as well as gram in which they According to a press release 
the hurt that lt has produced. Their behavior isexpressed low opinions about Saint embarrassment regarding the inci-by WVFI, the scathing show was a 
an aberration from our standard of radio broad­Mary's College and its students. dent, and emphasized that all pro-complete surprise to all station man-
casting excellence and we are deeply shocked"They are pretty much just !USB, gram hosts are made aware of the agement. Adele Lanan, student 
al}p hurt by .th dent.and we should treat them that way," station's standards of professional-activities advisor for all campus 
43 W(! owledge the need for free 

one of the announcers said when ism and taste before they go ·on the media, was equally shocked. 
h. unli ...... ~se announcers, we recognizediscussing the academics at Saint air. "My understanding was that they cessity fot the professional and objectiveMary's. "We've gone over professionalism "You know that comparing the with (the two deejays). They went 

Driver training 101 ... 

The Observer/Alan McWalters 
Prospective SafeRide drivers watch a training video in the Center for Social Concerns as part of their van-driver certification course yesterday. 
Government allow-s ND professor access to T -Rex 

By HEATHER MACKENZIE vation. He plans to leave for Montana Assistant News Editor Wednesday morning with a group of students and scientists to complete the 
An ongoing legal dispute over a fossil unearthing. found by a crew headed by paleontolo­"I think this discovery will bring more gist and Notre Dame professor J. Keith credibility to the program," said senior Rigby this summer 
~---='~._-----, geological sciences major Theresa was ended yesterday Kelley. when Higby was The fossil is believed to be tlw largest granted governmental specimen of Tyrannosaur Rex ever dis­permission to continue covered, and lies in a dinosaur grave­unearthing th.e fossil. yard that could cover up to 15 acres. The conflict concerned The fossil has not yet been concretely whether the land identified, but if it is not a T-Rex, Higby where the fossil was and his team could have stumbled upon found was privately or Rigby a yet undiscovered species of dinosaur. federally owned, and "What we found was a man-eating had prevented the dinosaur with a jaw some seven feet complete excavation of the site. long," Rigby said. "There is some possi­
'The question was whether Rigby had bility that it may be new, and T-Rex may the right to continue with his dig," said have to become 'T -who?"' Peter Tyson, the senior editor of This skeleton appears to exceed all Earthwatch, a non-profit organization recorded measurements ofT-Hex skele­that funded Rigby's research. "The fam­tons, Rigby said, with the pubis, one of ily that claimed to own the land wanted the three main bones of the pelvis, mea­to sell the fossil to private organizations suring 52 inches, compared to 4R inches and prevent Rigby's team from continu­in the largest known T-Rex. ing. However, it has become clear that Rigby and Earthwatch had planned to this land has been federally owned for postpone announcing the discovery until the past three years. Higby now needs a more complete-excavation had been permission from the Department of completed, but the legal dispute brought Agriculture Farm Services to Jlnish." the discovery to the forefront. 
This morning, permission was finally "This discovery is important to paleon­granted when Rigby obtained a federal tology," Tyson said, "and should not fall antiquities permit to continue the exca­
see FOSSIL/ page 8 
ND/SMC Orientation counselors discuss stereotypes 
Editor's Note: This is the first (~{a Jour-part series targeting relations between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses and the aspects that strengthen or shatter the stereotypes. 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
When was the first time you became familiarized with the school across the street? 
For most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's freshmen, concep­tualization of each other begins during orientation weekend. BPcause the institutions func­tion independently of nach other in the recruitmenVadmis­sion process, most freshmen know very little about students in the other school until their arrival on campus in the fall. 
Where, when, and how the information arrives can directly contribute to how students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's perceive each other, not only in the opening weeks of the first year, but throughout the entire college experience. 
Saint Mary's senior Joanne Joliet. who was responsible for coordinating freshman orienta­tion, said that the central goal of the weekend is to put Jlrst­year students at ease with Saint Mary's. Because Notre Dame is across the street, issues with the University are also addressed. 

"We don't try to promote ND, nor do we demote it," Joliet said. 
She alluded to a series of skits performed by orientation coun­selors entitled Life at a Women's College, where the counselors act out different, humorous scenarios of week­end life at Saint Mary's; some students are depicted going to the mall, a movie, to a dance, or to Notre Dame for a dorm party. 
"We try to plant as few ideas as possible [about Notre Dame], but we have to be realistic. They're going to want to [be involved with Notre Darnel. and we have to address that." 
Joliet also mentioned that a group of Notre Dame women and men and Saint Mary's women were scheduled to have a panel discussion about rela­tions between the two schools, but, the plans fell through due to travel and scheduling con­flicts. 

"We strongly discourage the spread of stereotypes in [orien­tation and resident advisor] training," Joliet said. later adding that the orientation committee tries to choose stu­dents who will not further those stereotypes. 
"The freshmen did ask ques­tions about our experiences with Notre Dame." said Saint Mary's junior Sarah Siefert, who served as an orientation counselor last month. "We shared our experiences; most of' 
see TIES I page 8 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, September 23, 1997 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

Defaming the University 
This column is dedicated to Thomas Loughran (University of Notre Dame class of 1966) and Maureen Loughran (Saint Mary's 
College class of 1995). Okay, this subject has just gotten out Qf hand. 
Sunday night on WVFI, two guys claiming the protection of the first amendment to the Constitution came on the radio and began to spout off about why they thought that Saint Mary's College only 


Matt Loughran 
Associate News Editor
qualified as a second­
class institution. They 

kept saying that, "this is just us talking, not 
the radio station" and, "people shouldn't take 
us too seriously." But that is no excuse. That 
is like someone punching you in the face as 
hard as he can, then saying, "Hey, I was only 
joking." 
Very funny. 

To sit in a radio station, on the air, and tell 
people that a Saint Mary's education is like a 
"$25,000 hot dog" and that, "Saint Mary's is 
pretty much just !USB, and we should treat 
them that way" is irresponsible use of 
University-sanctioned airwaves. 
The death threats that the two women from 
Notre Dame received from Saint Mary's 
women were absolutely reprehensible, bor­
dering on criminal. There is no excuse for 
that. There is no retaliation either. Going on 
the air with an insult-laden tirade against 
Saint Mary's that was thinly disguised as 
humor is a very low-class way of responding 
to this problem. 

Notre Dame has a great tradition of class 
and poise. It also has an incredible amount of 
alumni loyalty. ln some of his last letters to 
me, my father spoke about how much he 
loved this University and how proud he was 
of the place. He praised the beauty of the 
campus and the quality of the people that he 
met here. Those people made up a core of 
what he saw as Notre Dame and what he 
cherished as a memory of his college years. 
The kind of obnoxious, elitist garbage that 
was broadcast on the "Voice of the Fighting 
Irish" stomped all over those memories and 
proved that the class of some people in this 
place has gone downhill, fast. 
When my sister Maureen graduated from 
Saint Mary's, my father was too sick to make 
the flight from Tucson, Ariz. to attend her 
graduation. But I could hear in his voice how 
proud that he was of her. In his eyes, as a 
graduate of the University of Notre Dame, 
she graduated from ·the number one liberal 
arts school in the midwest with honors. I am 
glad that he lived long enough to see her 
graduate.(On videotape, of course) 
I am in my fifth year at my father's alma 
mater. I have seen many things in my time 
here. Some have made me proud to be a 
member of what I consider to be one of the 
best universities in the world. Others have 
made me sick to my stomach. 
This week's flap about the differences 
between the two campuses falls into the lat­
ter category. 

You two guys are n·ot the "Voice of the 
Fighting Irish." You are not representative of 
anyone's attitude outside of your own and 
that of your low-class friends. 
The chant heard at football games is "We 
are ND" right? 

Well, Spirit of Inclusion notwithstanding, 
YOU ARE NOT ND. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Allison Koenig  Ashleigh Thompson  
Sarah Hansen  Graphics  
Sports  Pere Cilella  
Kevin Williams  Production  
Bersy Baker  Allison Koenig  
Viewpoint  Marr Loughran  
Kelly Brooks  Susie Sohn  
Dan McDonough  Lab Tech  
Sam Assaf  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduccion rights are reserved. 
• WORUJ AT A GLANCE 
Hurricane Nora does not keep boxer from enjoyh~g Cabo 
CABO SAN LUCAS, Mexico 

Amid the howling winds, lashing rain and crashing surf that Hurricane Nora is inflicting on southern Baja California, one man still draws a stare. 
Oscar de Ia Hoya, the WBC wr-Iter­weight champion from Los Angeles, drew a crowd seeking photographs when he visited a local nightclub,
despite the growing storm outs1'de. 
De Ia Hoya has been coming to Cabo San Lucas for years after each fight to fish, golf and relax. But he picked a bad time to celr,brate his recent victo­ry over Hector "Macho" Camacho. 
Hurricane Nora is bearing down on this rocky resort, and many disap­pointed tourists are packing up and 
heading home. 
275 miles south-southwest of CaboHurricane Nora San Lucas, the u.s. Hurricane Center 
As of2 p.m. EDT Monday,Sept. 22 
2 ~-~miles 
\250 km 
\ -~.-·.>· ........-·\ 
\ '·\ 
3o'\..'\ \ 
~~\ ~'1• 
"' 1 
Baja"· ·.,,1t
canto 
.• ,,, .. 18',f '· "Tj( 

Position: 18.B'N, 111 .7'W in Miami said. Moving northwest at 8 
Moving:NWat9mph mph with sustained winds of 115 
Sustainedwinds:125mph mph, it was forecast to veer north-
Gusts at: 150 mph toward the Baja coast-today. 

Flood warning . Hurricane force winds extended Hurricanewarning .......... t d t 85 ·1 f h
L-....,---.,.,""'"=--_j1 ou war up o m1 es rom t e eye, 
r'rf  """~  
-· ·  
·  Gulfof  
1  Mexico  
Puntael Estrecho \  -r~l,.:.•·v/ f 

0 
"'"-,Mexico City'"""" T j~. 
Socorro Island "'''">" """"' --> .¢; Revil\aglgedo Pacific ,. '\,! /
Islands Ocean ·"'~~ 
""" 
114 102
• · lOS' ' 9W "" AP Source: Accu-Weather Inc. 

and tropical storm force winds out-d t0 200 'I 
war !up mi es.

De a Hoya, who arrived with his brother, his financial adviser and !L>ur friends, planned to make the best of things. He has stocked up on food and candles for his penthouse apartment. which offers a beautiful view of the 2'-f f
.)-not waves o tlw open Pacific. "At first it was a scary feeling," he said. "But it's not that scary when 
, I

you re wit 1 a lot of friends. You just 
Early today, Nora's large and well-defined eye was laugh about it and show no fear." 
Arafat declared healthy by his aides 
Vasser Arafat has survived guerrilla warfare, assassination attempts and a desert plane crash. His aides say there is nothing wrong with him ­"healthy as a horse" is the favored phrase. But a flurry of media specula­tion on Arafat's health, combined with his age and workaholic ways, have raised concerns about the 
I..I.JIIL....o..liB Middle East peace process should anything happen to the 68-year-old Palestinian leader. "There has been no preparation; there's no clear successor," said Barry Rubin, a longtime Arafat watcher. "The Palestinians have to start thinking about their political future, and they and everyone else have to start thinking about the implications." If Arafat died or were incapacitated, selecting a new leader could be a long and bitterly divi­sive struggle for the Palestinians, taking months or even years. Under such circumstances, meaningful peace negotiations would be difficult if not impossible. Israel's Channel 2 television reported that Arafat is suf­fering from a severe illness that causes tremors of his face and hands, but does not affect his mental condi­tion. Arafat's leadership style is highly autocratic. He has maneuvered the Palestinian parliament into a sub­ordinate role. "He is the symbol of Palestinian people, the leader, the only one who can unify us," he said of 
Boy uses toothbrush as weapon 
NEW ULM. Minn. 

A 16-year-old boy escaped from a juvenile detention center by holding a sharpened toothbrush to a jailer's throat and attacked a man with a golf club before being recaptured Monday, police say. The teen-ager, whose name was not released, had been at the detention cen­ter o? attempted mu:der charges for allegedly shooting a police officer at a high school Sept. 11. The officer was grazed in the forehead. Investigators said the student had apparently gone to the school to kill someone or take hostages. On Sunday night, the boy held a sharp­ened toothbrush to a jailer's throat and demanded her car keys, but the woman had taken her bicycle to work that day, police Sgt. Erv Weinkauf said. The teen-ager got another worker to let him out, released the jailer and ran off. Early Monday, police said, the boy hit a man in the face with a golf club in the victim's garage as he was heading to work. The boy. who police said had apparently been hiding in the garage to keep dry, was arrested in an alley nearby. 
Insurance building makes impact 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
An Iowa insurance company insists it absolutely did 
not intend its new $52 million office building to look like 
a giant vodka bottle. But when the EMC Insurance Cos. 
building is lit up at night, it stands out like an 80-proof 
beacon on the skyline. In fact, it looks like an Absolut 
vodka ad. "We wanted to make an impact, but this was 
not what we had in mind," said Don Klemme. EMC vice 
president of administration. Absolut in recent years has 
run an attention-getting series of ads featuring images 
of its bottle in surprising settings. The bottle's shape has 
been cast as the Brooklyn Bridge, the Gateway Arch in 
St. Louis and a ski run in Colorado. The south side of 
the 20-story EMC building has a rounded bulge that 
runs from the fourth to the 16th floor, and a terrace and 
an indentation that look like the neck of a bottle. The 
building opened in April. "There was some surprise 
when this was recognized as the building came togeth­
er," Klemme said. "It's been a lively topic of conversa­
tion around here." Hod Nelson, who was in charge of 
the project for Brooks Borg Skiles Architecture 
Engineering, said the resemblance was not intentional. 
''I'm sure that EMC, being a casualty insurer, probably 
would just as soon not have the publicity," he said. The 
man behind the Absolut ad campaign is not so sure it 
was purely unintentional. ''I'm convinced the architect 
has this unconscious relationship with Absolut," said 
Richard Lewis, who runs the Absolut account for TBWA 
Stanford band provides half-time fun 
STANFORD. Calif. 
When the Stanford University football team takes the field this fall. fans may have to await halftime for the real action: Is this Stanford band, or Stanford banned? Just watch. The Leland Stanford Junior University Marching Band, oh so formally titled, is anything but. In fact, band members are so inl'ormal that they don't even mareh. But they do just about everything else on the field -ineluding garner enough suspensions to make a hardened criminal proud. Over the decades, they've wooed fans as loyal to them as to the team. They've also upset alumni and opponents. Here's how: I~ ~ 982.. during the big game against the University of Cahforma-Berkeley, the band headed onto the field early. Unflappable, the ball carrier l'or California raced though their ranks, returning a kickoff for the winning score. In 1986, band members urinated on a field (but in a cornl:)r) and, during show formations, spelled four­letter words (but jumbled). And witness 1994. Manv folks dote on the band's crazies. · 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/-------......... 
H L
!'''""" 
i 

Tuesday 65 46 Wednesday{)­67 50 Thursday~ 70 48 Friday ~,-· 72 53 
, ) 

Saturday ~~~ 75 58 
5..5'···"\f'.....'-...,j··· '·v·} 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 23. FRONTS: "T""'T" .....__._ ~ COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Pressure H L B~cnJ 0!ZJ 80 ~u HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  


VIa ASSOCIBI&d Press 

.·  Atlnntn  (J(,  (,]  llnllas  X:l  
lhtllimnrn  72  4~  llnlrnit  (,4  
Q,Q,~A.GQ (f  ~ u  llostun  67  46  IIPlPnn  75  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  snoW  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  <:h1t:11gn  (,:i  50  lndnpls  70  
Vta Associated Press GraphicsNet  Columbus  70  40  .lun••nu  55  

77  MPmphis  x:l  (,I  
45  ."'ashvillt•  10  !'i!'i  
:i!i  N1•wYork  r.x  !il  
45  Pillsburgh  r.x  40  
4f·  Sun Fran.  7!.  JH  

Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
Frosh will elect class officers today 
By ERIKA WITTORF between ND and SMC com­News Writer munities. Bonfires; retreats, and seasonal dances are 
Four tickets are on the bal­activities which Asher and lot for Saint Mary's freshman Poynter will execute if elect­class president/vice presi-ed. 
"We will

dent elections-----------­
today. encourage Elections will . f the fresh­be held in the 'Nme out o ten man class dining hall dur-eggplants vote for to get involved
ing regular ·Chriss and Katie'
breakfast. and pro-lunch, and din· mote some ner hours. 
Freshmen Election Poster group spirit
Alyson and group Leatherman pride ; " and Molly Gast --------'----­Asher said. hope to represent the voice "People would know their of the freshman class; ideas could be heard,'1 Kara Because they are unfamiliar Kezios.said. Kezios and run· with the organizations and ning mate Carolyn Kelley 
..,.ctivities. they plan to look to want to place an expression the fres.hman board and box in a convenient location other members of the fresh­so that ideas of their fellow man class to share their classmates will be heard. ideas. They stress communi­Kelley and Kezios plan to ty involvement such as ser­educate the freshman class vice projects done on behalf on the history of SMC to pro­of the YWCA and the elderly mote a sense ofidentity. communitv. Leatherman and Julia Malczynski and Kate Gast also want to build posi­Lindenmeyer wish to lobby tive relations between the for cheaper phone rates. ND/SMC community. They also want to promote "Nine out of 10 eggplants class involvement along with vote for Chriss and Katie" is improved relations with Chriss Asher and Katie Notre Dame. One oftheir Poynter's slogan. Asher and mottos is "Get involved, have Poynter have planned many fun we're the class of0-1." activities that they hope will A runoff vote, if necessary, promote positive relations will be held later this week. 

ANG1ERS91FRANC1E 
1998-99 Academic Year "Top Ten Reasons You Should Not Go To Angers" With Professor Dominic Thomas 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 7:00pm Room 313 DeBartolo 
"NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS" A BUS TOUR OF DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND & SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES 
FOR THE CLASS OF 2001 AND OTHER INTERESTED STUDENTS 
NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS NOTRE DAME 
& 
SOUTH BEND 

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
'Her-story' replaces 'his-story' 
Takaki stresses multiculturalism in historical contexts 
By JOELLE FARMER 
News Writer 
The surfer turned professor, Ronald Takaki, urged Monday 
· night's audience to "listen to the voices" in order to achieve a deeper and broader under­standing of American culture and ethnicity. Through historical exam­ples, Takaki emphasized the responsibility that citizens and intellectuals have in help­ing people learn a more accu­rate history of who we really are as a nation and how we what is remembered in the A native of Hawaii, Takaki is are all responsible for one writing of history. Typically the grandson of Japanese another. spoken of as "his-story," immigrant plantation labor­Takaki's lecture, Takaki opted to relate "her­ers. Urged to attend the "Multicultural Literacy in story" to convey the experi­College of Wooster in Ohio by America" was the first in a ences of Irish and Chinese a high school teacher, Takaki series of live lectures entitled women immigrants during the was taken aback at both the "Alternative American nineteenth century. ignorance of both students Geographies of Race, Ethnicity After presenting his alterna­, and professors when they and Nation." These lectures · tive geography to demonstrate viewed him as a foreigner. are sponsored by the Notre the interconnectedness of the This was his 11rst exposure to Dame English Department and American experience, Takaki the "popular and pervasive are funded by the Paul M. and read a song of an Irish woman opinion that American meant Barbara Henkels Visiting and a series of telegrams white." Scholars endowment. The between Chinese immigrants. Takaki continued his educa­aim of this series is to create Through this he illustrated tion at the University of an environment in which the that the stories are not dissim­California, Berkeley, where he difl1cult subject of race can be ilar when taking the speaker's received a doctoral degree in discussed. voices into account. American history. He began Through altering American Takaki believes that we have teaching at UCLA in 1967, and geographies it is hoped that reached an exciting threshold now is a professor at the vantage point of bound­in American history. Through Berkeley. He has been a for­aries can be changed to create the expansion of the "master mative force in the implemen­a more inclusive conception of narrative" we call history, tation of centers for African­what it is to be an American. multiculturalism enables us to American, Asian American, Takaki is one of the foremost embrace a larger memory of Chicano, and Native American recognized scholars in this who we are as a nation. By Studies. Takaki has written area. listening to the voices we can several books on the topic of Viewing history as memory, revitalize our identity as a multiculturalism in America Takaki spoke about the impor­nation, making it more inclu­and has spoken international­tance of who remembers and sive and more accurate. ly on the topic. 



Join Emer Martin 
ot the Bookstore on 
Wednesday, September 24 2pm 
She will be signing copies of her book "Breakfast in Babylon", the 1996 Book of the Year in Ireland that traces the path of a young Irish woman through the rotten underbelly of Europe. Described as "The female Trainspotting . .. " 
She will also be reading from her novel at 
7:00 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME 
• BOOKSTORE 
www. ndb ookstore. com
by Mariner Books 
-·~ ----~ .__..._....---­

Tuesday, September 23, 1997
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 4 

r~~~~-~---~ ~~ 1 · University~oC,,NOtfe Dame In!~rP~HonalStudy Program j 
. .. > ~~~ I 


Engineeringw'~~Erivirorimentall 
1
· Sem~.~te*·StUdy,E·l\bro~d ­
,--'· '• : i i N 0 R T'H r;; f1 N I . .~"'"" 

Dept. Civi~ Eogi~~.$,{ing & Geologtcal·;~ciences 
rich culture 

* An unrivaled educational 
. 
r· ;;: (:.~ (~} .::\::. <~:~·-feb;,_:;.~-~
experience ~~ 

Tues. Sept. 16th @ 5 p.m. 
If unable to attend, contact: Wed. Sept. 24th @ 5 p.m. 
Prof. CliveR. Neal 
Both in the Auditorium, 
Cushing Hall 
neal. I @nd.edu 
: ·:·· 

Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Student activities, SUB welcome Jones 
Special to the Observer 
T h e University of Notre Dame's Student Union Board and Student Activities office will present "An Evening with James Earl Jones" on TufJsday, Sept. 23 at 
7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. The doors will open at 6:30 p.m. 
Tickets for the lecture, which are $7 for general admission and $5 for student~ are available at the LaFortune Information Desk and can be reserved by calling 631-8128. 
.Iones was born Todd .Jones in Arkatubula. Miss., and 
raisPd  in  Michigan by  his  
father,  a  prizefighter turned  
actor.  II e  attllnd eel  the  

University of Michigan and graduated in drama. 
Jones' professional stage debut came in 1957 in an off­Broadway production. He soon carne to prominence as a clas­sic<tl actor in the New York Shakespeare Festival produc­tions. ineluding "Othello" in 1964, a year in which he also began his film career and established his name in Hollywood with his perfor­mance in Stanley Kubrick's "Dr. Strangelove." 

He won a Tony in 1969 for his performance as Jack Jefferson, a heavyweight champion, in "The Great White IIope." A film version of the stage production was cre­ated a year later, and he was nominated for an Academy Award and won the Golden Globe. 
Jones received another Tony in 1987 for his powerhouse performance as a frustrated baseball player in August Wilson's "Fences." 
Jones has acted in almost sixty film roles to date, includ­ing performances in box-office hits such as the "Star Wars Trilogy," in which he was the voice ofDarth Vadar (1971­1983), "Corning to America" (1988), "Field of Dreams" (1989), "The llunt for Red October" (1990), "Patriot Garnes" (1992), "Somersby" (1993), "Clear and Present Danger" (1994), "The Lion King," in which he was the voice of Mufasa (1994), "A Family Thing" (1996), and "Looking for Hichard" (1996). 

If you see news happening, call1,5323. 
Film·reveals eo..·vert U.S. actions
... . . . .. 
By COLLEENMcCAR'J."HY 

NeW$ Wiirer · · 
.. As a foUow-qp to J~st we.ek's visit of Johrt and Maria Guiliano, past9ral ty:l:)rkers from El Sa}!'vado~~:;:~U;Stice Education students:at Saint Mary's sponsored a viewing of a video on human right~ viola~ tions in El Salvador followed by a panel di$cussi?!l led by 
st~te:tsvno:!l\Y~~ffti'ed, ...... 
video, the discussion turned to what members of the Saint Mary's community could do to help address the human rights violations in El Salvador. The main focus was a petition that explained the function of the School of the Americas and why it should be shut down. People were encouraged to get signatures for the petition and then send it on to their mem­
bers of Congress. 
Additionally. the group discussed getting other clubs on campus involved 

by giving them copies of Bourgeo~~ aga.instthe rr.s.. ..... t·t· .. ·b· . • . . 1....d·.·• . h the petition as well as set· 
~~~*':::~~:Jfk~i 'T~~~;~~~~~~~~~~·~~g 
School of the A:mertcas, ~.;.~• • wan .·.. ··.~ ...· e lnvo ve . m sue · ting up tables outside the The Schoof of • the a thing?' . dining hall and encourag-Americ¥· origi!lally ~ased ing students to sign thein Panama and now locat· petition. The main focus ed at Fort Benning, Sister Maggie Nimo of the evening was to 
Georgia was 4esign¢d by the U.S. Armytotrain sol­diers from Latin America to promote democracy, 
professionalize their military, and be more informed of human rights. . . •. ·.. .·. 
However, the group that gathered to watch the video soon learnedt~lj,tthe,School.of the Americas is far from an upstanding .· •.. institution. Graduates Qtt~~ sc:;h()ol ha.ye committed numerous atroCi­ties, human rights violations, and murder~:t .Manuel Noriega and the person responsible for the gunning d(lwn . of Archbishop Oscar, Romero in El Salvador as well as numer~ ous dictators in Latin. America are graduates or the f16tbriotis "Scho()l.gfAssassins." 

The video also revealed the 
ea.rlier l.!Se of teaching manu"­
als. thatdetailed metll()ds of 
torture. The practice has 
siri(:e be(in discontinued. 
.A,f:ter ctlle video, the discus­sion· that. ensued vocalized the disbeliefof those who watched .the vid$~, T~e majl)rity or those present had not heard of the School of the Americas 
.....,....... .,.,.
-"...........

..._________ 
and were shocked to learn that the U.S. was involved in running an instituthln that graduated some of the worst offenders of human rights. 
"The q_lfestion l keep asking myself is why would the U.S; want to be involved in such a thing?~ $ister Maggie. Nimo said. Adt'led junior Meaghan David, "I think it is just appallin~ that thi~ kJnd of institutiotl. is beitl.g run in the 
U.S. much less anywhere else inthe wl)tld. )'hese are our tax dollars supporting this." 
Follow~ng reflectio11s from m~mbe~s ofthe group on the raise awareness of the human rights violations. "I personally would chal­lenge you to talk to three 
people who don't know about the School of the Americas. You don't have to change their mind, but just inform them," senior Sara Nienaber stated. 
Senior Sarah Gillen was pleased with the impact that the evening had as well as the discussion about various ways to address the situation. "I think that by signing petitions, raising awareness, and encouraging discussion we can help," she said. 'The School of the Americas is something we all need to know about because it's our government running it." 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
just went ahead without announcing it," said Lanan. "I told [Gallagher] that it could not come at a worse time. The University could rescind its decision [about FM status] at any time." 
Lanan also pointed out that the issue will possibly be referred to Student Affairs. 
"Moving our project to full FM power is contingent on our current behavior and profes­sionalism," stated Gallagher. 
Immediately preceding the show, during which many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students phoned in to voice their disapproval, Curtis Norvett aired his weekly show. Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller, authors of a letter to The Observer that sparked the growing controversy, were guests on Norvett's program. The two Notre Dame students discussed their motivations for writing the letter, inspired by a Viewpoint letter written by a Saint Mary's student who was upset about Notre Dame foot­ball games. 
"We felt it was offensive of 
her. pointing her finger at 
Notre Dame students. There 
are a lot of people who would 
pay a lot to see a game," said 
one of the pair. 
Syner said that she had been 
receiving both positive and 
negative feedback from Saint Mary's students. 
"We got a lot of calls and emails from people (from Saint Mary's) interested in having a conversation and dialogue. As 
the  week  went  on,  death  
threats  decreas ed,"  Syner  
explained.  

Regarding Saint Mary's acad­emics, one of the roommates said, "There is a very big dif­ference between a regionally ranked and a nationally ranked school." 
Yet the two students defend­ed their original position, pro­claiming that "you have to stand up for your opinions because no one else will." 
The show, during which one Saint Mary's caller was dubbed "a liar and a leech" by one of the hosts, was called an "irre­sponsibly reckless attempt to offend the audience" in WVFI's press release. The station apol­ogized for the broadcast and called the behavior of the two hosts "offensive and hurtful." 
Gallagher was similarly dis­appointed with the two stu­dents. 
"Those guys last night acted out of disrespect for all of us. The other deejays are appalled," lamented Gallagher. 
Editor's Note: When contact­ed for this article, Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller declined any comment on their appearance on WVFI, other than to state that the radio interview would be their final contact with the media. 



Thinking of doing a year of service? How about doing it 
for a lifetime? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. James King, C.S.C. Fr. William Wack, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ence do not fall under the pro­
tection of free speech. 
We ask that the listening continued from page 1 audience please judge us by our swifi and harsh response 
Letter 
examination of issues. 

to this incident and let it be
Irresponsibly reckless 

known that we do not tolerate
attempts to offend the audi­
tCI 
CENTER FOR
. . 
. ­

such offensive and hurtful behavior. We hope that you will continue to enjoy the overwhelming talent that the ND/SMC community has pro­vided for the last 14 years on WVFI. 
Come Find Out More About the 
URBAX P.CUXGE J':ROGRAX 
Informational Meeting 

Wednesday, September 24 7:00pm 
LeMans Lobby Saint Mary's College 
All Students Are Welcome 
For Additional Information Contact Rodney T. Cohen Director of Uran Programming & Outreach Development University of Notre Dame 631-7949 
Jan Pilarski Justice Educational Coordinator Saint Mary's College 284-4512 


Today, Tuesday, September 23 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Marv Albert trial commences efends 
By ANNE GEARAN 
Associated Press Writer 
ARLINGTON, Va. 
Marv Albert scolded "You've been a bad girl" and severely bit a woman in a hotel room for not bringing another man into bed with them, a prosecutor told the jury Monday as the sportscaster went on trial on charges of sodomy and assault. 
Albert's attorney, Hoy Black, countered: "Everything that happened that night was con­sensual. It was the same thing that happened every other night when Marv and (the woman) got together." 
Black portrayed Albert's accuser as a troubled, vengeful woman who "collects" celebri­ties and would "brag about the celebrities she has had relation­ships with, people like Peter Jennings." 
Albert, 54, is accused of bit­ing the woman on the back and forcing her to perform oral sex. The NBC sportscaster pleaded innocent earlier Monday, repeating the words "Not guilty" in his deep, play-byplay voice. The charges carry a maximum penalty or life in prison. 
Commonwealth's Attorney Richard Trodden said the Feb. 12 evening began with the cou­ple watching a pornographic movie at the Hitz-Carlton Hotel in Alexandria and ended with Albert angrily grabbing her arms, throwing her on the bed and tPlling lwr: "You've been a bad girl. you didn't bring any­body." 
Troddnn said Albert pinched tlw woman's cheeks to force her to pnrform oral sPx. Albert ignored the woman's pleas of "Stop, you're hurting me," and mocked her, saying, "You know you like this," the prosecutor told the jury of seven women and five men in his opening statement. 

At that point, the normally stoic Albert looked away from the jury box and began taking notes. llis fiancee, ESPN pro­ducer Heather Faulkiner, sat behind him, expressionless. !lis daughter, Denise, winced. 
Albert's accuser, 42, was not in the courtroom. Witnesses in a criminal case are not allowed in until they are called to testi­fy. 
The prosecutor said the two met in 1986 when the accuser was a telephone operator at the Miami Airport Hilton hotel, and "it was a sexual relationship from almost the very begin­ning." 
Trodden said the couple had several threesomes before, including trysts in Los Angeles and once in Miami, the last occurring in 1990 or 1991. 
Because Albert's job prevent­ed the couple from seeing each other for months at a time, Trodden said they engaged in lots of fantasy sex on the phone, and Albert's end of the conver­sation generally centered "on participating in a threesome with another male." 
Trodden said that during their sexual encounters, Albert would "sometimes ask her to bring ladies' underwear for him to wear." 
I Ie said that on the day before the alleged attack, Albert had repeatedly told the woman of his desire for three-way sex with another man that evening. 
When it was the defense's turn to address the jury, Black argued that the woman was lashing back at Albert because her life was unraveling: She had lost her job and Albert had recently told him he was think­ing of getting married to anoth­er woman. He was divorced five years ago. 
Black also noted that the woman had been released from a stay in a mental hospital just six weeks before the alleged attack. 
"She became unbalanced, vindictive and wanting to get revenge on Marv Albert," Black said. "This is her revenge." 
Black said the woman asked to be bitten and suggested oral sex because she did not have birth control with her. 
Jennings, through a spokesman in New York, said, "I am unaware of even having met the woman referred to in the Marv Albert trial." In his nightly ABC newscast, Jennings did a brief voice-over about the trial and did not mention that his name came up. 
Earlier in the day, the jury was seated in less than an hour and a half after its members gave assurances they could handle graphic testimony about violent sex. The trial is expect­ed to last about a week. 
Black opened a window into his strategy by asking about 20 prospective jurors if they had ever seen "Fatal Attraction." The movie is about an obsessed woman who refused to let go of a failed love affair and stalks her ex-lover. 
No potential jurors said they would be uncomfortable, and none said they would be dis­turbed by hearing about sex acts they themselves would not do. 

not permitted to coordinate 
. ..with candidates or parties 
··· · eant to benefit from the 
effort. 
The Senate sources, who ...... oh on 7conditlon of "anonymity, added that Ickes said he was not aware of Demo.cratic. Party money ••· being funneled to Ron Carey's re-election campaign for the ·· esidency of the Teamst()rs 
ion. Federal prosecutors last 
• wee~ ~1,1tlined a series Of 
L ·alleged schemes in which the Dem tic National u.U•U<•f<U••'-'e, among others, 
to illegally.ifunne1
Carey.···· prohibits al donations 
office: It is not ether that law th~ president and · dent, or whether actually made any from the White House. , .,.,, Republicans ·are calling for 
independent counsel to investigate ... the matter. Attorney General Janet Reno has begun a 30-day review of Clinton's .l}~~ivity,' a.. step already takmrfor Gore; who has admitted making some calls from the White House. 

T ated)•[}! Press July that'Clinton to make fund-rais­ing in 1994 and 1996. · Documents indicate he made inter-15 to 20 calls in 1994 and ............,..· .~;tising raised $500,000. The White expendi-House said he made one call 
.. ..· n these organiza-to a donor in 1996. 
titips .m~~.() so~c~l~~<!.ind~pen-;;.;. Clinton said he would coop·
dent exp~nditufes,t'th~y are erate with investigators. 
g'IU(m, 
~a/t/UI 2/a g'~!! 

in ~ustria! 
This and other facts will be explored at the lnnsbruck Program information meeting. 
Thursday, September 25, 4:30pm 
210 DeBartolo 
Prof. Ursula Williams, and recent participants in the program will be on hand to answer your questions 
STUDY ABROAD: IT'S GOOD FOR YOU! 

ANDERSEN CoNSULTING 
Open for [business 
It's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. 
At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we challenge it with a stimulat­ing variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance­ment. And support it with the resources of nearly 45,000 professionals operating across 47countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. 
All students interested in interviewing with Andersen Consulting should submit a resume to the Career and Placement Office today, September 23rd. 
© 1997 Andersen ConsultingAndersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
For more information, please visit our web site at http://www.ac.com 



page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
Ties 
continued from page 1 
us have Notre Dame women friends." 
Siefert added, "People on both campuses are guilty of stereotyping each other." 
Katie Cousino, a sophomore orientation counselor, vaguely remembered instructions dur­ing training to downplay the competitive relationship between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women, which did not leave a firm impression in her mind due to personal experi­ences. "I never felt animosity from Notre Dame women. until this year. Until last week," she said. 
"I think a lot of the stereo­typing starts at the social scene. then the educational scene. I don't think [Notre Dame students] have a lot of information about what we do here," Cousino said. 
"They mostly see us on the social scene, and we mostly see them on the social scene. We draw stereotypes from what we see," Cousino added. 
"I think [the stereotyping] starts before students get to campus," said junior Joe Hand, who served as Dillon's orienta­tion commissioner this fall. "I heard stereotypes before I arrived as a freshman, from older students." 
Hand acknowledged that the orientation packets sent to incoming freshmen during the summer before their arrival may contribute to the stereo­types. "Our first copy of the booklet touched on every stereotype of every student on campus," he continued, "but our rector eliminated every reference from it before it was sent out." 
"I think that people receive things in the mail that may give slants on things," said Saint Mary's senior Sara Nienaber, who is the Notre Dame Student Senate repre­sentative. "It takes a few years to try new things, have new experiences, and meet new people to break down the stereotypes." 
Hand pointed out that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's con­duct completely separate ori­entation weekends, other than the large evening social activi­ties. 
"I think Saint Mary's is left out of our freshman orienta­tion, and it might help if they were more involved," he said. "Some events weren't well publicized. I didn't even know about the Jamaica Shaka [event on Saint Mary's cam­pus] until after it happened." 
"Stereotyping started with my freshman orientation," said Kathleen O'Donnell, a Lyons resident who worked as an ori­entation counselor last month. "You immediately hear things like, Zahm is the most hated dorm. Then you meet people who don't fit the stereotype," she added. 
"We promoted our dorm, as opposed to saying things about other dorms or people," O'Donnell said. "You can't point out a Saint Mary's woman from a Notre Dame woman; Saint Mary's students are the same as everyone else." 

E-mail us at: observer.obsnews.1@nd.edu 
Fossil 
continued from page 1 
into private hands. It would make a lot of money for some­body, but the educational impact this fossil could make would be lost." 
Because of vandalism to the site, Rigby and Earthwatch could not comment on the intended destination of the bones, saying only that they would be placed in a museum after the excavation is com­plete. 
"Unfortunately, the area was the subject of vandalism, and if it is known where [the bones] are located, a red nag will be raised causing possible 

harm to the excavation," Rigby said. 
According to Earthwatch, Higby and his crew protected the skull with plaster, a process known as plaster jack­eting,and re-buried it to pro­tect it from the Montana win­ter. The precaulions did not prevent the vandalism, howev­er, and the FBI asked Rigby not to comment on the projec.t to prevent l'uture criminal acts and unauthorized excavation at the site. 
"We are concerned that the fossils be properly excavated and prepared for placement in the museum for the benefit of the general public," said Hoger Bergen, president ol' Earthwatch. 
According to Higby, the site was located where some of his past teams had made discov­eries. 
"During past seasons, we found the leg of a hadrosaur in the vicinity, so we returned for further exploration this summer," he said. "In July, four [Earthwatchl volunteers literally stumbled over some badly weathered bones and insisted that we start digging." 
Earthwatch shares the cost and labor of scientific field research projects and has been funding Rigby's investi­gation since its start in the beginning ol' the summer. Rigby has received Earthwatch support l'or the past nine years. 
The South Bend Tribune and The New York Times con­tributed lo this story. 
IPW IPW 
ATTENTION SoPHOMOREs! 
Get involved in.1997-98 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortune Infomation Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26. If you have any questions please call Jeff Jones at x1631 


IPW IPW 
FIDELITY MANAGEMENT &RESEARCH Co. 
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO ATIEND APRESENTATION DISCUSSING CAREER 
Investment Management Opportunities: 
Equity Research Associate 


Thursday, September 25 at 7:00p.m. The University Club Main Lounge 
Refreshments Will Be Served • Casual Attire 
Fidelity Investments is committed to creating a diversified environment and proud to be an equal opportunity employer. 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Town defends nuns fro01 bishop 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press Writer 
ESPINOSADE IIENARES, Spain 
During the Spanish Civil War, residents of this farming town rose in defense of the nuns who inhabit a convent on its outskirts. Now. they are doing so again. 
Sixty years ago, the people of Espinosa de Ilenares stood shoulder-to-shoulder before the white-walled convent to protect it from leftists intent on burning it and harming the nuns. 
The Alamo-style church and convent is now besieged by a force cut from a very different doth -by a bishop who is one of the most senior Roman Catholic officials in Spain. 
Bishop Jose Sanchez walked into the convent Monday after­noon to expel its five mostly elderly nuns and renew his threats to excommunicate them if they refused to go. 
One by one and in groups ­the old, the young, parents cradling infants in their arms ­most of Espinosa de llenares' 500 residents gathered in a plaza in front of the convent. 
"We baptized our son in there," said Andres Garcia, ges­turing with a nod toward the church and its white bell tower. 
"The nuns have always helped us. They gave me work building an extension to the convent," remembered Bautista Castellot, a grizzled 76-year-old. 
As the hours ticked by and the bishop remained inside, the crowd grew angrier. Some women shouted for him to come out. Five green-uniformed Civil Guard police lounging by the door looked on warily. 
"We may not be very Catholic in this town, but the nuns are a part of our lives," Castellot said. 
Although most Spaniards are Catholic, few regularly attend church. Relations between soci­ety and the church are smooth, if not distant. The situation in Espinoza de Henares, 45 miles northeast of Madrid, was nei­ther. 
Set alongside a river, the con­vent and grounds were bequeathed by a landowner in 1892 to the nuns of "Espinoza de Henares," according to papers filed with the town government. 
"The property was given to the nuns of the town, not to the Clarisas, the Franciscan order to which they belong," said Gonzalez Ibanez, an attorney representing the nuns. 
Not so, asserts the bishop, who says the property belongs to the order and to the church. Without publicly saying why, Sanchezordered the nuns out of the convent last year. 
The nuns -whose average age is 67 -wrote a desperate plea to Pope John Paul II. 
"We humbly beg your Holiness, on our knees and with anguish, the singular favor of not carrying through the closure of this convent," the letter says. 

TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Information Meeting for JUNIORS interested in Public Service 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 4:30-5:15p.m. 206 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

'UJ,ti!i'Rll,sia promote nptollferation 
sile technology from reaching Iran or any other rogue state." With Russia's economy all­ing, Moscow is eager to export RJlS,siajs cooperatil)g,with+li the few items it can market internationally, including weapons and nuclear techno!­ogy.. Weapons exports. are growing and Moscow is build-
Iran, Vice ing, or plans to build, nuclear ~,1'()$-i~(lll.(~l \power plants in several conn· .Gor~ .. said I tries, including Iran. Mo.n day, The Russians insist that e;vep though their exp9rts do not include Moscow $till "parts or technology that could intends . to Gore be used to build missiles or 

•• help p ,nuclear weapons. But the nuclea •······ Americans fear that Iran could nati.on. .·······•·· <take ·.Russian technology for Got~. gt~~bties lthe power plant and use it in ofxfieeti th' eekwith the construction of nuclear Russian mister Viktor weapons. C:lierho ....... din said ltan'sx ··r·ve tried very hard to alleged attempt to develop explain exactly why we nuclear w~apons and long-Americans feel so strongly range mi~~Hes wa;g a prime about this,'' Gore said. topic of discussion. The Orthodox Church and 
"We've spent a lptof Fme many Russian political leaders talking about Iran;~t Gor~ said·· say the measure is needed to at a government resort outside defend the country against Moscow...··.·· ·to sects and cults. But critics say continue · ··· the l~w could be used to pre­athned vent even mainstream groups 

from pperating freely. 

Scientists plan to breed Dolly the sheep 

Associated Press 
EDINBURGH, Scotland 

The Ph.D.s have decided to )(lave it to the birds and the bees -or make that the rams and the ewes. Dolly the cloned sheep is to become a mother next year. But there'll be no cloning. Not even artificial insemination. 
Staff at Edinburgh's Roslin Institute, where researchers for the first time cloned a mammal from the cell of another adult mammal, said Monday that Dolly will be bred with a ram early next year to determine whether she's fertile and can produce healthy lambs. 
"It will probably be a matter of putting them out in a field and letting them get on with it," said Professor Graeme Bulfield, the institute's direc­tor. 
The breeding will determine whether Dolly's lambs would be affected by her unusual con­ception. Her offspring would not be clones and would be genetically different from her. Bulfield said. 
Bulfield said healthy lambs would mean that the cloning process had produced a fully healthy, fertile sheep, which would be valuable knowledge for PPL Therapeutics, the Scottish biotechnology compa­ny formed to market the cen­ter's work. 
Scientists at the institute pro­voked worldwide concern in February about the potential for cloning humans when they announced they had created Dolly using cells from another sheep's udder. 

LOCKHEED 
INVITES NOTRE DAME STUDENTS TO 
Information Night 
Wednesday, Sept.24 7:00-8:00 pm Center Lower Dining Room Center for Continuing Education 
Challenging Job Opportunities in Our Many Product Lines for CS/ EEl MEl AEI Physics/ Math/ Business Majors 
PIZZA AND REFRESHMENTS WILL BE PROVIDED 


w

-----------...-------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OfFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 6.~ 1-7471 SAINT MARY's OfFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor... . ......... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............. jed Peters Viewpoint Editor... . ............. Kelly Brookl> Ad Design Manager... ... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor..... . ....................... Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accenr Editor.......................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ..................Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor .......................Lori Allen Controller...... .. .......... Kyle Carlin Photo Edi~or .... . ........... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the smdenrs of rhe Univer~iry ofNorrc Dame du LK .md Sainr Mary's College. lr does not nece~arily rdlect rhe policies of rhe administration of eirher institution. The news is reported as a~.:curarely and objenively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem rhe opinion of rhc majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chid~ M:maging Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Ediror. Sports Ediror, Accenr Editor. Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate New.!. Editor. Commentaries, lener.!. .md Inside Columm present rhe views of the authors, and nor neces­s~uily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all member~ of the Nmre Dame/Sainr Marv's community and to all reader-'. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. , 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Bu.1iness Office  6.11-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  6.11-6900/8840  
News/Phom  631-5323  Svstems  631-88.~9  
Sports  631-4'i43  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Saim Mary's  631-4'i40  Fax  6.11-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoim.l @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@dar.vin.cc.nd.edu  

• DOONESBU!W 
• ALL ABOUT You 
http://New Kids on the Internet 
One can find all kinds of neat information on the Internet. There are tons of info on the lat­est news, both worldwide and local. The ability to access all types of knowledge is literally right at your fingertips. I, however, headed straight to the chat rooms. I was new at this whole Internet scene so my friend had to clue me in to 
Bridget Rzezutko 
what "cyber" really meant when someone asked if I was into it. Ewww. no. I was not. 
But once overcoming that little obstacle I was okay. I had so much fun. I was a mixture of people during that time; I was a 23-year-old grad student from Texas, and 18-year-old high school senior, and a married man with kids. I lied the entire time, not even feeling guilty. It was great. 
When that got a little old I turned into Nancy Drew and did a little sleuthing. Who did my friend Molly and I look up? Why, everyone from the 80s, of course. We looked up New Kids On The Block; two of them have children now, although all are still currently unem­ployed. Molly Ringwald was hard to locate but Debbie Gibson quiz," I had to tell people. The quiz was hysterical. My friend actually knew some answers and I was very frightened by this. But once again I couldn't say anything because I knew the name of Jon Knight's dog in the New Kids On the Block, enabling us to get into a secret Web site for only the most devoted fol­lowers. 
I didn't know any answer on the Debbie Gibson quiz except that she had perfume out called Electric Youth, and the only reason I knew that was because someone had bought it for me once. I think they hated me. But any­way, my favorite question went something like, "When you have a bad day, are you comforted by knowing that at least Deborah is okay?" No joke. That was actually asked. I didn't get any credit for my answer of no. 
Next we looked up Corey Ilaim. Please, do not do this. There is an actual picture of him naked. A vision of a teen idol was shattered right then and there in the computer lab. There is also a picture of Corey Haim and Corey Feldman taken together which is called "Corey Squared." As if that isn't obvious. 
I have to admit the Internet is a blast. I wouldn't recommend spending your Friday or Saturday nights using it, but it is definitely worth spending time on. It is so amazing that anyone can just have their own Web page and put literally anything on it. I think I am going to make one, maybe devote it to Fred Savage since he doesn't have one. Hey, I hear he is making a comeback with his new television show. I bet tons of people would visit it. After all, I visited the New Kids page, and that's just as bad. 
Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at Rzeu904@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Community of Elders JF~hare Campus 
Recent}~, have you wondered if a group of your parents or ey~tl grandparents ha~,decided to stay around campus after a VISit for a football game? Or are these folks hanging around campus a~temptiilg, in a misspent effort. to relive their own col­legE:l years? Perhaps an elderhostel has been established in some far corner of the property? Rest easy, for none of the ab()ve is true. T}Ie interlopers you may have encountered in the North Dining_Hall and on the campus paths are participants all at the Center forContinuing Formation in Ministry. We·arc 43 priests, brothers; and, sisters ranging in age from 40 to 70 years. We represent 22 states and eight countries as well as a variety of ministries. We will be among you for the remainder of the semester,. So. please be gentle and patient vvith us as we advance into the fall and winter seasons of our lives. 
0Qr program here is adivision of the Institute for Church Life and has been extant at Notre Dame for 21 years. Founded origi­nally by Father Bob Pelton as the Institute for Clergy Education, it is run onatwo•session basis. Originally an all-male gatherin­ng, hut now like Notre Dame at large, it is a co-ed institution. Until veryrecently CCFrv! Wa!) housed at the Holy Cross Brothers' Center: The recent expansion of Holy Cross College, however, has necessitated our own move to the campus proper. So you Ca)'l expeE~ence the result, we are now yours. 
Indeed we are uncertain pioneers in a new setting for this s~bh.aticalprogram. Just as you share a sense of community wtth:i,n your 28 halls; we too are building a community within our own apartment complex on Notre Dame Avenue. Though thef~ may be a great deal of silver in our collective hair, still there is aJode ofhidden gold in our diverse life experiences. As we pass among you, we would like to come to know you better and have you welcome us, We are here to be renewed and rechargedand hopefully, you vvill be part of this process. We would be ·.. share our stories with you and in turn hear 
Seprember 10, 1997 
M N&e!1 YOUR !3XP&I<Tl!iie 
A5A FOR~ COMMONeR 1 me Qt/13CN HAG toGTH/3R CCWfMON 7lJUCH ANI?W£5Ni /<NW NHAT 70 fA?l f 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
TH/3 Qt/UN HA'3 UJST He< 7lXJCHr 
7H6 tJtJG&N HAG 
tosrH/5R 7lJ()Of? 
\ 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"several excuses are always less convincing than one." 
-Aldous Huxley 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 page I 1 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Matters of Life and Death 
I agree with Professor Charles Rice (Sept. 12) in his statement of general principles. For instance, "the state may not constitutionally allow the intentional killing or the innocent." This is a sound principle of social morality as well as of constitutional law. 
However. it is when he begins to apply this that he skates on thin ice. Briefly, Rice regards the removal ofa feeding tube from a patient (e.g., Nancy Cruzan) in a persistent vegetative stated (PVS) as intentional killing by starvation and dehy­dration. It is the removal of the tube that "causes" Nancy's death n('t the underly­ing pathology. Rice presents his analysis as if it were the only possible one, and uncontroverted at that. Not so. 
Granted that some Catholic philoso­phers and even some bishops (e.g .. those in Pennsylvania) view the matter as Rice does. 
On the other hand. bioethicists such as Dennis Brodeur, Kevin O'Rourke, Albert 
S. Moraezewski, John Paris, James Walter, James Bresnahan, Daniel Callahan. Albert Jonsen, Thomas · Shannon. George Annas, and James Drane -to mention but a few-have come to a different conclusion. 
Let Dennis Brodeur be a single example here. Artificial nutrition-hydration that "simply puts ofT death by maintaining physical existence with no hope of recov­ery ... is useless and therefore not ethi­cally obligatory." It is "vitalism" to think otherwise. Brodeur correctly rejects a notion of quality of life that states that a certain arbitrarily defined level of func­tioning is required before a person's life is to be valued. But if it refers to the rela­tionship between a person's biological condition and the ability to pursue life's goals, it is critical to good decision-mak­ing. "In some circumstances" he eon­eludes. "science's ability to respond help­fully to allow a person to pursue the goals of life is.~o limitPd that treatment may be useless. 
This controversy is manifested even at the episcopal level. The Texas bishops do not agree with the Pennsylvania bishops. Neither do the bishops or Washington and Oregon. These latter urge that there "should be a presumption in favor of pro­viding patients with these necessities of survival." They finally conclude: "In appropriate circumstances, the decision to withhold these means of life support can be in accord with Catholic moral rea­soning and ought to be respected by med~ ical caregivers and the laws of the land." The same conclusion is drawn by Bishop John Leibrecht (Springfield-Cape · Girardeau) in his comments on the Nancy Cruzan case. He discusses the two differ­ent approaches and says of the second that it is "a valid Catholic position which approves removal of Nancy Cruzan's 
tube." lie concludes: "Unless there is an official and binding decision from Church authorities, Catholics would be mistaken 
to hold that only one or the other line of Catholic moral reasoning is correct." 
Let me turn to the analysis in Rice's approach. lie argues that removal of nutrition-hydration causes death. 
Is this the proper way the situation of PVS should be analyzed? Not according to the Texas bishops. They note that life­sustaining means, including artificial nutrition and hydration, may be omitted "under conditions which render those means morally non-obligatory." Certainly diagnosed PVS is one of those conditions in their view. They then add interestingly: 
In those appropriate cases the decision maker is not guilty of murder. suicide, or assisted suicide, since there is not moral obligation under these circumstances to impede the normal consequences of the underlying pathology. The physical cause of death is ultimately the pathology which required the use of those means in the first place. 
The Texas bishops, then, do not view the PVS patient as nonterminal. They see such a person as "stricken with a lethal pathology which, without artificial nutri­tion and hydration, will lead to death." The moral question is when should we intervene to prevent the "normal conse­quences of a disease or injury." When it is decided that the patient can no longer benefit from the intervention, the under­lying pathology is allowed to take its nat­ural course. This does not involve the intent to bring about death. 
This is the analysis proposed by Kevin O'Rourke. O'Rourke, in an analysis 

Double Loss in West Lafayette 
An artist could not have painted a prettier pic­ture-beautiful weather. a sold-out stadium. an interstate rivalry. energetic fans. As we made our way to our seats, I told my son and his friend (both Purdue students) they were in for a real tn~at once the Irish cheering started. This proved to be the ease 30 minutes before game time. But. as kiek off approached, the situation changed 180 degrees. 
For three solid hours. the football enthusiasts in our section were subjected to a bombardment of vulgarities and unseemly taunts. The highly oll'ensive gutter talk arose from a core of Notre Dame freshmen and sophomores. Their verbal assault was directed at anyone on the field ... the Purdue team. the band. the cheerleaders ... and even the Irish leprechaun who, at one point, appearPd Pmbarrassed himself by what he heard. 
To Notre Dame's mascot: You represented the Irish with style and proved yourself more of a man than thosP graphically challenging your manhood. 
To thP two Saint Mary's students from almost identical to that of the Texas bishops, observes that "withholding artificial hydra­tion and nutri­tion from a patient in an irreversible coma does not induce a new fatal pathol­ogy; rather it allows an already existing fatal pathology to take its natural course." Therefore, O'Rourke argues that we should not be discussing whether death is imminent, but "whether a fatal pathology is pre­sent." If it is, the key moral ques­tion is "whether there is a moral obligation to seck to remove the fatal pathology or at least to circumvent its effects." 
This is also the approach of Daniel Callahan in his book, What Kind ofLife? Dealing with exactly these cases Callahan asks: 
"On the level of physical causality, have we killed the patient or allowed him to die? In one sense, it is our action that shortens his life. and in yet in another sense it is his underlying disease that brings his life to an end. I believe it rea­sonable to say that, since his life was being sustained by artificial means (res­pirator or tube), and that was necessary because of the fact that he had an inca­pacitating disease, his disease is the ulti­mate reality behind his death." 
Because of this decisive causal role played by the underlying disease, Callahan states: "To allow someone to die from a disease we cannot cure (and that we did not cause) is to permit the disease to act as the cause ofdeath" (my empha­sis). In brief, those who argue that in 
Streator, Ill., and Hawaii: Enjoyed the conversa­tion and hope you enjoy the Irish game at Pittsburgh you were excitedly talking about. Your "congratulations on the Purdue win ... " as you departed was very gracious. 
To the Notre Dame administration: How about a mandatory first-year course entitled "Maturity 101." 
To the immature Notre Dame students who sat withdrawing nutrition-hydration we introduce a new cause of death and therefore kill the patient have overlooked the lethal causal character of the under­lying pathology. . 


This matter is far more important than any disagreement between Rice and me. There is no better way to soften resis­tance to the unacceptable than to confuse it with the acceptable. To confuse killing and allowing to die in cases like Cruzan arguably does just that. In that sense, proponents of physician-assisted suicide will welcome Rice's analysis-contrary to his intentions and deeply held convic­tions. 
Richard A. McCormick, S.J. John A O'Brien, Professor ofChristian Ethics Emeritus September 15, 1997 
u.ro• • ,,...,,.. and myself. OUl~ sti~uf;t:~lirlt!Z football important the had been a trying one WftW'at(~h€id:.· our team get afriend of mine standihg !fet3mi!iht with a fellow student on I watched the two contin­
th~}l1€:anilngl~ss playfthe words exchanged became more · . heated, culmihating in a challenge to fight. Luckily, nothing happened, but a few minutes later, when the alma mater was played I couldn't 
,, help butsee th~ irony,.{ls this the real Notre Dame behihd the mystique? As a freshman, only a month ago I was dreaming about the paradise called Notre Dame. a place I hadbe~n tQld about ll):Y wholelife. My family flooded me withstories oflegen!i al,ld divihity, making me believe that thiscollege w~ different from others, that it was special in its bond and love among the students. And yet, in a few· shor~ w~e~~ I ~llcve be¢n introduced to cases of a woman being "al)du~ted" whi'e alone at night, plastered students 
··· loudly cursing at my assistant rector (from a safe distance, of course) only to be,, · offby a security guard, and even a few Domers . their sister Saiht Mary's stu­
reasons. 
What's going on? What ? Thesequestions may in end zone section 103, rows four and five, and Dame.
especially the mouth-piece with a Boston Red 

1I!l1trvrtYnr~:P.!l so I asked myRA
Sox cap: You proved yourself a disgrace and "''"' "··na said, "only ifsome-embarrassment to your fine institution. The to make it tarnish·pleasure seeing your group slither out of the Dame student body,stands with minutes left in the game was only more question to ask yourivaled by the great Purdue win. 
our sacred GoldenMy observation: In the eyes of many fans in 
·=.',:;k:;.::,·:·
Section 133, Notre Dame suffered more than the loss of a football game. 
Ed Sutarik 
Palatine, Ill. SepJember 21, 1997 

.-~~-------~~-:-:;;---------~-~------------------------~ 
-~ ---------~---------­
.ACC~NT 
page 12 -I • -I -I-
Dear Lola, 
I 

I come from a family with a long history of substance abuse. I have witnessed the dam­
I Night Owls Roost at 
age it can do and have decided, consequently, not to drink. My decision has never been challenged, but I'm finding it difficult to develop the kind of social life I was expecting from such a classy university. The 
I the Computer Cluster 
social environment 
here revolves 
I 

around drinking. I 
By EMMETT MALLOY Dealing with frantic people in the middle feel no direct peer Accent Music Editor of' the night is always a memorable experi­pressure, but rather ence, especially during finals week when the
I 

something inside, as M aybe another class has taken too line stretches outside of' the building. Most if I am missing out. much of your time. Perhaps you of the incidents involve the printers, which How do I reconcile should have stayed home Friday feed from 58 computers, inevitably experi­
I 

what I know is night and passed up those parties. You encing occasional paper jams and ink prob­healthy for me with didn't really need to go to your Investors' lems. In addition, consultants periodically wanting to be a part Club meeting, but ~atch p.eople loo~­
I

of the mainstream 
social life here? 
I

Struggling in Alumni 
I 

Dear Struggling, 
I

We know what you 
mean. It's always difficult to reconcile what you know is 
I 

right and the way 
life just is. Keep on 
doing what you love, and surround yourself 
I 

with people who respect you and your choic­es. There is so much more to do here, both on and off-campus, than people realize. Did you 
I

know there's a zoo in South Bend?! When you find yourself in the middle of the party 
scene, enjoy the humor in watching your 
I

friends make fools of themselves. It's actually 
quite entertaining. Kudos to you for your 
courage. College is about making memories, not blacking them out. You'll be just fine. 
I 
I 


I 
Dear Lola, 
I 
Help! I have a 
I 
serious problem. It all started last year -how innocent the 
I 
days! I was enjoy­ing a cup of morn­ing java in the din-
I 
ing hall (I refuse to 


reveal which one} when I thought to 
myself, "Damn 
these coffee cups 
1 
are cool!" With great stealth I sue-
I 

ceeded in smug-Mariano, who applied got to be a little gling one into my for the job via the weird."
SOME CAMPUS 
bag. Later that Internet, preferred Schott works at
I 

evening I realized with alarming solemnity the early morning COMPUTER CLUSTERS: O'Shaughnessy in that I needed the saucer. times because "the the evenings now
Usual Weekday Hours
Well, it all went downhill from there. Each atmosphere is a lot where she says "if
I 

meal I began to steal something (anything!) more relaxed and the we have three stu­new: silverware, flatware, sugar shakers, consultants don't have dents we are busy."
Bond Hall (basement): PC 'til1 a.m.
spices, bowls. even the cheap Adworks table to deal with daytime Despite the rela­
I 

tents. My ultimate goal is to capture a tray. I rush." LaFortune (basement): PC 'til 2 a.m. tive lack of activity just want to be a part of this university, ya The only constraint interspersed with
DeBartolo: PC/Mac open 24 hours 
-I
know? How much more blue-n-gold can you with working the late night panics, 
0 
ca get than such fine china? I've become a com-graveyard shift is O'Shaughnessy: Mac 'ti11 a.m. Malin added that plete obsessive compulsive. Do you know if one's class schedule. Hesburgh Library: PC/Mac 'til 2 a.m. the graveyard shift they provide the kind of assistance I need at Most of the late night is a great environ-the University Counseling Center? consultants have only ment to work in. 
one class the follow-Besides the disrup­
1 

Klepto in Keough ing day or classes in the afternoon: tion-free time to do homework, the job is 
I 
Tim Malin, who works on Tuesday nights, perfect for those Notre Dame night owls. goes back to his room after his shift for a "Since I stay up late, I might as well get 
Dear Klepto, four-hour nap and then heads off for his paid for it," he says. 
..1 
only class of' the day. Dude. You're on your own, man. But we are 

I
sure the Counseling Center would love to speak with you, as would the dining hall staff. 
I 

Do you have a problem? Got a 
dozen? Why not ask Lola? I 
Remember: she's not a real doc­
tor, she has a master's degree in 
advice! 
I

Mail or drop your questions by
314 LaFortune. 
I 





The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
FREE TRIPS & CASH!  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed  2 BC GAs  For sale: 2 USC GA's in  
NOTICES  SPRING BREAK! Outgoing individuals -sell 15 & go  and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent  Best Offer x2706  sec.118. Leave a message with best offer. 201-666-6102  no math assignment like that ever needs to be assigned.  
FREE. Cancun, South Padre,  wknds. 5 Rooms with private  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Mazatlan, Jamaica, South  baths, $70-$90,  NOTRE DAME  
LaFortune Student Center  Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best  Middlebury, 30 miles from  FOOTBALL TICKETS  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs  good luck on you stufff kevin  
Store Hours  Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  campus. Toll Road, Exit#107,  BUY -SELL -TRADE  for USC game. Call 818-790­ n.  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.­ www.studentexpress.com  1-800-418-9487.  0094 or e-mail  
Midnight  232-0058  JPOOIG@AOL.COM  i'm too tired to study  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  ***EARN FREE TRIPS &  FOR SALE  CONFIDENTIAL  ONE USC TICKET WANT­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  CASH***  TICKET-MART, INC.  ED-$  LaFortune Student Center  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  CLASS_ TRAVEL needs stu­ 1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With  Please call Mae at  -J High-Speed Copies  
Phone 631-COPY  dents to promote Spring Break  radio, NC, pwr windows/locks,  BUY/SELL NO SEASON  (412)443-0691 COLLECT  -J Canon Color Laser Copies  
1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free!  pwr steering, 137 k/mi, dri­ AND INDIVIDUAL GAME  -J Digital Color Printing  
Highly motivated students can  ves like a dream, for 1875 or  TICKETS.  Poor college student needs 2  -J Binding & Laminating  
SEASONS INN  earn a free trip & over $10,000!  best  674-7645.  tickets for the USC game (for  -J Public Fax Service 631­ 
Bed & Breakfast Home  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  offer. call 634-3660  my brother and his wife).  FAX1  
Rooms Available  Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida!  ask for Henry  Buying GA's seasons or indi­ Please call 634-3880.  Phone 631-COPY  
10 Miles from Stadium  North America's largest student  vidual games. Top dollar paid.  
888-226-5545  tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ Brass bed, queen size with  Confidential service.  10 USC GAs  you know i'm busy when my  
838-6411  orthopedic mattress set and  Call 234-5650.  40-yd line  room is clean  
frame. New, never used, still in  FACE VALUE  
plastic. $250.00. 219-862-2082  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  634-4823  we have carpet and even  
CHILD CARE  ··spring Break..."Take 2"**  FOR SALE  spared the lives of the big one  
$50/wk. w/meals inc. in Clay Twp. 243-2821.  Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free  Car must sell. Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door,  DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726  PERSONAL  and his red haired counter-part. remember to pay me or i will  
Parties, Eats, Drinks.  air, very good condition.  break your legs  
SunSplash 1-800-426­ $2800 or b/o. Call Emidio  NO TICKETS WANTED  So you thought that  
WANTED:  771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  631-8594  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Riverdance was great and  Be a part of history at NO's  
student volunteers for  EVENING #: 288-2726  WO!Jid like to give Irish Dance a  biggest dance party EVER!  
ALUMNI PUBLICATIONS/ NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE  FOR RENT  FURNITURE MUST SELL New TV+VCR combination,  FOR SALE  try? Here's your chance! An Irish Dance club is forming and  WSND 88.9 fm's Retro 70's Dance is coming. Stay  
When? 3-5 hours/week  futon+ mattress,  N.D. G.A.'S  if you would like to be a part of  Tuned...  
starting  Call Emidio 631-8594  271-9412.  the inaugral year call Patrick at  
now: possibly to fill 12 hour  1651. Experience would be  Married, childless white cou­ 
paid position 2nd semester! CONTACT: 631-4638 or  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  TICKETS  Desperately need USC tick­ets!!! 2-4 if possible. Parents  great but none necessary. All levels welcome.  ple of 13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please call  
beal.1 @nd.edu  $195/PERSON  never seen a game. Call 273­ 1-800-916-5629, access  
232-2595  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  2958  code 92.  
ILOST & FOUND I  HOME GAMES.272-6551 Wanted: NO Football Tickets  need two tix for navy for my brother and father.  To 4 random guys who helped 4 random girls bang on their starter-engine the Purdue  ••• RODEO Anyone interested in  
1 BDRM. LARGE APT.  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800­ call martin at 4-0605  weekend: Thanks!  starting and competing  
A black watch on a velcro  BDRM. HAS F/PLACE.  255-2850  on a RODEO team  
band was lost last Tuesday  $500/MO., $500 DEP.  WANTED N D G A'S  here at Notre Dame  
night at Stepan Field. If you  FEMALE ONLY.  HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED  TO ALL HOME GAMES  Hey!  contact Mike at  
know where it is, please call  INC. UTILITIES+ CABLE.  Mich/USC. CAll Mel4-1349 if  271 1526  Come have dinner on us at  289-2924.  
Ryan at 4-1665.  243-2821.  want to sell/trade!!  Greenfields Cafe on Wed.,  ••• RODEO •••  
ND Alum 2 pay TOP $$ 4 USC TIX! 410-737-6115  Sept. 24. We'd like to hear your ideas about the Huddle, North  ..  
WANTED  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  Married Student TIX For Sale 273-3844 Leave Msg.  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL  & South Dining Halls, Waddicks, Cafe Poche and Common Sandwich Company.  tony and bob -a gratuitous and unnecessary mentioning of  
AND OTHER ND-SMC  FRANK. 800-243-9683.  We'll also fill you in on plans for  their names...  
Childcare needed for 8-yr.  EVENTS.  the exciting new South Dining  
old. Wed, Thurs. Fri, 3:00-5:00 pm.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  need 2 BC GA's call jen @ x0849  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO  Hall Food Market opening next year. Reservations required  why? because i can ...  
Transportation necessary. Call Angela 234-2211 day,  WALK. 243-0658.  I need BC tix.  HOME GAMES AND LSU CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  and seating is limited. Call Food Services at 631-5589 for  Day, you owe me some seri­ous cash. 5 a.m. -The Brat  
271-8224 eve.  273-1510  more info.  

~
--. . 

Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 
Buccaneers remain undefeated 
By FRED GOODALL 
A«ociated Press Writer 
TAMPA, Fla. 
They're young, bold and unbeaten "Amerir.a's Darlings" as one recent head­linn described them. 
But more than anything, the Tampa Bay Buceaneers are try­ing to keep the team's best start in IS years, as well as the atten­tion it's received, in perspor.tive. 
Tlw Bues haven't finished with a winning record or ~~arned a post-season berth since 1982, and coar.h Tony Dungy and his players are doing evnrything they r.an to avoid mention of the "p" word in assessing th1~ dub's 4-0 rncord. 
Sunday night's 31-21 victory ovnr the Miami Dolphins was the fifth straight for Tampa Bay, dating back to 1996, equaling a franchise record set in 1979 whnn tho Hues won their first five games on the way to an appnarance in the NFC champi­onship game. 
"I think it's still a little too !)arly to be talking about the playoffs. But that is something that I have talked about with our players," said Dungy, whose even temperament has set the tone for the way the players have handled success. 
"We talk about winning championships. We talk about winning playoff-type games. We'll talk today about letting Miami score at tho end of tho game, and how when you're in a tight playoff game or you're in a big game, you're not going to be able to allow that to hap­pen." 
To a man, the Hues say the challenge the remainder of the season is to keep improving. The goal is to eventually win the Super Bowl, not merely win enough games to make the playofls. 
The fast start has rekindled fan support and attracted national media attention. However Dungy is confident the team will be able to retain its focus. 
"I really think we've got the typo of team where it's not going to be that big of a deal," said Dungy, who held the team together a year ago in the wake of a 1-8 start. Since then, the Bucs are 9-2. 
"I think we've got enough guys left from that 0-5 and 1-8 that understand it's a long jour­ney and that there's not a big difference between the top teams and the bottom teams, that the reason we've gotten here is because we work hard." 
Defense has carried the team 
through much of the stretch of 
success that began the middle 
of last season. But without 
injured defensive starters Warren Sapp and Rufus Porter against the Dolphins, the 
.<iiTense rose to the occasion. 
Trent Dilfer raised his quar­terback rating to an NFL-Iead­ing 112.0 by throwing for 248 yards and a career-high four touchdowns. Two years ago, he threw four TO passes all sea­son. 
One of the most gratifying 
moments from him came in the 
first quarter when he returned 
to the game after taking a hit in 
the left knee and leaving the 
field for one play. 
The record crowd of73,314 at 
Houlihan's Stadium gave him a 
huge ovation, the first time 
Tampa Bay fans have really 
embraced him in four seasons. 
"I would hope it's because of 
the perseverance, not necessar­
ily because I've played decent a 
few games," Dilf'er said. 
"That's what I want people to 
see and be happy for me and 
cheer about. ... I think what I 
appreciate most is they've seen 
that I've allowed the criticism, 
hard times and adversity to 
make me better." 
Dilfer's numbers this season 
-eight touchdowns passes vs. 
one interception -were exactly 
the opposite (eight intercep­
tions. one TO pass) during 
Tampa Bay's first four games­
all losses -in 1996. 

"When people are nervous it normally means they don't have confidence," he said Monday. "This is not my case. Everything J~ Under control, and I have t.feinendous confi­dence not jclst in myself. but in the team as well." 
The European Ryder Cup captain spoke as his players began arriving to begin prac­tice for golf's most pressure­packed event: The three-day compe · a ainst the United Friday at 
-
page 13 
returns 

"It was a strange feeling when I went in the locker room," he said. "It's a dream of every player to play in the Ryder Cup but to be captain is very special, a great honor. I feel very lucky." 
Ballesteros was pleased to see that Nick Faldo, the Englishman who will be play­ing in his 11th Ryder Cup, traveled ahead of the rest of the European team to get an early start on practice. 
Ballesteros singled out Faldo, one of his two captain's picks, as the man he would most trust playing the last hole. 
"Nick has shown dedication over many years, and it's nice to see he is still so keen," the Spaniard said. "He wants to play well very badly, and I am sure he will make a tremen­dous contribution. 
Ballesteros refused to dis­cuss the one issue that has clouded his build-up to the defense of the trophy -the Miguel Angel Martin affair. 
"I am here only to talk about the team and nothing else,'' Ballesteros said. ''There are no comments on that. We talk about the team and that's it." 

p a a a a c a a-awn -<52&0 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
•MLB • TENNIS 
Wells makes his case 
Youngsters team up for tour 
By JOHN NADEL "My goal in tennis is to to Watts -site of rioting in 1965 Associated Press W ritet become No.1," Nimmers said. "I -and not far from Florence and 
by leading Yankee win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

David Wells presented a strong case as to why he should pitch in the playoffs. 
Wells, trying to secure a spot in the Yankees' postseason rotation, won for the first time in nearly six weeks, pitching New York past the Toronto Blue Jays 8-1 Monday night. 
The Yankees, who have already clinched a playoff berth. moved to within three games Baltimore in the AL East. 
Wells (15-10) had been 0-5 in six starts since his previous vic­tory on Aug. 14. The left-ban­der pitched eight innings and allowed seven hits, striking out seven and walking one. 
Was it enough to earn him a start in the postseason? 
''I'm not even going to get into that one. I have no control or say-so over that. I just go out there and give 100 percent," Wells said. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre has not announced his rotation for the division series. But with David Cone apparently healthy, he and Andy Pettitte are expected to start the first two games. 
.. 
If the current AL standings hold, the Yankees would win the wild card and face Cleveland in the first round of the playoffs. Because of off­days, New York might need 
only three starters against the Indians -with Wells, Dwight Gooden and Ramiro Mendoza competing for the start in Game 3. 
"I leave that up to the rest of you guys to figure out," Wells said. 
Wells tied his career high for wins with one team in a sea­son, having won 15 for Toronto in 1991. In 1995, he won a total of 16 games -10 for Detroit and six more with Cincinnati. 
"He stayed composed tonight and the results bear it out," said Torre. "He missed in the right place tonight (and) that means he had command of his stuff." 
"If we pass Baltimore, it's not because we caught them, they caught us," Torre said. "I don't anticipate that happening." 
Bernie Williams' two-run triple highlighted a four-run fifth inning against Pat Hentgen (15-10). Hentgen gave up five runs and seven hits in five innings. 
Joe Carter drove in his 1OOth run of the season with an eighth-inning single for Toronto. This is his lOth year with 100 RB!s, all within the last 12 seasons. 
"To drive in 100 runs on this team is saying a lot," said Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston, whose team is batting only .243, lowest in the majors. 
The Yankees led 1-0 when Andy Fox and Tim Raines opened the fifth with singles. Hentgen's wild pitch scored one run and Derek Jeter walked. 
Williams followed with a line drive over the head of center fielder Shannon Stewart for a triple. Cecil Fielder singled home Williams for a 5-0 lead. 
New York added three runs off reliever Erik Hanson in the eighth on Fox's RBI single and Raines' two-run double. 
Tino Martinez got his 139th RBI with a sacrifice fly in the first for the Yankees. Notes: Hentgen is 1-2 this season against the Yankees. Stewart's triple in the third inning was his third of the four­game series. It was his sixth triple in 38 games this season. ... Martinez batted only once, as planned by manager Joe Torre .... The Yankees will place division series playoff tickets on sale at 5 p.m. EDT Tuesday.... The crowd of 23,380 for the Yankees' final home game of the regular sea­son raised their attendance total to 2,580,445 in 78 dates, third-highest in team history. 
LOS ANGELES 
Venus Williams may soon have some familiar company on the tennis tour. a 17 -year-old friend from the same hard courts where gunfire crackles in the distance. 
Williams and Katrina Nimmers have known each other most of their lives, growing up together in South Central Los Angeles. 
Now there is the possibility of the two players forming what would be one of the most attrac­tive rivalries in tennis. Of course, much has to happen before that comes to pass. 
But Williams certainly showed what she could do when she reached this month's U.S. Open finals. And Nimmers, for now, has the look of a winner, relish­ing a chance to join Williams. 
"We're close friends," Nimmers said. "We know there's going to come a time when we're going to have to play. On the court, you take care of busi­ness." 
Business begins Tuesday when Nimmers makes her professional debut against Elizabeth Cameron in prequalifying for the $50,000 Citibank USTA Challenger, a circuit tournament in Santa Clara. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ballef=.. Classes wllfbe held on Sundays from 3 to 4 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 
p.m. The fee is $35. Register in ;; advance at RecSports. 
Notre1J.a:me Martial Arts Institute"·:: Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 
....iRockne MemoriaL All are wel­come. 

don't have any doubt in myself. My more immediate goal is to become a role model for young black kids." 
Wimbledon in England and Arthur Ashe Stadium in New York are a long way from the Green Meadows Recreation Park's tennis courts at 89th and Avalon, where Nimmers learnPd the game. 
"One time my practice partner and I saw a ear coming, we were going from the courts to the ear, sure enough, he shot," Nimmers recalled. "We hit the ground, it was very close. 
"It's happened way morP times than once. We were caught in the middle of the riots (after the Rodney King verdict), we've been caught in random shootings. 
"I think I've seen it all. I think it just makes you stronger. it puts your goals clearer. I'm not going to be fparful. Where I'm from, not too much else is going to scare me." 
The Williams family moved to Florida several years ago, think­ing such an environment would be better for the tennis future of Venus and her 15-year-old sister Serena, also a top prospect. 
The Nimmers family has remained in South Central. close 
Fellowship of Christian Athletes-is sponsoring a pizza luncheon on Sept. 23 from 12 to 1:15 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. Anyone interested is invited. Quarterback coach Mike Sanford will be there to provide some brief remarks and answer questions. If you are planning to attend, please call Ryan Engle at 4-1252, Errol Williams at 4-3476 or Ken Milani at 1­5296 before 5 p.m. on Sept. 22. 
!L 

Normandy, the flashpoint of the 1992 riots after the King ver­dicts. 
Katrina and her father, Mike, who serves as her coach, spent some time this year at the John Newcombe Prince Tennis Academy near San Antonio. 
"Newcombe's gives you a free­dom to really bring your kid up, and they emphasize education as well as tennis," Mike Nimmers said. "We took Katrina to the ranch for the kids overseas, not so much for the kids in America." 
One of those kids from over­seas, 16-year-old Martina Hingis, is the world's top-ranked woman player. It was Hingis who beat Williams in the U.S. Open finals at Arthur Ashe Stadium. 
"I thought it was great," Nimmers said of Williams' suc­cess in the Open. "She really proved she could do it." 
Phil I lendrie, assistant direc­tor of the Newcombe academy, says Nimmers has the potential to be a top professional. 
"She's a great athlete. she's extremely quick on the court," Hendrie said. "She definitely plays a game that will be suc­cessful in the '90s, and that's aggressive and hard-hitting. 

Come Find Out More About the 
URBo\X P.CUXGE PROGRA.J\\ 
Informational Meeting 
Thursday, September 25 8:30pm 
Coffee House Center for Social Concerns Notre Dame 
All Students Are Welcome 

For Additional Information Contact Rodney T. Cohen Director of Uran Programming & Outreach Development University of Notre Dame 631-7949 

C E N T E R F 0 R 
Jan Pilarski
SOCIAL 

Justice Educational Coordinator
CONCERNS 
Saint Mary's College 284-4512 

.. 
ATTENTION: 

a 0 u .. _ ,.
•• •• a a u a so -= ua....--x ep 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 page 15
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



OF 

pers&Lybr 

To get the real flavor of a Big Six accounting firm, 
you must sample all its opportunities. 
To understand the ingredientS that make up 
a Big Six accounting firm, you must read the label. 
t . 

To get a taste of a Big Six. a~counting firm, 
J!? 

you ... ust attend the Coopers & Lybrand~vent on 
-·-----mber 25, 1997. "· C&L •• 

· Monogram Room 
": 7-9 PM 
·casual Dress 

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
a professional services firm 
... 
... 
ape a -~•-=t-r--~=.---=--~~..=~~...~..•~=....~·~o.-..a..-.w..•u..~-.u.---....~....==~··~--•uca.r~ou~--=-.r~a..•e.-•zaa~-~~--•cu....~..~~·~=-~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL
-
Texas fans express concern 

Longhorns look to recover from embarrassment 
By CHIP BROWN Associated Press Writer 
AUSTIN. Texas 
Texas center Ryan Fiebiger 
was looking for a couple of 
hours of mindless relaxation 
this weekend when he accom­
panied his girlfriend to the 
flag football game of two 
small children she was baby­
sitting. 
But before Fiebiger could 
even get comfortable in the 
bleachers. he overheard two 
people behind him complain­
ing bitterly about how badly 
Texas played in its now-infa­
mous 66-3 loss to UCLA. 
Needless to say his relaxing 
afternoon was anything but. 
"I didn't say anything, but 
I've about heard enough," 
Fiebiger said. "I've heard 
about it from friends, 
strangers, even my family. A 
lot of people are still upset 
about that loss. I hope we can 
get a couple wins and the fans 
will forget about that." 
For Texas (1-1), which was 
ranked 11th at the time of 
"Rout 66" and suffered the 
most lopsided loss by a 
ranked team since The 
Associated Press poll began in 1936, the chance for recovery begins Saturday at Rice (2-1 ). 
The Owls, coming off a 40­34 victory over Northwestern, beat Texas the last time the two met in Houston in 1994. The 19-17 victory was the Owls' first over Texas in 29 years. 
"If we lose to Rice, a lot of people are going to write us off for the rest of the season," said offensive tackle Jay Humphrey. "We have some­thing to prove. We have to show that we still have a good football team." 
Texas coach John Mackovic said Rice will be brimming with confidence after its win over Northwestern and proba­bly will be looking to send a message to Texas, which bolt­ed the Southwest Conference for the Big 12. Rice, Texas Christian and Southern Methodist then were forced to find a new home, landing in the Western Athletic Conference. Houston joined Conference USA. 
"This is Rice's chance to shock the nation," Mackovic said. "We are talking about WAC power. I think the WAC teams have something to prove. They were disappoint­ed about not getting into the Big 12. 
"We are not going against Rice. We are going against the entire WAC." 
Asked if the Longhorns would come out hungry and 
desperate, the way UCLA did against Texas, Mackovie said, "I hope we're hungry. We bet­ter be. We don't have a ehoiee." 
Mackovic said James Brown is recovering from his ankle injury and expected to start at quarterback Saturday. 
Brown said he is eager to play after sitting out of the UCLA game. Brown said he had asked Mackovic for the chance to play in that game and thinks he could have made a difference. 
"I don't know if we would have won, but just judging from the past, we would have scored some points," Brown said. "I would have found some way into the end zone." 
Brown said he's not 100 percent, but added that noth­ing will keep him on the bench this week. "If I can't run, I'll just limp as fast as I can," he said. 
The Longhorns' defense, which has yet to prove it ean stop anybody, must contnnd with a Hice offense that has averaged 347.7 yards a game on the ground and 407.7 total yards. 
"I don't think anyone should expect us to shut down the triple-option offense," Mackovic said. 
"They are going to get some yards. We have to get them into long yardage situations and get them out of their plan." 

Please recycle the Observer 
Por favor, reciclen El Observer 
,....... ,. 
•
r~  
;~ ••• .~~  Pd(i  
Presents  
Technology and  
Engineering at  

Procter& Gamble 
II I> W h !1E: · · Wh .
*"""'·· ~/ .. . ere -· en 
Morris Inn Alumni Room Wednesday, Seotember 24 7:00pm 
Refreshments provided Casual Dress 
• 7 
199· 

Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
Saturday, Sept. 27 
No.1 Florida at Kentucky, 3:30p.m. No.5 North Carolina vs. Virginia, Noon No.6 Michigan vs. Notre Dame~ 3:30 p.m. No.7 Ohio State at Missouri, Noon No.8 Auburn vs. Central Florida, 7 p.m. No.11 Iowa vs. Illinois, 12:30 p.m. No.13 LSU vs. Akron, 8 p.m. No.14 Virginia rech vs. Arkahsas State, 1 p.m. No.15 Washington State vs. Boise State, 5 p.m. No.16 Coloradovs. Wyoming, 3:37p.m. No.1? Clemsonft Georgia Tech, 7:30p.m. No.18 Kansas State vs. Bowling Green, 2:10p.m. No.20 Stanford vs. Oregon, 10:15 p.m. No.22 Texas A&M vs. North Texas, 3:35 p.m. 
<"f*';·. 

No.23Brig,ham Young at Southern Mehtodist, 3 p.m. No.24'UCLA vs. Arizona, 3:30p.m. No.25Arizona State at Oregon State, 4 p.m. 
University ofNotre Dame International Stzu~v Program 
SENIORS 
SHOW YOUR SUPPORT 
OF CLASSMATE 
ADAM SARGENT 
GIVE $$$ TO HIS RECOVERY FUND 
THIS WEEK IN BOTH DINING HALLS 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
esc 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
We welcome representatives from the following groups who will recruit Wednesday night. We thank them for the service opportunities, training and support that they provide for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students in post-graduate volunteer programs. 
Alive Alliance for Catholic Education Amate House Americorps-Chicago Americorps-St. Louis Annunciation Volunteer Com. Apostolic Volunteers Archdiocese of N.Y. Teacher Program Associate Missionaries of the Assumptio11 Boys Hope/Girls Hope Bread for the World Cabrini Mission Corps Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Carmelite Volunteer Community Catholic Charities -Baltimore Catholic Network of Volunteer Services Center of Concern Channel Program Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Vols. & Lay Missionaries Colorado Vincentian Volunteers Congregation of Holy Cross Covenant House Faith Community Farm of the Child Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Ministry Franciscan Volunteer Program Fund for Public Interest Research Good Shepherd Volunteers Holy Cross Associates Humility of Mary Service Inner-City Teaching Corps Jesuit Volunteer Corps L'Arche -Cleveland Lasallian Volunteers Marianist Voluntary Service Com. Marist Volunteer Program Mennonite Voluntary Service Mercy Corps Mis~ionary Cenacle Volunteers NET Ministries Passionist Lay Missioners Passionist Volunteers -East Providence Volunteer Ministry 
Red Cloud Volunteers Redeemer Ministry Corps Response-Ability Rose Hill Center Side By Side Lay Volunteer Soc. of Our Lady of the Most 
Holy Trinity St. Catherine's Indian School Su Casa Catholic Worker House 
VESS VIDA Volunteer Program Vincentian Service Corps • 
Central Vincentian Service Corps • 
East Volunteers in an Act of Hope We Care • IHM Volunteer 
Services 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE FAIR 
Dear Classes of 1998, 1999, 2000, and 2001, 
When I think back to a year ago, I remember a conversation I had with Professor John Houck just two weeks before he died. I mentioned to him my interest in living in a volunteer community for a year on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. He responded, "It really doesn't matter 25 years from now whether you started your career 25 years ago or 24." 
As a senior accountancy major the invitation weighed heavily on my mind. After spending four intense years as an undergraduate as well as thousands of dollars on an education at Notre Dame, why would I even consider turning away job offers, and instead participate in a service program? 
With words like those of Professor Houck's, in conjunction with much contem­plation of the fact that my business career could only be enriched with the experience on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation, my decision was made 
astoundingly clear: I would defer my job offer and spend this coming year with the Red Cloud Volunteers in the beautiful hills of South Dakota. 
In my short time here on the Reservation this past month, I have done every­thing from driving a school bus to teaching elementary and middle school chil­dren to coaching a basketball team. I anticipate that this year will continue to be one of tremendous growth comprised of the challenges and excitements that each new day brings. · 
I invite each of you to consider a year with a volunteer service program. It will certainly add to the memorable experiences of life's journey. After all, it's nice to have and end to journey toward, but it's the journey that matters in the end. 
Sincerely, 
Stephanie Nichols 
Class of 1997 
Red Cloud Indian School 
Pine Ridge, SD 57770 
saders@sioux. sodak. com 

You are invited to Ineet with representatives of the service prograins WEDNESDAY 
SEPTEMBER 24 7-9 pin STEPAN CENTER 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Class of 1998 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
• MEN's INTERHALL Foon3All 
Pre-season favorite Fisher ties in opener 
Leading the Fisher offense

Green Wave 
was running back Jamie Ricker.miss field goal Despite several key carries, team captain Sean Lynch com­as time expires mented, "He just couldn't punch it in for a touchdown."
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Fisher quarterback Mike

Spons Writer 
Schultz struggled at times to find his receivers.

As the Siegfried and Fisher Although Siegfried's defensefootball teams took to Stepan 
proved resilient throughout

Field this past Sunday, both the Green Wave attack, their were hoping their first game offense was less successful.
would set a more forceful tone Their best scoring drive in thefor the season than the 0-0 tie first half was broken up by agame that was played. 
Brian Griffin interception.

The Fisher Green Wave Siegfried turned the ball
threatened early, starting the 
over one other time in the 

game with a strong offensive game. Guard Bill Cerne recov­
drive that placed them on 
ered the fumble for Fisher.

their opponent's 10-yard line. 
Siegfried running back Erik

There Siegfried's defense 
Himan pointed out, "We didn't

stepped up, holding them at run the offense the way wethe 10 as they threatened to wanted. That's what kept us 
score. Deciding not to attempt off the board."
the field goal on fourth down, 
Siegfried (ranked 8th) will

Fisher's drive ended as a 
face Sorin next Sunday at 2result of loss of downs. 

p.m. Fisher (ranked 1st) willFisher had another opportu­

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
take the week off.

nity, this time late in the Despite forcing turnovers like this interception, neither Siegfried nor Fisher were able to score any points. fourth quarter, to get on the 
Knott 0, Sorin 0 ranked Knott Hall. quarterback Mario Suarez was field goal attempt.
board with a 41-yard field Sorin's defense held Knott sacked after Knott drove to Knott has a bye next weekgoal attempt. Chris Baccus, 
Second-ranked Sorin began on two key plays to keep them their 15-yard line. The second as Sorin attempts to get on thethe kicker for Fisher, watched their season on Sunday with a from scoring. The first came drive came in the third quar-board for the first time thishis kick fall short as time ran scoreless tie against 11th-early in the"first half when ter when Sorin blocked a sure season as they play Siegfried. 
out for both teams. 
Dillon storms past Stanford in season opener 20-2 
By JEFF GORRIS out-manned Alumni defense. day long." Sports Writer The big play of tho drive was a The Keough defense seemed long pass from Alexander to to come up with the big plays 
This game was a story of two sophomore widn receiver Matt all day long. The had a hugn completely different halves. Canna. This set up a roll out fourth down sack at the end or The first half was a very physi­touchdown run by Alexander. the first half to stop an Alumni cal struggle that lacked any big Keough also scored on its drive and also madn a fourth plays. first possession of the second quarter interception to dash 
The only scoring in the first half. The Alumni defense was Alumni's hopes of a rally late half was a Stanford safety ncar containing the powerful in the game. the end of the second quarter. Keough offense until it was Overall, the Keough defense Dillon had two scoring chances penalized with a pass interfer­was not overpowering, but it but was stopped each time on ence call on third and long that swarmed to the ball and pre­fourth down by a strong allowed Keough to knep its vented any big gains. Stanford defense. drive alive. Keough proceeded With its play on Sunday, 
The second half consisted of to march down field and score Keough placed itself among the Dillon physically overpowering on another keepnr by contenders for the interhall Stanford. The Stanford defen­Alexander. football championship. sive front seemed to tire and lie ran in for the touchdown This is especially true con­the Dillon offensive line was when he could not find any sidering the likelihood that this able to control the game. They open n~ceivers in the end zone young team will continue to opened huge holes in the and needed to nee the pres­improve as the season pro­Stanford defense and Dillon sure from the defensive line. gresses. was able to march down the Nate Yerg capped the scoring On the other hand, Alumni field for three second-half for Keough with a short fourth has a lot or re-grouping to do. touchdowns. quarter touchdown run. They played solidly, but did not 
Keough coach Jeremy Cole make the big plays they need­Keenan 12, commented, "Nate came up ed to win the football game. Off-Campus 0 with some big runs for us all


against Stanford and Alumni, respectively. 

Keenan was able to win because of its somewhat effec­ Sunday 9/28  
scored an early a 25-yard pass,  Stepan North  1 p.m. 2 p.m.  Morrissey vs. Stanford Keough vs. Keenan  
but then was unable to convert again  3p.m.  Dillon vs. Off Campus  
until the last play of the Both ofrenses showed potentieffective in consistently moving  
al, but neither was very  Stepan South  1 p.m.  O'Neill vs. Zahm  
The Off-Campus defense was tough, but Keenan was able to  2 p.m. 3p.m.  Siegfried vs. Sorin Carroll vs. Knott  
twice because of its  
field position  
One can expect both of these  Sunday10/5  
look sharper come  
g-,1 20, Alumni 0Keouby freshman quartl~r­ Stepan North  1 p.m. 2 p.m. 3p.m.  Keenan vs. Alumni Off Campus vs. Morrisey Dillon vs. Keough  

This game was sloppy manner by two teams who need some gel. 
tive passing attack. Kee.nan touchdown on 
game. 
the ball. 
score favorable throughout the game. 
teams to playoff time. 

Led back Tim Alexander and Nato Yerg, the Keough Kangaroos demolished the Alumni Dawgs. 
On its first offensive series, Keough drove down the field to score a touchdown against an 
played in a 
Men•s IH Football Schedule 
more time to t---------------------.,.----------1 
Stepan South  1 p.m.  Sorin vs. Fisher  
2p.m.  Knott vs. O'Neill  
3 p.m.  Carroll vs. Siegfried  

Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• WOMEN's INTERHALL FOOTBAlL 
-
Walsh comes from behind to defeat Lyons, 12-7 
By BRAD RODRIGUES and PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS Sporrs Writers 
Opening the season in dra­matic fashion. no. 5 Walsh Hall came from behind to defeat the no. 4 Lions of Lyons IIall, 12-7. 
Both teams came out fired up and ready to play, but it was Lyons, the three-time defend­ing champions. who dominated tho play for much of the first half. Tho Lions struck first off of an option pitch from quar­terback Kathy Tschanz to full­back Jen Hyan to put Lyons up 7-0. 
Co-captain and middlo linn­backer Angie Fister led the defpnse early in the match-up as tlw Lions eontairwd Walsh's oiTnnse. llowevor right before tho end of JJw first half. Walsh regained possession of the ball and using its hurry-up offense, drove quickly down into Lyons's territory. Walsh quar­terback Carolyn Parnell con­nected with wide receiver Amy Krayer from 25 yards out for the touchdown. The conversion attorn pt failed and the score was 7-6 at the half. 
Midway through the second half, Lyons lineman Kelly O'Donnell went down with a sprained ankle, which proved to be a devastating loss for the team. 
After going back and forth, Walsh drove down deep into Lyons territory off two long pass plays. With less than four minutes to play, Parnell found fellow tri-captain and wide receiver Luz Maria Rodriguez in tlw end zone from 15 yards out to put Walsh ahead 12-7. 
Another failed conversion attempt left the score at 12-7. After getting the ball back, Lyons drove to almost mid-field before being halted on three straight plays. On fourth down, Tschanz was hurried by 

Pyros use option to dominate Off-Campus 
Junior tandem teams up for decisive win 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS Sports Writer 
The very first game of the women's interhall football season kicked off on Sunday with a brilliant display of both offense and defense. Unfortunately for the Off­Campus team, most of these plays happened against them as they were defeated 18-0 by Pasquerilla East. 
On the very first series of the game, P.E.'s junior quarter­back Elizabeth Plummer methodically led the team do,.,·n the field by brilliantly executing the option. Once they were in the red zone, Plummer pitched the ball to junior halfback Ann Searle who scrambled live yards for the touchdown. 
This tandem then connected again as Plummer passed to Searle for the two point con­version to make the score 8-0 early on in the first half. 
"Ann (Searle) and I have been playing together since freshman year. Once our line makes their blocks, I know that I can rely on her to make the play," remarked Plummer about her teammate. 
After the offensive success, P.E.'s defense decided that they wanted to get in on the scoring as well. After missing on a passing attempt on first down, OfT-Campus took their turn at running the option and gained seven yards on the ground. The play was brought back due to an illegal block and Off-Campus was relocated dangerously close to their endzone. 
The penalty would prove costly. On the ensuing play, sophomore defensive end Stephany Foster broke through the line and sacked Off-Campus' quarterback for a safety. 
P.E.'s head coach Tom Asci was very pleased with the way that the defense complimented the offense by also putting points on the board. 
''I'm really proud of our defense today. We put a lot of pressure on them (Off Campus) and we're also able to capitalize on it," said Asci. 
The defense wasn't done quite yet. Sophomore corner­back Allison Healy helped keep Off-Campus to negative yardage on offense with an interception and several key plays in the secondary. 
Healy stated, ''I'm really happy with what we did out there. Our aggressive strategy seemed to surprise them (Off­Campus). We have a good base to stand on going into our next game." 
Turnovers and penalties hin­dered Off-Campus' attempts to get back into the game, as they trailed P.E. 10-0 at the half. 
After the game, Off-Campus head coach, Jon Steele, com· mented that many of the mis­takes were-uue to lack of practice. 
"We've (Off Campus) only had three practices before this game. We're just one week behind, but I'm still happy with the way we played. P.E. had a disciplined offense. It was a big challenge for us," said Steele. 
The second half was again dominated by P.E. as their defense forced another safety. 
On the following series. Plummer was successful again running the option on offense. After Searle ran for a big gain up the middle, Plummer took off towards the sidelines on the next play. After gaining 10 yards, she surprised everyone on Off-Campus' defense by lat­eraling to Searle who took the ball the rest of the 52 yards for another touchdown. 
"We executed very well today. When you get good blocks on the line, a lot more things open up in the option," said Plummer after the game. 
Searle's second touchdown, which made the score 18-0, ended the game as a result of the slaughter rule. 
According to Off-Campus defensive coordinator Tim Fair, he was very pleased with his team's effort despite the 
loss. ·· ''We played very well, but our defense was on the field a long ti!Ile. We're going to make the necessary adjust­ments. and be ready to play ag~inst··Wehib Family," $1:tid Fair. 
........... ·... ·· 
the Walsh defense, and her pass fell incomplete to end the comeback effort. Walsh ran the clock out to end the game and obtain a 12-7 victory and a perfect 1-0 record. 
Sean Bodkin, the Walsh offensive coordinator, said after the victory, "The key to the game was our offensive line, which gave our quarter­back all day to throw the ball. Lyons has a great offense with well-designed plays, and it was nice to get our revenge from last year." 
Lyons fullback Ryan com­mented, "We realize we need to work on a lot of things. We're going to work hard this week and come out strong against Pangborn on Wednesday." 
Lewis 19, Farley 6 
Farley and Lewis provided an exciting first half of football in which the score was 13-6 at the half. The final result was a little more lopsided, with Lewis knocking off Farley 19-6. 

The first score of the game resulted from a 35-yard inter­ception return for a touchdown by Lewis' junior cornerback Dina Brick. 
Farley's freshman quarter­back Jenny Geraci shook off the last series and returned to her throwing game, completing several passes to freshman wideout Liz Petruska. On the fifth play of the drive, Geraci connected again with Petruska for a 38-yard touchdown pass, making the score 6-6. 
After stopping Lewis inside the 10-yard line on fourth down, Farley regained control of the ball with two minutes to go in the first half. They were unable to get anything going and set up to punt. Luck would turn to Lewis' side as the snap for the punt was high, causing Farley to surrender the football at their own seven-yard line. Liz Talaric, Lewis' senior quar­terback quickly converted Farley's mistake into six points as she passed to Kelly Dillon for a touchdown. Following a one point conversion from the three yard line, Lewis was up at the half 13-6. 
Both teams struggled offen­sively throughout the entire second half. Towards the end of the game, Geraci felt the urgency to score and forced a deep pass. Again. Brick inter­cepted the ball and returned it for a touchdown. Due to a clip against Lewis, the ball was brought back to the spot of the interception. 
Lewis was determined to get their points, nonetheless, and eventually scored on a four­yard reception by junior wide receiver Megan Schlosser which extended their lead to 19-6. 
Welsh loses by one in nail-biter 
Battle offirst­year dorms proves exciting 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS and BRAD RODRIGUES Sports Writers 
When Welsh faced McGlinn on Sunday, it was truly a game for the spectator. The outcome of the game was not determined until Welsh failed on both of its final two drives of the game. 
Trailing 7-6 with five min­utes remaining in the second half, Welsh drove down the 
·field in hopes of scoring a touchdown. In their way stood the McGlinn defense. Welsh was able to get inside McGlinn's 20-yard line, but tough defense caused them to turnover the ball on downs. 
With only two minutes left in the game, McGlinn focused their game plan on time man­agement. They, however, were unable to attain a first down so they punted the ball back to Welsh with under a minute to play. 

After several long pass attempts, it was fourth down again. As one might expect, Welsh set their sights on the endzone and went for the win. Unfortunately, Lori Mergler of McGlinn intercepted the pass. She then proceeded to run towards the endzone to add the nail in the coffin, however, she was running towards her own endzone. 
The freshman defensive back realized her folly before she crossed the goal line and turned around. Inevitably, she ran out the clock and gave the many on the sidelines quite a thrill. 
Cavanaugh 7, Howard 0 
Cavanaugh Hall shutout Howard 7-0 in its season opener. The winning drive was engineered by QB Katie King in the first half, as she completed four passes to Allison Krilla to advance the team down to the Howard 15­yard line. On the next play, King found flanker Megan McNally in the endzone for the game's only score. 
"The defense was awesome. They really pulled through for .. us," said McNally. 
Breen-Philips 7, Pangborn 0 

The girls of Breen-Philips posted a 7-0 win over Pangborn. Freshman RB/WR Katie Leicht caught the only touchdown pass of the game off of a fly pattern from 23 yards out. The defense was stellar. intercepting two pass­es in the game. 
... 
... 

~----~­
-~---------~---­

-----~ 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
-
Tues. 23 MARQUETTE 
Fri. ST. JOHN'S
3

Sun. CONNECTICUT
5

Tues. ILLINOIS STATE 
7

Sat. at Boston College
11

Sun. at Providence
12
Fri. NORTH CAROLINA
17
Tues. at Texas
21
Wed. at Houston
22
Sat. at Syracuse
25
Fri. at Villanova
31 
Sun. 2 at Georgetown Fri. 7 WEST VIRGINIA Sun. 9 PITTSBURG Sat. 15 at Rutgers Sun. 16 at Seton Hall Sat. 22 BIG EAST CHAMP Sun. 23 BIG EAST CHAMP 
The Observer/John Daily 

Fri. 28 vs. UC Santa Barbara 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will look to improve upon its 6-5 record tonight. Although Marquette, at 12­.. 3, posts a better record, the Irish have won the last six matches they have played against the Warriors . Sat. 29 at Long Beach State 
· The Observer/Pete Cilella 
their conference title for the ference opponents," head third straight year. coach Debbie Brown com­

Volleyball 
mented. "I think that this year's

continued from page 24 
'I'm really excited to opponents will be pretty com­parable to last year's.

Warriors' volleSball squad. be seeing her. Due 
Villanova might be a little

''I'm really excited to be see­
to our busy schedules tougher, and they were a diffi­ing her," commented Boylan. 

cult challenge for us last year. 

"Due to our busy schedules on on and off the court, I Connecticut is another team
and off the court, I haven't 
haven't been able to see 
that has improved this year.

been able to see her for a long 
her for a long time. I'm Pittsburgh might be a little

time. I'm also happy that my 
down, just simply because

parents will be able to watch." also happy that my par­
they're pretty young. They

As for who her parents will 
ents will be able to lost a few players to gradua­

be cheering for, Boylan 
tion and they don't have as

remarked, "My father will be watch.' 
much experience." 

sitting in the stands wearing a "I think that we're definitely
Notre Dame shirt and a prepared for Big East play,"
Marquette hat, but my moth­Denise Boylan. on playing 
Boylan remarked.

er's not taking any sides." against her sister Susan 
"There are a few things thatThis match is also the final we have to work on, but we're one before the Irish begin Big ready and we're looking for­East conference play, in which "While I haven't been able to ward to it."

the team hopes to recapture 
pay close attention to our con­

-\RI S/f 
4 

... 
The Observer/John Daily 
Freshman setter Denise Boylan (above) will get a chance to play against her sister when the Irish take on Marquette tonight. 
At left, the Irish celebrate after a recent win and hope to do so again tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
___.. -..... ­

----------~------~-------~-~------~.-~~-~.---~-----~------~~------~--~ 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
-
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Welcome to our gay and lesbian students 
Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 
_... 
631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confidential. 
Eucharistic Ministers Workshop 
Sunday, September 28, 3:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat 

Applications for Freshman Retreat #12, September 26-27 are now available for freshmen in Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Morrissey, Pangborn, Stanford, and Welsh Family Halls. Applications will be sent to the students, or may be obtained from the Rector or from 103 Hesburgh Library Office of Campus Ministry. Applications are due in Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library 
TODAY, September 23. 

Hispanic Student Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 26-27 Lindenwood Retreat Center 

Liturgical Choir l}etreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 26-27 Five Pines Christian Family Center 

Weekly Eucharistic Adoration 
Beginning Monday, September 22, and each Monday thereafter .. during the Academic Year, Campus Ministry will sponsor a 24 hour period of Eucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration will begin with Mass at 11 :00 p.m. on Monday nights and end with Mass at 11:00 p.m. on Tuesday nights. For more information, please call 
631-7800 or 631-5242. 


-._,__...,..._,.. 
------,~~-------.....--.~....------~----~~-.-~---~-------..----.--.---~---------.==~----... 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
-
• Nfl 
Jaguars block Johnson in route to narrow victory 
By DAVE GOLDBERG place in field goal protection. I the linal. aborted kick. It was Bettis who rallied the to Mark Brnuner on thn first Associated Press Writer had a good feeling that we The Jaguars added the point Steelers (1-2), rushing for 114 play of the fourth quarter. eould block it." arter many players had left the yards, 97 in the second half as Each team scored on its JACKSONVILLE. Fla. Indeed. field -NFL rules require a the Steelers took a 21-20 lead. opening drive. 
There must be something The night before the botch by team to attempt a conversion And it was Brunell and Brunnll missed his first pass. about the night air that brings Philadelphia, the New York Jets on a touchdown at the end of .Jimmy Smith who retaliated -but connr.ctnd on his next four out the gremlins in kicking had a field goal blocked on the regulation, even if the game is Smith had 10 catehes for 164 for 56 yards as Jaeksonville games.. final play of regulation in New already dedded. yards. went 68 yards in I 0 plays to 
The Jacksonville Jaguars England and lost in overtime. "It's unfortunate when fought .Jacksonville controlled the make it 7-0. were the beneficiary Monday Arizona also won in overtime at your butts off and it comes first hair. holding the ball for The Steelers retaliated by night. beating Pittsburgh 30-21 night this season on a kick that down to a kick," said more than 21 of the 30 min­going 80 yards in six. 49 on a when Clyde Simmons blocked bounced off an upright and Pittsburgh coach Bill Cowher. utes. pass from StPwart to to Charles Norm Johnson's attempt at a went through, and Kansas City who feigned a hit on Hudson as Then the Stcelers turned to Johnson. Two plays later, game-winning 40-yard field beat Oakland in the first he raced by the Pittsburgh Bettis. Stl~wart scrambled 6 yards for goal on the final play of the Monday nighter this season in bench. They went 80 yards in 13 the TD. Two turnovers by game and Cris Hudson returned the final seconds. "As you've seen in the other plays off the opening kickoff, 44 Stewart set up .laeksonville's it 58 yards for a touchdown. This one capped a battle of two Monday night game.s, of the yards by Bettis. second-pnriod scores. 
"Maybe," Johnson said. "it's the Bs -Pittsburgh's Jerome there's a line line and we were After Hollis' 45-yard field A sack by Tony Brackens the Monday night jinx for place­Bettis and Jacksonville's Mark unable to cross it." goal extended Jacksonville's forced a fumble that Eddie kicking." Brunell, who returned from a Pittsburgh has lost all three lead to 20-14. the Steelers Hobinson recovered and the 
It was the second straight knee injury and threw for 306 times they've played in struck again. Jaguars went 38 yards in nine Monday night that it happened yards for Jacksonville. With the Jacksonville and the Jaguars, Will Blackwell's 52-yard kick­plays, capped by Brunell's 1 1­-last week. the Philadelphia help of a roughness penalty on (3-0) now join Denver, New off return gave Pittsburgh the yard TD pass to Smith. Thnn Eagles fumbled a snap and Pittsburgh's Nolan Harrison, England and Tampa Bay (all 4-ball on the Jacksonville 48, and Aaron Beasley's interception were unable to get off a game­Brunell drove the Jaguars into 0) as the NFL's only unbeaten from there the Steelers took led to Mike !Iollis' 20-yard field winning field goal attempt in position for Mike Ilollis' 27-teams. seven plays to score -on goal four seconds before inter­Dallas. It was also the fifth yard field goal with 4:14 left Brunell, who watched as Hob Kordell Stewart's 1-yard pass mission. night 
game this season decided that gave them a 23-21 lead. Johnson and Steve Matthews in the final seconds. Then the Steelers got a break won 
"Don't ever take anything for -Kelvin Pritchett was called granted." Jaguars coach Tom for hands to the face on a a Coughlin said. "One of the fourth-down play that failed lost a things I've noticed this year are and they stayed alive, moving rallied to the number of errors that take to the Jacksonville 22 before before the !inal play. 
Notre Dame Football vs. Michigan 
Bus Trip 

Class of '98
Saturday, September 27 Bus leaves: 9:00a.m. Stepan Center 
~®®lliJ~®®lli~ 
•

Tickets on sale starting at 1:00 p.m. on 
are 1n September 23 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Pick Up 
......................................... 
Cost: $20 per bus ticket for round trip bus 
Tues. & Wed. 2-S p01 
transportation to Michigan Stadium 
Class Offi«:e 
213 LaFortune
(Bus leaves Michigan Stadium 30 minutes following the 'end of the game) 
2 tickets per student ID Pre-Orders Only 
Check with MA
Brought to you by Student Activities 

or Call 1-5225 

.. 

TOD~Y 
Women's Volleyball 
~:OOpm

vs. )Vlarquette 
Men's Soccer vs. 
7:30pm

Eastern Illinois 
Free admission to all students! 

r-----­
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
.,
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


For More Info. Contact: RecSports -1-61 00
MEW YOGA CLAII 

www.nd.edu/-recsport
TUEfDAYf I0/2/97 -11120/97 6:30PM -7:45PM + LOFTUJ 114 ·• 'f)'llrn!:Mtt',·i•'ll~!·i ....,..$2Q.!.:;~i¥ flGN-UPf BEGIN 9/25, 8:00AM 



•
RECfPORTf OFFICE 

Challenge U Fitness 
Space is still available in some fitness classes. Contact the RecSports office for more nformat on 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
DO 'IOU WE'RE. NOT 
'<OU A.LW A.'<'& SAY THE 

REALIZE. DA.TING. I'M 
ONLY TH~E. W( CAN 
t-\E. H 15 DURING 

OUf\ THif\0 A.NO 'IOU'RE. 
LUNCH. 

DATE? t-\'( CLIENT. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Film container 60 First Navy 35 King, in submarine, with 
1 Big name in Portugal "the" 
newspaper publishing 
36 Paid back 61 Ads that offer 40 Maroon "free" gifts 
8 Is unintelligible 15 Milne moniker 45 Apostle of the 62 Left Bank Franks denizen
16 Away, in a way 
46 Emulated Janet 
11 Cash of country Evans
and western DOWN
48 East-west road 
18 Blown away through St. Paul 1 Attacks, in a19 Prominent 
49 "What--!" way
couple 51 Nanking nanny 2 B complex 21 Smooth 53"You --?" vitamin
22---Ball 
54 Where the 3 Lot 23 Farm machine 
Carpathian transactions 24 Hostile 
Mountains 4 Famed Rio 
26 Leading port of begin 
beach old Morocco 57 Old warship 
5 Mere 28 Wagons---58 0ne who's 
6 Seine crossers29 Opening word blessed 7 Some oil barons 31 Change one's 59 City on the 8 Evangelist 

coat? Columbia River 9 Penny, perhaps 
--------------10 This may be 
found on a

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
jacket 11 Director.Satyajit 


Ray's native tongue 
lliil-r-=1"='17t-:':t=t•=t7+:::-,.;,....:=:t-F-1 12 Ointment ingredient 1=-1-=-R~~~~..:::.+-:::+:'::..fl• -=+'-+"'-~-'-'-~ 13 "Medical 
MIKE PETERS 

32 Hokkaido people 
34 Emerging fields, as of research 
36 Sentence modifier, at times 
37 Retired 38 Left Bank hangouts 39 Butler's last word 41 Sharon, e.g. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: foan Rivers, NM1CY Sinatra. Jerry Stiller, Byron Whit<? · 
DEAR EUGENIA: l "'''~hum on St'pt. 26, 1950, at 1:!:00 ~.m. After 12 yl~.ars in a Live-in relittion.ship, I c11n ~)t\ my own agai~1. ~1y partnt.~r re1nains d p_()<xJ frie1.h."l. I·Iowt.>Vf.'l~ l an\ an htdt...,· Pt!ndent pt:rson and enjoy n1y free­dom. I am also a p.wtnership·kind-of­p<."rson, .md I ~ally ck> want a partn"r to share my life with. l <~m ft•eling allllw, and abo doublinf\ that tlwre \Viii be a ll..:'\'\.' partner. I ht1VP 11 lPn~ detKY to intimid,ltt' men, sol am a lit· .tle c(lnccrncd. 
A.M. 

DEAR A.M.: You didn't submit your ex-partner's date llf birth. I'm ~ssuming that .it's definitely over, so I will move on. N.-xt year, you arc mming into a high cycle where low comes into the picture. I'm not saying that you won't meet people whom you find interesting this year. It's just a better time in 1998 for you to m.tke a commitment or serious con· ne(tion or itn·itc somenne fron1 your past back into your life. For nciw, I suggest that you concentrate on your professional advanc.-ment, ,,s your chart shows Ihal your ·hard work will bring huge rewards this year. Also, travel, learning and awareness programs will surface next year and you will want to be in ,1 position to take adv<1ntage of all three, be.:ause these evenl~ will lead to the love of your life. You m.1tch up well to th•~ signs Taurus, Cancer and Capricorn. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): G~t down to doing the thing~ that you like lx>sL Ym1 w'ill be able to get along 1vdl with your friends ami reh1tiws. 
TAURUS lApril20-May 20): Social 
·. 

Calll-6201 for more information. 
t'ffes•hl1ll:tn·· Registers will be available for pick-up 23 at the information desk in La .nutum,n Center, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
~~tentiprt writers and troubadours: Valerie Sayers >Will he reading from her new WOrk on Tuesday, Sept. 23 at 7:30 p.m. The reading will be held at The Rathskeller, 100 Center, Mishawaka. ~jl~re will be an open mike from 7:30 to 8 p.m. Anyone age 21 and over is welcome. 
Saint Mary's Student Activity Board is sponsor­in~ aDateA~ction onTuesday, Sept. 23 at 8:30p.m. ln Haggar f>ar~or. Proceeds will benefit a local chari­
tyJ,, ... 

South North 
Flank SteakSandWich Turkey Rice Soup Grilled Tilapia Spinach Fettuccine Whipped Potatoes Pork Roast Whole Wheat Dinner Rolls Chili Sombrero Mine$trone.Soup Arroz con Polio 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
adivitic'S willle,\d you into P""ionate nu.•t•tings. Ek sure to get invntved in sc!Hmprov~mt'llt. programs. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your l>t'st efforts will come thmugh rll<lkinf; change"" in your home. Clear up do.. mc>slic d1ort."" that haw N>en undtme 
for smnt.' tim~. 
C\NCER (June 21-)uly 22): friends and t\•latiw.,; are not llkelv to und<•rstand vour m:t'<ls. 1t L~ ~t.m>t to dL"<.·uss y<"iur ~rx>nallifc with oth­ers. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your erwrg} into moneyn,aking vt.~ntures. Yt>Ur entrl'prerwurial id~as arc gc•Jd Jnd n1ovcs can bt.• made. 
VIRGO tAug. 23-Scpt. 22.): You Gtn enjoy Sfkial events ,,nd lllt:~·t nt.•w potential m~tt~s. HoWt>\'l'r, dlln't let them cost V<Jil mom•y 
UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Work quietly behind th., scenes. You can dml with others, but don't b,, too ea11.er to shan• your intentk.>ns or your thmt~~ht~. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Cet 
involved in creative groufs. Effllrts m,1de hl Improve yoursd will turn out well. Do not iend moncv or t...,. longings to friends. ­
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Zl}: :\void s1.•cn•t affairs th.1t could l'<' d<~ triment.1l to your reputation. 'lake tim<• to expl.1in your intentions ttl 
itJVt.~Ol'\('S. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19j; Travel will be beneficial. Ytlll will b1m '~1sily if you put forth an effort. Do not let in-laws ups~t you. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Op­portunitit•.s for financial gains th.wugh investnu~nts (lrc likelv. You tncw havt.~ 01llt"e peop]E,l on youf dot'ncstiC !'-Cene tlum anticipated. 
PISCES (FPh. 19·March 20): Prob­lems with lovers will continue to mount. Don't avoid the key bMtl'B or usc <~motional hlackm.1il. ­
will be '•.u•.. .n••.. 23rd, a banquet :30 p.m. in the A Career Fair Fitzpatrick Hall. 
~~ntJerg presents a 2 p.m. in the · reCital is free and open 
42 Canzone parts 50 Hite of 43 Easy sexuality 44 Warning, of a 52 Accept sort 55 Boss man of 45 Harangue Ajman 47 Playwright 56 Get all Norman teary-eyed 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

,-----------------­
page 24 Tuesday, September 23, 1997 
SPORTS 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Irish hope to carry momentum into tonight's game 
The Irish (3-2-2 overall) are Irish in overtime. This tough

Eastern Illinois' 
coming off an important 3-0 loss was followed by a tie to victory over conference foe Northwestern. West Virginia0-7 record could West Virginia. The win contin­provided Notre Dame with a ued Notre Dame's stellar play chance to regroup and rebound in the Big East. They have yet from these games, and that is
be deceiving 
to give up a goal in Big East exactly what they did. 

By TOM STUDEBAKER play and remain undefeated in "The Buffalo game really put
Sports Writer 
the conference with a record of things into perspective for us," 2-0-1. junior co-captain Matt JohnsonThe Notre Dame men's soccer Notre Dame was struggling said. "We cannot afford to take team looks to continue its win­before beating the any teams lightly. That was aning ways when they face the 

Mountaineers. They had two good lesson to learn early in

Panthers from Eastern Illinois 
disappointing games against the season so we can make

tonight at Alumni field. It will 
non-conference opponents. sure that it doesn't happenbe the first ever meeting 

Buffalo came to Alumni field again."

between these two teams. 
and snatched a win from the Eastern Illinois is led by senior forward Henry Ospina. Ospina was the Panthers' leading scor­er coming into this season after scoring nine goals last year. Although entering the game with a record of 0-7-0, Eastern Illinois is a much better team than their record might incli­cate. Two of their games have gone into overtime, and three others have been decided by one goal or less. 
"We are approaching the sea­son one game at a time," Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli will provide us with a good roles. All of this youth has led

said. "We want to stay on the 

chance to work these things to some growing pains for the
winning track. and we cannot 

out." Irish early on this season.
afford to take Eastern Illinois 

Throughout the year, different "We have a lot of young guyslightly... 
players have been stepping up on the team who are maturing
Notre Dame's defense posted 

for the Irish, particularly some as the season has progmssed,"
its fourth shutout of the season 

of the younger players. Early in Berticelli commented. "We are
against West Virginia. They 

the season, freshman J{eggie getting better every game and
will be looking to accomplish 

McKnight stepped up and filled making strides in the right
the same l'mrt against Eastern 

the scoring void left in the direction. In order to be suc­Illinois. 
absence of senior co-captains cessful this ye;rr. we must
"We had a good showing 

Ryan Tumer and Bill Savarino. remain competitive and stay
against West Virginia, but we 

The defens1~ is also very young. focused on not only conference 
still have some things that we 

with sophomores Alan Woods opponents, but non-eonference
need to work out defnnsively,"

So far this season, Notre Dame has compiled a 3-2-2 overall record and Matt McNew and freshman opponents as well.·•
Johnson said. "Eastern Illinois

but are still undefeated in Big East competition . Stephen Maio playing major 


• Vot..LEYBALL 
Irish set to meet Warriors 
in their last six matches. the latest AVCA poll. All of

Boylan sisters 
However, the last time the their losses this season have two teams met, the game come at the hands of rankedready to go head resulted in four-set win by opponents. 
.. 
a Just recently, the the Irish in 1990, their only Irish lost a close three-gameto head in match meeting in the past ten years. match against No. 14 Texas Last year, the Warriors had a A&M in the Tournament of 
By BILL HART 
record of 12-21 and placed Champions, a four team tour­Sports Writer 
sixth out of eight teams in the nament that reunited head Conference USA. Marquette's coach Debbie Brown with 

Notre Dame's 
head cqach, Tat Sheily, has
volleyball a three former teammates on 

team continues a six-game 
long history with the Warriors, the 1980 Olympic team. 

home stand tonight when they as she has coached the team This match holds special sig­
host the Marquette Warriors 
for the past 22 years. nificance for freshman setter at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 

Notre Dame has struggled Denise Boylan, whose sister 

Notr(l Dame (6-5) has had an over past weeks, is on the
the few Susan a juniorexcellent history against 

despite being ranked 25th in 

Marquette (12-3), having won see VOLLEYBALL I page 20 
• SPORTS BRIEF 
Providence, RI Streiffer who has also beeh goals from long range. For the 
Notre Dame freshman mid­named Big East Player of the season, she has five goals and fielder Anne Makinen has been week earlier in the season. two assists. named Big East offensive player Against North Carolina, she The second ranked Irish of the week after scoring three connected on a free kick from return to the field when they goals and an assist this week'­25 yards to put thcflrish up 1~0. travel to Rutgers and Villanova end against No. 1 North Later in the game, with the Tar for a pair of Big East road Carolina and No. 5 Duke. She Heels up 2-1, Makinen chipped games this weekend. With a 7­was named offeusive MVP of a perfect pass to Jenny Heft to 0-1 record overall and 3-0·0 in the Adidas/Lady FootLocker assist on the tying goal in the 2· the Big East, Notre Dame is Classic for her performances 2 tie. In Sunday's game against looking to remain unbeaten in this weekend. She joins Jenny Duke, she added two more Big East games this weekend. 

at Michigan, September 27, 3:30p.m. 
Volleyball,
(;. 
vs. St. Xavier,at Rutgers, 
s~
/@ 

~ September 24, 7 p.m. 
September 26, 7:30 p.m. 

.. 
Eastern Illinois, 

Cross Country, ~ tonight, 7:30p.m. 
s~ at Adrian, 
~ 

September 27, II a.m . 
Marquette, September 23, 7 p.m. 
• 


~ 
see page 19•• -5riJ •Men's interhall football coverage 
see page 18 



