
Monday, February 10, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 87 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• Norm: DAME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS 
Griffin and Szabo tickets prepare for Wednesday runoff 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
With the Matt Griffin/Erek Nass ticket receiving 34 percent of the vote and the Matt Szabo/Mary Gillard ticket gar­nering 33 percent, Friday's pri­mary election for student body president and vice president was the closest in years. 
Because none of the five tick­ets received a majority vote, Wednesday's run-off election between Griffin/N ass and Szabo/Gillard will determine which duo will become student body president and vice presi­dent. 
"It's pretty inevitable that there's going to be a runoff," election committee president Jen Dovidio said. She explained that while a two-tiered election is common, such a narrow mar­gin separating the top two vote­getters is notable; Griffin!Nass received 1113 votes to Szabo/Gillard's 1078 votes. 
"We haven't had as close a race in the last five years," Dovidio said. 
Griffin, Nass, Szabo, and Gillard now expeet to focus their energies on the few remaining days of intensive campaigning. Both platforms antieipatc another close con­test. 
''I'm glad the student body now has a clear-cut ehoiee to make about the direction of stu­dent government," Szabo said. 
One of the biggest distinctions between his ticket and Griffin!Nass's is in leadership style; Szabo has a dynamic style while Griffin offers a more reserved and more experienced approach. Also, Griffin!Nass's ticket features a comparatively more feasible but less aggres­sive platform than Szabo/Gillard's. 
"There's a clear choice to be made," Griffin agreed. "Hopefully the run-off eleetion won't be as close." 
In addition to hoping for a decisive outcome, all of the tick­ets which ran Friday hoped for higher turnout at Wednesday's election. Only 41 percent of Notre Dame's nearly 8,000 undergraduates voted in the primary. 
"If people don't know what student government does for them, how are they going to get excited about voting?" Nass asked. 
"We're going to try to talk to as many people as we can and make them aware of the issues and their choices," Gillard said. 
According to Dovidio, the pri­
see ELECTION I page 6 

Let the good times roll ... 



• ELECTION RESULTS 
President/Vice-PresidentPrimary Returns 
r Szabo/Gillard
33 °/o 

...• 6 
Student Body 
Voter Turnout 

41°/o 

Source: Student Government Election Committee The ObseJVer/Sue O'Kain 


Month of Ramadan marks holy season for Muslims 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
The Feast of Eid began Saturday night as the moon appeared, ending the Islamic month of Ramadan. 
The month of Ramadan is the holiest month of the Islamic calendar. In the month of Ramadan, the archangel Jibreel (Gabriel) revealed God's Word in the Qur'an to Mohammed. Muslims believe that the Qur'an was revealed on one of the odd days in the last ten days of the month of Ramadan: the 21st, 23rd, 25th, 27th, or 29th. 
"It is not known which night it was," said No man Sattar, a Muslim and a graduate student at Notre Dame, "but there is a general consensus that it was 
-the 27th." The night when the Qur'an was revealed is called Lailatul-Qadr, or the Night of Power. The Qur'an reads, "The Night of Power is better than a thousand months." 
The month of Ramadan is somewhat similar to the Catholic season of Lent, a time of preparation, reflection and purification. There are five duties that a Muslim must perform called the Five Pillars of Faith: Shahada (affirmation). Salat {prayer). Zakat {almsgiving). Siyam (fasting), and Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca). Ramadan intensifies all of these. 
Perhaps the part of Ramadan that Americans are most familiar with -­through such individuals as Houston Rockets star Hakeem Olajuwon -is the fast. The fast lasts from dawn until sunset and prohibits Muslims from even drinking water. 
"The fasting is a total, absolute fast­ing," said Dr. Zia Chowhan, a Muslim who lives in South Bend. "It means refraining from anything that God, the creator, has commanded you to refrain 
see RAMADAN I page 4 

Dorm fire cooks up scare for Saint Mary's students 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Ma'Y's Editor 
When students in Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's heard the fire alarm go off at 12:50 a.m. Saturday night, they thought it was just another security drill. 
Exeept for the students on the third floor. As soon as they walked out of their rooms, they knew exactly why the alarm was going off. 
"The scariest thing about the fire was that it was real this time," Patty Cronley, the resi­dent advisor on-call, said. "I talked to many residents today who told me that they were thinking about not going outside when they heard the alarm. That could have been very dan­gerous." 

According to the security report, the fire started in a trash eart on the third floor. due to the "careless disposal of cigarette ashes." Although no students were injured in the fire, juniors Bridget Sullivan and Mary Barlo were treated on the scene for smoke inhalation. Property damage was minimal. 
"I was getting ready for bed in the bathroom when I heard Mary {Barlo) screaming my name," Sullivan said. "So I ran outside and I saw smoldering coming from the trash ean. My first instinct was to run, but Mary knew what to do." 
Barlo said she remembered thinking about that frightful warning she reeeived freshman year. 
"I remembered being warned that since the buildings at Saint Mary's are so old, they can go up in flames quickly," Barlo said. "So I just knew I had to do something right away." 
Barlo went to grab the fire extinguisher. But by the time she got the extinguisher work­ing, the smoke had transformed into a fire. 
"We thought we had extin­guished the fire," Barlo said, "but it started smoking soon after we thought we put it out. Finally we gave up because we heard the fire alarm going off and knew we needed to get out of the building." 
However, some students, like resident advisor Stacey Barr, did not even wake up to the sound of the alarm. Bart, who had her five-year-old nephew staying with her for Little Sibs Weekend, awoke after the building was evacuated because of the smell of smoke. 
"The alarm stops going off after awhile," Cranley said. "I saw one girl come up from the tunnels and go to her room. She had no idea what was going on. I had to tell her to get out of the building." 
The South Bend and Notre Dame fire departments also answered the emergency alarm, and aided Saint Mary's security in extinguishing the fire. Although the fire was quickly put out, students were prohibit­ed from returning to their 
see FIRE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 10, 1997 




Waiting for a leading 

w-oman 
In their 25 years as Allison Koenig students at the 
News Copy Ediror
University, Notre Dame women have definitely influenced and changed the face of the cam­
pus in almost all aspects of student life. Their 
presence is simply unmistakable. 
However, there is one feat to accomplish before Notre Dame women can truly call this campus theirs: a woman needs to be elected president of the student body. 
Why has this not yet happened? 
Sure, several women have run for vice-pres­idential positions. Junior Megan Murray is the vice-presidential office incumbent. However, the number of women that have actually run for president can be counted on one hand. 
This year's candidates were a glaring exam­ple of an unfortunate demographic trend in student government politics. Three of the five tickets consisted of two white males. The fourth ticket was composed of a white male and a white female. The final duo was occu­pied by a black male and a white female. 
Out of five tickets, only two women ran for office, neither of them for that of president. Additionally, a single sex ticket, for males, is considered to be standard. In recent history, there has not been a ticket composed of two females. 
Does this trend indicate that Notre Dame students find women to be incapable of hold­ing this esteemed office? 
There is something wrong behind the repre­sentation of demographics at the University. (I could very well be writing this article about the lack of racial variety in student represen­tation also.) 
Take candidate Mary Gillard, for example. From a leadership and government involve­ment standpoint, she is more qualified to lead the student body than any of the nine candi­dates for presidential or vic;e-presidential positions. That includes her running mate, Matt Szabo. 
Laura Parker, the other female running for office, was also more qualified than her run­ning mate, Bobby Booker, from the same leadership standpoint. (Refer to last Thursday's Observer for a breakdown of the candidates' qualifications, platforms, and backgrounds.) 
Why are these women, who are more expe­rienced than their running mates, not running for president? 
My intention is not to blame Gillard and Parker for the fact that women have never filled THE student leadership role at Notre Dame. I would be interested in finding out why they did not run for president, and what they themselves think of this rather sexist trend. 
Or maybe "trend" is not the right word. 
Perhaps "gender relations rut" would be more 
descriptive. 
The women's liberation movement came to 
this country over 30 years ago. Women came 
to the University of Notre Dame as students 
25 years ago. How much longer is it going to 
take for a woman to come forward and lead 
the students? 
Gillard and Szabo's campaign slogan hap­pens to be, 'This is our school. Let's take it back." To the women of Notre Dame, this is your school too. I pose the aforementioned questions and the challenge to go after the position that affirms your place at the University. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics John DeBoy Sue O'Kain Laura Perelle 
Sports Production Kathleen Lopez Heather Cocks Viewpoint John DeBoy Jenny Metzger 
Lab Tech Accent 
Shannon Dunne
Andrea Jordan Nate Wills 
The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• 
• Wmu.o AT AGLANCE 

New Zealand gunman kills six, injures five 

WELLINGTON, New Zealand 
A man embroiled in a domestic dispute opened fire on his relatives and several passers-by at a ski resort Saturday, killing six people and wounding five, police said. 
The man, described by residents of the village ·of Raurimu Spiral as a former psychiatric patient, was naked and unarmed when police commandos seized him. He emerged from a dense forest about 600 feet from the killing scene, two hours after his rampage began. 
The suspect, Stephen Anderson of Wellington, made his first appear­ance Sunday in Taumarunui District Court, where he was formally charged in one death. Police said other charges against the 22-year­old Anderson were pending. Authorities earlier gave his age as 
Kemp may run in 2000 

WASHINGTON 
Jack Kemp indicated Sunday that he 
.----:::-----.... is making preparations for a possible run for the White House in 2000. 'Tll tell you this, my appetite is whetted,". last year's Republican vice presidential candidate said. Kemp, appearing on NBC's "Meet the Press," said a con­crete decision on a presidential candi­dacy would not come until after con­gressional elections in 1998. But the former congress­man and government secretary said he wants to help shape America's vision for the future. ''I'm looking for­ward to being a big part of that debate," he said. By the end of this month, Kemp said, he will form a political action committee to help finance his travels on behalf of Republican candidates. He said the PAC also will "lay the architecture nationally for the type of financial effort you've got to make if you are going to be ready to run." Kemp was Bob Dole's running mate on the GOP ticket that lost to President Clinton and Vice President AI Gore last November. 
Love at first sight lasts for 80 years 

SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
For George and Gaynel Couron, love at first sight has lasted nearly 81 years. The couple, who celebrate their 81st anniversary April 10, has the nation's longest-lasting marriage, according to Worldwide Marriage Encounter, a group offering programs to improve communication between spouses. "That was the girl for me. I've had her for 80 years, soon to be 81," said Couron, who is 100. "I got the woman I wanted." "I got the man I wanted," his 97-year-old wife added. In 1916, Couron first saw his soon-to-be wife on the sidewalk after moving to Fort Dodge, Iowa. He brushed off attempts by his sisters to set him up on a blind date because he kept thinking about "that girl on the sidewalk." When he finally met Gaynel, at a carnival, she turned out to be the one his sisters tried to match him with. When they met again, he boldly said, ''I'm taking you home tonight" and they were soon married. Fourteen children, 43 grandchildren, 75 great-grandchil­dren and at least 30 great-great-grandchildren later, Couron is surprised as anyone at his long life and his mar­riage. "I could say we behaved ourselves, but that just wouldn't go down very well with some people," hesaid. The couple lived independently until a few months ago. Although they are in relatively good health, Mrs. Couron suffered a mild stroke in December and one of their daughters stays at their home. 
24. 

Inspector Geoff Holloway said Sunday that police were in the early stages of building a picture of the accused and so far had uncovered had no evidence pointing to a history of mental illness. 
The violence began with an argument during a family reunion. It appeared that the gunman's relatives, including his parents, bore the brunt of his rage, police said. But passers-by also were hit by fire from the 12-gauge shotgun. 
The man's wife, father and four other relatives were believed to be among the casualties, Australia's Sunday Telegraph of Sydney reported. 
It took authorities more than an hour to reach the village, 250 miles north of the capital, Wellington. The nearest police station was 30 miles away. 
Police searched for more bodies in and around the village. 
Police: Woman set roommate ablaze 
INDIANAPOLIS 
A woman upset over having to drive her drunken roommate home sprayed her friend with gasoline from a convenience store pump Sunday, then killed her by light­ing the gas stream on fire, police said. Nicole Dickens, 22, died after suffering third-degree burns over 98 per­cent of her body, said Joe DiLaura, a spokesman for Wishard Memorial Hospital. Her roommate, Sherrell Russell, 26, was arrested and held on suspicion of mur­der. Marion County Sheriffs Col. Scott Minier said. Ms. Russell was angry because her roommate was intoxicat­ed and had refused to drive her own car, Minier said. "The suspect is generally the passenger and she was upset that she was asked to drive," he said. "Her room­mate apparently had had too much to drink." About 4 a.m., Ms. Russell asked a store clerk to call a cab for Ms. Dickens because she didn't want to drive her back to their apartment, Minier said. But minutes later, as Ms. Russell filled up the car's gas tank, she aimed the pump at her roommate and ignited the stream of gas with a lighter, Minier said. "It was basically like a flame-throw­er, just a stream of fire," he said. 
20-year officer makes it as painter 
WASHINGTON 
Davis Morton was a cop in the Washington suburbs for 20 years. He's been painting longer than he was policing, however, and the Arts Club of Washington has organized a show of his work-$1,200 to $7,000 each. "You know the Tastee Diner in Bethesda?" he asks, referring to a restaurant he used to pass in patrol cars. "That picture was sold to a collector in Vienna." That's Vienna, Austria, not Vienna, Va.-which like Bethesda, Md., is a Washington bedroom community. Morton travels to Europe every year and has sold about 20 of his paintings there. A few more are bought every year at auctions in southern France, he said. "There's an old police saying that as a cop you see the best people at their worst and the worst people at their best," he recalled. "It's not too · bad an idea for a painter." Morton's oils are highly real­istic. Although he works from photos he makes himself, he maintains his work is not photographic. "If a waiter from France looks better in New York, I'll put him there," he said in an interview. "Actually I'm a kind of surreal­ist." he said. "I use my dreams, but I don't dream about folding clocks like Salvador Dali" -the late Spanish whose floppy timepieces became a trademark of surreal­ism. Morton, 48, developed his police and painting careers at the same time. His only formal art training was an anatomy course at George Washington University. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 10. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 




MondaYr ~ Tuesday ~ 
··:·· .:: 
Wednesoay
' 
Thursda.<'y 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
tCl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PressurfJ
Friday' . 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
(;-..·\s·-·._j.­

VI• Assoclalt~d Press 
A/ 

Atlanta 53 30 Honolulu 82 69 New York 36 29 c£i[1 Baltimore 35 26 Los Angeles 64 49 Philadelphia 39 25
~ i£!1 a

~,~,~~~ Boston 33 22 Miami 77 55 Phoenix 65 52 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 31 22 Minneapolis 19 7 St. Louis 67 25 
Via Associated Press GmphicsNet 

Fairbanks 16 ·4 New Orleans 60 38 Seattle 48 35 

Monday, February 10, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Professor succumbs to illness Berkeley priest contrasts 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
Veronica Blasquez, the Galla assistant professor of biochem­istry at Notre Dame, died late Wednesday in Dallas. 
Blasquez, 40, died following a long illness. She had been on medical leave since December and had gone to Dallas for treatment. She is survived by her parents, two brothers, and five sisters. 
Blasquez was born and raised in the Philippines. She received her bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of the Philippines in 1978. She earned her doctor­ate in biochemistry at Purdue University in 1985 and then spent five years as a postdoc­toral fellow in biochemistry at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. She joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in 1990. 
Her research was in genetics, studying the effects of chromat­ic structure on gene expres­sion. 
Blasquez was liked and respected by her colleagues and students. 
"She knew everyone's name," said Chris Doro, a junior in the College of Science. "She would always call on people by name. She cared. I was really impressed by her teaching. She was real, real good and real, real tough. She was my favorite teacher last semester." 

"From a chairman's point of View, Veronica was a wonder­ful, obliging colleague with a real strong concern for stu­dents," said Alexander Lappin, chair of the department of chemistry and biochemistry. "She was a superb teacher. She'll be missed greatly by the whole department but especial­ly by the biochemists." 
A prayer service was held Saturday in Richardson, Tex. She will be buried in Manila, the Philippines. 
The College of Science will conduct a memorial service on March 18 at 10 a.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

__... MIS and CAPP Majors 
for Summer Internships with Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and Information available 7:00-9:00 p.m. Monday, February I 0 Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
Coopers&Lybrand 
aprofessional services firm 
Please bring your resume with you 
Associate Justice Antonio Scalia Supreme Court of the United States 
will speak on 

"Constitutional Interpretation" 
February 11, 3:00p.m., 101 DeBartolo sponsored by The Federalist Society and Notre Dame Law School 



welfare policy with ideals 
By ELENA MILLNER 
News Writer 
D1gnity and fundamental human rights should be the most important components of any welfare policy, according to Father William O'Neill. 
"Commonweal or Woe? ­The Ethics of Welfare Reform" was the focus of O'Neill's lec­ture Friday afternoon as part of a three-day series of speak­ers and panels titled "The Welfare Revolution and Catholic Social Thought." 
O'Neill, associate professor of social ethics at the University of California at Berkeley, outlined normative goals for welfare reform that are rooted in the philosophy of Catholic social teaching. 
"The motives of Catholic social policy," said 0 'Neill, "are to establish a social ideal of a common good." 
Roman Catholic social teach­ing, as expressed by O'Neill, falls between the extremes of the notion of a collective soci­ety versus an individual-based society. He feels the distribu­tive quality of a common good can enable society to gain a richer understanding of the individuals that comprise the wide spectrum of humanity. 
A way to measure good wel­fare policy, according to O'Neill's interpretation of Catholic social teaching, is to examine whether the action will enhance the lives of the people affected. Work created through welfare policy must permit families to live in digni­ty, O'Neill said. Fundamental human rights, he added, are a prerequisite for any policy. 
O'Neill spoke of society's moral judgment of the poor when deciding which seg­ments of the disadvantaged society to help. Referring to the Bible, O'Neill said that those Jesus aided were con­sidered "undeserving" during Jesus's time. 
"We speak of the deserving and undeserving poor," said O'Neill, "but not of the deserv­ing and undeserving rich." 
O'Neill established a set of moral criteria to evaluate poli­cy. First, he said, children's rights must be legally protect­ed. Second, policy must be comprehensible and must integrate the amount of lati­tude needed by states as they develop their own polices. Third, there must be social guarantees created that pro­vide assistance such as educa­tional opportunities and col­laborative efforts between the public and private sector. 
Finally, O'Neill said, "The participatory rights of those most affected by welfare poli­cy must be honored." 


Chemists conference hosted by Saint Mary's 
Special to The Observer 

"Women Chemists in Industry" was the theme for the second annual Women Chemists Symposium held this past weekend at Saint Mary's College. Dr. Christina Bodurow Hendricks, pharmaceutical pro­ject manager of the fluoxetine (Prozac) product team for Eli Lilly and Company, gave the keynote address. 
In addition to the Hendricks presentation, other activities included a career planning workshop, demonstrations in both biochemistry and organic chemistry, and round table dis­cussions. 
The symposium was coordi­attended a supper with career mentors and alumnae. 


In her project manager posi­tion at Eli Lilly, guest speaker Hendricks is responsible for the strategy, tactics and daily oper­ations of a global, cross-func­tional team dedicated to the maximization of Prozac, Lilly's largest selling product and the third largest pharmaceutical product in the world. 
Hendricks, who earned her doctorate from Princeton University in 1984, worked for Eli Lilly and Company in sever­al positions prior to her current job. 
She served as a global phar­maceutical manager, pharma­ceutical and analytical di.em­
Lentz LIFETIME GUA"RANTEE ON MUFFLERS, BRAKE PADS & SHOES. SHOCKS. STRUTS, TO ORIGINAL PURCHASER, REPLACEMENT UPON PRESENTATION OF CERTIFICATE 
•LABOR EXCLUDED ON BRAKES & STRUTS 


----~-~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 10, 1997 
The Feast of Eid marks the evacuation, Conley encouraged sor of section three main, knows 
end of Ramadan. students to wait in the LeMans of no students around where the 
Ra01adan Fire 

~OBSERV-~R  
is now accepting applications for the 1997-98 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Brad Prendergast by Friday, Feb. 14 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542 . • NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates stol}' and series ideas and is responsible for Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gener­the content of the news section each day. ating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an abiliry to deal with the Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers,public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors ancl ;olumnists works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and decides what letters will run each day. and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor man­Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpressages a staff of editors and reporters, generates stol}' ideas and special sections, arranges travel and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layouteach day. and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates Stol}' ideas, and is responsible for the con-networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and tent of the Accent pages each day. . printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR CONTROLLER Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. ST. MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mal}''s is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mal}''s department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, gen­erates story ideas on the Saint Mal}''s campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mal}''s.  

continued from page 1 
from. 
"It's not just not eating or drinking, but it's also refrain­ing from all the evils and bad· things that God has command­ed you not to do. Not only that, but also in this month of Ramadan it means doing things that your creator, through revelation in the Qur'an, has commanded you to do." 
"The basic philosophy ­don't eat, don't drink, no lies, no eheating, keep all evils away -is denial of anything that may harm you spiritual­ly," said Sattar. "And when we go hungry and thirsty, it's one way of thinking of the less fortunate, people who are hungry and thirsty." 
Those who are traveling or sick are exeused from the compulsory fast, though they are expected to make up the days missed. 
Many Muslims, after the breaking of the fast at night, visit family and friends. 
Ramadan is mentioned in th-e Qur'an, which reads, "Ramadan is the month during which the Qur'an was revealed, providing guidance for the people, clear teaching, and the statue book. Those of you who witness this month shall fast therein." 
Further restriction and explanation is given elsewhere in the Qur'an: "Permitted for you is sex with your wives dur­ing the nights of fasting .... You may eat and drink until the white thread of light becomes distinguishable from the dark thread of night at dawn. Then, you shall fast until sunset." 
lobby instead. 

"I was wearing flip-flops and shorts," Cronley said. "There were other girls with no shoes on or just their pajamas." 
Forty minutes after the fire was extinguished, the lobby of Holy Cross Hall was reopened for cold students to stay while their floors were secured. The Inn at Saint Mary's opened two free rooms for third floor stu­dents. although most chose to sleep with friends instead. 
According to sophomore resi­dent Laura McGinty, the only visual evidence of the fire that exists in her section today is a dark black mark above the trash can where the fire occurred, and a white powder on the walls of' a few students' rooms. And, of course, the smell. 
Katie Drew, the resident advi­fire occurred who smoke ciga­rettes. She does think that because the fire was caused by a cigarette, residents could see some policy changes soon. 
"There has been a lot of dis­cussion about changing the smoking policy in the halls," Drew said. "This may give the action a push to make the halls smoke-free." 
Cronley thought the fire also put an interesting twist on the recent smoking surveys that were distributed in the halls. 
"I think it is very ironic," Cronley said. "Students just fin­ished filling out surveys about their feelings toward smoking in the residence halls and whether or not they prefer more regulations." 
The department of residence life has not yet released the results of these surveys. 
Please recYcle The Observer 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
... 

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 



GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend. (next to Howard Johnson) 
Ms.Butsko, 
Wishing you all the «"'best on you birthday! 
Stills, Stein, & Drew 
"The celebration is actually the prayer," said Chowhan. "The rest is on a personal basis -it's not something where there is glamour and dancing and a party and that kind of stuff ... it is not that kind of celebration." • 
"The celebration begins in th-e morning," said Sattar. '"It's a day off. People get together with family and friends." 
While the fast is undeniably difficult, "[Ramadan] reminds you each year that if you are a believer in this faith, then this is how it has to be," said Chowhan. 
"It makes you a better Muslim, a better person," said Sattar. 
Research from http://www. holidays. n etlrama dan contributed to this report. 
continued from page 1 
rooms until the whole building was secured. 
"Security had to check the carbon monoxide level on each floor before they let everyone baek in," Cronley said. "Since there was a problem on the third floor. they had to spray to take care of it. The spray left a powdery substance in the halls." 
Sullivan and Barlo were given oxygen masks as treatment for smoke inhalation. 
"We inhaled oxygen for 10 minutes," Barlo said. "And then they cheeked our heart and lungs. We were coughing a little, but other than that we felt fine. We feel fine today." 
As an alternative to standing outside in the cold during the 
page 5 

Monday, February 10, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
South Bend native Design earns national award 
Special to The Observer traditional hangers earned her Dame had seven entries in the
wins Dooley Award 
a $1500 scholarship, which she competition. More than 200 
Special to The Observer 
Kathleen Osberger, a South Bend native and a 197 5 gradu­ate, received the Notre Dame Alumni Association's 1997 Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award. 
Osberger is a licensed clinical social worker at the University of Chicago Hospitals depart­ment of psychiatry and holds master's degrees from the Maryknoll School of Theology and the University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration. She is active in community efforts on behalf of Central American immigrants and a volunteer therapist with 
the  Kolver  Center  for  the  
Treatment  of Survivors  of  
Torture.  

After her graduation from Notre Dame, she worked in Santiago, Chile, and Chimbote, Peru, in service programs sponsored by the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
From 1977-87 Osberger lived in New York's South Bronx, working as a pastoral associ­ate. While living there she helped found a community organizing movement, South Bronx People for Change. 
From 1990-96 Osberger served as president of the Carmine Marine Tenants Association in Chicago's Uptown community. During her tenure she oversaw the creation of a limited equity cooperative which in 1994 allowed the Carmine Marine tenants to purchase their build­ing from the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the first such transaction in the nation's his­tory. 
The Dooley Award was estab­lished in 1983 in memory of the 1948 Notre Dame alumnus who became internationally famous for his devotion to the poor of Southeast Asia, his fondness for prayer at Notre Dame's Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, and his cheerfully accepted death at 34 years of age. The award is annually conferred on a Notre Dame graduate who has per­formed an outstanding humani­tarian service. 
Jacqueline Moser, a University of Notre Dame senior, was a second place winner this year in the National Housewares Manufacturers Association's national student design compe­tition. Moser is an industrial design major form Rochester, Minn. 
Moser's design of a clip to secure skirts and pants onto received at the International Housewares Show in Chicago in January. 
Moser's product, which she named the "ZipHang," lets a person slide a garment easily onto a hanger from the side with one hand. The clips' flexi­ble directional fingers grip the clothing securely, yet allow for easy removal from the center. 
According to Down, Notre 

product concepts were submit­ted by students from 17 schools. There were two first place winners, two second place winners, and three third place winners receiving a total of $11,000 in scholarships. 
Moser hopes to work for a design firm after she graduates in May. She has been contact­ed by two companies interested in developing the ZipHang. 
Turmoil plagues Indian frontier 
camps in Bhutan or
24th Annual Summer Programs 
Bangladesh. Indian intelligence sources claim banks in Bangladesh hold more than
ND--SMC Students 
$100 million extorted as "taxes" from the northeast

Meeting February lOth 
region's merchants and tea plantation owners. The rebels have no chance of

Carroll Hall, SMC 
defeating the Indian army. But the northeast's troubles are
6:30p.m. 
part of the centrifugal tugs on India's multitude of peoples, reinforcing fears of disintegra­


London Rome 
tion that have haunted it since the subcontinent was parti­

May 21-June 20 June 15-July 14 
tioned into India and Pakistan in 1947. It is just as deadly as Kashmir, where a 7-year-long Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Muslim revolt against India has garnered international atten­tion because of Pakistan's involvement and the threat that

Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, 
it could ignite a fourth Indo­Pakistan war.

English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 
Almost daily, someone is killed in one of the seven north­eastern states. Yet the region is 

Pizza! 
so remote that rarely do such acts of political violence draw

Past students and Faculty will be present. 
national attention or concern. 
An exception came Dec. 30, when militants of the Bodo 

For information call Prof. Black at 284~4460 or 272~3726 
Place: Deadline: Contact:  GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT Friday, February 14 to Saturday, February 15 7:30p.m. (24 hours) 7:30p.m. A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. Limit of fifteen students. Reserve space early. Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. Reservations will be confirmed with payment of $15.00 to cover costs. If you need financial assistance, please let us know. Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-5873. 0MPU5 f\/11NISlRY  

By ARTHUR MAX tribes -are still uncertain of Associated Press Writer their place, whether within India or outside it. KOKRAJHAR, India When some insurrections Joined by just a thread of wane, others flare. Wars erupt 
·land to the rest of the country, among the tribes, even while India's last frontier is an isolat­those tribes battle the Indian ed region of rugged beauty -government. and constant turmoil. Factions fight rivals among 
For 50 years, the Indian their own people. Drug abuse 
northeast has been tormented and AIDS are rampant. by separatist insurrection, Even the elephant herds, the guerrilla warfare and terror­largest remaining in India, are ism. Its inhabitants -nearly in a perpetual struggle with 
half of them from aboriginal poachers and ever-encroaching mankind. Arms flow in from neighbor­ing Burma. Guerrillas retreat to 
tribe blew up a New Delhi­bound train, killing at least 34 people near Kokrajhar in the state of Assam, 700 miles from the Indian capital. 
The same week, two other explosions, also claimed by the Bodoland Liberatio·n Tiger Force, sabotaged road and rail bridges, briefly severing land links to the northeast and demonstrating how vulnerable the territory is. 
On Jan. 22, the Tiger Force announced a cease-fire, but rival Bodo groups did not respond to a government offer for talks. 
Massacres have occurred in other northeast states as well. In Nagaland, ethnic Naga rebels waylaid a bus and shot dead 30 passengers from the Kuki tribe on Dec. 9. 
In Tripura four days later, tribal insurgents raided a non­tribal village and slaughtered 25 men, women and children. 
The core of the unrest is migrations that threaten ethnic identities and upset a balance existing for hundreds of years, when tribal chieftains ruled once proud kingdoms. 
Many tribal people of the northeast., whose Mongoloid features distinguish them from other Indians, feel themselves a people apart, ethnically closer to Southeast Asians. 
But not all the rebels are from backward tribes. The most powerful guerrilla force is the United Liberation Front of Assam. It is drawn from people who identify themselves as Assamese, a racial concoction of southern and northern Indians and Mongoloid tribes, who have come to dominate the region's biggest state. 
Beginning 170 years ago, British rulers imported Indian labor for their lush tea planta­tions. 
More recently, poverty and war drove people from the deltas of Bangladesh to India's northeast -an estimated 5 million illegal immigrants from 1961 to 1991. 
Fueling the resentment is a self-perpetuating cycle of under development. Rebels say the government strips the region of its resources -Assa;n supplies half of India's oil and 15 per­cent of all the world's tea-but plows little back by way of prof­its or investment. 
Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda acknowledged recently that people in the northeast feel New Delhi treats them like a stepmother and pledged to pro­vide basic services to bring the region "to the standard in the rest of the country." 
Ideologies of the insurgents often are murky. Most groups want the "foreigners" expelled. 
Some tribal insurgents want their own states within India that would give them greater page 6 

self-rule  and  control  of  
resources.  Others want in de­ 
pendence.  

Low fat ice cream will be introduced on Fat Tuesday 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS Mmmmmmmmm-Haagen­Dazs ice cream is now low in fat. 

After three years of develop­ment, the world's leading maker of superpremium ice cream will introduce Haagen-Dazs Low Fat this Tuesday -that's Fat Tuesday -at a celebration in Tampa, Fla., one of the coun­try's top 10 ice cream markets. 
The slimmed-down versions of vanilla, chocolate, strawberry­and coffee fudge are already in Haagen-Dazs shops, and will be in grocery stores nationwide in April. 
The new stuff has fewer than 3 grams of fat per half-cup serv­ing, about 80 percent less than the company's regular ice cream. Low fat vanilla has 170 



Election 
continued from page 1 

mary and run-off turnouts are usually comparable. In an average year, she added, 50 percent of the campus votes. 
As in the past, though, there was a variable turnout from dorm to dorm. On the extremes, 78 percent of Carroll filled out ballots while only 34 percent of Flanner voted. 
While Szabo/Gillard and Griffin/Nass will continue to campaign, the three tickets eliminated in Friday's primary also have thoughts about the election. 
"I would hope that all the people who supported the Booker/Parker ticket will show up Wednesday and vote for Szabo/Gillard," Bobby Booker said. 
In explaining his ticket's endorsement, Booker said that he felt Szabo and Gillard are "the best personalities for the job." · 
While they didn't offer a for­mal endorsement, the Barrette/McCaghy ticket said that their emphasis of repre­sentation would best be met by the Szabo/Gillard ticket. 
calories, compared with 270 for regular vanilla. 
Haagen-Dazs, a Minneapolis­based unit of Pillsbury Co., is the first superpremium ice cream maker with national distribution to make a low-fat version, fol­lowing the lead of local and regional companies. 

"We found over one-third of Haagen-Dazs ice cream buyers were also purchasing a competi­tor's low-fat ice cream," said Yvonne La Penotiere, the com­pany's business team leader. "Those consumers were telling us they weren't terribly satisfied with what they were buying." 
Haagen-Dazs will spend more than $10 million to promote the low-fat ice cream -the most it has ever spent introducing a new product, Ms. La Penotiere said last week. 

• "We were a little disappoint­ed that we didn't do so well," Barrette said. "Two real quali­fied tickets are running now," he added, foreshadowing the decision campus voters will have to make by midweek. The Chica/Cano ticket did not have a formal position on redi­recting their share of the vote total either. "I don't think a lot of people, as well as ourselves, took [the election) too seriously," Andy Chica said, touching on an explanation for Friday's low turnout. Both the Szabo/Gillard and Griffin/Nass tickets plan to emphasize specific points of the platform in the coming days. "I think our focus on student rights sets us apart. I'm confi­dent in our enthusiasm," Gillard said, indicating little shift in campaign style. "I hope the student body realizes that now is the time for action," Szabo added. Griffin and Nass indicated that they, too, plan to continue posting flyers and campaigning door to door. 
"We're going to emphasize how our platform is do-able, obtainable, and is a service to the students," Griffin said. 

~ ~ ~--~---------------.--"-! 
The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 10, 1997 

State agrees to drop Cosby reward 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
Responding to Bill Cosby's request that no public money be used as a reward for information about his son's killer, Republican Gov. Pete Wilson on Friday with­drew the state's offer of $50,000. 
Lt. Gov. Gray Davis, a Democrat, had offered the reward last month when Wilson 
• 

was out of the country. He and Wilson are long-time political rivals. 
Ennis Cosby, 27, was shot to death early Jan. 16 just off a freeway in Los Angeles. There have been no arrests. 
Wilson spokesman Sean Walsh said Davis did not follow the gov­ernor's policy on rewards because it was not requested by the victim's family, law enforcers or community leaders and because all leads had not been exhausted. Davis could not be reached for comment. 
Several rewards -including one offered by Los Angeles County -have been dropped. But a $25,000 reward from the city of Los Angeles, and rewards of $200,000 and $100,000 from tabloid newspapers -have not been withdrawn. 
• 
oin us at The Morris Inn before and after Notre Dame home basketball games. Our dining 
room opens early, at SPM, prior to knight home games. After the 
game, come and sample some of the new items off of our lounge menu. 
Call 6 3 I -202o for dinner reservations. 




rr~eGJ~~ tUe~ 
TAN N I N G SAL 0 N www.planet_tan.eom 
Within walking distnnce ofND Campus! 
12 beds, no appointment ever needed!

r---------,
10 t 

package .J a
L. 

---------20tans 
We are now taking applications for -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundryNEXT YEAR!!  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272·1441 Summer leases Available  
1 10 ~0.6tr $29.001 1 month $39 I tans I 2 months $59 L.--.... ------.J 3 months $79rs;;i,;Bre-:k Stude;;8;'ed"ai1 4 months $99 : $5.00 off any monthly : ns


277-1166 
t IMartin's I 
N 
wo 

CLEAN • FAST • GENTLE 
Buy 4 sessions. atthe regula.
price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 & get 3 FREE... , , Buy 6 & get 4 FREE... 
1 Month & 3 Month Unlimited Tanning Packages Available!



'·--·' 
BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR THE POSITION OF 
IPW 1998 CHAIRPERSON!!! 
OON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM FEBRUARY 19 QUESTIONS? CALL SUE CHRISTIE AT 4-4825 
Monday, February 10, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 

Researchers lose cancer-fighting agent 
By RICHARD COLE search for more of the chemical. Amazon, may have a happy end­The creature had been studied Associated Press Writer "We've been looking for years, ing. two or three decades earlier, but and still have never found it Researchers at the University showed no promise. SAN FRANCISCO again," he says. "We find some of California-Santa Cruz saved This time, laboratory tests 
In a dark cave 100 feet below creatures that look a lot like it, some of the _sample, and say turned up something new. the surface of the Pacific,_hidden but none of the animals there within a few years they expect to "Much to our surprise and in the tissue of a rare sea crea­had the right compound." synthesize the compound, called shock, there were enormous ture, scientists found one of the Researchers don't even know diazonomide A. amounts of this new molecule, most powerful cancer-fighting if the creature itself produced Fenical's team, working on a and the molecule had the ability compounds they'd ever seen. the compound, or if it was a National Cancer Institute grant, to kill human colon cancer cells 
They have not been able to byproduct of some symbiotic made their discovery in 1991. with very high proficiency," find it again. fungus or bacteria. They collected samples of a Fenical says. "It was very potent 
The discoverer, William But the story, reminiscent of rare creature called Diazona chi­at very small doses." Fenical of the Scripps Institution the 1992 fictional movie nensis, a jellylike animal related He emphasizes that such test of Oceanography, has returned "Medicine Man," in which Sean to the sea squirt, which attaches tube success doesn't mean the repeatedly to the Philippine Connery finds -and then loses itself to rocks and filters its food compound works in humans. island of Siquijor in a vain -a cure for cancer in the from the ocean. That can only be determined by 
clinical trials, and many times such compounds prove too toxic for medical use. But the lab tests I were exciting. Diazonomide A was also exotic 


H 0 LY M 0 LY 
• 
structurally, with an unusually rigid, compact form that interest­


ed chemists. Fenical sent some to chemistry professor Joseph Konopelski at UC Santa Cruz. 
"My own interest was in the fascinating structure of the mol­ecule itself," Konopelski says. 
But when he tried to build a model of the molecule using plastic balls to represent its 99 
atoms, it wouldn't work. 
"The pieces, don't fit -you have to jam them in," Konopelski said. "Nature seems

is accepting applications 
to have gone to a lot of trouble to put this thing together." No one is certain what role it


for the positions of: 
plays in the sea creatures. It may help the soft-bodied animals repel predators, Konopelski said. Fenical wanted more of the compound to run more elaborate cancer tests. Konopelski wanted to explore its chemical properties. But despite repeated efforts by 


Station Manager! 
and 
Fenical, including more than two months of actual search time over four years, none of the creatures they found contained


Chief Engineer!! 
diazonomide A. 
So Konopelski stepped in with a $500,000 American Cancer Society grant and began trying 

if interested, get an application from the 
to synthesize the compound. "This is the most challenging

Lafortune Information Desk 
project I've ever been associated with," he says. Slowly he has assembled 
pieces of the molecule, and believes the end is in sight. "Our goal is to make enough of this stuff to test, and I believe we 

applications due by 
Friday/ February 14th 
will succeed," Konopelski says. "I have two graduate students who are betting their Ph.Ds on it." 

Join Us for a 
February 11th

Panel 
7:00p.m. ******************

Discussion· on Oakland's 
Center for Standard 
Social Concerns (CSC)

English Legislation!! 
*************** Reception to Follow 

PANELIST: MODERATOR: 
CHANDRA JOHNSON, Campus Ministry FRANCES SHAVERS, Life Skills Coordinator ROBERT LANE, Ph.D Candidate-English TIA LIKELY, Senior -Arts & Letters SPONSORS: DAVID MOSS, Ph.D Candidate-Counseling Psychology African American Student Alliance(AASA) 
ERSKINE PETF:RS, Professor of English Office of Multicultural Student Affairs(OMSA) Student Union Board(S.U.B.) 
!!!!COME ONE, COME ALL!!!! 

J, Save $50 per person! J, 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 10, 1997 


Is there such a thing as reverse discrimination? 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• IJOONESBUIW 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor................... Erhan Hayward Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Edicor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Edicor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sporrs News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• IMPUGATIONS 
Would someone please speak to my cousin Nina? 
She lives in San Jose, California, a bright and energetic college-bound teenager. Like mine, her parents immi­grated from the Philippines to the United States, and they worked hard to create a new life for their newly 
Bong Miquiabas 

American family. They raised their chil­dren to cherish this country and its val­ues, to stay optimistic and hopeful despite setbacks, and by all accounts, Nina has turned out beautifully, a child of loving sacrifice. 
So why is she so surly at the moment? She tells me that her prospects for gain­ing admission into the University of California school of her choice are dim. Nina has performed well in high school. near the top of her class, and she has posted SAT scores that place her in the top quarter of college-bound seniors nationwide. So what is the matter? 
It's the race-based admissions policy adopted by the California system, she tells me. Under the affirmative action program, students like Nina, who identi­fy themselves as "Asian, Asian American or Pacific Islander" in ethnic origin, find that their chances at admissions drop precipitously. 
As part of this program, Asian-descent students essentially compete amongst each other for admissions to allow tradi­tionally under-represented ethnicities ­Latinos. African Americans, and Native Americans -to enjoy a greater share of the coveted pie that is the University of California school system. 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Sysrems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  63I-747l  
631-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoim.1 @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber 
Nina seethes when these minority groups denounce measures such as the recently passed Proposition 209, which repeals statutory language that required public universities to consider race and a host of other factors when making admissions decisions. She notes that if she were anything but Asian (which, I remind her, isn't such a terrible fate}, her chances of admission would sky­rocket. 
What burns Nina most is that the unofficial numbers game -no more than a fixed percentage of Asians may comprise a given campus -actually worsens her chances than if no such program existed. Even white students have greater odds at admission than she. 
So I try to reason with her. I ask her to rel1ect upon the American reality that made affirmative action programs nec­essary. I ask her to consider why so many Latinos and African-Americans are such vocal supporters of these pro­grams, and she says that their reality is not hers. 
And so, I ask Nina to think that per­haps her adamant rejection of affirma­tive action in principle is tantamount to a rejection of a Latino's or African American's reality, a rejection which leads that disenfranchised person to grow more embittered. 
"But why can they not see that I, right now and as a result of this specific pro­gram, am a victim?" she asks. What can I say? "You, my dear cousin, will feel the regrettable though necessary side-effect of a well-intentioned program. Just as the Latino or African American was dis­criminated against and frustrated in his pursuit of the American dream, you shall find that a government-sanctioned mission is the unmaking of your own personal dream." Is this what I say to her? 
Nina persists. "What do these affirma­tive action programs accomplish, any­way?· If they are meant to instill respect of all people and teach responsibility on the part of the one r-------------------------, given an opportuni­ty, then the pro­grams fail." Bigots will be bigots, she implies. Clearly she feels more enraged than ennobled, more color-eonscious than color-blind. 

So l'inally I say, "Please try to put yourself in the posi­tion of an African­American. What might his daily expe­rience be? Do you know what it feels like to be scruti­nized? In a position of opportunity, he is the object of doubt­
ful eyes. And when '----------'------'--'----'=-------------__] 
placed in other, more mundane situa­tions -at a convenience store, in his own car -the eyes forever search with suspieion. Shall it be no wonder, then, that there is anger in his voice? The anger is raw, in part because it is nei­ther aeknowledged nor experienced by so many and in part because the pain behind it is fresh and everyday." 
She pauses before she counters, "But what good does that attitude do for me and for society?" I tell her that the Afriean American might respond, "People will demean me and not view me as an equal regardless of whether I am actually qualified, so why don't I take this affirmative action-generated opportunity and run with it." But that attitude is no way for him or for a soci­ety to Jive, Nina says. 
And finally we agree. I suggest to her that the Ameriea our parents envisioned is still a grand place to live and dream, but it is a complicated place. She echoes the feeling, and simply wishes that someone redress her wrong. 
I am tempted to say that life is unfair, and that you must live with that, but I do not say anything. I want Nina, like everyone else, to strive to do what she can, whenever she can, to forge commu­nal ties amongst us, even when at our CY.nical worst we reject ties as 'impossi­ble'· 
Why do I say this? Because community matters. It may sound simple-minded and corny, but we cannot live well sepa­rate and alone. We can begin by speak­ing to one another, with honesty, con­cern, and openness. In our best moments, we all believe this is not only possible but right. 
I tell my cousin that I further believe as the great novelist Toni Morrison believes: "We have to do something nur­turing that we respect before we go. We must. It is more interesting, more com­plicated, more intellectually demanding, and more morally demanding to love somebody." She smiles and is moved but unmoved. 
Would someone please speak to my cousin Nina? 
Bong Miquiabas is a law student at Notre Dame Law School. His column appears every other Monday . 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, February I 0, 1997 page 9 
•lETTERs To THE EmTOR 
All should participate in Black History Month 
Dear Editor: ­
My first real interaction with people of other races occurred here at Notre Dame. Coming from a small Southern community and mostly surrounded by people of my own heritage, it was inde­scribably exciting for me to not only interact with, but become true friends with Asian, Hispanic, Black, etc. stu­dents. It's hard to believe that I was once so ignorant and actually accepted certain stereotypes as true without knowing any better. 
When I visit my hometown during breaks, I realize things about the com­munity that I did not notice before. There are two greatly distinct communi­ties, the black and the white, with limit­ed interaction. But no one, black or white seems to care very much. I have always felt welcomed by the blacks in my community. And although I am white, I must say that, from my experi­ence, most of the racial divide is a result of the attitude of the white community. The comments I hear from my white ac-quaintances are absurd and never grounded, but they really believe them because they do not know any better and have never been taught differently. Because of this ignorance, the blacks 
'Black History Month 
should be an opportuni­ty for all of us to understand and appreciate the black cul­ture, where our black friends come from and what they • have experience throughout their history.' 
are greatly restricted to a low status in the community. The whites simply do not realize that blacks and whites are equal, or perhaps some do not want equality. 
It frustrates me to see the prejudice of a community that I was proud to be a part of, but it is encouraging when I realize how much I have changed and have overcome the beliefs of such an environment. It did not take much for me to identity my misconceptions of other races and correct them. All I need­ed was someone to cross over that racial border and reach out to me. 
Despite the wonderful friendships I have with people of other races, I feel rather excluded during Black History Month. Perhaps it seems a bit odd that I expect to be included, but Black History Month should be an opportunity for all of us to understand and appreciate the black culture. where our black friends come from and what they have experi­enced throughout their history. By cele­brating this month together, we can bet­ter understand and appreciate each other and. break down some of the racial barriers within the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
I ask the black community of Notre Dame to extend a personal invitation to students of other races to share in the various events throughout the month, and I ask the non-black students to take the time to learn at least a little bit of black history. Let us use this month to educate each other and to look at where we have been as a nation. Then learning from our past tragedies, let us work together for the advancement of all peo­ple. 
MARY GRAHMANN 
Junior 
Off-Campus 




Extolling the virtues of the Rebel Alliance 
Dear Editor: 
While I fully appreciate and acknowledge Chris Kratovil's love for the Star Wars Universe, I must admit there are a few points with which a fellow addict may disagree. 
First, however, let me remark how wonderful and unique it is that we children of the 70s can become so passionate over Star Wars politics. It is a tribute to the success of Lucas' ultimate goal which was to create a "modern fantasy myth" in which we could all believe. Now on to the critique. 
I feel it my patriotic duty as a Rebel sympathizer to point out some flaws in Chris' reasoning that the evil Empire is so in niJ,me only. First let's look at the examples he cites ... 
A) "The Empire blows up Alderaan." This differs from the Dresden and Hiroshima bombings in several ways. First, the number a people killed in Alderaan's explosion is far greater. Also, at least with Hiroshima (I'm not famil­iar with the circumstances surrounding Dresden's bombing), the bombing was forewarned. Citizens were given ample time to flee. Japan's formal government was consulted and warned. None of this applies to the Alderaan example. Comparing this to the destruction of "innocents" aboard the Death Stars is also suspect. Imperial workers are not slaves. Most of them probably joined the acad­emy with the hope of working on the prime Imperial battle station. They had a choice to work for the Empire and are therefore just as guilty as Storm Troopers or Fighter Pilots. 
B) "The torture question." Simply because torture is a part of the "quiet" mili­tary operations of today does not make it "okay" for the Empire. Torture of any kind is wrong whether ordered by Darth Vader or Sergeant Slaughter. 
C) "The Dark Side." Simply labeling the Dark Side of the Force as "one side" of religious battle that needs to be subject to religious tolerance misses the point entirely. The Dark Side of the Force, as described by the Jedi Master Yoda, is based on anger, fear and aggression. It totally consumes one into selfish, evil action that we see in Anakin's change to Darth Vader. When one turns to the Dark Side, Ben tells us the one gives into hate. This is clearly not a religion deserving of tolerance, though perhaps the U.S. government would give a Dark Side training academy tax exempt status. 
D) "Ewoks killed." I must agree here. W~1y not spend the money and make it a planet ofWookies as originally intended? The less Ewoks around the better. 
E) "The Butchering of Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru." This sort of thing does not seem to be an isolated incident as Chris would have us believe. One would call the destruction of Alderaan "the denial of due process to civilians in wartime" no? 
Now let's talk about some other incidents that Chris overlooked: 
1) The "guardians of peace and justice for generations," the Jedi Knights, were hunted down and destroyed by the Empire's most sinister agent: Darth Vader. This was done as a first step in dissolving the Old Republic (in which the Emperor was a senator), and installing a new order. 
2) Perhaps it was ordered by the same lieutenant that killed Luke's aunt and uncle, but the destruction of the innocent band of Jawas was pure evil, serving no military purpose. Instead, it was this military blunder that lead to Ben and Luke figuring out that the Empire was hot on their trail. 
3) Vader simply kills Imperial leaders that fail. Admiral Ozzel and Captain Neda were not guilty of anything that warranted death. See letter "C" above for an explanation for this one. 
4) The Rebels win. Don't the good guys always win and the bad guys always lose? I thought that's the way it worked. 
Thanks goes to Chris for getting my Star Wars mind whirring. I think he makes some good points. and I do think Lucas could've spent more time making the Empire more evil, but let's face it ... you just can't root for Stormtrooper who miss Rebels at point blank range, while wearing armor that never seems to work. 
CHARLES CAMOSY 
Senior 
Off-Campus 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in response to Chris Kratovil's article on Monday last. 
Well you've done it now. I can understand trying to drug a Hyde Park duck (we do crazy things when we're in love) or chasing a large dog with a nine-iron, but this time you've gone too far. Questioning the moral integrity of Luke, Ben and Leia is too much to bear. According to my training in debate, allow me to argue your points in the order presented. First, your general arguments. 
You argue generally that Lu~as does not do an adequate job of explaining why the Evil Galactic Empire is so rotten (as if the word "Evil" in the title isn't enough!). I ask you to look at the film as the bona fide piece of literature which its magnitude demands. The movie picks up our space opera in Episode VI. For the Trilogy to make any sense at all, we must be astute enough to appreciate that the tale neither begins at Star Wars nor ends with Return of the Jedi. We must take the Empire's evil as an article of faith, a preexisting condition necessary to under­stand what comes before and after. Expand your mind. Perhaps Lucas should have given us some more background information. When? The medium of cinema has certain constraints which would prohibit such an in-depth explanation. Besides, the history is there if one only listens carefully enough. 
Okay. On to your specific arguments. 
A. The analogy between destroying Alderaan and some of the WWII campaigns is certainly compelling. but not completely accurate. Examine the relative forces. The admittedly atrocious events of recent memory were actions taken against established, hardened military foes of formidable strength. Japan was itself an empire, deeply entrenched, well-equipped, and committed to fighting to the last person. The rebellion was not a serious threat to the Empire. Vader and Tarkin were just trying to make an example out of a poor, peace-loving planet with no defenses. Heck, the best offense the rebels could mount against the Death Star was 30 wimpy stunt fighters -a strategy Han Solo himself called suicidal. Furthermore, the government of Japan was given opportunity to back down and warned that the Allies possessed a weapon of previously unseen strength. No such overture was made to Alderaan. The thousands killed by the Death Star's destruc­tion is likewise a compelling argument, but consider that (1) an entire planet has almost certainly more inhabitants than a space station and (2) the rebels were act­ing out of self-preservation. 
B. Torture of rebels is just plain wrong. Don't impose alternative value systems on the subject, just ask yourself deep down, "Is this a good thing?" Please recall that in the torture of Han that no questions were asked, the poor souls were mere­ly tormented for spite. Not nice. 
C. Dark Side versus the Force. Not an example of the need for religious tolera­tion. The Dark Side is admittedly evil. They're proud of it! This has nothing to do with religion and everything to do with pure good versus pure maleficence. Furthermore, I submit that the omission of a term for "Light Side" or "Good Side" is intentional. It's just The Force· in its pure, natural, intended form. Evildoers like Darth Vader and the Emperor have perverted its power and used it for sinister purposes. The term Dark Side is a self-imposed term created to distinguish their brand of mutated Force from the original. The rebellion thus has an addition'al responsibility to stop these hooligans from using the Force towards evil ends. 
D. Dissolution of the Imperial Senate. Since you seem to be fond of history, allow me to bring forth an analogy of my own. Recall how Hitler in 1938 put Gauleiter (regional governors) in charge of everything, backed up by the SS and SA (ironi­cally, SA stands for "Sturmabteilung" or Storm Troopers). This is remarkably sim­ilar to Grand Moff Tarkin's statement in the film, "The Governors now exercise direct control. Fear will keep the local systems in line." We as Americans, should find this repression of self-determination utterly abominable. You're a government major for God's sake! You cannot possibly agree with this! 
E. The Empire was mean to the Ewoks. Who the hell cares? We both agree that the only reasons Ewoks in their accepted form inhabit the Moon of Endor is because merchandisers saw a tremendous potential for the kiddies. You can go a lot farther with Teddy bears than with slime creatures. This is not a good pro­rebellion argument, and I didn't even think of it until you brought it forward. 
F. Butchering of Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru. You pleaded no contest, and right­fully so. Let me throw the Jawas on top of that. They were slaughtered, too. 
Sorry this has been so cursory, but I have class soon. Think it over. We rebe­Iophiles aren't conformist or mindless, we just are the same people who cheer for the A-Team, Superman, and John Wayne. Call us sentimental or pedestrian, but we win in Star Wars just like the Duke did in "Flying Leathernecks." We always win. 
KURT WEISS 
Senior 
Alumni Hall 


T 
page 10 Monday, February 1 0, 1997 

How about an Oscar? 
(Out of five shamrocks) 


crash. Soon, we are introduced to a hor­By MIKE MCMORROW ribly burned man who is in a Faravan of Accent Film Critic other wounded soldiers from the war. 
His situation being too hopeless to justify 
0 
ne major risk that filmmakers and treatment, a nurse named Hana (Juliette screenwriters run when trying to Binoche) stays behind with him and make a film that has a complicat­cares for him in a monastery some­ed and tangled plot is the idea that the where in Italy. l-Ie remembers almost 
gets beneath the obvious "shallowness" once's members. Not only Hana's, but of their desires and really examines the all the characters on screen. It is not situation. The audience understands the often can a movie be found that offers chemistry working here, and the com­multiple characters with whom the plexity of the situation. Like "The audience can identify. Here there is at Bridges of Madison County," this is not least one side of each character that just another sin-infested soapy melodra­reminds us of our own desires. and it ma. makes "The English Patient" not simply 
The film gradually cuts back and forth a movie that puts characters on screen between these two "pasts," and more is whom, we care about, but in a sense revealed about the situation. IIana at\d puts ourselves on screen. This is truly the "English Patient" get two visitors: haunting. Sikh, who is a bomb specialist, and the The completeness of the story fits all other a mysterious pickpocket named the emotional parts together. In some Caravaggio (Willem Dafoe). IIana falls ways, it is a mess because emotions are for Sikh, but is afraid of getting too dose a mess themselves. When we finally get because it seems that all the men that to the end, and form a synthesis for the she lets get dose loose their life. This film, it is almost like you will have never problem has made a profound impact on left the theater. And you should proba­Ilana, and is the source for a battle bly sec it a second time (I still have yetRalph Finnes and Kristen Scott Thomas portray a couple brought together by unusual cir­between her heart and her conscience. to do this, and I will at the suite latercumstances in "The English Patient." 
Caravaggio, however, is a mystery -he this semester), to make even more sense vast amount a.f plot information will nothing, but the nurse begins reading to has a big interest in the burned man of it. override the themes and emotions which him his copy of Herodotus, the only pos­because their paths crossed before in "The English Patient" is generating a 
the film is trying to elicit. Some movies session he holds. These readings slowly the past. Another suspense element that lot of Oscar buzz, and it has already won are so unclear in their stories that the remind him of his past, and it is through I will not ruin for you . many critics' awards and the Golden emotional impact is lessened due to a . these reminders that his story is devel­As I mentioned earlier. this story is Globe of Best Drama. It is the "type" of frustration the audience has with the oped. very complicated (there is more infor­movie that the Academy voters love: rich basic substance of the movie, the plot. In It turns out that this man is a mation that has not yet been revealed cinematography, length, and that "epic"Anthony Minghalla's recent adaptation Hungarian Count by the name of Laszlo here, for good reasons), the viewers are feel that everyone seems to like to talk of Michael Ondaatje's novel "The d'Almasy (Ralph Finnes), who is a mem­constantly drawn in and do not allow about. Usually, I would say that those English Patient," Minghalla has com­ber of the Royal Geographic Society and themselves to get frustrated. To begin are certainly good qualities. but theypletely pulled it off. This is an emotion­is making maps of sections. of northern with, the vastness of the setting is intoxi­should not exclude other films. In the ally and intellectually overwhelming Africa. Soon he meets a newly-wed, cating. Much of the film is set in the case of "The English Patient," these experience. another member of the society, named desert of northern Africa, and it is quite qualities simply supplement the richness 
The film plays with time in an interest­Katherine (Kristen Scott Thomas), and the spectacle. It is simply a joy to look of the story. And the "Oscar qualities"ing way. It opens with a plane crash there is an immediate mutual attraction. at, and the cinematography truly does really make the story stand out. Here is involving two people. The movie slowly The suspense of whether or not these do justice to the vastness of the story. the classic example of how all aspects fit reveals to the audience who these peo­two characters will give in to sin is one Maybe even more importantly, the per­together.ple are, and the events leading up to the of the great qualities of the movie. It formances evoke feelings in the audi-And did I mention the score!? 
ENGLISH PATIENT 
Directed by: Anthony Minghalla Starring: Ralph Finnes and Juliette Binoche 



• RENTAl REVIEW 
Video Pick of the Week 
"SHE'S THE ONE" ferent. Mick, the older brother ends up, as his ex­helps create the perfect image that Burns is trying to fiancee and mistress to his brother. Heather (Cameron get across. Fran's loud, arrogant tone leaves the audi­Diaz), puts it, "the only white, English speaking cab ence with no doubt who the pompous, yet insecureBy JOE KRAUS 
Accent Movie Critic driver in New York City." brother is. Mick's soft. yet direct voice asserts his char­Francis, on the other hand, ends up a Wall Street acter as the one with a little bit of common sense, Tycoon who is married to his college girlfriend, though his decisions might not lead one to believe so.
''she's the One," a delightful, romantic comedy 
Renee(Jennifer Aniston). However, big bucks and the John Mahoney's crude and boisterous voice shapes
about the love lives of two brothers and their 
perfect wife do not necessarily spell happiness and the him into the domineering, yet thoughtful father that he
father is now available on video from 
dissatisfied Fran finds out. He turns to having an affair is.
Twentieth Century Fox. If you are looking for a light­
with Mick's ex-fiancee and ex-hooker, Heather. Mick, The quick verbal exchanges are augmented by the
hearted yet halfway poignant movie to pass your time 
who is often ridiculed by his brother and father for way the conversation scenes are cut. Often, Burns
with, this may be the film for you. Directed by and 
being an unsuccessful do-nothing, seems to be the only would cut back and forth between two different con­
starring Edward Burns. this movie details the relation­
ships between two brothers, Mick and Francis one who finds happiness as he marries a cab fare, versations that were related to one another. This Fitzpatrick (Burns and Mike McGlone). These two have Hope (Maxine Bahns), that he picks up on the street would help bring different storylines together until the one day. The story progresses to unfold the intricacies end, where everything blows up. 
been raised in competition with each other their whole lives, and this spirit carries over into their love lives as of each brother's marriage. In the end, not each All in all this is a thoroughly enjoyable film. It is no 
Fitzpatrick man is happy, but they all, father included, masterpiece, but it holds the attention of the viewer
adults. Along the way, these two receive well meant, but misdirected advice from their father (John learn a little bit about life and love. and is effective in dissecting the lives of two totally dif­Mahoney), who himself has no room to talk about suc­The strength of this film lies in it's montage and dia­ferent,· completely entangled people. If you are in the logue. The rapid quips and one-liners between the mood to laugh, enjoy a somewhat happy ending, and
cessful relationships. The paths of the two brothers could not be more dif-character help move this movie at a quick, though think a little bit too, this might just be a movie you appropriate pace. The voice tone of each character want to think about renting soon. 
_____________________________________________________________________j 
Monday, February 10, 1997 
Metro: New Cast, Same Story 
METRO Directed by: Tom Carter Starring: Eddie Murphy and Michael Rappaport 
(Out or five shamrocks) 

By DAVID WEATHINGTON 
Accent Movie Critic 
M
etro is an accu~a.te title for_ this film b~cause it is about as exc1tmg as a nde on pubhc trans­
portation. 
The predictable plot involves Eddie Murphy as a police officer who's best friend is murdered by an evil bank robber. Following several high speed automobile chases Murphy's character, Officer Roper, apprehends the villain and sends him to prison. After a less than suspenseful string of events, the criminal escapes from prison and attempts to trap Roper in his web by kid­napping Roper's love interest. 
During the closing ing his lines or playing it cool. 
The few moments where Murphy shows a glimpse of his comic genius are greatly outnumbered by cop cliches and dirty looks. Murphy's girlfriend poses just as great a cinematic failure. She speaks with a thick, fake, English accent that has movie watchers gritting their teeth. Her inability to make the viewer feel com­passion towards her weakens the closing sequence of the movie because nobody really cares whether or not she lives. 
As I already mentioned the rest of the prevalent characters in the film appear as if they had been shoplifted from "Bad Boys" or "Die Hard." The only redeeming character is Murphy's partner, played by Michael Rappaport. He knows when it is time to be funny and when it is time to be serious. His character has a tough attitude, but he knows not to take himself to seriously. When he gets shot, tension arrives in the theater because without him this film would be unbearable. 
Unfortunately, as bad as the casting appears it is considerably more interesting than anything else about the film. Cliches abound in this poor action film, making it seem as if the writer was too lazy to try breaking any new ground with his work. I felt as if the 
director, Tom Carter, 
scenes Roper's part­
thinks all that is nec­ner is shot, his girl­essary for a goodfriend is almost 
action film is a car decapitated by a piece chase, a shooting, and of heavy machinery, a hand to hand show­and Roper himself down between the almost gets rundown hero and the villain. by a car. Thankfully Many of the though, Hoper, his 
sequences were poor­girlfriend, and his 
ly put together creat­partner all survive. 
ing chains of events There are very few that were, to put it positive cinematic honestly, pretty stu­
moments in this film, 
pid. Now for the worst and the ones I could part of all. If this find did not result 
movie was a school from Murphy's abili­
paper, it would ties. First. the charac­
receive a big, fat zero 
ters were either poor­for being plagiarized. ly cast, with the The list of films exception of Murphy's "Metro" stole scenes partner, or stereotypi­from is long and cal cop movie regu­
impressive. Some of lars. 
these films include Murphy attempts to "Seven," "Beverlyplay a tough cop with 
Hills Cop," "Cape a thirst for danger Fear," "The Rock," 
and an edge. and of course, "48 
• 
Unfortunately he comes off looking like a second-rate actor who couldn't quite get the timing on his lines down. Murphy gave some indication that his transition into pure action films will be about as successful as his attempt to break into the music world. 
He often looks uncomfortable trying to adhere to the restraints involved in playing a serious character. Murphy often does not know which is wiser, scream-
Hours." As you have probably already guessed these are not improvements on the original scenes either. 
Overall this movie proves deficient, if not completely inept, at fulfilling any of its responsibilities to the view­er. The directing is awful. The characters were not well created or well cast. The movie itself is just plain boring. To anybody who is thinking about seeing this film I would recommend renting "The Nutty Professor." 
THEATER AND HOME BLOCKBUSTERS 

p10 Video Rentals 
1. 
A Time To Kill 

2. 
Phenomenon 

3. 
Kingpin · 

4. 
The Rock 

5. 
Fled 

6. 
Chain Reaction 


7. 
The Island of Dr. Moreau 

8. 
Tin Cup



9. 
Beverly Hills Ninja 


9. Fargo
1
0. In Love and War 

10. Escape from L.A. 
Source: Associated Press 
Source: Billboard Online 

WE WANT 
YouR 
SOAP OPERA UPDATE! 
Accent is looking for some hard-core soap fans to write Wfekly updates on your favorite soap. Ifyou like to write and are interested, please contact Joey at 631-4540. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February I 0, 1997 
MEN'S COLlEGE BASKETBAI..l

--• 

DO YOU PLAY DRUMS?  
NOTICES  HEY, EVERYBODY!!! STOP BY  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP COUNSELORS needed for out­ 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime  JAZZERCISE  -Experienced GuitarisV Vocalist is looking to jam/form band. Will play  
THE OBSERVER AND PLACE AN  standing Maine camps! CAMP  location, 109 N. St. Peter  Very close to campus  any style of music. Call John at 4­ 
Spring Break Bahamas Party  AD TO YOUR VALENTI NEll!  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  233-9947  1221.  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  for boys. Each located on magnifi­ 277-0111  
Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great  cent lakefront setting with excep­ BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high  SLF-tonight, Priscilla Cogan at  
Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  PACK O'LAUGHLIN THEATER.  tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions  ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Wash. Hall, 8 pm. Don't forget the  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  This Fri., Sat., and Sun.  at each camp for heads and assis­ MONTH! near campus-move in  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  "Bring a Book, Get a Book" drive.  
springbreaktravel.com  We need YOUR help!  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  ASAP.  Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great  Donate a book and get entered into  
Buy your tickets soon!!  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  call Julie @ 288 7284  Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  a raffle for an autographed copy of  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  For the SMC/ND dance workshop  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  a Cogan work!  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars  production of  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  Campus View Apartments  springbreaktravel.com  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  "BODY TALK."  water-skiing, archery, weight train­ 1&2 Bedroom Apts Avail '97-'98  ADOPTION:  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­ Schoolyear  Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  Corporate Executive & homemaker  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ Needed: Your help to PACK  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  Summer Leases Available  Room With Kitchen Near Bars  can offer newborn a wonderful life  
el.com  OLAUGHLIN THEATER  dance  Call272-1441  $119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  filled with warmth, security, endless  
1-800-678-6386  Valentine's weekend.  Oazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa  love, education & a bright future.  
SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  Buy your tickets TODAY! ILOST & FOUND I  backpacking, horseback riding, ropes course, trip leaders, mountain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre­ FOR SALE Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386  Confidential. Mark & Candace 1-888-811-1141 Courtney- 
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp  um mattress set. Never used still in  Electrolysis by Rebecca  Have a nice day, I'll be  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  Lost:  Sterling silver ring with black  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  Blend Method 674-6933  thinking about you.  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  writing on one side and an  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ (219) 674-2352  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  engraved flower on the other side.  ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ FAX IT FAST!!!  Love,  
BIGGEST PARTY.  If found, please call Katy at x1490.  CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  WIN A 9 DAY TRIP FOR 2 TO  Sending & Receiving  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  -REWARD- Beacon Street, Brookling, MA  NO VS HAWAII GAME  at  Mike  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  02146, ccedarme@aol.corn, 1-888­ INCLUDES AIRFARE, HOTEL,  THE COPY SHOP  
REWARD  $$  REWARD  $$  844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  FOOD, $1000 SPENDING MONEY.  LaFortune Student Center  Tenille- 
THE COPY SHOP  LOST -Antique silver earring on  PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  $20 TIX. CALL DAWN X4774  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Thinking about you, love Brad  
LaFortune Student Center  Tuesday night between O'Shag and  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­ FAX IT FAST!!!  
Phone 631-COPY  stadium parking lot.  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  SEGA GENESIS w/. 2 controllers  Awwwwww, doens't that make you  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  It is round with an old fashioned  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  &6 Sports games $135. 289-7481  just want to vomit  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  screw back.  CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ (discreet, Brad, discreet-its an art  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  PLEASE call Kathleen 631-6479.  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  New Sony Play Station $150 284­ production studio at $100 a day. I'll  form  
Thur.:  7:30 a.m. -Midnight  REWARD  $$  REWARD  $$  Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO  5223  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  
Fri.:  7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  
Sat.:  Noon-6:00p.m.  LOST: Pioneer detachable face  New Unopened External Zip  JUNIORS IN MIS/CSE MAJORS:  Elk burgers and mushrooms ..... .  
Sun.: Noon -Midnight  for car CD player.  was in a  Reliable babysitter needed, ages  Considering a career in manage­ Another success, Tad.  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  black carrying case.  if found,  6,4,2. Ten minutes from campus,  ment consulting?  Oh yeah, and thanks to the grill  
please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee)  $5.25/hour, 15 hours/week.  Drive-SCSI $175 OBO  Oeloitte & Touche Consulting  wench  
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN­ reward  277-3064  Group will be offering a Systems  
TINE ClASSIFIED FOR YOUR  Call Steve 280-8124  Analyst internship position this sum­ 
SWEETHEART OR YOUR FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM  WANTED  MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS! ColorWorks is currently recruiting  Attention Campus Bands!!  mer. To be considered, students must  Awwwww, they would make such a cute couple ...... .  
ON 2113.  on campus for a limited number of  submit either a resume or personal  Another Observer pair  
SUMMER JOBS  summer '97 management positions.  P.A. equipment for sale. Great  datasheet to Career and Placement  
SMC -NO Summer Programs  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Gain hands on experience in man­ condition! Amps, 4 Speakers, mon­ by Tuesday, February 11.  I can't even think of anything to say  
London (May 21-June 20)  PRESTIGE CHIOREN'S CAMPS  aging a business in your hometown.  itors, mics, pre-amp, etc. etc.  Interviews will be conducted March  because they're too good at picking  
and Rome (June 15-July 14)  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Opportunities available in SOUTH  If interested,  5.  them out now .....  
Travel and Several Courses  NEAR LAKE PLACID  BEND, ELKHART,  call dave at 273-4318  Deloitte & Touche Consulting  Can't wait to see you Friday ....  
Available.  1-800-786-8373  FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and  Group will be hosting an information  (and stop divulging too much infor­ 
Meeting Feb 1 0  other areas. Summer earnings $7­ '90 Camry 111 K miles  session on Monday, February 10,  mation...)  
Carroll Aud. SMC at 6:30 pm  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up  $9,000. To speak to a campus rep­ $3500 291-4114  from 6 to 8 pm in the Foster Room  
Info: Call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 MAKE A RECORDING at the sound cellar recording studio located in THE OLD KEELER WIN­ to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  resentative call 1-800-477-1001. I TICKETS FOR RENT I NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE ..._____________,_ CALL CHRIS @ 288-1439  of LaFortune. Please attend this session to learn more about the firm and the Systems Analyst program. To obtain a data sheet, please either attend the information ses­sion on Monday or contact Jennifer  Halter top girl. ..... . Next time, take your damn coat inside with you Greg,  
ERY BUILDING & TAKE A TOUR  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  Homes for Rent for 97-98  Finn directly at (312) 946-3888.  Better luck next time.  
TO SEE WHERE THE NEW CON­CERT ARENA (THE VAT) WILL  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, .etc. teaching simple conversational  ADT Security 232-2595  PERSONAL  NO SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS  To Blue, Smiley, and 'I HATE  
BE! (616)463-0003  English. No languages/teaching  AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  youl" ... We had an awesome time,  
exp. required.  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ $10.00  we love you, AND, "Marty the One  
BODY TALKS  (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  production studio at $100 a day. I'll  Man Party!"  
-Be there!!!  272-6551  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  CALL MIKE at 288-0116  

~--­
Monday, February 10, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MEN'S COllEGE BASKETBALl 

Kentucky manhandles Villanova '·Cats, 93-56 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associared Press Wrirer 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

Ron Mercer had 23 points and 11 rebounds as third-ranked Kentucky dominated No. 16 Villanova 93-56 Sunday. 
Kentucky (22-3) shot 55 per­cent from the field. including 8­of-19 from 3-point range, out­rebounded Villanova 42-17 and forced the visitors into a season­high 24 turnov~rs, including 11 by point guard Alvin Williams. 
It was only the fourth time this season that Villanova (17 -6) was outrebounded. 
Mercer scored six points and Cameron Mills added five during an 18-4 run that put Kentucky in control. 
Villanova fell behind 22-8 but rallied to 24-16 on Williams' jumper with 7:47 remaining in the half. Mercer ignited Kentucky's spurt with a dunk off a rebound and Jared Prickett capped it with a layup off a turnover for a 42-20. 
Villanova, which was averag­ing 16 turnovers a game, had 14 in the first half as Kentucky built a 44-24 lead. Kentucky scored 19 points off the mistakes. 
Villanova got no closer than 48-30 in the second half. 
All 10 Kentucky players scored. Mills and Nazr Mohammed each scored 11, and Allen Edwards added 10. 
Chuck Kornegay scored 12 points for Villanova, which shot 48 percent from the field. Jason Lawson added 11 and Williams 10. 


Unranked Wisconsin topples Wolverines
TEAM 
1. 
Kansas 

2. 
Wake Forest 

3. 
Kentucky 

4. 
Minnesota 

5. 
Utah 

6. 
Iowa St. 

7. 
Maryland 

8. 
Duke 

9. 
New Mexico 

10. 
Clemson 

11. 
Louisville 

12. 
Cincinnati 

13. 
Michigan 

14. 
Arizona 

15. 
Colorado 

16. 
Villanova 

17. 
Xavier 

18. 
Stanford 

19. 
South Carolina 

20. 
North Carolina 

21. 
Tulane 

22. 
Tulsa 

23. 
Texas Tech 

24. 
Indiana 

25. 
Iowa 


RECORD 22-0 18-1 20-2 19-2 15-3 15-3 17-4 17-5 16-3 17-4 18-3 15-4 16-5 13-5 16-4 16-5 15-3 13-4 15-5 13-6 16-5 17-5 13-5 17-6 15-5 

Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 
Paul Grant was "too keyed up" to start against No. 13 Michigan, but he regained his composure in time to help Wisconsin pull off an upset. 
Grant, from West Bloomfield, Mich., scored 19 points Thursday night as the Badgers topped the Wolverines 58-53. 
''I'd been looking forward to this game all year," said Grant, who came off the bench for the first time in the Badgers' Big Ten season. "This is all about bragging rights back home and I knew this was going to be the only time I'd get to play against them. I was really pumped up." 
Coach Dick Bennett said he felt Grant "was too keyed up the last couple days. I thought he'd be more effective off the bench." 
Grant scored eight points to help Wisconsin (12-7, 5-5) to a 23-22 halftime lead. Michigan (16-6, 6-4) lost leading scorer Maurice Taylor when a Grant elbow caught him in the face. Having scored just two points, Taylor left the game with a possible broken nose. 
"I didn't mean to knock him out like that," Grant said.-"! was just trying to be strong with the ball and he just came up a little too close." 
In the absence of the 6-foot­9 Taylor, Wisconsin outre­bounded the Wolverines 37­19, including 19 offensive re­bounds. 
Sean Daugherty, who had 11 rebounds, "was everywhere," Grant said. "There was no better time to do it because this is probably the biggest 
team we'll play all year. Sean did an incredible job." Daugherty also scored 14 points. Ty Calderwood added 
13. Louis Bullock led Michigan with 20 points. 
"This is a hard loss," Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. "It was a game we stead­fastly thought we could come in and win and we didn't. Obviously, it puts us further and further behind the front runners.'' 
Michigan took a 38-37 lead on a jumper by Brandun Hughes with just under eight minutes remaining. 
Grant put Wisconsin back in front 39-38 on a rebound bas­ket, triggering an 11-2 run. 
A key play in the run was a dunk by Grant, who got behind the Michigan defense and took a long inbounds pass from Sam Okey. 
"We kind of decoyed them," Grant said. "I just acted non­chalant, like nothing was hap­pening and they weren't ex­pecting it. That was a big play for us." 
Michigan responded with a six-point run with Maceo Baston scoring the last four to cut the deficit to 48-46. 
Calderwood aud Bullock then traded baskets and Daugherty hit one of two free throws to give Wisconsin a 51­48 edge with 1:02 remaining. 
Grant scored on alayup with 48 seconds left for a 53-48 lead. 
The Badgers then preserved the lead by making five of six free throws. 
David Burkemper made the clinchers with nine seconds left after Bullock had pulled the Wolverines within 56-53 on a 3-point basket. 

If you see Sports happening, call The Obseruer at 1-4543. 


On National. Tour 
**Contains adult themes.** 


Morris Civic Auditorium 
South Bend 
February 14-15-16, 1997 Friday 8 p.m., Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m., Sunday 1:30 p.m. EST 
Tickets-$18.50 to $44.50 
•Call (219) 235-9190• 
Box office open Mon.-Fri., 10 a.m. -5 p.m. Group, Student, and Senior Citizens Discounts• Charge to VISA, MasterCard,Amex 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 10, 1997 
• SMC SWIMMING 

Impressive individual showings highlight meet 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI ming coach Angela Addington. dives we need for the Liberal However, Addington has talked prospects. 
Spons Writer Ryan believed it was challeng­Arts Invitational and polishing up with many interested incoming "The team will be bigger next ing to dive by herself today, but are old dives," sophomore diver freshmen and transfer students. year so we will not have to deal 
From the reaction of the swim­tpinks she is back in her rhythm Sara Levandusky said. She has also given some of them with all the problems of having mers and divers after their meet after being abroad last semester. The thing that has plagued the trial practices. Slattery has also such a small team," said against Hillsdale College on Ryan attributes her strong come­team all year is their small size. talked with a few diving Addington. 
Saturday, it was hard to tell Saint back to diving coach Dan 
Mary's lost the meet. There Slattery. 
were six first place finishes for "The meet was hard today 
the Belles, and a school record because I had to force myself to 
was broken. take time. Dan helped me alot in 
''I'm pleased with our per­this meet with his encour­formance," sophomore co-cap­agement. He has been very posi­tain Tara Thomas said. tive since I have been back," 
"Hillsdale is our big rival, and we Ryan said. 
could have won the meet if we The meet against Hillsdale 
had a bigger team. They ended the Belles regular season. 
[Hillsdale] had three people for The Belles saw a great deal of 
our every two." improvement during their season 
Hillsdale used that advantage in areas such as speed, times, to defeat Saint Mary's 135-112. and team unity. First place finishers included "I think the team unity got
-
Shannon Kelleher in the 1000 much stronger during the sea­free, Allison Smith in the 200 son," Addington said. "They all free with a time of 2:05.29 and are helping to push one another, in the 500 free with a time of the swimmers are supporting the 5:25.37, and Tara Thomas in the divers and the divers are sup­200 back with a time of 2:24.87. porting the swimmers." Freshman sensation Michelle As the team prepares for the Samreta swam another out­Liberal Arts Invitational on Feb. standing meet and continued to 20, members of the team are top her past performances. going to partner up. The pairs Samreta finished first in the 100 are going to work on pushing breaststroke with a time of and getting each other mentally 
1:12.38 which is just off her prepared. The Belles are also school record of 1:12.32. going to have shorter practices. However, she shattered her "Our focus now is speed not 
record in the 200 breastroke. endurance. Their bodies are Her record had been 2:40.30, broken down and we are where and against Hillsdale she fmished we need to be. We are going to with a time of 2:38.47. use this time to taper down," said 
"My state of mind and the way Addington. 
I prepared myself for the meet Individual times have been the helped me perform so well," focus for the team because of Samreta said. "I like being a their small size. Doing their per­part of a smaller team because sonal best is what the Belles are we are close and it helps me to working towards. 
push myself." "We are working for our per­The diving team was missing sonal best times," Thomas 
more divers than usual. added. "We can't score many Sophomore Katie Ryan was the points as a team. I hope to see only diver who dove against some swimmers break more 
Hillsdale. school records." 
"Katie did a great job. It took a The divers are working on lot of guts for her to go out there being confident in all their dives. and dive by herself," said swim-"Right now we are learning 
If YOU onlY knew! 21! HaPPY Birthday ChristY 
-GradY! 
·.for the 1997-98 ·· year. You may pick up Student Activities, 315 La 



--~----~------~-~ -~-----~--~~,----.... 



is lookitig for volunteer drivers! 
Training sessions will be offered on Tuesday, February 11 3:30-6:00 p.m. and Monday, February 17 3:00-5:30 p.m. 
Training is in the basement of the Security Building Call 1-4096 for more details or sign up in the Student Government office 



SAFERIDE begins on February 21!
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRf. DAME STIIOFNT GnVFRNioHNT 
The Observer • SPORTS 

The Obsever/Mike Ruma Senior point guard Beth Morgan experienced a shooting slump against the Huskies, as she scored just 8 points on 3-15 shooting. 
1997/98
$ FINANCIAL AID DEADLINE $ 
Your Renewal FAFSA and PROFILE Application must be received by the processing centers on or before the dates listed below if you wish to apply for financial aid for the 1997/98 academic year: 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's February 28, 1997 March 1, 1997 
For additional information or application forms, please contact your financial aid office. 

W.Hoops 
continued from page 20 
the Domers to 18 percent shooting in the second half when UConn pulled away. The Huskies blanketed Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer Beth Morgan as she scored just eight points on 3-15 shooting from the field and she also came up dry from behind the arc on six attempts. In fact the entire squad came up dry from long range on 11 attempts. 
In the first stanza senior cen­ter Katryna Gaither carried the load and kept the contest close as she had 15 in the first half. The Irish played right with the Huskies for the flrst ten minutes as the score was knotted at 15 before UConn went on a 7-0 run behind the shooting of Amy Duran who dialed long distance three times in the flrst an her way to 13 points on the after­noon. 
Early in the contest senior forward Rosanne Bohman, who has been a big factor in recent Irish victories, was whistled for two fouls and was forced to spend most of the half on the bench. Bohman, limited to just 13 minutes of action on the afternoon, had three points on one for five shooting. In her place head coach Muffet McGraw inserted freshman Julie Henderson whose lack of big game experience showed as she missed several chances underneath. 
The Huskies opened the lead to ten points by the halfs end as the Irish went cold on a one for 11 stretch in which the hosts got their dynamic running game going leading to 14 fast break points. 
Also contributing to the home 
page 15 

ability to overcome 31 percent 
-
shooting as they thrived at the free throw line picking up ten points on 16 attempts as the Irish made just three trips to the line in the flrst. 
In the second half, Notre Dame's scoring woes continued as they could only muster six field goals on 33 attempts for just 18 percent. The Husky defense had McGraw's offense completely out of sync as they had only six assists and 20 turnovers. 
Senior point guard Jeannine Augustin scored eight on three of five for the Irish but her mates in the backcourt did not fair as well. Junior guard Mollie Peirick, who started de­spite spraining her ankle last Thursday, was one of four from the field with four points. Sophomore Sheila McMillen, normally a dependable outside threat, was one for seven from the field and came up short from three point range on three attempts. 
However, the Huskies found their touch in the second as they connected on half their shots. Early in the second Wolters continued to dominate inside opening the margin to as many as 26 while UConn's head coach Geno Auriemma received outstanding play from his back­court as Duran had 15, Rita Williams and Big East Freshman of the Year candi­date Shea Ralph had ten apiece. 
The Irish will look to bounce back from this loss and start a new win streak as they have five Big East games remaining before post-season action be­gins as the beginning of March. Three of those five games are at the Joyce Center and the Boston College Eagles will be the flrst to visit this Wednesday at 7 

...r---~-------~-~-~· ...... ------~----~--~--..-~ --..----·-~----~-~ ------...---·-~,--_.........-~------~-----~ 
page 16I The Observer • SPORTS 
I 9 overall mark, including a White added. "This year we chance to finish at least .500 in play hard every game. We may

--Insight 
the Big East by season's end? not have the most talented Hard work. team in the conference, but we
continued from page 20 

Plain and simple. play hard. That's what has car­Past Irish hoop teams did not 
After Connecticut head coach ried us so far." have a consistent work ethic. 
Jim Calhoun finished whining Carried them all the way to They did not get better. about Saturday's officiating, he the brink of canceling spring Observing a strong work ethic even took time to notice this break plans. An NIT bid would on this year's squad may not be 
trend in Notre Dame basketball. be the first since head coach revelatory, but sometimes the "They were aggressive when John MacLeod's initial year at simple things deserve attention. 
we beat them by 20 both times the helm. 
Simple things that now have last year," Calhoun said. "I Once again, making the NIT the Irish in the hunt for their think after Georgetown, they're may be disappointing at other first post-season tournament 
the most physical team in the Big East schools, but here it de­since a 1992 NIT berth. league. They knock you down. serves attention. Take Saturday for example. They play great defense. They "I think it's a great opportu­If Pete Miller is not taking an­
make you work for everything. nity for us," White said. "In the other charge in the lane, Derek I'm very impressed by them." back of our mind we're looking Manner is emerging from a 
Notre Dame values that down the road, but we can't do pack of four UConn players with 
praise. And they value their that right now and assume a rebound. 
work ethic. So much so that we're going to win games. 
If Manner, who doubles as a senior Admore White boiled There's a great chance for us to stunt man, is not electrifying down the reason for the make the post-season and the the crowd with a tomahawk 
blowout to Pittsburgh, the last key is just taking each game dunk, Marcus Young is with his 
Irish loss, to you know what. one at a time." alternative free throw style. "That's the first game all year Qualifying for any tournament 
"There was a lot of blood out that I can say we got out-com­that extends the Irish season is there today," said Manner who peted," White said. "They a step in the right direction. has probably donated a quart to played hard and aggressive and "Every year so far it's been Big East arenas this season. things went well for them. such an empty feeling when it's 
For the Irish to win these con­

When you play hard, things go the last game and we know it's ference games, opening a few right for you." over," Miller said. "That's not a blood vessels goes without say­
Let's see here. Hard feeling we want to have this ing. The Irish are the first to 
work+aggressiveness=success. year. We've had it every year 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS
It's a problem the Irish have in our career and that's not the quicker and more athletic, yet not always solved in the past. way we want to go out." they've countered that weak­"In past years, we played well You can bet the Irish are go­
ness with determined play. 
admit most Big East teams are 
against big teams, but played ing to work hard to prevent How else do you explain a 11-down to our competition," going out like that. 
Notre Dame Glee Club 

Singing 
Valentines 
On Sale Wed~ Feb 5th-Fri~ Feb 14th 

Selected Songs 
Mon., Feb. 10, 8:00 p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium

Campus Deliveries 
Winterreise

A Song & A Rose 
Wed., Feb. 12, 8:00 p m. 

& 
Annenberg Auditorium 
For "ne concen -:h5 (jenera! Admission; $2 Students/Seniors 


Phone Deliveries Anywhere 
For both concerts ~ $8 General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or in advance b callin 631-620I. 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
1\ St~IIUDEilT CELEDil.t\TION 
with Guest Artists 

S1\~~0Rit S\.1.\:\X ~\ D1\VID BIIEITJJ.\:\"' haritone pianist 
OUR PORTIONS ARE BIGGER
-
THAN YOUR HISTORY BOOK. 
Fazoli's wrote the book on fast Italian. And our authentic Italian entrees from Alfredo to Ziti are big enough to feed a fraternity. 


Real Italian. Real Fast.,.. 52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 


M.Hoops 
continued from page 20 
somRthing to prove this time around. This (win) gives us more recognition as far as us competing in the Big East." 
Leading for most of the game, Notre Dame almost let it slip away at the end of regu­lation. After a Pat Garrity jumper extended the lead to 57-50 with 3:22 to play, the Irish were held scoreless for the remainder of the half. 
"It was pretty unnerving there when we were up by seven and didn't score the rest of (regulation)," said Garrity. 
UConn forward Kevin Freeman converted a pair of free throws and guard Ricky Moore added two more before forward Richard Hamilton tied the game with a three-pointer at the 1:30 mark of the con­test. 
Notre Dame held the Huskies in check for the remainder of the game and had an opportunity to win it but Admore White's 12-foot jumper sailed off the mark on the final possession. 
"The shot at the end of 
regulation was designed to go to Pat (Garrity)," White said. "But Pat wasn't open, so I decided to try to create a shot for myself. And I found an opening. I just missed the shot." 
In the past, the Irish would have sputtered into overtime, demoralized from letting a sure-fire victory slip out of their grasp. But Notre Dame is beginning to s.urprise peo­ple, as the defending Big East champs found out on Saturday. 
After controlling the tip, the Irish leaned on their star to help get something going for them in the opening seconds of overtime. And Garrity did not disappoint, slashing to the basket for a score and a foul that he turned into a three­point play. 
"It's a killer in overtime when a team starts out with a three-point play because that's such a momentum change," said Garrity, who fin­ished with 25 points and 15 rebounds. 
"I was just glad I was able to put it in because I was missing some chippies down the stretch there," he added. 
Following Garrity's bucket, the Irish extended the lead to 62-57 when Phil Hickey, who contributed 12 points and seven rebounds, nailed a jumper with 3:40 left to play. 
But the Huskies, who con­nected on 11 of 24 three­pointers to overcome a lack­luster shooting performance {29 percent), did not roll over, tying the game at 62 when Monquencio Hardnett con­verted a four point play with 
2:30 remaining. 
With the pressure on once again, White stepped to the forefront. The senior point guard atoned for his earlier miss, drilling a three-pointer from the right side to all but bury Connecticut. 

"In overtime, the play was designed to go to Pat again, but he wasn't open, so I just took the shot," said White. "And luckily for me, it fell. It was a key basket. We have to step up and make those kinds .... of shots." · A pair of free throws by Miller and Garrity secured the 71-65 victory for the Irish. 
"This is a major confidence builder," said Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod. "To have lost this would have been a downer." 


... 
-
Monday, February l 0, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 

The 1997 Production of 
BLAK KOFEE HOUSE 
"Souls of Black Folk" 
Friday, February 14 7:30p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 

... Students: $3.00 General Admission: $6.00 Doors Open at 7:00p.m. Dressy Attire Required 



Trouble with your FAFSA or Profile? 


WE CAN HELP! 
Joe Russo, Director of Financial Aid, will be discussing these forms and answering your questions 
Monday,February 17 8 p.m. Dooley Room 1st Floor of LaFortune 

BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AID 

-------~~---~--~~­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 10, 1997 
• HOCKEY 

leers drop two games and fall into last place 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sporrs Writer 
The script for this weekend's crucial Central Collegiate Hockey Association games against Ohio State couldn't have gone any worse for the Notre Dame hockey team. They came into the pair of home games with possession of the final playoff spot in the league, a 1-point lead over the Buckeyes in the standings, and a 1-0 lead in the three­game series with the Buckeyes {via a3-0 win on Oct. 25). 
By virtue of two losses, 5-3 on Friday night and 4-3 on Saturday night, they left the weekend in dead last, trailing the Buckeyes 11nd the final playoff spot by three points with only five games remain­ing in the season. 
"Obviously, we're very disap­pointed," stated junior captain Steve Noble. "This was the worst case Scenario." 
On Friday night, in what head coach Dave Poulin later called the Irish's "poorest effort of the season," the Boys of Winter fell behind 3-0, ral­lied in the second period to come back within one tally, but then faded as the Buckeyes notched two third-period goals. 
"That's not responding, that's what that is," Poulin said, referring to the level of the Irish's play. "It's not accepting the challenge that was ahead of us at all and it was evident right from the start." When asked what the turning point of the game was, he responded, "We were never in it from the start." 
Midway through the first pe­riod, Ohio State began its ram­page on a short-handed goal. Buckeye Chris Richards inter­cepted an Irish clearing pass and dropped the puck to Chad Power. who decked Eisler and gave the Bvckeyes a 1-0 lead at intermission. 
Ohio State scored two quick goals in the opening moments of the second period to surge ahead 3-0, but the Irish an­swered with two goals of their own in the next seven minutes. 
Freshman winger Ben Simon hovered above the left circle after a pass from Noble, then wristed a shot at the net that eluded Buckeye goaltender Ray Aho and cut the lead to 3­
1. Less than five minutes later, sophomore Craig Hagkull picked off an OSU pass and quickly fired a pass to the right wing for senior Tim Harberts. Harberts whistled a shot through the open legs of

-
Aho for the 44th goal of his 
career. 
But the comeback was not to 
be. Forty seconds into the 
third period, Pierre Dufour 
broke the Boys' back with a 
goal that gave the Buckeyes a 
commanding 4-2 lead. He took 
a pass from Richards and skat­
ed down the right side before 
tucking a perfectly-placed shot 
into the upper corner of the 
net. 
Ohio State scored again, but sophomore wing Brian Urick answered to close out the scor­ing at 5-3. 
"We just kept putting the pressure on them," said Ohio State coach John Markell. "They also had a few turnovers." Markell under­stated the amount turnovers. "We worked on passing all week," stated a stunned Poulin. "But you'd never guess it by the way we gave it away tonight." 
On Saturday night, Poulin implemented major lineup changes, sitting junior for­ward Lyle Andrusiak {6 goals, 12 assists). sophomore for­ward Aniket Dhadphale {4 goals, 16 assists). and defenseman Benoit Cotnoir (5 goals, 10 assist). "We've had guys who haven't lived up to expectations," stated Poulin. "You're hear to play hockey, and you have a responsibility to do so." 
Notre Dame responded, scor­ing two quick goals from fresh­man Joe Dusbabek and Andy Jurkowski to grab a 2-0 lead in the first period. Dusbabek picked off a pass at the blue­line at sent a shot into the upper right corner of the net. Jurkowski, a walk-on and con­verted defenseman, poked the puck into a wide open net after deflected shots by Troy Bagne and Ben Nelsen for the first goal of his career. 
"I still don't think we came out better," stated Noble. "We didn't play as well as we could have." 
The visitors answered in a hurry, as Buckeye senior Jarret Whidden scored at the 
8:40 mark, and Power followed suit just 59 seconds later. 
A pair of defenseman, Irish senior Ben Nelsen and Ohio State's Ryan Root, traded goals in the second period to tie the game at three. Root's goal came on a rare 4-on-1 break. Nelsen's short-handed goal came after a splendid pass from Urick. 
Late in the second period, senior captain Terry Lorenz flailed at the puck as he was falling down near the left side 
Please Recycle The Observer 
of the crease. 

Lorenz appeared to be · sweeping the puck into the net when Root illegally covered the puck near the goal line. Notre Dame was awarded a rare penalty shot, which Dusbabek took. The CCHA's top-scoring rookie skated in on Aho before wristing a shot just wide of the right post. 
"Joe's penalty shot was huge," analyzed Poulin. "But I'd put Joe right back there, and he'd respond. There's no question about that." 
"A penalty shot is a great op­portunity," observed Noble. "But it's one of the hardest things to do. There's a ton of pressure." 
Dufour made the miss hurt in the worst way when he scored the game-winning goal midway into the third period. Richards dug the puck out of the left corner and fired a pass into the crease, where Dufour tapped it into the net. 
What do the Irish, who have a difficult schedule {2 games against Michigan and one against Michigan State) and who need to make up three points in five games, do now? 
"We have nothing to lose now," mulled Noble. "We just have to go out and play hock­ey." 
"We go back to work," stated Poulin. "That's the only way I know how." 
ATTENTION TO THOSE ATTENDING JPW!!! 
PLEASE NOTE THIS IMPORTANT JPW INFORMATION! 
1. 
If you have not registered for JPW, please go to the CCE Info Desk to do so ASAP! 

2. If you did not sign up for a table, please contact the JPW Office in order to do so. 

3. 
By next week you should receive a mailing containing ticket info and a JPW itinerary. 


4. Ticket Pick-Up will occur next Tuesday & Wednesday, 2/11 & 2/12, from 6-9pm near the LaFortune Info Desk. Tickets will be distributed for the Gala, Dinner, and Brunch only. 5. If you have other questions, please stop by the JPW Office (in the Reynolds Rm of LaFortune) from 7-10pm, Mon-Thurs, or call 1-6028. 
Thanks for all of your cooperation! The big weekend's almost here!!! 

Questions, call 1-5136

OLIVE GARDEN DINNER 
February 12, 1997 6:00-8:00 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom $3 -All-you-can-eat!! 

.. 

Monday, February 10, 1997 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HEY, DOG1 YOU COMING TO OUR PARTY THIS 
WEEHEND? 

WHO's GONNA 
TIIERE? 
YOU, ME", FRED, MATT1 A BUNCI-I OF GUYS •.. oH, AND A COUPLE GIRLS SAlD THE'!' MIGHT STOP B'l' I 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


ARIES (March-21-April 19): New beginnings are favored. Your feeling about someone is right on target. Be sure to find out more abol4 ari unusual employment situa­tion before committing yourself to anylbing. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The emphasis now is on reducing spending. Although an occasional treat is OK, major splurges are not. A troubled teen-ager may need couoseling. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pouring on the charm helps you win the cooperation of someone in authority. The location of a new busiacss will determine how suc­cessful it will be. Listen carefully to 
DILBERT 
I. NEE.O A BULLET ?OINT FOR ~OUR. MONT~LY t>.CCOMPLISHMENTS, 
WALLY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Golden Horde member
1 Wood-turning 33 Premium cable tool channel6 Welcome smell 36 Diana of the 11 Undergrad Supremesdegrees 37 Miinchhausen's14 Disney mermaid title15 Site of golfing's 38 Lima, e.g. 
Ryder Open 39 Suffix with 
16 Genetic trait superintend
carrier 17 Make an error 
40 Rubbernecker 19 Consume 41 Fanny--of the Ziegfeld 
20 Part to play Follies
21 Teacher in a turban 42Areaof Manhattan
23 Conciliate 44 Lighthouse light 
27 Gotten back, as land in battle 45 Artist's studio 29Villain 47 Make 30 Capital of 
manhattans and Tasmania 
such 

31 Welles of 48 Ear parts "Citizen Kane" 49ls up 
::! u 
'-' 0 PUT ME DOWN FOR., c 
.. -' 

0 ~ 
''LEVERAGED 5YNERGY ., -~ 
Ill 

® ::! />.CI\055 All TECHNOLOGY ,.,c 
c 

" PLATFOR.I"'\S. " Ill 
" 
>­


50 Zoo bird 51 Be outrageous 58--room 59 Deceive 60 Charge 61 "For shame!" 62 Mystery writer's 
award 63 Nairobi's land 
DOWN 
1 Terhune's "--:aDog" 
2 Opposite of "Dep." on a flight board 
3 Tijuana uncle 4 With it, 40's-style 5 It loops the 

Loop 6 Dancer Astaire 7 Caftan a"... man-­
mouse?" 

9--demer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Selected athlete ,.....,.--,---r-, 11 Get a party going 
12 "What's in 8=-:..f;.+::=-1 --?" HHE-IH 13 Luxurious sheet 
~~IIIIIIIIIIJ~...:...j..::-:-lRHH material ~=::+=+:£:+=+=-B 18 Hydrant hookup 22 Card game for two 23 Dean Martin song subject 24Juan of ~-=+::.:+:::::+==-! Argentina 25 Not take responsibility .:;..!-.;+-:-+:::=-+::,:+;::+:=~+=-B 26 1961 space chimp .=...~.~;.:.L.;:;;...&...:~;.o.;;;...L;;;;....:..;;..&..;;;...I 27 Copter part 
~ 
.... 
., 
! 
-~ 
:::> 
..... 
.. 
@ 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Showcasing your original ideas will advmce your career. Prominent peo­ple hail you as a fresh voice. A steady round of social events keeps you on the go. A high school reunion could tempt you to rekindle an old romance. Vacation near the wata'. Regular family get-togethers will keep a generation gap from widming. Spiritual growth takes on grealer significance next fall. Be open to new experiences. A spur-of­the-moment trip could change your entiR: perspective. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Roberta Flack, golfer Greg Norman, swimming leg­
MIKE PETERS 

end Mark Spitz, opera singer Leon­tyne Price. 
what a real estate expert says. SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put 
work f~rst and financial worries will be a !bing of the past. Your responsi­ble attitude will boost both your preslige and profits. Avoid locking 
TH~T W/1.5 YOUR. 
ACCOMPLISH I"\£.NT 

horns. . LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): New
LA5T MONTH. 

bacO.g for a pet project will help you achieve a treasured goal. Your finaacial prospects improve thanks
) lT'5 MORE OF P... 
JOURNEY TI-\~N P... DE5TlNP...TION. ) 
Puzzle by C. F. Murray 
2Bisraeli statesman Abba 30 Quarters in a 
sultan's palace 32 Grow narrower 34 Breakfast 
sizzler 35 Upturned, as a box 37 Cotton bundle 
44 Alternative to a 52 Help shower 53 Beer barrel 54 Feed lines to 
45 With ears 55 Massachusettspricked cape46 Weighty books 
56 Braggart knight 47Uian--, 
of the Round Mongolia Table 
49 --carotene 57 H, to Greeks 
to your decisive attitude. Family members react favorably to your new, more confident approach. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A tense situation requires a cool-head­ed approach. Your business allies are depending on your leadership; do not disappointment them. The love of your life could make a surprising revelation. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Oth­ers rally to your cause because of your capable manner. Joining a social or business organization will bring multiple benefits. New con­tacts can easily develop into some­thing worthwhile. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Teamwork helps you reach a goal quickly. Be sure to share the glory in a tangible way. A confidential arrangement could produce new financial gains. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A long-cherished wish could come true now that you have new options. A friend or professional adviser tells you what financial steps to take. Higher-ups have the last word. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focusing exclusively on a financial or career matter can be suf­focating. Stimulating outside activi­ties will rechal'ge your batteries. Introduce yourself to people at a charity or community event. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Putting a major plan into operation on your own gives you tremendous satisfaction. Be aware that certain co-workers could feel jealous. A new admirer thinks you are sensa­tional. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
plan could take several twists and 
turns. Going with, not against the 
flow could bring long-term gains. 
Your ability to perform well in the 
spotlight could turn a potential 
opponent into an ally. 
38 Baby sitter's Answers to any three clues in this puzzle nightmare 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
40 Chewy part of 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). meat Annual subscriptions are available for the 

editors. Join The Observer staff. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

... 
-
• 
-
The dorm donating the most money by the end of February will win money for a dance. Be on the lookout for special collections 
• in residence halls this month! 
----------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
.... SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 10, 1997 
Split Decision 
Mens squad outhustles Huskies in overtime, but the women s squad gets hustled by top-ranked UConn 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
-
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior Matt Gotsch and junior Pat Garrity try to stifle UConn's Hamilton in route to the basket. 
• WoMEN's BASKETBAll 
By MIKE DAY· Assistant Sports Editor 

Sometimes it's better to be ugly than good. While the saying might actually refer to luck, ugly is the only word that comes to mind when describing Notre Dame's play against Connecticut on Saturday. 
An energetic crowd of 10,196 fans at the Joyce Center gritted their teeth and watched Derek Manner go airborne into the press sec­tion of the court, Pete Miller suffer a gash in his head at the final buzzer, and Marcus Young toss up a pair of underhanded, "granny" style free throws. 
In the meantime, Notre Dame turned the ball over 26 times, allowed 24 offensive rebounds to the Huskies, and shot just 2 of 12 from the three point stripe. 
Indeed, this one was down­

right ugly. And yes, it was downright effective. 
The Irish are slowly but surely gaining some recogni­tion in the Big East. And as Saturday's 71-65 victory proves, they no longer have to play a perfect game to come out on top. 
"Last year, they put it to us 
both times we played them," said Manner, who chipped in 10 points and seven rebounds. "We felt we had 
see M.HOOPS I page 17 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Despite the tough loss, senior Katryna Gaither contributed 15 points in the first half alone. 

Huskies silence Morgan en route to a 7249 victory 
ByJOECAVATO Sporrs Writer 

The Notre Dame women's basketball squad faced a formi­dable challenge. They looked to upset the Connecticut Huskies who have won 22 in a points, shot just 39 percent from the field. Thev held the normally sharpshooting Irish to a dismal 27 percent from the field leading to a 72-49 win. The Connecticut offense was not at its peak performance as they had 21 turnovers but they controlled the game under the basket. They out rebounded the guests by 18 and also outscored them in the paint by the mark of 42-28. 
Naismeth Player of the Year candidate Kara Wolters had 16 points, ten rebounds, and five blocked shots as her 6-7 frame allowed her to simply shoot over Notre Dame's smaller de­fenders. But, the Huskies de­fense was the dominating factor leading to the 23 point victory. 
The top-ranked squad held 
see W.HOOPS I page 15 
• IRISH INSIGHT 



Squad 
•


surprises Big East 

T
he Notre Dame basket­ball team that beat Connecticut in overtime 
Saturday worked hard. The Irish~~~~~~ 

basketball team that beat St. John's last
-
Tuesday night also worked hard. 

T h e 
Joe Villinski 
biggest
surprise of Associate Sports Editor the Big East has worked hard to take people by surprise. So what, you say?" Every college basketball team should do nothing less than work hard. That's how a team gets better. 
see INSIGHT/page I6 

• 
row and made trips to the Final Four the last two seasons. Yesterday afternoon, they proved why they have gone 90­4 over the past three seasons as · they turned away the fifteenth ranked Irish. 
In a battle of the Big East conference leaders, the lluskies' win places them on top of the standings by them­selves. The Irish saw their ten game win come to a halt as they fell to 20-5 and 12-l. 
The Huskies. who beat oppo­nents by an average of 30 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Junior Derek Manner electrified the crowd with this tomahawk jam in 
the UConn game. 
• vs. West Virginia at Northwestern Meet February I1, 7:30 p.m. 
February 22 
• X 

Men's Tennis at Kentucky • vs. Boston College February II 
February 12, 7:30p.m. Basketball vs. Albion 
"-
Collegeat Michigan 
~ 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
February 14, 7 p.m. 
• RECRUITING 

Reports hint that 
Minor will not· sign 
Observer Staff Report native had narrowed his choices to Notre Dame, 
• Though a. formal announce~ Florida State, Florida, and ment has not yet been made, Louisiana State but publishedit appears that tailback .reports indicate that the Irish Travis.Minor, the USAToda.y are no longer in the running. 
Offensive Player ofThe.Year., Though National Signing willnot become .NotreDallle's Day was last Wednesday, 20th· member or the Class of Minor, and all other potential
... 2001.. . ..... ... . ·..... 
signees have ul1til April to The Batoi , ~~gge, La. make a decision. 
1 

aJ •Hockey suffers a losing weekend 
see page IS
••--= 


C/J • SMC Swimming Results 
see page 14 
~ 














