
Thursday, September 18, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 19 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Senate includes student issues in future agenda 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Faculty Senate met for the first time this fall and worked to set its agenda, and identify key concerns for the 1997-98 academic year. 
Adding a student bill of rights to du Lac, examining faculty alcohol poli­cy, and revamping graduate student compensation plans were among the issues targeted by the senate's four subcommittees. 
After the senate divided into sub­committees, members of Student Affairs Committee identified five issues to address this year, central among them student rights and disci­plinary equity. 
"Currently, du Lac does not include a student bill of rights. What it does include is a delineation of what stu­dents can expect in a disciplinary hearing," chair Ava Preacher explained. She noted that changes in du Lae over the summer did partially address the issue. 
"It's actually something of a break­through to see the word 'rights' included in there, now," she said. 
Equity and perceived inconsisten­cies in student discipline were also named as topics to examine this year. 
"[Disciplinary hearings) can really be intimidating. It's not a casual process," communication and theater professor Jill Godmilow remarked. 
The committee, however, was unsure about whether it could elicit any productive response from the Office of Student Affairs, which han­dles such concerns. 
"We have no power with them other than persuasion," Captain Russell Pickett, professor of naval science, noted. 
Bridging the gap between campus intellectual life and residential life was also named as a major agenda item for the year. 
"There's a lack of intellectual activities outside of class," Godmilow noted. 
"There's a crunch on this campus where everything [academic] takes place between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m .. " Preacher agreed. 
Other items placed on the year's agenda were: expanding tutoring 
beyond that provided by the First Year of Studies, responding to a pending Office of Student Affairs report on student alcohol policy and responding to the "Spirit of Inclusion" document. 
• Senate chairman Michael Detlefson, a professor in the philoso­phy department, opened the evening's meeting by highlighting four topics -graduate student health insurance, federal legislative developments affecting higher edu­cation, treatment of foreign visitors to campus and committee assign­ments -in his chairman's report. Later in the meeting, Detlefson established a select Political Action Committee and a select Foreign Visitors Committee to deal with two of those concerns. 
"There are all kinds of problems foreign visiwrs P.ncounter while they are here," Detlefson told the senate. "It's complex. It ranges from housing concerns to visa concerns." 
In explaining his act to create one of the additional committees, 
see FACULTY I page 4 

Commitee evaluates need for social space 
By MICHELLE KRUPA and faculty members noted the Associate News Editor need for additional social space on campus. 
In an effort to create a more The committee is now putting comfortable campus environ-together a survey to be distrib­ment, the Social Space Vision uted to a random sample of 20 Committee, comprised of stu-percent of the Notre Dame com­dents, faculty and staff mem-munity, including undergradu­bers, met last night with consul-ate and graduate students, fac­tant Toby Peters of Marquette ulty and staff members. The University. assessment will The group -------------include qualita­
hopes to insti-'we are going to try tive, quantitative
lute a pro-andexistingdata. gram that will to identify the "We will see assess com-variables that lead to a what themes 
munity mem-develop and what bers' opinions successful environment. people seem to of campus We will see what want. Then we'll span~ organi-look at opportu­zation. themes develop.' nities and create 
"Our prima-r e commend a­rv focus now Toby Peters tions with the is to find out committee," what the Peters said. Univ(~rsity would like to see The survey results will be happnn. We're going to try to reported in December, and then identify the variables that lead the committee will meet again to a successful environment," to review those results as well Peters said. as feedback from Peters' site 
The group aims to address visits of local social gathering issues presented in the Colloquy places like Lula's and Coach's. for the Year 2000. a campus-The second phase of the pro­wide assessment compiled last ject, the creation of focus year. In the report, students· 
see SPACE I page 4 

Burn baby, burn ... 
e Class of 1999 
ponsored a free 
welcome back bar­beque yesterday outside LaFortune Student Center. Originally scheduled for last Wednesday, the picnic was cancelled because of rain and rescheduled for last night. Kristi Klitsch and Robie Herman, social com­missioners for the Class of 1999, coordinated the event. 
"We were not quite sure what the turnout would be, but we ended up with more people than we expected," Klitsch said. 
Roughly 300 students from all classes attended before the picnic ran out of food. 
"It was great to have nice weather," Herman said, "and I think people enjoyed the band." 
Chris Goddard and the Florida Evans Showband and Revue both performed at the event. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


Students prepare for first Washington study program 
By MATTHEW QUINN 
News Writer 
Twenty-four junior and senior under­graduate students are preparing to inaugurate Notre Dame's first study pro­gram in Washington, D. C. this spring. 
Peri 1\.rnold, professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame,. and Thomas Kellenberg, a 1980 alumnus of the University, have been appointed director and executive direc­tor. respectively, of the program. Arnold will direct the program from Notre Dame and Kellenberg will be in charge of on-site operations. 
"The students who participate in this program benefit in many different ways," Arnold explained. "As in any off­campus study program, students are constantly exposed to a new environ­ment -in this case, a very cosmopoli­tan city that is a more sophisticated location than campus." 
The program offer~ internships in a large range of potential sites -govern­ment agencies, congressional offices, public and private interest groups, or, if it suits the student's interests, in a firm or corporation with a lobbying office. The program will include a six-credit seminar that includes an examination of policy making and politics in national government with exposure to relevant institutions and actors in Washington. Additionally, a three-credit internship program will place students in positions related to their career int~rests. Students also will take two courses beyond the seminar and internship and complete a research program. 
Notre Dame students will live in resi­dences with students from Boston University, the University of Pennsylvania, and Dartmouth College. Arnold is very enthusiastic about the liv­ing arrangements. "The physical arrangements for the students are superb," he said. "They will be living in a very attractive part of Washington. 
"It truly is a unique academic experi­ence for the participating students. Not only are they able to study Congress while in the shadow of Congress; in ful­filling their humanities course require­ment, they can study art history with superior collections of art right at their fingertips." 
The Washington program is available to any undergraduate student, regard­less of major, whose interests and cur­riculum could correspond with the pro­gram. Juniors and seniors are pre­ferred. 

------~-~-­

Thursday, September 18, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

were killed. 

Are vve 
NO? 

A crazed fan ran up 
the ramp toward the vis- Brian Reinthaler  
itors' locker  room  at  Assistant Sports Editor  
Ross-Ade Stadium shout­ 

ing, "Davie, you*%#*, what the@#%* were you thinking?!" 
His conduct was reprehensible, even if he was a Purdue fan who got a bit over excited after the Boilers knocked off the Irish. Sadly though, the man was not wearing a Purdue shirt. In fact, he was clad from head to toe in Notre Dame apparel. 
Then there was the group of supposed Irish supporters ripping into the ND players as they left the field following their devastating loss. 
"You don't deserve to wear that uniform," screamed one of the idiots. 
The things I saw last Saturday in West Lafayette made me sick. Never, until that day down at Purdue, have I been embarrassed to be representative of the University of Notre Dame. The worst part is, the attitude that pos­sessed these so-called Irish fans to rip into their own team is the same attitude that has permeated this campus and this student body in the last few days, not to mention the last few years. 
The majority of the Notre Dame population has spent the better part of four days whining like little spoiled brats about how unfortunate we are that we have had to endure such an awful stretch of disappointing football seasons. 
Who do we think we are? 

The fact of the matter is that no one owes us anything. For the last time: There is no clause in our enrollment papers that guarantees us a national championship, or for that matter, a winning season. (Not to mention the fact that less than half of us had even reached the age of 10 the last time the Irish actually had a losing record.) 
No more complaining, no more moaning, no more criticizing the football team and coaching staff as if we could all do a better job. 
The time has come for each and every one of us to come down off of our high horses and think about how lucky we are. We are students at a university with such rich tradition and (allegedly) such strong spirit that nothing can stop us from loving and supporting our alma mater. 
With that said, this weekend presents a pre­cious opportunity for the student body here at Notre Dame. On Friday evening at 7 p.m., the second of three stadium pep rallies will be held in preparation for Saturday's football game against Michigan State, and we as students will get the chance to prove that we are more than just typical bandwagon fans. 
It's time to step up and show our fellow stu­dents on the football team that one simple loss cannot keep us away. 
It's time to close ranks and rally behind a coaching staff that has worked their butts off and done everything they could to make this year more fun and exciting for us. 
It's time to show the Notre Dame community and the world that there is no place like Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame has a lot of tradition, but I never thought [Notre Dame Stadium] was an extremely difficult place to play. " 
-Nick Saban Head football coach, Michigan State 
Just some food for thought as you ponder how to greet the Spartan football team. 
It appears that somebody needs to set this guy straight, and if not us, then who? After all... 
We are ND. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Heather MacKenzie Viewpoint Laura Petelle Brandon Williams Sports Production Anthony Bianco Mark DeBoy Accent Lab Tech Emmett Malloy "Photo" Joe Stark Graphics Jon King 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xcc:pt during exam <tnd vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WtunJJ AT A GLANCE 

Helicopter crashes into mountain in Bosnia, kills 12 
PROKOSKO, Bosnia-Herzegovina ,--------------~____, was fine when they left Sarajevo, but A U.N. helicopter slammed into a fog­they encountered "dense fog" west of 
shrouded mountain in central Bosnia and burst into flames Wednesday, killing a top international envoy, five Americans and six others in the worst accident to hit the peacekeeping effort in Bosnia. 
Those killed included German envoy Gerd Wagner, a deputy to top peace mediator Carlos Westendorp, and British diplomat Charles Morpeth. The others who died were not named pend­ing notification of next of kin. 
Four Ukrainian crew members of the 
U.N. helicopter-an Mi-8 leased from Ukraine ­injuries, German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said. 
The crew managed to escape through the shattered glass nose of the craft but was hindered from helping passengers because of fire and thick smoke. 
Wagner and his delegation, which included members from Westendorp's office as well as U.N. employees believed to be police monitors, left Sarajevo for Bugojno ( pronounced BOO-goy-no) this morning, said Alexander Ivanko, a U.N. spokesman in Sarajevo. 
According to one Ukranian crew member, the weather 

McDonald's burns ahead in 'war' Bush calls CIA critics 'nuts' 
OAK BROOK, Ill. 
There are several new entries in the burger war, with McDonald's looking to satisfy regional tastes. Just don't call them Whopper clones, the compa­ny says. They have different flavors of sauce and are being be sold under var­ious, including the "QPLT" (for Quarter Pounder with lettuce and tomato) in Portland, Ore.; "The Big 'n 

Tasty" in California; and "The Rocket" in Raleigh, N.C., after local football player Raghib "Rocket" Ismail. A spokesman for the Oak Brook compa­ny said today the sandwiches are mostly local innovations that are variations on a burger with lettuce and tomato. McDonald's said it has no plans for a national rollout of any new burger to counter Burger King's Whopper or its new Big King, a sandwich similar to McDonald's Big Mac that went into national distribution this month. In Shreveport, La., the burger is served with a pepper-mus­tard sauce; while Californians get a "savory sauce." Iowans get plain mayonnaise -making their version most like the Whopper. Miami-based Burger King says it isn't worried about the new competition. 
'Black Christ' returns to South Africa 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa 
The "Black Christ" -a painting banned in 1962 by South Africa's apartheid government -is returning home to a new South Africa. Artist Ronnie Harrison planned to fly Thursday to London to retrieve the art­work, which was found in the basement of Julius Baker, 90, a South African activist who went into exile in the 1960s. The once-banned painting will be officially unveiled at the South African High Commission in London, then returned to Cape Town on Sept. 28. The Anglican Church plans to show it in October. The paint­ing depicts Jesus with the face of Chief Albert Luthuli, the outlawed African National Congress president who won the 1960 Nobel Peace Prize. He is flanked by two Roman soldiers, one pushing a spear in his side, who bear the faces of apartheid's architect, former Prime Minister Hendrik F. Verwoerd, and his justice minister, John Vorster. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,........................................ ··········u L 
Thursday  ~  83 63  
FridaY,  ~ ,,,, ...  77 59  
I  
Saturday  Q, 60 46  
Sunday  ~(61  45  
,}  

Monday , ,i;~ 69 50 
...\.;~... \J""'''-..,l" ":.? 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 18. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure H L a E:Sl [Til HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS  0 . FLURRIES  tzJ SNOW  8 ICE  Ct 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 'i) u u SUNNY PT. CLOUDY ClOUDY  
VIS ASSOCIIJIBri Press  
Atlanta  88  66  Dallas  93  73  New Orleans 90  71  

Baltimore 85 59 Denver 66 47 New York 81 63
Q,~,QA.Q-~~~6 

Boston 59 60 Los Angeles 82 66 Philadelphia 85 61 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 80 64 Miami 89 n Phoenix 99 78 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNe' 

Columbus 85 56 Minneapolis 67 58 St. Louis 85 70 
Fojnica, 20 miles east of Bugojno, said 
U.N. spokesman Liam McDowall. When the pilot attempted to gain altitude, the helicopter crashed into the mountain and burst into flames, McDowall said. 
Foul play is not suspected in the crash but an investigation was under­way. 
The crash appeared similar to one in April 1996, when a plane carrying U.S. Commerce Secretary Ron Brown plowed into a mountain in a heavy storm while traveling to Dubrovnik, Croatia. Brown and 34 others aboard 
Villagers managed to summon help about 90 minutes after the crash. Dr. Damir Jaganjac of the nearby town of Fojnica said he found 11 burned bodies -one of them so charred that only a skull and ribs remained. 
One survivor's clothes were burning as doctors carried him away on a stretcher, Jaganjac said. Having no water, they ripped open plastic bags of emergency glucose drips to douse the flames. 
Westendorp spoke sadly of the "the death of such dedi­cated and selfless servants of the peace process." 
LANGLEY, Va. 
Former President Bush, helping the CIA celebrate its 50th birthday Wednesday, called agency critics "nuts," derided the CIA's "universally negative press" and labeled congressional staffers who investigate agency misdeeds "crusading young zealots." The podium­thumping speech brought repeated ovations from a crowd of about 4,000 CIA retirees -including all the liv­ing former directors of central intelligence. Bush focused on his time as the CIA chief in 1976 and 1977, in the wake of highly critical examinations of U.S. intelligence by the press and congressional investigating committees. ' Not far behind the news media were the congressional investigators, who examined the admission by the CIA that it had conducted surveillance on U.S. citizens opposed to the Vietnam War, plotted assassinations and, at times, misled Congress about its actions. "To those who say we no longer need a CIA, I say you're nuts," Bush said. "To those who want to dismantle CIA or put it under some other department ... you're nuts, too. And to those who feel the right to know takes precedence over legitimate classification of documents, or over protecting our most precious asset, our people, the same to you. You're nuts, and so's the horse you came in on." 
'Best of Communism' hits No. 1 
BUDAPEST, llungary 
Ah, the golden oldies. The Soviet national anthem, World War II-era songs praising Stalinism, the marches of the workers movement-they're back in Hungary, on compact disc, and they're topping the charts. Titled "The Best of Communism," one of the anthology's more curi­ous offerings is a Lenin diatribe on the evils of capitalism. "We couldn't figure out what he was talking about,"' pub­lisher Akos Hethly said of Lenin's speech, "but the word 'capitalism' he repeated several times, so we assumed he blamed it.'.' Rethly, 34, a Hungarian teacher by profes­sion, is also the director of Budapest's communist statue park, where renderings of members of the Soviet regime were taken after communism's fall. The statue park is visited by some 25,000 people a year, but the CD has sold over 20,000 copies in the first three weeks. The 24-track CD is No. 1 in Hungary, the only place it is available. But Rethly is planning a home page for wider distribution. 

Thursday, September 18, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Student Senate reviews Hambright's dual positions 
By TIM LOGAN The body reached a decision lation coming out of the senate. signed by Griffin. Hambright 
of 18-9 in favor of the request. The senate's vote fell short of told the senate last week that 
However, student body presi­the five-sixths majority needed he will simply step down if 
The Student Senate voted dent Matt Griffin said he would to override Griffin's veto. asked to. last night on whether or not to refuse to sign the resolution, Keenan senator Matt Mamak Hambright's position as ask Lee Hambright to resign effectively vetoing it. suggested that the senate write assistant controller has been from his position as student "I have to sign this, and I'm a letter to Hambright asking debated since last April government assistant con­not going to," said Griffin. who him to resign his post. This because he also serves as the troller. must put his name on all legis-letter would not need to be treasurer of Hall President's 
News Writer 
Council. Many student senate­members consider this to be a 

conflict of interests. 

In the end, senate chairman Erek Nass said that the senate would "wait until next week to consider this issue some more." 
Other issues discussed at the 
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
meeting were:

Public Welcome... 
• The senate debated the Interpretive Committee for the Constitution and focused on
Irish Courtyard 
who would serve on the com­mitee. As it stands, the com­mittee would consist of Jennifer Dovidio, president of
Special Hours: Fri. 6:30pm-I 0:30pm 
the judicial council, and the council's two vice presidents.
Sat/ 9am-7pm 

Dovidio addressed the senate and opposed the new plan. She was concerned that "limiting the committee to members of the judicial council raises a
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football 
potential bias." Ultimately, the issue was sent back to the

weekend fun!" 
Senate Oversight committee for further discussion. The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
• Griffin proposed an amend­

Student body president Matt
ment to place the president of 
Griffin refused to sign a resolu­

• Grilled Burgers & Brats • Notre Dame Souvenirs 
the student body on the 
tion in last night's meeting,
Financial Management Board 
thereby vetoing the measure.

• Cold Beverages 
of the Student Union. It will be
• Live "Irish Band" 
The resolution would have

voted on next week.
Fri. 6:30pm-I 0:30pm 
required Lee Hambright to

• Big Screen T.Y.s 
• There was a discussion of 
resign his post as student gov­
Sat. IO:OOam-I:OOpm 

the proposed Mother Teresa 
ernment assistant controller. 

•All Under a Large Tent 
Memorial, which was assigned 
The senate could not override

a place at the top of the agen­
Griffin's veto and has decided

da for next week. A committee 
to postpone resolving the issue

is being established to decide
Dining Room Cocktail Lounge 
until next week.

what the student body will do 
to honor the late missionary . 
• Casual Dining Serving • Sandwich and Appetizer 
Daily Breakfast, Lunch, Menu Available Daily 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA and Dinner 
• Popular Campus 

• Reservations 




Happy 21st
Gathering Spot ­

Recommended 

Birthday
-
NOTRE DAME 

Marisa
G 

P~. , , 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mike and Beth 
UiT:tR:tST:tP Ui MJUmAl. ARTS? H:t:tP :tX:tRC&S:t? l.O.RH TJ\:tKWOHPO fROM••• 
SPEAKING ON 
''Challenges of American Universities 
International Grand Master 7th Degree Black Belt 
in the 21s1Century'' 
World Championship Coach Pan Am Championship Coach and Referee 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER I 9 
Recognized by International Olympic Committee 
104 BoND HALL 
Come and join us for a BEGINNERS class starting this Sunday 
5:00P.M. 
Class schedule: Sundays 7:00-8:30 pm; Thursdays 8:00-9:00 pm Rockne Gym rm #30 1 
Rejreslzn1ents will be served following the presentation 
Questions? Call Anita 1-6869 




page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 18, 1997 


Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Detlefson reported that legal and housing difficulties face international students, speak­ers and even professors. He labeled Notre Dame's current procedures for accommodat­ing these visitors as "Byzantine at best." 
The Political Action Committee was formed as a reaction to congressional leg­islation proposed this summer. In trying voice opposition against bills to tax graduate student stipends and specific faculty pension programs, Detlefson realized no mecha­nism was in place for the fac­ulty to exert political pressure. 
"We're under-organized in regards to such things, and as a single institution, we have limited pull," he said. "But, if we could join with other Indiana universities we could make a more effective voice representing our interests in Washington D.C." 
The Political Action Committee will explore estab­lishing that link with other Indiana schools. 
In other new business, Detlefson reminded senators that University president Father Edward Malloy will deliver his annual address to the Faculty Senate at next month's Oct. 11 meeting. 
"I'd like full participation and involvement," Detlefson said, later asking senators to prepare questions for Malloy in advance of the meeting. 
• When reporting to the sen­ate, the Administrative Affairs Committee named faculty alcohol policy to its agenda. 

Happy 19th Birthday, Jennil 
Love ya, Mom & Becci 

"We need to do our home­work on this one before we make any recommendations," said chair Clive Neal, associ­ate professor of civil engineer­ing and geological sciences. Current policy prohibits pro­fessors from, for example, asking to students to Senior Bar for a beer. 
The committee's first step will be to compare Notre Dame's policy to that of other universities, according to Neal. 
Disabled access, graduate student benefits, adjunct pro­fessor membership on Faculty Senate, reaction to last spring's staff reclassification, and work with the University Committee on Women were other items mentioned. 
• In its report, the Academic Affairs Committee identified four issues for their upcoming year. 
"Our initial agenda will include reforming electronic services at the library," chair Gregory Sterling, associate professor of theology, said. A new library director will arrive on campus in November, so it would be best to have recommendations in place by then, he explained. 
Campus computing services, office space, and graduate stu­dent issues such as summer stipends and TA responsibili­ties were also mentioned as future agenda issues. 
• The Benefits Committee, chaired by physics staff pro­fessional specialist Kathleen DeLanghe, briefly identified pension concerns, retiree issues, disability issues and the lack of a faculty discount at the Notre Dame bookstore as agenda items for their aca­demic year. 

This is what a future radical feminist looks like... 


Space 
continued from page 1 
groups to further study the sur­vey, will then begin. 
Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, noted that this is the first time a survey of this nature has been conducted. 

"In the past, we've always just made gut assumptions when we've done projects like this. This time, before we start build­ing, we want the feedback of the community," Cassidy said. 
"What will make this success­ful is if there is ownership on the part of the community throughout the whole process," Peters said. 
He stressed that students and staff who receive surveys should take them seriously. 
"Those who get surveys, please fill them out," Peters said. "In a nutshell, in a process like this, you start with every possible option. There are no inhibitions. We assume that you can do everything, and the more ideas, the better." 






Attention Students!!! 
If you did not pick up your 1997 yearbook, this is your last chance to do so. Come by 311 LaFortune 


dome 
from 3:00 to 5:30PM on 
Thursday, September 18. 
Questions: Call 1-7 524 
FIVE 
Learning about yourself, dealing with problems and growing with the changes in your life are important parts of the Notre Dame experience. 
The Professional Staff of the University Counseling Center (UCC) invites you to consider joining a group. 
In addition to Personal Growth Groups The ucc also offers SUPPORT GROUPS for: 
Graduate Students, 
African-American Students 
Transfer  Students  
Gays  and  Lesbians  
Students  with:  

Family Concerns 
Eating Concerns 
Chronic Illness 
t'~i(631-8128 
3'1-7308 
"The era of big issues: the cold war and the budget deficit, are giving way to more personal concerns." (USA Tuday,S/Y/97) 
Bill Gates and Steve jobs agree' Understanding differences and ha\'ing compatible communication is essential for more growth. 
You missed the chance to connect .11 Lillith Fair. 
Contad Contact Contact REAL CONTACT 

And .the number one reason remains ..... 
JVlore exciting, meaningful relationships in South Ucnd ~imply can't be 
found! 

Weekly groups are available on:* 
MONDAYS, TUESDAYS, 4:00 -5:15 3:30 -4:45 
WEDNESD,\ YS, 
3:30 -4:4:> Tlir.:sc groups arc particularly fur !<.IUdcnto; "'-ho wan1 In IIH.:rcasc their rcl;llwu-.hip skills. 

page 5 

Thursday, September 18, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

SMC lecturer emphasizes importance of meditation 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
Speaking on the topic of medi­tation. Dr. Keith Egan issued a challenge to members of the audience at Saint Mary's College yesterday during the second installment of the "How New Can the Old Be?" lr-cture series. 
In his lecture titled "Me? Meditate?" Eg<tn challenged audience members to take time out of their busy schedules and make room for leisure activities because these are what will help to make people stronger in mind and spirit and the activities can also serve as a form of medita­tion. 
"We ought to band together, all of us -students. faculty, and staff-to make this a place where each day there is leisure for learning; for reading, for music. for plays, for the life of the mind and the life of the spir­it," Egan said. 
Egan dispelled many myths 
about meditation by pointing out the different ways that one can meditate. He emphasized that it is important for each person to find and use her own unique form of prayer and meditation. Possible ways to meditate include listening to music, singing, reading poetry, or taking walks around the lakes. The main point of meditation, according to Egan, is to give time to oneself in order to let God into 
one's life. 

"This is no mechanical tech­nique. Meditation is a daily approach to the source and cen­ter of life," Egan said. 
Egan made reference to the late Joseph Cardinal Bernadin, who, 20 years before his death, sought out a way to grow into a more spiritually mature person. Egan used this example to encourage individuals to seek a renewal in personal prayer, as prayer may be a way to attain wholeness and peacefulness in one's life. According to Egan, through this form of commitment to prayer. change and transfor­mation can begin to take place. 
Students attending the lecture were impressed by Egan's insights. Delilah Welch, a senior· at Saint Mary's and a student of Egan's, said, "I agree with Professor Egan that there is a deep need for peace in our lives. He definitely practices what he preaches." 
"Meditation is not for the elite; meditation is for everyone who wants to be fully human, because to be fully human is to be connected with one's divine source and center," Egan said near the end of the lecture, reemphasizing the importance of meditation and the idea that meditation is accessible to every­one. 
The next lecture will focus on 

another kind of meditation and 
will be presented by Mary 
Catherine Nolan on Sept. 24, at 
12:05 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
THE BERT AND ETTA LISS LECTURE SERIES DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY U.S. SENATOR JOSEPH LIEBERW.lN OF CONNECTICUT "THE VALUES VACUUM IN AMERICAN LIFE" SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1997 8:00P.M. AUDITORIUM CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION  


The Observer/Manuela Hernandez "Meditation is for everyone who wants to be fully human," said Dr. Keith Egan. Egan spoke about meditation yesterday at Saint Mary's, emphasizing the value of personal reflection. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 18, 1997 

Calendar of Events 
·wr 
Welsh Hall Dedication Thursday, September 19, 4:00pm 
Hispamic Liturgical Ministers Installation Misa.En Espanoi-Spanish Mass Sunday, September 21 
1:30 pm, Keough 
Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presldets~i at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, September 20 half hour after game 
Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Sunday, September 21. 8:00am Rev. Thomas Streit, C.S.C 
10:00 am Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C 
11:45 am Rev. David Scheidler~ C.S.C at Stepan Center Saturday, September 20 45 minutes after game Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. at Keenan-Stanford Chapel of t~·;·iiJiy Cross Saturday, September 21. half hourafter game 


.::f~i::: ~-­

.· > Sunday, September 22 .... nd6H1'fi{:!i!li'imuw:eilit:·.· 
ARE YOU SETTLED? Jim Lies, C.S.C. 9/18/97 

Many have asked me in the past two weeks if I was all moved in. While I have most often said "yes," that does not accurately describe the reality. Although I am, in some literal sense, moved in, I have come to appreciate the important distinction between being moved in and feeling settled. For a number of reasons I feel far from settled. It actually has little to do with the fact that I haven't quite worked out a new filing system or found the perfect place for those prized photos of friends and family. The reality has more to do with the fact that I haven't quite worked out a routine. No two days have been the same since I arrived. I'm sure it has everything to do with the fact that I'm new at this Campus Ministry thing, but some days I feel like a bumper pool ball, bouncing from one thing to another with little control over where I'll end up next. 
I have little doubt that many of you find yourselves enduring the same sensation and longing for a routine, particularly where aca­demics are concerned, so that you can be about some of the seeming­ly more important things that you came to college to do. I know that when I get together with college friends these days, twelve years after the fact, we don't speak primarily about what went on in the classroom, however hard that may be to hear for even my favorite professors. More often, we talked about the rest of life. It makes me realize that if I am not attentive to my own schedule, organize my time and prioritize my activities, these precious days will get away from me. At the end of an all too often typical day I find myself wondering why I didn't take any time for exercise today, or why I didn't spend some time at the grotto, or why I didn't take a minute to just kick back with friends. I find myself more determined than ever not to let these days be less than they could be, or less than God would have them be. 
For three years I had the great privilege of being rector of the London Program. During that time, I was often suprised by the frus­tration that some of the students felt because they didn't feel like they were having the kind of experience that their friends who had been to London had described upon their return. I find myself won­dering if I don't have something to learn now from the advice that I gave them then. It wasn't then, and isn't now, about some incredible "Notre Dame Moment." God graces every moment... and so it's about every moment. It's about being attentive to the giftedness of our lives wherever we are... in the classroom, in the dining hall, on the quad, in the halls. And it's about taking time to consider and reflect upon these days even in the midst of them. I've become con­vinced that it is only upon reflection that we really experience any­thing. Those London program students who came back and raved about their experiences had not only the advantage of the entire experience but also some time for reflection upon them. All I could do for the frustrated London student was to encourage them to live the moment, and to take some quiet time alone to revel in the remarkable opportunity that was theirs. It is the best advice I can offer here as well, for you and for me. 
In the end, it is that time that we spend alone that disposes us best for prayer. Whether we are moved in such moments by grati­tude, or need, or love, or pain, it is then that we know best what we wish to bring before God. It is in just such moments that we get to know the person that we are becoming, and move ever closer to the person that we long to be. The settledness that we seek lies some­where in the quiet. It's somewhere in that time alone. It's some­where in you. 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


-~~-----~---~-~.......~---~-------­
-----~-~ ~ --~-~-~~--.......--~--~----~~ 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

l 
business 
L__<>___~__e__n____f_<>___r~~------------------~ 
At a dead run, it can gauge the exact instant to backhand a tennis ball traveling at 95 miles an hour for a baseline winner. Calculate how electrons move in a crystal. Compose symphonies. Even program a VCR. 
It's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we challenge it with a stimulat­ing variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance­ment. And support it with the resources of nearly 45,000 professionals operating across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. 
We invite you to join Andersen Consulting/Notre Dame Alumni for an informal evening to discuss career opportunities. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
THE MORRIS INN NOTRE DAME ROOM 
All majors welcome! Casual attire is appropriate! 
© 1997 Andersen Consulting Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. For more information, please visit our web site at http://www.ac.com 

ANDERSEN CoNSULTING 
AIDS activists protest needle exchange ban 
By LAURA MECKLER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Hundreds of AIDS activists descended on the Department of Health and Human Services on Wednesday carrying sym-­bolic tombstones as they protested the ban on federal funding for needle exchange programs. 
Thirteen people were arrest­ed after trying to carry a 12­foot "moral backbone" into the building for Secretary Donna Shalala, who has said the nee­dle exchange programs can be effective in fighting AIDS but has stopped short of lifting the ban. 
"I have known people who have died of contaminated nee­dles. It's not necessary," said Kate Sorensen of San Francisco, one of the protesters arrested in a show of civil dis­obedience. 
"It all started with a dirty needle," said Sheila Catherine Hair Fuoco, a Birmingham, Ala., woman with HIV. She said she was infected by her late husband, who was infected by a dirty needle. She passed the virus to her son when she was pregnant. 
Shalala was in the building during the rally, which organiz­ers said attracted 2,000 pro­testers. 
About one-third of adults with AIDS got the killer virus through contaminated needles or sex with injecting drug 
Happy 21st Birthday, Mary! 
Love, Andrew, Brian, Carrie, Katie, Kelly, and Kimberly 
Doors open 8 :00 pm 21 and over with proper lD's $2.00 with college lD ­$4.00 without Off-Duty Uniform Police Security Lighted Parking 




Ir-------------,
Save S1.00 with this ad I before 11 :OOpm


L-------------.J 

for Grad Students, Law Students, Faculty and Staff 
Every Wednesday night • FREE ADMISSION 
Doors open Bpm Must be 21 or over. 

users. Needle exchange pro­grams give drug addicts clean needles for their used ones in hopes of keeping contaminated needles from spreading the virus. 
There were at least 87 needle exchange pr:ograms around the country in 1995-96. operating with local or private funding. 
To lift the ban on federal funding, HHS must certify that the programs reduce AIDS without increasing drug use. 
A panel of experts convened by the National Institutes of Health said early this year that these programs are a powerful weapon against AIDS that have been blocked by politics. 
In a report to Congress in February, Shalala cited research that drug use did not increase when communities began needle exchanges, and that the programs allow health officials to offer drug treatment to addicts they might otherwise never see. 
But the department is still studying whether needle exchanges increase drug use, IIHS spokesman Victor Zonana said Wednesday. 
"We will make a decision based on science and public health, not politics," he said. 
He added that the Clinton administration is funding other AIDS efforts including expen­sive research and medications. 
"Local communities can take that lead in providing funding if they believe it's appropriate," he said. 

Mary, We know you don't usually support 
Ten Commandments, but go ahead, it's your 21st Birthday! 



VIEWPOINT 
Page 8 Thursday, September 18, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager. ..................Jennifer Breslow Spons Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... ] oey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudems of the University o{Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily renect rhe policies of rhe administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reponed a.'i accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-454 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  63I-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  63I-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AROUND THE WORLD IN A HUNDRED DAYS ••. 
You Can't Learn This in Books: Tales from India 
Bali. It seems like some sort of flash­back in my mind. You know like the ones in "Days of Our Lives" that are all foggy and misty? They are memories of the past but you know it's not old footage. That's what I have-a foggy, misty dream of an island paradise. After all the non-stop traveling we did -no more than two nights in a place, little 
Juliana Vodicka 
sleep, painfully early mornings -we needed a three-day break. Don't get me wrong, they offered classes. There was: tropical drink mixing, surma tuing, yoga and tennis. We stuck to the beach and swim-up bar. This "mini" spring break in September was perfectly placed in our itinerary, considering the events previous to it and the events to come. Like all happy hours our stay in Bali had to come to an end. Next stop: India. 
1 have never felt as alive as I do in India. It stimulates every one of my senses like I've never experienced before, especially not at the same time. When I say alive I don't mean crazy, wild alive but moved inside. My eyes wander through poverty and smiles; lis­tening to the activity on the streets as the massive roar of a waterfall; feeling the trunk of an elephant or the touch of a small child's hand; curry everything (Go to the Malabar!); and the smell ­well just hope the wind is blowing the right way. 
If you were wondering, yes, there are cows everywhere in India. They just wander around and hang out with the camels, pigs, goats and monkeys. The thing that troubles me most about this situation is not the sense of chaos it cre­ates but the fact that 99 percent of Indians wear small plastic !lip-flops everywhere. You figure it out. 
My initial reactions to India stretch further than my sensory awakening and cows. The people of India are like none other. Dr. Pullapilly, our fearless leader, informed us of the basic things we should prepare for while traveling in India. One of which was that you no longer have privacy or personal space. This will take me a while to get used to. 
Just like everywhere else we've been so far, we are the main attraction. But, unlike other countries where they just take pictures of us, here they do some­thing about their curiosity. Spring, touching, talking and question after question. They are genuinely interested. Yet, if one more person shoves a post­card or chess set in my face I'll scream! They are not hostile; they just want to be close and help you. It's going to take a long time for me to be comfortable with people trying to do everything for me. It's like a game though: can I beat that guy to the rice? Nope, then I have some man scooping out my dinner from the buffet. I guess that's exporiencing other cultures. 
For the most part, Indians seem to have a strong, warm inner glow. You can see it clearly in the children. We went to a small town in the Himalayas. I had an experience I will never forget, all due to one child. 
The first day that we arrived, it was too late to do anything but shop. So we all did. By this time we were used to children following us around, so the lit­tle boy in the green and pink sweater didn't bother us. He followed us from store to store for quite a while, then I finally waved to him. Ile smiled, waved then ran off out of embarrassment. Not even 10 minutes later he was back. I waved again and I asked him his nam(~; I did not hear his name because I was looking at his eyes, so sweet and inno­cent. I offered to buy him a Coke, but he refused. We attempted to continue talk­ing but he again was embarrassed, this time of his English, and ran away. (As if my Hindi is so great!) I had a feeling this would not be the last of my friend so I prepared myself for our next meeting­Kit-Kat and Coke. Sure enough, 10 min­utes later he was back, standing far away. I went to him again and offered my gifts. Ile would not take it. Ile kept 
me. The other boy must have said. "Are you stupid? Take it!" Still, he would not. Finally I said, "Share with your friends" and he took it. Again he ran 
is not far behind but he, my new friend. 
The whole next day, as we hiked through the moun­tains, I wished I had gotten a picture of him with my camera. The day went on and I soon forgot. Our final day there, a group of us went again to the shopping area. Not once did I think of seoing him. As we were walk­ing back to our bus, there was a small tap in thn middle of my back. A child I had nut seen before handed me a pon and said, "It's from your friend." I did a 360 looking everywhere for him; he came out and smiled shyly in tlw same pink and green sweater. I waved him over, and we hugged. It was so natural. We gut my picture, and I found out that his mom made his sweater and he loves 
-0"; 
....---. •;y .! " processed.111 d my mind. I'm ready to settle down though. Only 10 more days until we reach "home." I'm ready for class and ready to live the 
culture, not just viewed from a bus window. I want to live it. This trip reminds me of a cliclH~ we all know and love: "You can't learn this in books. You have to experience it." I am. 
Juliana Vodicka is a junior English arzd theology major. 1/er column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expresspd in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily ofThe Obserl'er. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 






VIEWPOINT
Thursday, September 18, 1997 page 9 
• lET ME ClEAR MY THROAT ••. 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Tension Must Be Addressed 
Invite Fuller, Syn~r t 
Fuller and Syner Part II 
We are writing to let the entire student body know exactly what has I am writing in response to Catherine occurred since the publication of our letter in The Observer. We have received Syner and Stacy Fuller's letter from the too many responses to be counted. However, much to our shock, a lot of them Sept. 15 issue of The Observer. 
have been extremely vulgar, obscene, and of a violent nature. We fully expect­I would like to begin by saying that the ed people to respond to the letter, but for the most part we figured that it women of Saint Mary's were here in Notre would be rational and appropriate calls or a response in The Observer. WeDame, Ind. (and the Notre Dame Stadium} thank those who called to express their opinions, whatever they were, andfor 150 years before Notre Dame admitted who did it in a respectful manner, but we expected better behavior from the women. We are the women who have sup­"Notre Dame community." Most of all we are glad to have expressed our opin­ported Notre Dame and been theh· sister ion in an appropriate fashion. 
school during the years. We are grateful· that we are part of the Notre. Dame family 
Stacey Fuller 

and can share in the rich tradition. 
Catherine Syner 

However, Saint Mary's has her own family 
Sophomores, Pasquerilla East

and her own traditions. I chose to come to 
September 15, 1997

Saint Mary's, and I assure you thatlworked 
~~~~~~--------------.---------------~----,. 
just as hard as any Notre Dame female to get here. I am proud and honored to be a 
part of Saint Mary's , long before I include myself as part of Notre Dame. 
Please note that we gladly and willingly agree to the "minor inconveniences" Rachel Torres deseribed in her column, and also that we pay extra for every use of Notre Dame facilities. The two schools have a rec­iprocal relationship (if not for Saint Mary's College, where would all of the nursing, education and corrtmunicationsmajors at Notre Dame be?) that I invite all Notre Dame students to take advantage of. This is not "using," it is a mature relationship 

ema e Education Majors from NO Defend Saint Mary's 
The letter from Notre Dame sopho­mores Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller to the Viewpoint column printed in Monday's Observer has very quickly started an uproar on both campuses, as students on both sides of the lakes weigh in with opinions and comments both pub­licly and privittely. And like the letter from Syner and Fuller, sometimes these comments and opinions are less than kind and not terribly well thought out. Indeed, it is a very heated issue which at 


Scott 
Cullen 
times has the potential to turn ugly. But the events of these last few days serve a purpose in that they bring to prominence an issue which has been with us for a long time. The animosity that exists between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is unnecessary and detrimental, and thus far, has not bPen dealt with in a satisfac­tory way. Now that the problem has been thrust back in the spotlight on our two campuses, we are presented with an opportunity to respond. It is up to us as a community to determine whether that response is a positive ora negative one. 
Syner and Fuller's letter and the reac­tion to it clearly highlight the intensity of feelings regarding this issue on both sides. The letter itself was a mean spirit­ed attack aimed at an entire community 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We are writing in response to the Sept. 15 letter to the editor entitled, "ND Women Resent SMC Privileges," by Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller. After reading their rebuttal to an inside column by SMC student, Rachel Torres, we were dismayed by their lack of information and hasty assumptions. As Notre Dame students actively involved in the SMC education program, we find it nec­essary to defend Saint Mary's and its student body. 
While we agree that many people would graciously accept the opportunity to attend an ND football game ­despite the drunken marshmallow fights they may be subject to-we feel that Syner and Fuller's blatant attacks against the SMC student body as a whole are largely unjustified. We do not think it was necessary to "remind" Torres that "she is not a student of Notre Dame," and were appalled by their comment that Torres should be "grateful that she is even allowed to step foot in our brand-new stadium" (emphasis added). 
May we remind you that 25 years ago, SMC was the "sister-school" to our university. At that time the two schools provided many social opportunities for each other, including dances, pep rallies, concerts, speakers, and clubs. In addition, ND and SMC have a cooperative based upon isolated incidents and a pre­vailing stereotype. The response from the Saint Mary's community, publicly at least, has been much more dignified than the initial volley, yet no less strong. Student leaders at Saint Mary's were already holding a campus wide meeting to respond to the letter the night of its publication. The day after the letter appeared, The Observer was dominated by the story and commentary regarding it. 
Literally overnight, this issue became the dominant topic of campus conversa­tion~ and discussion of it has spread like wildfire. Such sudden and strong reac­tion clearly indicates that on both sides opinions already existed and emotions already ran deep. More than creating feelings about the issue, Syner and Fuller's letter provided an opportunity for people to express publicly opinions which were already there. 
This should come as no surprise. Despite the veneer of cooperation that comes with officially being brother and sister schools, it's hard for anyone in the student body to miss the negative feelings that often exist between the two student bodies. This sentiment is most evident between the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. The stereotypes about both are detrimental, demeaning and well known, focusing on physical attractive­ness and intellectual ability. Such notions are made known to students from day one of Freshman Orientation. No sooner do they arrive on campus then they are exposed to numerous general­izations and stereotypes, usually from those of us in the upper classes. · Generally, it is meant in a joking manner, just another part of the indoctrination 
education program, which has benefited many Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, both before and after the year Notre Dame became a co-educational institu­tion. How many of us are here today because our par­ents met in an ND/SMC classroom, or possibly at a foot­ball game, which, yes, the Saint Mary's women were "allowed" to attend? 
These privileges granted to both ND and SMC students to use the neighboring school's facilities and attend cer­tain classes were agreed upon long before our time. After such a rich history of sharing between the two schools, we do not have the right to take away the sea­son football tickets (which, by the way, cost $30 more than our booklets) from the women of SMC simply because ND is now coed. Nor does SMC have the right to deny ND students entry into their education classes, which are not offered here at ND. 
We both have been fortunate enough to have had the opportunity to attend education classes at SMC, which has received top-rankings among the Midwestern liberal arts schools for the past four years. When we graduate in May with our teaching certificates, we will have taken 48 credit hours at SMC. There are 318 additional stu­process. But in this instance it has bred hostility and ill will which has now burst forth in a rather unpleasant way. These feelings which are cultivated from the beginning lead to the unfortunate reali­ties which have been brought to light this week; some Notre Dame women resent Saint Mary's students, some Saint Mary's women find themselves uncomfortable at Notre Dame. Sometimes, the two just don't like each other. 
In her Inside Column on Tuesday, Observer Saint Mary's news editor Allison Koenig took a step in the right direction when she urged her fellow Saint Mary's students to take the high road on this issue, to take pride in their school and not retaliate with bitterness. But I disagree with her assertion that this issue is not worth taking up, and that the com­ments of Fuller and Syner ought to be ignored. Rather, I feel that ignoring the problem has been the de facto policy of our combined student bodies for too long when the tensions between the students of our two institutions become apparent. 
This issue is significant, for the tensions which exist are detrimental to our com­munity, and community is the one thing which above and beyond all else is sup­posed to set both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's apart from other institutions. Moreover, the animosity that exists now stands in the way of practical interaction which can benefit all students here. By this I mean that no one should feel apprehensive about taking advantage of the resources on the other side of the street. To ignore the comments made by Fuller and Syner is to ignore the issue at hand and to pass up the opportunity to change the situation. The friction that exists between the students of our two schools has now been made plainly evi­dent, the problem is on display for all to see. Rather than look the other way, it's time we addressed it. If the sentiments expressed by Fuller and Syner are in fact representative of a significant segment of Notre Dame's student body then this is a problem, and a remedy ought to be worked toward. 
In short, it is time for the student lead­ers and administrators of both our insti­tutions to take up this problem and respond to it. Clearly, there needs to be some kind of opportunity for dialogue; a chance for students on both sides of the issue to express concei:ns, frustrations and to establish some sort of connection. Moreover, these problems could be reduced significantly if the first impres­sion of the "other school" presented to incoming freshmen wasn't a negative one. The discussion these past few days has been heated, at times angry. But these initial emotions must not ultimately dominate the discussion. Fuller and Syner's comments can either serve t~ widen the gap between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, or they can act as a catalyst for our community to confront the prob­lem. There is no good reason why the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cannot coexist with pride in their own schools and a willingness to work amica­bly with the other. The events of this week now give us reason and opportunity to work toward such a situation. 
Scott Cullen is a junior Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
dents (11 0 in the education program) who also take advantage of the classes offered through SMC. Some of these classes are ones that are rarely, if ever, offered through ND, such as dance, sign language, and intro­ductory speech (communication) classes. 
Had Catherine and Stacey been aware of these facts and statistics, we are certain that they would never have jumped to the conclusions they did, nor labeled Saint Mary's "The Great Notre Dame Parasite." For there are 300 Notre Dame students who mill about on the SMC campus and can be deemed "parasites" themselves by the SMC population. 
We challenge you to find a new metaphor to delineate the relationship between ND and SMC-one that truth­fully describes the reciprocity that exists between the two campuses. 
Bridget Bradt Kristy Papesh Seniors, Breen-Phillips Hall Septembcr 15, 1997 

page 10 Thursday, September 18, 1997 
by Ashleigh 

·'>0>: 

Thompson

;~&.<«-·· 



sneaker pimps &aphex twin at the vic 
T
en-year-olds weighted down with goth collars and chains mingled with corporate Chicago, spotlights and smoke, as all waited anxiously for a night of intense European electronica to begin. Surprisingly though, the Vic crowd greeted the Sneaker Pimps Saturday night without any of the hys­teria befitting the Bristol, England. quartet. 
Four male musicians sauntered onto stage and their electronic trip-hop groove soon accompanied the digitalia flashing on the immense screen sus­pended behind them. The entrance of the scantily-clad Kelli Dayton evoked screams and applause, as she inter­mixed crooning with coy smiles. 
ani difranco 

Living In Clip 

(out of five stars) 

L
arry Berger, a member of Ani DiFranco's 
small road crew, penned the title of DiFranco's 
double-live CD, Living l.n Clip. Defined as a 
stage amp's reaction to a signal that is too strong for the amp, living in "clip" describes her per­formance with his apt precision. DiFranco, a native of Buffalo, grew up largely on her own and left horne at the age of 14, her musical career beginning with local performances of Beatles' covers. Now 26 years old, she has released seven albums in seven years with her own label, Righteous Babe Records, and has shunned signing with a major label to preserve her autonomy. 
Her performance is as uncompromising as her busi­ness tactics: it is marked by highly percussive, origi­nal guitar harmonies and pointed, brutally honest lyrics. DiFranco calls herself folk-punk, but her prod­uct encompasses far more. Living In Clip marks her first live release, and it captures every aspect of her music in the natural arena of the live performance. 
DiFranco's lyrics span the entire gamut of human emotions with striking sincerity, as she intersperses humorous stories and sometimes innocent, some­times sarcastic giggles throughout her intense perfor­mance. Whether addressing "ambisexual" encoun­ters, pressures of the music industry and fame, or affirmation of the feminine gender, DiFranco suc­ceeds in presenting her controversial ideas more energetically and incisively than any recognized female lyricist. 
The common division between spoken word, rap and melodic voicings does not exist for DiFranco, and consequently, her lyrics achieve a fresh and inviting rerspective. As she introduces "Hide And Seek," a new song contrasting innocent games of youth with not-so-innocent incidents of youth, DiFranco informs her fans with shy but playful embarrassment that, "this isn't really a song yet ... It's more like a little zygote of a song ... and maybe we could have a sug­gestion box at the door, you know, move the bridge up, change the third verse." Her personality shines through with flair and honesty in "32 Flavors," a playfully biting self-portrait that challenges tlw.listen­er to avoid vacuous stereotyping: "Squint your eyes a little bit closer/l'm not between you and your ambi­tionll'm a poster girl with no posterll am thirty-two flavors and then some/ And I'm beyond your periph­eral vision/So you might want to turn your head/'Causc someday you're gonna get hungry/And eat most of the words you just said." 
However, Ani DiFranco's merits do not end here. Her masterful guitar underpinnings showcase her ability to oxecute intricate hamrner-ons. pull-offs. and harmonics, which are highlighted in "The Diner." DiFranco's dynamic songwriting and ·rhythmic tex­tures are enhanced by the drumming of Andy Stochansky, an impressive percussionist whose often tribal rhythms complement DiFranco's percussive edge perfectly. 
Unfortunately, Sara Lee, of B-52 fame, lays out pre­dictable and bland bass lines that rarely offer any counterpoint to DiFranco's brilliant guitar work (Lee has subsequently been replaced by Jason Mercer, who has toured with DiFranco since the recording.) The appearance of the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Doc Severinsen is also odd, and weakens "Amazing Grace" and "Both !lands," with flimsy and sterile orchestral arrange­ments. 
Despite these minor shortcomings, Ani DiFranco has compiled a noteworthy and unilaterally moving collection of songs and poems on this release, her most compelling effort thus far. She has created and pushed the envelope of her own folk-punk genre, and if Living In Clip is any indication, she is still gaining momentum. Ani DiFranco will be appearing at the Congress Theatre in Chicago on Oct. 18 at 7:30 p.m., and at Hill Auditorium in Ann Arbor on Oct. 19 at 7:30p.m. 
by Joel Cummins 


size 14 

Despite the digital on-screen stimu­lus, the crowd soon noticed that the energy generated on stage remained there, probably because the audience didn't really give them any reason to reciprocate. They swayed and listened with distracted enjoyment, and the set seemed to lose intensity until "Spin, Spin, Sugar" filled the Vic halfway through the show thus causing the collective pulse to strengthen. 
The recent release of their Becoming X, one of the most buyable albums of 1997, earned the Sneaker Pimps a spot on "The Saint" sound­track, resulting in the rise of "6 Underground" to international star­dom in clubs and on MTV. Commercialism aside, the band deserved every bit of the attention. It played the Becoming X tracks with some interesting changes in chord and tempo, only introducing one new track. Lukewarm applause followed the encore, the video graphics ceased and the Sneaker Pimps strolled off. 
An accomplished deejay filled the time in between sets, and the crowds refilled drinks and chatted, hungry in anticipation for the maincourse -a German dish. 
When Aphex Twin linally appeared on stage, sprawled across a couch with one leg dangling over its arm, the audience went wild. With mixers in front of him, he created his unique techno cloud. After several songs, three 20-foot neon bears with identi­cal demonic faces danced onto stage as the music danced around them. Entertaining audiences with their frol­ic, they bounced ar.ound and on each other, interrupted only when a man walked out and proceeded to shave his head for the screaming crowds. The audience radiated appreciation, after almost four hours of standing. 
Both the Sneaker Pimps and Aphcx Twin dolivered quality performances. with the audience as the most signili­cant factor separating them. Regardless of who they came to see though, all surely left contented in the knowledge that technology and music continue to develop, and that talented artists still strive to experiment and entertain. 
Size 14
'when I grow up ... I want feet as big 
· as Linus. Until then, I'll settle for 
playing an air guitar while wearing 
my size 9 1/2 Airwalks and listening to the fun, guitar driven pop of Size 14.' 
The Hollywood-based band's self-titled, debut album captures everything fun about being young, having a good time, and telling it like it is. With song titles such as "Sleeping in the Wet Spot," "Superbabe 2000," and "People Get Really Drunk in Las Vegas," it is clear the band members were not trying to hide the origin of their inspiration when they wrote these songs. Linus, the group's singer and songwriter, embraces good times and geekdorn in all its splendor throughout the album which was produced by Mike Clink (Guns N' Roses). 
Punchy guitars, big hooks, and big choruses are sure to propel this album further up music charts around the country. With a sound similar to the new Foo Fighters and vocals reminiscent of the old cam­
·tctr~~ 
(out of five stars) 

pus band, The Hoad Apples, Size 14's first single, "Claire Danes Poster," was featured as background music for Claire Danes' "Rock the Vote" ad on MTV earlier this year. "Hollin in the 5-1-0" takes jabs at America's obsession with cars by glorifying the band's adventures in a beat up Datsuq 5-1-0 hatch­back. Linus confesses his passion for cheesy love songs in "Formula Guy" which the band also heralds as its manifesto. 
Size 14 are four guys goofing around, having a good time being themselves and encouraging others to do the same. Their attitude translates into a fun, entertaining, guitar-driven album which hopes to become even a fraction as big as Linus' size 14 feet.­
by Nate Rackiewicz 

,­
1 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
' 

page 2 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Thursday, September 18, 1997 
.
' . 
· have an oppor• :-· .. .. ously popular sport, the ··· N-6'tte Diurie/North Carolina l"iv.Alr•.r:~ 
·canyou say you have· .. b~·developed into one of the . . . . the chimc:e·td watch an athletic ii.i'Uiuatseries in the country. Some event pit_ting the o!J;he players are familiar with top twopro~ · each :Other from playing on nation~



r..-J 
grams in the. &teams during the off~season. country against · ~Qth teams respect each other and one ·anothet:? . -looKforward to the challenge of 
How ofteri do facing off to see what they've got. you get see . .Th~ftwo programs have pro~ the NQ~-d .(Jti¢ed arguably the two best No. 4 t;~'m$ face · W<!~wm's players ever. North off in it:liiidsea~ .. (;jatt),lfua's Mia Hamrn helped the son shQ:Wdown? Asmr"'' M<~w"" · United States team to the gold 
How often<d(H~s a game offor so much excitement and entertahnnent the whole fami­ly canenjoy? 
Whe~Oile top-ranked North Carolina women's soccer team comes·:tiHoWii for the first time tomorrow to take on the second-ranked Fighting Irish, all the soc­cer· eyes in America will be focused onAlumni Field. 
And ohly select faps will get to observein person what is sure to be-oli(For the best matchups in any sport this year. The four game!i nfthe adidas!Lady FootloCker Classic have already sold oukhutthe first 300 students will be admitted free. The rest of the country will have to watch on television; 
In the last three meetings between the Tar Heels and the Irish, the contest has been a fight for No. 1. And in each of those three meetings, the second-ranked team has upset the leader. 
In 1995, a Notre Dame win in the Final Four lead to an Irish nation­al championship. Last season in North Carolina. the second-ranked Irish came away with a 2-1 over­time victory and held onto the top ranking until Carolina's 1-0 dou­ble-overtime win in the NCAA finals. 
In what has quickly become an ·1llftda.l at the 1996 Olympics. She -n~\V; advertises shampoo on . . .. national television and was select-·• .etf· as one of People Magazine's 
.. ':5{) ~ost Beautiful People" in May. 
•T.bere are not many female ath-
J~U!$ in a team sport who are as individually known as Hamm is. . Notre Dame's Holly Manthei has surpassed Hamm's women's cone­giate record for career assists. Her ne~t one will be her 100th. Along vvith Jen Renola and Cindy Daws, :Manthei will be remembered as one ofthe by players in Notre Pa;we's recent rise to the top thr()ugh the last five seasons. 
The UNCIUND rivalry is even fea" tured on Carolina's women's soc-c.er· home page in a lengthy story recapping last season's 1-0 don­ble•overtime Tar Heel victory in the NCAA championship game. 
"It was one of those special ath­letiC events that comes along once every year or so, but that people remember forever," Rick Brewer writes. "These women ran full speed for 120 minutes with only a short halftime break. There was only one timeout in each half so they got little rest." 
Friday's game may not take two hours to settle. But every minute the two teams are on the field, it is sure to be exciting, aggressive, satisfying soccer. 
. 



adidas/Lady Fo 

Alumni Field, Se 

Notre Dame 
PLAYER TO WATCH Notre Dame Head Coach: 
Chris Petrucelli 
Notre Dame Record: 
137-18-8 
Season: 
6-0 

Starters Returning: 
7 

Starting Lineup: Forwards: 
9-Monica Gerardo 10-Meotis Erikson 12-Jenny Streiffer 
Midfielders: 
3-Kara Brown 5-Shannon Boxx 8-Anne Makinen 16-Holly Manthei 
Defenders: 
2-Kelly Lindsey 6-Jen Grubb 13-Kate Sobrero 
Goalie: 
1-LaKeysia Beene 

e 

PLAYER TO WATCH 


Duke Coach: 
Bill Hempen 
Record: 

119-65-12 
This season: 
5-0 

Starter returning: 
8 

Starting Lineup: Forwards: 11-Kasey Truman 14-Andi Melde 22-Emily Feeney Midfielders: 2-Kristy Whelchel 3-Mariana Muiruri 6-Kim Daws 10-Sherrill Kester Defenders: 7-Amanda Rerny 16-Lauren Cyran 20-Samantha Baggett Goalie: 1-Dana Piper 



Thursday, September 18, 1997 
-


ocker Classsic 

mber 19 & 21 
North Carolina 
PLAYER TO WATCH UNC Head Coach: 
Anson Dorrance 
Record: 
396-16-10 
Season Record: 
6-0 
Starters Returning: 
8 
Starting Line-up: Forwards: 
7-Robin Confer 18-Raven McDonald 22-Cindy Parlow 
Midfielders: 
12-Aubrey Faulk 21-Laurie Schwoy 30-Rebekah 
McDowell 5-Tiffany Roberts 
Defenders: 
4-Nel Fettig 27 -Staci Wilson 14-Lorrie Fair 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
nior midfielder Tiffany Roberts will be a force to reck­Goalie: with on the outside with her explosive speed. 
1-Siri Mullinix 




Portland 
Portland Head Coach: 
Clive Charles 
Record: 
126-27-8 
Season: 
3-2 
Starters returning: 
10 
Startin Lineup: Forwards: 
14-Kylee Barton 13-Wynne Mcintosh 12-Vanessa Talbot 
Midfielders: 
9-Holly Pierce 4-Jenna Johnson 7 -Justi Baumgardt 11-Michelle French 
Defenders: 
16-Kristen Eaton 3-Sarah Charles 2-Kimberly Stiles 
Goalie: 
00-Angela Harrison 
Courtesy of University of Portland Sports Information 
enior Holly Pierce will team up with senior Justi aumgardt to provide a solid midfield for the Pilots. 
-
the IriSh dtopped the Mxt tyvo .meetings between the · sChools,. Notre Dame ·beat ·North" .. :;r~~WElts.:ALort:JftJ,eof;tle 'Wet~eciltnhap~ Carolfua for the first time en route nl>t'UA<'f•e~ .··to•. tpe>i~95 national championship, ·· Mf:letin.g, in t~l:l semifmals, Notre tiv~~tion:e<tJniing intl:hfrlisJive~~k.. Pami1Hitilized an·own-goal by·North f"'~"l:ln(t'snr{all!le:; ,. .· Carolina to advance to the finals and be'IC'aUtSff" bel}OUle only the S~eond .team ever 
·... . to defeattlfe Tar Heels at home. 
., . .,.,.. u,.,..., . The ·. trii'ih then .~;orifirmed ·. their Ma.vin~t:•.l:ost pla(l~ ~Ifiong t,he nation's ·elite by r~Jil.ll)l'lU;akt~sJls. tle~eating N:ortli Carolina 2~1 in a > regular-season tl',{atch last year to . becoinli the onlyteam ever to beat 
•·tb:e Tat lleels iti consecutive games. .....• While:history is on the side of the ita.r. Heels; the Notre Dame women's 
·• Meter team is poised to regain the top spotin women's collegiate soc-
The Observer/Mike Ruma Tar Heel junior Cindy Parlow's ball skills and accuracy makes her an offensive threat in addition to an already potent lineup. 

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Thursday, September 18, 1997
-
Notre Dame net minder primed for first big test 
By ALLISON KRILLA cism. a leader both on and off the Sports Writer "(LaKeysia) is a great ath­field. She taught me a lot lete and a hard worker," said about how to act out there." 
As the starting goalkeeper head coach Chris Petrucelli. The hard-working Beene for the second-ranked Notre As a freshman in 1996, also trained to better herself Dame women's soccer team, Beene played behind Jen in the off-season, leading a LaKeysia Beene has five Renola, winner of the National Notre Dame-laden U.S. under-shutouts under her belt in this Soccer Coaches Association of 20 women's national team to a young season, having allowed America player of the year Nordic Cup title. In the final, only one goal in six games. award, NCAA Today's Top VIII Beene made six saves, includ­
But having a rock solid selection, Big East scholar ing two goal-saving stops, pre­defense in front of you can athlete of the year and serving a 1-0 overtime victory make any goalie's job seem GTE/CoSIDA FalVWinter at­for the Americans. The win cushy, and even Beene readily large academic all-American gave Beene, who started every admits that she "hasn't been of the year honors, all in 1996. game, her fourth victory and tested at all" this season. On the field, Renola finished third shutout. 
Three-time all-American her storied career as the most "This year, LaKeysia's deci­defender Kate Sobrero, sopho­proficient goalkeeper in Irish sions are a lot better," said more Big East defender of the history with 32 solo and 30 Petrucelli. "She is a lot better week Jen Grubb and freshman shared shutouts, and an over­with her feet. That was one of Kelly Lindsey form an impos­all goals against average of her weaknesses last year." ing wall in front of Beene. 0.69, compiling an 87-8-3 Against top-ranked North 
-"I have a great defense," record and bringing Notre Carolina tomorrow, Beene said Beene. "I have confidence Dame women's soccer into the may finally have her chance to in my defense... Our team national spotlight. shine. just seems to rise to the occa­With Renola's departure, The defending national sion." Beene, the team's only goal­champion Tar Heels bring a Beene has faced a minuscule keeper, has taken her duties wealth of talent and experi­20 shots on goal, recording as a defensive leader in stride. ence to the field, including the only eight saves on the year, "I didn't think about filling 1996 Soccer News player of while the Irish have mastered (Jen Renola's) shoes," said the year, junior Cindy Parlow, the ball control offense, firing Beene, "but just keeping the and 1996 ACC tournament 203 shots at opposing net min­tradition of great goalies at MVP Robin Confer, the team's ders. Notre Dame. It's a lot to live second leading scorer with 50 Since she was 10 years old, up to, and I guess there's a lit­points. Beene, a sophomore from tle pressure." Finally, those outside the Gold River, Calif., has been a The year Beene spent learn­Notre Dame soccer circles will force to reckon with on the ing from a master has paid see what Petrucelli and the soccer field. Beene played great dividends. Fighting Irish have already halfback for the first three "Jen always had great com­seen; the goalie of the future years of her career before posure · when things got doing what she can do best ­making the move into the net, tough," said Beene. "She was making the big saves that a tribute to her pure athleti-a leader, a leader on defense, keep the Irish in the game. 


Running a powerhouse 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 
According to Notre Dame women's soc­cer head coach Chris Petrucelli, what makes a great coach are the players he guides. 
If the definition is true, you will find only a select few in the women's soccer community who fulfill this criteria. 
· Petrucelli is one of them. Under his eye, he has guided the 1996 NSCAA player of the year, nine all-Americans, nine Soccer America freshman all-Americans, seven NCAA all-tournament team members, 12 members of the all-Big East conference team, and the Big East rookie of the year, not to mention numerous other award winners throughout the seven years in which he has been the head coach. 
"My moments are a lot different than other people's," Petrucelli said of his highlights throughout his term here. "My moment was when Jen Renola told me that she was going to come to Notre Dame and when Holly Manthei told me. Those are my moments because this all about players and having great players. You are a great coach when you have 
Irish walked away victorious, 2-0. Lately, point." nation. Along the way, he has been hon­great players." 
the Irish have been victorious in the field Sophomore Jenny Streiffer is one ored with several awards includingIn 1988, Notre Dame welcomed a of recruiting as well. Petrucelli's top finds in the past few back-to-hack NSCAA coach of the yearwomen's soccer program. Just two years "He does great one-on-one with the years. Streifier caught the soccer world's accolades in 1994 and 1995, as well as 
later, then-athletic director Dick 
kids, and that is why he does great in eye with her winning-goal performance the 1996 Big East coach of the yearRosenthal hired a young Petrucelli to recruiting," said Hempen. "It seems like against North Carolina in the regular award. 
take the program to a new level. He did lately we have been losing out to him." season. Petrucelli's record at Notre Dame is 
just that, and in five short years, the Recruiting plays a vital part in being a "What attracted me most was the over­137-18-8, with an .860 winning percent­women's program won the national title. 
national contender. In the past few years, all success of the program. I didn't know age that is second-best among NCAA "When I came here, I came here with Petrucelli has managed to sign the best much about him at first but it seemed Division I women's soccer coaches. 
the goal of winning a national champi­crop of players in the nation. like everybody liked him," she said. But for the modest Petrucelli, his play­onship," Petrucelli said. "It was my goal "Right now, we are looking for the best Streiffer characterized Petrucelli as ers, not the honors, will forever deter­from the day I interviewed here. Dick players in the country every year," "really dedicated." Often times he would mine his coaching ability. 
[Rosenthal] said that's the kind of coach 
Petrucelli said. "That's what we are try­come to practice minutes after stepping 


we are looking for." 
ing to recruit every year. We have never off a plane on a recruiting visit. Petrucelli was coming off a six-year worried about what position they played, "He works incredibly hard," said 
stint as assistant men's soccer coach at how big they were, how small they were, Streiffer. "I think he is a lot more honest 
Old Dominion where current Irish men's anything like that." than any coach I have ever come across." 
soccer coach Mike Berticelli was head One thing which Petrucelli prides him­The majority of the team feels that one coach. The two of them guided Old self on is the academic draw that his of the best attributes of Petrucelli is his 
Dominion to a mark of76-27-17. 
program can boast. honesty.
His collegiate career was spent at the "There are two things which attract "He was very honest and well respect­University of North Carolina at players," Petrucelli said. "One is you are ed," said senior Kate Sobrero. "No one Greensboro. In 1982 and 1983, he going to get a great education here, and bad mouthed him. His name is well 
helped his team capture back-to-hack two is you are going to have a chance to respected by the coaches and his knowl­Division III titles. 
compete for a national championship. If edge of the game is what attracted me to Throughout the years, Petrucelli has you put those two things together there the program." 
built up a rivalry with friend and Duke are very few places where you could find In seven short years, Petrucelli has women's soccer head coach Bill Hempen. 
that combination. We are obviously one turned a fledgling program into one of In the iast meeting in October 1996, the of them. So that really is big selling the top women's soccer programs in the 
Editor: Kathleen Lopez Assistant Editor: Allison Krilla Production: Mark DeBoy Photography: Brandon Can dura Cover: Mark DeBoy and Mike Ruma Advisor: Mike Day 


spiritualized Ladies and Gentlemen, We are Floating in Space 

(out of five stars) 

A 
part from an interesting packaging concept, no definable edge, nothing that encourages the rapt
I I 
Spiritualized offers an enjoyable album attention of anybody who happens to be listening. 
which has its moments but falls short of This is good background music but not the sort of 
being brilliant. thing for which one is going to rush home from class,
Spiritualized® 
Sounding rather like Primal Scream in a certain meaning that failure to capture and hold an audience 
kind of mood, Ladies and Gentlemen ... is mostly condemns the album to be treated with indifference. 
memorable for its combination of slow, almost spo­A better version of all this comes in the form of 
ken lyrics with varying degrees of background inten­Primal Scream's classic "Screamadelica," and 
sity; on some tracks, "Broken Heart" for example, Spiritualized suffers badly in comparison to its pre­
languid, minimal accompaniments provide a pleas­decessors in this regard; unfortunately Ladies and 
ant change from the more industrial wall of noise Gentlemen ... contains a track entitled "Come 
found elsewhere. Instrumental pieces such as "The · Together," as did "Screamadelica," and this is most 
Individual" and "No God Only Religion" are relatively revealing. Primal Scream's song was a brilliantly 
mediocre and do not instill a desire in the listener for produced and unforgettable exercise in ambient-rock 
repeat playing, while the vocal tracks are mixed in excellence, while Spiritualized's number is a let 
their quality. "I Think I'm in Love," perhaps the down by utter predictability. There may be improve­
highlight of the album, has a subtle bass motif which ment in the future for the latter band. but for the 
is perfect.ly suited to the well-produced and harmo­time being it is probably best for us to save our 
nious vocals, while, on the other hand, the slightly money and wait for something better. 
annoying lyrics contained within "All of My 
Thoughts" sound very similar to the mediocre eels by Julian Elliot 
Ladies and gentlemen we are floating in space 
1 tablet 70 min 
album Beautiful Freak. Courtesy of Arista Records The biggest problem with Spiritualized is that it has 
~~'c(,"f~



holy cows Blueberrie 
(out of five stars) 


T 
he Holy Cows are a guitar-centered band with to be, but written in spite of them. The guitar riffs heavy influences by The Replacements and are distinctive and sound like a band which deserves Uncle Tupelo. The band formed 10 years ago much more than limited playing time on local radio when its four members were, in high school in stations. Song eight, "Larry (Your Garbage Man)," Chelsea, Mich.. just outside of Detroit. They survived clearly shows the band's confidence in taking on the simple test that most high school bands fail: stay­mature composition elements, such as a guitar solo ing together after graduation. Their latest offering, that does not detract from the lyrics. Also it is evident Blueberrie, has the feeling of your best friend's that the vocals do not take themselves more seriously garage band finally making it. Possessing a very inti­than the music. mate, sincere, and somewhat edgy sound, the 11-Overall, the Holy Cows have a character and dis­song album has a continuity that demonstrates the tinctive skill that manages to remind us what rock band's experience in song writing. was about before the grunge explosion, and the 
Even after the second listen, you find yourself album has a refreshing new feeling as well. The Holy singing along to the hooks that vocalist John Cows are definitely a band on its way up and out to 
-
Popovich wails out. The heart of sincerity of this mainstream. Hopefully they won't lose that "my album takes its cue from his vocals, with the emotive friend's band" feel that they manage to distill into wail of another Midwestern son of the soil, Dave every song. Perner, but without the voice cracking more in place at a junior high cafeteria. There are fine examples of this in "Punched a Friend" and "Dear Abigail." The by Dominic Caruso songs were clearly not written around these hooks, as much grunge and post-grunge song-writing seems 
Sept. 19 Magic House (Detroit) Sept. 28 House Of Blues (Chicago) Sept. 30 Mesker Music Center (Evansville) 
Local H/Fig Dish/Triple Fast Action Oct. 18 The Vic (Chicago) Foo Fighters Oct. 21 Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Third Eye Blind/Reef Oct. 22 Metro (Chicago) The Refreshments Oct. 26 The Vic (Chicago) Big Head Todd & The Monsters Oct. 31 Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Dinosaur Jr. Oct. 31 Metro (Chicago) U2 Oct. 31 Pontiac Silverdome (Pontiac) Sarah Mclachlan/Lisa Loeb Nov. 8 Rosemont Theatre (Chicago) 


1. 
Chisel-You Free 

2. 
Radiohead-OK Computer 

3. 
Man Or Astroman?-Made From Technetium . Grifters-Full Blown Possession 


5. 
Polvo-Shapes 

6. 
Jon Specer Blues Explosion-Controversial Negro 

7. 
Stereolab-Dots And Loops 

8. 
Teenage Fanclub-Songs From Northern Ireland 

9. 
Yo La Tengo-I Can Hear The Heart Beating As One 

10. 
Luna-Pup Tent 


' 


2. 
Soundtrack-"I Know What You Did Last Summer" 

3. 
Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot 

4. 
Crystal Method-Vegas 

5. 
Teenage Fanclub-Songs from Northern Ireland 

6. 
Save Ferris-It Means Everything 

7. 
Oasis-Be Here Now 

8. 
Reel Big Fish-Keep Your Receipt (EP) 

9. 
The Refreshments-The Bottle & Fresh Horses 

10. 
Tanya Donnelly-Love for Underdogs 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 18, 1997 
-•MU3 

Braves cruise into postseason 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA The team of the '90s isn't ready to give up its title just yet. 
The Atlanta Braves became the first major-league team to clinch six straight postseason appearances and also set a record with their 12th grand slam of the year, using a nine­run first inning to cruise p_ast the New York Mets 10-2 Wednesday night. 
Ryan Klesko hit the slam, Jeff Blauser added a three-run homer and Greg Maddux picked up his 19th victory for the Braves, who have been in the playoffs every completed season since 1991 and are assured at least a wild-card berth in the National League. 
The Braves reduced their magic number to six over Florida for winning a sixth straight division title. Atlanta holds a six-game lead in the NL East over the Marlins, who split a doubleheader with Philadelphia. 
Atlanta equaled its season high for runs in an inning, scor­ing nine for the third time after New York jumped to a 1-0 lead against Maddux (19-4}. Mets starter Bobby Jones (14-9) failed to get an out and was removed after walking four of the eight batters he faced. The right-hander threw only 13 strikes in 34 pitches. 
After Kenny Lofton and Blauser walked, Jones made a low throw to second on Chipper Jones' grounder back to the mound for an error that loaded the bases. Fred McGriff walked to force in a run and Klesko fol­lowed with his 24th homer into the left-center seats to make it 5-l. The Braves eclipsed the major-league record of 11 grand slams. set last season by Seattle and Baltimore. 
The Braves weren't done. Michael Tucker and Eddie Perez singled and Tony Graffanino walked to load the bases again, bringing on Yorkis Perez from the bullpen. After Maddux struck out, Lofton made it 6-1 on a sacrifice Oy and Blauser homered into the left-field stands. 
Klesko tied a career high with four hits, and Tucker had three. 
That made things easy for Maddux, who moved within one victory of his third 20-win sea­son with two starts to go. He allowed only four hits in six innings and didn't walk anyone for the fourth start in a row. The four-time Cy Young Award winner has just 19 walks in 224 2-3 innings and lowered his ERA to 2.20. 
The Mets scored their only run off Maddux in the first when Carl Everett led off with a single, moved to third with one out on John Olerud's hit-and­run single and came home on Bernard Gilkey's saerilice fly. 
Butch Huskey hit his 24th homer for the Mets in the sev­enth. 
Phillies 5, Marlins 2 
MIAMI 
Rookie Garrett Stephenson pitched eight strong innings for his first win since Aug. 6, and the Philadelphia Phillies beat the Florida Marlins 5-2 Wednesday in the lirst game of a double-header. 
Florida first baseman Darren Daulton's first-inning error led to two unearned runs for his former team. Philadelphia's Midre Cummings went 4-for-5 with two singles, a triple and an RBI double that broke a 2-2 tie in the second inning. 
The Marlins fell six games behind Atlanta in the NL East. and their lead over the New York Mets and San Francisco Giants in the wild-card race was reduced to 5 1/2 games. 
The double-header was the Phillies' third since Friday. They split the other two. Only about 2,000 fans were in the stands when the game began. 
Stephenson (7-6), who spent two weeks on the disabled list at the end of August. earned his lirst win in four starts. allowing five hits and two runs. 
•NBA 

Rodman worms way to n.ew contract 
By BRIAN BERGS:rEiN 
Associated Press Writer·-' 
CHICAGO 

Basketball bad boy Dennis Rodman made the Chicago Bulls an offer that sounded too good to be true: They could pay him nothipg for any games he might miss for kick­ing a cameramlj.tj, head­butting areferee orany other inappropriate antics. 
But Rodman's agent said the NBA won't allow the deal. That leaves the gangly for­ward known as "The Worm" still trying to wriggle into another season withMichael Jordan and th~ 1 ?f the .tea.m tha.t has \\'0 . eNBA 
;;::;;. championship~ in, .·..·.. 90s. A~< The •Bulls want Rodman, 36, and his multi~olored hair because he is a tenacious defender who ha.sJed the league in rebounding for six straight seasons. The problem is that Rodman. as h~ loyes to tell ever~one, is 'at tirp¢s uncon~ 
Ttroll~~~~· Lik!:l'lii;<~iZ(.l.rto, S1,!perl9-.an'~, ~yt~ d9u~le, 
Rodman can pe th¢ opposite of the all·AmeticantJordan. whose clean-cut magll.ificence has given the Bulls ·an enor~ mous worldwide following. 
Rodman was suspended for 14 games last season for kicking a courtside camera­man, using an expletive in a live postgame television inter­view and striking Milwaukee's Joe Wolf in the 
·groin. 
The year before. he was suspended for six games for head~butting a referee. 
While the Bulls were in Salt Lake City for the NBA Finals in June, Rodman made derogatory comments about Mormons. That drew a $50,000 fme -the largest in NBA history. 
Off the court, he dresses in drag and says he fantasizes about playing his final NBA game naked. He's titled his two books "Bad As I Wanna Be" and "Walk on the Wild Side." He was Hulk Hogan's tag-team partner in a profes­sional wrestling match this summer. 
Last summer, Rodman signed a one~year contract with the Bulls for around $9 milllon. Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf has said he would re-sign Rodman only if it's clear that bad behavior won't be tolerated. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 ---cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours 
Mon.·Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. 
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Sat's) 
Phone 631-COPY 
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast Home Rooms Available 1 0 Miles from Stadium 888·226-5545 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lose a set of keys to room 407? ask Carlo at x1862 
LOST! Silver Bracelet w/ "sisters" charm. Patti x-1363 
Lost Saturday before game: 
Black Fuji SmartDeluxe camera 
Near Portable Toilets in Parking 
Lot. If found. please call: 
Rachel x 1467 
A silver bracelet with a "sisters" charm was found Thursday September 4. Call 4-1271 to claim it. 

WANTED 
Wanted: Ride for one from Clay High School to SMC, MW. 2:45 pm, $6 per ride. Call233·4581 or 631· 5068. 
A New Offensive Coordinator. 
Childcare needed for 8-yr. old. 
Wed, Thurs. Fri. 3:00·5:00 pm. 
Transportation necessary. Call 
Angela 234-2211 day, 271-(:;224 
eve. 

FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
YOU WILL LOVE this SPACIOUS 1 bedrm with FIREPLACE & OAK FLOORS. Extra storage available. $395 mo .. dep. & ref. 219·234-5996 (Get your Dad to buy this STATELY 4-unit and you will live FREE!) 
Rent thru May 3 bed on Barron Lake $600 furnished 1 bed $450 616-683·5195 
RENT FOR FOOTBALL GAME WEEKENDS 3 BED & 1 BED 219· 234-9836 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · 5 MIN. DRIVE OR tS-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1·800-418-9487. 
bed & breakfast football weekends near ND 272-5989 

FOR SALE 
SALE HOME ON BARRON LAKE $220,000 616-792-5520 
Need MSU STU. TICKETS??? CALL BEN @ X2380 OR NICOLE@ X2813 
1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio, AJC, pwr windows/locks, pwr steering, 137 klmi, drives like a dream, for 1875 or best offer. call 634-3660 ask for Henry 
Car must sell. Ford Tempo 1991 . 4-door, air, very good condition. $2800 or b/o. Call Emidio 631-8594 

TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551 
Looking for GA's to Any & All ND Games! Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game for LSU. Call 634-4872 
GAs FOR SALE toMS, Ml, BC, &wv 288·3975 
Wanted: ND Football Tickets Discreet Buyer · Call 1·800-255· 2850 
NEED 4 MSU GA'S CALL KATE 243-1 089 NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's call 284·5198 will pay$$$ 
Married Student TIX For Sale 273·3844 
HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED Mich/USC. CAll Mel4-1349 if want to sell/trade!! 
Need 2 Mich St tx call Sean 273·3227 
HELP! Need 3 MSU GA/stud upgrades. Call Dave @ 243·1868 
4sale: 2GA's for MS 40yd line Call: 634-4612 
NEED 5 USC GAs, all together or 4 if not, call Dave 246-1131 
2 WV GA's and 1 set married student Ticket for sale. Call 273-4372. 
Married Student TIX For Sale 273-3844 
SALE STUD TIX BOOK. 273-8262. 
2 student tckt. bklts for sale. Asking $200. Can be sold separately. Call 271-0898. 
GA's MichSt & married student tix for sale 273-1997 
I need 1 ticket for MSU and 2 for 
usc. 
Jim· 271·6005 
2 STUD TICKET BOOKLETS FOR SALE, for $180 each. (You need ID!) Call ASAP 44465 
Michigan St. GA Tickets For Sale Best Offer Jeremy at 612·427-3444 
4 SALE 2 MSU GA'S, LOW $$ CALL GEOFF @283-0613 
USC GA FOR SALE! 50 YD LINE· BEST OFFER 271·7458 
For Sale: 2 Michigan State STUDENTtix call Jenny @ 687-8435 

2 USC Tickets Needed Call Pete @ 4·0954 
CHEAP Married Stud Tix 2830920 
need 2 BC GA's call jen @ x0849 need michigan st. tix call anne @ x2674 
need 3 MICHIGAN STATE tix call BRENT 4-3489 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 
BUY · SELL · TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI· VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service. 
Call 234·5650. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 
FOR SALE 
DAYTIME#: 232·2378 
EVENING #: 288-2726 
ND TICKETS WANTED 
DAYTIME#: 232·2378 
EVENING#: 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Michigan State game!!! Please call Amy at 810-355·9140. 
ND Alum 2 pay TOP $$ 4 USC TIX! 410·737-6115 
Local Models Needed for Nail Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to 
New York! 18 to enter! No cost or obligation. Call 679-4745 for details by Sept. 20. 
Papa's coming to town!! For the love of GOD!!! I need just 1 Michigan State GA. Please help. CALL TONY @ 4-2195 
Student Ticket Booklet for Sale.27H715 
MSU stud. tix for sale! 288-3758 
NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK. 800-243-9683. 
Exchange 2 Stanford GA's for 2 MSU GA's x3696 
Please help me! Need 2 Student GAs in senior sec­tion for Mich. St. 243-1806 
NEEDED: 1 MSU ticket Will pay$$$ Call Brian ©4-1680 
2 MSU GA's 4 sale· 271·7458 
SALE. Student Tix ·unsigned. Good seat. 232-5846 
ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME GAMES AND LSU CALL MIKE 800-991-0525 
For sale: 2 USC GA's in sec.118. Leave a message with best offer. 201·666·61 02 

PERSONAL 
NEEDED: a supervisor of a local grade school CHESS CLUB. If interested call Maureen @ 277· 7821 
thanks for talking clarke 
Hey! Come have dinner on us at Greenfields Cafe on Wed., Sept. 
24. We'd like to hear your ideas about the Huddle, North & South Dining Halls. Waddicks, Cafe Poche and Common Sandwich Company. We'll also fill you in on plans for the exciting new South Dining Hall Food Market opening next year. Reservations required and seating is limited. Call Food Services at 631·5589 for more info. 
X-RAY ROGER JIMMY is back at CORBY'S on 9/19 and CHEER'S on 9/20. 
whats up baby, the dynamic due is back in action! 
i need to lose weight. these guys are scary 
boxing makes you more popular 
where was the irish stout? got to work those arms 
whats the matter chris, can't handle practice anymore? we told lucas that you were making fun of him. he siad that you get jab practice with ryan on thursday. he he he. 
my arms hurt, and 300 situps is just cruel. and yes, for your information, it does still hurt! 
help help' my foots on fire. 
boxing increases your chances of winning the lottery 
photo joe need help watching nude yoda. thank you for your support 
So you thought that Riverdance was great and would like to give Irish Dance a try? Here's your chance! An Irish Dance club is forming and if you would like to be a part of the inaugral year call Patrick at 1651. Experience would be great but none necessary. All lev­els welcome. 
sorry this took so long pat dog 
boxing makes you a more produc­tive person 
The Observer staff fully supports Bob Davie and Jim Colleto and their coaching decisions. You really should too. 
The Alumni Senior Club is the only place to be on Thursday nights. At least that's what I hear And they have some pretty cool bartenders. Especially the one named Tony. 
i wanna be there ... 
I'm not a sucka so I don't need a bodyguard. 
Mehod Man 
They actually turned off "Party of Five" for Bob Davie. Guess Scott Wolfe isn't all that after all. 
I'm Rob Base, the one who knows about things. 
Support Nebraska football. 
Then see a shrink. 
Here come the MISs. 
Brenda and Eddie were the popular sieadies and the king and the queen at the prom. 
got boxing? 


--~-------~-....-------........ --~ --~ 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-
•Mus 



White Sox easily top Royals behind the Big Hurt 

New York's Nos. 7-9 batters, were a combined 8-for-11. 
Bobby Higginson homered for the Tigers, who lost for just the fourth time in 14 games. 
Ramiro Mendoza (7-6) limit­ed the Tigers to live hits in six innings for just his second vic­tory in nine decisions. 
New York strung together five straight singles in the sec­ond to take a 3-0 lead, but scored just twice off rookie Brian Moehler (11-11 ). Charlie Hayes was thrown out trying to take third on Chad Curtis' HBI single, and after Posada drove in another run, Tim Raines grounded into an inning-end­ing double play to crush a potentially big inning. 
Detroit got a run back in the fourth on Damion Easley's leadoff double and Tony Clark's BBI single. 
Higginson's career-high 27th homer brought the Tigers within 4-2 in tho sixth. With one out, Higginson, who hit 26 homers last year, ripped an 0­1 pitch into the seats in right. 
Mendoza then walked Clark, but escaped trouble by getting Travis Fryman to ground into a double play. 
In the sixth, Curtis hit a lead­off double and Posada, making his 12th start behind the plato with Joe Girardi sidelined with a fractured finger tip, hit his fourth homer. 
New York took a 1-0 lead in the first when Raines tripled leading off on a ball that cen­ter fielder Brian Hunter should have cut off, and scored on Derek Jeter's groundout. 
Moehler was charged with four runs and 11 hits in four­plus innings to lose for the first time in four starts. He was making his sixth start since coming off the disabled list Aug. 22. 

Use Observer Classifieds 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out•of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 

...
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 (219) 232-8444 

Associated Press worked seven innings to pick eighth with single off Scott Kansas City opened the scor­
up the victory. He gave up four Service (0-2), and moved to ing in tho first on Chili Davis' 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. runs and five hits in the first second on Dave Martinez's career-high 30th homer, and 
Frank Thomas had a two­three innings, but only two hits sacrifice. Ray Durham beat out Chicago took a 2-0 lead in the run. two-out single in the in the last four. He had six a high bouncer to first, and second on Ray Durham's 10th eighth inning as the Chicago strikeouts and walked one. Mike Cameron walked to load home run. White Sox beat the Kansas City Keith Foulke pitched the the bases for Thomas. The White Sox added two Hoyals 8-4 on Wednesday final two innings for his second Chicago added two runs in runs in the third on RBI singles night. save. the ninth on RBI singles by by Martin and Martinez, and 
.Jamos Baldwin (12-14) Norberta Martin led off the Martinez and Jorge Fabregas. Kansas City tied it in the bot­

Parmesan Cheese Crust•Garlic Butter Crust Extra Pizza Sauce • Side of Banana Peppers 
J~f'~·.·~~~ ;'~~.·~],~ 
··.·::.·:, 
52750 U.S. 33N. (Between Cleveland and Darden) 




:------------------4;:1 

(Serving Saint Mary's) 
FREE DELIVERY 
I 

I.UJII $3. ONlY I I 
ON CAMPUS No coupon necessary 
: Italian • Ham & Cheese • Steak & Cheese• :
~~)?tflc®1@@. 
Excludes other offers Delivery extra If not on cam­1 Veggie • Chicken Club 1 r pus Limited Time Offer 
IPlus Tax Where Applicable. Delivery Extra if 011 Campus. I IExcludes Other Offers M.5o I . 
•Minimum order for delivery $7.00• 
L--------------------~' 
tom of the inning on Davis' two-run double and Dean Palmer's RBI double. 
Yankees 6. Tigers 2 
NEW YORK 
Jorge Posada homered and drove in a career-high four runs and Chad Curtis had four hits as the New York Yankees cut Baltimore's AL East lead to four games with a 6-2 victory over Detroit on Wednesday night. 
Posada went 3-for-4 with a two-run homer as the Yankees matched a season-high with their fifth straight victory. Baltimore dropped an 8-3 deci­sion to Milwaukee, the Orioles' sixth loss in nine games. 
The Yankees reduced their magic number to qualify for the postseason to two, pending the outcome of Anaheim's late game with Oakland. 
Curtis went 4-for-4 and scored three runs and Paul O'Neill was 3-for-4 for New York, which improved to 7-1 against Detroit this season. Curtis, Posada and Andy Fox, 
--~----~ ---~ 
~­
' 

page 14 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL Thursday, September 18, 1997 
t ­
I 

Women looking to flag down a championship
I 
BP The young and inexperienced After finishing last season Badin Hall team will rely on it's 
Women•s IH Football Preseason Poll
around the .500 mark, Breen­defense when it opens the· sea­Phillips heads into the first week son against Howard Hall on Sept. of the Women's Interhall season 24 after a first week bye. The 
Sunday 9/21 12 p.m. BP vs. Pangborn
with one goal in mind: to be bet­offense is lead by returning QB ter than last year. According to Priscilla Clements and RB 
West Quad 1 p.m. Off Campus vs. PE 
Natalie Kelley, a junior running­Stephanie So and hopes to get a back for Breen-Phillips, this task spark from freshman WR Betsy 
2 p.m. Lewis vs. Farley 
can be accomplished despite the Cavo. LB Kelly Cavanaugh and 
3 p.m. McGlinn vs. Welsh Family
fact that they are a young team. DL Tammy Shuk, along with DB "We're a young team, but our Courtney Tobais in the sec­
4 p.m. Lyons vs Walsh
freshman are very talented and ondary, will lead the defense. we plan on showing up on 
5 p.m. Cavanaughvs.Howa~
Sunday to play football," said Lyons Kelley, Breen-Phillips' co-cap­You've won the Women's tain. Interhall Championship the last 
The team has not participated three years in a row, but this in any scrimmages yet, but they year you've got a whole new set 
Monday 9/22 7 p.m. PW vs. Farley
feel they will be ready enough of coaches to work with. Is a for their game on Sunday against repeat out of the question? 
Stepan 8 p.m. Off Campus vs. Welsh Family
Pangborn regardless. Senior co-captain of Lyons' lnterhall football team. Angie 
9 p.m. Lewis vs. McGlinn 
P.W. Fister, doesn't believe so. "Our 
The Pasquerilla West Purple new coaches have a lot of new Weasels have high hopes for this ideas for this season. It feels new upcoming season and with very right now in the beginning, but good reason. The team returns they kept a lot of the basics so all but two seniors from last we're getting used to it," stated 
Tuesday 9/23 7 p.m. Badin vs. Walsh 
year's team which boasted a 4-2 Fister. record and advanced to the play­In addition to the coaching 
Stepan 8 p.m. Cavanaugh vs. Pangborn
off semifinals before being elimi­changes made prior to the sea­nated by Pasquerilla East. The son, Lyons also has made several 
9 p.m. Lyons vs. BP 
success of the team will rest roster changes. After losing a largely on the shoulders of starter to a varsity sport and superstar QB Liz McKillop and another to an injury, the team McGlinn begin.s its season Walsh will be looking to its fresh­the Pyros arc a force to be reck­RB Alison Kreigel. Defensive has been moving players around Sunday against Walsh Hall. men to fill key positions. Morrill oned with. lineman Mary Hepburn and DB to fill in the gaps. This didn't hin­Captains of the team are said, "We have a lot of freshmen Christine Oberholzer will lead a der their performance on McGlinn residents Clarissa with experience who look pretty Off Campus talented Purple Weasels defense. Monday when they scrimmaged Zepeda, Patty Sullivan, Sandra strong. Things look pretty posi­"Crime will run rampant." Also, look for the strong fresh­and beat Howard. Sanchez, and Ililary Kisling. tive, but we need to practice Captain of the Off-Campus Crime men class to make contributions Key returnees for McGlinn are more to be better able to work Ann DuBay says this year's team on both offense and defense. Pangborn quarterback Courtney Blake, as a team." will turn some heads and crack 
One of the most difficult things linebacker Mary Claire Kenney, Neeley said, "We just want to some ribs. Jon Hoe, a fifth year Howard about football is rebuilding after wide receiver and running back go out and play hard and, hope­senior and walk-on softball play­While others wish they had losing players from the previous Kristen Langan, running back fully. the wins will take care of­er, was "recruited" to serve as more time to prepare for the year. This happened to Sanchez, backfielders Jess Coseo themselves." the Crime's quarterback. "She's upcoming season, Howard's Pangborn's Interhall football and Siobhan O'Brien, and got a gun, and we're going to Interhall football team is anxious team, which lost several seniors Zepeda and Sullivan on the Farley connect like Legos," wide receiv­to get back into the thick of because of graduation. They, defensive line. There are also a Farley Hall will be trying to er DuBay said. The team center, things. Howard's season ended_ however, have been able to over­number of strong freshmen on make a fresh start this year. Sarah Quell. has Notre Dame last year with a loss in the play­come this with the help of many the team. McMullen said, "I Last year's record was 0-4-2, football in her blood; her father offs. It was the first time that the returning sophomores. think we should do pretty well. and the team has new coaches Steve was the center for the team had been in the playoffs in Senior co-captain Cindy We're real excited about the sea­and many new players. 1975 Irish football team. The the last three years. This year Santana believes that this year's son, and we should be ready to Coaches for Farley are Mike Off-Campus team has high though, senior co-captain Jen team could be stronger than last go by Sunday." Garko and Luke Kammerzell. expectations for their halfback, Branigan, believes that they year's. "In our (Pangborn) scrim­Garko said, "On ofTense, we will Kathy Dufts, who is a threat to have the talent to surpass last mage, we put everything togeth­Cavanaugh be passing a lot. We plan to be score every time she touches the year's performance. er offensively and defensively. Cavanaugh Hall is looking to an aerial attack force. We also ball. With live exceptional coach­
According to Branigan, Our players seemed more improve on last year's 2-4 sea­have a solid defensive team." es and an extremely athletic Howard expects to perform like focused and were running our son with veteran players and Elizabeth Parker, Tracy Haley, group of women. DuBay had they did in their scrimmage on plays smoothly," said Santana of new coaches. Its captains are and Kelli Shannon are captains. total confidence in the crime. Monday against Walsh in which their defeat of Farley (15-0) this Molly Ott and Kristin Patrick. Parker said, "We have a pre­they won. Julie Wernick. a past Sunday. "Cavanaugh will have a pretty dominantly freshman team, Lewis sophomore linebacker, and Combined with the new faces diverse offense this year. We especially on offense. On The Lewis Chickens, 5-2 last Rebecca Murray, a sophomore on the field, will be the strategies have an excellent quarterback defense, we will be operating season, will be led by captain runningback, led the team to vic­of three new coaches. and excellent new coaches. On with two linemen, two backers, Kelli Donohue, linebacker tory with outstanding defense defense, we should be very tough two corners, and two safeties. Maurine "Evil Ca" Neville, and and touchdown respectively. McGlinn and very experienced. We plan Hight now, we're trying to be an experienced fourth year Howard will have the opportuni­McGlinn Hall hopes to kick off on contending for the champi­real optimistic and teach new quarterback Liz Talerico. ty to display their talent this its first season as a dorm with a onship," said Patrick. players the plays. They seem Donohue expressed tremendous Sunday when they face quality football team. Head Top returning players for very fired up. We are expecting a confidence in this years .group of Cavanaugh. coach Steve McMullen said, Cavanaugh are quarterback lot out of them." ladies, and said, "We're really 
"We're ready to build a new tra­Katie King, tailback Carrie Top veterans arc Kelli going to win it [the champi­
Badin dition." Gulick, Katie McCoyd on the Shannon at safety, Elizabeth onship]. I'm serious. I know defensive and offensive lines, Brown and Tracy Haley on everyone says they'll win it, but flanker Megan McNally, and defense, and Jen Hoss on the we really will." Lewis said they receiver Allison Krilla. defensive line. run a finesse offense and will try 
Ortega said, "I think we've Garko said, "Since it's basically some trick plays. Defenses seen how productive our offen­a young team, we're hoping to beware. With a strong returning sive can be. Getting all our turn Farley's program around. defensive unit, Lewis will be in weapons together and passing We're going to start a dynasty." strong contention for the title, more should help us. We are but the offense is still a bit of a really looking to score this year." P. E. question mark. 
Cavanaugh won a scrimmage Pasquerilla East co-captains Monday versus McGlinn 13-6. and roommates Elizabeth Welsh The regular season begins Plummer and Ann Scarly intend Welsh Family Hall is preparing Sunday against Howard. to carry on the Pyros' winning to start a winning tradition. 
tradition. Last year the Pyros Captain Jody Lucena says this Walsh had a successful 8-1 season, los­year's team is rebuilding, due to Attempting to build on a win­ing their only game in the cham­a loss of eight offensive players ning season is Walsh Hall, which pionship against Lyons. P.E.'s from last year's team (Siegfried). went 3-2-1 last year in interhall strength lies in its swarming Howev~r the new faces are football. defense led by a group of fierce "looking sweet." This year's Returning as head coach is and fiery sophomores. P.E.'s offense, although young and 
Shannon Neeley. Sara Morrill, powerful defensive line hopes to inexperienced, has tremendous Luz Maria Rodriguez, and have a major impact on the enthusiasm and is already look­Carolyn Parnell are team cap­games, creating pressure on the ing better than it has in previous tains. Neeley said, "Walsh will opposing quarterbacks that years. Lucena made it clear that have a quick passing offense leads to vital turnovers. The an enormous victory was the with different formations this Pyros have a great corp of fresh­only suitable way to start their year. As far as 'D' goes, it is a men and are really deep on new tradition. defense designed not to give up offense. "We're also hoping our the big play." hallback Ann [Searly] will draw 
Top players from last year are more defensive attention, then Rodriguez at wide receiver, we can air it out. They have to 
Stories by Kathleen O'Brien,

Morrill at defensive back and respect her, because if she turns 
Matt Yung, Paul

Parnell at quarterback. With the corner, she's gone." With 
Diamantopoulos and Brad

only two returning seniors, most of their players returning, 
Rodriques. 



Men•s IH Football Preseason Poll  
Sunday 9/21 Stepan North 1 p.m. Keough vs. Alumni 2 p.m. Stanford vs. Dillon 3 p.m. Off Campus vs. Ke~nan Stepan South 1 p.m. Siegfried vs. Fisher 2 p.m. Zahm bye 3 p.m. Knott vs. Sorin Sunday 9/28 Stepan North 1 p.m. Morrissey vs. Stanford 2p.m. Keough vs. Keenan 3p.m. Dillon.vs. Off Campus Stepan South II vs. Zahm c-;~~,.... 4''"''"'·~ vs. Sorin bye  

Thursday, September 18, 1997 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 15 
Men•s I H Football Preseason Poll 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5.

.


6.·.. 
7 . .. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Each team begins the season with hopes of making it to the championship team, held at Notre Dame Stadium. 

13. 


Men's interhall squads vie for bragging rights 
Dillon 
Dillon llall. coming off of a disappointing 1-2-1 record in the '96 season, will be led by QB Stefan Molina. The team returns 13 seniors from a year ago, giving it much experience and leadership. Dillon's defense is anchored by MILB Jared Elliot and CB Shawn Wetjen. Many freshmen and off-campus players will contribute this year. including freshman Jason Vosner, who will see action at the fullback spot. 
Keough 
The Kangeroos of Keough Hall will be looking to improve on their 3-3 '96 record as they make a move up in divisions this year. Coach Jeremy Cole will lead a team that has acquired six very strong fresh­men to accompany an already solid group of upperclassmen. Among the freshmen arc QB Travis Alexander, HB/DB Ryan Yorkery and RB Nate Yerg. 
Siegfried 
Siegfried is a very experi­enced team with many key returning players from last year's 2-2 Flanner team. They expect to play the tough defense that was traditional for Flanner and add an explosive offense led by RB Eric Himan and QB Mike Daigler. Coach Tu Keller summed up Siegfried's expecta­tions when he said, "We will win the championship." 
O'Neill 
The Angry Mob of O'Neill Hall will take the first week off with a bye. Tryouts have brought the team a large crop of freshmen, led by last year's Iowa all-state quarterback Matt White. Junior middle linebacker Shane Luzadder once again leads the Mob's defense. 
But, as captain Dave Butz points out, "our main ingredient is a bigger and more experi­enced offensive line." Finishing last season with a record of 1-3, Butz is sure that this year's squad is definitely better and will turn in a top finish. 
Sorin 
After building a team that landed a playoff spot last sea­son, the Screaming Otters began this season with 35 play­ers trying out for 24 spots. mak­ing it the first time they needed to make cuts. "Hopefully," com­ments captain Anthony Netto, "we'll be able to continue on last season's success." With the leadership of linebackers Greg Belden and Mike Velten and running back Tim Slattery, Netto is confident. "Our goal is to again reach the post season." 
Fisher Fisher Hall's schedule begins Sunday at 1 p.m. as they take on Siegfried. The Green Wave hope to coast to victory on the strength of their offensive and defensive lines, led by captain. Sean Lynch and senior Chris Ebey, both offensive/defensive tackles. 
Lynch comments the team is "excited about Sunday, what with our plays working for us. We're just eager to get out there and win." 
Zahm 
With their first game against Carroll Hall canceled because the team folded, Zahm Hall will start its season with a forfeit win. Eager to get their team on the field, they will instead scrimmage Morrissey this weekend. 
They return 17 upperclass­men from last year's playoff­clinching team. Notable for the team is the offensive pairing of quarterback Dave Matrin and receiver Mike Bailly and offen­sive lineman Kevin McHugh. According to captain Liam Knott, the heart of the Zahmbies lies with their "incredible defense." Led by end Eddie Llull, the defense returns an incredible 100 per­cent of last year's squad. Knott believes that this factor will "guarantee us a return to the playoffs." 
The captain is aware of the tough road ahead, but states "we'll be surprised if we don't make a good run for the title." 
Morrissey 
Morrissey is expecting anoth­er strong performance after last year's 4-0 season. Their defense will be their strong point. They are returning near­ly all of their starters from last year's defense which only gave up two touchdowns. On the offensive side of the ball, they will have a powerful running attack. They will be running behind a solid offensive line including key returners Dave Monahan, Bob Glynn, and Dan lantorno. 
Knott 
Knott, 2-2 as part of the Planner team last year, is expecting a better effort this year. Knott will be completely player coached by Mario Suarez (QBILB), Tom Weiler (WR/DB), Drew Klosterman (TB/FS), and Dan Gillian. Unlike most inter­hall teams, Knott plans to bal­ance its offense between pass-. 

ing and rushing. On defense, Knott's strong point will be its linebacking crew. Overall, Knott plans to beat other teams with its team speed. 
Alumni 
After going undefeated last year and not giving up a single point on defense during the reg­ular season, the Dawgs were handed an early exit from the play-offs. This year, the Alumni Dawgs are hoping to repeat their regular season perfor­mance of a year ago, and avenge their early departure in the play-offs. 
With sixty prospective players trying out, the team was faced with the challenge of cutting down to the 24 player limit. According to senior captain Brian Schultz, this year's Alumni squad looks promising and has a well-rounded, hard­hitting group of players. 
They have had great turnouts at practices and are a really dedicated group. They plan on mixing up their defensive schemes in order to catch the opposing offenses off-guard. On offense, the Dawgs are led by quarterback Alex Gese who'll be looking down-field for senior wide-receiver Ryan Healy for big plays. Although Alumni lost a lot of players on both sides of the ball, they are hoping some of the freshman will be able to play a key role in bringing the Dawgs back to the play-offs. 
Stanford 
The Studs had a disappointing season last year, going 1-2-1. However, Stanford was able to put together a solid squad despite only having six return­ing players from last year. Sophomore Matt Lord and junior Tom Wood appear to be rising stars for the Studs. They will lead the inexperienced line­backer core. Chris Heid com­mented on their upcoming sea­son saying, "If we are able to put the pieces together and work together as a team, we will have a good chance at mak­ing the play-offs." One of the new players, John Kiernan, will go both ways this year -play­ing both linebacker and tight end. Kiernan, on his ability to play both offense and defense, said, "I am a little more awe­some than Rossum." The Stanford team is full of heart and hopes to use their talent to improve on last year's record. Their first game is this Sunday 
Fisher Sarin Zahm Alumni 
~~o.ugh 
If-Campus Keenan Siegfried Stanford Morrissey Knott Dillon o·Neill 
against Dillon, but the Studs are looking forward to their final game of the regular season against rival dorm Keenan. 
Off Campus 
The Off-Campus team is faced with a tough challenge this year, namely, to repeat the per­formance of last year's champi­onship team. However, they are at a disadvantage this year because of a new rule allowing off-campus students to play for their old dorms. As a result, the Off-Campus team had a small turnout at tryouts and had difficulty coming up with a full roster. This means a lot of players will have to play both ways. Since the team is made up of students living off-cam­pus, they have difficulty getting everyone together for practice and have to deal with a con­stant change of personnel from year to year. As a result, the Off-Campus squad will stick to a rather simple game plan on offense and defense. According to fifth-year senior Bill McCarty, "The offense is run-oriented, while the defense will play a zone or man-to-man. The Off-· Campus team has a distinct advantage with the amount of upperclassmen whose size and strength will be useful, espe­cially on the offensive line. This combination of a good line and a few quick backs makes them a serious threat on offense. They hope to bring this high­powered offense and their experience to good use this Sunday against Keenan. 
Keenan 
The Knights had a disappoint­ing season last year with their 1-3-1 record. They did make the play-offs, however, they lost in the first round. This year's team is a young group with a solid core and several returning starters. They have a solid mix on offense and the defense will definitely be hard-hitting. According to D.J. Hartman, "The Knights are just looking to take one game at a time and hopefully return to the play­offs." This Sunday, Keenan will battle Off Campus, a team they lost to twice last year. They will look to get revenge against the team that bounced them from the play-offs last year. 
Stories by Brian Kessler, Jeff Gorris, Anthony Bianco and Brad Rodriques. 

-
• 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 18, I997 
• NHl
-
Battle of New York goes to Rangers in preseason 


ND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! 

Wolfie's cooks up hot fresh PASTA dishes, And tops it with Wolfie's signature sauces! 



243-9911 

Sun-Thurs 10 am-1 am 
Small pasta (served with one breadstick) $1.99 
Wolfie 's also 
Fri-Sat 10 am-3 am 
serves up pints of Premium Ice Cream! 
Large pasta (served with two breadsticks) $3.99 
Breadsticks -6 sticks with 2 free sauces $1.99 
~~~=;;;;::~~;=~IIIII! Located conveniently in the Campus Shoppes 
Always FREE DELIVERY!!! 
$5.00 minimum -Limited Area-Drivers carry less than $20 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
Pierre Sevigny, Alexander Karpovtsev and Daniel Goneau scored in a 4:41 span early in the second period to lead the New York Rangers to a 5-1 exhibition victory over the New York Islanders on Wednesday night. 
Peter Ferraro and Mike Eastwood also scored in the second period for the Rangers, who got 22 saves from the goaltending tandem of Robb Stauber and Jason Muzzatti. Tim Sweenev had three assists for the Rangers, who won for the second time in three games. 
Mike Hough scored for the Islanders, who started No. 1 draft pick Roberto Luongo in goal. Luongo was relieved by Tommy Salo as the Islanders lost their second straight game. 
because 8-4 
~· 
~8 
Happy Birthday from the Walsh Women 
The teams meet again Thursday night at Madison Square Garden. 
Canadiens 5, Flyers 4 
MONTREAL 
Defensemen Vladimir Malakhov and David Wilkie scored in the second period to keep the Montreal Canadiens unbeaten in exhibition play with a 5-4 victory over the Philadelphia Flyers on Wednesday night. 
Mark Recchi scored two goals and Benoit Brunet added another for Montreal, which is 3-0-1 under new head coach Alain Vigneault. 
Colin Forbes scored twice for the Flyers, while Chris Therien and Dainius Zubrus had one goal ech. 
Flyers center Eric Lindros was to have played his first exhibition game, but is still waiting to get the injury insur­ance he insists on having while report on how long he is to be negotiating a new contract. out of action. 
Canadiens center Saku Koivu The Flyers' goaltending woes left the game after the first continued as starter Garth period with a pulled groin. Snow allowed four goals on 10 There was no immediate shots before he was replaced 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­oriented professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty amazing feats. As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Computer Science and Computer Engineering individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 

COBOL o C o C++ o JAVA o HTML o VSAM o DB/2 o CICS JCL o OS/2 PM o UNIX o AIX o Oracle 
Please join us at the: RECEPTION INDUSTRY DAY September 23rd, 6:30pm September 24th,1Oam-4pm University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering 
Monogram Room We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning 
services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: ~~~ NOVUS Services, Inc., Human Resources, li NOVUS \ , IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, SERVICES
I ,• Riverwoods, IL 60015, Taking charge in a ~·hanging world. 1 Fax: (847)405-1388 www.novusnet.com 

F.qu..l Opponunuy Employer MIFIDN 

by rookie Brian Boucher mid­way through the second peri­od. 
Jocelyn Thibault went all the way in goal for the Canadiens. 
page 17

Thursday, September 17, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• CollEGE fooTBALL 

Lady Blue Devil wants her chance to take the field 
By EMERY P. DALESIO Associated Press Writer 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
Duke coach Fred Goldsmith has a new problem to go with the longest losing streak in major college football: a sex­discrimination suit filed by a kicker who wanted to be the first woman to play in Division 
I. 
"I have no response," 
Goldsmith said Wednesday. "At the proper time any response will come from the attorneys at Duke University. That's it. I'm a football coach, I'm going to stick to answering questions about football." 
Heather Sue Mercer filed a lawsuit in federal court in Greensboro on Tuesday. She contends she wasn't treated fairly by Duke coaches after Goldsmith initially welcomed her to try out as a kicker in 1995. 
Since denying Mercer a place on the team, Goldsmith has kept kickers whose skills were no better than Mercer's, the lawsuit said. 
''I've seen a lot worse on a lot of Division I teams," said for­mer Washington Redskins kick­er Mark Moseley, who ran summer kicking camps that Mercer attended in 1995 and 

The Largest Thai Restaurant in the Michiana Area Experience Authentic Food in an Exotic Atmosphere 6502 N. Grape Road #798 Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219/271-THAI (8424) Fax: 219/272-670 I 
Located in University Center next to Service Merchandise 
1996. 
"I know Heather Sue has worked extremely hard," said Moseley, the NFL's Most Valuable Player in 1982. "From 40 yards in she was pretty deadly." 
Mercer could not be reached for comment. The senior eco­nomics major's telephone num­ber is not listed. She did not respond to interview requests made through her lawyer. 
Duke attorneys referred inquiries to a university vice president, who did not immedi­ately return a call. 
Mercer, a freshman walk-on from Yorktown Heights, N.Y., made the winning 28-yard field goal in the team's spring scrimmage in 1995. Goldsmith said after that scrimmage that Mercer had made the team. But she was left off the team once Goldsmith trimmed his roster that summer. 
"I shouldn't have said it," 
Goldsmith said after changing 
his mind during summer pre­
season training that year. "I 
was carried away at the time." 
Mercer said then she was 
neither the best nor the 
strongest kicker but still deserved a spot on the team. 
A third-team all-state kicker in high school, Mercer was allowed to practice with Duke's other five kickers. But she was never is.sued protective padding or a uniform, her law­suit said. As late as this year, Mercer participated in the team's endurance training in her effort to win a roster spot. 
In February, Goldsmith told her to leave a training session and that. she had no right to be there, her lawsuit said. 
The lawsuit seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. It contends Duke vio­lated Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sexual discrimination in educational programs that receive federal money. 
The suit charges breach of 
contract, sayirig Duke denied 
Mercer the opportunity to 
"develop her fullest potential 
as a student athlete." 
Any money Mercer would be 
awarded would be used to 
establish a college scholarship 
fund for female kickers, her 
lawyers said. 



The Stroke Foundation 
presents "Everything Anthony Falzarano and You Always Jaime Gonz61ez 
Mr. Falzarano and Mr. Gonzalez both direct Transformation Ex-Gay Christian Ministries, a Catholic-Protestant organization that is part of Exodus International, the largest organization in
Wanted to Ask 
the world of gays and lesbians who have left behind their homosexual practices and feelings. They 
also direct a new national organization called Parents and Friends of Ex-Gays (P-FOX). ANTHONY FALZARANO spent 9 years as an active homosexual before he had a religious reconversion and decided that he had "no choice but to follow the

an Ex-Gay 

Lord in sexual purity and leave the gay life behind." Mter 2 years of"very tough" Christian psychological counselling, Mr. Falzarano successfully left behind his homosexual dispositions. He has been happily married for almost
(but Never Had 
14 years and has two children. He has ministered to over 500 former homosexuals and is the East Coast and 
European media spokesperson for Exodus International.
the Chance)'' 
He is used as an expert source ofinformation by CBS, 
ABC, The BBC, The Washington Post and USA Radio Network. He has testified before the Maryland General 
Assembly regarding homosexual issues, and he filed an affidavit in the case 
Romer v. Evans, which went to the Supreme Court. 
JAIME GoNzALEZ also spent 9 years as an active homosexual, 7 ofwhich he spent
Mr. Falzarano and Mr. Gonzalez, in a long-term relationship. Believing that it was consistent to be gay and both former actir:e homosexuals, Christian, Mr. Gonzalez attended the P-FOX National Converence at his father's request. Mter the conference, Gonzalez had become convinced that homosexuality and
will give their histories and their 
Christianity are not compatible, and came to accept traditional Catholic teaching on

spiritual journeys, and will explain 
homosexua,Iity. He has dedicated his life to ministering to former homosexuals.
the most common roots of 
The speakers will briefly share their histories as homosexuals and their spiritual journeyshomosexual orientations. away from that way of life, and will then answer questions from the audience. They hope that They will then explain how the love their stories will contribute in a positive way to the campus debate about homosexuality. ofChrist, the Sacrament of 

Reconciliation, and the teachings of 
Thursday, Sept. 18
the Church can address these causes, and how they can help you Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00p.m. 
help )'our homosexual friends and 
classmates. Join the Speakers in the Huddle Friday, Sept. 19, 11:00-1:00 

Maritain Center 

.. 
•· 
~­
.. 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
•MtB
-

McGwire, Cardinals bash Cubs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Mark McGwire hit his 53rd home run of the season Wednesday -the most since Roger Maris set the record of 61 in 1961 -as the St. Louis Cardinals defeated the Chicago Cubs 12-9. 
McGwire connected leading 
off the third inning for his sec­
ond homer since signing a 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ballet -Classes will be held on Sundays from 3 to 4 
p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. The fee is $35. Register in advance at RecSports. 
. Notre Dame Martial Arts
.. 
Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 
Field hockey-There will be an informational meeting on Sept. 21 at 5:30 p.m. in the lobby of' Pasquerilla East. Call Maureen at 4­4281 or Amy at 4-4308 with any questions. · 
Join The Observer Production Staff 
-¥{, ~~~& 
three-year, $28.5 million con­tract with the Cardinals Tuesday night. The 53 homers tops his previous best of 52, which he hit last season with Oakland, and put McGwire one ahead of Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr., who was to play Wednesday night at Texas. 
McGwire, who was cheered during batting practice when he hit at least seven balls over the left field bleachers onto Waveland Avenue, went 1-for-4 with a walk in his first regular season game at Wrigley Field. He was 0-for-2 in the 1990 All­Star Game played at Wrigley. 
Royce Clayton hit a two-run homer in a five-run first, Gary Gaetti added a three-run dou­ble in the seventh and Phil Plantier drove in three runs for St. Louis. 
Rookie Matt Morris (11-8) won his third straight decision, giving up five runs on seven hits over seven innings and striking out seven. 
Miguel Batista (0-5) took the loss in his shortest appearance in six starts, giving up five runs on four hits and two walks over 1-3 of an inning. 
The Cardinals sent eight bat­ters to the plate in the first. 
Wed1 Sep 17
~'U J< !Yj '('J;. 
All V\ CaV\ Eat








.. CLUB·~ 
ChickeV\ WiV\gs 
~...·····. ·· .... ~ 
For a Mere Two 
~ 1····0··< 
Bl.1ckaroos
\K 
Delino DeShields walked on 
four pitches leading off and 
Clayton followed with his ninth 
home run. McGwire flew out 
and Hay Lankford walked. 
Gaetti singled and Plantier dou­
bled, scoring Lankford and 
Gaetti for a 4-0 lead. Then 
Mike Difelice singled, scoring 
Plantier and chasing Batista. 
Difelice had a two-run homer 
in the ninth. 

McGwire homered in the 
third off reliever Hodney Myers, 
his 19th since joining St. Louis 
on July 31, to make it 6-0. 
Mark Grace hit an HBl single 
in the Cubs third. .Jose 
Hernandez hit his sixth home 
run leading ofT the fifth to make 
it 6-2. 

Kevin Orie added a two-out 
RBI single in the sixth to close 
to 6-3. 

The Cardinals loadnd the 
bases in the seventh and Gaetti 
cleared them with a double, 
making it 9-3. lie then scored 
on Plantier's single. 

Lance Johnson hit an HBl triple and scored on Hobin Jennings' sacrifice fly in the Cubs seventh. Doug Glanville ·drove in two runs with a pinch double and Sammy Sosa hit his 
.35th home run of the season. 

DON'T FORGET! 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 
Harris 
continued from page 20 
However, the Irish have not yet found their groove as Lee missed all pre-season due to her participation for the United States team. 
"The offense has been some­thing that we've been strug­gling with, but we've worked really hard at in practice recently," Harris said. "We have great potontial, but we just need to get into rhythm." 
"Now we're giving Angie and Jaimie more responsibility," Brown explained. "We're just now getting to the point where there has been significant improvement in our offense. It has taken awhile for our offense to get into rhythm, and it takes some time for our set­ters to get used to each hitter." 
With the likes of national powers like New Mexico, California, and Texas A&M in town this weekend for the Notre Dame TournamPnt of Champions, Harris and the rest of the setters will be looking to display some of that offensive firepower. 

Every Thursday 
All ..You..Can..Eat Pizza & Pasta for 


$5.00 
• 6:00 p.m.• 8:30 p.m. • 

Fl"i1 Sep 19 
Kick oft" the MSV\ Game the Right Way....At the .ASCI 
Check ot.1t what's 1-1ew this Wed a1-1d Thl11"Sday by payi~-19 
o visit ... yot..t wo1-1't be disoppoi1-1ted. 




THE FOOD IS IN!!! 
Burgers: $3.25 
1/4 lb. testaments to flame-broiled goodness, served on a bakery fresh bun with potato chips on the side. 

Club Clubs: $3.25 
Three delicious sandwiches from which to choose, all served on a bakery fresh roll with 
_.,.. 
potato chips and a pickle on the side. 

PIZZA: 12" Pie $5.50 
Delicious oven-baked pizza. 

BY THE SLICE: $1.50 
WING DINGERS: 
Served with celery, carrots and yummy bleu cheese for your dipping pleasure. Choose Mild, Medium, Hot, or Suicidal. 

SINGLE (12) $2.50 DOUBLE ORDER (24) $4.75 
f
BUCKET (50) $9.00 

LINEBACKERS: $2.00 
Choose any one of these doses of pure loving to fend off the munchies... 
NACHOS FRIED MUSHROOMS FREN.CH FRIES GARLIC BREAD CHEESE STIX ONION RINGS 

COME ON IN AND CHECK OUT THE FULL MENU!!! 

Thursday, September 18, 1997 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
111\Nl>S. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
0 
" 
() 
-' 
0 @" 
"' 
" 
c 
" 
.... 
" 
.... 
.,.,.____,-----, 0 
() 
"' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Coach 56 Words repeated Parseghian at the start of 
Solipsist's 25 Iranian money the "Sailor's preoccupation 26 Lullaby start Song"Harsh Athenian 31 Bandleader 57 Like--in a lawgiver 
Shaw trap Employ a 32 They're in 60 Bookie's Singer galley banks bookings Anjou, e.g. 33Sow 61 --around Casaba, e.g. 34 "Flow gently, (near) 
sweet--": 
62 Rani's attire 
---Ball 
63 Come-onsBurns(arcade game) 64 Mystery writer 
36 Yemen's capital 
Heroine of Paretsky and 40Game plan Tennessee others41 Fancy watch Williams's 65 Book after 42 "Pipe down, "Summer and II ChroniclesPierre!"
Smoke" 
47 Hurler Reynolds 
"--Help 
of the 40's-50's 
Myself" (Four DOWN
YankeesTops hit) 48 Go (for) 1 Health center a Phoenician port 
49 Assist 2 Electric-­
9 "Shut up'" 50 Director's 3 Berate --broche directive 4 German wife (cooked on a 55 Amenhotep IV's 5 Composer spit) god Shostakovich 
6 Supply with more varnish 1 Astronaut 
Shepard aRabbit 9 Aware of 
10 First U.S. space 
station 11 In a spooky way 12 Boohoos 15 Narrow furrow 20 Myth 21 City areas, 
informally -...--7-i7-!~ 22 Triumphant cries 23 Tackle box item ~.:.,.;.j~--27 Secreted ..:::-+~=+7--+.~'!"1"!1!"'1 28 Smash to smithereens 29 Indochinese language 
Jrptr··.ate g¢ft(ng f!~ry. 
HYPNOJISTTOMDEtoi:A 

-:-:-·· ·..··.·· 
you .;..w.J·····"· t•·l· ... g o···.·s/e.•.. e. TOM 
Admission is FREE 
estion is 
-·-------------------~ 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAN SULLIVAN 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
30 Directional suffix 34Summer 
refresher 35 Shriner hat 36 Not worth a -­37 Much-filmed 
prison 
38 Radar's favorite drink on "M*A*S*H" 
39 Fired 40 "--a man ..." 41 Popular 
fast-food chain, informally 42 Crimped, as a piecrust 
better for lU\'l' clrtd roma l&t.~P.
SCOTT ADAMS 

AJU[S (\larch 21-April 19): ·lo 
CAN WE 1\T LEAST AGREE tia~: wdii:H:,' r<ltlll'r hl'~L~lJC on ihfo~ do~ tnt~lic St"f3ne. 0Pt;anize your duy ._.,,ell
Tl4AT Wl4EN f'h.Y CAC.TU5 

ii y<.n, Whh to .u.... omptish ~n Y'l\1 :il't 
m:l to do. 
SHRIEKS IN AGONY, ITS 
IAURUS (April 20-May 201: 'lr•­
vc! .tnd fflmilv ~atherings 'hould l.x.· 
in ord~T You "'' 1.1J pick 11p \"Cl!u,Jb!e 
kncnvlf>dg•' thrt)tip;h convt.·rsat!0n= 
wtt\ ext1t:ril.'~t.:1..XI utdlvid:Mic.;. 
GFrVI!NI !May 21-)uoe 201: Ynu 
wtll en)-l.•y NX:J...lEzmg ttKL:: Cd in­
voln\ti in physi._,,J .\Clh·iliv-. th.1t WIL 
stimulfltt'. 
CM\CER (]tote 21-)uly 221: "lbumn 
rn..ly prt"(l('t..Upy you HK.iily ;\'l.oid ,~~~u­
m~nf~ ilnL~ r~h.:W, {)fl phy-sk;d ;:uti\ iriL":'­
witil your i<lmilv 
Li.:O (July 23-Aug. 22): lnsm<.-rc 
~cslure.., (lf frh•ndHnt:tss .1n• likd~· to­
lhy II i::; btost to putln :-.t'ltn~ nvt•rtinw. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Y<•u 
may not be lhiit p<1pula,r at h.:J'TH' h!Jt 
yuu sltoukl ht=o .1blf· t,J ~JUne at S<.h.iill 
gathc>rinbs. 
LlBJ!" ISPpt. 2.1-0ct. 22): D1•n't 
bo:he: trying t.:• make so:nt.•tmc vtm 
liV(' \VHh. ~t'l;} our poiul oi v;ew h i'i 
h~-st tt) put y'ntr etforts into n>dt'cornt­
ing. 
SCORPIO (Oct. B-Nov. 21): y,,u c:;~n ~et L' lol don;.• if voLt c,L'i 'fl)ll' h,,nd-. (II\ L~tl.. 1i5l11 t·q~ip:rient.' y,,u can find out intere::;ting i:-l.tnrmation it ypu tulk h, Fl(.'(•ple yrm rt"·'rl'<t. 
SACITTARICS !Nov. 22-Dec. 211: V<•t: \vill h..l\'C' llle nt•t1d fllllhl~t· ..,r•me rhnq;~·.. toJil\". Your itt·,,l:h mav lun·e sl.rft\•fcd. d.tc t,> ne~;t.~.._-:or-,1:'uh;. 
CAPRfCOR'J (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: )·ou m~1v tind thal votn c:nolion,\1 p~1rh1L': ~~:iU nol lw j,,n (•,,,.;n :o ~1-.:-~ commoJ;.\te yDu. I lon't :nt~kL• pr;.tm­bl~~ that you c..,w'l kt"t..p 
AQUARILS (Jm. 20-Fcb. 181: You ~ay \-\·ar.t tu ~lay in ilw h.:u k~nJLtr.d IOt.:ay YPur dc:pre:;:~d 1nouJ h~to; l>een llilrc to shal.:c-. 
PISCES (feb. 19·March 201: G~( \)\.It ~nd :ub sllou:dc·r.:. w1th pc..·'-'1-'k· 111 hit,h po~ithms J.t at c1ll po:-ooli~:c. )ou cantr,lk<· exc:ellenl i~lVt::~tm ...~nt~. 

-· 
;110T A BAD ii>E'A .•. 
p..r:T£1'>. ALL, C0/<1-"''V,VICAnoJJ CAN ONLY Ylo/(K So 
wELL. 
MIKE PETERS 

CEL F:RRIT!ES BORN ON THIS DA): 'vtanlyn Mrmrc~,·, l\oo Wrmd. Lis..r ll~u·lm,li,, f\.fm~ilr"l I rt-ema~n 
Dear l::ugeni.r~· f mn pursumg ,, c.,­rct•r in lht, film ind u.-ttr\' m.H.i am e.>..· tn~md\' O'::l:itni~ti{ c.mJ L~~uJid€'nl :ls to '1.\"hL"n.::l ~t·m ~.uing. :\ny ,Kivice ~:tkm~ tlw \\~\v'? AJs1..1, mv rnmanlk lih· hd~ b~L'Il very ('cmf11~iti~ a.'> df late. ''Vhy il: :·J·ns? \'Vhv dot:'!:-it :->(·ct-r. like moiw goiln"l)' is deild' I H[,pn·ct.llC tmy:hing ymJ '"n tell :ue. 
Dear Geneviev~: You've pil'krd a gnnJ can~cr choir~ anrl you are mov­ing in a positive and upward Jir~,-­tion thi~ yr.~r and next. Opportuni.. lie• will come through the people you mcl't. Don'l hesit.Jie: to o1sk for favors. Networking will be just "" important as thr jnh you dn, ~o don't I urn down .111y social engagements related lo the industry. Your dt.lrt dPnnles that vou are one of those true-blue lo\·ers who really only h<t> eyes for unc-. Unfort1.m.Jlel}; }OU also have the planet 1\ eptunc in your house of rdationship• pnmly as­
J>~CIPd to your n~ta! Sun in Leo. 
This can cau~c .t prohlPm dftract­ing c;omPnne who is as monogamous as )'"'' arc. You match up hl"ltcr to thoso horn under the signs Aries, Vir~o and Pisces. However. with tht>­typ• of chart !hat you hav~. it is al· ways better to have an a.trulugitill compcnbon done hefnn> vnu fall too deeply in love. !Jy the V.·ay -this year. ynu should he conce-ntrating ott you•· can:cr; next year ,...ill be-much 
TOO WARM? 
IT WA5N'T 
SHRIEKING BEFORE YOU 
~~TOOK YOUR ~~"-"--"~.....----"' 5HI f\T OFF. 
---..) 

43 T. S. and 51 Revolutionary 
George orator James 44 Trifles: Fr. 52 Soul singer 45 Goddess of Hendryx 
wisdom 53 Pre-Soviet 46 Covers with royalty crumbs 54 Let up 47 Mideast's Gulf 58 Timetable abbr. of--59 Aunt, in Madrid 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Bont Today: Y;.m'vc ~ot i.lll tht:" righl movl'l'i thi~ ~·car Yoll \'.t"'n daLZ!e vour pt...:r.:. uud ch,,r:rn thn...t~ :.·di\'iduals who cfln h~lp yoU achi~;~\'f.~ your );i..Mb L)on'l k."t your ~ood to:tune ~o to your ht·ad or )"(ILL.ll f~tll ":>hnrl o:: ynur l:xpt.'Ct,uions . 
•MENU 

NQrth ...·. /
XJMinestrone Sotip Cl!:icken Brea,~t Sandwich Mixed Vegetables · 
· · Steakhouse Fries 
SoUth Mlitestroile Soup . Jumbo Fish Sandwich 
· Rice witn:Bhtck Olives Fresh Harvest Vegetables 
,....----------~­





SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, September 18, 1997 
• Vou:.EvBALL 

By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season, the Notre Dame volleyball team was hampered with what seemed like a never-ending plague of injuries as head coach Debbie Brown continually found one of her key performers sitting beside her in street clothes. 
One of those players was outside hitter Angie Harris. Harris missed the final 13 matches of the season after arthroscopic knee surgery on Nov. 8. The main concern heading into the '97 campaign was if Harris could return to her all-star caliber play. From all indications so far this year, Harris is back. 
"I think she's done an incredible job," Brown said. "The difference between her now and this point last year is like night and day. Her mobili­ty is so much better. and she is much stronger and doesn't hesitate at all." 
Even before Harris' surgery, she was not herself in the early going last season as she had tendonitis in her knee from a previous knee surgery. She played through the pain on some days, but others she was forced to sit on the bench. 
"I feel a lot stronger and don't have any pain this year," the senior commented. "I was not playing every match, and I had a lot of ten­donitis pain." 
Teammate Lindsay Treadwell talked about having Harris in the lineup day in and day out. 
"Last year, it just depended on how her knees felt each day," Treadwell said. "Now she's 100 percent every day, and that is a good thing to be able to rely on." 
Harris, nicknamed "The Hammer," brings a lot to the floor for the Irish attack. Her devastating jump serve has already placed her atop the Irish record books in aces for career and in a season. 
In her sophomore campaign before her plague of injuries, Harris enjoyed the third-best kills per game average in Irish history on her way to all-dis­trict honors. 
Harris began the season looking like she was ready for a stellar senior campaign, earning Big East Player of the Week honors during the last week of August for her efforts in the Shamrock Classic. 
During the weekend, Harris racked up 71 kills in the three matches for a 5.46 kills per game average, including a career best 27 kills. Everything Harris can do, from her defensive skills to passing and to her dominating attack, can ignite the Irish. 
"She's a critical player for us and a real complete play­er," Brown said. "She's an all around player as far as pass­ing and hitting, and her jump serve can be a big weapon for us." 
"Angie definitely helps our offensive diversity and power because she is so powerful herself," Treadwell said. "But she's also been kind of an inspiration for us because she's worked so hard in the summer. She's our captain and she leads by example with her work ethic." 
Brown also explained how Harris' ability to overcome adversity can also be an asset to her teammates. 
"She's worked, and that's a good example," she said. "Injuries are inevitable, and she can help others who arc going through some of the same things that she went through." 
After a 16 week rest period in which Harris was out of action after the surgery. she began thP procfJSS of rehabili­tation. 
"I had to sit out, and then I began rehabilitation which was a long, slow process," Harris explained. "This sum­mer, I felt really good, so I went really hard to get back into shape." 
With a healthy Harris and the dynamic Jaimie Lee, Coach Brown has an impres­sive outside hitting duo that can dominate a match. 
see HARRIS I page 18 
• IRISH iNSIGHT 
More to a season than just the national title 
Coming into this fall, and what all the other programs every fall up here und(Jrneath realize and live bv. WP're the Dome, everyone's hopes and depressed that we ha~en't won expectations 
a tith~ sine!' 1993 (WI' did beat are nothing FSU :H-24). That's just four short of a years. Most programs are con­national tent to just remain in the top 25 champi­for four years, and maybe. if onship. As they're lucky, make a run for they should the title once in a while. be. This is With the likes of Michigan Notre Dame. State. Michigan, Stanford. USC, 
Practically Joe Cavato and LSU still on the schedule, every fan Assistant Sports Editor there are plenty of potential big spends hours ------­wins out there. We can be talking and figuring out why underdogs for a change, spoil and how the Irish would wind another team's championship up on top of the polls by the end drive, and do a great deal of of the season. growing in the process as we 
These expectations are the prepare for next year. highest, but the Boilermakers Coach Davie has never worn proved them too lofty for this the head coach's headset season. before, and he needs to learn 
The loss to Purdue was one of what works and what doesn't. the worst losses in the history of We will have to come to thn the program, and although we'd painful realization that we arP like to forget about the loss and in a rebuilding stag!' and glory move on, our friends and all the will not come overnight. ND bashcrs wn know will surnly I know the words are tough to rnmind us of Sept. 13,1997. swallow; I have a tough timP 
But for every comment wn writing them. But it is not the hear about the Toledo Hocknts worst thing in the world to lw and Billy Dicken's l'nyton rebuilding. · Manning impersonation against Davie simply needs time. We our secondary, eventually wn will contimw to get tlw athletes will be able to gloat about our and will rise again. I hope, likP next championship season or every other student. that WI' lleisman ·Trophy winner (not to would see ourselves on top dur­mention that it probably will ing our time under t.hn Dome. come before th(~ir team's next But instead. we have witnessl'd top five finish). the loyal sons of tlw Blue and 
It was simply too much to Gold comP up short against expect from this group of stu­Northw<'stnrn, Air Force. and dent-athletes. There is a brand now Purdue. new coach who is just getting Onn thing that makes NotrP his feet wet, and tlwre is a llf~W Dame Notre DamP is tlw staff and new system for the strength of tlw alumni and how players to get used to. much a part of tlw UnivPrsity 
Simply because we lost one they are. Although they crowd game and our talks of a national our campus and are simply title are all but completely embarrassing with their plaid silenced, it does not mean the pants, thPy are part of' tlw tradi­year is over. As tough of a real­tion and will be part of our nnxt ization as it is, we will not win championship. the championship every y(~ar. So even if we arnn 't crowned Some years we will not evnn champs during your four years contend and will evnn struggle herf1, thn nnxt time we are. vou to make the top 25. will be abln to brag about y~n1r 
But there is morn to a season Irish to every single soul that than (mding up on top. That's uttered tlw words Billy Dicken. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Powlus' title hopes may have slipped away, but there is plenty of foot­ball left and a few more records within reach for the fifth-year senior. 

vs. Michigan State, 
,t;l 
a;
September 20, I :30 p.m. 
•McGwire hits 53rd homer 

vs. New Mexico, 
@ September 19, 7:30 p.m. 'C 
see page 18 

vs. North Carolina, 
....
w September 19, 7:30 p.m. 
sc 
Volleyball at DePauw, • lnterhall preview 
~ 
Today, 7 p.m. 
see pages 14-I 5 

at West Virginia, 
M September 20, 7 p.m. 
~ 



