
Thursday, January 30, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 80 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND S I ' 
Guillermo stresses action 
Author encourages Asians to combat racial stereotypes 
By PAM CORNELL News Writer 
Delivering a powerful and stirring presenta­tion as part of Asian Awareness Week, colum­nist and author Emil Guillermo said in a speech last night that Asian Americans face levels of discrimination similar to other minorities. 
Although there are 10 million Asian Americans in the United States, with over 30 different Asian and Filipino nationalities repre­sented, Guillermo stated, some people believe "that we're all just Chinese." 
"There's no generic Asian," he stated. "It's not one Asian fits all." Guillermo is an "inves­tigative humorist" for Asian Week, the New York .Filipino Express, Filipinas Magazine and Northwest Asian News. 
"After years of being ignored and taken for granted, after all the pent up rage, it is time to go amok," he proclaimed. 
The title of his column, "Amok," is defined as rushing about in a murderous frenzy, usually with a knife. He uses the term metaphorically to describe his anger at the discrimination Asian Americans encounter every day. 
Guillermo addressed several key issues which he believes to be part of "the new race poli­tics." 
On the issue of affirmative action, Guillermo feels that Asian Americans have been used and manipulated by people who want to do away with such policies. The problem is compound­ed by the belief that Asians are the "model minority stereotype" and thus, do not need programs such as affirmative action. 
lie also addressed the discrimination of Asian 

The Observer/Meghan Dooher As a part of Asian Awareness Week, columnist and author Emil Guillermo spoke on discrimina­tion and racial generalization. · 
Americans in the job market. According to Guillermo, there is a glass ceiling for Asians in the workplace, where they can look up and see their dream, but can not break through to achieve it. 
"We're the victims in need of affirmative action," Guillermo urged. 
Moreover, Guillermo attacked Proposition 209 in his home state of California. He stated that this so-called civil rights initiative is "try­ing to fool the public," and that most people didn't even know what they were voting for. 
"We cannot presume that we have a level playing field. The level playing field is not here yet," Guillermo continued. 
"We can all be winners if we're given a chance. Affirmative action gives everyone a chance. Affirmative action allowed mll to take 
see ASIAN I page 6 

• NEWS AWAlYSIS 

Misconceptions spur Ebonies controversy 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
In the last two months the Oakland Unified School District (OUSD) has come under a storm of criticism for its resolution to recognize Ebonies. 
The resolution, in its amended form Jan. 15, stated the inten­tion of the school board to "devise and implement the best possible academic program for the combined purposes of facili­tating the acquisition and mas­tery of English language skills, while respecting and embracing the legitimacy and richness of the language patterns... known as Ebonies." 
The amended resolution removed references to Ebonies as "genetically based" and as the "primary language" of many students and reworded a passage that was misconstrued by many to mean that the OUSD intended to demand federal and state funds for bilingual educa­tion of students who spoke Ebonies at home. 
Much of the controversy sur­rounding the Ebonies debate is due to confusion, misinterpre­tations, and misunderstanding. 
Many who read the resolution understand it to mean students would be taught in Ebonies. The Oakland school board denies this was its intention. 
"The Oakland Unified School 
.Idea of 'black unds' holds .,,long history 
The Ebonies de~ate erupt­.. 196?, Wh~l:l the n Speech Language­. _1ng Association forni.ed an office of Urban and EthniC Affairs {now Multicultural Affairs) to look at the unique speech and language needs 
ofAfrican Americans. 

__ ·_ Ebonies premiered Ann ~~?,!"·Mich. schools in 1979. ~D~!l a federal· Judge 
•qrdered schools to train their · te?lch,ers to appreciate Black 
· ish Vernacular (IH1V), an rriative for 
District is providing its teachers and parents with the tools to address the diverse languages the children bring into the classroom," said a statement issued by the OUSD. 
Much of the argument centers around whether Ebonies is a language or a dialect. Robert 
see EBONICS I page 6 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate addresses tactical dilemma in trustee issue 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
I\ stalemate sent Senate mem­bers checking their student gov­ernment constitutions after a tie vote yesterday. 
Following a heated debate of tbe logistics of placing a student on the University's Board of Trustees, senate members locked in an 8-8 tic on the issues of when and how to approach the trustees with their proposal. While studer1t trustee discussion dominated the agen­da. reports on acadc'mic issues and budget allocations were also presented during the meetc ing. 
Judicial Council president Ryan Mcinerney opened the trustee issue by presenting a preliminary letter which would introduce the student trustee idea to the board, but discus­sion soon heated up. Two dis­tinct sentiments emerged: One group thought it best to wait until the May trustee meeting to present as polished a report as possible;-the second group thought it best to present the idea as soon as possible so the trustees would not be over­whelmed. 
Central to the distinction was the question of how the trustees 
see SENATEl page 4 
Candidates announce '97-98 presidential blds 
Observer Staff Report • Bobby Booker, of Carroll Hall. and Laura Parker, of 
The candidates for the 1997 Walsh Hall. student body president elec-· • Matt Barrette and Brian tion were announced yester-McCaghy, both of Flanner day by Jen Dovidio, the Hall. Judicial Gouncil Election· > • Andrew_ Cfilfa .•. and Committee chair. The tickets, Jonathan. Cano; both of with the presidential candi~ , Planner Hall. · · · date's name first, are listed 
alphabetically . see ELECTION/ page 6 
They might be giants... 
I
t was not widely known that the largest American hornbeam in St. Joseph County could be found on the Notre Dame campus. That is, until it, along with 13 other trees on campus, rece~ve~ attention for being the largest of their species m the county in the inaugural Big Trees of St. Joseph County program, announced this month. 
The mother-of-all-trees however, was the 98 foot high Sycamore found near the Grotto. Measuring 244 inches in circumference, or more than 29 feet this mammoth deciduous specimen is thought t~ predate the founding of the University. 
Judged on the basis of a point index incorporat­ing height, trunk circumference and average crown width, the 14 officially big trees are among the 5,000 trees of 350 species on campus. 
Nominations for the next Big Tree competition will be accepted in 1998. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, Januar~30, 1997 

Trying a 
little risky 




business 
My sister once sent me a letter which con­tained some advice I instantly took to heart. "Find a job you love," she wrote, "and you'll never work a day in your life." Well, my sis­ter's advice was good, but not good enough. I found the job I love, but she never told me how to get that job. 
Angela Cataldo I bleakly realized, 
Assistant Saint Mary's 
when I opened my mail 
News Editor
box to discover the final 
rejection letter from my 
futile job search last semester, that I must 
begin to take more responsibility. It is time 
for me to take risks. 
I don't like to take risks. 
Unknowingly, my Introduction to Acting 
professor mocked this aspect of my personal­
ity on Tuesday. "You have to walk the 
razor's edge!" she proclaimed. "You have to 
take risks in life sometimes," she dared. 
Taking risks force me to face my most 
dreaded fears -criticism and rejection. In 
essence, I fear failure. 
I don't believe I'm alone. I would venture to say that most of us here in the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's community are afraid of failure and as a result, have seldom experi­enced its crushing effects. We all are used to succeeding in life. We avoid most hardships through the use of essential skills which we have cultivated since our first years in ele­mentary school. 
Granted, many of the ways we have avoid­
ed failure have worked to our benefit. We 
have studied, researched and participated a 
little more than many. All along, we have 
done our best to avoid the razor's edge. 
We all have even chosen to attend conserv­
ative schools whose reputations we can count 
on as a back-up to the one we have created 
for ourselves. Here, I'll take a risk: We 
attend two conservative schools, who don't 
walk the razor's edge very often, politically 
or socially. 
When was the last time you took a class 
without researching the course-load and the 
professor by interviewing former students in 
the class? 
When was the last time you took the time to 
participate in a rally or protest for something 
that typically is not accepted but in which you 
truly believe? 
We exert a lot of energy avoiding failure 
that may not occur, and sometimes I wonder 
if it may be easier to fail. But then again, I 
am afraid of the consequences, so I won't 
take the risk. 
Many of us receiving our diploma this May 
already have their future employment 
secured. To those of you, congratulations. I 
admit my envy. 
Many are going on to graduate school. To 
those of you who are, I give my condolences 
and my respect, because I admit I don't have 
the endurance to withstand the rigors of any 
more schoolwork. 
For those of you who are like me and have 
yet to take the chance to get that job you love 
-walk the razor's edge. Immerse yourself 
in the search, and if you fail... well, I heard a 
rumor that Senior Bar will exchange a rejec­
tion letter for a free drink sometime this 
spring, so bear those letters proudly. If you 
win and get that job, more power to you. The 
stakes are high, so place your bets and good 
luck. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmlAv's STAFF 
News Production Bridget O'Connor Maureen Hurley David Freddoso Jackie Moser 
Sports Lab Tech Tom Schlidt 
Brandon Candura Viewpoint 
Graphics Brandon Williams 
Brian Blank Accent Joey Crawford 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday (:Xcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wrmw AT AGlANCE 

Jailed Hamas leader drops fight against extradition 
NEW YORK A jailed Hamas leader who faces 
Mousa
terrorism charges in Israel said he would rather "suffer martyrdom" 

Mohammed 
there than fight extradition from 

AbuMarzuk
the United States. Lawyers for Mousa Mohammed 

The Hamas leader Abu Marzook, 46, reluctantly fol­
decided not to appeal lowed his instructions and 
his extradition to Israel to stand trial on murder
Wednesday withdrew his opposi­

and conspiracy charges.

tion to being extradited from the 

His followers vow to carry out attacks
2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
if he is extradited. 

In a statement recorded on Jan. 16, Abu Marzook said he wanted PROFILE ·~ the State Department to surrender 
• 46 years old 
him immediately to Israel, even 

• Has lived in Virgini~ for 15 years.
though he has 60 days to leave. 

• Detained in the summer of 1995
The tape was played at a news con­

after his name had been added to a
ference Wednesday. 

list of suspected terrorists. 
"I am ready to go to Israel and 

• Accused by Israel of financing and 
suffer martyrdom," Abu Marzook 

planning terror attacks against 
said. "I go to join the thousands of 
Israelis.
other Palestinian prisoners in 

Campaign fundraising under scrutiny 
WASHINGTON 
An Arkansas acquaintance of President Clinton donated $50,000 to the Democratic Party one day after a Chinese arms dealer that he helped get a U.S. visa attended a White House cof­fee with Clinton, federal records show. On Capitol Hill Wednesday, Republicans and Democrats on a Senate panel inves­tigating party fund-raising irregularities 
L>ll!i.iOoi..L~-­squabbled over the scope of the inquiry and how much to spend on it. Sen. Fred Thompson, R-Tenn., chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, said the investigation will include any improper fund-raising activities by the Clinton and Dole campaigns in the 
1996 elections. Minority Democrats on the panel insisted the inquiry also should cover fund-raising by congres­sional candidates and should lead to work on reforming the campaign finance system. "The scope of the commit­tee investigation ... will get us to only part of the truth," said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich. "Congressional fund-raising and campaign expenditure practices should not be off-limits, and we should look at questionable or illegal practices in the 1992 and 1994 elections as well." 
Cuomo confirmed as HUD secretary 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate today confirmed Andrew Cuomo as the new secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Cuomo, approved in a 99-0 vote, succeeds Henry Cisneros, who resigned earlier this month. "I am privileged to support the confirmation of a native New Yorker, particularly one who has done so much in the area of housing in a relatively short period of time," said Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. D'Amato and Cuomo's father, for­mer New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, a liberal Democrat, are longtime political foes, but D'Amato enthusiastically endorsed the younger Cuomo for the job. Before President Clinton nominated him last month, Cuomo had said he would leave his job as an HUD undersecretary and return to New York. Many Democratic insiders were touting Cuomo, 39, as a possible challenger to D'Amato for his Senate seat in 1998. At a nomination hearing last week, committee members were supportive of Cuomo but cautioned him about the difficult task of managing a bureaucracy many think is unwieldy and out of control and some would like to see abolished. 
• SOUTtl BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures \ 
..,·.: .:: .....:.:...;L. , .: :.... . 

Baton Rouge 55 
~~~uu ~ !) ~ c£:[1
' ......... ' '''... : . . :. ·:·.·1·:1· 

Casselberry 72
Showers T~storms Rain Flu·r;ies S~o·::V Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 27
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

H L BISS!fTIJ 0~ ~ (} t::J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VI.! AssoclltBd Press 
Atlanta 53 Bal1imore 36 
Frozen pyramid assets to benefit poor 
TIRANA, Albania 
Albania's president said today only the poorest investors will receive immediate cash payments from the frozen assets of two failed get-rich-quick funds. Prime Minister Aleksander Meksi said Tuesday investors would begin receiving payments Feb. 5 from the pyramid schemes, which were declared illegal and frozen after weeks of unrest sparked by their failure to pay out. But President Sali Berisha told a news conference today that most investors would get account statements, rather than cash payments. It was unclear how many people would be reimbursed in cash, opening the way for more confusion and potential rioting from investors who fear their money could be lost for good. Pro-government newspapers are to publish a "list of those receiving cash payments on Thursday. Meksi said the government had seized funds totaling $300 million from the Xhaferri and Populli "chari­ty" companies, which had paid interest rates of up to 100 percent per month and were declared pyramid schemes by a parliamentary commission. He said investors would get back 70 percent of the money they invested-mean­ing they would lose the other 30 percent and any interest they had been expecting to receive. Pyramid schemes pay huge dividends to initial investors, who benefit from the money put in by later investors. 
AOL agrees to offer refunds 

DULLES, Va. 
Threatened with lawsuits across the country, America Online agreed Wednesday to give refunds to customers who haven't been able to log on because of the over­whelming demand created by AOL's flat $19.95-a-month rate. Customers will be offered either cash or a month of free service. AOL had no immediate estimate of how much the settlement will cost. However, if every member was able to get a full refund for the two months, an high­ly unlikely scenario, the agreement would cost America Online about $320 million. The settlement was reached with 36 state attorneys general but applies to all 8 mil­lion of AOL's customers nationwide. Several of the states had threatened to sue America Online unless it promised refunds. The nation's largest online service also agreed to make it easier for dissatisfied customers to cancel and said it will suspend its advertising for a month. America Online, based in Dulles, Va., previously said it was selec­tively giving refunds. But it had refused to give blanket reimbursements. The states had complained that AOL signed up hundreds of thousands of new customers with­out the means to accommodate the heavy usage. 
35  Columbus  36  17  
19  Dallas  56  28  
32  Denver  58  18  
61  Honolulu  79  70  
5  Indianapolis 32  15  


Israeli jails, almost all of whom have been tortured or humiliated and also go to honor my brethren who have been killed fighting for a just cause." 
He said his brush with the U.S. court system had proved to him that "a Palestinian and a Muslim cannot expect the same American quality of justice as others when Israeli interests are involved." 
"Ultimately, I may-stand a better chance before Israeli judges than before New York judges," he said from the Metropolitan Correctional Center. 
His wife, Nadia, called upon President Clinton and the State Department to let her husband stay in the United States, where he had lived 13 years. 
He was detained in 1995 as he returned from a trip to the Middle East. 
Los Angeles 81  57  
Miami  78  68  
New York  33  22  
Phoenix  77  54  
St. Louis  35  15  

Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• Srum:NT GOVERNMENT 
'Student Union' proposed 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
The Reform Committee met last night to consider several major revisions to student government. 
Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of the College of Business Administration, com­plimented the committee members. 
"I have asked for the last 10 years for my students to attack student govern­ment and get something done," he said, President Committee, proposed that the student body vice president chair the Student Senate. The members of the committee generally agreed that this would more clearly define the role of the vice president, as well as ease the work­load of the president. 
Another suggestion was brought to the table by Mark Higgins, chair of the Senate Reform Subcommittee. He asserted that the senate should consist of one representative from each dorm, 
"and you are the first 
rather than dis­class in 10 years to do trict representa­
something." 'Wedon't tives. The central issue really "Currently, the was the hierarchical districts are
govern anyone.' 
structure of student made up of government itself. almost random Brendan Kelly, chair Brendan Kelly dorms," he said. of the committee, pro­"The senators need to be more
posed a new plan to create a set of highly specialized student governing bodies, each would be accountable to the student body presi­dent. 
Under the plan, student government would be renamed "The Student Union," since, as Kelly pointed out, "We don't really govern anyone." The new name would also symbolize the greater unity of the governing bodies under the new pro­posed plan. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) would become a programming arm of the Student Union. Other groups, such as the Hall Presidents' Council and the class officers, would serve parallel governing roles. 
Council members agreed this would settle questions of jurisdiction between groups that compete with each other over funding for various events. 
In addition, the proposed reforms would delegate some Student Senate responsibilities to these groups, alleviat­ing ·their workload and allowing them to concentrate on more pressing issues ­"philosophical issues," as Kelly referred to them. · 
New proposals were also made regard­ing the election and role of the student body vice president and the Student Senate. Matt Griffin, the junior class president, who chairs the Student Body connected to their districts." 
Clare Deckelman, president of Cavanaugh Hall and the head of the Organizational Continuity Committee, voiced her support for dorm senators. "[The dorm] is such a natural boundary for the constituency: it's their communi­ty." 
Along with Tony Siefring, who chairs the Club Coordination Council. (CCC), Kelly also addressed the difficulties stu­dent government has encountered in dealing with campus organizations. The main problems center around student apathy and a lack of communication. 
"It's difficult to get people to work on the CCC," Kelly said, "and communica­tion with the clubs is lax ... The original vision of the CCC was to be like the Hall Presidents' Council, so that the clubs could share ideas just like the hall presi­dents share ideas." 
Siefring added that many of the clubs fail to take the CCC seriously. "The clubs and groups themselves don't seem to take much interest, although the CCC provides them with money," he said. 
The proposed solutions involved penal­ties for groups which remain inactive, as well as a requirement that undergradu­ate students, who pay the Student Activities Fee, should comprise the vast majority of every funded group. 
ASIAN HERITAGE WEEK '97 

Korean Student Association & Office of Multicultural Student Affairs PRESENTS 
Activist Htllltanitarian Edticatot• 



COURTNI PUGH 
30 1997 7:00 mHesbur hAuditorium 

Gordon: Catholic, black pride ideals can coexist 
By RACHEL RICHMOND 
News Writer 
In honor of Black History Month, Greer Gordon, professor of religious studies at Regis College in Weston, Mass., gave a lecture last night about black Catholicism. 
Gordon, who received her master's from Notre Dame in 1975, focused on what is unique about the black church. 
"A major part of black Christianity is the slave story, which is essential to both the descendants of slaves and those left in Africa," Gordon said. "This is mixed with scriptural stories, particularly the Hebrew Scriptures or Old Testament. For black Christians, the New Testament is secondary to Exodus because of the story of the Israelites who were brought out of slavery by God." 
The story of Hagar and Ishmael, outcasts saved by God, is significant to the suffering that blacks have experi­enced. The stories of suffering help to connect black Christians to the suffer­ing of Jesus and the cross He bore. Black Christians can therefore identify with these doctrines since they often see themselves as exiles. 
"Do not preach the doctrine of suf­fering too strongly," Gordon insisted, "or without the other components [of Christianity], since it can lead to fatal­ism, hopelessness and depression." 
Using the narratives of author Katie Canon, who explained the tension between the "ethic of care and the search for justice," Gordon spoke of the difficulty in caring and looking for justice to bring the black people out of suffering. 
"When coming to America as slaves,': Gordon said, "blacks often had a nega­tive first experience of Christianity because their oppressors forced the religion on them and stripped them of their African names, giving them Christian ones. 
"Gradually though," she explained, "Christianity merged with African tra­ditions." 

The Observer/Meghan Dooher 
Greer Gordon spoke on black Catholicism 
last night in honor of Black History Month. 
The first ministers of the black church were called by the community. The main qualification of the leader was that he had to be literate and knowledgeable in the scriptures. 
"He [the minister] became a spokesperson for the community, much like the ancient tribe leaders in Israel," continued Gordon. 
Another important aspect of black Catholicism which Gordon discussed was ritual. Since many ministers in the black church were previously unable to be ordained ministers, many are now coming back to be ordained in their late age. 
"The real presence of God is being emphasized. In addition, there is the need for blacks to be comfortable being black Catholics." 
One can be both black and Catholic without sacrificing black pride, she . emphasized. 
Gordon concluded her seminar by stressing the importance of "bridging the gap" with other black religions, including African rituals and the black Muslims. She posited that there is a need for all denominations to come together to bring black people out of 
suffering.

rsprrngnreaR97, 
I 1
I $15 CouPon Cancun. Mexico 
Complete Packages From $399 1 RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel, Free Covers & Parties Plus II Discounts on Side Trips and Excursions. Some Restrictions apply. 
Prices for March 8th Chicago Departures only call now!!! Sunbreak Student Vacations
I lowest
for info calll-800-446-8355 Price I
.... ______ _
I Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak ~uaranteedm .J 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price . 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
john Huston's 
Moby Dick 
starring Gregory Peck 
and Orson Welles 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE 

who will be faci  ng a discussion on ...  
Re  ng,  
How are we  iscJ i :  ·~·  ii...  se~::ame?  

----~-----~--------· 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Janua'!Y' 30, 1997 
Senate 
continued from page 1 

would react at their upcoming Florida meeting. Some senate members feared that introduc­ing a preliminary idea before then would give the trustees a chance to build resistance to 
what they would view as an incom­plete idea. 
"We need to come to them with a thor­oughly­defined and 


w e I I -Murray researched report," senate chairman Seth Miller said. 
Miller proposed that student government set time aside from its May Board of Trustees pre­sentation to let the senate pro­pose the idea to the board. By that time, a professionally researched report, including all manner of contingencies for selecting the proposed student trustee and evaluations of other schools' experiences with stu­dent trustees, could be assem­bled. 
"We can put together a com­plete report and really try to sell them on this," said student body vice president Megan Murray. 
The opposing senate contin­gent emphasized the timeliness of the issue. Several members felt the trustees should have ample time to mull the basic concept over and gradually accept the idea. Ryan Mcinerney said, "I think this proposal is sound." 
''I'd hate to have to put this off until May and have it be just part of a big report," off campus co-president Mike Irvine added. 
CONTU«<TNGEDUCATION English Classes for Speakers ofOther Languages English for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. 
Mondays, Feb. 10-April28, 7-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Ideal for MBA students Specially designed to improve your business presentations. 
Wednesdays, Feb. 12-April30, 7-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for more information, call UJSB Continuing Education, 237-4261 
Eventually, a vote was called on Mcinerney's resolution to present the student trustee issue via a brief letter prior to the trustee's February meeting in Florida. In the following stalemate, the legitimacy of Miller's vote was questioned. Some thought that he could only vote to break ties, but consulting the constitution revealed that the chairman could vote if his vote affected the outcome, so the tie stood. Mcinerney then withdrew his resolution. 
Senate members later passed a compromising proposal. Mcinerney agreed to draft a more thorough letter to the president of the Board of Trustees "in the near future." Its purpore will be twofold: First, it will include a copy of the Student Senate's stud.ent trustee resolution to introduce the idea, and second it will ask for a special time at the May Board meeting for the senate to formally propose their plan. 
"We don't plan for them to have the Student Senate letter at the Florida meeting," Mcinerney clarified. 
In other senate news: 
•A 
total of over $35,000 was adjusted from groups with excesses, like Student Union Board and student government, which had the largest excesses. 

•By 
unanimous vote, the sen­ate agreed to endorse senior class president Bill Hammond's letter to the provost's office, criticizing the administration's decision to hold classes during the blizzard that occurred two weeks ago. 


Part of the proposed letter read: "We realize that it is a source of pride for Notre Dame to hold classes without regard for the weather... but when this policy puts students at risk then it should be reevaluated." 


History 
continued from page 1 
Ebonies. The program was dis­continued after two years. 
Ebonies arrived in California in 1981 under the guise of the Standard English Proficiency (SEP) program, with the goal of improving the language skills of African American students by offering teachers workshops on Ebonies. · School districts throughout the state welcomed the program enthusiastically. 
The term Ebonies was coined in 1973 by Missouri psycholo­gist Robert Williams. He and his colleagues felt that the African American community needed to coin a word for the language. 

MINORITIES IN ACADEMIA 
A Presentation by 
Dr. Arnold L. Mitchem 
Executive Director, N.C.E.O.A. Washington, D.C. 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 30, 1997 
6:30PM 
118 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
SPONSORED BY THE CANDAX MCNAIR PROGRAM 


Please join with students in your brother/sister halls 
exploring friendships and dating on campus and how men and women communicate. 
Campuswide groupings 
February 2 and 3, 7 p. 
(boldface 
Alumni/Breen-Phillips Badin/Carroll 


The word "Ebonies" was the result, derived from the words "ebony" and "phonics," literally, "black sounds." 
In response to poor academic scores of African American stu­dents, the OUSD appointed a task force in July 1996. Oakland is the only school dis­trict in the state of California where black students are the majority. 
The task force reported its findings and recommendations on Nov. 28. The results went virtually unreported by the national news media. However, after the passing of the Dec. 18 OUSD resolution, "Ebonies" earned the attention of several national newspapers, radio and television reports. 
Jesse Jackson denounced the resolution on Dec. 22 in an appearance of "Meet the Press." Maya Angelou, Kweisi Mfume, Mario Cuomo, and the California Superintendent of Public Instruction, Delaine Eastin, joined Jackson in speak­ing out against the resolution in the following days. 
On Dec. 24, the United States Secretary of Education, Richard Riley, announced that Ebonies would not be considered as a separate language, and was not eligible for bilingual education funds. 
Jackson retracted his remarks on Dec. 26, after meet­ing with OUSD officials. His retraction was followed by simi­lar responses by other promi­nent African American leaders. 
On Jan. 15, the OUSD issued its amended resolution, yet the debate continues to rage. 

--------~--------~---­
Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Obse.rver • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Chicago 'h , harg··· 'to:"mt;k head Olympic bombing case 
By LEONARD PALLATS 
Associated Press Writer. 

ATLANT~< 

The head of the FBI's Chicago office has been brought in to handle the Olympic Park bombing investigation, a common practice in high· profile cases and not a sign of dissatisfaction with the Atlanta bureau, Assistant FBI Director Robert Bryant 
said Wednesday. ·..··.... ' . . . .. ·..·.• . . . .. . . 
"It's common with major investigations to .send i:p. an inspec­
tor to give his total effort to the case and assist the local 
office," Bryant said. 
The Jan. 16 bombing at an abortion clinic in Atlanta that 
injured seven spurred the decision to reassign Jack Dalton 
from Chicago to the Olympic bombing case, Bryant said. 
A federal law enforcement o~~ial who requested anonymity, 
described Dalton as "a J:lard cp?-~~er, andtll.e qire~tor wanted 
someone who had nothing elseloworryabout/' · 
Woody Johnson, in charge of the Atlanta office, remains 
responsible for the office's other cases. 
Bryant said 100 FBI employees are still working on the July 
27 Olympic bombing, which killed one and injuredmorethan 
100, and a somewhat smaller number are assign-ed tothe 
abortion clinic blasts that injured sf.lVert. No a,i:r(lsts have been: 
made in either case. ••t · 
Appointing an outside agent to take charge of a major inves~· 
tigation is not unusual for the FBI. Bryant said, pointing to 
major civil rights investigations in the 1960s and other cases in 
the 1980s, including the killing of two federal judges, one in 
Texas and the other in Alabama. 
On Tuesday, ABC's "World News Tonight" interview~d ap 
Atlanta architect who claims to have seen a man carrying two 
knapsacks in his hand and one on his back in Centennial 
Olympic Park before the bombing. He said the man resembles 
one of three men later arrested in a series of bombings at 
Spokane, Vvash. 
A federal law enforcement official who requested anonymity 
said FBI agents in Washington, D.C., on TuesdaY interviewe~ 
the architect's daughter, who was with her father in the park 
about an hour before the bomb exploded. She was shown pic· 
tures of a backpack believed to be similar to the one that held 
the Olympic bomb. 


~OBSERVER 
is now hiring a 
WEB ADMlMlSTRAJlOR. 
•: •.;:2~  •." N  •.: •• • • •  
'#'<=.::_,;,:_  
Interest in designing g!l.,  :reotiitg web­ 
sites is helpfiiiiJq' 1ii)l  q~ired. The  

WEB ADMINISTRATOR
·;;;:;,_-;;~···· 

is responsible for ID:(lltClging the daily publication ofnTh~ Observer on the internet. Interested? Contact Liz Foran at 631-4542 for more information. 

Memoir addresses allegations 
By DEBRA HALE 
Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO 
.Cardinal Joseph Bernardin said in a posthumously pub­lished memoir that "certain critics of mine" -namely a fel­
low priest­helped insti­gate the false allegations of sexual abuse brought against him in 1993. 
In "The Gift 


of Peace, Bernardin P.ersonal Reflections," Bernardin writes that he had suspected early on that his accuser, Steven Cook, might have been "a pawn in this terrible game." But 
Student cracks highest-level code 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO 
It's the most secure encryp­tion code the United States has allowed to be exported -and it took a graduate student only 3 1/2 hours to break it, industry officials said Wednesday. 
"It shows you that any kid with access to computers can crack this kind of cryptogra­phy," said RSA Data Security Inc. spokesman Kurt Stammberger, whose company had offered the challenge. "The cryptography software that you are allowed to export is so weak as to be useless." 
The company put its challenge on the Internet Monday, offer­ing $50,000 in prizes to crack various levels of encryption codes with electronic key lengths ranging from 40 to 256 
Lf\1£ N,b,~1 CLYWY\C~ 
~pu.ia\ 0\~mpian& 
v. ND~MC.. llutor& f:r \-\a\\ Diru.tor& f,a&"etba\\ G.ame 
q:oo 'PM fie\dhouse -r0 c.e Genter 
~t.ial 0\impiantJ 
Tim Ander&an ~rian DiJ.on ~obbie ;fane felir.c.h 
:roe\ \\amburg ~ane \\ollowa~ '5handa John&an 
~ob Mac.~e~ 
~­
~§pectal
'5hannon Mc.Nur 
0/ympic!!i

And'j M~ert> Chrir. Ovenne1er Daniel 'Palr.c.e '5tephen '5aine liVing WaJ.man U>ac.her.: Dan \\oming and Dend'j Mc.Nur 
C.Oac.\1: c.hu~:\:: Lennon 
Friaai, ranuari 31, lq'fl •l:OO 'PM -4:00 1\M • roic.e Center. {p3\-{p\OO All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shiris Were Donated by <J:.~ 
Bernardin says he "could not imagine who would resort to these tactics to harm me." 
Cook eventual recanted and reconciled with Bernardin at a meeting in 1994. There, Cook confirmed Bernardin's suspi­cions. 
"It became clear to me that certain critics of mine had played a role in urging Steven Cook" to sue me, Bernardin writes. 
During that meeting, Cook related that as a young semi­narian he had been molested by a priest. Later, a lawyer put him in touch with a priest in another state to advise him spiritually. 
"Although Steven was pursu­ing a case only against his sem­inary teacher, his priest adviser began mentioning me, Cardinal 
bits. 
The federal government, wor­ried about security, has barred exports of codes higher than 40 bits. Devices with larger num­bers of bits are stronger and harder to decode. 
Last month, the Clinton administrat.ion began allowing companies to export encryption devices with 56-bit keys -but only if they have a way for law enforcement officials to crack the code and intercept the com­munications. Most computer companies have rejected that demand. 
Meanwhile, Ian Goldberg, a University of California­Berkeley graduate student, took on RSA Data Security's chal­lenge by linking together 250 idle workstations that allowed him to test 100 billion possible "keys" per hour. 
~f.t.Ori_kl!a\\ Diru.m 
Jill Mc.hison -LeMan& 
'5r. kaihlun ~eatt'j. '5'5-:r-L'jons 
'5r. '5ue ~runo -'Pa~uerilla Wer.t /l.niho!l'f U>ul'j -keough 
Matthew Doring -fisher 
Christopher Duba -Ranner 
'5r. '5all'j Duft'j, '5l. -Walsh ~Zabert t.lmer -'5tanford Jona-thon Rigg -Ranner '5tuart \\ea\1 -f\lumni Chri&ta Heidbreder -Mc.L.and\m Tamara 1-\erdener -knott 'Pamela Hunt -Walsh ~Zabert Mallon -Dillon '5r. Mal'j Ann Mueninghoff, O'P -'Par.queri\la t.a&t 
C.Oat.\1: fr. E-dward "Mon\::" Ma\\o-t. ~1:£., 
Bernardin, suggesting that, if I were included in the case, Steven would surely get back what he wanted from the church," Bernardin writes . "This 'spiritual guide' pushed my name, urging Steven to name me along with the other priest in the legal action." 
Cook, who died of AIDS in 1995, reached a settlement with the seminary teacher. 
His attorney, Stephen Rubino, said Wednesday that he doubts that a priest suggested that he add Bernardin to his lawsuit. 
"Everything that I do know tells me that it did not happen," Rubino said .. 
Bernardin did not identify the priest except to say he was the same one who said on a Chicago radio talk show that he believed the cardinal was guilty. 
That's like trying every possi­ble combination for a safe at high speed, and many students and employees of large compa­nies have access to such compu­tational power, the school said. 
In 3 1/2 hours, Goldberg had decoded the message, which read, "This is why you should use a longer key." 
Goldberg, who won $1,000 with his effort, says the moral is clear. 
"This is the final proof of what we've known for years-40-bit encryption technology is obsolete," the student said. 
That puts software exporters in a quandary, said Stammberger. 
Almost all business software now requires built-in encryp­tion, a necessity for any compa­ny doing business over the Internet. 


page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday January 30, 1997 
structure results in better funded Standard American English proficiency. schools in more affiuent areas. Property The final question, and perhaps the

Ebonies 
values are then driven up, resulting in a most sensitive, has to do with race: continued from page 1 self fulfilling prophecy. Various solu­What are the racial implications of the 
tions to this have been offered, but pub­resolution? Bellis said the resolution Vacca, professor of classical and oriental lic school funding is so tied to property might sound like "too much an effort to languages and literatures, said it is very tax that it would be very difficult to sep­help instead of instill pride." Is the difficult to draw a line between the two. arate the two without causing a major implication of the resolution that the 
Vacca said there is "no linguistic issue" backlash. largely white, standard English-speaking at stake. He stressed that "it's a question Second: How effective is bilingual edu­community is reaching in to "save" the of a different kind-there's not a lot of cation? The highly charged debate largely black, Ebonies-speaking commu­incentive in the inner city to speak stan­involves diverse minority groups, and nity, or is this simply a recognition of a dard English." reeently, the Ebonic-speaking communi­cultural tradition? Does this promote 
"These children can speak English -ties of the inner cities. As immigration pride in one's background by recogniz­but Ebonies is a powerful expression of increased, so did controversy. The prob­ing the validity of it or does it promote identity," agreed James Bellis, professor lem is worst in inner cities schools, shame by implying that Ebonies is some­of anthropology. ' where immigration levels are highest, how inferior to English? 
The question, according to Richard and available funds are lowest. When asked what the impact of the Pierce of the history department, is Bilingual teachers in the OUSD are resolution would be, Bellis said, three-fold. entitled to additional compensation and "Nothing." 
First: How should Oakland's program assistance. This benefit does not extend The Jan. 23 issue of Black Issues in be funded? Public schools are· tradition­to teachers who work with African­1/igher Education contributed to this ally funded by property taxes. This American students with limited report. 
resources, and immigrants are States." being used as scapegoats. He Guillermo feels this complex

Asian 
noted that the balanced budget issue of xenophobia, based on act, which will cut welfare to generation and class, will lead Get in good with your favorite *~ 
continued from page 1 
non-citizens -many of which to disrespect and even hate are Asian Americans -is dis­crimes against Asianmy place among the white and 



Knott Angeli'1"
criminatory and unfair. Americans.
the privileged," Guillermo said, The final issue of controversy During his speech, "Commonreferring to his Harvard educa­for Guillermo is what he Ground -Asian Spin: The Newtion and the appearance of his 
so you can

termed to be the racist media Race Politics, Not Just Black
columns in the Los Angeles 
coverage resulting from the ' and White," Guillermo strongly 
Get Lucky at Knott Hall•s 4th Annual Times, the Washington Post, 
Asian campaign donation con­urged the audience to be play­and USA Today. 
troversy. ers in the new race politics or
Immigration, according to 

"It has created xenophobia -else, he warned, they'd be leftGuillermo, is driving another that is, a fear of foreigners," he out and used. 
wedge into the Asian American 
~
said. "This is not coincidental ~'Asian Americans eannotcommunity. There is increas­
with the rise of Asian afford to dream. They musting competition for what 
Americans in the United aet," he said. 
appears to be dwindling 
Saturday, February 8th, starting at 8 PM. 







ay, January 31 t 8 pm, Stepan Center 
are $3... Buy One, Get One FREE! 
)i~~:~i:t!:t:
·~" :~Uickets can be pur­chased at the Lafortune 


AQ_~ I oef Jafl'l, Information Desk 
"9QJ s search, 

~ star 

~the lmprov BroQ''ghtto you by: 
Student Activities Student Programmers 

will continue through next Thursday evening. The debate will be at 8 p.m. Monday in the


Election 
Cushing Hall auditorium. continued from page 1 
Voting in the primary election will be Friday, Feb. 7, from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 7 
• Matt Griffin, of Stanford Hall, and Erek Nass, p.m. in the residence halls and LaFortune of Keenan Hall. Student Center. 
• Matt Szabo, of Morrissey Hall, and Mary Saint Mary's candidates will be announced at 
Gillard, of Knott Hall. 5 p.m. today. The list of candidates will be pub­Campaigning begins tonight at midnight and lished in Friday's Observer. 



Admission is $2 (You must have an invitation to enter.) 
Prizes include: Gift Certificates, Sweatshirts, and a T.V.!!! 
I 


Thursday, January 30, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Restrictions cramp U.S. troops 
By EDITH M. LEDERER 
Associated Press Writer 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 

For thousands of American Gls, Bosnia is a barbed-wire military compound. 
Their comrades from Russia, Poland and Nordic countries can wander through the old town of Tuzla in pairs, stop­ping at coffee houses and buy­ing souvenirs. 
Americans can't even stop at gas stations or cafes to use the toilet, and must wear heavy "battle rattle" -full military gear, including helmets, flak jacks and automatic weapons. 
When the Americans arrived in northeast Bosnia in December 1995, they were under stringent rules that kept them on their base at a nearby airport. Even though Tuzla is so safe it didn't have a single murder in 1996, the rules remain for the 8,500 American soldiers settling in for another 18 months. 
The different rules for differ­ent countries arise because each country contributing troops to the 31 ,000-strong NATO-led peacekeeping force decides what measures are necessary to protect its sol­diers. 
Regulations for the U.S. troops are built on memories of Vietnam, the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut and the murder of 18 
U.S. Rangers in Somalia in 1993. 
"If you're going to do a ter­rorist act, it's not going to be against a French guy or a Brit. It's going to be against an American," said U.S. Army Capt. Marty Nelson, 36, of Palmer, Texas. 
Privately, many officers from other NATO countries say the American military is overpro­tecting its troops and not car­rying out an important peace­keeping mission -showing soldiers on the streets acting normally. 
"I believe when people are in touch with each other, all the anger, all the problems can be solved," said Danish Capt. Tage H. Nielsen, 52, of Copenhagen, whose govern­ment allows soldiers to visit Tuzla and other towns. 
On military duty, American Gis who monitor one of the most hotly disputed areas in Bosnia support the rule that they must patrol in "battle rat­tle" and travel in a four-vehi­cle convoy with eight soldiers and an M60 mounted machine gun. There are still dangers out there. 
On Sunday, U.S. troops need­ed tanks to rescue 20 Muslims who were attacked by 130 Bosnian Serbs as they attempt­ed to return to their homes in the demilitarized zone sepa­rating the former warring par­ties. 
Last week, an American offi­cer discovered men in Bosnian Serb police uniforms setting a mine in the zone. 
Become part ofa tradition! Join Saint Mary's Student Activities Board! 

S.A.B. is looking for enthusiastic, 
creative women to assist in planning SMC Tostal '97. 
Positions available: SMC Tostal co-chair * Entertainment/Music chair * Game chair * Food chair * Publicity chair 

Sign-up at Haggar front desk by Tuesday, Feb. 7th 
Any questions? Contact Jen Ligda at 284-5189 or Lori McKeough at 284-4395 
CIA regulations tighten interrogation methods 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The CIA says it revised an interrogation manual more than a decade ago to eliminate references to coercive tactics and underscore the agency's policy against torture. 
CIA spokesman Mark Mansfield said today the changes were incorporated in 1985 to an agency document prepared two years earlier for training interrogators. The ear­lier version of the booklet, "Human Resource Exploitation Training Manual -1983," advises interrogators to deprive their prisoners of food and sleep and make them stand at attention for long periods. 
In 1983, the manual read, "While we do not stress the use of coercive techniques, we want to make you aware of them and the proper way to use them." 
The revised 1985 version read, "While we deplore the use of coercive techniques, we do want to make you aware of them so that you may avoid them." 
Critics of the CIA have charged that the earlier manual was part of a CIA campaign to train friendly governments in Latin America in the harsh techniques of counterintelli­gence and counterinsurgency. 
Jury recommends 9 death sentences for serial killer 
By PAUL NOWELL 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
A jury today recommended nine death sentences for Henry Louis Wallace, one for each vic­tim the former fast-food worker admitted he killed. 
Wallace, 31, admitted to police that he killed the nine Charlotte women between June 1992 and his arrest in March 1994. Two of the women were stabbed and the rest were strangled. All were acquain­tances of his. 
Reading from a statement, Wallace expressed remorse and said he wished he could bring the women back to life if that meant giving up his life. 
"What words in any language can I say to you to comfort you or free you from this mental prison I put you in?" he said, addressing the gallery. ''I'm sorry. I apologize I didn't mean to do it. 
"None of these women, your daughters, your sisters, or your children in any way deserved what they got. They did nothing to me to warrant their deaths." 
Several relatives of the vic­tims began sobbing as Wallace spoke. When he finished, George Burrell, the cousin of 
victim  Brandi  Henderson,  
yelled,  "Why  did  you  kill  
them?"  

Kathy Love, the sister of vic­tim Caroline Love, screamed and lunged toward Wallace. She was removed by sheriffs deputies. 


1997 



Earn $$$ for Spring Break 
. 1 ~vailable February 14, 15, 16 
Shifts stll Sign ups are: Sat 2/1 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. Mon-Fri 10:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 . 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 30, 1997 


Israel, U.S. disputing Syria on peace accord 
By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The United States and Israel disputed a Syrian claim that Israel has agreed. to withdraw to its 1967 border in a peace accord with Damascus. 
Israeli Ambassador Eliahu Ben-Elissar accused Syria of spreading false reports, of trying to create an tmpression that Israel is reneging on an agreement left unsigned only because of a technical prob­lem. "There is no agreement whatsoever," he said Wednesday, adding that Israel is ready to reopen peace talks with Syria imme­diately, anywhere. 
State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns, while avoiding criticism of Syria, concurred. "The sim­plest thing for me to say is, if there had been an lsraeli­Syrian agreement on the Golan in 1995 I wouldn't be standing here," he said. "There would be peace between Syria and Israel ­and there isn't a peace treaty today." 
Protracted peace talks between Israel and Syria were halted almost a year ago. Ben-Elissar said Israel is eager to reopen the negotia-. tions "anytime, anywhere and at any level," preferably between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Syrian President Hafez Assad. 
"If this seems too difficult for Syria, let's start at a dif­ferent level," the Israeli diplo­mat said. 

In Jerusalem, Netanyahu urged Syria to return to the bargaining table. It would be in their benefit. he said. 
"Syria will benefit aJot eco~ 

··· nomicany, because tM Syrian economy is not leaping for­ward," Netanyahu told the newspaper Haaretz. "There are certain things, such as joint ventures, .in w~~h Syria can only make progress with an open approach." 
Netanyahu's coordinator on security issues with Syria, Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai, said last week he expected talks to resume in the spring. 
On Wednesday, Syrian Viet! President Abdel-Halim Khaddam, visiting the United Arab Emirates, was quoted by Emirates News Agency as calling Mordechai's predic­tion "propaganda aimed at deceiving international public opinion." 
Ben·Elissar's denial that previous Labor governments had come to terms with Syria on a land-for,-peace arrange· ment conflicts with an account by Syria's chief nego­tiator, Walid Moualem. 
In an interview to be pub­lished in the Journal of Palestine Studies, the Syrian diplomat said Israel agreed to withdraw to its border with Syria that existed before Israel captured the Golan Heights in the 1967 Six-Day War. 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Chechnya political status. in question 
By GREG MYRE 
Associated Press Writer 
GROZNY, Hussia 
After years of wrangling and a terrible war, Hussia and Chechnya remain locked in dis­agreement over the republic's political status and appear headed for a prolonged standoff full of friction. 
Monday's election in Chechnya, coming less than a month after the final Hussian troop pullout, installs a popular government acting on the premise that the Muslim repub­lic already is a sovereign state. 
Chechnya -or Ichkeria as residents call it -will have its own army and police force. It will be dominated by heroes of the 1994-96 guerrilla war against Hussia. United by the conflict, the population has dis­carded most Russian customs in favor of Chechen and Islamic traditions. 
But Moscow still has sul'licient clout to ensure that Chechnya's independence claims will not be recognized .by the wider world. 
The most likely outcome is a deadlock in which Moscow largoly steers clear of internal Chechen affairs, but employs political, diplomatic and eco­nomic pressure to prevent Chechnya's acceptance by the international community. 
"We now have temporary agreements with Russia. We want full, normal relations with Russia as soon as possible, the sooner the better," president­elect Asian Maskhadov said Tuesday. 
For Maskhadov and most Chechens, that means an equal partnership between neighbor­ing nations. To Moscow, it means Chechnya remains part of the Russian federation. 
Most Russian officials hope that Maskhadov, a former Soviet army o!Tieer and rebel military chief, realizes Chechnya cannot survive on its own and would not really push for independenee anytime soon. 
The 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union saw it splinter into 15 nations. But several regions that sought independence from those new countries did not get it. 
Sinee then, these restive lands, most of them in the Caucasus Mountains, have been battling for sovereignty. In sev­eral cases, they have won autonomy or even virtual inde­pendence, though it is not for­mally recognized beyond their borders. 
The eountries with break­away regions have tried varied responses -military action, economie sanetions, bloekades 
. -with the result being harden­ing of positions on all sides. 

MARRIOTT 
./ Used, rare and 
\.\!ant to get your foot in the door with a major corporation? 
out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.00 Nationally -circulated ad 
MARRIOTT Educational Services at 
Success rate of 5CJ'/o Time required: 2 months Saint Mary's College is recruiting people 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
to fill various part-time positions, 
Open noon to six 
' Tuesday through Sunday ' including student management. 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 Hours are flexible berween 6am and 1 Opm, 7 days a week. Contact Mr. Jamie Wright, Food Service Manager, at 284-5542. 


Announcing a slide lecture on American Civil War photography: 


HIS LIFE AND WORK 
with lecturer 

Keith Davis 
Fine Arts Program Director of the Hallmark Fine Art Collections, and George Barnard expert 

Thursday, January 30,7:30 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art • University of Notre Dame 
** show closes on February 9th ** 


open to the public free of charge 










VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 30, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0F.FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matr Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ·················~·Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edicor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor) and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~ntaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those ofTh~ Observer. Viewpoint space is available mall memb~rs of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
municy and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHEN PIGS fLY... 
Michigan's declaration of dependence: On Canada 
We, the People of Michigan, in order to proceed in creating our own mostly separate and unique nation, and then attaching it to Canada, do hereby ask to be freed of the bonds of the United States of America. 
Acting upon the growing nationalist movement found spanning the shores of 

Bernadette Pampuch 
Lake Ontario to the smallest township of the LClwer Peninsula, in the interest of good will and good ice-fishing, and tak­ing into account our geographical and cultural proximity to Canada (often to the point of being confused with native Canadians and finding large amounts of Canadian coins in our pockets), we ask to be allowed to become the eleventh province of our Great Neighbor to the North. 
In that the Upper Peninsula is already basically a part of Canada, evidenced by the constant influx of the BBC on basic cable channels and the pre-disposition of most Yoopers to the Royal Canadian Air Farce instead of Saturday Night Live... 
In that the native Michiganian dialect has in recent years become indistin­guishable from that of our Canadian comrades and we have a tendency to end our sentences in"eh" and over-pro­nounce words like "out" and "about," making them "aboot" and "oot" ... 
In that we would probably prefer Tim Horton's to Dunkin Donuts (given the chance) and have started showing a great preference for delicacies like deer meat and pierogies ... 
In that we already operate on the Canadian weather system of six .months 
of winter and six months of really bad snowmobiling ... 
In that in recent years ice-fishing and canoeing have been elevated to an art form like no other in the lower American states. 
In that our shampoo bottles, tooth­paste tubes and cereal boxes have start­ed to inexplicably turn up with French translations on them and we have real­ized that it is just a matter of time before we become exceedingly polite and turn Canadian anyway ... 
We move that all territories formerly known as Michigan, including all lakes, rivers, streams and snowmobile trails once associated with said territory, become subject to the great land of Canada and its provinces. 
We promise without fail to maintain open borders with Indiana, Ohio and Wisconsin, providing for the free trade of cheese and cigarettes and the natural flow of cultures across these borders. We will open-heartedly embrace new forms of expression, using Candadianisms like "write a test" when we mean "take an exam," "washroom" when we mean to say "bathroom" and "Chesterfield" when we are referring to the· "sofa." We will constantly use the word "bum" when speaking of some­one's tush, and never, ever refer to pop as soda. 
We will convert our mono-colored money to one-and two-dollar coins which we shall call "loonies" and "toonies," and not laugh when the cen­ters fall out and bounce around the, floor. We will claim Canadian inven­tions like baby food, baseballs, the bas­ketball, insulin, the electron microscope • and Superman as our own (as we as Americans already do) and grow exas­perated when our beloved Canada is referred to as the fifty-first American state. In restaurants, we will serve vine­gar with all of our french fries. 
In order to preserve the peace, we will ship our much-maligned Detroit Lions off to Indiana if they refuse to convert to Canadian­rules foot­b a l I . Instead, we will practice the sport of curling and come to revere the Detroit Red Wings hockey team with the same thoughtful devotion t h a t requires us to hurl octopi onto the ice during the play­
offs. We will cultivate our young athletes into fine figure skaters and lacrosse enthusiasts and memorize all the words to "0 Canada." We will listen to Tea Party and Barenaked Ladies, make large shrines to Celine Dion and remember Alanis Morisette back when she was part of "You Can't Do That On Television." 
We will move the only Canadian bor­der-control point of any importance from its present location from Windsor, Ontario (bordering on Detroit) to South Bend, Indiana. We will pretty much continue the practice of letting anyone across the border who is relatively clean shaven and does not have Cuban cigars sticking out of their pocket, and will dis­tinguish "real" Canadians and/or Michiganders from Americans by listen­ing very intently to see how polite the occupants of the car are and whether or not they answer questions by attaching the telltale "eh?" to the end of their sen­tences. 
We will learn the metric system and stop using our ignorance of it to get out of paying Canadian speeding tickets. We will be able to buy our milk in bags and quarts, not just in gallons, and learn that the drinking age in Canada is nine­teen. Finally, we will develop an odd obsession with trading tiny metal pins and iron-on patches of the Canadian flag. 

These, the reasons for which we in Michigan would be much happier as Canadians, stand as proof of our undy­ing devotion to the Canadian culture and way of life. We sacrifice all things American, and embrace only that which is truly Canadian and separate from The States. We glorify the things that make us unique, and the qualities which make us unlike any other state in the Union (except maybe Minnesota and Wisconsin). 
Bernadette Pampuch is a native of Michigan and lives much too close to the Canadian border. She can be reached at pamp2029@jade.saintmarys.edu unless there's enough ice to go fishing. 
• DooNESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 

• 

~~---~--~-~-~-~-~·----------------------­
~ 
• 
• 
page 10 
Thursday, January 30, 1997 
by joey



iril:erVieW with loca I h 
crawford 

&>S @®®@1 ®>S~~~~W®W W®OO~ ~@ L0® 
T
he stage is black and empty. Two mysterious figures stroll out of the dark­riffs, croons and squeals marked the true talent of the band and proved that two is ness onto the stage. The shorter of the two walks slowly behind the drum set more than enough. 
and takes his seat. The other one stands stoically at the front of the stage With their increasing popularity, the comparisons being drawn are inevitable. 
with his guitar in hand, poised and ready for action. It is a lonely portrait of Their sound has been compared to Evcrclear and Nirvana. Their semblance to musicianship. Music slowly begins to 
Nirvana is almost uncanny. Local ll's similar stage emerge from the blackness, guitar presence and energy as the late great band. must have riffs, strong base lines and the pound­Kurt Cobain smiling in his grave. Lucas is not apprc­ing of drums. This is Local II and hensivB about these comparisons at all, "Comparisons they feel they have a lot to prove. arc inevitable and at least they arc not comparing us to 
Lead singer/guitarist/bassist Scott someone who sucks." Lucas and drummer Joe Daniels com­In an age of one hit wonders, Lucas and Daniels real­prise the band that has recently ize that it takes a great deal to have continued success caught the attention of the public eye in the music industry. "There arc a lot of bands out with their hit single "Bound to the there and time inevitably kills those bad bands." Hadio Floor {you know the copacetic song)." stations however, are not always supportive of young They have toured recently with talented bands, opting to play the same stuff from popu­Gravity Kills and just wrapped up lar bands over and over again. Their song "Eddie their tour with Stone Temple Pilots. Vedder" is a direct hit on these type of radio stations Their second album As Good as Dead who do not give enough air time to young bands. Many has received a great deal of critical of their songs do poke fun at this narrow minded atti­acclaim, Guitar Magazine described tude but they are happy with the irony that these same their sound as, "like Godzilla getting people are now listening to their album. an enema, and they swear like sailors Local I-1 arc pretty confident in their ability to deal on shore leave. Why don't more with fame, "We are not afraid fame, but we probably bands make more records like this?" should be. There is obviously a struggle to expand on Many critics wonder this same thing. the music and not make it stale." Their music is cer­
The two twenty-something musi­cians were reared in the small town of Zion, Ill., a town just outside of Chicago. Their sophomore album focuses on their experiences and the general mentalities associated with living in a small town. A very mellow Scott Lucas in a phone interview explained, "Life was very normal in Zion ... almost too normal...like a David Lynch film. We just listened to a lot of music and watched a lot movies. Nothing was really ever going on." That was until they formed the band and then things began taking off. 
Originally Local H, named after those hospital road signs wi-th the big "II," con­sisted of four members. Because of some differences, two of them quit the band and that left Daniels and Lucas short two pieces. Instead of replacing their lost members however, they just adapted and created a very unique sound. "We weren't interested in getting anyone else, we were getting heavier and we're get­ting offers," explains Lucas. With the drums in Daniels capab"le hands, Lucas sings and plays guitar through a guitar and bass amps. With this innovation, the duo can create a lot of pleasing noise. Their heavy debut album, /lam Fisted, full of mega '-----------___Jtainly not stale though, every song is unique and offers 
CourtesyoflslandRecordsa direct contrast to the song prior to it. I don't think a record should sound the same. Each song should go up against one another," explains Lucas. 
Local II is best experienced live. Their energy is truly apparent as they make a lot more noise than could be expected with just two members. Joe Daniels slugs away at his drums with rare fury while Lucas' vocals arc mesmerizing. Occasionally, their roadie Gabe Hodriguez appears on stage to help them with a tambourine or a kazoo solo. He occasionally assists with background lyrics as well. At the Stone Temple Pilots show in Cleveland, Local II was joined by Scott Weiland and crew as they performed High Fiving MF. 
Local !I will not be able to enjoy the irony of their songs forever as they plummet deeper and deeper into the world of fame. llopefully they will continue to write music that is important to them and avoid letting commercialism hinder their tal­ents. Local I! is how music ought to be, powerful, youthful, unpretentious, and very loud. 

KULA SHAKER K 
T
he Britpop invasion continues as yet another group appears out of nowhere and releases a superb album; this time it is the turn of Kula Shaker, a quartet of apparently very odd peo­ple with a penchant for things Eastern. Elsewhere a favorable review wondered whether this was a case of "right band, wrong planet," and the per­plexity is easy to understand. K is infused with a mix­ture of your everyday Beatles-type, post-Oasis riffs and Indian vibes {not all the lyrics arc in English), and yet the incomprehensibility created for those of us whose Sanskrit is not all that it should be is of little consequence given the feast laid before us. 
Our appetizer comes in the form of "Govinda," a relaxed and memorable tune with eventual sing-a­long potential, the voice of Crispian Mills easily deal­ing with the complicated and tricky lyrics. The superb "Tattva" is the main course, a grinding, bilingual and immediately catchy track the impressive production of 

'Cl~~~'C{ 
(out of five) 

whieh is reminiscent of the Bcatles at their very best, and for dessert "Start All Over" offers a more straight­forward conclusion to an otherwise weird collection. Interspersed between these moments of greatness are other, smaller bundles of excellence; "Into the Deep" and "Knight on the Town" are seamless, groovy tunes whieh would make more than adequate singles in their own right, while "Temple of Everlasting Light" gives the listener the first major hint of the Eastern atmosphere to come. Overall this album is character­ized by a genuine talent and a capacity to put together influences from a variety of sources to unusual and enjoyable effect. All this may prove a little too strange for masses, but any self-righteous creature of musical discernment could do a lot worse than make K a new purchase, especially given the knowledge that this could be a very hard act to follow. 
by Julain Elliot 


SLOAN 


~~~~~ 

one chord to another 
(out of five) 

T
he best Canadian team in the NHL is the song in this key/ Yeah, but this one's about me," sings Edmonton Oilers. They've been floating around Jay Ferguson on "G Turns to D." There's even a song .500 for the whole season. Meanwhile we Yanks toasting the coming of the B-side at the end of Side A. have relocated teams to Colorado and Phoenix, Hearing a band so open about it's methods is like watch­slapped tacky new logos on teal jerseys, and beaten ing Penn and Teller saw each other in half with clear Canadians at their own game. But John Mulroney need boxes-amazingly revealing but never-the-less still not worry (other than the fact that most Americans have impressive. no idea who he is), for Canada has Sloan. And the But upon closer listen, Sloan is anything but color byband's recent pop masterpiece, One Chord to Another, is numbers. The backwards guitar in "400 Meters," the as surprising as the Florida Marlins reaching the choppy piano of "A Side Wins," and the time changesStanley Cup finals. in "The Good in Everyone" and "G Turns to D" just 
One Chord to Another is simply the best conventional make you wanna say "Yeah!" Now, top it all off with an pop-rock album in over a year. It's s cool breeze on a infallible mix and wish-1-had-written-that lyrics, such cheek. A scooter ride through the city. A swig of Scope. as, "''m bright and young an gifted in my autobiography/A fluffy pillow at 2 A.M. Oasis can flap their lips as I'm certainly the former, but I'm not so much the lad­
much as they want about how they're the "next der." It should be scientifically provable that no human Beatles," but my vote goes to Sloan. can dislike "Everything You've Done Wrong" and "Can't 
Leaving aside the swaggering pretension of rock stars, Face Up." I could teach chimps to sing the chorus in a Sloan holed themselves up in Ilalifax and kicked out the half hour with relative ease. Every hand clap, harmo­jams. The mastery of Sloan comes from their extensive nizing vocal, and hum shines like chrome. Finally, a knowledge of music history and self-reflective song writ­rock band that is incredible, universal, AND humble. ing. Everything from the Jam, the Beatles, the Who, and bet after this album Canadians won't even care that we the Clash mixes with the contemporary influences of fel­flew their flag upside down in Game One of the 1993 low Northerners Zumpano and Eric's Trip. World Series. 
Calling the album One Chord to Another is a wonder­ful stab at rock and roll conventionalism, and shows a by Brent DiCrescenzo band comfortable in their pigeonhole. "Here's another 
• 


-------·-· 
-

VARIOUS ARTISTS 
A Tribute to Stevie Ray Vaughn 
*****
(out of five) 

W
hen asked to describe Stevie Ray Vaughan, Buddy Guy, one of the greatest blues guitarists of all time, quoted an old Eddie James song, "He was like thunder, he was like lightin' and when he struck it was frightnin'." Very few gui­tarists embodied this phrase like Stevie, stand­ing on stage in his colorful shirts, wide­brimmed hat and torn-up strat with "SRV" past­ed on it zipping through blues licks with as much effort as it takes to breathe. On August 26, 1990 after a gig with Guy, Robert Cray, Eric Clapton, and his older brother Jimmie Vaughan at Alpine Valley, Wiscon·sin, Stevie's brief career was called to an end. Five years later, the same great musicians gathered on the Austin City Limits stage in Austin, Texas playing with other blues legends and Stevie's old band "Double Trouble" to pay tribute to the greatness that everyone equally envied and loved. The album that this concert spawned (it is out on video too) shines with some great solo perfor­mances. Bonnie Raitt's smooth southern drawl and lazy slide guitar glides her over a version of Stevie's standard, "Pride and Joy." B.B. King, who learned "Telephone Song" mere hours before the show, and Buddy Guy, who never rehearses and changes every song around any­way, showed their mastery of the blues by mak­ing Stevie's songs sound like their own. However, the best songs on the album are the last three which feature all musicians on stage. 

Courtesy of Epic Records 
In "Six Strings Down," a new song written by Art Neville for this concert aH the musicians remember great blues artists that have passed on. Jimmie Vaughan's "Tick Tock" is given extra feeling because of the gospel choir in the background. The last song, entitled, the "SRV Shuffle," though, is a blues fan's dream. A seven-solo, nine-minute impromptu jam explodes from a simple four note groove. Each guitarist takes a turn on the same theme, Dr. John also chimes in on the piano. The song finally winds down with Clapton and Guy trad­ing solos, each artist going one more time, and ending with Jimmie Vaughan getting in the last notes. This song epitomizes Stevie's playing style and is a fitting tribute to the man. 
by Matthew Loughren 
upcoming concerts in chicago and south bend 
Porno for Pyros 1/29 Riviera, Chicago Bob Mould 2/15 Vic, Chicago Pavement 2/16 Lounge Ax, Chicago Silverchair 2/16 Metro, Chicago Sebadoh 2/22 Vic, Chicago Counting Crows 3/10 Aragon, Chicago Cardigans 3/14 Metro, Chicago 




nocturne top 10 
1. Morphine -Sampliation 
2. Bjork, -Telegram 
3. Luscious Jackson-Fever In, Fever Out 
4. Live -"Lakini's Juice" 
5. 
Jamiroquai -Traveling Without Moving 

6. 
Space -Spiders 


7. Ani Difranco -More Joy, Less Shame 8. U2 -"Discotheque" 
9. 
MC Lyte -Bad as I WannaBe 

10. 
Tricky-Pre-Millinium Tension 


From Now On 
2. 
Babe the Blue Ox-Live 

3. 
Pavement-Stereo 


4. 
DJ Shadow -Endtroducing 

5. 
Tricky-Pre-Millenium Tension 


6. 
Package -Good Bar 

7. 
Chavez-Ride the Fader 


8. Number One Cup-Kim Chee is Cabbage 
9. Sweep the Leg Johnny -Sweep the Leg Johnny 
10. NerfMerder-NerfMerder. 

• CLASSICAL. COLUMN 
Opera Has Something For Everyone 
By JULIE BRUBAKER 
and MICHAEL ANDERSON 
S
tarved for some classical music this past wee.kend, we were lucky enough to escape to Chicago's Lyric Opera to get an overwhelming taste of how opera works in 
, the big city. Th.e pre-conception of many college students that opera is fqr the mega-elite with· binoculars was ·completely dis­pelled this weekend. Rather, the experience not only was a treat for two music majors with college budgets; but clearly had "some­thing for everybody," touching a variety of generations and social types. . .J\.17:2~ p.m., Chicago's seyc;u•al~thousand seat Civic Opera House was filled. to ·a tight. capacity. Two middle· aged gentlemen were seated to the left of us·-'--orte had jeans and Reeboks; the other dressed himself in typical Notre Dame attire for such an event-Blazer and khakis. B~hind us sat a family of four, with the two children seate~ next to each other. Surely they'll fall asleep. (Wrong!} ..;.:: 
·And in the first few rows of the opera house, there were those adorned in sparkling formal wear. They're the ones who know the difference between "Bravo" and "Bravi" and who purchase the $7 cup of tea and $3 cookie at intermission. 
~~taJl w~re !>~~ted in intens¢ ~nticipation ()f Mozart's Die.Zauherflote (The Magic Flute). Conductor Marek Janowski's downbeat brought forth from the orchestra a rich, sustained D-major chord which would set the pace for an evening of wonderful musicand compelling execu­tion of Mozart's witin this opera. ... . ... 
The setting was gfat1diose and ?rnate -a recreation of, ~~a rocky ·clearing;r i~ •· Egypt, near the temple ofJsis and Osiris. The children (and there were many) found the scenes particularly fantastic. Many young audience mem­bers even giggled extensively at the crazy animals that danced in "techno" fashion in the hysteria of the first half. 
The use of special effects was another plus in Die Zauberflote. Hundreds.· of plant~ "grew" out ofJh~ stage simultaneously••fir.e arid fireworks were abundant, ·and three choir boys descended to the ground from three sto­ries in a swinging chair -this opera was not short of unthinkable creative effects. 
Costume design was, as expected, ornate and imagina­tive.--:-· again ;;J.ppealing to the. audience at large. P~P~l$eno, the bir~~catcher ·playedby baritone Olaf Bar, 
. wore an outfit that might best· be described as a hybrid of BigBird and theSan Diego Chicken. Of additional interest were the costumes ofthe Queen of the Night and her three fairy-like cohorts; .whose metallic countenances· reflected 
•• ;~~ep ·in mind tli~ Schubert extravaganza cornirig. in less 
than two weeks. ·· · ··· ~onday, February 10, the Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium ':Vlll host Sanford Sylvan, baritone, and David Breitman, pi~n~stat 8:00<P·Ill· The guo will be performing "An ng of$c.huR:er~Songs;'' .· ·.•· . .•..•... . .. 'We~nesday; }<)!hfuary J2 ... same duo willpresent WJl1terreiSe; the. popular Schubert cycle, in the AJ'lnenberg Au<l.itorium oftheSnite Museum at 8:00p.m. Both concerts are must-sees for this semester in classi· cal music. 
-
--
-
-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 1997 
• NFl 

Parcells loses contract ruling 
By HOWARD ULMAN ing, without the Patriots' permission. After Jan. Associated Press 31, 1998, he would be free to work as a head coach or in a comparable position in the NFL, 
FOXBORO, Mass. according to the decision. 
If Bill Parcells wants to coach another NFL There is nothing to prevent Parcells from chal­team in 1997, it must be on the New England lenging the decision in court, although the NFL Patriots' terms. constitution and by-laws make the commissioner 
Just three days after losing the Super Bowl, the the final arbiter of such disputes. Patriots won their contract dispute with their Shortly after 3 p.m., about 2 1/2 hours before coach. the decision was announced, Parcells evaded 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue's ruling waiting cameramen by driving his dark green Wednesday in favor of New England owner Cadillac outside a back exit. llis attorney, Joel Robert Kraft doesn't mean Parcells won't jump Kozol, did not return a call seeking comment. to the New York Jets, only that they can't hire Kraft left Foxboro Stadium without comment­him without first getting the Patriots' permission ing about a half hour before the NFL announced -or buying it with money, a player, draft choic­the ruling. es or a combination. The Patriots issued the following statement: 
Otherwise, Parcells can coach the Patriots for a "We are pleased that the National Football fifth season, which is unlikely, or stay out of the League has affirmed the validity of the contract NFL until after Jan. 31, 1998. between the New England Patriots and Bill 
Parcells reportedly was in line to go to the New Parcells, as amended on Jan. 12, 1996. Bill York Jets, who have the top pick in this year's Parcells has been an important part of the suc­draft but would not consider sending that to the cess of this organization. It is now time for the Patriots as compensation. Their head coaching Patriots to move ahead and build on the success job has been available since Rich Kotite of the 1996-97 season." announced Dec. 20 that he wouldn't return. Just one week ago, Kraft and Parcells 
ESPN reported that the Jets are putting togeth­appeared together in New Orleans in an attempt er an offer for Parcells to the Patriots. to show some sort of team unity after a pub­
The Jets refused comment "until the entire lished report said the Super Bowl would be the process is completed," said team president Steve coach's last with the Patriots. Gutman. The relationship between the two soured dur­
Tagliabue's ruling came in response to ing last year's draft when Kraft overruled the requests from Parcells and Kraft that the com­coach and sided with player personnel director missioner mediate their contract dispute. Bobby Grier, who wanted wide receiver Terry 
Parcells claimed his original five-year contract G~enn. Parcells preferred a defensive player. 
-negotiated with former owner James Glenn ended up setting an NFL rookie record Orthwein -allowed him to get out of the last with 90 receptions. season by paying the owner $1.2 million, one "Bill and I had a great relationship," Grier said year's salary. Wednesday. "If he's not here, it's going to be 
At Parcells' request, Kraft agreed last January hard to-replace him." to eliminate the last season, 1997. moving the Grier commented while standing outside in the expiration date up to this Saturday. That revision cold after the Patriots administration building also gave the Patriots the exclusive right to was evacuated for about 45 minutes because of a employ Parcells if he decided to continue work­bomb threat. 
-
ing in the NFL next season, Tagliabue ruled. Kraft left the building at the time and drove Parcells can work as a college coach or pursue away with Patriots assistant coach Bill Belichick other business opportunities, such as broadcast-shortly after 5 p.m. 
es spearh•aded the ign for r~siden,ts, to frotn Pf\RT, argu­
the dty ~ould get its . transit system for a lot less money. 
He had proposed an alter­nate transit system and offered to pay more than $4 million of its cost for about two years. 
According to finance reports filed with the Irving city secretary's office, Jones 
The IRS told the Joneses in contributed tho bulk of the October they were liable for money to the Committee for $12.8 million in total taxes in Responsible Transportation, 1992, but said they paid less while about $50,000 went to than $5.9 tl1illi?n.. .. ::;; the Committee for the Right 
The govri'rriment agency to Vote. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

LOST DOG If you're looking for a part-time job Near ,N.D. Furnished Pembroke Welsh Corgi DUSTIN with flexible hours, then consider 1 Bedroom Apt.-$265 *"**"**"********"*****••··············
NOTICES TICKETS 
near NO Ave. Small, Tan and joining the United States Tobacco in student occupied 3 flat. Stamper Bob 
White, Pink and Purple Collar. sales and marketing team as a part--6 blocks from campus, at Spring Break Bahamas Party REWARD Call Pete at 287-4876. time sales trainee. This is a Heat and water included I need one JPW ticket for one or all Finnigan's Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All terrific opportunity to gain some 755 South Bend Ave. of the events. Please call Shannon TONIGHT Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Lost: real world experience. Applicants (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) at X 1833. Thanks. ······································ Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Brown Leather Wallet must be self-starters with a valid deposit, references Ft. Lauderdale! 1·800·678-6386 Sun. Night drivers license, car, and insurance. 1-800-582·9320 FAX IT FAST!!! 

PERSONAL 
springbreaktravel.com Reward If Found Please only those 21 years of age Sending & Receiving 
Brad or Rob x4784 or older may apply. To find out at Florida Spring Break! Panama City! more about this great opportunity, 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys-Spring Break Bahamas Party THE COPY SHOP Room With Kitchen Near Bars contact our Consumer Marketing tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All LaFortune Student Center 

WANTED
$11 9! Daytona-Best Location $139! Representative at 1-800-934-4878 location, 109 N. St. Peter Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa box 6501#. We are an equal 233·9947 Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From FAX IT FAST!!! Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav-NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT· opportunity employer. Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800·678-6386 eLcom National Parks hire forestry work-BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high springbreaktravel.com NO SKI TEAM T-SHIRT·s 1-800·678·6386 ers, park rangers, firefighters, life-ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER $10.00 
guards, + volunteer and govern-to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, MONTH! near campus ·female Florida Spring Break! Panama City! CALL MIKE at 288-0116 
-SPRING BREAK men! positions. Excellent benefits + parks, resorts. Airfare! non-smoker-move in ASAP. Room With Kitchen Near Bars PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA bonus potentiaL Food/Lodging! Get all the options. call Julie @ 288 7284 $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Lucas said: I want out. SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH Call: 1·206-971·3620 ext. N5584t Call Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Foran says: I want out NOW!! RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR (919)918-7767, ext.A 154. Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav· 
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 

-
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. 
EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF NO IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097 

FOR SALE 
eLcom amy pines 1·800-678-6386 
Shirley, I'll always be here in spirit Face of Brad Pitt Body of Arnold Schwarenegger Shirley, I'll always be here in spirit Eyes of Paul Newman Voice of SGT. TIM McCARTHY Elk burger 
BEST HOTELS & LOWEST Find out how to succeed in this LNO -1/31/97 -Joyce Center Elk burger PRICES for SPRING-BREAK field. Call: (206)971·3680 ext. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Bed · Queensize orthopedic premi-Elk burger Sunday! BEACH destinations. Florida, K55844 The Early Childhood Devlopment um mattress set Never used still in And would you quit with the ham-Cancun, Jamaica, etc. CALL NOW Center with programs at Saint package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Simon Says ... "See Sgt. Tim mer at 3 a.m.? Geez ... for rooms or SIGN-UP as INTER-CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT· Mary's College and the University (2-19) 674-2352 McCarthy at LNO -1/31/97." Won't you be my neighbor? CAMPUS REPR. 800-327-6013 Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, of Notre Dame is looking for volun­http://www.icpt.com Caribbean) & earn an excellent leers who enjoy young children. If ########################### 
income in the Cruise & Land-Tour you would be interested in spending WOODBRIDGE I-BEDROOM There will be a Support Group Lame duck THE COPY SHOP Industry. For details, call 1-206-2 hours a week reading childrens' CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 meeting TONIGHT at 7:30 for all Lame duck LaFortune Student Center 971-3550 ext.C55845 books, building with blocks and TA'MARA 273·5166 LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL and Lame duck 
Phone 631-COPY singing songs with children, please QUESTIONING students, faculty, Lame duck Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Fishing call Cindy Hestad 284-4693 (SMC) '92 HONDA ACCORD LX. and staff. For the location of the Tues.: 7:30a.m. · Midnight Industry. Many earn up to or Thayer Kramer at 631·3344 BEAUTIFUL. meeting or other information, call Pat, Wed.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight $4,000+/mo. during peak season. (NO). Please join our fun filled days. $8,500 OR B/0. the Q-LINE at 236-9661. I know the closet looks like the Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Benefits often include 233·5537. ########################### bathroom, but we're really glad you Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Transportation Driver: To transport child every didn't pee in there. Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. and/or Room & Board. For details: Tuesday at 3:40 pm. Female TRAINSPOTIING! TRAINSPOT-"Is it OK? Oh, they know ..." Sun.: Noon -Midnight (206)971-3510 ext. A55849 preferred. Call 631·8298 (day) or USED MAGS AND PRINTER TING! Love, Open Early, Late, & Weekends 277-1859 (evenings) or email: FOR SALE Cushing Turtle Creek chicks 
A few good people needed. Camp bennett@nd.edu. Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac TRAINSPOTIING! Birchwood, a small Minnesota chi I-Plus system: HD, software, key-7:30pm $2 TO the grad student who never
ILOST & FOUND I 

dren's camp, seeks applicants with Volunteers Needed for FOOD-board, and mouse $150. TRAINSPOTIING! called back about the apartment, qualifications to teach land sports, SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless Mac SE system: HD, software, TRAINSPOTIING! We don't ususally have toliet paper HELP!! waterskiing, windsurfing, sailing or for 1 hour a week. keyboard, and mouse $175. Great strewn across the house either. And 
Lost my class ring between horseback riding. Lifeguards, and If interested call Mike 234· I 078. systems for word processing I Used JAZZERCISE those two guys... they, uh, they're Sarin, SOH, and 06. Great wilderness trip leaders also needed. Mac hardware also for sale: key· Very close to campus heat was off. Yeah, we should have sentimental value. If found, For an application and additional boards, mice, external floppy dri-277-0111 
said that. please call John at X22 I 3 or information call 1-800·451-5270. ves. Arts and Letters Computing TC 1627 drop by 319. 

FOR RENT 
-
Office, 216 O'Shag. xt7021 Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend $$REWARD$$ CHILDCARE WANTED for our two Homes for Rent for 97-98 
Method 674·6933 Phelan­
sons. ages 7 and 9, after school ADT Security 232-2595 
I love you ... LOST: Blue winter coat at in our home three days a week. 94 2 dr Jeep Cherokee Sport air MARDI GRAS! The PTB 
Jazzmans on Saturday night. $6.50/hr Transportation and POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM cruise 2 yr. ext warranty. Must sell, ~ people need ride. will help w/ If you accidentally took the wrong references requred. Call 1-8301 FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR returning to schooL Good condition, driving, gas $, etc. call Karen color study quadrants coat please calL Todd X1569 daytime and 277-4422 evenings. 2773097 $12,500/or best offer. 233·1020 X4420 with concentric circles 
Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Sophomore Applications 
Monday-Wedne 103 Hesburgh 
Campus Bible 
Tuesday, Februa 7:00p.m. Campus 

RELATING, DATING, OR VEGETATING? 
This column, normally reserved for the views of a staff member of Campus Ministry, has been offered to me this week so that I may share my perspective as a student on the most popular topic on campus. With February, the month of love, just a few days away, it seems appropriate that I share my thoughts on relationships at Notre Dame. Like you, I have read many of the articles and letters to the editor about dating, (or the lack of) on campus. Articles written by men and women criticize.and complain about the opposite sex almost as frequently as the Keenan Revue mocks fat BP women. There is no mystery in the fact that a problem does exist here in "Happy Swell Meadows." 
Our initiation into the world of dogbooks, random hookups, and home-town-honeys is completed before Freshman Orientation concludes. We joke about not being able to eat two meals in four years with the same person of the opposite sex without questions of our dating status. Finding the perfect SYR date can evoke more pressure than back-to-back Orgo and Physics finals, especially considering that taking the same date to another dance can prove marital status. We openly whine about the boring social scene, shortage of activities, and lack of opportunities to meet people of the opposite sex outside of class. Everyone seems to accept the fact that people do not date at Notre Dame. 
The purpose of my article is to challenge you to believe that it 
doesn't have to be like this. The one thing that we, as students, can change 
about this campus is our attitudes toward dating and relationships. Unlike 
some other campus policy issues, we can't pin our unhappiness of the dating 
scene on the administration, faculty, or rectors. In early October, a group of 
about 50 students met with members of Campus Ministry to discuss the 
issues of dating and relationships on campus. Led by Sr. Fran Ferder, FSPA and Rev. John Heagle from Seattle, WA, the group discussed many topics on .dating, relationships, intimacy, and friendship. As a member of this group, it 
was very helpful to see my concerns shared by others. Mter a two hour dis­
cussion, we had identified many more problems than solutions and felt 
almost overwhelmed at the abundance of issues. As a group we clearly came 
to the consensus that something has to be done to improve the state of our 
relationships on campus. 

Since October, this group has worked closely with Campus Ministry 
to develop a workshop specifically targeting these issues. This type ofwork­shop, given by students, for students, is unique in the fact it has never been attempted before. With your brother, or sister dorm, you will be invited to attend this workshop either February 2-3, or February 9-10. The exciting aspect of this particular workshop is that it is a two-day event. The first night we'll discuss some of the issues of dating and relationships on campus through role-plays, small and large group discussions, and personal reflec­tion talks. The second night, we will focus on communication and intimacy issues relevant to building better relationships and friendships. Attendance at both nights is not required, nor is the coming to the first a prerequisite 
-· 
for the second, but both are strongly recommended. 
Although I am really excited to be facilitating this workshop, I am a little scared. The topics of relationships, intimacy, and dating are by nature very personal. It's my hope that the sharing of my struggles and successes in dating can help others improve their relationships. When asked to help with this workshop I was a little hesitant because I didn't understand why anyone would listen to me because of my messed-up love life. My friends and I laughed hysterically at the thought of me talking about relation'ships. I've kidded that the title of my talk should be, "What NOT to_ Do When There is a Guy Around." But I guess we all make mistakes and learn fro'm them. That is one of the main forces behind the formation of this workshop. If we can begin to seriously talk about these issues, that's the first step to overcom­ing them. I hope you will join us for these workshops. And by the way­what better place could you go to meet men (or women) than a relationship workshop? 
Thanks and Go Irish! 
Sara Dolezal 
Senior Breen-Phillips Hall 


.... 
0MPUS 



MINISTRY 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 1997
-
Hoops 
continued from page 20 

to the ball and more aggressive defensively." 
The Panther defense puzzled the Irish (9-9, 3-7) especially in the first half as Pittsburgh's trapping style of play caused 9 steals and 13 Notre Dame turnovers. Those turnovers translated into 11 opening half Pittsburgh points. Just as against West Virginia, miscues put the Irish d,own early as they trailed 43-29 at halftime. 
Unlike the Mountaineer game, Notre Dame kept on going backwards in the second half. Pitt guard Kelli Taylor
' 
' ignited the second half explo­
'. 
' sion scoring the first eight points on a pair of three-point­ers and a basket off a steal. Taylor finished with a game­high 20 points. His teammate in the back­court, Vonteego Cummings, did his damage in the. first half, scoring 16 points and directing a Pittsburgh offense that was firing on all cylinders. "They had the edge on us tonight," MacLeod concluded. More like pushing the Irish off the edge. The up-tempo game was more suited to Pittsburgh's style of play. Notre Dame never estab­lished any offensive rhythm, either taking bad shots or com­mitting unforced turnovers. The quick pace never allowed the Irish to capitalize on their 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258·9996 

rb Save $50 per person! J, 
~ your student I.D.I '".;,,~~ IS£'/'t§t~iH·Q
oo:m lllOOJ Oiffil!, • I I o I i j' : 
_l!~~e.abreak.com 
~BB~ 
TAI~E A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL 


size advantage inside. 
_ "We compounded the defen­sive problem by quick-shooting the ball and making numerous passing errors," MacLeod said. 
Admore White and Pete 
Miller, who each had 15 points 
against West Virginia, com­
bined for only five points last 
night. Pat Garrity also had a 
relatively quiet night with 12 
points, his second lowest point 
total of the year. 
One bright spot for the Irish was center Matt Gotsch who hit for a team-high 14 points to go along with six rebounds and three blocks. 
Now, the Irish get five days off before returning home to face St. John's Tuesday. With no game this weekend, Notre Dame will begin to focus on making a run in February. 
"It's important for these kids to get the rest," MacLeod added. "They feel terrible about what's happened the last two games, but we have to handle it and find a solution." 
NOTRE DAME (9-9) 
Manner 2-4 0-0 4, Garrity 4-13 
2-2 12, Gotsch 5-7 4~4 14, White 1­
4 0-0 2, Miller 1-5 1-1 3, Wyche 2­
3 6-6 10, Lalazarian 1-3 2-2 4, Bell 
1-4 1-2 4, Friel 0-2 2-2 2, Dillon 0­
0 0-0 0, Young 1-2 1-2 3, Hickey 3­
3 0-0 6, Totals 21-50 19-21 64. 
PITT (11-9) 

Maile 5-7 2-2 17, Varga 3-9 2-2 
9, Blount 4-8 0-0 8, Cummings 7-9 
0-0 19. Taylor 7-13 2-4 20. Willard 
0-0 0-0 0, Jordan 3-8 0-0 6, 
Murray 1-2 0-0 2, Hawkins 1-2 0-0 
2, Gardella 0-1 0-0 0, Lockhart 2-6 
0-0 5, Totals 33-65 6-8 88. 
ADVERTISEMENT 
V•VARSITY C•CLUB !•INTRAMURAL 

Noles upset No. 6 Terrapins 
By BRENT KALLESTAD 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Florida State coach Pat Kennedy said all week that his team had to beat No. 5 Maryland to keep its flickering postseason hopes alive. 
Kennedy's players responded Wednesday night, defeating the Terrapins 74-70-the second win in eight days over a ranked Atlantic Coast Conference oppo­nent. The Seminoles knocked off North Carolina 84-71 a week ago and lost 61-58 at second­ranked Wake Forest on Saturday. 
"This was as about a good a week as we've had in a long time," Kennedy said. "This could be a key win when we look back." 
Sophomore Randell Jackson scored a career-high 20 points and freshman Ron Hale added 17 for Florida State, which fend­ed off a late Maryland rally to claim its highest ranked victim in four seasons. 
"This is the No. 5 team," Kennedy said. "They're playing as well as anybody in the league. What I loved about it was the intensity level and our kids didn't back down." 
Florida State (12-5, 3-5 Atlantic Coast Conference} led 56-43 with 10 minutes remain­ing, but Maryland tied the game 65-65 with 1:41 remaining on a reverse, left-handed layup by Keith Booth, who scored 16 of his 20 points in the second half. 
Kerry Thompson's 3-pointer with 1:13 left gave the Seminoles a 68-65 lead. Thompson, who committed nine turnovers against Maryland's trapping defense, scored 12 points in the second half and fin­ished with 14. 
"To win a close game is huge," Thompson said. "This win is like two or three other wins." 
The final minute on the game clock seemed to take forever as 14 free throws were shot and Maryland coach Gary Williams was ejected with 24 ·seconds left after drawing his second techni­cal foul of the game. 
"This is the first time in my 21 years of coaching that I've been ejected from a game," Williams said. 
"I was told I was talking to an official. I did not make the state­ment I was credited with. There was just some confusion out there." 
Fla<ida State was 6-of-10 from the foul line in the final minute to hold off Maryland (17 -3, 6-2). 
The teams combined for 43 turnovers and shot 66 free throws in a contest where 44 personal fouls were called. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 








GREAT \'/ALL
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 

LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW THE TIME AND LOCATION OF YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH. REACH HER AT 
COlLEEN.HENSHAw@NIKE.COM 

Medjugorje 

January 25, 1997 Message Our Lady, Queen of Peace 
"Dear Children! I invite you to reflect about the future. You are creating a new world without God, only with your own strength and that is why you are unsatisfied and without joy in the heart. This time is my time and that is why, little chil­dren,! invite you again to pray. When you find unity with God, you will feel hunger for the word of God and your heart, little children, will overflow With joy. You will witness God's love wherever you are. I bless you and I repeat to you that I am with you to help you. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
1st Saturday Devotions will be held this Saturday, Feb. 1st, in Alumni Hall Chapel. There will be a mass followed by adoration and recitation of the rosary. All are welcome. For more information about Marian apparitions and devotions, see: Http:/ /www.nd.edu:80/-mary/ 
Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COU.EGf BASKHBAll 
Wildcats stroll by Gators 92-65 
By DOUG FERGUSON 16:34 left and Kentucky J.ead­coach Billy Donovan, who ing 51-38. Florida's Greg played for Pitino at Providence
Associated Press 
Williams' had the ball taken and with th.!J New York Knicks, 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. away on an inbounds pass, and and was an assistant under 
No. 3 Kentucky had a bigger Epps scored on a layup, then him at Kentucky. . lineup, better players and followed that with a short Donovan's teams at Marshall hardly any problems jumper and a 3-pointer. lost to Kentucky in each of the Wednesday night as Ron That made it 58-41, and the past two seasons, and those Mercer and Anthony Epps led Wildcats extended their lead to teams probably had a better the Wildcats to a 92-65 victory as many as 29 points, 84-55, chance than Florida. 
over Florida. before coach Rick Pitino emp­The Gators have only seven Mercer helped give Kentucky tied the bench. players on scholarship, and 
(19-2, 7-1 Southeastern Mercer and Nazr Mohammed even some of those had their Conference) an early lead with each had 18 points for hands full against a Kentucky 
his shooting and passing, and Kentucky, while Epps finished defense that was relentless in Epps turned back every with 16 points, five rebounds the backcourt and underneath. Florida threat with timely 3-and four assists. Mohammed scored twice and 
point shooting. The Wildcats shot 53 percent Mercer hit three jumpers to 
But the Gators (10-10, 3-5) from the field. lead Kentucky to a 14-5 lead in didn't pose much of a threat Eddie Shannon led the the first five minutes. Then it after that. After falling behind Gators with 13 points, while really got ugly. 36-15 in the first 12 minutes of Damen Maddox and Dan Leading 16-12, Kentucky the game, they never trimmed Williams each had 11. went on a 20-3 run over the 
the lead below 10 points. It was the first SEC meeting next 5 1/2 minutes, scoring 11 
Their last chance came with between Pitino and Florida points off turnovers. 
How does roorp, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding summer sound? 
llllfittlllll , ...ttllfll liltttrfN l•rtttlr••••• 
is hiring for its summer sports camp 
Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for ­more information and to schedule an interview. 
page 15 


.,' 
.. 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
I ' 
I I I 
• 
-
A SERVANT LEADER RETURNS 

CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
This week Notre Dame's Alumni Association is honoring Kathleen Osberger, '75 with the Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award. This award is given every year to a Notre Dame Alumnus/a who follows Tom Dooley's example of answering a very special calling by "distinguishing himself not by fame or fortune but by a quiet yet intense and fervent desire to serve those blessed with less than he." 
Kathleen Osberger definitely fits that description. As a student at Notre Dame she became involved in service and social justice experientiat learning programs. She was instrumental in reviving the Urban Plunge program in 1974. The Urban Plunge has been an important and some­times life changing experience for many students over the years. A stu­dent who participated in the Plunge this year describes it this way: "The plunge helped me to be able to see what people are actually doing to solve some of their problems-they are fighting an uphill battle." 
Kathleen went on to live in Chile and Peru and then to work in the South Bronx for ten years serving 200 Latino and Mrican American Families. Now she lives in Chicago and works as a clinical social worker . Just like the student who is quoted above, Kathleen's participation in esc programs helped her to learn how to think critically about the prob­
lems that face the disadvantaged ofour cities. She continued to this 
habit of thought while she committed her life to serving others. This has led her to take stands on behalf oflow and moderate income tenants in Chicagtl's Uptown community as well as to provide assistance to peo­
ple who have been tortured. 
This week Kathleen will come back to a place which played an important part in her journey of service and social action. It is exciting for us at the Center for Social Concerns to welcome her back and to 
·introduce her to students who are just beginning their own journeys. We want her to see the faces of some of the stu­
dents who are following in her footsteps and who have been touched by the programs that she helped to start when she was a student here. We want to celebrate the life of service to others that Kathleen has led and we want to share the joy of that celebration with the Notre Dame Community. Please join us in welcoming 
this exemplary member ofour community to campus. Come to the Center for Social Concerns on Friday, January 31 from 3:30-4:30 to meet Kathleen Osberger. 
Upcoming Important Dates 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES: 
Peace Corps Tuesday 2/4 Information meeting: 7:30-8:30p.m. at the CSC. 
Christian Appalachia Project (C.A.P.) Wednesday 2/5 Information meeting: 7:00-8:30 p.m. at the CSC. 
Special Note: Copies ofthe "Post-Graduate Service Handbook" are now available at the CSC front desk. Call Maureen Skurski, Director ofSenior Transition Programs, at 631-5 779 to meet and discuss the wide range ofopportunities available. 
NEW CSC LEADERSHIP MODULES: 
The 7 Habits ofHighly Effective People 
Fridays 2/14 & 2/21 Two-session workshop by Kai:hleen Sullivan, Ph.D. 
3:00 
-4:45 p.m. at the esc. 


Responsible Budgeting Workshop Sunday 2/23 Student Group budget preparation, stewardship session. 

3:00 
-5:00 p.m. at the esc. 



INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE: 
African-American Leadership Intern Apply By: 3/3 Ten weeks ofservice and $2,300 tuition scholarships. Three credits, THEO. Chicago, Detroit, possibly other sites. 
Hispanic Leadership Intern Apply By: 3/3 Ten weeks ofservice and $2,300 tuition scholarships. Three credits, THEO. Chicago, San Diego, possibly other sites. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 




Jayhawks rally to Langdon's 28 drop Tar Heels· 
defeat Red Raiders 
By MARK BABINECK 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas· 

It looks like it's going to take more than one major injury at a time to sink No. 1 Kansas. 
The Jayhawks, playing with­out injured starting center Scot Pollard, relied on 16 second­half points from Paul Pierce to erase their biggest halftime deficit this season in an 86-77
' 
' victory over No. 22 Texas Tech
' 
on Wednesday night. 
' 
' "We lost our poise in the first 
' 
half," Kansas coach Roy
' 
' 
' Williams said of the 4 7-33 hole' the Jayhawks (21-0, 7-0 Big 12)
' 
-
' had dug at halftime. "We got
' 
f some help off the bench in the ,_' ' second, we were more active on defense and we got a few
' 
' turnovers." Texas Tech (13-5, 5-3) had maintained a comfortable lead until the turnovers began mounting midway through the second half. Five Red Raiders turnovers led to 10 straight Kansas points and a 64-63 lead with 8:30 to-play, its first of the game. "I think there was a point where we thought it was get­ting away," said Texas Tech center Tony Battie, who had 29 points, 10 rebounds and five blocks. The teams traded baskets for the next three minutes, but Kansas' 16-for-18 free throw shooting down the stretch eventually wore out the Red Raiders, who were 1-of-5 from the line in the second half. Texas Tech coach James Dickey, who received an early technical foul for arguing an out-of-bounds call, had more words for the officials after­ward. 
''I'd like consistency from the officials at both ends of the court," Dickey said. "If you saw the game, you know what I'm talking about." 
A late 8-1 run by the Jayhawks extended their lead to 80-71 with 1:15 left, dashing the hopes of 8,174 frenzied Texas Tech fans. 
Raef LaFrentz led Kansas with 21 points, but Hattie's presence limited him to two rebounds. Billy Thomas went 4­for-8 from 3-point range and finished with 14 points for Kansas. 
Battie, coming off a three­point performance last Saturday in a 64-61 loss to Iowa State, had his way early against the Jayhawks as Pollard watched helplessly in street clothes with a cast on his broken left foot. 
KANSAS (21-0) 
Williams 2-6 2-2 6, Pierce 4-13 7-9 16, LaFrentz 8-11 4-7 21, Vaughn 3-8 5-6 13, Haase 1-9 2-2 4, Robertson 1-3 0-0 2, Thomas 5­10 0-0 14, Bradford 1-2 0-0 2, McGrath 1-1 0-0 2, Pugh 2-3 2-3 6. Totals 28-66 22-29 86. 
TEXAS TECH (13-5) 
Averil 2-7 0-1 4, Cooper 2-6 0-0 4, Battie 13-16 2-4 29, Bonewitz 4­9 0-0 10, Carr 6-21 1-2 16, Young 3-7 4-5 12, Jones 0-0 0-0 0, Owens 1-2 0-0 2. Totals 31-68 7-12 77. 
Halftime-Tech 47, Kansas 33. 3­Point goals-Tech 8-15 (Thomas 4­8, Vaughn 2-2, LaFrentz 1-1, Pierce 1-2, Haase 0-2). Tech 8-24 (Carr 3­11, Bonewitz 2-6, Young 2-6, Battie 1-1). Rebounds-K;ansas 48 (Pugh 9), Tech 34 (Battie 10). Assists­Kansas 13 (Pierce 4), Tech 16 (Averil, Bonewitz 5). Total fouls­Kansas 19, Tech 19. Technical­Texas Tech coach Dickey. A­8,174. 
By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press 
DUHIIAM, N.C. 
Trajan Langdon scored a career-high 28 points and his seventh 3-pointer with 41 sec­onds left Wednesday night 
sealed No. 12 Duke's 80-73 victory over No. 19 North Carolina, snappjng a seven-game skid against its arch rival. 

The Blue Smith Devils (16-5, 5-:{ Atlantic Coast Conference) beat the Tar Heels (12-6, 3-5) for the first time since 1993 in a game that featured 17 lead changes and seven ties. 
Neither team led by more than seven points in the 197th meeting of the storied rivalry. 
Landgon's previous high was 25 points this season against Clemson. Jeff Capel was also big down the stretch for Duke, scor­ing 19 points and making sever­al big defensive plays. 
Serge Zwikker led the Tar Heels with 14 points, while ACC scoring leader Antawn Jamison was held to a season-low 10 points. 
Duke fell behind 54-48 with 
12:19 left as floor leader Steve Wojciechowski picked up his fourth foul and went to the bench. But the Blue Devils ral­lied with their point guard side­lined for 4 1/2 minutes, regain­ing the lead at 56-54. 
Near the end of Duke's run, Jamison picked up two offen­sive fouls 18 seconds apart and also had to go to the bench for a brief time with four fouls, set­ting the stage for a frenzied fin­ish. 
The lead changed hands five times on successive possessions before Capel's driving layup 

we want to know what questions would YOU ask Notre Dame grads from the past 2S years? 
Be a part of the alumni survey and co-ed celebration! We want your ideas and input 
UNIVf.kSITV Of NnTRF. DAioH STUIHNT (;OVfiiOHNT 

Contact Patrick Belton at the Student Government office as we trace 25 years of women at Notre Dame 
Call the Gender Relations Department at 
1-4556 

wittr 3:54 left gave Duke the led for good at 6 7-66. Less than a half a minute later, Capel blocked a 3-point attempt by Ademola Okulaja at the top of the key and received an outlet pass from Greg Newton for another layup as Duke went up by three. 
But North Carolina was not dead yet. The Tar Heels closed to 72-70 on a 12-footjumper by freshman Ed Cota with 1:33 remaining. After a jump ball possession that went to Duke and a timeout, Langdon nailed his career-best seventh 3-point­er and the Blue Devils sealed it from the foul line. 
The Tar Heels were rattled early, turning the ball over on their first five possessions as Duke grabbed a seven-point lead with its small lineup. 
Newton, Duke's leading scor­er who had started all 20 games this season and 51 in his career, didn't start as the game began as a chess match of Duke's quickness against North Carolina's tall front line. 
After a quick start, Duke hit a cold spell against the zone, going 5:56 without a point. Five different North Carolina players scored during a 13-3 run as the Tar Heels grabbed a 24-21 lead 
8:18 before halftime. 

The Blue Devils missed eight shots and turned the ball over five times during their scoring drought. 
From that point the score was tied four more times before Duke took a 33-31 halftime lead. 
Both teams had trouble hold­ing onto the ball in the opening 20 minutes as there were a combined 24 turnovers commit­ted by 14 different players. 
NORTH CAROLINA (12-6) 

Okulaja 4-7 3-4 13, Jamison 5-8 0-0 10, Zwikker 6-15 2-2 14, Williams 4-111-1 11, Cota 4-6 2-2 10, Carter 4-6 0-1 10, Ndiaye 1-2 2-2 5, Sullivan 0-0 0-0 0. Totals 28-55 10­12 73. 
DUKE (16-5) 

Capel 9-15 0-0 19, Carrawell 2-3 1-3 5, McLeod 5-13 3-4 14, Wojciechowski 1-2 3-4 6, Langdon 9-15 3-3 28, Newton 1-5 1-3 3, Price 1-4 0-2 2, Wallace 0-1 0-0 0, Chappell1-2 0-0 3, James 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 29-61 11-19 80. 
Halftime-Duke 33, NCarolina 31. 3-Point goals-NCarolina 7-13 (Okulaja 2-4, Williams 2-4, Carter 2-4, Ndiaye 1-1), Duke 11-28 (Landgon 7-12, Chappell 1-2, Wojciechowski 1-2, McLeod 1-4, Capel 1-5, James 0-1, Price 0-2). Fouled out-None. Rebounds­NCarolina 35 (Okulaja 12). Duke 25 (McLeod 11 ). Assists-NCarolina 18 (Williams 8), Duke 18 (Capel 5). Total Fouls-NCarolina 20, Duke 14. A-9,314. 



_........
---~---~·---­
----~---------------------------~----------------­
Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 




Recruits 
continued from page 20 
deemed one of the top 5 recruiters in the nation by Sports Illustrated and was con­sidered the best by recruiting analyst Tom Lemming. It was Roberts who received much of the acclaim for the past two successful classes. 
Little did they know that Roberts was on his way out along with offensive line coach Joe Moore and running backs coach Earle Mosley. Davie wanted a long term commit­ment from his assistant coaches to insure stability. 
Roberts couldn't give that commitment and a month later took the head coaching job at Baylor. 
The early losses: With Holtz and Roberts gone, so went USA Today's all-USA first team member Tony Driver's silent commitment to Notre Dame. It 



Join this year's candidates · as they debate for student body elections 
~.. 


Monday, February 3 
8 P.M. 


Cushing Auditorium 
Sponsored by the 
Judicial Council Questions? call council headquarters ~t 1-4553 


Don't let the 
winter blues get 
you down ... 
Sign up for the 



LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leadership course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utilizing University resources. 
Applications are available from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309 
page 17 

-
seems that Driver's love for Notre Dame revolved around both Holtz and Roberts. 
Within a span of two weeks, Driver went from a silent com­mitment to the Irish, to one of the most highly pursued ath­letes whose favorite schools numbered Florida State, Penn State, Ohio State, Michigan and Louisville. 
Notre Dame was no longer in the running. . 
National Recruiting Advisor's number one cornerback prospect James Whitley was another to jump ship. Whitley's situation was a little more com­plicated. While the. coaching change did add some confusion to his situation, Notre Dame's admissions department became the reason. 
Whitley had a 3.0 and had raised his SAT score above the NCAA requirement. Eventually, Whitley either became tired of waiting for the admissions department's OK or didn't want to go through the hassle of meeting Notre Dame's stan­dards. He committed to Michigan on December 6th. 
"Notre Dame admissions wreaks havoc on Irish recruit­ing classes," recruiting analyst Tom Lemming explained. "About two-thirds of their class will be wiped out. If they had the same admissions as Michigan, they'd have the top class every year. The players are NCAA qualified, but Notre Dame admissions has different standards." 
"We have to base decisions on our experiences here," Notre Dame's admissions director Kevin Rooney explained. 
"We can't worry about the fact that someone is going on to Michigan to possibly major in physical education. That's fine for Michigan to admit that per­son because they may have a program for which that person may be well qualified. But that same person would have no where to go here." 
Fellow USA Today all-USA first team member Billy Dee Greenwood was also claimed by Notre Dame's admissions department. 
He committed to North Carolina on November 25th and latter admitted that he couldn't wait any longer for Notre Dame's admissions department to clear him. 
"Notre Dame was in the lead [for Greenwood] for a long time but the Irish couldn't guarantee admission based on learning disability requirements," SuperPrep's Alan Wallace explained. 
"North Carolina and Virginia have top flight support pro­grams which would help Billy be successful in college." 
Closure: Within a matter of two weeks the Irish had lost three of the best athletes of this year's class. Three players that would have solved the speed problems at cornerback and wide receiver that Holtz blamed for the Irish's to Ohio State. 
On the other hand, those were. just three players and there were two months left before the signing date. On December 6th the Irish was to host their football banquet. The first of four official visit weekends for recruits at Notre Dame, and the Irish had 14 players visiting. 
It was time for Davie to make his mark. 
See Friday's Observer for part three of Notre Dame football recruiting. ­

l 

-
February 1st, Saturday University of Notre Dame 
l 
l 
•
• 
l • 
j 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 30, 1997 
-•NBA 
Jackson comes to the Penny's 32 lift Magic past Suns 
By FRED GOODALL This is the first time since I've been back that I Associated Press felt that way."
defense of Rodman 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

... 
Dennis Rodman is getting advice from all over. First President Clinton sug­gested that Rodman shape up 
and admit he was wrong to kick a pho­tographer. Now Jesse Jackson says he is advising the 


c h i c a g o Jackson Bulls star, and the civil rights leader wants to plead Rodman's ease before the NBA. 
Jackson said he planned to meet with NBA commissioner David Stern on Wednesday in New York concerning Rodman's 11-game suspension for the Jan. 15 incident. NBA spokesman Brian Mcintyre said no meeting was sched­uled. 
Jackson's father, Noah Robinson Sr., died in South Carolina on Monday night and it was unclear if Jackson had gone there. 
-
"Like everybody else, I don't condone Dennis' action," Jackson told the Chicago Sun­Times in Wednesday's editions. "I want to convey to the com­missioner my sentiment and the sentiments of a growing number of people that Dennis 

WoiDen 
continued from page 20 
ered a repeat performance for Miami and layed the ball in with just 16.3 seconds on the clock. 
After a timeout, the Irish 
has already been punished enough for the very act in question." 
The Bulls' 111-96 victory Tuesday night at Vancouver was the sixth game of the sus­pension, which is costing Rodman more than $1.1 mil­lion in salary and incentives. He also was fined $25,000 by the league, and he has agreed to pay a $200,000 out-of-court settlement to Minneapolis cam­eraman Eugene Amos. 
Stern has insisted that before Rodman is reinstated, he must undergo psychiatric counseling and assure the league he will adhere to acceptable standards of behavior. 
"It's one thing to punish a man. It's another thing to take away his dignity," Jackson said. 
Jackson and Rodman met Monday in Los Angeles after the player's agent, Dwight Manley, contacted the former presidential candidate. 
"I dig what the brother does, and he appreciates what I bring to the table," Rodman said. "He is one of the few pub­lic figures that I truly admire because I think he is really sin­cere." 
"But we had prayer," Jackson said. "I gave him my ideas and advice on the matter, and I intend to continue coun­seling him as long as he wants me to, and I feel I can help." 
Desma Thomas, who tallied 20 points and five assists.With the win, the Irish improved to 18-4 on the season, 10-0 in the Big East. 
The team will be back in action on Sunday as they face the Red Storm of St. John's on the road. 

The victory was the eighth in 10 games for 
ORLANDO, Fla. Orlando, which rebounded from a 20-point loss 
Penny Hardaway felt like himself again at Washington the previous night to dimb back Wednesday night, and the Orlando Magic to .500 (20-20) and extend the Suns' losing enjoyed the show . streak to four games. 
The All-Star guard had 32 points and eight Rony Seikaly had 18 points and 12 rebounds assists, both season highs, in a 112-105 victory and Derek Strong filled in for the injured Horace over the Phoenix Suns, who also shook their Grant with 16 points and 11 rebounds. The heads in amazement over some of the shots Magic shot 50 percent despite going 8-for-24 on Hardaway made. 3-point attempts. 
On one highlight film attempt, the slender Kevin Johnson led the Suns with 22 points and guard took the ball into the lane and muscled the 15 assists. Cedric Ceballos had 22 points and ball up to the basket despite a hard foul by Wesley Person added 17, including a 3-pointer Phoenix center Mark Bryant. He hit the free that trimmed Orlando's lead to 108-105. throw to complete a three-point play for a 99-96 Brian Shaw's free throws put Orlando up by lead. five with 21.2 seconds to go, then Darrell 
"Some of my shots were very lucky. I couldn't Armstrong made two more foul shots down the believe they went in, especially that one," said stretch. · Hardaway, slowed much of this season by leg Hardaway, who missed 23 of Orlando's first 28 and knee injuries. games because of leg and knee injuries, was 11­
"This is my game. When my leg was injured, I for-18 from the field and 7 -of-8 from the foul line couldn't do any of those things-go to the bas­in his most productive night of the season. ket and finish ... "He carried us," Seikaly said. "That's Penny. 
Tonight was the complete game. I had every­We're going to ride his back. He's going to take thing going for me and had all the confidence. us where we're supposed to go." 

Knicks need only 75 to beat Cavs 
By KEN BERGER points and 11 rebounds, Larry 63 points in the first half, with Associated Press Johnson added 13 points and Cleveland leading 34-29. Buck Williams 12. Scoring picked up in the third, CLEVELAND Terrell Brandon, who had assuring that at least one team 
John Starks scored 24 points three of Cleveland's four field would reach 60 for the game. and the New York Knicks, play­goals in the fourth, finished Starks, cold in the first half, ing without All-Star center with 24 points. Chris Mills had hit two straight 3-pointers to Patrick Ewing, held the 14. cut Cleveland's lead to 48-46 Cleveland Cavaliers to the low­Starks heated up in the sec­with 3:57 left in the third. est point total in franchise his­ond half and emerged as a rare Starks started the Knicks' scor­tory in a 75-65 victory source of offense in a game of ing in the fourth with another Wednesday night. clanks and collisions between 3-pointer, making it 58-55 
Cleveland's previous record two of the league's top defens­Cleveland. for fewest points was 6 7, last es. After Brandon sank a jumper reached in 1995 against Leading 56-52 after three at 11:29, the Cavaliers scored Boston. quarters, the Cavaliers went only one point in the next 8:42. 
It was the second-lowest nearly nine minutes in the Brandon finally ended the point total ever against the fourth with only one point. drought with a coast-to-coast Knicks, who held the Indiana Cleveland, which held New layup that cut New York's lead Pacers to 64 on Dec. 10, 1985. Jersey to a franchise-low 62 to 67-61. 
Ewing, chosen to start for the points Tuesday, was 4-for-19 The elusive 60-point barrier Eastern Conference in the All­from the field in the fourth was achieved on a three-point Star game, had a strained groin quarter and was outscored 23-play by Buck Williams that gave and missed his first game this 9. New York its first lead, 60-59, season. Charles Oakley had 13 The teams combined for only with 7:59 to play. 
Universi of Notre Dame 
African American Student Alliance 
presents 



The Meeting 
A Pin Points Theatre Production 
Malcolm. Martin. 


February 2, 1997 

2 o'clock p.m. 

Washington Hall . 
Tickets on Sale @ the LaFortune Box Office 
Students: $3 General: $5 
This event is brought to you in celebration of the Dr. Martin L. King Jr. Holiday in conjunction with the Black History Month Celebration. Co-sponsored by Student Government, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Office o Multicultural Affairs, Amnesty International, Filipino American Student Organization and Student Affairs. 


.. 
This weekend sub will give you the BLUES • • • 
NA'I'JeNAI,
BROTHERS that is, 
shown with 
LAMPeells® 
Thurs. 10:30pm 
Fri. & Sat. 8:00 and 10:30pm Cushing $2,:1' ... ~M ~L 

I 
'

Inten1ational Filnl Festival: Trainspotting 7:30pm Cushing 
' 

"'

Acoustic Cafe: 9 m -12 am Huddle 
Thursday, January 30, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
HE SWOOPS p()WI\J "R) SUCK TH6RliiP "QUIP FROM THE: 
UNSUSP6C'T"/N~
Vll:riM. 
MIKE PETERS 
DILBERT 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Korsakov Lichtenstein operas 
-,...,.,--,-::-r-. 11 Emotional heat 31 Cathedral protuberance
12 Jaded 32 Ruler in for Mia Rimsky­20 Pop artist 
48 Eclat 21 Japanese 
34 Gravy 49 France'singredientimmigrant 
longest river 24 Palms (off) 
35 South of Spain 37 Play breaks 
Me. 40 Bureaucratic 
Answers to.any three clues in this puzzle _.:-:-:-t-=-i-:':-1-:-t-:-:-1 26 It's full of hot air 
problem 
are available by touch-tone phone: 27 Salaam's 41 Did the Wright 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). thing
rebuker Annual subscriptions are available for the 30 II's o !ten 42lnclined best of Sunday crosswords from the last screwed up 44 Toadied 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
oro '(OU PUT '<OUR 

LIPS ON f'\'< GLA5S AGAIN? 
59 River of Leeds? 
GO Copies 61 Warehouse 
62 Wilbur Post's TV companion 63 Chaired 
64 Connecticut River town 
DOWN 
1 Rearward 2 Appointed time 3 Gardner a k a 
A. A. Fair 4 Firebrand 5 Assistant 6 Steak --(raw 
meat dish) · 7 Roseanne's former in-laws a Group incl. the U.A.E. 9 Show pain 10 Newswoman Ellerbee 

SCOTT ADAMS 
sa Bugs Bunny cartoonist-­Avery 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY Bllfi'HIHY! IN THE '\EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: When faced with a major challenge, dig in. Your fierce determination and pl~cnomcnal stamina will carry you 
forward to victory. Complete pend­ing projects before launching any new ones. Part company with people who are not on your wave length. A romantic attachment that develops over the summer could last a life­time. New routines will make your work more interesting. Someone influential shows great interest in your efforts. A pleasant dream proves prophetic. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Vanessa Red­grave, chess player Boris Spassky, golfer Curtis Strange. singer Jody Watley. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Eliminate the frills and get right to the point. The best way to deal with an obstacle is by going around it. Maintain your sense of humor and enthusiasm. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A project dear to your heart gets the green light. Heed the advice of long­time advisors. Break out of a rut and try new things. A new relationship has an almost dreamlike quality to it. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Renew contracts only after review­ing any proposed changes with your lawyer or accountant. A financial situation shows steady improve­ment. Take calculated risks. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A secret surfaces that could prove embarrassing. Investigate the source of a rumor before deciding what course of action to take. A job offer is tempting. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your ability to see someone else's point of view is a tremendous asset. Spend time with people who love you for yourself. not what you can do for 
JEANE DIXON 

them. A longtime relationship i~ tested. 
VIRGO !Aug. 23-Scpt 22): Try not to overanalyze your motives or emotions. Common sense will help you make the right decision. Co­workers who nag you have your well-being in mind. Gently rcminJ them that you are an adult 
LIBRA (Sept. 21-0ct 22): The emphasis now is on striking a better balance between work and play. Be serious· during business hours and expect your co-workers to do the same. Maintain office protocol if you are a supervisor. 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21 ): Rely on advertising and a public relations effon to attract new busi­ness. Acquiring high-tech skills will boost your earning power. Listen attentively. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21 ): Studying, publishing and long distance communications are fa­vored. Others envy your energy and ability to regroup. Be apologetic if you must inconvenience a co-work­er or neighbor. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look beyond the immediate Career success may depend on your willingness to take an entry level job. Learn new skills and take on additional duties. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.ISJ· Make a blueprint for career ad­vancement and stick to it. An ideal­istic financial undenaking succeeds beyond all expectations. If neces­sary, seek publicity to gain accep­tance for your innovative ideas. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Exercise r~straint even if given total freedom. Take advantage of your social connections here and abroad. If you decide to mix business with pleasure this weekend. let loved ones know your plans. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
' 
I I 
I 
, I I 
-
A. PE551Ml5T SAYS THE GLI\55 I5 1-\ALF E~PT'<. AN OPTI/"\I5T 5AY5 IT'S 
Hf\LF FULL. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Forward 6 Central religious principle 9Error 13 Smithy's furnace 14II's music to St. 
Peter's ears 15 Come-on 16 Sign of spring 17 "Alfred" 
composer 10 Swenson of "Benson" 19 Words stamped on a char's mailing? 22 Lacking a 
musical quality 23 Chilling 24 Long soot? 
20 Seat of King Olaf's rule 
29 Central German state aoCiub of diamonds 33 Jacket material 36 Workout segment 38 Descry 391nthe boondocks 43 Rick's beloved 44 Hot film of 1947? 47 Musical key 50 1 994 Oscar winner Wiest 51 Use bellows? 55 Kind of check 56 Dome 57 Thorough check 
E 
0 
ii .; u 
E 
j 
'2 
:I 
~ 
;:: 



SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 30, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish escape Huricanes 
Morgan scores her 2, OOOth career point in 72-71 victory 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
Last night, Irish senior Beth Morgan achieved a unique milestone and helped Notre Dame survive a late scare against 


the Hurricanes in Miami. 

• MEN's BASKETBALL 

Panther offense downs Irish 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
Even though Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod admitted after the Pittsburgh game last night that the Irish lacked a solid defen­sive effort, he also admitted being duly impressed with the Panthers. 
"They (Pittsburgh) shot the ball as well as I've seen anyone shoot it in a long, long time," MacLeod said. 
The superfluous long might as well have stood for long-range. Pittsburgh drained an unheard of 16 three­pointers, shooting 70 percent from beyond the
-arc en route to a 88-64 demolition of the Irish. Those 16 bombs set a new Big East record, shattering the mark of 15 formerly held by Miami and Villanova. The Panthers utilized their superior quickness without the ball to obtain open looks at the basket the entire con­test. Only 4-4 in the Big East entering last night's game, the Panthers looked like they could do no wrong. While the Irish have now lost two in a row, Pittsburgh appears ready to battle with the best of the conference, winning 10 of their last 14. Midway through the second half, the Panthers put the game away, extending their advantage to 74-43 as Jason Maile hit four treys within a span of two minutes. Maile fin­ished with 17 points. Pittsburgh also became the first team to shoot above 50 percent all year against the Irish. "For the first time all year we lost our edge a little bit on defense," MacLeod added. "We lacked some fire tonight. They were quicker 
see HOOPS I page 14 


• fOOTBAll 

Coaching change hampers recruiting 

en it comes to ecruiting, the only hing worse than a rumored coaching change is an actual coaching change. 
Lou Holtz 

·--.
wasn't just a great 
.
coach, he was a leg­
'!~if
encl. lie 
\....~~· . .. ,:·
.·.)if".

was one of the win­ningest coaches in Thomas Schlidt NCAA his-Recruiting to ry. lie, Correspondent 

had won a national championship. lie was on TV every Saturday. And, most importantly, he was one of the best at closing the deal and swaying recruits to Notre Dame. 
When a high school football player saw Holtz walking down the hall of his high school, he could not help but be excited. That was Lou Holtz coming to talk to him. That was Notre Dame recruit­ing him. 
If Notre Dame's recruiting campaign was to continue­running smoothly after Holtz, they had only two options: 1) hire from within, or 2) hire a 
big name coach. The only mistake Notre Dame made was letting the media make their choice before they could-Northwestern's Gary Barnett. 
The Gary Barnett factor: We all know the story and none of the facts. The only important thing to know is that in the end Barnett smelled like a rose, Notre Dame looked rejected, and Bob Davie appeared to be a consolation prize. • 
Barnett would tell recruits that Northwestern was the future, and that's the reason he rejected Notre Dame's overturns. Fast forward to today. Northwestern is set to sign its bnst recruiting class ever and fourth best in the Big Ten. They send their thanks to the Irish. 
The Dave Roberts factor: Davie was the popular choice among recruiting fanatics. Actually, strike out Davie, and add the name Dave Hoberts. Davie was popular because many felt he would keep Roberts on as his offense coordinator. 
Hoberts was Notre Dame's star recruiter. He had been 
see RECRUITS/ page 17 








