

Friday, December 5, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 65 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Fire damages student's Campus View apartment 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Holy Cross College student Brendan Kelly lived every tenant's nightmare yes­terday afternoon when his apartment caught on fire. 
Kelly, who lives at 1777 Irish Way in Campus View Apartments, smelled smoke filtering through his apartment at 3 p.m. 
"Me and my friend were sitting here when we smelled the smoke," he said. "We went around unplugging every­thing, but that didn't stop the smoke. So we went and got the maintenance guy. He looked around and couldn't find any­thing, so he thought that it was coming from the walls and called 911." 
The South Bend Fire Department responded with five fire vehicles, and had the fire extinguished by 4:30 p.m. 
"We are not sure if there was a mal­function in the furnace, or a defect in the wiring caused by the furnace due to the installation of the electrical wiring which was in close proximity to the heat runs," said Capt. Tim Paczkowski of the South Bend Fire Department. "Over a period time, heat can deteriorate the insulation of wiring. We do know the furnace filter was clogged up, but it could have been clogged up by the fire 
INVESTING IN THE FUTURE 
Endowment tops $1.5 billion in '97 
By DEREK BETCHER Associate News Editor 

Propelled by successful investing and significant alumni contributions. the Notre Dame endowment has enjoyed ncar-record growth in 1997, and now stands at $1.515 billion -a total which makes it the largest endowment in Catholic higher education. 
Despite October's downturn on the stock market, Notre Dame's endowment will finish 1997 with a robust 20 per­cent approximate growth rate, a figure which contributes to an unprecedented 52 percent total appreciation during the last four years. 
Because over half of the endowment's proceeds are reserved for scholarships and endowed faculty positions, students hoping for larger financial aid packages may 
see ENDOW I page 4 
Endowment Allotment june 1997 

Academic Programs 


Fire trucks from the South Bend Fire Department responded to a 911 call that led them to the residence of Holy Cross College student Brendan Kelly, whose Campus View apartment caught fire yesterday due to faulty electrical wiring. 
too. Right now its going to take some "One other complication that we found Apartments, said that Kelly would be electricians and furnace guys to deter­here was that there was no battery in moved to a new apartment until his mine which part malfunctioned first." the smoke detector," Paczkowski said. apartment could be cleaned. ·"The 
The Fire Department said that they "If this had been three o'clock in the important thing is that no one got hurt," thought the damage could have been morning, it could have been a lot worse. she said. "It could have been a lot much worse if Kelly had not been home He probably wouldn't have survived." worse, but the fire department got here at the time of the fire. Clare Myers, manager of Campus View in time to put it out before it spread." 
fRIDAY FEATURE 
• SECURITY BEAT 


Solvents remove paint from some vandalized areas 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 

A synthetic chemical solution created by a private consultant to remove paint from vari­ous University buildings that were vandalized over the weekend was partially successful, according to Bob Zerr, director of Risk Management and Safety. 
"The chemical removals ~'1::~,.-, 1 -.."''•Ja that we used worked on the • See "Senate granite wall [around the stat-to inquire ue of the Sacred Heart of aboutvandal­Jesus], but were not very sue-ism to ND cessful with the limestone in front of Bond Hall," he said. Security" P· 7 The statue's wall will be treated with the chemical, which clears up paint that was determined to have a similar makeup as Rustoleum, during the next few days. Zerr noted that it would require "quite a bit of effort" to completely clean the area. He went on to say that other areas did not react as well to the treatment. Among these were areas outside of Bond Hall, wooden benches near Badin Hall, and wooden doors at the Knights of Columbus building and the Joyce Center. "We're going to take the benches and remove them from their sites to take them to a carpenter's shop to have them stripped and repainted. We may also have to remove some of the doors that were painted," Zcrr said. While these four chemical solutions did not clear up all damage, Zerr said that the con­sultant will formulate different removal agents over the weekend which will be tried on Monday. 
page 2 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 



Where is the 

Compassion? 
When I think oftoday's Kristi Klitsch society, I have to wonder: 
Wire Editor 
where did all the compas­
sion go? 
This is the season of giving, when every major 
street comer is adorned with a Salvation Army 
Santa and a red bucket for donations. 
This is the season of "Toys for Tots," and 
"Project Warmth"; yet why is this compassion only 
seen at Christmas, and as a mere side effect of the 
ecstasy that the holiday brings? 
Why is it that thousands of homeless people 
walk cold, dark streets on Christmas Eve, while 
millionaires spend Christmas in Vail, or Pari<;? 
I am not expressing pessimism, rather dissatis­
faction. Dissatisfaction with society, as it 
approaches the Christmas holiday with a "Bah 
Humbug attitude"; toward the government for 
allowing so many people to go homeless and poor; 
and with capitalism, for replacing the ideas of 
compassion and community with selfishness and 
egotism. 
Let's face it: in our society the rich continue to 
get richer and the poor continue to get poorer. 
The current welfare system isn't helping anyone, 
and housing projects merely represent society's 
desire for a quick fix to societal problems. Many 
people think that ifyou give every needy family a 
check every month, and every homeless person 
"three hots and a cot," that the problem will be 
solved. 
Homeless centers and housing projects are 
seen as solutions, yet they are really only ban­
dages covering the sores of a capitalistic society. 
In theory, Adam Smith's capitalistic society of 
unlimited opportunity is advantageous. Yet in 
practice, capitalism has created the welfare sys­
tem, poverty, selfishness and a lack of human 
responsibility. Had it not been for the glorification 
of wealth in movies. and the emphasis on making 
a million by age 30, maybe more capitalists would 
also be philanthropists. 
Instead, Bill Gates is earning $40 billion a 
month, while thousands of welfare-dependent 
mothers fall deeper and deeper into the trap of 
poverty. 
Many people realize that problems exist, but 
because poverty and homelessness don't effect 
them, they don't worry about it. They might toss a 
quarter into the red basket, but only so they can 
feel that their job is done. 
It is this lack of understanding between classes 
that has resulted in a loss of compassion, giving, 
and altruism. 
But don't worry-compassion is not lost for­
ever. There is a way to return the forgotten sense 
of community, yet it cannot happen ifthe govern­
ment continues to give every poor mother a 
monthly check. 
Rather, what is necessary is a sense of commu­
nity reliance, or a Robin Hood syndrome, in which 
the community as a whole gives to the poor. It is 
not only the Bill Gates' of the world who need to 
help; rather we all have a responsibility to help 
our fellow man. 
In our society, there is plenty of wealth to go 
around, and ifmore people shared that wealth, 
more community projects could be established. It 
is this community support and philanthropy that I 
see as the only solution to the welfare crisis and 
the problem ofhomelessness. 
This is my plea to society, to humanity in gen­
eral. We have all been wrapped up in capitalism 
for too long, but it is not too late. 
We all have a moral responsibility to help one 
another, and this responsibility could have pro­
found effects. Maybe then, when altruism and 
compassion return, we won't throw a quarter into 
the jingling red bucket because we have to-but 
because we want to. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Michelle Krupa  Dave Piening  
Nicole Swartzentruber  Production  
Sports  Michelle Krupa  
Anthony Bianco  Laura Petelle  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Brandon Williams  Jeff Hsu  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

Th< Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righcs are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Friday, December 5, 1997 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

HOPE scholarships to benefit families with college students 
LA JOLLA, Calif. 

President Clinton's new HOPE schol­arship program will make tuition costs a little easier for many students and their parents. The program provides parents and independent students with the opportunity to claim tax credits to help cover out-of-pocket tuition expenses. 
There are two possible tax credits. The ftrst, the HOPE Credit, is designed to help with tuition costs for the first two years of college. 
The program provides a credit of up to $1,500 per year, applicable only to tuition costs. The credit can be claimed for each qualified student, regardless of how many students are in the family. 
A second program is the Lifetime Learning Credit. This is a tax credit of up to $1,000 per year, which can be claimed for every year in school. However, regardless of how many stu­dents are in the family, the Lifetime 

Both credits cannot be applied to the tuition costs of the same student in a single tax year. On the other hand, the two credits can be claimed on the same return for different qualifying students in the same family. 
"[The tax credits] will affect just about every student at UCSD who is eli­gible," said Richard Backer, UCSD assistant vice chancellor for enrollment management. "The program will help both middle and low-income families." 
Credits are subtracted directly from the taxes people owe. Deductions, on the other hand, are subtracted from incomes before taxes are calculated. There are limits to eligibility for the tax credits. First, the tax credits can only be given to students whose scholar­ships do not cover all of their tuition. 
Second, eligibility is reduced on a sliding scale. For single filers, the amount of the credit is reduced for ta{{­payers with adjusted gross incomes between $40,000 and $50,000 per year. The reduction for joint filers applies to taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes between $80,000 and $100,000 per year. 
Also, taxpayers must have incomes high enough so that their tax liability is at least as large as the credit. The income level required for the HOPE credit is about $16,000 for single fliers and $21,000 for joint filers. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Students split on diversity issue 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
As lawmakers and legal officials prepare to struggle over the value of diversity on campus, students themselves are still forming their own opinions. Questions concerning diversity continue to divide much of the student body. While some believe diversity at the university is commend­able, others say they are blatantly disgusted with the cur­rent situation. LSA junior Enland Hsiao believes that while diversity at the university may not be perfect, it is moving in the right direction. "I think relative to a lot of other schools, it's pretty diverse here, and it's a great school," Hsiao said. "I mean, we aren't in a utopian society. We're doing better, I think. I definitely wouldn't label Michigan as a segregated school and I think we're progressing." But many don't agree with Hsiao's views, and expressed dis­appointment over diversity at the university. "It may look like the university is diverse, but I see a university with a large array· of people and little interaction," said LSA senior Marcellina Spigner. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Faculty tardiness costs students 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
If every undergraduate tries to sell back $200 worth of books this fall, students could lose a total of about $430,000 because faculty members turned in lists of spring course materials too late. According to the direc­tors of University Bookstore and Nebraska Bookstore, University of Nebraska-Lincoln faculty members have yet to notify the stores of about 25 percent of the books stu­dents must purchase for classes this spring. When book­stores begin buying back fall semester books next week, they will buy used books they know are needed next semester at 50 or 60 percent of the books' new price. But they will buy unneeded books back at 5 to 30 percent of their original price. As a result, when faculty members do not turn in required book lists for their spring courses before fall textbook buyback starts, students are paid less for their used books. 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Gray recounts sexual assault 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. Stacey Gray '94 delivered emotional testimony this week in 
U.S. District Court in Providence during the initial two days of trial in the first of four cases brought by alumnae against for­mer visiting associate professor of chemistry Kayode Adesogan and Brown University. Gray told the jury that Adesogan's sexual assault "made me hate the fact that I'm a woman," and that University administrators had offered her minimal help in coping with the assault. Instead. she testified that associate dean for Academic Affairs Karen Romer had made her feel that the episode in Adesogan 's office on March 10, 1994, was Gray's own fault. Gray cried as she told the jury that, "he was touching me the whole time. He put his hands on my chest and played with my overall straps. He put his thumbs on my nipples and held the sides of my breast, while talking to me like everything was normal. I tried to cover my body with my arms, but he took my arms and pulled me towards him, and put my arms around his neck while he ran his hands down my back and onto my butt." 
• UNIVERSITY Of COLORADO 
More censors on the horizon? 
BOULDER. Colo. 

Last week's federal ruling in Kentucky allowing college publications to be censored by administrators has some natiomtl leaders worried, but CU campus journalists seem less alarmed. National student-rights leaders say the judge's decision could have a ripple effect in other states because this is the ftrst time a court has applied a 1988 U.S. Supreme Court ruling to the college level. In that decision, Hazlewood School District v. Kuhlmeier, the Supreme Court said admin­istrators could censor a high school newspaper if they found an "educational purpose" for doing so. The court added a footnote that said, "We need not now decide whether the same degree of deference is appropriate with respect to school-sponsored activities at the college and university level." Following that decision, the Colorado Legislature passed a law guaranteeing "freedom of expression and free­dom of speech for all public school students." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 


Friday 
29 19 Saturday 29 16 Sunday ~ 32 20 
\


Monday 

~r::~~~7 25~. Tue~day " (:fb 38 27 
(yv:...f'''':J' '':' 

¢-~ u 
SUNNY PT: CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta  56  35  Dallas  53  46  Miami  83  64  
Baltimore  54  35  Denver  43  t2  Middlebury  36  t5  
4,~,~P.W~~~u  Baton Rouge Chicago  61 27  40 14  Honolutu Indianapolis  80 36  69 27  New York Phoenix  51 66  38 47  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Columbus  39  29  los Angeles  67  56  St.Louis  41  24  


Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 

Griffin, Lingenfelser to speak on WSND 
Observer Staff Report 
Student body president Matt Griffin will give a live inter­view Friday afternoon on the "Notre Dame Weekly" on 88.9 FM WSND. 
The show. which runs from 
5:30 to 6 p.m., will focus on the recent petition to remove Griffin from his office. Griffin will discuss the accusations made by the petition, which is being circulated by Morrissey senior Jeremy Lingenfelser. 
In addition, Lingenfelser will appear in a pre-recorded interview addressing the rea­sons he started the petition in the first place. 
The "Notre Dame Weekly" is a live, retrospective look at the news on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses and · airs every Friday at 5:30 p.m. on 88.9 FM WSND, Notre Dame Public Radio. 

Guitar Players Association 

In Concert 
Sunday, December 7th LaFortune Ballroom 7:30 -9:30 p.m. $2 Admission 
,With Special Guests: The Skalcoholiks, Jason Huggins, The Dunn Brothers, John Gordon of Vibe, Kara Markovich of the Hotel Prati, and Many More ... 
More information available at: http://www.nd.edu/-guitar/ 
page 3 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Students walked with candles and banners last night from Fieldhouse Mall to the University power plant in protest of the lack of U.S. leadership in climate treaty negotiations. 
Students walk for environment 
By MATTHEW QUINN 
News'Writer 
The Students for Environmental Action held a candle vigil last night in protest of the lack of U.S. leadership in international climate treaty negotiations. 
"The march went very nice­ly," Chris Wilmes explained. "We all went over to the power plant and offered a little prayer. Several club members offered insights regarding our duty to conserve energy and to hold it to big business and the American government to com­mit to that duty." 
The purpose of the symbolic vigil was to send a strong mes­sage to President Clinton and Vice President Gore that their commitment to reducing global warming emissions is unac­ceptable. 
Approximately 40 people attended the vigil, which start­ed from the Fieldhouse Mall and proceeded to the power plant. 
The service was followed by a reception at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"It's ironic that we held a march in protest of global warming on the coldest day of the week," said Wilmes. "We would like to thank all of those who attended." 
Notre Dame Council on International· Business Development 
With International Trade Association of Greater Chicago presents 

Asia in Transition: 
Ne'N Retilities for 
~' ' • ' it:'~,.·. :. . .;.

,;Amer•catf,"Bus•ness· \ 
.. ' . . ..., '··· '}.. -~ .{!~ . 
·· ~afurclay, December'6th.~:Jp.m. _ -~~~~·· ~ ..Register in the Lobby. of · , 
f~tdll~ej,f~B~~-ine.s~ ,;_ r;lmir~listratibn
;'l':'r: ~·;!iji.'¥.t;· •:;\ t~'f ~· ;.... . ' ./'f ,, " ·' . . i• "' • 
r~·. __ /·s:;itlik~~:;s>:lnililae:£" ··-~ 
,!. . . p . ,:v.::.. •"'']~¥!'"'''·:;; .::1'fi ,,.w..\ . ' .. ' . ..:r-~· _:,~i'·x~·-, RoBert'D'f·Orr · 
·t;·~ \~;;f..;}: ·~·fj .··· ;;;--w~, ., ~.,• · ·~ .-.,:·:f~· Former Governor of Indiana· -~, :·-. · Keynote Address... :~~}~_\"~:·,{.·/-' .. "; ;': . ' .. "·f!·... ~~--·, . 
-t· Richcfr8 -Paullin· . A~ia In Transition: .An OVerview 
..-RogerO. Johnson 
New Realities for American Investments In Asia 
Alan D. Kinsler 
New Realities for American Trade In Asia 
Refreshments will be served. 

From the Land of Oz and Friends 
rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ru 
~SPRING BREAK~



I * SUPER$~A~* ~ 
rn /jNj~ g) 
ru BAYFRONT ~ S G1
15 4, 6, 8 OR 10 PERSONS $5M $ 19 ONLY 5 LEFT1 ~ lEl CALINDA BEACH $6~ $629 #I S1UDENT g)
[g 4 PERSONS '}JV HOTEL! ~ 
IU 2 OR 3 PERSONS JUST $699 r.ach! • G1 I.E! $ ~ $FROM EJ
99 

[g DAYS INN ffi
rn DELUXE BEACHVIEW $ Un $419 INTI-IE HEART ~ 
'7'\V ill 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 5, 1997 
Endow 
continued from page 1 
justly wonder when they will have a chance to see the benefits 
ofrecentendo~entgrowth. 
This is a question administra­tors invariably grapple with. 
With a spending formula ulti­mately controlled by the Board of Trustees Investment Committee, Notre Dame's endowment returns must be spent in a way that ensures payouts will not be made at the risk of shrinking the real (inflation-adjusted) value of the future endo~ent. 
This balance between today's and tomorrow's needs is called intergenerational equity. 
WHEN WILL THEY 
, SHOW ME THE MONEY? 

\ 
With a $1.5 billion investment fund, the University's spending plans are the subject of consider­able discussion. But rather than 
spending the endowment, much of it is being reinvested accord­ing to donors' wishes. 
A full 90 percent of the endow­ment's value lies in restricted funds, and this money must, by law, be dispensed according to the instructions of is original benefactors. 
If for example, an alumnus donated $500,000 to create an endowed faculty position, returns from that initial gift would be held and reinvested until they totaled an amount suf­ficient to annually deliver a pro­fessor's salary worth of interest income. This accumulation process can be lengthy; for example, a fully funded faculty chair currently requires a $2 million endo~ent. 
Many individual endowments (2,000 separate funds comprise the collective Notre Dame endowment) currently rest in similar accumulation processes, associate vice president for finance and investment Scott Malpass, explained. 
Indeed, the endowment grew $288 million this year, but con­tributed a comparatively small amount ($35 million) to the University's $400 million annual operating budget. 
"Intergenerational equity may be the single most important concern in endowments today," said University vice president and associate provost Jeffrey Kantor. "The whole judgment of when to bring an endowment fund into spending is one of the main issues we face. 
"We have a commitment to the students who are here now, as well as the students who will be here in the future," Kantor con­tinued. "It's not fair to save all of the money for students tomor­row. It's that tradeoff you have to wrestle with." 
FROM DEVELOPMENT TO INVESTMENT 

Malpass, Notre Dame's chief investment officer, oversees the endowment's management and attributes its recent skyrocketing growth to two factors. First, he cites prolonged low inflation with strong capital and equity mar­kets, both on Wall Street and abroad. He notes that these fac­tors have combined to create a bullish global market. 
Second, Malpass emphasizes the role Notre Dame's Development Office has played in adding benefactor's money into the endowment. Contributions from the University's current Generations fundraising cam­paign are being assembled ahead of schedule and continue to fuel growth in the endow­ment's principal. 
"Currently, the market appre­ciation has been huge, but fundraising has been a big part of this endowment's growth," Malpass said. "It's a real testa­ment to the strength of the Notre Dame family." 
Once the Development Ol'fice has assembled the principal funds, the investment oflice con­signs the money to independent investors. 
"Hiring investment firms is 



Ernsl &Youn9 f.J.P, 
w:lsl.es ever9one o.llhe University of Nolre I.)ame a haNJ9 anrJ .lnyons lwi)1JmJ seo.son. 
what the Investment Office does,"Malpass said. "We give these firms a benchmark return over a market cycle, and if they don't meet it, we hire someone else." 
A HISTORY OF GROWI"H 
"Notre Dame has worked very hard to get where it is today," Malpass noted. 
The University's endowment was begun in 1921, by Father James Burns, but initial growth was slowed by a lack of orga­nized fundraising for the next 15 years. When Father Theodore llesburgh began his first term as University president in 1952, the endo~ent stood at only $9 mil­lion, but by the time he left office 35 years later, Notre Dame had amassed $350 million, a total which has been steadily growing since 1987. 
Thorough diversification char­acterizes the University's current endowment investment strategy. Roughly one-fourth of the endowment is invested in U.S. stocks, and another quarter has been invested in global stocks. Nine percent has been invested in income-producing real estate such as office buildings and shopping malls. A seven percent allocation to global bonds, anoth­er seven percent for U.S. bonds, 13 percent for private equity help round out the endo~ent's 
consulting firms. 
You already know the advantages associated with choosing a top school. Now, you have the opportunity to continue that tradition -by interning with the pre-eminent professional services firm in the world -Ernst & Young. 
.MEEI RUII ERINSII\ lflllJ~G . 
. · . · mil EJIMIUl1S .... . 
Summer Internship Interview Day: january Z9, 1998 
For consideration, please forward your resume to your University Career Center, or: 
Catherine Romanek, Campus Recruiter, Ernst & Young LLP, 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606; fax (312) 879-3671; or E-mail: catherine.romanek«~ey.com. Please visit our web site at: http://www.ey.com. No phone calls please. 

THERE IsN'TA BusiNEss WE CAN'T IMPROVE'.. 
frn.<l & Yrmng 1.1}~ rm ''!""' of!fmrtunity mtf!loyn; vflllll'.< lhf divrr.<ity ofour wori<{om nnd tlw knowlnlgf ofour f"of!lf. 
S!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
asset allocation. In sum, the endowment is roughly 85 per­cent equities and 15 percent bonds. 
A GREENER HORIZON? 
The endo~ent likely will not continue to grow at the same rate it has in 1997. Expectations of continued 20 percent growth are irrational, given the cyclical nature of investment market performance, Malpass explained. 
"That's unheard of. It just isn't sustainable," he said "In the future. we expect the market to be more difficult, but our diversi­ty is such that we will continue to do well relative to our peer insti­tutions." 
Over the last three years, the endowment has increased its contributions to the operating budget every year. 
In February, University officers will propose the 1998-99 operat­ing budget to the Board of Trustees, and their prest:mtation will recommend a significant increase in the use of endow­ment-supplied funding. 
"More than the growth of endowment funds, we've been able to increase the payout," Malpass said. "That's important. That's what really matters." 


SET A FESTIVE TABLE THIS HOLIDAY SEASON WITH BRASSWARE FROM INDIA 
TEN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES,.. 
Formerly Global Gifts 
919 West McKinley Mishawaka (219) 255-3536 
Monday-Saturday: 10-6 Friday: 10-8 
FAIRLY TRADED HANDICRAFTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 



Friday, December 5, 1997 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Narayanan dissolves India's Parliament 
NEW DELHI, India 

India's president dissolved Parliament Thursday -opening the way for early elec­tions after the country's fractious parties were unable to cobble together a govern­ment to replace the one that fell last week. The move by President K.R. Narayanan means elections must be held for the 545­seat Lok Sabha -the only chamber of Parliament directly elected by voters ­three years ahead of schedule. The .vote was likely to be held in late February or early March, local news agencies quoted a mem­ber of the Election Commission, G.V.G. Krishnamurthy, as saying. Narayanan had called for elections by March 15, the dead­line for presenting the annual budget. The last elections, staggered over several days in May 1996, left no party with a parliamentary majority and a new vote was expected to produce a similarly splintered chamber.The prrsident's decision came after a week of squabbling among India's political parties following the resignation of Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral's government on Nov. 
28. In a statement announcing the dissolu­tion of Parliament. Narayanan said no party was able to form a government that would be "lawful, viable and enjoy a reasonable prospect of stability." 
New York Bar Association files Medicaid suit 
ALBANY, N.Y. 

The New York State Bar Association sued the federal government Thursday over a law that prohibits attorneys from helping senior citizens transfer their assets to relatives to qualify for Medicaid. The law, approved this year, makes it illegal to accept a fee to coun­sel people on how to make those transfers, a common practice known as spending down. The lawyers' group called the law a "gag order" that keeps people from seeking pro­ressional help. "This 'Catch-22' legislation says to the 80-year-old Alzheimers patient, 'Sure, you can make lawful transfers, but no one can help or advise you,"' state bar presi­dent Joshua Pruzansky said. The suit, filed in 
U.S. District Court in Albany, claims the law violates First Amendment protections of free speech. Several other bar associations have expressed interest in joining the lawsuit, said Frank Ciervo, a spokesman for the New York bar. The current law replaced a 1996 law that made it a crime to apply for Medicaid, under certain circumstances, after transfer­ring significant assets. It was quickly dubbed tlw "Granny Goes to Jail" law by critics. Congress repealed the unpopular law in its Balanced Budget Act of 1997 but substituted the new language. 
Dow 
]ONES




8ff16 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
973.10 Volume: 
+ 18.15 -3.67 759,605,430 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMpANY !!lid B ''-\,CHANG! s (i-\1}1, pRICE 
fRA!\:KFORT FIRSl FKKYO 100.0 ~c IK.S ~IETIH> <.iLOBAJ. \.ft,\fA 75.0 +LU 2.62 INFOSAFE IS FEU 42.3 +0.75 2.5 11'VISIOS lr-<V1' 36.9 +2.56 9.5 INTELLICFLL fO~E J4.b +LU U7 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
TELSCAPE INTI. TSCPW 45.00 -1.13 1.375 C<.lM\iODORE CXOTP 29.63 -2.00 4.75 COMMANDER AIRCR CMDR 23.80 -0.625 2.00 GARDEN ROTANII.CA GBOT 23.14 ·0.978 3.22 t.UKE:-.IS MEDICAL LUKN 22.73 -0.625 2.125 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Friday, December 5, 1997
page 6 

. ...... ii Firms, C~reers, Internships, Locations and 18th Century Ireland. 
INTERNSHIPS FOR $100. THE ANSWER IS••• 
This evening of trivia is a fun way to find out about summer internship opportunities at Coopers & Lybrand. 
What is C&L's JEOPARDY Night? 
at'Jwn''········ · 

im:n1:;ortant matter dan be addressed~:· 
+T ' 
±. 
t~. 

CAREERS FOR $100. THE ANSWER IS••. .·........ ;e< .. >
This. website give~: pq•en•iat candidates access to ap iri'itiil 
····'··.=~r··. . ., , ,... ..., .. , .... . ·.· .. · .. 
application for intennsfiips and permanent '"~ployment 
·.:..,t,·" ····· ...,. .·. ....... . 
Coopers & Lybrand invites you to play C&L JEOPARDY! 
December 11, 1997 6 • 8 p.m. 
Joyce Center, Monogram Room 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
Coopers&Lybrand 
a professional services firm 
---------------------------~---­

Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• MUlTICUlTURAl BEAT 
Asian Allure explores native culture 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Dance, winter fashion and culture will come together on stage tomorrow night when the Asian American Association presents Asian Allure at Washington Hall. 
Now in its second year, Asian Allure combines contemporary and conventional styles with dance and music in a two-hour performance to promote educa­tion and interest in Asian American culture. 
'GIVE US FRIES WITH THAT!' 
Senior Dan Tully and oth­ers gathered yesterday after­noon on fieldhouse Mall to rally to bring fast food restaurants to cam pus. The students gathered signatures on a petition before the rally and had McDonald's food on hand for those who turned out to support their cause. 

• CORRECTIONS . 
The performance begins at 
7:30 p.m. on the Washington Hall mainstage. 
Attire for the show is provid­ed by performers or chosen from a number of clothing stores at the local area malls. The music for Allure will range in styles from folk to new age. 
Several other organizations, including the Filipino American Student Organization and Vietnamese Student Association, will present tradi­tional cultural fashions in addi­tion to the modern styles. 
"I would like for people to come away with a taste of tra­ditional Filipino or Asian cul­ture and perhaps with some interest in what these clubs are doing," said Alfred Vargas, president of the Asian American Association. 
A pre-show reception will be hosted by the AAA in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center from 6 to 7 p.m. 
Tickets for tomorrow night's show are available at the LaFortune Information Desk for $5 and at the door for $8. 
• Yesterday's artiCle, "Security tries to rmd solutions to reme tor of Risk Management and Safety as saying that gasoline will 
dalized cars. .>;;:;;;:!;::: . ;,,,;,,.,~:::=: 
The statement was actually made by Rex Rakow, director of """""'"' said that "gasoline could do damage to the paint job that you have, and 
• In yesterday's article, "Panel discusses female priesthl)l)d," a (Il,I~te .. ~...."~.,. .. .,..~.,, should have read, "Jesus was anointed ... by a woman" not ''ordained". · the importance of Mary Magdelene's presence at the tomb was that she body. 
The Observer regrets these errors. '®L . 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate to inquire about vandalism to ND Security 
By MICHELLE KRUPA information about what hap­Associate News Editor pened. What are they doing to protect the parking lots? Are 
The Student Senate they going to beef up security Community Life Committee because of this incident? Is plans to send a letter of there any information they inquiry to Notre Dame can give us so this doesn't Security/Police today regard­happen again?" Szabo said. ing the Nov. 29 vandalism of Senators also suggested that numerous campus buildings the organization invite mem­and vehicles. bers of Security/Police to next 
Suggested by Morrissey sen­week's meeting so that specif­ator Matt Szabo, the organiza­ic questions can be answered. tion plans to ask why the sus­"I think that Security should pects were not apprehended come talk to us directly ­and if there is a need to that's what the podium is for," increase campus security. Dan Nisbet, Carroll Hall sena­
"We want a little more tor said. 
• SMC BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



BOG closes semester, plans for spring of '98 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Writer 
On Wednesday, the Board of Governance wrapped up the semester with its final meeting. The meeting fmalized topics for the semester and introduced several for the following semes­ter. 
The meeting opened with a request for volunteers for the Storybook Festival held on Feb. 7 and 8 in Madaleva Hall. 
Storybook Festival is an activi­ty where students and celebri­ties gather with children ages two to six, read stories and par­ticipate in an activity relating to the story they heard. Approximately 160 volunteers are needed. 
• The junior class is selling Christmas ornaments. Orders will be taken this week in the dining hall. The deliveries will be made the week before vaca­tion. 
• This weekend. the freshman class is going to Chicago. This is the first time in years that fresh­men have planned an activity of this magnitude during the first semester. 
The itinerary consists of shop­ping and visiting a few key sites. All of the bus tickets have been sold. Also, the freshmen class has planned a dance for Jan. 17. 
• 
The senior class Mass will be held this Sunday in the LeMans chapel at 4:30p.m. 

• 
The SURV commissioner is asking students to help wrap presents at University Park Mall on Dec. 17, 18, and 19. 


The times are 8 a.m. to 12 
p.m. on both Dec. 17 and 18 and on Dec. 19 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. All of the proceeds from the gift wrapping will be contributed to AIDS Ministries. 

e~Paa... ~UNIQUE ANTIQUE MALL 

10 A.M-5 P.M. Daily 
Gift Certificates Also Available 50981 U.S. 33 North-South Bend 

.._c:::;;.Q_ 
r' :'"'\.-2 miles north of toll road 
w~w~wwwwwww~www~~~~~~~~~~w~w~ 
! "As You Wish" : 



: Imports 
~ 
Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry,

<£> 

Accessories, and Much More! w 
w
Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • 
Thailand • India • Ecuador <£> 
INCREDIBLE PRICES! : 

GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! ~ </!J CLEARANCE SALE! ~ <£> Unbelievable Bargain Corner! ~ 
<£> •Proceeds from this corner help send W w 6 Guatemalan children to school. <£: <£> Other Donations Greatly Appreciated <£> 
<£> Lafortune-Room 108, Dec 1-6, 10-5 pm 'i!i 
~~~<£>~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~w~~ 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 . Thursday, December 5, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... ]ennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Univmity of Notre Dame du Lac and ~aim Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither ins.timtion. The news is. reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief,, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Ediror,.Accenr Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• RIGHT AND WRONG 


Is Notre Dame Living Up to Its Catholic Character? 
Four years ago, the hot campus topic was the "Catholic character" of Notre Dame. Organized discussions produced as many definitions of "Catholic charac­ter" as there were participants. And as many plans to preserve it, whatever "it" might be. The discussions were inconclu-


Charles Rice 
sive and ultimately boring, maybe because the participants debated "Catholic character" as if they were Protestants. They sought to define the issue according to their own private lights when the Church had already pro­vided an authoritative definition, in Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the Apostolic Constitution on the Catholic University, issued in 1990 by Pope John Paul II. "Catholics have to remember," said Prof. Alasdair Macintyre in 1993, "that for them the norm for Catholic universities ... has already been laid down." Ex Corde set out "general norms" which "are valid for all Catholic universities and other Catholic universities and other Catholic institutes of higher studies throughout the world." 
Campus interest in "Catholic character" is likefy to revive during the coming year. This is so because the American bishops and the Vatican are working on ordi­nances proposed by the bishops to govern the application of Ex Corde to American universities. It might be helpful, there­fore, to reflect at this time on some char­acteristics of the Catholic university as defined by Ex Corde, and their relevance to Notre Dame. 
Relation to the Church. Ex Corde does not require the Catholic university to have a juridical connection with the Church. However, a "Catholic universi­ty," according to the Ex Corde norms, "is linked with the church either by a formal ... bond or by ... an institutional commit­ment .... Every Catholic university is to make known its Catholic identity either in a mission statement or in some other appropriate public document." Notre Dame adheres to the 196 7 Land O'Lakes declaration, in which the major American Catholic universities insisted that "the Catholic university must have a true autonomy to the academic community itself." Unfortunately, in their search for prestige those universities, including Notre Dame, have substituted for the teaching authority of the Church the more peremptory and "external" authori­ty of the secular academic community. The Mission Statement of Notre Dame, incidentally, uses more than 500 words to describe the "Catholic identity of the University" without once mentioning the Catholic Church. 
Composition ofthe Faculty. The norms of Ex Corde state: "In order not to endan­ger the Catholic identity of the UJJiversity .... the number of non-Catholic teachers should not be allowed to constitute a majority within the institution, which is and must remain Catholic." The last year in which Catholics were the majority of new faculty hired at Notre Dame was 1986-87, with 54 percent Catholic. In 1987-88, it was 35 percent; 1988-89, 42 percent; 1989-90, 45 percent; 1990-91, 49 percent; 1991-92, 44 percent; 1992­93, 31 percent; 1993-94, 46 percent, 1994-95, 49 percent; and 1995-96, the latest available year, 47 percent. The total percentage of Catholics in the teach­ing and research faculty at Notre Dame is 
57.9 percent, down from 64.9 percent in 1986-87. The ligures speak for them­selves. 
Fidelity to the Magisterium. The Ex Corde norms provide that: "all Catholic teachers are to be faithful to, and all other teachers are to respect, Catholic doctrine and morals in their research and teaching ... Catholic theologians, aware that they fulfill a mandate received from the church, are to be faith­ful to the magisterium or the church as the authentic interpreter of sacred Scripture and sacred tradition." The major Catholic universities, including Notre Dame, have resisited the mandate for theology teachers. The subject is under discussion between the bishops and the Vatican. Ex Corde also states: "One consequence of its essential rela­tionship to the Church is that the institu­tional fidelity of the university to the Christian message includes a recognition of and adherence to the teaching authori­

'It is fair to ask whether 
this aspiring national Catholic research university fulfills this obligation by dou­bling its tutition ... and by loading on non-wealthy stu­dents a debt burden that sub­ordinates their ability to pur­sue community service ... ' 
ty of the Church in matters of faith and morals." No. 27 Ex Corde lists, as one of the "essential characteristics" of the Catholic University: "Fidelity to the Christian message as it comes to us through the Church." No. 13. Three decades of teaching Notre Dame gradu­ates lead me to conclude that Notre Dame does not provide for its students an assured opportunity to study the Catholic faith and tradition as they are understood by the teaching Church. Unless they have taken exceptional courses, Notre Dame grads tend to lack a sound intellectual foundation as to what the Church actual­ly teaches in significant areas. Contrary to the intent of Ex Corde, they have been shortchanged. 
Incidentally, Ex Corde states that "Every Catholic university [should] con­tribute concretely to ... society lflor example, [by] searching for ways to make university education accessible to all those who are able to benefit from it. especially the poor members of minority groups who customarily have been deprived of it." No. 34 Ex Corde also states that the Catholic university "pre­pares men and women who ... will be able to assume positions of responsibility in the Church." No. 31. 
It is fair to ask whether this aspiring national Catholic research university ful­fills this obligation by doubling its tuition, in real money, over the past two decades and by loading on non-wealthy students a debt burden that subordinates their abili­ty to pursue community service to the necessity of going wherever the money is so as W pay off that debt. As Dr. David Luntz, then a grad student. put it in the 1993 debates: "The reason Notre Dame is turning its back on the Catholic tradition is that it is obsessed with becoming excel­lent, and in looking to secular universities for guidance in deciding what it means to be excellent." To finance the University's pursuit of "excellence," non-wealthy stu­dents are constrained to mortgage their futures. 
Notre Dame presents itself as a Catholic university, which term is authoritatively defined in Ex Corde "for all Catholic uni­versities ... throughout the world." Regardless of the outcome of the enforce­ment discussions between the bishops and the Vatican, would it not be appro­priate for Notre Dame to declare simply, without further delay, that it accepts Ex Corde and will abide by it? ·The issue is truth in labeling. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
9t/r7!fAT!i }WRPR08/.£/Yt AK7T KNC¥flI JXJN'TCON~ 7D 
LAPI£5Mi?~I 

M/N/3/ I~Hlfl?e 7!J 5HA/$ YOtJI<. £./M~/? NOTIONS Or 
tJP7li:JS6 0/.PMOf?!i/,!3 OF~­lA/HATA 8tACI< 
!EN!l6NCYANt? {;5PAII<-ANt? 7JI77Ve 
RI3PI.AC& lH/iM IA/f!HOPRJRllJNITY ANf?HOP/3/ 
I 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"one of the most strik-:­
ing differences between a cat and a lie is that a cat has only nine lives." 
-Mark Twain 



VIEWPOINT

Thursday, December 5, 1997 page 9 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student Senator Condemns Petition Gillard Responds to 
After discussing the Lingenfelser petition last night, I feel compelled to openly express my opinion on the issue after working wHh the Senate and President Griffin throughout the semester. Despite one's personal feelings about Matt Griffin, I ask students to seriously reconsider their decision to support this petition or any further action on it in the future. I know there are many students who will simply support the petition due to the entertaining "novelty" of recall­ing a student body president while at Notre Dame, and it is not to this group with whom I mainly address this letter. To these people, I will only careful­ly caution them on frivolously casting a vote that could effec­tively and unfairly damage the reputation of a fellow student. 
It is to the students who are taking this pPtition seriously, howevPr. with whom I have my differences. At last night's meet­ing, Mr. Lingenfelser's words demonstrated NOT a genuine interest in trying to preserve the good name of thP student body but rather the preposterous per­version of a system which allows him to bring himself into the "mPdia spotlight" for a few weeks. lie maliciously forces the StudPnt Senate to waste its time considering these claims, many of which have either not been substantiated or are simply not against the Constitution (e.g., Certainly many of us want an end to parietals, but can we recall Matt Griffin because he did not attend a rally speaking out against them?). I wish stu­dents could have seen the sick­ening glee with which Mr. 
Lingenfelser announced the myriad of students whom he claims have not only supported the petition but also have filled his voice mailbox with "excited" condemnations against Matt Griffin. I further wish students 

could have watched Mr. Lingenfelser squirm as he not only failed to identify his "esteemed" sources in the Student Union; but then, placed under scrutiny, reiterated his previous stance that "most" if not all of the accusations against Griffin are "probably" true. 
Apparently, he then craftily "fit" these claims into constitu­tionally "impeachable cate­gories" where he deemed most appropriate (I wish he could have used these same skills to do something positive for the 
Effort to Recall Griffin is Nonsense 

The accusations which have been raised against Matt Griffin strike me as completely appalling. I am not, however, appalled by the accusations themselves, but instead by the fact that they were raised at all and who they were raised by. Jeremy Lingenfelser does not have any idea what goes on in student government nor what kind of president Matt Griffin has been nor what type of per­son Matt Griffin is. To write Griffin off as a "drunk" and a "bad president" simply on the basis of the very questionable tabloid-style journalism found in "The Gipper" is completely unfounded. "The Gipper" also consistently makes negative comments and accusations against University administra­tors. Should their jobs fall into jeopardy on the basis of this column as well? 
Lingenfelser is not involved in student government and is not in a position to know how effec­tive Griffin is as a leader, nor how competent he is at his job. If Lingenfelser had even a slight clue as to how much time, effort, and devotion Griffin puts in week after week in the very demanding job of student body president, he would not think to question the choice that the student body made last spring. The fact that these accusations do not come from someone within student government, but from an out­sider who is completely igno­rant about its happenings, makes the accusations invalid. We, as students, and Matt Griffin, as our representative, should not have our time wast­ed by such nonsense. 
Kevin Rini Senior, Stanford Hall December 4, 1997 
campus). 
The thing that strikes me the most, however, is that Mr. Lingenfelser is foolishly willing to waste the time of a group of dedicated students -both the senate and other members of the Student Union-who have faithfully worked to bring about many positive changes to cam­pus this year. 
Time spent by the entire sen­ate debating the supposed valid­ity of claims against Matt Griffin goes to waste as other issues such as a campus shuttle, pub­lished Teacher Course Evaluations, changes in the meal plan and other reachable goals are not given their due consideration as we struggle to decide whether Matt Griffin's "lack of remorse for such acts of stupidity" described in "The Gipper" are grounds for recall, impeachment, or whatever else. I finish here, first, by noting that there have been much worse student body presidents in the past; and, second, despite what students think about student government, at least give us a chance to spend more time on more important student issues. I think it would not be a stretch in saying that most of you are more concerned about whether you have to pay for a 21-meal plan next year than if Matt Griffin lives with five other women. I could be wrong though. 
Bob Chapski Alumni Hall Student Senator December 4, 1997 

I am writing in response to the recent petition to recall Matt Griffin that was drafted by Jeremy Lingenfelser. I have no problem with the fact that Mr. Lingenfelser has started such a petition in circulation throughout the student body. In fact, I applaud his willing­ness to voice his opinion, and exercise a right that is clearly guaranteed to all students in the Notre Dame Constitution. 
I do, however, find the actu­al substance of Mr. Lingenfelser's petition to be very problematic. Although I could probably go on for pages about each accusation, I will limit myself to a few that I find most ludicrous. Mr. Lingenfelser condemns Matt "for actions deemed unbecom­ing for a person in his position which include, though not exhaustively, public drunken­ness." Does this mean that all student leaders who go out and enjoy a few beers every now and then are incompe­tent, and should step down from their positions? If so, I have a feeling Student Government would be a rather small, if not nonexis­tent, group. 
Mr. Lingenfelser goes on to denounce Matt "for willful injury to the good name of the Student Union by his numer­ous exploits and appearances in 'Campus Watch by the Gipper."' Why should Matt be expected to show "remorse" for action that may or may not have actually taken place? Did we expect Seth Miller to 

Lingenfelser 
issue a written apology each week for every allegation directed at him last year? don't think so. 
Mr. Lingenfelser also charges Matt with "incompe­tent and negligent perfor­mance" in many areas includ­ing his "failure to chair effec­tively Campus Life Council" and "his failure to ensure the efficient and effective opera­tion of the Executive Cabinet." As a member of both these bodies, I possess first-hand knowledge that Matt has suc­cessfully facilitated discussion about many pressing campus issues, and has consistently encouraged the input and ini­tiative of all members of these bodies. 
Although I find the charges outlined by Mr. Lingenfelser to be unsound and just plain ridiculous, the aspect of this whole incident that bothers me the most is that Mr. Lingenfelser actually had the audacity to refer to Matt as "lazy" on the front page of the Dec. 2 edition of The Observer. In response to this charge, I challenge Mr. Lingenfelser, or any student for that matter, to follow Matt Griffin around for 24-hours in order to see just how much time, effort, and dedication he gives to his position as student body president of the University of Notre Dame. 
Mary Gillard Student Government Chief-of-Staff December 4, 1997 




Sargent Family Says Thanks 
"Press on toward the goal." 
Phillipians 3:14 
This is a letter to thank everyone on the Notre Dame community for their support of our son, Adam Sargent, as he continues to grow in strength and independence. 
It has been a long, hard struggle, made easier by the outpouring of support from his friends, old and new, known and unknown. 
As Adam works to take back each millimeter his body will give him, we want everyone who has donated time or money, written cards and letters of support or sent gifts, to know how much we appreciate your love and concern. 
At this writing, Adam is preparing to return to Notre Dame in January. He will continue his rehab in South Bend as he works toward his degree. 
Your prayers have supported us in this time of sadness and struggle. We now hold you in prayerful thanks for the love you have given our family. 
In Christ, 
Walt and Bertie Sargent Rochester, N.Y. December 4, 1997 

As many of you know, about six months ago I was involved in a car accident. Since then, there have been several articles writ­ten about my accident. I, however, am not the real story. Accidents and injury are, unfortunately, a fact of life that affects thousands of people daily. Most of those people have friends and family that do their best to help. 
The unique thing about my situation is that I also have the Notre Dame family behind me. The real story is about how my friends and classmates came together to raise money, and more important, my spir­its. 
I want to thank all of you who have worked on the fund raisers, sent cards and letters of support and kept me in your thoughts and prayers. 
I will be back for the spring semester and look forward to seeing you all. 
Again, thank you, 
Adam Sargent Senior December 4, 1997 

The Truth from The Gipper? 
A few thoughts about the petition to remove Matt Griffin as student body president: 
It seems that Lingenfelser is basing his whole argument on what he has read in "The Gipper." "The Gipper" is fun to read and all, but it's just entertainment. What Lingenfelser is doing is like try­ing to remove Bill Clinton from office because of something written about him in The National Enquirer. If Lingenfelser and friends believe everything they read, then they need to try to remove fellow Morrissey resident Matt Szabo from office also because of the reported "chopsticks" incident. They need to give the student body something, ANYTHING concrete, instead ofjust making generalizations and talking about "the will of the students." The truth is that no one has given us any real proof, and most students don't really care who is presi­dent anyway. I seriously doubt that Lingenfelser has the number of signatures needed, and if he does, there is still no way that he will get the votes to actually remove Griffin in a recall election. 

I've never met Griffin, and I don't have any delusions of saintliness for him, but I doubt that the students circulating the petition are exactly angels either. Griffin is a senior; let the guy do his job and enjoy his last year here instead of having to defend himself from con­stant personal attacks. 
Kyle Owens Freshman, Siegfried Hall December 4, 1997 


:ACCENT 

Friday, December 5, 1997 



,. 
;
. 



·I:&·· • •
• • • e• 
Getting into the Christmas spirit with Bill Shakespeare 
By NORA MEANY Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
T
he "Year of Shakespeare" continues to thrive on the cam-. pus of Notre Dame with the Bard's next feature, Twelfth Night, running this weekend. The play, student produced and directed, is the work of Notre Dame's own Not-So­Royal-Shakespeare Company. Currently being revived after a few years of hibernation, the company is gaining support beyond the dues-paying members that helped finance the produc­tion. 
this is not foreign to th~ tone that Kudlacz hopes to create through his directing. Historically speaking, this choice of a prop is in keep­ing with the original theory behind the title of the play. 
"It is believed," Kudlacz noted, "that the play was first performed on the 'Twelfth Night,' one of the feasts of the Christmas season." This is one of the ways the the Christmas tone is alluded to in this production. 
Another unique property of this presentation of Twelfth Night is the live music utilized throughout the show. Two violinists and a cellist provide on-stage accompaniment to David Go's recorder, as well as for Dan Sullivan's many solos as Feste the Clown. From the soft pre-show instrumentals to the warbled, drunken bar songs sung by Dan Smith as Fabian, Justyn Harkin as Sir Toby Belch, and Sean Dwyer as Sir Andrew Aguecheek, music is an integral part of the play. · 
The tightknit cast and crew are a mix of theater majors and novices alike. Many veteran actors in the cast began work on Twelfth Night fresh off the success of Hosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. The joining together of a cast with different levels of stage experience is refreshing to Edwards, who says "working with new people provides fresh insights," and keeps the stage work interesting. 
Admittedly, it is hard to convey feelings to the audience using 
Chris Kudlacz, a graduate stu­dent at the University, chose Twelfth Night for his collegiate directing debut because of the comfortable and down-to-earth nature of the play. "We're trying to make this play as approach­able as we can for those who aren't that familiar with Shakespeare," he said. "We attempted to stay as true to the stage as possible while giving the play a little flavor of the modern Notre Dame community as well." 
One way that the production attains its approachability is with the unique venue chosen. While many Notre Dame theater pro­ductions find a home in Washington Hall, the Not-So­Royal-Shakespeare-Company breaks the locational trend in favor of the smaller and more intimate setting of the auditori­um of the Hesburgh Peace Building. However, this is due to both scheduling and the shoe­string budget of the play, as well as for reasons of artistic integri­ty. 
In fact, Twelfth Night is being financed almost entirely from money given to the group by Student Activities and dues from the company. Advertising costs are being shouldered in part by the English department, as well. This makes for a creative and refreshingly simple production of the classic, with the modern apparel choices being motivated by monetary restraints. 
"Costumes were found by pulling stuff from people's clos­ets," said Louise Edwards, who plays Olivia. "It was a more laid­back production, with students helping each other out." 
The stage is laid simply as well, with the neutral setting being utilized by the entire cast. In fact, the only complex adornment The Observer/Kevin Dalum placed on the stage is a fully-dec­
Jason Dorwart calls forth and the Not-So-Royal-Shakespeare society orated Christmas tree. However, answers as it arises from it's several year hiatus. 
such an old text, with obstacles like iambic pentameter getting in the way of speech. However, Elaine Bonifield, who plays Maria, sees the opportunity to act in such a play as a "nice challenge" that the cast is ready toface. 
"I really enjoy Shakespeare," Bonifield said. "There is a lot of good humor in Twelfth Night, but the audience won't understand it unless you play it up." 
• Paul Maloney, who plays Sebastian, saw being cast as an "honor," and even looked forward to rehearsals, citing them as "the best part of being in the play." A senior biology major from Dillon, Maloney saw his acting hobby as merely an opportunity to make him a better person on a whole. "Being a well-rounded individual is impor­tant to me. Acting is a good way to do it." 
For those who are not familiar with the plot, Twelfth Night is a misbegotten farce that traces the antics surrounding a love triangle set in Illyria. Packed with wacky subplots and interesting characters, the play has as many twists and turns as a soap opera. For exam­ple, the cross-dressing heroine, Viola, pining for her lost twin brother, Sebastian, harbors shades of an episode of Beverly Hills, 90210 gone awry. Also, in a nod to modern day comedic formula, one can compare the mischievous cases of mistaken identity to an episode of Three's Company. 
However, one cannot forget that Twelfth Night was Shakespeare's last comedic work before he delved into the tragedies. Although the play is intended to be a farce, Shakespeare opted for dolor and melancholy when he created some of the play's more memorable sec­ondary characters, such as Sir Toby . Belch and Sir Andrew Aguecheek. Although both charac­ters are seen throughout the play creating intoxicated mischief, there is an undertone of happiness fleet­ing with the onslaught of age. 

This move towards the tragic is noted by Kudlacz, who parallels the melancholy evident in the play to the happiness many students experience partying in college, only to find it vanishing with maturi­ty. "The play is definitely appropriate to college," Kudlacz noted, "but we're definitely trying to move on, to minimize the melan­choly." 
Doors open for Twelfth Night tonight and tomorrow at 6:30 p.m., with a 1:20 p.m. matinee Saturday afternoon. Ticket are $3 for stu­dents and $5 general admission, and are sold at the ticket desk at LaFortune. 
0 
nly three more day. head home for the down during one (] The answer is musi participate in the seasonal good offering up their voices in order, 
The Notre Dame Glee Club is A 13, the Glee Club guys will stor 
p.m. Tickets cost $2 and can 
(219) 631-8128. Daniel Stowe will benefit the South Bend the Homeless. 
For more information on the music department events, send e-mail to music@nd.edu or visit the music depart­ment web site at www.nd.edu/music or contact Lisa Ebenhardt at (219) 631-6201. 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
not. Christmas at Notre Dame l 
The University of Notre Dami from the Christmas portion of (I Dec. 11 and Friday, Dec. 12 at I formance, $6 for general admi~ able at the door or can be rese1 8128. 
fo 
1) Tickets for a Broad~ 
2) Winter gear (hats, 
3) Chocolate -lots a 
4) Amovie -· (a good Wedding" 
S) Luggage 
6) Clothes (BE CAREFI sense!) 
7) Agoldfish (unless yo1 it with toothpaste and ki 
8) Anything from Victori 
9) 3 yr. subscription to 
10) Jewelry (remember ! friend) 


.---~-----~~----~----~~~----~­

.... 
I) 
., 

All-American candidate Pat Garrity 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
Only two players in Big East history have won conference player of the year honors in consecutive seasons. Chris Mullin of St. John's won the award outright for the 1982­83 season and went on to be the co-Big East player of the year in both the 1983-84 and 1984-85 seasons, sharing the distinction with Patrick Ewing of Georgetown. 
Entering the 1997-98 season, Notre Dame senior Pat Garrity is not only an odds-on favorite to join these two distinguished ath­letes as the only players to take home the tro­phy in consecutive seasons, but also to become the only player in conference history to be the sole winner of the award in back -to­hack years. 
continued on back 
NO Preview p. 4 
Senior co-captain Derek Manner and the Irish aim to build on last year's success. 
Team Previews pp. 2-3 
The Connecticut Huskies and the Syracuse Orangemen are predicted to win their respective divisions in adown year for the Big East. 




,ast 6
. ·--:-... 

Boston College Eagles 
Head Coach: Al Skinner 
1996-97 record: 22-9 Top returning players: 
Mickey Curly 6-9, Cen., Sr. 
(8.3 ppg., 4.9 reb.) Antonio Granger 6-6, For., Sr. (10.1 ppg., 4.1 reb.) Duane Woodward 6-3, Guard, Sr. 
(10.7 ppg., 3.3 reb.) 
Outlook: It looks like a rebuilding year for Skinner, who will miss Donya Abrams and James Penn (who transferred to Ohio State). Only team picked behintl ND. 
Head coach: Steve Lappas .( 
1996-97 record: 24-10 Top returning players , John Celestand 6-3, 
(8.3 ppg., 2.6 reb.) Howard Brown 6-5, 
(5.8 ppg., 2.9 reb.) Brian Lynch 6-6, 
(3.8 ppg., 1.6 reb.) 
Outlook: Four starters are gone so the Wildcats could suffer growing pains. The return of redshirt senior forward Zefty Penn will help matters for Lappas. 
1, Cen., Sr. 
Outlook: Is this the year that the tandem of Lopez and Hamilton lives up to its 
;;, potential? Freshman Ron Artest makes the team even richer with talent that could make the Storm a force again. 
1997-98 Coaches• Preseason Poll Big East 6 
Connecticut (9)  .69  
.!  
St~;,JohrR'~& (4l..•. -· ~;  63  
West Vi~'ginla  46  
Villanova  40  
Notre Dame  32  
Boston College  18  

.,..,, 
-~~ 
Connecticut Huskies 


Coach: Jim Calhoun 1996-97 record: 18-15 
returning players: Richard Hamilton 6-6, Guard/For., So. ( 15.9 ppg., 4.3 reb.) Rashamel Jones 6-5, Guard/For., Jr. 
(d.o ppg.• 4.6 reb.) Rick~ Moore 6-2, Guard, Jr. 
(9.0 PP~?· 3.2 reb.) 
·.v 
' 

: TheJop team in the conference ranked I3t~ in the nation. Diaper Khalid El..:.Amin joins an already id backcourt with Ricky Moore (pictured). 
West Virginia Mountaineers 

Head coach: Gale Catlett 
1996-97 record: 21-10 Top returning players: 
Adrian Pledger 6-1, Guard, Sr> 
( 14.2 ppg., 4.3 reb.) 

Damian Owens 6-5, For., Sr. 
(13.6 ppg., 7.6 reb) Brent Solheim 6-8, For., Sr. (7 .4 ppg., 4.0 reb.) 


Outlook: The Mountaineers 
wil~· <f balanced attack, but they had problems at the other end of the court. Last season, West Virginia surrendered 7 4 points a game, the highest total in the league. 
Big 
---~ --~--­

,..........---~­

Georg · n Hqy:as 
-..·::~~d~{::::~~k·. 
,;. 
Head coad\: John ThompSO!l 1996-97 re'l!trd: 20-10 Top returning"'p\ayers~ ­
Ed Sheffey 6-1, Ci'uara: s·o. 
(8.7 ppg._, 2.5 re~· Boubacar Aw 6+8, For., Sr. (7.4 ppg., 5.0 re~J Jahidi White 6-9,J~Cen., Sr. (7.3 ppg., 6.4 reb.) 
"'•v 
Outlook: Thompson is in dfrl!need of a scorer after the premature departuN;of Victor Page. Freshman Anthony could have an immediate impact and provide that spark on offense. 
Pittsburgh Panthers 


Head coach: Ralph Willard 
1996-97 record: 18-15 Top returning players: 
Vonteego Cummings 6-4, Guard, Jr. 
(16.3 ppg., 4.2 reb.) 
Kellii Taylor 6-0, Guard, So. 
(9.6 ppg., 4.1 reb.) Jarrett Lockhart 6-2, Guard, So. (2. 7 ppg., 1.2 reb.) 
Outlook: Cummings is one of the top players in the conference and will be the leader for the Panthers. The key to their success will be the development of sophomore forward Isaac Hawkins. 

Seton Hall Pirates 
Head coach: Tommy Amaker 
1996-97 record: 10-18 Top returning players: 
Shaheen Holloway (pictured) 5-10, Guard, So. 
(17.3 ppg., 3.8 reb.) Lavell Sanders 6-2, Guard, Sr. ( 15.8 ppg., 5.1 reb.) Donnell Williams 6-7 For. Sr. (11.0 ppg., 5.0 reb.) 
Outlook: The Hall is under a new coach, Amaker, who was an apprentice at Duke, so he knows a lot about winning. Holloway is a bailer. 
Top returning Jamel Thomas 6-6, ( 14.0 ppg., 5.1 reb. Corey Wright 
(3.3 ppg., 1.9 re Ndongo N'dyaye 
(0.7 ppg., 1.0 re 
Outlook: Provide · without God this that is). There 
1 7--~ Coaches• Preseaseh Poll Big East 7 
Qallll....•~t.ti--'l:~r·~~ 
M'"_··::..;'lft_... ;i(1)
/. Ill. ;-~~c>-< 
·-: 
Pittsburgh 
Providence 
Rutgers 

Seton H 
Miami 

·. ·.. ~ 
Hurricanes 

: ·'.
"'-· ,....,.. 


Head coach· Leonard Hamilton 
1996-97 Top retllli1lin  .  16-13  
will be the leader, but he and Blond. Miami also lue-chippers 6-foot-9 for­ley and Mike Byars­ 

, So. 
starters are back. 


Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER younger players for scoring this Ellis to move into eighth place. season, he knows that last year's Ellis scored 1,505 points in his 


Garrity 
graduating ·class was important time at Notre Dame. It should to Garrity's success. not be long before Garrity sur­
continued from page 1 
"We do have Pat Garrity passes Bob Whitmore at 1,580 back," explained MacLeod, "but points, and if he can justThe significance of Garrity's you can't underestimate what match his total of 1996-97.
achievement in the 1996-97 last year's seniors meant to the Garrity will close out hiscampaign is not lost on Notre team. They gave us a great work career as the third-highestDame head coach John ethic and they all had great scorer in Irish history. 
MacLeod. 
heart." The native of Monument,"This exactly the kind of MacLeod is encouraged, Colo., also entered the seasonrecognition the program need­though, by what he has seen at lOth in points per game anded," said MacLeod. "These types from Garrity since the summer. free throws made, seventh inof awards are what get into the "Every year he has been three-point percentage andminds of people and let them here," recalled the seventh-year sixth in three-pointers made. 
know that Notre Dame basket­coach, "Pat has improved. He Clearly, Garrity has indeedball is a powerful member of the looks quicker this year. He is a meant a great deal to theBig East conference." 
little lighter, and I think his play Notre Dame basketball pro­The conference is not the only over the sununer helped him gram. He has not only giveninstitution that has big expecta­gain some quickness." the team national recognition IJIII!r.W.;;-ft!
tions for the 6-foot-9 Irish power MacLeod was referring to through his accomplishments,forward. Garrity is listed among Garrity's play with the United but he has lifted a programthe 10 preseason candidates for States National Team in the that has otherwise been in athe Naismith college player of World Under-22 Championships period of mediocrity. He ledthe year award and finds himself this sununer. The team traveled the Irish within seconds of fiiMWIIIil.
in even more exclusive company to Melbourne, Australia, for the Madison Square Garden and 
as one of Street and Smith's five 111
tournament and finished fifth the NIT semifinals, and _...,.._
national player-of-the-year can­overall. Garrity led the team in renewed belief among specta­

-
didates. Both Street and Smith's scoring with 11.8 points per tors and blue chip high school and Inside Sports magazines game. players nationwide that Notrerated the Notre Dame captain as If Garrity can use that experi­Dame basketball is on its waya first-team preseason all­ence and extra work to his up.
American. 
advantage, not only will the Irish It remains to be seenGarrity leads the Irish into the be able to build on the success of whether or not the Irish cap­1997-98 Big East slate having last season, but Garrity will rise tain can rally this year'saveraged over 18 points and 7.6 
toward the top of the Notre youthful bunch and lead therebounds in conference play. He Dame record books. team back to post-season suc­will look to improve those num­He entered the season in lOth cess. But if the things that Patbers this year due to the loss of place on the all-time list for Garrity has done in the lastproductive seniors Matt Gotsch, points scored by an Irish player three years are any indication, Admore White, and Pete Miller. 
with 1,458 and has since passed it would be unwise to countAlthough MacLeod will look to Elmer Bennett and LaPhonso Notre Dame out. 

Last year, the Notre Dame tips off this Saturday at  from the field and 40 percent  knows his minutes will  
basketball team made its pres­Pittsburgh.  from three-point land.  increase, and MacLeod is also  
ence felt and instilled spirit "This season, we would like  His senior season earned him  hoping that his point produc­ 
back to the Joyce Center. to capitalize on what we did last  the prestigious Markward  tion increases accordingly. The  
Head coach John MacLeod year, and that was rekindle the  Award given to the top high  play of Wyche early on has been  
earned Big East coach of the Notre Dame basketball spirit.  school player in Philadelphia.  encouraging. Before the  
year honors leading the Irish "We had the students back in  The most impressive aspect of  Indiana game, Wyche was aver­ 
into post-season play for the the Joy<;e Center, and this year  the play of Ingelsby so far has  aging 9.5 points a game on 54  
first time since the 1991-92 there is an enthusiasm for bas­ been the manner in which he  percent shooting from the field.  
year when he had the likes of ketball on this campus that has  handles himself on the floor for  "I am trying to build on a  
LaPhonso Ellis and Elmer not been around for awhile,"  being 19 years old.  strong finish last year and help  
Bennet, and Pat Garrity has MacLeod continued. "Our hope  "He really has remarkable  to take the pressure of Pat,"  
established himself as one of is that our team will be able to  poise for a freshman," MacLeod  Wyche said after the season  
the best players in the land. sustain that spirit for the sea­ praised. "It really is a difficult  opener win over The Citadel  
"The NIT was a great experi­son. We feel like it is time for us  position to play with all the  when he had 14 points.  
ence for our players," MacLeod to make our move."  responsibilities that go along  Friel will be looked upon to  
said. "It taught our players what playing college basketball Point Guards  with it, but he has handled it very well."  provide a spark off the bench as he is known as a pure shooter  
in March is all about, and it  Backing up Ingelsby is sopho­ hitting on half of his three-point  
gave our fans a chance to show With the graduation of  more Jimmy Dillon, who aver­ attempts this year.  
great enthusiasm for the team." Admore White, MacLeod is  aged nine minutes a game last  "The key for us is to get con­ 
Now, MacLeod hopes that the lacking an experienced floor  year backing up White.  sistent production in the back­ 
momentum from last year's NIT general, but freshman Martin  "Jimmy gained some weight  court, and I think we are going  
run can carry over into the Ingelsby has showed in the  in the off-season and is quick­ to," MacLeod predicted.  
1997-98 Big East season, which early going that he is capable of  er," MacLeod said.  "Antoni and Keith both appear  
running the  Last season Dillon ranked  to be vastly improved this sea­ 
offense  third on the team with assists  son."  
game in and  and is looking to see more  
game out,  extensive playing time this sea­ Small Forwards  
averaging  son.  
6.3 points,  "Both Martin and Jimmy are  This slot will again be filled  
6.25 assists  going to play a lot this year and  with the tenacious Derek  
to just 2.25  we could play both of them  Manner. The senior co-captain  
turnovers,  together at the same time,".  who averaged seven points and  
and 3.3  MacLeod explained. "I am not  five rebounds a game last year  
rebounds in  as concerned about the point  is known for his all-out hustle.  
the team's  guard situation. Martin is going  "Derek Manner knows only  
first four  to be a fine player and so is  one speed -and that's full,"  
games.  Jimmy. They're both young, but  MacLeod said. "Every time he is  
"Martin  I think both will adjust very,  on the floor he gives 100 per­ 
has played a  very, quickly."  cent, and that has been his  
lot of bas­ trademark since he arrived at  
ketball and  Shooting Guards  Notre Dame."  
has savvy,"  Manner started all 30 games  
MacLeod  Much of the Irish success this  for the Irish last season and can  
said. "He  season will depend on whether  be a terror on the offensive  
doesn't lose  MacLeod can find a consistent  glass but is currently hindered  
his cool, and  outside threat to complement  by shin splints and did not start  
he's not a  the strong play in the post.  the Northeastern contest.  
mistake  Much of that pressure has been  Freshman Leviticus  
maker."  thrust upon junior Antoni  Williamson started in place of  
T h e  Wyche and sophomore Keith  Manner and chipped in 10  
Philadelphia  Friel.  points in the victory.  
native aver­ "It will be important for  Williamson, known for his ath­ 
aged 19.4  Antoni to play a big role this  leticism, was an all-state selec­ 
points, six  season," MacLeod said. "Antoni  tion in Texas as he averaged  
assists and  has played well over the past  23.7 points and 12 rebounds a  
..  three steals per game in  two years and now it is time for him to step up."  game . Williamson has shown explo­ 
his senior  In 15 minutes a game last  siveness in high school as he  
The Observer/John Daily season as  year, Wyche averaged 5.5  scored 40 points on two occa­ 
After serving as a role player the last two seasons, he shot 50 Antoni Wyche needs to develop into a scoring threat. p e r c e n t  points a game. With the depar­ture of Pete Miller, Wyche  sions and 30 points seven times in his final year.  

page 4 
Power Forwards 
There is only one thing to say about this position and that is Pat Garrity. 
Centers 
Junior Phil Hickey appears to be poised to take over the cen­ter duties for the departed Matt Gotsch and Marcus Young. Hickey averaged 3.6 points in 
12.8 minutes a game last year, but by the end of his sophomore campaign he made some signif­icant contributions. 
In the second round NIT win over TCU, Hickey had 13 points, and he had 12 in an overtime win over Connecticut. 
"Phil knows what he has to do this season, MacLeod explained. "He has had some big games over the past two seasons, but now he knows the role he has to fill." 
That role involves taking pressure off Garrity in the post and developing into another consistent scoring threat for the Irish. Hickey has been solid, averaging 12.5 points and eight rebounds a game through four games. 
"Phil knows that he is going to start this year and that he is going to be relied on," MacLeod said. "With that knowledge, he should have great confidence." 

The center spot can be described as thin behind Hickey as he is the only true center on the squad. Times could become difficult if Hickey finds early foul trouble as it forces fresh­man Hans Rasmussen to take over the center slot. 
Rasmussen is 6-foot-9 but only weighs in at 218 compared to Hickey's 252. A forward who has solid skills, he can drain the jumper from the 12-15 foot range and is a solid rebounder. The Portland, Ore.. native was named honorable mention all­American by Street and Smith's before his senior season in which he averaged 15 points and nine rebounds a game. 
-Joe Cavato 

...

ACCENT
Friday, December 5, 1997 
..•,f.l·. ~•.
.e=a~s~ 

of classes left before one week of finals, and then we all holidays. So how does a campus that closes completely the most festive times of the year celebrate Christmas? Caroling is one of the most active ways that someone can cheer, but what about those who feel less than comfortable to "Deck the halls?" Well, there is an answer for them too. ng on its annual Christmas concert. On Saturday, Dec. the Stepan Center with performances at both 6:30 and 8 reserved by calling the LaFortune Information Desk at I direct the 60 member all male chorus and all proceeds 
r for 
q 
cl_assic~l 
muSIC lS 

more your bing, fear d Saint Mary's College will offer something for everyone. 's Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform excerpts Frederic Handel's oratori, "Messiah," this Thursday, 
p.m. in Washington Hall on campus. Tickets for the per­
and $3 for students and senior citizens, will be avail­by calling the Lafortune Information Desk at {219) 631­


; 




·e;a··

•e• • • • • 


rplay and a night out in Chicago ~es, scarves, coats, chapstick) i lots of it. ~ick flick like "My Best Friend's 
L-try not to insult her fashion 
think she'll drop it and then wash 
I it) 's Secret 
e magazine of her choice uys, diamonds are a girl's best 

for him 
1) Clothes (sweaters and corduroys would do just fine) 
2) Socks and underwear (true, it's a slightly embarrassing gift but you really can't go wrong with it) 
3) Toy guns that make a lot of noise. , 
4) Athletic gear (footballs, basketballs, etc ... ) 
S) Money (it's something that's very cheesy and unoriginal but you'll get no complaints) 
6) Beer ("Oh, Marge! How did you know?") 
7) Electronic gadgets and gizmos (anything that takes a lot of batteries and more than two hours to figure out 
8) Victoria's Secret catalogue 
9) Gift certificate to the mall (again a cheesy and uno­riginal gift, but he will like it) 
10) Gaming parafanalia (Piaystation, N64, Sega and the like) 
' 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 5, 1997 
,... Jock Strip 
continued from page 20 
for the Heisman is not a.simple one. 
Manning is a good quarterback and has had a great career at Tennessee, but he was not the best player this year for a num­ber of reasons. 
First, the game that he came back for his senior year to play, against then-top-ranked Florida, was a flop, as he lost to the Gators for the third time in as many years. He played horribly against Vanderbilt last week and has been erratic all season: 
His team is stockpiled with tal­ent, especially at the skill posi­tions, but Manning has failed to utilize this talent appropriately. 

Finally, the fact that Manning is a Golden Boy of sorts does not compensate for the fact that he has failed to win the big games; the Heisman isn't about how good a person he was, how good he was throughout his college career or even how good he will be in the NFL, but rather about how he performed on the field this year. 
If it comes down to perfor­mance, there is no better exam­ple than Michigan's Charles Woodson. 
Woodson has literally and figu­ratively done everything for Michigan this year, leading the Wolverines to an 11-0 ranking, the Rose Bowl and, most impor­tantly, the top national ranking. 
He's as cocky as he wants to be because he has propelled the Wolverines to number one. 
Woodson has shown that he can significantly influence the outcome of a game, but the fact that he is only one cog in the defensive machine that is Michigan is detrimental to his Heisman candidacy. 
So who's left? Ryan Leaf. The most trash-talking quarterback in college football, Leaf also has all the tools to back it up. Tall and strong, he can throw the ball like Roberto Clemente from right field, and has perhaps the best presence of mind of any quarter­back in the pocket. 
He will most likely be the top pick in the NFL draft and has had an impressive career at a school that is not exactly renowned for college football ­Washington State. 
As with Manning, what he did in the past and will do in the NFL is irrelevant. The most important thing is what he has done this year -the Rose Bowl. 
Almost single-handedly, Leaf led a team of self-proclaimed misfits to the Pac-10 crown, punctuated with a 41-35 defeat of bitter rival Washington in the Apple Cup, and made a name for his team and his school. 
Leaf played every game with heart and improved with every game as the season went on, amassing over 400 yards passing in more games than any Pac-10 quarterback in memory. 
Ultimately, with Manning, Woodson, and Leaf it comes down to one questions: How indispensable is the player? 
If you take Manning off of Tennessee or Woodson off of Michigan, they still rank in the Top 10. However, if you take Leaf off of Washington State, they would be nowhere near th(· national rankings. 
Leaf transformed a team, unit­ing a bunch of walk-ons. Proposition 48 players and rene­gades into a team that will give Michigan a run for its money in Pasadena. 


Get your KICKS this weekend 
and show your support! 
Join other fans 
at the Huddle 
in LaFortune 
to cheer on the Womensl Soccer Team-­all the way to win the NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP! 

FREE CAKE AND FRUIT PUNCH 
will be seNed during the game which starts this 
Friday, Dec. 5, 1997 at 3:30 pm 
and during the 

NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME Sunday, Dec. 7, 1997 at 1 :00 pm 
INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

FLUBBER (PG) DTS 12:00 2:15 4:3) 7:00 9:3) ANASTASIA (G) DTS 12:15 2:30 4:40 6:50 9:00 RAINMAKER (PG-13) 1:00 4:00 7:30 10:00 JACKAL (R) 1:15 4:10 7:20 9:50 
IIIDGITN1l£GAREII(R3) 
1:30 4:50 8:00 STARSHIP TROOPERS (R) 1:45 4:20 7:30 10:10 HOME ALONE 3 (PG) 4:40 
Sneak ore\1/ewsta>• ror ·o:40' Am1sta'"a Jl 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] WINGS OF THE DOVE (R) [2:15] 4:45 7:15 9:50 

EVE'S BAYOU (R) [2:30] 5:00 7:30 1 0:00 4 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza ALIEN RESURECTION (R) 277-7946 [1:45] 4:15 7:00 9:40 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



Classifieds 
Room available for next semester  MAC Performa 6214: CO-Rom,  Thank you St. Jude, my prayers  SWM seeks anyone with a pulse for  
L___N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  __JIIL-_w;_:A_N_T_E_o_  __.  4 NO students as roomates. 1 mile from campus. Call273-291 0. Ask for Noelle  Ethernet, & printer. $750 obo. X3735  have been answered. MM Are you afraid of flying? Would you  fun-filled dance Saturday night Call Andy at 4-2052.  
SUN, SURF. SAND, SUDS, and  LAPTOP PC, PENTIUM, CDROM,  prefer to drive home for Christmas?  Hi Tim!  
S... Spring Break with Bianchi­ HELP!!  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ETHERNET. $1150. X2207  Do you need a ride anywhere east  
Rossi Tours in Acapulco! Packages  3 female roomates have ticks to  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  of here on 1-90? If you think I ask a  Heather Cole is my hero.  
from $425.90. Party packages  Friday's PHISH show in Cleveland,  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY  elec guitar w/case, $65. boss meB  lot ol questions now, give me a try  
includes: FREE cover, VIP service,  but no ride! If you have extra room,  CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRV  gtr fx $200. x2207  at the end of finals week. I'm head­ Jeff, you're a tool!  
& more. Call for info 800-875-4525.  let us know, PLEASE! X4097  OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  ing home on 1-90 to Massachusetts  It's called a P-H-0-N-E.  
www.bianchi-rossi.com  89 Honda Civic Dx,V.Ciean,New  and would love some good conver­ -Laura;)  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  FOR RENT  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES. 272-6551  Tires, 109k, $3400/BO 2773254.  sation for the trip. Or actually you can sleep. Whatever. Call Bryan at  Tom, Mike, and Wes- 
from NO campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633.  WALK TO CAMPUS  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL. 272-6551  PERSONAL  271-8624.  Doh! That's what they all say. They all say 'Doh!'  
2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Spring Break '98  $195/PERSON  House to Rent: 3 bedroom, beauti­ 000 Looking for a unique gift?  To the Lyons girls:  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  232-2595  ful wood floors, new kitchen on his­ Bring in your favorite pictures  LaFortune Student Center  Tickle me Elmo.  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  toric Riverside Dr. 5 min. drive to  and we'll create a personalized  .J High-Speed Copies  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  NO. Perfect for Grad. students or  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  .J Canon Color Laser Copies  No corn for me this weekend,  
& Go Free!  219 291 7153  visiting faculty. $750 a month, utiL  THE COPY SHOP  .J Digital Color Printing  I guess. Oh welL  
1-800-234-7007  included. available Jan-June negot  LaFortune Student Center  .J Binding & Laminating  
www.endlesssummertours.com  VACATION OVER THE CHRIST­ Call John at 631-4114.  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  "Face it, Kate-I have no way to  
ILOST & FOUND I  MAS HOLIDAYS ON THE BEACH OF SIESTA KEY, FLORIDA IN A BEAUTIFUL, DELUXE CONDO­ 1 ,2,&3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW. GILLIS  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  Phone 631-COPY Worried about vandalism to your  tell if you're sleeping a lot or dead." What the hell is Accent doing here  
MINIUM ON THE GULF OF MEXI­ PROPERTIES 272-6551  Students w/NO-SMC 10 ­1/2 price  car over Christmas Break?  past midnight?  
Can you help?  CO. UNIT HAS A FULLY  field fee. 291-2540.  Craft Tool & Mold, located in Airport  
LOST ·cAMERA• Kodak Cameo. probably around  EQUIPPED KITCHEN, SLEEPS 3. THERE IS A HEATED POOL WITH  FOR SALE  Would you like a tossed salad today?  Industrial Park, has room to store 20-25 vehicles over the holiday  That's all right, Sports has no sizes.  
fall break -> maybe at West  HOT TUB. 12-19-97 TO 1-2-98.  recess-for a donation.  Let's go to Chicago and see the  
Quad Field during IH football?!?  SEA CLUB V ROOM 114  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  Hey  ALL donations will then be given to  pretty lights.  
•PLEASE• call Nicole @ 0565 w/  VALUE $1630, RENT FOR $800.  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  Sweet  the Hope Rescue Mission.  
any clues.  CALL LARRY GRUMMELL  Rool, Siding & Carpet  Daisy!  Call233-7157.  Happy birthday to you,  
219-291-2988.  Central Air & Full Basement  Happy birthday to you.  
$44,900 1-800-382-2952  sorry about the jon of course! my  There's only one person to see when  Happy birthday dear Mark  
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­ artistic Integrity went right out the  the pool table eats your quarters ..  Happy birthday to you!  
CLASS RING FOUND ON NORTH  TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Brand New Computers -200MHz,  window with that graphic.  Who's gonna win the superbowl!  
QUAD!  277-3097  32 MB RAM, 33.6k modem, 1.6 GB  oops!  Chicago ... El Paso ... Grand  
hard drive, 20X CO-ROM, Sound  Canyon ... Chicago ... the ultimate  Incompetence just ticks me off.  
CALL 634-1101 TO CLAIM  Furn Rm $325/mo inc! utilities,  Card, 60W speakers, 14" monitor.  NO Inquisition  road trip  
washer/dryer. Privacy! Karen 284­ $1250 +shipping. Call Julie at  http:l/rosenberg-3a.studentnd.edu  News had fun tonight..  
6257 (day) 273-4517 (eve)  (970)221-0494.  We made Griffin do it  too bad I'm flying  Boy are we jealous!  

Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
McGill leads by example, on and off the court 
Belles' senior drives teams with her spirit 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Wrirer 
Last year at this time, Julie McGill was searching frantically for a basketball court. 
What she discovered was that Home has a lot of soccer fields, not too many places to shoot hoops. 
Desperate to play the sport she loves. McGill wound up in a weekly pickup game with a crew of Italian police officers. 
"I was just trying to play whenever or wherever I could," said McGill who missed her first eight games of the season due to her abroad study. 
This year, she's back playing on American courts at Saint Mary's and has recently been named MIAA Player of the Week. 
After a Kalamazoo Tournament where McGill scored 50 points, grabbed 27 rebounds, and contributed five steals and four blocks, she should not have been shocked at the title. However, her mod­est attitude occasionally gets the best of her. 



Glassof'98 
Trip to 


JAl\TUABY 84TH TIX 01\T SALE I'RIDAYAM 
LAFU1\T 11\TFO DESK 
$4S 

"It all seems so foreign to me," McGill said. "It's the first time Saint Mary's has had a player of the week. I was really surprised." 
Belles' coach David Roeder couldn't have been happier about McGill's reward. 
"It's great," he said. "It couldn't go to a better person." Or one who has worked hard­er. 
This year, McGill has been switched to the post position which she only played infre­quently in high school. 
"I have to work for my bas­kets," said the 5-foot-9 senior. "A lot of my points have to come off of hustling, rebounds, and second shots. It's a total defensive way of scoring. It's a big challenge. On [the Belles'] team, I'm the tallest, but I'm just average for other [teams]." 
But according to her coach, there's nothing average about her playing style. 
"She's intense," Roeder said. "She moves to the basket and is hard to stop. She's playing lower than she's accustomed to but has adjusted. She's our go­to person." 
For McGill, the sport seemed to come naturally ... or maybe accidentally. 
As a self-proclaimed tomboy, she began playing with the bas­ketball hoop in her driveway, the birthday present her father never used. 
Finding a way to get out of the summer t-ball leagues she detested was a bonus McGill found in basketball. Another plus was shaming her next­door neighbor, Nicky Crab, by showing him up in the sport. 
"I like competing against boys -and beating them," she added. 
But what made her fall in love with basketball remains a mystery. 
"I don't know what it was about it," the biology major said. "But I know if I wasn't playing basketball, I wouldn't be me." 
Although McGill's career at Saint Mary's is coming to a close, she's still focused on the future. 
"There's so few freshmen; we rely on them a lot," McGill said. "My motto is 'lead by exam-. ple.'" 
"She's really caring," Roeder said. "She's concerned about how the freshmen feel and are developing. She cares about how we play." 
As a self-motivated player, McGill also cares how her indi­vidual play will contribute to the team. 
"I want to break my own records of 27 points in a game and 16 rebounds in a game which is close to the school record," the potential record­breaker stated. "I really go into every game saying I want to shut down my opponent. It's all out of will." 
Despite her current success, McGill is concerned about the day she won't have an oppo­nent to eliminate. 
"I don't want to walk away with regrets," McGill said. "I don't have many basketball games left. I'm giving it 110 percent. I'm throwing myself around everywhere." 
So her coach is hopil)g will occur this weekend in the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic where the Belles will face Bethel, !USB, and Huntington begin­ning Friday at 8 p.m. 
"We play Bethel first," McGill reported. "They're a cross-town rival and can be intimidating. It'll be a real physical game." 
Exactly how she likes it. Just ask Nicky Crab. 

•NBA 
Sprewell receives 1-year:;suspension 
Associated Press , 
The NBA met force with· force handed Latrell Sprewell one ofth penalties ever in professional sports. 
Commissioner David Stern suspended the Golden StateWarriors' All~Star guard one year -the longest suspension in league wato:rY -for the "premeditated assault" of ~Oath P.J. Carlesimo. 
Fridays at 5:30 with Nate Rackiewicz and Matthew Loughran on 88.9 FM 

ws that of the Warriors, who ntl\d step of firing Sprewell yterminating the remaining three years o s ur-year, $32 million contract. 
Sprewell won't be eligible to play in the NBA again until Dec. 3, 1998 -even if another team claims him off waivers by Monday morning or signs him to a free-agent contract. 
"A sports league does not have to condone or accept behaviot;Jhat would not be tolerated in any other segmeiltofsociety," Stern said. 

HE RAINMAKER (PG·13) in DTS 1:oo.4:os,7:15,10:15 IKNOW WHAT YOU 010 (R) 12:ss. 3:05, 5:2o. 7:35,9:50 
HE MAN WHO KNEW TOO LITTLE (PG) 1:05, 3:2o, 5:35,7:50,10:25 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 

This Week: The Griffin vs. Lingenfelser Issue 
A drive time news show for you produced by 
\§J~~oiFJill ~ Tifu@ @lb~@[(\y@[f 

_,,~. BUY DIAMONDS·-.-... -· BELOW WHOLESALE! · 
9?u!t. fYJeck ~ r&~ 
Since 1921 CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmort Editor's Choice Award 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use:'! b:Joks l:x:u;;ht arrl sold 

• 
25 cata;Jories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback l:ooks in stock 

• 
CUt-of-Print Sffirch Service: $2.00 


• Aj;:praisals large arrl 31Bll 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
--~­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
... 
• MEN's BASKETBALl 



Preparing for Pitt 
run on the road -not a very friendly place since the Irish entered the Big East two years ago. 
"We haven't had much suc­cess -I think two wins on the road in two years in the Big East," Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod said. "We've been close a lot of times, but those don't count. We know that." 
MacLeod is looking to change all that beginning Saturday, and with an arsenal of veterans like Pat Garrity and Derek Manner, rookies like Martin Inglesby and Leviticus Williamson, and up­and-comings like Phil Hickey, Antoni Wyche, and Keith Friel, the future for the Irish in the Big East conference is opti­mistic. 
Still, a feisty Pittsburgh team will be looking to improve upon its 10:8 league record from last year and is targeting the Irish as its first victim. The Panthers are led by 6-foot-4 junior guard Vonteego Cummings, who aver­aged in the top 10 in the confer­ence last year in points per game with 16.3 (ninth), assists with 4.2 (eighth), and steals with 2.6 (fourth). Cummings also led the league in three­point percentage at .444. 
"Pittsburgh has a small, quicker type team, and they have Vonteego Cummings in the back who is certainly heading for what appears to be a huge year," MacLnod commented. 
Joining Cummings is sopho­more guard Kellii Taylor who averaged 9.6 points per game last season and led the confer­ence in steals, averaging 3.2 per game. Coming off the bench behind Cummings and Taylor at guard is sophomore Jarrett Lockhart, who despite limited 




'. 
opportunity to prove otherwise
Irish ready for 
will come when it travels to Pittsburgh on Saturday for itsfirst Big East first conference matchup of the 1997-98 season.conference game The Irish are now 3-2 after a 
loss to Indiana at Bloomington By BETSY BAKER on Wednesday, with their only ~sociare Sports Editor other loss being a 73-48 beat­
ing by Marquette. However, 
The Notre Dame men's bas­the slate is clean as far as the ketball is ranked by the confer­conference is concerned; the ence's coaches to finish fifth in only problem is that the Irish the Big East 6 division. Its first are starting their conference 

Vonteego Cummings is the most experienced player on the Pittsburgh team that will host Notre Dame on Saturday. 
\mw.. -------­
l)llliiH': -------­Dull·/ Tinw ol pi1·k up: ____ 
Plr·IMI' r·omt,ft>fl' amlluwl{ t1r mail this timu ''' Pnkitts. (Jr mrlf'r /~1· ph11111·. 11/wm•rt'l: pnui­IJ!i•. fJit•u.wwrf,.rin arlf'fll/f'l'forll/1' lwlidlll:f, 
/h•.wTifJitfm  <JumJii~l  'NJ!rJI  
llolidu~  Bul..;·~  
Hu~J..1·1  
\l,lffiii-(,1,-H,nnuiTin  
Lh··~  D··li~r:luliu  
/1it•,f  
Pm''l'l..iu  
Pmupkm f.n·aw  
\pplt·l.auit1'  
l't'l'lltl  
I:luwola1•· Fn·•wh :-iilk  
ll11lidm l·n·wh Silk  
lkd11n·d h.r \\ ildlll'n'\  
I·IIJ'JHI•·•·inu "iilk (\I'll~  
...,,,J,h•lal  
"'ult·., lu\  
.....-.Cih C.,·rlilintt•·­ 
..... lllCift C.t·nifinllt'-..  


I owl 
\I,<J"rorMhl<llr<1-llff'111Fflfi/IW"'I"HifiH"'" I'•~ •·-mul-··~~·•""'' 111111 '"'' 1,, lo~·""''" 01'~•-1',.•\.uo-llo·-"""""'' llr~·rullll~ I ""'I~"" I I' 
playing time was a reliable shooter with 2.7 points per game. 
The key for the Panthers lies in the performance of forward Isaac Hawkins. a 6-foot-6 sophomore who is rnally the only experience up front. Hawkins averaged 2.5 points and 2.5 rebounds per game and posted 12 minutes a game last year. 
Pitt lost a lot of seniors to graduation, but returns a young, quick squad whom the Irish will need to keep up with up and down the court in order to control the ball game. Pitt's freshman class boasts the size needed to compete with Garrity and Hickey; but does not com­pare in experience. 
For the Irish, it is essential to manipulate the Panthers' inex­perience up front and limit turnovers, as indicated by Cumming's and Taylor's defen­sive statistics. If the Irish can hold onto the ball and get it to their big men, they have the chance to be undefeated in the Big East for the first time ever. 

@)aturday, CV~c~mb~r 6, 1997 7:30pm Washington 1iall JJr~-show ffZCflption from 6:00-7:00pm 
Tickets on sale at LaFortune Info Desk 
NEW PRICE: All tickets only $5.00 
Sponsored by the University of Notre Dame's Asian American Association 



FREE DELIVERY The Delivery Experts 
E·dison Plaza 


~----­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 5, 1997 
•NHl 


Devils shut out Pittsburgh Penguins, end streilk 

Weekly Specials 
II 
' 
Do You Have Type 1 (insulin-dependent Diabetes?) 
If you are between the ages of 18 and 25 and have type 
1 diabetes, we are looking for you. A research group at 
the Bayer Corporation is currently developing new 
tests to predict who will develop diabetes before disease 
symptoms appear. During these early stages of 
research, blood samples from people who currently have 
type 1 diabetes are necessary. If you volunteer to assist 
in this study, you will be asked to do three things: 
1. Sign a consent form allowing us to collect a blood 

sample and use that sample for our research. ·' 
2. Fill out a brief medical history form. 
3. Allow a registered phlebotomist to draw 1 00 ml 
(approx. 3.5 oz.) of blood from your arm. This process will take approximately 30 minutes and will take place at the Bayer Corporation location in Elkhart. 
Donors will be given $100.00 to compensate them for their time and inconvenience. 

If you are interested in participating in this study, please call Shannon Gleason at 262-6578 for more information . 
Patrick Hoy made 29 saves for his 361st vic­tory, moving him past Andy Moog into sixth place on the NIIL career list, as the Avalanche earned their fourth consecutive win. 
Joe Sakic gained con­trol of the puck in the right corner and sent a blind, backhanded pass 

into the slot. Amonte l~~i£~f.=~r.:=;~
stopped the puck and fll'l momentarily had con-aw""";l!' trol. But he lost the puck right onto the stick of Deadmarsh, who wristed a shot over Jeff Hackett's glove. 
The goal ruined a dream situation for L-------------------------A-P-Ph__Joto Brian FeIsner. a 25-Goalie Martin Brodeur stopped 28 shots for the shut-out against the Penguins. year-old rookie who 
Thursday night. 

beat Hoy with the tying goal St. Louis 4, Toronto 3 Conroy, who also had an
about 3 1/2 minutes earlier. 
assist on the Blues' first goal,Felsner's first NHL goal came Craig Conroy had a goal and has six points in his last twoon a superb individual effort, as an assist during the same short­games. Prior to that, Conroy had 
he hustled after his own 
handed situation to lead the St. eight points in 27 games. Bothrebound and put the puck past Louis Blues to a 4-3 win over of Conroy's goals this seasonone of hockey's all-time greats. 
the Toronto Maple Leafs on have come shorthanded. 
Suite 

Museum 
Shop 



Christmas Sale 
Saturday~ December 6, 1997 
lOAM-5 PM 

25% tO 40% off most items 

The Place for Great Gifts for the Holidays! 
• Swimming & Diving 
'thurs. Jri. P~e!ims 10:00 am 
d S t D1v1ng 1:00pm an a · Jinals 6:30pm Dec. 4-6 Each Day 
~ ~ ~ i 
Rolfs Aquatic Center 


Women's Basketball vs. UCONN Sat. Dec. 6 12:00pm 

IJt Hockey vs. Western Michigan Sat. Dec. 6 7:00pm 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURG!! 
Martin Brodeur made 28 saves for his third shutout of the season as the New Jersey Devils stopped a slide and ended the Pittsburgh Penguins' eight-game unbeaten streak with a 4-0 win Thursday night. 
The Devils came in on a 1-4-0 skid that had followed an eight­game winning streak and coin­cided with off-ice turmoil. John MacLean. the franchise's all­time leader in games. goals. assists and points, went public with a trade request earlier in the week and did not accompa­ny the team to Pittsburgh for the game. Devils president and gen­eral manager Lou Lamoriello said he is trying to deal MacLean. 
Center Brendan Morrison, recalled from Albany of the American Hockey League to help cover MacLean's absente, scored his first NHL goal at 
12:37 of the second period. 
Trailing 3-0 with 11:59 left in the third period, Pittsburgh coach Kevin Constantine gam­bled and lost when the Penguins went on a power play. He pulled goaltender Tom Barrasso for an extra attacker to create a two­man advantage. 

Bob Carpenter fired a slap shot into the empty net from more than 140 feet for a short­handed goal. 
Bill Guerin, another New Jersey player who has request­ed a trade, scored the only goal of the first period. Guerin pow­ered past defensemen Kevin Hatcher and Jiri Slegr to flip a backhander past Barrasso for his second goal. 
Patrik Elias scored his lOth at 
9:01 of the second. He used Hatcher as a screen and put a 20-footer between Barrasso's legs. 
Devils defenseman Scott Stevens had two points, the first of which was his 750th NHL point. 
Colorado 2, Chicago 1 

Adam Deadmarsh scored with 
4:10 to play. taking advantage of a mistake by Tony Amante, as the Colorado Avalanche defeat­ed the Chicago Blackhawks 2-1 Thursday night. 

~------~-­
Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 


Notre Dame looks to stop Connecticut 'juggernaut' 
her size and quickness make her a nightmare for opposing defenses. 
"We're really going to have to work hard defensively," McGraw predicted. "The biggest thing will be to play hard and with intensity for 40 minutes." 
"I think we have a pretty good idea of what it is going to take to beat UConn," Peirick said. "We're going to have to step it up on defense, and they are a really great defensive team as well so we'll really have to take care of the ball." 
Taking care of the ball has been a problem for the Irish in recent games as in the past three contests Notre Dame has had more turnovers then a bak­ery on Sunday morning. 
"I think that's going to get better," Peirick commented. "I don't know exactly what hap­pened; we've been kind of timid lately. I don't think we have as many turnovers when we're aggressive." 
"Mentally we have had break­downs," McGraw said. "We started the year great, but we have been going in the wrong direction and really it's all men­tal." 
Although Sheila McMillen is coming off a poor shooting out­ing in the Rutgers loss, the junior co-captain has developed into a leader and a consistent scoring threat for the Irish. 
"Sheila has been doing a great job stepping up and tak­ing that position," Peirick said. 
McMillen leads four Irish players averaging in double fig-

By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Connecticut Huskies have won 139 of their last 147 as head coach Geno Auriema has turned Storrs, Conn., into the home of one of the most domi­nating basketball teams any­where. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw and Notre Dame, currently 3-2 on the season, are 0-5 against the Huskies, but they will get another chance to try to derail the Huskie juggernaut this Saturday at noon. 

Although the Huskies come into the game with all­Americans and Naismith award candidates along with the No. 2 ranking in the land, the Irish are not about to be scared out of their own gym. 
"I don't think intimidation is going to play a factor at all for 
us-on Saturday," senior guard Mollie Peirick said.· "We're at home so that's not going to be a factor. We have freshmen who haven't played them, but I think if anything they are excited about the game. We are all excited about the game." 
"I don't think intim­idation is going to play a role because we've played them before," McGraw said. "We know them very well. and we had some close games with them. So I don't think that will be a factor, but they have a tremendous amount of talent." 
Headlining that tal­ent pool is senior guard/forward Nykesha Sales. The Naismith player of the 
candidate is 

TheObserver/JohnDaily averaging nearly 26 Big East preseason player of the yearNykesha Sales will lead Connecticut's attack. points a game, and 
The halls listed here; open their laundry facilities to non-hall residents on these specified times and dates. 
Thanks to participating Rectors, far Redresses and Halls.
-
Compiled by the Gender~ssues. Committee of Student -!'\ Government. For more'Y · information call Britany at · 668. 
pe 






student government 
ures with 17.2 points a game. Junior guard Danielle Green has also been hot as of late and is averaging 14 points a game while Peirick chips in 12.8 and freshman forward Kelly Siemon adds 10.8. 
The Irish will need contribu­tions from everyone if they hope to pull off the upset and take advantage of the opportu­nity presented to them. 
"This is a conference game, but it's also a great opportunity for us early in the year," 
-
McGraw said. 
"Playing a ranked team right now is good for us, "Peirick explained. "We're playing three ranked teams in the next week. It is going to be important for us to get a victory from one of these teams to help our chances at getting into the NCAA tournament, which is our goal right now." 
The first of those challenges, and opportunities, arrives tomorrow in the form of the Huskies. 




page 18 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
have struggled in their own zone, giving away passes and surrendering too many odd­man breaks. 
"Our team defense has been weak," agreed Cotnoir. Last weekend against Lake Superior State, the Irish surrendered seven goals in two games. Those kind of numbers don't win hockey games. 
The team has addressed these problems, according to Simon. "We are focusing on our defense," he said, "and we have worked a lot on one-on-one bat­tles. It seems that we play a very good game but are slipping on defense in the last few min­utes, and that is something that has to stop." 
"We also worked on our zone coverage in our own zone,"

-
stated Cotnoir. "And there's certainly room for improvement in that area. We need to play well on defense, and that will help to generate offense. But we need to take care of busi­ness in our own end." What will the Irish focus on in this critical weekend? "I think that it's important that we come ready to play," said Cotnoir. 
"There's no question that we're 
·physically a talented and capa­ble team, but we need to be mentally ready for the game." 
"We also have to improve our special teams," stated Cotnoir. The Irish went a dismal 0-9 on their power play in their last contest with the Lakers. This result is especially disappoint­ing because of the amount of time that the team has spent on this facet of the game. "We also have to kill penalties, which is something that we haven't done with the proficiency that we would like," said Cotnoir. 
The Boys are a little con­cerned about the current slide but aren't overly worried, said Simon. 
"It's the same mentality as we've had before," he said. "We're not too alarmed. There's plenty of season left ahead of us, and we're trying to ignore the situation right now and just focus on winning." 
"We're still very optimistic," said Cotnoir. And optimistic they should be. 
. They are a talented, young group of athletes who may be experiencing some growing pains but who, under the wis­dom of head coach Dave Poulin, in the end will prevail, begin­ning with Western Michigan this weekend. 

Coming to the Chicago 
Area for the Holidays? 
Earn $ and gain exposure to the Corporate World. 
-Word Processing 
Operators -Receptionists -General Office Clerks 
Call City Staffing 2 N. LaSalle St. #630 (312) 346-3400 

The Observer· SPORTS 



V-Ball 
continued from page 20 
unforced errors, if we're going to advance to the next round." 
During the latter half of the season, many players have stepped up for the Irish, high­lighted by senior hitter Jaimie Lee. 
In the drive for her second straight Big East player of the year award, Lee has averaged 
4.34 kills per game, while sus­taining a .353 hitting percent­age. 
Other recent performers for the Irish include sophomore middle Mary LeiTers, who tal­lied a career-high 21 kills against UCSB, and senior hit­ter Angie Harris, who has averaged 3.9 kills per game. 
However, despite the team's 23-8 record, ranked oppo­nents have still been a thorn in their side. All eight of Notre Dame's losses have come at the hands of top 25 teams, including the two losses last weekend. 
However, despite the recent 

/1/ou aPe/ Go/vlia/(y .9floitedto
···· .. ··p········..
\·;y··
.··
\\ <\··· l. j
Rs 

NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
+NO MINIMUM BALANCE +NO PER-CHECK CHARGES 
(Unlimited check writing) 
+NO MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 
+OVERDRAFT PROTECT AVAILABLE 
And, with the direct deposit ofyour paycheck, you may be eligible for the 
GOLDEN SHAMROCK CLUB with all the benefits of FREE CHECKING 
and much more. 

+ FREE GOLDEN SHAMROCK CHECKS (Non-Duplicate) 
• DISCOUNTS ON SELECTED CONSUMER LOANS +FREE TRAVELERS CHEQUES (Maximum $2,000 per year) 
+ 5 FREE MONTHLY ATM TRANSACTIONS 
(From otherfinancial institutions) 
Jl{/Jettet< 6/zoic~ to~Jffallb 
Internet: www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
r------------------------------------------------------------------­
THIS COUPON IS WORTH $25* 


When you open a Direct Deposit Account with Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. 
Name _______________ Daytime Phone--------­
Address---------------------------­City, State, Zip ____________.....;.._____________ 
*This ,offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and fuiHime Employees ofthe University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary~ College and Holy Cross College.$ 25 Will be credited to your Share Draft Account within 30 days of receipt of your f1rst d1rectpayroll deposit Termination of this account prior to 12 months of Its opening can require repayment of the $25 Offer ends 12-31-97 and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. ' · 
L--------------------------------­------------------------­

LOCATIONS: Douglas Road -239-6611 or 800-522-6611 

. The Observer/Joe Stark 

Playmg a strong game in the late-season match versus UC-Santa Barbara, Mary Leffers is ready to begin the post-season tournament. 
defeats on the West Coast, "Even though they weren't Brown is still pleased by the able to sustain our drives for momentum the team has the entire match, we're still going into the tournament. optimistic. We've had a few 
"If anything, the team is good practices during this encouraged by how they've week, and we're anxious to played." Brown remarked. get out there." 

page 19

Friday, December 5, 1997 The Observer· TODAY 





9:00pm Come say goodbye to your favorite 
campus bands before they go abroad 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 20 Monster slain by Beowulf 
1 Woodworking tool 21 Like italics 
7 Come to an end 22Teriyaki spices
12 Shortens a sentence, 23Ciosecall perhaps 
25 Andy Capp's 14 Dreadful wife, often 26 Acquiescence
15 Lose control at a buffet 
35 Like fans 

16 Forbes 37 Work on text alternative together 
17 Clarion blast 38 Piano relative 
18 She helped 39 First, e.g. Theseus 
41 It's full of rye, inescape the rhyme

Labyrinth 42 Silver: Prefix 
19 One in the arms ofMorpheus 43 Tooth tissue 
and 
successor as

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
high priest 
6 Target of a swift kick 
7Chinaand environs, to the French 
8 Systematize 
9 Cowboy on a 
cattle drive, e.g. 
~..:..f-'=400..&0,;.1 10 Preacher's pursuit 
""+"-+'~-flll-..;;..+;:-j..::..l~ 11 Detroit duds 
-=:::+::;.+::+=-8 13 Where Whirlaway waited 
E 
0 
u 
.; 
i 
E 
!·;: 
I "' 
~ 
44 Cry of achievement 45 Put right? 46 Father of 
Fauvism 47 They follow She bats 
48 Convictions 
DOWN 
1 Ocelot features 
2 One of over 2,000,000 Cubans 
3 Gritty 
4 San Diego's founder Gaspar de­
s Aaron's son 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
ARIES: Guard against mix-ups in plans and dou­ble-check costs in connec­tion with travel. Poor day for shopping. 
TAURUS: Don't let one worry that you're preoccu­pied with cause you to miss out on today's chances for fun and happi­ness. Love blossoms when you tell someone how much you care. 
GEMINI: Backstage busi­ness moves are favored. And you'll also have suc­cess with mental work. Guard against excessive fun after dark. 
CANCER: You're often frank and outspoken, but today make a point of being tactful with a person who is overly sensitive. A family member may not go along with an idea of yours. 
LEO: Begin mental pro­jects on this day when your mind is razor-sharp and your perceptions are keen. Couples may share happy times, but a home matter 
demands attention. 
VIRGO: In-depth think­ing leads to financial and business gains today. You'll probably want time to be alone with a roman­tic interest. 




Wanted: Reporters, 

31 Notorious 34 Oligarchy 

photographers and 

London prison proponent 
32 Added just 35 "Evangeline" before time ran setting out 36 Bank 

editors. 

33 Like Simone 40 Matrimony, bar 26 Rival of Mantel Martini's art mitzvah, etc. 
27 Raiser 


Join The Observer 

28 Birds related to Answers to any three clues in this puzzle the goldfinch are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
29 Focused 


staff.

Annual subscriptions are available for the 30 Habitually . best of Sunday crosswords from the last humiliated one 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

FREE FOOD!!! Lots-o-fun 
LIBRA: Your take-charge attitude wins you high grades at work. You'll get things done now! Charm opens the door to romance after dark. 
SCORPIO: You're very capable today. A problem that arises will be quickly dealt with, due to your instant grasp of what needs to be done. 
SAGlTTARIUS: Teamwork brings results. A family member, howev­er, may need your support and understanding. Creative pastimes bring pleasure after dark. 
CAPRICORN: If you feel a relationship is growing old, use this day to pep things up. Having fun together now rejuvenates your bond. Some singles move towards a commit­ment. 
AQUARIUS: The day favors new beginnings and the pursuit of personal goals. Focus on what you want out of life and then move confidently forward towards your objectives. 
PISCES: A way to make 
money from your home 
may arrive. You face extra 
duties now, but others are 
impressed with your self­
discipline. 

-
.. 

-------------------. 
-




SPORTS Weekend 
Eyes on the prize ... 

By BILL HART County in three games to take the Sports Writer Big South Conference title and an automatic bid to the tournament. 
While one Notre Dame squad will They are currently riding a five­be finishing up its quest for national match winning streak and have won recognition this weekend, another 10 of their past eleven. team will be just beginning. "The main thing that [the Flames] 
Notre Dame's volleyball team, have is a talented middle blocker," heading to its sixth straight NCAA Irish head coach Debbie Brown Tournament, begins its run for the said, "which I think is 1l key to their NCAA championship tonight when success. If we manage to slow her the squad travels to Fayetteville, down we should be able to contain 
-
Ark., to face the Liberty Flames. them very well." Liberty will head into its The winner of this match will 
• first NCAA tourna-. move on to face the winner of the ,·~ ment in team . Arkansas/Arkansas-Little Rock ' history, as match. 
well as its Notre Dame's trip to Fayetteville, Ark., will mark its sixth straight-'; 
appearance in the NCAA tourna­_ ment, as well as its seventh in the first last decade. In those seven appear­match ances, the I-rish have chalked up a
' against the 6-6 record, including an advance to I r i s h . the Midwest regional final in 1993. A f t e r Last season, the team defeated returning Hofstra 3-0 in the first round before 

.. 
-----~ 
page 20 






the college football season winds down,

weekend series 

with only a bowl game remaining for a elect group of teams, the perennial debate By CHARLEY GATES The Irish began the season over who deserves the Heisman Trophy heats up. 
Sports Writer in a hurry, defeating such 

The Heisman, given to-~-.....,-""!'"~­
national powerhouses as St. the player regarded as the John CoppolellaThe Notre Dame hockey Cloud State and Michigan best player throughout the Sports Writer 

team {6-6-2 ,...-----------.., State. But late­
season, is the most coveted 
but return to the Joyce Center for us." 

Washington State's Ryan Leaf, and Marshall's on Saturday evening for the 7 What has changed between Randy Moss. 
p.m. game. the beginning of the season Of these, Moss can be eliminated because he

"This could be a turning and now? The answer is 

plays for Marshall, a small school which is in itspoint for us depending on how defense. The Boys of Winter first year of Division I play. However, with
the games turn out," said 
Courtesy of KRT 

Manning, Woodson, and Leaf remaining, the case
Washington State QB Ryan Leaf is one of four seri­
sophomore center Ben Simon. 
see HOCKEY I page 18 

ous Heisman contenders this year. see JOCK STRIP I page 12 
overall, 3-5-2 CCHA) faces two defining games this weekend against Western Michigan, its last two Central Collegiate Hockey Association games before the Christmas break. The Irish travel away for tonight's game 

ly, things have . 
individual award in college sports. The value
Notre Dame vs. 
begun to slow 

placed on it is paramount to everything except 
down, and they

Western Michigan 
perhaps the national championship itself. 
are winless in 

This year there is a group of candidates that is
Tonight, 7p.m. 
their last four 

so closely linked that the actual awarding of the 
@Western Michigan 
contests. 

Heisman may be as exciting as all the drama
"We have 
leading up to the event itself. 
Tomorrow, 7p.m. 
struggled a bit 

For those of you who have failed to keep up
recently,"
@Joyce Center ~ 

with the events in the world of college football, 
observed junior 

here is what you need to know about the race for
defenseman

~~ 

the Heisman award. With apologies to Ohio
Benoit Cotnoir. 

State's Andy Katzenmoyer and Penn State's
~ 
"This weekend 
~ 

Curtis Enis, among others, there are four real
needs to be a 

candidates for this award: Tennessee's Peyton
turning point ' 
Manning, Michigan's Charles Woodson, 
'A 
at NCAA Semifinals, 

• 
Women's Basketball Today, 3:30 p.m. 
• 
vs. Connecticut, ~ • Women hoopsters face UConn Tomorrow, 12 p.m.
Men's Basketball see page 17 at Pittsburgh, 
....
.--=

., 
Basketball,Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
riJ •Men's basketball preps for Pitt 

SMC Roundball Classic,
~ 
see page 14at Western Michigan, Today
~·
~ 
¥ ~ .. Today, 7 p.m. 
~ 







