
Friday, February 28, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 101 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
College Football Hall of Fame: Blessing or curse? 
Community stands divided on issue 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
They have been fighting about it for over four years. It is a red brick building in quiet downtown South Bend. It is 58,000 square foot monument to the greatest men in col­lege football history. 
Some believe that it stands for the revitalization of South Bend's downtown. which has been largely dormant since its few skyscrapers were built in the middle of this century. 
Others believe that it is already on its way to becoming an abandoned downtown monument of bureaucratic inefficien-
Hall history older than present saga 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
The story of the College Football Hall of Fame certainly does not begin with the present situation in South Bend. 

In fact, the organization behind the project, the National Football The Observer Photos/Katie Kroener Foundation (NFF), began its mis-
The College Football Hall of Fame has become the center of a local controversy involving owners and community mem­see HISTORY I page 4 bers over the funds allotted for its existence . 
• 3AINT MARY'S ELECTIONS 

Class of 1999 selects change in election 
48.4 percent of the vote, with Webby/Jackson close behind with 43 per­cent, and 8.6 percent of voters abstaining, Board of Governance elections commission­er Emily Miller announced last night 
"I see this as a great opportunity for our class to make some changes. I think there is a need for some new ideas to be imple­mented," said Desmarteau. 
In the primary elec­

Observer Staff Report 
tions, the Webby/ Jackson ticket By HEATHER MACKENZIE explained that amnesty for the Behr is torn on the effective­claimed the lead of the three­

Yesterday, it was a race 
News Writer "gross violations of human ness of the committee and theticket race, taking 4 7 percent of bP.tween change and two years' rights" was granted by the possible justification of politi­the votes, withexperience in leadership with Matters of truth, justice and Truth and Reconciliation com­cal criminals for assassina­
Desmarteau/Steciuk staying

the class of 1999. 
reconciliation in post­mittee if it was proven that tions and murders.
alive with 25 percent of the vote. 

And change won. 
apartheid South Africa was crimes were committed as a "Perhaps this is not the rightThe ticket consisting of Lynette 
Charise Desmarteau, Julie 
the focus of a panel discussion course of political action. Behr nor the wrong thing to do, butMalecki, Tara Thomas,Steciuk, Kate Moot, and Ann yesterday. The benefits and said he is unsure whether or maybe it is the only thing toStephanie Villinski and ColleenMarie Roche will assume the downfalls of the newly-formed not his involvement as a spy do," Behr said. 
Campbell were eliminated afterroles of president, vice presi­Truth and Reconciliation will necessitate his appearance The panel continued withtaking 19.5 percent of votes. 

dent, secretary and treasurer Commission were discussed in before the committee because comments from GarthTaking a four-prongedfor the Saint Mary's class of an attempt to clarify the fair­there is no set precedent for Meinties with the Humanapproach to their platform, the1999, respectively, after defeat.. 
ness of amnesty. spies to come out. Rights Department at the Law
Desmarteau/Steciuk ticket

ing incumbents Katie Wehby. 
Mark Behr, a former double "How do you find out who School, who spoke about thepromised their class administra­Tysus Jackson, Nicole Kraimer agent for the South African was really responsible for truth process in South Africa. 
tion would focus on "buildingand Becky Deitle. 

government, began the forum those deaths?" Behr asked. "How do you tell the truthunity, helping the community,
In a tight race yesterday, celebrating good times and com­by outlining his history of espi­"Where does the blame stop
Desmarteau/Steciuk claimed 
onage during apartheid. He with the chain of command?"
municating with classmates." see APARTHEID I page 6 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 28, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Electronic flirting 
Electronic mail. It's a wonderful thing. 

When we enter Notre Dame, we're given a dorm assignment, a roommate and an email account. We think it's the greatest thing since 
we were accepted to NO. We can keep in touch with all those friends from home without spending precious change on phone calls or the enduring painstaking task of actually writing a letter. And we don't have to use capitals or correct punctuation either! 
But more and more, we Assistant Accenr Ediror 

gradually begin emailing 
our friends here at Notre 
Dame. 
It's funny how so many people tend to email 

their Domer friends; some even sit down at a 
computer only minutes after getting off the 
phone or coming back from a friend's room. 
And then there's emailing that surpasses 

chatting: electronic flirting, or email flirting, or 
e-flirting. 
How many relationships have advanced 

because of several weeks of e-flirting? It's a 
wonderful innovation for shy guys and gals who 
wouldn't even have the nerve to look someone 
that they really liked in the eye. 
Some readers out there might not understand 

what this e-flirting phenomenon is all about or 
how to recognize it. Here's a little fictional e­
exchange between two people with some e-flirt­
ing included. The flirtatious passages have 
been italicized. 
Leia-Boy, I had a rough day today. I didn't 

hear my alarm and slept through my 9:30 class. 
Then I fell asleep in my 11:00 and the professor 
lectured right in front of me until I woke up. 
When I got to lunch, The Observer wasn't out 
yet and the french fries were soggy. But then I 
ran into you at the Bookstore this afternoon 
and the rest ofthe day was better. I'm really 
looking forward to seeing "Ransom" this week­
end. We'll have to think ofsomething to do after 
the movie. Well, it's late and I haven't touched 
my books yet, so I'll talk to you later. -Luke 
luke-hey! we're doing email at the same 

time! of course, you probably won't read this 
until tomorrow but i thought i'd mention it. 
anyway, i know what you mean. my day 
sucked too. i was up until4 a.m. finishing a 15­
page philosophy paper and reading 180 pages 
of jane eyre. it was really nice seeing you in 
the bookstore because i didn't expect to see you 
today. ijust love little surprises like that. i 
can't wait for the weekend. my mom said ran­
som was really good so i'm excited to see it too. 
i'd love to do something afterwards. what did 
you have in mind ...? let me know. -leia 
Leia -Oh God. That terrible dance version 

of "Don't Cry For Me Argentina" by Madonna is 
on the radio. I hate that song. Well, my 8:30 
was cancelled today. That was good because I 
didn't go anyway, Han told me. My 9:35 was 
good because I sat next to you and we spent the 
whole period discussing which guys in the class 
were tools. (That was a great column.) Well, 
I'll see you in a few hours so goodbye for now. 
-Luke 
luke-it's 2:15 and you just dropped me off but i wanted to tell you again that i had a great time tonight. it was good to forget about this terrible week i've had. thank you. i'll see you later tomorrow (today). -leia 
The characters in the preceding column are totally fictional. Any relation to actual persons, living or dead, is just one huge coincidence. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Too;w's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Michelle Krupa  Jon King  
Sean Smith  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Joe Cavaro  Michelle Krupa  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Ayana Fakhir  Kevin Dalum  
Accent  
Dan Cichalski  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Dan Cichalski 

• WORLD AT A GlANCE 
Song dominates unpredictable Grammy year 
NEW YORK It was a song -not a performer ­that proved dominant. 
39th ANNUAL "Change the World," made famous in a pairing between Eric Clapton and 
GRAMMY 

producer Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds but also recorded by country 
AWARDS 

star Wynonna, was responsible for four Grammy awards. 
WINNERS 

It was named song and record of the year, and its performance won Clapton 
·· ~ehara of m~'y~~r ·jliJ;; , , 

an award for best male pop vocal. 
"Change the World," Eric Clapton 
Babyface, LeAnn Rimes, Toni

Babyface also won producer of the year 
partly from his work on this song. 

·d!'iliiii::;::::;:l11i!;;"}'IBraxton, Celine Dion and Vince 
From the Beatles to Beck, 10 differ­ent artists won multiple Grammy awards on Wednesday night. Even a 
"Falling Into You," Celine Dion 

"tone deaf" first lady took home a Grammy. 
s'ong of the year 
"Change the World," Gordon

Performing on acoustic guitars, 
Kennedy, Wayne Kirkpatrick and Tommy $irn~t

Clapton and Babyface sang "Change the World" publicly together for the first time on the 39th annual Grammy 
New artist 

telecast. 
LeAnn Rimes 

Gov. Weld turns to bad rhymes 
BOSTON 

Gov. William Weld, Harvard man, speaker of four languages, once daz­zled the state with his expansive vocabulary. He'd say "ukase" and everyone else would scramble for a dictionary (it means an official decree or proclamation). Lately, though, Weld has slipped into a form of com­munication only slightly above Pig 


Latin: bad rhymes and even worse puns. Two weeks ago, during a speech in which he unveiled legislation that would crack down on violent students, the governor offered this gem: "In the classroom, there's no seat for anyone who packs heat." On Tuesday, while announc­ing a plan to keep truants from getting their driver's license, his excellency explained: "We think it makes sense that before you get your keys, you have to get your ABC's." But the Republican may have scaled the peaks of puns Monday, when he announced a plan for deregu­lating the state's electric industry. 
Bash planned for Cuba's Cohiba 
MIAMI 

The Cohiba was conceived, nurtured and smoked by Fidel Castro to prove communist Cuba could still make a great cigar, and when the famed stogie turns 30 Friday it will be feted with a decidedly un-proletarian bash. A $500-a-ticket party at Havana's Tropicana nightclub is planned for about 800 invitees on a super-secret guest list rumored to include 100 Americans. The soiree, a fund-raiser for the nation's cash-strapped health care system, will include the sale of commemorative boxes of Cohibas for $2,500 each and humidors autographed by the Cuban leader himself. "Cohiba is considered the best cigar in the world," said Dan Hoteman, manager of La Casa Del 1-Iabano cigar shop in Windsor, Ontario, just across the border from Detroit. "It's the blend, the sizes, the quality of the roll." The Cohiba's mystique began in the early 60's as the brainchild of Castro. After the revo­lution, most wealthy tobacco barons fled Cuba and took much of the know-how and history of the trade with them. "Castro wanted to prove to the world that Cuba under his leadership not only could keep making premi­um cigars, but also create them from scratch," said Richard Carleton Hacker, author of cigar texts. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 28.
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
I 
Friday I Saturd*y 
I 
Sunda~ 
! 
Monday 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
!;;· 
Pressure 

Thes~ay H L Ea D [TI] 0 . fZj 8 {) ~ G 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~...5... .~'-s ... -·,·~....,/-'·\/ 
V/11 Associated Pfflss 

Anchorage 36 23 Denver Atlanta 68 58 Helena Baltimore 58 44 Honolulu
4,c;@,~q~~ (f ~ c£[1 
Boston 45 33 Kennebunk
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 41 39 Miami
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Police sort out Cohen shooting 
BREWER, Maine 

The man who was shot and wounded in the home of Defense Secretary William Cohen's younger brother has been charged with crimes twice in the past few months, a prosecutor said. Authorities said they were still trying to determine if Robert Cohen, 51, was justified when he shot Michael Chasse in the neck with a small-caliber semiautomatic handgun at Cohen's home Tuesday night. Chasse, 22, was in good condition today at Eastern Maine Medical Center in neighboring Bangor. Authorities said Chasse had addresses in Bangor and Lewiston. William Cohen said in Washington that he talked with his brother shortly after the incident, and was told "An intruder entered his home while armed with a knife and he defended himself." Authorities would not confirm whether Chasse had a knife. But Christopher Almy, the prosecutor for Penobscot and Piscataquis counties, said Chasse faces charges stem­ming from a Nov. 15 high-speed chase in Brewer and also is charged with burglary to a motor vehicle and theft dating from a January incident in Bangor. 
MasterCard sells postage stamps 
NEW YORK 

As banks race to embrace ever-faster communication technology, MasterCard International is making it a little more convenient to send a conventional letter. MasterCard on Wednesday disclosed plans to.sell postage stamps through Cirrus, its network of automatic teller machines at almost 315,000 locations around the world. Beginning this spring, Cirrus cardholders will be able to buy stamps in a transaction similar to getting cash at an ATM. with the money deducted from the cus­tomer's account as stamps are dispensed from the machine. It's part of a larger strategy to vastly expand the types of services available at Cirrus machines. Also envisioned are ATM sales of such things as prepaid tele­phone calling cards, theater tickets and travelers checks. "This is a long-term strategy to change the face of what the traditional ATM has been," G. Henry Mundt III, exec­utive vice president for global deposit access at MasterCard, said in a telephone interview. "In the next 12 to 18 months, you'll see a whole range of products and services that will begin to appear at Cirrus ATMs." Some banks already sell stamps through their private ATM systems. 
Songwriters Gordon Kennedy, Wayne Kirkpatrick and Tommy Sims weren't about to play favorites between Clapton and Wynonna. 
"Wynonna was probably closer to the original arrangement of the song and he (Ciapton) was closer to the feel," Kennedy said. 
Multiple award winners included the Beatles, the Fugees, Beck, Sheryl Crow, Eric Clapton, 
Gill. 
With three awards on Wednesday, the Beatles nearly doubled their lifetime haul of Grammys. 
They won for best pop perfor­mance by a duo or group for "Free As a Bird," the song made by the three surviving members from a tape left behind by John Lennon. 
35 16 New Orleans 77 66 32 15 New York 55 41 79 71 Philadelphia 58 43 45 25 StLouis 56 50 83 74 San Francisco 62 47 

Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel mirrors today's images of AIDS patients 

By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
The face of AIDS has changed. That was the message at a forum on AIDS awareness last night. 
In 1984, when AIDS first came to the public consciousness, it was a disease limited to gay men and hemophiliacs. But now AIDS is a pandemic, not limited to any one group. 
"I am the face of AIDS," said Gene Barkowski, a 44-year-old South Bend resident who acquired AIDS through a blood transfusion in 1984. 
"It is a virus; it is not a respector of persons," added Greg Sanchez, a 31­year-old man who moved to South Bend in late 1993. 
Each of the four panelists spoke brie!ly about their personal experiences. 
Barkowski spoke first. He harbored the virus for 12 years with just a few warning signs before collapsing in December of 1995. lie was diagnosed with HIV on Feb. 15, 1996. 
"I thought it wasn't going to touch me -but it did," Barkowski said. He stressed that the fastest growing groups 
of those  infected  are  non-whites,  
women, and adolescents.  
Anjonette  Pezon,  a  graduate  of  

Washington Iligh School in South Bend, found out she was HIV positive in the summer of 1992. She had been attend­ing Butler University in Indianapolis 

Wendy Harris, an HIV prevention worker, discussed the some of the med­ical angles of the disease. 
"Whatever is in your mind that will not allow you to protect yourself, it isn't worth it," Harris said. 
"As long as we are ignoring the prob­lem, we're putting ourselves at risk," Sanchez agreed. 
Harris stressed that people are largely ignorant of how HIV is passed and either unnecessarily fear those who have HIV or fail to protect themselves adequately. 
"Knowledge is power," said Sanchez. "This epidemic is not over." 
Frank O'Malley 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 28, 1997 
History 
continued from page 1 
sion to enshrine the great moments of college football his­tory nearly 80 years ago. Unfortunately, it has not been all that successful in fulfilling that mission. 
In 1949, several New York businessmen founded the National Football Foundation and began a fund raising drive to build a monument at Rutgers University honoring the first intercollegiate football game, played between Rutgers and Princeton on Nov. 6, 1869. 
The organization raised over $3 million over the next 22 years, including $320,000 from Rutgers. Almost all of this money disappeared, having been spent on further fund raising efforts, and although there was a ceremonial groundbreaking in 1966, the shrine was never built. Much of the money was never returned. 
Once the Rutgers project was scrapped, a new site was found, and the College Football Hall of Fame was finally built in 1978 in Cincinnati near the King's Island amusement park, where it remained for 14 years. 
The price tag, picked up by the Taft Broadcasting Co., was a rel­atively low $3.5 million, and the NFF was required to put down only $250,000. Throughout that period, annual attendance fig­ures were less than one-third of what had been predicted. Fewer than 50,000 people visited the hall in 1990, and it was closed, apparently because of the low attendance. 
The search then began for a new location. The first deal was made with a firm in Memphis, Tenn. The company agreed to build a $6 million hall of fame with a $2 million contribution from the NFF. But this deal led the Memphis company into bankruptcy, and the deal fell through. 

Then the market was reopened, and the winning bid was made by the city of South Bend. For $14 million, a much improved hall was set to be built downtown. 
This time, the NFF was not asked to put forth a single cent. The hall was expected to cost very little for the city and the taxpayers, as most of the money was expected to be collected from private sources. 
Unfortunately, very few private sponsors emerged at first, the only sizable contribution being a $250,000 gift from an individual donor. Eventually, the city of South Bend turned to a $15.5 million bond issue, along with a hotel tax to back it up, to fund the project. 
At this point, the deal may not sound ideal for the city of South Bend. But Dave Torromeo, the NFF's vice president of opera­tions, insisted that the hall is a collaborative effort, and that it would be incorrect to construe that there is any conflict between the NFF and the city of South Bend. 
"There are no sides," he said. "It's a team. [The College Football Hall of FameJ is a sup­port facility. It's not a case of us versus them.'" 
Jim Cierzniak, a South Bend resident and an outspoken critic of the Hall of Fame project, does not see the agreement in the same light. Although he admits that he is not particularly trust­ful of the NFF, he believes that it would be wrong to place blame on the organization for accepting such a sweet deal. 
"I don't think that the NFF hypnotized anyone, or hood­winked anyone," Cierzniak said. "We did it to ourselves." 
The city, he said, had not only offered them a hall twice as expensive as any other which the NFF had ever dealt with, but it also did not require any down money from them. 
In addition, Cierzniak noted that the NFF has contributed a total of $1 million, even though it was not part of the Hall of Fame agreement. 
"They have come through with some money," he said. "That speaks well of them for trying to help us [the city.)" 
However, he believes that the NFF contribution was financially motivated. If the Hall were to fail in South Bend, he noted, when the stakes are at a high $14 million, it would be difficult for the NFF to sell it anywhere else. 
He also expressed his opinion that the NFF is rather comfort­able in its present position in South Bend. 
"I think that [the NFFI is just a bunch of guys who have latched onto a cash cow," he said. 
But Torromeo contradicted this assertion, insisting on the integrity of his outfit. 
"The National Football Foundation is a non-profit orga­nization," he said. "We're not trying to make millions so that we can all retire in the Bahamas." 

Please recycle The Observer. 

page 5

Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
The Entrepreneur Club at Notre Dame will host two speak­ers this weekend, one who start­ed one of the nation's fastest growing companies at the age of 19 and one who went from being a high school dropout to a business owner and the CEO of the Coleman Foundation. 
At 3 p.m. Saturday in Room 162 of the College of Business Administration, Christina Jones and John Hughes will address interested students as well as members of the Entrepreneur Club. 
Although they followed differ­ent paths to success, their sto­ries are similar in that they did 
Non-traditional entrepreneurs to share advice 
chairman of the finance com­mittee. 
He sold the business in 1991. In 1969, he founded John E. Hughes and Co., a CPA firm, that he transferred to partners in 1980. 
Currently. he is president and CEO of the Coleman Foundation, Inc. 
This company has given out $42 million in grants to educa­tional, medical research, care and treatment, religious, social and welfare programs and has received multiple awards. 
He has established and endowed chairs, professorships, and fellowships at 17 universi­ties and institutions. He has also spoken at many different col­leges across the country. 
:45, 4:30, 7:15, 10:00 
DANGEROUS GROUND (R) 12:20, 2:30, 4:45, 7:00, 9:15 
ROSEWOOD (R) 12:15, 3:15, 6:45, 9:45 
MARVIN'S ROOM (PG·13) 12:00,2:20,4:40, 7:25,9".50 
TAR WARS: ANEW HOPE (PG) • in DTS 
1:30, 2:15, 5:00, 7:45, 10:30 
W: THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK (PG) • in DTS 1:45, 2:30, 5:15, 8:00, 10:45 
DONNIE BRASCO (R) *1:20, 3:50, 7:00, 9:30 
METRO (R) 11:40,4:50,10:10 
PREFONTAINE (PG-13) 2:20, 7:30 
HINE (PG-13) 1:10, 3:35, 5:50, 8:10, 10:25 
HEENGUSH PATIENT (R) 1:00, 4:30, 8:00 
Times valid through next Thursday 
*No passes 

WIEIDIDIINGS & IBANQUIIEliS 
FOR YOUR SPECIAL DAY... 

BILUIIE IHIIEIR.ON
THE 

AT BlACKTHORN ° 
219/233•3091 FAX 219/233·0298 5440 W. NIMTZ PKWY.. SOUTH BEND. IN 46628 
'5 MINUTES FROM NOTRE DAME 


ek 

Brought to you by HaU Presidents Counct1 
All Week Long... 
COLLEGE 2 for 1
-Fool'BAI.L­
HALL~FAME admission 
not rise to the top through tradi­tional means. 
Jones co-founded Trilogy Software during the summer after her sophomore year at Stanford University. Trilogy was her first success, and at 24, she co-founded pcOrder. a company that sells computer products and systems over the Internet. 
She said Trilogy changes the way companies use their soft­ware, and pcOrder uses Trilogy's technology to create a new network for computer sales. There are quite a few opportunities with computers, she said. 
"Technology is changing the 
way businesses are run," she 
said. According to Jones, two of 
the advantages of going into 

business at a young age are learning how to build a compa­ny and understanding the cor­porate culture. 
One big difference between her company and other major computer-related businesses is that she "focuses on the busi­ness process as opposed to bits and bytes." 
"We are looking for great peo­ple for a fast growing company," she said. This weekend, she will be recruiting for pcOrder. 
The average age in her com­pany is 25, and technical majors and business majors are in demand. The pcOrder system is growing by 25 percent a month, she said, and it won two of the most prestigious awards for Internet technology. 
Qualified candidates for posi­tions will have taken on a lot of activities in college, she said. Proactive people with leadership roles are what the company is looking for. 
"We look for people to come in and defme their role in the com­pany," she said. 
Hughes has also led a success­ful life that has not been bound by the norm. 
After World War II, he gradu­ated high school by GED and earned his CPA certificate from the University of Illinois in 1957. 
In 1959, he became associated with Archibald Candy Corpo­ration and Fannie May Candy Shops, Inc., where he rose to part owner, board member, chief executive officer, and 
Empire Strikes Back PG !in DTSI 1:15 4:15 7:15 10:00 
Dante's Peak PG13 1:45 4:45 7:45 10:10 Fools Rush In PG13 2:30 5:00 7:45 10:10 
Absolute Power R 
1:00* 4:00 7:00 9:50 
Absolute Power R 
2:00* 4:45 7:30 10:10 
*Saturday & Sunday only 

Swiss Valley
· · tt:Tht C:Jha#tenge,fl Satu;'Wa$hing: tori' H;tff:2t8tJ>tfi '""i~(J:$9:tX!NikJ 
Specials
Swimming/Divingtri$h :shamroc~ t!lassie\1:i!xtr Satat•••llolts 'Aquatit'qenters;xJ'Ai(~ SZituwdZ~~J Friday: Womenls tennlsivsll •DJJ/Cer4t Ecl<i,@:.t1::t.;iJ~mtdi+t]f $4 Off rental and lift C:inemarat.'tfie<Snite•>;-':·Mad•"A•ttaqksii8t'&u1'8J•?$'1 
ticket with students ID 
SUB Movie ~lla'nsom:'j8F&:·'·10:30:;~2i~.;;s€us111ng 
Saturday: 
2 for 1 lift tickets after 6 pm 
Sunday: 
Hofferth Chiropractic I Massage $13 lift tickets after 256-1008 112 hr. $19 and 1 hr. $38 3pm Either deal can be split between dates! 
Michiana Paintball 
• 
291-9462 Other ldeas...$5 ticket voucher for any off campus movie 1/l......;;.;pr••••' (available at Lafortune Info Desk) • Snite and Siam • 
Call ahead for location and raaarvallona! 
Chuck E Cheese and Checkers • Lazer Tag and Lula's • Ice 
•'' B ..y one sandwich 
Cream and Ice Skating • Basketball and Bruno's • Pool
!\4)~ or salad, 9et 1/2 off 
and Papa John's • Tubing at Saint Patrick's Park • 
j,/'' 2nd one, 
6~<p· 3/1/97. 

Bowling and Bibler's • Friday Crab Races at Finnigan's 
--~------~­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 28, 1997 
• SOUTH AFRICA 
AIDS researchers violate procedures 

The Associated Press 
PRETORIA 

South African rese­archers who claimed to have developed a drug that reversed the effects of AIDS violated accepted scientific testing procedures, an investigative panel has determined. 
A report by the panel criticized the three researchers for conducting unauthorized human experiments, in particular using a toxic substance without proof it worked and sidestepping peer review in seeking government fund­ing. 
The report issued Wednesday could kill the University of Pretoria researchers' chances of getting funding they sought from President Nelson Mandela's government to continue testing the drug, called Virodene P058. 
In a highly unusual move, the researchers presented their results directly to Mandela's Cabinet last month in hopes of gaining $800,000 in funding. 
Medical experts immedi­ately questioned claims that the drug reversed the effects of AIDS and demanded a full review of the research. They also asked why the work had never been subjected to peer review, a standard practice in the research community. 
The report by a commit­tee comprising University of Pretoria officials and mem­bers of the Gauteng provin­cial health department accused the researchers of exposing AIDS patients to a toxic industrial solvent con­tained in Virodene without having sufficient evidence the solvent would inhibit the HIV virus that leads to acquired immune deficien­cy syndrome. 
The report said pre-clini­cal experiments of Virodene on HIV-infected, tissue-cul­tured cells were inconclu­sive. But the researchers claimed they had docu­mented evidence the toxic solvent worked, according to the report. 

Apartheid 
continued from page 1 
about apartheid?" Meinties asked. "It is not only a question of whether or not something was done, but whether or not the act was right or wrong." 
Meinties continued by questioning if a heinous crime committed under the power of the government was worse than a personally committed crime. 
"What are the limits if the crime was deemed to be politically motivated? The committee didn't admit that there were limits no matter what the circum­stances," Meinties said. 
Jasmin Nordien, a graduate student from South Africa, continued the conver­sation by reiterating how the healing process begins with the understanding of atrocity and the unearthing of truth and history. 
"What does forgiveness mean? We cannot forget the past but must learn how to use it," Nordien stated. "We can choose to use the past in one of two ways for the future: as a weapon to bash other parties, or as a tool to build a bet­ter tomorrow." 
Nordien emphasized that everyone in 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p r e s e n t s 
An A met lean eentennlal eele6tatlon 
performed by Faculty Member 
William e~t.nu 
}\~ p1amst -, 
~-:-) with works by 
<........__---..._ _, ( d William Grant Still, ~~ l)1 Virgil Thomson, Roger Sessions, ~~ Howard Hanson and Peter Mennin 
t 

Sunday, March 2 2 pm Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
South Africa had some sort of blame in the crimes of apartheid, but stressed that a reconciliation for the present without dismissing the atroci­ties of the past was the only way South Africans could hope to deal effectively with the future. 
James McAdams of the gov­ernment department dis­cussed the similarities and dif­ferences of the South African committee and a similar truth committee formed in Germany. 
He stressed the same mis­givings as Meinties, but 
agreed with Behr in that this might be the only viable option. 
"Do you get to truth by avoiding justice?" McAdams asked. "We have the problem of restoring the balance between the perpetrators and the victims. If you don't pur­sue the truth you don't give a balance to the victims." 
The panel discussion, "Truth and Reconciliation: Victims and Perpetrators in Post­Apartheid South Africa and Eastern Europe," was held in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um at 4 p.m. yesterday. 
........ ..., \=., ,... ••••••••
...... ......... ,/ ..... 
.... .....~~····· .... 
J~~Uenu 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn star in 
ofu~th 
J:ije 
$1 Students LITTLE THEATRE For information, call 219/284-4626 
City-Wide Celebration of Black History Month 
The Pan African Cultural Center in cooperation with The African and African American Studies Program Presents 
FROM AFRICA TO AMERICA 
An Evening of 
Af,.i~IIH ZliiH~tS IIHA. c51HfS 
With 

DARLENE BLACKBURN 
Her Innovative and Dynamic Dance Troup from Chicago &Washington High School Gospel and Inspirational Choir 
•· 


February 28, 1997 at 7:00, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
• 
GENERAL•AD~MIS~S~IO~N:$5; STUDENT:$3. TICKETS AVAILABLE AT a • ~0:~ ~ L6FORTUNE INFO. DESK 
This Third Edition ofCity-Wide Celebration of Black History Month Jointly sponsored by: Pan-African Cultural Center, Mrican and African American Studies Program, Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, Student Activities, Kellogg Institute, Student Government, Washington High School Multicultural Society, and ~ Salon of Friendship. 

Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Sullivan: Everyone will see sexual harassment 
Student Notre Dame students interested · tin the coming year. Application/ lefor pick-up in the Student :ofLafortune. 

be comfortable with my behav­ior being printed in the news­paper or presented on the news?" "Would I be comfort­able with someone doing the same to any member of my family or with my girl/boy friend?" 
She concluded the discussion by saying, "Treat people as they would like to be treated, not as you think they would like to be treated." 
The questions that were asked after the presentation clearly showed that many did not know what the fine line between sexual harassment and a normal complement is. 
Sullivan again said that one should make one's intentions clear when dealing with others in order to avoid any problems. 
This was one of many upcom­ing talks sponsored by student government dealing with gen­der relationships, which will also coincide with the twenty­fifth anniversary of co-ed edu­cation at Notre Dame. 
The lecture took place at DeBartolo Hall, and William Leahy, professor of student gov­ernment and economics, pre­sented Sullivan, whose lecture was titled "Sexual Harassment in the Workplace." 


ve 

By GERMEIN LINARES 
News Writer 
"Everybody will come in con­tact with sexual harassment; for the women, I guarantee it." 
According to Sharon Sullivan, executive director of human resources at Eli Lilly and Company and a 1979 graduate of Notre Dame, this is the truth of our society today. 
Sullivan proceeded to define sexual harassment as "any unwelcome sexual advances, request for sexual favors, and verbal or physical conduct of sexual behavior." 
She stated that many of the sexual harassment cases are due to miscommunication between the parties involved. This is brought forth the topic of impact vs. intent. One may not mean to harass or offend someone by their comments, but their impact may. 
Sullivan said that in many cases of sexual harassment the offender does not know that he/she was causing such an impact on the other person. Furthermore, she said that these offenders are sometimes more severely affected by their unknowing actions than the · accusers. 
ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 

BOOKING AGENCY 

219-243-9204 
' 

WI 
Wedding Receptions are Our Specialty 
• Over 20 Disk Jockeys including a wide variety of music 
• Uve Bands 
• 
String Quartets 

• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 

• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: A blend of Dj. MC. vocalist and light show 


The behavior that is charac­terized as sexual harassment here in the United States is not the same as in other countries, commented Sullivan. 
Terms such as "girl" or "honey" are more accepted in Europe. Greeting someone with a kiss is also not viewed as a shun in many other countries. 
So how does one deal with these differences? Sullivan advised again that one should consider the other person's intent and to question if their actions are causing a negative impact on you. 
So how should one deal with behavior that one interprets as harassment? 
Sullivan advised that con­frontation is key. Usually, mis­communication is the source of the problem. 
If this does not work and the behavior continues, then go to management and inform them of the problem, she urged. 
She added that jokes and comments of sexual behavior that are inappropriate should also be dealt with firmly. 
So how do you know if your behavior is characteristic of harassment? The Notre Dame grad advised to ask yourself the following questions: "Would I 

-~---·--·--~............-----~--~--~~--·-~------~~--~ 
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 28, 1997 
Hall 
continued from page 1 
cy and a stubborn adherence to pet projects. 
When it was decided in 1994 that the College Football Hall of Fame was to be built, the argu­ment reached its boiling point. Now the jury is out as to whether it will become a lasting and popular tourist attraction or a very expensive empty build­ing. 
The Complaint 

Jim Cierzniak, a local retired history teacher and a high pro­file critic of the Hall of Fame, attacked the idea of the hall publicly in the South Bend Tribune (Sept. 15, 1992) before the hall had been built: 
"I am involved in this crusade (against the Hall of Fame) because I do not want to drive by the garish, stadium-like downtown hall in five years or so and say to myself, 'This thing really is a dud, but what did you do to prevent the financial fias­
?'"
co. 
Cierzniak's steadfast opposi­tion to the hall was based on his perception of an absurd deal made by the city of South Bend in order to draw the Hall of Fame to town. 
The deal, he believes, is heavi­ly favorable toward the National Football Foundation (NFF), and extremely disadvantageous to the city. When he read the License Agreement between the NFF and the city, he saw that the NFF was not required by the agreement to produce a single cent for the construction of the Hall although the foundation stood to collect 90 percent of first $3 million in profit, and 75 percent of everything after that. 
I 
I 
! I 
I 
t 
I 
~ 
I 
He also saw that the agree­ment left the NFF with easy way out in case the hall were to flop, whereas the city could easily be left hanging on its end of the bargain. 
Downtown South Bend 
Former Mayor Joseph Kernan has been quoted numerous times as saying that the pres­ence of the hall in downtown South Bend will help local busi­nesses, boost tourism, and gen­erally revitalize the downtown area. 
"We think it's the right project for the right place," Kernan has said. 
The rebirth of downtown South Bend was always a top priority for Kernan when he was mayor, and the College Football Hall of Fame is only one of the many projects he undertook to administer that change. 
"My feeling is that it has had a minimal impact as far as revital­izing downtown," Cierzniak said. "I don't know that there has been any positive impact." 
But according to Bernie Kish, the director of the College Football Hall of Fame, such a judgment is rather premature. 
"You can't judge something like this in such a short time," he said. "We've only been open for 19 months." 
Kish did note that there had been some improvement down­town with the opening of several new shops, but, he added, "I don't think we could point to the hall as the cause of that." 
Attendance 
Some worry about the rocky history of the College Football Hall of Fame and the NFF. Similar halls of fame have failed in cities much larger and more suited to such a museum than South Bend. 

The key to survival, of course, is strong attendance and a steady flow of visitors at the hall. The greatest fear for the city is that low attendance rates could cause the NFF to pull up its roots once again and head for St. Louis, Ann Arbor, or even Los Angeles. 
Currently, the numbers are not all that bad. But the annual attendance is already far below what South Bend and NFF offi­cials had expected. The hall had planned to host 150,000 visitors per year. 
But the first twelve months of operation saw only 121,000 guests, while 1996 saw only 85,000. 
Kish commented, though, that this is probably more the result of a lack of experience in esti­mating attendance than it is in a lack of popular enthusiasm for the hall. 
He also mentioned that for halls of fame, success usually does not come overnight. 
"The Professional Football Hall of Fame in Canton took 
eight years before they had 100,000 people go through the door in one year," Kish said, "and now they get over 200,000." 
Nonetheless, the numbers do not need to be all that bad for the disaster to happen. The agreement between the NFF and the city of South Bend allows the NFF to leave town with its Hall of Fame, if the annual attendance drops below 65,000 by the lOth year of its operation. 
This leaves some residents of South Bend worried that the Ilall of Fame may suffer the same fate as the previous one in Cincinnati, which was closed after years of low attendance. 
Fan Appeal Dave Torromeo, vice president Indiana area, but all over the country." 
When asked about the closure of the Cincinnati Hall of Fame, Torromeo expressed confidence in the South Bend Hall, and stat­ed that the hall in Cincinnati was inferior to the new one in South Bend. 
"It wasn't something that did justice to the game," he said. "We had a few displays, but nothing like the interactive things at South Bend." 
Kish also related the enthusi­asm of many visitors toward the Hall of Fame. 
"We've been told by people who come here that its the best hall of fame they've seen any­where," Torromeo said. 
In fact, even Cierzniak thought that the hall was a good attrac­tion, despite his worries over the financial situation. 

of operations for the NFF, triedr-----.....-----............... 
to alleviate these fears. 

"The place fills itself," he said of the hall. "We think that it is the best hall of fame there is. The only problem is getting the word out, not only in the 
smile Angie! 
you're 
21! 

HAPPY BIRTHDA 
love, 2 North 
Buy 4 sessions at the regular price & get 2 FREE! Buy 5 &get 3 FREE... Buy 6 & get 4 FREE.. . 
1 Month & 3 Month Unlfirni;t..d Tanning 

IT'S ONCE AGAIN TIME FOR NAZZ, ND'S 
BATILE OF THE BANDS!! NAZZ applications are now available outside the SUB office (2nd floor Lafortune) and are due by 5 p.m. Wednesday, March 5. Along with the application, please turn in a demo tape. All applicants will be contacted by midnight on March 5 informing them if they made the lineup. NAZZ will be in Stepan Center on Thursday, March 20. 
Any ?'s ... please call SUB @ 1-7757 


Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Medieval lit probes depths of mind 
@].@]  
~  New Spring Arrivals  I~ ~  
~  I Oo/o off witlt student JD  ~  
~  • Hemp, Beadt~d & Silver Jewelry  ~  
~  • Unique Dresses We  
~ ~  • Urban Outfitters BuyHOURS: • Toe Rings UsedM-F: 10-7 Sat: 10-6 • Mexican Purses Levi's  ~ ~  
• Vintage Levis  ~  
~  
 ~  
~  1912 S. 11th St. Just 2.5 mi North of IN state linenm (U.S. 31)  ~  
~ ~ ~  Niles, Ml Belle Plaza j687-9123jSTRE -':' ~ VISACO., INC. • Iii -n •  ~ ~  
@]  •  @]  

By JILLIAN PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
Identifying text illustrations as the Medieval reader's key to active memory, Lina Bolzoni lec­tured yesterday on "Images of the Printed Book and Images of the Art of Memory." 
In her lecture, Bolzoni focused on the "vast, unexplored territory where acts of memory interact," explaining that images evoked in the mind by illustrations enabled a reader to better remember the copy accompanying them. 
Emphasizing the role of illus­trations in "interfacing between the scholar's desk and the library shelf," Bolzoni suggested that the result of text illustration in 16th century printed books was not simply aesthetic enjoyment. Although Medieval authors placed illustrations in their books to answer the demand for beau­tiful as well as useful books, their unintentional ability to produce texts that functioned as the "nexus between the art of memo-ry and the printed book" is what interests Bolzoni. 


To demonstrate how effective illustrations worked as pneumon­ic devices in Medieval printed books, Bolzoni reproduced pages of "Ulisse e Enea" (Ulysses and Aeneas) and "Rhetorica Cristiana" (Christian Rhetoric), two late 16th century Italian texts. 
"Rhetorica Cristiana," written and illustrated by Diego Valades in 1579, I'epresents for Bolzoni the "symbiosis between the print~ ed page and the act of memory." She pointed to the illustrations in his book as prime examples of how the artwork in a text can successfully conjure up images of previous texts in the same tradi­tion, in this case the Bible. 
Bolzoni identified illustrations as being excellent instruments of recollection because of a visual image's knack for linking memo­ry and invention. 
This is especially important for writers who wish to revive canonical oeuvres. 
"In order to imitate classic texts, you must remember them," she said. 
The History of Literary Criticism chair at the University of Pisa in Italy, Bolzoni is cur­rently a visiting professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. Her lecture was the sec­ond in the series, "Before and After the Book: An Italian Update," sponsored by the William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in con­junction with the Medieval Institute. 
The third and final lecture, "Early Academic Printing at the University of Paris: Johannes Gering and Bertholdus Remboldt" will take place on Thurs., April10. 
' ' ' 
' 

PC0RDER.COM IS NOW ACCEPTING RESUMES. 
pcOrdercom has been called the hottest Internet start-up in the country. and industry analysts predict that pcOrder will emerge as 
"a billion dollar company w1th an entrenched, defensible position" by the end of the decade. Since sp1nn1ng off from Trilogy in June. 
pcOrder has established itself as the leading electromc commerce prov1der for the computer 1ndustry. In the past s1x months, pcOnder 
has been featured 1n Forbes, Business Week. Fortune and USA Today and been recogn1zed as the "Best of Closs" Internet Commerce 
Application and as the 1996 Excellence Award w1nner for "Eiectromc Commerce over the Internet." 
pcOrder.com is looking for Notre Dame's top graduates to serve as account managers. 
Christy Jones, president and founder of pcOrder will be speaking on campus Saturday at 3 p.m. 
in the College of Business Administration Complex, room 162. You can drop off your resume 
at Saturday's seminar or fax it to the pcOrder recruiting office at 512.342.0200. 
For more information. call pcOrder recruiting at 512.342.0100 x442 or 
visit our web site www.pcOrder.com 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............... , ............... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Sy>tem• Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of che majority of che Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present che views of the auchors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 63!-4542 Business Office 63!-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 63!-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63!-8839 News/Photo 63!-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63!-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 63!-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 63!-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.c:du 

• OFTEN WRONG, Bur NEVER IN DomH 
Ad01in deserves better treat01ent in GLND/SMC debate 
Even the students at Notre Dame · should be old enough to remember Texas vs. Johnson. The flag-burning case creat­ed national furor in 1989. Everyone had an opinion about whether or not it was constitutional to burn the American flag. The overwhelming majority of those opinions were shallow, poorly argued and -most importantly -of absolutely no interest to anyone occupying the 
Christopher Regan 


opposite perspective. 
It is striking in retrospect that no one recognized how terribly inconsequential it all was. After all, how often does any­one burn a flag? The last one I remember was directly associated with the Johnson fiasco. Flag burning is now of interest only to flag burners of which there are, at last count, about three in North America. It is perhaps the least exercised of all our constitultionally guaranteed freedoms. 
The principles behind the Johnson rul­ing were fiercely debated. The common sense of the ruling was not disputable. The nation was mercifully delivered from a mindless fight over nothing. Most Americans have forgotten how they felt about flag burning in 1989 and rightfully so. The flag-burners, who were fringe lunatics to begin with, now get exactly the amount of press due a fringe lunatic. We are all much better off not thinking about H. What happened to the flag­burners? Who cares? 
In the latest issue of Common Sense there is another jejune recital of well­worn arguments about GLND/SMC. Reading over this latest salvo made one thing clear: The deteriorating quality of the discussion on this matter is as much an ethical.problem for Notre Dame as the elements of the discussion itself. 
Father Richard McBrien advances about six arguments for official University recognition of GLND/SMC in a reprint of a gender studies round table presentatioh. He points out that Notre Dame can do as it pleases, that every­body else is doing it, that other University clubs are differently treated, that the Church does not require non-recognition, that non-recognition is unjust discrimina­tion and, once again, everybody else has done it so why can't we? 
Of the first six arguments, only the statement that the discrimination prac­ticed by the University is unjust (five) has any real force. There also lies the meat of the debate, though not the meat of this article. Three is granted, of course; other clubs are treated differently. The grounds for the different treatment follow McBrien's notation of it. What Notre Dame can do or what its peers have done do not constitute grounds for action in themselves. 
The article concludes with a "personal statement." With the considerable respect due Fr. McBrien, I submit that it is less personal statement than personal attack. It is a general indictment of the University community and the Church as "homophobic." This is followed up with the assertion that homophobia stems from homosexual feelings in every homo­phobe's heart and that, for homophobes along with actual homosexuals, the situa­tion is comparable to guilt felt by old-time priests over alcoholism. 
The argumentative ground is well cov­ered and will not be treated here. McBrien's personal statement, however, reveals something disconcerting about the kind of debate to which we have reduced ourselves. The "personal state­ment" was made against the people with whom he disagrees rather than their ideas. It is troubling when reasonable, educated people living in community question the integrity, the charity and the honor of those who oppose their ideas. It would be more appropriate to treat the ideas themselves (however repetitiously) and presume that one's colleagues are of good character. 
Once the ad homines line is crossed, an appropriate discussion is no longer possi­ble. If you are disagreeing with someone filled with irrational fear and willing to lie about it, rational discussion cannot proceed. Does anyone really believe that is what we face? Are those opposed to GLND/SMC recognition people filled with fear and loathing who deceive the com­munity into believing that they are chari­table people and principled professionals, acting in good faith and in accordance with the best they know? If McBrien would say yes, then surely there is more proof than was offered. 
Consider this: If you stood in the place of a University administrator, what would be your dearest wish concerning this debate? It could only be that it would dis­appear. To achieve that wish, the admin­istration would only have to recognize GLND/SMC. Deprived of their controver­sial status, GLND/SMC would fade as every single student organization does. It would be of interest only to the people involved and rightly so. 
When wa·s the last time you heard of the College Republicans doing anything? Activities Night? Now, if the University banned the club, or subjected it to partic­ular scrutiny, however, we would never stop hearing about it. Hence, the endless GLND/SMC debate. In the end, there is no practical advantage to denying GLND/SMC recognition. So why has this been done? 
The notion, therefore, that a homopho­bic administration and complicitous homophobes in the community are sub­jecting themselves to the tremendous inconvenience (and boredom} of this debate because of their "fear and loathing" of gay people and that they simultaneously defraud the campus as to their sinister objectives is, to say the least, far-fetched. 
Allow me a brief personal statement: If it was for me to decide, I would recognize GLND/SMC in a heartbeat. I would do it that I might be done with them. I would do it confidently, knowing that I could forget the issue. And what a failure that 

• DOONESBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
would be. What a failure it would be to 
treat people obviously in need of special 
care and ministry in such a way as to 
marginalize them. A clear case of hate 
the sin and never mind the sinner. 
Fortunately, those who were actually 

charged with this decision have acted 
with more principle than I might have. 
Debate the details until dawn, they have 

treated unequals unequally and acted 
kindly and pastorally. They have done 
this when they had easier ways out. They 
deserve better treatment than they have 
received. It is the business of smaller 
people than they to shrink from the chal­

lenge posed by this debate. 
Notes and Asides: 

• 
Common Sense printed an article favorable to abortion in the same issue with a few "war on the poor" articles. Does the former present us with an ulti­mate solution to the latter? Or is the for­mer just an example of the latter? Just what is Common Sense trying to imply? 

• 
Despite the robbery of David Cuccione Bucolo, Mr. Stanford again highlighted the year. As for the winner's answer to the question: We are all much dumber for having heard it. I award him no points and may God have mercy on his soul. 

• 
People need to start asking Pat Garrity to stay for his senior year. 


• 
The most recent Notre Dame team to carry the flame of Irish underdogs was the third-string Mock Trial team. They overcame inexperience, adversity and their own expectations to upset pretty much everyone at the Mid-East regional and earn a spot at the national champi­onships. As for the first string, well, they didn't do badly for a few has-beens and a couple of never-will-bes. At least no one came home on the bag. If you see Anna Schmitt, Diane Sabol, Jason Levielle (pro­nounced LEV-el), Melissa Miksch, Cheryl Asci, Allison Sinoski, Beatriz Korbel or Colleen Feeny, make sure you ask them about it. 


Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday . 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 28, 1997 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fiestang III the perfect way to renew Filipino sense of pride 
Dear Editor: 
If Arnold Schwarzenegger was dressed as a Filipino warrior with a suit of body armor made from the fruit of a fine palm tree, he might have been known as "Coconut the Barbarian." 
You can see this fantasy acted out during the manly Filipino traditional dance, the Magalatik, on Saturday night at the LaFortune Student Center. Semi-nude men in coconut shells will be banging each other with pride as the Filipino American Student Organization (FASO) cele­brates "Fiestang Filipino Ill." This year the fiesta takes place over the weekend with food, dancing, and theater. And everyone is welcome. It is a cel­ebration of Filipino-ness at Notre Dame. Why is it necessary? In the multicultural scheme of things, Fiestang is more necessary than one would think. 
In the race equation of the nineties, Filipinos are practically non-existent. With their Spanish last names, English fluency, and Asian features, Filipinos tend to get lost in the mix. "Filipino? Aren't you Chinese?" is a common inquiry, sec­ond only to, "Isn't that what Imelda Marcos was?" 
In fact, Filipinos are the second largest Asian American group in this country-200,000 or so fewer than the Chinese Americans. Presently numbering over 1.5 million, Filipinos are project­ed to become the largest Asian American group in the U.S. by the year 2000. This is a mixed blessing since nobody knows we're here. 
Historically, Filipinos have been here in America since 1587, when a Filipino refugee from the Spanish galleon trade is known to have step foot on Morro Bay in California. Since that time, through waves of immigration in the 1920s, the 1950s, and the 1970s, Filipinos have come to America to live productive lives. According to the 1990 census, the median Filipino household income was $43,780. That was $12,000 dollars more than that of whites and $13,000 higher than the U.S. average. 
It hasn't always been easy .. Filipinos have struggled against racism and discrimination. In California, anti-miscegenation laws meant 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Filipinos couldn't marry whites. There was a time in the 1920s when Filipinos experienced the kind of blatant racism that African Americans are all too familiar with. In public places throughout Northern California it was not uncommon to see signs that read "NO FILIPINOS ALLOWED!" 
Times have definitely changed. Civil rights laws have forced out such blatant discrimination. And Filipinos, with their "go along to get along" nature have assimilated at a fast rate. But that doesn't mean they've blended perfectly into the homogeneous mass known as American society. In fact, regardless of whether they are Filipino immigrants or the offspring of immigrants, most have not lost the sense of what it means being Filipino in America. And a fiesta is the perfect way to renew one's sense of cultural pride. 
In the Philippines, fiestas are normally harvest celebrations centered around food. There are games and activities. There may even be a beau­ty pageant. But there is a religious element as well. 
In Pakil, Laguna, devotees follow an old poster of the Blessed Mother and sing, hop, skip, and leap in a giddy procession through the streets. In a Mardi Gras like celebration called the Ati-ati­han, participants paint their faces and arms with soot, deck their hair with leaves and carry poles bearing live offerings in honor of the Holy Child, Santo Nino. 
The event at LaFortune is likely to be some­what toned down by comparison, but no less Filipino. It's still all about the special pride, esteem and kinship that bonds Filipinos to each other, and to the large growing multicultural community that is Notre Dame. 
EMIL GUILLERMO 

Editor's Note: Emil Guillermo is a syndicated columnist and the former host of NPR's "All Things Considered. " A Filipino American, he will give the keynote address at Fiestang Filipino this Saturday night. 

'Right to die' laws may not be containable 
"Hard cases make bad law." Do you believe that? Let me tell you about Mciver 
v. Krischer, decided by Florida Judge Joseph Davis, Jr., in West Palm Beach on Jan. 31. Charles Hall, a 35-year-old men­tally competent AIDS patient, had asked Dr. Cecil Mciver "to provide him with a prescription for a drug that Mr. Hall would 

Charles Rice 
self-administer to precipitate his instant death." Judge Davis ruled that Hall's right to make that decision is guaranteed by the Privacy Amendment to the Florida Constitution, which protects "every natur­al person" against "governmental intru­sion into his private life." As a "secondary basis" for his ruling, Davis held that the Florida law forbidding "assisted self-mur­der" also violates the U.S. Constitution by denying Hall "the equal protection of the laws." 
Davis' decision can be appealed in Florida state courts. However, since the ruling was based on the Florida Constitution rather than on the U.S. Constitution or federal law, it might not be appealable further to the Supreme Court. This might be so because federal courts, including the Supreme Court, have no jurisdiction to review state court decisions which are adequately based on an inter­pretation of state law. 
On Jan. 8 the Supreme Court heard arguments on appeals from two decisions which held that the laws of Washington and New York prohibiting assisted suicide violate the U.S. Constitution. It is unlikely that the Supreme Court will declare that there is a constitutional "right to die" that would prevent the states from forbidding assisted suicide. It is even more unlikely that the Court will take the opposite approach and require the states to forbid assisted suicide; under that approach, Judge Davis' ruling in Mciver would itself violate the U.S. Constitution and would be reviewable by the Supreme Court. Instead, said the Baltimore Sun, "A common theme emerging from a clear majority of the nine justices was that the question was too complex to be decided by the court and should be left for the legislatures" of the states. Any state laws, of course, would be subject to the Fourteenth Amendment's command that "No State shall... deny to any person... the equal protection of the laws." On that ground the Court of Appeals held invalid the New York law, because it allowed patients on life support systems to hasten death by withdrawing those systems and denied patients not on such systems the right to cause death by lethal drugs. If the Court does allow the states to legislate on the issue, the states could avoid that equal protection problem by legalizing assisted suicide whether or not the patients are on life-support sys­tems. 
Unless the Supreme Court unexpectedly forbids them to do so, the states could avoid federal court review by adopting Davis' approach and basing the allowance of assisted suicide on state rather than federal law. If so, the result could be a patchwork quilt of state laws. Some states might forbid assisted suicide. Others might become suicide havens. 
The general trend, however, would be permissive. Polls show strong support for some allowance of assisted suicide. And "hard cases" can readily be advanced to intensify support. For example, Charles Hall, in the words of Davis, "has been hos­pitalized several times and is suffering from... AIDS, Reiter's Syndrome, Cytomegalvinus, Hepatitis B virus, Herpes Simplex types 1 and 2, H. Pylori, and Epstein-Barr virus. He has had episodes of ... Candidiasis, Pneumocystis Carnii, Molluseum Contagiosum, esophagitis, gas· tritis, ordinary pneumonia, and hairy leukoplakis... [H)e, at times, has sores over his entire body, red blotches, sores in and about his mouth, fme hairs on· his tongue and sides of his mouth, no feeling in his bladder, stomach pains, and is legally blind. At the time of trial Mr. Hall was on numerous medications [and] is on mor­phine... to alleviate his pain." 
In some respects, legalization of assisted suicide will confirm existing practices. "I have had patients who have taken their own lives," said Dr. Stephen O'Brien, a San Francisco AIDS specialist. "And I have prescribed the medicines with which they have done that." The New England Journal of Medicine recently stated that a survey of 188 San Francisco physicians who treat AIDS patients showed that 53 percent admitted assisting at least one of their patients in committing suicide. 
Once the right of competent patients to assisted suicide is recognized, as in Mciver, it will quickly be extended to incompetent patients for whom the "ratio­nal" decision will be made by others. Such decisions are now legally made with respect to the withdrawal of food and water from incompetent patients. Surely those patients will be entitled to death by active as well as passive measures when such is allowed for the competent. Moreover, if a competent AIDS or other patient declines to choose death when such is the "rational" choice, would not that irrationality indicate that he ought to be considered incompetent so as to allow others to make that "rational" choice or him? 
Nor will the killing stop with the incom­petent. It will go to include the murder even of those who wish to live but whose lives are considered by others to be unduly burdensome to the patient or to those oth­ers. The Dutch government's Remmelink committee found that physician-assisted suicide, which was technically illegal but unofficially tolerated and regulated, accounted for 400 of the approximately 129,00 deaths in 1990 in the Netherlands. But "the committee also found 1,000 cases where death was hastened by the physi­cian without the request of the patient." 
In all this we have discarded the princi­ple that "the direct and voluntary killing of an innocent human being is always grave­ly immoral. .. Nor can any authority legiti­mately recommend or permit such and action." (Evangelium Vitae , No. 57). 
It can be difficult to distinguish legiti­mate withholding of medical treatment from actions which are homicidal in intent. The law should not require that excessive treatment be given to impede the act of dying. However, in its 1990 Cruzan decision, the Supreme Court allowed the withdrawal of nutrition and hydration which were not so burdensome as to justify their removal on that ground. Rather, they were withdrawn with the specific intent of causing Nancy Cruzan's death for the purpose of carrying out what was found to be her desire to die. Her "caregivers" intentionally killed her, no less than if they had given her a fatal injection or put a pillow over her face. The intentional killing of the innocent, by pas­sive or active means, ought to be unlawful. Moreover, when a state protects innocent, non-aggressor persons in general by for­bidding them to be. intentionally killed, it should be held to deny the "equal protec­tion of the laws" for the state to exclude from that protection some such persons because they are terminally ill or because they have asked to be killed. A decision like Davis' in HaWs "hard case" is more than merely a matter of state law. Rather, it is "bad law" in violation of the 14th Amendment. But don't hold your breath waiting for the Supreme Court to say that. 
In legalized abortion, we adopted the principle that the law can validly allow the intentional killing of the innocent. These "right to die" developments confirm that, once adopted, that principle is impossible to contain. "If we accept that a mother can kill even her own child," asked Mother Teresa at the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast, "how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
ACCENT
p<ige 12 Friday, February 28, 1997 

• ACCENT ASKS 
Where are you going for spring break? 
"Massachusetts." 
Stefania Raschilla Sophomore, Off-campus 


"Key West." 
Rich Murphy Senior, Off-Campus 
''To my boyfriend's house in Wisconsin." 
Sarah Lattimore Freshman, Breen-Phillips 


"Acapulco." 
.·...S 
"Massachusetts." 

Mike O'Connor Senior, Off-Campus 
Nicole Ludwig Sophomore, Off-Campus 
"Seminary." 
Ted Mahan Senior, Off-Campus 

The Observer/Michelle Sweet 


' 

By ELENA MILLNER 
Accent Writer 
Wl
th the temperature here in South Bend approaching a sizzling 40 degrees, we here at NO and Saint Mary's are looking for warmer weather and sunnier skies. Though smiles are beginning to be able to be seen on faces as we reduce our layers from seven to three, we would be committed if we thought we were going to double that 40 degrees reading come March. So, for those that need sun NOW, or perhaps just a road trip to somewhere besides UP Mall, spring break is fast approaching. 
To access a spring break destination, many stu­dents utilize the services offered at Anthony Travel, which is located here on campus in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. The trav­el agency consults customers on a walk-in basis or over the phone and has been very busy all semester arranging travel plans. 
Anthony Travel agents remarked that students began booking as early as November and December. Package deals such as Jamaica and Cancun, which include a non-stop charter from South Bend to the respective destinations, offered discounts to students who put down a deposit before Dec. 15. Because of this, almost 200 stu­dents snatched up this deal before the deadline. Jamaica and Cancun have continued to be chosen in the last couple of months, making them two of the favorites this year, according to Anthony Travel. Also, any location within Florida and Mexico are winners with students. One look at the brochures and weather forecasts and one can figure out why. 
The recent ticket fare wars generated when 
to 


Their first official stop is Nashville. Heather remarked that while they plan to hit the country music scene, the major bonus in this destination is that she has a friend who resides there, which translates into "free place to stay." 
After a day in Nashville, the three amigos are heading to Atlanta. With the lure of the sites of the 1996 Olympics comes the dazzling draw of another free night of lodging. They plan to stay with a former roommate who graduated and now resides in this southern city. Are these women resourceful or what? 
Spring break always calls for a little sun-n-surf so Gulf Shores, Ala. is destination number three. Motel 6 and the beach will be home for two or three nights, as these three invade this city for a little fun. 
Since Mardi Gras missed these ladies earlier this month, Catherine, Monica and Heather can­not resist a stop in New Orleans. On the way back to South Bend -if they decide to come back -a stop in Memphis will round out the "Southern Cities Tour." A trip to the land of Elvis will definitely make this innovative tour complete. 
But wait, that's not all. The Tour will not sim­ply be a blinded zigzag across the Southeast region of the United States. Barnes and Noble has supplied the Tour with a guidebook to the wackiest roadside sights. These include such wonders as "The World's Largest Cement Egg" and a genuine voodoo museum. 
"We're going to go where the road takes us," Heather said. "We're not going to let an itinerary detract from the spontaneity of the trip." 
If you think these three sound serious, you are not mistaken. Heather has started packing and is thinking of making up t-shirts that bear their offi­
American Airlines pilots threatened to strike has cial tour name. That last part was a joke. not had a big effect on spring break plans, Maybe. Anthony Travel said. Most stu­dents booked their flights before most of the rates dropped. Many airlines have dropped their advance purchase fees in the last week or so, which has attracted some students looking to find a last-minute flight. Currently, though, there are no f1ights out of South Bend -and only a few out of Chicago -open for the weekend of March 8. 
As the end of the year approaches, dwindling savings are best able to be stretched to places like Florida and Mexico where flights are reasonable, food is cheap and, if necessary ­or just for fun -one can find a spot on the beach to curl up at night. However, Anthony Travel did remark that it had some spring breakers looking to make a quick trip abroad to visit other NO and Saint Mary's students to gamble the last of their funds away in Vegas, or to dominate the slopes (well, at least the bunny hill) in Colorado. 
Also, some students opt to make travel plans on their own, as two Alumni residents did. They are jetting off to the exotic location of Mazatlan, Mexico. Well, at least that's the plan. They haven't received their tick­ets yet, so maybe it would be best to book package deals through Anthony Travel. 
So, what if you want to do something a little more original than the typical spring break locations, but don't have enough money to do much more than play shuffleboard after booking airfare and hotel? Three senior NO women, inspired by the kind of creative thinking that demon­strates how useful a liberal arts education can be, pulled together resources and are embarking next Friday on their brainchild, the "Southern Cities Tour." Catherine Mullaly, Heather Dominique and Monica Seidel are venturing to make stops in five cities offiC'ially, and many others unofficially. 


page 2 The Irish Extra• BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 28, 1997 
David Seerveld 
Chri~8bwens 

Seerveld surprised No. 1 seed Matt Peacock with an incredible reach and a consistent jab. He will need a similar effort on Saturday if he is going. to walk away with the title. 
To be effective, Seerveld must stay out of reach and avoid trading punches, His forte is his intelligence and conditioning, not his power. 
Owens looked terrific in his quart{lrfinal match with Brian Dillon, showing surprising pow ex for a roan of his stature. He is at his best when he goes to> the body, and he possesses the endurance to maintain his aggressi()n for three rounds. To duplicate his semifinal performa,nce, he cannot afford to let 
,_________"" Seerveld utilize his longer reach. 
This one should go down to the wire 

with Seerveld's te3.ch countering Owens' 
inside power. The best conditioned fight­
er should be the man smiling when all is said and done. 
-Mike Day 
PICKS KEY: TS: Tim Sherman MD: Mike Day BB: Betsy Baker KL: Kathleen Lopez 
Tom Will 
vs. 
Lucas Molina 

Will is the defending champion of the 130-pound class and has yet to be chal­lenged in the first two rounds. He defeat­ed John Froman in the first round and Sean Sharpe in the semifinals by unani­
mous decision. Wi0ooiiio....,....,...,. Will is fundamentally sound, and no one will outlast him when it comes to endurance. An.yopponent should expect a dogfight. Molina, who competed in the 155~pound division last year, has slimmed down considerably and has been downright dominant through the first two rounds. He is willing to trade punches, counting on his incredible power to overcome any challenger. Molina slipped by newcomer Mike l\:1aguire in the semifinals, but t--..-==~-'llfi0l Maguire was able t.o tie Molina up effec­
tively. · 
In a bout featuring Will's endurance and fundamentals versus Molina's punching power, fans should expect a true barn-burner. 
-Mike Day 
Fred Kelly
vs. 
TedPegano 

Kelly has coasted to the finals, record­ing a second round TKO last Sunday and a 33 second TKO of Matt Ramarge in Wednesday's semifinals. He. loves to brawl and shower his oppo11ents with a barrage of punches to the bQdy. Kelly is the prototypical "street fighter" if there ever was one. 
Barely escaping the first round and flirting with disaster once again in semifinals, Pegano has displayed the grit and determina­tion needed for a return trip to tb{l finals. He bas not been pretty in wins over Kevin Buccellato and Tom Cronley but looks don't win fights. 
Pegano is a true warrior, depending on his conditioning and;.....,..-------.."'!! endurance to wear down his opponents 

in the end. 
Pegano has shown a knack of pulling out a victory despite falling behind early. He will need another clutch performance 
overcome the hard-hitting 
-Mike Day 
TS: 
BB: MD: KL: 


DougPolina 
JeffreYMellin 
Junior Doug Polina has looked flawless thus far, as neither his quarterfinal nor his semifinal match have gone the dis­tance. However, he has not seen the likes of J .R. Mellin who has lived up to his billing as the top newcomer, as shown by ............. ...,. being the only remaining freshman in the tournament. 
Polina's first two matches were somewhat mismatched, while Mellin defeated senior Mike Eberly and handled Stefan Schroffner's wild-arm, kamikaze styl(l gracefully. 
Polina is a defending champion which should give him an edge on the rookie Mellin. However don't look for Mellin to go down quietly. Look for Polina to overpower Mellin with his left and right 
hooks, but also watch out for Mellin's quick jab, especially when he decides to throw two or three in a row. 
Both fighters are well-conditioned and don't wear down easily. This one should go three rounds with little sign of fatigue. 
-Betsy Baker 
Damon Mfinito 
vs. 

Pete Titterton 
The 155-pound championship looks to be a battle of desire as both Damon Affinito and Pete are seniors with their last chance at a title. Top-seeded Affinito used the word "elated" to describe how he felt about getting into the finals for the..__....,_.-...~ first time, but don't expect him to be complacent. Titterton won on a unanimous decision in the quarterfinals and a split decision in the semifinals over a feisty Matt Berilla, while Affinito has pulled off two close split decisions. 

Look for Titterton to maintain his aggressiveness, going straight at his opponent forcing them to defend their face, but expect Afiinito to answer with a powerful uppercut. 
Titterton's got a bit of a size advantage, but Affinito has speed and the potential to wear Titterton down. 
This match should go three rounds, but the different styles of fighting will proba­bly lead to a lop-sided decision. 
-Betsy Baker 
TS: "-""'·''"''·'"'1'­
BB: L/Cli,U\JU 
MD: L'Cl1.11VU 
KL: 

Chris Sikora 
Joh~Kmetz 
The 15 7 -pound championship will be one of the most evenly-matched of the finals as senior Chris Sikora and John Kmetz will go head-to-head. Both are seasoned fighters who have experience in the finals, the one difference being that Sikora has a title under his belt. 
Expect that to be a BIG difference. 
Kmetz is a two-time finalist who is hungry for a title and knows that this is the last opportunity. After a mediocre showing in the quarterfinals, he looked like a man possessed in the semifinals, clearly overpowering Tom Irwin, leading to the match being stopped 1:28 into round two. 
Sikora, however, has used his clean straight-arm style to obtain two unani­mous decisions. If the Kmetz that we saw in the semifinals shows up for the finals, expect one of the cleanest, hard­fought matches that should go down to the wire. 
Rich Molloy
vs. 1 . 
Chip Farrell 
The 160-pound final will match up time finalist Chip Farrell against l year fighter Rich Molloy. 
In his first fight, top-seeded Mollay prised a few people with a stron ing in the semifinals. Farrell h the finals twice and has yet to wa he is still a junior, so there is not find if he were a senior. But don't 
He's been there twice and is ready 
Molloy has the potential to ove the edge in the desire department. mental in-and-out style to handle 
Molloy jabs, Farre 
Still, the bye and Farrell the 
John Christo£ 
R vs.R

yan ans 


Friday, February 28, 1997 The Irish Extra· BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
Patrick Maciariello 
No~ Beznoska 
Simply put, Maciariello is hungry for a second title as shown in his semifinal Bout. Beznoska is the underdog hungry for an upset. 

Maciariello is a brawler, who occasion­ally has a few tricks up a sleeve. Beznoska is a technical fighter, who has a few tricks of his own like fighting either right~handed or left-handed. Both like to take the fight inside, and whoever gains control there will control the fight. 
Beznoska might have the ·siz~ and teach advantage. Maciariello won't back down from him. These two spa;r togetlwr often, so they know each other inside and out. . . . • 
Overall, it shoilldhe !!. fast paced fight. Look for this one to go three intense, action-packed rounds. This battle will include both physical and mental war­fare with the strongest coming out victo­rious. 
-Kathleen Lopez 
TedLefere 
vs. 
A-dre·w·.,"t H·e·be
lUI ..·•·· ..·.. · .·.·· ....·.. 
This is another No. 1 versus No. 2 battle. It will be the first finals appearance for both of them. In what was initially thought to be a wide open weight .class, no other true contenders have arisen. 

This is Lefere's first and last chance to earn a coveted jacket, so this might propel him even more. 
This battle should be interesting. Lefere fights with more of a controlled style than Hebert. Hebert has shown two different styles of fighting, fast and furious, and slow and controlled. Either way the fight should be hard core.. 
Both are in top physical condition, so stamina might also be a 
factor. Lefere has a strong jab, while Hebertlikes to throw a lot of straight punches. The question is whether Lefere can fend off Hebert's quick releasing punches. 
With both striving for their first cham­pionship, sheer motivation will be a huge factor. 
-Kathleen Lopez -Betsy Baker 
Cl'.l TS: 
-~ 
BB: 
0 
~ KL: 
Mikfs!dantey 
odd Carcelli 

The 190-pound final between Mike Mantey and Todd Carcelli will be a battle of strength. Mantey has only 1:14 in the ring this year, but carries withJJ,i:rn two titles and an unmatched inten~ity; · 
Carcelli's semifinal match against Mike Velten was stopped due to adamaging blqw Carcelli dealt to Velten's nose, and he Walk'ed throughhisquarterfinal match. 
Carcelli is a good, powerful box~:r. but Jias not seen competition on the same level as Mantey. When Maptey steps into the ring, he plans on ending the match hil'll:self i:9-~~~adof ~etting the bell do it. It is highly unlikely that Mantey will Be \Y,illjng toJet go of his title in his last time out either. < · · .. 
Carcelli has·~dmemajor factors work­ing against hirii,J:mtifhe can hang in there past round one against Mantey, he has the potential to pull off the biggest upset of the year. 
-Betsy Baker 
Cl'.l TS: 
~ 
BB: 

-
0 MD: ~ KL: 
TroY, Phillips
vs. 
DaveBu, 

The storyline of this contest could be "the teacher" versus "the student,': star­ring two-time champion Troy Phillips as "the teacher" and impressiv¢ new comer Dave Butz as "the student."···· .. ··•·· 
Early in the tournament, Butz; asopho­more, acknowledged I;~~Jlips' help ip}e~rning the sport of boxing. Right now, Phillips is Ptpbably hoping he wasn't such a good teacher. · .·· ......•.... ... 
Phillips brings an impressive c?.pi})ina~iqn of experience, strength, and sound boxing techniq~e iiltq the ring. He packs the power to knock you down with one pun~h. yet prefers to box his way to victory. ·· 
Aggressive ahd not ifraid to get hit, Butz's main wel}kn~ss is his conditioning. He may have trouble staying fresh in the two-minute rounds. He does have a reach advantage to exploit if he can set­tle himself down and box. 
-Tim Sherman 

... 
Brian Gaffney 

·~· ebi i 
This bout will feature a match­between the classic brawler (Gaffney} the classic boxer (DeBiasi}. 

Based on his two years as aBeng Bouter, Gaffney will try to turn the into a free-swinging brawL .In the past, has had tremendous succ¢ss in doing so. but if there is a boxer who could have some success slowiil~ himgown, it is DeBiasi. 
A four-year Bouter, DeBiasiprig¢$~inl~elf on his technique and the fundamentals of boxing. !Je wil!.pse his..$90d reach to keep Gaffney at bay with the jab. .,, 1 > ...... }i .··•·· < 
Though Gaffney has paid lip seryice tQ. ~eco:rnipg a more com­
plete fighter, don't believe it. His style ain't brgke, so he won't fix it. The one dartger.J~ that his aggressive style will fatig1l~!liim during the two­minute rounds....· DeBiasi must remain 
patient and fight his fight. Should he avoid the knock-out, often, the judges favor the more technically sound boxer. 
-Tim Sherman 
Dave Monohan .M.,. hvs.l R 

.l tc. .• ae .·. ·omero. . . .
. .. 
For a heavyweight, Monohan is long on endurance and is a well-conQ.itioned ath­lete. He welcomes the challenge of going "all-out" for three rounds. 
After narrowly defeati 

in the semifinals, he w· er 
effort to get by Roni . o~ a great puncher but 
more than makes up ... it withe ranc(;) and aggressiveness. Romero struggled in the.se~!ft s, W?F~ing hard to earn a split 

-
decision victory over SteveiY$.IJlith. Romero relies more on his 
strength and power than anything els · e is d~finitely not afraid 
to take a punch if he can throw one i tJ!rn. Romero will be looking to brawl, ~p. th~two start trading punches, ifcould be)ights out for Monohan. Howeyet,Monohan's training will enable him tO stand toe-to-toe for three rounds and not be phased. He may need to if he is going to beat a true puncher like Romero. 
-Mike Day 
Cl'.l TS: 

~· BB: 
0

-MD: c::t... KL: 
---~~----~~.......------.......---~~~-----~--------~-~~-~-..--·-.r -~-~-­
page 4 The Irish Extra• BENGAL BOUTS Friday, February 28, 1997 
Simply the Best 
continued from page 1 
''Boxing is boxing, but this is different," Christoforetti said of the program. "It works for such a good cause, and I really like the idea that we train as a team." As a boxer, he brought into the program an experience that is unique to most Bengal Bouters. While most of the boxers cannot boast previous experience before entering the program, Christoforetti brought with him fighting experience. Although he had never actually boxed, he had a black belt in martial arts by his sophomore year in high school and also had experience with kick-box­ing. "When I came in as fresh­man, I was used to fighting in a lot different ways, so I thought it might be a little unfair that I kind of had that advantage," Christoforetti explained. "But boxing really was something new." The competitive side of Christoforetti manifested him­self early as he made his first goal to dethrone Jeff Goddard, a fighter much like himself. Goddard was a three-time champion who was touted by many as Mr. Bengal Bouts. Christoforetti went in as a freshman and pushed the favorite to three rounds, even­tually losing by a split decision, but making a statement of his seriousness about the Bouts and his role in them. To this day, that match remains the only loss in his time at Notre Dame. "That was the best and most memorable fight of my career here," he commented. "What kind of sums up Bengal Bouts for me is that my parents drove both of us home afterward. We really didn't know each other 

before the fight, but after that, we became very good friends." 
What is so impressive about Christoforetti, though, is not so much what he does in the ring, but what he does out of the ring. As president, he is basi­cally in charge of organizing the event, from conditioning to instruction, from deciding what kind of shorts they will wear to finding people to fund those shorts. 
"It is a gigantic, enormous event to plan," Christoforetti said. "But my favorite part of it being able to contribute." 
Kmetz attested to the work Christoforetti puts in as presi­dent. 
"In four years, we've seen four good presidents, but John has put more into it than any­one," Kmetz commented. "He is such a skilled fighter, but he spends half of practice dealing with money." 
Christoforetti's dedication goes beyond the official busi­ness too. With his previous experience added to that of four years here, he makes the perfect teacher, and that he does. He's one of the main instructors down in the boxing cage, and he's relentless in giv­ing his time to help a fellow fighter. 
"He's the best teacher," Mellin commented. "He gets in the ring with you, and he'll say 'great job' and then keep hit­ting you. Then he'll stop to help you out, but then he'll get in and hit you again." 
It goes to assume that spend­ing so much time helping everyone else hinders his own personal training. Christoforetti grants the assumption but won't even admit it as a nega­tive thing. 
"There really isn't a bad thing about being president," he said. "It does affect your training because you spend so much time sparring with people who aren't of your weight class or who might not have as much experience, but I'm glad I can help them." 
"It [Bengal Bouts] does so much for so many people, and I want to keep it that way." 
There is no question that Christoforetti will leave the Bengal Bouts better off when he steps out of the ring on Saturday. The only question remains is where does he go from here. Of the current seven or so Bengal Bouts coaches and managers, three are veterans of the program themselves. 
Tom Suddes and Terry Johnson, who head the pro­gram, are 1971 and '74 gradu­ates respectively and have been with the Bengal Bouts since graduation. Pat Farrell, a '66 graduate, has also returned to coach and says that as long as he's in South Bend, he will con­tinue to do so. 
When asked if coming back to the Bengal Bouts is something that interests him, Christoforetti came up with one small problem. 
"Well, I'm going to be a doc­tor, so I don't know how much time I'll have," he answered. "But hopefully, if my career will let me, I'll be able to come back." 
"I know I'll at least come back for the Bouts every year." 
Still, he's left his mark on the program, one that won't fade for a long, long time. 
"He's just one of the reasons Terry and I keep coming back," Suddes said of Christoforetti. 
Maybe there's a young Christoforetti out there who will do the same for the real thing some day. 
'Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished.' 
..-­
Two-time Bengal Bouts winner John Christoforetti (above right) raises his arms after defeating freshman David Remick in the semifinals. Christoforetti will meet junior Ryan Rans in the finals. 
A boxer (left) quietly awaits his moment under the lights. 
Defending champion Brian Gaffney (below) rallied to win in a split decision against freshman Mike Romanchek. On Saturday, Gaffney will take on Mike Debiasi in a rematch of last year's finals. 
Photos by Brandon Candura and Rob Finch 


Editors: Betsy Baker, Mike Day, Kathleen Lopez, Tim Sherman ~ Front Cover: Bryan Meyer 
~ 
Production: Heather Cocks Photo Illustrations: Katie
E­
CI:) Kroener 
Photographers: Brandon 

ACCENT
Friday, February 28, 1997 page 13 

only one of its kind that anyone knows about and, as a result, its seeds have been distributed to many gardens across the U.S. 
The Lincoln Museum (219-455-3864) in Ft. Wayne holds a collection of paint­ings, original photographs, letters and personal possessions of Abraham Lincoln, his family and descendants. Thematic and period exhibits highlight several aspects of Lincoln's life, from boyhood to the presidency. Reconstructions in the museum include a log cabin, Lincoln's Springfield law office and a War Department telegraph room. 
Though it's a one of the longer drives in this article, Indianapolis provides most of what a state capital and large city should. The home of 23rd President Benjamin Harrison, the Indianapolis Museum of Art, the Indianapolis Zoo, the Indiana State Museum and the James Irving Holcomb Observatory and Planetarium can all be found down in Indy. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway provides bus tours of the track when it is not in use and the Hall of Fame Museum displays the history of Formula-1 racing. There are, of course, several shopping centers including Union Station, a reno­vated late-19th Century train station now housing restaurants, nightclubs and spe­cialty shops. 
Ohio 

Canton is home to the Pro Football Hall of Fame (216-456-8207), which contains all the things you'd expect a hall of fame 
to have. 
Just to the north lies Cleveland on the shore of Lake Erie. The home of baseball's Indians (and their fans let you know it) also houses the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Lakeview Cemetery (with the graves of President James Garfield and John D. Rockefeller among 100 varieties of trees, shrubs and flowers), the USS Cod (a World War II fleet submarine) and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
The National Shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes (216-481-8232) lies 10 miles east of Cleveland. U.S. 20 and 
U.S. 6 lead out to the grotto set into a hillside on Chardon Road. Like Notre Dame's Grotto, it resembles the one in France. A chapel and the Way of the Cross -which goes through hillside woods and shrines -also are on the grounds. 
The Hayes Presidential Center (419-332-2081) lies just off the Ohio Turnpike in Fremont. The 25-acre site known as Spiegel Grove encom­passes the Victorian mansion and wooded estate of President Rutherford B. Hayes. Family momentos, a library and the public and private papers and books of Hayes are kept in a memorial build­ing. The iron gates at the area's six entrances were at the White House during the Hayes administration. 
The Titanic Memorial Museum (513-492-7762) is located just off 1­75 in Sidney, Ohio. Why there is a Titanic memorial in Sidney, Ohio is a landmark in itself. Several mod­els of the luxury liner, more than 3,000 pieces of memorabilia (including survivors' clothes) and photographs and newspapers can be viewed. 
Toledo is the closest Ohio city to South Bend. The city features the Toledo Museum of Art, the Toledo Zoo and the Wildwood Manor House, the former home of Champion Spark Plug Co. founder Robert A. Strannahan. 
Michigan 

The Amway Corporation Tour's world headquarters (616-787-6701) 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accent Editor 
N
ot everybody can fly. drive, or sail off to warmer climates one week from today. While some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students leave the books and papers behind for the sands of Florida, Texas or Mexico, others will head home or simply remain in rain­soaked and mud-laden South Bend. 
For those students laying low in the dorms or heading home to their Midwestern dwellings, here is a random list of fairly close attractions and histori­cal sites. Most trips can be completed in a day and those that might require an overnight stay would only necessitate one evening in a Motel 6 or Days Inn. 
This feature is the result of painstaking research, meaning a casual flipping through AAA Tourbooks. All it takes to visit these places and see a bit of the Midwest is a desire to expand the mind ... and a car and some gas money. Some are of national significance, others are rarer and more unique and some are just plain weird. And if you are planting yourself on the couch or the beach for the break, you can read about these places and laugh at some of the things America feels the need to commemorate. 
Indiana 

Nearby Elkhart is home to the Midwest Museum of American Art and the S. Ray Miller Foundation Inc. Antique Car Museum. The art museum (219-862­
it a 

2714) contains a permanent collection of American paintings, prints, drawings, watercolors, sculpture and photographs spanning 150 years. Works by Alexander Calder, Grandma Moses and Norman Rockwell hang from the walls and ceilings. 
The S. Ray Miller Foundation Inc. Antique Car Museum (219-522-0539; and it must be referred to by this name always, or you will not be allowed in) contains 40 restored autos, such as a 1930' Duesenberg "J" Murphy Convertible owned by Al Capone's lawyer, Jake 'The Barber" Factor. Also in the museum is a collection of radiator auto emblems and artifacts from the early days of the auto industry. 
Fairmount, Ind. sits roughly three­fourths of the way from South Bend to Indianapolis, just west of I-69. The Fairmount Historical Museum (317 -948­4555) contains exhibits on the lives of actor James Dean, "Garfield" creator Jim Davis and the history of Grant County. The James Dean Gallery (317 -948-3326) has a large collection of Dean memora­bilia including clothes, photos, screen­plays and posters. A theater presents screen clips and tests. Dean was born in nearby Marion. 
The· Deam Oak in Bluffton is a rare hybrid tree in that it is a natural cross between the white and chinquapin oak. Can you believe that?! A natural cross! Situated at the center of a small tract of state-owned land, the tree is a memorial to C.C. Deam, a noted botanist, author and research forester. The tree is the can be seen in Ada, situated somewhere between Battle Creek and Lansing. A one-hour guided walking tour is offered, allowing visitors to see the research and development section and one of Michigan's largest private printing shops. 


Battle Creek is the home of the Kellogg brothers who, while experimenting in the kitchens of the Battle Creek Sanitarium (yes, experimenting in the kitchen of the sanitarium) in 1894, developed a flaked cereal. As a result, Battle Creek is the breakfast food center of the nation, hous­ing the Kellogg Co., the Post Division of Kraft-General .Foods Corp. and the Ralston Purina Co. 
Getting to Detroit will require about a five-hour drive but will easily provide a day's worth of entertainment. There's Belle Isle, an island park in the middle of the Detroit River with lots of stuff on it; the Detroit Historical Museum; the Detroit Institute of Arts; and the Motown Historical Museum. There's also tons of stuff outside Detroit, like the Henry Ford Estate in Dearborn and the Lionel Trains Inc. Visitors Center in Chesterfield. 
Wisconsin 

There's Milwaukee. To get there, just hop on I-94 (heading north) and get off when you see the exit sign from the opening to "Laverne and Shirley." 
The Brooks Stevens Automotive Museum houses 72 vintage, sport and classic automobiles and race cars in mint condition for your viewing pleasure. Milwaukee also has an art museum and a zoo, like many of the other cities men­tioned in this article. The Milwaukee Public Museum contains more than 4.5 million specimens depicting natural his­tory and geologic processes. 
The 37-room Pabst Mansion (414-931­0808) was built in 1893 for Captain Frederick Pabst, the beer baron. The home features carved wood, stained­glass windows and ornamental ironwork. 
Industrial tours of Miller Brewing Co. (414-931-BEER) and the Pabst Brewery (414-223-3709) both offer samplings of the factories' products. 
Illinois 

The McDonald's Mus~um in Des Plaines is a red and white" tiled McDonald's that has been rebuilt at its original site from 1955. The history of the fast-food restaurant chain is high­lighted with original equipment, menus, photographs, documents and a short movie. Four 1955 autos are in the park­ing lot. 
The town of Dixon features Ronald Reagan's boyhood home (815-288-3404). Reagan was born in nearby Tampico and grew up in Dixon. This house was the family's residence from 1920-23 and has been restored and furnished to appear as it did during their stay. 
If you can make it all the way down to southern Illinois (which is improbable, but this attraction is worth mentioning anyway), get yourself to Metropolis. This town of 6,700 actually has a 15-foot-tall bronze statue of Superman in Superman Square in the center of town. The Planet newspaper office issues copies of the fic­tional periodical and in June the town stages the Superman celebration during which the Man of Steel battles crooks outside. 
Also consider Chicago (who wouldn't) and Springfield, which is loaded with Lincoln sites, including his grave. Oak Park boasts the Frank Lloyd Wright Home and Studio and the Ernest Hemingway Museum. 
If nothing else, there is always the College Football Hall of Fame and the Studebaker Museum right here in South Bend. 
Of course, the easiest choice is to flop down on the couch with the remote for the week and catch up on some sleep. 

~--------­

~--------~ ~-~~--------~---~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 28, 1997 
• SPRING TRAINING 

Bonds cleared after accident 
Associated Press 
San Francisco Giants fans can relax. Barry Bonds is OK. 
In fact, baseball's highest­paid daredevil is now joking about his recent staircase plunge. 
Bonds returned to practice Wednesday a day after falling down a flight of stairs in his rented home and injuring his right hip. He was cleared to workout after an MRI showed no damage. 
"It felt a little different today, but not much," said Bonds, whose batting practice routine was cut in half by the Giants. "I'm fine." 
Bonds planned to play in a six-inning game today against San Francisco's minor leaguers, and expects to be fine for the Giants' exhibition opener Friday against San Diego. 
He's sure, though, that the hip might start aching again on Sunday. The Giants will travel to Tucson that day for an exhi­bition game against the Colorado Rockies, and Bonds always does everything he can to skip the four-hour bus trip. 
"I will be sick on Sunday," he joked. "I'll jump off my roof to get out of going to Tucson." 
two-year contract extension av­eraging a record $11.45 million in 1999 and 2000. Bonds was 
and ceramic animals. 
scoreless inning for the Pirates and Mark Johnson, Chad Hermansen and Emil Brown homered against Mexico City. 
Astros 
Infielder Ricky Gutierrez will be sidelined for longer than Houston first thought after a torn ligament was discovered during surgery. 
The 26-year-old infielder was injured Tuesday when he charged and dived for a low chopper hit by the mound, jam­ming his thumb into the turf. Preliminary X-rays showed a chip fracture, but team physi­cian Dr. Tom Mehlhoff also found a torn ligament during the procedure. 
Gutierrez will wear a cast for six weeks and is expected to be sidelined from 10-12 weeks. 
Angels 
Outfielder Tim Salmon and Anaheim agreed to a four-year contract extension through 2001 worth about $22 million that will make him the highest­paid player in the team's histo­ry. 
Salmon will earn $3.5 million in 1997, the final season of a $7.5 million, four-year contract. 
''I'm a little bit embarrassed by that," Salmon said at Peoria, Ariz. "Certainly that doesn't correlate with the type of play­ers they've had here over the years. Basically, I'm just very fortunate to be playing in a day and age when the market is bearing what it is." 
Indians 
Jim Thome and Julio Franco homered in an intrasquad game at Winter Haven, Fla. 
Kenny Lofton sat out for the second straight game with a hy­perextended left knee. The Gold Glove center fielder hurt him­self when he missed a step on a flight of stairs before reporting to spring training. 

"I just didn't want to go out there and do anything crazy," Lofton said. ''I'll be fine." 
Herbert Perry, battling for a roster spot, went 3-for-3 with five RBis for the second team, including his first homer of the spring. 
Yankees 
Ruben Rivera's shoulder problems are forcing the out­fielder to see noted surgeon Dr. James Andrews. 
Rivera was examined by Yankees physician Dr. Stuart Hershon, who recommended the procedure after two days of tests in Tampa, Fla. Rivera is to be examined by Andrews in Birmingham, Ala., for a second opinion. 
If he has surgery, Rivera, who Yankees manager Joe Torre planned to use as a backup to Bernie Williams in center field, would probably be out for 2-3 months. 
Rivera, 23, hurt his shoulder Sept. 25 in the Yankees' divi­sion-clinching win over the Milwaukee Brewers. New York was leading 14-1 in a 19-2 rout when Rivera made one of his two throws from right field to third base. 
"At 56 years old, I could say it was a foolish thing to do," Torre said. "When you're 22, I'm not sure you could really fault him for challenging some­body." 
Phillies 
Danny Tartabull arrived in camp at Clearwater, Fla., six days after he agreed to a one­year, $2.3 million contract. 
Tartabull, who said last week that he would arrive Tuesday, said he was a day late because he needed extra time to help prepare his family for their move east from California. 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Moore files lawsuit 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. Notte Dame assis· tl!.tl'tJolotbttH coach flled afed­Thursday, aceus·nob oa:vie an~ the f-disc:dmina• 
as lt'ish 
in 1988 

fired hhn __ -· -_ t~klng the top spot fol· 
lowing Holtz's resignation late 
lastyear. 

_ The Rev. E. William 
Beauchamp. Notre Dame 
executive vice president, 
.called the lawsuit "entirely 
without merit" but declined to 
comment further. 

''Notre Dame has complete 
confidence in Bob Davie, a 
corifi.dence which was a major 
factor. in his selection as the 
university's new head football 
coaching record during his nine years at Notre Dame and despite the fact that Moore was In good health and had no intention of retiring," Uebermttn said. . . 
The university later claimed Moore had been fired · fail" i.tlg to meet the of'
vie and Notre 
UUUUa•.J.U/5 and 
orren!Uve to 

Dame then mer Purdue coach Colletto ·as· offensive cooriitrta• tor, despite Colleto's reputed history of abusing players.
Moore's suit also named Fan Action Inc., publisher of Blue and Gold Illustrated. Moore says a January 1997 article in the sports publica­tion defamed him by saying he could no longer meet the demartds of his job. • 
Moore seeks reinstatement, lost wages from Notre Dame; and $3 million in compensato~ ry damages from Davie and Notre Dame. He is seeking $1 million in compensatory dam­ages from Blue and Gold; and $5 million more in punitive damages from the defendants. 
The federal Age Discrimination in EmploymentAct prohibits employers from firing someone because Of age. 
'.'It's crystal clear and \Ve do allege that the d!scrimination law cov(:lrs •college football," Lieberman said. . Moote's attorheys argue that their client's dismissal fs part of a pattern of had deci­sions by Davie. 

Lost: Navy blue backpack In SDH at  WE NEED A DRUMMER for our  Electrolysis by Rebecca  GOODLUCK-WOME~S&  
NOTICES  dinner on Wed. Important CPA books are inside! Please return If  band!ll If you have your own equip­ment and are interested, call  FOR RENT  Blend Method 674-6933  MEN'S 8-BALL TEAMS.  
picked up by mistake. No questions  Michelle at 3821.  FAX IT FASTI!I  YOU ROCK!!  
SPRING BREAK  asked.  AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM  Sending & Receiving  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  Call4-3397.  CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLY­ HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  at  Kevin Gaffney-you are the best  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  MENT-Industry offers Travel  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  THE COPY SHOP  boxer of all -you would definatly  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  LOST. One black leather  (Hawaii, Mexico. Caribbean),  272-6551  LaFortune Student Center  beat Cy Saba!  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  ladies glove with white fur lining.  lmcomparable benefits. & good pay.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
TUB. SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  Oh. how I miss it! Beth x4951  Find out how to start the application  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  FAX IT FAST! II  Hello one pen Hello one pen Hello  
TIKI BEACH BAR. HOME OF THE  process now! Cruise Employment  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  one pen Hello one pen  
BIGGEST PARTY.  Found -Blue paperback Bible on  Services provides the answers. Call  ND 2773097  Tired of the caffeine high? Are your  Anyone want to go to the cool bar?  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  2/20 on sidewalk near Galvin Life  800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are  studies draining you? Want to  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  Science. Call Julie@ 1-6085.  a research & publishing company)  FOR SALE  increase your mental clarity, focus and endurance? You are a phone  Tenillel  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  WANTED  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ call away from changing your entire futurel1-800-927-2527 ext.1 051  Tenillell Tenille!!!  
Phone 631-COPY  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  urn mattress set. Never used still in  Life's hard; let's not make it harder.  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  We are the ND fencing groupies,  Peace  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  NEAR LAKE PLACID  (219) 674-2352  and tomorrow we make our pres- 
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  1-800-786-8373  ence known. (Nicole & Nicole,  Physics Girl,  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  ND GRAD WANTS TO PASS ON  you're our heroes.)  I LOVE YOU.  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  COUNSELORS needed for out- Wanted:  DRIVER to take student  HIS LEGACY:  -Craig  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight  standing Maine camps! CAMP VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  from Clay H.S. to SMC. 2:45pm. $18/wk  M. Tu. Th.  '85 Buick Skyhawk GREAT Student Carl  Adoption: Avery loving. financially  How am I funny?  I am I hear to  
Open Early, Late. & Weekends  for boys. Each located on magnlfl-.  233-4581 or 631-7531  $500 obo  secure, well educated young cou­ amuse you?  
cent lakefront setting with excep­ 289-4384  Mel  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  tional facilities. Over 1 DO positions  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Close and caring extended family.  Zero-Rock. be careful when I play  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  at each camp for heads and assls­ -Fishing Industry. Details on how to  Beautiful 4 bedroom, 3 bath, 2  We offer a special life for your child.  my rounding trick.  
GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL.  tants in tennis. basketball, baseball.  find a high-paying job with excellent  office home on 3/4 acre, wooded  Expenses paid. Please call Sherrl &  
CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  volleyball. soccer, lacrosse. golf.  benefits (transportation + room &  and private with pool, 10 minutes  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  
field hockey, roller hockey, swim- board). For information: 800-276­ from campus. Many extras.  My eat's breath smells like cat  
ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  0654 ExtA55841 (We are a  $129,500. 271-7640 or 631-7459.  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  food.  
Thank you St. Jude, for prayers  water-skiing, archery, weight train- research & publishing company.)  -Spring Break-call Jen X 1485  
answered.  ing. athletic trainer. journalism. pho­ 1990 HONDA Civic DX HB. New  
tography, ceramics, crafts. drama.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  tires. new exhaust, new timing belt,  ATIN: SRS./FB FANS  We can do that, we don't even have  
Longing white beaches. crystal blue  dance  Make a difference In the life of a  great mileage. CD player.  B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES- to have a reason.  
water, a suntan and great parties?  Uazz. tap, ballet). nature study,  child! Summer therapy camp for  $3900/best. 233-6124  GRAD/FA ORIFB wknds.  
Sign up now for College Tours  backpacking, horseback riding,  handicapped children. Located on  291-7153  
Spring Break Cancun '97. Call 1­ ropes course, trip leaders, mountain  the shore of Lake Superior near Big  Bianchi mtn bike for sale. Never rid- You know this. MANII  
800-244-4463.  biking. riflery. general (w/youngest  Bay, MI. Positions available for  den. Last year's model. Paid $550.  •.......Hey JUNIORS**'*****..  
................................  campers). Also looking for secre­!aries. maintenance, kitchen. Camp  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  Sacrifice $450 obo. Call 243-1308 ask for John  Send letters to your friends abroad. Drop letters off at 213 LaFun by  Fitz doesn't want the dibs  
Last minute deals to CANCUN!I!!!  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  Nurses. Therapists, Food Service,  Friday 2/28.  
See Anthony Travel Lafortune Student Center .................................  salary, room. board. laundry, cloth­ing, and travel allowance. MEN­CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 15 through August 10. Salary, room  IBM Thinkpad w/ Canon Printer $600 or best offer call Jen 284-4407  .............................. SABOR LATINO  There's two or three potential All-Stars in there.  
ILOST & FOUND I Beacon Street. Brookling. MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  & board, and experience of a life­time provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay  PERSONAL  Friday Feb. 28 10:30 pm-?  Big Chief count' em money. in exactly one week, we will be  
PO Box 1771, Duxbury. MA 02332,  Cliff Heatlh Camp, 310 W.  Jazzmen's  there. drinking thw world's best col- 
Lost backpack. Reward $100.  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam- Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  For a gift that is unique. send a  (SA 23 & Hill St)  fee.  We will enjoy the sights.  And  
Lost black MONTBELL backpack at  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  Ml 49855, (906) 228-5770.  BELLYGRAM to your SHEIKI  College Night-18 & overl  we will have the time of our life.  
bookstore on  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  234·3355  
Feb 26 bet. 4-4:30pm. Dissertation disk & irreplacable photos inside. Pis call Yukiko @ I -4861  CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center. Dooley Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Babysitter Wanted for 1 yr old in our home 50 hrs/wk, Castle Pt 243-0785 eves 616-683-3140 days  JAZZERCISE Very close to campus 277-0111  All-night dancing I SABOR LATINO..............................  Who can top working with Day because he is Simply the Best.  

Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll •NBA 
Biggest Bearcats pave ·Bulls corralled by Cavaliers 
way to win over Eagles 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
MILWAUKEE 

Cincinnati's formidable front court made up for the loss of its two guards Thursday night. 
Danny Fortson scored 26 points and Ruben Patterson had 19 as the ninth-ranked Bearcats seri.ously damaged Marquette's NCAA hopes with an 80-74 victory at the Bradley Center. 
Cincinnati point guard Damon Flint hurt his right wrist and ribs in a nasty fall Tuesday night against Southern Mississippi and Charles Williams stayed home for what coach Bobby Huggins called a violation of team policy. 
Flint spent Wednesday in a hospital because he had prob­lems breathing, Huggins said. 
He did not say when Flint was expected to return. 
That left the Bearcats with seldom-used senior Terrence Davis at the point and sixth man Darnell Burton at shooting guard. 
Davis had eight rebounds and Burton scored 15 points for Cincinnati (24-5, 12-1 Conference USA). 
But it was Patterson and Fortson who carried the load for the Bearcats. 
"Ruben made some big plays and Danny made some big plays," Huggins said. "But they are good players and they're Sl\pposed to do that for us." 
At least Fortson was around this time to do that work. 
Fortson scored just four points against Southern Mississippi and fouled out after 21 minutes. 

SURPWSE! ~ ~~ ~lP 

~~ 
~~ 
~ 
•
Happy Birthday Adriana! 
love, Juanita, Melissa, and your roomies 


By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
The "Running of the Bulls" looked like it was stuck in cement against the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The Bulls, seeking to equal last year's historic 72-10 regu­lar season record, added a bunch of dubious milestones instead, losing 73-70 to the tight-defending Cavaliers Thursday night. 
Chicago, which won 50 of its first 56 games last season, dropped to 49-7 and will now have to go 23-3 to equal last year's record. 
A win on Friday against Sacramento will put Chicago in a tie with the 1982-83 Philadelphia 76ers for the sec­ond-best record with 50 victo­ries in NBA history. Last year's Bulls remain first. 
Still, Dennis Rodman wasn't all that concerned about Chicago's first loss since Feb. 5. 
"So we lost one. So?" Rodman said. "Now we have to try to get back on track. I think we have the ability to do that, don't you?" 
The Bulls, who started the season with 12 straight wins, were on a seven-game winning streak. 
Cleveland's third sellout crowd of the season stood and roared as Michael Jordan, who has caused so much heartbreak for this city, threatened to send the game into overtime. 
But Jordan's 3-pointer from the left side rimmed out. It was Chicago's 13th miss in 14 tries from beyond the arc, one of several season lows induced by 
the swarming, ball-control Cavs. 
"It was a busted play and I tried to get a good feel for the ball but couldn't," said Jordan, whose career high of 69 came against the Cavaliers in 1990. 
"It just was an off-night for us. There really is no other explanation for it." 
Bulls coach Phil Jackson had one. "It was a dismal performance for our ballclub," he said. 
Cleveland, the league's top­rated defensive team, held the Bulls to season lows in points and field-goal shooting. • 
The Bulls made 25 of 76 shots from the field (.329), eclipsing their previous season low of .337 against Indiana in December.The Cavs won with­out their top rebounder, Tyrone Hill, who was out with a sprained ankle. 
"We talked about the number of times this year against good teams that ... we don't hang on," said Cleveland coach Mike Fratello, who has guided the Cavs to the seventh playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. "You could feel in the huddle how much they wanted to hang 
on." 
Terrell Brandon had 23 points for the Cavs, who snapped a six-game losing streak against Chicago. 
Bobby Phills scored 13 and forced Jordan into a 7 -for-25 shooting performance. 
Cleveland rookie-Vitaly Potapenko had his best game of the season with eight of l).is 12 points in the fourth quarter. 
"He was the X-factor tonight," Jackson said. Jordan led the Bulls with 23 
points. Rodman tied a season­high with 16 points and had 16 rebounds. Scottie Pippen had 14 points and 14 rebounds. 
Potapenko gave the Cavs a 64-52 lead with a spinning hook shot to start the fourth quarter. 
But the Bulls scored nine straight with Jordan watching from the bench. Ron Harper started it with a jumper, and Pippen sank a foul shot to cut it to 64-61 with 7:37 to play. 
Potapenko scored six of the Cavs' next eight points. After Chicago missed its first 12 3­pointers, Steve Kerr finally made one to cut it to 72-68 with 
2:33 remaining. The Bulls, who scored 80 points against the Miami Heat in December, were 11-for-38 in the first half. 

....
Jordan was 2-for-12, missing a driving finger-roll and several open jumpers. 
The Cavs, who held high­scoring Seattle to a season-low 72 on Tuesday, held Chicago to a season-low in the first half and led 41-32. 
It was clear the Bulls were in trouble when Rodman became their leading scorer with 10 points on a basket that cut the Cavaliers' lead to 50-38 with 
7:39 left in the third. 
Notes: The Bulls' previous season low for 3-point shooting was 1-for-13 against Boston in November.... Chicago's previ­ous low for a half this season was 34 against the Knicks in January. They scored 24 points in a half three times last sea­son.... Rodman picked up his fifth foul right after falling along the baseline near the camera crews -without inci­dent. 


-
Leave. the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! Friday and Saturday 10 p.m. -3 a.m. 
631-9888 

• fENCING 
Fencers head to unfamiliar ground, the Joyce Center 
-
·~ 
-
By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 
The fencing squad will find itself among unusual surround­ings this weekend as it com­petes at home for the first time since November. How the team handles this new experience will determine the outcome of Saturday and Sunday's Midwest Team Championships. 
"It is great to have your home spectators to cheer you on. It puts a lot of pressure on us, but it is the kind of pressure we can respond to," said junior epee captain Anne Hoos. 
The team does have some concern that the excitement may cause a loss of concentra­tion. 
"Sometimes playing at home can be too much of a distrac­tion," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
One person who is ready to prove that wrong is junior epeeist C.J. Jackson. Jackson and the rest of the epee squad are more than ready to avenge last weekend's opening loss to Lawrence University, in which Jackson suffered two defeats. 
''I'm going to be ready to whip anybody .that gets in front of me," said Jackson. 
Jackson's confidence reflects in his faith that the rest of the squad will be there to support him. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 28, 1997 

"I get a lot of energy from the team. They get me up when I'm down," said Jackson. 
Jackson and fellow epeeist Brian Stone represent an epee squad that has been inconsis­tent during the course of the year. But as the post-season draws near, the two feel confi­dent that they will put it all together starting this weekend. 
"When Brian's been up, I've been down. When I've been doing well, he's been down. But I think we will put it to­gether this weekend. If that happens, look out," said Jackson. 
This weekend represents the final preparation before the team enters next weekend's post-season Midwest Regional Qualifiers. The benefit of fenc­ing 11 Midwest opponents this weekend is that many of them will also be present at the qual­ifying. 
"This weekend will give us one last look before we head into the most important part of the season," said Hoos. 
In particular, the Ohio State women's squad will have two new fencers the Irish have yet to face. This meet will give a good scouting report of what can be expected at the qualify­ing. 
"We have yet to face Ohio State since they've added a strong Russian foilist and a Swedish epeeist. It will be in­teresting to see how much they improve their team," said Auriol. 

The team recognizes this challenge, and feels prepared to fend off the competition on its home turf. 
TfACH EllllLISH in ~ ·,M '· 
• • -EAST--Eruvc 'EUR li PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our materials profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefits. For 
informdion, call: (206) 971-3680 
We •tot • raeuch &: pubU.tl\rt co. 
Ext. 1(55845 


u 


lroh 1.-. F\a•~'" 

Dinner and native dances With host Emil Guillermo, Journalist &Key-Note Speaker 
7:00 PM in Lafortune Ballroom 

($7 General, $3 Members) *Followed by House Party with Cover Charge* 



Cultural Arts Performance 

'"'' 
Washington Hall (Time TBA) ($5 General, $3 Members) 

Tickets Available at .Lafortune Info Desk 

"They want more than any­our guard down, because they thing to beat us. We can't Jet are out to get us," said Hoos. 

JAZZMAN'S AND SABOR LATINO (11 PIECE LATINO BAND) 
present a 

COLLEGE FRIDAY NIGHT DANCE FRIDAY, FEB.l8 
COLLEGE I D'S REQUIRED (STAFF OR STUDENT) DOORS OPEN AT 9 PM FOOD AVAILABLE 
Coming: 

Thursday, March 6 Saturday March 22 STOMPER BOB SKALCOHOLIKS (7 piece ska band with horns) 21 and over with proper ID lower level 18 and over with college ID upper level Jazzman's provides uniformed security guards inside and outside of the club 
Friday and Saturday February 28 and March 1 8 and 10 pm $2 
Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

the 1997-98 year. You may pick up Student Activities, 3 I 5 LaF 
ALUMNI
Ill
SENIOR 
:z: 
1­
# Pia er-Team 

1  Page, Victor  -GU  
2  Garrity, Pat  -ND  21.2  
3  Croshere, Austin  -PC  18.4  
4  Holloway, Shaheen  -SHU  17.6  
5  Brown, Derrick  -PC  16.7  
6  Abrams, Danya  -BC  16.5  
7  Hamilton, Zendon  -SJU  16.4  
8  Williams, Alvin  -VU  16.3  
9  Thomas, Tim  -VU  16.2  
10  Sanders, Levell  -SHU  16.1  
Jon Kin  I The Observe  

Diamond Price Quotations™ 
219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
-
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authority®
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
1 

-, 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
DJ Dance Par~! Mix of newest and ottest 
high-energy rock 
SATURDAY: 
8 Ball Pool Tournament at 1:30PM. 
1 Dixieway North 4 pool tables, 4 dart Cleveland boards, big screen 1V's, on and good times for all! 
-
..c:: ~ 
Ii-I 
Cl) 
e Cl) c.J 
~ 
CIJ 
c.J 

~
..... ~ 
... 
~ 
w 

-·
e 
~ 

-~~--~---~-.,_...--------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 28, 1997 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Men come home with win after clash with Spartans 
By JIM ZALETA 
Sports Writer 
The 29th ranked Notre Dame Men's Tennis team improved to 9-3 Wednesday night with a win against the Michigan State Spartans. 
The Irish came out strong to win the doubles point and held on to defeat the Spartan S-2. The match came down to the Nos. 5 and 6 singles matches which both went to the full three sets. The 69th ranked Spartans lost their fourth in a row to give them a record of 4-5 on the sea­son. 
"This is the best prepared team we've played all year" Irish Head Coach Bobby Bayliss said after the match 
-
against Michigan State. 
The Irish won 2 of the 3 doubles matches on Wednesday. Junior Jakub Pietroswki and Sophomore Brian Patterson easily won the No. 1 doubles match against Francisco Trinidad and Ken Kicongo 8-4. 
The No. 3 doubles team of freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller continued their excellent season with a win over Luke Linder and Ben Hetzler, also by an 8-4 mark. Miller and Sachire improve to 7-2 this season. If the two freshmen stay paired up in the future, they will be a pair to watch as they continue with their next three years of eligibility. 
At the No. 2 doubles spot the Irish duo of senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild fell to Trey Eubanks and Chris Struck 8­
3. All three Irish doubles pairs travel to California to participate in a doubles tour­nament over the weekend. 
In a tight match between two ranked players at No. 1 singles, 77th ranked Trey Eubanks and No. 63 Pietrowski battled it out in two sets. Eubanks won the first set 6-4. Pietrowski bat­tled back, but lost the tie breaker to fall to his under­dog opponent. 
Sachire improved his per­fect No. 2 singles mark to 5­
0. Sachire, ranked No. 38 in the country, beat Hetzler easily in two sets, 6-3, 6-2. Sachire's rotation between Nos. 1 and 2 singles spots with Pietrowski have created better match-ups for the two players, who usually match up well with the playing styles of their opponents. Patterson fell in No. 3 singles to Aaron Murray 7-6, 6-2. Patterson falls to 15-8 over­all on the season. 
Simme had a tough time defeating Mark Jacobson in his first set at No. 4 singles winning 7-5, but put him away with an impressive 6-1 

So why do you do it? 
intensity 
heart 

win the second set. 
"We're going to go in there and try to turn things around [after the loss to North Carolina Sunday]." Simme said before the match. Simme improves his overall record to 16-8. 
The match came down to the Nos. 5 and 6 singles matches. Both matches went to three sets scaring the Irish as their Spartan opponents came from behind to tie by winning the second set. 
No. 6 player Eric Enloe came through again for the Irish to secure the victory for the Irish. Enloe defeated Francisco Trinidad 6-3, 2-6, 6-4. At No. 5, Rothschild beat Bosnian Ivica Primorac 6-4, 2-6, 7-6. The two fresh­man from Michigan State played hard against their upperclassman opponents, but couldn't hold on in the final set. 
Six Irish players are travel­ing to La Jolla, California to compete in the Pacific Coast Doubles Championship this weekend. The Irish team resumes play Friday, March 

7 against Iowa at the Eck The ObserveriKatle Kroener Tennis Pavilion at 3:30. Senior Ryan Simme struggled early but closed out his opponent strong, 7-5, 6-1. 







Friday, February 28, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 

St. Mary's 
(North Village Mall) 
271-PAPA 

•Top 
5 leaders will be posted every Friday in The Observer 

•
The dorm which purchases the most Papa John's items between Feb. J4 & March 3 J will receive free pizza for their dorm's dance, plus SSOO for the dorm to spend at their discretion 

•See 
Hall President for details 


Notre Dame 
(Formerly Cactus Jacks) 
271-11 77 
Hours: Mon tl1ru Thurs: 1 1 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.m.-3 a.m Sunday: 12 p.m.-I a.m. 
Journey 
continued from page 24 
chance to improve those stand­ings in tournament play. 
"Regardless of the Big East tournament we should get a pretty good seed," McMillen said. "But, the tournament can improve our chances of getting a better seed by how we play and getting to the champi­onship game and hopefully upsetting UConn." 
Before the Irish set their sights on the 27-0 Huskies, they have their work cut out for them a.s all the squads know that the present game could be their last. 
McGraw has seen her squad dominate most Big East foes this year, as when teams have focused their attention on All­American candidates Morgan and Gaither, other players have stepped up. 
"We have learned to come out and beat everybody," Mollie Peirick said. "We have wanted to not just win but dominate, and I think we will bring that attitude into the tournament." 
Rosanne Bohman averages just under 10 points a contest and five boards a game. Jeannine Augustine has the best assist to turnover ratio on the team and is a menace on the defensive end. Peirick has also stepped recently as she has scored in double figures in seven of the last nine games. 
With the Irish domination in the conference, one wonders if 

Finance Club Elections 
Stock Exchange Booth 
(Atrium in COBA) 
Vote for Next Year's Officers 
(Finance Club Members Only may Vote) 
Monday & Tuesday March 3rd & 4th -1:45pm 
page 19 
they look past any of their opponents. 
"I don't think that matters because it is the post-season," said McMillen. 
With numerous injuries depleting the Irish lineup, play off the bench has been critical. Outside threat Sheila McMillen has provided a spark off the bench. Freshman center Julie Henderson has played physical inside and Adreinne Jordan's quickness has provided great defense. But, with just eight players in uniform, everyone has had to bring their game to a new level as they will be forced to play three games in three days. 
"I don't see it as a concern," Peirick said. "The main differ­ence it that we will be playing more guards." 
"I think that everyone has had to raise their level of play," McMillen said. "Simply because there are just eight players and everyone has had to do more things." 
The Big East Tournament provides the Irish a chance to fine tune their game and get into a post-season mind set. 
"It can get us use to the tournament atmosphere where anybody can beat anybody on any given night," McMillen said. "That will prepare us for the NCAA Tournament." 
McGraw's squad has already accomplished the most success­ful season ever. They will take the first step on their post-sea­son journey this Sunday in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 

.. 
-
Attention All Students 
interested in the 
Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Tuesday, March 4, 1997 6:00p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
~Used books bought and sold 
• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback & Paperback 


books in stock •Out-of-Print Searcb Sen~ce:$2.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS Find out how to begm your JOb search in National Par1<s, Forests. and Wildlife Preserves. Learn from the #1 Source that uncove~ hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



-
.... 
• 

----~------~
----.....-------­
page 20 
Along with Abrams, it is the back-court triumvirate of James 
Hoops 
"Scoonie" Penn, Duane Woodward, and Antonio
continued from page 24 
Granger that does the big 
In fact, a trip to the "Little things. Dance" may be more than a The diminuative Penn, who possibility. It's a probability. stands just 5-foot-10, is the floor 
"We really haven't talked leader of the Eagles, while 

w L about it," said MacLeod. "We're Woodward and Granger are 
18 8
just taking it one game at a both versatile off-guards. time. If it's meant to be, it will In fact, Granger is one of the be there at the end." league's most accurate three­
Boston College, who was point shooter, connecting at a 
19 9 

ranked in the top 25 for the first clip of over 41 percent. half of the season, likely has its "Their overall experience and goal of NCAA berth already shooting concerns me," revealed wrapped up. MacLeod. 
16 10 "They're in already," said It was that outside shooting MacLeod of the 17·8 (11-6 in that did in the Irish during the the Big East) Eagles. "They have two schools' first meeting. a lot of different weapons." In the 73-61 Eagle victory, it 15 13 
Abrams is number one on that was the deep ball that hurt the list of weaponry. Irish. Though his numbers have de­"I just hope they don't shoot 
9 8

clined a bit, the pre-season Big the ball like they did the first East Player of the Year hasn't time," said MacLeod. ••But disappointed during his fourth we're not going to change too year at the Heights. He is aver­much." 
5 12 11 14 aging over 15 points and eight Probably the biggest differ­rebounds per contest. ence between Saturday's game "He is just a tough player," and the Jan. 11 meeting is the said MacLeod. "He is a con­confidence level of Notre Dame. 4 13 9 17 cern." "It's way up," MacLeod said of Jon King I The Obs 
MacLeod will be looking at his his squad confidence. "We had centers to take care of the con­a great work-out Thursday." cern. "It was really snappy. They 
"We'll have Matt (Gotsch) on feel pretty good about them­him," said MacLeod. "Marcus selves." (Young) and Phil (Hickey) will They would feel even better if help out." they leave Conte Forum with a 
That means Notre Dame's Big 9-9 league mark. East Player of the Year candi­"They all know that they can date, Pat Garrity, will cover be .500," said MacLeod. "They Eagle center Mickey Curley. just want to earn a second road Curley, younger brother of ex­win." Eagle star Billy, is limited offen­Not if Danya Abrams has any­sively but does the little things. thing to say about it. 

-
-
Ill 
:z: 

• 
1­





Friday, February 28, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
Head coach Dave Poulin con­man. cludes his second year at the Furthermore, Poulin already
Finale 
helm, and although his team signed three highly-talented failed to make the playoffs, it is forwards to national letters ofcontinued from page 24 impossible not to recognize the intent in the fall signing period. 
"I remember that first game upward trend in Notre Dame "We want to end the season vividly: putting on the sweater, hockey. on a high note," stated going out and seeing the crowd The Irish are repleted with a Seyferth. 
and the fans." talented crop of young players. With a solid coach and a host 
"It was a big transition from Seven of the top eight scorers of talented players, one thinks playing high school hockey in return, and of these seven five the future holds a surfeit of Minnesota." are either sophomores of fresh-high notes. 

Schedule for March  
1:30 p.m. STANFORD-KEENAN CHAPEL  
March 2 Padre Pat Neary, esc  
March 9 and March 16 Spring Break  
March 23 (Palm Sunday) Padre Pat Neary, esc  
March 30 Easter Sunday-No Spanish Mass  
Todos Estan Invitados  0MPUS -MINI5TRY  

NEED HELP JOB HUNTING? 
READY-TO-WORK8M will electronically market your availability to potential employers throughout the Internet for as little as $10!!! 
* 
RTW will easily & quickly, put YOU on the net 

* 
RTW will give you international visibility 

* 
RTW will bring employers directly to you 

* 
RTW will forward your resume to employers 


Advertise your availability through READY-TO-WORKsM! EMPLOYERS, search our database for FREE! 
For details, call: (847) 604-2452 Or visit: www.readytowork.com 
READY-TO-WORK, L.L.C. P.O. Box 7470 Libertyville, IL 60048-7470 (847) 680-7894 

NEED HELP JOB HUNTING?SM
Fax: {847) 680-7917 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Bookstore Basketball -Sign-ups will start Mar. 3-6 from 11-2 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. in LaFortune. It will cost $10 per team. On Mar. 17-20 from 11-2 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. in LaFortune, it will cost $12 per team. On Mar. 21-23 at the same times, it will cost $15 per team. On Mar. 20 from 10-12 p.m. in Senior Bar, it will cost $15 per team. 
Sunday, March 2 • 2:00PM 
(Cash only on Jan 30) All Ticketmaster locations, 


-
Joyce Center at Notre Dame 
Reserved Seating $16, $13, $9 Magic Circle (Courtside seating with commemorative Harlem Globetrotters jersey) and VIP seating also available. For group discounts call (219) 631-7356 
I 

'ON SALE NOW 
Tickets available at Joyce Center Box 
or charge by at (219) 272-7979 
$3.00 discount for students and faculty with valid ND ID at Joyce Center Box Office only. 
I'M NORTHWEST 

•
vti'AII'[ 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 28, 1997 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Notre Dame's track squad gears up for post-season 
Season winds down with NCAA meet looming 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
The season is drawing to a close and Notre Dame's indoor track team still has a few meets to prepare for, the NCAA indoor championships March 6 and 7. 
The Irish will send a split­squad to the Silverton Invitational in Ann Arbor, Mich.. and the USA Track meet in Atlanta, Ga., this weekend. 
"Things are starting to wind down," said track eoach Joe Piane about the upcoming meets. 
Two of Notre Dame's bigger guns, hurdlers Dominque Calloway and Errol Williams, will be traveling to Atlanta to partieipate in the USA meet. 
Calloway and Williams both have established times in their respective events to qualify for the NCAA indoor meet and will use the USA meet as a prepara­tion for the NCAAs. 
Calloway has posted solid re­sults all season in the 200­meter hurdles and the 200­meter dash. 
She won the Michigan Invitational 200-meter dash and finished in third place at the Big East championships. 
She also won the 55-meter hurdles at Michigan and took second at the Big East. 
Williams has been ahead of the pack most of the time the 55 and 60-mcter hurdles. He set his season high at the Cannon IV Classic with a time of 7.93 seconds, and finished fifth at the Big East. 
"We are sending a couple to Atlanta, and no more than 15 to Michigan," said Piane. 
Among the 15 going to Michigan is the men's distance medley. The team has been trying to qualify for the NCAAs since the Meyo Invitational where it came within a hair of qualifying. 
The 4x800 team finished in fourth place at the Central Collegiate Championships but the 4x400 team finished eighth. 
The 4x400 team bounced back with a third place finish at the Big East championships, Feb. 15 and 16, but again failed to qualify. 
Senior Jeff Hojnacki and freshman Jennifer Engelhardt arc among the other qualifiers for the NCAAs. 
Described as a "talented kid" by women's coach Tim Connelly, Engelhardt improved her national ranking for the meet last week at the Alex Wilson Invitational. 
Hojnacki also improved his ranking, posting the third high­est time in the nation in the 800-meters. 
The Big East champion in the 1000-meters ran in the 800 at the NCAA championships last year. 
As the season winds down, all eyes are looking forward to the NCAA championships. There are just a few preparatory runs before the runners are partic­ipating in Indianapolis. 
....
-
-

HA AA 
St. Procopius-Cgo St. Agatha-Cgo San Diego St. Ben's-Detroit (South Bend) (South Bend) 
Applications available and turn into: 
Center for Social Concerns or Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 


~N Esp ~ ~'­


,W 


Schedule for March 
1:30 p.m. STANFORD-I(EENAN CHAPEL 
March2 Padre Pat Neary, esc 
March 9 and March 16 Spring Break 
March 23 (Palm Sunday) Padre Pat Neary, esc 
March 30. Easter Sunday-No Spanish Mass 
Todos Estan Invitados IMi 
CZ\MPUS 
MNISTRY 


HURRY 
• ' • ' • ' .
Club Registration Packets for 1997-1998 are due lTI the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, Friday, February 28 by 5· OOpm! 
• 
Friday, February 28, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
DILBERT A5KED ME. TO 
SPEAK TO YOU ABOUT THE PROJ"ECT PLAN 
YOU  CREATE.O  WITI-\OUT  
HIS  INPUT.  
)  

~~------------~----~ 
CROSSWORD 
:; 
() 
0 0 IT'5 It'\POS5IBLE.,
-' 
"' 
lC) "' 'IOU 1\AAOGANT "' 0 ...."' 
.... :; BABOON lll
0 
() 
·;; E 
"' "'\ I 
)/.:_·· ~ j·~ 
It) 
~------~----~~----~ 

ACROSS 1 Upward slope 10 Star in Perseus 15 "The Prisoner of Zenda" locale 16 Liberty 17 Victor over Blaine in 1884 18 Kind of chair 19 Heidi's height 20 Cuts inches off yards 21 Master hand 22 Natty Bumppo's quarry 24Zinger 26 Winter comment 27 Car bomb? 29 Comic Russian actor Mischa 30 Drivers' aid, for 
short 31 Sketch 34 Business abbr. 35 Capacitate 38 50th 
anniversary, for one 40 France or 
Jordan leader 41 "Hold on!" 43 From N.D. to La. 44 "Hard Hearted 
Hannah" 
composer 45 Naval bases? 49Sialom 
maneuver 50 "Rawhide" prop 53 Swill 54"Goon!" 56 First name in 
horror 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~--~~n~~-=+=-+"='"+"'-+~":'-i
II •=+::-t::+.=+:=-t 11 HurdIe 12 Coach's M.V.P. award 13 Think too highly of -:+::+::'r.-f"!" .-r.-:+.:::-r.:-r.:-t 14 "A Study in Scarlet" 
..ltlill~!tllll inspector

17-~t-::71-::-&&1111! 21 Darkness personified .,:::..J~-:::4~-7-1-:71 23 Work over "-'-"---'----'---'---'---' 25 Party board 
58 Last name in horror 59 "A Dog of 
Flanders" writer 60 Deputy 62 "Tiger Rose" 
actress Lenore, 1923 63 Easiest way to run 64 Have a trying experience 65 Media event 
DOWN 
1 Quartermaster's hangout? 2Winnowed 3 Blini 4 Start of Nero's reign 5 Thing 6 Battle mettle 7 Bedazzled 8 Sheriff's badge 9 Torah place marker 10 Man with all the 
answers 
28Civi1War general who became a best-selling author 
32 "Under Siege" star 33 Colonial newsman 35 Prodded into retiring 36 University of Montana site 37 Mixes before cooking 
HAI'PY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Build a base of public support for a cause close to your hea!l. Your gen~ erous contributions lo community life will receive fresh attention in early summer. A new alliance helps you forget an old disappoinlmcnt. Family life becomes more reward­ing than in the recent past. Academ­ic endeavors will boost your earning power. Seek a special license or cer­tificate. Real estate is an excellent field for someone who enjoys get­ting out from behind their desk. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Bernadette Peters, hockey player Eric Lindros. actor Gavin MacLeod, football play­er Bubba Smith. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A good day for buying and selling home-related items. You find just what you need to beautify your sur­roundings. Visit a flea market or secondhand store in search of tiny treasures. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There is new emphasis on prepara­tion. You must get ovt:r your reluc­tance tn plan things in detail. Final­izing a business transaction goes smoothly once you aiTive at a dollar tigurc. 
GE\\IINI (May 21-June 20): An unexpected offer should be snapped up bdore the other person changes her mind. A close encounter with a potential romantic partner proves enlightening. 
CA!';CER (June 21-July 22): You sense that an impassahlc barrier Iies ahead. Only a tendency to spread yourself too thin can prevent

SCOTT ADAMS 
you from enjoying the fruits of your labor. 
u 
LEO iJuly 23-Aug. 22): Greater

0 LEAN OVE.I\ 
personal effort on your part will 

I'M HAVING
~ HE.RE 50 I 
FL~5HB~CK5
t C~N 5L~P
"' 

TO MY 
. ~ 

, YOU. HONEYMOON. 
u. 

39Summer 51 Traffic director coolers 52 Canvas covers 42 Defender of 55 Give Life 
people's rights support? 46 Sun Bowl site 57 Cleans (up) 47 Riot participant 60 Morning riser 48 Swift 61 Inherited 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
hring an amhitious venture to a suc­c..:essful conclusion. Get any financial agreements in writing, even when dealing with friends and relatives. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There is a need to set limits now. Making too many commitments could leave you exhausted or broke. Even if a friend or relative comes to your rescue. the cost could be high. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Working quietly behind the scenes will be more effective than making a big splash. Think things through before taking action. Experience is the best teacher. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A good day to stay on the sidelines and draw your own conclusions. Higher profits are linked to the discovery of a new market. A rigid attitude will prolong a dispute. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Try not to make a mountain out of a molehill. Accept a sincere apol­ogy with good grace. If you want teen-agers to confide in you, do more listening than talking. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Some gossip circulating now 
may be false. Your persistence helps 
you triumph where others have 
failed. Tap all available sources of 
information until you g~t the 
answers you seek. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb 18): 
Unless you curb your impatience. 
you risk a major confrontation. 
Remember, many people cannot 
stand cliticism. no matter how con­
structive it may be. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Staying close to home this weekend 
will give you a chance to relax and 
unwind. Rely on fax or the phone to 
relay important information. A rela­
tionship that has been neglected can 
still be salvaged. 

-
BANDS! BANDS! NAZZ applications8 & 10:30pm tonight and 
with a demo tape DUE 
tomorrow night at Cushing 5 pm THIS WED., March 5 
once aga1n, courtesy of Q) 
....­
-. 
• WOMBlS BASKETBALL 

Tournament Time for Irish 
By JOE CAVATO wiped clean come the Spons Writer post-season. Muffet McGraw's squad has The regular season is enjoyed the most suc­over. The Irish record­cessful year in the pro­breaking mark of 25-5 is gram's history. But, now 



SPORTS "Wee en 
page 24 Friday, February 28,1997 
• MEN's BAKETBAll 

Hoopsters have sights set on trash talking Eagles, NIT
they begin their post-sea­son journey which begins this weekend in the Big East Tournament. 
Their 17-1 Big East record has landed the Notre Dame a first round bye and the third seed be­hind Big East 6 regular season champions and undefeated Connecticut and Big East 7 champions Georgetown. This Sunday at 8 p.m. the Irish will open tournament play which will have a differ­ent feel about it than the regular season. 
"It is definitely different because it's in the tourna­ment and we really need to raise our level of play," sophomore guard Sheila McMillen said. 
McGraw's squad will head to Connecticut with the No. 14 ranking in the country which will likely give them a favorable seed in the Big Dance. But they will have a 
see JOURNEY I page 19 
By TIM SHERMAN Spons Ediwr 
He may not exactly be Joe Namath, but when it comes to making bold statements that are bound to inspire the opponent, Boston College star forward Danya Abrams is no slouch. 
Following Saturday's loss to Pittsburgh, Abrams, like Namath did before Super Bowl Ill, went on record and guaranteed a victory over Notre Dame. 
"That's on the bulletin board in the locker room," Irish coach John MacLeod admitted. "All the guys know about." 
They also know that a trip to the NIT is now a distinct possibility, as the squad has raised their Big East mark to 8-9 after winning five of their last seven outings. 
see HOOPS I page 20 


Matt Gotsch has been key in NO's run for the NIT. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
The leers will face-off for the last time this season at the JACC tonight. 

• HOCKEY 
leers look to end on high note 
By CHARLEY GATES Sporrs Writer 
When the Boys of Winter lace up their skates and strap on their pads for this evening's game against Michigan State, it will be for the last time this season. 
Win, lose, or draw, the hockey team is math­ematically eliminated from postseason action. 
"So far it's been pretty tough to maintain inten­sity," stated senior captain Terry Lorenz, who will be playing his final home game and final game in an Irish sweater. 
"It is hard to be intense, since we know that we're out," added freshman forward Joe Dusbabek, whose stellar season has been one of the high points for the beleaguered squad. 
And so the Notre Dame hockey team will be playing for a loftier goal: pride. "It's definitely a pride thing," observed Lorenz. 
"We've never beaten Michigan State since I've been here, and I'd like to do that before I leave." 
The week of practice has included a renewed emphasis on the fundamentals: lots of stickhan­dling, skating, and hard work. 
"Poulin [head coach) really hasn't done any­thing differently," noted freshman defenseman Sean Seyferth. "We just had a solid week of hard work." 
Notre Dame has dropped both games to the Spartans this season: a 4-3 loss at East Lansing on Dec. 6 and a 3-0 loss at the Joyce Center on Jan. 28. To avert a sweep, the Irish game plan is simple. 
"We have to stay focused," stated Seyferth. "We have to get it going early and play good defense and get some goals." Easier things to say than to do -if the Irish are able to execute this game plan, then they are almost guaranteed victory. 
Tomorrow night is significant because it may prove to be a harbinger of things to come. The Boys of Winter stand to lose only seven players after tonight: senior winger Ryan Thorton, senior defenseman Bryan Welch, senior forward Brian McCarthy, senior center Tim Harberts, senior forward Terry Lorenz, senior defenseman Ben Ne~sen, and senior goalie Erik Berg. Only McCarthy, Harberts, Lorenz, and Nelsen saw extensive action this season, which means that the Irish will retain most of their punch (27 of 34 players return). 
Tomorrow evening's game is analogous to a changing of the guard. The seniors will have to deai with the emotions of leaving a place and a team that they've grown to love. 
"It will definitely be tough," stated Lorenz. "But I don't think that it will sink in until after the game. Emotions won't play a factor until after the game has ended." 
Dusbabek, however, has emotions too, but of a different sort. 
see FINALE I page 21 
ar Boston College, 

• Track preview 
vs. Michigan Stare, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
Tomorrow see page 22 
at Big East Tournament, Tomorrow-March4 
Indoor Track ar USA 

• Coach Moore officially files suit 
Track,Men's Tennis at PC 
Today-Tomorrow see page 12 Championships, 

Today-March 2 
GlANcE • 







