
Wednesday, October 29, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 42 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Fall break seminars give students a new outlook 
By SARAH HANSEN News Wrirer 
While many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students were lounging about their homes last week catching up on sleep, 36 students traveled to Washington. D.C. and Chicago on collaborative learning trips. 
Two of these were the Cultural Diversity Seminar in Chicago and the Washington Seminar in the nation's capital. 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar is a week-long pro­gram aimed at exploring the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighbor­hoods. 
Assembling a diverse group of student participants, the program works in conjunction with Multicultural Student Affairs in an effort to explore Chicago's immigrant tradition. 
The seminar began early Sunday morning with a cele­bration of Sunday mass at St. Sabina's Catholic Church. 
"St. Sabina's liturgy is not the traditional Catholic liturgy," explained Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Affairs. "The service closely resembles an African American Baptist liturgy: emotional and high-spirited." 
The group then was given a tour by Denise Irwin, a com­munity organizer for uptown Chicago. 
Monday morning the group met with Arvis Averette, the CEO of Dearborn Homes Resident Management Corporation, a public housing management company run by its tenants which encourages residents to become more self­sufficient. 
Junior Sherrecia Jones believes she took the most from Averette. 
"He was very blunt and hon­est about his feelings, a trait with which many students had problems," she said. "Many students wanted to argue with him about his ideas, but all you had to do was shut up and lis­ten to him." 
Outlaw chose Averette for just·this reason. "He challenges the students," she explained. 
Averette led the group on a tour of public housing on the South Side of Chicago. 
"He is doing for the black community what should have 
been done a long time ago," 
Jones remarked. 
The group was then led on a tour of the Pilsen community, a Latino community around the West 18th Street area by Hosea Guerrero, political muralist. 
"A lot of time we take art for 
granted. It's an art and a sci­
ence, and Hosea broke that 
down for us. He also focused 
on the connection between pol­
itics and art. He believes all art 
see SERVICE I page 4 
Career center serves SMC women 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
with visiting employers. Saint Mary's News Editor Another main function of the center is to help students 
Around this time every year explore career options and when the weather changes and teach students how to conduct the leaves begin to fall, several a targeted, organized job Saint Mary's students can be search. Counselors are avail­found milling in the doorways able to assist students with and corridors of the Counseling Burnett Starcom Media self-assessment, decision -mak­and Career Development Services, Merck & Company ing, interviewing, resumes, Center. Some are looking for and 360 Communications. Holy cover letters, and other effec­help in making the transition Cross associates will also tive job search strategies. The from high school to college. attend, offering a different kind professional staff is available to Most are looking for a job. of vocation. all students by appointment. 
This time of year, from now "We suggest that students "Each member of the staff until Thanksgiving break, is the come as prepared as possible has been very willing to help busiest time for the center. to the fair," said Christine and they truly want to see you Two to three companies arrive Richardson. assistant director succeed," said senior Carin on campus each day to conduct for Career Development. "You Hansen. interviews through the center. are making your first impres­The Alumnae Resource 
The Career Services Center is sion with the company and stu­Network, also located in the designed to "teach" students dents need to think about what center, provides information career-planning and job-search they want that first impression about the positions and careers skills. Their goal is to help stu­to be." of the Saint Mary's College dents choose their path leading To register with Career alumnae. By viewing the com­away from Saint Mary's and to Services, students must first puter-based alumna data, a fulfill this mission, they strive create a credential file, which student may generate ideas for to educate students about the includes copies of the-student's her own future. Students can world of work and to facilitate resume, a list of references and also use the alumnae network contact between students and other biographical information. to identify contacts for poten­potential employers. Students then become eligible tial interviewing and network­
On Thursday, Nov. 6, the cen­to participate in the on-campus ing. ter's annual Showcase of interview program. Throughout Many students have already Careers will be held in LeMans the academic year, employers taken advantage of the inter­Hall lobby from 3 to 5 p.m. The will visit the campus to inter­views offered by the center and center sends invitations to vari­view job candidates. Career are well on their way to secur­ous businesses in the South Services coordinate the sched­ing a starting position. Bend and Chicago areas. uling of these visits. Only regis­"I felt that my interview went Businesses that will be attend­tered students who have extremely well and the Career ing this year include Andersen attended an interviewing work­
see SMC I page 4
Consulting, Ernst & Young, Leo shop can schedule interviews 
• WALl STREET UPDATE 


Dow recovers quickly 
Observer Staff Report 


after 550-point plunge 
Yesterday, students play­ing a joke once again caused a terrible smell to spread throughout North Dining Hall. 
The culprit. whose identi­ty is still unknown, accom­plished this by cooking a bowl full of Parmesian cheese in one of the dining hall's microwaves. 


Several dining hall work­7/1/97 8/1/97 9/1/97 10/1/97 11/1/97 ers (including those pic­
the stock market sell-off of the 
tured) were deeply dis­Associated Press 
past three sessions as a once­
turbed by the situation, 

in-a-lifetime buying opportuni­
especially as this was the 

Capping two of the most ty that produced the busiest third time this same joke tumultuous days in Wall Street day in U.S. stock market histo­has been played this semes­history, the stock market 
ry.
ter. bounced back Tuesday from its The Dow Jones industrial worst disaster since the '87 average wiped out more than crash with a record-setting half of Monday's 554-point 
buying frenzy. plunge, soaring an unprece-Photo by Kevin Dalum With IBM as inspirational leader, bargain hunters treated see STOCKS/ page 4 


~ ---------~----~~ 

page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 



Irish pride 
At my very first Notre Mary Beth Ellis Dame home game, a 

Accenr Copy Editor
member of the Irish Guard knocked me from God Quad to Loftus because I was inadver­tently standing in the path of the marching band; a member of my brand new brother school introduced himself by vomiting on my left Nike; and the Irish -in a mighty display of the fiery spirit that is the hallmark of Notre Dame football -lost. 
It was GREAT. 

Utilizing the vast mathematical skills I have acquired as an English major, I calcu­lated that I had but 23 home games remain­ing. There was no way -NO way -that I was missing a single one of them. 
And I didn't. Not even when an infected tonsil swelled to the size of a small recreational vehicle. 
Not even when the majority of the student section left their wing man for the '96 Air Force game, leaving only me and the NBC Timeout Orange Glove Guy. 
Not even when I was in the midst of a severe depression precipitated by the cam­pus appearance of "The Jenny McCarthy Show." 
And then my oldest cousin, Mike, had to go commit the socially irresponsible act of proposing to a darling accountant from Louisville named Tracy. I smiled and con­gratulated them and measured the odds: Of the 365 days on which they could marry, only six of them coincided with Notre Dame home games. My own flesh and blood would never dream of forcing me to choose between watching him pledge his life to the woman he loved and standing in the rain with 16,000 drunks to inform each individual member of the opposing team that they in fact suck. 
The wedding was, of course, scheduled for the afternoon of the USC game. 
"It was the only day they could get a church in Tracy's hometown," my mother said. 
"I'll BUILD ANOTHER ONE," I said. 'Til fly in the POPE to marry them." 
My boyfriend was scrounging for tickets in a valiant attempt to shoehorn his entire fam­ily into the stadium for USC, so I assumed that I would find transportation to Louisville and stood in a three-hour GA exchange line for the privilege of donating $10 to the University's Large Ugly Metal Campus "Art" Fund. My heart ripped along with the ticket that was ceremoniously torn from my stu­dent booklet. 
And so I sat 10 days later in a Kentucky church with the acute awareness that, at that very moment, the student body was. in a gesture of warm Christian welcome, flipping off the USC Trojan. But when I saw the rest of my beautiful blonde cousins, light years away from pigtails and the Big Wheels in Grandma's garage ... the flickering warmth of the unity candle ... and the way the groom tenderly brushed away the joyful tears of the bride ... I thought about devotion, and loyalty ... the ancient battle in South Bend I had left behind, and the fledgling partnership in Louisville that had formed before my very eyes. And it seemed to me that sometimes ­sometimes -gentle love is preferable to the clashing of golden helmets. 
I glanced over at my sister, her hand rest­ing in her fiance's. They're getting married in the fall of '99. 
It better not be the day of the BC game. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Dave Freddoso Pere Cilella Anne Marie Mattingly Production Sports Dave F reddoso Brian Kessler Anne Marie Mattingly Viewpoint Tara Grieshop Kelly Brooks Lab Tech Accent 
Shannon Dunne Andrea Jordan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The: Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Wednesday, October 29, 199/
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Lackluster World Series ratings still boost NBC's standing 
NEW YORK 

World Series ratings may have been lackluster compared with past years but were strong enough to propel NBC to its most decisive weekly win of the television season -even without "Seinfeld" and "ER." 
The Cleveland-Fiorida World Series had a 16.8 average rating, Nielsen Media Research said Tuesday. That's the second lowest of any World Series measured, behind the 16.4 rating for the Oakland-San Francisco "earth­quake" series of 1989. 
Baseball finished strong, however. Sunday's seventh game had a 24.5 rat­ing and 39 share, by far the best performance of the World Series. 
The five games broadcast last week were the top five shows in the weekly ratings. NBC is used to occupying those 
Top 10 

tvsliows 
For the week of Oct. 20-26, 1997 
NetworX, rating 1 share No. of homes· 
H111(b NBC World Series Game 7 (S) 
\tl!l);,.· NBC, 24.5/39 23.8 
·:2-: NBC World Series Game 5 (S) 
NBC, 17.2/30 16.7 
..;,c;l·. NBC ---------------------------World Series Game 3 (S) 
NBC, 15.6/27 15.1 
4..:..:?.• NBC World Series Game 4 (S) 
NBC, 15.5/26 15.0 
NBC World Series Game 6 (S) 
NBC, 15.5/28 15.0 
<:6•• CBS Sunday Movie 
CBS, 14.9/22 14.5 
.. ,"7'_. Touched By An Angel 
.:ll.Jfi' CBS, 14.3/20 13.9 
13.4 


NBC World Series Pre·Game 7 (S) 
NBC. 13.1/21 12.7 
10 NFL Monday Night Football 
. ABC, 12.8/22 12.4 
positions with its Thursday night entertain­ment lineup and had initially been worried about the shows being knocked off the air by baseball. 
For the week, NBC had a 14.9 rating and 25 share. CBS was a distant second with a 
9.6 rating and 16 share, followed by ABC's 
8.3 rating and 14 share and Fox's 7.0 rating and 11 share. 
Among the emerging networks, UPN had a 3.0 rating and 5 share and the WB had a 
2.7 rating and 4 share. 
A rating point represents 980,000 house­holds, or 1 percent of the nation's estimated 98 million TV homes. Share is the percent­age of those televisions in use that are tuned to a given show during a specified time peri­od. 
"Murphy Brown's" brush with breast can­cer doesn't seem to have attracted many sympathetic viewers. 

Hillary appears on Oprah for 50th Texas law allows astronaut to vote 
CHICAGO 
Hillary Rodham Clinton made a pub-
.--------, lie confession Tuesday: Sure, she miss­es Chelsea now that her daughter's off at college, but empty-nest syndrom hasn't been all bad. "I actually miss her desperately, but it is a different experi­ence that makes it kind of fun to have a little time to yourself." Mrs. Clinton told TV talk-show host Oprah Winfrey. The first lady said she used to hang around the White House hoping for a "sighting" of her daughter: "You know, with teen-agers, you say, 'Oh, my gosh, I think that's my daughter.' They come in, they change clothes, they leave and if you're not there, you miss a sighting." Mrs. Clinton said she would arrange her schedule to be home in the late afternoon and early evening "with the hope that she'd come in and she'd say hi, and we'd talk a little bit." "Now," she said, "we actually have all this time ... We just really like to get out, and we didn't do much of that because we wanted to stay home." The first lady's appearance on "Oprah" was part of a 50th birthday blitz that began with the first of several White House parties last Friday. While Mrs. Clinton's actual birthday was Sunday, there was more cake and candles during Tuesday's TV appearance. 
Laboratories find edible oil spill 
SANTACRUZ 
Vegetable oil apparently was the mysterious sub­stance that coated hundreds of birds in the Monterey Bay, the state Department of Fish and Game said Tuesday. Still being investigated was the source of the spilled oil, which dumped as much as 2,300 gallons of the substance into the bay. The spill left a three-mile­long slick. Lab results indicated the gooey substance was partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. Samples taken Saturday were still being analyzed by the agency at two state laboratories near Sacramento. Since Friday night, the feathers of more than 400 grebes, loons and surf scooters have been found matted with the vegetable oil. Authorities earlier said that the spill posed no potential harm to humans. Fish and Game officials warned people to stay away from injured or distressed animals, which could strike out in self­defense. They also asked that dead animals be left alone. Officials have not said how many birds died after washing ashore on several beaches along a 38­mile stretch from Ano Nuevo State Park to Pacific Grove. 
HOUSTON 
For the first timfl in history, an American astronaut is about to exercise his right to vote while in orbit. A bal­lot has been sent to David Wolf aboard the Russian space station Mir, thanks to a new Texas law. It was prompted by John Blaha's inability to vote from Mir last year. Under the old law, an absentee ballot had to be sent by U.S. mail. But in June. Gov. George Bush signed a bill saying astronauts registered to vote in Texas -where most of them live -can cast ballots from space. Using new software developed by NASA, Tony J. Sirvello III, Harris County's elections chief, sent a ballot last week to U.S. flight controllers in Moscow, and they transmitted it to Wolf 240 miles above Earth. The 41-year-old doctor and engineer. who arrived on the station in September for a four-month stay, will open the e-mail on. a laptop computer. He has until 7 
p.m. CST on Nov. 4, Election Day, to get the ballot back to Sirvello via the flight controllers in Russia. Sirvello will read Wolfs e-mail and punch a ballot by hand with the astronaut's choices. "He's lost that one bit of secre­cy, but that's a give-and-take situation to where that's the only way he can vote." Sirvello said. "No one else will know other than myself." NASA plans to use simi­lar software once the international space station is up and running. 
Rocky mountain high? Autopsy says no 
SALINAS, Calif. 
John Denver was not under the influence of drugs or alcohol when his plane crashed into Monterey Bay, authorities said Tuesday. The complete autopsy report wasn't finished but Monterey County Sheriff Norman Hicks said toxicology tests showed no alcohol or con­trolled substances. The singer was killed instantly Oct. 12 when his experimental plane plunged 500 feet into the bay near Pacific Grove. His body was cremated. National Transportation Safety Board investigators recovered and assembled most of the plane, including the engine, and found "no sign of catastrophic failure," safety board spokesman George Petterson said. Denver had purchased the plane from a dentist for $56,000 shortly before the crash. The privately built Long EZ aircraft appeared to be sound before the accident. A final NTSB report on the crash is not expected for months. Denver had two drunken driving arrests in 1993 and 1994 in Colorado. lie pleaded guilty in the 1993 case and was scheduled to be tried in January for the 1994 accident, in which he wrecked his Porsche. 


• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 29. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,r 
··>-~/~--.................,H..;; F i::...l~,.d~,· 

Wedn~sday~ :'i'§4 3~.... Thursday ~.52 40 
::~l!i~(:m\~:hr:;?ll~! ~!l:i;~::.~~:~ --~" .~.=i 

Friday ~ 'Sl '42 Saturday 4_,:48 -~37 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Pressure 

H L m I§J l:nJ 0 . fZ] ~ (} ~ u
Sun~a.Y . ?~ 
2 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~.>...\;" ·.....' ......,-:,) ... 

V1a Assoclatad p,•ss 
Atlanta 69 58 Dallas 76 58 Miami 74 68 Baltimore 48 35 Honolulu 92 n New York 42 15 Baton Rouge 74 46 Indianapolis 44 33 Phoenix 72 55
4,~,~8~~ t) ~ u 
Showers T-slprms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 22 19 Kansas City 57 31 St. Louis 52 28 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Cincinnati 40 29 Los Angeles 67 54 West Gardiner 50 32 
--.--------~-------_.---~-­
Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Workshop explores service careers 
ByJAMIE HEISLER 
Managipg Editor 
For even the most decided of undergraduates, the prospect of finding the right profession after graduation is rather daunting. 
And so to help alleviate this confusion, the government department's office of under­graduate studies at Notre Dame is sponsoring a workshop, "Careers in Public Service," today from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomery Theater. · 
The program will focus on opportunities available after graduation in public service as well as ways to prepare for post­graduate careers through coursework and internships. 
Public service, according to Professor Leon Roos, director of undergraduate studies, involves "the whole range of activities and occupations that are aimed at the common good and human values rather than the private sector or for-profit sector. 
"It includes not only elected officials but also groups in the non-governmental sector aimed at civil rights. the environment and a whole variety of other issues. It's not limited to govern­ment service." 
The workshop will feature several speakers discussing fields of public service and ways to develop an academic career as well as two students who have participated in internships. 
Professor Peri Arnold will dis­cuss the concept of public ser­vice; Roos will outline ways to use a government major to get into public service; Judy Goebel, a career counselor at Career and Placement, will explain resources that are available to students, including summer internships and what previous graduates have done: there will be an introduction to opportuni­ties in international public ser­vice; and Carolina Arroyo, the government intern coordinator, will discuss the value of intern­ships and how to go about obtaining them. 
Along with Arroyo, two senior government majors will explain their experiences in internships obtained with the assistance of the government department. Carrie Upp will discuss her sum­mer internship at the White House in the Women's Initiatives office, and Dan Ventrelle will discuss his current internship at the LaPorte County Prosecutor's Oflice. 
The workshop is operi to all majors and years, but Roos feels sophomores and juniors might benefit most from the discus­sions. 
"It's important to get students to think at an earlier stage about courses, networking and intern­ships," he said. "But everyone's welcome." 
The program is one in a series offered by the oflice of the direc­tor of undergraduate studies in an attempt to get students and faculty more involved outside the classroom. Future events will include a seminar on participat­ing in 1998 electoral campaigns. 
The government office also offers a variety of resources which can be accessed by stu­dents at any time. These include a file of internship opportunities, a posting of fliers outside the office door, and a listing of fel­lowship opportunities. 
"If we had the resources, I'd love to have recent alumni visit campus. We have alumni cur­rently in public policy school, working in the White House, going to the Harvard JFK school, working in state government. These are the people students need to be talking to," said Roos. ''I'm going to try to get more resources because that's the best way to get information." 

• 

The lVilliam and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies 
in conjunction with the .#edieval Institute 
presents: 
·.·.·.·:·=:·:· ...::::::=::--:=. :..:.· :·:·.. 
.:(.\))·:·: .:;:::;::: 
\~:·}{. 
·.·:· ·.·.·.·.-::·=::..·.· ->:{ 

CONVERSATION ON DANTE ~ 2 
( :·' ;~\_::;~;... 


·•. <· .•. ,.,.,\,,.,; > 
,··.·-.-.:-:::·::·-:·:·:··· ·-:·:·.·.· 



"Poetry antf"~ffof: Y 
.Ariosto Readet::aF Dante" 

.·. · .. ·:· ,· ·: 
SergiO;;~~hi 
University''of Pisa 
Thursday, October 30 ~ 4:45pm 

Department of Special Collections, 102 I lesburgh Library A reception will follow the lecture, all are welcome. 
For further information contact the Devers Pro am in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
Ouch! 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Free flu immunization shots are available today and tomorrow from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library concourse and the Dooley Room in LaFortune. 




Globe editor will speak on journalism 
Special to The Observer 
Matthew Storin, editor of The Boston Globe, will deliver a lec­ture, "Will Journalism Survive in the 21st Century?" today at 
Notre Dame. 
Storin, Notre Dame's first journal­ist-in-resi­dence, will speak at 4:30 p.m. in 129 DeBar to 1o, 


Hall. The lee-Starin ture is free and open to the public. 
Storin's lecture and period in residence to teach several classes are part of the University's new Program in Journalism, recently created with a grant from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation. The Knight Foundation grant allows Notre Dame to develop courses in journalism and to bring prac­ticing journalists to campus to talk about their work. 
A 1964 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Storin is completing his fifth year as editor of The Globe. Previously he served as executive editor of the New York Daily News, editor/senior vice president of the Chicago Sun-Times, and deputy manag­ing editor of U.S. News and World Report. 
From 1969-1985, he held several reporting and adminis­trative posts at The Globe, including White House corre­spondent, city editor, national editor, and managing editor. 
Storin has visited Notre Dame three times this fall as journal­ist-in-residence . 
Other journalists currently active in the program are John McCormick, Chicago bureau and chief of Newsweek; Michael Schaffer, book editor of The Philadelphia fnquirer; and Scott Simon, anchor and reporter for National Public Radio. 




page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
Service 
continued from page 1 
is political. It is a reflection of the current social times." 
The seminar liberated the participants on Tuesday, send­ing them into the city on a scavenger hunt after a morn­ing orientation on the CTA, Chicago's transportation sys­tem. 
Upon returning, the group was briefed about being street wise, and conducted a work­shop with Chimera, a women's self-defense grm~ p. 
Wednesday morning found thr, group volunteering at "The Mantle," a homeless day care center, and then touring down­town Chicago with Scott Cheeseboro, director of the Urban Life Center. The group returned to spend the evening with Notre Dame alumni. dis­cussing community involve­ment in Chicago. 
The group visited Marquette National Bank on Thursday to discuss the role banks play in a community. 
"Many banks won't even open branches in the minority areas. Without the banks, thr, community can't grow," Jones commented. 
The group stayed in the Marquette area for a tour of the Lithuanian community, then traveled to the Dusable Musr,um, an African American historical museum. 
"It was wonderful," said Jones. "There was a display of slave memorabilia, and it just shook me. It made me sad, angry and proud all at the same time." 
The group continued on to the ETA Creative Arts Foundation to see a play about a preacher's journey of faith called "This Far by Faith." 
The Seminar concluded with a wrap-up session on Friday, then the group returned to South Bend. 
The seminar requires partici-



Write for The. er Call 631-5323 

Presented by 
Tom Valdiserri & ~ Scott Paddock\:II of Sports Partners* in Chicago 
*Sports Partners' experience includes the CompUSA Citrus Bowl, NBA All-Star Weekend, FOX Sports Major League Baseball, and the PGA Championship. 
Sponsored by the Undergraduate Marketing Club 


Thursday, October 30th 
4:00 p.m. 161 COBA 

All are welcome to attend! 
pants to attend two follow-up meetings, and all students interested are encouraged to look into the program. 
"I would recommend it for everyone, especially people who have issues with preju­dice, or those who just want to learn. The seminar forced all of us to deal with each other," Jones reflected. 
The Washington Seminar, a one-credit course offered over fall break, examined current environmental issues facing the United States, explored the proposed solutions to these issues, and helped participants develop practices of environ­mental consciousness in light of Catholic social teachings. 
Notre Dame junior Ashley DeBruyne was among those who participated in the pro­gram. 
"I wanted to gain a better understanding of environmen­tal issues from the points of view of governmental, non­profit, and theological groups," she said. 
The group of 22 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students departed early Sunday morn­ing for an 11-hour drive to Washington. 
Arter recovering from the drive, the group settled in at the Washington Seminar Center, a youth hostel located in the basement of a church in the D.C. area. 
Monday's activities centered around a visit to the Holocaust Museum and a communal din­ner prepared by the entire group at the shelter. 
On Tuesday, they met with a reprr,sentative from the Environmental Justice division of the United States Catholic Conference. The meeting offered insights into where the Church stands and what the Church is attempting to do to remedy environmental prob­lems. This set the stage for a meeting with Daniel Swartz of the National Religious Partnership for the Environment, an ecumenical 
group championing for envi­ronmental causes. 
They rounded out the day with a meeting with Greenpeace representatives. 
The group encountered the very environmental problems they were attr,mpting to learn about in a canoe trip down the Anacostia Hiver on Wednr,sday. That river, D.C.'s second largest, runs through industrial as well as working-class areas of the city, and any canner is forced to confront the societal and economic effects of the river's environmental prob­lems. 
DeBruynr, cited this experi­ence as her favoritn part of the trip. 
"The canoe trip allowed us to see first-hand how the minorities arc disproportion­ately affected by environmental hazards," she said. 
Thursday -the group's busiest day -included meet­ings with. mr,mbers of the Clean Air Netwo1·k of Natural Hesource Defense Fund, a meeting with Bread for the World, an advocacy group fighting hunger, a mooting with a representativr, of World Bank and a meeting with Indiana Congressman Tim Hoemer. 
The group met for one last time on Friday with the World Watch Institute, an cnviron­mr,ntal think tank, before returning to South Bend. 
Each day the group took time to rcncct on the day's wealth of information, and this allowed the members of the group to gain a deeper understanding of each other's feelings about the environment. 
"It was an eclectic group. Students from all four classes and virtually every major par­ticipated, so the variety of background and discipline forced tlw renection sessions to cover all bases," said DeBruyne. 
"I was really excited at how good the questions were and how well the group got along. It was a great trip." 
• 





NAMCARA 
IA BOOK OF CELTIC WISDOM 
Irish poet and Catholic scholar John O'Donohue guides 
readers through the refreshing 
and lyrical spiritual landscape of the Irish imagination, offering a treasure trove of Celtic insights, stories, and teachings on the universal themes of friendship, solitude, love, and death. 
Now Available At: 


"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 

www.ndbookstore.com 

=HarperCollinsPublishers 

Stocks 
continued from page I 
dented 337.17 to 7,498.32 on a day that smashed volume records. More than 1 billion shares were tradr,d on the New York Stock Exchange, with nr,arly 3 billion shares chang­ing hands on all U.S. markets. 
While Monday's record point loss ranked as only the 12th worst in percentage terms, Tuesday's 4.71 percent rally by the Dow was only the 70th biggest. 
In a move that many investors took as a big vote of confidencr, in the market's future. IBM stepped forward r,arly in the day to announce that it would buy back up to $3.5 billion worth of its stock, which had been dragged down nearly 15 ' perc!mt since Thursday morning. 
"Therr, were a lot of emo­tions running this market," said Barry Berman, head trad­er for Hobert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee. "IBM stepped in at the right time and managed to trigger a turnaround." 
Sure enough, IBM's shares vaulted higher, and S<Hill investors began salivating at the discounted share prices of Gcnccal Electric and other multinational companies that had been hammored by wor­ries about how the economic turmoil in Soutlwast Asia might hurt their profits. 
"For the first time in a long time, the market got to a level that made stocks look cheap. That did the trick," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment offi­cer at First Albany Corp., who joined a chorus of analysts who warned that the market's trou­bles haven't been magically solved and that such a rapid rebound could lead to even more instability. 
"I don't like to see 550-point declines, but I don't likP to see 350-point gains. That type of volatility hurts confidence in our market," .Johnson said. 
Economists noted that the market's wild swings, even to the positive side, merely high­light its risks and could make consumers a little lflss willing to spend and business less likP­Iy to expand. 
But on a brighter note, thfl stock market's volatility has helped the bond market, leav­ing long-term intNest rat!~s at 20-month lows. That makes it cheaper to buy a house or bor­row money to build a fa(~tory. 
The small investors who havP been building up their retire­ment funds with stock market money have shown persistPnce throughout the recent rout and were given some of the credit for Tuesday's rebound. Most seemed to be heeding tlw buy­and-hold advice that has bePn heaped on them by Wall Street pros for years. 
Most small investors on Tuesday revealed no immedi­ate plans to bail out. citing tlw lessons of the 1987 crash. 
''I'm not selling anything right now ... in fact, I'm Jook­ing to eventually buy," said Peggy Schmeltz, 70. 
SMC 
continued from page I 
and Counseling Center was very helpful in setting up the process for me," Hansen said. "I am positive that all of thr, effort put in by the members of the er,nter pays off for each student who takes advantage of its services." 
According to senior Lisa Gutilla, the centor has been the best resource she has come across in her job search. 
"The counselors I have worked with have helped me organize my thoughts to prr,­pare a solid cover letter. • resume and interview," said Gutilla. "Thr,ir door is always open and the friendly environ­ment makes everyone feel wel­come." 

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

'Choosing a Major Night' 
Session deals with college career options 
By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Student Academic Council and the Counseling and Career Development Center sponsored "Choosing a Major Night" yesterday evening in Haggar Parlor. The two-part seminar addressed issues regarding what types of majors students should choose and reasons why they should decide on a particular major. 
Christine Richardson. assis­tant director for Career Devrdopment, gave an intro­ductory talk on the "step by step process" of choosing a major. 
i\ccording to Biehardson. it is rwcessary for students to do "sell'-assessment." This in vo I ves asking questions such as "What do I like?" and "What am I good at?" 
Hichardson reeommended that freshmen pay special attention to activities and rlasscs which particularly interest them. She suggested that this would help narrow studr,nts' interests and bring thP m c Io s e r to s e I11 c tin g a lie\d of study. · 
For sophomores who are still undecided. she suggested taking classes which more fully explore their interests. In doing so. shr, said, they ar<' able to "test the waters" of a potential major. 
In addition. Richardson advised students to look at thn degree programs described in depth in the Saint Mary's Bulletin. She also advised that they investi-gate the materials in the bookstore pertinent to the major which a student is interested in pursuing. 


Richardson made sure to allay many fears about whether or not a majo,r will restrict a students mar­ketability. She said many stu­dents end up in jobs which do not appear to fall under their major. Richardson gave the example of a former Saint Mary's student who majored in philosophy and is currently a sex therapist. 
The second part of the evening entailed gathering information on the varie~y of 
majors offered by Saint Mary's College. The event produced mixed reactions from the students. 
Freshman Callie Kusto, for example, maintained a feeling of uncertainty about her major. "I feel the same way I did coming in," she said. 
Still, many students did find the presentation to be gen­uinely helpful in making their decision of their course of studies. 
Lydia Miramontes, a fresh­man, felt the evening was very informative about job opportunities in the majors she is considering. 


Coppedge discusses comparative politics 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
Comparative politics is no sim­ple matter, according to Notre Dame associate professor Michael Coppedge, who present­ed a seminar comparing parti­san politics in Latin American countries yesterday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Coppedge based his lecture, "Blocs, Laws, Votes, and Seats in Latin American Party Systems," on the two fundamen­tal questions underlying his research. He sought to find out if the effective number of parties declined when legislative elec­tions occurred at the same time as presidential elections. He also wanted to know if majority runoffs in presidential races increased the number of run­ning parties in an election. Presenting his findings through overhead graphs and trends, Coppedge answered yes to the first question and no to the sec­ond. 
Coppedge explained that his research is pertinent to partici­pants of domestic politics as well. 
"Studying Latin America reminds me of how much we take for granted in our country and how many different political perspectives there are on lots of questions," he said. 
Drawing from research car­ried out since 1991, Coppedge described how he used cross­sectional analyses used by oth­ers to arrive at his comparisons of Latin American party sys­tems. Latin America in particu­lar poses a problem for cross­sectional analysis, he stated, because of the great diversity in Latin American politics. However, a pooled analysis based on data points on several countries does help to identify and compensate for this diversi­ty. 
"No two countries are alike; everything is uncontrolled in a cross-sectional comparison," Coppedge said, noting that vari­ous researchers can obtain dif­ferent data results depending on how conscientiously they deal with this diversity. 
Coppedge focused his research and subsequent semi­nar on nine Latin American countries. According to his research of the nine countries, Mexico had the fewest parties while Ecuador had the greatest number. 
"In the United States we pretty much agree on certain funda­mental values," he said. "In Latin America a much wider range of possibilities is still under consideration and the stakes are much higher, some­times life and death." 
After his lecture, Coppedge fielded questions and comments about his research from his audience of almost thirty people. 
Coppedge is currently a facul­ty fellow at the Kellogg Institute and an associate professor in Notre Dame's Department of Government and International Studies. Having earned his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1988. Coppedge has conducted research in Venezuela and has visited seven other Latin American countries. He is the author of the book "Strong Parties and Lame Ducks: Presidential Partyarchy and Factionalism in Venezuela." 
Recycle The Observer 
t-lappy 21 s+ Bivt BviaV\ C\veelt1! 
Octobe~ 24th, 
1997 

Mom, Dad, Erin, Kevin & Grammy 
1997 



lnfo Desk 

-------~-~~----------~~---------·--------~ -~------­
page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 29, 1997 

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Obser;:;·." Nt'.WS page 7 



Times settles libel lawsuit with maligned prosecutor 
line into misconduct," the arti­cle said. "Barbara Christie, who was chief of homicide before Dave Webb, frequently had her convictions reversed by higher courts for hiding evi­dence that indicated a defen­dant's innocence and for knocking blacks off juries. Abraham demoted Christie, who had become a magnet for criticism." 
Christie denied in the lawsuit that she engaged in miscon­duct, withheld evidence of innocence, had frequent rever­sals because of withheld evi­dence or kept blacks members off juries or that she was demoted. 
The assertions were "no more than a gratuitous slap at a dedicated career prosecutor who has vigorously sought to carry out her duties," the law­suit said. 
Islands has soured the relations between the two countries for a half-century. 
Russia seized the islands from J"apa.n at the end of World War n,<and Japan wants them back. 
Japanese fishermen frequent­ly enter the waters near the islands, sometimes coming under fire from Russian border gl.l;trds. Last yea.rr two Japanese fishermen were shot and wounded. 
Moscow had said it is pre­Pared to allowJapanese vessels to use the fishing areas near tM islands on condition they pay. But the Japanese reported­ly refused the offer, saying it \y~tild amount_ to recognizing ~Jiat the islands belong to Russia. 
is scheduled to visit 

to meet with Chinese te~ttteJrs fo:i,.thlks on expanding J)Ol!UC<Etl ties: 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

The New York Times on Tuesday settled a multimillion­dollar libel lawsuit filed last year by a former Philadelphia prosecutor over a story report­ing that she hid evidence and kept blacks off juries. 
"There is an agreement in principle. We are still working on the final settlement docu­ments," Times spokeswoman Heidi Pokorney said. 
Terms of the deal were not released. U.S. District Court Judge Eduardo Robreno issued an order Tuesday afternoon dismissing the case. 
Barbara Christie, who now works in the legal office of the Pennsylvania State Police in Harrisburg, had sought $2.1 million, saying the depiction of her in the 1996 New York Times Magazine article was false and damaged her reputa-
Notice the Double Slice Pizza below? If so, you've got an overly active imagination. 
In other words, you're destined for a great advertising career. 
While you're still a student, come try our Pizza or Pasta f.or under S4. Class dismissed. 
52770 US Route 33~ 277-4008, South Bend 
tion with colleagues, judges, police and the/ublic.
Christie an her attorney, Richard Sprague, did not return several messages left asking for comment. 
The story by reporter Tina Rosenberg profiling Christie's boss at the time, District Attorney Lynne Abraham, held Christie up as an example of prosecutors going too far. 
"Toughness often crosses the 


ARE YOU INTERESTED IN A CAREER ON 



WALL STREET? 
Come find out about 
''Life on the Street'' 
and how to get there! Commercial Banking • Investment Banking • Asset Management Executives from 
Chase Manhattan • Credit Suisse/First Boston Goldman Sachs • Lehman Brothers • Merrill Lynch M9rgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Robert Baird • Salomon Smith Barney • T. Rowe Price 

Who: 
All Majors & Classes Welcome 

When: 
Friday, October 31, 1997 • 10:00 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Where: 
Jordan Auditorium -College of Business Administration 
For further information contact: Prof. John Affleck-Graves 631-6370 • affleck-graves.1 @nd.edu Students may submit resumes to COBA 102 by October 30 for inclusion in the Wall Street Resume Book 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
• ZAMBIA 

NY drug dealer spreads HIV



Failed coup attempt 
bility in southern Africa, bol-general dissatisfaction with stered in recent years by the hardships in Zambia led to the end of apartheid in South announced coup. • Africa and Chiluba's successive "This has to do with the 
AT&T Summer Internship Program 
election victories after decades internal dynamic, with the of single-party rule in Zambia. hardship imposed by structural Richard Sakala, Chiluba's adjustments, a society ravaged 
Why an AT&T Internship? 
special assistant, identified the by AIDS," said Cornwell, who is 
• Internal exposure to the global leader in the telecommunications industry 
two men in custody as a Capt. with the private Institute for 
• Structured program that includes: 
Chiti and Sgt. Solo of the Security Studies in South Zambian army. Their first Africa. Professional Development Seminars Senior Management Presentations Formal Objectives and Appraisals Networking Events 


Slowed peace talks 
Social Gatherings Community Service Projects 
• Challenging assignments 

disappoint US officials 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK

weakens stability 
He was a cute little boy who 
grew into a troubled young
Associated Press names were not immediately 
man, a bully in his neighbor­
available. The man who made 
hood. Acquitted of murder.
LUSAKA, Zambia the coup broadcast on Zambian 
Arrested last month on a drug
President Frederick Chiluba state radio identified himself as 
charge;

thanked loyalist army forces Solo. He said a previously 
And i• now ' 20-year-old
for helping him ward off a unknown group called the 
Nushawn Williams is accused of 
coup attempt today by disgrun-National Redemption Council 
knowingly infecting at least nine 
tied military officers. ousted Chiluba in a campaign 
·· women arid girls with the AIDS
The power grab in this south-called Operation Born Again. 
virus in rural upstate New York.
ern African nation ended a few "I saw an angel and the mes­
Other women are still coming 
hours after a dawn radio sage was the government had 
forward.

broadcast proclaimed that a to be overthrown," Solo said in 
military council had deposed Chiluba. Two military officers were arrested by midday, and d h ·n f II b 
no injuries were SWOf t ey WI a y 
reported after the sword.' 
the military 
regained con­

trol of the Frederick Chiluba 
broadcast cen-President ofZambia 
ter in the capi--·~-------~---despite  com­ stand by him. "l can't let him  
tal Lusaka.  plaints of corruption and  inef­ die alone. I won't do it."  
"I want to  warn  those who  ficiency.  The  number  of  women  
rise by the sword they will fall  Zambia, known  as  Northern  exposed to the virus through  
by the sword," Chiluba said in  Rhodesia before independence  dlreet sexual  ~on tact  with  
a brief broadcast, assuring the  under Kaunda in 1964, enjoyed  Williams is in dispute.  
country he was still in power.  initial  prosperity ·  until  Williams gave New York City  
"I  appeal  to  you  fellow  Kaunda's socialist-style eco­ health ofTicials the names of 50  
Zambians to unite and be res­ nomic policies and a fall in cop­ to 75 women he claimed he had  
olute. We can't go back to the  per prices, one of its major  sex with, said state Health  
Dark Ages."  minerals, devastated 'the econ- Commissioner Dr.  Barbara  
The coup attempt was a set­ omy. Richard Cornwell, a polit­ DeBuono. She said the number  
back to hopes for political sta­ ical analyst, said he believed  

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Though concerned about delay, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright still expressed confidence Tuesday that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu wants to reach an agreement with Vasser Arafat's Palestinian Authority. 
Albright told reporters she had talked to Netanyahu on the telephone and was convinced "the prime minister wants results," although the Clinton administration believes "time is kind of petering out here." 
"Time is really not on the side of those who want to move, who want there to be results," Albright said. "And I am partic­ularly concerned about the fact that the time seems to be drag­ging out a little bit more than I would have liked." 
Albright had hoped to con­vene negotiations in Washington this week between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. 
Foreign Minister David Levy and Arafat deputy Mahmoud 

• Experience in a Fortune 500 Corporation 
Abbas were to take up a 
• First consideration for AT&T's Financial Leadership Program (FLP) 
delayed Israeli pullback on the West Bank and a U.S. call for a .Job Description freeze in Israel's buildup of set­tlements and possibly deal with the future of Jerusalem and other bedrock issues. 
However, Levy has insisted on Requirements a clear mandate from his gov­ernment. The deliberations Location
have moved slowly. The Cabinet is to meet on Wednesday. · Albright said she had talked to Netanyahu "about the neces­


AT&T When
sity of moving this process for­ward and trying to make sure that we're able to proceed on a fairly rapid schedule here." 
''I.Justwant people to know
his broadcast. 

that even though he did know
C h i I u b a 

that he had it and he did this to
defeated long-

a lot of people, he's not a mon­
time leader 

ster," said an 18-year-old in
K e n n e t h 

Jamestown who had just taken 
Kaunda in the 
an HIVtest,
nation's first 

The woman, who identified
m u Iti party 

herself only as Amber, said she 
election in 

wrote Williams. awaiting sen­
1991, then 

tencing on the drug charge, on
won re-elec-

Monday night to say she would
tion in 1996 could include 28 from western New York and she didn't know whether the rest were in the New York City area. .... 

New York City Health Department spokesman Fred Winters, however, said the riumber of names on the list ls ''far smaller.'' although he wouldn't say how many there were. City health officials inter­viewed Williams last week in prison here .. 
Williams' attorney. William Cember of Nyack. did not return telephone callc; Tuesday. 
Chatauqtia County officials said they had documented at least nine HIV cases in which Williams is suspected of infect­ing sex partners as young as 13. The county's health commis­sioner, Dr. Roh9rt Berke, said at least half of tne women were infected after Williams learned he had HIV about a year ago. 
With the release of his name, several aliases and photograph, authorities expected other sex partners to come forward. Winters said a few possible vic­tims already had been identi­fied. 
"We are strongly urging any­one in New York who may have had contact with [Williams] to visit our HIV clinics for counsel­ing and testing," he said. 
In the Bronx, where Williams most recently lived, District 
Entry-level management positions Project & team oriented assignments Well defined goals and objectives 
Junior Accounting & Finance Majors Overall GPA of 3.5+ preferred; 3.0 minimum 
Majority of positions in New Jersey (Housing Assistance Available) 
On Campus Interviews are Tuesday December 2nd at Career & Placement Resume drop is Monday & Tuesday, November 3rd & 4th at Career & Placement 
Attorney Robert Johnson is investigating an allegation that Williams "may have had sexual contact with a 15-year-old girl,'' spokesman Steven Reed said. 
Williams was arrested in the Bronx on Sept. 22 for selling crack to an undercover agent. He faces sentencing Monday, Reed said. 
Tom Antenen, a spokesman for the city Correction 
Department, said the defen­dant was moved from Rikers Island to the Brooklyn House of Detention on Monday night because of his newfound notori­ety. 
He is in custody as Shyteek Johnson -one of many names he used, including Face Johnson and Face Williams -but is the same man who was tried as Nushawn Williams for murder in Brooklyn in 1995, Antenen said. 
Williams was arrested in 1994 at age 17 after authorities said he accompanied a friend who 
· used a hunting knife to kill a man over an insult to a woman. The friend was convicted of first-degree manslaughter; Williams was acquitted. At the apartment building where Williams lived, Sharon Huggins remembered him Tuesday as a neglected youth who was forced to scrounge for meals. 


ARE YOU READY TO START IN A BUSINESS OF CARING? 
CIGNA, one of America's premier companies is currently recruiting graduating seniors and summer interns who are interested in a career in insurance and financial services. Our business of caring includes life, health, and business insurance as well as financial planning. If you'd like to explore employment possibilities with us, talk with our representatives: 
Date:  November 2, 1997  
Time:  6:00-8:00PM  
Place:  Morris Inn, Alumni Room  

If you can't ioin us, you can contact us or visit us on the Web. 
CIGNA CIGNA University Relations, TLP46 University Relations, A122 1601 Chestnut Street 900 Cottage Grove Road 
P.O. Box 7716 Hartford, CT 06152-1122 Philadelphia, PA 19192-2462 Fax: 860.726.1537 
Fax: 215.761.5505
R® 
CIGNA 

A Business ofCaring. 
lntNilt't Address: htlp://www.dgnil.<.:om 
We're 1111 equ11/ opportwrity employer. M/1'/D/V. "C/GNA" refers 
tu C/GNA Corporation 1111tl/or one ur more o( its subsitli11ries. 
Most employees ore employee/ I>)' sul>sitli11ri£'s o( CIGNA 
. Cuqmraticm, whirh provide inwrance .mel rdal<'d pruduus. 
-~--~----~-~~--~-~--------~--­

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
Calls for death penalty intensify 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

You know Massachusetts: Lots of liberals. Lots of col­lnges. Lots of taxes. And no dPath penalty. 
Now. shaken by a monthlong sprPe of rrimes that include tlw rape and slaying of a 10­yoar-old boy, the people who have elected three genPrations of Kennedys are closer than thny've been in decadns to join­ing the 38 states that have cap­ital punishmnnL 
"The people overwhelmingly support this because they want this violence to end. they want justicn," said acting Gov. Paul Cellucci. a Republican who has pushed a death penalty bill for tho past seven years. 
Whilo the Senate has passed a death penalty bill three times this decad1~. the mnasure has always died by a narrow mar­gin in the House. But some lawmakers said the gruesome slaying of 10-year-old Jeffrey Curley could help change all that 
Two men are accused of lur­
ing the boy into their car with 
promises of a new bike, smoth­
ering him with a gasoline­
soaked rag and then sexually 
molesting the corpse. The boy's 
body. stuffed in a concrete­
fillod tub, was pulled from-a 
river earlier this month. 
As the House began debating the bill on TUf~sday, the boy's father. Robert Curley, issued a warning to death penalty oppo­nents. 
"The people want it. The people arc the ones who put you in there," Curley said. "If it doesn't get done today, then enjoy your time here in the statehouse, because you may be gone the next time." 
Massachusetts held its last 
execution in 1947. 
The state's high court threw out the most recent death penalty law in 1984, ruling that it could be applied unevenly. 

The death penalty drive only gained momentum over the past month as three mothers were killed, one gunned down in front of her children at a bus stop. 
Another was strangled along with her two sons, while the 
'As far as I'm con­
cerned, animals like that ... deserve the ultimate penalty-they deserve to die.' 
William Galvin _Massachusf!tts Representa,t~p~ 

third was bludgeoned to death and her body hidden in a 50­gallon container. 
An Associated Press survey of lawmakers last week found that they opposed capital pun­ishment 82-78. But several lawmakers said privately they would probably switch their 
vote depending on  the lan­ 
guage of the bill.  
Tuesday,  Rep.  William  

Galvin, a Democrat, did just that, saying he would vote for the death penalty after voting against it in 1995. That would leave supporters two votes short of passage. 
"I have struggled with this, but I have come to the conclu­sion after many sleepless nights that there must be a just penalty," he said. 
"As far as I'm concerned, animals like that, what they did to that boy, what they did to that mother of two in front of her children, animals like that deserve the ultimate penalty-they deserve death," he said. 
The Senate version allows the death penalty for 12 crimes, including killing a police officer. The House ver­sion expanded it to 15 crimes, including domestic violence murders. 
"Will we become the 39th state in the union to say, 'If you steal somebody else's life, stand by, you face the risk of forfeiting your own life?'" Rep. Paul Haley, a Democrat who supports the death penalty, said as he kicked off the debate. 
Opponents questioned whether capital punishment serves as a deterrent. Some also warned that reinstating it would be wrong in a state that prides itself on what it consid­ers enlightened government. 
"A vote to reinstate the death penalty here today would be a step back into the darkness and would be another step in furtherance of isolating our country from the civilized world," said Rep. Gail Canderas, a Democrat. 
A Boston Herald poll Tuesday showed that 74 percent of Massachusetts voters back a death penalty for those who kill a child. Fifty-one percent viewed it as a deterrent to crime. Some 40 percent said they would be less likely to re­elect their representative if he voted against the bill. 
Kevin Harrington, a longtime state political observer and president of the senate from 1971 to 1978, said the death penalty has always been a con­tentious issue in liberal Massachusetts. 
"It's jusnhat this happens to be one of those high tides that may be enough to reinstate it," he said. "The same person who may be in favor of the death penalty most likely remains in favor of abortion rights." 
page 9 
OSLO Organization. According to an 

Unless countrie~ enact and ILO study. at least 250 million en(orcecompulspr~ education children under 15 work to the p<ilicit~$; they have no hope of extent that it hampers their breaking the cycle that traps education; about half of them tens of millions of children in work full time. wretched jobs, delegates at The vast majority are in an int~rnational congress on impoverished countries in child labor said Ti!esday. Asia and Africa. working in 
Thelfour-day cohference in dangerous mines, as prosti­Oslo, which began Monday, is tutes, laborers. or doing low­seekingalternatives for more paid piecework in clothing than 100 millioii l';hJldren . and sporting-goods factories. underth~ age riU5 Who wor]_{ While compulsory educa­full time in jobs that give tion would give the children them no time for school, or an alternative, it would not evenplay. leave employers with a work­
"Fr and compu~ory edu~ .er shortage, Neil Kearney of ca . ... the first major tom~ the International Textile mitment" countries must Workers Federation said that make,Alec Fyfe of UNICEF in India, for example, said during a break in the 41::-there are enough unemployed 
naj;i tin~. ····•·· ·....· .·.•• adults to replace 60 million­
1: .. st•two q.~ys of th~ working children. meet g were devoted to He.called for rules saying experts making recommenda-"each child removed from the 
bile on Wednesday labor force would be replaced ent. by an ad,ult from the same politiCal family:· 
· · d up the Employing adults in place of children would also mean . . paying higher wages, which ••. would f1Irther help to break­
. · the cycle of 'poverty, ·he said. For· employers, however, those low wages are part of 
of child laborers. "'P'P'"''""' faced by child 
"'"'"""'"''' captured suc-Dihou Faye, a 13­Senegalese girl 
uin.>-lrii...... tis a housemaid. 
chpice, because of 
ve .... · said Faye in remarks· released at the con­ference; "If my parents had" 
. I would have gone 
ou:ca,n see two or three a country's GNP . . . product) going education and social pro­grams, while 20-30 percent is ................ ,,.._..,.•. ,, being spent on the military," 
she said. 

In_The Cushwa Center ~ F for the study ofI I American Catholicism 
U 
presents 
"American Catholicism: War and Peace in the Sixties" 


James Carroll 
author of An American Requiem: God, My Father, and the War that Came Between Us 
1996 National Book Award for non-fiction 
Thursday, October 30th 


4: IS p.m. 

HelpLiteracy Council of St. Joseph Countyhelp people 

Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today 

--Literacy Council of St. Joseph County ­teaching reading and writing skills one-on-one 

Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education 

--------~-~~-----~---------,----------~--~-----. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergasr Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistanr Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heath<r Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jcnnifer Br.eslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commemaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of rhe a.urhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day EdirorNiewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• WRONG SIDE UP 
Insanity, Miracle Drugs and the Friendly Skies 

The mere mention of the word, "air­plane" used to be enough to send me running to the toilet gagging. It wasn't that I was afraid the plane would call it quits in mid-air. After all, statistics show that flying is even safer than walk­ing. Although, to be honest, more than once I did wonder how the female flight attendants planned on saving my life 

Margaret Shaheen 

without puncturing the inflatable escape slide with one of their 12-inch spike heels. But my real fear was that the stuffy cabin air would be too much for me; we would experience ohe too many spells of "bumpy air." and I wouldn't be able to open my barf bag in time. 
Of course, for every minor ailment, it is only a matter of time before a miracle pill is developed that is wonderfully effective up until it kills you. Just ask those who swear by Redux and Phen­Fen. Or those who can't live without that little pill that prevents doggie breath. My miracle pill is 24-hour, "less­drowsy" Dramamine. Just one dose keeps you vomit-free and awake for a full 24-hours. When I discovered this lit­tle miracle of modern science, I was sure that air travel would be much more pleasant. I was only half right. 
With 24-hour Dramamine I could, for the first time, fly without trying to fend off nausea by sleeping. Staying awake let me experience a whole new side of the friendly skies. What I learned was that emergency landings and turbulence are nothing compared to the nut cases 
. seated next to you. The first time I took 24-hour Dramamine, I was en route from South 
Bend to Denver. At the Michiana Regional Transportation Center I confi­dently climbed the rickety ladder to the plane, found my seat and waited for the plane to take off, secure in the knowl­edge that my Dramamine would see me through. 
A nice looking woman of about 30 had the seat next to me. I smiled at her and she burst into tears. Strange, I hadn't even thrown up yet, and she was already crying. I wasn't really sure what the proper etiquette was for a situation like this. But I've always believed the best course of action is to ignore the problem and hope it goes away. 
Unfortunately, it didn't work. The woman began sobbing so hysterically I was afraid she'd choke so I asked, "Are you okay?" 
Clenching a decrepit tissue, she dabbed at her running mascara and stuttered, "I-I-I just loft my best friend. I lost my job last month and had to sell tho house and move. I am moving to Seattle, but I am stopping in Denver to see my husband first. I haven't seen him in five months. I think he wants a divorce, and 1-I-I haven't told him that I am pregnant!" 
Hmmm-I thought-this doesn't sound good. Fortunately, just then, a baggage car drove straight into our plane, and we were forced to exit imme­diately while they checked for damage. 
The next time my Dramamine and I were airborne we were seated next to two drunk women. They were having a grand time making crude jokes about men and slurping down martinis, until a . young girl seated in front of us men­tioned her cat, Skipper. This sent the woman next to me into hysterics. 
Tears were streaming down her face as her friend exclaimed, "Darling, what's the matter?" As it turned out, this woman's cat had died three weeks ago. 
Lucky for her, her eat's spirit stops by in the evenings for a late night platter of milk, so all is not lost. If that wasn't nutty enough, I also learned that last Thanksgiving her dead sister stopped by for a slice of turkey. 


On my 'most recent flight I thought I was safe -no Kleenex or drunks ncar­by. I sat by the window, another woman sat by the aisle and the middle seat was empty. The woman in the aisle seat looked a bit odd. She wore a flowing green skirt, quilted high heels and so much dead lilac perfume that if it weren't for the 24-hour Dramamine we might have had some problems. But since I had taken my pills, and she was a whole seat away, she really seemed harmless except that my eyes started to itch. I wished that I had taken some Seldane, my other favorite miracle pill -which doctors now say may kill you. 
Anyway, she really was quite harm­less until she took off her quilted shoes, stretched her legs across the middle seat and inched her nylon covered feet so close to me that I was about ready to swat her. But, just then, the flight atten­dant came by with the drink cart, so I couldn't. She ordered a glass of wine, took a sip, reached down the front of her shirt and put the change in her bra. Just before the plane landed in Denver, she rummaged through her boat-sized purse, pulled out her bottle of dead-lilac perfume and began spritzing herself (and consequently me) with abandon. Springtime in the Rockies it wasn't! 
After these recent experiences I am not sure that it is an advantage to stay awake while flying. In fact, I am consid­ering shelving my 24-hour Dramamine and returning to my barf bag methods of fighting off nausea. The realization that I am the sanest traveler at cruising altitude is a bit disconcerting-even for me. And I don't ever want to meet the pilot. 
Margwet Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. She can be reached by e-mail at Margaret.L.Shaheen.3@nd. edu. Her cloumn runs every otherWednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obserl'er. 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Guided by my heritage 
of a love of beauty 
and a respect for strength­
in search of my mother's 
garden, I found my own." 
-Alice Walker 

~-~--------~ -~­
..--------~--~~---~-----­
-





ACCENT 
Wednesday, October 29, 1997 page 11 
Coffee &Other Pleasant Distractions 
• AccENT AsKs••• 
What is your favorite coffee shop? 

"Starbucks because it gives you something to do between flights at the air­port." 
Henry Cabrera Junior, Morrissey 

"RJ's. You can drink mochaccinos and play fun games." 
Monica Ketchum Senior, Pasqueril/a East 



"Allegro because it's open late." 
Dave Hartung Senior,-Alumni 

"HuddleMart. The English Toffee cappuccino there is better thah Allegro." 
Maureen Rodgers Freshman, Welsh 



"Lula's. Just a good relaxing hangout place." 
Shirish Nagaraj Graduate Student, Fischer Graduate Residences 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The following places provide coffee, food, and good atmosphere, on or near cam­pus. They are useful as study areas or distraction zones. 
BORDERS Address: 9230 Grape 
ALLEGRO Address: Basement of Lafortune Telephone: 631-6936 Hours: Monday -Friday 
9:30 a.m. -12 a.m. Menu: deli sandwiches, salads, pastries, coffees, smoothies, soft drinks Specials: board games, music, drink specials 8 p.m.-12 a.m. After 2 p.m. drinks and pastries only 
LULA'S Address: 1631 Edison Road Telephone: 273­6216 Hours: Monday ­Friday 7 a.m. -12 a.m. 
Saturday 9 a.m. ­ 12  
a.m.  
Sunday 10 a.m. ­ 10  
p.m.  

Menu: Coffee, sand­wiches, salads (healthy food), pastries, bagels, tea, soft drinks Specials: Saturday night bands Road Telephone: 271-9930 Hours: cafe: Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. ­
10:30 p.m. and Sunday 9 a.m. -8:30 p.m. store: Monday­Saturday 9 a.m. ­11p.m. Sunday 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Menu: coffees (25-30 types), pastries, light lunches Specials: local per­formers, national acts, and visual artists 
BARNES & NOBLE Address: 4601 Grape Road Telephone: 277-9482 Hours: Sunday ­Saturday 9 a.m.-11 p.m. Menu: Brewed coffee and espressos, pastries, soups, bottled beverages Specials: Drink of the day and special events STUDEBAGELS Address: 1801 South Bend Avenue Telephone: 277-4440 Hours: Monday ­Friday 6:30 a.m. -6:30 p.m. Saturday & Sunday 7:30a.m.-4 p.m. Menu: Bagels, cream cheeses, espressos, sandwiches, pastries Specials: none 
HIGHER GROUND 
(formerly RJ's) Address: 109 W. Washington Telephone: 282­2522 Hours: Monday ­Thursday 7 a.m. -11 
p.m. Friday & Saturday 7 a.m.-1 a.m. & Sunday -closed Menu: Coffees, espressos, Italian sodas, deli, pastries Specials: Tuesday & Saturday nights: live bands. Thursday nights: poetry readings 


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
-
• NFl 
Green Bay prevails 28-10 in Super Bowl rematch 
By MIKE FREEMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
Trailing by 4 points halfway through the third quarter on Monday night, the New England Patriots had a first-and-goal at the Green Bay 1-yard line. It looked like an easy touchdown, like the emotional lift they needed to recover from what had been a Oat performance. Then came dis­aster. 
Four straight plays, and no score. No gain on a first-down run, then three straight incom­plete passes. On fourth down, quarterback Drew Bledsoe tried to squeeze a pass to fullback Keith Byars, but it was knocked away by cornerback Tyrone Williams, the same player who had been burned on two deep plays by Terry Glenn. At this point, you could almost see the Patriots deflate, and the rematch from last year's Super Bowl was basically over. 
Soon a deep fog settled in high over the stadium, darkening the lights. There was no better sym­bol for what happened in the Packers' impressive 28-10 victory over the Patriots before 59,972 at Foxboro Stadium. Fog -and the Packers blanketed New England. 
"I was surprised they threw the ball three times," Packers line­backer Seth Joyner said of the goal-line stand. "I guess they felt like since we had stuffed the run pretty much, they had no choice." 
Said Eugene Robinson, the 

Packers safety: "This is the kind of game that can change a season. Everyone in this locker room is proud of what we've done today." 
What happened after Green Bay's defensive stand was that the Packers took over on their 1 and went 99 yards in 17 plays, a drive that took almost 10 minutes. It ended with a 20-yard touchdown pass from quarterback Brett Favre to wide receiver Robert Brooks, giving the Packers a 21­10 lead. 
During the massive drive, Green Bay converted four third-down plays, including a third-and-11 and a third-and-12. Favre was magical, and the play-calling by the Packers' offensive coaches was excellent. 
Game over. Drive safely. The Packers went to 6-2, while the Patriots, losers of three out of their last four, fell to 5-3. 
The Patriots defense looked exhausted after that drive. It held the Packers on their next drive, but by then the Patriots' hopes of winning had thinned. And the Packers put the finishing touches on the victory early in the fourth quarter with a 3-yard touchdown run by Dorsey Levens, who had 100 yards on 26 carries for the night. 
This game was important to both teams, but for different rea­sons. The Packers were coming off a bye week in which Coach Mike Holmgren gave them the entire week off. He told the play­ers to forget about football. Play golf. Go to Florida. Do anything except think of football. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FREE TRIPS & CASH I SPRING BREAK' Outgoing individuals -sell
NOTICES 
15 & go FREE. Cancun, South 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00 ·p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat's) 
Phone 631-COPY 
Padre, Mazatlan, Jamaica, South Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best Prices. 1 -800-SURFS-UP. www.studentexpress.com 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call219-271-0633 
..Spring Break..."Take 2" .. Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free. 
Hot destinations! Free Parties, GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. Eats, Drinks. Sun Splash 1-800-426­from NO campus on U.S. 31/33. 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 

NEW STEREO EQUIPMENT many names 25-70% off retail full warran­ty Nick @ 4-2033 
GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax, Repo's. REO's. Your area. Toll Free (1)800-218-9000 Ext. H-2013 for current listings. 
SEIZED CARS from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your area. Toll Free 1-800­218-9000 Ext. 2013 for current list­ings. 
# ###############  PHISH PHANS  BODHI HAS S.F.B.  
2 student ticket booklets  Going phishing 12/6 in Auburn Hills,  
for sale  MI. Have 2 xtra rods but need boat.  llook out llarry, it's the lland-llord'  
call Jenny @ 687-8435  Call X4238.  
# ###############  ·evil grader controls my destiny  
For Sale:Four Navy GAs  
4 NAVY GA's  Call Bill @ 4-4721  today is fun with matrices!  
$32each x1998  oh yeah!  
For Sale:  
Hey, you want my  2 Navy GAs &  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
4 NAVY GA's  1 Student  LaFortune Student Center  
don't you?  Call: 634-2997  '-i High-Speed Copies  
good. then call  '-i Canon Color Laser Copies  
jodie @ x3645  ••• NAVY-WV GA'S •••  '-i Digital Color Printing  
pair for sale for each  '-i Binding & Laminating  
Sale Navy & W.VA.  631-7747 leave offer  '-i Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  

Call (616)684-4633. 
Silver Hawks Baseball Team URBAN PLUNGE INFO MEETING Office Receptionist needed at TODAY! Come learn about this Coveleski Stadium rewarding service opportunity! 7-8 Mon-Fri 8:30am-1:OOpm PM,CSC Call 235-9988 for more information 
ILOST & FOUND I FOR RENT 

Brass bed, queen size with orthope­die mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082. 
MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­tor, printer, fax/modem, $750, 4­4322 Married Tixs-don't need i.d. 
b.o. leave mess. 288-8680 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 
BUY • SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 
Phone 631-COPY for sale 2 navy ga's how many applrances does it take call3773 to run up a $130 electric bill?? 
NAVY GA FOR SALE  it obviously wasn't the stove...  
BEST OFFER  Tim, Zach, Andy, and Mike- 
You guys just rock.  


CONFIDENTIAL  CALL BETH: 634 -0734  Colleen  
.I  would appreciate anyone who finds keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862 FOUND: SWISS ARMY WATCH WI/ BRWN. LEATHER BAND. SIL­VER FACE. CALL TARA 243-8563 FOUND FOUND FOUND Did you lose your NO umbrella at  WALK TO CAMPUS 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 BULLA RD, MCKINLEY TERRACE, SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551 1-bdrm, turn. apt.. Downtown SB.  Two Cars-Honda, 89 Civic 40, OX, Very Clean, Low Milge, Like new, $3590 0/B, 86 Prelude, V.G. Cond. Normal Milge. $16500/B, Call: 2773254 L. M. TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO HOME GAMES.272-6551  TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 LOW PRICES  Wanted: converted Navy GA's Call4-1421 FOR SALE-2 W.Virginia GA's Call 634-3395. Leave msg. w/ offer. I have 3 Navy GA's for sale. Call Brett at x3361 For Sale: 4 Navy and 4WV GA's-­ We're gonna kill the @#!• Bart the Bear is my hero. Donuts make for fabulous decorat­ing. Eggo waffles are available every meal at South.  

the library Sun. nile (1 0/26)? I have  $400/mo. + $150 dep. Lease. 233­ Face Value.  I so want Brad Pitt.  
it.  Call Mary Beth @x2510.  2900 or 272-7305.  GA's for sale at cost: 4 Navy  FOR  SALE  Call Nicole X1308  
FOUND  FOUND  FOUND  and 4 WV call Jill 3850  I so want Brad Prendergast.  
LOST: Martial arts letter jacket at  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  NO MOM NEEDS 8 NAVY GA's- N.D.  G.A.'S  PERSONAL  Hi Mel!  Wafflehead loves you.  
Senior Bar. Call x4969 or return to  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  271-9412.  
Senior Bar. Reward offered for info  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  x2242. WILL RESPOND ASAP.  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER  Andrea,  
or the return of the jacket.  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  WANTED N D G A'S  A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE  Breathe.  
WANTED~  243-0658. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  For Sale: 4 GAs Navy-Joe 1631 For Sale: 1 Navy GA  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  & MiKE 2 years ago & I chose them to adopt my baby. They're wonder­ful parents and I couldn't be happier  Hardy, Don't be embarassed if I beat you  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Call243-1623 with offer.  FOR SALE:  with my choice. I'm thrilled that they  next time.  
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  want to adopt againl They're fun,  
earning potential!!  with private baths, $70-$90,  9 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE. BEST  TWO Navy GAs  affectionate, professional, stable &  Morgs,  
616-461-6772.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  OFFER 243-5354  ONEW. VaGA  easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with  How's the head? Guess the night- 
Toll Road, Exit #107,  you too. (888)690-BABY or check  stand wasn't being too nice to ya.  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  1-800-418-9487.  NO VS. NAVY & W. VA TIX  Call Colby @ 4-4903  their web site at  
....  Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ LG. FURN. RM., PRIV. BATH,  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MESSAGE  4 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE  WWW.MEETUS.COM  Want a drink? Well, we have...  
ALS, student ORGANIZATIONS, or  PRIV. ENT., 10 MIN. TO CAMPUS.  x3947 Michelle  000 Looking for a unique gift?  The Morgners were here.  
small GROUPS wanted!! Call  MALE GRAD. PREF. 232-8285.  Married Stud Tix sale 273-1997  Bring in your favorite pictures  
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at  NAVY and WV FOOTBALL GA's  and we'll create a personalized  What was that? You want to hang  
1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com  FOR SALE  Navy & W Virginia GAs 289-7581  FOR SALE: 273-0428  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!I THE COPY SHOP  out with me when I'm sober?  
# ###############  I have Navy GAs!  LaFortune Student Center  Congratulations Bridey!!!  
NO Prof. needs babysitter for inf~nt  DAYS INN room-2double beds, free  For Sale:  Do you need them?  -Your sister-in-law-to-be  
next semester T!Th: 11 :30-3:30;  breakfast (US 31, 3 min. from cam­ 4 Navy Student Tickets (cheap)  Call me at x1287.  i bet donna's star is more expensive  
MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart­ pus)...Fri.&Sat. nights -Oct  (not GA's)  then a teddy bear  Bly1he and Buck,  
Rieker: 631-6914  31 &Nov1 -Parents Weekend  call Jenny @ 687-8435  We NEED 2 GA's for WV  Have you guys been sleeping with  
(office); 233-1268(home).  Joe 634-1631  # ###############  lv. msg. (800)321-4110x10986  t minus 1 day till calc test  one eye, I mean ear, open?  

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-
• NFL 
NO's Zorich upset after being released by Chicago 
15 112 sacks. 
Zorich formed his own foun­dation and founded a scholar­ship in his mother's name, delivered groceries and Thanksgiving fixings to impov­erished families and was also involved in helping women's shelters. 
. Zorich found his mother dead upon returning from the 1991 Orange Bowl, a loss to Colorado. His mother had raised him alone. 
"The biggest thing I will miss · is having the opportunity to play in front of the greatest fans, the fans of Chicago," he said. "I'vp been blessed to spend 6 1/2 years here." 
In other moves Tuesday, the Bears signed fullback Mike Dulaney and veteran offensive guard-center Greg Huntington and also waived defensive back Terry Cousin. 

Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST. Ill. 
The Chicago Bears on Tuesday released veteran defensive tackle Chris Zorich, who responded that he has not yet had a chance to show what hr. can do. 
"I really feel like I've been tr<)ated unfairly by not having the opportunity to go out to prove myself," said Zorich, who is known for his off-field charity work. "I would not say I'm bit­ter. But the people I'm most upset with is the coaching staff." 
Zorich, 28, missed all of 1996 after tearing a knee ligament. I!e had back problems in train­ing camp. underwent thumb surgery in August and played in only three games this season, making just two tackles. 
"lie wasn't in the rotation. He wasn't playing. He wasn't active," Bears coach Dave Wannstedt said of the move. 
"It's really tough, he's a spe­dal guy. He really is....It's real­ly not fair to him. lie's frustrat­
. ed. Everybody knows how badly Chris Zorich wants to play." A second-round pick in 1991 out of Notre Dame, Zorich was the team's fourth defensive tackle behind Carl Simpson, Jim Flanigan and Paul Grasmanis. By cutting Zorich after eight weeks, reports say the Bears could save $400,000. "He wasn't as good as the other three guys. in my opin­ion," Bears personnel director Mark Hatley said. "They were stronger at the point of attack and more physi­cal. Chris was a little quicker, a finesse guy." Hatley added the Zorich would probably be given a look 

by other teams, including New Orleans. Saints coach Mike Ditka, then with the Bears, had pushed for Zorich to be taken in the first round in 1991. 
"I think he was a Mike guy when he was here and I'm sure Mike will look at him," Hatley said. 
Hatley said the Bears can direct some of the money saved from cutting Zorich toward keeping other players. 
"That wasn't the bottom line, but there are also some things you have to look at it trying to get some players signed," he said. 
Zorich played at Chicago's Vocational High, the alma mater of Dick Butkus, before attending Notre Dame. 
He became a starter in 1993 and for three years led Chicago defensive linemen in tackles. He played in 79 games for the Bears, starting 59, and made 
NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEE!< 
YOU OUGHT TO KNOW 
MOST STUDENTS ARE MAKING HEALTHY CHOICES. 

67% of college students don't binge drink. 72% of college students have not missed aclass due to drinking. 70% of college students have not gotten into afight or argument while drinking. 82% of college students prefer not to have illicit drugs present at social events. 67% of college students have not driven under the influence of alcohol. " 
.­
Basketball Blue & Gold Game 7:30pm at the JACC 
Free Admission to ALL! 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 1997 


-• NFL Bears pick up that elusive first win, 36-33 in Miami 
Associated Press The Bears, whose game had Wannstedt said. pre-game radio show that he no staff. Are players -as they have been pushed to Monday night "Nobody turned on anybody, plans to fire Wannstedt, despite done in the last games -fight­LAKE FOREST, Ill. by the World Series, didn't get players o'r coaches.... We the horrendous start. ing, scrapping, trying as hard 
Delete the "winless" tag from back to Chicago until 5 a.m. fought to stay together and to "I don't think there'll be a as they possibly can to win a the Chicago Bears. No more 0-Players got the day off. while see if we could get it turned, get need to make a (coaching) game?'' for-1997 jokes. Their first victo­coaches sleepily headed back to a win and get it going in the change," McCaskey said, admit­Wannstedt had very little to ry, a long time coming, ren­Halas Hall. No complaints. A 1-right direction, and I think our ting he was severely disap­say Tuesday about McCaskey's dered them tired, happy and 7 mark makes it a lot easier to players feel real positive right pointed" by the team's perfor­comments concerning his finally with a sense of accom­go to work than 0-8. The now." mance. future, adding the topic hasn't plishment. Indianapolis Colts are now the Before the victory over the "But I'll look for good arisen.The Bears beat the 
"I think everybody knows only NFL team without a victo­Dolphins, Bears president progress, good teaching on the Dolphins, rallying from a 33-18 how difficult the first couple of ry. Michael McCaskey said on a part of the entire coaching deficit in the last seven minutes. months have been and the "The toughest thing when the relief of winning a game," players are playing as hard as coach Dave Wannstedt said they do and practicing as they Tuesday. about 15 hours after a have been, you have to get 36-33 overtime victory in some type of return for what Miami. you arc putting into it," 




. . . . ·.·.·.·-};.· ........ ··--.·.·.·,•,·,·.·,·,·-~:-.... 
be-nd .i;~};;a trophy 

The trophy will remain with the Notre Dame student body after this past Saturday's victo­ry over Boston College. BC Student Body President Dean Bell and Student Body Vice President Kristen Pugh joined Matt Griffin, Erek Nass, and Mary Gillard on the field at halftime for the trophy presentation. The trophy is on display on the first floor of LaFortune, near the Information Desk. 
:;::::::;:::t :::::::::::;;:: :=::::::::::;::=· . ·.·:-:-:-:·:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:-:-:-:...·.·.·· ::::;:::::::::::;:::::;::::::::-:;:;:::-:: . '::·.::::: 
•cr~est;~t~~t~ti;m~~~~~, 
Designated Drivers Cards will be available to students in the coming weeks. Designated dri­vers will be able to show the card at area estab­lishments and receive free soda. The card is brought to you by Student Government and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education. 
UPDATING YOU ON STUDENT GOVERNMENT. LOOK FOR "QUE PASA" EACH WEDNESDAY RIGHT HERE IN THE OBSERVER. 

saferide 631-9888 
SafeRide will return to its normal hours this Friday and Saturday from 10pm to 3am. The SafeRide hotline is 631-9888. SafeRide is always looking for volunteers to drive vans and to answer phones, call Mary @ 1-9888 for more information. 

Student Government is a collection site for P.W. 



Life 
St der1t
Ha·ppy. 



Goverr1mer1t 

----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
---~---~__,---~ ----~ ------~------------­
page 15 

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



I 
----------..-----------------~---~--~--~ 
I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
I 
both quarterbacks at the helm, thing to do. I think that givesI I Davie and Davie doesn't expect to us the best chance to win right •NBA I I change anything. now, to do it that way." I I continued from page 20 "I think we go into it with the Doing what is right to win 



NBA to revise policy 
I same plan," Davie commented. remains the recurrent theme in
I I many we get in a row at time." ''I'd like to see Jarious play in Davie's scheme. 
I 
I The major qu-estion for the the first half, get a series or two "I just want to win," Davie I Irish will be who will be run­in the first half." said. "I mean, I'll do whatever 

on substance abuse 

ning the offense -Ron Powlus I think it's pretty much the we have to do to win the game. or Jarious Jackson. The Irish same plan. It obviously worked Obviously, that always out­Associated Press 
the league's substance abuse 
seemed to find a balance with well, so I think it's the best weighs the long range." 
policy, which has been in effect NEW YORK without major modifications 
Marijuana smoking and since 1984. heavy drinking are rampant in Commissioner David Stern the NBA, involving 60 percent has said recently he would like 
to 70 percent of thn players, to have a drug policy that 
The New York Times reported includes marijuana. 

Sunday. "That substance can impair
The estimate is based on people and cause them to bn statements made to the news­guilty of criminal 1:onduct. We paper by players, former play­don't want that," Stern said in ers, agents and basketball a recent interview. "I think it's 
executives in more than two incumbent upon us to make a 
dozen interviews. One agent statement about it." 

said the figure may be higher. The players' union has resist­
"No one ean really know, but ed a marijuana policy, saying 
it wouldn't surprise me if it's all its members shouldn't comP 70 percent," Dallas guard under increas1~d scrutiny Hobert Pack said. because of the transgressions 
"You don't follow guys home, of a few players. Allen Iverson, but just from what you hear I Isaiah-Hider and Marcus think it's closer to 70," Orlando Camby were involved in mari­
guard Den~k Harper said. juana-n~JatPd cases over tlw Marijuana is not covered by summer. 

Trade rumors in NY 

wards Billy Owens and Corliss
Richmond or Van 

Williamson and point guard Bobby Hurley. 

Exel could be 

llowev!•r, Madison Square Garden president Davidheaded to Knicks Checketts emphatically denied Associated Press that the two clubs have recent­ly discussed a trade, and NEW YORK Knicks presidPnt ErniP 
TradP rumors continue to Grunfcld refusPd to comment swirl around disgruntled on any trade rumors. Sacramento Kings five-time It was reported last week All-Star guard Miteh Hichmond that the Los Angrdns !.akers as the NBA season approaches. offered shooting guard Eddie 
The New York Daily News Jones for Hiehmond, but Lakers rcportPd the New York Knicks general manager Jerry WPst may b11 offering shooting guard said this week that JonPs will Allan Houston as part of a not be traded. The Miami Heat package deal for Hichmond. is also intnrestlld in obtaining 
A possible scenario had the Hichmond. 

Knicks sPnding Houston, point The Daily News also reporti~d Ron Powlus will share time with Jarious Jackson again this week. The duo combined for season bests in guard Chris Childs and newly Tuesday that the Lakcrs have total offense and points scored. Bob Davie hopes they will enjoy similar success this week against Navy. acquired forward Chris Mills to offered point guard Nick Van 
the Kings for Richmond, for-Exel to the Knicks for Childs. 

•NBA 

NBA hires two female officials for the season 
By MIKE WISE that was settled out of court. Associated Press Writer Rumored for months, the N.B.A.'s worst-kept secret was 
Industria./ ·Progressive · Hotro · A.lternativeDance 
Michael Cage of the Nets dis­made official yesterday. In the 

.frtltl adml11i~n with Y-'JIId ool/t~JrD ID "'proptlr ldtiDII.floalloD 
agreed with the non-call of the process of filling two vacancies, official last Friday during a Rod Thorn, the league's vice preseason game. He wanted a president of operations, helped foul. The referee didn't see it remove yet another barrier for 
1 Friday, October 31st, Halloween
that way. The two went back women in American sport. and forth, explaining their "It would be impossible to say 
1 All Hell's Breakin' Loose
points to one another without what the implications are as far yelling. Cage lost the argument as women officiating other pro­1 Costume Contest $2000 in prizes including $1 000 cash, Tickets to ND Football, 
but didn't seem to mind. fessional sports, because The journeyman forward had there's different things that you 
Concerts, and many more treats... formed an opinion of Dee have to consider for each Kantner. Like many of the sport," Thorn said. "But I can other fair but tough-minded tell you these two women are officials that Cage has jawed outstanding, and both arc defi­with during his 13-year career, nitely qualified." she seemed more than quali­Last year, Kantner, 37, and fied. Palmer, 33, became the first The National Basketball women to officiate N.B.A. pre­Association felt the same way. season games. They have 


Yesterday, it announced the extensive experience, including hiring of Kanter and Violet women's college basketball and Palmer to work this season. N.B.A. summer league games. Their assignments this week­This month they were assigned end will mark the first time· N.B.A. preseason games again, that women have refereed reg­and both were among the 
Get ready tor a night of htgb energy

ular-season games in the league's top choices to fill five 
featuring Chtoago'a I:iotteat D.J'a 

nation's four major profession­vacancies. They were recom­al sports leagues -the N.B.A., mended to Thorn by Darell 
-----II"""I 
the National Football League, Garretson, the league's chief of the National Hockey League officials. 
EVERY WEDNESDAY

and Major League Baseball. Palmer, a native of Compton, Pam Postema umpired in Calif., was supervisor of offi­Snow Crah l,cgs . ..\11-U-Can-Fat. JUst 15.95 baseball's minor leagues from cials for the Women's National 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Stcuk b.. 1 lh. of Snow Cn1h Legs. just 17.95 1977-88 but never worked a Basketball Association last sea­major league game. She filed a son. Kantner, who Jives in sex -discrimination suit against North Carolina, was also a professional baseball in 1991 W.N.B.A. official. 
Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
J
Fisher pummels winless O'Neill in season finale 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN ground, and Schultz was Sports Writer sacked on the first down. O'Neill looked strong as Mike 
Fisher downed O'Neill in a Brown zig-zagged across the regular-season finale. led by field for a 25-yard gain. In the interceptions of Byron addition, a penalty against Levkulich and touchdowns of Fisher was called on the play Jamie Ricker and Greg Regan. for a late hit. After a short run 
The ganw got off to a slow by Brown, three consecutive 
start, as neither incomplete passes left Fisher nor O'Neill ,-----------, the Mob scoreless. was able to gain FISHER Just before half-much momentum on time, Fisher had two its first possnssion. 16 first downs on runs 
On Fisher's second by Ricker and Mark possession. the Green 0 'NEILL Mitchell. and another Wave got several big on a reception by plays on their way to 0 Regan. However. the tlw end zone. After a clock ran down short run by before it could score. Levkulich. Brian Hertz caught a Brown was off and running pass from quarterback Mike on the first two plays of the sec­Schultz for a first down. Hicker ond half for O'Neill. Andy tlwn ran the ball 35 yards for Warzon had a key reception the touchdown. Schultz ran in before being brought down by tlw two-point conversion. Fisher captain Sean Lynch. 
O'Neill was stopped on its Brown and Warzon alternated rwxt possession. Fisher sackr,.d carrying the ball but were quarterbac~k Matt White. Then unable to gain a first down. O'NPill had a short run and a Each team was forced to punt rPcnption behind the line of on its next possession, neither scrimmagn. The Angr'y Mob's being able to get a first down. punt was blockPd, and Fisher Fisher's Ricker ran several took ovN at O'Neill's 24-yard yards, but on the next play, lirw. Thn Wave gained little Warzon recovered a fumble for O'Neill. The Mob didn't last long on offense, however, as Levkulich intercepted and ran downfield to O'Neill's 22-yard line. A run by Ricker set up Regan's touchdown run. Ricker ran into the end zone for the extra two points. 
Brown carried the ball well for O'Neill, but there was no chance for a come-back as Levkulich once again intercept­ed a pass. 
"Our defensive line was really pressuring O'Neill's quarter­back, so he didn't have much time to pass," Levkulich said. 
Fisher's Brian Hertz had a long reception, broke loose of a tackle, and reversed his direc­tion before being tackled by Brown 45 yards down the field. Fisher won 16-0 to finish its regular season 2-1-1. 
O'Neill ended up 0-4 on the season. 
"We couldn't come up with the big plays we needed to on offense, but we're coming back strong for next year," Brown said. 
The Mob had 20 freshmen on its team this year, and captain Jim Hosenbach said, "O'Neill isn't going away." 

"Frankenstein" (1931) 
and "~e:rL1.m" 
OCTOBER 31, 9:00PM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER BALLROOM 
•FREE ADMISSION &FOOD • FREE TREAT BAGS TO THE FIRST 100 STUDENTS• Q>®fiJal1 IJ®~®@l111® ~~DfiJ® t/®lD~ lPD~~®W® DJfiJQ> ~~DJfiJ~@l]®g 

Zahm 
continued from page 20 
scoring. 
Zahm linebacker Tom Collins made several key tackles to stop Sarin's runs, and Sorin defensive tackle Jeremy Cazarez also had some excep­tional stops, including a hard sack which forced Zahm to punt. 
Finally, Zahm wore down Sorin's defense and scored a touchdown on a 10-yard 
reverse. A successful two-point conversion pass gave Zahm a 16-0 lead that they would not relinquish. 
Zahm complied 178 total yards, including 6 of 13 pass­ing for 86 yards while rushing for 92 yards on 18 carries. Running back Liam Knott and Matt Myer split carries and gained 31 and 38 yards, respectively. 
Meanwhile, Sarin was held to 88 yards (26 passing and 62 rushing yards). Sarin's Slatter was the game's leading rushing with 44 yards. 


----------------~----~----.---~~--~--"--.~--~---------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 
Swimmers capture two events 

Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team won two events at the National Collegiate Aquatic Sports Championships at the International Swimming Hall of Fame Aquatic Complex in F o r t Lauderdale, Fla. Senior captain Linda Gallo and fresh­men Kristen Van Saun led the 


• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Marlins celebrate first World Series victory 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Thousands of screaming fans, most dressed in the team's teal and black and others waving Cuban flags, cheered their champion Florida Marlins today as the team paraded through a confetti-strewn downtown Miami. 
Under cloudy skies with a balmy breeze, fans in team caps and World Series T -shirts waved pennants and crowded close to the parade route to shout their thanks to the Marlins. 
"This community has come together in a way I haven't seen for many, many years," said Dade County Mayor Alex Penelas, riding in the back of an open convertible and wear­ing a Marlins jersey. 
Riding in the 'parade of con­vertibles was Gov. Lawton Chiles. Marlins owner Wayne Huizenga and his wife Marty and the Marlins mascot Billy the Marlin. 
Team president Don Smiley, who is trying to organize a group to buy the team from Huizenga, found the enthusi­asm heartening. 
"I had no idea there so much interest out here for baseball," Smiley said. "We needed a jump start and winning the World Series is absolutely what you need for a jump start." 
Irish by swimming on both win­Irish pair of Francie McCoppin ning relays. and Herb Huesman won the 
Gallo, Van Saun, and fresh­mixed three-meter diving men Brenda Reilly and Carrie event. Nixon swam the 4x800 Huesman and Tyler Maertz freestyle relay in 7:36.82, finished second in the men's almost 10 seconds faster than one-meter competition. second place Alabama. Gallo Freshman Karli Richards and and Van Saun teamed with Jessica Johnstone took third in sophomore all-American Alison the women's one-meter. Newell to claim the 3x500 Sophomore Gina Ketelhohn and freestyle relay, setting a nation­Hhiana Saunders were fourth al college swimming record in the process. 
Notre Dame finished second in the 400 medley relay and third in the 300 butterfly, back­stroke, and breaststroke relays. 
In the diving competition, the 
Huizenga said the team lost more than $30 million this year. 
Whether Huizenga keeps the team or finds a buyer, the team wants a baseball-only stadium with a retractable dome --and it wants the public to help pay for it. 
Business, however, was not on the minds of fans today. Loud cheers went up for such World Series stars as outfielder Moises Alou and pitcher Livan Hernandez, the series MVP. 
As a car passed with Hernandez, he gave high-fives and people pressed forward to touch him and chant "Livan, Livan, Livan." 
Some fans climbed on top of his car. 
Fans threw confetti at the cars because many of the buildings near the parade route do not have windows that open to allow a traditional ticker­tape parade. Hernandez's car was filled with confetti. The parade down Miami's 
Flagler Street headed  to  a  
bayfront amphitheater for  a  
ceremony with the players.  

Announcer Joe Angel, stand­ing next to the World Series trophy, presented the visiting guests as well as each player who helped send the Marlins to the top in the franchise's fifth year. They cheered for Hernandez, who was wearing a tan fedora and sunglasses. 

Wednesday, October 29, 1997 
Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 

p.m. 
on Sundays inRoom 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 


Synchronized Swimming 
-Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus Sports Center. Call Maureen at 634-4281 or Stephanie at 634-2741 with any questions. 
Squash Match -Navy and Northwestern wm be compet­ing against Notre Dame in a squash match on Friday, Oct.31. Immediately following will be a clinic by the players and coaches. 


Wednesday, October 29, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
OH C>Rt:ltT.' f'#E Dllv'tNC, 
No , You jUSt 
Aries: Expect the unexpected

H,IJLt_ /"'uSr BE tiAVtNq 
C,oT IH"£ BEEF 
today when new variables 

A HALLOvJ£E:N THEMe DINNER 
sneak in to your equation. A confrontation ends in an embrace. What begins with discord could end inaccord. Taurus: One quick, strong push gets you moving today. You wonder why you've held yourself back for so long. Self­improvement becomes less of a tedious chore if it's done in a partnership or as part of a team. Gemini: Your actions are enhanced by their context today. A simple explanation 

IUR!VOV£ R. 
MIKE PETERS 
becomes a lecture course for college credit as more people stop to listen. The messenger is as fascinating as the message. Cancer: Expect some difficulty with a relationship that is gen­erally stable. Ideas are chal­lenged from an unexpected quarter. Avoid sudden move­ments when standing on shaky ground. Leo: All forms of courtship are favored today, from corporate to romantic, from subtle com­pliment to friendly ambush. You can say what you mean in just a few words, but it could lead to a long discussion. 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
Dating will be a memorable experience. 


u

CATBERT: EVIL 1-\.R. DIRECTOR 
.: 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Grist for processors 5 Quizzes 9 Hurt 14 "L'--c'est moi": Louis XIV 15 Tra1n transportation 16 Word in a Yale song 17 Religious monster? 19 Sound louder than kerplop 20 Swimming pool problem 21 Athos. Porthos and Aramis. e.g. 23 1944 Pulitzer journalist 24 It's rolled out at parties 26 Wooden shoe 
• 
~VOlOING CONTACT ;"· WIT\-\ 5Ut;OROINA.TE5. 

• MI5?U\CING II"\PORT~NT 1 DOCUMENTS. 

•
TI-\E J"O'Y Or LISTENING TO 'YOUR OWN VOICE. 


) 
i r-­


Virgo: Test the strength of 1-\A.VE 'YOU IA.\<..EN TI-\E 
your emotional commitment by making a joint purchase

PREREQUISITE CLA.55 
with your partner. A discussion lN Tli"\E MANAGEMENT? 
about value carries metaphori­cal weight. Do something fun to lighten up a serious 

~~~~~--~~~~~~----~~~ 
28 1940's 57 Spoils Big-Band leader 59 Cream of the 30 Solidarnosc crop 
leader &1 Junta's act 33 Chattering birds &2 Tigger's 3& Not stiff adopted mom 38 Frothy 64 Macho dance? 39 Serpent's && Signed 
mark? &7 Sound 40 Popular men's 68 December air 
magazine &9 Compote fruit 42 Parisian way 70 Q-Tip 43 "Mefistofele" 71 In-­
composer (existing) 45 Biology subj. 46 Gets choked up 
DOWN
47 Charles's "Gaslight" 1 Make lean? 
co-star, 1944 
2"1could­
49"-tobed" 
unfold ...": 51 Solicit cash "Hamlet" from 
3 Northern 53 Formation of evergreen bone forests 

44 Set off 55 F.D.R.'s Interior 
Wanted: Reporters,

46 "Nice going!" Secretary 48 Name 56 Several-days-old 
so Kind of 

57 Pass over aerobics 58 Diminish 
photographers and 

52 Pains in the &o Pack away neck &3 TV breaks 54 Farm towers. &s Miss out? 
editors. Join The Observer staff. 

EVERYONE DOESN'T DRINK 
YOU CAN BELIEVE ANYTHING YOU WANT. BUT THE TRUTH IS, MORE THAN ONE THIRD OF COLLEGE STUDENTS SELDOM OR NEVER DRINK ALCOHOL. 
SO WHAT DO THEY DO INSTEAD? WHY NOT ASK THEM. 
Sponsored By The Office of Alcohol And Drug Education 
EUGENIA LAST 
moment. Libra: No matter what your social class, today you feel like royalty. Everyone is reaching out to touch the hem of your robe. Remember that benevo­lent rulers play much better in history than tyrants. Scorpio: Establishing your cre­dentials may be a bit of a strug­gle today. If the playing field isn't level, you may as well concede the game and go home e:uly. Talk with someone who understands your dreams. Sagittarius: Personal power is even more thrilling when you accept the responsibilities that come with it. Honor your own hopes and wishes once you've taken care of everyone else. Friendship is a refuge after a hard day in public. Capricorn: Summaries are favored over details today if you hope to win someone's favor. Justice will be served if you move quickly. Be wary of delays during a decision process. Aquarius: Accentuate similari­ties instead of differences today. You connect the dots in a way that usually seems impossible. Experience is the best teacher, and you are ripe for another lesson. Pisces: Someone close to you may be putting on an act for your benefit. Ask a thousand questions before agreeing to make major changes. Distrust anyone who asks you to com­promise your ideals. 



-
~-----­

SPORTS 
page 20 
• fOOTBAll 
Navy's wishbone concerns the Irish 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Spans Editor 
In a year in which there are no guaranteed wins in college football. teams like the ser­vice academies, No.18 Purdue, and No. 22 Toledo are having the times of their lives. 
The Notre Dame football team -which normally has at least two games against the service academies, sometimes three as in 1995 -is no exception to this trend. No one thought that the Irish would have a losing record at this point, but then again, no one thought that top-ranked Florida would lose to LSU, or No. 12 Michigan State would lose to Northwestern. 
Combine that with the fact 
that in the last few years, 
Notre Dame's performances 
against the service academies 
include one loss to Air Force, 
and three games in which 
Navy averaged 23 points 
against the Irish, the celebra­
tion for last week's 52-20 win 
over Boston College will be 
short-lived. · The Irish have to prepare for 
this week's game against Navy 
more so than any team they 
have played this season. 
Head coach Bob Davie 
knows this and is especially concerned with the fact that the Midshipmen will come into to South Bend this weekend with two weeks of rest behind them. 
"When you look at Navy, you know exactly what kind of game it's going to be," Davie said at his weekly press con­ference yesterday. 
"You know what a concern it is, especially when they had an open date last week, and we didn't. That's a frightening thought." 
What is at the forefront of concern for the Irish is the wishbone offense, led by senior quarterback Chris McCoy, who is as much of a rushing threat as any running back the Irish have seen this year. 
When McCoy's running abili­ty is added to a decent arm, defensive coordinator Greg Mattison and the Irish defense have their hands full. 
For the Irish, the main con­cern lies in maintaining the offensive momentum created in last week's game and limit­ing penalties. 
"The concern on offense is the penalties," Davie said. "Not so much how many, but when we get them, and how 
see DAVIE/ page 16 


.... 
.. 
vs. Navy, November I, I :30 p.m. 
vs. Michigan, 

October 31, 7:30p.m. Hockey vs. Michigan State, October 31, 7 p.m. 
at Villanova, October 31, 7 p.m. 





• 
St¢ Stet 
• MEN's iNTERHALL fooTBALL 

Zahmbies earn top seed with 4-0 record 
ByMATTYUNG exemplified the drive. Spans Writer Zahm running back Liam Knott then steamrolled a Sorin 
Undefeated Zahm strolled defender while scoring the two­onto Stepan Field the Thursday point conversion. Sorin trailed before break to face a fired-up 8-0 at halftime. group of Sorin Otters. Like thev did in the first half. 
Zahm had the game's first Sorin kept the ball on th<~ possession, but a,---------, ground in the second fumble gave Sorin an half. Sorin 's strong early scoring oppor-offensive line opened tunity. However, th~e ZAHM 16 holes, and tailback turnover amounted to Tim Slatler methodi­nothing. SORIN 0 cally pushed the ball 
Each team had down the field. another unsuccessful However, Zahm cor­possession before nerback Bailey pre-Zahm began what would be the vented anything from material­game's strongest drive. izing when he intercepted orw 
Starting on its own 8-yard of Pete Belton's passes. line, Zahm exploded for 92 For most of the second half. yards. Two Dave Martin pass-both defenses applied smother­es, a 40 yarder and a spectacu-ing pressure and allowed no Jar diving 25-yard touchdown 
see ZAHM/ page 17
reception by Mike Bailey, best 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball Blue & Gold Scrimage Tonight at 7:30 at the Joyce Center Free admission 

Cross-country at Big East Tournament, 
• Women's swimming wins two November I see page 18 Volleyball at Calvin College, 
October 31 • NO's Zorich cut by Bears Soccer at Bethel College, 
see page 13 October 29 






