

Monday, November 3, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 45 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
New security device foils attempt to drive on campus 
'Eo/lards' send three to hospital, damage vehicle 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 
Three people were injured at approximately 9:17 p.m. Saturday aftf~r their car ran into the electronic rising bollards on the west side of the Main Circle. 
The short, retracting metal poles known as bollards sink into the ground after an access code has been given, said assistant director of 
Jenky named as new bishop 

Pope selects Holy Cross priest as new auxiliary bishop of local diocese 
By LAURA PETELLE News \Vriter 
!'opt> John Paul II recently appointed Father Daniel Jnnky as an auxiliary bishop for the DiocnsP of Fort Wayne-South Rend. 
JPnky will bn ordained to the episcopacy -the 

office of bishop -on Tuesday, 
Dec. 16, at St. Matthew 
Cathedral in South Bend. lie will 
serve as the pastor of St. 
Matthew's following his ordina­
tion. 
Jenky is perhaps best known 
on campus as the rector of the 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Jenky Sundav. he could be found there 
in prayerful silence. contemplat­ing tlw Basilira that has been undnr his direction since 1977. · 
"It's a sacrament," he said of the ordination. "Although I'm scared, I think it'll be a special grarc. It is an honor, but [the episcopate] is for snrvic(~. God's been VPry good to me." 
"It's hard to lcavn the Basilica and Notre Dame," lw wPnt on. ''I've bPPn here (at Notre Dame) since 1975." 
JPnky was born in Chicago in 1947. He entered thP University of Notre Dame in 1965, then PntPred thn Iloly Cross Novitiate in Vermont in 196(J. After taking his first temporary vows, he was assigned to Moreau Seminary in 1967 in ordPr to rontinuc his Pducation at Notre Dame. 
lie graduatnd with a bachelor's degree in history in 1<J70 and continued to earn a master's of theol­ogy in 1973. lie was ordained to the priesthood for thn Congregation of the Holy Cross in 197 4. Jcnky then taught high school for a year in Phoenix bnl'ore returning to tlw University in 197 5. 
Since his return to the University, he has held several posts. including rector of Dillon llall, director of Campus Ministry, rector of Sacred llnart. and religious superior of the lloly Cross Priests and Brothers at Notre Dame. 
"''ve lived here since I was 18," .Jenky said, "so I've had prP.tty steady involvement in the commu­nity." 
In an Oct. 21 press release, Bishop John D'Arcy of' the Diocese of' Fort Wayne-South Rend Pxpressed his confidence that Jenky will fit the Security/Police Chuck Hurley. After emergency room for lacerations and the system senses the passage of the bumps," he continued. Nobody was automobile, the bollards are electroni­seriously injured. cally raised to block passage of other Hurley said that Security/Police does cars onto campus. not anticipate making any changes to 
"After the first 
car I l~l!iii!iii_.l••l the two sets of two bollards that block gives an authoriza-automobile access to campus on tion code, it can either sidewalk entrance at the Main pass through [the Circle. gate typically "This kind of thing won't happen blocked by unless people try to go in without lards]. In this case, using the code. Anyone trying to tail­I'm not sure if the driver was unfamil­gate a car is going to get damage to iar with our system. but the driver their car," Hurley said. was tailgating another car, and his car The system presently incorporates hit the bollards as they were going red lights on each of the four bollards up," Hurley said. as well as warning signs to dissuade 
"The passengers required treatment people from attempting to follow auto­at the St. Joseph Medical Ceater mobiles onto campus. 


'Men about Campus' offends students 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame students reacted angrily this weekend to a panel of "Men About Campus," the comic strip written by junior Dan Sullivan. 
The final costume was a stu­dent labeled "An alien -a Mexican without a green card." 
In response, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Campus Ministry and the Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame, along with members of 
many other groups on campus, posted fliers in dorms and LaFortune Student Center that had the cartoon at the top of the page. 
· Underneath the strip was a picture of the statue of Mary crying on top of the Dome, with the words, "We are not Aliens. We are ND." 
The Observer apologizes 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Editor-in-Chief ·· 
On Friday, TheObserver's campus comic strip, "Men About 
~~mpus;Jli consisted ofa panel th.at suggested possible Halloween costumes. One ofthe suggestions was an "alien," followed by the words, "aMexican without a green card." ,.{The Observer. apologizes for the offense the comic strip has Caused. 
The co1nic was not published in order to offend anyone or to· make light of any of the struggles endured by Hispanics or any Qther minorities. The conii~ was Writtenwith the intention of pro­viding a humorous angle to Halloween costumes. 
With the costume in question, the artist, Dan Sullivan, was mak­
····~!j· api<J,y~ort·w~r~·of ih~term ''alien." Instead of showing a fig­ure fro:rrr another planet~ Sullivan drew·a figure that would fit another definition of "alien/' that of someone in the United States 

Much loved SMCprof dies at 71 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Saint Mary's community will wish a final farewell today to history professor Anthony Black, who died on Wednesday after an extended illness. 
Black, a member of the Saint Mary's history department faculty for 39 years and founder of the London and Rome summer programs, had just retired in May. 
Black originally began his work at Saint Mary's in 1955. He left the College in 1962 to teach at Seton Hill College and Vincent College, both in his native Pennsylvania. lie returned to Saint Mary's in 1965, where he taught for the rest of his career. 
In 1974, Black commenced the summer study programs in London and Rome, which arc still held each year. 
see BLACK/ page 4 
position well. The fliers were also handed out to people visit­•~thout a greencard~ . .· ··.•.·······.· ...... 
"Father Jenky's sharp, eardul and intelligent < The. comic was not designed to denigrate Mexicans. In fact, the
ing campus Saturday.IP.adership has indicated to me that he has the A large group of concerned students met last 
word "person" could have been inserted in place of "Mexican" qualities of courage, elarity and intelligence, com­night in the student government office with 
without altering the comic's intended message. bin!~d with graciousness and understanding which Kevin lluie, the assistant director of the Office 
are so nendcd in a bishop in our time," he wrote. of Multicultural Student Affairs, to discuss the "At the same time, he is diplomatic and careful in cartoon. his approach to pastoral problems." All who attended the meeting declined to 
Catholic Communications for the Diocese of Fort comment last night on what was discussed or Wayne-South Bend contributed to this report. what they plan to do in response. 
see APOLOGY/ page 4 
-----~ ------~------·---­
----------~------------­
page 2 
Monday, November 3, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 

•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
David Freddoso  Melissa Weber  
Sarah Hilrz  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Karhleen Lopez  Karhleen Lopez  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Joe Srark  
Accent  Anrhony Shaker  
Nare Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Tuesday Q 39 29 
.·=·· ·:: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

Frid;ty p/ S'7 39 
H L a ESl [Til 0 . ~ 8 (} ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
"'""<"'"··
~.5'·/\\' ~, ' ' 

Atlanta 56 37 Dallas 71 40 Los Angeles 89 60
' 
Baltimore 53 37 Denver 60 35 Miami 79 63 
Boston 56 46 Detroit 40 33 New York 55 45
~~A~ud::£1 ¢-~ u
,,',,,~ ..~···.·.····=·.::=·.::=·-=--=--.:::.. 
Chicago 39 30 Honolulu 84 71 Phoenix 85 62 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 41 33 Indianapolis 43 31 St. Louis 49 32 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Monday, November 3, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ssi\:rCAf~;~~l to address sexuality Dalton discusses 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
The Saint Mary's College Student Academic Council is hosting an open forum on sex­uality tonight at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
SAC member Kelly Righton and student vice president Lori McKeough will co-facili­tate the session. which will fol­low a round table format. 
"We don't want it to be a panel," Righton said. "We just want this to be the first step in talking about issues in sexuali­ty." 
SAC has invited all students, faculty, and staff of the College to participate in the discus-
www.kaplan.com 


Wessels, Arnold©'Henderson, L.L.c. 
STUDENTS MAJORING IN FINANCE OR ACCOUNTING: 
Plan on attending an information session on career opportunities in Investment Banking 

Submit resumes to: Corporate Finance Analyst Recruiting cio Kathy Otto Wessels. Arnold & Henderson, L.L.C. 601 Second Avenue South Suite 3100 Minneapolis, MN 55402-4314 
Visit our Web site at: www.wessels.com 
sion; however, the council intends for the students to ini­tiate the dialogue. 
"People think that there are certain issues that need to be addressed," Righton stated. "[The forum] is to help us see what needs we have." 
SAC wants to ensure that the students have accurate infor­mation on issues relating to the discussion of sexuality, such as the Catholic Church's teachings and the guidelines established by Saint Mary's College. 
"The professors and staff will ac.t as 'pocket dictionar­ies,"' Righton said. "They will be there to give us facts on which to base the discussion." 
Date: -1+1 
No~e.mber Lt --r;j~ 
Location: 
NoTre.. Do.rYU.J 
Uni{u-sit'tl-Time: 
~0 
'fpm-Bpm 
Call for Details: Alpha,_ E0p?.1lon De..lh)..; ge.... 
2-l-Z..-'-t\35 
~ 
J>.SI<.~~~~ 
our ourse. 
~ 
Righton also mentioned that this forum may to some degree help College President Marilou Eldred in gauging students' feelings on issues pertaining to sexuality. 
Eldred has promised to issue a formal decision on the status of the Alliance, a student group at Saint Mary's with an agenda related to sexuality, by the end of the academic school year. 
The Committee on Relationships, a group of administrators, professors and students who are focusing specifically on sexuality issues and reporting to Eldred, will also have representatives at the forum. 
..',::·:;'.1\~~~~~~:;;,:;i:·;:·:. 
··.··..<::···· 






naval necessities 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
"It may be Sunday in 
America, but our nation's 
armed forces cannot afford to 
relax," proclaimed Secretary 
of the Navy John Dalton in an 
address Saturday morning. 
Citing the advances of the 
military in the age of technolo­
gy, Dalton presented his views 
on the challenges of service in 
the Navy to an audience of 
Notre Dame ROTC midship­
men, parents and naval offi­
cers in the Hesburgh Library 
auditorium. 
"An effectively engaged Navy 
needs to maintain a balance 
between academics and pro­
fessionalism," Dalton said. 
Drawing a parallel between American armed forces and the military philosophies of the ancient civilizations of Athens and Sparta, Dalton expressed that a successful program combines both physical strength and thoughtful moral strategy. 
"The Athenians were for­ward-thinking and cerebral; they had a proud dedication to a moral base that defined every action," he said. 
"[But] Sparta had a culture of warrior spirit defined by determination, blood and sweat. Moral standards were a distant second to victory." 
Dalton believes that the way to meet the challenges of the future is to find the "balance between Athens and Sparta." 
"We need to be forward­thinking, efficient and innova­tive, but our forces must also maintain a warrior spirit," Dalton said. "When our offi­cers are in harm's way, they need to have unquestioned bravery and mental effective-
Happy 22nd Love, Your MTY "Vat" Crew 
ness." 
Dalton went on to describe 
what kind of leadership the 
Navy of tomorrow will need. 
"With the nature of warfare 
in the future, we need a com­
bination of old-fashioned lead­
ership and smart people in 
preparation for the complex 
modern battlefield," he said. 
New Navy programs will 
emphasize a leadership contin­
uum," or continuous leader­
ship training for officers. 
"Our sailors are the best in 
the world," Dalton claimed, 
"because we use innovative 
ways to adapt traditional lead­
ership to the modern Navy." 
Dalton said that the Navy 
was also concentrating on 
ways to improve the quality of 
life for those enlisted. 
"Our people are our most important and valuable asset," he said. "We have to balance the procurement of new tech­nology with taking care of our people. There are significant strides being made to enhance the quality of life on our bases and to narrow the compensa­tion gap between the officers and the fleet." 
Dalton called for reduction of unneeded resources within the military, acknowledging cur­rent excesses in the armed forces. 
"We need to find the political courage to get rid of excess infrastructure," he stated. "We have more than we need." 
Still, Dalton is excited about the future. He concluded by applauding the commitment that current Notre Dame ROTC cadets have made to the Navy, 
"The Navy is on course," he said. "It is the balance of mod­ern technology and the warrior spirit that will make the differ­ence." 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 

-----·-....~ 
.......,..~ ~-·­

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
RECRUITMENT MEETING FOR 1998-99 WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE AND CARMEN NANNI 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1997 4:45PM 118 DEBARTOLO 

APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 1998-99. FALL '98 AND SPRING '99: DECEMBER 1. 1997 
----------~----------­page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 3, 1997 
Security encourages 
bike registration 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Notre Dame Security/Police is currently offering free bike registration in order to deter bike theft on campus. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
As a result of the number of bicycle thefts in the past few years, Notre Dame Security has urged students to register their bikes. 
"When people register their bikes it helps us return any of them that we might find," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Security. "It will also aid in the recovery of any stolen bikes that students report to us." 
Security has dozens of bicy­cles in its corral at the Security Building. "We just had an auc­tion a couple of weeks ago, and already we have so many bikes," said Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security. "Often they are abandoned or just laying around. We take the bikes in order to prevent a theft. If the bike is registered, we can get it back to its right­ful owner. But otherwise, we have to wait until someone calls us to ten us that his bike was taken." 

Johnson added that the reg­istration is a permanent record. "Even after students leave, if they forget their bike's serial number, we have a record of it on file. That way, if a police force recovers a bike with a Notre Dame registration on it, they can call us and we have the name of the owner," he said. "So far this year we have been called by police in Boston, Iowa and even Arizona." 
For now, students who wish to register their bikes can stop a Security officer or go to the Security Building. Registration is free for all students. 

MOREAU CENTER­LITTl.ETHEAlRE NOV. 13,14,15 at 8pm &NOV. 16 at 2:30 pm 
nckels on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlln Auditorium, open Mon. ·Fri., 9am to 5 pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 



IM&W'J
c~THEARTS 
~ NOTRE DAME, IN 

The Universitv of Notre Dame 
' 

International Study Program at 
Notre Dame Australia 
Information Meeting With Professor Michael Etzel Fr. Wilson Miscamble, C.S.C. Professor Clive Neal 
Tuesday, November 4, 1997 102 DeBartolo 4:45-5:45 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FALL 1998, SPRING 1999: DECEMBER 1. 1997 

Apology 
continued from page 1 
that. 
After discussing the issue last night, The Observer's Editorial Board voted to issue this apology. In doing so, we aflirm our sup­port of the fight against racism and bigotry in every form. 
We at The Observer encourage anyone with questions or com­ments to contact us. 
Letters to the editor can be submitted to 314 LaFortune Student Center or via e-mail at Viewpoint.l @nd.edu. Questions can be directed to Brad Prendergast, editor-in-chiBI', at 631-4542 or Prendergast.3@ nd.edu. 
Again, The Observer apolo­gizes for the offense caused by this comic strip. 

Black 
continued from pagel 
According to dean of faculty Dorothy Feigl, Black's commit­ment to Saint Mary's was "never more evident than in his dedication to the London and Home programs." 
The College awarded Black the Spes Unica Award for out­standing service in 1985, which attested to his all­around dedication to the school. 
"Dr. Black was more than just a teacher for many of the students; he was a mentor and a willing devil's advocate in any argument," Student Academic Council history rep­resentative Genevieve Morrill said. 
"He delighted in his per­

ceived role of a conservative in a liberal college environment," Feigl said. 
Black, who specialized in Irish history, compiled and edited the Cavendish Diary of the Irish Parliament, an important reference for history scholars. 
According to Feigl, his cours­es were often filled to capacity with students interested in Irish history in partieular. 
"Students hope to keep his memory alive by working with the College to endow a schol­arship in his name for the summer programs," Morrill said. 
"That alone is evidence of his impact on Saint Mary·~. a~d h~.w he will be sorely missed. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 



UR-BAN PLUNGE 
Applications are DUE 


COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton lends support, 'star power' to election candidates 
EDISON, N.J. 
Three days before a handful of closely watched off-year elections, President Clinton hit the campaign stump Sunday to help Democrats in New York and New Jersey who've seen little or no financial help from the debt-choked national party. Absent competi­tive ad campaigns, the underdog Democrats were counting on presidential star power, vilification of the Hepublicans and voter turnout to carry them in Tuesday's elections. "Make surn you show up, and drag three or four of your friends along," Clinton told 1,500 peoplo who braved a damp day to see him and congressional candidate Eric Vitaliano in Staten Island, N.Y. Vitaliano's race, gubernatorial contests in New Jersey and Virginia. and the long-shot bid of Democrat Huth Messinger to unseat New York Mayor Hudolph Giuliani -each could give the ))pmocratic Party a huge political boost going into the 1998 midterm election season and its bid to rr.claim control of Congress. But evnn as Clinton campaigned Sunday aftnr a $3 million fund-raising week­end retreat in Florida for the Democratic National Committee, the party's lingering $15 million debt from 1996 has forced Dmnocrats into decidedly underdog roles in this year's racr.s. 

U.N. targets corruption 
UNITED NATIONS 
The United Nations has identified $30 mil­lion that was lost through waste or fraud, part of a campaign against waste and corruption in the global organization. An annual report released last week also identified millions of dollars in savings after measures were insti­tuted to crack down on fraud and unneces­sary spending. But U.N. inspector-general Karl Paschke, a German career diplomat brought in three years ago at the insistence of the Unit<~d States and other Western coun­tries. said reforms must go much further. Virtually all U.N. operations-from its head­quartPrs in New York to smaller agencies around the world -suffer from poor accounting, favoritism in awarding contracts and disregard of U.N. regulations, said the n~port. released last Thursday. U.N. offices outside New York, ineluding its European headquarters in Geneva, operate as if they were under no obligation to follow regulations laid down by headquarters, the report said. That has long been a complaint of American conservatives, including Sen. Jesse Helms, R­
N.C. The Hepublican-controlled Congress has refused to pay the U.S. arrears -estimated between $900 million and $1.4 billion-with­out significant reforms. 

914.62 

635,600,000
+ 10.94 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
Elec. Commun. ELCC +0.688 2.125
i7.83% 

lnfosafe ISFEU 5.00% + 1.125 3.625 Info Homes INHM 40.00% +0.750 2.625 Signal Apparel SIA 34.21% +0.813 3.188 Faxsav Inc. FAXX 32.14% +0.563 2.313 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSER Midcom Comm MCCI ·75.23% ·5. 125 1.688 Brauns Fashions8FCI ·32.64% ·3.438 8.125 RF Monolithics RFMI ·30.77% ·6.000 13.500 Ortec Inti WTA ORTCW ·28.85% ·0.938 2.313 Canterbury TRAK ·23.53% ·1.000 3.250 
U.S.-Iraq tensions escalate 
By WAIEL FALEH 
~sociated Press Writer 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 

Iraq barred three American weapons experts from entering the country Sunday, the second such refusal in a week and the latest sign that Baghdad has no intention of backing down from its threat to expel American inspectors. 
The experts arrived on a 

U.N. flight from Bahrain in advance of the scheduled resumption of U.N. inspections on Monday, foreign diplomats said on condition of anonymity. 
But they were turned back in a polite manner at Habbaniya, the military airport 40 miles west of Baghdad that inspec­tors use, the diplomats said. 
The diplomats said inspec­tors from other countries were admitted, but gave no details. 
The three Americans were the same ones who tried to go to Baghdad Thursday, the diplomats said. 
On Wednesday, Iraq gave the 10 American weapons inspec­tors in Baghdad a week to leave the country. The order applied only to members of the 
U.N. disarmament commission. 

The next day, Iraq refused to allow two American weapons inspectors to enter the country. Both work with the U.N. Special Commission, which oversees the elimination of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. A third American. who works with the International Atomic Energy Agency, could have entered, but returned to Bahrain with the other two. 
Officials at the U.N. Special Commission in Baghdad declined to comment Sunday and those in the Bahraini capi­tal Manama said they had no information. 
There also was no comment from the Iraqi government. Washington has not ruled out military action against Iraq. 

Assistant Secretary of State Martin lndyk said Sunday in Saudi Arabia that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein "must reverse his decision not to cooperate with" the U.N. inspectors. 


---~-~------­

---~----~ 
~~--~----~~------~~-­
VIEWPOINT 

page 6 Monday, November 3, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Ediror 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Hcather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by the students of the Universicy of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor,·Sports Editor, Accent Edicor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe author~. and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint Space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day EdirorNiewpoinr 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Genc:"ral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• DIGGING DEEPER 

A Different Approach to Environmentalism 

The environmental movement has arisen in the latter half of this century as a response to the global threat of peace, the plundering of natural resources, and the eradication of other species. This new awareness has spawned (no pun intended) varied views 
Aaron Kheriaty 

and approaches to the natural world. One view that has not been embraced widely by environmentalists, ironically, is the only sane approach to take in solving environmental problems. In looking closely at the prevailing theories surrounding the environmental move­ment, it is clear that Christianity pro­vides the only workable solution to the ecological crisis. This should already be obvious to Christians, since we believe that Christianity is reality. Unfortunately, many Christians mistak­enly assume that to embrace the envi­ronmental movement is to embrace a sort of pseudo-pagan "Mother Earth" cult. 
It is true that many ecological organi­zations and movements have become associated with pantheistic philosophies, often in the form of new age tinged nature worship. Yet an equally danger­ous extreme is evident in a hypocritical secular culture, which often speaks of Earth friendliness, but largely contra­dicts this by its actions. Though reticent to admit it, the pervasive attitude of man today is that the Earth and all its resources belongs exclusively to humans (rather than being gifts from God), and therefore, we can do whatever we want with them. This attitude, combined with our fallen nature, allows greed and con­sumptive materialism to inevitably supersede temperance, foresight and justice. 
Rising above these two errors, Christianity provides the true answer for solving ecological problems. Without it, we are blind to the true relationship between humanity and creation; we do not see the world with 20/20 vision, but only as a blurry outline of reality. Our divine filiation is our eyeglasses, through which our world, and our place in it, comes into sharp focus. 
The central folly of modern pantheism, evolutionism, or "deep ecology" is the proposition that nature is our Mother. Christianity tells us that nature is not our mother, she is our sister. We love and admire her not because she gave birth to us, but because we have the same Father. The mistaken notion of "Mother Earth" has unfortunately infiu­enced radical organizations -such as "Earth First!"-who violently oppose nearly any form of technological devel­opment. Their "deep ecology" philoso­phy asserts that other than having an advanced intellect, man is essentially no different from another animal. He should therefore do all in his power to keep his hands ofT the rest of the natural world. In contrast, Christianity's genius is realizing that man is an animal with a soul, who should use his God-given hands to participate in the divine work of our Creator. Deep ecology presumes that it is wrong to cut trees, that we have no right to ride horses, and no business eating cows. The logical conse­quence of this is an evolution to a man who is unable to move, for fear of dis­turbing the mosquito on his nose, or unable to eat, for fear of ingesting a microbe. 
The other extreme, equally as danger­ous, and certainly more prevalent, is the Nietzschean idea of a superman's will to power. This is used to justify one who plunders and pillages the Earth for his own material gain. Though our culture may not admit such thought as its own, by and large, its actions speak other­wise. The logical consequence of this has only recently been brought to our attention: a world unfit for habitation by any of God's cre­ation-man includ­ed. This is the phi­losophy that many have embraced today, if not in word, then in deed. 
How then, does one go about saving the rain forest or the tiger? First, one must acknowledge that there is a prob­lem. Forests and tigers are disappear­ing (there is no dis­puting this), but they should not be. Second, one must 
understand the true relationship between tree and man, between tiger and man. Without Christianity, one can­not proceed sanely because one will either want to eradicate tigers, or become sentimental about tigers. Both result in disaster; the first solution ends in a world without tigers, the second, in a world without humans. The reason­able approach to saving tigers was summed up by G. K. Chesterton when he quipped that Christians should "admire his stripes while avoiding his claws," which is a sarcastic way of saying that we should see tigers in light of God's plan for them. 
Environmental degradation is not only a technological problem, it is primarily a moral problem. Its solution must there­fore be rooted in truth. Thus, Christians should look first to Christ for answers. He warned of the greed and attachment to money which drives the shortsighted destruction of creation. St. Francis of Assisi (who was more than a pet lover) is the patron of those who promote ecol­ogy. The Holy Father, in his message on the Ecological Crisis. wrote: "[Saint Francis] offers Christians an example of genuine and deep respect of the integri­ty of creation. As a friend of the poor who was loved by God's creatures, Saint Francis invited all of creation -ani­mals, plants, natural forces, even Brother Sun and Sister Moon -to give honour and praise to the Lord." In his "Idea of a Christian Society," T.S. Elliot echoed this necessity of a Christian atti­tude with respect to creation: "A wrong attitude toward nature implies a wrong attitude towards God, and the conse­quence in an inevitable doom." 


Aaron Kheriaty is a junior pre-profes­sional and philosophy major. His col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

• DooNESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU I UV& fleR& NOlA/, /?&+t:Af;lfl<'i'l 
AR&YCV

/fleU, GOO/? Jl3R/3MY, 
YOU'V£ BUNGOING 7HROtnlA 
S(JRE, t:Jl3AR ?'

MOR/111/16, CFCtXI?!£! 
ROI./G/-1 81701 LATet.'t qoa/& 
I50WI-ICW

/?eAR MAN1 0Nf3 t::F 
~IV~Ya.t.R ReCAlL. YalA5

ANP/1.11-10 >fXIR OW­
FUU-TIM& CAR&:61Vlil<l Be/NGV&t<Y

MIGHT Yat $!CfiiA1fS. 
ANNOYING.

Be~ \. -'7:-=:;:!IOL I 
I 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Men have always been 
afraid that women 
could get along without 
them." 
-Margaret Mead 
VIEWPOINT

Monday, November 3, 1997 page 7 
• Our OF THE TwruGHr 
Notre Da01e Is Better Than Harvard ••• AcadeDtically 
Notre Dame is the best undergraduate University in the country. Period. But I'm willing to go even farther. Notre Dame is academically the number one undergraduate institution in the USA. 
"What?" you ask, with an expression of incrmlulity. "But U.S. News and World Report only ranks us in the top 20! 
Brandon Williams 

Numbnr 19 in 1998 to be exact! How can you say we're number one?" 
I'll tell you. U.S. News and World Heport's "College Guide" is worth about as much as your copy of Dante's "lnffmw" during book buybacks at the bookstore. Rolling Stone's recent expose entitled "The College Rankings Scam," by Stephen Glass refers to tho USNWR rankings system as arbitrary and unreli­able -and that is the least of its prob­lems. The methodology is extremely rigid and impersonal-which is inex­cusable when evaluating a university. Beyond that, this mechanistic methodol­ogy also makes it very easy for schools to cheat, or at least be a little less than straight forward. One example: Recently Harvard and Cornell opened themselves up to the 'Common Application'. Rolling Stone describes the 'Common Application' as a way for "mid­dling schools" to save their applicants time. It is basicly a standardized easy version of the traditional college applica­tions that "elite schools have distanced themselves from." Why the change in approach by Harvard and Cornell? It's all for the sake of our favorite College Guide, of course. Estimates are that only one-third of 1 percent of the students who apply to Harvard via the Common Application will be accepted. However, it will probably increase their applicant pool by 66 percent-making them look all the more selective in the USNWR sys­tem. Pretty nice, huh? That is only the beginning. According to Rolling Stone one school was boosted five places in the rankings when an administrator report­ed that 80 percent of incoming freshman were in the top 10 percent of their class. In truth only 66 percent were. 
I could go on like this for a while, but what it really comes down to is the objective value of the criteria itself. It is notoriously deceptive. What keeps schools like Harvard and Yale on top (besides the Common Application)? It is primarily due to "academic reputation." But ask yourself, how accurately can something like that be evaluated by a few thousand college presidents, deans and admission officers? Most likely they've never looked at course offerings,. sat in on classes, talked to students or assessed the quality of teaching at each university. In fact, 84 percent of these voters said that they were unfamiliar with some of the schools they ranked. As journalists Charles Syches and Brad Miner put it, it sounds more like an eval­uation of academic "celebrity" than rep­utation. 
Even further, most of the USNWR cri­teria are ridiculously statistical. The cat­egories of student selectivity, financial resources and faculty resources tell one nothing about quality of applicant, where the money goes and if Ph.Ds are even teaching undergrads. What about stu­dent satisfaction -how in the world do you measure that? In short, USNWR tells a person very little about the true academic status of a college. 
However, that established, Notre Dame still isn't necessarily the best in the land. Am I just displaying an overdeveloped sense of school loyalty? Not according to The National Review College Guide. It 
specifically evaluates undergraduate 
programs according to: Quality 
and availability of faculty; qual­·ity of the curriculum, espe­cially with regards to the maintenance of a liberal arts core; and the qual­ity of the intellectual environment, mean­ing the interaction within the univer­sity community. National Review spent a few years visiting colleges all over the country and picked out the best according to the above cri­teria. They didn't rank the schools numerically as they felt this might t lead to the same arbitrary nature that USNWR dis­plays. So instead they simply published a list of the top 50 or so colleges combined with accompanying essays explaining the reasoning behind their choice. Strangely enough (or perhaps not so strangely) many of the loftiest names didn't make the cut. In fact, only three of 
U.S. News and World Report's top 25 schools were included when measured in this way. They were Columbia, the University of Chicago and (you guessed it) the University of Notre Dame. So, 

when the elite Universities in the nation are put to the undergraduate friendly tests of faculty, cur­riculum and intellectual environment, ND is in the top three. One of the top three undergraduate insti­tutions in the coun­try? Not bad at all! We've pulled rank on Harvard, Yale and Duke -but what about Chicago and Columbia. Didn't I say we were num­ber one, not just a mem­ber of an elite tri­umverant? Alright, fine. We've got the Golden Dome, the "Notre Dame family" and the Grotto. Not to men­tion, even this year, our foot­ball team could beat theirs. So the case is closed. Notre Dame wins. We're the best in the country. Now the challenge is to do something with it. 
Brandon Williams is a junior history and philosophy major. His column appears every other Monday. The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofthe Observer . 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Why Our ,Lady Weep..s 
Diversity????'?? I am usually quite reticent when it comes to writing to The Observer. But l believe Notre Dame has a lot to learn about itself, I am a sophomore from Mississippi andJ experhmced more div~rsity in my high school than here at Notre Dame. Just because students ofpolor are present in a college or university does notindicate diversity. It is not simply & pres· ence but a state of mind. Diversity·implies sensitivity, knowledge, open­mindedness, and tolerance. If diversity does exist on this campus, why do some students insist on using the tired "some ofmy best friends ate Onsert an ethnic or racial group)" statement as an excuse to huUiil,ate and.i.Q$ult students ofcolor? · · · 
To the author of Men About Campus, your comic strip for Friday, Oet. 31, suggests a belief that Mexican/Hispanic Americans are not welcome. Ifyou, like the majority of students here, claim to have some Irish backgrouJilci, you might recall the Stanford UniV:f}rsity bartgil).cident. Wpat y()l1 f()Jt wliel). you witnessed its affront to Catholics and ND students is' What manyq:~inor" ity students felt upon reading the Men About Campus comic strip. There is no difference in these occurrences. People were hurt and humiliated because of "humor." Humor doeshave limits;Students atND needtolearn why students of color are offen(led.lt'$timett)getseri()u~ah()t1t ........· ·· ty · here at ND. I'm not talking about dumping a. bunch ofstUdents ofco on campus and hoping things work out. Why are there no required cour~es in the curriculum dealing with diversity specifically? Is ND afraid to be accountable? 
Hispanic 
On behalf of the Hispanic disapproval for the ca.rtoon in depicted "an alien'' as a offended me and nth<>><m<>rn and students for its 
Reviews of Techno Music Unfair 
One of my favorite featuras of The itself. He goes on to blame the European Observer is the colorful record reviews community for the destruction of rock and which each Thursday grace the midsection roll, hoping they won't do the same to hip of the paper. It is the only section I read in hop, forgetting that as much as techno is the it's entirety, but as the semester has pro­"bastard son of hip-hop," rock and roll is a gressed, I have become more and more dis­bastardization of rhythm and blues. Spak tressed by some of the content of this sec­even has the pretense to forget that hip hop tion. It seems that with each issue, more relies so greatly on the samples it takes electronic music is finding a home on those from all those classic soul and funk records. pages, but the reviews tend to be somewhat At any rate, it would seem to make sense confused, and hardly sympathetic to the that a record reviewer might create the style. The worst offense to electronic music most intelligent review coming from an was printed in the Oct. 30 issue by DJ Spak, open perspective, not immediately disre­who summarizes his qualifications for writ­garding it based solely on it's format. ing a jungle review by saying in the last "Between the brain that plans and the hand paragraph "say no to techno." How can that makes there must be a mediator," Fritz such a conceited reviewer possibly be quali­Lang, METROPOLIS. fied to review anything from that genre? His Stuart Smith review deals more with his adolescent fear Sophomore, Zahm Hall of electronic music than with the album November 2, 1997 
A Literal Security Beat 
On Saturday night I was witness to an the area; a red light turning on BEFORE the awful mishap involving Notre Dame Security blockades start to rise giving drivers enough and innocent parents here to see their chil­time to react so as not to total their vehicles dren on Parents Weekend. At the main circle or risk their lives would suffice. A second a vehicle driving through the barrier system solution to this problem is the acceptance by by the Morris Inn was totaled as the unsus­Security of the fact that not harassing nor pecting driver proceeded through the green harming those people who have legitimate light. Suddenly the barriers came up under reasons to drive on campus should, by far, the front end of the car and injured the dri­outweigh the ability to stop the one in 20 ver and one passenger who smashed through people who don't need to be on campus. the windshield. The car was probably All I want to know is when will the powers totaled and two more innocent people fell that be realize that they've gone way too far victim to the infamous Notre Dame Security. in attempting to keep campus safe with the This is not only incident of this type; in fact overjoyed procedure of asking twenty ques­on Friday the exact same thing happened to tions, searching for alcohol, and after five a flower delivery van. In my opinion, minutes of interrogation denying the "privi­$40,000 in property damage and the injuring lege" to drive on campus to drop off some of two or three innocent people in one week­women at their dorms in the vehicle of an end is simply insane. off-campus student because "it is unlawful to 
One of two things are needed. First the drive on campus without a current parking barrier system should be re-engineered. It sticker." STOP THE INSANITY! should have a safety mechanism that won't allow it to lift a moving 2-ton car three feet jason Conrad off the ground. It should also have a time Sophomore, Dillon Hall delay which would warn a driver entering November 2, 1997 


page 8 Monday, November 3, 1997 
Showin' It All 
and do the same thing to 

The Full Monty 
Directed by Peter Cattaneo 
Starring Robert Carlyle, Mark Addy, Tom Wilkinson and Hugo Speer 

(out of five shamrocks) 
By JOHN BARRY Accent Movie Critic 

I 
always like a movie that I can relate 
to, one which provides a deep mean­
ing or important message. Certainly 
his already unfavorable lifestyle of a divorced weekend-only parent. 
Gaz sneaks into a women-only perfor­mance of the Chippendales and is amazed and inspired by the hundreds of women who pay to see a bunch of guys take ofT their clothes. Although Gaz may not be a Chippendale, he figures, why can't he get a bunch of guys together make a lot of easy money? 
The group which emerges from the steel plant's ruins to attempt stripping as their new profession comes from a hilar­ious scene of auditions. Along with Gaz, there's the over­weight husband whose insecu­rity constantly urges him to abandon this ridiculous scheme, the former foreman who is so ashamed at his job 
loss that he has hid the dark 
secret from his wife for six months, the effeminate worker who is the star when the speedos come off at the auditions (they show only the reac­tions of the judges). a young suicidal, and the funniest audition of all-Horse. 
attempt to transform themselves from out-of-shape and uncoordinated former steel mill workers to entertaining, pro­fessional, cash-worthy male strippers. This process is often hilarious, if not always pathetic. However, there is a cer­tain amount of gravity·from desperation of the characters -their wounded pride is what helps this movie transcend corn­ball British comedy to a level of signifi­cant meaning. These men are not the "My body is beautiful -look at it now!!!" types like Demi Moore, but rather, they arc very reluctant, ashamed and nervous about their attempted rev­enue source. 
The group earns some rather unex­pected free publicity when they are arrested for indecent exposure during their first dress rehearsal in an aban­
cloned warehouse. 

we can all relate to the woes of financial Security camera distress -intensified by hostile letters tapes are used for from the Federal Credit Union and vari­front-page shots ous credit card companies -and the in every paper, desperation which arises when trying to and suddenly the raise money and still keep our pride. Steel Strippers arc "The Full Monty" is about just such con­quite famous -or flicts, and its characters explore the infamous. What practical solution of male stripping. finally draws a 
The town of Sheffield was once a crowd for these booming steel city in England, prosper­men is the ous and full of opportunity for its citi­promise that they zens. Unfortunately the steel plant has are going to show shut down, becoming nothing more then tho full monty ­a sight for marching band practice and tho title of this mischief. The mischief of one such work­film means "to go er. Gaz, on another scheme with his son all the way," to make some quick money, opens the which in the caso film. Gaz (the very disturbing Begbie in of stripping of "Trainspotting") owes a large amount of course means to child support, or he will even be denied show it all. 

photo courtesy Twentieth Century Fox 
Father-son rela­
A group of steel workers try to make a quick buck as amatuer male 
tionships on semen 
strippers in "The Full Monty." 
can sometimes 
pass the line from The 50-something African-American meaningful to cheescball. but this pair prefaces his audition with "me break­provides much of the film's comedy and dancing days is probably over, but meaning. The son is of course more there's always the funky chicken." responsible and mature than his father, 
Most of the movie is focused on their and both teach each other a lot during 

'Playing God' Plays Well 
Playing God 
Directed by Andy Wilson Starring David Duchovny, Timothy Hutton and Angelina Jolie 

(out of five shamrocks) 

By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS Accent Movie Critics 

"What the heck?" This phrase captures the atti­tude of "Playing God." Eugene, a.k.a. Fox Mulder, 
a.k.a. David Duchovny, is a doctor strung out on syn­thetic heroin with a carefree, roll-with-the-punches persona. Add a gangster with an affinity for wearing Gucci and a large-lipped mistress and you have a typical day with Doctor Eugene. 
If you think Coach's gets crazy on Thursday nights, you have not seen "Playing God." The Los Angeles club scene depicted would be du Lac's nightmare. After losing his doctor's license, Eugene barely leaves his nasty abode except when he must obtain a hit at the local, hedonistic bar. While there, two Russians get a little rowdy. Doctor Eugene is left with a small decision; either save the guy with a bul­let through the stomach or stand by because he does not have a medical license. 
Needless to say there would be no movie if Eugene obeyed the law. So, he steps in and saves the man along with some help from Big Lips. Enter the worst dressed gangster of them all -Raymond. He puts Eugene back in business, giving him $10,000 for every medical procedure he performs on fallen gang­sters. 
The plot has a little of every­thing, including blood, irony, bitterness, intrigue and humor. The premise of the movie coin­cides well with the theory of rel­ativity. Every action and deci­sion that is made in this film has an equal and opposite reac­tion. , 
The dialogue is clever with plenty of quotable lines. The movie played with morals ­there was no bad guy or good guy. Your typical hero is not a junky like Doctor Eugene. 
DOD 
Our Hatings: 
Best Scene: Doctor Eugene pulls into a biker bar to save Big Lips. He operates with the help of a barmaid, two Ilell's Angels and one local. The fact that she is in kinder and gentler hands here than she would be at Johns Ilopkins is humorous. 
Best Line: Eugene's twisted love life is summed up with the thought, "She is either being mean to me because she doesn't like me and wants me to go away or she is being mean to me because she likes me and wants me to go away." 
Best Clothes: Big Lips wins hands down. In the final scene she is wearing a spectacular red silk sheath and matching cigar pants given to her by none other that the fashion impaired Haymond. llow is it that he whips out an Audrey llepburn dream but runs around his lavish beach house in tig,ht white pants and drawstring shirts? 
Best Hair: Call us sick and prescribe us some drugs because we're running to the infirmary if the course of the movie. The son's shame with helping his father improve on his stripping and dancing seems to dissipate once he sees how bad the oth­ers are. 
One of the only downsides to this film for me was the ending. While the last scene is hilarious and extremely enter­taining, I felt like there should have been something more. The ending is no big surprise, and that's okay with me, but I needod an answer to the question in my head: "So, ... now what??" The movie does not end in a bad way, really -it just doesn't end in a great way. 
OVEHALL: Imagine a cross between "Mr. Bean" and "Striptease," only funny. This movie is worth seeing if you can stomach British comedy and such off­beat material. It's a witty and sharp­edged view of unemployment as shown through the eyes of the eccentric work­ing elass blokes. Their efl'orts to get past shyness and 1ack of talent an~ entertain­ing, both because they are humorous and touching. If you can find this movie playing somewhere in South Bend, you should first gasp in shock that culture has touched this town, but then you should go see this film. 
ACTING: Ajob well done by everybody. It's especially surprising to see Hobert Carlyle playing a role in such contrast to his role in "Trainspotting." 
ENGLISH-TO-ENG LIS II THANSL!\­TION: I have a fneling that we missed quite a few witticisms due to a failure to understand some of the quips made in the British acc<mts. Oh well, can't catch 'em all. 
SOUNDTRACK: One of the most entm·­taining aspects of the film. Not the "Bum"chicca-bum bummmm" of 3 a.m. HBO movies, but its an eclectic celebra­tion of fun and upbeat dance music. 
TilE FULL MONTY?: Not shown. Although the audience on screen gets to see it all, this movie maintains an H rat­ing and does not cross that line. So, sorry ladies-you'll just have to wait for the Alumni Bun Hun during finals week. 


Doctor Eugene's there. What-you say lw is a drug addict, ho has no license, he charges $10,000 a visit'! It all becomes of little importanr.e in tlw face of such a groat haircut. 
Best Side Show: Haymond's two surfing lwlpers sport a nose ring fit for a cow. no shirts, long under­wear, tangles and bad accents. We cannot forget tlw gun-slinging English gangstnr who saves tlw day in a shoot-out right out of a 70s karate flic:k. 
In conclusion, tlw movie presents a wel<:onwd break from th{l ordinary. We especially recommend this flick to those depressed souls who will find a new apprnciation for their lil'c• in c:omparison to Doctor Eugene's. 

~-------·· 

Football 1997 
Strong in the Clutch 
Despite struggling for much of the day. the Irish offense came up with the critical game-winning drive 
Key Stat 

.... 2 late in the fourth quarter.
The current Irish win streak. the longestofthe 
see page 2 
season. 


Surviving a Scare 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ McGrew. The Midshipmen Assistant Sports Editor found himself a few feet shy of the end zone when Notre 
llead coach Bob Davie Dame's Allen Rossum made won't soon forget his first the game-saving tackle. November game. nspecia.lly "It was a tough loss," Navy the final three seconds. head coach Charlie 
"You always remember Weatherbie said. "We had what you do in November," our chances. We had our Davie said. opportunities several times in 
"Certainly, September did the football game. You can't not go quite the way we turn over the ball as many wanted it to go. We are try­times as we did in that foot­ing to make a big push lwre ball game and have an oppor­in Novnmber. We have the tunity to win." rhancP to play two tough The Midshipmen turned football teams, and that is over the ball six times. In the why thn win was critical." fourth quarter, Notre Dame's 
6avio almost watched Benny Guilbeaux intercepted another victory slip out of his McCoy in the end zone for h~am's grasp. what turned out to be one of 
llis team, leading 21-17, the key defensive plays of the tried to run down the clock game. but failPd. Navy took over "We should have never tlw ball with three seconds thrown an interception," left. Weatherbie said about his 
"We miss11d by three and decision to go for a touch­that is not an exact science," down. "We're gonna throw Davie said. "To give them the the football when we have a football back. obviously with chance to throw the football." one play left in the game, you In the first half, the Irish know I will take our odds on intercepted two passes. Ivory that one." Covington recorded his first 
On the· last play of the interception of the season gam11, Navy quarterback and second of his career. Chris McCoy tossed a 69-yard Irish captain Kory Minor "llail Mary" in the direction recorded the other intercep­of a pack of Irish and tion for Notre Dame. It was Midshipmen. his third of the season, tying 
Irish free safety Deke him with Guilbeaux for the Cooper bobbled and dropped team lead. a possible interception into thP hands of Navy's Pat see SCARE I page 2 

• IRISH INSIGHT 

Following Saturday's game, Navy, under the direction of head coach Chuck Weatherbie, chose to interfere with the Notre Dame band in an attempt to conduct a prayer at midfield. 
Behavior of Midshipmen an embarrassment to Naval Academy 
I
would like to think 
could have been expected from a classy Dame Stadium, we may not have been ignoring the fact that they have shown more could be program such as Ohio State or Miami. as taken aback by what we saw this that they can be very well-behaved expected of the Even USC found a way to gloat at the weekend. losers in each of the prior 33 meetings United States Naval expense of Notre Dame tradition when a But in the same way that the Notre Dame. In fact, anyone associated Academy. Trojan player ran the length of the field University of Notre Dame is held to a with the Navy football program should The events that waving a USC banner during the band's higher standard in virtually all of its know quite well by now what takes transpired following post-game routine earlier this season. endeavors, I believe that Navy should be place on the field after a Notre Dame­the ridiculous conclu­If it had been a bunch of Florida State held more accountable for its classless Navy game. sion to Saturday's players or Stanford band members that display from Saturday. So why was it that the Midshipmen contest between Brian Reinthaler purposely disrupted the traditional con­You might say that the Midshipmen Notre Dame and Navy Assistant Sports Editor cert that follows every game at Notre were just poor losers, but that would be 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 

page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER 
Monday, November 3, 1997 


Davie optml to throw the ball on fourth down, and Powlus responded, rolling out to the right and hitting Brown in stride. 
"I think it was critical," said Davie of the seoring drive. "And I don't want to ovPr dra­matize it, but it really shows the attitude of this team. That's one things we've been able to do, stay pretty steady under some tough, tough cir­cumstances. I think it shows the character of this football tmtm." 
"The great thing on that 
drive was that the whole o!Tnn­sive unit really sueked it up and put the drive togl'tlwr." said Powlus. 
While Saturday's game may not rank among tlw greatest comebacks in Notre Damn football history, tho team did come from behind and claim a victory thanks in part to 14 second-half points by the offense. 
Denson and the rest of the Irish offense have bought into Davie's newest philosophy and aro doing their part to make this a November to remember. 

Denson, Powlus overcome injuries to spark final drive 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports W ritcr 
lie may be a mere 5-foot-l, 184-pounds, but Irish running back Autry Denson has a heart as big as Notre Dame Stadium. 
DPnson sparked the offense with 20 rushing yards during the Irish 93-yard scoring drive in the fourth quarter. including a five-yard burst into the end zone for the winning touch­down. But Denson's effort was considered extraordinary in the contpxt of what transpired on the first play of the 17 -play seoring drive. 
With 13:29 remaining in the game, Ron Powlus handed the ball off to Denson, who ran for two yards before a crushing blow pinned the junior's right leg between safety Kevin Lewis and the stadium grass. Assisted by medical trainers, Denson hobbled off the field with what was later diagnosed as a bruised right knee. 

"You hate to see a teammate go down," said Ron Powlus. "We have some great running backs on this team, but you hate to lose Autry Denson because he is such a worker. He is such a valuable part of this team." 
"You know when Autry 

Receiver Bobby Brown came up with perhaps the biggest reception of his career on a fourth-and-1 0 pass late in the fourth quarter. 
Scare 
continued from page 1 
Minor's interception keyed the team's first scoring drive. In two quick plays, Notre Dame found itself tied with Navy at seven apiece. 
Irish quarterback Bon Powlus con­nected with flanker Bobby Brown on a 14-yard touchdown reception. It was his team-leading fifth touchdown recep­tion of the season. 
Powlus surpassed Joe Theismann in the third quarter with his 156th com­pletion. For the clay, he was 7 -for-17 for 99 yards and a touchdown. Powlus managed to shrug off a bruised left Denson's down on that !'ield, he's hurt," said Bob Davie. "I was concerned. I thought he had a pmtty sevore injury." 
Twelvo plays later, Denson was at running backs coach Desmond Hobinson's side bog­ging to re-enter the game. 
"lie's a competitor," said Davie about Denson. "lin want-eel back in the game, and trust me, when ho wants to go back in, he'll go back in." 
Showing no ill-effects from the injury, Denson proceeded to lift the team on his shoui­ders, carrying the ball four consecutive times, resulting in an Irish touchdown and a 21­17 lead. 
"I had to soli (Davie and Hobinson) on (going back in the game)," said Denson. "After all, Clem (Stokes) was doing a good job, but with the game on the linn. I would hate to be on the sidelines." 
But on what could be callml the best engineered scoring drive of the season, lknson's gutsy play was just <me of the puzzle pieces. 
Stokes carried the ball seven times in Denson's absencn for 19 of his 44 yards, and Powlus complotod 3-of-4 passes, including a 21-yardor to Haki Nelson on third-and-8 at tho Notre Dame nine-yard line. Perhaps the most critical was Powlus' 14-yard completion to Bobby Brown on fourth down in Navy territory. Facing thircl-and-10 at the Navy 32, Powlus' pass to Nelson was broken up by Gerald Wilson. Instead of playing for the tie, 
Navy answered with its own drive later in the third. Once again, the Midshipmen's running game charged 48 yards in seven plays. McCoy rushed for the touchdown, and Vanderhorst secured the extra point. 
Heading into the fourth quarter, the game rested with Navy leading by three points. Davie and Co. made a gutsy fourth quarter call by going for it on fourth-and-10 at the 30-yard line. Powlus loeated a diving Brown to attain a much needed first down. 
"It is fourth-and-10 at the 30, the field is slick right there, and I don't think our chances are real good at making a field goal," Davie said about the decision to go for it on fourth down. 
"We go for it on fourth-1 0, and we con­vert. Then Autry goes in and scores. The defense goes in and stops it." 
To the dismay of Irish fans, early in the fourth quarter, Denson went down with an apparent knee injury. Despite the injury, Denson re-emerged and led the team to the game-winning touch­down. The drive ate up 93 yards in 17 plays and gave the Irish the 21-17 vic­tory. On the day, Denson racked up 125 yards and had two touchdowns. 
"I can understand how Navy could be disappointed," Davie said. "I would hate to be on the other end of this foot­ball game. They played their hearts out, but I will tell you that our kids played their hearts out." 

McCoy turned out to be the real thing for the Midshipmen. llis opening touchdown was the 32ncl of his career, making him the sehool's all-time leader in career rushing touchdowns. On the day, he averaged 6.4 yards per carry. 
He also completed six passes for 122 yards, with his longest of the day com­ing on the game's final play for 69 yards. 
"I am not going to let the last play of the game take away from what a big, big win this was," Davie said. "To beat Navy today in this stadium today with the field conditions the way they were and some of the circumstances that happened in that game, that is a big, big win for us." 
knee sustained in the first quarter. 
In the second quarter, Davie honored the wishes of many Irish fans and sent in backup quarterback Jarious Jackson for an offensive sequence. 
That proved to be a poor decision for the team as Jackson. attempting to avoid a sack, tried to throw away the ball but instead found Navy's Russ Tate. Tate's interception began a four­minute drive for the Midshipmen. 
"I was going to get Jarious back in," Davie said about only playing him on one offensive sequence. "Possessions are so critical, and it was such a scheme game. I felt better having had Ron in there because Ron has been in there before." 
It took Navy eight plays to go 30 yards. Navy's Tom Vanderhorst drilled home a 22-yard field goal. Navy led 10-7 going into halftime. 
Vanderhorst had another opportunity to give his team an additional three points, but his kick sailed wide right. 
"This was a very tough emotional loss, but know that we will bounce back," Weatherbie said. "I give Notre Dame the credit because they took the light and found a way to win the foot­ball game." 
On its first series of the third quarter, the team drove 61 yards in four plays for a touchdown. Denson carried a· pitch 48 yards for a touchdown, and Irish kickPr Scott Cengia knocked in the point after to give the Irish a 14-10 lnad. 
• REPORT CARD 

QuarterbackSt'~t'e+ shut down the triple option, but Navy amassed over 270 yards on the ground. 
'J;he. weather. ~}early caused some difficulty for Powlus and Jackson, Jackson's interception was an extremely poor deci· Unebackers: B sion, and Powlus' pick was completely off the mark. Powlus di(i settle d~Y\VnJ~~e ill:.tM game, ho~ever. and completed a ,Following Navy's first drive,tlie linebackers' play improved a few big passes attlie mosi critical moments of the game. bit. Howard had a terrific game, breaking up an important 
pass late in the game. Minor came up with his third intercep­Rl!nning Back$: B+ tion ofthe year to set up Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
Denson made the big plays and put the ball in the end zone Defensive Backs: B+ when Notte Dam~ needed it. After demanding to be put back in the game following what appeared to be a serious knee Granted, Navy does not pose a real threat through the air, injury, Denson c<U'l'ied four consecutive times and got the win­but the Irish secondary did more than force the Midshipmen to ningscore> Stokes fllled in well in Denson's absence. run the ball. Although it should not have been necessary to 
begin with, Hossum averted disaster on the final play of the Receivers: C game by pursuing the ball at full speed even though it appeared the play was over. 
Dropped balls began to plague the receiving corps again on Saturday. This trend was most notable on the potential touch· Special Teams: C-down pass that seemed to fall right through Nelson's hands. He did make a couple of impressive plays, and Brown, despite Kick coverage left something to be desired and the punt catching just three passes. found the end zone once again. return team was completely fooled by Navy's fake punt. The 
latter mishap was ultimately harmless due to a missed Navy Offensive Line: B field goal, but it characterized the play of the special teams for most of the day. 
Finally a game in which penaltiP-s were not a l~tetor in the line's overall performance. Though not dominant throughout, Coaching: D the unit protected its quarterbaeks and opened holes for Denson down the stretch. It is difficult to give a "P'' to the coaches when the final result 
is a win. However, the clock management debacle was an Defensive Line: C+ embarrassing indicator of both the staff's lack of ability to think critically and its tendency to play not to lose. rathPr than close 
As Irish followers have come to expect, Dansby (A+) was all out a game against a weaker oppon1mt. over the place. The rest of tho line had a diflicult time stopping McCoy and the Middie backfield. It is understandably tough to Overall: 2.48 
Monday, November 3, 1997 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Final three seconds almost haunt Irish defense 
way to end a football game," said Irish
Notre Dame narrowly 
cornerback Allen Rossum. But it was more than "freaky" -itavoids nightmare as was downright scary. 
When Navy quarterback Chris McCoyRossum saves the day trotted onto the field with just' three ticks left on the clock, the celebration 
By MIKE DAY 
had already begun. Sure, it was only a Sports Editor 
four-point victory over a mediocre Midshipmen squad, but wins can no 
It's a good thing it was the day after longer be taken for granted in this day
llallowecn. Otherwise, the Irish defonse and age. 
may not have avoided the nightmare 
And it certainly seemed like a goodthat almost took place in the final throe time for Irish fans to celebrate. After 
seconds on Saturday. 
all, the Notre Dame defense had just
Ev<'n for the non-superstitious, what stuffed a Navy offense that looked about 
transpired on the game's final play will as comfortable passing the ball as Jim 
go down as one of the "freakiest" end­Colletto at a contract renewal meeting.
ings in recent memory. 
McCoy had completed a mere 5-of-15 
"I eouldn't believe it -what a freaky 
passes for 56 yards and would need a miracle to get the ball just halfway from his own 30-yard line to the Irish end zone on a "Hail Mary" attempt. 
But a miracle is what he got. 
As the Notre Dame defense may have expected, McCoy's "wounded duck" did not travel far nor pretty. However, instead of knocking the ball to the ground the way it has been taught since Pop Warner football, free .safety Deke Cooper tried to be a hero. 
Cooper reached up and attempted to intercept the pass, but the ball tipped off of his hands and into the grasp of Navy receiver Pat McGrew. 
"The "Hail Mary" is a play that coach­es fear a lot," said defensive coordinator 
up on the play after the ball apparently of bounds inside the one-vard line. Just Greg Mattison. "It's just about 50-50 
ended up in the lap of Cooper, Rossum as he stepped out of the playing field, out there. It seems like a low percent­
and Minor, perhaps the team's most the Navy receiver attempted to lateral· age play, but a good receiver can 
dependable defensive players (along the ball back, but it was too late. 
increase the odds." 
with Melvin Dansby) chased the play lie was out of bounds. The clock had Now, here's whero it gets even down the field. expired. Notre Dame avoided being on "freakier." "I think something told us to not give the losing end of what would have been 
Having caught the deflected pass in 
up and keep going with the play," said one of the most amazing comebacks in stride, McGrew seemed destined to Minor. "It looked like the play was recent memory. score the game-winning touchdown and 
dead. and the game was over. "I thought it was I Ialloween at the end in the process, end Notre Dame's 33­
Whatever it was, I'm glad we decided to of the football game," said head coach year winning streak over Navy. 
keep going." Bob Davie. "It was one of the strangestHowever, Rossum and linebacker Kory Rossum, a two-time all-American endings I've ever been involved in." 
Minor had other ideas. Instead of giving sprinter at Notre Dame, ran McGrew out A near nightmare, indeed. 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 

Insight
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 0 7 7 21 

continued from page 1 Navy 7 3 7 0 17 football players chose to represent one of our Team Statistics Navy NO 
nation's most well-respected institutions by bla­
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
First Downs 19 18 

tantly interfering with the Notre Dame band and Rushing 15 9 
ignoring the polite request of the Irish Guard to
1. Nebraska ( 46) 8-0 1719 1 
hold off on their midfield gathering until the bandPassing 4 8
2. Penn St. (16) 7-0 1643 2 
had left the field? According to Navy head coach CharliePenalty 0 
3. Florida St. (5) 8-0 1627 3 
Rushing Attempts 52 44 Weatherbie, his team was simply fulfilling its tra­Yards Rushing 277 160

4. Michigan ( 1) 8-0 1561 4 
dition of praying on the 50-yard line after everyYards Passing 122 123 
game. A very loose interpretation of the word
5. No. Carolina (2) 8-0 1481 • 5 
Total Offensive Plays 69 65 

tradition should be assumed considering that
Total Net Yards 399 283

6. Washington 7-1 1362 7 
Navy has never pulled such a stunt following any
Fumbles: #-Lost 0-0 3-1 of its previous losses at Notre Dame Stadium. 

7. Ohio St. 8-1 1324 9 
Penalties: #-Yards 5-40 1-5 

"We've never been booed for praying," said
8. Tennessee 6-1 1312 8 
Average Per Punt 43.5 39.7 

Weatherbie in response to a question regarding Possession Time 33:01 26:59 
his team's post-game actions. 
9. Georgia 7-1 1138 14 
Third Down Conversions 5/14 6/14 Upon being asked if there had ever been a band

10. UCLA 7-2 1089 12 
on the field during one of these prayers, the coach indicated that he did not recall. 
Fourth Down Conversions 1/2 1/2 

Sacks By: #-Yards 3-18 0-0 Weatherbie's responses to the questions about 
11 . Kansas St. 7-1 1013 13 
12. Iowa 6-2 904 15 
the incident were purely self-righteous sarcasm.
Individual Statistics To cite a prayer as an excuse for interfering with

13. Florida 6-2 902 6 
Rushing an opposing team's tradition is not only againstNO-Denson 19-125, Stokes 12-41, Spencer 2-11, Barry 4-11, 

14. LSU 6-2 837 16 
the spirit of a prayer, but it is insulting to thePowlus ?-(minus 28) intelligence of anyone who is familiar with the
15. Arizona St. 6-2 811 20 
Navy-McCoy 23-147, Cannada 18-58, Metcalf 5-22, Dingle 3­Notre Dame band's post-game ritual.

16. Washington St. 7-1 775 10 
20, Alota 1-15, McGrew 1-12, Wolf 1-3 There were reportedly Midshipmen representa­

tives in the stands who were embarassed and Passing 
17. Auburn 7-2 515 11 
angered by the behavior of their football team.
18. Toledo 8-0 449 22 
ND-Powlus 7-17-1 99, Jackson 1-4-1 24 One such student even expressed his opinion that 

it was typical of Coach Weatherbie to take out his frustration from the loss by attempting to spoil the .. 
Navy-McCoy 6-16-3 122, McGrew 0-1-0 0 

19. Mississippi St. 6-2 347 
20. Virginia Tech 6-2 304 23 
Notre Dame celebration. 
Receiving It is probable that the confusion caused by the

21. Texas A&M 6-2 299 25 
NO-Nelson 3-59, Brown 3-37, Johnson 1-17, Gethera\11-10 game's final play led to the increased frustrationNavy-McGrew 3-97, Metcalf 1-16, Butts 1-8, Cannada 1-1

22. Syracuse 6-3 286 
on the part of the Midshipmen players. However, 
one Navy player had a tantrum after the official 
result was announced and had to be restrained 
23. Purdue 6-2 255 18 
• SCORING SUMMARY

24. So. Mississippi 6-2 253 24 
from going after an official. 
Then, following the now infamous prayer, 1st Quarter 
Scoring Summary

25. Oklahoma St. 6-2 125 19 
Navy's players did not calmly leave the field, as ­one Associated Press story indicated. They contin­
Navy-McCoy 9 yard run (Vanderhorst kick)

Others receiving votes: West Virginia 99, 
ued to run through the band and pump their fistsNO-Brown 14 yard pass from Powlus (Cengia kick)
Missouri 93, Colorado State 49, Wisconsin 
at the student section on their way to the tunnel. 
2nd Quarter One way or another though, it seems that there

42, Ohio 35, Michigan State 32, Virginia 
Navy-Vanderhorst 22 yard FG should be some form of apology issued by the

29, Louisiana Tech 11, Georgia Tech 10, 
3rd Quarter Naval Academy. There is simply no excuse forNO-Denson 48 yard run (Cengia kick)

BYU 7, Marshall 4, New Mexico 3, Air 
their actions and there is too much respect and 
Navy-McCoy 2 yard run (Vanderhorst kick) history that links Notre Damp, and Navy for the

Force 2. Mississippi 2, Southern California 
4th Quarter kind of events that took place on Saturday to go

1. 
NO-Denson 5 yard run (Cengia kick) unrecognized by Navy. 





The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 3, 1997 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Notre Dame linebacKer Jimmy Friday pursues Navy fullback Tim Cannada in the first half on Saturday. The Midshipmen proved to be successful on the ground, amassing 277 yards. 
Notre Dame 
21 
Navy 17 
Notre Dame Stadium November I, 1997 
• NOTES & QuOTES  
Game notes:  quarter was just the second lost fum­ 
ble for the Irish running backs in  
Notre Dame extended its winning  1997. Including Barry's, the Irish  
streak over Navy to 34 games.  have lost just four fumbles all yoar.  
Denson and Powlus (two) are the only  
Autry Denson's 125 yards moved  other players to have put the ball on  

him into third place on Notre Dame's • the ground this season. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Navy quarterback Chris McCoy, shown here on an option play. rushed for 147 yards on 23 carries and moved into fifth place in NCAA history for rushing yardage by quarterback. 
all-time rushing list with 2,763 yards, passing Jerome llcavcns. Denson now looks up at Vagas Ferguson 13,472) and Allen Pinkett (4,131) in the school's record books. 
Ron Powlus bmkc Joe Theismann's completion record for a season with his 156th. 
Before Saturday's fourth quarter comeback, Notre name was provious­

-
ly 0-3 in 1997 when trailing at tho half in lnssns to Purdue, Michigan State and Stanford. 
Kory Minor's first quarter intorenp­tion was tho first for tho Irish defense sincn Minor's pick against Miehigan State, spanning 18 quar­ters. It was tho third takeaway of the 
season for Minor. tying him with safe­ty Benny Guilbeaux for the team lead. 

--~ 
Navy quarterback Chris McCoy opened the scoring with his 32nd rushing touchdown of his career, moving him to the top of Navy's career rushing touchdown list and passing Napolcan McCallum. The

-senior quarterback rushed 23 times for 147 yards and moved into fifth place in NCM for rushing yardage at the quarterback positon. 
Jarious Jackson's interception in the second quarter was the first of his career on his 23rd attempt. 
Ken Barry's fumble in the second Game. quotes: 


Bob Davie: ''I'll tell you what. I thought it was Halloween there at thn end of that football game." 
Ron Powius on Navy's "llail Mary" pass with threo snconds n~maining: "I couldn't believ<~ it. It suro made for a pretty dramatic nnding, and w<~'rn happy it turnnd out the way it did." 
Dcfensiv(~ coo rd inator Greg Mattison on the diff1culty of beating a wishbone ofT(~nsn: "I nnver look down on a win. nsp(~cially against a wish­bonn toam, whnn you havo two days to prcparn and tlwy have thnir lifn­timo to practice." 
Bob Davie on .Jarious .Jackson's lack of playing time: "It was such a scheme game that I just felt better having had Hon in there because Hon's been in that situation before. I just felt better with him in thoro, knowing how few possessions we'd get, knowing we'd have to throw tho ball." 
Navy head coach Charlie Wcatherbie on Navy's disruption of the Notre Dame band following Saturday's game: "We always go to the middle of the field after we've gone to l)Ur band ... and our fans, and one of the players usually leads us in a prayer. So we weren't doing any­thing Jifferent than we normally do." 


Monday, November 3, 1997 page 9 
• V!OEf\ PICK OF THE WEEK 

'Goodfellas' 
By JOE KRAUS lifestyle. Accent Movie Critic In addition to the plot, the cin­
ematography is typical Scorsese 
If you haven't noticed, when I (translation: brilliant). Scorsesc, do the video pick, I tend to a master of the long take, lets ignore the new releases. I like to the camera roll to both follow bring something out of the vault characters wherever they go and that maybe you forgot about for document, clearly, exactly what a while but should remember is going on. As soon as the view­soon. This week's video pick is er gets used to not seeing any Martin Scm·sesc's "Goodfellas," cuts for a while, Scorscse takes the greatest gangster movie ever, the viewer on an editing roller and possibly one of the top five coaster ride that completely lilms ever-bar none! leaves one short of breath. The 
Seorsese likes to provide tough, helicopter scene that begins with in-your-face films that leave the llill snorting cocaine and ends viewers feeling like they were hit with him sitting in a car with a by a semi. However larger-than-gun in his face does not offer a life these films break for almost seem. they------------15 minutes! 
always have a Last but not persnnal flavor scorsese likes to pro-least, Scorsese's for both Sc01·sese d h . soundtrack moves 
and the viewer. vi e toug • m-your-the movie right "Goodfellas" is no face films that leave along in a chilling different. the viewers feeling like manner. Scorsese 
This film's story treats us to a pri­rcvolvl~s around they were hit by a vate showing of the life of Henry semi. However larger-someone getting
Hill (Ray Liotta). . beaten to death Hill is a half than-hfe these films while a song Irish, half Sicilian seem, they always have about the tran­who has grown l fl f quillity of the 
up in Pauly a persona avor or ocean plays in the Cicero's gang his both Scorsese and the background. w~10le lif~l. Along viewer. "Goodfellas" is Then, as if that 
wtth lltll arc were not enough, Jimmy (Hobert De no different. we get a personal Niro) and Tommy view of the death (Joe Pesci) whose toll after Jimmy failure to see goes on the war beyond immedi-path set to the ate personal gain soothing sounds keep them mired as middlemen of the instrumental at the end of in the mob. This movie details Eric Clapton's "Layla." In this just how being a wise-guy kept scene, we hear an extremely these mnn larger-than-life and soothing and melodic piece of less-than-human at the same music while we see the likes of time. mutilated bodies in dumpsters 
It is hard to decide where to and meat lockers. Only from the begin to talk about this movie. I mind of Marty! guess the plot is as good a place If you get the sense that I like as any. The story line gives the this movie, GOOD! You must audience characters that they have been paying attention. If ean embrace. The movie is con-you have never seen trolled by Henry's voice-overs, "Goodfellas," do yourself a huge we are given a ticket into the favor. The two and a half hours mind of the main character. it lasts will not seem long Despite his depravity, like mur-enough, trust me. If it has been a der. theft and drug addiction, it while since you have seen is easy to relate to Henry Hill "Goodfellas," break it out one and even root for him. The night and pop it in the VCR. You screenplay, through Hill, makes know you liked it before (who light of what is an abhorrent doesn't?). You will like it again! 

I. I Know What You Did Last Summer 
2. 
Red Corner 

3. 
Devil's Advocate 

4. 
Boogie Nights 

5. 
Kiss the Girls 

6. 
Seven Years in Tibet 

7. 
Switchback 

8. 
Fairy Tale: A True Story 

9. 
Gattaca 


10. In & Out 

Source: Associated Press 
the stuck rimrket crash robbed us of Brenda and Julia's"~v···~ .· c · tation over Ned; but ... Brenda and Jax discuss · ealizes that she and Julia love each other and to . . .. ; Julia later stops by and says the same thing, never iii'leds one. Brenda admits that Julia is not so bad, the only picture of their mother for Brenda. Jax tells her to heJtirtsttncts. As part of that he suggests she buy her own house. Jax 
she gets ago~dfef:iting fromij.s Sony-less quality and buys it. 
Julia h\1~ . and.gets jealous.• Julia catches up with Ned and .••. histle o:q ing com that raided the company. Turns . minent G .. ily ~bus .. . Stefan promises Alexis that he will make sure that .. ed never ; but looks he'S a bit late. Later, Ned and Alexis play work games until he pounces ..•asks why she betrayed him. 
Ned goes straight to Spoon Island tp see Alexis, after he' returns from losing ELQ Jakarta. They admittheymissedeagh ~r. Stefan ~nters and rips into Alexis once they are jn (.Jreece and forget al it Leo bri:qgs Alexis the papers from her plot aga,i:qst l<tl;tharine, e1sin a m~et Ned, so she bides themin the secret pas­sage,Later when . .....• . ses the J ··.··· ... ..... finds the papers. But that iS only after he hides in Stefan's room, amfsneaks out behirid his back; Stefan's not the sharpest knife in the drawer. Later Stefan :fantasizes Kathy is not his sister; 
Kathy admits defe~t, but then cb~uiges her mind and tells Luke if he can find the gun then she will press ~barges. Luke th:inks his lucky day has come, but Kathy only wants to · stop her one true loy~ !romretu oGreece. The next time Kathar:ine sees Stefan she w<;trns him that A:r ··• getton is . ... f 'fhe .Uttle tt)<;k or .treaters run screaming from Stefan, as Edwar ..•. ·onts him abovtnot loving the hospital. 
Lorraine tells Carly<to induce labor so no one. will· he suspicious about the due date. early refuses out of concern for hei" child. A.J. calls Carly on her association with Lorriane, but she puts him off with female bonding. Little do they know that Bobbie is hiding behind a plantShe tries to pump A.J. for info, but he stays strong and tells her to butt out. 
AlanJs Mr. Mi,)O~Yt and while l4on't agree withNed's suspicions about male menopause, everyop~ is noti()ing his rapid mood swings. Meanwhile the heat is on as 
· Dara begirts an investigation in to drug use in the medical community, and Bobbie won­ders why drugs are delivered directly to his office. He puts everyone off and continues to pop pills, even as Dara asks him to be an anti-drug spok(:)sperson. 
Sarah and Nik go shopping, andshebuys him answer. Later Lizzie slips on a package of c(mdomssothat$arahand.Auwey~ll find.it. · ra:m and Sarah have THE TALK. Sarah .Protnl$ ythat(S · J-VHl remai <aste, even in the face of Nik H .., .....,,,rrean's • .. ·. .···.··• ....· . t thos~ ·. ·..• oms imply t . tNik has other ideas. Meanwhile 
Liz lets it slipto P:cky that Nik and Sarah mightbe intimate. Nik buys her a necklace, but what he talks abqut she now asstimes means sex; Later Stefan tells Nik th~t they will be returning to Greece, the young prince is not pleased. 
Felicia is retained .by a woman looking for her husband, and the picture she has is of 
Well, . "Days" fans, W~ been a longthree weeks in South Bend and a long three days in Salem. Our regular readers are probably .wondering how we're going to cram three times our usual plot·~ ni~ i;:o .. · into this update.. Quite frankly ,we're wondering to(l., flhwevetii . . )l $till ... esperately. g to serve up our hearts on a sil­
ver platter to ana .. . ; appare . •·····...···· .. cles canha .··. . 

The big story rig tn.ow is theimpenJting Roman!Marlena marriage. Roman has taken a serioils turn for the wors(l, and Marlena; has decided to fulfill his dying wish by remarrying him (much to Eric'$ delight). Despite hilr acceptance, Marlena is still torn between letting 
Ro . an die happil •. aiting for hn to possil:)ly return with a cure. The only sil­~ in t. ·~m i$.. ~aran ·· 'mberly Brady ..who (finally sport­~li~~ Mme .to.b big brother Roman. We missed 
yn .... ·· ie! · ·.. ..··. . . . ... . .... 

While all this iS. . .. on. John .· ..• een having troUbles of his own. After fmding the flower which holdsthf;lcure, he iS attacked bynatives and thrown off of a cliff. An agonizing escape and two dayS of~rawling thro~gh thejungle follo.ws; .and John makes it back to the compound.How ·· efloweris missill and they are forced to derive Roman's cure from ar~.}'\1 le£tovet . g bf!,ckto · ~th this{·· sted) cure. th.e plan(l crashes and John is t0tn }jet . . . . .. g Hope a . . 'ng the c ....· )ICkily John Black possesses the superhuman strength to do both, and tllfl party is rescued by.a passing ship. They race back to Salem· and are directed to an empty church. At that very moment, the wedding begins in the hospital chapeL . . · .···· ·. 
Meanwhile in Rome; Sami has teamed up with Franco and is ru;nning around disguised as 
, a nun~ trying to break Austin and Carrie. Franco, who still works for Kate, aids her and theysl;leMssftllly~ and Deb~ .... J1lakinglov(): Sami's plans are derailed, though, when she learns .. ·. .. . . father is .·.· ..··•·. g, She quickly bops a plane back to Salem, and apparently the ·~summ in Rome" storyline is finally over. It's been fun, but we're getting sick ofthat weird gypsy woman. 
Oh, and in case· anyone is wondering and/or cares, Bo has decided to give his marriage to Billie a chance. We shudder to say they even consummated it. 
In backburner story news. Travis finally figured outthat Jen is working at the prison as "Hope Williams," aft~r Abby left her Jli(lm's fake name tag out in plain sight. He of course told T;C;, and thefunniestscerie in thelast three weekS has to have been when T.C. finally ripped that nastY browri wig off Jen's head. We'll see bow Stefano and his minions plan to deal with Jennifer's interference now. And finally. Vivian is still trying to bilk Jonesy out of his fortune, but the newtwist is that Celeste seems convinced that Little Elvis's father is con­nected to Jonesy's mansion. . 
Random News: Ithas been confirmed that Jason Brooks (who plays Peter) will return to the show for a few months starting in.Nqvember. How w(lnderfully evill 
E-mail us with your ''lJays" comments or questions: 

Pa/.tlina.1@nd. edu, ·Freeman.19@nd.edu, or Howard.35@nd. edu 

-
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 3, 1997 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish close out undefeated season 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sporrs Writer 
In the final two games of the regular season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team took care of business io the usual fashion. 
The Irish (18-0-1) handily defeated 12th-ranked Michigan on Friday and Big East door­mat Providence (5-11-2) yes­terday. by scores of 5-0 and 7­0, respectively. 
Defensively, Notre Dame was stellar, allowing only three shots over the two games, including just one by the Wolverines. The Irish handed Michigan (15-3-1) its first shutout of the year. Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene recorded both shutouts, her 14th and 15th. to break the Irish single-season mark held by former all­American keeper Jen Renola. By not allowing a goal in either game. Beene also lowered her nationally-leading goals against average below 0.28. 
Against the Wolverines, Jenny Heft paced the offense with one goal in each half, putting the Irish up 1-0 at the break with a blast from the top of the box off a pass from Shannon Boxx. 
In the first 10 minutes of the second half, the Irish bombard­ed Michigan with 11 shots and connected on three of them to take a 4-0 advantage. 
Senior midfielder Holly Manthei was fouled in the box, setting up a penalty kick at 
50:07 that Anne Makinen con­verted for the Blue and Gold. 
Just over two minutes later, Monica Gerardo volleyed in a rebound off a shot by Meotis Erikson that ricocheted off the cross bar. The assist stretclled Erikson's point-scoring streak to 11 games, tying her with Manthei and Jen Streiffer, who equaled the mark in 1996. The streak ended against Providence on Sunday, when Erikson failed to register a goal or assist in the 7-0 win. 

Heft's header found the back of the net at 55:13, her 15th goal of the year, and the 27th assist for Manthei, the nation's leader in that category. 
Kara Brown closed· out the scoring for the Irish, lofting the ball from 45 yards out over the head of Michigan goalie Carissa Stewart, for her first goal of the season. 
"We couldn't wait to play Michigan because we knew they were going to be a good team," said Streiffer. "And after that win, we were so happy about the way we played that we wanted to keep it going (against Providence)." 
The Irish dominated the 
game against the Friars from the outset, scoring all seven goals in the first half. Heft notched two more goals on Sunday, tying her for the team lead with 17 on the year. Streiffer added two, along with seniors Kate Sobrero and Julie Maund, who scored her first goal of the year in the final reg­ular season contest. 
"This was an important game for us," said Maund, a tri-cap­tain of the Irish squad. "As a senior, it was emotional for me and exciting. It is just really important that we go out and play well at this point in the season, and we did. They really didn't have any good scoring opportunities (yesterday)." 
"(Yesterday) was a good day for our team because every­body got a chance to play," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "This is the kind of day that's good for your team chemistry, and it can't hurt to have that." 

Team chemistry seems to be one of the phrases heard often around the team as it heads into the post-season. For a team that has an explosive, but balanced offensive attack and an experienced defense that has allowed only five goals this year, poor team chemistry could be like shooting oneself in the foot. But for the Irish, chemistry has produced one of the strongest bonds this year. 
"We have great team chem­istry," said Maund. "And all year we've said that our goal is to win a national champi­onship, and I think people real­ly believe it; they can feel it." 
Run 
continued from page 1 
couple weeks so we can be in the top 2-3 at districts and hopefully advance to the NCAAs. Our district is arguably the toughest in the country." 
The Irish, despite being ranked ninth nationally, are only ranked fourth in their district. The top two teams in each of nine districts receive automatic bids for nationals, and the next four in the coun­try receive at-large bids. 
The Notre Dame women's squad also recorded its high­est finish since joining the Big East conference in 1995. 
Its fourth-place team finish was led by sophomore all­American JoAnna Deeter, who placed 16th in 18:14 on the 5000-meter course. Sophomore Alison Klemnwr was close on her heels in 18th place. 
The Irish benefitted from a balanced attack. with four runners finishing between 30th and 38th place. 
The Irish are coached by Tim Connelly. 
"Realistically, we ran about as well as we could," said Connelly. "There were no brilliant performances, but everybody ran solidly. Perhaps the best race of the day came from freshman Bridget O'Brien, who finished 33rd. This was a big turn­around meet for us, but it's going to take some great efforts from our kids." 
The only three teams ahead 
of  the  Irish  were  No.  6  
Providence,  No.  10  
Georgetown,  and No.  11  
Boston College.  

The Irish defeated Villanova, which is nationally ranked. The Big East is tradi­tionally a powerhouse for the women, with the past eight NCAA champions coming from this conference. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for nexr-day 
classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, includ­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit all classifieds for conrenr withour issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Martial arts letter jacket at  Silver Hawks Baseball Team  FOR  SALE  yeah thanks photo joe  
NOTICES  senior bar. Call x4969 or return to the bar. Reward for info or return of  Office Receptionist needed at Coveleski Stadium  FOR SALE  N.D. GA'S  molly, why must you deny the fact  
jacket  Mon-Fri 8:30am-1:OOpm  that your fish smells.  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  1....---\X/;-'A_N_T_E_D_____JI IC.II2:~:':~;"''" I  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082.  271-9412. WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES  why can't I just say what I am say­ing. cause i'm writing it  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Gold!! Wanted reps., unl!mited  .  .  271 1526  opera is cool  
Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m.  earning potential!!  WALK TO CAMPUS  MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­ 
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  616-461-6772.  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  tor, printer. fax/modem, $750, 4­ We NEED 2 GA's for WV  If you need a good flea bath call  
(closed home football Sat's)  $195/PERSON  4322  lv. msg. (800)321-4110x10986  Katie 4-2728  
Phone 631-COPY  232-2595  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call 219-271-0633  1-bdrm, turn. apt.. Downtown SB.  '87 BMW 325, 6CYL,5SPD,EXC ..  PERSONAL  x-files was too cool. moulder isn't dead and de-ionized water is the  
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi.  $400/mo. + $150 dep. Lease. 233­ COND.-MECH. & BODY. $5750.  cure for cancer.  
from ND campus on U.S. 31/33.  2900 or 272-7305.  291-8361 (LV.MSG.)  ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER  
Call (616)684-4633.  A newspaper ad led me to DEBBIE  hi panther  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own  ND Prof. needs babysitter for infant next semester TfTh: 11 :30-3:30;  HOUSE FOR RENT FALL 98. 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY.  TICKETS  & MIKE 2 years ago & I chose them to adopt my baby. They're wonder­ I promise to set you up someday!  
Business?  MWF flexible. Call Dr. Braungart­ DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL.  ful parents and I couldn't be happier  
T ASP International seeks students  Rieker: 631-6914  FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND  with my choice. I'm thrilled that they  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
tor next summer who want entre­ (office); 233-1268(home)  2 BLOCKS FROM ND. HAS SECU­ HOME GAMES.272-6551  want to adopt again! They're fun,  LaFortune Student Center  
preneurial and management experi­ RITY SYSTEM.  affectionate, professional, stable &  '-1 High-Speed Copies  
ence. Positive attitude a must Full  289-4712  easy to talk to. I'll gladly talk with  '-1 Canon Color Laser Copies  
training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­ Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  you too. (888)690-BABY or check  .J Digital Color Printing  
800-543-3792.  TUTOR needed for 8th grader  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  their web site at  .J Binding & Laminating  
Primarily Math Will bring \he  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or  WWW.MEETUS.COM  .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
ILOST & FOUND I  student to campus to fit your sched­ule Good pay Please call KATHLEEN 288-9622  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  (318)747-8820. ND VS. NAVY & W. VA TIX  000 Looking for a unique gift?  Phone 631-COPY Beware the DONKEY PUNCH!!!  
243-0658.  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  Bring in your favorite pictures  
FOUND FOUND FOUND  MESSAGE  and we'll create a personalized  I got a new sweater.  
Did you lose your ND umbrella at  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  
the library Sun. nile (10/26)? I have  ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'..  Breakfast Inn has space available  NOTRE DAME  THE COPY SHOP  Hutch- 
it Call Mary Beth @x2510.  CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  FOOTBALL TICKETS  LaFortune Student Center  ! miss your late night smiles.  
FOUND FOUND FOUND  promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15  with private baths, $70-$90,  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Where are you when we need you  
trips & travel free! Highly motivated  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  the most I can't believe that I can  
FOUND••••FOUND••••FOUND...  students can earn a free trip & over  Toll Road, Exit #107,  232-0058  BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in  survive up here without with you.  
"Cutest Puppy in the World"  $10,000! Choose Cancun,  1-800-418-9487.  concert to Stepan Nov. 18!! Check  You are sorely missed.  
found by the Observer Staff, in  Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  CONFIDENTIAL  out this night of incredible music  -Kathleen  
between Nieuwland and  Florida! North America's largest stu­ LG. FURN. RM., PRIV. BATH,  TICKET-MART, INC.  just for the sound of it! Tix at  
Stonehenge  dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­ PRIV. ENT., 10 MIN. TO CAMPUS.  LaFunk info desk $9 for ND, SMC,  I know you want to feel my shirt.  
does not respond to the names  838-6411  MALE GRAD. PREF. 232-8285.  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ HCC students, $12 for public.  
Harold or Spanky  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  I love doing classifieds.  
CALL 631-5323 if you know any  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  674-7645.  
information  ..Spring Break ... "Take 2" ..  PROPERTIES .  What is a win/win situation for ND  If I find you wearing my jacket I will  
Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  and BC? Fr. Michael Himes!  break you.  
Hot destinations! Free Parties,  272-6551  FOR SALE  Come to hear this dynamic speaker  
LOST · ROOM KEY -#406. CALL  Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ DAYTIME#: 232-2378  talk on decision-making. Tuesday,  Thanks for the burger Photo Joe.  
JILL 4-3196.  771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ EVENING #: 288-2726  Nov .4, 2-3: 15 in the charoel of  You rock.  
6551  LOW PRICES  Keenan Hall.  






Can you be a hero? Can you make a difference? NIKE P.L.A.Y.CORPS recruits and trains college students to coach in local youth leagues. After the season, coaches receive $500 towards their tuition. Email playcorps@nike.com for details. 
-



,----------------------~----~~--~­
Monday, November 3, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
Hockey 
continued from page 1 
against the second-ranked Spartans, and it didn't take long for Michigan State to take the lead. Less than seven min­utes in to the game, the Spartans had already solved senior Irish goaltender Matt Eisler, who in the previous four games had seemed invin­cible. 
Sophomore center Ben Simon, who continued on his scoring tear this weekend, knotted the game at one early in the second period with a tip-in, power-play goal, which was set up by junior forward 

Tomorrow~ Tuesday~ November 4 
For time and location of meeting~ call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C.S.C. 
VOLUME 3, NUMBER 4 
0
13 
14 

15
11 
12 

:I MeN's SocceRN 
Ill

ROWING/C FOOTBALL./V 
AT BIG EAST SEMIFINALS NOVICE HOME REGATTA AT LSU 

.....
STOORS, CT SOUTH BEND, IN 

WOMEN'S SocceR/V WOMEN'S AT NCAA FIRST ROUND 
< 
II
VOLLEYBALL./V 
<
AT RUTGERS, 2:00 PM 
..Ill Ill 
.... 
Brian Urick. 
But that meager goal repre­sented the extent of the Irish's offense for the evening. Unlike the Spartans of ancient Greece, who used the decep­tive Trojan horse to sneak past their enemies' wall, the con­temporary Spartans just bar­reled the wall down with an onslaught of goals. 


MeN's TeNNISN 
AT MIDWEST REGIONAL ROLEX CHAMP. CHAMPAIGN, ll 
10
9 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL./V 

WON'T FIT ON 9TH ...
VS. PITTSBURGH JACC, 2:00 PM 

WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT REGIONAL ROLEX
WoMEN's SocceR!V 
MADISON, WI PISCATAWAY, NJ AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 

MEN'S BoWLING/( 
AT SYCAMORE CLASSIC TERRA HAUTE, IN 
·­
WON'T FIT ON 7TH ... WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT REGIONAL ROLEX MADISON, WI 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING & DIVINGN 
AT PITTSBURGH, 6:00 PM 
...... 
n

8 
0 
WOMEN'S 

MeN's SocceR!V WOMEN'S TENNISN 
II AT REGIONAL ROLEX 
AT BIG EAST QuARTERFINALS AT REGIONAL ROLEX 
n
VOLLEYBALL./V 
MADISON, WI MADISON, WIVS. WEST VIRGINIA 
WOMEN'S SocceR/V 
0..
JACC, 7 00 PM 

AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN'S BoWLING/( 
CD 

PISCATAWAY, NJ · AT SYCAMORE CLASSIC 
.. 
1'\
WOMEN'S SocceR/V 
TERRA HAUTE, INAT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
CD 
Ill
-· PISCATAWAY, NJ 
r+ 

~ ~~-~-~~~------·-----l 
page 11 
The Spartans recorded two more goals before the second period ended, taking a 3-1 lead into the second intermis­sion, and they added two more in the final stanza to complete their 5-1 triumph. 
"Those goals were break­downs on our part," lamented Notre Dame head coach 
Dave Poulin. 

"We had good 'saturday's win was chances, but a huge one for our 
you just aren't 

team and our program.
going to get many against a The biggest thing was team like 
how we were able to 
Michigan State, and so you bounce back from have to capital­
Friday night.' 
ize on them." 

But the Boys saved their Notre Dame hockey coach best dramatics 
Dave Poulin 
for Saturday 
evening, utilizing a four-goal flurry in the final stanza to ice the victory.: Notre Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead, courtesy of a first-period goal by Simon and an unassisted, second-period goal by Urick. 
Simon is currently enjoying a six-game scoring streak and has five goals already this sea­son, equalling his season goal output from last year. Urick's 
goal  came  from  a  Spartan  
turnover.  
He intercepted a  clearing  

pass at the center of the blue­line and skated near the top of the right circle before firing a shot over MSU goaltender Chad Alban's right shoulder into the net. 
Michigan State answered immediately, cutting the lead to 2-1 on a MSU shot that eluded Eisler. The teams entered the third 


ADVERTISEMENT 

M 

~ 1997 
period with the Boys of Winter nursing a tenuous 2-1 lead. Enter junior forward Aniket Dhadphale, who has simply been on fire this season. He ignited the third-period fire­works with two goals. 
His first came on a shot that sailed between Alban's legs, 
left wingers Dan Carlson and Chad Chipchase followed Dhadphale's example, adding goals to clinch the victory. 
"It was a great sign that we responded like we did tonight," mused Simon, "because we showed that we truly are a good team that can compete with the top teams in the nation. People started to notice us after the two wins at St. Cloud State and a pretty good game with Boston College, but this was another big step. We actually have been playing better on the road." 
Poulin emphasized the role of special teams in the victory, a facet of the game that his squad has been focussing on. Notre Dame (4-2-0, 1-1-0 CCHA) certainly has a chance for an excellent season in front of it. 
and his second 
came  on  a  
breakaway.  
"Alban is  a  

'butterfly' goalie," stated Dhadphale, "and you always want to shoot high or through the five hole [between the legs] on him, so that's what I did." 
Freshman 
16 
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL./V AT SETON HALL 2:00PM 
MeN's SocceRN 
AT BIG EAST FINALS 

sportshalfpage@nike.com ... As the weather gets colder and you head inside to work out, look for me in the gym with thirsty towels for your sweaty bodies ... Thanks to all of you who showed interest in the NIKE P.L.A.YCORPS program. Any other aspiring coaches who want to lead a local youth team to victory? There's still time to sign up for P.L.A.Y.CORPS, if you hurry. Email playcorps@nike.com for an application while they last. You'll be a hero to aspiring young athletes AND you'll receive $500 toward your tuition after the season ... Want the facts on NIKE's labor practices? Check out www.nikeworkers.com. 
17 

IN CREATING SPORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRO~S. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'LL TRY NEXT ISSUE. 
Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Sports1/2Page plugs you into upcoming sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com with events, athletes or teams you think deserve a mention. To talk to NIKE directly, use 
DOING IT 

The Notre Dame Men's Crew team is making waves. Not only is the club competing against varsity programs across the country, they're winning. Last year, the Lightweight Eight finished first in the Midwest Sprints and third at 
the Intercollegiate Rowing 
Competition. The Heavyweights 
also enjoyed asuccessful record 
against anumber of varsit~Y teams. 
This year, Crew is off to agreat 
start again. Led by captain Rob 
Marek, the team nabbed second place finishes from the Lightweight Four and Eight, and a fifth place finish in the Heavyweight division at the Head of the Rock race in Rockford, Illinois. Even more impressive, the team recently received an invitation to the 1998 nationals in Camden, New Jersey. -Pat Paquette 
'< 
..... 
n 

_,
II 
n 
c:: 
IT 
..... 
II 
.....
:I 
...... 
Ill 
3 
c::
.. 
Ill 


THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS1/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
----~-~----~-~----~ ­
r---r--~----~---­
1 
I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 3, 1997
I 
• SAINT MARY's SOCCER 
Newell's overtime goal hands Goshen a defeat 
Saint Mary's closes regular season with win 
By LYNETTE MALECKI SportS Writer 
The Saint Mary's student body arrived in full force Friday to cheer on its soccer team which was geared up for the final game of the season. 
The Belles (6-13-0) were prepared to face a challenging Goshen team which boasted a 12-5·1 record. Saint Mary's strong determination and efforts were rewarded with a gut-wrenching 1-0 win over Goshen in overtime. 
"Our spirits were lifted high by the support of the student body, and we were deter­mined to win for our seniors," 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
.... 
.. 
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 C$1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat 
Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 
..... 
Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 
6:00-9:30 Come and watch Monday Night Football 


said junior tri-captain and goalkeeper Jo Wagner. 
In the first half, both teams played very aggressively with play spanning the entire field. The Belles' defense was able to hold strong as did Goshen's, with few available shots at either goal. The Belles did not give up, however, and contin­ued playing strong. The game remained scoreless at the end of the half. 
"Everyone's support on Friday meant a lot to the team," said senior forward Debbie Diemer. 
The second half found both teams fighting for a goal with play continuing much the same as the first half. Jo Wagner had several crucial saves, while the rest of the team continued applying pres­sure to Goshen. The second half ended 0-0, sending the game into overtime. 
"This was a game of sound er but just narrowly missed soccer. We had to earn every the net, sending the ball shot, and Goshen did too," bouncing off the goal post. 
Senior for­coach Bob said head ward Eileen
Saint Mary's 

Newell was The Belles' 
Sharp. 

able to recov­last game 
Soccer Results 

er it, sending proved to be a 
the ball sail­
Saint Mary's 

ing into the Goshen's 
nailbiter as net for her

1 

16th goal of to gain momen­
offense began 

the season. tum, taking two 
Goshen 

The score not solid shots on 
only won the the keeper. 
0 

game but Then suddenly the Belles also broke the school record obtained possession of the ball for the most goals scored and drove down field. Diemer within a single season. had an open shot on the keep-"We were able to hold our position well and worked hard for this win. I cannot say enough about how well the team performed," said Sharp. 
He went on to explain part of the r-eason for their suecess. "The girls were able to cut down Goshen's shooting angle by keeping their players to the outside. Thus if they did get a shot off. there was less area for the keeper to cover." 
Not only was this game a dramatic ending to the Belles' season but also signified the ending of the soccer eareers for the three seniors on the team, including Newell, Diemer, and fullback Keary Sullivan. 

S.A.D.D. i i 9 i 
PRESENTS 1\ 1\ (\ f\ 1\i_ 
Red Ribbon Week 
MONDAY Candle Light Vigil 6:15 PM 
Meet at Stonehenge and walk to the Grotto Rosary at the Grotto 6:45 PM SATURDAY MARA Fox FUN RUN 
MEET AT THE LYONS COURTS AT 10:00 AM 
5KRUN 
WfAK iOUK 1\fD 1\1660NS A 1\LL WffK 
Sponsored By: Students Against Drunk Driving 
AT&T Summer Internship Program 
Why an AT&T Internship? 

• 
Internal exposure to the global leader in the telecommunications industry 

• 
First consideration for AT&T's Financial Leadership Program (FLP) 


• Structured program that includes:  
Professional Development Seminars  Senior Management Presentations  
Formal Objectives and Appraisals  Networking Events  
Social Gatherings  Community Service Projects  
• Challenging assignments  
• Experience in a Fortune 500 Corporation  

Job Description 
Requirements Location 

Entry-level management positions Project & team oriented assignments Well defined goals and objectives 
Junior Accounting & Finance Majors Overall GPA of 3.5+ preferred; 3.0 minimum 
Majority of positions in New Jersey 
-
(Housing Assistance Available) 
1 

When On Campu., Interviews are Tuesday December 2nd 
273-3890 ­
at Career & Placement
~AT&T 

Resume drop is Monday & Tuesday, 
II sT I L L T H E B E sT " I --Novemher 3rd & 4th at Career & Placement
-

Monday, November 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• VOllEYBALl 
Irish volleyball captures first place in Big East 
By BILL HART  and 11 kills respectively, while  hitting match of the season,  
Sports Writer  freshman phenom Christi  with a team hitting percentage  
Girton also had 11 kills. Junior  of .395, while holding the Hoyas  
The Notre Dame volleyball  Lindsay Treadwell rounded out  to .130. After a quick first  
team took to the road this  the Irish effort with 10 kills on  game in which the Irish made  
weekend. traveling to the East  .350 hitting.  only one hitting error, Notre  
Coast to play two conference  Girton led the serving attack,  Dame went on to hit .364 in the  
opponents on their own fields.  serving three of four aces while  second game and .579 in the  
While the results were the  Harris served the remaining  third. In the third game, the  
samP as most roadtrip week­ one. Villanova never had a  Irish kept up their defensive  
ends, the ramifications were  chance to change the momen­ power and held the Hoyas to  
not, as the Irish took sole pos­ tum of the battle, as it hit just  .000 hitting.  
session of first place in the Big  .000 in the first game and .089  The Irish were led by Harris  
East conference.  in the second. Elizabeth Jones  and Lee, who had 11 and nine  
The Irish started off their  and Ruth Ann Blankenheim led  kills, respectively. Sophomore  
weekend stretch with a trip  the Wildcats with nine kills  Mary Leffers aided the Irish  
eastward tn face conference co­ apiece.  cause with seven kills on .400  
leader Villanova. While Notre  With the win over the  hitting, while Girton had five  
Dam11 has not lost a conference  Wildcats, Notre Dame took sole  kills on eight attempts. The  
match since 1991. the Wildcats  possession of first place in the  team was also helped by a  
have given the Irish a scare  Big East conference for the first  tremendous 11-3 blocking edge,  
more than oncn. including a  time this season. The victory  with Girton, assisting on seven  
live-game thriller at the Joyce  also ended a nine-match win­ of those blocks. Treadwell also  
C:entPr in 1996.  ning stn~ak for Villanova, which  had five block assis.ts while  
"Villanova's definitely onn pf  dated back to Sept. 20. With  Leffers assisted with four.  
the best teams in the conff1r­ the loss, the Wildcats fell to 15­ Georgetown's main threat  
cncP. head coach Debbie  6 on the season and 5-1 in con­ was in the form of freshman  
Brown said before the match.  ference play.  Kiran Gill, who had 12 kills on  
"Thpy're not very big, com­ On Sunday, the Irish traveled  .138 hitting. With the loss, the  
pared to us, but they play well  to Washington, D.C., to face off  Hoyas continued a five-match  
together as a team. Along with  against Georgetown. Despite a  losing streak and fell to 2-5 in  
us. we're the two best teams in  lackluster record. most of the  the conference and 11-14 over­ 
the conference."  Hoyas' losses have been close,  all. The win extends Notre  
However. the Wildcats proved.  including a five-game loss to  Dame's conference winning  
not to be a major challenge, as  Villanova the week before.  streak to 70 matches, the  
they were easily dispatched in  However, Georgetown's defense  longest active winning streak  
thren games, 15-8, 15-7, 15-7.  wasn't enough to thwart the  against conference opponents.  
The Irish were led by another  Irish stampede, as the home  Along with this weekend's  
balanced offensive attack from  team was defeated in three  action, the Irish have won their  
four ND players. Seniors Angie  games, 15-2, 15-8, 15-2.  last four matches and 11 of  
Harris and Jaimie Lee had 13  Notre Dame had its third-best  their past 12.  The Observer/John Daily  
Senior Jaimie Lee had 11 kills against the Villanova Wildcats.  




'' 
Monday, November 3, 1997

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
--• • MEN's SOCCER 
Team earns tournament berth 

Summer Service Projects '98 

What are llQ1f doing next summer? 
Info Nights at the CSC: Nov. 3 at 5:30pm Nov. 19 at 6pm Dec. 2 at 5:30pm 
-

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

-8 weeks of service-learning ·Three elective Theology credits -$1700 Tuition Scholarship 
Applications are available at the CSC· apply now! Deadline: Jan 23rd (rolling acceptances) (Dec,2 for studer.ts abroad Spring '98) 
Questions? Call Erika at 4-1494 
the wing. 
Junior Ben Bocklage was the next to strike for Notre Dame. Freshman Conor LaRose was able to beat the Eagle defense with a nice pass to the streak-_ ing Bocklage for the goal. 
Senior Joe Gallo wrapped up the scoring for the Irish just five minutes later when he tal­lied his first goal of the season. Senior David Cutler was credit­ed with an assist. 
"It is a positive that we scored three goals on a solid team like Boston College," Berticelli explained. "They haven't given up many goals this season, and scoring that many gives us momentum going into next game. We played well, we scored go~tls, and hopefully we can carry that into the playoffs. 
Boston College was able to muster one goal against Notre Dame, coming late in the game. Junior Keith McDonald scored off a pass from sopho­more Asgeir Asgiersson, but it was just too little too late. 
The win was critical for the Irish as they head in to the postseason. It snapped a five­game losing streak that includ­ed four conference opponents. 

"We had a tough little stretch over fall break," Berticelli said. "It is always a bear for us play­ing three or four games in five or six days against some of the top teams in the conference on the road." 

Using the momentum of thfl victory, the Irish will face Sflton Hall in the first round of the Big East tournament on Nov. 9. Seton Hall finished the sp,ason ranked fourth in the Big East after losing to Connecticut in overtime by a Junior Ben Bocklage contributed a goal in the men's soccer team's 3-1 
score of 3-2. 
victory over Boston College. 

WED., NOV. 5 DINING HALL 1,1 :OOam -2:00pm 


The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
Proudly Presents 

YEELEN 
1987 105 min. 

A feature film by Souieymane Cissc (Mali) "ONE OF TilE GREAT EXPERIENCES OF WORW CINEMA" 
"TRANSPORTS VIEWERS TO A WORLD TilEY COUUJ NEVEH IMAGINE AND WILL NEVEH FOHGET" Followed By a Panel Discussion on: "Knowledge. Wisdom, & Power in Our Societies" 
Featuring 

1. 
Prof. James Bellis, Anthropology Dept., Moderator 

2. 
Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafa, Economics Dept.IIUSB 

3. 
Prof. Patrick Gaffney, Chair, Anthmpology Dept. 

4. 
Prof. Carolyn l'ilordstrom, Anthropology Dept. & Peace Studies 

5. 
Rev. Benedict Agumanu, CCE/Formation in Ministry 

6. 
Rev. Thomas Tibainuguka, CCE/Formation in Ministry 


7. 
Ngamije Mwangachuehu, MBA, College of Business Administration 


YEELEN or "Brightness" tells the story of Nianankoro, a young warrior destined to destroy a corrupt older society, the secret Komo cult, and with it. his father. and inevitably, himself. The lilm follows him on a quest across arid llambara. Fulani, and llogon lands, and through a cross-section of West-African cultures and folklore. YEELEN enables viewers not just to understand but to 11xperience a traditional way of seeing the world. Its innovative narrative style captures the llambara belief in time as circular, not linear, always returning to that initial "brightness" which creates the world. 
• Wednesday, November 5 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa . 
UPCOMING LECTURE: Monday, Nov. 17 at 4:15 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium: "From Mobutu to Kabila: What Future for the Congo" by Prof. Leaonard Gashugi, chair, Dept. of Accounting, Economics, & Finance, Andrews llniversity 
-
'. 
I I I I I 
I 
I 
I' 
.... 
-
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
Tournament seeds were 

sewn yesterday on Alumni 
Field as the Notre Dame men's 
soccer team rapped up its reg­
ular season schedule on a posi­
tive note with a 3-1 victory 
over Boston College. 
With the win. Notre Dame wrapped up the fifth place seed for the conference tour­nament. The Irish finished the season with a record of 9-8-2 and a conference mark of 5-5­1. 
The first half was a defensive battle. Both teams had trouble developing an offensive rhythm. As a result, the major­ity of the action was in the middle of the field. 
"At halftime, we tried to make the players understand that our midfielders weren't getting forward enough in the first half." head coach Mike Berticelli commented. "Against an organized defense like Boston College, the midfielders have to get ahead of the for­wards and we have to run more from behind. 
"In the first half, we didn't do that. Give a lot of credit to the team. We made a tactical adjustment at halftime, and as a result, three midfielders scored in the second half." 
Junior co-captain Matt Johnson gave the Irish a 1-0 lead 10 minutes into the sec­ond half. It was the first goal of his career. Senior co-captain Ryan Turner was credited with an assist after he set up the play with a beautiful pass from 
Monday, November 3, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLIVAN 
11..:.1'\..J 



DILBERT 
~--------------~~~~==========~ 
0 
u

I'I"\ 5TARTING I'\'< 
.. -' 
0

OWN BUSINESS A5 
\~J 
.. <fJ

P... 1"\ASSEUR. .. ~ 0 
:: 
0 0 
<fJ 
.. 
E 
w 

CROSSWORD 
1"\'< SPECIALTY WILL 5E IN-OFFICE CHAIR 
MASSAGES DWELLERS . 
ACROSS 32 Reddish-brown 63 "--to leap tall horse buildings ..." 
1 Separate, as 35 Copper, e.g. 64 Skunk'sflour or ashes defense
36 Greeting at sea

5 Forum 65 TV duo Kate 37 Hush-hushlanguage 
and-­
govt. group 

10 Paul Bunyan's 66 Carbonated
38 Highly pleased 

ox drink
with oneself 14 Doughnut's 67 Overhaul
42 Afternoon hour 

middle 
68 Bread maker 15 Primitive 69 Trial balloon 
on a sundial 
43lnfo 

calculators 16 Military 
no-show 17 Bit of physics 18 "Dear friend!" 19 Door sound 20 Overjoyed 23 April 15 initials 24 Paper 
purchases 28 Egg-rolling time 
44 Country singer Crystal 
45Garbage­marauding critters 
48 Present and future, e.g. 49 Borden's cow 
50 Forbid 
51 Bonkers 
59 Opposite of all 
62 Perch 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8~=::-f:;:.+:;..l 
~=-+:..:..j.:~ 
R=-J.:::..J.::::.JIII iiOJ.==-+;:~ 

DOWN 
1 Mideast ruler of years past 2 Small amount 3Dud 4 Office fill-in 5 Actress Hedy &Vast chasm 1 Novelist Janowitz 8 Suffix with poet 
9 One of Columbus's ships 
oTwo-pointer 
1 Cobbler's tool 12 Feathered stole 13 Shade tree !1 Submit 22 Four Monopoly 
properties: 
Abbr. 
25 Pesters 
26 Biceps, e.g. 
27 Belmont-­
•~;.+,:,+::~~+=-F-1 Z8 Sovereign's ~-=-~~~~.:;. domain 17-f~::;+=+;..l 29 Antenna ~.::..l:..:.J...:..J.:::J 30 Zeno and others 
F'OR CUBICLE 
31 Fraternity "T" 32 Cowboy's wear 33 Aspiration 34 Hurricane's 
center 36 "Unto us--is 
given" 39 Fuss 40 60's rocket 
stage 41 Soup container 46 Roman orator 47Poet's 
preposition 48Sampler 
IT'S A
WERE '<OU 
CHA.IR
PLANNING 
TO TOUCH 
M.A..SSA..GE I 
PEP--VERT.
MY BACK 
fl...T A..NY POINT? 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: This is a day of discov­ery and invention. You expand comfortably to fill your world. Ev~n if you don't make the history books, you are satisfied by your accom­plishment. Taurus: This is not a day to grab for your moment of glory. Focus on group dynam­ics as you run with the pack. Be thrifty with any material resources that do not grow on trees. Gemini: A familiar relation­ship changes its character. Make sure that you under­stand the situation before you react. All words are written in stone today, and all sales are final. Cancer: Your personal history weighs heavily on you today. It's time to clean the slate and open a new account. Look at yourself from the outside and evaluate your virtues. Leo: This is your moment in the sun. Fortune smiles and great honor is bestowed upon you. The world is your king­dom. All doors are open for you today. Virgo: You are faced with something bigger than your­self. A problem becomes man­ageable when broken into lit­tle pieces. Start slowly and work your way up to a com­fortable rhythm. Libra: This is a favorable day for planning projects, espe­cially in a small team environ­ment. Good news travels 
EUGENIA LAST 
quickly. Last week's post­poned decision turns out to have been a wise move indeed. Scorpio:·-'Nothing good will happen today unless you put some effort into making it happen. Investigate mutual funds with an eye on long­term performance. Do not trust the judgement of some­one who is restless. Sagittarius: You work with speed and power today, your flame burning brilliantly. Acting out of self-interest does not mean that you're selfish. On days when you are master of the universe, it's simply a waste of time to pretend oth­erwise. Capricorn: Business travel is favored today, although there are no guaranteed results once you .reach your destina­tion. A beggar offers peculiar, unsolicited wisdom. Time sud­denly seems irrelevant. Aquarius: A major cultural shift is happening, and you want to watch it from a front row seat. Everyone's spirits are high, even if their reasons are different. This is a day when renegades are hailed as heroes . Pisces: Your professional environment may be a less than pleasant place today. Confusion lurks beneath the surface of seemingly calm, rational interactions. If possi­ble, avoid subjects related to civil or criminal law. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
50 Count of jazz 57 The "0" in 
52 Lebanese, e.g. 
R.E.O. 
53 Defender of 58 Peachy-keen 

editors.
Dreyfus 59 Neither's 54 Egg part partner 55 Wear well 60"--to a 
Nightingale"56 Mitch Miller's 

Join The Observer
instrument 61 Doze (off) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

staff.
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Makin' 
Life Happy 
-
-


Government 
Football 


SPORTS 

page 16 Monday, November 3, 1997 
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Men outdistance Big East competition 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN seconds between thn first and right, we would come out vic­Sports Writer fifth runners. torious. Because the eoursn is Under the coaching of Joe fairly opnn at the start and 
The Notre Dame men's cross Piane, Notre Dame has also narrows down at about thn country team brought home placed fourth in the Big East mile, we knew we had to get its first ever Big East champi­in 1996 and third in 1995, its to the front early. onship this weekend, while first two years as a member of "We did and wern in com­the women's team placed the Big East. mand the entire way. We fourth in the meet held at Van "All the runners performed proved to ourselvns and Cortland Park in Bronx, N.Y. extremely well," said Piane. everyone clsP that we 
The ninth-ranked men's "I have to bn awfully plc1ased deserved our ranking." team turned in a dominant with thr. two freshmen, Shay The tPam is prPparing for performance, scoring four and Alt, being the top two NCAA Districts on Nov. 15 at runners in the top 11 and five frr.shmen finishers in the thP Univc1rsity of Indiana in in the top 20 for a total score meet, not to takn anything Bloomington. of 50 points. away from Hexing. Arce. and ''I've got to bnlinvn this win 
The. Irish easily outdistanced Maxwell. We also got a strong is going to givP us tons of ron­their competitors, with performanen from tlw seniors lidPnee and may PVPn help our Providence, the two-time Seott Graen and Mikn ranking, which could help if defending champs, scoring 74, Conway." wn nPPd an at-largP bid for and third place Georgetown The team's main goal for tlw the NCAA championships," getting 82. mnet was to win. said Piarw. 
Senior captain and all­''I'm very plcasnd with thn "We nPPd to stay healthy American Jason Rexing led way our tnam ran," said and train well over thn nPxt Notre Dame with a finishing Hexing. "Wn had a plan, and time of 25:06 on the five-mile we knew if we executed it 
course, good for fourth place. Junior Antonio Arce crossed the finish line just after Hexing in 25:08. 
Rounding out the top live for Notre Dame were junior Hyan Maxwell (10thl. freshmen Hyan Shay (11th) and Anthony Alt (20th). The close pack of Irish runnnrs at the front of 

Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information the crowd helped lead the Senior captain Jason Rexing finished in fourth place for the Irish . team to victory, with just 36 
• HOCKEY 

Irish triumph with monumental win 
see RUN I page 12 

Cross Country Big East Championships 
Men: 1st Place 
Top Finishers: Jason Rexing, 4th Place Antonio Arce, 5th Place 
Women: 4th Place 
Top Finishers: JoAnna Deeter, 16th Place Alison Klemmer, 18th Place 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

By CHARLEY GATES Sporrs Writer 
Tremendous. That's about as close as the English lan­guage can come to describing 
-
how Notre Dame's hockey team kicked off its CCHA sea­son. 
At a cursory glance, casual fans note that the teams equally split their two-game series. But the Irish's victory on Saturday night means so much more; it reflects how far the program has come and how bright its future is. 
On Friday night, the Spartans dominated the Boys 
1 in front of a sold-out Joyce Center. But on Saturday, the Boys returned the favor, spanking the Spartans 6-1 for a mind-boggling, eyebrow­raising win at East Lansing. 
"Saturday's win was a huge one for our team and for our program," said head coach Dave Poulin. "The biggest thing was how we were able to bounce back from Friday night -the players knew they had to play much better to beat a team like Michigan State." 
The Boys came out tenta­tively in the first period 
On Saturday, freshman Matt Van Arkel and the 1rish upset the second-ranked Spartans, 6-1.
of Winter, dispatchiTJg them 5-see HOCKEY I page II 
at LSU vs. Bowling Green, 

-
November 15, 
November 7, 7 p.m. • Women's soccer wins, 7-0
~­
,..,.. 
vs. Villanova, \~ November 7, 6 p.m. 
see page 12
Men's Swimming at Rice, at Seton Hall, 
November 7, 6 p.m. 

• Men's soccer secures tournament spot
• M November 9, I p.m . 
see page 14Swimming at Hope,vs West Virginia, 
S.f' 
November 8, I p.m. 

~ November 7, 7 p.m. ······~ 


