--------~----------~----~-.­
., 

I I 
I 
l I 
j 
I I
• 
Monday, November 10, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 50 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Off-campus shooting wounds ND sophomore 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
Police are investigating the early-morning shooting of a Notre Dame student in a neigh­borhood just south of campus, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
Corey Clay, a Morrissey Hall sophomore, is recovering in the care of University Health Services after a single gunshot struck him in the upper thigh at approximately 3:20 a.m. Sunday. 
After celebrating his 20th birthday Saturday night at an off-campus establishment, Clay walked with a female compan­ion through a neighborhood 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
three blocks away from the intersection of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard, police said. 
Following what may have been a verbal altercation between Clay and a resident of 602 E. Howard St., according to Chuck Hurley of Notre Dame Security/Police, the suspect shot Clay in his right thigh. 
Last night's FOX-28 news broadcast stated that Clay's shooter caught him by surprise and left him bleeding on the sidewalk. 
"He was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center, where he was treated and then released to Health Services at Notre Dame," Hurley said. 
Clay allegedly had a blood alcohol level exceeding 0.260, more than twice the legal limit in Indiana, according to televi­sion news reports. 
As a result of his injuries, Clay may spend up to eight weeks on crutches, sources said. He could not be reached 
for  comment;  his  friends  
declined  to  talk  to  The  
Observer.  

The police have made no arrest, but are investigating the incident based on witnesses' statements and a description of the suspect, the police report said. 
WNDU-16 and FOX-28 con­
tributed to this report. 


Film, discussion explore perceptions of racism 

By KRISTINA ZURCHER 
News Writer 

Problems concerning relations between different ethnic groups surfaced during discussion following last night's showing of the movie "The Color of Fear" at Lewis Hall. 
The movie depicted a group of men from differ­ent ethnic backgrounds discussing their encoun­ters with racism. The characters agreed racism is more than encounters, it is an underlying con­sciousness that pervades all ethnic interaction. 
The discussion following the film addressed Caucasians' abilities to recognize racism. An African-American in the film said that when Caucasians say, "There is no problem here; we accept you," they project the problem of racism onto minorities. The character added that white people never have to explain themselves, and as a result, they cannot relate to the problem. 
In reference to the man's statement, one student said that when Caucasians deny racism, they ignore the differences between whites and people of other ethnic backgrounds.·According to the stu­dent, whites have the tendency to display a "be 
Finish disappoints computer team La, Ia Ia... 
By SARAH HANSEN The night concluded with a News Writer question and answer session at the Center for Continuing Students from 87 midwest­Education from 8 p.m. to 9 ern and Canadian colleges p.m. and a social pizza gath­invaded campus Friday to ering for the participants in participate in the 22nd annu­North Dining Hall beginning 
al Association for Computer Machinery computer contest. 
Following a weekend of activities, Notre Dame's two teams finished 27th and 30th in the competi­tion. 

at 9 p.m. 
Activities 
resumed
'JT's KIND oF LIKE THE 
Saturday morn­
FOOTBALL TEAM. WE 
ing at 7:30a.m. DID OKAY, BUT WE EXPECTED with breakfast MORE., at North Dining
Hall. The con­
test began 
Ray Sepeta promptly at 9 
professional specialist a.~he competi­
Presented with two to three practice problems Friday, teams of three students used the computer labs at Fitzpatrick and Nieuwland Halls to ready themselves for Saturday's competition. 
Notre Dame's two teams finished extraordinarily well in the practice session. The University's A team, seniors Mark Harris and Mike Gillespie and junior Eric Olson, finished second out of the 87 teams, and Notre Dame's B team, seniors Brian Nahas, Colin Thomas and Vince Indriolo, finished third. 

tion requires 
the teams of three students to write com­puter programs in an effort to solve six to eight problems, which might ask for a win­ning move in a chess game, a calculation of a best football team based on records and competition or a translation of a sentence written in Russian. 
These problems were for­mulated by Andrew Lumsdaine, associate profes­sor with the computer sci­ence and engineering depart­ment, in conjunction with a team of graduate students. 
Ray Sepeta, professional 
like us" attitude. 
And, as another man in the film said, those denying the problem are minimizing the experi­ences of people of color. According to the another perception in the film, blacks who work in a white­collar atmosphere are expected to stay out of the spotlight and get their work done -in a similar setting, white workers never experience that stig­ma. 
Discussion then turned to the "privilege" of being white. A man in the film had mentioned that Caucasians do not have to wake up in the morning and think about their whiteness. According to him, they are told from history books, from schools, and from society that the world belongs to them. They do not have to think about how to make the world theirs, as non-whites have to do. 
One audience member expanded on this notion by saying that she could "put racism on the back burner." She said that she could go through days without even thinking about racism. 
During the discussion, the film was connected to multicultural relations at Notre Dame by examin­ing The Observer's Oct. 31 comic strip that labeled 
see RACISM/ page 4 
specialist with the University, observed, "These are ques­tions that might be assigned in a computer science or engineering class which most students could complete in a week. This competition giyes the teams five hours to com­plete at least six such ques­tions." 
"We [Notre Dame's team] have gone to these contests where we've barely gotten a problem done," Sepeta con­tinued. 
Not only are correct answers required, but time also plays an integral role in team standings. The top two teams, ones that have solved the most problems in the shortest time, advance to the world finals in Atlanta in February. 
Sepeta took this year's suc­cess as an opportunity to reflect on past c'ompetitions. "A couple of years ago we [Notre Dame's team] finished sixth. We had solved enough problems to place third, but hadn't solved them fast enough." 
The competition is set up on a five-hour time frame. In the first four hours, scores for the teams and team standings 
see TEAM I page 4 


(£ 
----~---~--------------­
,.....-...........---~----------~­
~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Ho-w A-ware Are We No-w? 
I've gotten in trouble for saying it before, but I have no qualms about saying it again. I am still amazed that this is sup­posed to be a community of educated people. 

Alcohol Awareness Week has come and gone, and how much have 

we changed? What Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
have we learned? 
Nothing. 

Forgive my cynicism, but recently, I have 
been shaken out of my naivete with regards 
to drinking and driving around campus. I 
didn't previously believe that people could be 
so stupid as to ignore all of the warnings and 
harsh realities we see about drinking and 
driving. I've heard my fellow students say 
things like, "Well, I'm not that drunk," or, 
"We don't have to drive that far," as excuses 
for getting into a car and driving somewhere. 
What are they thinking? 

In recent weeks, I have been acutely aware 
of this campus' lack of discretion with respect 
to alcohol. I am shocked at the flippant way 
in which my fellow students disregard their 
own safety and the safety of others. People 
really do drink and drive. 

I've grown up hearing the messages like 
the rest of you. "Don't drink and drive" and 
"Friends don't let friends drive drunk" were 
common themes through high school; it was 
a great advertising campaign around prom 
time. Yet, in high school, I didn't deal with 
the prospect of driving drunk like I do in col­
lege. It used to be some abstraction that hap­
pened to older people or college kids, not us. 
Thankfully, I have never experienced a 
tragedy at the hands of alcohol. We should 
not, however, have to be scared by a person­
al experience to know that drinking and dri­
ving is dangerous. 

Here's a news flash for all: Driving under 
the influence of any amount of liquor is not 
legal. It is not safe. It is stupid. There is no 
such thing as "kind of' drunk or "not really 
that drunk" when you assume the responsi­
bility for other people's lives. Is it really that 
hard to stay sober? 

I'm sure most of us are perfectly aware of 
alcohol; spirited consumption is no stranger 
to the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. Heck, I've been known to throw back 
a few myself, but once I've consumed any 
amount of liquor, it never enters my head to 
attempt to drive. Nor do I tolerate getting into 
a car with somebody who has been drinking. 
Who would want to? Why risk your precious 
life or the lives of others on the road? Why 
take that chance? 

What happened to the responsible, mature 
students we are supposed to cultivate here in 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communi­
ty? I know. They're stumbling out of places 
like Coach's and the Linebacker into their 
cars to endanger their lives and the lives of 
everybody around them. 

Every weekend is an accident waiting to 
happen when students gamble with lives. 
Please tell me I'm wrong. I defy you to dis­
agree with me when I say drinking and dri­
ving is a problem in this area. Don't wait for 
a tragedy to happen before you learn how 
easy it is to call a cab; get a responsible dri­
ver, or just stay sober. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sean Smith  Nate Wills  
Sarah J. Hiltz  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Kathleen Lopez  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Kathleen Lopez  Meg Kroener  
Viewpoint  
Brandon Williams  
Wedn~sday~ 28 34 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Monday, November 1 0, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-wire reports 
Arkansas freshman charged with murdering his girlfriend 
FAYETTEVILLE. Ark. bulletin naming Robbins as the sus­
A UA engineering freshman was pect in White's murder. arrested on charges of capital murder UAPD Capt. Geary Robinson said in the death of his former girlfriend Robbins' lOth-floor room in Yocum Wednesday and is awaiting his Dec. 4 Hall was secured by police arraignment while being held in the Wednesday and Robbins' roommate, Craighead County Jail in Jonesboro John Major, a chemical engineering without bond. freshman from Little Rock, was ques­
Robert Arant Robbins Jr., 18, of tioned and moved to a different floor. Lake City, was arrested Wednesday in Major declined to comment Conway and was taken to Jonesboro. Wednesday. At a hearing in Lake City yesterday, Detective Lt. Rusty Grigsby of the prosecutors asked that Robbins be Jonesboro Police Department said a held without bond. Robbins requested search warrant for Robbins' room
The Jonesboro Sun reported that
a public defender, said Mike Walden, "may be in the works," but would not
Jonesboro police were contacted by
Craighead County deputy prosecuting say any more yesterday.
the Poinsett County Sheriff's Office
attorney. Robbins, a freshman industrial
shortly before midnight Tuesday. The
Robbins is charged with the murder engineering major. is still officially
Poinsett agency received a 911 call
of Bethany White, 19, of Jonesboro. enrolled in classes, Julie Kegley, a UA
from someone using a cellular phone
The Jonesboro Sun reported that spokeswoman, said. 
who said he had killed White and was
the Jonesboro police found White Kegley said that Robbins could not
driving to Fayetteville.
dead on the kitchen floor in the apart­be administratively withdrawn from
Authorities caught up with Robbins
ment she shared with her mother. classes without his or his parents'
at the Ramada Inn in Conway after
White's body was sent to the State consent.
Jonesboro police issued a statewide 
• UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA • UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Disabilities office inaccessible Program 'entices' black students 
MISSOULA, Mont. MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Students with disabilities say the basement of Corbin With 40 people in the atrium of Burton Hall looking Hall is no place for James Marks to have an office. Marks on, University President Mark Yudof established on is the director of UM's Disability Student Services (DSS) Thursday a partnership to bring more black and is moving his office from the first floor of Corbin Hall Minnesotans back to the state to study in the school's to the hall's basement, a location that is inaccessible to graduate programs. The university partnership with the mobility-impaired students. "It's the dumbest idea I've United Negro College Fund and the 39 schools it repre­ever heard," said Joy'L Jenkins, president of the Alliance sents is the first official one of its kind for both institu­of Disability Students at UM. "We want to tell the universi­tions. In the program, Minnesota students who left the ty that they shouldn't put somebody that high profile in an state to attend traditionally black colleges will be inaccessible spot." In a Tuesday Kaimin advertisement, enticed with scholarships and internships to come to the members of ADSUM called the site of Marks' new office a university for graduate and professional study. "That's "dungeon," and claimed UM is treating students with dis­just a current expression of the reality," said Tonya abilities as "second-class citizens." On Wednesday Bob Moten Brown, Yudof's chief of staff. The partnership Frazier, executive assistant to the president and the chair helps achieve the university's goal of increasing minori­of UM's Americans with Disabilities Act committee, said ty enrollment, Yudof said. According to 1995 statistics, the arrangement is temporary and was necessary because the latest available, black enrollment in the graduate of a lack of space in DSS, which uses rooms on the first school was 3.5 percent; white enrollment totaled 83.4 and third floors of Corbin Hall. percent. 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF OREGON 

Bank robbers still missing; one killed Banner stirs debate among Jews 
PRINCETON, N.J. EUGENE. Ore. 
An attempted armed robbery at a Princeton, N.J., bank A sign reading "Hey, Jew!" that hung on the corner of early Thursday night left one suspect dead and two still at 13th Avenue and University Street came down Monday large. A five-hour manhunt through Princeton involving morning, but not before sparking debate in the Jewish com­several helicopters and police ground forces ensued for munity. Hillel placed the sign as a part of its outreach the suspects who escaped and are believed to be danger­effort. The group is the foundation for Jewish life at the uni­ous. Though police never searched the University for the versity; it offers social and intellectual activities for univer­suspects, e-mails and flyers were posted to alert students sity students. "The students thought it was a good idea ... to of the potential danger and urged them to stay inside. As let students know we're here and available as a place for of midnight last night, no arrests had been made. Police Jewish students to come and be," Hillel co-director Efriam did not release the names of hostages or of the killed sus­Eisen said. Some people, however, saw the sign not as a pect. Borough Police Chief Thomas Michaud identified one welcoming message but as an offensive one. "I think the of the suspects as a 5-foot-7 -inch tall 20-year-old male people from the older generation who remembered the with light skin wearing a green hood and ski mask. At Holocaust and remembered being told, 'Hey, Jew, get in the 
6:23 p.m., an ATM repairman called 911 from the gas chamber,' were offended. It sort of set off some painful Sovereign Bank after seeing a female employee inside the memories," Eisen said. The sign didn't originate from Hillel bank with her hands bound. or the university. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 10. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 

H L 
Monday ~' 40 29 
Tuesday ~ 39 30 


Thursday ~r 32 34 
tCl1 995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure

Friday · _ ;rfi}.' 26 17 
H L
3 ~..A: f-.....·~ / ....'\.. ~-~ ,..... ·:· 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDYf\) 'V .........../ '-A Viii M!inr:IR/Rrl PtR~!1 
Anchorage 40 33 Chicago 38 25 Los Angeles 68 58 
Baltimore 59 40 Detroit 44 28 New Orleans 64 50 
Boston 58 41 Disneyworld 72 51 Omaha 35 18
~~~~~~(f~u 
Boulder 39 25 Houston 62 49 Roanoke 58 39
S~~;e~; T-~~~~s Rain ~~~;;;e~ ~~~~· ~; -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Brooklyn 56 40 Iowa City 37 17 Phoenix 79 57
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Monday, November 10, 1997 


George examines roles: of same-sex marriages · 
By GERMEIN LINARES 
News Writer 
Competing views on the role of sexuality in hetero-and homosexual marriages .Were presented Friday when Civil Rights Commission member, Professor Robert George of Princeton University gave a lecture in response to Andrew Sullivan's book."Virtually Normal." 
''The true struggle for. the homosexual is the struggle to live chastely," George said, refuting Sullivan's tentions. Ni• 
"Marriage is not simp y a private contract," sun~yan states in his book. "It isthe highest public recognition of personal integrity. Denyipgit to homosexuals Is the fuost public affront possible to their public equity." .;;•..•...•. 
George described Sullivan's • position by stating that the fulfillment of the homosexual nature is vital. in the personal success of the individual. 
Sullivan claims in "Virtqally 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Talks link architecture, community 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
Architecture, community, and the city were the focus of this year's Association of Collegiate Schools of 
Architecture Regional Conference, held at Bond Hall on Friday and Saturday. 
"Many of us believe there 


is a rebirth of Crowe the city at hand," said Notre Dame archi­tecture professor and confer­ence coordinator Norman Crowe in his introduction Friday. 
The main focus of the discus­sions was to explore the ways in which the architecture pro­fession could aid this commu­nity rebirth. 
The conferences' three speakers, Peter Katz, Karsten Harries and Carroll William Westfall, shared the podium in a panel discussion on the issues brought up during the day's discussions. They dis­cussed what architecture stu­dents should be taught, how 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
Proudly Presents 
SUGAR CANE ALLEY 
1985 107 min. 
AFRult~~rLtNTY A feature film by Euzhan Paley (Martinique) 
LAND OF BU. I 

"A MAGICAL, PERCEPTIVE RECREATION OF LIFE FROM A CHILD'S POINT-OF-VIEW."-U.S. MAGAZINE "A STUNNING AND POWERFUL FILM."-MOLLY HASKEL, Ms. MAGAZINE Followed By a Panel Discussion on: "Colonial Education and Assimilation" Featuring 
1. 
Prof. Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Dept., Moderator 

2. 
Prof. Julie Storme, Saint Mary's College 

3. 
Prof. Ann Loux, English Dept., Saint Mary's College 

4. 
Rev. Benedict Agumanu, CCE/Formation in Ministry 


5. 
Ngamije Mwangachuchu, MBA, College of Business Administration 


On a lush sugar cane plantation in Martinique lies a dirt road called Suga~ Cane ~le~, lined with the shacks of the po?r black families who work in the cane fields. In one of these lives Jose, a bnght. m1schwvous 11 year old orphan. and h1s grandmother, a tough, wise woman determined to save Jose from the hard life of the plantation. When ~ose wins a partial scholarship at a school in the city. she is ready to sacrifice everything for his chance at an education and an escape from the fields. . 
Euzhan Paley 's award-winning film is an honest, deeply moving human drama of a young boy who lights agamst the odds for his future. 
• Wednesday November 12 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
· ' http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
UPCOMING LECTURE: Monday, Nov. 17 at 4:15 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium: "From Zaire to Congo; from Mobutu to Kabila: Background and Implications" by Prof. Leonard Gashugi, chair, Dept. of Accounting, Economics, & Finance, Andrews University 
the profession's role is chang­
ing and how it can help build a 
sense of community. 

"The profession is going through incredible redefini­tion. It's been marginalized. A group of architects appeal to subdivision building," said Katz in his discussion of how many architects are now focus­ing on building suburban homes, rather than on helping the cities. 
"We may hold our noses, but their businesses are going gangbusters," Katz explained. 
"Most people responsible for city building live in the coun­tryside. They don't know the cities, and from that one can infer they don't care about them," notes Westfall. 
"A lot of building goes on today that can dispense with architecture," noted Harries. "Even skyscrapers don't really need architects." 
Harries brought up the sepa­ration of engineering from architecture, resulting from engineers taking over the structural design of buildings. This separation "threatens to reduce architects to mere dec­orators. The task is to rethink decoration and think through its civic and ethical signifi­cance," he said. 
Westfall argued his own view of the place of architecture in community. 
"People make community, architects make the physical 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 

I T H 
AN IMPROBABLE FARCE IN THREE ACTS 
by 
NOEL COWARD 

setting where people do what 
they do," he said. 

"We need to create a stan­
dard of living which every citi­
zen deserves, and which 
should be higher than it is. 
Without that, a healthy city 
can not be built," added 
Harries. 

The conference "begins the centennial celebration for the architecture school (founded in 1898)" in the words of Crowe. The annual event was attended by 30 representatives from other universities and local architecture firms, as well as by the Notre Dame architec­ture faculty. "I was very inter­ested to hear the presentations and found the conference gen­uinely stimulating," said Katz. 
The conference featured speeches on the issue of archi­tecture's role in building com­munity, as well as presenta­tions documenting examples of community building and dis­cussing various sides of the issue. 
Katz is founder and execu­tive director of the Congress for a New Urbanism, a group dediCated to revitalizing cities through urban planning. Harries is a professor of phi­losophy at Yale University who has been teaching courses on relating architecture and phi­losophy. Westfall is an archi­tectural historian at the University of Virginia. 
MOREAU CENTER­LITTLE THEATRE NOV. 13,14,15 at 8pm
E 
&NOV. 16 at 2:30pm 
nckel1 on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium. open Mon. • Fri., 9 am to 5pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 




,,,,, ...,,c,,,,,0 

/Mg~~~ 
~ NOTA2 DAME, IN 

For More Information Contact: BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS at 800-875-4525 
Web site: www.bianchi-rossi.com 


Summer Service Projects '98 
What are JlQlf doing next summer? 
Info Nights at the CSC: Nov. 3 at 5:30pm Nov. 19 at 6pm Dec. 2 at 5:30pm 
-8 weeks of service-learning -Tiu-ee elective Theology credits -$1700 Tuition Scholarship 

Applications are available at the CSC-apply now! Deadline: Jan 23rd (rolling acceptances) 
SOCIAL 

(Dec. 2 for studer.ts abroad Spring '98) 
CONCERNS 

Questions? Call Erika at 4-1494 
_j 





r-------....
----------~-~ --~----~~~~----------~--~~--~-­

"Winning is not a sometime thing; it's an all-the-time-thing. You don't win once in a while, you don't do things right once in a while, you do them right all the time. Winning is a habit." 
--Vince Lombardi 
At DC Systems, we make your continued education one of our habits. Keeping up with change is the only way to keep on top oftheindustry. We have every intention of remaining on top. So should you. 
Meet DC Systems on November 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 




DC  SYSTEMS DC SYSTEMS  DC SYSTEMS DC  SYSTEMS  
SOFTWARE INFORMATION  CONSULTING EDUCATION  
MANAGEMENT  

page 4 




Saturday's runners remember Mara Fox 
By SARAH J. HILTZ, 
New~Wrirer 
Among the approximately 200 runners who caine out on Saturday morning for the Mara Fox Fun Run; some came out to compete seriously. Some, on the other hand, like Jennifer Gent and Melt.:;sa Ealchuna;s, just went to have furi. 
The two students, who won the Most Spirited Award, wore signs which read, "We need SYR dates"' and carried a boombox playing the theme song to "Rocky." 
In the men's bracket, Sean Sharpe won first prize, while Peter O'Donnell and Mike Riley took second and third, respec­tively. Holly Lelitys took first in the women's division, and sec­ond and third places were 


Team 
continued from page I 
are continually updated. With the arrival of the fourth hour, all results are frozen. Teams are unaware of other teams' results, and often this last hour orchestrates upsets. 
"Everyone is humbled a lit­tle bit," Sepeta said of the level of competition. 
Often, however. little known schools produce extra­ordinary teams. Harvey Mudd, for example, one of five Clairmont Colleges, won the entire competition last 
taken by Amanda Crosby and 
Beth Marino. 
The event was held in mem­oty of Fox. a Notre Dame freshman and Lyons Hall resi­dent who was struck and killed by a car in 1993. 
For the r~rst time since the run began, the majority of the participants were not Lyons Hall residents, making it a truly campus-wide event. 
''The family was very touched and impressed at how well the University continued the Fun Run even though Mara's class is gone," said Melissa Fruscione, co-presi­dent ofLyons Hall. 
Laura Petelle contributed to this report. . 
year. 
Final standings for Saturday's competition saw perennial favorite University of Waterloo in first place, !'in­ishing all seven given prob­lems in an unbfdievable two and a half hours. Case Western Reserve University followed in second place, having finished the seven problems in a slightly longer 
time. 
Notre Dame's teams fin­ished three and two prob­lems. 
"It is kind of like the foot­ball team," Sepeta reflected. "We did okay, but we expect­ed more." 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Racism 
continued from page I 

an alien as a "Mexican without 
a green card." 
Students agreed that raeism is 

something that is consciously 
ingrained in people, whether 
they realize it or not. 

An example given was that of fairy tales, where the witch is never black and thP. fairy god­mother white. 
Sal Hernandez, a freshman, mentioned that the separation between people of different racial groups just should not exist. 
"I don't want to be Mexican. I don't want to necessarily even be American; I just want to be," he said. 
The resident assistants of Lewis Hall sponsored the movie's showing after having watched it as part of ItA. train­ing earlier this year. 
"Watching the movie really had an impact on all of us, and we've been planning to show it for months," Katie Evans said. 

Mm1.Jay Nig~11fs 

CoUe' . N lights 
9PM-MIDNIGHT 
~ 

Monday, November 1 0, 1997 




MEN IN BLACK 
7fj~ aJte ~? 
7fJW u t4eut ~? 

-;... fliHt ~. e.s.e. -;... ?Jttt 'U'4d. e.s.e. 
7(pt fflM.e ~(#1, t4e ~4 ~ ~-rpxvt ~p~ ~ 
~Sefflbt<Wf • '1totJ<e Van.e. 1~ 46556 (219) 631-63F5 • 6ttp://-..ut.e4/-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
The Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation is seeking cre­ative, aggressive, college graduates to join our Management Trainee program. 
• 
Finance 


• 
Accounting 



BNSF 
. 
.
• ' 
e 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
---·--~----~~-----~------------­
-··---~~--------­



COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS · 
Archaeologists find Virgin Mary holy site 
JERUSALEM 

Archaeologists have discovered the rock rev8red by early Christians as the place where the pregnant Virgin Mary rested on her way to Bethlehem, officials said Sunday. The craggy limestone rock protrudes from the remnants of the noor of a fifth century, octagonal Byzantine church, the largest of its kind in the Holy Land. The rock was unearthed after construction workers laying pipe for the controversial Har Homa Jewish housing project accidentally damaged the church's foundation, spurring an excavation to make repairs. The Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, Deodorus I, hailedthe find Sunday as a "great discovery with historical. religious and ethnic signifi­cance." Gideon Avni, Jerusalem District Archaeologist at Israel's Antiquities Authority, said Christians made pilgrimages to a rock, on the five-mile Jerusalem to Bethlehem road, at least 1,700 years ago, believing it was the place where the Virgin Mary rested on her way to Bethlehem. 

White House report: $57.3 billion spent on illegal drugs 
WASHINGTON 

Americans spent $57.3 billion on illegal drugs in 1995, a catastrophic amount but down from previous years, a report by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy says. The report, to be released Monday, said estimated spending on cocaine, heroin, marijuana and other illicit drugs compared with $57.5 billion in 1994 and continued a downward trend from 1988, the first year of the study. In that year drug sales were estimated at $91.4 billion. "These billions wasted represent countless opportu­nities lost," Barry McCaffrey, director of the office, said in a statement. He noted that the amount spent on drugs could have bought four-year college educations for a million people, or 22 billion gallons of milk to feed undernourished babies. The social costs of drugs also are compounded by their associa­tion with increased crime, major health problems such as hepatitis and AIDS and disruptions in family and personal lives, he said. According to the report, Americans spent $38 billion on cocaine in 1995, $10 bil­lion on heroin, $7 billion on marijuana and $3 billion on other illegal drugs. Since 1988, spending on cocaine and heroin appear to have fallen while expenditures for marijuana have increased slightly as prices went up and then decreased slightly as prices dipped. It noted that the decrease in cocaine use may have driven down street prices, which fell from roughly $177 per pure gram in 1988 to $139 in 1995. 

S&P 500: Composite 
927.51 Volume:

7581.32 
-10.52 590,000,000 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE SGAIN PRICE 
EchoCath INC-A ECHTA +52.38% N/A 4.000 Advantage Life ADVTD +50.00% 0.656 1.969 Odetics INC-R ODET8 +42.41% N/A 8.500 Oestron Fearings DFCO +34.38% 0.688 2.688 Sa loman-US WT OPY/WS +28.57% N/A 13.500 ­
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
Omnis Technology OMNS -56.60% 0.438 2.875 
-23.81% 0.625 2.000~·~~:r~~~~~~Rwrs ~~~~E~ -22.22% N/A 7.000 Western Digital WDC -21.90% 8.625 23.625 Nam Tai Electr NTAIF -20.60% 5.125 19.750 


Britain backs U.S. against Iraq 

we must stand absolutely firm and "We face another critical test of
Hussein threatens absolutely together," Blair wrote to international resolve." He added that 
Clinton. only when the inspections, including
to fire on American The United States has said that fir-by "our U.S. allies," had been carried 
ing on its planes could prompt military out could the question of lifting sane-
retaliation. tions be considered. 
surveillance flights Britain could order Royal Air Force Iraq says the American inspectors 
Tornado fighters to take part with U.S. are spies trying to prolong economic 
AssOCIATED PRESS 
planes in any strike. sanctions imposed after Iraq's 1990 
Soon after Iraq, for the seventh con-invasion of Kuwait, which led to the 
LONDON secutive day, turned back U.N. teams GulfWar. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday trying to check on whether Saddam Earlier, Defense Secretary George told President Clinton the world must has weapons of mass destruction, Robertson said Saddam had managed stand firm against Iraq, raising specu-Blair's Downing Street office also in the latest crisis to alienate Russia lation British warplanes may join any released in advance a speech with and France, "two of those who were 
U.S. strike. more tough words for Saddam. perhaps least hostile to him." 
Blair wrote to Clinton soon after "He has made this fatal miscalcula-Robertson, who was in Moscow last President Saddam Hussein again tion before. For his sake, I hope he week and also met the French defense turned back United Nations weapons will not make it again," Blair, refer-minister in London on Friday, inspection teams that included ring to the 1990 Gulf War when acknowledged differences over the Americans. Britain was the America's prime timing of lifting sanctions. 
The speedy letter and its immediate ally, plans to say in a speech he is "The French and the British were release to reporters appeared to signal scheduled to deliver at a banquet in absolutely united about the fact that Britain would back military strikes if London on Monday. he was flouting world opinion ... Iraq carries out a threat to fire on "This government's determination to although there were some differences American U-2 surveillance flights stand firm against a still dangerous of opinion about what might happen if scheduled to resume Monday. dictator is unshakeable," Blair adds in he continued down that road," said 
"I have no doubt that as in the past the prepared text. Robertson. 
• MEXICO 
Hurricane Rick devastates recovering villages 
AsSOCIATED PRESS There were no immediate storm force winds extended 
reports of injuries or outward up to 115 miles, 
OAXACA deaths, but the storm the Center said. 
·Hurricane Rick roared knocked out communication Maximum sustained into Mexico's Pacific Coast with some small coastal vil­winds are near 85 mph, on Sunday, pummeling vil­lages. Officials suspended with higher gusts. lages still recovering from a school indefinitely in the Weakening is expected as deadly battering by region, partly so school the hurricane moves inland, Hurricane Pauline. buildings could be used as but the Hurricane Center 
Oaxaca's state govern­shelters. predicted strong winds and 
ment said hurricane force At 7 p.m. EST, Rick's eye coastal flooding as the winds hit the coast late was located along the coast, storm dumps 5 to 10 inches Sunday afternoon, downing slightly northwest of the of rain. 
trees and washing out resort of Puerto Escondido, It also warned that a roads only recently in the state of Oaxaca, and storm surge could lift the repaired from the beating moving east-northeast at sea level 2 to 4 feet above received from Pauline. about 13 mph, according to normal, with high waves Hundreds of people were the U.S. Hurricane Center possibly lashing the coast. evacuated and seaports and in Miami. Oaxaca state secretary of tourist airports in areas Hurricane force winds government Hector Anuar such as Huatulco and extended outward up to 35 Mafud said hurricane force Puerto Escondido were miles from the center of the winds had hit the area of forced to close. hurricane and tropical Pinotepa Nacional, cutting 






VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, November 10, 1997 

Why Do My Children Hurt Each Other So? 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One cannot shake hands with a clenched fist." -Golda Meir 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflecr rhe policies of rhe adminisrrarion ofeither insricudon. The news is reponed as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edirorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accenr Ediror, Saint Mary's Ediror, Phoro Editor, and Associate News Ediwr. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe aurhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhc: Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Othce 631-5313 Managing Editor 63I-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sport!> 631-4543 Othce Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saint Mary's 63 I -4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 63I-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• GUEST COLUMN 
Sunday morning as the dawn broke, the rays of sun­light bounced off the light rain appearing to streak the sky as if God was crying. The question, "Why do my children hurt each other so?" reverberated in my soul. As I laid down and tried to return to my slumber before getting ready for church, the question kept resurfacing. 
Over the past seven years, I have seen students 
========::=;=====~ deeply hurt
by ethnic, 
racist or sex­
ist things 
said or done. 
We have 
excused 
these offen­

Iris 

Outlaw 
sive actions as results of 
------=========-----
naivete, alco­
hol, targets being too sensitive, or admissions that they were indeed committed intentionally. Regardless of the moti­vation, the impact reaches the depths of the victims' soul. It distracts students from their academics and causes them to question their existence at Notre Dame. Those inflicting the pain label the victims as being seg­regationist because they sit together in the classrooms, dining halls or opt to live in certain sections. It is not viewed as friends wishing to "break bread together," gaining support or rejuvenating their souls to fight the daily battles challenging their intellect and presence as they walk in the mist of Our Lady on the Dome. 
We are taught to be Christlike, which means that we love one another as Christ loved the Church. God did not tell Jesus to walk only among the Jews and "Whatever you do, do not contaminate yourself by going near the diseased or the Gentiles. And if you are among the Gentiles, please for your parents' and my sake assimilate. Or alienate them, if they are in the midst of the children of Israel." He instilled in Jesus that all must come through Him to be delivered. Jesus suffered on this earth from humiliation and disgrace, and asked his father, "Forgive them, for they know not what they do." 
When we challenge ourselves to be Christlike, we have to follow his example. We must interact with peo­ple who are different from ourselves in ethnicity, reli­gion, beliefs, values, etc. This means going beyond the volunteerism in socioeconomically deprived areas and applying the same spirit in our lives on a social and intellectual level. We should seize the opportunity to expand our horizons and attempt to understand the historical value and contribution of others. The price is free, the rewards are invaluable. Students who partic­ipate in exchange programs share their experiences on how invaluable it has been. Unfortunately, the cost was expensive, but it gave them a cultural immersion and chance to be in uncomfortable situations. They were viewed as outsiders and possibly called "foreigners or nasty Americans." Because of this, some return to Notre Dame with their eyes and arms open as Our Lady on the Dome and embraced all who walk the campus. 
Today, as we listen to the homilies let us ask, "Father, forgive us for believing that ignorance or insensitivity on our part is bliss. That we will be given the strength to step out on faith and take a risk. We realize that mistakes will be made, and we feel uncom­fortable, but it will be educational. Please, teach us which path to take and traditions to create, so that our brothers, sisters, sons and daughters will come to Notre Dame and be respecters of all persons." 
As the rain stopped and the sun's rays shone through my window, I realized as administrators, faculty and staff we are given the role of gatekeepers. Therefore, we have to ensure that God's commandment of loving each other as ourselves is implemented. As a Catholic institution we must put in place structures to teach acceptance, understanding and willingness to experi­ence education outside of, as well as inside, the class­room. The mission of Notre Dame and Father Malloy's address to the faculty reiterates this theme and calls for diversity within the faculty ranks and student body. Also, the students should not leave the University the same person as they were when they entered because the world has changed and the work force demograph­ics will be even more diverse than their present envi­ronment. It is our job to provide them with skills and tools to be successful in all facets of their lives. If we fail to do so, the ramifications of being hypocrites would be more than humankind could withstand. 
As I prepare t'J worship, I will ask for guidance and strength to continue to educate as well as be educated, to be respectful of others, to challenge the same of oth­ers and myself as well as to eradicate the 'isms which cause so much strife. 
Iris Outlaw, '90 MSA, is the director ofMulticultural Student Affairs. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
MY GOJDN~~~! WHATHA'ffiYOU BEEN OOIN' WITH l]~E C\.A'NS? 
\\. \' \\ 
\ 
...;\~ 


~ ~~ ~ii;f· 

~~ ._ 
~~. 
~ 







VIEWPOINT
Monday, Novembe , 1 U 1997 page 7 


Point 
Parietals not Practical 
The University of Notre Dame exercises a parietal policy which is infamous among students. According to duLac Student Life Policy Number 6, Undergraduate residence halls will set their visitation hours within the following limits. Visiting hours for guests of the opposite sex are not to begin before 10 
a.m. on any day and are not to extend beyond 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights, and midnight on other nights. 
Michelle Overnight parietal violations are considered serious violations, and students who commit such violations shall be subject to discipli­
Costello nary suspension or permanent dismissal (duLac, page 54). DuLac explains that pari­etals will, foster the personal and social development of residence hall students while, at the same time, responding to the safety, security and privacy needs of students sharing common living space. 
During freshman orientation, incoming students are told that the parietals policy is to serve the purpose of bringing the dorm to a rest. In this way, parties will end when members of the opposite sex leave the dorm. However, this goal could just as easily be accomplished by instituting quiet hours in place of the current parietal hours. Therefore, other issues must be their primary inspiration for the current parietals poli­cy. DuLac offers the ambiguous definition cited above to explain the reasons for the parietals system. However, this definition leaves may students speculating as to the exact intent of the parietals policy. 
Consider this scenario: Your brother or sister comes to Notre Dame for Sophomore Siblings weekend, but he or she is not able to stay with you in your dorm room. Your sibling must stay with a friend in a different residence hall because he or she is of the opposite sex. This inconvenience represents one of the many impractical facets of the current parietal policy. Siblings feel awkward staying with persons they have never met before, and it would seem senseless to have them stay in a nearby hotel alone. In addition, the siblings are supposed to be spending quality time with their older brothers and sisters during Sophomore Siblings weekend. When siblings are forced to leave the dorm. time spent visiting with older brothers and sisters is curtailed. 
This point leads to the general case of relatives visiting on any weekend. When sib­lings, cousins, or even parents come to visit, they cannot stay overnight in the dorm if they arc of the opposite sex. It is difficult to imagine what harm could come from hav­ing these persons visiting in the dorm during parietal hours. 
Many friends have also cited occasions when the morning hours of parietals caused their families inconveniences. Parents who are helping their sons and daughters move into the dorm must wait untillO a.m. before they are able to enter the residence hall and begin working. 
Out of town visitors (of the opposite sex) also experience considerable inconvenience due to parietal policy. Friends must impose on complete strangers from another dorm, or else purchase a hotel for the duration of their stay. These visitors are usually in town for a very limited amount of time, and are not able to spend all of their time with their hosts because of parietals. 
As a growing number of students move off-campus at increasingly earlier ages, it is important to note that parietals play a large role in this phenomena. The quality of dorm life decreases when older students leave campus, and many of the same persons would have preferred to remain in the dorm if parietal policy did not exist. Younger students are being deprived of role models because the residents who are leaving dorms often play the role of mentor for younger students. If we are concerned that stu­dents are choosing to live off campus, we must recognize that parietals are at the heart of this problem. 
In addition, students rely on parietal hours to remove unwanted guests from their rooms at night. They do not have to communicate with their roommates about their right to use the room for studying or otherwise. Instead they can avoid confrontation by patiently waiting until midnight or 2 a.m. before returning to their rooms. This does not encourage social development among dorm residents. Upon graduation (or perhaps before graduation), many students will move into apartments with friends. Here, they will be forced to communicate and establish ground-rules for visitors of the opposite sex. Students who have been relying on a university policy to prevent conflict with roommates will be at a considerable disadvantage. The absence of parietal policy at Notre Dame would encourage students to become more active communicators. 
A final argument for the impracticality of parietal policy is found in the area of gender relations. Parietals impose restrictions on socialization because many Notre Dame stu­dents are involved in extra-curricular activities that take up their evenings. In this case. the hours remaining for socialization fall later in the evening. Students of the opposite sex are often discouraged from visiting at all because they would only have a short period of time to hang out. Furthermore, late night bonding activities occur mainly between members of the same sex after parietals, when students have free time. These factors are a main reason for the difficulties in gender relations on campus. 
These arguments touch on the main inconveniences and impracticalities of the cur­rent parietal policy ..1am sure that students and administrators could work together in order to formulate a new parietals policy which alleviates some of the impractical inconveniences while maintaining the integrity and intent of parietals. 
Michelle Costello is a junior from Pangborn Hall. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe columnist and not necessarily of The Observer. 

Counter Poin 
Parietals Crucial Part of NO's Moral Framework 
Everybody has encountered the stupidity of having to leave before he/she is 
finished studying; everybody thinks it's ridiculous that nonresidents have to go home before the movie is over just because it's midnight. Many people grumble that parietals have no point. 
But they are wrong. 
Parietals do, in fact, have a point. They are, as we are all told during first-year orientation, meant to give 

Lauren 
dorms a closing-down time -to create hours of quiet and privacy for residents who want to sleep or study without the distraction of visi­tors. Parietals mean that the loud 
party down the hall (to which you were not invited) will not keep you up past 2 a.m. They mean your roommate's boyfriend will not be watching TV in your room past midnight when you have an essay to write. 
However, the primary benefits ofparietals are not so superficial. As many people are quick to point out, parietals don't solve the problem of inconsider­ate neighbors and roommates-nor should they attempt to. These are adult problems requiring adult responsibility. Other secondary benefits such as greater women's safety similarly fail to justify a set of strict times and punish­ments. Instead, we should consider parietals in terms of the moral atmos­phere they help to create. 
Consider the situation at Yale, where five Jewish students are suing the administration for permission to live off campus. They claim that the coed dorms infringe on their religious freedom by making modesty impossible. 

Kummerer 
Regardless of the legal merits of their suit, the issue has brought much to light about the atmosphere at Yale and many other private schools. Supporters of the Jewish students have pointed out the condom cabinets that "safe sex" signs direct them to, and the school newspaper articles full of terms such as the one calling roommates of occupied students "sexiles," and the over­all prevalence of open, unrestricted sex. 
Parietals are not the only reason that we don't have a similar atmosphere at Notre Dame. But they are a big part of the ambiance we do have. By giving nighttime vis­its a definite time of ending, parietals draw a distinct line between visiting and sleeping over. The time seems arbitrary, but it has to be -the idea is not that midnight brings the witching hour but that unmar­ried men and women do not and should not live together at this school. At some point, the visit must end. Parietals give every visit an end. 
Far from stunting normal relationships, parietals set guidelines for healthier relationships which observe traditional propriety. As for innocuous fun, com­mon rooms provide a place to continue talking and studying well past pari­etals. 
We suffer the annoyance every time the clock cuts an interesting visit short, and every time we have to send our friends of the opposite gender to a hotel rather than have them visit overnight. But allowing such exceptions would create a potential for abuse which would undermine the fundamental impor­tance of parietals and their strong message. 
At football games, we are proud to claim that we are NO. But NO is not just the football team with the gold helmets -it is also the respectable student body that we have become. Parietals are an integral part of the moral atmos­phere that brought so many of us to this school in the first place. 
Lauren Kummerer is a freshman from Welsh Family Hall. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe columnist and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 

Do you have an opinion that you want other people to hear? E-mail Viewpoint at: Observer. Viewpoint.1 @nd.edu Make your voice heard! 


Monday, November 11, 1997 page 8 
BRING ON THE BUGS 

M
By JOSH BECK throughout the film. This, of course, Accent Movie Critic leaves you completely when you sec the inevitable human being decapitat­aybe I'm not being fair to Paul ed by a huge insect. The gore in this Verhoeven when I state the film due to the special effects is at fact that "Starship Troopers" times overwhelming with soldiers doesn't really live up to its billing. I being ripped apart limb by limb and mean, this is the guy that brought us body parts llying every which way. To "Robocop" (his best yet) and the thor­put it bluntly, it makes "Braveheart" oughly intriguing "Basic Instinct." look like "Driving Miss Daisy" and it's However, he also disappointed us with definitely not for the squeamish. "Total Recall" and the abysmally As one movie critic put it: "Special awful "Showgirls." Hell, this guy was effects become special only when we even quoted in a recent interview as realize we're not watching them any­saying: "Ten years from now, people more." In terms of the special visual will look back and see that effects brought about by mostly com­"Showgirls" was an elegantly made puter animation, this film is a triumph film." Alright, I take it back. I guess worthy of an Academy Award. This is "Starship Trooper" does live up to its what ultimately saves the movie: the billing. A gory, teeny-bop, fast-paced fact that there is a lot of fighting and thrill ride which occurs in the not-too­little dialogue in places. With this film, distant future, Verhoeven again bog­Verhoeven creates a poster child for gles our minds with a movie that at movies of this nature in the future. first glance seems utterly useless. This is of course the notion that you
Johnny Rico (Casper Van Dien) warns his fellow Mobile Infantry troopers of an That is, it's pointless until you figure approaching Tanker Bug in "Starship Troopers." can keep making blockbuster films out that what you're witnessing is a which are all brawn and no brain. But
hardships in order to achieve their with style and a llair for tongue-and­
visual masterpiece. Utilizing superbly don't let "Starship Troopers" fool you;
go~ to capture the bug "brain" that is cheek, keeping the war updated with
dazzling visual effects which put the although you might believe you're
at the center of mischief. Stemming shockingly hilarious newsreels and
movie well over the 100 million dollar laughing hysterically because it's just
from a cast of prim and proper making us laugh because of the cast's
production mark, Verhoeven creates a that bad, in actuality you're feeding 
nobody's comes an army capable of inabilities.
veritable roller coaster that never lets the movie's surprisingly subtle bril­
stopping the insect onslaught. Like The only llaw besides the obvious 
you off. liance, and this is what makes it suc­
movies such as "Jurassic Park" and lack of acting talent would be the lack 
The premise is simple: bugs, bugs, ceed as a sci-fi blockbuster. And
"Independence Day" which were llubs of a script that we don't laugh at
and more bugs, which come in an remember: "The only good bug is a
in terms of acting, this movie doesn't because of its stupidity, although this 
array of different kinds including dead bug!" 
exude the best in theatrical talent, screenplay does seem to lit the lilm's
dragonflies, the grotesque arachnids, Summary: Gore, gore, and more
either. The characters, being entirely cheekiness. With such memorable
and the Titanic-Iy huge roaches which gore. Hysterically funny because of the 
one-dimensional and undeveloped, are lines as "So, you think you're some
stretch for city blocks. None of this false impression that it's serious.
unfortunately played by people who smart bug, huh?" and "Die, bugs,
seems to faze this cast of perfect faces, Fantastic visual efl'ects. Lots of pretty 
couldn't act their way out of a paper die!," this script does leave something
however, as they proceed to the faces recognizable from TV. Not too
bag and are thus currently starring on to be said, and that is "My God."
Arachnid planet after Earth is long and not too short at 129 minutes. 
"Beverly Hills, 9021 0" and "Melrose Written by Ed Neumeier, this script
attacked to wipe out the bug race once 
Place" because, well, they look really works only because the actors reliving
and for all! Being dreadfully outnum­
good. But, like so many stunningly it are just as bad, which creates not
bered (in part since one bug takes 
*~'1) "!!}i~
visual blockbusters, this ultimately only moments of hilarious laughter,
about five humans in order to kill it), 
doesn't matter, as Verhoeven directs but a constant chuckle that lasts
the Mobile Infantry endures many (Out of five shamrocks) 

'Troopers' tries but just can't grow up 
By JOE LENISKI and Denise Richards (Carmen Ibanez), two angst­Accent Movie Critics ridden youth growing up in an Americanized Buenos Aries sometime in the next century. Now ''Just wait and see for yourself." These are Johnny and Denise would love to just go to Harvard the words I used to defend "Starship and live out the American Dream, but there is a Troopers" before I actually saw it in the problem: the Federation now rules the world, an 
Directed by
theater. Despite the constant ridicule that everyone authoritarian yet seemingly benign regime which 
has been handing down on this film, I thought it restricts citizenship and all of its perks to only those 
Paul Verhoeven deserved at least a "maybe." Maybe it will be the who enlist in federal service. And they need these 
Starring

comeback film for a director who has popped and soldiers too, because lately some big bad bugs from 
fizzled out since he first amazed audiences with Klendathu, a solar system billions of light-years 
Casper Van Dien, Dina Meyer, Denice 
"Robocop" and "Total Recall." Maybe the dis­away, have been hurling massive asteroids at Earth 
Richards, Jake Busey, Neil Patrick
turbingly-young faces cast as the principle actors for some unapparent reason. The plotline inex­.-----------------------------, orably and sometimes painfully 
Harris, Clancy Brown, treks forward, and in the end 
and Seth Gilliam 
humanity prevails and proves once again that it alone tops the evolutionary ladder of the terone-packed feast for the visual receptors. 
Darwinian universe. But of 
Unfortunately, the story just could not keep up 
course, in all of their economic 
with those computer processors. Whereas the blood 
genius, the creators left enough 
and violence is intent on pleasing the adult viewer, 
unanswered questions for four 
the adolescent-oriented script sounds as if it were 
sequels and a television cartoon 
written by the editor for Seventeen magazine. Thr,
show, which means that those 
movie's premise is promising, but it winds through 
nasty bugs are not going away 
a ridiculous storyline degraded further by cheesy
anytime soon. 

dialogue, fairly poor acting, and annoying Federal This movie honestly tries to be Network internet clips. The acting is static and 
appealing to all audiences despite 
unconvincing, due mostly to the fact that the roles 
. an "R" rating, but in this vain
photo courtesy Tnstar Pictures • . comprise of rookie actors best known for their guest 
(L-R) Casper Van Dien, James Morse, Dina Meyer, and Sugar Watkins attempt the film se.vcrs. ttsel~ mto spots on "Beverly Hills, 9021 0" and "Saved by the 
battle for their freedom against the bug-like Klendathu. two parts: a dommatmg vtsual Bell." Based on the novel by "brain-suck" specialist
joyride and a sickness-inducing 
Hobert A. Heinlein, the movie takes themes to an
will prove themselves to be the Hollywood icons of a blend of poor writing, acting, and plot development. 
extreme by actually managing to suck the intelli­new era. Maybe the millions of dollars spent by The film is a spectacle for the eyes, with amazing gence out of the audience. 
Industrial Light and Magic on special effects will and breakthrough special effects done by ILM. The "Starship Troopers" can best be described as produce a visual extravaganza not seen since the same fellows who brought frightening realism to the "Aliens" meets a Mentos/Clearasil commercial. It first "Jurassic Park." And maybe, just maybe, all of T -rex take their computer-generated mastery a step gets five shamrocks for the visual experience, andthese elements will combine in such a way that this further by creating legions of Klcndathu critters that negative three for the brutal cacophony of the ears,ftlm transforms into a truly spectacular movie, wor­interact seamlessly with their human counterparts. 
leaving it with a generous two shamrock rating. Do thy of critical accolades, mammoth box-office num­Director Paul Verhoeven's fetish for blood is satiat­not take your date to this movie, and do not takebers and nominations for little gold bald guys next ed with a gore-fest fitting for a Manson family your younger sibling to this movie. But is it worthspring. reunion. Every head-rolling, insides turned-out (lit­you spending $4 to view? Just go and see for your­Then again, maybe it will be pretty bad. This is erally), head-gorging and brain-siphoning action self.
what I resolved myself to believe after seeing shot is done with a mastery not seen since his "Total "Starship Troopers." Recall" days. Throw in the gratuitous nudity and The film revolves around the lives of Sweet-Valley erotic element standard to any Verhoeven film and High sweethearts Johnny Rico (Casper Van Diem) we get a full-fledged and unadulterated testos­


(Out of five shamrocks) 




page 9 Monday, November 11, 1997 
• iN THUJERS Now 
Pacino plays a devilishly good part 
• SoAP OPERA UPDATES 

General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL General Hospital Correspondent 
Felicia accuses Tess of pulling her leg but is shocked when the woman convinces her. When Felicia asks Mac the 411 about his relations with Tess, he is hurt that she believes him capable of loving and leaving some­one. Later. Felicia tries to quit. but then the mysterious woman uses a phrase that Mac did, and Felicia is reconvinced. My mother also uses it. does that mean she was married.to Tess? Say it with me Felicia, evi­dence is my friend. 
Alan continues to pop pills. even getting caught by Amy with a pre­scription he called in with her name on it. He explains it away, but his problem is getting worse, he is moody and he even pops pills during lovemaking with Monica. Granted she is no Cindy Crawford, but does he need drugs to do his marital duty? Ofcourse maybe he needs the pills to deal with her lectures about finding career goals. I think she should talk to Brenda too. 
Brenda moves into her new home and spends the first night on the couch. Julia stops by to say good-bye before she leaves. Brenda and Jax spend 'what would have been their first anniversary apart, spending more time talking on the phoM than middle school girls. Evenwith all the advice Dr. Jax is giving her, he man­ages to stock her pantry. They play talk radio and imagine what their lives could have been. Jason stops by to give Brenda a housewarming gift: bodyguards? She tells him she's out of Sonny's world and to stay away. 
At dinner, Ned tells Alexis that the mole at ELQ was a Cassadine employee and blames her. She reminds him she never asked about ELQ, and he never told her about sensitive issues. She goes home and tells Stefan that Ned knows and she took responsibility. He wonders why? Alexis tells him she can't wait to get out of town. A•• he reads her papers he notices she paid George and sends for the man to tmd out why. Ned's sense ofbetrayal knows no boundaries. He even. goes to Jax with a deal, help the Q's get ELQ Jakarta back. and you get half the business. Jax one upshinranct plans to attack the parent ~ompany.. 
Nik gives Sarah her gift, not a night of lovin', hU.t a nec}{la,ce, ll<l says he wishes she andAp?-t~Y ~otdd come and live with hiin and then asks her abouther fa · ( Living with your significant(> 's grand,; patent? Thars weird; ~vep for a Cassadine. Later heJ'inds the con­doms-SCORE, and.wonders if.she wants a piece of hint. Liz asks both Nik and Sarah abouttileir fight; and neither one has any idea what she's talking about. Kids, put two and two together! Sarah shares the .condom incident with Emily and asks for her advice. Advice from a Quartermaine. thafs asking for trouble. Next topic, is Nik the big V or not? 
Carly calls her mother and tells her about her marriage. Virginia wants to come to the .wedding, but early says no as everyone believes her to be dead. Yirgiph(calls Bobbie to tell her abouttheir .little girl, i:)ut Bobbie is convincect thatVirginia's offher rocker a~; ev~t~H~~f beU¢vt;s Caroline is dead. Tot1¥ ~h9Ws UJ) with a ·marriage licens~. She · ts to. go to the countfYJ(l gy ci, but.. he says no, he wantsL .heJl.tthe wedding. Lorrain •. . . tQ. c()n~iiice Carty to induce. but.. . ) {f(Jnvipced that A.J. will not question the due date.. Uttle does she k.tlow that A.J. is at Mercy trying to scamhisway into a copy of the sonagrani, The nun, being no fool, refuses to give him a copy without a valid driver's license. So A.J. does what anyone who needs a fake does, he a.Sks his brother for one. With it he gets the tE)al due date and runs to confront C!ltly. Maybe she won't have to induce after all! 
have 
any questiQn$ o,;. C()m1tJ~p.ts; 

Days of Our Lives 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, Stefano checks on Travis and T.C. KRISTINE HOWARD, and .finds out they're trying to kill 
and NICOLE PAULINA Jackln a prison machine press. Days ofOur Lives' Correspondeilrs .. Fearing the wrath of Jennifer, he oppets them to stop at once. In a 
Yes, DAYS fans, .it finaJl~ ~an.­pened. In our fervorto ke¢p you completeiytt~"-tO·d~teonth · · inSa,l~trJ, a!i vv~ll ~s provid 
ing a)ld ht~prOV(>kin tarr W... Bvvf31?. UP. the Iin.~s. Otl"liDUn{c . ·•··•·· > > 
•cros~ed and..·····• ended up ~r(l~tit).g.a cli~fhanger wedding scenario th wasn't quite accurate~ Anyway, th~ nuptials were atSt, Luke'~ .an~ J?.brt did get there in time to halt th€ f!1r.~~. mony. (We humbly apolqgize to ariy ·· John/Marlena storylinefans!)Oh, and we're going to try t1Ie summary a little differently this week. Rathe:r than grouping it by storyline; we'r~ going to take it chronologically and see what happens. On to DAYS! ....••..... 
To start off the week, we got a big rehash of the whoie "John-breaking" up-the-wedding" scene and every• body rushed back to the hospitalt() 
try out the cure, At the airport,Sl:Lmi is relieved at not being disc()vered in 
hernun's ha,bitduring the flight, but then she gets stopped at Ct!st()ms It's ())lly through the ''divine'' iri 
ven~onofSisterMaryMoir:~ escapes (~lthough she do~S li~ j"tncl $ay ~hers con.sideti tio:q ~tlt~e <i~ur.c~). .•··. ••.•.. ··• 
As it. turp~ Qu,, the cur~ balj th~ progres~ion of.Ro ease; not.cure it. For a com recovery, Roman needs thfbTood {and antibodies) ofsomeone who's used the serum before. You gul}ssed it: STEFANO. The only way he says he'll donate is if Marlena· publicly forgives him and agrees to be his friend. She saysyes; and the rest.of Salem is forced to put up with The 
Phoenix as a regular member of fl)r DAYS fans. society (he got his pardon too). Jennifer takes this opportunity t<l tell Emailus with your "Days" com-him that she'll pun the HQrti)n sup~ ments or questions: 
Paulina.1@nd.edu, Freeman;19@nd.edu, or ·· 1Jowatd.35@nd.edu 
~.~n~acted>and definitely not over· dt,ani~tized scene (AS IF), Jack's h~adis wrenched from the machine st nds before it would have . At the hospital, Sami rrie tell Mike she's been ... . f about. the two of them y and Sami is confident this ismoriJ.ent she could be waiting for. .•. rollowing the big Halloween bash, Ylvian and .Ivan plan to leave JC?J:lesy'.s hQUS~ when they stumble across a s.ecret room containing a ton ofjewels and cash. Viv immedi­attdy rnakes plans to secure the rest of ,Jonesy's fortune and she learns 
.that she must marry him to gain control.of his riches. So naturally Vivian forces Ivan to dress up as a priestand perfonn the rites. Imagine her surprise to later learn that 
.Jonesy intends on sharing a real honeymoon with his Flora Dora! 
In, the week's finale, Sister Mary f'-ioira and Caroline compare notes and figure. out that Sami was in l{Ome· {and definitely does not want ·•··· .• lte a nun). They tell everybody outMr; and Carrie even gets to ll "pltch" during their little at's even funnier about that Austin just stands 
ess the whole time· (what y box of ro.cks he is!) Eric ufatMarlena for her inabili­
to choose between John and Roman. Jennifer finally manages to g~t the warden's password and attempts to send it to Jack. Qnbeknownst to her, T.C. and Travis decide it's time to do something a.l;lout Jack's meddling ex-wife! 
This week should he quite exciting 
The Devirs Advocate 

Directed by Taylor Hackford Starring AI Pacino, Keanu Reeves, and Craig T. Nelson 
...J'S.j ...J'S.] ...J-s.l 
(out of five shamrocks) 

By MIKE MCMORROW 
Accent Movie Criric 
T
he casting of AI Pacino as the devil is so inherent­ly alluring that it's hard to believe that it could result in a boring, or even an uninteresting movie. And that, it certainly doesn't. "The Devil's Advocate" is a flamboyantly boastful movie which, had it been a little more disciplined and had Keanu Reeves been replaced by an actor with the potential for com­plexity, could have succeeded to be both a comic show­case for Pacino's ability to improvise and some sort of statement about everybody's capacity to sin. 
The film stars Keanu Reeves as an unbeaten lawyer from the South by the name of Kevin Lomax. It opens with him about to cross-examine a girl who, supposed­ly, had been sexually molested by his client, a school­teacher. We begin to see the setup of how Lomax will be caught is a lawyer's dilemma, in which he must decide between his conscience and defending his obvi­ously guilty dient. Anyhow, Lomax gets a job offer at a big-time New York law firm (which feels like some­thing out of "The Firm"). Along with the job at the firm is an opportunity to live in a gorgeous apartment com­plex reserved for partners on Fifth Avenue. Lomax's wife loves the idea as well, so they move. 
And then in comes Mr. Pacino. lie plays the ring­leader of the law firm -a hot-shot lawyer who never seems to lose by the name of John Milton. (Yes, it's no coincidence that the author of Paradise Lost shares the name with the devil. Oops! I wasn't supposed to tell you that. The previews apparently were, though.) Milton takes Lomax under his belt and shows him the ways of the New York practice. There is a sequence in which the two are on top of the building, speaking of the potentials of the job, looking straight down into the heart of New York. The top of the building is made up of a pond which fades into a waterfall off the edge. How this works, well, I suppose if you're the devil, that's probably not that great of a trick. Lomax's wife, while at first loving New York City, begins to get fed-up with the snobbery involved with the New York elite. Meanwhile, Reeves gets to handle defending a long­time client of the firm who has been charged with triple-murder. Again, the dilemma is being setup. 
The rest of the story, I will not reveal. One thing the film certainly does succeed in doing is keeping you guessing. This manages to be one of its pleasures and problems. "The Devil's Advocate" has a tendency to almost go into seizure at times, in which we get the sensation that anything could happen. This quality allows the filmmakers to stray from their original con­ceit by adding perhaps unnecessary artistic graphic inserts and perhaps even unnecessary subplots. (If you see the film contemplate the Delroy Lindo character's role.) 
Since the discipline issue has both a positive and negative side to it, it is difficult to penalize the film by any great measure because of its apparent lack of dis­cipline. But the film's major flaw is in the Lomax char­acter. He seems too simplistic, and Keanu Reeves is not an actor whose gift is manifested in his ability. I might have chosen Johnny Depp or Lou Diamond Phillips to play the role of Lomax. Reeves also, more fundamen­tally, is not a terribly convincing actor in that we have difficulty resonating with him. "The Devil's Advocate" is the type of movie which depends on our empathizing with the hero -a vicarious experience. But Reeves can't add the necessary depth to Kevin Lomax that allows us to want to empathize with him. Rather, we see him as rather dull, and just as a way to take screen time away from Pacino. 
But the film is worth seeing just for Pacino's perfor­mance. In his most recent films, he has had a tendency to overact at not always the most appropriate times. But here, that overacting quality is called for. I'd sug­gest to you Keanu Reeves fans out there that this film might have more to offer you. It would allow you to experience Pacino's lavishingly self-indulgent perfor­mance in a light which adds more to the story, rather than just being a stand-up act for Pacino. But the rest of us will just savor Al's grin, and come out with exact­ly that on our faces as we leave the theater. "The Devil's Advocate" is a movie which raises many ques­tions about the legal profession and many more about human nature, but seems stymied by an instance of miscasting and perhaps a lack of discipline. I'd suggest to Taylor Hackford, the director, that he take a look at some of his old material (in which we see his gift for bringing out the passion in his performers) and use that to either give Reeves a heart or the boot. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 10, 1997 
• VOLLEYBALl 


Irish 
continued from page 16

Two weekend wins clinch Big East title 
By BILL HART 
SportS Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team returned to the Joyce Center this weekend, hosting two conference opponents in the final regular season home stand ofthe season. 
While the conditions were unusual, the results were not, as the Irish won both matches to continue their domination of the Big East conference and win the regular-season title. 
On Friday, Notre Dame com­peted against West Virginia, tra­ditionally one of the toughest teams in the conference. However, tradition didn't carry far as the Irish quickly defeated them in three games, 15-2, 15­4, 15-10. 
Notre Dame held the Mountaineers to a team hitting percentage of .049 while main­taining a 9-4 blocking edge. West Virginia was never able to build any momentum, commit­ting 26 attacking errors and 12 service errors. 
"It seemed like they missed a lot of serves during the match," head coach Debbie Brown remarked on the Mountaineers. "Sometimes, I think a strategy that gets to us is that they have to serve real tough and try to not have us pass so they can handle us. That might be an explanation for it." 
The Irish were led once again by the duo of Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee, who had 14 and 11 kills respectively. Mary Leffers also had 11 kills and four block assists. Freshmen Christi Girton in the fourth game, quickly eras­ing a 2-0 deficit and taking an 8­5 lead before the Panthers could take a time-out. Notre Dame stretched their lead to 13-5 to force another time-out. Another Pittsburgh error, followed by a kill from Lee, closed out the match. 

Statistically, Notre Dame was led by Lee, who scored 21 kills on 37 swings. She was backed by Harris, who recorded a match-high five aces to go with her 14 kills. Harris also had 20 digs, tying her career high. With the loss, the Panthers fall to 13­11 on the season and 5-4 in con­ference play. 
The win against Pittsburgh marked the final regular season home match for the class of 1997, which helped Notre Dame rise to national prominence in collegiate volleyball. In a short ceremony before the match, the four seniors were honored for their contributions. 
"It's kind of weird this sea­son," Brown said. "Because we have quite a few road matches to go. One of the things we're going to try to do is play so well for the rest of the season that we can get a chance to host a match or two in the NCAA tour­nament. Sure, it's sad to think that they might not play here again, but the season's still far from over." 
"It's very sad for me," Harris commented. "I hope very much that we can host some round of the NCAAs later on, but I've spent four years playing here, and I've had some great memo­ries." 
net. 
The two teams struggled through the adverse conditions for 60 more minutes before Notre Dame put the game away. Junior Ben Bocklage sealed the win for the Irish with a 30-yard blast with 15 minutes to play. After taking the ball in the midfield, Bocklage ripped a shot that beat Pirate goalkeeper Derek Martin and then deflected off of the crossbar into the goal. 
Outshouting the Irish 13-9, Seton Hall had many chances to score during the game. One of the better opportunities for the Pirates came when sophomore Peter Scavo's shot hit the right post with eight minutes left. Seton Hall finishes the year at 11-8. 
Success in postseason tourna­ments is nothing new for the Irish. In his eighth season as head coach, Mike Berticelli has lead Notre Dame to three of the school's four NCAA tournament appearances. 
Last year, Berticelli led Notre Dame to its first NCAA tourna­ment win with a victory over No. 2 seed UNC-Greensboro. Along with these accolades, his Irish teams have won three conference titles in the past four seasons. A conference tournament title is the only way that Notre Dame will make it to the NCAA tournament this year, so Berticelli and the team have their work cut out for them. 
In the other semi-final matchup, Rutgers will face the winner of the Connecticut­Georgetown quarterfinal which was postponed until Monday because of the weather. 

had a match-high four service aces and assisted on five blocks, while teammate Jo Jameyson came off the bench to record a career-best eight kills on .385 hitting. 
West Virginia, despite having a subpar evening, was led by Adriana Hardy, who had 10 kills but also recorded 10 errors on 
ry. In 12-plus seasons as a coach, Brown has compiled a record of 300-138, including a 183-55 mark at Notre Dame. 
Sunday, the Irish faced off in their final home match of the regular season against Pittsburgh. Despite giving the Irish a scare, the Panthers went down in four games, 15-2, 15­13, 14-16, 15-5. 
The Irish started off strong in the first game, registering a 12­0 run before Pittsburgh could get on the board. Four kills by Lee forced Pittsburgh to take a time-out early in the game. The break in the action didn't stop the Irish offensive, as the attack continued, culminating in an ace from Girton. After the Panthers scored their first point, the two teams traded sideouts until a kill from McCarthy finished off the first game. 
In the second game, the Panthers started to get their sec­ond wind, taking an early 2-0 lead. The Irish came back, how­ever, to tie the game at three 
37 swings. With the loss, the Mountaineers 'ONE OF THE THINGSfall to 14-10 on WE'RE GOING TO TRY
the season and 4-4 in Big East TO DO IS PLAY SO WELL FOR action. 
The win THE REST OF THE SEASON 
against the THAT WE CAN GET A Mountaineers 
marked a mile-CHANCE TO HOST A MATCH stone in Brown's OR TWO IN THE NCAA career, as it was TOURNAMENT.' 
her 300th career Division I coaching victo­Irish coach Debbie Brown apiece. The lead went back and forth for the rest of the game with'a total of nine lead changes taking place in game ·two. With the home team down 13­11, Harris scored three straight aces to set up game point. 
After one 

failed attempt, Girton and fresh­man Denise Boylan combined on a block to take the second game. The play in the third game was similar with both teams keeping pace until the final point. The Irish had Pittsburgh at match point four times during the course of the game, but a rally late in the game pushed the Panthers to win their only game of the afternoon. 
"I think we had a little bit of a mental lapse today, during that game," Brown said about the Pittsburgh rally. "I think we did some good things, but we really didn't respond very well to what they did then." 
The Irish regained their steam 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. from NO campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633. 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas. & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Ever Dreamed of Your Own Business? T ASP International seeks students for next summer who want entrepreneur­ial and management experience. Positive attitude a must. Full training. Earn $8K to $1 OK. CALL 1-800-543­3792. 


WANTED 
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited earn­ing potential!! 616-461-6772. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call 219-271-0633 
Tutor wanted for basic computer help. Call 234-8938 after 5. 
Wanted female helper for errands and babysitting. Call 234-8938 after 5. 
TELECOUNSELORS SMC Admission Office is seeking SMC students to make calls to 

prospective students M-TH 3-5 hrs/wk Call Bobbi Wiseman 284-4587 
1997-98 NATIONAL PARK EMPLOY­MENT-Work in America's National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Companies hire entry level/skilled/vol­unteer workers. Summer/Year-round. Competitive wages & bonuses! We can help you make the connection. (517)324-3082 ext. N55841 
Loving caregiver needed 2nd sem. for 2 boys, 1 & 3. T!Th all day,5 min. from campus.Need own car. 237-1981. 
***EARN FREE TRIPS &CASH*** CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated students can earn a free trip &over $10,000! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest student tour opera­tor! Call Now! 1-800-!338-6411 

FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98. 4/5 BR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY. DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE. 2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS SECURI­TY SYSTEM. 289-4712 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with 
private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­TER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 

FOR SALE 
Brass bed, queen size with orthopedic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862­2082. 
Honda Accord Hatchback 
1987. 93K miles. 
v. good condition. 1 owner. $3,000 631-8672 
For Sale: Recliner $25, 3 Bar Stools $15/set, Men's Bike $150. Call 277-5198. 
Near Campus -1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New 
Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air &Full Basement $44,900 1-800-382-2952 

TICKETS 
Wanted: Individual wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820. 
NO VS.W. VA TIX 
FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MES­
SAGE 
ALUMNI DESPARATE for W Virginia tix (2-4). Carrie (713)526-6393/(713)753-5324 
4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale. Call 860-623·3682. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 
BUY • SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 
CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288-2726 LOW PRICES 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
We NEED 2 GA's for WV lv. msg. (800)321-411 Ox1 0986 


PERSONAL 
ADOPTION -LOOK NO FURTHER 
000 Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
BEN FOLDS FIVE are coming in con­cert to Stepan Nov. 18!! Check out this night of incredible music just for the sound of it! Tix at LaFunk info desk $9 for ND, SMC, HCC students, $12 for public. 
ADOPTION Happily married couple with lots of love to share with new­born. Can help with doctor bills. Please, call1-800-484-6399 X2706. 
lneterested in a FREE ticket for Ben Folds Five?? If you want to help load­in in Stepan from 10-3 on Nov.18, call Ashleigh at 1-7757. 
I love the dancing queens of 152 Cavanaugh. They learned me chem good! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center .J High-Speed Copies .J Canon Color Laser Copies .J Digital Color Printing .J Binding & Laminating .J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 
Phone 631-COPY 
nothing today folks 
B.O.M. Productions 
Tuesdays @ Finnigan's Half Priced pitchers Shot specials No Cover 
Nothing beats Irish women's soccer. 
Grace domination lives on!! Keough vs. O'Neill, tonight, interhall soccer championship. 7 p.m., Stepan Field. 
***SWING*** ... in a place you'd never imagine a dance. Students. staff and faculty are invited to the perfect date event. 88.9 WSND's LIVE BIG BAND DANCE . This Friday in the Joyce Center. Call 1-7342 for information on this South Bend classic. 
***SWING*** 
The Wonder Years live on! Nick at Nite rocks! 
Winnie was a cutie, but Lisa Berlini was a BABE. 
Buh bye. 

Monday, November 1 0, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• HOCKEY 



leers soar past Falcons but fall short to Spartans 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA continued their march to promi­the defense. As soon as the the the first period. As a Spartan hooking penalty Sports Writer nence and notoriety in the shot was blocked, Dhadphale After a scoreless second peri­was expiring, the Irish were able Central Collegiate Hockey was there, and sent a shot past od, the Falcons managed to to even the score on a goal by 
The Notre Dame hockey team Association (CCHA). Falcon goalie Mike Savard. come away with a late goal on Lyle Andrusiak. Sophomore Joe nnjoyed another successful Things began in a hurry on The Irish scored another goal the power play against Irish Dusbabek and freshman Matt weekend against Bowling Green Friday night at the Joyce Center. later in the first period after goaltender Matt Eisler. Eisler Van Arkel were able to work the and Michigan State even though The Irish came out firing and staving off three Bowling Green played another magnificent puck into the slot for Andrusiak, the score­immediately began relentlessly power plays. With the Falcons game, refusing the Falcons on who promptly wristed a high board may attacking the Bowling Green net. working the puck in the Irish 21 of 22 shots, lowering his shot past Spartan goaltender not have A flurry of shots resulted in a zone, freshman defenseman already incredible goals against Chad Alban with about two min­indicated it. relatively quick goal from Aniket Mark Eaton dove to deflect an average. utes remaining in the period. 
Although Dhadphale just over four min­attempted shot. "Once again, Matt Eisler After a scoreless second peri­they defeated utes into the contest. Simon promptly grabbed the stepped up when he had to," od, the Irish headed into the the Falcons Sophomore defenseman Tyson ricochet of this ill-fated shot and said Irish coach Dave Poulin. third period with confidence. As 2-1 on Friday Fraser initiated the goal with a proceeded to move up the ice. "He was big all night in the they battled the Spartans punch night and fell shot from the left point that Shielding a Falcon defenseman penalty killing when he stepped for punch, the time remaining short against failed to reach the Falcons' goal­through a zone, Ben Simon was out and saved some shots." dwindled down. With a little Michigan tender. Irish center Steve Noble able to nudge the puck in the left On Saturday, the Irish traveled under four minutes remaining in State by the score of 3-1 on then fired the rebound back on corner of the Bowling Green net to Michigan State to do battle the game, the Spartans' Rustyn Saturday, the Irish (6-3-0, 2-2-0) net, only to have it blocked by with four minutes remaining in with the fourth-ranked Spartans. Dolyny was able to punch back a 
Last week, after suffering a 5-1 teammate's rebound to give defeat at home, the Irish Michigan State the lead for good. marched into East Lansing and In an attempt to tie the score came away with a historical 6-1 later on, the Irish pulled Eisler victory against the then second­and the Spartans were able to ranked Spartans. This night, grab an empty-net goal. however, the Irish would fall just Michigan State's 3-1 victory short of once again defeating spoiled another excellent efl'ort them. by Eisler and the rest of the
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 The Spartans came out on the Irish. Notre Dame seemingly got offensive in the first period in stronger period after period in front of a sellout at Munn Ice East Lansing, but things fell 
Arena. Michigan State jumped apart at the end with Dolyny's ahead when the Spartans' goal.
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.9 5 Shawn Horcoff was able to "We played one of the top 
Every Monday 

rebound a shot that Eisler teams in the country to a 1-1($1.00 per each additional topping) deflected as the Irish were once game into the final minutes for again trying to fight through the season series," said Poulin.All-You-Can-Eat another power play. The goal "On the winning goal, the puck gave Michigan State the lead took a bad bounce away fromPizza and Pasta for $5.00 temporarily, but the Irish would Matt Eisler and sneaked under come back to tie the game the bar. We'll get those breaks
Hours: 

before the end of the first period. this season." 
Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 

.tt::>u<:~-1r:J from 9. to 10 p.m.
6:00-9:30 
Call Maureen at

Come and watch Monday Night Football 
Stephanie at x2741 questions. · 

nrj()DJtzea Swimming Practices-are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Extend Your Reach 

Campus Talk 

Own the sky.
International Rates 
To fly is one thing. To fly with the Marine Corps is some­Algeria 1.00 Israel 0.74 Switzerland 0.46 
thing else. They'll show you the meaning of wings. From Andorra 0.46 Italy 0.60 Taiwan 0.60 
the wings of the F-18 Hornet to the wings you wear as 
Argentina 0.77 Jamaica 0.69 Tajikistan 1.00 Marine aviator, this is flying at its best. And your ticket to 
Armenia 1.04 Japan 0.55 Thailand 0.82 Australia 0.58 Kazakhstan 1.00 Trinidad & Tobago 0.80 
fly is your college diploma. If you'd like to be up there, Austria 0.61 Korea 0.69 Tunisia 0.93 
contact your local Marine Officer Selection Officer. Bahamas 0.46 Kyrgyzstan 1.00 Turkey 0.98 Belarus 1.04 Lebanon !.55 Turkmenistan 1.00 
Belgium 0.62 Liechtenstein 0.46 Ukraine 1.00 Bermuda 0.54 Luxembourg o:69 United Arab Emirates 0.80 
Brazil 0.71 Mexico-! 0.22 United Kingdom 0.44 Canada 0.17 Mexico-2 0.25 Uzbekistan 1.00 China 1.!2 Mexico-3 0.36 Colombia 0.78 Mexico-4 0.45 •· 
Costa Rica 0.70 Mexico-5 0.52 Czech Republic 0.85 Mexico-6 0.69 Denmark 0.45 Mexlco-7 o:8o Dominican Republic 0.70 Mexico-8 0,89 Egypt 1.02 Monaco 0.46 El Salvador 0.89 Nakhodka 1.00 Ethiopia 1.25 Netherlands 0.46 Finland 0.55 New Zealand 0.74 France 0.46 Nigeria 0.98 Georgia 1.04 Norway 0.50 Germany 0.46 Pakistan 1.35 Ghana Ill! Panama 0.74 Greece 0.75 Philippines 0.80 
Rates apply 24 hours per day
Guam 0.74 Poland 0.75 
No monthly fee, no minimum
Guatemala 0.89 Portugal 0.73 30 initial/6second increments
Haiti 0.84 Romania l.J5 Hong Kong 0.58 Russia 1.00 I 0% discount on all weekend Hungary 0.74 Saudi Arabia 0.92 calls from discounted area 
SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM Iceland 0.71 Singapore 0.55 code India 0.85 0.74
South Africa $2.00 surcharge applied to all 

calls using 1.800.860.8900 
Iran Ll8 Sri Lanka 1.45 
Ireland 061 Sweden 0.44 outside discount calling area For more information call 

1-800-878-0241
For more information call Dan Helmend 
287-6028 • helmend@lci.com MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
www.marines.com 
J 



------~--~ -­
Monday, November I 0, 1997 

BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP 
Friday 
Notre Darne 7 Villanova o 






Insight 
continued from page 1 
lenge. 
Even Connecticut, who has faced Notre Dame twice this season, refused to give the Irish the credit they deserve. 
First, the 1-0 Irish victory on Oct. 26, was called a fluke because of the heavy rains that submerged Alumni Field and caused Connecticut's goalie to slip as Meotis Erikson slid a shot into the net. 
And even after yesterday's 6-1 thrashing by the Irish, the Huskies faithful daimed that it was an off day for their team, perhaps the worst game 
Sunday 

Notre oan1e 6 Connecticut 1 
the team played all season. 
Every team is entitled to an off day, but doesn't it seem ironic that many of the top teams have their off days against Notre Dame? 
Maybe it has something to do with the way the Irish play. By constantly attacking the goal, controlling the ball and spreading the field, the Irish take opposing teams out of their game plans. Any team that feels uncomfortable with the tempo of a game will very likely have an off day. 
How much longer will the Irish have to prove them­selves? 
Maybe all it will take is a national championship to silence the skeptics. Who knows? 
The Observer/John Daily 


The Observer/John Daily 

Freshman midfielder Anne Makinen scored four goals over two games for Notre Dame to earn the Big East tournament's Most Outstanding Player award. 
Monday, November 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 








Big East Champions 







·­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 10, 1997 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll \ Irish look to continue success By JOE CAVA TO getting better as a team," "We're expecting them to Assistant Sports Editor McGraw said. "We're anxious come along slowly," McGraw right now to play someone said about her freshmen. Last year, Muffet McGraw and else." "We're just trying to get them the women's basketball team This season, the squad wel­comfortable and don't expect to reached the pinnacle of the pro­comes back guards Danielle much from them as far as scor­gram's history, recording a Green and Niele Ivey, who were ing. But we're still expecting record 31 wins on its way to a out last season with injuires. them to contribute." remarkable run through the "Danielle is doing spectacu­With the freshman class and NCAA tournament's Final Four. lary," McGraw said of the junior the addition of Braendly and This year, McGraw faces the who has recovered from a torn Leffers, the Irish will have daunting challenge of trying to achilles tendon which she depth in the front court as the replace last year's graduating injured in the preseason last team will have five players 6­class that can be simply year. "She is really fully recov­foot-3 or taller. described as the best in Notre ered and is going to be a big McGraw is hoping that her  University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents \!tbe ~otre 1!lame QCborale & QCbamber <!&rrbestra Alexander Blachly, Director Music of: DuFay Palestrina Schutz Bach Brahms 8:00p.m. Wed., Nov. 12 Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free & open to the public.  

Dame history. Gone are 2,000 point scorers Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither as well as starting point guard Jeannine Augustin and power forward Rosanne Bohman. 
-· "This year, it's a whole new team, and we've got great team chemistry," McGraw said. "This is going to be a fun team to work with. We're definitely young, and we're not going into this season saying we have to top last year or even match last year. "We want to be the best that this team can be, and right now, we're not even sure what that is." In fact, the Irish only return four players that were dressed for that national semi-final con­test against the eventual champs, the Tennessee Volunteeers. But at this point, McGraw is just trying to work out the kinks which tonight's pre-season game against the Brisbane Blazers from Australia provides them the opportunity to do. "Our focus right now is on 
All Students and Faculty 
are cordially invited to attend the joint ROTC Veteran,s Day Ceremony to honor those who have served our nation. The ceremony begins at: 
4:30p.m. 

Tuesday November 11th 
and will be held at the Flag Pole on South Quad. 
See tomorrow's Observer for men's basketball coverage. Notre Dame -78 Athletes in Action-77 
Inclement weather site Stepan Center 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 


back 

-
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 
BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7:30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7:30 PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21 ................. 7:30 PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... t30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30 PM 
contributor for us this year. She young team with many new is playing very well." faces will mesh quickly as its 
Ivey suffered a torn anterior first regular season game crucial ligament in her knee in against Butler is just over a the fifth game of the season last week away. year but is almost completely recovered. 
"Niele is probably not quite at ------------.,
100 percent yet, but she's close to it," McGraw said. "She will also be a major contributor for us. Danielle and Niele will help us in our defense initially but will also help us in our transi-lliiiiiJIII•• 
tion game." 

The Irish will also be rejoined by center Diana Braendly who left the team for personal rea­sons last year. In addition, Notre Dame volleyball middle blocker Mary Leffers will join the team after the completion of the volleyball season. 
McGraw also has a solid recruiting class that includes three USA Today honorable mention all-Americans. Front -..r......w-court players Meaghan Leahy, Kelley Siemon, Ruth Riley, and IIIII!~• guard Imani Dunbar will make the transition to the college game. 

PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAF~RTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6Jr-8r28 

Monday, November 10, I997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
DILBERT !'/"\ WIT\-\ Il-l£. CUBICLE 



IT'5 PERFECTLY SAFE UNLE.55 '<OU TA.? IT WITH ~ FLASHLIGHT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Be jubilant 37 Octopus's
1 Webster's, e.g.: 
defenseAbbr. 

38 Cheryl of 5 Ones easily "Charlie'sfooled Angels"9 Afflictions 39 Louvers14 Jacob's twin 40 Lavish affection 15 "Not guilty," (on)

e.g. 
41 Lubricate16 Dwelling place 42 Taxonomic 17 Green shot divisions 

18 Bibliography, 43 Clerics' confab basically 44 2 or 3, maybe,19 Cheek cosmetic on the Richter 
20 Parts of lbs. 
scale 21 Diagonally 
46 Macbeth and 23 Put safely to others bed, as a child 
48­25 Peewee Normandes 26 Steal cattle (Channel 29 Actor Nielsen of Islands) "Airplane!" 50 Tidbit 33 Practices in the 53 Dry bouquet ring item 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Mythical 
30 Biggest portion 
goat/man 9 British sir 

31 Absorbed by 32 Scraped (out) space flight 
33 Coin hole 11 Verb 
34 Twosome 
accompanier 36 Great Salt Lake 

12 Advantage 

site 13 Prophet 
39 Nagger 40 One turning 22 Picks ou~ 
color? 24 Northern Iraqi 
42 Nylon, for one 43 Skiers' wish 
Beauties" painter 45 Treat badly 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: You find yourself being unusually defensive today. Minor misunder­standings result in major irritation. This is a good day to develop a sense of compassion for your oppo­nents. 
Taurus: This is a day of celebrating change. A new way of doing things brings freshness and beauty to your life. A favorite dream shows signs of coming true. 
Gemini: Someone's whis­pered conversation leaves you feeling a little persecut­ed. Ignore the demons of your personal life by losing yourself in your work today. An idea is on the right track, even if not yet perfect. 
Cancer: This is a good day to spend time with, or at least be in touch with, members of your extended family. A distant place is homelike if you know somebody there. Everything seems somehow symbolic today. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
Leo: Some aspect of your romantic life is influenced 
'Tl-115 PL~Y5 RIGHT INTO 
by outside forces. Playing 
fl\'( 
ARE 
'THEORY THA.T CUC>lCLES the tragic hero brings only a moment's satisfaction. A
LIVING ORGANISI"\5. 
change is not the same thing as an ending. 
Virgo: A loved one requires your attention today. Concentrate on just a few things instead of managing the whole circus. A big mistake could turn out to be a stroke of luck. 
Libra: A truce begins to 





Wanted: Reporters, 
EUGENIA LAST 

-
turn stale today with no visible progress toward a resolution. Little things began to add up again. 
· Take a deep breath and give your partner the bene­fit of the doubt. Scorpio:Everyone trusts you today, which helps set the stage for a little ere­ative mischief. It's hard to keep a delicious secret in an eACitable mood. You learn one lesson even as you are teaching another. Sagittarius:Just because you're ready to go the dis­tance doesn't mean you'll get the support you need to make the trip comfortable or even possible. Dreams might have to be put on hold. Someone else's needs pull at you. Capricorn: Sometimes the singer has more impact -than the song itself. You 
-
say something brilliant within earshot of an influ­entia! person. Your integri­ty is obvious to everyone around. 
Aquarius: An informal meeting is sidetracked by confusion over something basic. You may be in for a big surprise today. Retain your composure in the face of either good or bad news. 
Pisces: Today you are the star of your own movie. Steam rises at the touch of your smoldering gaze. Forget about what you need or what you deserve -today you get what you want. 
49 Missile pits 54"0nce--a time ..." 
51 Jazz pianist Blake 55 Beget 
56 Margarita fruit Sheffield 57 Like Jack Sprat's diet 
52 City north of 
53 Some camp denizens, for &1 Dracula, at short times 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

-

SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, November 10, 1997 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Surprise, surprise: Irish take Big East title 
-
... 
-
Team effort brings dreams of another national title in focus 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

Since the first day of the 1997 season, the Notre Dame women's soccer team has been focused on achieving a single goal: winning a national championship. 
The Irish moved one step closer to that goal yesterday, defeating fourth-ranked Connecticut 6-1 in the Big East confer­ence tournament championship game, earning an automatic bid into the 32­team NCAA Division women's tourna­ment that begins this weekend. 
Irish freshman sensation Anne Makinen took advantage of the Huskies' soft mark­ing in the middle of the field, recording her second hat trick of the year to lead Notre Dame. 
Makinen's four goals in two games earned the Irish midfielder the tourna­ment's Most Outstanding Player award and four individual Big East champi­onship records: most goals in one game (three) and the tournament (four), and most points in one game (six) and the tournament (eight). 
Notre Dame improved its Big East tour­nament record to 6-0, capturing the title for the third consecutive year. 
Although the day ended just as the Irish had hoped, it began with several con­cerns for head coach Chris Petrucelli, including the loss of sophomore Jenny Heft to injury and Big East defensive player of the year Kate Sobrero's battle with the stomach flu. 
see SOCCER I page 12 


Fighting Irish trying 

to prove themselves to the opposition 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 

T
he Irish are undefeated, boasting a 5-0-1 record against ranked opponents, outscoring them by a 
20-3 margin. But despite these impressive statis­tics, Notre Dame finds itself constantly 
trying to prove some­thing. 
At the Big East con­ference champi­onship tournament, for instance, I found myself defending the difficulty of Notre Dame's schedule to 


someone in the press Allison Krilla 
box. A cursory glance Sports Writer at Notre Dame's goals scored (113) and goals allowed 
(6) columns led him to the conclusion that the Irish play an easy schedule. Just because a team has the nation's highest scoring offense doesn't auto­matically mean it plays a weak sc.hed­ule. 
According to Jeff Sagarin's latest col­lege women's soccer power ratings, Notre Dame's schedule is the fifth­toughest among teams ranked in the NSCAA Top 25 and the lOth toughest of all Division I women's soccer teams. 
Although the Big East conference, with the exc.eption of Connecticut, has hardly c.hallenged the Irish this year, the addition of teams like Portland, Duke, Michigan and North Carolina 
The Observer/John Daily 

gave Notre Dame a formidable c.hal-
Shannon Boxx (5) and Holly Manthei (16) congratulate their teammates Sunday after capturing Notre Dame's third straight Big East conference tournament championship. -------------,---,--..,----,­
see INSIGHT I page 12 


• Hockey splits weekend 
see page 11 

• Volleyball chalks up two wins 
see page 10 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Sophomore Matt Mcnew scored the game-winning goal to ensure the Irish a spot in the Big East semifinals. Fencing at Penn State Open 


November 15, 2:30 p.m. 
vs. St. John's at UConn, November 15, 12 p.m. 
at Rutgers, 
November 15, 2 p.m. 
at Miami of Ohio 
November 15, 7 p.m . November 15 & 16 
Swimming at Olivet, November 11, 6:30 p.m. Basketball at Kalmazoo 
November 21, 8 p.m. 





