----------------~-------~-­

Wednesday, April9, 1997• Vol. XXX No. 120 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

SALUTING 
'HIS COACHING STYLE
'I'VE GROWN AS A 

IS LIKE LARRY FROM 
PERSON AND AS A 

THE THREE STOOGES
PLAYER. THERE'S NO 

-YOU'RE NOT SURE
WAY I COULD HAVE 

WHAT HE'S DOINGDONE IT WITHOUT 
YOU, AND WITHOUT 
THERE, BUT IT 
WOULDN'T BE THE SAME 
YOU I CERTAINLY 

WITHOUT HIM.'
WOULDN'T HAVE 
WANTED TO DO IT.' 
~BARRY
~DERRICK 
ALVAREZ
MAYES 

Players, coaches recall 'The Holtz Years' 
By DAN CICHALSKI Gerry Faust were among those University under Father Associate News Editor seated next to Holtz on stage; in Theodore llesburgh, quoted a and HEATHER COCKS addition, emcee Regis Philbin letter from an acquaintance News Editor introduced video tributes from which represented the senti­John Dockery and former player ments of Notre Dame's extensive 
Seventeen roasters and toast­Chris Zorich, currently with the "subway alumni" -fans who ers agree: former-Notre Dame Chicago Bears. remain devoted to the Fighting football coach Lou Holtz is never President Clinton delivered the Irish despite no actual ties to the boring, sometimes wordy, often surprise video message' of the University. 
witty ... and 
evening, speaking as Holtz's "Come next season, we'll look always short. longtime friend about his contri­up and see Lou's spirit moving 
His diminu­butions to the Notre Dame com­up and down, up and down ... tive frame munity. the Notre Dame sideline. It is his supplied sev­"He has the ability to spur his home, it always \Viii be," wrote eral speakers teams, inspiring them to achieve Patrick Coyne, a New York cab with ample more than athletic success," driver. material in P· 4,5 Clinton said. As an example, the "You still there, Lou?" asked their tributes president added that Holtz grad­Philbin, after hearing Coyne's to Holtz's years at the University. uated 100 percent of his eligible words. "For a minute there, I 
"Lou is known for his Adonis players from the 1988 national thought you'd passed away." body," joked Dick Rosenthal, for­championship team, a feat Another surprise came when mer athletic director of Notre unequaled by any other coach. four strawberry milkshakes Dame. "He's the perfect speci­"If you ever get the urge to were delivered to Holtz fresh men." play," Clinton added, "you're from McDonald's. Grinning, he 
Such humor defined the light­always welcome to toss the ball proceeded to poke straws into all hearted mood of last evening's around on the South Lawn. I'd four lids during Philbin's intro­"Roast the Coach," which high­enjoy the height and weight duction of the next roaster, lighted the achievements and advantage." University of Wisconsin head good memories of Holtz's tenure, Philbin yielded the microphone coach Barry Alvarez. rather than the fact of his resig­to Rosenthal, who offered the The former Notre Dame defen­nation. first roast of the evening. "Lou is sive coordinator delivered 
"I focus on the joy and l;lXhila­the consummate competitor," he arguably the harshest roast of ration, not on the leaving but the said. "We are truly better in the night, rife with jokes stem­times I was here," Holtz said. every way for having known ming from his days working 
h.

"No place can be like Notre Jill. " under Holtz. 
Dame." Father Edmund Joyce, execu­
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Derrick Mayes, Tony Rice, and tive vice president of the
As Holtz greets his roasters, a video screen magnifies his image. see HOLTZ /page 8 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Council discusses ne\V ID cards ocrats 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE completed in time for the start 80 percent of the student body News Writer of the fall semester, the will have their image captured. 

ge clause 
University would need to cap­"The information will be 

New identification cards for ture the images of a majority of stored in a database and a card "This policy is flawed at best the Notre Dame student body the student body in a database will be manufactured during and the Uiii.versity handling of will be available at the begin­by the end of this year. the summer," Ball said. "We the issue-is completely unac­ning of the fall semester, However, this poses a problem need to get this part of the pro­cept~bl(:l/' Dobson said. depending on the timely coop­because the software required duction now when there is Currently, the non-discrimi­eration of a majority of the stu­to record the student images more time to work with." nation clause does not include dents. will not be available until April Ball's committee is concerned the Qtttegory of sexual orienta­
Mike Ball, the project manag­28. with the placement of the sta­tion: er in charge of the implementa­"Badge stations need to be tions, wanting them to be in •"This ans that the tion of the new system, easily accessible to the majority places that are the most conve­Notre Dame has addressed the Hall President's of the student population in the nient for students, and looked right to discrimi­Council at last night's meeting least amount of time possible," to the Hall Presidents' Council admissions, hirings, with hopes of making the tran­Ball told the council. input. »w•.... "."· Cooney asserted. sition to the system as easy as The recording process will "We first thought that the April, vice president for possible. take about one and a half min­dining halls would be the best t Affairs Patricia 
"Time is the critical issue," utes for the student to com­location for the new system," accepted a recomrnen­Ball said. "The entire project plete, and involves having the Ball said. "But with finals datiQJ}to raise the question of has taken over four years to student picture and signature approaching students may not revl$ing the clause and has develop, hoping to identify the recorded in a computer's data­have time to wait in line for 20 reported having raised the specific needs of this campus. base for the future production or 30 minutes to get their photo · 'tlqhe University's offi­Now it is merely a matter of of an ID card. There will be taken." Iri the past 12 months, making this happen." five stations available on cam­After some discussion, the ....., . .,·...,..,ss update or 
Ball emphasized that for the pus during a two-week period, production of the cards to be in which Ball hopes that 70 to 
see HPC I page 6 


-~--­
-------1 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 9, 1997 


The virtues are smoking 

I belong to the most 
Dave Freddoso

blatantly discriminated 
News Copy Editor

against group on cam­pus. I smoke cigarettes. Smokers are humiliated and stepped on by every one of the administration's policies. 
There are several non-smokers out there who like to whine and complain about us every chance they get, and so I wanted to write about the fact that there is virtue in smoking, and that smoking cart help one attain virtue. 
After all, smokers put up with a lot to sus­tain their habit. We are not allowed to meet in nearly any campus building. We are forced out into the cold to smoke during the winter. 
Because of the recent ban on cigarette sales on campus, we have to walk nearly a mile in the snow to buy a pack of cigarettes. 
We are humiliated every fall, when the home football season ends and all the incendi­ary devices are removed from the bookstore. Then we also have to walk nearly a mile to buy something to light our cigarettes with. 
Even the dorm rectors are out to get us now. One of them has gone so far as to forbid his dorm's residents from smoking outside the building. 
We are stuck between a rock and a hard place. The shady tobacco companies have hooked us on it, and now the administration wants to tear our flesh to get us off it. 
You might expect any other group of people to become ornery or indignant after this kind of treatment. But I think that it is almost bet­ter this way. Suffering has improved our character. It has helped us to become virtu­ous. Smokers are always willing to bum their cigarettes, down to the last one. We care about each others' well being. We are not pushy or nasty, like other groups. We have friends in every dorm on campus. We perme­ate every college of the University, and every major. We have an excuse to talk to each other about the fine points in our classes, our worries, our lives. And smoking brings us all together, crowded outside the entrances of nearly every building on campus (except Keenan). 
"You're going to die," my friend told me the other day before I lit my cigarette. "So are you," I replied. There's certainly no fallacy there. 
Sure, smoking is not good for your body, but neither is anything else. Eating, sleeping, breathing, exercising; not eating, not sleep­ing, not breathing, not exercising: these will all kill you. Man is mortal, and it is time that our culture faced up to that fact. I'm just doing my part to help society rediscover what it has known since the beginning of time. 
In moderation, smoking is not harmful to the soul. What is much more harmful to both the soul and the body is the inordinate care that some people give to their physical health. Why do you think that there are so many peo­ple at Notre Dame and elsewhere with eating disorders who are troubled by the fact that they do not live up to the societal norm? 
Those who would malign us, whether in The Observer or elsewhere, ought to remember that all the complaints about the second-hand . smoke, the whining and waving of their arms as they walk past us to get into Debartolo, and the fake coughing (Hey, who's smoking the cigarette, anyway?), are pitiful at best. 
What is more dangerous after all? Is it the second-hand exposure to smoke, or second­hand exposure to your ridiculous moral atti­tude which is in lock-step with our soft, death­fearing, bourgeois society? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production 
Allison Koenig John Hutchinson Laura Perelle Laura Perelle Sports Joe Weiler 
Allison Krilla Lab Tech Accent 

Joe Stark Megan Fersrenfeld Graphics Joe Weiler Melissa Weber Viewpoint Tara Churik 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 

Zaire rebel leader claims to be 160 miles from Kinshasa 
MBUJI-MAYl, Zaire ,--------------------------------------------------...,,........."-:--:------------,, Minister Etienne Tshisekedi, a longtime 
Savoring his victories in central Zaire, rebel leader Laurent Kabila set his sights Tuesday on Kinshasa and claimed a startling advance -denied by the government -to within 160. miles of the capital. 
"Where else is there to go?" Kabila told a cheering crowd of 50,000 sup­porters in Mbuji-Mayi, Zaire's diamond mining center about 600 miles from the capital. He is on a triumphant tour of recently captured mining country. 
The rebels, whose six-month sweep through Zaire shows no sign of slowing, are also within a few miles of Lubumbashi, Zaire's second-largest city, in the far southeast. 
In Kinshasa, President Mobutu Sese Seko on Tuesday declared a state of emergency and appointed military governors throughout Zaire. 
The brief television announcement did not give details, but Defense Ministry spokesman Leon Kalima said it meant "in principle" that political demonstrations would be banned. 
Large-scale demonstrations had been expected Wednesday by supporters of newly appointed Prime 
First ladies go to grade school 
WASHINGTON 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton and,-------.. her Canadian counterpart, Aline Chretien, got a firsthand look at technol­ogy at work in the classroom Tuesday. The first ladies dropped by Burrville Elementary School and visited via two­way video and computer links with stu­dents at St. Elizabeth Elementary School in Ottawa, Canada. Seated in student­size chairs at a small table in Burrville's library, the first ladies watched intently as sixth-graders at both schools displayed their joint Internet project. "It's very impres­sive," Mrs. Clinton said of the demonstration. "It's excit­ing that our two countries are cooperating, that our two schools are cooperating and that students here in Washington are getting exposed to what's going on in Canada." The students' project included written descrip­tions of a state-of-the-art school, homework via e-mail and cafeteria robots that don't burn the food. 
NewNetNames@lnternet.web 
WASHINGTON 
To keep up with a growing demand for Internet addresses, a new set of online tags was approved Tuesday by a group of organizations that help oversee functions on the Net. All Internet addresses in the United States now end with one of six domain names: .com for commercial businesses, .org for non-profit organizations, .net for networks, .edu for educational institutions, .gov for governmental bodies or .mil for the military. Under changes approved Tuesday, seven endings will be added: .store for businesses offering goods, .info for information services, .nom for individuals who want personal sites, .firm for businesses or firms, .web for entities emphasiz­ing the World Wide Web, .arts for cultural groups and .rec for recreational or entertainment activities. They were approved by five organizations that help oversee the Internet functions: the Internet Society and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, the World Intellectual Property Organization, the International Telecommunication Union and the International Trademark Association. 



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 9.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature!<~ ,·.. 
........_'W%1'JI<O 


H,: L 
·=.J~:· 
Friday,! ~ '\ ...... ,. 48 31 
Saturd3y 4, 

..,~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
<0 1997 AccuWeather. Inc. 

H'"ss"'j_ ITJ [Sj [Til 0 ~ G 1) ~ G 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
Sun~~~--"-v-~;y:A 
Via Associsted PrtJSS 
.. \ 

Atlanta 65 14 Denver 37 24 New Orleans 71 58 Baltimore 51 25 Las Angeles 66 53 New York 48 
32 

Boston 47 26 Madison 34 18 Philadelphia 52 
28
4,~,~9~~1:) ~u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Si1oW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 40 22 Miami 82 72 Phoenix 76 55 
Vta Associated Press GaJphicsNet 

Dallas 68 52 Minneapolis 34 17 St. Louis 49 32 
opponent of Mobutu is pressing for more power for the prime minister's office. Marcel Laurent Mbayo, a spokesman for Tshisekedi, said the planned march to the prime minister's office would go ahead. 
He refused to speculate why Mobutu had declared the state of emergency, saying only: "He's a dictator." 
About 100 Tshisekedi supporters demonstrated for a second day in Kinshasa on Tuesday, trying to stop Parliament from possibly voting to oust him. 
On Monday, a much larger protest of some 3,500 people was broken up with tear gas and tanks. 
The government spokesman said Mobutu, who was last seen in Kinshasa on Friday, had declared the state of emergency "because of the situation. It appears Mr. Kabila wants to continue the war." 
Speaking in Mbuji-Mayi, Kabila told the crowds that his troops were 160 miles northeast of Kinshasa, near the city of Bandundu, and said they would press on to the capital city to oust Mobutu, Zaire's dictator for nearly 32 years. 
Hepatitis descends on Wisconsin 
MADISON, Wis. 

Four cases of hepatitis A were reported at a school in northeastern Wisconsin Tuesday, and health offieials were investigating whether tainted frozen strawberries were to blame. The virus infected two second-graders. a third-grader and an eighth-grader at Bowler Elementary Sehool, said Kristine Labby, a nurse with the Shawano County Health Department. One has already returned to school. Strawberries distributed through a 1'11deral pro­gram have been linked to 169 cases of hepatitis A in Michigan. The strawberries were distributed in 17 states. The school in Bowler got strawberries through the National School Lunch Program and served them Feb. 
24. The berries had a different lot number than those suspected of causing the Michigan outbreak. "Right now, there's no direct link to the strawberries. They're investi­gating every possible avenue," said Hich Mortensen of the state Department of Public Instruction. The 600 chil­dren and 85 employees at the school will be vaccinated, he said. 
Police arrest transvestite teacher 
GREENWOOD. Ind. 

A middle sehool teacher and coach faces charges after fleeing police and crashing his pickup truck into a utility pole while dressed as a woman. Police said Matt Porter, 25, of Greenwood had a blood-alcohol level more than twice the legal limit and was dressed in women's clothing when an officer asked for identification early Sunday in a parking lot. The driver refused orders to shut off the engine and drove off when an officer attempted to open the passenger door. "We thought we were chasing a woman, and it turned out to be a man," said Greenwood Police Chief Robert L. Dine. A high-speed chase ended when the truck hit a pole near the Greenwood Public Library. Porter was treated for cuts at Wishard Memorial Hospital in Indianapolis and released. Police said Porter was wearing high-heeled shoes and llshnet stockings, facial makeup and long, painted fingernails. His blood­alcohol level tested at 0.21 percent, police said. Porter is a former University of Indianapolis linebacker. He resigned from Center Grove Middle school Tuesday, offi­cials said. 


Wednesday, April9, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS 




Class visits cloistered nuns 


By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Although the words "clois­tered" and "dialogue" are an apparent contradiction of terms, a group of Saint Mary's students incorporated both of these concepts this past Saturday. 
The students, who arc mem­bers of religious studies pro­fessor Keith Egan's "Women as Church" class, traveled south for a dialogue with the Carmelite Sisters of Indianapolis, a cloistered and contemplative order of Catholic nuns. 
The order is known for their gender-inclusive doctrinal translations, and subsist from tlw sales of such books as well as from making bread for the celebration of the Eucharist. 
The eight-member class had been reading "Teresa of Avila," a book about the 16th­century woman who reformed the Carmelite order. The stu­dents came up with a list of questions they wished to dis­cuss with the nuns, and sent the list to them before their visit. 
Ten of the 18 sisters met with the Saint Mary's group. The ovPrall result was a great· dPal of surprise on the part of tlw students. 
"[The nuns]· dispelled the 

Forum addresses ND faiths 
By BRAD McDONALD 
!\Jews Writer 
Tlw third and final Notre Danw Forum on Academic Life, sponsored by the Faculty Senate, took place in the Center for Continuing Education Auditorium last night. 
The focus centered on two topics from provost Nathan Hatch's inaugural address: "Fostering a Community of Intellectual Engagement" and 
THE 

"Making Notre Dame a Center for Catholic Intellectual Life." 
The headline speakers were philosophy professor Michael Detlefsen and Father Timothy Scully, senior associate provost. 
Detlefsen focused on "God being the author of all truth." He recommended that Notre Dame's' goal to preserving Catholic life should be a "strong commitment. to truth," which doesn't necessitate a completely Catholic staff. 
myths of being locked away, antisocial, and out of touch," Kelly Harrison said. "They are very involved with the Church, in celebrating Mass with the community, and in writing books." 
"They shattered a lot of myths about their lives," Delilah Welch added. "A few mentioned how they wanted to be priests in the Catholic Church. "Even though they can't be right now, they haven't given up hope. They work within the structure of the Church to make changes." 
The nuns met with the stu­dents in a "round-circle" dis­cussion. Only 10 of them were represented, so that they did not outnumber or intimidate their guests. 
"I noticed the true love of God. To see it was different than to just read about it. They truly live the life of Christ, teachings and every­thing. I was speechless when we left. Speechless," reiterat­ed Lori Langenderfer. 
Egan spoke to the differ­ences that have taken place in 
Scully presented points neces­sary for "Making Notre Dame a Center for Catholic Intellectual Life." Scully agreed with Detlefsen that a "Catholic University not only welcomes, but requires other faiths." He concluded that, "no committed world class faculty [is equal to] no good Christian community." 
The guest speakers then responded to questions posed during the proceeding panel discussion. 
the order, even recently. 
"Twenty years ago, the sis­ters would have appeared to us behind a grill, wearing veils. There would be almost no contact. Nowadays, they are dressed simply, without habits," Egan stated. 
A particularly surprising and intriguing part of the discus­sion revealed the backgrounds of the women. The sisters pre­sent included a former psy­chologist who had a private practice, a divorced mother who converted to Catholicism later in life, a teacher with a doctorate in math, and an AIDS and death row minister. 
"They were extremely edu­cated, and well-versed in the contemporary theologians," Harrison noted. 
Citing the statistic that only five percent of the female cler­gy is under age 50, students asked the sisters if they were worried about the decline in the number of nuns in the Catholic church. 
"They were really relaxed about it, which was surprising. They told us that they encour­age older women who hav.e life experience to make the edu­cated decision about joining [the sisterhood]," Welch said. 
Eileen Nieli summed up the infectious result the visit had on the group. "I felt touched; they offered a lot of wisdom." 




The Observer/Katie Kroener Artist Jason Dilley creates a face mask of Greg Sanchez, a South Bend community member who is living with AIDS. Sanchez' mask will be added to the Face to Face exhibition, which is on display in LaFortune Ballroom until the end of this week. 
tlcan appoints archbishop 
people of the metropolitan area," said George, who will lead the Chicago area's 2.3 million Catholics. 
Like Bernardin, George is in w.ith the pope in opposing doctor-assisted sui­nd the ordination of •• ~'"""'. In Portland, he was a gorous opponent of state's 
law permitting euthanasia. 
He also has shown a mod­erate streak. While bishop of Yakima, Wash., where he 
•. s~~yed ·from July 1990 until llis>appointment to Portland last April. he joined otherFr a.·· 
Catholic leaders in opposing
George, 

two anti-gay-rights initia­
will be as head of tives~ But the two bishops
the natiolj)i second-largest differ in style. 
archdioce · ay 7, six While Bernardin never 
months qpenly opposed a positiondeath. ·en by the pope, he was "dered a mediator .riwide am~g gl'oupsthe differed on issuessuch 
. 

Two Watchpersons 
Holy Cross House 
retirement/medical facility for Holy Cross priests and Brothers, north side St. Joseph Lake 


----~ -~ ----­

~--.·--­~pa~ge_4____________________________~T1~1e~O~b=se~rve~r_·=R=O=A=S~T~T~H~E~C=O~A~C=H~ Wednesday, April 9, 1997
I
I 'When I was 18 years old, Lou Holtz came to my house and said to me, "Son, ifyou come to Notre Dame, I 

guarantee you you'll have a ring." I had no idea it'd be a Super Bowl ring.' 
Derrick Mayes 

'Our time with you was truly blessed, 
Though we never liked the way you dressed. 
Thank you, Coach Holtz, for all the memories. 
Notre Dame, our mother, I know you pleased. ' 
Jim Flanigan Selection from "My Ode to Coach Holtz" 




Matt Curreri & Terry Ouinlan 
Wednesday night 8-12PM 
I I 
Now open sundays from 4-12PM 
change of scenery 
''-\"I ' ' ' ' I ' ' 
. . ' . ~ . ' 

Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
The Observer • ROAST THE COACH page 5 

'Lou Holtz is one of the greatest 
college football coaches in his tory. He never really had a lousy season. ' 
President Clinton 


'Lou is the only person tn 
recent memory to sleep in the Lincoln Bedroom for free.' 
Roland Kelly 

Photos by Rob Finch 


'Lou is a great talker. If he were God, Moses would've had to send out for more tablets. ' 
Barry Alvarez Pictured above listening to Holtz's closing words 

"-. 
~,.., 


_______..~ 
\ 
\\ 
Training Session 
on Thursday, April 10, 3-SPM 


UN1Vli51TY IH NOTU DAM( 
All volunteers who would like to be certified please attend this session. 
Come to the Campus Security Building, room 122 
*Bring your driver's license* 
Questions??? Call Susan 1-9888 

--------·~-~------------------~~~-~----------~~-----~----------­
-~. 
page 6 

The Observer/Michelle Keefe 
Mike Ball talks to the Hall Presidents' Council about the integration of new ID cards at Notre Dame. 

current student IDs are electronically used, namely the dining halls, the book­store, and the library. The card may also be used to replace the existing detex system, with the new residence halls, McGlinn and Welsh, as the first recipients. The first change that would effect the entire student body will proba­bly be an electronic swipe system at the computer clusters. 
"We won't see a whole lot of immedi­ate changes because of the tremendous amount of work at management and sys­tem architecture this process takes," Ball told the council. 
A debit card system will not be insti­tuted this year, although the planners are considering this as a possibility. 
"There is just so much planning to make this work. We can't make such a tremendous change this soon," Ball told 
the council. 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
timetable has been made public. 
Almost all of Notre Dame's peer insti­tutions have included sexual discrimi­nation in their non-discrimination clauses, according to Cooney. 
"By amending our non-discrimination clause, we will be institutionalizing acceptance," Dobson told the forum. 
"We're not naive enough to think that changing the elause will solve all homo­phobia. But we're naive to think we can move towards progress without chang­
pointed out that the University's non-discrimination clause inexplicably differs from document to document. As an example, she noted that the du Lac clause does not include gender, while other clauses do. 
Father David Garrick, a professor in Notre Dame's theology department, also formally addressed the forum. He began by putting the Church-homosex­uality conflict in its historic context. Garrick then proceeded to highlight the Catholic Church's current position on homosexuality and homophobia. 
Drawing from published 1994 Catechism, Garrick noted that only acts of homosexuality are impermissible. Sexual orientation, he emphasized, is not a matter of judgmental concern to the Church. 
"Catechism neither directly nor indi­rectly restricts homosexuals from com­ing out or organizing," Garrick said. 
"Catholic teaching actually requires it (a non-discrimination clause which includes sexual orientation)," Garrick asserted. 
Audience commentary following the three scheduled speakers was equally pointed and more spirited. 
Larry Bradley, a self-proclaimed "triple-domer" alumnus, took the !1oor to point out hypocrisies in Notre Dame's image. Specifically, he found fault with public address announcers reading the Declaration of Independence before home football Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
games. 
Specifically, Bradley took exception to hearing Notre Dame broadcast the words, "All men are created equal..." 
"Every time that statement is read is a flat-out lie," Bradley asserted. "Gay students here do not have equality." 
John Blandford, former co-president of GLND/SMC, also used the forum to air his thoughts. He explained that the administration's handling of the revi­sion process has left him feeling cynical about the prospects for change. 
"From what I've seen, it's fully the University's intent to discriminate," he 
said. That practiced inequality is less abstract than many people suspect, according to Blandford. 
"Where are the gay faculty, priests and rectors?" Blandford asked. :I 
. Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. admitted that she shares the frustration appar­ent in most of the audience's com­ments. 
"I don't think there's a willful attempt on their part to discriminate," she said. "It's just that they don't know how not to discriminate." 
Preacher also noted that the University officers and the Office of Student Affairs could help the situation by improving their accessibility. 
"I think !improvements] will come from sitting down together and putting a face to the issue, not from just a standing committee," she said. 
Sean Gallavan, co-president of GLND/SMC, suggested that timing and scheduling of the revision process is a key concern. lie feared that with the end of the academic year approaching, the issue could lapse into unimportance over the summer without resolution this semester. 
Student body president Matt Griff1n and vice president Erek Nass were among the audience members. Following the forum, the duo explained that they attended to acquaint them­selves with the issue. Their administra­tion has not yet taken nor decided to take any official stance on the issue. 
"We want to be able to make an edu­cated decision," Griflin said. 
If you see news haPPenin2. call The Observer at 1-5323 


You have a voice. Use it. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
Interested in an Environmental Career? Come to the Environmental Career Information Day 
Thursday April 10th 12:00 -4:30 p.m. at the CSC Students in all disciplines and all classes are welcome 
Learn about jobs that work with the Environment at the career fair: 
• 
US Environmental Protection Agency 

• 
Hoosier Environmental Council 


• 
Chicago Assoc. Planners and Architects 

• 
Superior Waste Systems 


• 
Indiana University-Purdue University, Indianapolis (IUPUI) School of Public and Environmental Affairs 

• 
Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 

• 
Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County 


Group discussions 12:30-1:30pm USEPA 1:00-2:00pm Advanced Pollution Technologies, Ltd. 1:30-2:30pm Mishawaka Utilities Water Department 2:00-3:00pm Solid Waste Management District of St. Joseph County More companies may be added! 
Help yourselfhelp the Earth Sponsored by Terra Club Questions? E-mail: earth@darwin. helios. nd. edu 
Wednesday, April 9, 1997 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Clintons dine with Chretiens 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON He can't play golf. He can't dance. But, boy, can he eat! 
Still lumbering about on crutches, President Clinton was a hobbled host Tuesday night for Canadian P r i m e Minister Jean Chretien's 
==>-C-I~in""'t-o~n official visit. But that didn't stop White House chefs, florists, wine con­noisseurs and pastry artists from jumping through hoops to impress the northern neighbor. 
The highlight: A Canadian­inspired, five-star meal. 
Chef Walter Scheib began with maple-cured salmon and fiddlehead fern, one of 17 dif­ferent newly harvested vegeta­bles served on red Reagan china. The entree was herb­crusted lamb, peppers, new potatoes, ragout of morels and spring vegetables. 
That was followed by salad of young greens and sprouts, and maytag blue cheese. Then there was dessert, a dazzling display of pulled-sugar tulips atop a raspberry and chocolate truffle ring mold. 
Scheib said the meal reflected the spirit of spring and th~ desire by first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton to serve healthy meals that blend American tastes with her guests' native cuisine. 

The guest list included the requisite government officials (National Security Adviser Sandy Berger), politicians (for­mer Michigan Gov. James Blanchard) and Hollywood types (comics Dan Aykroyd and Howie Mandel). But it had fewer~than-usual political donors, more than likely a result of the mounting Democratic fund-raising affair. 
Among the donors were William Joyce, whose Union Carbide Corp. contributed $23,000 to Democrats; Donna Dixon Aykroyd, Dan's wife, who donated $1,000 to Clinton; and Michael Berman, a Democratic consultant. 
Berman is one of the Clinton friends who helped disgraced presidential friend Webb Hubbell land a job after he resigned from the Justice Department under and ethics cloud. Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr, frustrated with Hubbell's sketchy memory as he cooperated with investiga­tors, is looking into whether the jobs bought his silence. 
But Tuesday was a night for stars, not Starr. Canadian-born Aykroyd showed off his maple leaf lapel pin and plugged a new movie he is writing. A reporter asked Howie Mandel, another Canadian comic, about the difference between Canada and America. 
"Whatever is going on here is going on in Canada. It's just worth 30 percent less," Mandel said, poking fun at his nation's deflated dollar. 
Two days after their mar­riage, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan and NBC reporter Andrea Mitchell showed up. How's married life? 
"Married life? Is that what we're doing?" Greenspan said with a sly smile. Seriously, now: "Terrific, so far." 
The guests were welcomed by crutches-clutching Clinton, who made a cautious entrance down the steep stairway of the Grand Foyer. His doctor, Connie Mariano, followed closely behind to keep an eye on him -then scampered up the stairs when he reached the final step. 
Chretien got a taste of Clinton's hospitality Monday night, when he sipped cognac with the president during a casual White House visit. The president said he invited the prime minister because he felt guilty that knee surgery kept him off the golf course with Chretien. 
But he promised the Canadian, 'Til be back in the arena before long." 
The bum knee also kept Clinton off the dance floor, but that didn't stop the entertain­ment. Mezzo-soprano Denyce Graves was appearing in the East Room, accompanied on the piano by Warren Jones. 
p~oject 

face to face 

~eei"q t~e lftce~ ol 4ib~ '"b 4i 

Preview Night 
Come to the Band Building Tonight ·wednesday, April 9 at 7:30pm 
and enjoy a night of great jazz music as the Notre Dame Jazz Bands perform one last time before the Collegiate Jazz Festival on Aprilll & 12. 
Admission is FREE and refreshments will be provided. 
SORIII SOCIETY I 991 
April I Ith & I 2th 
WORK CATERING WAITSTAFF/ FOOD SERVICE WORKERS $5.95 PER HOUR 

Sign up: 10:00 am -5:00pm • Monday -Friday Catering Office • South Dining Hall • Lower level 631-5449/ 8792 
~--~-------~ ---~---~­
---------~~--~ 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 9, l~~~ 
hours to say nothing of any con­sequrnce," hn staletl
Plane disappears in Arizona Holtz 
"Derrick's a real smart kid," continued from page 1 he continued. "He put together a By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN Pentagon officials were looking into the time difficult jigsaw puzzle in 18 
"He made us walk into work
Associated Press Writer Button spent at Laughlin Air Force Base in Del months. That's quite an accom­
every morning and kiss his
Rio, Texas, where he was a flight instructor plishment; it said 3-5 years on 
ring," Alvarez said.
PHOENIX until he arrived in Tucson in February to train the box, 
"Unfortunately, he kept it in his
Capt. Craig Button took off in a $9 million on the A-1 0. CBS reported that Button had For the most part, his closing
back pocket 

Air Force attack jet last week for a practice asked that his training flights at Laughlin be remarks were serious and 
"Staff meetings were always
run. Within minutes the plane and its arsenal routed through Colorado. reflective. "I could never say 
very democratic," he continued.
of four 500-pound bombs were gone. An Air Force official at the Pentagon, speak­anything negative about Notre 
"Lou would say, 'Anyone
All that's known for sure is that the A-10 ing on condition of anonymity, said Button had Dame," he said. 
was last spotted on radar over 
Thunderbolt f~~iW~~~~~~~~~~~~R]~~~~
··• Wing span 57 6 in. the CoIorado 
__.._Length·overall :ii!ii~'!Hilli.jl!JliF;' 5$Jt74 In. Rockies -near-
Height overall 14ft. 8 in. ly 800 miles in 
Weight (basic design)* 30,044 lbs. , the · opposite 
Max. combat speed 449 mph

direction. Did it crash? 
• This model included four 500 lb. bombs 

Was it sabo-~---"""'~ 
taged? 
WYO. 
NEB.

Or did the 
·"······-·········· 

. ·····-· ··/····· ....... ·······-~-~-... ·~·-· something out of 
pilot steal it, like 
Estimated~ • • •. the movie 
NEV. maximum range V~il o··•. COLO. 

"Broken 
1 .. ~';'~pen Denver • ••• 
.

Arrow"? 
• li'lm!limllil'" •• 

"Anything you 
Radar and '• 

• visual •,

can think of has 
.
.
Montrose •m------sighting .

probably been 
. 

looked at," said 
~•Telluride 

Staff Sgt. Rian Clawson at 
't·~~~ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,........,.....w.••••• 

Davis-Monthan 
N.M. 'i···

Air Force Base in Tucson. "But 
I 

the evidence so 
. Route of plane I 

far doesn't indi­
' Young, .' ['f_l Plane departed Tucson, A~ril 2
12:12 p.m. ,' .,.

cate any of 
~\ [!] · !21 Refueled I 

these wild 
(§. ' &' ~~~~~~~~ L~J Headed for bombing rang~

hypotheses, like 
/!:':-Lake [AI Seen at Young, Ariz. ! he was trying to 
Phoenix 01f' 'Superstition !5] Tracked by radar about 1 P,'.m.
•e 'Mts.

steal it, or he 
___ , , ;r'casa .,,..___ -100 miles went off to 
·'~~ · Telluride to go BariyM.skiing... Goldwater· 
,
RangeThe Air Force L.:___~~~__:_~1tl;'j!i5!'2\L:::.:=:3SZ!Irebuffs the idea 
made many opposed to my plan should signi­In closing, Holtz explained that 
fy by saying "I resign.'""
cross-country if he ever coached again, it 
Twice during the next segue,
flying trips dur­would be for his love of teaching. 
Philbin paused to watch Holtz
ing his training, "I love making kids dream. If and they may slurping his milkshakes. "Are we don't dream. we don't live," 
you listening to me, Lou?" he
have involved he said. "Martin Luther King
asked.

stops in didn't get up there and say, 'I 
Mayes and Rice used the
Colorado. have a strategic plan.'" 
opportunity to confess to certain
Button has a The Roast benefited the Life brother in acts they could not admit to Treatment Centers (LTC), a non­Denver. while playing under Holtz. profit organization serving drug 
"Remember in the Orange
Button's rela­and alcohol-addicted residents tives said they of north central Indiana. 
Bowl, when you thought Krug called the audible, and he threw 
knew of nothing Sorin Hall rector Father Steve 
it to me for a touchdown? Well,
suspicious Newton, executive director of 
that was my idea," admitted
involving the LTC, contacted Holtz in June 
Mayes, "And remember later in
32-year-old 1996 and proposed the event,
the game, he called another one, 
Massapequa, the proceeds of which are 
and threw a pick [interception]? 
N.Y., native. expected to exceed $100,000. 
That was all Tom." 
"He was A­"Lou Holtz is the only person I 
Jerome Bettis opted for a more
OK, stable, know who sends thank-you
anecdotal approach, recalling a
didn't seem to notes for Christmas cards,"
documentary about Einstein
be under any Newton said. "He wrote, 'If 
which revealed his tendency to
stress. But he there's anything I can do to help was having to the [LTC), please let me know.' I
dress identically every day. "We had an opportunity to go
study hard," put that one in the bank vault." 
to Coach's house ... I looked in
said the cap­Other contributors included 
his closet and saw rows of gray 
tain's father, Tom Thamert, sporting a neck 
pants and bluejackets," Bettis
Richard Button, brace to pay tribute to the game
said. "I told myself, 'Einstein was
who had trained during which Holtz put him in a 
a smart man. Why are you doing
pilots during headlock. "You haven't heard 
this?"'

World War II. from my law firm, yet, have 
Holtz countered, "Jerome, I
The elder you'?" Thamert asked. 
always thought you had a brain
Button said his The comedy troupe Irish 
just like Einstein. It's been dead
son had a pas­Accent performed a skit paying 
since 1955." 

sion for flying homage to Holtz's tenure, and 
As the guest of honor, Holtz's
and dreamed ol' the Glee Club made him its 
chance at rebuttal came at the
living a life like third honorary member in his­
end of the evening; he took the
that Button, an avid skier, purposely veered the pilots in the movie "Top Gun." tory.
podium as the 1812 Overture
the plane off course. But officials acknowl­"We're hoping he bailed out. There's no evi­..·I have nothing but love,
rang through the Joyce Center. 
edged Tuesday that investigators are looking dence that he bailed out, but there's no evi­admiration, and respect for 
"It took these people three
into Button's background. dence that he didn't," he said. Notre Dame," concluded Holtz. 
"The investigation ... includes all aspects of The Air Force doubts Button bailed out; his the plane and pilot, anything to do with the ejection seat would have automatically sent situation," said Staff Sgt. Bret Zieman at out a homing beacon. Davis-Monthan. The jet itself didn't have its tracking device 
People who live near the base consider anti­turned on because it was flying in formation, government or even cult activity possible. said Maj. Joe LaMarca, spokesman for Langley 
"It sounds fishy," said Bob Jones, a cus­Air Force Base in Hampton, Va., the head­tomer at Famous Sam's Restaurant and Bar. quarters for all combat bases. "He could be part of a militia, for all anyone "It's part of a normal procedure when byknows." you're in formation that only the lead aircraft 
WILLIAM INGE
Officials had theorized the pilot could have turns it on," LaMarca said. become incapacitated and may have put the The last radar track showed the jet near the single-seat plane on autopilot. But radar and 12,467-foot New York Mountain near 
MOREAU CENTER / LITTLE THEATRE witness accounts suggest the plane was being Edwards, Colo. Button's plane was fully fueled APRIL 10, 11,12 at 8 p.m. maneuvered and wasn't simply gliding. when it took off, but it would have been nearly APRIL 13 at 2:30 p.m. The mystery began last Wednesday morning empty by then. about 90 minutes after Button's plane took off "In some instances if a plane crashes it's in formation with two other A-lOs bound for easy to see, but not always," LaMarca said. "If 
For ticket information,
the Barry M. Goldwater bombing range. It was it crashed and is now covered with snow, that 
call: 219/284-4626
carrying conventional, not nuclear, weapons. makes it more challenging. And no one saw it 
One of the jets reported seeing Button's go down." plane flying in the rear, but a minute later the lead pilot radioed Button and got no response. When the other 
pilots realized the plane was LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER 
missing, they broke formation and began the search. 
FINANCIAL CHOICE?
Initially, it focused in Arizona, but it shifted to 
Take the Direct Route with Direct
Colorado three days later after authorities checked radar 
Deposit and No..Fee Checking. 
records and witnesses reported seeing a low-flying plane. 
Don't get lost in a maze of requirements and endless 
Haue something 
fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
• No~FEE CHECKING
to say? 

• No MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE
Use Obseruer 

• No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 
classifieds! 

• No PER~CHECK CHARGE 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

• OVERDRAFT PROTECTION AVAILABLE
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search in National Parl<s. Fo,.ts. and W:!dlije Preserves. 

A Better Choice to Make 
Learn from !he #1 Source that uncover.; hundreds of employment 

(219) 239~6611 or (800) 522~6611
opportunittes in the great outdoors 

Independent of lhe University
• 
Seasonal & Year~Round 

• 
Excel'ent Benefits 




Wednesday, April 9, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
•ISRAEL

Scientists detect record 
Youth's death sparks riots
low ozone at North Pole 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The lowest levels of spring time ozone ever detected over the North Pole have been mapped by instruments on a series of satellites, scientists announced Tuesday. 
Ozone levels in late March and early April over the Arctic were 40 percent lower than the average March measurements made from 1979 to 1982, said Pawan Bhartia of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt. Md. 
A year ago, measurements detected an ozone hole in the North Atlantic that was about 24 percent less dense than the 1979-82 period, the space agency announced. 
Ozone is a natural atmos­pheric gas that acts as a shield against the ultraviolet radiation of the sun. The gas is eroded away by certain industrial chemicals. principally chloro­nuorocarbons that are used as coolants and cleaners. 
Under international treaty, the eompounds are being 
phased out of use in most coun­tries of the world, but the effect of chemicals already released to the atmosphere is blamed by most scientists for the current thinning of the ozone layer. 
Unshielded ultraviolet radia­tion can cause skin cancer in humans and can destroy some microscopic sea life that is thought important to the natur­al food chain. 
Although the Arctic ozone has thinned, the loss is not nearly as severe near the North Pole as it is over the South Pole during the southern hemi­sphere spring in September and October. 
Chemical reactions that destroy the ozone result from the combination of industrial chemicals, frigid temperatures and sunlight. 
These conditions usually occur for a brief period as the sun makes its first springtime appearance over the poles after winter's darkness. 
NASA said the area of thinned ozone covered about 2 million square miles of the Arctic region. 
Wednesday,April 9th 
8:00PM 
at the 
1
LaFortune Sorin Room 
or 
call Steve McMullen at 4-0600 


Reclaiming 
The Contemporary 

Human 
Christian 

Sexuality 
Challenge 

Apt·il 9, 1997 Chapel of the Holy Cross Keenan-Stanford Hall 
7 :00-8:30Pl\1 
Eaeh session will incllHle an experience of prayer, presentation hy the speakers and refreshments. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
By JACK KATZENELL 
Associated Press Writer 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Jewish seminary students shot and killed a Palestinian on Tuesday, sparking fierce riots in which Israeli troops killed two Palestinians. and injured dozens. It was the West Bank's worst violence in months. 
The rioting in Hebron raged for more than five hours, with hundreds of protesters hurling stones and firebombs at the Israelis, who fired back tear gas and rubber bullets. ' 
Palestinian police tried to prevent the protests from spilling over from the Palestinian-controlled part of the city into the enclave still held by Israel, where the shoot­ing occurred -only to be pelt­ed with stones by their own people. . 
The violence in Hebron ­where 500 Jewish settlers live in uneasy coexistence with 130,000 Palestinians -came amid Arab dismay over the fail­ure of Monday's summit between President Clinton and Netanyahu to break the dead­lock. 
The Israeli leader, however, insisted that "interesting ideas" on how to restart talks had come out of the Washington summit. Further progress, he said, depended on the preven­tion of further violence. 
Although Tuesday's fighting was the bloodiest, Palestinians and Israeli soldiers have bat­tled in the streets of the West Bank almost daily since Israel broke ground March 18 for the liar Homa housing project in cast Jerusalem, the sector Palestinians want as their capi­tal. 
Netanyahu accuses Arafat of orchestrating the riots and authorizing militant attacks, including a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv last month that killed 
Fran Ferder and John Heagle nationally recognized authors and speakers on the topic of sexuality and spirituality. 


three Israeli women. 
Arafat spokesman Marwan Kanafani accused Netanyahu of having "blood on his hands" after Tuesday's shootings. Arafat himself, speaking before the shooting, said Netanyahu's refus.al to suspend settlement building means "he does not want peace." 
The Supreme Court removed the last legal challenge to the project on Tuesday, rejecting a Jewish land owner's attempt to prevent Israel from confiscating his 140 acres -about one­third of the construction site. 
Palestinians said the attack was unprovoked. while Israelis insisted it was brought on by Palestinians who sprayed two Jewish seminary students with tear gas as they walked to the Tomb of the Patriarchs. Both students had tear gas burns, police spokeswoman Linda Menuchin said. 
The students opened fire with Uzi submachine guns, Hebron police commander Benny Baharon said. One shot hit Assam Rashid Arafeh, 23, in the chest, killing him, Palestinian police and hospital workers said. 
Palestinians angered over the shooting lobbed gasoline bombs 
Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, caU272,1441 Summer leases Available  

and rocks, injuring at least five 
Israeli soldiers and several 
Palestinian policemen. 
Israeli troops fired tear gas 
and rubber bullets, wounding 
about 100 Palestinians. Seven 
of them remained hospitalized 
Tuesday night. 
Yacoub Julani, 16, died in 
surgery with the metal kernel 
of a rubber bullet lodged in his 
brain. Later, 3,000 people 
attended his funeral, some cry­
ing out "Rebel!" and "God is 
great." 
A 24-year-old man wounded 
in the clashes died after hours 
in a coma, also from a rubber 
bullet that pierced his eye and 
brain, hospital workers said. 
The rioting was the deadliest since September when 80 peo­ple died in brawls that deterio­rated into gun battles between Palestinian police and Israeli soldiers. 
The Israeli army imposed a curfew on the center of Hebron on Tuesday. 
In one of the day's few posi­tive signs, Maj. Gen. Uzi Dayan, head of the Israeli army's cen­tral command, praised Palestinian police for working with Israeli troops to control the violence. 
The crowds of angry protest­ers disbanded late Tuesday afternoon. Sporadic stone­throwing continued into the evening, when more than 700 people marched in the funeral procession of the first shooting victim. 
The body, wrapped in a Palestinian flag, was carried to the grave by uniformed Palestinian police, who fired a 21-gun salute. The mourners waved Palestinian flags and banners, and shouted down Palestinian Transportation Minister Ali Qawasmeh when he tried to speak. 
They yelled: "Let the olive branch fall -and the gun rise!" 
Transfer Orientation for Fall of 1997 needs Chairperson (s) 
All interested pick up an application in 3 I 5 LaFortune. 
Application Deadlin~: April lith 4:00pm 
Questions? Call: 
Giovana at 243-1451 Matt at 4-3451 
I­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast
1 
Managing Editors Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor Maureen Hurley 

News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager. . ................. Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager.......... .. .. Michael Brouillet Saine Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller. . ...................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insciu.ition. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saine Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Edicor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63 I -5313' Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63i-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Syscems/Mark~ting Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Sainr Mary's 631:4 540 Eax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 63 I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• Goo 'N liFE 
Exchange of ideas central to dogma interpretation 
During the past century, technological advances have made instantaneous communication a virtual necessity. This has affected the way political candidates respond to their opponents, methods used by news teams, and information distributed to members of the Catholic Church. Where once it may have taken months or years to circulate the Pope's encyclicals and other statements, now it 
Julie Ferraro 

takes seconds. 
The response time to these documents has lessened as well. Catholics who wish to bring the Church into the cur­rent era and prepare for the 21st centu­ry are asking alot of questions about birth control, the possibility of a married priesthood, women's ordination, and other issues relevant to society. Other Catholics don't understand such reason­ing, content with the status quo. 
The Second Vatican Council achieved a much needed renewal in the Church ­especially in the areas of liturgy and ecumenism-but after a "rush" of revi­sions, the renewal seemed to die. Many Catholics have no intention of letting this renewal die. They question what remains stagnant in the policies and practices, knowing that what is allowed to stagnate ultimately becomes useless. 
"If we are called ... to live the truth in love, then we will ask questions because they are gifts from God," states Christian Koontz, a Sister of Mercy and university teacher of English. "Our questions pro­vide an essential dynamic to our growth, especially our intellectual growth, and they lead us, implicitly and explicitly, to our creative contributions to the uni­verse." It is by asking questions, occa­sionally seeming to "challenge" authori­ty, that some Catholics learn and are able to deepen their spirituality. Koontz continues, "A good question ... is a joy because it calls me to life, life ever more abundantly." 
"Those of us who ask questions are cursed with restless minds," is Mike O'Hara's opinion. "But we are also the ones who build ... faith communities. Because we can accept almost nothing 'on faith' everything we do believe, we REALLY believe." 
The Catholics asking questions -some of whom are insulted for their inquiries and face sanctions by members of the Church hierarchy-feel they have valid reasons for doing so. On issues involv­ing marriage and family, some see priests, bishops and the Pope as having no jurisdiction. Those in Holy Orders have little first hand experience stretch­ing a weekly paycheck to feed, clothe and house a family, searching for jobs, or saving for retirement. The ordained know about such matters primarily through reading and seminary classes. This knowledge, when applied to pre-marital discussions, spiritual direction or other family situations most often does not reflect reality in the eyes of some Catholics, raising speculation that married priests would be more "practical." 
The fact that "the real world" changes with surprising speed, yet the Church lags behind, is also a source of concern. While dogma -that which Catholics believe about God -rightfully remains constant, the interpretation and prac­tices reflecting these beliefs can and must change. 
"It is precisely the difference between practiee and belief that allows -and prods -me to question things ... " notes Ginny Richards, a theologian with a degree from the University of Notre Dame. "We question ... because we see and experienee the dissonance between the 'abstract' of teachings and the con­crete realities in which our moral ques­tions arc embedded and enmeshed." Ms. Richards also cites a love of the 


God -rightfully remains constant, the interpretation and practices reflecting these beliefs can and must change. 
Church and a willingness to "seek its perfection" as motivations to question the status quo. 
In other words, some of the People of God who make up the Church ask that it be made a pertinent institution for mod­ern times. Since new wine should not be stored in old wineskins-as Christ recommended -it is not feasible for the "newer" generations of Catholics to struggle with an "old" Church. It seems unlikely that any manner of genuine spirituality could survive under such pressures. 
Pressure of this type has led many women to leave the Catholic Church, or to threaten to leave if the ban on women's ordination is not lifted. They feel a true call from God to a priestly vocation, and ask why the Church refus­es to allow them to fulfill this call. The support of parishes, friends and family encourages them, yet to be ignored by the body which they yearn to serve has evoked emotions of guilt, pain, sadness and anger. 
These are emotions also felt by other Catholics, prompting them to raise ques­tions about the Chureh's attempts in certain instances to "dialogue," and the ultimate failure to incorporate or implement any suggestions made. Some sec it as hypocrisy on the part of those in authority: trying to relate, but only withdrawing further from the masses. 
There arc those Catholics, of course, who take their questions too far, becom­ing excessively defiant or antagonistic, almost demanding to be heard, insisting on ehange with an "or else" finality. As is human nature, those of whom demands arc made in this fashion will usually be "turned off' by the tactic. They see a distinct difference between sincere inqui~es to achieve a better understanding of a situation, and open rebellion. 
This is, perhaps, where the greatest misunderstanding arises between those who follow the Church as it is and those who question. The latter are seen as trouble-makers, dissidents or malcon­tents. That truly may be the case for a very few, however. Most who question just want answers. 
Through free exchanges of ideas, it may be possible for all Catholics to establish a unity and grasp of issues that matter to the spiritual life of the People of God and the Chureh as this millenni­um ends. God-given intelligence and curiosity that is not used in the pursuit of faith will itself stagnate -a fate no one wishes upon anyone else or the Church. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Friemann Life Science Center. 
• DOONESBURY 
IS THeRe A PR0!3U/vt, MR..5Wa.JM? 
/ 
A PRf)f3tEM? YOU !JeTTHa<&'5A 
PROE3tt:M, MAN l NOWAY I ONlY [}f3513RV& A f3+ l 
"" 
MR.5WC1JM, I WN78UY TH/5 15MATH. rT;MAN/ YW'.R£ YWR GRAlJ& 7RYING 70 /?15­15 Va<.Y !Mfm/&R.M&l QUANTIFI­/3+ 15A RACIST 
A!Jt.&. GRAfJe! 
/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
RACIST? 

aJW.JJKAY,
em:.. BUT 

'$0/N/{'AU.Y,
YaJ'f?& U/Hrr&. 

E3UTI5TIU.
I ff3E.t. MAR­GINAUZ&f)! 
\ 

• 01JOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life is a maze in which 
we take the wrong 
turning before we have 
learned to ,walk." 
-Cyril Connolly 


-----------~----­
VIEWPOINT

Wednesday, April 9, 1997 page 11 
• lETTER TO TH£ EDITOR 
Middle East peace process requires U.S. aid 
Dear Editor: 
The following is a letter to the United States Consul General in Jerusalem composed by the students of the Notre Dame Jerusalem program. The letter was signed by all nine members of the ND Jerusalem community and also by several Americans living and studying . here at Tantur Ecumenical Institute as a part of its Continuing Education Program. In all, 17 US. citizens signed the letter. Several of us delivered the letter to the US. Consulate in East Jerusalem on March 30. 
We primarily want to make the Notre Dame community aware of our under­standing ofthe United States' role in the current political unrest here in Israel and the Occupied Territories of Palestine. Also, we strongly urge the University community to exert any polit­ical influence it might have to pressure the United States government to truly act in the interest of peace and justice here in the Holy Land. We will be sure to keep the Notre Dame community informed of any developments regarding the letter. 
Dear Mr. Abington: 
We are United States citizens living and studying in IsraeL Our home while in this Holy Land is the Tantur Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies, where we are fortunate to be exposed to some of the rich diversity of this region. We study and live with an international community in which Christians from many traditions learn from other Christians, Jews, and Muslims. We are blessed daily through this contact with Palestinians, .Israelis . 
• AWAKENINGS 
and others from around the world who share an interest in and love for this land, its history, and its people. 
As citizens concerned with issues of peace and justice, we have followed with interest the continuing development of the Israeli settlement on Jabal Abu Ghneim, or l-Iar 1-Ioma. We have watched with growing concern the neg­ative impact this development continues to have on the prospects for peace and reconciliation between Palestinians and Israelis. As American citizens and tax­payers, we are dismayed by the actions our government has taken in support of this and other Israeli policies which clearly undermine the peace process. 
We, like most of the international com­munity, believe that constructing Jabal Abu Ghneim/1-Iar Homa, like all other Israeli settlement projects on lands occupied since the 1967 War, violates the spirit, if not also the letter, of both relevant United Nations resolutions and the1949 Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, as well as the 1993 Oslo Peace Accords. 
The 1949 Geneva Convention man­dates that no occupying power is allowed to establish civilian settlements in occupied regions, nor to annex part or all of the occupied territory. Clearly, the building of Israeli settlements in East Jerusalem and the West Bank and Gaza, none of which were included with­in Israel's pre-196 7 borders, is in direct violation of this-document. In light of international law concerning annexation of occupied lands, we do not accept Israel's justification of Jabal Abu Ghneim/Har 1-Ioma as a legitimate build­ing project on territory within Israel's sovereign boundaries. 

Furthermore, the creation of "facts-on­the-ground" undermines the Oslo Accords, which sought to postpone deci­sions regarding Jerusalem until perma­nent status negotiations. While the building of a settlement on Jabal Abu Ghneim/1-lar Homa may not directly vio­late the letter of the Oslo treaty, it does implicitly and unmistakably ignore the widely held understanding that Jerusalem's future would be decided in bilateral final negotiations. 
Despite these violations, the United States continues to support Israel, diplo­matically, financially, and militarily. Certainly the roughly $4 billion in unqualified general and military aid that the U.S. gives Israel annually include support for the economic conditions nec­essary for the costly maintenance and expansion of settlements on occupied lands. 
U.S. support does not stop there, how­ever. The U.S. has recently vetoed two United Nations Security Council resolu­tions, supported by all other Security Council members, that criticized Israel's settlement policies. The U.S. has acted similarly in the U.N. General Assembly where 130 of 134 members of the international community supported a resolution demanding that Israel recon­sider its plans. This widespread and continuing U.S. financial and diplomatic support allows Israel to ignore both local and international pressure to halt the construction. 
Please know that we are not interested in a single-minded or one-sided stance in this complex issue. We are aware of, and fully disapprove of, those actions of the Palestinian Authority, including the release of known terrorists, which also clearly undermines the peace process. Our objective here is not to "take sides," but rather to express our disapproval of, and even embarrassment by, the contin­uing U.S. support of Israeli actions which prove destructive to the peace process. If our government is truly com­mitted to peace and justice in this land, and seeks to maintain its position as guarantor of the peace process, it can­not continue to support the development of civilian settlements on occupied and/or annexed land. In short, we ask that the U.S. government begin to take responsibility for the influential role that it plays in Israel's aggressive and provocative behavior. 
As taxpaying U.S. citizens, it is not only our right but also our responsibility to express our disapproval of those policies of our own government which under­mine peace and justice in this Holy Land. Accordingly, we would very much like to arrange a meeting with you to discuss these issues. Please know that we will not sit back silently as the peace process unravels. Thank you for your time and cooperation. 
ERIC GIOVANNI JEREMY HUTTON NATHAN McGREGOR MANDl O'DONNELL MARK RINCON JAMIKO ROSE MARY ELLEN SHEEHAN STEPHEN STEINBEISER Fr. PATRICK GAFFNEY, C.S.C. director 
America's educational future depends on government action 
America's system of public education is facing a crisis that, if not addressed immediatdy, will result in the perpetua­tion of domestic conflicts such as poverty, inequality. violence, and drug addiction, and the decline of U.S. influence in global, political and economic affairs. While politicians and lobbyists in our nation's capitol usc rhetoric like vouchers, school choice and contracting, parents, volun-

J.P. Cooney 
teers, and professional educators are busy combating the crisis. 
Over spring break I participated -in the Center for Social Concerns' Washington Seminar on education policy. During my week of discussions with Washington power brokers, students, educators and volunteers, I learned that there is a defi­nite communication gap between the edu­cational and political system. Politicians and lobbyists in Washington do not have the first clue what is facing public educa­tors today, particularly ones in urban areas. Republicans preach privatization, Democrats advocate standardized testing -meanwhile America's children suffer. There is hope, however, and I witnessed it at two D.C. public schools. 
Over 95 percent of Thomas Jefferson Junior High School's (grades 7-9) 814 stu­dents are people of color, most of whom are African-American. 87 percent of them get their luuches for free or at a reduced price because their parents cannot afford to buy them. The 814 students plus facul­ty and staff reside in a building whose capacity is 526. Their Title One money, a vital part of their operating budget, was stripped a few years ago because their math and reading scores exceeded city and national averages. 
I met with several Jefferson ninth graders while in D.C., all of whom were twice as cordial, sophisticated, and artic­ulate as I was by my senior year of high school, let alone when I was a freshman. Each one was active in some extracurric­ular activity, and more impressively, these kids had all participated in some sort of community service during the school year. Most of them even arrive at school an hour early every day to partic­ipate in a voluntary math and science program. I did not feel, however, that these students were the exception at Jefferson; I felt them to be the norm. 
The Jefferson students have a genuine passion for learning. They excel because they are proud of their school, they love their fellow classmates, they respect and admire their teachers, and they aspire to lofty goals. These are inner-city, low­income, ethnic minority children -the ones our political system has undoubtedly abandoned. Yet they have managed to beat the odds and succeed. How? 
In spite of the school's success, Jefferson's principal Adela Washington complains vehemently about a lack of government commitment to funding and resource procurement Rather than become muddled in the political debate, however, she and the Jefferson communi­ty have turned elsewhere for support 
The National Institute of Health and Catholic University have provided money and equipment so students can do college level research. Other private sector com­panies have funded a computer lab equipped with software and Internet access. (These kids can surf the web and develop Power Point presentations -I could not do that until last year.) Also, a foundation founded in the memory of the lost astronauts from the Challenger explo­sion funded the construction of a mock mission control station where students simulate actual missions to outer space. The simulations require students to apply their math, science, communication, and listening skills in a practical situation. 
Across town, Garrison Elementary School possesses the lowest reading scores in the city. Their students are also low-income and predominantly ethnic minorities. They too are under-funded and neglected by the government But they too have found a way to address their problems. 
Coach John McCarthy, a member of the 
D.C. community, volunteered to begin an after school baseball and reading pro­gram at Garrison two years ago. The coordination of this program is a full-time job, but McCarthy does it for free. He was able to obtain an obscure government grant (the type that should be standard, not obscure) which has covered the cost of equipment and a hardly "livable stipend for his sole assistant The program includes about 40 kids and several high become entrenched in a political debate that perpetuates rather than solves the system's ills. 

Politicians, particularly conservatives, point to schools like Jefferson and Garrison and say, "You see, they did it without a lot of money; it can be done." I look at those schools and dream about the limitless possibilities if only our gov­
school volunteers. They ernment did not try to pre­play baseball for an scribe politically popular hour and read for an solutions, but rather hour. If they do not secured the necessary complete their reading resources so that educa­they cannot participate tors can educate, not dan­in practice or in the gle at the end of a frayed games on the week­piece of thread. As much ends. as Jefferson and Garrison 
The kids in Garrison's are success stories, they baseball program have are also tragedies. improved their reading Jefferson and Garrison skills, increased their are two schools which had self-confidence, and to circumvent the system have something to look to save themselves from 

forward to arthe end of the day other than hitting the streets. Such a program should exist at every ele­mentary school in America -but the government will not put together the money or resources to do it 
Coach McCarthy asked those of us on the seminar a complex question: Who is to blame when a young person turns 18 without the skills to get a job and winds up addicted to drugs, in jail, or dead? Coach McCarthy went around the room for responses. We pointed the finger at parents, the educational system, drugs, poor role models -anything we could think of to put our minds at ease. The coach listened to our replies and calmly shared with us his answer: "I am," he said. "I am to blame, because I had an opportunity to make a difference in that youngster's life, and I didn't" 
I commend Coach McCarthy's sense of social responsibility and his awareness of how fortunate he is. And he is certainly right-those of us who are blessed in life with a solid education and the skills to make a difference do have a responsibili­ty to rescue that young person from despair. However, if that is not the role of our federal, state, and local governments, why do they exist at all? Education, the root to solving each and every one of America's domestic problems, has 
certain failure. However there are schools out there that cannot transcend the crisis the way they have ­not because there are not devoted educa­tors and capable children, but because they are trapped in a political and eco­nomic system which prevents escape. It is the role of our government to find the escape route, not block it as it has. 
America is the wealthiest nation on earth. We spend upwards of 16 percent of federal outlays on defense annually, while committing barely 3 percent to education. The argument that the money does not exist, or that we must do more with less, is simply unacceptable. The money and resources do exist, but our leaders are too busy juggling it around to secure their own futures, rather than those of our country. 
If Jefferson and Garrison were able to independently obtain what they needed, then certainly our legislators, who pos­sess a bully pulpit and access to the bud­get, can do the same. We must eliminate the need to work around the system, and make it work for our children-our future depends on it 
J.P. Cooney is a sophomore economics and government major. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney. 6@nd. edu. 
'-----~-=--·--~-~-~-~-------= 
page 12 Wednesday, April9. 1997
ACCENT 

• ACCENT ASKS 
What is your favorite television theme song? 


'"The Smurfs' because the whole show is a Communist propaganda plot to subvert our youth." 
Mark Leen Sophomore, Stanford 
"'Perfect Strangers' because it makes 
me want to do the 'Dance of Joy."' 
Bea Przybysz Sophomore, Siegfried 



"'Sportcenter' because it warms my heart." 
Mike Bredeweg Junior, Keenan 
'"Sanford and Son' because you can 
hum to it." 
Kevin Graves 
Junior, Fisher 



"'The Great American Hero' because I admire the curly haired dude." 
Shannon Blalock, Junior, Pasquerilla West 
"'NFL Primetime' because when I hear the 
song, I know that the show is going to be 
on." 
David Johnson Sophomore, Alumni 

// 



and Plug int 
Bv KRISTEN MICHELE BOGNER Accent Writer 
T
he typical Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College student has a few stock complaints that surface afton in conversation. lie laments that the weather sucks, she argues the work load could stand to be lighter, gender relations are uninspir­ing, and, worst of all, the campus and South Bend are definitnly wanting in tho nightlife department. 
We have been bestowed mixed blessings at this wonderful school which offers many opportunities for educational enrichment but woefully little in the way of interesting 
A Q ' 

social gatherings, save the occ~sional intox-
J L PY , 

icating SYR's and formals. 
The Acoustic Cafe is a fairly well-kept secret that may possess the power to change some opinions of the school's on-campus evening opportu­nities. John Gavula runs the Acoustic Cafe, which is spon-



Brian Hamilton 
sored by the Student Union Board. This event, which takes place every Thursday evening from nine until midnight, is absolutelyj these Thursdays, while some are fixated in cramped dorm rooms in front of1 and "ER," the Huddle is magically transformed from a tedious mall food co cozy, mellow coffeehouse. The lights dim, the equipment is fur­nished, a backdrop is hung, and the music finally commences. 
Moreover, the Acoustic Cafe lures students out of the blustery Notre Dame weather with com­plementary coffee for those who wish to partake of it. 
This venue also highlights a plethora of various artistic gen­res; it runs the gamut from the typical acoustic guitar scene to storytelling sessions and poetry recitations. Rock 'n roll, folk, alternative, classical, and ethnic music are also featured. Although cover songs are often played, many original pieces are 
Chris Goddard 

showcased at the Huddle. 

The Observer/Kevin Datum 
r
ACCENT

Wednesday, April 9, 1997 page 13 




}\ceustic Cafe 
The Acoustic Cafe has hosted such acts as Goorge and the Freeks and Emily Lord: both acts have since graduated. This season's ff~atures include classical porformances by one of Notre Dame's prcmiorc violinists, Jeanine Wynton, and some ethnic music by the well-estab­lishnd group Sabor Latino. Some cam­pus bands appearing this year are Cod in Salsa. Jalopy, and Vibe. The Soulful Bowlful. Notre Dame's jazz quartet, also JWrforms at these Thursday evening jam snssions. Chris Goddard. Matt Curreri, Aaron Dunn. Brian "B-Ham" llamilton. and even John Gavula, who occasionally frees himself from his managerial duties, strum at their guitars and croon a few 
sweet tunes to the mellow audience. These Thursday nights are all about the 

v.·be 

expression and growth which abound at 
L._________________.~ 
Notre Dame. which. with its bright and talented stu­dent body, is a fecund breeding ground for creativi­ty. Anyone with an interesting idea, a little talent, and a bit of daring can arrange a space to perform by telephoning John. The Acoustic Cafe is not con­fined merely to Notre Dame students; anyone in thn 
-(;).vs~ ~­
~AFf .. 
• 1,~ I
..ilf. -· •. 
...........,......~ •'.
-...···.l·.a·· ··.·
()~······.. ·... ·.···.· ·.......·.· ... ... 
·.·io&[,·•. .....)
~'·A~~·· 
,.....~._~
/#lllllir..~.-­
Matt Curreri 

Michiana area can perform. There is nothing hippie-ish or revolutionary about this event; conservatives and lib­

Percy Rose 
erals alike can unite in their love for music and art. 
The performers seem genuinely excited to have an outlet for their emotions and creative talents, and the music that they create is spec­tacular. So, whether you've had enough of "Seinfeld," or are just searching for some good back­ground music for a study session, drop in on the Acoustic Cafe and stay awhile. 
You will be astonished at the showcase of talent which would oth­erwise go unnoted. were it not for these wonderful Thursday evening celebrations of artistic freedom and exhibition. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 

N D Music Scene: 
AReally Happening Place 
ByJOE WEILER Accent War Cotresp(lndent 

M
usic -it is a tricky matter to deal with here at Our Lady's Daycamp. There are relatively few good campus bands,.and they hardly ever play on campus. WSND has a Nocturne show with a variety of good music, but that plays between 12-2 a.m. , way past the bedtime of all the good little boys and girls. WVFI plays a decent mix which may satiate even the most picky 
of music connisseur, but if someone inadvertently farts too loud in 
Lafortune (or· LaFun as we really sick people like to call it), the 
signal gets interrupted. 

Acoustic Cafe, along with all ofits dorm spinoff's like Morrissey Unplugged and Keough Cafe, are somewhat viable alternatives. The music highlighted there is usually pretty good, but in terms of social atmosphere it can't hold a candle to the Stepan Center. 
Let's face it, there's not much that really can compare to the 
fantastic feeling you get when you struggle to make out the lyrics 
to the song being played by some guy you don't recognize, stand­
ing on stage. But. hey, he must be famous if we've agreed to let 
him play at Stepan. Every. once in a while SUB gets a big name to 
play in the Iron Bra (or the JACC as two or three people like to 
call it), but that happens about as often as someone gets kicked 
out of CJ'1:l for having an invalid I D. 
So what does all of this mean? Well, not much. It goes along 
With the old saying; "You can please some of the people all of the 
time, but you can't kill the rest." I'm not sure who said that, but 
h~ m:u$tha\l~<been pretty smart. Anyway, all of this talk about a 
lack of a good music scene at Notre Dame is merely useless 
rhetoric, unless, of course, someone comes up with something 
better. Seeing as how there doesn't seem to be anyone else jump­
ing at the>chance to do that, I have decided to undertake this 
Herculean effort. 

In an attempt to find something which will make everyone happy I have come up with a few Headliners whom I'd like to see play for the masses ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
+ Patty 0 and the Funky Bunch. In a perfect world, Patty O'Hara and her lackey, Bill Kirk give up their jobs in Student Affairs to become a duo of gangsta rappers. Instead of stage div­ing, crowd surfing, or destroying equipment, they simply jump into the crow and pummel as many people as they can to a bloody pulp with their own feet. Forget all of that East Side-West Side rivalry. Patty 0 and the fucky Bunch, (also known as Bill) will kick it down with the North Quad-South Quad War. Some of the most popular lyrics will be ''Hey! Ho! North HALL SUCKS!" and ''Ya,ya, ya, no,ya! But at least we're closer to Canada." 
+The MONKEES In a popular parody of the 70's sitcom starring Micky Dolan and three other funny looking guys. Monk Malloy and three fellow priests get together to spice up the popular "Chant" with an alternative twist. The new format, called "Grungorian Rant" will mimic the sounds of Nirvana's "Smells like Teen Spirit" while adding random Latin phrases like: "Semper ubi sub ubi," "fidum scit," "e pluribus unum," and "ad nauseam." 
+ Jo:;b~ and the PussyCats. I really have nothing interesting to 
say ab?u(this group except that I think it would be interesting to see. what;would happen if weinvited aband onto campus whose y ry, ' alii). dt!; Lac. Bysides; inviting aband that exists 
··.. · lgijsjUsf a~.. ible a:s electing a student ol1 the phttfc;)r at he'd bring the Greatful 
$. 
+ 
T . ies. A take off on the old gang, the ''Archies", this group is a favorite of the golden oldies. This is not, however, because of their love for classical music. The Arkies simply have not seen the light of day since the '70s and are perpetually stuck in a time warp. This does, however, make for some nice music. 

+MiChael Jackson. Come on! You know you want to see him in concert! 

+ 
Finally> the grand concert will come to a close on a more somber n~te. Working together on an international theme, all of the mathteachers will join hands as they sing "We Are the World.'! Misslng fromthe rrrst rendition will be such phrases as ''We afe the ol).es who make a better place so go back to high school you dummy! Agree with me. Yes!'' 


Yes,.sir, The music scene at Notre Dame could be one happen­ing place: . It simply takes a little bit of imagination and a really warped sense of humor. 
Joe Weiler is a business/communications major, who, inciden­tally•. hada very difficult math test this morning. 
I . I 
• 1 
I I I I 
-I I I 
I 

~--------------------~----------------------------~----------------------------------------~-------­
Wednesday, April 9, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
•MlB 

Cubs fall to Marlins, tie worst start in 122 years 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The winless Chicago Cubs matched the worst start in their 122-year history as the Florida Marlins used Charles Johnson's two-run seventh­inning double to win 5-3 Tuesday and go five games over .500 for the first time ever. 
The loss in the chilly, windy home opener dropped the Cubs to 0-7, equaling the start of the 1962 team. To avoid breaking the record on Thursday, they must defeat the same Florida club that has beaten them four times this season and improved to a 6-1, the major leagues' best record. 
AI Leiter (2-0) allowed five hits and three runs in six innings, walking three and striking out six to outpitch Steve Trachsel (0-2) on a 29­degree day that included a wind-chill factor of 1. 
Trachsel took a three-hitter into the seventh before giving up Bobby Bonilla's leadoff sin­gle. One out later, Bonilla stole second and went to third on catcher Scott Servais' bad throw, the Cubs' 12th error this year. Trachsel walked Devon White and struck out Jeff Conine before Johnson sent the next pitch down the left-field line to put Florida ahead 4-3. 
The Marlins added a ninth­inning run on Moises Alou's single and Devon White's RBI double. Robb Nen pitched the ninth for his third save. 
Johnson, the NL Gold Glove catcher each of the last two seasons, caught two Cubs steal­ing and picked Dave Hansen off first base after he led off the seventh with a pinch single. 
Gary Sheffield hit his first homer of the season, and also doubled and scored as the Marlins won their first road game. They were 28-53 away from Florida last season. 
Sammy Sosa hit his first homer and drew a bases­loaded walk that gave the Cubs a 3-2 fifth-inning lead. Sosa, who had 40 homers and 100 RBis last season, entered the game with none of either and a batting average of .095. 
Cardinals 2, Expos 1 
With one swing, Willie McGee put all the St. Louis Cardinals' troubles behind them. 
McGee's pinch-hit home run with two outs in the ninth Tuesday night ended the team's worst start ever, giving the Cardinals a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Expos. 
"That was more dramatic than 'The Natural,"' manager Tony La Russa said. "And that was a made-up movie. I don't· know how he did it." 
McGee, 38, scoffed at the cinematic reference. 
"That's a movie, that's fan­tasy," McGee said. "I work hard and every now and then, things work out." 
McGee has won two batting titles and entered the season with a .298 career average in 14 seasons. But before Tuesday, he'd never hit a game-winning home run. 
"That's the last thing on my mind," McGee said. "You dream of things like that, but I'm not that kind of a hitter." 
McGee connected off Ugueth Urbina's first-pitch changeup for his 74th home run in his 16th major league season. The 38-year-old reserve outfielder, who has been nursing a calf injury, batted .350 (14-for-40) as a pinch-hitter last season. 
"I don't look at the stats much but this afternoon I noticed McGee was 3-for-4 against him," Expos manager Felipe Alou said. "Now he's 4­for-5." 
Urbina said he knew McGee liked to hit the first pitch. 
"I hung it a little bit," he said. "In the cold weather, it's hard to grip the ball." 
The Cardinals' 0-6 start in­cluded a three-game, season­opening sweep at Montreal. A crowd of 47,542 saw the NL Central champions win their home opener and send the Expos to their fourth straight loss. 
Urbina (1-1) got out of a bases-loaded situation in the eighth. After Ron Gant tripled off Dave Veres, Urbina walked Brian Jordan and John Mabry with two outs but then struck out Gary Gaetti on three pitch­es. 
Heliever Mark Petkovsek (1­
1) allowed two hits and struck out three in four scoreless innings for St. Louis. 
"Petkovsek was outstand­ing," La Russa said. "I think there were only one or two balls hit hard. lie really shut them down and gave us a chance to squeak one out." 
The Cardinals are still not scoring, totaling two or fewer runs in six of their seven games, but two was enough for a sellout crowd that turned out in frigid weather with the tem­perature 45 degrees at game­time and 37 by the ninth. 

Expos starter Jeff Juden last­ed six innings and gave up a run and five hits with six strikeouts. He also faced the Cardinals in his first start April, going seven innings and allow­ing a run in a 4-1 victory. 
Facing the Expos for the sec­ond time in six days, Alan Benes had seven strikeouts in five innings. He was lifted because he had thrown 99 pitches, allowing a run on four hits. 
The Cardinals took the lead in the second when Gaetti, bat­ting .1 05, got a one-out infield hit, Tom Lampkin singled and Roberto Mejia hit a sacrifice fly for his first RBI of the year. 
Mike Lansing, 2-for-13 in the season-opening series against the Cardinals, got his first RBI in the third for Montreal. His two-out single scored Chris Widger, who had doubled to start the inning. 
Braves 4, Astros 2 
Jeff Blauser has never been on an 8-for-8 tear before. In fact, over the past two years he hadn't been on many 2-for-8 spurts either. 
Blauser went 4-for-4 Tuesday night to lead the Atlanta Braves to a 4-2 win over the Astros. 
The Atlanta shortstop, who batted .245 last season and .211 in 1995, is hitting .542 (13-for-24) so far this year. 
"When you haven't been hit­ting for two years, eight hits in a row feels like 80 in a row," Blauser said. "What can I say, I'm having fun and enjoying the game. It's been a while." 
Tom Glavine pitched seven shutout innings to beat Houston for the second time in five days, and Kenny Lofton and Chipper Jones had two RBis apiece as the Braves won their fifth straight after opening the year with two losses in llouston. 
Blauser had two doubles and two singles and now needs hits in his next two at-bats to tie the NL and franchise records for consecutive hits. He also scored three runs. 
Atlanta manager Bobby Cox hopes that his shortstop's strong start quiets some of his detractors. 
"Jeff has been ripped in the papers a lot," Cox said. "Some of his critics think they know it all but I do. Jeffs a good play­er. He's a winner. We've been winning since '91 with him playing shortstop." . 
Glavine (2-0) struck out four and walked two in his 300th career start. The left-hander stranded two runners in the second, third, and fifth innings as the Braves improved to 4-0 at Turner Field. . 
"It's gratifying to go out and win even though you don't have your best stuff." Glavine said. "I was happy with my perfor­mance. I pitched better than my first start in llouston. I'm not as comfortable as I'm going to be." 
Mike Bielecki worked the eighth and Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth for his third save. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. . 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon -Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
College Student Vocation Survey­give us your opinion at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html 
Interested in Making Extra $$$? 
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ing for students to make follow up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flexible hours. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­5754 
EUROPE $229. 
Within USA $79.-$129. 
Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t 
Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!! 
http://www.airtich.org AIRTICH 1-800-326-2009 
ILOST & FOUND I 
REWARD: Lost yellow labrador puppy, about 45 lbs. & 6 mo.s, last seen stray at St. Louis Street pany on Saturday night taken away by 2 
ladies. Please call Dave at 288­9102 with any info at all. 
LOST: STRING OF PEARS AND A CROSS ON CAMPUS BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY & BASILICA IN LATE MARCH. PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729 OR 
234-7287 AFTER 6PM. 
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with my name written in gold on the cover. 
Extremely important information 
inside. I really need it! 
Please call Tara at 4-1291 
LOST: one pearl-drop earring; lost somewhere near SDH on Easter Sunday; Great sentimental value. Call Amy X4218. Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring Reward! Call Dee at 232-5474. 
WANTED 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS A-DIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­MENT -Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext. C55846 
Internet internships in Washington! Marketing, journalism, web design, PR, research! Call Ben: 202-408-0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org 
New sterling store in University Park Mall needs par-time sales and full-time manager. Good pay. Retail experience and a very good attitude required. 1-800-903-1614. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/mo + benefits (room & board). Call Alaska Information Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841. 
Paid Record Label Internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt./rock music. 10­20hrs/wk, working w/record stores, lifestyle stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ANTS. 
Alaska Employment-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call {919)918-7767, ext. A154. 
Cruise Lines Hiring -Earn to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel {Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. neces­sary. (919)918-7767, ext.C154. 
National Parks Hiring · Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Ranches, Rafting Companies. Nationwide openings: Call {919)918-776:, ext.R154. 
I FORRENT 
Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595 
College Park Sublet 
for June and July '97. 3-4 People 2BR, 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt. Call 273-3054 
Lease our College Park Apt. for the Summer! Call X4620 for info. Thanks! 
···college Park Apartment ... 
-$175 per person, per month 
-subletting for June & July 
-washer, dryer, air cond 
-call X1266 
Must see nice 3 bdr home. 2 blocks/campus. Avail -now or Fall. 273-1566 
Staying in South Bend for the summer?? Sublet our College· Park apartment!! CALL 284-4347 for details! 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 
272-6306 
New house close to campus avail. 
for summer sublet $240 a month 
per person 243-9438 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
2773097 
FOR SALE 

Oldsmobile Cutlass 4 dr 1981-only 60,000 mi. -new motor-body in good cond. Call 273-9111 
85 Honda Civic, 5-spd, 78K mi. good cond., $1200 obo, call Deepak @271-8358. 
HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER Great nbrhd, near ND 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 288 7862 

FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the 
U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 
'88 HONDA ACCORD LX Reliable -$4000 or best offer 273-1550 
TICKETS 
Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help! Brian-287-4876 Thank You 

Do you have an extra GRADUA­TION TICKET{S)? Will pay well!! Please call Paige at X4011 
I need grad tickets! Will pay. Call Ethan, X1659. 
NEED ND GRAD. TIX. $$ PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. 
I NEED GRADUATION TIX!! WILL PAY BIG$$!! x2369 

STEVE MILLER TICKETS CENTER STAGE 1st 10 ROWS FLOOR 4/25 JACC; 272-7233. 
PERSONAL 

COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! Friday, April 11. Join your ND/SMC family in an experiencia religiosa. Open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, sponsored by Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat Neary at 631-7712 for more info. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
Want the best job on campus? 
Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11 :30-12:30 M-F or call4-1188 or 1-6616 for ?'s 
{Only MALES need apply) 
Family Needs Graduation Tickets -Please Help! Christian 273-6967 
ADOPTION Happily married couple promises love, warmth & a secure future for your baby. Respect for you & your decision. Expenses paid. Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344 
OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more. Tom & Tammy, South Bend. 
1-800-484-1607code:9883 
CLASS OF 1998 
JOIN SENIOR CLASS COUNCIL 
Boost your resume! Help plan Sr. Week! This is your last chance to get involved in Class Gov't! 
PICK UP AN APPLICATION OUT­SIDE 213 LAFUN. Due back by the 18th. 
########################### 
ATIENTION all LESBIAN. GAY. BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING students, faculty, and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College: There will be a Support Group meeting TOMORROW at 7:30. For the location of the meeting, call the a­LINE at 236·9661. 
########################### 
HEADACHE, BACK & NECK PAIN RELIEF CLINIC Kaurich Chiropractic 3511 Lincolnway West South Bend 282-2828 
"We Don't Feel Good Until You Feel Your Best" 
STOMPER BOB PRESENTS ... DAWGFEST AT JAZZAMAN'S 
TOMORROW NIGHT!!! 
Bookstore BAsketball Final: 
Team John Black 23 Facts of Life 25 
We are on the alternate calling schedule. Don't listen to your cousin. 
You never came up to visit. 
####################### 
Happy 21st birthday to Dan Eagen! 
####################### 
MarkDeBoy is callipygian. {Look it up) 
Love is not like a potato. You can't throw it out the window. 
Kate, are you saying i can't play my Garth next year??? -LP 
PQ-Hey, I'm forgetting what you look like... -MK :-) 
-~ 

-----~--~-------~----~~---..-------~ 
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 

Former Pistons encounter Vegas point-shaying scandal 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Illustrator Editor 

If interested, submit a one page statement ofinterest and a brief page portfolio to the Observer, on the 3rd floor of LaFortune, by Thursday, April 10. Applications should be addressed to Ed Leader. Questions? X4428 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The NBA on Tuesday de­nounced as '.'baseless" a book's claim that heavy gambling loss­es by lsiah Thomas and James Edwards raised questions about point-shaving during two Detroit Pistons games in 1989. 
Jeffrey Mishkin, the league's chief legal officer, called "absolutely false" the con­tention in the book "Money Players" that the NBA recently reopened an investigation into point-shaving in the late 1980s. 
Mishkin said the only investigation occurred after the book's authors -ABC corre­spondent Armen Keteyian, New York Times sports columnist Harvey Araton a.nd Sports Illustrated reporter Martin Dardis -sent letters to Thomas and Edwards, ques­tioning them about point-shav­ing. 
The book, which cites six pri­mary unidentified sources, in­cluding four eyewitness ac­counts, quotes both Pistons players denying any involve­ment. 
"I've never, ever been involved in point-shaving, bet­ting on games," Thomas said in the book. 
Thomas, now general manag­er of the Toronto Raptors, said on Tuesday: "I wish the people who are supposedly saying this would put a face behind it. It's 


Rookie seals one-run victory 
Associated Press 


Senior Weel~ )·:'!(between 11-2 pm 
Queslions Call 7-5711 

very easy to stand behind walls and throw stones. Let's put a face behind it and a name he­hind it ... I've just heard that one of the sources is a Pistons executive, and everything else was, 'he said, she said."' 
Earlier on Tuesday, Thomas told The Sports Network: "During my time in college, high school and sometimes in the pros, yeah you know you play cards, yott shoot ,dice. But I never, ever point-shaved, gam­bled or bet on games." 
Joe Dumars, who played for the 1989-90 Pistons and is still with the team, said he never saw anything to substantiate the charges in the book. 
"I never saw anything to indi­cate to me that would even pos­sibly be the case," Dumars said Tuesday. "You look at that, you're talking about a guy who was the most competitive guy that I ever played with. So it would be hard for me to believe that." 
Mishkin said both players for­warded the letters to the NBA, and the league then looked into the issue. 
"It should be clear to anyone that the authors were also un­able to find any substantiation for their claim, which is based entirely on unnamed sources with no factual support," Mishkin said. "It is regrettable that in their unrestrained eagerness to create publicity for their book, the authors have chosen to hurl baseless charges at the expense of NBA players and their families." 
Keteyian called the NBA statement inaccurate. 
"We never used the word 'charges,"' he said. "We said 'concerns.' That's different. We never accused them. 
"The league skipped the most serious allegations of high stakes gambling and charges that Thomas lost up to $1 mil­lion in high stakes dice games. 
"It seems to me that an issue they should be concerned about when two starters are accused of associating with crime fig­ures. The NBA tried to take what we wrote out of context and spin it into damage con­trol." 
Keteyian said there were four eyewitness accounts of Thomas and Edwards winning. and los­ing thousands of dollars. Keteyian said quotes were used only from sources who agreed to tell their stories to the au­thors' lawyers. 
Four of the sources said they witnessed craps games at the homes of Thomas' neighbor, Emmet Denha, and boxer Tommy Hearns. 
A fifth source was described as a former Pistons player who told Keteyian that he and his teammates discussed the possi­bility of point-shaving in two games in late 1989. 
run, walked three and struck out two. 
Ricky Bottalico pitched 1 1-3 innings for his third save, strik­ing out three. He has saved all three Phillies' wins so far this season. 
Mickey Morandini led off the game with a single, stole sec­ond, went to third on a ground­out and scored on Jefferies' RBI grounder. 
Mets 5, Dodgers 3 
Bobby Jones pitched eight in­nings for his second win and John Olerud went 4-for-4 Tuesday night to lead the New York Mets to a 5-3 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Jones (2-0) allowed three runs and five hits before leav­ing for a pinch-hitter in the eighth. The right-hander's 127­pitch outing helped the Mets win their third game this sea­son in two hours, 37 minutes, following their five-hour, 15­inning loss on Monday night. 
Greg McMichael, acquired in the offseason from Atlanta, pitched the ninth for his first save. Bernard Gilkey and Todd Hundley each drove in two runs for the Mets, who built a lead 4­1 after three innings. 

based on the novel by
Friday, April 18 
7:30p.m. John Steinbeck 
adapted by 
Saturday, April i 9 
7:30p.m. Frank Galati 
Sunday, April 20 directed by 2:30p.m. Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 

.------­
,-_ 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Purdue suspends player 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Chike Okeafor, who would have been the most experi­enced player on Purdue's football team next fall, has been suspended indefinitely. 
"Chike Okeafor was sus­pended indefinitely from our team for conduct detrimental to the team," coach Joe Tiller said Tuesday. 
Purdue officials declined to be more specific about the suspension, citing a student's right to privacy. 
It isn't_the first time the 6­foot-5, 237 pound Okeafor, a linebacker. has been sus­pended. Former coach Jim Colletto suspended the former West Lafayette High School star last April after he was arrested when Purdue police were called to an apartment complex to investigate the smell of marijuana. Police chased Okeafor for several blocks before he obeyed their commands to stop. 
He was charged with possession of marijuana, resisting law enforcement and visiting a common nuisance after that arrest. He had to pay a $100 fine. complete a substance abuse program and work on a road crew for 10 days. 
Okeafor was an honorable mention All-Big Ten Conference player the past two years. He started 30 games the past three seasons, had 253 tackles, including 170 solo efforts in his career. Seventeen of his tackles were for losses. 
Wednesday, April 9, 1997
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 

Hardaway leads Magic over Bucks 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Penny Hardaway scored 30 points, including seven in a 13­0 second-half run. as the Orlando Magic beat the Milwaukee Bucks 97-82 on Tuesday night. 
The Magic won for just the second time in seven games and maintained their No. 7 po­sition in the Eastern Conference playoff race, 2 1/2 games ahead of Cleveland and three ahead of Washington. Milwaukee lost for the 19th time in its last 23 games. 
Orlando trailed by eight points at halftime, but Hardaway scored seven points in a 13-0 outburst between the third and fourth quarters as the Magic went up 68-61 with 8:55 remaining. 
Derek Strong, who started for 
injured forward Horace Grant. 
hit two straight jumpers in the 
run and Hardaway's three­
point play with 52 seconds left 
in the third gave the Magic a 
62-61 lead -Orlando's first 
since 13-12 -going into the 
final period_ 
.MlB 
Yankees' Strawberry hearing postponed 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
A probation revocation hearing for New York Yankees star Darryl Strawberry was postponed Tuesday after a 20-minute hear­ing in a judge's chambers. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Alejandro Mayorkas would not say why the government is seeking to revoke Strawberry's probation. 
Strawberry, who did not play in the Yankees' 5-3 win over the Anaheim Angels on Monday night, declined comment afterward, as did his attorneys. 
Strawberry pleaded guilty in February 1995 to one felony count 
of tax evasion. 

1219) 424-6443 •· a;leForty@Wayne, IN 46805-4749 
rps fortwayne.>nfLne/ 
At the Adler School of Professional Psfchology, all of our faculty members are active clinica professionals. So you'll benefit from their practical knowledge. And you'll get to enjoy an academic climate geared toward working professionals: 
• 
Masters and Postgraduate programs, may lead to doctorate 

• 
Most classes on Friday evenings, Saturdays and Sundays 

• 
Small classes 

• 
Variety of programs in Counseling Psychology, ~arriage & Fami-ly Counselmg, Substance Abuse Counsehng, Adlerian Psychology 


So whether you already hold a degree or you're an undergraduate, call or e-mail us. We've been helping working professionals reach an advanced degree in psychology for 25 years. 

FORT WAYNE 
1720 Beacon Street • Fort Wayne. IN 46805-4749 
(219) 424-6443 • adlerpsy@fortwayne.JnfLnet 
Tht .-\dlt'r Xhool of Professional r~~·~holo~y l!t_ oh:nl'dHt'd by rhe Nurrh Ccnrral AsSlKI.tnon. CEUs Jl'l'fm·t'd by rhe National Board for Cl'rtlllt'd Counsdor... Inc . , 
Yin Baker, who finished with 19 points and 17 rebounds, pulled the Bucks within 68-64 with 8:52 left, but Dennis Scott's three-pointer with 6:29 left capped a 9-0 run and the Magic never lost control. 
Grant sat out for the fourth time in five games because of back spasms. Strong finished with 13 points and 16 rebounds. Scott had 17 points. 
Glenn Robinson scored 12 of his 22 points in the first quarter and the Bucks used an 8-0 run between the first and second quarters to grab a 30-18 lead. 
Orlando pulled within 43-39 on a basket by Nick Anderson, but Chucky Brown scored four straight points to give the Bucks a 47-39 halftime lead. 
Raptors 100, Bullets 94 
Damon Stoudamire scored 29 points Tuesday night as the Toronto Raptors slowed Washington's playoff drive with a 100-94 victory over the Bullets. 
After Calbert Cheaney hit a 3­point shot to cut the lead to 98­R9 with 2:45 to play, 

The University Libraries of Notre Dame 
are pleased to announce 
BRITANNICA ONLINE 
is here to stay! 
Due to all the positive feedback we have received from students, staff and faculty concerning the Encyclopedia Britannica Online, the University Libraries will continue their subscription. Britannica Online is a faster and easier way to begin your search for information whether you're doing a research project or just seeking general facts and statistics. The Britannica is available through the University Libraries' homepage along with many other electronic reference resources such as: CARL UnCover, a database which indexes over 17,000 refereed and popular periodicals; LEXIS/NEXIS, a full-text database to newspaper and magazine articles, legal and business information; and UNLOC, the University ofNotre Dame Libraries' Online Catalog. 
The URL is: 
http://www.nd.edu/-refdept/guides/db-homep.htm 
"Begin searching our little corner ofthe Net today." 
Stoudamire -who added a game-high 13 assists -used his quickness to elude Rod Strickland and make a short jump shot for a 100-89 lead. 
Cheaney and Chris Webber had 21 points each for the Bullets (39-37), who started the night with a one-game lead over the Cleveland Cavaliers for the eighth and final playoff' spot in the Eastern Conference. 
The Bullets made a quick start, scoring the first seven points. However, as thfJ half wore on, the Raptors wore down the Bullets and finished with a flurry, using back-to­hack three-point plays by Doug Christie and Popeyc Jones to lead 53-44 at the break. 
Walt Williams added 24 points and nine rebounds for the Raptors, who arc 2-2 against the Bullets this season. Christie had 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
Juwan Howard added 19 points, eight assists and seven rebounds for the Bullets. who lost for just the third time in their last 10 games and are winless in four games at SkyDome. 
SUB WANTS YOU 
TO ATIEND A LECTURE 
ELIZABETH DOLE "AN AMERICA WE CAN BE" APRIL 26 AT 8:00 JOYCE CENTER GATE 10 
TICKETS: $3 STUDENTS (W/ ID AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK) $5 NON-STUDENTS (AT JOYCE CENTER TICKET OFFICE) 
Mavs 87, Trail Blazers 82 
Sasha Danilovic scored eight of his 22 points during a key fourth-quarter run as the Dallas Mavericks ended an 11­game losing streak. 87-82 over the Portland Trail Blazers on Tuesday night. 
With the Mavericks trailing 78-73, Danilovic hit a 3-pointer with 5:18 left. Shawn Bradley tied it at 78 on a 10-footer and, after Clifford Robinson scored from close range to give Portland the lead, Danilovic connected on a 3-pointcr from the right corner for an 81-80 advantage. 
Hasheed Wallace's dunk with' 
1:35 left put Portland in front for the last time, 82-81. 
Danilovic's two free throws then sent the Mavericks ahead for good, 83-82. Erick Strickland hit two foul shots with 12.4 seconds remaining. 
Clifford Robinson, whose 15 points paced the Trail Blazers, then missed a 3-pointer and Derek Harper converted two free throws with 4.1 to play to close out the scoring. 

Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
.MLB 
Butler scores winning run 

Associated Pres.s 
LOS ANGELES 

Shortly after the clock struck midnight, after a hurried, omi­nous trip to his throat specialist, Brett Butler rescued the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
His aU-or-nothing dash from second base to home in the 15th inning early Tuesday gave the Dodgers a 3-2 victory over the New York Mets. 
Butler did not start the game, the first time he had been out of the starting lineup this season. He didn't get back to the ball­park Monday night until the fourth inning, having visited his doctor to check on a growing soreness in the area where a cancerous tumor and lymph nodes were removed last May. 
"Brett's p~st history is what magnifies this event," team physician Michael Mellman said. "Having said that, we don't have any reason to believe there's a recurrence of his can­cer. Nothing's been defined here." 
Butler entered the game as a pinch-hitter in the ninth, with 
the score 2-2. He .walked twice 
and sacrificed before coming up 
again in the 15th. 
He hit a possible double-play ball that forced teammate Todd Zeile at second, but Butler's speed got him to first base. Then he stole second while Greg Gagne struck out. 
When Dodger catcher Tom Prince hit a roller to first base, John Olerud's two-out toss to rookie pitcher Joe Crawford covering first was too late. When Crawford looked to home it was too late to even attempt a 
·throw to beat the sliding Butler. 
''I was running all the way," 
Butler said. "Once I .saw he 
(Prince) was safe I knew I was 
going to score." 
Until Butler's speed a:pd savvy gave the Dodgers their fifth vic­tory against two losses in the new season, it had been a wor­ried and frustrating night for himself and his teammates. 
The pain had bothered Butler for several days. Mellman de· scribed it as a "dull ache on the left side of his jaw." 
Butler left Dodger Stadium before the game began to see an ear, nose and throat special­ist, Dr. John Rehni. 
''He has a swollen lymph node behind the left side of the jaw," Melman said during an impromptu news conferenc!Ol iii the third inning. ''He has been placed on aritibioticsand his progress will be folloWed/' .·.· 
Butler, on retuming. put ori. his uniform and made himself available in thefourthmriihg, ... 
Inserted to pinch-hit if!-the ninth, Butler provided sp11rks that his teammates couldn'tfari into a blaze for the next.several innings. Then carne hi~ 15th­inning grounder, the .~p,~uing stolen base and dash nome at.. 
12:06 a.m., endingth~.fiv(J~hour game. 
"Brett's fine. as you saw," Dodgers manager Bill Russell said. "He got on base, did what we needed. Heck, he got four at~ bats." 
Butler said he planned to start Tuesday night against the Mets. 
"I had the doctor tell me, 'Hey, it's not what you're think­ing.' Everything's fine," he said. 
EXCLUSIVELY for FACULTY a1uJ STAFF 

D or fast relief from the nagging ache .of taxes, .1_lwe recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax-deferred annuities designed to help build additional assets-money that can help make the difference between living and living well after your working years are over. 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary on a pretax basis, so you pay less in taxes now. And since earnings on your SRAs are also tax deferred until you receive them as retirement income, the money you don't send to Washington can work even harder for you. 
What else do SRAs offer? A full range of investment choices and the flnancial expertise of TIAA-CREF -America's largest retirement organization~ 
To End out more, stop by your benefits office or give us a call at I 800 842-2888. We'll show you how SRAs can lower your taxes. 
Do it today-it couldn't hurt. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 

*Based on assets under management. CREF certifi(:ates are distributed bv TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc fur more complete informati()n, induding ch~r~es and exp~nsel>, call I 800 842-2733, ext. 5509, for a current CRt-:F prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. Date of hrst use: 2/9; · 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
For Miller and fellow seniors Matt Gotsch and Keith Kurowski, it will be the one and only time they will be able to play in this annual rite of spring. Such prestigious venues as the Garden, Rupp Arena, Pauley Pavilion, and of course the Joyce Center, will give way to the rough and tum­ble courts at Stepan and those behind Lyons Hall and the Bookstore. 
Their opponents will no longer be the Allen Iversons, Ron Mercers, and Tim Thomases of the collegiate bas­ketball world, but rather, ordi­nary students who will don all sorts of basketball get-ups for the next couple of weeks. 
Despite the changing scenery, one thing forever remains con­stant. Each will undoubtedly still display that burning inten­sity to finish number one. No matter how much they each want to enjoy this once-in-a­lifetime moment, each still has one goal in mind: to yvin. 
''I'm excited to play," said Kurowski. "I know it'll be fun, but I plan on winning the whole tournament." 
Proof of this attitude is quite easy to find. Both Kurowski and Miller are hired guns on teams put together solely with the aim of taking out top-seed Corby's, the team which in­cludes Jeff Kloska and Dan 
Fannin of last year's champion, Dos Kloskas. 
Playing with Kurowski are twin towers Dan Frigo and Steve Starcks, while Miller is playing with Bookstore veter­ans Andy Goodenow and Chad Chevalier. 
"It will take a monumental effort to beat Corby's," said Kurowski. ''I've seen them play, and they're very good, but we have the attitude that we're going to win the whole thing." 
Conspicuously absent from this year's field are seniors Admore White and Marcus Young. Both have plans to pur­sue basketball after graduating from Notre Dame, and do not want to ruin those dreams by injuring themselves. 
"I want to continue with my basketball career, and I've been working with coach (John MacLeod) in an attempt to do just that," said Young. "My long-term goal is the NBA. but right now I'm looking at the USBL and other things as ways to gain exposure and to get a solid foundation." 
Added head commissioner Dan "The Man" Delaney, "We're very disappointed that [Admore and Marcus] are not playing, but we understand that it's a long season." 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior Pete Miller will try his luck in this year's Bookstore tournament. 

Happy 21st Birthda 

Meghan Th 
Drink slow... (slow as in not fast 
LOVE 
LP, Corb, Nix, Freiesl, McKeough, Crunk, and Buick 


1""'""--...--------------------------------~~---~---------~-~--~---~---~· ---·~---~-­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
• BOXING 
,. 


' 

conun ' ' 
o e arne oo a' 
Wednesday •April 9th •7pm
From yourfriends at 

DeBartolo 101 
De La Hoya confident in Whitaker bout 
Tyson rematch postponed 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Mike Tyson will postpone his May 3 rematch with Evander Holyfield after ·reopening a cut over his left eye that he originally suffered in his upset loss to Holyfield. 
The fight apparently will be postponed to June 28, said Marc Ratner, head of the Nevada Athletic Commission. 
"My understanding is he was treated and stitched today and the fight will be postponed,:' Ratner said. 
Tyson's camp scheduled a news conference for 5 p.m. (8 
p.m. EDT) at the MGM Grand hotel to discuss the reported injury. 
Ratner said he was told that Tyson was cut in the same place over the left eye in training three weeks ago and had given it time to heal. But he said it was reopened and the former heavyweight champion had to have stitch­es. It was the second time Tyson has postponed a fight with Holyfield, and the latest in a string of light postpone­ments for the former champi­on. 
Bruised ribs forced Tyson to pull out of a date with Holyfield in 1991, and he postponed a fight last July with Bruce Seldon after com­ing down with bronchitis. 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Oscar De La Hoya. an astute student of his trade, believes he learned something recently by watching tape of Pernell Whitaker's draw with Julio Cesar Chavez three years ago. 
De La Hoya, concluding a barnstorming tour to drum up interest for his match against Whitaker, said, "I saw that Whitaker couldn't stop Chavez, so that shows that he doesn't hav.~ the power to knock me out. 
Whitaker, who risks his WBC welterweight title against De La Hoya on Saturday night at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas. has lost just once and had one draw in his 42 career fights. But he's won only 17 by knockout. 
Only three of the unbeaten De La Hoya's 23 opponents have gone the distance. Chavez wasn't one of those, lasting just four rounds against him last June. 
The 24-year-old De La I-Ioya, nine years younger than his foe, said he definitely isn't taking the fight for granted. 
"Whitaker's dangerous. I know he'll be in great shape. I've been training not for the Whitaker of today, but for the Whitaker of four or five years ago," said De La Hoya, who won an Olympic gold medal in 1992, eight years after Whitaker was an Olympic champion at the Los Angeles Games. 
"I've trained hard, and I'm in the best shape of my life. I'm very focused," said De La Hoya, who is moving up from 140 pounds to the 147-pound wel­terweight limit. "There's a huge difference at 14 7 pounds. When I fought Chavez and (Miguel Angel) Gonzalez at 140 I felt strong, but I feel better than I ever have." 
Whitaker, who joined Tuesday's press conference via phone from Las Vegas, deri­sively called De La Hoya "the kid." 
"This is the best I've felt in seven years," said Whitaker, who fought his first pro fight in 1984, after winning at the Olympics. 
"The young kid has never seen anything like he's going to see Saturday night. This is not a rock concert, not a commer­cial." 
Asked if De La Hoya figured to be the toughest foe he'd met, Whitaker answered, "Never, not even close.... Not to take any­thing away from the kid. I'm just glad the kid signed. it got me back to my old ways." 
De La Hoya refused to get into verbal sparring with Whitaker, saying, "Sometimes I think he's trying to motivate himself by putting me down. Trash talking doesn't bother me a bit. It's a big joke to me." 

Both fighters will be coming off less-than-overwhelming per­formances. 
Whitaker trailed unheralded Diobelys Hurtado on all three judges' cards when he knocked Hurtado out in the 11th round of .their match Jan. 24 in Atlantic City. De La Hoya had to go the distance against Gonzalez, although he took a lopsided decision in their Jan. 17 bout in Las Vegas. 
"There's no such thing as looking back for me, Whitaker said of the Hurtado bout. ''I'm looking forward." 
De La Hoya admitted.he over­came problems prior to the Gonzalez fight. 
"I was worried about my con­dition since I had missed six days of training because of flu I had two weeks before the fight," he said. "But I beat him just using my left jab, and I wasn't sure of my conditioning, and I still saw that I was winning the fight with no problem. 
•NHl 

Lightning extend Eastern Conference lead 
Associated Press best previous streak was the final period, at 2:11. the opening 20 minutes, stoning 189:58, earlier this season. After taking Randy McKay's Steve Thomas during a three­TAMPA, Fla. The Devils countered pass at the right point, Doug on-one break and making a 
Martin Brodeur's shutout Weimer's ninth goal just 15 Gilmour hit the streaking glove save on a point-blank streak ended at three games. seconds later, when John Pandolfo in the low slot. drive by Scott Niedermayer. but the New Jersey Devils tied MacLean got his 27th. It was Pandolfo beat Rick Tabaracci Brodeur made 37 saves to 34 the Tampa Bay Lightning 2-2 the fourth straight game in for this fifth goal. for Tabaracci. Tuesday night to extend their which MacLean has had a goal, Both goaltenders were out­The tie gave the Devils 102 lead in the Eastern Conference extending his point-scoring standing. In the first period, points to 100 for idle race to two points. streak to six games. Brodeur poke-checked the puck Philadelphia with three games
Jason Wiemer scored at Cory Cross made it 2-1 for off Wiemer's stick and stopped remaining for both teams. The 
11:43 of the second period to Tampa Bay with his fourth Patrick Poulin's back-bander winner would claim the home­end Brodeur's career-best run goal, at 16:12. New Jersey's Jay from in close. ice advantage throughout the at 213 minutes, 52 seconds. His Pandolfo scored the only goal of Tabaracci was even better in NHL's conference playoffs. 


The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 

Irish squeak by Hoosiers, 5-4 

By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Every team at Notre Dame has its rivalry. The football team has its USC, the women's soccer team has its North Carolina, and the hockey team has its Michigan. For the women's ten­nis team, its annual matchup against Indiana has been raised to that status. 
"Every year, its always a tough matchup." head coach Jay Louderback remarked. "No mat­ter where either of us are ranked, it's always a close game that can go either way." 
Yesterday's match between Notre Dame and Indiana lived up to its billing, as the 14th­ranked Irish won 5-4, in a day that gave a new meaning to "down to the wire." 
The match began on a sour note with sophomore Jennifer 



, 
, 

~~~~  ~  
~~-~  ~'  ~~~  
~  ~·1NSfUN1AI<fiNC  ~  

. . 

Jl>1nnnn~:-:· 
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
Hall losing a close match to Indiana's Megan McCarney, 7-6, 7-4. In the past three matches, the Irish have lost the first sin­gles match of the day. 
In the second singles match, the Irish rebounded in the form of Marisa Velasco, who defeated 
~Until Graduation (May 18) 
$40 

University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near K-Mart 
272-7653 256-9656 

TakeThe EasyWayOut Of College. 

r---------------------, 
1 10% Off Boxes & Supplies 1 
I ~Wardrol>e hoxe.l'. DiJht>ach. Tape. Bul>hh• ump. You name ir. nrhan• I 
J 11. You'll get discount prices and we 'II e•·ett bur back tm\' boxes .,u don't use. Which means you'll Slll'e more them ti;11e and tr~mble, -~u 'II I
I Isave money too.1 Call Ryder TRS today and xet ull the mol"ing supplies _u. need. Now that·.~ a smart move. 
I
1 I ····~-.~~~.!~·-····"­
~;\lTIUpOI'I isCI)VllhdforboKnandmov•nt~in.~(cAt")UdiiJJtl.~).t pilf'IM:apan~ lor.-anoMonly.(-..ei'>11Kcf 
I
I wllh anynchc-roffcr .di'>C.'OUIM or ~l(lll.(iii)coupon whjoe<.11o bo~ and movml! \uppl~ a\:r.lbbilily.(i\·).:~upun Dl."\""mJh::or.ll.l997.0rw:-C"I""Illplnpc'I"Yro,d. NOll::TODEAlH.Artld\roup.""!kt~ard~WIIh~-..y.qxw~.
L 
---------------------~ 
Calll-800-GO-RYDER 

the Hoosiers' Correne Stout in three sets 4-6, 6-2, 0-2. Despite it being only the second match, it proved to be the turning point of the day. 
In the third set, leading 2-0, Stout went down with an ankle injury and was·forced to retire. She was also unable to compete in her scheduled doubles match later that day. 
Notre Dame rebounded in the next round, as senior Tiffany Gates fell to Liz! Coetsee in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3. 
The day continued at a fren­zied pace, with the Hoosiers continuing to pace the Irish match for match. Kelly Zalinski soundly beat Indiana's Jessica Anderson in two sets to even the score at two matches apiece. However, Indiana came back in a straight set win over junior Kelley Olson, 6-1, 6-2. In the last singles match, Darcie Sweet defeated Indiana's Christy Sharp in two sets, 6-3, 6-1. At the end of singles play, the two teams were tied 3-3. 
In doubles action, the Irish took the early lead in the form of a rematch. The duo of Gates and Hall competed against their opponents in their singles matches, this time with a differ­ent outcome. However, the Hoosiers came back in the sec­ond match with Velasco and Zalinski losing by a score of 8c2. 
With the score tied at 4-4, it came down to the final doubles match to decide the outcome. In a match which summed up the day in general, the team of sophomore Courtney Haskell and Olson defeated their rivals in one of the closest matches of the day, 8-4. 
"This loss was really disap­pointing," Indiana head coach Lin Loring remarked. "Notre Dame is undefeated so far in the region. If Correne hadn't sprained her ankle, we probably would have won. We just have to·hope to get her back for the Big Ten tournament." 
The Irish improved to 11-10 on the season, ending a three­game skid, while the Hoosiers dropped to 12-7 on the year. The Irish return to action on Friday to face Drake at home. The match begins at 3:30p.m. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
JfACH E.llllLJSH in · --.J: 
EASTERN EUROPE 

PRAGUE • BlJDAPESf • KRAKOW 
How wou\d yo1.4 like to teach basic' -:onversatioflal En~lish in Eastern Europe? Our ~atenals prof~l~ mil!'v rewarding teach1':\~ oppo~umt1es w1th great benefits. For mfonnahon, call: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext.K55845 
W<! •re , ,_uch '-pu.bliahms co. 

~~~--~~----~-.~------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
• JOCK STRIP 

Excitement of college hockey lost on the masses 
West Coast schools unable to compete 
M
iles Simon and the Arizona Wildcats adorned the cover of Sports Illustrated last week, and rightly so, after defeating Kentucky in the most exciting Final Four championship game in memory. Inside the 
magazine, some five pages were devoted to the single game. The magazine also devoted another four 

pages to the Joe Coppolella 
women s Sporrs Writer basketball Final Four and the excitement generated by this tournament. At the same time, hidden in a weekly feature and not even mentioned in the contents of the magazine, Sports Illustrated graciously afforded the other Final Four, that of college hockey, a mere page in coverage. 
For those of you who don't know, and I assume that most of you do not, college hockey's Final Four ended with North Dakota's 6-4 victory over Boston University. Earlier, in the semifinal game of the Final Four, Boston University had defeated heavily favored Michigan by the score of 3-2. This historic defeat of the Wolverines set the stage for the final game between two relative underdogs. In an exciting game that was indica­tive of the whole tournament, the Fighting Sioux battled back from a 2-0 deficit to score fivegoals in the second period and came away with a 6-4 victory over Boston University. Although it receiyed less coverage and less hype, hockey's Final Four was every bit as exciting as basketball's Final Four. 
Clearly, the question of why college hockey receives signifi­cantly less coverage than col­lege basketball or college foot­ball arises. Dismissing the idea that some professional hockey prospects do not attend college, we are left to conclude that college hockey is still essentially a regional sport. 
As a native of southern California, I knew very little about hockey before the trade of Wayne Gretzky to the Los Angeles Kings. This trade was the most important trade per­haps in the history of hockey because of the impact it had on the NHL. Gretzky made hockey popular in Los Angeles and showed that hockey could thrive in warm weather mar­kets. Not coincidentally, ex­pansion teams such as the Tampa Bay Lightning, Florida Panthers, and Mighty Ducks of Anaheim were granted status in the NHL. Last year, the Winnipeg Jets were trans­formed into the Phoenix Coyotes and this year is the last in Connecticut for the Hartford Whalers. 
As a result, professional hockey has been transformed from a regional sport into a national phenomenon, with National Hockey Night and Game of the Week games being broadcast across the nation into millions of houses every week. This transforma­tion has benefited the sport of hockey with increased popu­larity and therefore, increased revenue. 
College hockey operates on the same intense level as professional hockey. It has the speed of college basketball combined with the hard-hit­ting action of college football. The excitement generated by this sport can be seen here at Notre Dame, where Irish hock-
Happ 21st 

o]o Zuhoski! Love, 
Keroppi and the plants 

ATTENTION 
Come to the April 14 or 15, 
for the New York Tea""......"'..,.. 
You will be teaching in a C high school~ living in coJmrnun11cy encing the cultural 
Call Sister Dea at (212 Set up at the C 
expenence you 

The William and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies presents: 
BEFORE & AFTER THE B@:G>.K ~ 4 
"Early Academic Printing at the ~~!~f Paris: 

ey sold out nearly every game played at the Joyce Fieldhouse this past season. 
Irish hockey should be even more popular next year as the squad loses only five seniors and gains another strong freshman class and should move into the upper echelon of their league, the CCI-lA. However, Irish hockey and col­lege hockey, despite all the ex­citement they generate, will remain a regional phe­nomenon. So, why doesn't col­lege hockey follow the NI-IL's lead and nationalize its sport? 
The answer to that question, sadly, is that college hockey is unable to do so. There is no Wayne Gretzky that Michigan can trade to UCLA because there are no trades in college hockey, and there are no col­lege hockey programs at warm weather schools like UCLA. 
College hockey is almost non-existent on the West Coast. This means that nearly half of the schools in the coun­try do not have college hockey programs and therefore are 
~OBSERVER 
The Accent Section is looking for people interested in the following paid positions: 
Assistant Editors Copy Editors Music Editor 
We are also lookingfor music critics, film critics, writers in general, and anyone interested in writing an advice column. 
For information please contact Joey at 1-4540 and write a one page personal statement. 
far less likely to begin pro­grams. The fact of the matter is that if a college hockey recruit were given the choice between Miami University and Miami of Ohio, every prospect would choose Miami of Ohio. 
This leads to a "cycle of col­lege hockey," if you will, whereby college hockey will 
never  expand  to  the West  
Coast.  If college h ockey will  
never  expand  to  the West  

Coast and will essentially remain an eastern and mid­western phenomenon, it will continue to exist as a regional sport. 
If college hockey continues to remain a regional sport, it is a lose-lose situation. It will not be able to grow in popu­larity or revenue. Its Final Four tournament will be forev­er relegated to one-page sum­maries. 
More importantly, millions upon millions of individuals who, like myself, are from the West Coast, will not be able to experience the intensity and excitement of college hockey. 

Wednesday, April 9, I 997 The Observer· SPORTS 
D-Line 
continued from page 24 
have Lance Legree, we took and moved him there and he's doing really well. and we have Kurt Belisle and Antwon Jones." 
"But it's a position that we really do have to improve on to really get things going." 
Still. despite the need for fur­ther improvement, Strong is comfortable with the defense's ability to continue to improve and be prepared for the fall. 
"We would like for them to continue to get better and that's what we're working toward, for them to get better," Strong said. 
Although the defense lost some key players in lineback­ers Kinnon Tatum, Lyron 
bbins, and Bert Berry, ju­niors Kory Minor and Lamont Bryant should be able to pick up the slack. The defensive secondary remains the most experienced area of the defense with the return of Allen Hossum and Ivory Covington. If the defensive line can continue to develop as planned, the 1997 Irish defense should not disappoint anyone, critic or fan. 
Obs>arver/Bra>ndon Candura
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

After being relegated to backup duties a year ago, senior defensive
Junior Antwon Jones will need a strong spring showing if he is to crack the starting lineup in September. 
end Corey Bennett will play a larger role for the Irish this fall. 

SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 12 & APRIL 13 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at R---~ Deadline: Thursday, April 10 $8.00 Fee 
• 

~~--­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Advanced Scuba RecSports will be sponsoring Advanced Scuba Classes. All participants must be certified divers. For more info, call 1­6100. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament -This tourna­ment will be on April 12 and 
13. There will be men's and women's divisions with a t-shirt being awarded to all partici­pants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will be provid­ed. Also, refreshments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by April 10. There is an $8 fee. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run -April 12 is the date for this 5K or 10K run and 2-mile walk. All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. Call 1­6100 for more information. 
Drop-in Volleyball RecSports will be offering Drop­In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or ad­vanced sign-ups necessary. 
Casting and Angling Clinic ­Clinic includes three sessions which meet on April 15 and 17th from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but par­ticipants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to stu­dents, staff, and faculty. Advance registration with the RecSports office is required. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. For more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1·5983. 
RecSports will be hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerous substitutes to life­guard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1·5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
Bar Bell Club -A weightlift­ing club is coming next year for novice or serious lift.ers. Learn more about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign-ups and more info. 
AnTostal is holding a run around the lakes called HostileTostal on Sunday. April 
20. All participants will get a free t-shirt and there is no sign up fee. Sign up at the run itself. H starts at 2 p.m. Any ques­tions, please call 4-2272 or 1­7757. 
Dr. James Moriarty will con· duct a lecture on the topic of Creatine Monohydrate in Athletics on Monday, April 14, at 7:30p.m. The lecture will be in room 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
Yesterday's baseball game between Notre Dame and Chicago State was cancelled due to snow. The game has been rescheduled for May 1, at 6 p.m. 


SK & ;~~SRUNS ~­
. 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 12,11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER . 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTI(ANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSJJORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAJ<'F DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED BY 
7<k~ • 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
as their previous two but one that truly is more important. For the men to realize fruition of their goal to win a national championship, they obviously must get into the NCM tour­nament, held at the end of the season. 
To obtain a bid, they must win the Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL). Now here's where things begin to look a bit scary. The GWLL only has throe other teams in it-Butler, Air Force, and Ohio State -and the confer­ence season lasts only for only three games. 

For the Irish to win the GWLL, they must beat those three teams. Should they fail to do so, their non-conference wins, albeit illustrious and glamorous, mean absolutely nothing. 
And so the game against Butler is an extremely impor­tant one. 
"We have to win this game to make it to the NCAA tournament," Owen explained. "And Butler is a good team. They're 6-3 and have a lot of close losses." 
"They're also an excellent groundballing team. We're going to have to watch out for that." 
A "groundball" refers to a ball that is on the ground, and tbe statistic "number of groundballs" refers to the 
--W<-:n-es-da_y_,A-p-ril-9, 1997~ l 
number of times a team scoops a ball of the ground and gains possession of it. 
"To casual sports fans this may not seem important," said Owen, "but it really is a big part of the game." 
"They really hustle. The groundball statistic reflects that. They can play with any­body right now," warned Cashen. 
What must Notre Dame do to control and defeat Butler? 
"First. we need to play fundamentally sound and make good decisions," observed Cashen. "We also need to out-hustle them and get to the ground balls." 
"Team defense is also going to be a factor," added Owen. "We're just going to have to play all-around well." 


So that we can include you in the printed program and invite your family, we need you to stop by the Center for Social Concerns and REGISTER for the 
VOLUNTEER SEND-OFF CEREMONY 
on Saturday, May 17th. 10:00 a.m. 
• • Registration deadline: F'riday, April 25th • • 
--~~.!!111 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 



Wednesday, April 9, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

D!LBERT 
TH£.  NEW ORG CHI\Ri 1-\~S  SEE?  IT WOULDN'T  
M'<  NAI"\E LOWER 1111\N  1\Ll FIT ACROSS THE.  
YOURS, ~UI lT DOESN'T  PAGE.  IT'S  JUST 1\  
MEAI\l  AN'<TI-\LNG.  GRAPHICAL  L~~OUT  
)  TI-liNG, THAT'S  ALL.  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Cap feature 68Twine 38 Double-reed 69 "Born Free" 
1 Two out of two 
instrument lioness

5 Holy war 
39 Michael Landon 10 Comic Bruce 10 Take illegally 
portrayal 71 Clashing forces? 14 Ambience 43 "Dies--" 15 Writer St. Johns 44 Tijuana title 16 Part of A.D. · 45 Sky sight 
DOWN 

17 Anne Morrow 46 Tie up 
1 Rum-soaked 

Lindbergh book 49 Banter 
cake 20 How two hearts 51 Rigs 2 Sharers' word may beat 53 Compass point 
3 Jazz combo, 21 Gluck and 54 Actress often Mahler Thurman 
4 Political theorist 
56 Chou of China 

22 Corp. honcho Arendt 
59 Fill with joy

23 Hill dweller 5 Preserves 
631941 Disney 
6 Bright thought

25 Furtive fellow 
film, with "The" 27 Superior 
7 Get better 
66Women, 
a Grads

32Actor condescend­Depardieu ingly 9 Vietnamese seaport
35 Netanyahu's 67 To have, in Le land: Abbr. Havre 
10 Anatomical pouch 11 Loaf ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Concerning ---.---.---.--. 1 3 Not stereo 18 John Calvin's city 
33 John who 19 Words of married understanding 
Pocahontas 

34 Moll Flanders's 26 Lined up creator 24 H.S. math 37 Russo of "Tin 
the band 
Cup" 28 Rhone tributary 
40 Radar's soft drink 
second-largest 41 Lariatcity 42 Desk item 
30Takes advantage of 
47 Board member .:,:..j.:,:...i..;,;...j-:::-f 31 Megalomaniac's 48 Video store desire transaction 


We drank: for joy ...... and became miserable. We drank: for sociability ...... and became argumentative. We drank: for sophistication ...... and became obnoHious. We drank: to feel heavenly ...... and ended up feeling lik:e hell. We drank: to mak:e conversation easier ...... and slurred our soeech. We drank: to erase problems ...... and saw them multiply. 
Take a moment to think about why you drink. 

page 23 
The Observer • TODAY 
u < 
.; 
;•u 
~ 
(/) 
50 Tie up again 60 Popeyed 52 Drudge 61 Mower 54 Push maker 55 Ground grain 62Aims 57 Auth. unknown 64 "Born in the 58 Pack--(give 
up) 65 Not sweet 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
.. 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE _EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Emcr DAY: Dennis Quaid, Hugh Hefner, tiona! upset at work will work against Paulina Porizkova, Paul Robeson you. Your mind will not be on the job. 
Don't get intimately involved with a client or co-worker.
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on CANCER (June 22-July 22): YouOct. 17, 1964, at 9:34a.m. What does will be drawn to events that concernmy future look like? Will I ever find a children. You may find that your gen­mate and a mother for my son? Willi erosity has been taken for granted. 
own a house> Willi be traveling> Will LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You can ex­
I ever stop asking questions? 
pect opposition from family as well asLibra colleagues. It is best to keep your ideas to yourself. 
DEAR LIBRA: Your future will VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Visitbe based on your own initiative and friends who you don't get to see thatdrive, of which you have plenty. You often. You may want take a look at
will find a mate. However, your 
courses offered at your local college. 
chart indicates that you are a little LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You al­picky, and you should be. You are ways seem to spend more than youreally looking for someone who can make. It's time to consider putting
MIKE PETERS not only relate to you, but to your 
money into long-term investments. 
son as well. I wish you had submit· SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Youted your son's birth date. You are in a can spend a passionate evening withhigh cycle regarding meeting poten· someone you cherish if you maketial partners late this year and early your plans early. Do a little investiga­next year. For now, your chart indi­tion if there is someone you workcates that self-improvement projects with that you don't trust.
should be on your agenda. It's time SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21):to set your personal goals, and strive You may find that female colleaguesto become that person that you al­will be more help than you anticipat­
ways wanted to be. Once you're 
ed. If vou have treated them as equalscompletely happy with yourself, you in the past, you will be able to countwill start to attract the right mates. 
on their loyalty. 
Travel is favorable throughout this CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 20):year and purchasing property looks Be prepared to jump quickly if youfavorable in 1998. As for asking ques­wish to stay in the forefront of yourtions, my friend, I hope you never industry today. 
stop. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Fel;>. 18): Some­one vou live with may cause drastic ARIES (March 21-April 20): You alterations in your usual routine. can pick up some overtime today. · Don't hesitate to voice your opinions Channel your energy wisely and you when it comes to matters pertaining
SCOTT ADAMS can score points with the boss. to work. TAURUS (April 21-May 21): This PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your 
will not be the day for hasty deci· social attributes with people will be
HE.'(, DI.L-1)0'( I PUT A sic>ns. Your partner may push buttons mort• than just helpful. You can get that absolutely infuriate you. read~· to celebrate your new direction . 
HE.I\0 ON THIS AND 

Born Today: YDu'll be temptl'd to takl' "" ttll' much, make pwmises you
FETCH MY 

can't keep and generally run yourst•lf ragged it voLl Jren't careful this year. Pre­paratil111 and organization will nt.:cessi\ry if you \\';mt to accomplish. 

,. 
-. 
-

--SPORTS 
page 24 
• Mats lACROSSE 
Lacrosse team looks to extend win streak 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Ignore spring football and forget the Final Four trip for the women's basketball team -Notre Dame athletics has something much bigger, much better to offer to the sports fans on campus: the men's lacrosse team. 
While football and basket­ball are certainly quality teams, the lacrosse team is beginning to join their ranks. They are currently riding a four-game winning streak, highlighted by wins over 12th­ranked Hobart and, most re­cently, fourth-ranked Hofstra. 
"I don't think it's stretching it to say that that was our biggest win ever," stated sophomore midfielder Brad Owen, referring to the tri­
umph over Hofstra. 
"It was a nice surprise to see them coming into the game ranked No. 4 in the country," observed team captain and de­fender Dave Cashen. "At the outset of the season, I don't think anyone would have pre­dicted that. And this is defi­nitely the biggest win ever for us. Anytime you beat the fourth-ranked team, it's a great confidence builder, because if you can do that, then there's no reason why you can't beat No.1." 
The Irish stormed to a 7-0 lead in last Friday's contest, and then held off a powerful Hofstra counter-attack to escape with a 10-9 win. 
Today, the Irish turn their attention toward Butler and a game not nearly as prestigious 
see LACROSSE I page 22 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Matt Gotsch will be shooting on different courts in the upcoming weeks. 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALl 
Three trade Big East for Bookstore fa01e 
By TIM MCCONN Starting this week, however, Sports Writer some of Coach MacLeod's ex­soldiers will be introduced to a Walking into Madison Square whole new sort of pressure Garden for a Big East match-up cooker, something each of against such Big East foes as them has anticipated for a very Georgetown, UConn, or long time: Bookstore
• 
Villanova is what most ob­Basketball. servers would call a pressure "''ve been looking forward to situation. It is not supposed to ·this since I got here," com­matter, though, because that is mented senior guard Pete the kind of situation John Miller. MacLeod has trained his play­
ers for since Day One. see BOOKSTORE I page 17 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Notre Dame defensive line coach Charlie Strong hopes to find some answers this spring at defensive line. 
• foonuu.L 

Defensive play key to success 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Ediror 
Many football coaches theo­rize that offense scores touch­downs but defense wins games. If that is the truth for Bob Davie and the Notre Dame football team, there will be added pres­sure for the Irish defense going into the 1997 campaign. 
Not only will the team, as a whole, be scrutinized as to whether it can handle the ma­jor changes endured with a new coaching staff, but the de­fense, especially, will be looked at as a barometer for the team's resilience. 
Last year's defense gave up 181 points, but also recorded two shutouts (35-0 pounding of Purdue and a 62-0 route of Rutgers) and held two teams to less than 10 points (Vanderbilt and Pittsburgh). This year's team is looking to improve on that, and at the core of that ef­fort is the defm1sive line. 

If a team can control tlw ball at the line of scrimmage, it can control the tompo of the game, and with a little help from the offense, the outcome of the game. 
Nobody knows that better than Irish defensive lino coach Charlie Strong. 
Strong's defensive line is one of the question marks for the 1997 season, but so far this spring, is developing as planned. With the loss of Renaldo Wynn at defensive end, the line will be looking for a fresh face to fill Wynn's shoes as a leader on the line. 
Among the candidates will be seniors Corey Bennett and Kurt Belisle, junior Antwon Jones, and sophomore Lance Legree. 
Anotlwr major factor in tlw success of the line is the lwalth of returning fifth-year senior and defensivo Pnd Melvin Dansby and sophomore line­man Brad Williams. Neitlwr Dansby nor Williams will prac­tice in the spring, but Strong assures that they will both be baek for the fall. Dansby is re­covering from surgery, but can be seen running around (with­out pads) at spring practice, while Williams has been in­strueted to completely restrict movement. 
"The problem we have now is that without Melvin and Brad, we're not where we need to be with the defensive front," Strong commented. "We have Bennett, who's really the only one who has played there and has enough experience. We 
see D-UNE I page 21 
Spriing! Fo:olba:ll 
i_'. : ~ :
~
1
g--_g_' ··:__!J····.: 
~ :: . ,: ' 
' . 
The Observer will be profiling 
a different position on the 
Notre Dame football team 
each day this week. 

D Monday •··; Linebackers0 Tuesday e·;: SecondaryB Wednesday e5, Defensive Line D Thursday e,, Special Teams D Friday e;., Wide Receivers 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 


vs. Northwestern 
vs. IUPUI 

a;
Today, 3:45p.m. 
rt! 

• Joy of college hockey lost to masses
April I0, 5 p.m. 
vs. Drake 
at Michigan April 11, 3:30 p.m. see page 20

~ .--=..
April 10 Track and Field, 

ri:J • Women's tennis tops rival Indiana
Men's Lacrosse vs Butler 
., at Sea Ray Relays
Today, 3 p.m. 
see page 19
and Miami Invitational April 11 and 12 

~ 





