Inside: ND Candidate Platforms, Endorsement 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 85 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Student reform committee inches toward goal 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 20-minute debate regarding "The representative selected was in agreement that the pres­between the president and the News Writer whether one or two Students would naturally have an under­ident should definitely have a senate," said Clare Deckelman, Senators should be placed on standing of how the [budget] role in the senate, but wavered a member of the committee. 
Last night, the reform com­the budget committee. Mark commit.tee needs to work on what this would entail. A two-thirds majority vote of mittee attempted to come closer Leen, a senator, questioned the together," she said. Brendan Kelly, head of the the senate would render the to its goal of rewriting the stu­proposition to have only a sin­The reform committee, how­reform committee, expressed opinion of the president in con­dent government constitution. gle senate representative. ever, eventually voted to keep that "having the president at sequential. Hoffmann expres­Amidst some discussion, the "One senator could be ganged the number at two. since they senate meetings avoids conflicts sed concerns that this left the committee clarified proposed up or could be only looking out deemed the subject unworthy of of interests with the adminis­president in a powerless posi­policy and organizational for his own interests," he said. any further debate. They tration." tion when faced with a majority changes. In the end, it came to But Erin Hoffmann, student decided that it did not matter if A proposal was introduced vote. "It is dangerous to have conclusions on issues ranging body treasurer, reasoned that one or two senators served on that required the president to the president do something he from the president's position in because the Student Senate the budget committee. be present at all senate meet­doesn't want to do. He may the Student Senate to the com­would select the representative, The committee then discussed ings as part of his position, and know better what is good for position of the budget commit­the senator on the committee the relationship between the to serve as a non-voting mem­the student body." tee. would have the interests of the Student Senate and the student ber of the body. "Hopefully However, Kelly expressed 
The meeting opened with a entire senate in mind. body president. The committee there won't be any dissension 
see REFORM I page 7 
Last night's critical discussion on "Alcohol, Gender
'best' in education 
and the Notre Dame Community" sparked debate among 
its audience. Presenting a variety of opinions on the rea­By SASKIA SIDENFADEN sons that Notre Dame is a binge-drinking campus, the News Writer dialogue sought to explain the effects that such behavior 
has on women, Outlining his second-term agenda in his fourth "Our ethnicity and gender are no protection against 
State of the Union address Tuesday night, President alcoholism," said Martha Cohn Spiegel, founder of the Clinton attempted to "repair the breach" of a partisan Alcohol/ Drug Action Program and Jewish Family Congress. emphasizing a mutual goal that "all Service in Los Angeles. Americans have the best education Contrary to the current perception, she pointed out in the world." that women are actually more susceptible to alcohol 
Contrary to his previous address­related problems because they become intoxicated 
es. Clinton came on strongly, chal­faster due to a combination of hormones and smaller lenging Congress to pass his initia­builds. tives and proposing a comfortable "Alcohol is the most addictive drug that we know of," middle ground for the American she said. She also mentioned that with alcohol use public. comes an increase in the number of suicides. homicides 
"There was something vital =""""---~ and accidents. Date rape is also more common when 
about him," said American studies alcohol is involved. professor Robert Schmuhl. "I liked Len Hickman, a psychologist at the Universitythe number of things he addressed and overall it was Counseling Center, spoke on the trend of college binge a very good performance. ·Like Lazarus, Bill Clinton is drinking and how that practice affects women. 
revived." "Binge drinking," he began, is defined as the con­Listing his detailed 10-point plan of attack, Clinton sumption of five or more drinks for men, or "four or more focused much of his 60-minute speech on educational drinks for women, during one sitting." · 
The Observer/Sarah O'Connor 
reform. In his promise to allot over $51 billion in gov­
Psychologist Len Hickman spoke at yesterday's discussion, ernment funding to improve national standards of noting that binge drinking has strong effects on women. 
see ALCOHOL I page 4
education, Clinton is "flying in the face of the American Right who are proposing total local control of education," Schmuhl said. 
His national crusade for education standards pro­


'Fat phobia' permeates society 
poses national tests of science, math, and reading to be administered by local schools. 
By SARAH CORKREAN News Writer 

'There was something 
Recalling childhood bouts with parental pressure to losevital about him ... weight, professor Amber Katherine noted that "fat pho­and overall it was a very bia" starts in the home and continues into adulthood with 
the pressure women exert on themselves.
good performance. Like 

This professor of philosophy and women's studies stated Lazarus, Bill Clinton is that as women get older, they must develop and empower themselves, realizing the importance of personal experi­
revived. ' 

ences. Robert Schmuhl "By opening up to an individual, one will notice the only differences between herself and others are different expe­
"These standards are not creating big government 
riences. By understanding each other's differences, one
bureaucracies," Schmuhl explained. "they simply 
will find strength in the support group and an open line of 
articulate what skills students should achieve." 
communication will evolve," Katherine said. 

Other proposals include a $5 billion advance to a 
Katherine gathered with other women faculty and stu­
$20 billion grant toward school construction over the 
dents yesterday for a panel luncheon in the North Wedge
next 20 years. an emphasis on "character education," 
Room at Saint Mary's dining hall. The panel was orga­
and universal Internet access in all public schools. 
nized so that the women could share what it means to be
Despite these positives, Clinton drew groans from 
a woman in today's society and how women can accept
Hepublican members of Congress with his plans to their bodies and keep them healthy. 
create nationally accepted teaching credentials, gov­
The discussion focused on personal, psychological, and 
The Observer/Kimm Michalik 

ernment-sponsored reading programs, and skill 
physical experiences and the portrayal of women in SMC women gathered yesterday to share common concerns
grants. Nevertheless, Clinton vowed a non-partisan advertising, and centered on promoting self-awareness in and personal stories of struggles with eating disorders. 
commitment to education: "Politics must stop at the nurturing oneself. 
schoolhouse door." Augmenting the notion that eating disorders are a politi­
In concluding her own personal story, Katherine opened 
In the.wake of the debate surrounding the national cal and social disease disseminated through the mass
the wider topic of eating disorders, stating that they are
debt, Clinton deemed the balanced budget amend­media, professor Rebecca Stoddart of the psychology
not as uncommon as many people would like to believe.
ment "unnecessary and unwise." Poised to sign a bal­department focused on unnatural portrayals of women in
She continued that millions of people have these disor­
anced budget bill for the year 2002, he targeted GOP advertising.
ders. and that their existence is a social, economic, politi­see UNION I page 4 cal, and community problem. 
see DISORDERS I page 7 




~------------------------------------~ 


-----------~­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Air Force Blues 
This is grade school. I Mary Beth Ellis am surrounded by both 
Accent Copy Editor
girls AND boys, all of 
whom are dressed 
exactly alike. I am sitting very, very still. I 
want my mommy. 
This is my fourth week in an Air Force ROTC class. Fourth week, third class. We didn't meet the first week -class was can­celled due to snow, which I found to be a dis­turbing indication of our military's readiness. 
I don't think my classmates are comfortable with me yet. I can't say I blame them. There they sit in their name tags and government­issue cadet blue pants, and here I sit in peach hair ribbons and L.L. Bean-issue Twilight Mauve sweater. They are taking this class because they have integrity, honor, pride. I am taking this class because I cannot add. 
I am not a member of Air Force ROTC. I don't have The Right Stuff. I thought I did. When I was young, I thought I could be an astronaut. I used to attack empty appliance boxes with Crayolas in pathetic attempts to create my own spaceship. I'd crouch in the grass, pull my trusty craft over my head, and -in a technical procedure that involved me leaping to my feet while spinning in rapid cir­cles -lift off. The neighbors would gaze out their windows at this small child, asking, "Why in God's name is the Ellis kid stumbling around the backyard with a box on her head?" 
I was a child only a guidance counselor could love. I, before realizing that their foot­ball team could never beat Notre Dame's, considered the Air Force Academy. However, I got many a D in high school algebra and was forced to admit that astronauts probably need to confront word problems without dry heaving. 
Even as I enrolled in Saint Mary's and courageously began serving my country as an English major, I left a tiny space in my heart for flying. One of the things SMC has taught me, outside of the most efficient way to run screaming after a rapidly retreating shuttle­bus, is to be outrageously bold when it comes to dusting off the dreams that have been shoved to the backs of our minds. I've learned to try on those dreams now. Not tomorrow. Tomorrow we'll be too busy watching Ohio State graduates clean the toi­lets in our executive suites. 
"I don't think a Catholic university should support a ROTC program," one of my friends sniffed as I dialed to DART into an Air Force course. "We should try to live in global har­mony like in that song 'Imagine."' 
I said, "Say Saddam Hussein comes burst­ing into the dorm. Who do you want standing guard -Norman Schwarzkopf holding an Uzi or John Lennon holding a microphone?" 
I attend my Air Force class directly after a creative writing workshop, which means that 
.within the space of thirty minutes I leave a world where we u-se non-threatening words such as "imagery" and "sentence" and enter a place where people speak entirely in acronyms and can turn something as simple as "three o'clock" into a complicated phrase like "fifteen hundred hours". 
But this class is cool. The cadet uniform hat is cool. The pictures of the large scary fighter planes on the wall that seem to say, "Hi! We're the Air Force! We can bomb you into hydrogen molecules!" are VERY cool. 
For the rest of the semester I'll sit here, very very still, in awe of these kids who have deep sense of purpose ... commendable love of country ... and easy access to firearms. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Michelle Krupa  Brian Blank  
Dave Freddoso  Production  
Sports  Michelle Krupa  
Allison Krilla  Maureen Hurley  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Brandon Williams  Lab Tech  
Accent  Brandon Candura  
Joey Crawford  Melissa Matheny  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, February 6, 1997

The Observer· INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE 

Xrabs and Jews unite to mourn soldier's death 

NEVE SHALOM, Israel 
In a unique Israeli village where Jews and Arabs live side-by-side, the two peoples came together Wednesday to mourn the death of a 20-year-old Israeli army sergeant killed in a helicopter crash. 
"He joined the army and went to light Arabs -but now he was killed and I am sad," said an Arab neighbor, Adnan Mana: "We are one family. I think this is our most united day." 
Tom Kitain was buried yester.day evening in a tiny hillside cemetery in Neve Shalom, or "Oasis of Peace," a utopian community founded two decades ago to prove that Jews and Arabs could live together in peace. 
It was one of scores of funerals for tbe 73 soldiers killed in Tuesday night's crash, the worst air disaster in Israel's 
military history. But Kitain's was almost 

Pope has flu, cancels audiences 
VATICAN CITY 
The flu forced Pope John Paul II to cancel his general audience yesterday and cut back on activities planned for the next few days. "Influenza has also entered the pope's house," John Paul announced from his window overlook­ing St. Peter's Square. "And it has also reached me," he said, wearing a red cape over his white vestments and 


appearing in good spirits. He said doctors told him to stay inside. "I have to, therefore, be limited to saying hello to you from the window of my office," he told thou­sands of pilgrims standing in the rain. The 76-year-old pope stood at the window for eight minutes and issued greetings in four languages, then sang the Lord's Prayer, which is the way he always closes his general audiences. Papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said John Paul's flu was not serious and that it was going around the Vatican, as well as Rome. Doctors advised him to stay in bed for several days, the Vatican said. The Vatican announced the pope's ailment a half-hour before the audience was to start, and several thousand people already were lined up to see him. "They are very sorry because they saved money for a long time to see the pope. They are sorry he is ill and they pray for his health," said Zito Kerschbaumer, pilgrim group leader. 
Scientists find Alzheimer's gene link 
NEW YORK 
Scientists may have found the hiding place of anoth­er gene linked to Alzheimer's disease. Researchers found evidence that an Alzheimer's susceptibility gene may lurk somewhere within a region of chromosome 12, one of the string-like structures that carry genes. "The evidence is very strong. We're convinced that there's something in this region,' said Margaret Pericak-Vance, chief of medical genetics at the Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. Pericak­Vance spoke yesterday in a telephone interview. She and Jonathan Haines of Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston reported the work Tuesday at a sci­entific meeting in Denver. Previous work has identi­fied three genes that cause Alzheimer's before age 65 when they are flawed, but altogether they account for a small percentage of cases. Scientists have also iden­tified a gene that affects susceptibility, with its maxi­mum effect on cases appearing between ages 55 to 75. The apparent new susceptibility gene seems to have its peak effect on cases that appear after age 65, Pericak­Vance said. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 6.
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
20s 
FRONTS: 
...............
............... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L m &:;] a]] 0 . [Zj 8 i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. Cl-OUDY CLOUDY 
V,.. Associated Press 
Atlanta 54 36 Dallas Baltimore 47 32 Denver 

~AAd~c::S1i) ~ u 
Boston 44 31 Los Angeles 
... ~ .............~...~ ......:. ·:·.:::·.t -:..-:..-:.. 
Chicago 35 24 Miami

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNer 
Columbus 38 27 Minneapolis 
certainly the only funeral attended by dozens of Arabs -his friends and neighbors. 
Arab citizens of Israel -almost a fifth of the population -are not required to perform army service, and few do. The nationwide mourning for slain soldiers usually serves only to accentuate the separation between the two communi­ties. 
But in Neve Shalom, 15, miles .west of Jerusalem in the Judean foothills, Arabs and Jews mingled together Wednesday outside the Kitain family's white, one­story house, weeping and sharing mem­ories of the tall young man with a crin­kle-eyed smile and easy laugh. 
Thirty families -half Jewish, half Arab -live in the village, sharing authority, educating their children in Hebrew and Arabic and trying to spread 
a message of tolerance and coexistence. 
Killings continue in Rwanda 
KIGALI, Rwanda 
Aid agencies called emergency meetings today to review the increasing violence in Rwanda, a day after gunmen believed to be Hutu rebels ambushed and killed five U.N. human rights monitors. Four men-a Briton, a Cambodian and two Rwandans -died when their vehicles were attacked while they were on a routine human rights investigation near Karengera, U.N. spokes­woman Marie Van Der Elst said. The area is 180 miles southwest of the capital, Kigali. The fifth victim, a Rwandan, died of wounds while being transported to Kigali. The victims' bodies and all remaining human I:ights monitors in southwestern Rwanda were evacuated by a government plane to Kigali late Tuesday night. "Senior officials are meeting to decide what will be the next step," Van Der Elst said. The attack was the latest in a series against foreigners in Rwanda and has prompted aid organizations to re-examine their opera­tions in the western half of the tiny central African coun­try. Three Spanish aid workers and a Canadian Roman Catholic priest were killed in separate attacks in the past three weeks, and U.N. officials have reported at least four other incidents where foreigners have been target­ed. Rwandan officials blamed the attacks on Hutu insur­gents opposed to the Tutsi-controlled government. "I am disgusted at these attacks," said Claude Dusaidi, adviser to Vice President Paul Kagame. 
Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter merge 
NEW YORK 
The brokerage and credit-card company Dean Witter agreed to a $9.9 billion merger with investment banking giant Morgan Stanley to create the world's biggest secu­rities firm. The announcement today brings Wall Street directly into the merger frenzy that has swept corporate America. Once again, the driving force is the strategic advantage of combining with a company that has com­plementary strengths. Dean Witter, Discover & Co. is strong in the "retail" brokerage business, selling stocks, bonds and such to the public. Morgan Stanley Group Inc. is a powerhouse in mergers and in underwriting securi­ties. The stock-swap merger will create a new company called Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. with annual revenue of $12 billion. The combined company will manage $270 billion in financial assets, the biggest of any securities firm, Dean Witter chairman Philip Purcell said in a statement. It will be valued in the mar­ket at $21 billion, compared with current industry leader Merrill Lynch & Co.'s $14.1 billion. Wall Street appeared enamored with the deal, the biggest combination of two securities firms. 
46 39 New Orleans 60 44 29 15 New York 45 34 70 52 Philadelphia 45 31 82 69 Phoenix 65 47 33 19 StLouis 39 26 


r--------------------------------­
-~-~~~ -~-­

Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CSC grant to fund Summer Service Project program 
By BILL CRAWFORD "These funds are crucial to options. News Writer enhancing the nature of the However, Paladino and the programs and fulfilling the SSP program administrators 
The Center for Social vision of academic integra­hope to convey that the pro­Concerns has expansive plans tion," said Jim Paladino, asso­gram will still need every bit for its Summer Service ciate director of program and of contribution from alumni Projects (SSP) program thanks research administration for clubs across the country, as to a $1.5 million commitment the CSC. "This boost will help the substantial gift will not from Kathleen Andrews and to guarantee that the SSP pro­replace any existing funds her sons. gram remains an ongoing needed for the ongoing func­
The expansion and academic presence on this campus." tion of the program. integration of summer service The prospects for expansion Kathleen Andrews is a mem­will be possible due to this, the include the endowment of a ber of Notre Dame's Board of largest single gift the. program directorship, as well as a vari­Trustees and a fellow of the has ever received. ety of new project sites and University with a history of 


The Dome Yearbook is now­taking applications for Editor in Chief 1997-98. 
Applications are available at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) 
and should be returned by February 14. Any questions, please call the Dome office at 631-7524 
The following letter appeared in the February 7 issue of The Chronicle of Higher Education. Since the Chronicle will print the names of only three signers, vve are publishing the letter here with all the signers included. 
To the Chronicle of Higher Education 
Your article regarding the Notre Dame Faculty Senate's "strong disapproval" of the president's intervention in a Theology Department hiring matter (December 13), con­tained an inaccuracy. The "unanimous" recommendation against the candidate was not from the Theology Department but its appointments committee. Several depart­ment members dissented from the strong majority who supported the committee. Moreover, the article neglected a factor essential to the story. It is Notre Dame policy that priests of the Congregation of the Holy Cross who are academically qualified be given special consideration by departments. Such a position is as an extra line, at no charge to the department. 
We are faculty members at Notre Dame and elsewhere who happen to know Father Michael Baxter, C.S.C. and his work. We think he is more than well-qualified acade­mically for the position to which he has been appointed. Indeed, we all have been highly impressed by his work as a scholar. We fully understand how President Malloy came to the conclusion that he is well-qualified for a position at Notre Dame. It is not true, as the spokesperson for the Faculty Senate implied, that only someone who is politically motivated could teach such a conclusion. · 
Baxter has been involved in the Catholic Worker movement and his radical perspec­tives are reflected in his work as a moral theologian. While many of us do not share that viewpoint, we think that Notre Dame is enriched if that viewpoint is represented there by such a talented and gracious scholar. 
Scott Appleby, Notre Dame George Marsden, Notre DameJohn Garvey, Notre Dame Marvin R. O'Connell, Notre DameRobert George, Princeton Leigh-Schmidt, PrincetonPhilip Gleason, Notre Dame David Solomon, Notre DameRuth Marie Griffith, Northwestern Kenneth Surin, Duke Thomas Hibbs, Boston College Beth S. Wenger, Pennslyvania Frank Lentricchia, Duke Robert Wuthnow, PrincetonAlasdair Macintyre, Duke 


If You see news haPPening. call The Observer at 
1-5323. 

---$fo0COUPON--i 

CANCUN, MEXICO : 
Complete Packages From $399 I RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel, I Free Covers & Parties Plus Discounts on Side Trips and Excursions. 
Some Restrictions apply. 
Prices for March 8th 
Chicago Departures only. 
CALL NOW!!! 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 

.. 
Thurs. Feb 6 • 5-9 p.m. Fri. Feb 7 • 11 :30 a.m.-9 p.m. 
No Daily Lunch Special-Buffet Only.





REA-r \VALL 
Buffet includes: Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, 8 Entrees and Desserts Other menu items also available. 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) contribution. She is also vice chairman of Universal Press Syndicate. She and her busi­ness partner John McMeel helped to establish the SSP in 1980 in memory of her hus­band, the late James Andrews, a 1961 graduate of Notre Dame. 
The CSC presented a propos­al to Andrews and McMeel for funding, which was answered with the gift. 
The SSP program has been functioning for more than 16 years, and nearly 1,400 stu­dents have participated in the service projects. 
Currently the program func­tions in the 120 cities across 
the country where there are active Notre Dame alumni clubs. 
These projects offer under­graduate students a $1,700 scholarship for eight weeks of service to the poor within the specified Cites. 
Junior Anne Freedy of Farley Hall describ!ls her experience as both rewarding and challenging. 
"I am excited to hear about the new funds and plans for expansion," Freedy said. "The fact that the academics will encompass more than just the­ology will be a good incentive for new students coming into the program." 

--~-----------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 6, 1997
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 
Union 
continued from page 1 
members. "It takes only your vote and my signature," he said. "It does not require us to rewrite the Constitution." Despite this seeming confidence, Clinton admitted, "I know this is not going to be easy." 
Addressing the touchy issue of welfare reform, Clinton pointed out that "now that we have torn down the old welfare program, we must give someone on wel­fare a chance to work." He hopes that a program involving private businesses like Sprint, UPS, and Burger King in the hir­ing process will bridge the gap from welfare to work. 
Schmuhl said, "This reform is 
scheduled to save anything from 
$15 to $18 billion." 
Plans to reestablish American 
ties to NATO lead Clinton into an 
activist approach to foreign 
affairs. Despite repeated fail­
ures, he intends to "engage the 
Chinese government to deal with 
human rights and other differing 
issues," as well as to dismantle 
the nuclear weapons program in 
North Korea. 
Though most of his proposals 
are well-intentioned, GOP mem­
bers scoffed at what seemed like 
far-sighted Democratic rhetoric 
encouraging increased world awareness in "the new millenni­
um." 

Schmuhl agreed, saying that "he [Clinton] tried to generate a sense of crisis in a time when Americans aren't sure of them­selves, when they're not ready to jump into the world of foreign affairs." 
Focusing on such far-reaching reform, Clinton wisely shirked the shaky issues of Medicare and Social Security, perhaps avoiding the failure of his earlier plan for universal health care. 
"I think he could have drawn 
more attention to health care 
reform and the consequences of 
his health care package three 
years ago," Schmuhl said. "He 
also talked about the entitlement 
problem evasively when he 
should take responsibility for 
both." 

Yet, Schmuhl admitted, "It was 
a very clever speech politically ... 
graceful... dainty," and a positive 
beginning to a second term. 
./ Used, rare and 
out-of-print books ./ Initial cost of $2.00 ./ Nationally -circulated ad ./ Success rate of 50"A. ./ Time required: 2 months 


Alcohol 
continued from page 1 

Hickman stated that in addi­tion to its initial physical risks, binge drinking is increasingly dangerous because of its sec­ond hand effects. According to Hickman, 25 percent of females report unwanted sexual advances by students as a result of binge drinking. 
At least 90 percent of report­ed college rapes occur when either or both of the parties has consumed alcohol, and 60 per­cent of females with venereal diseases were drunk at the time of transmission. 
Despite these alarming statis­tics, female binge drinking rates continue to rise, tripling in the last 15 years. Meanwhile, the referral rate for women to alcohol treatment programs is 75 percent lower than that of men. 
Hickman believed that this is the case because of the com­mon misconception that only men can be alcoholics -an easy misconception," he said, since "many men view binge drinking as a right of passage." 
"When you consider that seven out of ten students are out there binge drinking, you wonder where the other three are," said junior Catherine McCarren of the Gender Studies department. 
McCarren said that as one of 
those three non-bingers, she often found herself babysitting her roommates. She explained that this not only created prob­lems for them, but for her as well as much of her time was spent staying awake to make sure they were still breathing. 
Citing the dreary South Bend climate and the "Don't ask, don't tell" drinking policy of the University as potential drinking triggers, McCarren posed the question to the audience, "What kind of view of yourself are you going to have when this is all over?" 
She suggested the changes to 
University policy on drinking, 
targeting freshman and pro­
moting more alternate activities 
such as those put on by Student 
Union Board to curb current 
drinking trends. 


Fri ay, Fe ruary 7 
ND Student. Body Elections 
Vote 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and5-7p.m. in dorms Off-campus voting: same times, in LaFortune near the Huddle 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six

Please 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne


recycle 
South Bend, IN 46617 

The Observer. (219) 232-8444 
TI-IlJI~SDA Y 2/13
0 0 
DURING ACOUSTIC CA IN THE JIUDOLE 

10°/o off Valentine Orders placed February 6, 7, and 8 with this ad. 
Irish Gardens is located in the basement of LaFortune. 
Open from 12:30, 5:30PM Monday through Saturday. 
631..4004
0 0 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Panel to discuss equal education New PR web site offers 
Special to The Observer College Director of the NAACP. th~admissions, contracting, and He worked in Johannesburg, employment of the university Tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the South Africa, on voter education system. He also has served as more info, easy access 
auditorium of the Hesburgh Library, a panel will address alternate views of affirmative action and how to ensure equal access to_ education. 
The panel discussion is spon­sored by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs and the NAACP. 
Three experts will be partici­pating on the panel, including the Reverend Jamal Harrison Bryant, the National Youth and in 1994. With the NAACP, he works to register voter~ on his­torically black college campuses. He emphasizes the political, social, and personal empower­ment of young African Americans. 
Also taking part in the panel is Ward Connerly, a member of the University of California board of regents. As a member, he led the effort to eliminate consideration of race, gender, and ethnicity in statewide chairman of the California Civil Rights Initiative. 
Finally, Sharon O'Brien, asso­ciate professor and chair of the government and international studies at Notre Dame, will take part in the discussion. O'Brien is a former chair of affirmative action at the University. She is an expert in the protection of human rights and the legal pro­tection of cultural rights in the United States. 
DO YOU WANT TO 



TUTOR 
GRADE SCHOOL KIDS? 
JOIN THE NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP PROGRAM 
\'OLllNTEEI~ JUST AN IIOUI~ T\\7ICE A WEEK, AND MAKE A DIFFEI~ENCE 
IN A LITTLE KID'S LIFE. 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY 1:00-2:00 JP Cooney 634-0577 2:30 -3:30 Trina Sandberg 634-4675 3:00-4:00 Carrie Kronl< 634-3352 



I 
WEDNESDAY MONDAY & . s 634-1675 1:00-2:00 Amy Plile b 634-4161 
)All· on Do son
l
2:00 -3:30 (Egg eston . lS McCarthy 634-3842 
2:30 3:30 (Swanson) Knsta 
...: 
·~~. 
'f 
Happy Birthday, Megan! 
,I I'm a ~JG 


University. 
• 
This Week-The This Week calendar lists campus events. 

• 
Faculty Experts-Designed primarily as a resource for the news media, this site provides the names, phone numbers and areas of expertise of hundreds of Notre Dame faculty. A search engine, still under construction, soon will make it possible to fmd experts on a particular subject through the use of a keyword. 

• 
Fact Sheet -This on-line version of the annual University publication provides current data on virtually all aspects of the University. 

• 
Brief History -This site fea­tures the people and events that have shaped Notre Dame since its founding in 1842. 

• 
Noted Alumni-The names, graduating years and titles of more than 100 distinguished liv­ing alumni are listed on this site. 


Observer Staff Report 

Information about the University is now more accessi­ble at a newly revamped Office of Public Relations and Information web site. 
Located at http://www. nd.edu/-prinfo, the home page is divided into 11 main categories with facts, figures and photos on Notre Dame's people and pro­grams, past and present. 
"What we've done is put together a more comprehensive site that offers news as well as other basic University informa­tion," said Dennis Brown, assis­tant director of public relations, in comparing the new site to the one it is replacing. "It's a much more handy resource." 
The page includes: 

• Newswire -Updated daily, Newswire provides all news releases issued by the 

THE WELFARE REVOLUTION 
AND CATHOLIC SOCIAL . THOUGHT 
February 6,7,8 1997 
kid now! 
~(We, fl~, ~(J/4, *;U~U,S~,& deS~ 

~ 
.. 

Thurs. Feb. 6 7:00-9:00pm: 
Fri. Feb. 7 9:00-10: 15am: 
10:30-12:00: 
1:30-2:30: 2:45-3:45: 4:00-5:00: Sat. Feb. 8 9:00-12:00 noon: 
Cheryl Sullivan, Former Indiana Secretary of Family and Social Services 
We{fore in America: What Reform Really Meam 
Wendell Primus, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities 
Implementing We{fore Reform and Measuring Its Impact on Children 
Lawrence M. Mead III, Author of The New Politics ofPoverty We{fore Reform: Moral and Theological Issues 
Fr. William O'Neill, Jesuit School ofTheology at Berkeley 
Commonweal or Woe? The Ethics ofWelfare Reform 
Christine Firer Hinze, Marquette University 
What Is Work For? A Catholic Ethical Response to a Crucial Issue in US. Welfare Reform 
Stanley Carlson-Thies, Center for Public Justice 
'Don 't Look to Us': The Negative Responses ofChurches to Welfare Reform 
Welfare Reform and the Catholic Church: A Roundtable Discussion Chair: Bishop William Murphy of Boston 
Sponsored by: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, and the United States Catholic Conference 
All sessions at the Center for Continuing Education 
~·~ 
·~.·~;:f'',~.;,~~*'i•Y>"'.'ii:f:''''-'~'~,Ji;~~.·:·;·,;,;;·x~::'.;;;r:·;r:;•:>i~E\~~:ci!th~+S>i~~€'li;:;B~0.ijf"'~:~g%:D1if;;~Mi#M£!~~::L"'!'t.R~~~~i~~j 

~~ --~­
~-------------...____ _ 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 6, 1997 



I/ you are interested in learning how to con/rant discrimination, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity worl~shop. 
LIMITED ENROLLMENT-CALL IMMEDIATELY 
SATURPAY, FEBRUARY 15 
9:30AM -4:00 PM 3RD FLOOR LOUNGE OF HEALTH SERVICES· BUILDING 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
. 
This worl~shop is being presented by the Notre Dame Affiliate of the National Coalition Building Institute 
Contact: Adele Lanan • 631-7308 Micl~ey Franco • 631-4355 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
According to Stoddart, by open up to others to get the help developing a defensive lens you need and deserve." 
Disorders 
when thumbing through maga­According to experts and zines and wondering if the ads panel members, physical prob­
continued from page 1 
represent reality, one will find lems with eating disorders do 
Stoddart's social psychology more self-respect for the natur­more damage than psychologi­class studied gender stereotypes al, healthy body rather than a cal problems. in advertising and concluded manipulated, computer drafted They can do it faster, and if that classic portrayals of women body. hidden long enough, they can 
are weight manipulated. On Saint Mary's campus, some kill you. Infertility, bleeding Women are shown in submissive students have felt comfortable stomach, low blood pressure, positions through feeble child­revealing personal eating prob­thinning hair, and pale skin are like poses in advertisements. lems to faculty members and sure signs of bulimia and 
She said that women's bodies administrators. anorexia. are not depicted naturally in When approached by a stu­"Nationally, in high stress col­advertising. To help support the dent, Toni Barstis, professor of lege settings, four to 10 percent 
claim, Stoddart invited audience chemistry, felt more comfortable of college aged women suffer members to try to act out poses reflecting on her own history from bulimia and one percent of Calvin Klein's models, which with eating disorders and her suffers form anorexia," said Dr. 
they found very uncomfortable. progress. Janet Galanes, a physician from "People see thinness in models "The battle will never end. Saint Mary's health service cen­
as an ideal. But if they would One has to notice the symbols ter. try to act out the poses they that drive your disorder and pay 'The earlier one addresses a would realize the manipulation attention to why they occur," disorder, the earlier the healing of the body form," Stoddart Barstis said. "But most impor­of the body will begin," said said. tantly, you have to be able to Galanes. 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
is accepting applications for: 




Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
;1pplicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m. Thursday, February 6, 1997. For additional information about the position contact Business Manager Matt Casey at 631-5313, or Editor-in-ChiefLiz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER ~OBSERVER 
Executive Officer 
"The Gl~bal Outlook fe~Financial Se:(: es: A CEO's 



~Merrill Lynch 
0~( ~l(jMJ ULTI~Alf fi!I~Bff TOUI!~A~f~T ~aturda~, fe.bruaf'i S S:OO 'PM -Loftuf, ~portf, Center 
ReforiD 
continued from page 1 
that the president would ideally be in concurrence with the sen­ate on most decisions. "This [decision] is legitimate because they are working together to form the opinion of the stu­dents." 
The structure of the planned Notre Dame Student Union, the organization that previously was expected to encompass all branches of student govern­ment, was dissected so that the committee was clear on ·all logistics. 
The heads of the six sub-com­mittees also reiterated the indi­vidual issues that merited fur­ther discussion, such as the link between the Office of Student Affairs and the Student Union Board. Especially important was the power Student Affairs has over the SUB. 
"Student Affairs is not forced to go along the same measures that an organization like SUB does," said Ashleigh Thompson, the SUB representative. 
This fourth meeting of the reform committee showed that proposed reforms still require more refinement before any implementations can be made. 
"Roles need to be more con­stitutionally defined," Kelly said. "Then reforms can be made." 
, ; 1(" ~· f)fU)·," <.;; j; •ll !'(' 1' 11 ..
J .. __ .._, '··t'i·· .J ... .!l<U LJ _L 

;.,{';lsoiJ«pt~r\11& RY~n ~~tak~I(.:t ion ,Re,y. J~m.~!.;~·~~~r;'~· ~~t~9,~;~1,, i;ie"Yodtn'anc:I ..C,611ege"Oire·h<Srbf .1 .. , ;NA.A.dpJPt!c t iJHcgr.:>> to bnd 
~~~6"l~~1Jring·G~6~~~t un s~bkRJr~ lsf1£rdA ct 1on : Dhni · ng · · · rsity•{)in ions ·vCir)' on ,xffi Go\!ernrn:eo.run rulings 
·lyl;n'(''~" ''l"''ll,''1.. ;1\f Qepart;rl)~Qt,c;:h;l)r; ·· 
L.~l:t )7. ~ ~<. __ '\> ~~*'. •,: ·. '" >,/..{... :.-~·-·: •,• ~-'·""'·-·'<.A~ ...t" 

·fflHnatiJG';iftt-~o1nl}i"~o'' ti'Biie J.~ilciiijn~
""C> f) en 1 lH·~rq1···ti~· 'lC1i ')Il rnhc) .. ~s
\..U.t;:. ....; X .. ,\J ;:u..,,., ..d... \·;:_.-,; ,C ... ,c ... ~:.:. 

page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 6, 1997 
LENT ME YOUR EAR 
Yesterday would have been my parents' forty-sixth wedding anniversary. In fact, they only had fifteen years together before my father's death at the age of forty-two. My mother was great with child number ten when he died, and the oldest was fourteen. I was near the tail end of the brood ... the eighth child ... (my twin was ninth, a detail of which I often remind him) and four years old when my Dad died. I have long said that I did not lose a father in the same way that several of my older siblings did. They knew him; I didn't. I never felt like I lost my father because I don't remember ever hav­ing one. (I realize psychologists would have a field day with that line!) What I did have, were those through whom God made up all the difference, my mother and my siblings. 
We live our lives sometimes convinced that we must certainly have it worse than everyone else in the world ... but there are other times when we know ourselves to be so very much blessed, perhaps feeling in that moment of revelation, more blessed than anyone else in the world. What's the constant? What's the one thing that allows us to ride the waves which are, for us, sometimes the best of times and, at times, the worst. Dare I presume to be the one to say? I am no mystic, I can't even claim to be a theologian, but I am a Christian... and I do believe that that which undergirds all that I am and all that I do is God. Even in my most unhappy moments, I am sustained by a deep undercurrent of surety and even joy at the knowledge and experience of a God so great and so loving. Admittedly, there are times when that presence seems more evident than others, but on the whole, it is what sustains me. 
We are coming upon a time when all of us can take time to consider, more deeply the ways in which God is active and present in our lives,-in the joy and in the sorrow, in the delight and in the pain. Lent affords us an opportunity to consider the ways in which that undercurrent has weaved its way through the meanderings of our lives and refreshed and sustained us along the way. In the Catholic tradition we are particularly blessed with a multitude of ways to enter into this holy season, many of which will be publicized on this page throughout Lent. Our tradition is rich with symbols and with self-sacrifice, beginning next week with Ash Wednesday. Only to the degree that we enter into the richness and self-sacrifice of this season, will Easter be for us all that it remembers and celebrates even now, the resurrection of Jesus. 
When my Dad died, some suggested that perhaps my Mom should consider splitting up the children among relatives because of the great financial and emotional burden that she would undoubted­ly bear. She would hear none of it. She was trained and had worked as a nurse before she was married, and six months after my little sis­ter, Susie, was born, she went back to nursing. She worked, appro­priately enough, in obstetrics, an area about which she had come to know a great deal over time! For fourteen years, she chose to work the llpm to 7am·shift so that she could be home to wake us, feedus, and see us off to school, and so that she could be home upon our return. Mom's life wasn't then, and isn't now, some thirty years later, only about her. It's about us. It's about her children, her grandchildren, and her many friends. It's about family and church. It's about faith and hope even in the face of death and despair. It's about the very thing which we absurdly propose to commemorate during this Lenten season, that in God, life is found in death. 
It's not always easy to trust in God, especially when life some­times seems to offer us only pain and fear. But, as Christians, we believe that there is redemption in the suffering, that in some way we have entered into the sufferings of Jesus, so as to enter into His glory. Let this Lenten season be a time for us to enter into the mys­tery which is life and death and life again. 
Jim Lies,C.S.C. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
--~ 





VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .,..................... Michael Brouillet 
Saine Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Con<roller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNo<re 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The tews is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542  Business Office  63!-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
-. 631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4 540  Fax  63!-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• TABLE TAU\ 
Setting the clock to 'student standard time' 
About three days ago my grah-n-go broke open, scattering fruit and leaky drink boxes all over the place, and I decided I had finally had it. Grah-n-go's, in my opinion, were the worst thing to ever happen to student life at Notre Dame. 
Mick Swiney 
Now that's a pretty weighty statement, especially coming from someone who relies on sack lunches heavily. I'm always running someplace, and I've packed my schedule so full that I never have time to eat. Overall, I suppose I'm grateful to the dining halls for providing such a service to the perpetually active student population. 
But my problem with this staple of Notre Dame life is not with their tissue­paper bags or their inevitable lack of nourishment, but more with the kind of lifestyle they represent. Grah-n-go's seem to reflect a trend I see everywhere at this school. 
Life just moves too quickly. 
Think about that for a second. How many people do you know at this school have fast clocks? In every dorm on cam­pus you find that most of the residents set their clocks five, ten, or fifteen min­utes ahead of actual time. I do it, too; I've been doing it for as long as I can remember, and yet I've never really con­sidered why. Am I just warning myself that at 10:30 I'd better watch out, because in five minutes it will be... l0:35???! 
Most likely we do it to keep ourselves looking ahead, ready for what's next. But doesn't this mindset tend to get out · of hand? How many students at Notre Dame have already plotted the course their lives will take, down to when they plan to, say, fall in love and get mar­ried? Or worse yet, how many students are sweating blood because they haven't defined a course for their lives? 
Last semester the clock over O'Shaughnessy broke down. I loved it. Before it stopped completely it was close enough to actual time that I could trust it -I would rush out into South Quad only to look up and say; "Oh. I'm earlier than I thought I was... I guess I can walk to class slowly for once ... " 
Of course I caught on after showing up late to class a couple of times, and I stopped trusting the clock. But I wonder sometimes how much more peaceful life would be if we all set our clocks behind . It's not as inane as it sounds -we tend to hold what we see with our own eyes over what we know to be true, and even if we know we're late we won't be too worried about it if the clock says we're not. We trust clocks at this school; indeed, we hang our lives on them. Could any of us make it successfully through the day without looking at a clock? 
If all this seems mundane, that's because it is. I don't pretend for a minute to think that we should abandon punctuality and order and live in disar­ray, or braid wildflowers in our hair and walk barefoot through the forest. Like most other ND students, I tend to look at school as a job that needs to be done, and done well; I'm proud that I go to a school where students actually care about their performance. But I have seen far too much stress, far too much competition, far too much hurrying to be that enthusiastic about it. My point? Lighten up. 
After all, I think it's painfully obvious that Notre Dame isn't the "real world," 
page 9 

or even the real world's little brother. At ND we are sheltered, pampered, and cloistered away with a little fountain of knowledge to splash around in. Most people I talk to find this fact pretty irri­tating, but why should they? We're the "Leaders of Tomorrow," not Today; if we're sheltered and pampered and spoiled now, we might at least enjoy it. We should slow down, loosen up, relax, chill out. 
That doesn't mean cutting our time up into insane amounts of study time from Monday to Thursday and binge drinking the rest of the week-that means seek­ing moderation in all things. We are here to learn, and indeed we should be eager to learn, hungry for knowledge, not frantic for grades or desperate for resume fodder. We just need to live. • 

The moral of the story? Next time you want to hurry, don't. Next time you want to scold yourself for not being more pro­ductive, don't. Enjoy the beautiful South Bend weather (now THAT was a joke), walk slowly around campus, be late to class -the administration will love you for it. After all, they need to lighten up, too. And if you ever hear any strange sounds coming from the loft in O'Shaughnessy, it's just me ... I'll be sab­otaging the clock. 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Thursday. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY

• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

page 10 ;AC~NT. Thursday, February 6, 1997 

pavement 
Brighten the Corners 

(four out of five stars) 




various artists 

A
hhh, the ambiguous boys from Pavement return. Here are the essential elements of every Pavement review every written. 1) Mention how the album in question is not as good as their godhead, masterful. essential debut LP, Slanted and Enchanted. 2) Use the word "slacker" somewhere, any­where, in the piece. 
Well, tell you what. I'm not going to do either. For one, it's obvious and besides the point of how good Slanted and Enchanted is. Few other bands have had to constantly live under their own shadow like Pavement. Fans and press alike have chided them for, God forbid, branching out and experimenting. Granted, 1995's Wowee Zowee stretched too far for the golden ring of eclecticism, snapping in the middle like pulled Silly Putty. Secondly, I find it quite hard use the term "slack­ers," or any other substitute pulled from the computer Thesaurus ("inolenters," "sluggishers," "laxers," "shirk­ers," etc.), seeing how often Pavement produces albums. Plus the band is tight and refined on Brighten the Corners, teetering on the brink of uncoiling, while leav­ing room for wandering guitar solos and moments of insane ingenuity. 
Brighten the Corners showcases Pavement's best melodies and lyrics to date. "Shady Lane" floats and 
subUrbia 
D
irector Richard Linklater (Dazed and Confused ) returns with his latest movie about twenty-somethings talking to each other. Appropriately, he's pulled together a roster of hot rockers (most of whom come from Geffen) that hip twenty-somethings listen to when sitting around doing nothing. Linklater's Dazed Soundtrack sold like bellbottoms and spawned the marketing beast that is the Motion Picture Soundtrack. Take a peep at the Billboard Top Ten. Romeo and Juliet, Space Jam, and The Preachers Wife fly off shelves faster than Boba Fett figures. SubUrbia won't compile a mountain of receipts like those others, but artistically it is second only to last year'sTrainspotting for listening value. 
Elastica, teamed up with Pavement's Steven Malkmus, kicks off the jam with the loopy march of "Unheard Music." A bass line blobs along sounding like an unzipping zipper and the Fat Albert theme song, while three guitars power chord, quirkily fid­dle, and dance around the melody. Justine's sexy singing counters Malkmus' straining "everyman" voice like peanut butter and jelly. 
Taking a turn to the wonderfully straight-forward, waft!; like dropped sheet of fabric softener. . A wonder­fully thick, somber chord progression drives "Old to Begin" to a crashing climax. Few other guitarist duos can pluck and strum a path through a song with more creativity and skill than Steven Malkmus and Spiral Stairs and their mad skills sparkle everywhere. 
Malkmus is a lovably quirky beatnik wordsmith. "Stereo" just might be about the modern state of pro sports or Rush. "What about the voice the voice of Geddy Lee? How did it get so high? I wonder if he speaks like an ordinary guy?" ponders Malkmus. Bassist Mark lbold pipes up, "I know him, and he does!" To which Malkmus replies "Well you're my fact checking cuz." A Casio drum beat then jumps in. Twisted genius. 
Finally, Pavement has delivered a complete, thought­out album. Songs have parts. Unlike Wowee Zowee where parts were songs. Past expl\!rimenting paid off, however, as keyboards, programmed flutes, samples and such all integrate and sprinkle the songs with smile­fertilizing hooks. The rockers rock. The mellow ones groove. It works. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

(three and a half out of five stars) 
Beck quietly plucks his way through, "Feather in Your Cap." Muted piano pulls the song along like a downhill coast in a convertiple. It's one more feather in Beck's hat songwriting diversity, and true "mellow gold." 
Girls Against Boys' red-light rocket, "Bullet Proof Cupid," explodes at 100 mph like a pink, low-rider Cadillac. It's an old song, but one more step in Geffen's plan for total world domination by GVSB. 
But all good albums need diversity. Say "U.N.K.L.E." The trip-hoppers scratch and mix up another pelvic shakin' excursion, spilling drum and bass, ambient, and hard-core beats into an aural hottub. Sonic Youth recorded three songs for the film, and they are better than their last LP. "Sunday" builds distortion and shoegazing to new heights, proving that mentors always do it best. 
Few "Gen-X" soundtracks sound this good. But then again, few "Gen-X" films are as good as Linklater's. 
by Brent DiCre'Scenzo 



nyloose 

Courtesy of Hollywood Records 
Year ofthe Rat 
A
t first glance, NY Loose gives a listener an entirely different persona than when they actually play. First orr, this quartet has an obsession with things Chinese. Their new album, Year of the Rat, uses the little papers from inside fortune coookies as the back lining, the symbol for the rat on the actual disk, and a different Chinese animal character for every song. One can only assume that they are greatly inf1uenced by one of the many Chinatowns ill this country. However, none of them actually seem Chinese. Secondly, their lyrics bring to mind old, depressing, "go throw yourself off a building," Mazzy Star. But don't let that fool you. This band does rock. 
Musically, they are very impressive. From the opening lines of "Pretty Suicide" which lead singer Brijitte West belts out over single chords that she strums from her Gibson SG, the listener sees the con­trast between the group's songwriting and musical talent. Their lyrics are stupid. Songs like, "Pretty Suicide" and "Apathy Is Golden" are too depressed for their own good, even though the tunes which 

(three out of five stars) 
accompany the lyrics are rather jumpy. Musically, the song "Trash the Given Chance" has echoes of the Juliana Hatfield Trio. But "Hide" the third to last song on the disc shows the conquering stupidity of the lyrics when West sings out, "Hide your bones/hide your skin/hide your money/hide your sin ... " While guitarist Mike Diamond puts in some good solo work on all songs, and the rythym section of Danny Nordahl on bass and Pete Lloyd on drums provides the band with a solid groove, the lyrics just glare out at you, causing one listener to turn off the disc say­ing, "I do not have time for this." This is a very tight, well rehersed band with a quality lead singer. They should get over whatever funk they may be in that is causing them to write these lyrics and actually attempt to match up their considerable musical talent with a project that people will completely enjoy. Two and one-half stars because music is only half of an album. 
by Matthew Loughran 


Fishbone Metallica Bob Mould Silverchair Pavement NY Loose Wilco L7 The Queers Space February 8 February 9 February 15 February 16 February 17 February 22 February 25 February 28 March 8 March 11 House of Blues, Chicago Rosemont Horizon, Chicago The Vic, Chicago The Vic, Chicago Lounge Ax, Chicago Metro, Chicago Stepan Center, Notre Dame Metro, Chicago Metro, Chicago Metro, Chicago 

-
-

Voting times 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Student Government 1997 Elections 
A SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT TO THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 6, 1997 
Primary elections take place tomorrow, from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5 to 7 
p.m. in the residence hall lobbies and LaFortune Student Center. 
Run-off elections are Wednesday, Feb. 12, at the same times and locations. 


Incumbents: Achievable goals are key 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
When student body pres­ident Seth IY!iller and vice president Megan Murray campaigned last year, a major priority was setting and achieving realistic goals. They saw research as a valuable tool in fulfill­ing the promises made in heir campaign platform. And, as their term draws to a close, Miller and Murray are happy with achieving those goals and with what Miller calls a "revitalization of student government." 
Miller and Murray identi­fied major student concerns like gender relations, diver­sity, improved The Guide by making it available on-line, and finalized plans for the new Saferide program. 
"We didn't want to make promises we could not keep," said Miller. As a result, he and Murray start­ed working on issues before they even took office. 
This included doubling the size of student govern­ment, adding five new departments. 
Additionally, a survey on 
see MILLER I page 4 

. ­
Top-ranking officials decline chance at helm 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Leadership experience and familiarity with student govern­ment are cardinal qualities for any candidate seeking to be elected student body president. 
' A fter a while,

Student govern­ment chief of 
ft.it's just time staff Brendan 
for someone else to 

Kelly and stu­dent body vice take over." president 
Brendan Kelly 

Megan Murray unquestionably 
possess those 'There's a bal­qualities. ance between 
Neither is 
getting things done 

running in tomorrow's and not letting it eat elections. you up inside.' 
Is there some­thing about stu­
Megan Murray 

dent govern­ment and the . nature of its presidency that dissuades qualified students from seeking office? Not exactly, according to Kelly and Murray. 


Qualified tickets are running, but without as much experience as Murray and Kelly have had, candidates may not know pre­
see EXPERIENCE/ page 4 

Committee addresses 'apathetic acceptance' 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN ic acceptance." Assistant News Editor Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy tried to bring social 
Two years ago, David issues to bear during their Hungeling and Matt Orsagh administration but were shack­won the student government led by the same attitude. g!'lneral elections on a platform This year, during the Miller of bringing the band "The and Murray administration, Grateful Dead" to campus. The members of student govern­student attitude toward student ment established a reform com­government that year could be mittee" that is now trying to characterized best by what pro­change the entire organization­fessor Sam Gaglio, assistant al structure of student govern-dean of the College of Business Administration, calls, "apathet-see REFORM I page 4 
• ENDORSEMENT 
The Observer endorses Szabo/Gillard 

other year of student body 
resident campaigns brings 
ore tired talk of "communica­
tion" and "change." 
Another year of the same old plat­forms, the same poor turnout for the debate and the same (anticipated) low turnout of voters. Student government appears, once again, to be mired in the rut of short term plans and unattain­able goals, limited by the very struc­ture of the organization and th~ nature of the administration. 
But several tickets had two worth­while goals this year -to push for a student representative on the Board of Trustees and to continue the proposed reorganization of student government and other campus organizations through the student government reform committee. 
If these goals can be accomplished, perhaps a new buzz word can be added to the hackneyed list -"con­
trol." what the University wishes, unless they How's that for a "change?" are inconsequential to the administra­With a representative student on the tion. 
Board of Trustees, students might have L~ders need a new approach. We input into decisions such as privatizing have seen a moderate. compromising LaFortune and rebuilding Stepan ticket this past year in Seth Miller and 
Center from  Megan  
the ground up, both plat­form compo­ Szabo/Gillard complement each other well, providing a refreshing  Murray. We saw the "out­ 
nents of Matt  approach to the office.  s.iders'  

Szabo and Mary Gillard. 
With a representative student on the Board of Trustees, maybe then, and only then, can campus apathy toward its student government leaders be alle­viated. Students cannot have faith in their peer government when its obvi­ous that they are impotent to effect real change. 
The point -under the current sys­tem, student government has little power to implement plans contrary to 
approach" 

of two roommates "unjaded" by student gov­ernment experience in Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy. We saw the classic joke ticket in Dave Hungeling and Matt Orsagh. None of these tickets was able to do much more than the little things, which can some­times mean a lot but usually don't. 
Enter this year's attempt to run stu­dent government differently: Matt Szabo and Mary Gillard, winners of The Observer's endorsement for the 1997 election. Honorable mention goes to the ticket of Matt Griffin and Erek 
Nass. · Szabo is aggressive. He thinks with remarkable speed and is quick to com­pose himself when attacked. He attempts motivation with an us­against-them rhetoric while others try to be flowery and all~pleasing. He is a different approach than the previous three presidents. What makes this ticket all the more appealingis the aggressive, deter­mined nature of Szabo's running mate, Mary Gillard, who has experience as a member of Campus Life Council and the Student Senate. During both the debate on Monday and an interview with The Observer last week, Gillard made it a point to be involved, rather than letting Szabo be the sole voice of the ticket. That sense of motivation will 
see SZABO I page 4 

------------·---------~~----------­
page 2 



Barrette/McCaghy 
• 
Candidates: Matt Barrette, president; Brian McCaghy, vice president 

• 
Slogan: "Somethin' brand new..." 

• 
Platform emphasis: Improved communication and representa­tion, especially through student on Board of Trustees. 

• 
Unique characteristics: Placed a high emphasis on the Catholic character, stating that they hope to "uphold and preserve Notre Dame's tradition and mission as America's premier Catholic university. Catholic character isn't something you go out and do. It's a foundation." 

• 
Fresh ideas: Bi-weekly advertisements in campus media to aid in communication. 


• Want their administration to be remembered as... ''I'd 
like for us to be remembered as the most accessible administration. The student body could be proud that we represented them well." 
• Personal Statement: "We are what you might call outsiders, 
but that does not mean we lack experience. We have been developing ideas and getting feedback directly from the students on campus for the past few months instead of through the meaningless politics of a Student Senate meeting. Furthermore, our work on the Fall Board of Trustees report that dealt with student social space and the need for a new performing arts center did far more for students on this campus than the trivial meetings of the Student Senate and the Campus Life Council accomplished combined. In order to accomplish our many realistic goals, we need a foundation upon which to base our actions and decisions, Our first goal: communication. We believe that we have a very feasible and innovative solution to the communication problem between the student body and student government. Our second goal: to uphold and maintain Notre Dame's tradition and mission as America's premiere Christian and Catholic university. We have something very special here and must work to preserve the values that this unique university encompasses." 
• Analysis: They say one of their strengths is having worked outside of formal student government. When they say, "We've got an unfiltered version of what students think," we read that as, "We have absolutely no student government expe­rience." Matt can be credited, however, for his work on the student government fall Board of Trustees report. 

Booker/Parker 
• 
Candidates: Bobby Booker, president; Laura Parker, vice president 

• 
Slogan: "Simple. Structured. Strong." 

• 
Platform emphasis: Kindling campus spirit and unity through social programming. On day one, they'd plan pep rallies, a Bob Davie speech, and NBA pre-season games. 

• 
Unique characteristics: This tiekct focuses almost entirely upon bringing more soeial activity to campus. They plan that through min­gling and unifying races, gender issues will then resolve themsnlves. 

• 
Fresh ideas: Enlarge NO big brother/big sister program. Bring more NBA preseason games to campus. 

• 
Want their administration to be remembered as... "We'd like students to be able to say they brought back spirit and unity." 

• 
Personal Statement: "As we see social opportunities to be the 


weakest aspect of our school, our platform specifically focuses on pro­viding more and diverse social activities for all students. Our ideas are simple. We want to unify and restore the spirit of the entire student body. These ideas are realistic and acheivable. We also recognize the need for better communication among students . We believe this begins with increased student government involvement with other Notre Dame organiza­tions. Service, Multi-Cultural, and Academic organizations need to work together for activities and goals to be successful. We also want more input and participation from everyone, and a plan to provide students with the opportunity to attend bi­weekly open forums to discuss any issue of concern. In addition, we see the internet as being an effective tool for increasing communication: we wantto publicize upcoming activities on the net, as well as create an on-line student government sug­gestion box. Finally, we plan to continue the current administration's efforts for attaining a student rcprescntitative on the Board of Trustees, as well as support proposals for student government reform. As hall presidents, we have the necessary leadership experience. As students, we recognize the need for improvement in Notre Dame life. Together, we want to rep­resent you. Simple. Structured. Strong." 
• Analysis:: Except for the cable in dorms idea, slow, feasible, and researched platform goals. Carroll and Walsh, where Booker and Parker are dorm presidents, won the Rockne award this year. That shows some decent leadership and skill at mobi­lizing spirit and unity. 

Chica/Cano 
• 
Candidates: Andy Chica, president; Jon Cano, vice president 

• 
Slogan: "A vote for us puts you in control." 

• 
Platform emphasis: Soliciting grassroots feedback from stu­dents. Communication is a big goal here. 

• 
Unique characteristics The guys have absolutely no student government experience and certainly won't take themselves too seri­ously if elected. A cor*plete lack of planning seems to be another dis­tinct quality of their platform. 

• 
Fresh Ideas:: Bartending elasses and bocce ball tournament highlight the nature of this ticket. 


• Want their administration to be remembered as... 
"We want to represent every single student. We want them to be able to say that we listened to them and expressed their concerns." 
• Personal Statement: "Our campaign is built around putting 
every student here at Notre Dame in control. This is your university, and our concern is ensuring this fact is secured. We are not going to smother you with promises telling you what you want. We also are not going to make any promises we have no intention of keeping or that we will have no power in enforcing. What we do promise is our accessibility and con­tinuous face-to-face communication. We are here to represent every student, and that is exactly to whom we will talk. We have seen you at the dining halls, parties, the library, LaFortune and the bars, and we have heard your concerns. This is exactly what has spawned our running for office. We have experienced first hand some of the concerns that have been brought to us such as extreme flaws in the overall parking situation. Concerns range from this simple example all the way up to racial and ethnic issues. Our approach towards discussions of persuasion with upper level administration is simple: foot-in-the-door. We will use our elevated positions to start with small requests and concerns, and work our way up to larg­er ones. We cannot promise a campus resembling a utopia in one year, but what we can promise is to keep the student gov­ernment going in the positive direction it is going and to bring to office a fresh, new perspective." 
• Analysis: About all the guys have is a desire to reflect student sentiment and a vendetta against parking problems. Perhaps their most valuable contribution to the election can be the advice found at the bottom of their posters: "Regardless of who you vote for, JUST VOTE!" 
Page 3 


E COVETED 
~OSITIONS 
and vice president, as defined by te Student Body of the University of 
e. 

'It's hard because the 
ent 
students don't 
pinion. 
always see what's going on. We have reaches everywhere, but some aren't very visible.' 
Seth Miller 

nate. 
the chairperson in the capacity us Life Council. /Uiar ngs. 
enate budget committee. dent Senate may determine. 
tsident shall: the performance of presidential 
nat office is vacated for any reason. enate. enate budget committee. 
Griffin/Nass 
• 
Candidates: Matt Griffin, president; Erek Nass, vice president 

• 
Slogan: "Your voice, experience and action." 

• 
Platform emphasis: Comprehensive and feasible approach. Wide variety of issues. · 

• 
Unique characteristics: These -guys give off great vibes of credibility. This seems to be the most thoroughly researched plat­form. Their contention, "We can hit the ground running," rings true. Also, their strong desire to make student government more inviting 


is welcome. 

• 
Fresh ideas: Diversity course offerings, expanding Rock hours and LaFortune 24-hour space. 

• 
Want their administration to be remembered as••• 


"When we're done, I'd like people to know what student government is, who we are, and what we do. I'd like them to remember our office as a fun place to be." 

• 
Personal Statement: "In making ou.r decision to run, we saw one goal that clearly stood out among all our ideas, and that was communication. This goal is embodied in ou:t campaign theme and promise to be 'Your Voice.' To be a truly effective leader, the students that you represent must know what student government is doing. Without this knowledge of student government, how are students at Notre Dame supposed to support these leaders on the issues that are important to the student body? Other areas on our platform include: parking and transportation, communication, student diversity and unity, increasing 24-hour space, campus computing, athletic resources and representing you. In developing our platform, we combined this experience with research that we conducted with various officials and student leaders. We truly believe that each 'action' on our platform is an obtainable goal, that can be accomplished." 

• 
Analysis: Griffin, as junior class president, and Nass as SUB coordinator, clearly have leadership experience. On one hand, we agree when they say, "Don't shoot yourself in the foot-this is ND and nothing changes overnight." But, on the other hand, this attitude might not be the best. If students are tired of no progress on issues like student rights and co-resi­dentiality, then this is probably not the ticket for you. 


Szabo/Gillard 
• 
Candidates: Matt Szabo, president; Mary Gillard, vice president 

• 
Slogan: "This is our school. Let's take it back." 

• 
Platform emphasis: Representation. Focus on a student Board of Trustees member may help progress on otherwise aggressive and infeasible platform goals. 

• 
Unique characteristics: Experience. Gillard is one of only two candidates with Student Senate experience, and the only candidate with Campus Life Council experience. Also, the ticket has an aggres­sive platform and leadership style. 

• 
Fresh ideas: "Replace Stepan Center. It's no wonder why bands and speakers avoid this place." 

• 
Want their administration to be remembered as••• "We want to be remembered as the president and vice president that gave the students a voice. We want the students to be more of a part of the community." 

• 
Personal Statement: "Our message is this: we, the students. are Notre Dame. There is no university without us. But in nearly all areas of student concern, the administration exhibits a total lack of sensitivity to student needs. Every year, we fork over $4.1 million in unused meals because of an inflexible meal plan. Every semester, we are ripped off by a bookstore that takes in millions each year, yet still finds the need and greed to inflate the prices of 'used books.' Every day, students are being pushed around by an uncompromising Office of Residence Life that affords us no basic rights and whose policies are contradictory to any supposed honor code. We continue to be shut out of the most powerful governing body at this University, the Board of Trustees. And we have no real input in du Lac, the rules that we, as students, live by. Whose uni­versity is this, anyway? We are going to return the focus back to the students. Now is not the_time for complacent bureau­cracy and business as usual. We are going to roll up our sleeves and hammer these issues home. There is work to be done." 

• 
Analysis: Their composure, aggressiveness and Gillard's experience are strong points. However, the fact that they pre­tended to be argumentative, the general infeasible nature of their platform and Szabo's questionable organizational skills weaken the ticket. 



-.. 

Campus Life Class Hall Presidents Hall Student Union Student Gov't Judicial Reform Council Officer Council Government Board Committees Board Committee 
X 
X X X X X 

X X X X X X X 
X X X X X X 
page 4 The Observer· STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS Thursday, February 6, 1997 
as junior class president, a position that places him on Student Senate; he also chairs a subcom­
Szabo 
Getting things done in 

mittee on the student government's reform com­
mittee. Nass has served as Student Unioncontinued from page 1 Board's campus entertainment commissioner 
student government 

be important in accomplishing this ticket's lofty • and is also on the reform committee. With such 
platform, and especially important if the student experience, Griffin and Nass know how to get body vice president becomes the chair of Student things done on the second floor of LaFortune; for 
Student government president

Senate, a possibility that the student government evidence, simply look at the high number of 
and vice president

reform committee is considering. activities Griffin's Class of 1998 officers have But the platform of Szabo/Gillard is our one organized this year. · 
Elected by the student body-oversees all operations of 

concern about this ticket. The push for student But what the ticket of Griffin/Nass lacks is a 
student government 

input on the Board of Trustees and for a return dynamic personality, something that 
They appoint, with the _approval of the Student Senate, 

of specifically defined student rights are worth­Szabo/Gillard simply ooze. Szabo/Gillard comple­
an administrative cabinet and staff. The Miller/Murray 

while objectives :-and Szabo's experience as a ment each other well, providing a refreshing Judicial Council student advocate should help approach to the office. 
cabinet and staff consists of 45 individuals, in the 

with the latter goal. But the other planks of As for other tickets, Bobby Booker and Laura 
following departments: 

their platform-new meal plans, fighting book­Parker offer a lot of good ideas that, if imple­
cabinet, intellectual life, public relations, student life, 

store prices, and replacing Stepan Center -mented, would bring a greater level of social 
student government counsel, diversity council and the 

seem either infeasible or out of the realm of stu­activity to campus... but that would be great if 
financial aid council.

dent government power. If these aims are pur­they were running for offices in, say, SUB. Their sued, Szabo's aggressive nature may lead him to platform reminds us of the first part of their 
butt heads with an immovable administration campaign slogan. Simple. Perhaps too simple. 
over projects that just aren't worth the effort, The main focus of Matt Barrette and Brian 
Student Senate 

thus jeopardizing the delicate relationship McCaghy's platform is to uphold what they con­
Campus' #1 representative body. Formulates and 

between student government and the adminis­sider to be the Catholic character of Notre Dame. 
advances the position of the student body on all issues con­

tration. That may fit well with the general thinking of the 
·-. cerning student life, and allocates
That's where the Griffin/Nass ticket come into student body, but how much of a factor is 
all student funds. 

play. Griffin and Nass join Szabo/Gillard as the Catholic doctrine in working to get student rep­
two tickets that clearly separate themselves from resentation on the Board of Trustees? 
Chaired by the student body president. 

the rest of the field. The Griffin/Nass platform And finally, we come to the ticket of Andy 
Voting members include: student body president and vice 

includes a multitude of ideas that are both rea­Chica and Jon Cano. We're just not in the market 
president, the four on-campus senators, the off-campus co­

sonable and worthwhile. The idea to work with for soothing music in the dining hall, no matter 
presidents, the student body treasurer, the Student Union

the individual colleges to increase the number of how bad the food is, but their final slogan does 
diversity-related courses is representative of the have a message for everyone: 
Board manager, the club coordinator, Hall Presidents 
Council chairpersons, three members elected from HPC,

type of proposals on their platform; most of the "Regardless of who you vote for, JUST VOTE!" 
ideas are realistic and effective in addressing Big goals may not be possible unless the Board 
and the class presidents. 

some of the pressing problems affecting stu­of Trustees spot is secured or the reform com­
The senate sends all proposals to the Campus Life Council 

dents. mittee consolidates-student organizations into a 
for approval. 

The experience of Griffin and Nass in leader­student union with a considerable amount of ship positions is also a plus. Griffin has served as power. Szabo/Gillard possess the qualities that a class officer for three years, including this year can make these things happen. 
pus-wide celebration of Martin source of excitement for Miller. Luther King Day. "It's a great opportunity for stu­
Miller 

Campus Life Council 

The Fall Report to the Board dent-faculty relations with a 
of Trustees was a major accom­new administration in the 
Campus' #1 link to the administration. 
continued from page I plishment for the Miller/Murray provost's office." 

Chaired by the student body president.

administration and tremendous Although Miller and Murraygender relations is set for mail­
Comprised of student leaders, administrators, hall rectors

source of pride. "The student have not and will not endorse aing by student governmep.t to 
and faculty representatives. From the CLC, resolutions

government report to the Board ticket for the upcoming election specific questions on dating at of Trustees was very well­publicly, they do intend to con­
Notre Dame alums. It will ask 
go to to the vice president of student affairs, Patricia 

done," said Miller. tact and even aid their succes­
O'Hara, for approval. 

~otre Dame and ways to 
But Miller was quick to point sors. campus. This survey is being 
Improve gender relations on 
out the contributions of all Miller and Murray are plan­mailed in conjunction with the 
members of the student govern­ning on being available to ease 25th anniversary of women at ment staff. "We're really lucky the transition for the next stu­
Other groups operating under the student 

Notre Dame. to have the team that we have. dent government administration 
government Constitution 

Miller said that by putting The Everyone has contributed." and hope a new administration 
• Class government. Represents their classes' iQterests

Along with the report, student will continue with their initia­government sponsored a stu­tives. "We don't see ourselvesGuide, a handbook to aid stu­
on the Student Senate and plan~ctivities for their classes.

dents in the selection of certain dents-only pep rally Ohio State done until April 1," said Miller. 
classes, on-line, approximately 
• Student Union Board. Provides student services and 

weekend, and an opening Mass Miller said that each depart­$8,000 was saved because of 
intellectual, cultural, and entertaining events reflecting the

the absence of printing costs. and student/faculty picnic. But ment within the student govern­
interests and needs of the Notre Dame cor;nmunity.

the immediate accomplishments ment administration is drafting
Project Warmth was a coat 
• Student Businesses. Student-operated businesses on

drive for disadvantaged people by Miller and Murray had a a continuity report for the 
which was a product of a stu­down side. "We felt like we incoming administration. "It's a 
campus to give students business experience and provide 

were in a lull right after way to remain productive," said dent government union with the 
a service to the community.
September," said Miller, noting· Miller.

Center for Social Concerns. 
• Judicial Council. Promotes efforts fostering a greater 

that a lot of time had to be Miller and Murray also hope an example of the initiatives spent on day-to-day operations. that their new programs on 
Murray said that this serves as 
understanding of University rules, regulations, disciplinary 

taken beyond those within their Miller and Murray also shared reform in student government. 
and judicial procedures. 

platform. the frustration of trying to gender relations, financial aid, 
• The Club Coordination Council. Gathers and releases

appease their constituents while and diversity continue in some"It's great to see the initiatives 
all information regarding club activities, and assists in

in office. "Its hard because the form. "I hope our replacementsour executive coordinators have 
coordinating the distribution of the student activities fees.

students don't always see realize how important our pro­what's going on. We have grams are to the students of the taken," said Murray. "I've been 
• Hall Presidents Council. Provides a forum for mem­

impressed with all the people 
who have offered to help." reaches everywhere, but some University," said Miller. 
bers to discuss issues of residentiality.

aren't very visible," said Murray agreed, saying, "I
Miller and Murray also point­
Murray. support the best way to supported out the formation of a diver­
sity committee, which was 
The change in administration the foundation and groundwork 
SOURCE: The Constitution of tho Undergraduate Student Body of the University of Notra Dame 
of the provost's office is a we've built." 

instrumental in the recent cam-for the student body: It is the pace and I've ever had to make," Murray said. not the inherent structure of student As future advice for the ticket electPd, 
ReformExperience 

government that causes the greatest Murray stressed the importance of good continued from page 1loss of love for those involved. time-management skills. Whoever iscontinued from page I With the ability to consistently require elected, she said, should strive to find a ment. The committee has proposedcisely what they're getting into. one's full attention while inconsistently balance between office responsibilities changing student government into a"It's not that we do more work than yielding tangible results, student gov­and personal priorities. 
student union and streamlining the

other Notre Dame students; it's just that ernment can easily frustrate those "People expect a lot out of you, atld the work we do is draining," Kelly said. involved. they'll try to pull you in different direc­bureaucracy. Gaglio made news 
.. "We work in a public, confrontational "I'm not disillusioned with student tions. If you don't keep some time for last week when he addressed the arena." government. I am disillusioned with the yourself, you'll go crazy," she cautioned. 
reform committee, congratulating them for being, "the first class in 10Murray said a desire to explore areas politics anti the election process," Kelly "Don't let it completely dictate your years to take on the way student

outside of student government factored said. schedule," Murray added. "Give it the 
into her decision not to run. She also Murray also warned against becoming time it deserves, but keep a certain part government is organized. 
"I have always heard passive com­

acknowledged her term has left her frustrated by student government's of yourself removed." 
plaints about the way that the stu­

feeling a low-key sense of exhaustion. deliberate pace. Kelly also offered his advice to the dent government was run," said"It's nothing against this place or the "I came here from being a class offi­incoming administration. 
Gaglio. "Students would say, 'Itpeople in student government," she cer, and that's a place where you see a "You're not working hard enough if 

said. "It's taken a lot out of me. lot a results; you plan something and you don't finish tired," he said. "At this 
doesn't really represent us,' but no "Basically, I've just been doing student then it happens," she said. The student level, you should only do it for one year. one would get actively involved." 
Changes in student government

government since the day I got here." body officers, Murray explained, need to You work as hard as you can and thrm have been minor in the last fewLuckily for the current tickets, fatigue be prepared to debate issues and slowly that's it." 
years, according to Gaglio. "There

-not disillusionment with student gov­negotiate as well as tackle concrete Murray noted that the winning ticket ernment-seems to have been the most platform goals. will be largely responsible for deciding have been only some changes, inter­
nal shifts within the subgroups, but

significant problem for the incumbents. Despite the obstacles, neither Murray what to make of their term. 
really no linkage between the SUB,The ability to exhaust oneself may seem nor Kelly regrets the time spent in 203 "Don't take it too seriously. Put your HPC, Student Senate, and others

a perverse goal for those seeking office, LaFortune. time in, work hard, enjoy it, and believe that would stop the duplication ofbut it raises a distinction that bodes well "Not running was the toughest decision in it," she offered. "Make it fun." 
effort." 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 
page 11 


built to spill 

Courtesy of Warner Bros. Records 
Music to crash to; shOuld dig thf3 oer:trir·al"btiild scratchy vocals, the hull of a an so many times 
Veruca Salt"EightArms tolloldYou ;;'n.'c 
Metallica meets Juliana Hatfield~ Ptoducer Bob Rock makes this sucker smoM lild::)i. ... or Joan Jett a:lbum from.1986:. Might as·..· jump, but it's utterly :gen(')rig.. Qanlfighfthe
Seether? · Just watch us. · ··· · · 
Man or Astroman?" Live Uranus 
>'rl.h'rl.'! 
pace­

2. Bjork -Telegram 
3. 
Luscious Jackson-Fever In, Fever Out 

4. 
Tricky .-Pre-Millinium Tension 

5. 
Bare Naked Ladies-Rock Spectacle 

6. 
Matchbox 20 -Yourself or Someone Like You 


7. 
Splashdown -Stars & Carders 

8. 
NIN -Perfect Drug 9. U2-"Discotheque" 


10. Morphine-Sampliation 
11. 
Silverchair-"Abuse Me" 

12. 
Veruca Salt-"Volcano Girls" 


13. 
Star 69 -Eating February 

14. 
Bush -Razorblade Suitcase 


15. Mazzy Star -Among my-swan 
16. Joan Osbourn-Early Recordings 
17. 
Autor de Lucie -Autor de Lucie 

18. 
Astropuppies-You Win the Bride 


19. 
Smashing Pumpkins-The Aeroplane Flies High Tonight 

20. 
MXPX-Life in General 


Perfect From Now On 
U Best album of '97" "You won't find a better 
album in '97" "Hold on '97, ··cuz here comes 
Built to Spill" 

It all started in Boise. Perhaps that's fitting. Maybe that explains the whole thing. Doug Martsch and friends form Built to Spill. Built to Spill records two albums, one for CJZ and one for UP! Records. Now, let's tab over to 1997. Built to Spill releases Perfect from Now On on Warner Brothers (yeah, the whole major label shebang). That makes them 'legitimate' so that •Joe average can give 'em a try. They've done Lollapalooza (add that to their cache). They are also pushing the thresholds of pop and redefining the con­cept of song. 
At it's core, Built to Spill is a pop band. Their last album (There's Nothing Wrong with Love) had some of the most foot-stompin' lyric learnin' songs of 1995. Perfect from Now On, however, contains only 8 tracks (averaging 6:42 each). This time round Doug et al take their time with the songs, letting them evolve over time. Some tracks are a wee bit long. So what. They also have 5 or 6 parts to them. All the better, I say. Don't you have any patience?! 
Recent rock-superstars have shortened our attention 
(five out of five stars) 

spans, giving us pop sound-bites. Built to Spill compose pop overtures. They also construct an 'album.' Perfect from Now On gracefully steps from song to song, evolv­ing into a lengthy cosmic epic. The songs fit with each other and are at one with the cosmos. Impeccable pro­duction by Phil Ek (don't you love the names associated with this band?) brings Martsch's fuzzy staccato guitar playing through in a clear, but distorted way. Ethereal meandering precedes and follows most of the songs, transporting the listener between adjacent states of pop. 
So Built to Spill is shouting "we're here to stay!" Martsch seems to have solidified the line-up. While he's always remained the core genius (along with Brett Nelson of Caustic Resin on Bass), Scott Plouf (half of the dynamic Spinnanes duo) has filled the rotating per­cussion position. As if to apologize for the time between albums and constant shuffling of band mem­bers, Martsch promises ''I'm gonna be perfect from now on," in "Randy Described Eternity," the album's first track. Let's hope so. 
by Jim McNamee 
.. 

1. 
Built to Spill-Perfect From Now On 

2. 
Chavez-Ride the Fader 


3. 
Sweep the Leg Johnny-Sweep the Leg Johnny 

4. 
Pavemertt-Stereo 


5. Number One Cup-Kim Chee is Cabbage 
6. 
Heatmiser-Mic City Sons 

7. 
Babe the Blue Ox-Live 


8. Bis-This is Teen-C Power 
.,

9. 
Nipper!-Nipper! 

10. 
The Red Crayola-Hazel 


11. 
Bill Ding-Trust in God (But Tie Up Your Camel) 

12. 
Silkworm-Never Met A Man I Didn't Like 7" 


13. Underworld-Pearl's Girl 
14. 
Damien Jurardo-Water's Ave. S. 

15. 
DJ Shadow-Endtroducing ... 


16. 
Tristan Psionic-TPA Flight 028 

17. 
Various Artists-In flight Program 

18. 
Morella's Forest-Ultraphonic Hiss 


....

19. Tricky-Pre-Millenium Tension 
20. Space -Spidi!rs 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 6, 1997 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
.. 
Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
and bisexuals, and what can we do Food/Lodging! Get all the options. BEND, ELKHART, Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great huh? to help them? Call FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 
NOTICES 

########################### (919)918-7767, ext.A154. other areas. Summer earnings $7 · Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 Does the Backer serve soup? 
$9,000. To speak to a campus rep­springbreaktravel.com Spring Break Bahamas Party MAKE A RECORDING at the sound EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS resentative call 11 more. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All cellar recording studio Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, 1-800-477-1001. Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Quack Quack Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great located in THE OLD KEELER WIN­etc. teaching simple conversational Room With Kitchen Near Bars Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From ERY BUILDING & TAKE A TOUR. English. No languages/teaching $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! ###########################
FOR RENT
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 TO SEE WHERE THE NEW CON­exp. required. Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa ATIENTION all LESBIAN, GAY, springbreaktravel.com CERT ARENA (THE VAT) WILL (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­and BISEXUAL students, faculty, 
BE! (616)463-0003 Homes for Rent for 97-98 el.com and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Florida Spring Break! Panama City! FEMALE AND MALE CAMP ADT Security 232-2595 1-800-678-6386 Mary's College. That group which Room With Kitchen Near Bars COUNSELORS needed for out­can't advertise its name is having $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! HEY, EVERYBODY!!! STOP BY standing Maine camps! CAMP 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­JAZZERCISE its second General Meeting and Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa THE OBSERVER AND PLACE AN VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime Very close to campus Discussion group of the semester Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­AD TO YOUR VALENTINE!!! for b,ays. Each located on magnifi­location, 109 N. St. Peter 277-0111 TONIGHT at 7:30. For the location el.com cent lakefront setting with excep­233-9947 of the meeting, call the 0-LINE at 1-800-678-6386 tional facilities. Over 1 oo positions Fuzzy Bear, happy anniversary. 236-9661. 
BODY TALKS at each camp for heads and assis­NICE HOMES FOR NEXT Love, Sugar Bear Topic: What issues and complexi-SPRING BREAK -Be there!!! tants in tennis, basketball, baseball, SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND -ties face closeted lesbians, gays, PANAMA CITY BEACH Fi..ORIDA volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS A secure, loving couple wishes to and bisexuals, and what can we do SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH field hockey, roller hockey, swim­2773097 begin a family by adopting an to help them? RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR ILOST & FOUND I ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, infant. We can provide a bright, ########################### POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT water-skiing, archery, weight train­happy future for a child. TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE HELP!! ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­FOR SALE All allowable medical & legal Class of 1998 TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE Lost my class ring between tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, expenses paid. Please call Come play Laser Tag at LASER BIGGEST PARTY. Sarin, SDH, and D6. Great dance Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­1-800-292-5363 or call our attorney STORM FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 sentimental value. If found, Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study, um mattress set. Never used still iri collect at 217-352-1800. (On State Road 23 across from DQ) WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM please call John at X2213 or backpacking, horseback riding, package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Karol & Rob TONITE 8-10 p.m. 
drop by 319. ropes course, trip leaders, mountain (219) 674-2352 !!!!!!!!!FREE!!!!!!!! THE COPY SHOP $$REWARD$$ biking, riflery, general (w/youngest Electrolysis by Rebecca !!!!!!!!!FREE!!!!!!!! LaFortune Student Center campers). Also looking for secre­WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM Blend Method 674-6933 !!!!!!!!!FREE!!!!!!!! 
Phone 631-COPY LOST: detatchable face for a taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Pioneer car CD player and soft dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top TA'MARA 273-5166 FAX IT FAST!!! Sophomore Literary Festival: Tom Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight black carrying case. if found, salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­Sending & Receiving CLancy, Eavan Boland, Alan Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight please call X 2079. REWARD ing, and travel allowance. MEN­Packard Bell Pentium 100 comput­at Lightman, Priscilla Cogan, Student Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 er, 16MB, 1GB, 4x CD drive, 14" THE COPY SHOP Readings and Robert Creely! ­Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Lost: Sterling silver ring with black Beacon Street, Brookling, MA monitor, modem, $800. 272-3908. LaFortune Student Center Get free tickets for Clancy today at Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. writing on one side and an 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888-Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 the LaFun info desk. Sun.: Noon -Midnight engraved flower on the other side. 844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, New Sony Play Station $150 284-FAX IT FAST!!! Open Early, Late, & Weekends If found, please call Katy at x1490. PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, 5223 MG, MC, AK, PO, CV --Aren't you 
-REWARD-jobs@campvega.com, http://carn­Is your band ready? Rent a full­glad you use Dial? Don't you wish 
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN­pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE New Unopened External Zip production studio at $100 a day. I'll everyone did? TINE CLASSIFIED FOR YOUR REWARD $$ REWARD $$ WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 --MK:-) SWEETHEART OR YOUR LOST -Antique silver earring on CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the Drive-SCSI $175 OBO 
FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM Tuesday night between O'Shag and LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Call Steve 280-8124 Is your band ready? Rent a full­M, ON 2/13. stadium parking lot. Room from 1DAM to 4PM. NO production studio at $100 a day. I'll Sorry about the knee. I know you'll 
r It is round with an old fashioned APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. Attention Campus Bands!! Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 be on your feet and working again SMC -ND Summer Programs screw back. P.A. equipment for sale. Great soon. Hang in there. This is ludi-London (May 21-June 20) PLEASE call Kathleen 631-6479: Volunteers Needed for FOOD­condition! Amps, 4 Speakers, mon­You play Irish Music? Sesuns at crous! AI and Rome (June 15-July 14) REWARD $$ REWARD $$ SHARE: Help Feed The Homeless itors, mics, pre-amp, etc. etc. Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. Travel and Several Courses for 1 hour a week. If interested, 256-9041. Musicians welcome. C, 
Available. LOST: Pioneer detachable face If interested call Mike 234-1078. call dave at 273-4318 I think your boyfriend really does 
Meeting Feb 10 for car CD player. was in a Shooter, there were boogies in the look like Tyson Beckford! Carroll Aud. SMC at 6:30 pm black carrying case. if found, Reliable babysitter needed, ages '90 Camry 111 K miles air like fireflys, never, EVER leave Info: Call Prof. Black please call 4-2079 (ask for Lee) 6,4,2. Ten minutes from campus, $3500 291-4114 your wing man! Liz-­284-4460 or 272-3726 reward $5.25/hour, 15 hours/week. Even sickness doesn't put MY soup 
277-3064 ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS kitchen out of business. ########################### TICKETS 
$10.00

WANTED
ATIENTION all LESBIAN, GAY, The Lewis Coffee House needs CALL MIKE at 288-0116 D--thank you for everything. I owe and BISEXUAL students, faculty, poets, singers, and entertainers on NEED GA'S FOR UCONN you. -H and staff of Notre Dame and Saint SUMMER JOBS Monday nights. If interested call CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 DO YOU PLAY DRUMS? 
Mary's College. That group which ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Denise X3577. -Experienced Guitarist! Vocalist is charisma ... or is that carnal? it all can't advertise its name is having PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS NEED GA'S FOR PROVIDENCE looking to jam/form band. Will play manifests itself in the same, per­
• its second General Meeting and ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS! CALL CHRIS@ 288-1439 any style of music. Call John at 4-sonality-filled package . Discussion group pf the semester NEAR LAKE PLACID ColorWorks is currently recruiting 1221. TONIGHT at 7:30. For the location 1-800-786-8373 on campus for a limited number of G,
PERSONAL
of the meeting, call the 0-LINE at summer '97 management positions. You are no longer a factor then Proof that I actually do live here and 236-9661. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up Gain hands on experience in man­not at home HAH. Topic: What issues and complexi~ to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, aging a business in your hometown. Spring Break Bahamas Party Greg, LJ ties face closeted lesbians, gays, parks, resorts. Airfare! Opportunities available in SOUTH Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All The smell could melt your face, 
• CLUB CONNECTION 
Dedication pays dividends 
By BETSY BAKER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
From an early age, an athlete quickly discovers what being successful entails, and most often it can be summed up in one word -dedication. 
Whether it means a twelve year-old kid giving up the Saturday morning cartoons to go to practice or a senior at Notre Dame giving up an excit­ing night in South Bend to rest up for a game, one thing is for sur.e. Athletes, at any level, must know the meaning of ded­ication. 
From its coach to its first-year players, the Notre Dame Men's Volleyball club has mastered the meaning of dedication. 
The club consists of fourteen members, from all four grades and all different parts of the country, who have one thing in common-they all love volley­ball. 
However, it is not that easy. 

While the love of volleyball forms the core of the club, what has lead to its success is the dedication of each individual member. 
Being on club status has both advantages and disadvantages, but what affects the club the most is the financial disadvan­tage. 
Not only must the players dedicate themselves to three hours of practice three times a week and conditioning at 7:30 in the morning, but they also pay dues so that they can travel to the matches for which they have prepared. 
"It gets tough, at times, having to pay dues and do fund-rais­ers," senior Jason Arnold, sec­retary of the club, said. "But overall, it's worth it." 
Some of the members of the club feel that the fact they do all the work both on and off the court helps bring the team clos­er together. 
Senior Josh "Wheels" Clement is one of those mem­bers. 
"It almost helps us become more dedicated," Clement com­mented. "Not only to we have to practice all the time, we have to make it possible that the practice pays off by going to matches." 
The dedication also shines greatly through the club's coach, Steve Hendricks. Hendricks, an assistant for the women's varsity team, volun­tarily dedicates his time to t~e club. 
Team unity also plays' a major role in the club's success, and it often results from the coopeni­tive dedication of its players and coach. 
When asked what is the best part being a member. of the men's volleyball club, President David Madden answered, "Definitely the teammatf:)s." 
Clement concurred. 
"The people we play with and against are the best part," he added. 
"We bond both on and off the court. We play together in a match and then go out together on the weekends." 
The combination of the love of the game and the team unity is what draws most of the play­ers to the club. What results from that is a level of intense volleyball while maintaining a good time. 
"You don't just love playing volleyball, you love the competi­tion," Gregg Hoss, vice-presi­dent of the club, said as to why most of the players are there. "And as long as it remains fun, most guys keep coming back." 
The club, a member of the Midwestern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association, plays mostly clubs from other univer­sities and colleges from around the nation. The level of compe­tition is high, as many schools don't carry men's volleyball as a varsity sport, leaving it as a club sport. 
The team holds try-outs at the beginning of the school year, leaving fall as basically a training period. The season begins at the end of January and highlights matches against Michigan, Michigan State, and a trip to Nationals at the University of Arizona from April 16-20. 
••11..,..,. S VOLLEYBALL SCHEDULE NORTHWESTERV 
~t Indiana Tour6a~~t PURDUE / J at Tri-State at Western Michigan UNIV. OF ILLINOIS-CHICAGO GOSHEN at Purdue & Univ.of 
Illinois Chicago at Buffalo Tournament 
La1ke•la1nd High School vs. '':,,/'l'»'i·..Sitat:a & Michigan State Tournament 
Courtesy of Men's Volleyball Club 

Irish Men's Volleyball Club members pride themselves on work ethic. 
7 p.m. 
TBA 
3 p.m. 7 p.m. 12 p.m. 7p.m. 7 p.m. 12 p.m. Sp.m. 2p.m. 
TBA TBA 
2p.m. 


Thursday, February 6, 1997 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 








VOLUME 2, NUMBER 5 
1997 
Hi! I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE Student Rep. It's my job to spotlight sports & NIKE knowledge on this campus for you. If there's something that you think is missing on this SportsPage or if you know of an EXTRAORDINARY non-Varsity athlete who deserves recognition, let me know at colleen.henshaw@nike.com ... If you want to talk to NIKE HO directly, use: sports.page@nike.com. 



IV 
... 
:I 
E 
.. IV 
... 
c 
..... 
u 
II 
u ..... 
·-.. 
... 
IV 
> 
II 
> 
..... 
IU 
0 
.. c 
IU Ql 
... 
u Ql 
... 
0 
u 
II 
0 
u 




0 
5 
6 

7 
MEN'S TENNISN 

WOMEN'S 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/C VS. WILLIAM AND MARY 
T MARYLAND TERRAPIN INVIT. ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
VOLLEYBALLN 
VS. SYRACUSE 
MEN'S SWIMMINGN 
3:30PM 
7:00PM 

VS. WESTERN KENTUCKY WOMEN'S TENNISN 
ROLF'S AOUATIC CTR., 4:00PM AT ROLEX NATIONAL INDOOR 
MEN'S HOCKEYN CHAMPIONSHIP VS. OHIO STATE, JACC, 7:00PM DALLAS, TX 
FENCINGN AT DUKE 
12 
13 

14 
WOMEN'S 
MEN'S 

MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/C BASKETBALLN 
AT INDIANA TOURNAMENT VS. BOSTON COLLEGE 
VOLLEYBALL/C 
VS. NORTHWESTERN 
MEN'S HOCKEYN JACC 
JACC AUX. GYM 
AT MICHIGAN 7:00PM 
7:00PM 

WOMEN'S TENNISN VS. SYRACUSE lAWRENCE, KS 2:00PM 
··~ 
········································ ········································ 
19 
20 

21
•
MEN'S SWIMMINGN 

MEN'S TENNISN 
MEN'S BASEBALLN AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
AT NATIONAL TEAM INDOOR 
LONG BEACH STATE CLASSIC NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ 
CHAMPIONSHIP 
S. LONG BEACH STATE, 7:05PM WOMEN'S SWIMMINGN 
LOUISVILLE, KY 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALLN AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
ARIZONA ST. TOURN., TEMPE RUTGERS, NJ 
AT NATIONAL INDOOR 
M/W!TRACKN W/BASKETBALLN 
CHAMPIONSHIP 
ALEX WILSON INVIT., LOF1US CTR VS. VILLANOVA 
MADISON, WI JACC, 7:00 PM 
26 
27 

28 
MEN'S 

MEN'S BASEBALLN 
MEN'S BASEBALLN TENNISN 
DOUBLEHEADER 
VS. ARKANSAS AT MICHIGAN STATE 
VS. CHRISTIAN BROTHERS, 
MILLINGTON, TN, 6:00 PM 4:00PM 
1:30PM 

MEN'S lACROSSEN 
VS. ARMY, 5:00 PM 
AT PENN STATE, 7:00PM 
MILLINGTON, TN 
WOMEN'S SOFTBALLN WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT NFCA LEADOFF CLASSIC 
AT WISCONSIN 
COLUMBUS, GA 
....
2:30PM 
8 
MEN'S SWIMMINGN MEN'S HOCKEYN AT WISCONSIN-MILWAUKEE VS. OHIO STATE 3:00PM JACC MEN'S & WOMEN'S 7:00PM TRACKN 
FENCINGN AT BUTLER INVITATIONAL AT DUKE INDIANAPOLIS, IN 
15 
MEN'S TENNISN MEN'S HOCKEYN VS. TEXAS AT MICHIGAN ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
1:00PM 
AT KANSAS MEN'S & WOMEN'S 200 PM 
TRACKN AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIP SYRACUSE, NY 
22 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/C M/W/TRACKN VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN ALEX WILSON JACC AUX GYM, 2:00 PM INVITATIONAL W/BASKETBALLN 
MEYO FIELD (LOFlUS SPORTS CTR) VS. SETON HALL MEN'S HOCKEYN JACC, 7:30PM AT WESTERN MICHIGAN MEN'S BASEBALLN FENCINGN LONG BEACH STATE CLASSIC AT NORTHWESTERN VS. S. CALIFORNIA, 7:00PM 
WON'T FIT ON 28TH••• 
MEN'S TENNISN PACIFIC COAST DOUBLES CHAMPIONSHIP LAJOLLA, CA MEN'S & WOMEN'S TRACKN AT USA TRACK, ATLANTA, GA 
MEN'S HOCKEYN VS. MICHIGAN STATE, JACC, 7:00 PM 

s Focus on your heart 
D 
this month! Get your 
E L 
body mavin' and your 
N 
E heart pumping 
s 
doing whatever you like best ... And be sure to check out those planned activities that also abound! 
DOING IT ... Patrick Foley is the ultimate team player. 
A standout high school athlete, Foley was an accom­plished baseball player and all-state soccer player in Texas. Since arriving at Notre Dame, this Flanner 
Gamecock has continued his athletic endeavors through interhall baseball and soccer. One of the top players on both squads, Foley led 
-

his soccer team to a championship and 
the baseball team to a runner-up finish as a sophomore. He has continued to play well this year. 
Group activities are not limited to sports for Foley. For many years now, he's helped 
·-.... 

those less fortunate by participating in Special Olympics and Kiwanis groups, among others. Foley also is a member of Circle K service group here at Notre Dame. His favorite activity is Boys' State. Foley first attended as a representative after his sophomore year in high school, and has returned every year as a counselor. Foley enjoys helping young people become more competent citizens. He also values the friendships he has cultivated as a result of Boys' State. After all, comraderie is what being a team player is all about. 
CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: TIMOTHY 5. MCCONN, JUNIOR 
16 
17 
WOMEN'S 
WOMEN'S TENNISN BASKETBALLN 
VS. CLEMSON AT PROVIDENCE 
ECK TENNIS PAVILION 1:00PM 
NOON 

MEN'S TENNISN VS. DUKE ECK TENNIS PAVILION NOON 
23 
24 
MEN'S BASEBALLN LONG BEACH STATE CLASSIC VS. MISSISSIPPI NOON 
3 
4
2 
9 
10 
11 
WOMEN'S 


MEN'S BASKETBALLN 
TENNISNt WON'T FIT ON 21ST•••

AT CONNECTICUT 

AT KENTUCKY 2:00PM 
2:00PM MEN'S TENNISN 
MEN'S HOCKEYN 
VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN VS. ILLINOIS 
JACC, 7:00PM ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
FENCINGN AT NORTHWESTERN 

.d.•M•-•··•·••,.j 
18 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/C AT TRISTATE 7:00PM 
MEN'S TENNISN VS. INDIANA ECK TENNIS PAVILION 4:00PM 
25 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALLN AT WEST VIRGINIA 7:00PM 
.. 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY ~UCH SPONSORSHIP. 
ByJOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 

i. With the graduation of one of the finest classes to set and spike on the Joyce center floor, head coach Debbie Brown looked to fill some of the void left by Jenny Birkner, Jen Briggs, Kristina Ervin, and Jen Rouse. Yesterday, Brown did just that as the Notre Dame Volleyball team signed fo'llr blue chippers to national letters of intent. Those signees are 6­2 setter Denise Boylan (Lisle, IL), 6-3 middle blocker/outside hitter Christi Girton (Muncie, IN), 6-1 middle blocker/outside hitter Jo Jameyson (Alvin, TX) and 5-10 outside hitter Adrienne Shimmel (Mission Viejo, CA). 
Boylan, Girton, and Jameyson have all been named to Volleyball Magazine's "Fab 50" high school recruits. They will join other former "Fab 50" re­cruits to be seniors Jaimie Lee, Carey May, and Angie Harris, to be junior Lindsay Treadwell and Mary Leffers who just fin­ished her freshman campaign. 
• VOLLEYBAll 


"I am really pleased with the entire class. There is a great balance of ball control and strong net play," Brown re­marked. "Personality-wise, they are going to fit in with the team really well and they are all good students." 
Boylan, the two time all-state performer, is the only player to be a member ofthe US youth national team the past three years. She has also been named to five All-American teams while playing at the Chicago based Sports Performance Volleyball Club which also produced Birkner and current freshman Lauren Stettin. 
Boylan will fill an immediate need that was exposed last year as the squad had only one true setter, Carey May. May was injured before the season and they were forced to move Jaimie Lee to setter. 
"We gambled this past year by not having two true setters on .out team and we lost," Brown said. 
"The most unique thing about Denise is that it's very rare to have someone who is 6­

------------~-----------~---­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 6, 1997 

Blue-chippers add depth, balance, strong net play 
2 as your setter. We hope that her height will be key in our ability to block the ball even better." 
Girton is a versatile frontline player who was named to a third team All-American by Volleyball Magazine. Girton rewrote her high school record books as she set records with kills (1,069; 3.97/gm) and aces (168; .64/gm). She was also an All-American with her club team, Asics Munciana Volleyball Club to which Harris was also a member. 
"Christi has played on the left side, middle and right side and we could use her at any of those positions," Brown said. "I think it's a great asset that she can play any frontline posi­tion." 
The 6-1 Jameyson is known for her versatility, athleticism and quickness while playing at 
both middle blocker and hitter. She was named to· second team all-state her junior campaign . before snagging first team all­state her final year. Jameyson was also the district high jump champion as a sophomore and 
junior. 
"Jo is a really versatile ath­
lete and is very quick and 
because of that a very good 
middle blocker," remarked 
Brown. "Jo is a good all­
around player who just really 
enjoys playing the game." 
Shimmel has terrific back 
row skills as her strengths lay 
in her excellent passing and de­
fense. She was a first team all­
league and second team all-CIF 
as she played for Capistrano 
Valley High School in the CIF. 
"Adrienne will be a great 
boost to our left side and she's very vocal on the court and plays with a lot of enthusiasm," Brown noted. 
Shimmel expressed and ex­plained that excitement. 
"When Notre Dame first showed an interest in me, it was very exciting and easily became my number one choice. I like the fact that the team gets involved with the community and in helping people. That's something which is important to me." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifi.eds 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 
-
Due to a last minute distribution error out of our control, 
Looking For Richard 
has been postponed until March 21st and 22nd 
., 
will now show this weekend FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7 AND SATURDAY, FEB 8 
7:30 and 9:55 p.m., $2 

http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
Toni (]cuuq oo ies (TI.X) Jornorr'ow (fhLtro'-.day) 
< 



friday, february 7 Tom Clancy saturday, february 8 Eavan Boland 
sunday, february 9 Alan Lightman monday, february 1 0 Priscilla Cogan 


tuesday, february 11 Student Readings d d f b 
we nes ay, e ruary 1 2 . Robert Creeley 

slf and sub attached at the hip for better or stepan 
___...

----,·------------~-----------------------,.---.._
-~--------­

--------·-----­
Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Streaking Irish face Orange 
By BRIAN REINTHALER with Connecticut on Sunday. provides even more incentive Spans Writer But the players certainly do for the Orangewomen to play not appear to be taking well. "They (Syracuse) have 
Since a tough loss at Ohio Syracuse lightly. been winning (recently)," State earlier in the season, the "We're not looking ahead," acknowledged Pcirick. "We women's basketball team has said center Katryna Gaither. know they're going to be gun­been on fire. The Irish are cur­"No team can afford to do that. ning for us." rently on a nine-game winning We have to think about the In preparation for tonight's streak and will look to extend it game at hand. That's how good contest, the Irish have been to 10 tonight when Big East foe teams excel." working on slowing down the Syracuse invades the Joyce Junior Mollie Peirick respond­Orangewomen. Center. ed with even more certainty to "Syracuse is more of a transi­
After taking into account this the question of anticipating tion team," said Gaither. "We year's prior meeting between Connecticut. have been trying to improve on the two squads, a 72-45 drub­"Not at all," Peirick stated. our transition defense." bing of the Orangewomen in "We have never had a problem Peirick agreed that "getting Syracuse, the only possible with that." back on defense" would be a worry for the Irish is their Peirick feels that the way the key to beating the looming conference showdown Irish have been playing lately Orangewomen a second time. 


Soturdoy,February 22, 1997 
8:00 PM at Stepan Center 
PARTXII 

Admission $3.00 
Every Thursday AU-You-Can-Eat Pizza &Pasta for $S.oo • 6~00 p.m.. 8~30 p.m. • 

18157 S. R. 23 
r---o;e'M;di~m---, r---on;L;;g;---, r----------, r----------,
One Large, One Topping Pizza, Two Medium, One Topping Pizzas, : One Topping Pizza : : One Topping Pizza : :Order of Five Sticks, &2 Liters of PepsiI IOrder of Five Sticks, &2 Liters of Pepsi I 
I $699 I I $899 I I $1199 : : $1 399 : 
I I I I I I 
: 2nd One Topping Large only $7 :
1 2 for 11.99 1 1 2for 15.99 1 IAdditional toppings $1.25 each.....-....I IAdditional toppings $1.50 each......-..... 1 IAdditional toppings $1.50 each I :Additional toppings $1.25 each : IValid on Carry-out or Delivery .....-.... 1valid on Carry-out or Delivery .:SI
1Valid on Carry-out or Delivery ~ 1 IValid on Carry-out or Delivery ~ 1 
L ___E!!!i~YJ;Sf!7_ -~'_J L ___E!!!i~ YJ;Sf!7_ ~·_J L---E~i: ~Sf;.7-~~ 1 L ___~i: ~a:;_1_-~"..I 

page 16 The Observer • National Signing Day 

head coach has even gone as far as keeping it within the family. Linebacker Kevin Dansby and defensive lineman Andrew VVisne wade it official on VVednesday, signing on to join their brothers, Melvin and Jerry, respectively as members of the Notre Dame football team. 
Although Kevin said that he did not feel any pressure to fol­low in his brother's footsteps, the younger Dansby is looking forward to playing with Melvin for the first time. 
"It's something I've always wanted to do but have never had the chance," said the 6­foot-1, 210 pound Kevin. 
"It's been a life long dream of mine, and I'm thankful that I'll have the opportunity to ful­fill it... 
Brother Melvin is equally excited. 
"In high school, we were too far apart to play with one another," said Melvin, who is returning for a fifth year. "I was hoping that he'd decide to come to Notre Dame, but I tried not to put any pressure on him." 
During a senior season in which he was named honor­able mention to the USA Today All-American team, Kevin reg­istered 171 tackles, 5.5 quar­call from Davie. 
"I was all set to go to OU, and then Notre Dame called and that changed things," said Andrew. "Coach Davie apolo­gized in being late in recruiting me. I knew then that Notre Dame was where I wanted to be." 
Despite not playing football until his junior year in high school, VVisne made enough progress to catch the eyes of recruiters. 
"He made drastic improve­ments throughout the year," said Davie. "And having Andrew here will help Jerry, too. The two of them are very close." 
As a senior, the younger VVisne recorded 97 tackles and six quarterback sacks while starting at the same position Jerry played in high school. Now, Andrew is looking for­ward to looking across the line of scrimmage and seeing his brother staring right back at him. 
"Even though we'll be on opposite sides of the ball, I'm sure we'll be able to help one another out," said Andrew. ''I'm also excited to play for Coach Davie. He said he was going to bring back the spirit and tradition to Notre Dame." 
And perhaps a little family, too. 


1. 
David Warren DL Tyler, Tx.(John) 

2. 
Randy Fasani OB Loomis, Ca.(Del Oro) 


3. Travis Minor RB Baton Rouge, La.(Cath.) 
4. LaVar Arrington ATH Pittsburgh, Pa.(N Hills) 
-
5. Deon Grant DB Augusta, Ga.(Josey) 
6. Jamal Reynolds DL Aiken, S.C. 

7. Tony Driver RB Louisville, Ky.(Malel 
8. 
Rohan Davey OB Hialeh, FI.(Miami Lakes) 

9. 
Derrick Gibson DB Miami, FI.(Killian) 

10. 
Kareem McKenzie OL Willingboro, N.J. 

11. 
Jasper Sanks RB Columbus, Ga.(Carver) 

12. 
Andre Carter DL San Jose, Ca.(Oak Grove) 

13. 
Cedric Cormier ATH Houston, Tx.(N Shore) 

14. 
Kenriy Kelly QB Tampa, FI.(Catholic) 

15. 
Kyle Vanden BoschLB Inwood, la.(West Lyon) 

16. 
Alvin Morrow TE Kirkweod, Mo. 


17. 
Ron Graham LB Pittsburgh, Pa.(P Hills) 

18. 
Julius McMillan ATH Altus, Ok. 


19. 
Jamal Lewis FB Atlanta, Ga.(Douglass) 



20. Kurt Vollers OL Ariaheim, Ca.(Servite) 6-7 268 5.0 Notre Dame 
21. 
James Boyd DB Chesapeake, Va.(ln.River) 6-1 215 4.4 Penn State 

22. 
Sam Matthews DL Jacksonville, FI.(Bolles) 6-6 270 4.9 Alabama 

23. 
Alex Brown LB Jasper, FI.(Hamilton Cty) 6-4 220 4.5 Florida 

24. 
Brian Scott WR Darlington, S.C. 6-3 195 4.6 South Carolina 

25. 
Stanford Simmons DB Ashland, AI.(Ciay Co.) 6-2 195 4.4 Auburn 

26. 
Jason Brooks OL Cleveland, Oh.(St.lgnat) 6-4 270 5.1 Michigan 

27. 
Travis Carroll LB Jacksonville, FI.(Bolles) 6-4 230 4.7 Alabama 

28. 
Ravon Anderson ATH Hoboken, N.J. 5-10 188 4.5 North Carolina 

29. 
Antuan Simmons DB Sacramento, Ca.(Valley) 5-11185 4.5 USC 

30. 
Gerard Warren DL Lake Butler, FI.(Un.City) 6-4 280 4.8 Florida 

31. 
Tracey Wistrom LB Webb City, Mo. 6-5 200 4.7 Nebraska 

32. 
Chris Chambers WR Bedford, Oh. 6-1 175 4.5 Wisconsin 

33. 
Tyrone Robertson DL Danville, Va.(Geo Wash) 6-5 260 4.8 Virginia Tech 

34. 
Victor Rodgers OL Fed.Way, Wa.(Decatur) 6-7 290 5.1 Colorado 

35. 
John Norman DB Midland, Tx.(Lee) 6-1 180 4.6 Texas Tech 

36. 
Omar Easy FB Everett, Ma. 6-2 238 4.5 Penn State 

37. 
Kenyon Rambo WR Long Beach, Ca.(Poly) 6-1175 4.5 OSU,USC 

38. 
Robert Williams ATH Dallas, Tx.(Bishop Lynch) 6-4 210 4.5 Miami 


39. Rufus Brown RB Belzoni. Ms.(Humphreys) 6-1 200 4.5 North Carolina 
40. 
Cosey Coleman OL Decatur, Ga.(SW Dekalb) 6-5 305 5.0 Tennessee 

41. 
Courtland Bullard LB Miami, FI.(Southridge) 6-3 210 4.5 Ohio State 

42. 
Hubert Thompson DL Hillside, II.(Proviso W) 6-6 255 4.7 Michigan St 

43. 
Robert Jackson DB Corvallis, Or.(C Valley) 6-0 195 4.5 Illinois 

44. 
Tam Hopkins OL Winter Park, FI.(L Howell) 6-5 325 5.1 Ohio State 

45. 
Billy Greenwood ATH Norwalk, Ct.(KCHT) 6-2 185 4.4 North Carolina 

46. 
Rodney Perry WR Santa Ana, Ca.(Mater Dei) 5-9 180 4.5 USC 

47. 
Maurice Williams DL Detroit, Mi.(Pershing) 6-6 275 5.0 Michigan 

48. 
Thomas Pittman DL Reserve, La.(E St. John) 6-3 255 4.8 Auburn 


49. Grant Irons LB The Woodlands, Tx. 6-5 225 4. 7 Notre 

50. Patrick McCall RB Carson, Ca. 5-10 190 4.5 Mi · 
78. Cooper Rego RB Montvale, N . .J.(St. Joe)S-9190 4.5 Notre 
92. Ron Israel DB Haddon Heights, N.J. 6-0 175 4.5 Notre 
The Observer/ Brian Blank 

NATIONAL TOP 

6-3 230 4.5 Florida State 6-3 215 4.7 Stanford 
5-11 190 4.4 FSU,LSU 
6-4 225 4.4 Penn State 6-3 195 4.5 Tennessee 6-3 240 4.6 Florida St 
6-2 205 4.4 Notre Dame 
6-3 212 4.7 LSU 6-2 190 4.5 Florida St 6-6 320 5.2 Penn State 6-2 212 4.5 Georgia 6-3 235 4.5 California 6-0 180 4.4 Colorado 6-3 185 4.5 Miami 6-4 235 4.6 Nebraska 6-5 230 4.6 Florida St 6-4 240 4.7 Penn State 5-11 173 4.4 Kansas St 6-1 220 4.5 Tennessee 

"I remember we were down 17-0 to St. Xavier at halftime," Redman said. "VVe come out in the second half and Tony blocks a field-goal attempt and returns it 70 yards for a touch­down. That ignited us. VVe would go on to win the state championship 21-17. 
"That's Tony. He flourishes in the big games. He loves the 
163 ... made 161 tackles, 91 solo, in '95 while also recovering five fumbles, caus­ing four fumbles and intercepting one pass... has run 48.6 in 400 meters ... played defensive end as sophomore, mid­dle linebacker as junior ... named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal­Constitution ... younger brother of Irish senior defensive end Melvin Dansby ... 
Denman, Anthony, RBILB, 6-3, 205, Husk, TX (Husk) ­rushed for 1,250 yards and 12 TDs as senior in '96 ... account­ed for 85 tackles. one sack and six quarterback pressures on defense in '96 ... rushed for 1,428 yards and 20 TDs as junior in '95 ... all-area selection as junior ... 
Holloway, Jabarl, TE. 6-4, 235, Tyrone, GA (Sandy Creek) ­USA Today hon­orable mention All-America pick ... named to Super Southern 100 and to Georgia Top 50 lists by Atlanta Journal Constitution ... 


"I felt it was the place for me. I knew subconsciously that I wanted to go to Notre Dame." 
Despite a late lean towards Florida State, the Irish won out and Driver accredits Notre Dame's strong academics. 
"Academics was the deciding factor for me," he explained. "They help you out in 40 years, not just four." 
TD as junior in '95 and also had 83 tack­les and 11 sacks ... blocked six field goals and ran two of them back for TDs as junior ... boasts 4.0 grade-point average .. . 
Holmes, Hugh, LB. 6-2, 210, Kissimmee, FL (Osceola) made 136 
tackles as senior in '96 . . . all-state selection and Florida '--------' District 6 player Holmes of the year as senior ... made 127 tackles, 10 sacks as junior in '95 ... career totals included 169 solos, 249 assists ... 


Levy. Darcey, RB. 6-2, 195, Denver, CO (Montbello) ­rushed for 1.453 yards and 27 TDs as senior in '96 . . . also played free safety, making more than 50 tackles and two interceptions ... also capable of playing wide receiver . . . 

Irons 

continued from page 20 
one-man wrecking crew for The VVoodlands over the past two seasons, recording 219 tackles, four sacks, two forced fumbles, two blocked passes and an interception. 
"I think my biggest strength is that I can run 
sideline to sideline and will give 110 percentx on every play," Irons said. "Plus, I have fun. I enjoy the game." 
"He just has the natural ability and uncanny sense that you don't coach," said his high school coach VVeldon VVillig commented. "By the 

same token, he does accept Irons coaching, and that makes him even better. If you tell him something, you know he's going to work at it." 
There doesn't appear to be all that much VVillig didn't tell Irons. He's worked on it all already, even in the weight room. 
The consensus All-American bench presses 325 pounds and squats 430. His athletic abilities are just as impressive (4.6 speed in the 40-yard dash and a 35-inch vertical leap). 
Considering the Irish have a gaping need at inside linebacker in 1997, will all these numbers add up to a starting slot, a Ia Ohio State phenom Thursday, February 6, 1997 
Photo Courtesy of SuperPrep 
VVhen asked where he expects to play at Notre Dame, Driver responded with the same versatility that he plays with. 
"I plan on playing tailback," Driver said. "But I'll be ready to play any position." 
That's exactly what the Irish like to hear. 
offense as senior in '96 ... captain of team as senior ... all-district pick in '96 as team's outstanding lineman ... helped team to 6-4 mark in '96 with an average of 300 rushing yards per game . 
Williams, Brock, DB, 5-11, 175, Hammond, LA (Hammond) -named to Super Southern 100 by Atlanta Journal­Constitution ... had 102 tackles and five inter­ceptions as senior, with 15 deflections .. . had 55 tackles and five interceptions in '95 as junior ... chosen district MVP by coaches as senior while playing running back and returning kicks as well .... has run 100 meters in 10.9 ... 
Wisne, Andy, DL, 6-5, 255, Jenks. OK (Jenks) -had 97 tackles. six sacks as senior defensive tackle in '96 ... helped" Jenks to 13-1 record and Oklahoma 6-A state title in '96 ... first-team all-state in 
'96 while helping team permit only 433 rushing yards all season on 386 attempts ... made 85 tackles, 20 for losses, with five sacks as junior in '95 ... 

Andy Katzenmoyer? 
"It's too early for me to even think about that," a humble Irons said. "I don't want to get too ahead of myself because I just want to enjoy the rest of my time here." 
VVhile Davie wouldn't speculate as to Irons' timetable for action, he did indicate that the Houston-area native will likely stay at line­backer. 
"VVe wanted a bigger inside linebacker and Grant Irons is exactly that," Davie stated. "He will start out at linebacker and our intention is that he'll stay there." 
''I'll be wherever the team sees me and where I can contribute," Irons said. 
Though nearly everyone says he offers more potential than brother Jarrett, most Irish fans will be quite pleased if Grant can offer the same level of play that his likely first-round pick sibling did for the VVolverines. 
"My brothers (Ex-Nebraska Cornhusker Jerry and Garrett) and their achievements puts pres­sure on me but it's a good pressure," the youngest Irons said. 
"I enjoy pressure and embrace it." 
He'll be getting plenty of that under the Golden Dome. In fact, the intense recruiting process was a hectic start. 
"It was really hard because every trip I took, I saw that everywhere had something to offer," Irons said. 
But the overall mix of Notre Dame won Irons over. 

Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • National Signing Day 
Davie, Irish find new-talent in Jersey 
By BETSY BAKER Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame football team's talent is looking to blossom next season as two of the more important members of this year's recruiting class hail from the 
Garden State. 
Cooper Rego, of Montvale, and Ron Israel, of Haddon Heights, New Jersey, will be two members of the Irish class of 2001 who expect to do great things. 


Rego, a 5-foot-9, Rego 190-pound tailback, was one of twenty-six high school seniors named to the 1997 Reebok Prep Football All-American team. 
The list does not stop there. 
Rego rushed for 285 yards and five touchdowns in St. Joseph Regional victo­ry over Delbarton in the New Jersey Group 3 state fmals, and he wasn't even supposed to play offense. 
In 1995, Rego finished the season with 1,632 yards \lnd 21 touchdowns, while his team fmished ranked eighth national­ly by USA Today. 
When he attended football camp at Notre Dame last summer, he recorded a 
4.38 second 40-yard dash. His slowest 
time was a 4.41. This is all coming from the man who 
• PLAYERS BRIEFS 
Getherall, Joey, WR, 5­9, 165, LaPuente, CA (Bishop Amat) -caught 48 passes for 1 ,162 yards and 12 TDs as senior in '96 while also rushing seven times for 125 yards ... led state of California with 24.2-yards-per-catch average among receivers with 40 or more recep­tions... averaged 31.8 yards on kickoff returns (19 for 605) and 21.3 yards (13 for 277) on punt returns in '96 ... had 2,166 all-purpose yards in '96, averaging 25.18 yards each time he touched the football ... caught 42 passes for 848 yards and six TDs as junior in '95 ... ran two kickoffs back for TDs in '95 ... career totals included 116 catches for 2,420 yards and 25 TDs ... also played defensive back ... cap­tain of '96 team that finished 8-4 and advanced to first round of state playoffs . . . was timed in 
4.23 in 40 prior to senior season ... hit .407 in baseball and stole 20 bases as junior ... former prep teammate of starting Irish OLB Kory Minor 
Jordan, John, OL, 6-0, 260, Brooklyn, NY (Andover Prep) -attended 
Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., in '96-97 after graduating from Brooklyn Poly Prep last spring ... also played tight end and defensive line ... earned team MVP honors and all-New England honors in '96 ... made 50 tackles with 

didn't wan't to try out for football in sev­enth grade because he was afraid of get­ting hurt. 
No doubt exists that the fear has sub­sided and Rego is ready to play. 
Although the fear is gone, new obsta­cles exist in the game plan. Namely, returning running back Autry Denson and classmate Tony Driver, a fellow Reebok All-American. 
Still, Rego welcomes the competition and looks forward to playing with such high-calibur running backs." 
"The combination of athletics and aca­demics is what drew me to Notre Dame, but also the team's need for running backs," Rego responded. "The fact that there will be competition doesn't bother me. It will make me a better player and improve the team as a whole." 
Rego does hope to see some time at tailback next year, but is willing to do what is best for the team. 
"If I have to change positions for the team's sake, then I'll do it, but I hope to get the chance to run the ball," he said. 
"I think I'll see some playing time as long as they [the coaches] think I'm ready. If I'm ready then I'll play." 
Whether they'll think he's ready or not, they are definitely anticipating his arrival. 
"No doubt, he's as fine a back as I've seen in the country," head coach Bob Davie said. "We knew what we were get­ting from seeing him in summer camp." 
Israel, much like Rego, looks to make 
eight sacks as junior ...also played baseball and basketball ... father is Notre Dame gradu­ate. 
Kustok, Zak, QB, 6-2, 190, Orland Park, IL (Sandburg) -Ranked as 97th best prospect nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... threw for more than 900 yards and seven TDs in injury­plagued senior season in '96 while completing 48 percent of passes despite inexperienced offensive line and commitment of his top receiver to play basketball fulltime ... rushed for 450 yards and six TDs as well in '96 ... left-handed signalcaller committed to Notre Dame in April '96. 
Murray, Jason, RB, 6-2, 235, Belle Vernon, PA (Belle Vernon) -USA Today honorable mention All-America pick ... rushed for 1,692 yards and 20 TDs on 202 carries as senior in '96 on 12-1 team ... helped team to Pennsylvania Class 3A state title in '95 while carrying 220 times for 2,035 yards and 19 TDs. .. began sophomore season as offensive guard, didn't start as tailback until fifth game but still finished with 1,020 rushing yards in '94 ... fin­ished with nearly 5,000 career rushing yards . 
Smith, Justin, WR, 6-1, 185, St. Petersburg, FL (Lakewood) -caught 18 passes for 460 


an immediate impact. 
The 6-foot-1, 175-pound defensive back, looks to add some needed size to the Irish defensive backfield and fulfill head coach Bob Davie's wish for players with both speed and size. 
"He's a great kid," Davie said. "We're real happy to have him. He can either be a big corner or a safety for us." 
An added attraction to Israel is his fam­ily ties, as older brother, Steve, plays for the San Francisco 49ers. 
Yet the facts stand alone. Israel has speed, size, and ambition. 
"Since my freshman year, I've liked Notre Dame, and after visiting here and talking with the coaches, I made my deci­sion," Israel commented. 
Israel has offensive experience, but prefers to play defense. 
When asked if he expects to see playing time next year, Israel answered, "That's a good question. It remains to be seen where I'll fit in on the team." 
'Til probably start off on defense at corner," he added. 
Israel is also looking forward to the chance to play for Davie. Although he liked Lou Holtz, Israel is comfortable with the change, especially its timing. 
"I'd rather have him [Holtz] resign this year than next year, or half way through my career at Notre Dame," he said. "Coach Davie is pretty much everything I look for in a coach, and it's good that he comes from within the system." 
yards and six TDs as senior in '96 ... caught 11 passes for 333 yards in '95 ... made five inter­ceptions as a defensive back in '95 ... an hon­orable mention pick on Florida Class SA all­state team in '96 ... also returned punts, aver­aging 38 yards per runback as a junior ... 
Teasdale, John, TE, 6­4, 255, Kansas City, MO (Rockhurst) -Honorable mention USA Today prep All-America pick ...first­team all-state as senior .. . caught 13 passes for 204 yards and two TDs as tight end in '96 ... made 31 tackles, eight sacks amd blocked two punts as defensive end in '96 ... could play anywhere on offensive line, possibly on defense ... from same high school that produced former Irish offensive linemen Tim Ryan and Mike McGlinn . 
Vollers, Kurt, OL, 6-7, 275, Anaheim, CA (Servite) -USA Today honorable mention All­American ... rated one of top 27 high school seniors in '96 by Football News ... rated 38th nationally .among offensive prospects by The Sporting News ... ranked as 25th best prospect nationally by Chicago Sun-Times ... made 100 solo tackles, 32 assists and 24 sacks on defense in '96 ... played mainly on defense as senior but can play on either side of the line . . . com­mitted to Notre Dame in September '96 ... 

2001 
continued from page 20 
thought really belonged here and as a result would stay here. The second thing we did was try to find players with speed. 
"The third thing was that we needed to find some guys with speed that had some height to them. The fourth thing, we needed to go out and sign good pro­ductive football players, and not base it so much on potential. I wanted to see it on the field." 
To find players that met criteria num­ber one, Davie relied heavily on the admissions and academics staffs. Each recruit that made an official visit met with a member of the faculty. 
"A priority was to fmd a proper fit and I leaned on the faculty," he stated. "They interviewed each of the prospects, and I leaned heavily on their opinions of the recruits' long term prospects." 
Davie even embraced Notre Dame's stringent academic standards as part of the school's character. He went as far as to credit academics as the reason two late recruits, running back Tony Driver and linebacker Hugh Holmes, signed with the Irish. 
Driver picked the Irish over Florida State because of academics, and Holmes made a last minute signing day decision to sign with the Irish over Florida for the same reason. 
"Notre Dame is never going to com­promise their standards," he said. "There are a lot of good students you can win a National Championship with. For some kids it came down to acade­mics in the end." 
Goals two and three were easy obtained, for if this class has anything, it is speed. Wide receiver Joey Getherall was the fastest player at the Reebok Combine over the summer with a 4.23 second 40 yard dash and is con­sidered one of the fastest players in the nation. 
Tailback Cooper Rego recorded 4.38 and 4.41 second dashes during Notre Dame's summer camp. Getherall and Rego are the two fastest players in the class and are the only players listed 
·under 5 foot 11. The rest of the class easily filled crite­ria three. 
"We look at all those running back, receiver, defensive back type players as just skili position players," Davie said. "I think we were fortunate to sign so many quality skill positions." 
Two such athletes are Anthony Denman and Darcey Levy. While both have legitimate 4.5 second 40 yard speed and good rushing skills, both could be playing different positions come fall. 
At only 17 years old, Denman could mature into a stellar linebacker. One Texas newspaper considered him a bet­ter linebacker than All-American Grant Irons. Levy may provide some early depth at defensive back. 
Yet, Levy's contribution may not be necessary right away as the Irish stole two top defensive backs, Ron Israel and Brock Williams, from Ohio State and Louisiana State respectively. Israel is rated as the tenth best defensive back in the country by SuperPrep. 
"He's a great kid," Davie stated. "We are really excited to get him. He is one of the top DB's in the nation. He will be a big cornerback for us or could be a safety." 
In Williams, the Irish found a true cover cornerback with decent height at 5-11. Williams has also been timed running a 4.37 second 40 yard dash. 
"Williams is a true corner and he's very confident," Davie stated. "·He was in LSU's summer camp, and they really wanted him." 
Now, it will be up to that young man at the podium to take another step. This fall he'll lead these recruits on to the playing field and show the world what he meant by Notre Dame men. 
NOTE: Offensive Player of the Year Travis Minor has yet to sign and could sign with Notre Dame, Florida State, Louisiana State or Florida today or Friday. 
Safety Robert Carswell, who was reported to be on the fence Tuesday evening, signed with Clemson. 
_.... 


r--------------------------------~~--------------------------------------­
page 18 
....,._ • WoMEN's SOCCER 
Recruits to fill gaps 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
Last year's signing day reaped major benefits for the women's soccer team this past season. The Notre Dame women's soccer team followed up last season's excellent fresh-· man class with one that is equally talented this year. The entering class will help fill in the spots vacated by the likes of seniors Amy VanLaecke, Cindy Daws, Kate Fisher, and Jen Renola. 
The program signed four players to national letters of intent, Meotis Erickson, Monica Gonzalez, Kelly Lindsey, and Stacey Tullock. 
"The quality of this class is outstanding from top to bot­tom," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
"It is hard to have four fresh­men who can come in and con­tribute right away but this class is certainly capable of that. This is definitely one of our best recruiting classes." 
Erickson has been.touted as one of the top recruits, due to her being named 1996 National Soccer Coaches Association na­tional high school player of the year. Also she was an NSCAA All-American. Erickson looks to compete for the forward po­sition, due to her excellent scoring abilities. 
She might fill in, in the mid­dle, which was recently left open due to the graduation of Daws. 

.. "She can come in and replace Cindy Daws," said assistant coach Carla Chin. "And do a great job at controlling the cen­ter of the field." 
The Irish signed Gonzalez who also was highly touted as one of the top players in the freshman class. Gonzalez, who hails from Richardson, Texas, recently led her club team the Dallas Sting to the national championships in 1995. She is another forward who brings a very skilled style of play to the team. 
"Monica is still developing," said Chin. "In the future, she will have great impact on our program. Her abilities are very strong, and she is a talented individual." 
On the defen'sive end of the field, the Irish are looking for Lindsey to fill Fisher's position. Lindsey participated in a de­fensive role at Millard North High School in Omaha. She is a member of the under-20 U.S. national team. Also she was named an NSCAA All­American. 
-"She will be a great replace­ment for Kate (Fisher)." Chin said. "She is the best marking back coming out of the high school class this year." 

Help Wanted: Valentine Delivery 
~~tJde7~ 
Call277-6067 

_._ 

r---------, 
1 l 0 ~0.6ff $29.00 11 month $39 1 tans I 2 months $59 L.---------.J 3 months $79rs;h:;Bre-:k 'St.:de;;s';eci'ail 4 months $99 
: $5.00 off any monthly 
: 10 t 

package .J ans
L. 

---------20tans 
277-1166 
t IMartin'sI N 
Mo11ie  
'iNight  
8:00 pm 10:00 pm 12:00 am  LEAVING LAS VEGAS BEAUTIFUL GIRLS BASIC INSTINCT  

#Couples or non-couples" -.. Free admission 
Saturday Feb.8th 8pm-2am 
La Fortune Ballroom 
Join us for a night of 
unrequited LOVE... 

:r 
ND v. Syracuse7:00p.m. 

Joyce Center Arena 
Thursday, February 6, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I'M FLATTERED. BUT e I CAN'T DATE YOU 8.,; BECAU5E. WE'RE. 'g DI HERE NT RELIGIONS. ~ 
"2 
! :I 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT WOULDN'T ME? TI·UNK. I GO WORK IN THIS EVERY SUNDAY?
<_V"'"'____ 
CA5E. 


\ 
Puzzle by Rand H. Burns 
33Come in 51 Jai alai 55 Guru basket

35 Regret 56 Abbey figures 52 Con 
3& Benign growth 57 Prefix with 

53 Rap music's

39 Barks on cue, suction
TLC, e.g. 
as a dog 58 Stratford's river 54 1990 World 

400ld 

Series champs 59 Comprehends
what's---­name 
45 Porcupine 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
quills 

are available by touch-tone phone: 47 Encourage 
1-900-884-CLUE (75~ per minute). 49 Recovery Annual subscriptions are available for the regimen, for best of Sunday crosswords from the last short 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Seek your place in the sun. All sig­nals are "go" for a big business deal or important interview. Your career zooms ahead! Count on your cre­ative ideas to receive a warm recep­tion from V!Ps. A promotion or raise is in the wings. Next fall will find you the center of attention at social events. Be cautious if a casual flirta­tion suddenly intensifies. You need to get to know a romantic partner really well before making a perma­nent commitment. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Natalie Cole. famed New York Yankee slugger Babe Ruth, actress Zsa Zsa Gabor, director Robert Townsend. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your charisma is a big plus in busi­ness. You receive good news regard­ing a loan or investment. Get several bids if planning to paint or redeco­rate your home. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Excellent communication skills are a must today. Make important phone calls and keep in touch with clients at a distance. E-mail or fax can take the place of costly travel. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An idea you have been thinking about becomes a priority. Acting on impulse to impress your mate could backfire. Seek better child care arrangements if unhappy with the current set-up. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put family activities ahead of routine chores. You need to take care of the necessities before buying luxuries. Save money toward the purchase of anew home. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Home 
entertaining is a big success but 
could prove costlier than expected. 
JEANE DIXON 
Put family heirlooms in a safe place if expecting a large crowd. Someone who asks too many personal ques­tions should be ignored. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Swallow your pride and call a friend. Instead of trying to explain your choices to relatives, assert your rights. Pin down a noncommittal romantic partner. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Try not to become annoyed if friends act secretive. When the time is right, they will share their plans with you. Meanwhile, investigate a job oppor­tunity linked to a former employer. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Although you handle people beauti­fully, you can also be easily manipu­lated. Disregard the flattery heaped on you by strangers. Guard your resources and belongings. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Talk with someone whose con­stant criticism drains you emotional­ly. Discuss ways the two of you can end this cycle. A neighbor may baby-sit during a family emergency. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are right on the money where work is concerned. Seek the wholehearted cooperation of your subordinates. Higher-ups will be impressed by the resulting rise in productivity. 
. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Go ahead and take a calculated risk. Hop on a plane and visit a longtime friend. Enrolling in weekend educa­tional programs will increase your earning power. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your investmentS where they are. If weary of people who waste your time gossiping, try to stay out of their path. Purchasing· the home of your dreams may be possible if you build savings. 
., 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 30 Hearth 34 ET carriers 
1 Egg holder 
35 Eminence

7 Male cat 
37Maya-­

10 Weisshorn and 
(Vietnam Wall 

others 
designer)

14 Having more 
38 Quits

butter and 
41 Lionel Richie's 

cream 
"You--" 

15 Managed-care 
42 Female fowl 

option, for short 43 Author Gardner 
16 Tropical food 44 Short-windedstaple 46 B.A. or Ph.D. 
17 Asia Minor 47 Dinner bird capital 48 Standard18 Kinsman 50 Filled tortilla 20Quit 
52 Quits 22Joe-­
60 1995 Masters 23 Hit the slopes Tournament 24 Gargan's list winner 28 Allen of "Home 
&1 Aspire Improvement" &2Adjutant 
&3 Bio bit 64 Part of a service 65 Sphagnum, for 
one 66--Paese cheese &7 Illegal firings 
DOWN 
1 Grueling exam 2--del Mar, Chile 3 Highly 
distasteful 4 Source of roe 5 Oxygen-
dependent bacterium & Rush-hour pace 7Quit a Harbinger 9 Infiltrators 10 Reach 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 P!ace to 
htbernate 
13 Charlie Chan's #1 and #2 
24 Band leader with .-....;-...:=+=-=.f.=-~ the 1943 hit i-=-!.=.j~..:....j.:.::. "Brazil" 
25 Burning 26 Itinerant 27 Mao ---tung 29 New England 
B.:::+.;+:,:+.:,.+:~ Indian 



.. 
l
.. 
I 
Irish reap benefits ofNational Signing Day 
See extended coverage pages 14, 16-18 


SPORTS 
Irons: Man of many talents Driver brings versatility 

HERE CoME THE IRISH: CLAss oF 2001 
Kevin Dansby LB,6-1~ 210 USA Today honorable mention; younger brother of DE Melvin Dansby Birmingham, A.~ 4.5 i~ .. ~o yd Anthony De:nrn~m RB643, 2051ir ' ::I!!Jii!PW<I' :Roshedfcir~250yards & 1BTDs along with 85 tackles as LB in t996 Rusk, TX 4.5 in 40 yd 
Tony Drivedii TB,.6-3; 21 o Pahide and .USA Today All-American Louisville, KY .... ,. . . .......... 4.4 in 40 yd 
1

·Joev•Getfiera11 ·e~"''WF{~ s:r7;:·1:60··············n·;;·.w~llll l11t!!~:]g:llta'ln40:V'dwasr6est in Reebok comolhe; 1··1o.per 6't8ucnes··of the football 
.. -
LaPeunte, CA .... 4.23 i~ 40 yd Jabari Holloway TE,r6-4, 235'~~,.. U$AToday honorable mention; 27th best DE by Sporting News Tyroo£1,,. GA.......,_,...,........................ .., ... ,...~,;J.,J.n..1.9Y.~......."''""''w'~%~m'•i> ,......... . . ..,.",....... .. . ···y···. . .......,.. .A. 
Hugh Holmes%\ LB;t6..2i210 ···,.• · 2ardbestLB by SuperPrep·. Kissimmee, {4:;'", . ,«4.6 in~~w~d .. :".f~ ····,·,·· ..•. ····•··.·.···
~~=n~~~~~asnd;;rmfx QE, 64~s ~2:Qyd,..;,,;;.;;!ili'i!,\,;0,.mii•kQS~:;roday non oral)!~ mentipn; you~r brot'; of Michigan LB Jarrett 
Ronald lsraei,L DB, 6-1, 175 · USA Today honorable mention; brother Steve is DB for SF 49ers Haddon Hei[J~l,~~;,{'JJ .. ·.. 4.5 in ~0 yd 
._ John·Jordan!c'0:¥JII:'iilli&,·OG;6,0;265········,· :.,:..;!;,;ll•lmlill!imJxq~td~;~;n .. AtJ~ttotliJfn"'·nuff. 
Brooklyn, NY · 5.3 in 40 yd Zak Kustok 08, 6-2,185. 97th best prospect by 
Orland Park, IL . 4.6 in40 yd Darcey Levy, RB, 6-2,178 R~shed ·fo~ 1453 yards an Montbel/o, CO 4.5 in 40 yd Jason Murray FB, 6-2, 235 
USA Today honorable me~ti.o~n··-~:~--~·~
Belle Vernon, PA 4.5 in 40 yd Cooper Rego TB, 5-9. 190 Parade AII•American; USA Today second~team AII~American Montvale, NJ . 4.38 in.40 yd 
Ca~ftY Robin OL, 6-7, 290 .·· T~arn captain and aU-district s.elec~ 
·"'"''" .· .· .....
,..
Covif]gton, LA 5.2 in40 yd 
John Teasdale OL, 6-6, 255 USA Today honorable mention Kansas City, MO 5.0 in 40 yd Justin sm lth WR; 6-1, 185 Caught 18 passes for 460 yards and 6 TDs 
St. Petersburg, FL 4.45 in40 yd 
Kurt Vollers OL, 6-7, 268 USA Today honorable mention; rated in top 27 seniors by Football News Anaheim, CA 4.8 in 40 yd Brock Willicuns DB, 5-11. 175 Had 102 tackles and 5 interceptions in 1996 
Hammond, LA 4.4 in 40 yd Andy Wisne DL, 6-4, 250 Brother of OL Jerry Wisne Jenks, OK 5.0 in 40 yd 
By TIM SHERMAN SportS Editor 
If Bob Davie were to design a recruit, Grant Irons might be the blue-print -just without the Blue. 
With Irons' brother Jarrett. a four-year
IRONS

..,.. 
starter at Michigan, many analysts figured Grant would also opt to play for the Big Blue. But it was exactly the kind of qualties that
SIDE 
Irons exemplifies that made him a better lit for the Blue and Gold of Notre Dame. "I was looking for a great academic school and a great football school," said Irons, a
HONORS... ·> 
first-team USA Today All-American line­
backer. "Notre Dame is exactly that. It is a perfect match." 

USA Today All-American 
First Team 
The emphasis on the "student" side of stu­

Dial Scholar-Athlete with 
dent-athlete is nothing new for Irons. In fact, his committment in the classroom was
3.87/4.0 GPA 
so great that Irons is the winner of the 18th

15th best player according 
annual Dial Award in recognition of the top 
high-school scholar-athlete in the country. "It was really a great honor," said Irons, 

to Chicago Sun-Times 
39th best defensive player 
who boasts a 3.8 GPA. "It felt great receiv­
by Sporting News 
ing it. In fact, Tiger Woods (the 1993 win­ner) presented it to me. That was great." But Irons wasn't one of the nation's most
SlATS FOR 1996 
sought-after linebacker for just his prowess

As LB: 92 tackles, 58 solos 
in the classroom. The 6-foot-5, 225-pound Irons has been a 
see IRONS/ page 16 


By THOMAS SCHLIDT Senior Sports Writer 
He is a star. What more do you need to know about 
Tony Driver'? lie's six foot three something. lie's 210

DRIVER 
pounds and something. And he definitely has the ability. He's no Rudy.

SIDE Superman? Maybe. Mr. Versatility? Definitely according to SuperPrep's Allen Wallace. "lie's the real deal," Wallace said. "Mr. Versatility can run, catch. block and make 
HONORS 
people miss him. " 
Even Irish head coach Bob Davie joked about Driver's versatility during his sign­

Parade AII-Amerh.au 
First Team 
ing day press conference.

USA Today All-American 
"lie is a great player," Davie comment­ed. ·"The only thing I'm nervous about is that [Irish basketball coach] John 

First Team 
5th best player according 
MacLeod will get a chance to see him play 

to Chicago Sun-Times 
basketball. lie's a heck of an athlete." Basketball and football are not the only

34th best by Sporting News 
sports Driver excels at. As a junior. he

Kentucky Player of the Year 
was crowned state champion in the 100 meter sprint with a time of 10.55 and recorded 21.5 seconds in the 200 meters.

STAYS FOR 1996 
lie also has an impressive vertical leap of

As RB: 1491 yds and 18 TDs 
40 inches and was timed at 4.4 seconds in 
the 40 yard dash.

As WR: 467 yds and 5 TDs 
see DRIVER/ page 16
TJR 
Thursday, February 6, 1997 
New class welcomed by Davie 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Senior Sports Writer 
Yesterday at 3 p.m. a new era in Notre Dame football began. No more would a diminutive old man with a lisp spin tails of recruiting triumph or be the harbringer of anoth­er class of stellar athletes. Instead, a young man took to the stage for the first time and basked triumphantly in the spotlight. 
It is not that his class will be considered the top in the na­tion, but to Irish head coach Bob Davie the rankings mean little. No list can tell him more than his own eyes, cars and heart can. His first class was made of Notre Dame men, and for that he was proud. 
In his first season Davie took a new approach to recruiting. Arbitrary rankings played sec­ond to a basic concept-did the player fit Notre Dame. 
"There arc a lot of different ways to evaluate classes," Davie explained. "But our pri­orities going into this recruit­ing were, number one, to find the right fit for tbe University of Notre Dame, to sign kids we . 
see 2001/ page!? 


vs. Connecticut, 

Women's tennis at Rolex, a) 
• Women's soccer recruiting 
• 
February 8, 12 p.m. 

February 6-9 
~ 
see page 18 

., • 
Men's tennis vs. Illinois,
vs. Syracuse, 
..... 

February 9 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
riJ • Volleyball recruiting

"-
S¢ 
Basketball vs. Hillsdale
vs. Ohio State, 
see page 14

February 8, 1 p.m. 
February 7-8, 7 p.m. 
~ 







