

Wednesday, April2, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 115 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• BUSINESS BEAT 
Duke do\VIls ND in case contest 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
Duke University's team of MBA students came out on top at Notre Dame's Invitational participated in the inter-uni­answering questions," Paul versity competition. Conway, supervisor of the 
Hennekes said three students event, said of Notre Dame's prepared the case, two pre­performance. "They had a good sented it and three of those five strategy for the presentation. went to competition. The rules "The judges were apparently 
Case Competition, held 
unaware of what their March 23-25. actual solution was, so 
According to judges and they didn't communi­other students, Notre cate that well," he said, Dame's team would have adding that "Ohio State been second or third. but was the best at answer­only the winner received ing questions." recognition. Conway emphasized 
David Hennekes, a mem­that different observers ber of the Notre Dame David Hennekes would likely disagree team, said the competition with his views of the 
gave the students a chance to sec how they compared with gro.ups from other schools. This was something they could not get out of the intra-univer­sity competition that deter­mined who would represent Notre Dame at the invitational (Went. 
llcnnekes. Richard Crandall, Cheryl Reid, John Drumm and Geoffrey Rohrbacker com­prised the winning team within the Notre Dame competition. 
Crandall. Hennekes and Reid 
of the invitational call for teams of three members. 
Regarding the benefits of the competition, Hennekes said, "Number one, the whole idea of case competitions is to learn how to analyze a situation and develop a solution in a short period of time. 
"Just anecdotally, most of the students and judges said we were in third or second place," Hennekes said of his team. 
"They were the weakest in 
schools' performances. 
As for the winning team from Duke, Conway said he thought they did very well. He said they had a good presentation, a good strategy and a good set up of the problem. 
"They presented the alterna­tive courses of action, had a good plan for implementing their strategy and answered the questions well," he said. "I thought it was between Duke and [the University of] Maryland." 
Final Four Action 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Katryna Gaither, seen here shooting over Pashen Thompson, was the second highest scoring player in the NCAA women's basketball tournament this year. She helped Notre Dame reach the Final Four for the first time ever, even though the Irish lost to eventual champions Tennessee. See back page and pages 22 and 24 for complete coverage. 


How to be Hall Presidents... 
The Observer/Katie Soby 
New Hall Presidents' Council co-presidents Mark Fennell and Katie Marchetti ran their first meeting yesterday. The council addressed upcoming events and described methods for being better hall presidents. 



Annual Fund helps with tuition woes 
By ALYSSON COOK 
News Writer 
Attention Saint Mary's College students: Your tuition will not be increasing extensively next year. 
Because of the Saint Mary's College Annual Fund -a program which solicits unrestricited mone­tary gifts from alumnae, parents and friends of Saint Mary's College -each student can breathe a huge sigh of relief. 
The Annual Fund includes the Senior Leadership Campaign and the Reunion Gift Campaign. Last night, the committee members of the Senior Leadership Campaign met in Haggar Student Center to find out what it exactly they will be doing from April 7 to May 12. 
"Before this evening, I was unaware of the impact that the alumnae donations have on the institution and the individual stu­dents," said Ashley Ratcliffe, a Senior Leadership Campaign mem­ber. "I am looking forward to giv­ing back to Saint Mary's and encouraging my senior classmates to do the same," she said. 

Tuition and fees are the major source of income for Saint Mary's, yet they only provide about 80 per­cent of operating revenue. It is the Annual Fund that supplies the remaining 20 percent. The Senior Leadership Campaign plays a key role in that 20 percent. 
This year's Senior Leadership Campaign is asking members of the class of 1997 to consider an annual gift of $50 during the next three years. This total of $150 is in recognition that the class of 1997 is Saint Mary's 150th graduating class. 
"The $150 might sound over­whelming when you look at all of your bills, especially when you've just graduated and may or may not have a job yet," said Nellie Sanford Aranowski, Class of 1994 and human resources assistant at Bosch Braking System in South Bend. 
"If you equate it to all the things you do and divide the $50 a year by 12, it's not even a movie or a pizza," she said. 
"We want to educate the younger alumnae to get into the habit of remembering Saint Mary's," said Mary Lou Mullen, assistant director of the Annual Fund. "Their contri­butions help the College to remain competitive in attracting the caliber of students· that keep Saint Mary's ranked by U.S. News and World Report as number one in the Midwest Regional Liberal Arts Colleges and Universities category for the third year in a row." 
Most Saint Mary's students bene­fit from the Animal Fund. In 1996­97, over 66 percent of all full-time students received need-based and/or merit basea financial assis­
see FEATURE I page 4 

Walsh: Real E.R. as exciting as on show 
Physicians treat a wide range of patients and problems 
ByTOMMORAN News Writer 
The diversity of patients and symptoms encountered in an ordinary emergency room can rival that of those found in TV's "E.R.," according to Dr. Mark Walsh. 
Walsh, director of Medical Education at St. Joseph's Medical Center, lectured last night on what it means to work in an emergency ward. Walsh, a Notre Dame graduate, is also an attending physician in emergency and internal medicine at St. Joseph's. 
Walsh began the lecture by detailing the history of the emergency room. According to him, the modern emergency room came about as a result of the glut of general practitioners at the time of the post-World War II baby boom..As a result, he said, many boomers became medical specialists, and ultimately emergency medicine became a matter of using the skills of a vari­ety of specialists to diagnose and cure patients. 
He also credited President Lyndon Johnson's "Great Society" program, which furthered Social Security and Medicare. These programs ultimately freed up the funds that led to the development of most of the emer­gency medical technology used today. 
Walsh next discussed the issue of who should or shouldn't visit the ·emergency room. He pointed out that in one study, 37 percent of the people visiting the 
E.R. were sent away because their cases did not require urgent care. This was caused, he said, by the fact that the E.R. is generally more convenient and quicker than conventional medicine, and also because it offers more medical expertise. He also noted that for the poor, elderly, or'handicapped the E.R. is often their only option. "We are it," he said. 
Walsh addressed the problem of long waits for med­ical attention, noting that 3 percent of patients eventu­ally give up and leave the E.R., after waiting an aver­age of 6.4 hours. Seventy-five percent needed medical care within the next day or two. However, he continu­
see MEDICAL I page 4 

-------~----------------------------:----~--_,-_,_____ 
page 2 
• INSI!lE COU.!MN 


It's Easter, not Groundhog Day 
This past Sunday the priest of the church I went to opened his Easter homily with a story about a first grade class he visit­ed just outside of Detroit. He asked the kids what they thought Easter was, and he received some funny responses. 
One kid told him that Easter was when his mom cooks that big turkey. 
Another kid thought it was when they received presents and decorated the Christmas tree. 
Finally a boy raised his hand and said that Easter was when Jesus died on the cross. They buried him in a tomb and rolled a boul­der in front of it. After three days he rose, rolled the boulder away, and went outside. He saw his shadow, went back inside the tomb, and we had six more weeks of winter. 
It was a fmfny story but also served to make a point about Easter. Most people do not understand exactly what it is we cele­brate. I remember watching a television pro­gram once where a panel 'was discussing why Christians celebrate the death of Jesus. These types of misconceptions are what keep the business world from grasping the mean­ing of Easter enough to create a commercial­ized season out of it like they have Christmas. 
Christmas is the biggest commercialized holiday in the world. Easter, despite serious attempts to commercialize, has remained low key. The Easter Bunny pales in compari­son to Santa Claus; colored eggs are no match for presents; the joy and magic of Advent surrounding the shopping days is more appealing than Lent and the act of Lenten sacrifice; the intimacy of bringing the family together during the cold winter months outdoes the atmosphere caused by the unsure weather of the beginning of spring. These perceptions come from the clarity of one holiday and the mystery sur­rounding the other. 
The idea of a child's birth is easier to grasp than His Resurrection. For this rea­son, the commercial planners of the world have had to leave the holiday of Easter alone for us t~ discover its meaning for ourselves. In its meaning, we find our purpose as Christians. 
If we fail to grasp the importance of this holiday we are no different than those first graders. It is through the Resurrection of Jesus that we find our faith. Christmas is an important time, and a time to celebrate. But we need to remember that it was because He was resurrected that we celebrate His· birth. 
So, maybe Easter is not as fun as Christmas. I stood there in mass on Sunday thinking that it is probably better this way. Without the excess commercialization that surrounds Christmas, we can reflect on Easter's true meaning. By doing this we realize that we celebrate Jesus rising on the third day, not to see His shadow, but to prove that He overcame sin by conquering death. 
This way, through the celebration of Easter, we solidify our faith. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. . 


• Tmuw's STAFF 
News Accent Allison Koenig Megan Ferstenfeld Matt Loughran Joe Weiler 
Laura Petelle 
Production 
Sports 
John Hu.tchinson Kathleen Lopez Laura Petelle Graphics Lab Tech Melissa Weber Michelle Sweet Viewpoint Tara Churik 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
• WORlD AT AGlANCE 

Air Force cargo plane crashes in busy Honduran street 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras notification of relatives. No one on the A U.S. Air Force cargo plane overshot 1_.~\.J""'~~~~)~"""'-'~~~=~j ground was reported injured. Soto said 
a runway, crashed into a busy street r and burst into flames Tuesday, killing three of those aboard. 
After touching down on the runway of Tocontin International Airport in the Honduran capital, the plane rose into the air again. '""' 
Then it dropped down again, went off the end of the runway and slid 200 yards and into the road, said Col. Fernando Soto, chief of the government civil aeronautics office at the airport. 
The plane caught fire as it came to a stop on a major artery often crowded with cars and pedestrians and lined with offices, stores and fast-food restau­rants. It wound up about 100 yards from two gasoline stations. 
it was not clear what caused the crash. The Air Force was investigating. 
The plane was part of the 440th Airlift Wing based at General Mitchell International Airport in Wisconsin and was flying out of Howard Air Force Base· in Panama. U.S. officials said it was carrying food and goods for U.S. servicemen based in Honduras. 
The United States has at least 800 personnel based at Palmerola air base, 40 miles north of the capital. The three most seriously injured were taken there for treatment. 
Col. Jose LaGuardia, chief of the Tegucigalpa fire department, said the plane spilled more than 4,500 gallons of fuel as it slid from the runway to the 

"I had just gotten off of a bus when I L-------------'-' street. 
saw the plane was coming right at me," said Luis Montoya. "I ran desperately for the other side of the street. It is a miracle I am safe, but I am still frightened." 
The spokeswoman for the U.S. Embassy, Marti Estell, said three people aboard the C-130 died and all seven others were injured. Their names were withheld pending 
Pedro Atala, whose farm equipment dealership was near the crash, said he gave first aid to some of the sur­vivors. "I carried three of them to my offices and helped them there. Then I called the police and fire depart­ment," said Atala, whose white shirt was stained with ashes from the fire. 

Clinton joke a real kneeslapper 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton announced today that press secretary Mike McCurry had torn a tendon in his leg and his job was now in danger. April Fools! Clinton made a surprise appearance in the White House briefing room just before McCurry's daily appearance to joke with reporters. Still hobbled from his knee surgery, Clinton deadpanned that 
'"--"--lL__~­McCurry had "made a fool of himself"' by falling down and hurting his knee. "So until we can bring him back to full health, Chris Engskov is going to do the daily briefing today and he will be my press secretary during Mike's absence," Clinton said. Engskov, 25, is an Arkansas native who works in the press of!ice. "I thought we ought to have a presidential secretary who doesn't have an accent," Clinton quipped. Getting into the spi-rit of things, reporters asked Clinton a series of lighthearted ques­tions. Will McCurry ever get his job back? "I think McCurry's job is in real danger now," Clinton said. 
Environmentalists go after Canadians 
WASHINGTON 
Environmentalists said they will ask an oversight panel to the North American Free Trade Agreement to investi­gate Canada's alleged failure to enforce hydropower reg­ulations intended to benefit fish. Conservation and fishing groups in the United States and Canada said Tuesday the Canadian gov.ernment is turning a blind eye to violations at hydropower dams in British Columbia operated by the government-run B.C. Hydro. Failure to protect the fish is a violation of the environmental side agreement to the NAFTA, which was signed by the United States, Canada and Mexico, said Patti Goldman, a lawyer for the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund in Seattle. While U.S. power producers are being forced to alter operations so as to Feduce impacts on endangered Northwest salmon runs, the Canadian dams operate unabated, the complaint said. The complaint is to be filed Wednesday with the North American Commission on Environmental Cooperation, at its offices in Washington, Mexico City and Ottawa. 

Columbia launch may face delays 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 
NASA encountered several problems Tuesday as the · countdown proceeded toward a launch of space shuttle Columbia, the largest one a coolant loop that was installed without thermal insulation.Engineers are trying to determine whether insulation needs to be added' before Thursday's launch to prevent water in the line from freezing in orbit, NASA spokesman Bruce Buckingham s~id Tuesday. The installation, if required, would delay the science mission of a duration of one or two days. While the shuttle has flown before without the insulating layer on the coolant loop, Columbia's mission this time is longer than usual-16 days. And Columbia's flying position could be a thermal concern, too, Buckingham said. Across the Atlantic, ofricials also debated what to do about a malfunctioning antenna at a shuttle emergency landing site in western Africa. Columbia, NASA's oldest space shuttle, is scheduled to blast off at 2:01 p.m. Thursday with seven astronauts who will spend most of their time cond~cting laboratory experiments. Good weather is expected. 
Hepatitis hits the lunch line 
LOS ANGELES 
As many as 10,000 Los Angeles youngsters and adults may have been exposed to hepatitis A through possibly tainted berries that were also distributed to at least six other states. Frozen strawberry and blueberry fruit cups served last week in 18 Los Angeles public schools may have been contaminated with the virus that causes hepatitis A, school officials said Tuesday. The public health alert came from the U.S. Public Health Service, said Patrick Spencer, a school district spokesman. The berries were distributed by the Agriculture Department, he said. "This is surplus food coming from USDA," Spencer said. "Apparently it went to a number of states." Strawberries that may be tainted with the virus also werr, delivered to schools in Iowa, Arizona, Florida, Tennessee, Illinois and Michigan, where nearly 200 suspected cases of hepatitis A-a mild form of the virus -have already been reported. The only illnesses so far have appeared in Michigan, the Food and Drug Administration said. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 2. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday} 
' ... 

( 
Saturday ~ 43 32
... ,,,, 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L a(:fuc:CJ.
Sunday -··-··---~··· 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
(5.../\,X·"'''-............/ ...."·:,f:. 

Via Assoclsted Press 

4,~,~9-W-Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNat 

Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ND increases tultion by less than last year's raise 
Special to The Observer 
Undergraduate tuition and room and board charges at the University of Notre Dame will increase 5.3 percent for the 1997-98 academic year, the eighth consecutive year in which the rate of the University's tuition increase has declined. · 
The increase of $990 will bring tuition and fees to $19,800. Room and bo'\rd charges will rise $260 to an average of $5,020, for a com­bined cost of $24,820. 
In a letter to parents of 1997­98 undergraduate students, Notre Dame's president, Father 
Edward Malloy, discussed the
University's continuing com-
E 
mitment to increase scholarship aid in order to keep a Notre Dame education "within the economic reach of all stu­dents who can benefit from it." 
In the 1995-96 fiscal year, $24 million was put into scholarship endowments, bringing the total market value of those endowments to more than $330 million, Malloy wrote. The University will spend $15.5 million for undergraduate schol­arship aid this academic year, up almost $3 million from a year ago and more than $10 million since 1990 -a three-fold increase in that time. 
Malloy added that tuition and room and board. charges at Notre Dame remain below those of most comparable 



-En--En--En--En­
...... ...... ...... ...... 
0') ...... CD
51'

Oo Oo co Oo 
(A) (A) ...... 0 
0') 0 0 0 93-94 94-95 95-96 96-97 
~~~~~~~~~~li!l~J!IIl~~~~~~~~ 

private universities. "Maintaining the quality of education at highly selective, private universities is an expensive endeavor," he wrote. ­
"Even at that, total student charges at Notre Dame in 1995-96 were below both the average ($24,999) and the mid­point ($26, 148) in a survey of private colleges and universities. (Notre Dame) ranked 80th among 115 private colleges and universities in total student charges," Malloy wrote. 
Graduat4l school tuition in 1997-98 will be $19,680. and tuition in both the Law School and Master's of Business Administration program will be $20,390. 
Comments? Questions? Answers? E-mail The Observer at: Observer.obsnews.1@nd.edu 


Federation honors ND chef 
By JOHN DeBOY continue his Assistant News Editor trend of 

recent suc­
If the recent cesses by accolades adding a more bestowed upon international Denis Ellis are any flavor to his indication, it menus, a goal appears that the he aims to future of Notre achieve in Dame Food part through Services looks the planned bright -and a bit renovation of more cosmopolitan South Dining at that. Hall. 
In late February According to Ellis, executive Ellis, the din­chef of Notre Dame ing hall's new Food Services, was design will presented with the feature a food American Culinary court rayout, Federation's (ACF) with different 1997 Chef stations show­Professionalism casing menus Award for the from various Central Region. parts of the 
The award, world. which was "We believe announced at the that we will be ACF's regional a showcase conference in for the entire 
Milwaukee, annu­The Observer/Katie Soby C 0 U ntry 0 nCe ally recognizes fed­the South
Chef Denis Ellis was honored with the Chef eration members Professionalism Award for the Central Region in Dining Hall who have made an February by the American Culinary Federation renovation is 
Dame. 
Recently, the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine recognized the nutrition­al value of Ellis' menus by ranking Notre Dame 
ALL SENIORS ARE 

WELCOME 

third in the country for 
healthy campus food. Ellis said he hopes to
First come; First served 
exceptional contri­bution to cuisine in America. 

As a recipient of the ACF's honor for the central region, Ellis is now a finalist for the group's national award, which will be presented this summer at the federation's national conference in Atlanta. 
For Ellis, receiving the ACF award was both exciting and humbling. "To be recognized by my peers means a great deal to me," Ellis said. 
"I was very surprised. It was a very humbling experience. I was sitting at a dinner table waiting for the announce­ment, and then I heard my name; it gave me a funny feeling in the pit of my stom­ach." 
As executive chef of Notre Dame Food Services, a position which he has held for 10 years, Ellis is responsible for preparing recipes and overseeing menus for the more than 20,000 meals served each day during the aca­demic year at Notre 
complete," 

Ellis said. "We've gone way beyond beef stew and macaroni and cheese. 
"The infusion of cultures that's taking place around the world is a theme that will appear in our food services," Ellis continued. 
"Students today know what is happen­ing in the world, and they want to try different international dishes." 
Ellis, who was born in England, began his career at the age of 16 when he took a position as a ship's kitchen boy. 
He spent nine years with Canadian Pacific Steamships, eventually earning a promotion to senior sous-chef of the Empress of Scotland, the company's flagship. 
In 1960 Ellis emigrated to Canada, where he spent 12 years with the Hotel Corporation of America. 
Then, in 1972, he earned an appoint­ment as executive chef of the O'Hare International Towers hotel at Chicago's O'Hare Airport, a position which he held for four years. 
Before assuming his current position at Notre Dame in 1987, Ellis also spent several years at Azar's Food and Lodging Services in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Ellis is also a member of the American Academy of Chefs, and in 1994 an apprentice scholarship was established in his name by the local chapter of the ACF. 
Senior Class Retreat 
Do You Assume the Risk ofGoing to College?!?
Aprill9-20 

The Journal ofCollege and University Law 
_Notre Dame Law School Sign-ups: Campus Ministry-103 Hesburgh 
(q:~~\ '11~
\N:!_;~A /~ Presents ( ~ ~
Library 
~~~~~h ~~~ ~··4 ~ 
RObert Bickel & Peter Lake Application deadline:'Tuesday, April 8 
speaking on the doctrine of 
In Loco Parentis 
Any questions? Contactjim Lies, C.S.C. at April 4, 1997
631-4779 

4:00p.m. (1$1 Law School Courtroom 
CINT(R 'OR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

RECEPTION TO FOLLOW Cosponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 
-------------~------------------------------·---------------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 2, 1997 

Feature 
continued from page 1 
tance. 
The gifts donated are essen­tial in order that Saint Mary's faculty and academic depart­ments remain competitive in their fields. 
Money will also help to sup­port purchase of computers, books and equipment, student services, career planning and placement, and the counseling center. 
"When you give something, you don't expect to get some­thingback," said Aranowski. 
"It's when you realize that maybe you're helping someone who will come after you get to Saint Mary's that you receive the greatest gift." 
Senior Leadership Campaign co-chairs Molly Sanford and Kelly Roman said, "Now that we are entering the real world, we are excited to be able to give back to Saint Mary's as much as it has given to us. We also want to ·see how receptive our class is and if they have the same feelings we have." 
"We belong to an incredible sisterhood and it is a powerful thing arid an honor to be a part of it," said Jo Ann MacKenzie, director of planned and special gifts. "Our goal is to maintain Saint Mary's as self-determin­ing and it is very important to 
'the future of the College." 

The announcement of the Class of 1997 gift will be at the Alumnae/Senior Brunch on Thursday, May 15. If the seniors make an initial pay­ment before May 31, those who pledge will have their name listed in the 1997 Honor Roll of Donors in the presidential issue of the Courier. 
"A tradition as rich as Saint 
Mary's is not an accident. It is 
deliberate, "said MacKenzie. 
"We don't talk about survival 
because we are stronger than 
that." 



Security auctions found goods 
Observer Staff Report 
Missing a bicycle, stereo, or camera? Looking for a used vehicle? 
Notre Dame Security is hold­ing an auction tonight to sell the items that have been turned in or recovered from various break-ins. 
"We have all kinds of stuff," said Rex Hakow, director of Notre Dame Security. "Jewelry, calculators, CD players ... any­thing that was found and never claimed." 
Two old police cars will be auctioned -one Ford and one Chevy Blazer; Rakow noted that they usually go to mem­bers of the community. "I think we did sell one to a student, but it's usually the area resi­dents that bid on the cars." 

The semi-annual auction is open to the public; according to Rakow, student attendance tends to be lower than that of South Bend residents. 
"Sometimes, rival dorms show up and try to outbid each other, turning it into a compe­tition or something," Hakow laughed. "But the turnout is always good." 
l-Ie stressed the good condi­tion of the majority of items up for bid. "The bikes are really rideable, and we have lots of them to sell," Rakow stated. 
All items have been in the possession of Notre Dame Security since the auction in September 1996; Rakow encouraged anyone whose property was stolen or lost to come to the auction and replace it. 
"People can get really good deals at this event," he assert­ed. 
"fhe doors of Stepan Center will open to the crowd at 6:30 
p.m. tonight. 

Medical 
continued from page 1 

ally defended America's medical system, because systems that attempt to move patients through too fast ultimately tend to skimp on important tests and miss serious medical problems. 
Only in America, he pointed out, could an emergency room doctor be able to request CAT scans and radiology tests in the middle of the night. 
In order to give an idea of what it is like to work in an E.H., Walsh described a variety of cases that he might encounter in a typical day. 
Among these cases he described multiple victims of a car-crash, a 72-year-old cocaine­addicted pimp, a 16-year-old shot in the head and a lumberjack on whom a tree had fallen. 
All of these, he asserted, were real patients of his, and the cases he described were an accurate cross-section of the diverse cases encountered in the emergency room evnry day. 
Walsh also discussed the methods of diag­nosis and treatment he used for these patients. They ranged from simple visual inspections and quick treatments to compli­cated scans and invasive surgery. 
What he continually explained was that without the complex medical equipment available in tlu~ modern E.B .. a number of these patients' maladies would be overlooked and left untreated. 
As for the televised version of the emer­gency room, Walsh gave NBC's "E.B." credit for its realism. 
"With the exception of that crazy guy that [sleeps with] all the nurses, Clooney, it's a qualitatively accurate show... in terms of the cases that come in." 
Overall. Walsh presented a picture of an emergency room as a hectic place, where he might treat over 30 patients in an eight-hour shift, and where his correct diagnosis and swift treatment often means the difl"erence between life and death. 
It is a difficult job, he said, and requires "gobs of humility" because of the importance of always being eorreet in treating patients. 
Walsh finished by professing his love for his job. 
"I have unbridled enthusiasm for what I do ... I love my work and I think about it all th!l time." 
Walsh's lecture was the fifth in the "Mini­Medieal School" s!lries presented by the South Bend Center for Medical Education. 

If you see news happening, call 
The Observer 


at 1-5323 

205WestEdison/Mishawaka,IN/46545 events start at 6:00· PM 
Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 Ray Meyer-Hall of Fame Legend, Former Coach of the DePaul Blue Demons will be there 

WR.BR Live Remote! 



Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • AFRICA NEWS page 5 
• ZAIRE 
Rwandan refugees on verge of death 
By DIANNA CAHN Associated Press Writer 
KISANGANI, Zaire 
One hundred thousand Rwandans are camped in dense . forest along a road in eastern Zaire, and rebels forcing them slowly southward are making it hard for aid workers to reach them with food. 
U.N. officials say the relief workers' task is even more dif­ficult than in November, when 600,000 Hwandans walked out of the Zairian forest and all the way home. 
This time, the refugees have further to go -at least 300 miles -and rebels fighting to end President Mobutu Sese Seko's 31-ycar dictatorship are pushing them ever southward, despite their exhaustion. 
The Zairian rebel alliance won't let the refugees ncar Kisangani, a major river port the rebels captured March 15. It insists the refugees turn around and go horne. 
"This is not only inhumane, it will also make it logistically impractical to reach them," Pam O'Toole, spokeswoman for 
http//www.cttt.com/Jtudent_ abroad 
Do it today. 

No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. SWeepstakes ends 5/1/97. Open to residents of the U.S., 18 years or older, enrolled at a U.S. college or university during the '97-'98 school year and traveling internationally for 14 days or )oore. See your Study Abroad Counselor or http: //TNWW.att. corn/student_abroad for official rules and details. 
C 1997 AT&T 
the U.N. refugee agency, said Tuesday in Geneva. 
"If the alliance does not allow us to stabilize the health situa­tion now, there may be very few refugees to return to Hwanda." 
Near collapse after months of walking and deprivation, most don't have the strength to return home on foot, and the rebels have restricted food shipments to the area to keep the refugees from settling in. 
The rebels ordered the 20,000 refugees closest to Kisangani to leave their camp four miles from the city on 
Happy 21st Birthday Stacy Roonie 


Love, 
Dawn& Shawn 

a/ afree ride.~~ 
Announcing the AT&T "Ultimate Road Trip" 
sweepstakes.  
Going abroad this AT&T would like to your way.  school help  p year? ay  

10 Grand Prize Winners ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you'll be studying. 
Plus thousands of chances to win high-quality currency converters (hey, you may find it more valuable 
tha~the air transportation). 
To enter, call 
, Soo 257-S'+l.'+ ext. 300 
Or you can enter on-line at 

Monday and move 12 miles 
south. 

On Tuesday the rebels forced 
them still further away ­
some as far as 25 miles. 
UNICEF worker Marie de Ia 
Soubiere said many of the chil­
dren being cared for at the 
now-disbanded camp four 
miles south of Kisangani were 
in no condition to walk. 
There are few very young 
children among the refugees 
because most died during their 
five-month trek through the forests of eastern Zaire, U.N. spokesman Fred Eckhard said in New York. 
U.N. workers found the bod­ies of 50 refugees among the huts at the camp, Eckhard said. 
The refugees are the last of more than one million Rwandans who settled in camps just across the Zairian border in 1994. 
The people, ·mostly ethnic Hutus, had fled their homeland in fear of retribution for the Hutu-led massacre of a half-million minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus. 
In November, Rwanda urged its exiled Hutus to come home and said they should not be afraid of the Tutsi-led govern­ment. More than 600,000 walked out of the Zairian forest and returned to their com­munes, taxing the tiny coun­try's resources. 
Two weeks ago, Rwanda's powerful vice president and defense minister, Paul Kagame, called for the 100,000 still in central Zaire to return as welL 
But for now, it is up to the aid workers to care for the refugees. The cost is stagger­ing. The U.N. refugee agency appealed last month for $115 million for its work in the region. 
The U.N. envisages returning the refugees to Rwanda by plane, truck and on foot, but there are many variables. 
tiona! eouncil for the ofl).emocracy led by Defe]lse Minister atd Nya!lgoma have ... · · n fighting th!:J predomi­nantly Tutsi army since Tutsi paratroopers assassinated the country's first Hutu presi­
--~ dent in a 
foiled coup attempt in October 1993. 
Since then at least 150,000 people, most of them civilians, have died in the violence in this cen­tnl.l African nation. 

M a j or P i e r r e Buyoya, a Tutsi who Seized wer in a last says he =--"--~=--~is willing to 
talk with the rebels about power-sharing but only if they put down their arms first. 
With the exception of the our-month period when Melchoir Ndadaye was presi­dent in 1993, Tutsis, who make up 14 percent of Burundi's 5.6 million people, · have controlled the country · e independence from inl962~ Hutus make percent of the popula-

Wanted· 
Reporters, photographers, and editors. 
Join The Observer staff. 
Two Watchpersons 
Holy Cross House 
retirement/medical facility for Holy Cross priests and Brothers, north side St. Joseph Lake 

.. 
page 6 

Fhis If/larch, the Student Go11ernment constitution •as re•ritten, reorganizing allstudent groups and organizations under the ne• ''Student Union.•• Fhe ne• constitution took effectApril f stand llllhat 
lollo1111s is your Student Union. 




ITHB S'I'UDBl\lT Ul\110. I 
STUDENT FINANCIAL SENATE BOARD 
What is the Senate? 
Chaired by the Student Body 1/ice President, Erek Nass, the Student Union Senate is the most representative ..student" body on campus, MtiJ arepresenfafille from each donn, and one from oH-campus. 
.... 

Senate•s purpose is to address cunntand long term issues that directly aHect students and student life at Notre Dame. 
Any student may attend and speak at a Student Senate Meeting. 
What is the Judicial Co1mcil? 
The JC pro11ides confidential student ad11ising for students going into hearings in Student AHairs. Call f-4553. 
EXECUTIVE JUDICIAL CABINET COUNCIL 
What is the B:xeoutive Cabinet? 
Chaired by the Student Body President, Matt Griffin, this group is made up of members of 11arious student groups such as the HPC Co-Chairs, Class Presidents, SUB members, Club Officers, and others. 
The goal of the Cabinet is to coordinate all acti11ities occurring on campus. 
Student Go11emmenfs day to day stuHfalls under this Cabinet. 


page 7 

Wednesday, April 12, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Brittney Nystrom 
, 
FinancialAid Council . Student Computing Dept. , JaysonJay Fim Keller Brian Mikulld Board of Trustees ·~...r... Justin Ledesma 
Chief ofStall Mary Gillard 
AssistantT'I:hlels ofStall Kelly Basinger ·LoriMrowka 
Recorder Mark Higgins Controller Robert llitt 
Relations Dept. Cheryl lgiri AmyllybakDeanette) Weiss Suzy Tompkins Sarah Gruno1111 Bobby Barron Debbie Dziekan 
Patrick Belton Angela Anderson Michelle lliegas 
Student._'~Life Dept.f/oyce"Uanuzik :·;·U~J:Laura Parker 

• >,if 
Szilier 

·_..,,.,.;;,· Selak 
a•• J/1/ladyka ___··-Dillholl 
···susan Chuey Derek Blaida MarkLeen 
Di11ersity Council 
Ste11en Gomez 
TasFisher 
Dino Grajales 
·GenderIssues Council Mark Massoud 

Academic Delegate 
Bren~an Kelly 

Marisa Tesoro 

Want to become in11ol11ed1 Call f-7668 or EMAIL studegov.f @nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 2, 1997

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 


Navajos fight for right to ancestral grounds 
By PATRICK GRAHAM independent investigation. Associated Press Writer "These are subsistence peo­
ple who have been denied basic 

PHOENIX human services," said Marsha 
The deadline for dozens of Monestersky, a Navajo spokes­Navajo families to acknowledge woman. that the land they live on Demonstrators at each rally belongs to the Hopi expired as said the plan violates Navajos' protesters around the nation religious freedom by requiring criticized the plan aimed at permits for certain ceremonies solving a cen-....----,.-------....,...-------, and forbid­tury-old land UTAH ding them feud. > from burying 
Navajo fam-~ their dead. ilies had until "I do think midnight these grave-Monday to yard sites of sign leases my ancestors acknowledg-NEW are the roots ing the Phoenix MEXICO holding me rugged patch 0 there," said of desert in R o b e r t a northern ARIZONA ~ Blackgoat, a Arizona 10okm Navajo in belongs to the Flagstaff who other tribe. refused to Those who sign a lease. didn't sign lose their claim to "I can't leave the sacred songs land that holds religious signifi-and sacred prayers of my cance for them -and perhaps ancestors." eventual eviction. Navajos also contend that 
By late Monday, Navajos from Hopi officials want them off· 
more than 60 of the 80 affected their land so they can open it 
homesites had signed the leas-up to coal and mining interests, 
es, also called "accommodation a charge Hopis deny. 
agreements," allowing them to The Hopis stand to get up to 
stay on the land for 75 years, $50 million from the federal 
said Hopi tribal spokeswoman government if 85 percent of the 
Kim Secakuku. Navajos agree to the leases. 
Estimates of how many The Hopis plan to use the 
Navajos live on the Hopi reser-money to expand their reserva­
vation range from 300 to more tion by up to 500,000 acres. 
than 1,000. The dispute began in 1882 
"If they don't sign, they don't when the federal government 
have any legal rights or legal set aside 1.8 million acres for 
protections," Secakuku said. use by the Hopis and other 
"All we can say is we have Indians living on the disputed 
tried to work with them. We land, which was occupied 
have always been clear that almost entirely by Navajos who 
[the accommodation agree-refused to move out. Hopis, 
ment] will always allow them to however, says they were there 
practice their religion." long before the Navajo arrived. 
In New York, San Francisco Despite assurances from Hopi 
and Flagstaff, there were raJ-tribal officials that their reli­
lies Monday to protest the plan. gious beliefs won't be trampled 
More than 100 protesters with if they sign the leases, 
took to the streets of San many Navajos are still afraid. 
Francisco, beating drums and "The agreement sounds too 
chanting to call attention to the good -they have this feeling 
plight of the affected Navajo they can't trust the Hopi tribe," 
families. In New York, demon-said Ray Russell, who works for 
strators urged the United the Navajo-Hopi Land 
Nations -in vain -for an Commission. 

•





atros 

4tft cna~ 

Wednesday, April 2, 7:30-8:30--pm Chapel of the Holy cross (Stanford-Keenan HaiD 

conversations on vocation 

0MPUS MINISTRY 

All e~re 1111e1eo111e. 


McVeigh lawyers select jurors 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 

A prospective juror looked across the courtroom at Timothy McVeigh on Tuesday and couldn't believe the young man with tlie buzz cut, blue oxford shirt and quick smile could be a terrorist bomber. 
"He looks like a nice kid," said the middle-aged woman. "It's overwhelming for me to think that this person who looks like the average type of person could do such a thing." 
But the soft-spoken woman said she could still recommend death for whoever was respon­sible for the April 19, 1995, blast that tore apart the Oklahoma City federal building and killed 168 people, including 19 children. 
As jury selection crept along -only 11 prospects had been interviewed after a day and a half -the woman was the lat­est prospect to reveal strong feelings about the case. 
Her emotional questioning, however, gave way to the after­noon's heady questioning or one of the more colorful jury prospects: a philosophy profes­sor who said he was willing to consider the death penalty "just as I'm willing to consider that we're all just dreaming." 
A devout Homan Catholic and 
Rush Limbaugh fan whose doc­
toral thesis deals with the 
philosophical underpinnings of 
science and theology, he daz­
zled and dismayed the judge 
and lawyers with his highbrow 
-and sometimes tart ­
answers. Several times, he said 
he was being asked questions 
with flawed wording. 
The most sticky issue cen­
tered on whether he would be 
willing to recommend execu­
tion. lie said that he would be 
generally against the dr-ath 
penalty on religious grounds, 
but "I could consider death, 
also." 
At the end of the questioning, 
U.S. District Judge Richard Matseh said: "We're done with this seminar." 
The rest of the day was marked by highly emotional responses. Most of the com­ments, however, have dealt with the blast itself and .its aftermath rather than the state of the evidence. 
Only one prospective juror, . an agent for photographers and artists, said she's already made up her mind that McVeigh's guilty, based on what she seen of media reports. 
All but one of the candidates have said they would be willing to recommend execution -a requirement to serve on a capi­tal trial in federal eourt. 
Given the exhaustive interro­gation of each eandidate on everything from the govern­ment siege at Waco to the O.J. Simpson trial, it could take weeks to whittle the 350 prospects down to 12 jurors and six alternates. 
Michael Tigar, the lawyer for eo-defendant Terry Nichols, sat just behind a table filled with McVeigh's legal team. Nichols, who turned 42 on Tuesday, will be trir,d separately. No date has been set. 
The courtroom was filled mostly with reporters. Fewer than a dozen bombing sur­vivors and their relatives were present. .Jn a theater 600 miles away in Oklahoma City, only 30 people showed up to watch a elosed-cireuit telecast of the trial. 

Wed: Dollar Night & Open .1an1 
Thurs: Bucket Night 
D.l Dance Party 
Free Dart and Pool lessons for ladies-Spm 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M·F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 


The University Libraries of Notre Dame 
are pleased to announce 
BRITANNICA ONLINE 
is here to stay! 
Due to all the positive feedback we have received from students, staff and faculty concerning the Encyclopedia Britannica Online, the University Libraries will continue their subscription. Britannica Online is a faster and easier way to begin your search for information whether you're doing a research project or just seeking general facts and statistics. The Britannica is available through the University Libraries' homepage along with many other electronic reference resources such as: CARL UnCover, a database which indexes over 17,000 refereed and popular periodicals; LEXIS/NEXIS, a full-text database to newspaper and magazine articles, legal and business information; and UNLOC, the University ofNotre Dame Libraries' Online Catalog. 
The URLis: 

http://www.nd.edu/-refdept/guides/db-homep.htm 
"Begin searching our little corner ofthe Net today." 


T 

Wednesday, April2, 1997 The Observer • AGRI-NEWS page 9 




Futures bright for soybeans 
By HILLARY CHURA has yet to fall off dramatically to export. 
Associated Press Writer despite the highest prices for Andrew Gordon, vice presi­soybeans in nearly nine years. dent of Coffee Holding Co. in 
Soybean futures prices soared Tuesday after the gov­ernment revamped its esti­mates of current stocks, with the new figure pointing to pos­sible shortages by summer. Corn futures also rose. 
In other markets, coffee futures rose strongly a fourth session on supply anxieties, while silver futures fell. 
The Agriculture Department said it overcounted soybean reserves held in Mississippi in its quarterly stocks report released Monday, boosting the figure by 2 percent. After reviewing the numbers, the agency said that as of March 1, there were 1.056 billion bushels of soybeans left nation­wide until the next harvest, the lowest for that date since 1994. 
The revision indicates the nation's soybean stocks are in serious danger of depletion by September. 
"If demand continues at the current pace, prices have to go higher in old crop to ration demand." said analyst Steve Freed at ADM Investor Services Inc. in Chicago. 
Domestic and foreign demand 

Associated Press 
Doors Op atA/S Club 
COLUMBUS, Ind. 

SE 
Cummins Engine Co. had good news and bad news Tuesday for shareholders: First-quarter profits fell about 15 percent, but divi­dends are going up 10 percent. 
Earnings 
for the Jan.­Mar. period 
w i I l approach $1 per share, or approximately $42 million, 
Union Sta $5 per person 


Tickets go on sale Monday @ Info Desk 
compared with the $49 million profit, or $1.21 per share, post­
Queslit~ns Call1 -5111 

LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER FINANCIAL CHOICE? Take the Direct Route with Direct 
Deposit and No..Fee Checking. 
Don't get lost in a maze of requirements and endless fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
• 
No,fEE CHECKING 

• 
No MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 

• 
No PER,CHECK CHARGE 

• 
OVERDRAFT PROTECTION AVAILABLE 


A Better Choice to Make (219) 239~6611 or (800) 522~6611 
Independent of the University 

P~ NOTRE DAME 
.._.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Web Address: www.ndfcu. 

.net 
The USDA estimates supplies will fall to 20-year lows of 140 million bushels, or less than three weeks' supply. Many had hoped Brazil's record crop would cut into demand, but a series of port problems has kept foreign reliance on American soybeans high. 
Corn futures rose in step with soybeans. With soaring soy­bean prices, farmers expect to plant huge tracts of that crop this spring, the USDA reported Monday. That has increased worries that the other crops will be overlooked at planting time, leading to tight supplies down the road. 
Soybeans for May delivery rose 19 3/4 cents $8.75 1/2 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade; May corn rose 3 cents to $3.13 a bushel. 
Coffee futures rose to the highest level in three weeks amid concern supplies could run out. 
Shipments tightened greatly early this year but have risen in recent weeks as producers rushed to sell much of their harvest. Some investors believe producers have little coffee left Brooklyn, N.Y., said there is still supply out there, but it will become tighter by midyear. 

"If you don't buy now and pay whatever premium, you'll probably miss the boat," he said. "It's like musical chairs, where you have 10 chairs and 11 players." 
Mexico and Guatemala had record exports in January and February, and Brazil and Colombia had healthy exports as well. March figures are not in yet, but analysts believe they should be strong, too. 
Still, U.S. stockpiles currently are 30 percent lower than the same time a year ago despite a 90 percent jump in coffee futures since December. Supplies of quality arabica beans stored in warehouses n-earowned by the Coffee, Sugar & Park.. 
Cocoa Exchange in New York 
vu.t•<>v.u, a spoket)man
at 44 percent below a year ago. 
. C(!ilJ"lCii ····.·on

May green, arabica coffee 
Quality; which

settled 3.15 cents higher at agreement with$1.943 a pound, the highest 
mining compa­since March 12. 

tHf Resources

The stock market edged 
2 million addi­

lower Tuesday after falling 
would be fundedsharply in the previous two trading days. 

administration pro­

posal, which requires congres­
sJonal approval, met with 
strong opposition from farm­
are based on ld<;al state legislators. 
rafes and acreag~ is Eventually, the program 
' '""'""' ·to yield the greatest ~ails for 9:nrolling a· total of 
beJrretits~· based on an environ· 36.4 million acres by 2000. 
Engine manufacturer expects good market 
ed during the first quarter of 1996, executives told share­holders gathered for the annual meeting. 
Cummins will release com­plete financial results for the quarter later this month. 
"We are more diversified now and business conditions are favorable in most of our markets at this time," said Chief Executive Officer Jim Henderson. "Our international revenues are 44 percent of our totaL If business conditions continue, we expect higher earnings in the second quarter than in the first." 
The Cummins board of direc­tors Tuesday voted to raise the cash dividend that's paid each quarter for every share of stock in the company to 27.5 cents from 25 cents. Shares of Cummins stock were up 25 cents to $51.50 in late after­noon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Cummins, which produces diesel engines for heavy-and medium-duty trucks, power generators and other markets, also will invest more than $1 billion in new capital and prod­uct development by 1999, with half of the investment being made in southern Indiana. 
"By the year 2000, we will replace today's entire product line with the most advanced engines, product support and information technology in the world," Solso said. 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search in Na~onal Parks. Forests, and Wildlrte Preserves. 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
'Trigger' molecule for breast cancer identified 
Haue something to say? 
breast cancer. 
Malbon said elevated levels of MAP kinase also were found in the lymph nodes of breast can­cer patients whose cancer spread to other parts of their body, making the molecule a marker for those so-called metastatic cancers. 
The discovery could allow doctors to test for high levels of MAP kinase in breast cells, allowing detection of breast cancer even before noticeable tumors develop, Malbon said. 

And it raises the possibility of breast cancer treatments based on "programmed cell death," he said. In such treatments, doctors would introduce to can­cerous cells special molecules designed to "turn off' the MAP kinase cell. 
In cases of early-detection breast cancer, such targeted treatment can be preferable to the more scattershot approach­es of radiation therapy or chemotherapy, Malbon said. 
The two-year study was fund-eel in part by the American Cancer Society and involved examination of tissue speci­mens from more than 25 patients -some with normal breast tissue, some with breast cancer and some with other breast diseases. 
An editorial in The Journal of Clinical Investigation called the researchers' discovery "an extremely exciting finding that has the potential of identifying an important therapeutic tar­get." 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association proudly presents 
The Blue Eyes ofYonta 

By TIM WHITMIRE 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Researchers have isolated a molecule believed to trigger breast cancer, a scientist said Tuesday. 
Levels of the molecule, mito­gen-activated protein kinase ­or MAP kinase -are between five and 20 times higher in can­cerous breast tissue cells than in normal breast tissue cells, according to Dr. Craig C. Malbon of the State University of New York-Stony Brook. 
The discovery, reported in the April issue of The Journal of Clinical Investigation, could lead to new methods for early detection and treatment of breast cancer, Malbon said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
Malbon said the migration of MAP kinase into the nucleus of a cell signals the cell to begin replicating itself, causing can­cer. 
· "The trip switch is this mole­cule and its migration into the nucleus," he said. 
Previous research has shown that MAP kinase signals cells to proliferate, Malbon said. The new research, he said, estab­lished a link between extremely high levels of the molecule and the growth and spread of 

Cornmunh:m'!: Out, Capitalh:rn'!: fn. ~o Now What'? 

Saturday, April 5; COBA Atrium Registration: 12:30-1:30 EREBENTATIONS: 1:30-4:00 'John Pistole Federal Bureau of Investigation PenniJ ']oleflTrust Co1npany ofthe West }Vlarshall fioldiHan Davis Center for Russian Studies, Harvard U. 
Discussions will follow. Refreshments will be served. 

Presented by the NDCIBD in honor of Dean Keane 
----------------------------------~----------------·---------------------------------------------------­


By IBRAHIM BARZAK 
Associated Press Writer 
NEZARIM, Gaza Strip 
T.wo bombs exploded near .Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday, killing the two Palestinian suicide attack­ers and wound­ing several other Arabs, police said. 
Israel radio said the suicide bombers had apparently timed attacks to coincide with the normal travel schedule of st:hool buses from Jewish settlements. 
One of the blasts was first thought to have exploded next to a school bus leaving the Jewish settle­ment Nezarim, but a Jewish leader said the bus had bm~n delayed. 
"There was a huge blast," said Nezarim settler leader Shlomo Kostiner. "Luckily, the bus was still in the settlement for technical reasons and a ter­8ontactw~tA .heighbot~~ Th~ car wash, .however, was one place wherethey left a void. 
Cult member~ would bring 

http://www.pe.:ecorps.gov ·Contact:. Department of Romance Languages Online applicatioe available at 
largest 
rot rich 
natural ortunities 

You've heard how much fun JPW was... 
. 

Here's your chance to be a part of planning YOUR JPW! Apply for a position on the 
JPW 1998 Executive Committee 
Applications are available at Student Activities They must be submitted to 315 LaFortune by 
S:OOpJR on Wednesday, April 9! 
TEACH EnllliSH in 
EASTERN EUROPE 

PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW Hvw would you Hkr to tNch basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our mateonals prof_il~ m.t~y 
rewarding. teaching opportumt1e-S w1th great benefns. For mformation, call: 
(206) 971-3680 ExL K55845 w"."''-•!Chlt publitlh"'c­
--~-------·-···· ____ # _______ -----------------------"-----------·-~-----·-·-·-· -·--· 
-----~ -­
page 12 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
Grandmother-slaying teen begins road to recovery 
By MICHAEL HILL 
Associated Press Writer 
KINGSTON. N.Y 
When her grandmother died, 13-year-old Wendy Gardner was supposed to have the last word. 
Wendy had planned to say, "You beat me ... now it's your turn to get beaten." But she confessed that even before her boyfriend pulled the kite string around Betty Gardner's neck, plans had gone astray. 
"Just do it," she said. Then she fled upstairs and lay down; she sang "Jingle Bells" to blot out the carnage below. 
Wendy Gardner is polite and pretty with a round face and long brown hair. In school, she earned A's and B's. She plays the flute -pretty, sweet melodies-and keeps a diary. 
In it, she has fantasized about ripping an old boyfriend's flesh to pieces. 
The contrasts -darkness and innocence -are typical of this child of drug users: A pros­titute mother who died after contracting the AIDS virus. A father who boasted of how his own father dropped dead dur­ing an argument between them, according to testimony at Wendy's trial. 
Betty Gardner took both Wendy and her sister Kathy into her home in the Hudson Valley town of Saugerties. Wendy was 5, Kathy was 3; their grandmother was a widow who fervently believed in God and discipline, and sometimes the girls were slapped or pad­dled. 
The prosecutor, Michael Miranda, said this was merely old-school discipline. But defense attorney Lisa Beth Older said there was actual abuse, much of it psychological. 
Betty Gardner, 67, would tell Wendy she was going to turn out just like her mother. Once, Wendy was made to watch as her grandmother kneeled in prayer and cursed God for leav­ing the girl with her, Older said. 
Then, in October 1994. Wendy met James Evans. James was older -15 -and he stole bikes and tortured cats, prosecutors said. Trial psychiatrists diagnosed him as a sociopath. 
Before long, Wendy began skipping school. Her grades dropped. Wendy, according to Older, was becoming like James. 
Dr. Kevin Smith. a psychia­trist who testified in Wendy's trial, said there was a logic to the relationship. James received affirmation for his behavior; Wendy -operating on the emotional level of an 8­year-old -had a rebel boyfriend to complement her own angry and rebellious feel­ings. 
"They were truly a perfect match," he said. "It's like a lock and key system." 
By Christmas 1994, Wendy had essentially lived with James and his mother for two weeks. Betty Gardner ordered her granddaughter home. 
According to a confession Wendy gave days after the killing, the young lovers had other plans. They talked about marrying -on a boat, five miles offshore so it would be legal. They talked about killing Betty Gardner.. 
"If I kill her, will you love me?" James asked, according to Wendy's confession. "And I said 'Yeah, but I don't think you'll do it."' 
"Want to bet?" he asked. 
Wendy said James considered using a gun (they didn't have one); chopping her to death (too bloody); stabbing her (ditto). 
They decided to snap her neck. 
The night of Dec. 28, 1994, James went with Wendy to her grandmother's house. 
According to Wendy, Betty 


With the Great Taste and Winning Varieties 
of the HOT POCKETS®, LEAN POCKETS®, CROISSANT POCKETS® Brand Stuffed Sandwiches, and HOT POCKETS® Brand Pizza Snacks 
demanded that James leave. 
James lunged at Betty, and put 
her in a choke hold. He took out 
a kite string and pulled it with 
his foot at the base of her neck. 
When he told Wendy to say her lines, she was too upset. So James said, "Remember this, bitch, you're never going to be able to hit her again." 
Wendy and Kathy hid upstairs. 
Later, Wendy and James had sex in the same room where Betty was killed. She helped James stuff the body into the trunk of Betty's 1984 Mercury. 
The body stayed in the trunk for the next three days as James -who had no license ­drove Wendy to buy video games, sneakers, candy and lingerie with some $880 stolen from the dead woman. With the body in the trunk, and a teddy bear in the front seat, they went for fast food. They went bowling, twice. 
Kathy was made to sit in the back seat sometimes. She did as she was told and stayed quiet. But three days later, she snuck out to a neighbor's house. 
The neighbors called 911, but the operator wouldn't take the . call -it wasn't an emergency because Betty Gardner was already dead. Then they called Saugerties police, who found the young couple in the Gardner house and the corpse in the trunk. 
James Evans was convicted in July of second-degree murder and is serving a nine-years-to­life sentence. 
Wendy's subsequent trial in February presented more nuanced questions: Was she under the influence of James at the time of the killing, or did she manipulate him? 
Two years after the killing, a poised Wendy Gardner told jurors she loved her grand­mother, the woman who tucked her in and kissed her good night. 

When she confessed, she said, she was merely telling police what they wanted to hear. 
"I never literally meant I wanted my grandmother to die," she testified. 
Smith, the psychiatrist, testi­fied that Wendy was emotional­ly stunted and saw the murder plan as just the game. 
And the demand to "Just do it"? Wendy told Smith it referred to showing some Christmas presents. 
But the image of' this defen­dant as a victim was undnrcut by the matter-of-fact tone in which Wendy discussed the crime on a tape played to the jury, and by testimony from her sister. 
On Feb. 21, after nine hours of deliberations, jurors rejected the lesser count of manslaugh­ter and found her guilty of sec­ond-degree murder. 
Wendy cried and was led from court with a jacket over her head. 
Ulster County District Attorney Michael Kavanagh has said he will not seek the maxi­mum sentence of nine years to life when Wendy is sentenced Wednesday. She may serve as little as five years. 

But barring a successful appeal, she will grow to adult­hood in state custody, and it seems she's trying to make the best of it. 
She's doing well in school again. 
MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION 
AND PROGRAM: IN MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 
.!hwit& Wo-rt/ Y£Y.4 !l!edtf/U!/ (!}JV#datnW ~ 
BY 
M:R.SHERMANJACKSON 
Associate Professor in Islamic Studies at Wayne State University, MI. 
DATE: FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1997. TIME: 5:00 P.M. VENUE : HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM TOPIC:" FOLLOWING THE PROPHET: PROPHETIC ACTIONS AS THE SOURCE OF lAW." 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, 
summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. 
Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of 
quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition. 
rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the 
University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're aJso getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross 

HOLY College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well ~~CROSS as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. lr~ ·=~ COLLEGE Office of Admissions 
•

Session I-May 19 to June 26 P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427
Session II -June 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 

Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Staff sergeant charged Clinton attacks TV beer ads 
with sexual misconduct 
By DAVID DISHNEAU 
Associated Press Writer 
ABERDEEN, Md. 
Another instructor at the Aberdeen Proving Ground was charged Tuesday with sexual misconduct involving female subordinates, making him the 11th man charged in the ongo­ing sex scandal. 
Staff Sgt. Marvin Kelley, 33, had improper relationships with six trainees and one female soldier stationed at Aberdeen, the Army said. 
Kelley was also charged with two counts of obstruction of justice, five counts of failing to obey an order prohibiting such relationships, one count. of making a false statement, and three counts of adultery, the Army said. 
No further details on the charges were released. An Army spokesman Tuesday night did not know Kelley's race. The other 10 men charged with sexual miscon­duct at Aberdeen are black; most of their accusers are whitn. 
Also Tuesday, the judge in 
by 
the court-martial of a drill sergeant facing 25 charges of rape denied a defense request to interview high-ranking Army officials who last fall called for "zero tolerance" of sexual mis­conduct. 
Lawyers for Sgt. Delmar Simpson argued during a pre­trial hearing that comments made by Secretary Togo West and other Army officials made it impossible for Simpson to receive a fair court-martial and led Aberdeen commanders to charge him with rape when he may have had consensual sex. 
"It is our sense that the Army needs somebody to hang rape on," said defense lawyer Frank · 
J. Spinner. 
But the judge, Col. Paul Johnston, said he reviewed newspaper clippings and broadcast news reports and did not believe they showed Army officials unduly influenced Simpson's court-martial. 
Simpson, 32, is charged with scores of offenses involving as many as 28 female soldiers. If convicted, he could face life in prison. His trial begins next Monday. 

WILLIAM INGE 
MOREAU CENTER / LITTLE THEATRE APRIL I 0, II,I 2 at 8 p.m. APRIL 13 at 2:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College 
4otk
MOR£AU

For ticket information, year roll: 219/284-4626 CEIVTER.., 
FOR THE ARTS 
~"' Esp 

By SANDRASOBIERAJ 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton, who scored political points in taking on the tobacco industry, targeted liquor distillers' TV ads 
Tuesday. "Liquor has no business with kids," he declared. 
But even as Clinton argued he was protect­
and helping 

parents, he struggled to explain why his move against liquor ads -which stopped just short of recommending a regulatory ban -did not touch the far more pervasive television advertising for beer or wine. 
He acknowledged that his aim, for now, is a return to the status quo last fall -before distillers lifted their 50-year, self-imposed ban on radio and TV ads. Vintners and brewers, a politically powerful lobby that spends millions of dollars in Washington, have freely adver­tised all along. 
"I think we ought to start with the principle of no back­sliding," Clinton said in outlin­ing his request that the Federal Communications Commission study the impact of lifting the ban and make recommenda­tions for possible federal action. 
"We must do nothing-noth­ing -that would risk encour­aging more of our young people to drink hard liquor," Clinton said in a Roosevelt Room cere~ mony with Vice President AI Gore. 
Distillers voted in November to end the ban after Seagram's ran a limited number of ads in Texas. Ever since, FCC Chairman Reed Hundt has sought an official inquiry but the commission remained 

~ ~'­


,W 
Schedule for April 

1:30 p.m. STANFORD-KEENAN CHAPEL 
April6 Padre Doll McNeill, esc 
April13 l'adre David Sc/zeidlcz~ esc 
April20 Padre Jose Marlelli, esc 
April 27 Padre Michael Slzerwin, o·.P. 
Todos Estan Invitados 
~­
(Z\MPU5MINISTRY 

deadlocked 2-2 on the question. 
Hundt hoped Clinton's announcement would sway dis­senting commissioners James Quello and Rachelle Chong, and allow the investigation to pro­ceed. 
While saying he 'hoped the industry would voluntarily agree to stay off the airwaves, Clinton said that if the agency finds liquor ads harmful to youngsters, "I think the FCC has grounds to act." 
Pressed several times to explain why beer and wine ads were left out of the directive, Clinton said: "I think the liquor industry itself once thought that there was a distinction to be drawn, if for no other reason than alcohol content, between beer and wine and hard liquor, which is why they observed this distinction for 50 years.... I think they were right." 
He appeared to leave open the possibility of broadening the FCC study, saying that "if there is no difference, if there are problems, the FCC can evaluate whatever evidence comes in." 
But White House spokesman Mike McCurry later told reporters, ''I'm not aware of anyone foreseeing a next step that suggests that you look at beer and wine. I think we're just taking it one step at a time." 
Cracking down on tobacco industry ads aimed at children proved a good issue for Clinton in his re-election campaign. Tuesday's liquor announce­ment, which mostly reiterated past policy statements, was meant to reinvigorate a similar­ly good "pro-family" issue that Clinton first seized upon in a Father's Day radio address last year. 
But distillers were quick to cry hypocrisy Tuesday. And some groups denounced any distinction between hard liquor's harm and the dangers of beer drinking. 
"Alcohol is basically alcohol," said Karolyn Nunnallee, presi­dent-elect of Mothers Against Drunk Driving. "When beer is the number one alcoholic bev­erage of choice among our youth, it just doesn't make sense that these beer ads would not be targeted also." 
Elizabeth Board, spokes­woman for the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, noted that the major national networks still refuse to run liquor ads and only 50 of some 1,000 cable stations have accepted ads since November. 
By contrast, she said, beer commercials saturate the air­waves -$2.5 billion worth since Clinton took office. 
"If the administration is seri­ous about children and wants to look at the issue of alcohol and advertising, we have no quarrel about that. But they cannot do it by ignoring 99 per­cent of the alcohol advertising on television," said Board. 
Former Sen. George McGovern, spokesman for the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, agreed that "seductive" beer and wine ads posed the greater threat to young people, but said he understood the political reality Clinton faced in taking on broadcasters and the advertis­ing and liquor industries. 
''I've learned long ago you have to be satisfied with partial steps on an explosive issue like this," said McGovern, who lost a daughter to alcoholism. 
On Capitol Hill, Rep. W.J. Tauzin, R-La., chairman of the House Commerce subcommit­tee on telecommunications, scrapped plans for public hear­ings on the issue. He is instead pursuing behind-the-scenes negotiations with industry rep­rosen tati ves for voluntary restrictions on ad content and placement that would cover beer, wine and liquor alike. 
Adler School of 
~Psycholn..u
'VOIWAYNE ~ 
Franklin S. Hennessey, Psy.o. 
1720 Beacon Street • F 
(219) 424-6443 • adle=~· IN 46805-4749 '~"........._,.c.......~.....,,·· ayne.mfi.net 
At the Adler School of Professional Psfchology, all of our faculty members are active clinica professionals. So you'll benefit from their practical knowledge. And you'll get to enjoy an academic climate geared toward working professionals: 
• 
Masters and Postgraduate programs, may lead to doctorate 

• 
Most classes on Friday evenings, Saturdays and Sundays 

• 
Small classes 

• 
Variety of programs in Co~nseling Psychology, Marriage & Family Counseling, Substance Abuse Counseling, Adlerian Psychology 


So whether you already hold a degree or you're an undergraduate, call or e-mail us. We've been helping working professionals reach an advanced degree in psychology for 25 years. 

FORT WAYNE 
1720 Beacon Street • Fort Wayne, IN 46805-4749 
(219) 424-6443 • adlerpsy@fortwayne.infi.net 
The Adler School of Professional Psvcholo_gv is accredited by the North Central Association. CEUs 
Jpproved by rhe National Board foi Certitifd Counselors, Inc. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prenderpasr 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager..............................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor ..................................Mike Day Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor......................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the smdenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either insdturion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associa.te News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr News/Photo Sporrs Accem/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  
631-4541  Advertising  
631-5323  Systems  
631-4543  Office Manager  
631-4540  Fax  
631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHERE I'M CALliNG fROM 
Fear of the apocalypse pervades modern media culture 
When I was in fifth grade, my sadistic, twisted, complex-ridden schoolteacher thought it might be fun to spend a few days of religion class covering the fun-to­read and easy-to-understand Book of Revelation. Needless to say, after a col­lective protest from parents whose chil­dren couldn't sleep at night with visions emblazoned in their pre-pubescent minds of multi-headed beasts, plague-spreading devils on horseback and Catholic school 
Thomas Coyne 

kiddies being dropped into the fires of damnation for forging their parent's sig­nature on spelling tests, our lessons in the apocalypse came to an abrupt end. 
But the damage had been done and my own fascination with the end of the world was born. I prognosticated at the age of 10 that the end would occur on New Year's Eve of the year 1999 at the stroke of midnight. It was simple -God, being the logical being that He is, would want to end things on a nice round number. But since then, I have rethought my calcula­tions. I'm not even sure we have that long. 
You heard it here (and a myriad of other places -street corners, soap boxes, and web sites all being hotbeds of apocalypse rhetoric): the end is coming! Prepare ye selves! The Heaven's Gate debacle should be proof enough that the apocalypse is around the corner. Not to be insensitive or write in bad taste (neither of which I have ever tried to avoid before), but an act of such unfathomable insanity sug­gests one of two things: either the human species is doomed because there is ilo limit to the capacity of individuals to refuse to use their brains; or Mr. La Tee Do was right, and we are all screwed because we missed the mothership bop­ping along behind the Hale-Bopp. Either way, it's over for us. 
In the tradition of Sports Illustrated's weekly installments of signs of the apoca­lypse, I have come up with a few of my own. And you don't have to look up into the cosmos to see them, unless of course you are wearing black Nikes, have a $5 bill and some quarters in your pocket, have your bags packed for Mars and are not afraid of a little friendly castration, in which ease you might want to look up ­the mothership might have a beam left for you. 
The first sign on my "The end is approaching list" would undoubtedly have to be the impending doomsday otherwise known as graduation. T-minus 1.5 months to G-day 1997. The day when credit lines dry up, when bills with your name on them mean you actually have to pay them yourself, when you have to go out and get a, I can barely say it, ja, ja, job. And you thought the stuff in the movies was scary. \Vhen I walk out of the Joyce Center on that Sunday in May, diploma in hand, draped in my tacky gown and sporting my goofy tasseled cap, I'm hoping that the parking lot will open up and swallow me whole. Eternity holds more promise for an English major than the real world. 
Another sign that something is out of order in the gentle balance of the cosmos is the enigma of the Notre Dame athletic programs. With our flailing football pro­gram trying to schedule St. Joe's for the 1997 schedule (the military academies proving to be all too mighty opponents) and the only sports bringing any pride to this campus being the traditional Fighting Irish fortes of fencing, women's soccer and women's basketball (no offense ladies, it's just a bit out of the ordinary), one of the biggest boys clubs in America is becoming the playground for its loyal daughters, marching onward to victory. Oh, I forgot about men's basketball, but if their success isn't a sign of the apoca­lypse, I don't know what is. 
I am not alone in my end of the world anxiety -it extends beyond our little campus and has gripped the nation through Hollywood and the media. Movie companies are spitting out endless repro­ductions of mindless natural disaster flicks and aliens destroy the world movies. Fires, volcanoes, twisters, man eating viruses, earthquakes, motherships laying waste to civilization, etc. And it's not just the movies-television shows are exploiting America's appoca-lust, crank­ing out serials about omnipresent UFO's and approaching doom in the next millen­nium, aliens coming to live in happy bliss on the third roek from the sun -specula­tion about the grandiosity of the future and its inevitable collapse is an insatiable market. 
And I am begging for a respite from it all as I can only stomach so much of' the fan­tastic. Blame it on my literacy or my dis­interest in trailer-park mythology, but I have a hard time believing in the apoca­lyptic scenarios bombarding me at every turn. When was the last time seven twisters tore through your town on a Sunday afternoon? Seen any good dor­mant volcanoes in a highly populated area erupting lately? Sorry about that time the aliens came down to your farm­house and abducted your wife, but who can· you blame? Oh yeah, the federal gov­ernment, because according to that guy from the FBI, they're all in cahoots. 
Spare me. If the world doesn't end in the year 2000 (which I kind of hope it does, if for no other reason than to make Prince's "1999" a number-one hit yet again) we might will the world to end with our tremendous desire to discern and dramatize the way things are all going to come down. Some wacko is going to watch "Twelve Monkeys" enough times and figure out how to actually do it, and judging by the American penchant for apocalyptic fantasy, he'll probably think he's giving us what we want. 
And if Hollywood isn't busy pumping out fresh sci-fi-adventure-destruction garbage, it's busy rereleasing old films to fill the artistic void left by such cliched and predictable drivel. From "Star Wars" to "The Graduate" to "The Godfather." production companies have made the wise decision to look in its closets for work of merit, looking at the wastG!and of modern cinema that is so ruled by the almighty dollar that it nominates such trite treasures as "Jerry Maguire" for best picture. I am a supporter of rercleasing the classics, but I lament such a develop­ment as well -when classics become contemporary, when they replace current creations instead of existing as a refer­ence point for new and fresh work, they are evidence of the fact that ours is a cul­ture which is becoming unoriginal, art­less, meaningless -a stale society that is running out of stories to tell. · 
Look at television -we have replaced the art of storytelling, the art that is at the core of who we arc and how we under­stand our existence, with "i·eallife" sto­ries. We don't want to write stories and construct our lives, we merely want to watch our lives through cameras that capture cops chasing criminals and twen­ty somethings experiencing growing pains in plush domiciles. The line between r~ality and story has become dangerously blurred in this age of multi-media, facts at your fingertips, the real deal in your face, straight from the front lines information explosion. The end is coming for a cul­ture that has sacrificed its imagination, its creativity, its curiosity and opted for docu­dramas and downloaded facts and fig­ures. Without story, reality is the most bitter of pills. An unoriginal world is one that might as well be over. 
Twenty years ago, our world was doser to the reality of global annihilation than ever before, the threat of nudear war hanging over every head, and yet the apocalypse was rarely discussed and never romanticized-perhaps because, at the time, the threat was more fact than fantasy. Now that the Cold War is behind us and our anxiety that we are going to burn up into piles of radioactive dust is assuaged, we have invented new enemies. We have found new threats to our sur­vival in nature, plagues, and aliens. I will never understand why we have to be star­ing at death to feel fully alive. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major . 
• IJOONESBURV 
50 YOU JU5Tt?I­
VCRCEP? JU5T 
til<& JHAT.?NO ATl'liMPTATR&­CONC!t/ATION?NO c.ot.JN!ii13UNG? 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Whoever wants to 
know the heart and mind of America had better learn baseball, the rules and realities of the game -and do it by watching first some high school or small-town teams." 
-Jacques Barzun 

I HAVaJ'T fli5APPeAREP! I HAVEN'TA8ANt?ONf3/? HeR! I'MNOTPLANNING ON PROPPING 01/TONI&R t!F£ RJR. 5EYeN YMRS, IF !HAT!?/(/#AT YOtJME4N! 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO, 7HAT!3 OH,!3X~Me! NOTWHAT I 7HOU€HT I MCAN... A1AY~ 7HAT5 
tuHAT'YOU 
MffANT/

\ f 
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, April 2, 1997 page IS 
Get Your Hands Dirty with the Environmental Coalition 


N
otre Dame's environmental organizations are 
busy getting ready for a week-long celebration of 
the natural world beginning this Sunday. The events of Earth Week '97 are being coordinated by the Notre Dame Environmental Coalition, a relatively informal board that has representatives from each of six environmental groups on campus. The coalition was first organized in· October of 1995 by Karen Cardinal, current co president of the Recyclin' Irish. 
Cardinal says that the coalition "increases dialogue between groups" and allows them to work together This is accomplished through environmental commis­sioners who oversee the recycling programs in their respective dorms. The Recyclin' Irish do more than handle trash, however. The group started the ShamROCK Greenfest, one of the outdoor events fea­tured during Earth Week. 
The Irish Outdoors Club promotes respect for nature through direct exposure. The club owns backpacks, tents, stoves, and other necessities for hiking and camping. Past excursions include mountain biking in southern Indiana and snowshoeing in Michigan. Irish Outdoors will host an Earth Week hike at Indiana Dunes on Sunday, April 13. President Eric Nielsen admits that "this year the club has been pretty much inactive." However, Irish Outdoors hopes to gain new 
more efficiently in their efforts to ,-------------,,..------:---:---------, members and become more 
increase environmental awareness and concern. "Our big objective this semr,ster is Earth Week," Cardinal explains. However, the coalition also hopr,s to hold a joint festival in the fall when new members can be encouraged to join these organiza­tions. 
As the original environmental group on campus. Students for Environmental Action remains active in using education and service to spread information about the state of our environment and increase appre­dation for the natural world. Among their accomplishments, president Brian Blank includes the creation of a program in which members teach r,lr,mentary school students about conservation, recycling and endan­gernd species. 
Additionally, SEA has investigated issues of local importance such as the use of pesticide on Notre Dame's lawns and the presence of lead and other heavy metals in the paint of South Bend's ·older houses. Many of thr, upcoming Earth Day r,vents are organized by SEA, including an Environmental Mass and a tree planting project on Sunday. Usually, around 50 students and volunteers plant between 1,700 and 2,000 trees on a local property. As part of their effort to inform the campus about environmental issues and club projects, SEA maintains a website at http://www.nd.edu/-sea/. 
The Recyelin' Irish was originally a program run by SEA. It became a group unto itself due to its great sue­cess and growing size. Its self-proclaimed mission is "to maintain. improve and encourage the recycling ini­tiative on the campus of the University of Notre Dame and beyond." The group is primarily responsible for the recycling of paper, aluminum cans, and other solid waste in each dorm and in other buildings on campus. 
active next fall. The joint efforts of the coalition should help. 
Environmental laws and reg­ulations are of primary interest to the Environmental Law Society. President Sarah Stancati worries that "care for the environment doesn't come through enough in the curricu­lum" of the law school. However, she says, "You cannot practice law without coming upon environmental law." The group hosts speakers and facili­tates discussions that improve awareness of environmental 

.,:~ issues. As part of the coali­tion's week-long Earth Day activities, the Environmental Law Society will present a panel of speakers on Thursday, April 10 to discuss controversial clean air regulations that have recently been proposed. Representatives will be on hand from the Indiana Health Department, the St. Joseph County Chamber of Commerce and the Green Party of Indiana. Stancati is quick to point out 
that her group does more than discuss legal issues. The society organizes hikes and other events that allow its members, many of whom are hard-working law students, to simply enjoy the outdoors. The Environmental Law Society is not restricted to law stu­dents-graduates and undergraduates from all disci­plines are welcome. 
Engineers at Notre Dame also have their own envi­ronmental organization, the Terra Club. Also a spon­sor of camping trips and outdoor activities, the Terra Club has taken a trip to Mammoth Cave in Kentucky. The club helps students interested in geology and engi­neering to find jobs, internships and graduate pro­grams involving the environment. On Thursday, April 10, the Terra Club will be hosting an environmental career fair as part of the Earth Week celebration. 
The final member of the coalition, Students for Responsible Business, is not a purely environmental organization. Nevertheless, Blank, the group's com­munications director, points out that ethical business­people "have to take into account environmental effects" of their decisions. Blank believes that the group's membership in the coalition allows them to ·• share different perspectives and information on issues of importance to the environment and to business. Notre Dame is the first university to offer membership in this national organization to undergraduates as well as to MBA's. 
Each of these groups is represented in weekly meet­ings of the coalition. Still, the coalition itself is not a university-sponsored club, and it has only one officer -Cardinal, the coalition's "organizer." Nevertheless. Notre Dame's environmental organizations place great value in the Environmental Coalition. Stancati notes that the coalition provides the broad perspective and motivation that the Environmental Law Society cannot supply on its own. Cardinal adds that the coalition "gives us a larger base off wl;lich to promote environ­mental awareness." Blank agrees that the different knowledge and opinions that each environmental orga­nization brings to the coalition allows them all to "work together to get a better solution" to the prob­lems of the natural world. 
Earth Week '97 
April 6 -Plant a Tree. Meet with Students for Environmental Action in the Main Circle at 12 p.m. 
April 7-10-Recycle on Campus. Volunteer to help Recyclin' Irish from 9-S daily (call Sheila 1-S61S for details). Environmental Career Fair. Learn about Companies who Care from 12-4 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Air Pollution Discuuion. Meet with officials from the Environmental Law Society from 3-4:30 p.m. in room 121 of the Law School. 
April 12 -Clean up Campus. Meet with the Irish Outdoors club from 12-1 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall to keep our campus beautiful. Tye-Dye, Sing and Dance. Recyclin' Irish sponsors ShamROCK Greenfest from 1-S p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Mass at the Grotto with Fr. Hesburgh at s p.m. 
April13 -Take a Hike. Join the Outdoors Club for a trip to the Indiana Dunes State Park. Meet at 12 p.m. at the Main Circle. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
By JACKIE MARTINEZ Accent Copy Editor 

I 
tis the grassless, muddy, make.~s ..t ..s.we
...hift pa...hway

stampede through each day as we cut corners, 
scrambling to get to class on time. It is ihe frozen tundra wind whose stinging bite• either takes out}he unsuspecting victims in its path orca.usesthem.to conw tort their bodies to the best chill-repellent position. It is the trees whose leaves we trample over ~nd ·whose branches seem to interrupt the flying path'of frlsh¢es and footballs on a sunny day. lt is even the permeat­ing stench of ethanol which, although unpleasant, strikes a familiar note and brings a somewhat COmw forting feel to the hearts of students as they return to campus from a semester break. No, it is not a.yall from heaven's gate made possible by the rapidly 
awroa~.:hiug Ha!e-.t>upp. It is ... the environriient. 
Whether caught up in cursin~the ~rver·li{l~fngyve­
month frost that seems to extract any ounc!'i()f happi­
ness left in our hearts or blinded bytlte holy arrival of 
a ray of sunshine which miracul()USl~ breaks thr()pgh 
the dense, darksky which hoversoverthe Notre Dame 
community, Domers seem to have gottenlost in the 
shullle of wh_at it REALLY meanstope envit:onmeptal· 
ly aware. I mean, sure, tht;Jre are those of us who 
recycle our Coke cans. and have ev~~ made the BIG 
switch from a,erosollo non:a~p:~~o! §Pr ... ~; (S~qp 
the presses!), but have our streriOou$ \) to save 
Mother Earth fallen short "lflrnA1JIIn,pl'A 
mental~y consciou~" liy~s,?.h<iii;H;}~ t:.i.~;
The answer is; NOt 1t and preserving it for 
fren~ ~hich b~s 

'aged ·students alike, to be and 
the recycling bins . yally pr9mot!'lf:I.(pla.cing them ,;H;.,,.t>tll" path of every· student) and success;· what else have we done 
Whose. pzo11e]~yer. (:~ntin~esJoland-fills coritil1ue to plague our world?. 
Too .Oft()Cn, iive ratlier how many 

we are making matters any bet· a, group of students, a majority of only weak, distraught, .and unstable in their·uves? I think not! What ~...•~.. ~ •.w,. students the. good that they are can be doing more of it rather the bad in the world, if they take 
g()tid. And the good is the environ­. future. (Do I sense a poster?) to tackle topics such as this, we 
>d<r<$t>tn•~.thtng which can make us feel good true what they say -a little . In other words, we have sue­step .in improving the turmoil "'u'''"Jul.u"'·" is in by actively participating in 
sort through your discarded 
colored, white. newsprint, in their appropriate bins, don't stop rself.if there is something more you aside from an excellent job of separa­it! It will not only make you feel good 
"01.1"'". .lL 

also about the earth you are helping 
of grass you lay your blanket on to . the warm beating sun. It is the rocks · the lakes after perfecting your form, 
multiple skip. In a way, it is even the 
rTni.....-<>k · ··the deep, dark crevices of wherever a morsel of Notre Dame campus, (iliVit4)IU]neritof an earth that spreads an save. 
;r• 

~------~ 
·'' ·' .. \. 

' 
Wednesday, April 2, 1997

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
.MlB 
Expos walk away witfi first victory 
AssO(iated Press 
Indians begin with new look 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS November and is the cleanup tiona! team who is beginning his Associated Press Writer batter in place of Belle. second full season with the A's. Marquis Grissom and Dave "I'm excited, but not ner­OAKLAND Justice, both integral parts of vous," Prieto said. "I don't have 
For the most part, the Atlanta's NL championship nerves. I'm facing a good team Cleveland Indians' signature team, were acquired last week but I'll have no problem. We're players from the 1995 AL cham­as part of the trade that sent a good team too." pionship team and last year's Lofton to the Braves. Two young catchers, George division-winning club are else­Williams and Justice said they Williams and Izzy Molina, take where as the new season begins. and the other newcomers have over the catching job from Terry 
Slugger Albert Belle signed been able to fft right into the Steinbach, who left Oakland as a 
with the. Chicago White Sox as a locker-room mix and veteran free agent for Minneasota. free agent. Bullpen closer Jose teammates such as Kevin Likewise, Tony Batista is at Mesa, charged with rape, is on Seitzer have filled them in on shortstop for Mike Bordick, now trial and will miss at least the the nuances of playing in the with Baltimore. Scott Spiezio, start of the year. American League. after playing most of his career 
Kenny Lofton, Julian Tavarez, "Everybody's cool here," at third, has been moved to sec­Jose Vizcaino, Eddie Murray Justice said. "It's made for a ond. and Carlos Baerga all have been smooth transition.'' Geronimo Berroa and Canseco traded in a series of deals that are expected to split time at DH 
began last July. Added Williams "We've got a and in right field. Ernie Young So, it will be a new-look number of guys who have been returns to center and Jason
.. 
Indians team that opens the sea­around a long time, helping me Giambi is in left. Each of the 
son Wednesday night against out, who know how to hit. four hit 19 or more homers last the Oakland Athletics, an over­They're getting sick of me be­year. achieving club last year that cause I've been picking their . McGwire, whose 52 home traded for Jose Canseco during brains as much as I can." runs led the majors last season the offseason to reunite him Cleveland's pitching remains and helped Oakland set a team with fellow power hitter Mark strong and stable, with the re­record with 243 homers, has McGwire. turn of Charles Nagy, Ore! been bothered by back problems 
The Indians are anything but Hershiser, Jack McDowell and this spring but is expectod to be patchwork. though. Paul Shuey, Chad Ogea. in the opening lineup. off a strong spring, assumes the Nagy, who went 17-5 with a "The hitters are ready to start closer role in Mesa's absence. 3.41 ERA and started the All­the season," Oakland manager 
Matt Williams, who hit 24 7 Star game last season, pitches Art Howe said. "Hopefully, the home runs in nine years at San opening night against Ariel pitching will be where we want Francisco, was acquired in Prieto, a star for the Cuban na-ittobe." 
MONTREAL Montreal walked its way to the first win of the 1997 baseball season. 
Pinch-hitter Sherman Obando drew a bases-loaded walk in the ninth inning Tuesday. giving the Expos a 2-1 win over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The Expos opened the year against the NL's Central Division champions before 33,437 at Olympic Stadium, the fourth small­est opening day crowd in 21 seasons at the ballpark. 
Rondell White and Shane Andrews had two hits each for Montreal. Willie McGee and Delino DeShields had two hits apiece for the Cardinals. 
With the score tied 1-1 in the ninth, Randell White led off with an infield single against reliever Rich Batchelor. Loser Tony Fossas relieved and Henry Rodriguez singled to right, sending White to third. 
David Segui was intentionally walked to load the bases for pinch-hitter Andy Stankiewicz, who hit a grounder to third base­man Gary Gaetti. Gaetti quickly tagged out White for the first out with Rodriguez taking third. 
Obando then worked the count to 3-2 before drawing the game-winning walk. 
Ugueth Urbina pitched one inning for the win. 
Trailing 1-0, the Cardinals tied it in the sixth when DeShields tripled and scored on a wild pitch by Expos starter Jim Bullinger. Mark Grudzielanek's RBI single had given the Expos a 1-0 lead in the third off Cardinals starter Todd Stottlemyre. Stottleinyre, making his second career opening day start and first for St. Louis, allowed a run and four hits in seven innings. 
Tigers open season with late inning loss to Twins 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 
It was a bad night on the bases for the Minnesota Twins. Pat Meares made sure it wasn't a bad night in the clubhouse, too. 
Meares' two-run, two-out homer finished a four-run eighth inning as the Twins ral­lied from a five-run deficit on opening night to beat the Detroit Tigers 7-5 Tuesday. 
The winning rally included one of three potentially costly baserunning mistakes for the Twins, who also lost first base­man Scott Stahoviak for up to four weeks when he broke a finger sliding into second. 
"! guess if you're going to 
make mistakes, make aggres­sive mistakes," Meares said. "We're not a team that's going to win every night on a three­run home run. We're going to have to take the extra base and put pressure on some of the outfielders to throw guys out. That was just a sign that we're going to keep pushing and keep pushing the entire game." 
The Twins' rally also was a sign that the Tigers' pitching staff could be in for another horrible year. 
Detroit, which set an AL record with a 6.38 ERA in 1996 en route to a 109-loss season, self-destructed again after tak­ing a 5-0 lead on Melvin Nieves' three-run homer in the fourth and Tony Clark's two­run double in the fifth. 
Starter Doug Brocail, cruising to that point, gave up three runs in the bottom of the fifth. Heliever A.J. Sager came on to pitch three scoreless innings, but Dan Miceli got whacked in the eighth. 
"Any time you lose a game that you felt you played well enough to win, it hurts," said Detroit manager Buddy Bell, whose opening-day roster includes 18 new players from the 1996 opener. "The execu­tion was there. Danny just left some balls over the plate and he walked a few people. You can't do that, especially in this ballpark." 
Meares started Minnesota's comeback. with a bloop triple to shallow center leading off the fifth. lie scored on a wild pitch by Brocail, and, after Chuck Knoblauch's double and Hich Becker's two-run single, Sager replaced Brocail. 

But baserunning mistakes by Mal"ty Cordova and Paul Molitor on the same play cost the Twins a chance to score more. With one out and run­ners on first and third, Matt Lawton hit a deep fly to left­center. Molitor tagged at third and should have scored easily, but Cordova was well around second and was doubled off first for the final out. 
Molitor slowed nearly to a walk and touchep home after Cordova was retired. The run would have counted had Molitor scored before the third out. 
"We can't have that happen if we're going to win on a con­sistent bas1s," said manager Tom Kelly, a fanatic about fun­damentals. 
It h a p p e n e d a g a i n i n t Ill~ eighth. 
Molitor singled off Mic'cli leading off the eighth. Cordova and Lawton walked to load the bases and Terry Steinbach -a New Ulm native playing his first game for the Twins -hit a broken-bat single to make it 5-4. 
Newcomer Greg Colbrunn followed with a sacrifice fly, but Lawton was thrown out easily at third for the second out. Meares followed with his game-winning homer on a 3-0 count, a 404-foot drive to cen­ter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
~­ NOTICES THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends ILOST & FOUND I LOST: String of pearls and a cross between Hesburgh Library and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Call Dolores at 1-5729 or 234-7287. LOST: Brown leather portfolio with my name written in gold on the cover. Extremely important infor­mation inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291 WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 I NEED a girl to deliver newspapers on South Quad. Less than 1 hour per day. Bonus for first week plus free paper. Call Mike x1186  CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­MENT-Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext. C55846 FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS GRADUATING? WORK CATERING FOR GRADUATION! ' FREE ROOM/BOARD '$6.75 PER HOUR ' MAY 10-18 HOUSING DEADLINE 4/3/97 SIGN UP: M-FRI 10:00-5:00 CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE SOH LOWER LEVEL 631-5449 CRUISE LINES HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. necessary. (919)918-7767, ext. C154. (Member, Better Business Bureau CARE Program.) NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Ranches. Rafting Companies. Up to $12/hour. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154. Paid Record Label Internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt./rock music. 10­20hrs/wk, working w/record stores, lifestyle stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888­RED-ANTS.  1986 Acura Integra FOR RENT 5 sp. AJC. cass.. sunroof. Good shape.$1900 273-5930 Near Campus Homes for 97-98 PC Laptop: Award winning Winbook 232-2595 XP, 486DX4 75, 540Mb HD. 8Mb RAM, 1Mb VRAM 256 color 10.4" College Park Sublet Dual Scan, 14.4 bps Modem, 2 PCI/MCA slots. Win 95 & Office 95. for June and July '97. 3-4 People Less than 1 year old, wonderful 2BR, 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt. system for fun and serious work. Call 273-3054 Kajal631-5312 '89 Dodge Caravan. Rebuilt Engine, New 5 bedroom home, two bath, V.G Condition. $1700 two car garage. Central air, dish-o/b/o. washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker, '83 Honda Civic. Good Cond. $500 washer/dryer included. o/b/o. $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232-4527 Call Jihad 277-3254. or 683-5038. ..___F_o_R_s_A_L__E__.....I l,,,,;::.~~~ wm Two ten-speed bikes pay$$. Please call Christian x1 071 $35 each 288-7502 I need extra grad tickets! Will pay $. Call Ethan, 4-1659. FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 NEED NO GRAD. TIX. $$ min. in the PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card, PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 PERSONAL DO ¥0U NEED HELP SURVIVING FAX IT FAST!!! THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean Sending & Receiving down coat for sale-great cond .. at men's S-this is the warmest coat THE COPY SHOP you can find! will keep you warm on LaFortune Student Center those walks to & from D2, D6, C1­Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 great deal for $125! FAX IT FAST!!! call Wendy @ 243 9430  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FREE BECK TICKETS for anyone who can help load-in for BECK from 11 am til 6 pm on Tues. 4/8 at Stepan. call Ashleigh at SUB at 1-7757. EX ND STAFFER AND SPOUSE (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NON-DRINKERS. NO PETS. REF­ERENCES. WRITE 135 LAKE­VIEW, MULBERRY FL 338q0 OR PHONE (941 )425-4404 ANYTIME. OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more . Tom & Tammy, South Bend. 1-800·484-1607code:9883 AMZ2: ATTN:NDvUofM 5 Football tix-MUST SELL $$FACE VALUE$$ Call Anne/Alice 4x2488 APRIL FOOL'S DAY Luv, AD & JD Little J.­You are my sunshine. Welcome to NO. Maybe you'll actu­ally be a student here someday. Thanks for fitting me into your busy E~~~ . Hugs, kisses. Beatrice I will call. I have just been really busy  I love you, Adam. -your spunky 110 lbs. If you see Accent happening, call1-4540. Did you miss your personals, Mark? I still think you're cute. Love is not like a potato: You can't throw it out the window. Hi Allison! TQC -Do you want to buy a duck? A what? H-Hello. How's the family? Buy Volvo. They're boxy, but good. To my most incredible roomies who wanted to have a messge here, y'all are fabulous. Jules, thanks for get· ting off campus and Pooce, hope ya' feel better. Yay Rah Team for #46!! warm fuzzies. Hi John. You're bowling on my team on Friday!! see ya' at 3:45 Team John Black rides again Only the coolest people get to live at Turtle Creek for summer school. WANTED: KEGGERATOR If you have a Keggerator you would like to sell for the UJ3COming year beginning June 1, please call x1305 Ask for John, Dan, or Andy.  
~  

Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
Bucks snap road losing streak 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Glenn Robinson scored 10 of his 25 points in the third quar­tf'l" as the Milwaukee Bucks snapped a five-game road los­ing streak with a 102-91 win over the Vancouver Grizzlies. 
Hobinson, coming off a 30­point performance in Sunday's 99-97 loss at Denver, sparked a 15-1 run at the start of the third quarter as the Bucks won for only the third time in their last 13 games. Robinson, who fouled out with 44 seconds left, has led the Bucks in scoring 30 times this season. 
Sherman Douglas added 21 points and nine assists while e1~nter Andrew Lang, playing only his second game after missing more than a month of action, chipped in 12 points and nine rebounds as all five Milwaukee starters scored in double figures. 

Rookie Shareef Abdur-Rahim scored 21 of his 26 points in the first half for Vancouver, which lost its fifth straight. Lee Mayberry, starting in place of Greg Anthony, scored a sea­son-high 17 points against his former team. 
Vancouver lost its NBA-worst 63rd game of the season and 20th of its last 21. 
Minus center Bryant Reeves (tendonitis left knee), the Grizzlies were outmatched down. It didn't help Vancouver's cause when rook­ie power forward Aaron Williams, getting his first career start, picked up his fourth foul early in the third quarter. He eventually fouled out three minutes into the fourth. 
Also, Grizzlies rookie for­ward Roy Rogers had to be helped off the floor when he fell awkwardly late in the fourth quarter. 


SK & ;~~RUNS 
:b 

2MILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 12,11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER · 
T·SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTI~ANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED BY 
7<k~ • 
After leading by as many as eight points in the first half, the Grizzlies fell behind for good when Douglas hit both free throws to make it 54-52 with 1:28 left in the second quarter. 
The Bucks then put the game away at the start of the third quarter, going 5-for-7 to open a 70-56 bulge. The Grizzlies, meanwhile, missed their first seven shots, failing to score their first field goal until rook­ie Chris Robinson hit a 3-point­er with 6:03 remaining. 
Vancouver went on an 13-5 run to cut the Bucks' lead to 96-88 with 1:34 left, but failed to get any closer. 
The Grizzlies got to the free­throw line only 17 times, in­cluding three in the first half, compared to the Bucks' 32. 
Milwaukee, in the midst of a seven-game road trip (its longest in nine years), is· at Seattle on Thursday. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Cheerleading & Lepreehaun (;Jinie Sehedule Joyee Center~ Gym 4~ 5:30 pm April I~ 2~ 3 
Meet gt·eot people Tt·ovel Enjoy CoJJipus Spat·ts Up Close 


Attention: Leprechaun applicant interviews have been changed to April 4th at 5:30pm in the Business Office Conference Room (2nd fl. Joyce Center) 
Enter at Gate 3 of the joyce Center and come up the steps to Gym 4. Please see Jo Mintan if you did not receive your clearance forms. Any questions? Call Jo@ l-9126 
Van Exel leads Lakers past Sonics 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Back in January, Nick Van Exel promised he'd buy everyone 
on the SuperSonics a gift worth less than $100 if the Lakers 
didn't win the Pacific Division title. 
It was just trash-talk then, but the fourth-year guard is stick­
ing with his boast. He backed it up by scoring 30 points in the 
Lakers' 99-97 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics on Tuesday 
night. 

"If we don't win the division, I'll pay up," Van Exel said. "A lot 
of people wrote us off because of the injuries. Now but we're 
just trying to build up some momentum and get our team 
healthy." 

The victory didn't come without a cost as the injury-riddled 
Lakers lost two more big men to injuries. Elden Campbell suf­
fered a bruised a right buttock in the first half and left in the 
third quarter, and Travis Knight suffered a bruised right knee in 
the first quarter and never returned. 
Both are listed as questionable for Wednesday night's home 
game against Denver. 
The injuries only seemed to strengthen the Lakers resolve. 
"We knew coming in that if they won, that pretty much gave 
them the division;· Van Exel said. 
Sonics coach George Karl had a 20-minute closed door meet­ing with Gary Payton after the game. When Karl met with the . media, he was distraught. 
"Why our minds are de-energized at this time is a concern," 
Karl said. "This is the third or fourth game in a row that our 
beginnings have stunk." 
Hersey Hawkins had 19 points on 4-for-13 shooting and was 
dismayed with the way he and his teammates played. 
"This was the most important game of our season to date and 
look how we played," Hawkins said. "We're so-called pros and 
we didn't play that way." 
The Lakers won their fourth straight game and closed within a 
half-game of first place in the Pacific Division. The Lakers are 
trying to win their first division crown since the 1989-90 season. 
Van Exel's free throw with 3.1 seconds left gave the Lakers a 
99-95 lead that clinched the victory. 
Los Angeles swept the Soilics in Seattle and won the season 
series 3-1. The Lakers will have the tiebreaker advantage if the 
teams fmish the regular season with the same record. 
Van Exel made 10 of his career-high 28 shots and also had six 
assists, six rebounds and five steals. Eddie Jones added 20 and 
Jerome Kersey 14. 
Every time the Sonics threatened to overtake the Lakers, Van 
Exel responded. Gary Payton's two free throws pulled the Sanies 
to 90-89 with 3:40 left, but Van Exel hit a short jumper for a 92­
89 lead. The Sanies never got any closer. 
Los Angeles coach Del Harris was ejected for arguing a non­
call with referee Joey Crawford late in the fourth quarter. 
Shawn Kemp surpassed the 10,000 point mark in the first 
half. He came off the bench to lead the Sanies with 21 points 
and 10 rebounds. Payton and Hersey Hawkins had 19 points 
each. 

Van Exel's layup gave the Lakers a 65-50 advantage, but the 
Sonics rallied with a 10-0 run after Campbell left the game. 
Kemp had nine third-quarter points as the Sonics closed to 71­
68. 

Byron Scott's 3-point shot with 10 seconds left in the first half 
gave Los Angeles a 50-39 halftime lead. Van Exel had 12 points 
and Jones 11 for the Lakers. Kobe Bryant scored nine on 4-for-4 
shooting off the bench, and Van Exel had two baskets and an 
assist in a 9-3 run that closed the half. 
. 
... 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 1997 

> • 
,. 
Bookstore Basketball 

1. 
Corby's 

2. 
Muddy Waters 

3. 
Malicious Prosecution 

4. 
Swoosh Ill 

5. 
SFR2: We Still Can't Score 

6. 
Sexual Chocolate 

7. 
Hollywood Schemegma 

8. 
Hoopaholics 


9. 
Vanilla Kernels 10. BW3's Bolivian Yaks 


11. 
Downtown Assassins 

12. 
Dos Geses 

13. 
Awesome "Backer" Babies 

14. 
Yin and Yang 15. And 1 


16. 
Show Me the Money 

17. 
EGO 

18. 
Straight Bailers 

19. 
NBT 

20. 
Vanilla Thunder 

21. 
Sans Clemente 

22. 
Bring Out the Gimp Ill 

23. 
Hood River Bandits 

24. 
Steve Masiello Fan Club 

25. 
Jumanji 

26. 
Consuming Fire 

27. 
Primetime 

28. 
Sweeter Then Candy 

29. 
Don't Feed the Dragon 

30. 
Burn 'n' Shoot 

31. 
Peef Uprising 

32. 
All the President's Men 


The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
.NBA 

Jackson gives up final year 
ByJOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press Writer 
PIIIIADELPIIIA 
Temple center Marc Jackson will give up his linal year of col­lege eligibility to enter the NBA draft, sources told The Associated Press. 
.Jackson scheduled a 3 p.m. nnws conference at the school to make the announcement. 
The Atlantie 10 Player of the Year, .Jackson, a 6-foot-1 0, 270­pound junior, was the Owls' leading scorer and rebounder the past two seasons, averaging 16 points and nine rebounds last season. 
Ile will be only tlw second Temple player to leave school early. Junior Donald Hodge was drafted by Dallas in 1991. 

Jackson could declare himself eligible for the draft and go back to Temple for his senior year, whether he's drafted or not, as long as he doesn't sign with an agent. 
"We've sat down and talked about his options for some time," Temple coach John Chaney told the Philadelphia Daily News. "He has to make his judgment, basr,d on what's the worso that could happen to 
him." · 
Most draft ovaluators don't ser, Jackson as a first-round choice. Don Leventhal. in his most recent rankings, had .Jackson rated as the sixth pick in the second round, No. 36 overall. 
But Leventhal's ratings don't include several other under­classmen who are expected to announcp, they will entp,r the draft, players who figure to be selected ahead of .Jackson. 
While first-round picks get guaranteed contracts, with this year's final pick in the first round guaranteed a three-year deal at about $1.75 million, sec­ond-round selections don't. 
Still, .Jackson may have other, more lucrative offr-rs in Europe if hn doesn't make it in the NBA. Former Owl Derrick Battie, a solid, but unspectacular college player, made $150,000 last year playing oversnas. 

It)s not too late... 
WORI< CATERING FOR GRADUATION 

Housing Deadline: 4/4/97 
Sign up: Monday-Thursday, 9:30-5:30 Catering office Lower level South Dining Hall 
Call 63.,-5449 

Students are invited to submit a design for a. C.A.R.E. logo. 
A $JOOprize tobe awarded during,sexuo/ ossou/1 awareness weekinApdl 
Desi5t1s sl1~1b b~ subwtttt~b 
\ni Mmba\f, 1 7. 
-

For Further Information Contact 
Asst DeanAvaPreacher /010 'ShaughnessyHall 
Email: Ava.P.Collins.2@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 
Irish defeat Boilermakers but fall to Volunteers 
By BILL HART Spans Writer 
Notre Dame's 12th-ranked women's tennis team had mixed results this weekend, defeating a local rival before falling to a national one. 
The Irish began their week­end schedule by defeating Purdue 5-4 on Saturday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. The win ends a three-game skid which began on March 9 with a loss to Wake Forest. 
In singles play, four players each posted singles wins for Notre Dame. In the first match, Jennifer Hall defeated Purdue's Mary Beth Maggart. They played one set, 6-1, before Maggart retired from play. Senior Tiffany Gates lost a close third match in three 

The Irish then swept the last three matches to jump out to a 4-2 lead at the end of singles play. Kelly Zalinski, Darcie Sweet, and Kelley Olson all fin­ished off their opponents in straight sets. 
In doubles play, Zalinski and Velasco defeated Purdue's Jennifer Embry and Shannon Tahany at No. 2 doubles, 8-0, to finish off the Boilermakers. 
their matches. 
On Monday, the Irish faced 29th-ranked Tennessee at the UT Varsity Courts in Knoxville. Despite a tight struggle, the Lady Vols squeezed out the win, 6-3. 
The Irish were led by Velasco and Zalinski, who won the only matches of the day. Velasco defeated Margie Lepsi in straight sets, 6-2, 6-4, while where Tennessee's Whitney Dill managed to come from behind to defeat Gates in three sets, 4-6, 7-5, 6-1. They iced the match when Manisha Malhotra and Lepsi, the nation's eighth-ranked doubles team, registered an 8-5 victory over Gates and Hall. 
With the win, the Lady Vols improved their record to 12-7 and tied a season high with its 
sets, 2-6, 6-2, 6-3. The other two Irish duos lost Zalinski defeated Kristin fourth straight win, while the 
_collegiate 
~aZz Preview -
~festival '97 
Night 
Come to the Band Building on Wednesday, April 9 at 7:30pm and enjoy a night of great jazz music as the Notre Dame Jazz Bands perforn1 one last time before the 
Collegiate Jazz Festival on Aprilll & 12. Admission is FREE and refreshments will be provided. 
brought to you by SUB 

Bachochi, 6-3, 6-0. Later on. the two teamed up to claim the only Irish doubles victory of the day, 8-3. 
The turning point in the match came at No. 3 singles, Irish fell to 10-8 on the season. Notre Dame returns home on Saturday to face William and Mary at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The match begins at 3 p.m. 
ST 

BIRTHDAY MARK! 
tui6~i14'} 10'"­a-U t~e-l.,-e-6t! 
-
Keep the action and exdtement ofthe 1997 Women's Basketball Championships alive. 
For a limited time, you can reserve your very own commemorative issues. Each order will be shipped to your home in a convenient storage case. 
The case includes complete coverage of the Women's tournament all contained within five Cincinnati Enquirer editions and four Cincinnati Post editions. 
This exciting commemorative newspaper package can be yours for only $12.95.* 


, ottDER FOJIJ\f '' 
Send your order to: Tbe Enquirerllbe Post, AHention: Promotion Dept, 312 Elm Street, Cindnnati, Ohio 45202 
Name ________________ Phone-----­
' ' 
PLEASE PRINT 

Address ________________ 
Apt.#--­City ____________ State ___ ZiP---­ORDER YOURS AND ONE FOR AFRIEND! ___ Commemorative Packages@ $12.95' Total Enclosed--­PAYING BY 
o Check oMoney Order oVisa oMasterCard oDiscover oAmerican Express Account Number___________ Expiration Date ____ 
, 

'Price indudes packaging, shipping and handling. All orders will be shipped by UPS. ~ 
_, 

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
• COlLEGE BASKETBAll 
Expectations too high for this year's Wildcat team 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press W rirer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

It turned into a season of great expectations for a Kentucky team that wasn't necessarily great. And the Wildcats nearly pulled it off. 
Kentucky, returning two starters from its 1996 NCAA national title team, failed in its 
Baseball 
continued from page 28 
starting to come around." 
The win over Central Michigan capped an undefeated three-game homestand for the Irish and gave them the confi­dence they were looking for as they headed into what was sup­posed to be a busy weekend with doubleheaders on the road versus Connecticut and St. John's. 
The weekend certainly start­ed well, as senior hurler Darin Schmalz limited the Huskies to just two runs on four hits over nine innings to record his third complete game of the season. 
"That's just how Darin pitch­es," explained Wagner, who 
Baker 
continued from page 28 
championships by North Carolina last season, in the last three years the team boasts a national championship and two 
-
runners-up. 
Even down to the women's lacrosse players. Although they have not quite had a chance to prove themselves, they fought their way to earning the title and amenities of being a varsity sport, and now are looking for the chance to get their names in the record books. 
Overall, the Irish female ath­letes are making a statement. In fact, it is a bit unfair to refer to them as "female athletes." A football player isn't referred to as a male football player. 
They are athletes, regardless of gender, race, or whatever. 
Granted. male athletes are bigger, stronger, and often faster, and it will be a long time, if ever, before we will see women playing men on the col­lege basketball court or soccer field. But women everywhere, 
SUMMER HELP WANTED 
Job Coach 
Maryville Academy-City of Youth, Illinois' largest private Residential Child-Care facility has part-time posi­tions available. We are seeking ma­ture, energetic individuals who have or want experience working with trou­bled children. 
In this role, you will function as a mentor and counselor for the children throughout the summer in both work and recreational activities, supervising children in their job settings. Afternoon hours, 20-25 hours per week. Interns and college students welcome to apply. Interested candidates must be at least 21 years of age and possess a valid drivers license. 
For further information, call Monday­Friday, 9am-9pm: 
MARYVILLE ACADEMY CITY OF YOUTH 1150 N. River Rd. Des Plaines, IL 60016 Ph: 847/294-1978 
Equal Opportunity Employer m/f/d/V 
bid to repeat as champions, los­ing 84-79 in overtime to Arizona on Monday night. 

"A lot of people doubted us all year long, and we just kept com­ing up with ways to win and ways to win, and we kept advancing," said forward Scott Padgett. "And I think that shows the true heart of this team. I don't think we have anything to hang our heads about." 
has some experience catching the Irish ace. "You can always count on him to give you seven (strong) innings." 
After jumping out to a 4-0 lead in the top of the first, Schmalz and the Irish experi­enced their only shaky moments of the day. Connecticut used a one-out homer, along with a walk and two other hits, to cut Notre Dame's lead to two. 
This was as close as the Huskies would come for the remainder of the contest though, as Schmalz blazed through Connecticut's order for the next eight innings, allowing just one more hit. 
"That's his style," praised Wagner. "He likes to go right after the hitters. He is a consis­
especially here at Notre Dame, want to be taken seriously and are backing up that desire with performances that can't be denied their merit. 
As Notre Dame celebrates 25 years of co-education this year, there is no better testament to it than the women's athletics tradition that has stemmed from that decision. And the tradition will continue. 
After a season-opening over­time loss to Clemson, the Wildcats (35-5) reeled off 13 consecutive victories before los­ing to Mississippi. They lost twice to South Carolina in the next 23 games before the cham­pionship game. 
Tony Delk, Walter McCarty, Antoine Walker and Mark Pope were NBA draft picks from the championship squad. Derek 
tent pitcher." 
Offensively, Wagner added a pair of doubles to his recent hot streak, leftfielder Allen Greene belted another home run, and catcher Mike Amrhein extended his hitting streak to 19 games with a fifth inning double. 
The Blue and Gold played the Huskies to a 4-4 tie through three innings in the nightcap, before a storm washed away any chance of completing the contest. The squad faced more of the same after traveling to St. John's on Easter and two more potentially important conference wins went by the Anderson and Anthony Epps were the returning starters. 

Kentucky had standout play­ers in sophomores Ron Mercer and Wayne Turner. Mercer would develop into an All­American and Turner would emerge as a floor leader. 
Anderson, the team's leading scorer, was having a stellar sea­son when he went down with a knee injury on Jan. 18. 
wayside. None of the games will be rescheduled. 
"It's never good to get rained out," Wagner commented. "Every game in the Big East is important. We want to domi­nat~. the Big East from here on out. 
The team will be back in action this afternoon at Frank Eck Stadium as they take on re­gional opponent Eastern Illinois. The Irish shut out the 1996 Ohio Valley Conference champions 5-0 in the only meeting of the two teams last season. 
The contest will mark the 
With Anderson's absence and opposing teams concentrating on stopping Mercer, other play­ers stepped forward. In the end, Kentucky became a more bal­anced team. 
Jared Prickett and Nazr Mohammed played solidly around the basket while Allen Edwards, Scott Padgett and Cameron Mills gave a lift with their perimeter shooting. 
first of nine consecutive home games for the Notre Dame, who has played all but four games away from South Bend this year. 
"It's somewhat difficult to 
. play on the road," said Wagner. "At home, you're familiar with your surroundings, you have your home fans, and you're able to relax. It's just more comfortable" 
If things go well over the next week-and-a-half. the Irish can use their home field advantage to create a comfortable cushion between themselves and the ever-pesky .500 mark. 

IVOTRE DA]}fE GOLF COURSE 
Rockne ~emoria.l Student. daily 9 hole rat.e $5 A.dd'l 9 $3 Student. Club Rent.al $5 Call 63 1-6425 for Tee Times 
Unlimited Tanning 1week 
Voted: 

AREA'S BEST TANNING C£NT£R 
Until Graduation (May 18) 
50 

Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 
272-7653 
Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 
256-9656 
---~~--~------~-------~--~-~~----~~---~-~----~----~-­
-~ ~-~--~­
Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish win four, stand undefeated in conference 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
It was spring cleaning time this weekend in South Orange, N.J., as the Notre Dame soft­ball team swept two double­headers against Big East rival Seton Hall. 
The Irish opened their conference schedule with a bang, defeating the 7-11 Pirates by an average margin of more than seven runs per game over the four game series. Improving its record to 16-12 overall and 4-0 in the Big East, the team put on a offensive clinic, while the pitching staff continued to dominate the opposition. 
"(The games versus Seton Hall) were good for us to get more comfortable and gain confidence," said co-captain we stepped up and were able to consistently score runs." 
Murray sparked the offense against the Pirates in the first game of Saturday's double· header, contributing two hits. Third baseman Kara McMahon and outfielder Liz Perkins also added two hits apiece for the Irish. Pinch hitter Amy Laboe's single in the sixth inning plated two runs, allow­ing the squad to end the game after the sixth, by virtue of the mercy rule. Kelly Nichols picked up the 9-1 complete game victory, her fifth of the season, by hurling a one hitter. 
"It feels good to be the ones to end the game early, instead of having (the game) end early, from a losing perspective," said Murray. 
In the final game of the weekend, Seton Hall tried to team, but All-American Katie Marten went 4-4 with a triple and two RBis to pace Notre Dame. The highlight of the 6-2 Irish victory came in the fifth inning when co-captain Murray and freshman phenom Sarah Mathison slammed back-to-hack home runs. Mathison finished with three hits, as the Blue and Gold pounded out 12 hits as a team. Senior Joy Battersby picked up her third win of the season, al­lowing six hits and two runs. 

Murray believes that her strong offensive performance and that of fellow captain Marten is a result of the team's ability to evenly distribute the work load. 
"We (Murray and Marten) put a lot of pressure on our­selves," said Murray. "In the early part of the season, other people stepped up to lead the team. It's good to have one through nine hitters that can become impact players. That's one of the strengths of this team." 
Murray and Marten com­bined for five hits in the first game of the series on Thursday. A fifth inning explo-· sion led to six Irish runs, and a large enough cushion for Angela Bessolo, who picked up her team-leading eighth win of the season with the 7-1 victo­ry. 
Marten also dominated the second game on Thursday, go­ing 3-3 with two runs scored and one RBI. Perkins and Mathison each added three hits, including two doubles. Notre Dame demolished the Pirates' pitching with 14 hits, while ace Kelly Nichols com­bined with Battersby for the 12-1 victory, allowing one run on four hits. 
After .a sub-par start, the Irish have been scorching of late, compiling a 14-5 record in their last 19 games, all on the road. Murray attributes the team's recent success to improved team chemistry. as well as a tough spring tourna­ment schedule. 
"It was great to play all the tough teams in the spring be­cause these are the teams we'll face in the post-season," Murray said. "We know that they will improve, but so will we. It's a good bench mark for where we need to be." 
Up next for the Blue and Gold are the Boilermakers of Purdue, with.two games slated for tomorrow in West Lafayette. 
Meghan Murray. "Offensively slow down the red hot Irish 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Cl~mbing Wall Orientations a:re available at froni ~-7:1)5 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce 
CASTING & ANGLING 
the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Center, Bolfs and campus lakes. Equipment is 
Sunday at 1 p,m. and Wednesday at·6 p.m; Sign provided, but participants are encouraged to 
up outside the wall. bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and 
CLINIC 
Advanced Scuba-RecSports will be sponsor" is open to students, staff and faculty. Advance ing Advanced Scuba Classes. All participants registration the RecSports office js required. 
must be certified divers. For more info, call 1-Notre Dame Porn Squad-An· informational
Three Sessions 
6100. .. 
meeting will be held for the 1997-98 school year 
6:00-7: 15 PM 
Weekend Racquetball Tournanient--.This on April 3 at 9 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in tournament will be on April·l2 and 13. .There Lafortune. The meeting is not mandatory for
Open to Students & Staff 
will be men's and women's divisions with at­next year's try-outs. shirt being awarded to all participants. Bring Special Olympics-Volunteers are needed to
$8.00 Class Fee 
your own racquet, but racquetballs will be pro:.. help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are vided. Also, refreshments will be served. You at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and must register in advance in the RecSports office Wednesdays from 4:30 -5:30 p.m. For more
CLASS DATES 

by AprillO, and there is a $8 fee. info call Coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
APRIL 8 
Christmas in April Benefit Run-April 12 is ReeSports-They will be hiring two full time, the date for this SK or 10K run and 2 mile walk. one part time and numerous substitutes to life­
APRIL 15 
All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt, The guard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this sum­
APRIL 17 
cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day JI\er, Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to of the event. Calll-6100 for more information. HecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out Drop-in Volleyball-RecSports willbe offering application.
Classes Held in the joyce Center, 
Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays from 7-10 p.m. ·Bar Bell Club-A weightlifting club is comingRolfs & Campus Lakes 
in the Joyce Center. No established teams· or soon next year for novice or serious lifters. advanced sign-ups necessary. Learn ll1ore abdut the art of lifting and develop­
Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible 
Casting and Angling Clinic-Clinic includes fig a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at
Register in Advance at RecSports 
three sessions which meet on April 8, 15 & 17 4"4364 for sigh-up and more info. 
A P R I L
MARCH 
21 CAPITAL RECORDING ARTIST ------~-~-~-~--====4 
Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartmepts Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  

STIR 4 SIMPLE SIMON rrom chicago PUSH DOWN El TURN 
DARLAHOOD II P.S. DUMP YOUR BOYFRIEND 28 GENE LOVES DEAD LOCK 
CONCERNS

JEZEBEL VELCRO PYGMIES 
......~ (219) 272-7979 


\ 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR TASK 
FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking two members to join the Appalachia Task Force for the 1997-98 school vear. This is a two semester corrunihnent. The Task Force consists of seve;, undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maint';,ining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education; therefore, we are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and corrunitted people to join us. 
If you.have partici?ated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applving to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday. April 4, 1997 
•

For further information: 
M.J, Adams, 634-3880, Lauren Stein, 271-1699 or Rachel Tomas·Morgan, 282-2209 
• 

---------------~~-~~~-~------­
The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Junior Mollie Pierick attempts to block the shot of Kellie Jolly. 
ball handlers as Mollie Peirick and Jeannine Augustin had

GaiDe 
trouble with Tennessee's taller guards, who helped to cause 23

continued from page 28 
Notre Dame turnovers leading Center Katryna Gaither was to 21 UT points. 
"We've really been trying to

dominant in the paint as she had 14 points in the first half on emphasize our defense lately, 
her way to a team high 28. and we played with a lot of 
Besides Holdsclaw's 13 for 25 intensity," Tennessee coach Pat performance from the field she Summit said. "We made a lot of drew .the assignment of defend­big time plays on defense." 
ing Morgan. "I thought they had good "I viewed it as a challenge de­pressure on the ball, and that's fensively," Holdsclaw said. the key to good defense," "Going out playing as poorly McGraw said. "I thought that 
as we played is disappointing for 40 minutes they played very but a good team will do that to aggressively, and it was a great you," Morgan said. defensive effort on their part." 
Tennessee extended their first That defensive effort pre­
half lead on a jumper by vented Irish guards from being Holdsclaw with 6:14 left, but able to get the ball in the paint Rosanne Bohman scored four of 
to Gaither in the first 10 min­her six points on consecutive utes of the .second half. trips down the floor and a layup Whenever Gaither got the ball 
bv Gaither at the buzzer to in the post she usually scored or bring the score to 29-28 in fa­was fouled as she shot 10 for 15 vor of the Vols. 
from the field and 8 for 8 from Coming out of the locker the charity stripe. room, the Volunteer defense The Volunteers extended continued to hound the Irish their lead to seven points three 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Senior center Katryna Gaither struggles to wrestle a rebound away from Pashen Thompson. 
minutes into the half, but three answered, it was Abby Conklin their way to a 43-34 edge in pointers from Morgan and who was 3 of 4 from behind the that category. The 14-point Sheila McMillen brought the arc and had 11 points, or it was margin marked the largest lead Irish back into the contest as Kyra Elzy who added 14 points the Volunteers had throughout they refused to go quietly. of her own. the game as McGraw saw her 
The Irish got back to within "We felt really good at that team's remarkable season come three, but lloldsclaw took point but we just needed a de­to an end. But it didn't end advantage of an Irish turnover fensive stop and some re­without them proving thP.m­and dialled long range herself bounds," McGraw said. selves. McGraw commented gn to give her squad a bit of But the Irish could not stop where she thinks her team breathing room. the Volunteers down the stretch ranks. 
Morgan drained another as they shot 52 percent from "I think this team proved that three to bring the score to 45-the field in the second stanza. they arc on of the best of the 43 with just over 10 minutes They also beat the Irish off the country and this season is left in the contest. But if it boards as they took advantage something we are very, very, wasn't lloldsclaw who of 20 offensive rebounds on proud of." 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Vol 
continued from page 28 
loss since grade school. S_he wasn't about to let that change. 
Already a two-time All­American, Holdsclaw only added to her growing legend by pouring in 31 points. as she led her Lady Volunteers to an 80­66 victory over the Cinderella Irish. 
"She was a human highlight film," praided Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw. "J think she is the best player in the na­tion." 
McGraw may have agood ar­gument, especially when one considers the kind of success 1-Ioldsclaw's teams have had. 
The 6-foot-2 Holdsclaw brought four high school state championships to Knoxville and hasn't let up since. 
Tennessee's 68-59 victory over Old Dominion in the title game Sunday night marked the second time in two years that Holdsclaw, who tallied 24 in the contest, could call herself a "champion." In addition, she was named the tournament's most outstanding player. 
But it was her dominating ef­fort against the Irish that really cemented the award. 
Not only did Holdsclaw lead the game in scoring. she chipped in a marvelous effort at the defensive end, particularly in the second half. 
With 17:06 left, for example, Holdsclaw stripped Irish guard Mollie Peirick and raced to the other end and converted the lay-up. The four-point swing put the Lady Vols in front 37­30, marking their biggest lead to that point. She added three more steals in the second stan­za._ 
The scorer also turned stop­-per, as the extremely athletic Holdsclaw did her part in putting the damps on Irish star Beth Morgan. Though Morgan did manage 18, Iloldselaw pro­vided a taller and quicker de­fender and frustrated Morgan throughout the contest. 
"She's a gnmt player and. did a great job defensively," said Morgan. "She's got those long, lanky arms that seem to go for­ever." 
But Hold'sclaw's effort at the 
other end of the lloor could not 
be overlooked either. 
Fluid and able to create her 
own shot, the Astoria, N.Y., na­tive was able to consistently get an open look despite the rather intense attention of the Irish defense. 
Holdsclaw was 13-25 from the field and 5-6 from the line. She was especially instrumental early in the second half when UT took command of the game. 
Leading by three at the 17:55 mark, Iloldsclaw scored six points in the next minute and a half as the Vols pushed a one­point half-time lead to six. 

To combat the onslaught, McGraw soon shifted to a box­and-one on lloldsclaw, but even that was too little, too late. 
"She's outstanding," said McGraw. "She's talented. She works hard. She can put the hall on the floor. She can shoot it. She can do it all." 
Teammate Abby Conklin was a bit more succinct in assessing Iloldsclaw's impact on the Lady Vols with the tournament's best one-liner. 
Hesponding to a reporter's question of where would the team be without Iloldsclaw, Conklin shot back, "Spring break." 

Despite the tough defense of Mollie Pierick and Jeannine Augustin, Chamique Holdsclaw scored 31 points . 
• 

Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
• iRISH INSIGHT 
Luck of 
the Irish runs out 
ast Friday night, the dock finally struck mid­night for the Cinderella 
story of the Notrn Dame wom.en's basketball team. But before they were done they made history, and lots of it. 
After their ~-----~ 
80-66 loss to the eventual NCAA cham­p 1 o n TPnnessee Volunteers. lwad coach 
~I u f f c t 

!\I r (; r .a w Joe Cavato 
walkPd IlltO Assistallt Spons Editor tlw press conference room. Her opening rPmarks were not about the team's 23 turnovers or being lwatnn off the boards. They \\'Pre words of p.ride in her squad's rrmarkable season. 
"We just finished tlw most outstanding run in the history of Notre Dame basketball," McGraw said. "I couldn't be prouder of these two people be­side me (Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither). I think that tlwy're both All-Americans. TIH'Y had tremendous seasons, tremendous NCAA tourna­mrnts. I can't say enough good things about tlw way they have takcn our program from nowhere to the Final Four." 
1\lrGraw went on to comment on tlw character and heart of lwr team that overcame nu­nwrous adversities in many forms to finish the year 31-7. 
"Although we're disappointed with our performance. I could not be prouder of these two or my team. I don't think there was anv other team in the country "that has been through what we've been through, and to win 31 games is an outstand­ing accomplishment." 
Accomplishment is something that this team, particularly the seniors, know all about. Everyone knows about the school's top .two leading scorers and first two 2,000 point scor­ers, All-Americans Morgan and Gaither. Morgan and Gaither combined with their class­mates, Jeannine Augustin, 
Hosanne Bohman, and
-----,.,..-­

.. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Irish senior forward Rosanne Bohman fights off Volunteer defender Niya Butts in an attempt to score in the semifinal battle. 
Adrienne Jordan, to have the best four-year class record in Notre Dame history with a mark of 97-32, good for a win­ning percentage of .758. 
The two y'ears before the class of '97 stepped foot on campus McGraw's squads were trapped in mediocrity as they had marks of 14-17 in 1991-92 and 15-12 in 1992-93. Morgan saw the most action of her classmates as she became only Big East conference and won the third Irish freshman to lead its first NCAA tournament the team in scoring while the game over Purdue. team enjoyed a 22-7 record This year the Irish began and earned its second NCAA with their best start ever, tournament bid. knocking off two top 10 teams 

The following year the Irish in the WNIT, rising up to a pro­had a 21-10 mark while win­gram best seventh ranking in ning two of their three games the polls. in the women's NIT. In its The Irish were rolling but junior campaign McGraw's then more injuries hit, and it squad finished second in the looked as if the season full of so 
much promise might be in jeop­ardy. However the veteran squad refused to make excuses as the Irish bounced back fr.om the injuries and several losses to unranked foes to regain momentum. They continued to make marks in the "W" column shattering the previous record for wins in a season of 23. 
Their NCAA tournament run, eliminating the No. 3, 2, and 5 seeds, surprised everybody but themselves. It finally brought their accomplishments and tal­
ent into the spotlight that too many times has gone unnoticed by the national media as well as the students -who prob­ably didn't realize how good this team really was. 
"It was a great experience," Morgan said. "The Final Four is a great accomplishment of our te<;1m and our program. Going out and playing as poorly as we did is disappointing but a lot of players go through a pro­gram and don't get a chance that we did. I think looking back we're very proud of that." 
As they should be, and now everyone knows how special a team this was as they were one of the Final Four. Despite their ... loss to the now five-time champs Tennessee, they will be remembered how McGraw will remember them and exactly how they should be -as win­ners. 
Notre Dame 
66 

Tennessee 
80 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior guard Beth Morgan looks to pass out of the Tennessee double team in Friday's game. The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
page 24 The Obs.erver • SPORTS 
.. 

Wednesday April 2, 1997 
Katryna Gaither (left) found her­self caught in a physical battle as the Vols were a force on the boards as well as on the perimeter as Sheila McMillen (below) and the other guards were hounded by an intense defense. 

End of the dream 


Notre Dame's first ever trip to the Final Four was cut a bit short as the defending champs knocked the Irish out of the tournament and ended their remark­



Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
• MEN's lAcRossE 
Irish defeat ranked opponent in overtime thriller 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team didn't invent lacrosse (they left that to the Native Americans); they just perfected it. Twelfth-ranked llobart was the latest victim of the men's rampage, falling 10-9 to the Irish in overtime on Saturday. afternoon on a messy Moose Krause Stadium field. 
"This was a great win for us," stated head coach Kevin Corrigan. "They were a team that was playing very well, and we beat them." 
"Hobart was a strong team," sophomore attackman Chris Dusseau agreed. "They had played two games before this ­one well and one not so well. But they played very well on Saturday." 
The game was a see-saw bat­tle in which thr. lead changed hands seven times. Notre Dame began the scoring just 1 :40 into the contest when junior mid­fielder Burke Hayes beat Hobart goaltender Mike Cullen for a 1-0 lead. Hobart notched the next two tallies, but the Irish came marching back to take a 3-1 lead on back-to-hack unassisted goals by senior attackman Will DeHiso. Hobart, however, closed out the half with four decisive goals to nab a 5-3 lead. 

"I wouldn't use the word 'con­cerned' to describe us at half­time," recalled Corrigan. "They were playing very well. The 'good' Hobart team definitely showed up. Their goalie espe­cially was playing well." 
Hobart goalie Mike Cullen fin­ished with 16 saves for the Statesmen, a feat which DeRiso described as "phenomenal." "To get that many saves is in­credible," he quipped. "He really had a tremendous day." 
"We knew [at the hall1 that they were playing well," ex­plained Dusseau, "but we were playing very well, too. We were getting lots of good opportuni­ties; we were doing everything except scoring. But we knew come." 
And come the goals did, as the Domers scored four unanswered goals of their own. Sophomore midfielder Brad Owen initiated the run with 13:21 left in the third quarter. Goals from Dusseau, Stedman Oakey, and Ned Webster quickly followed ­all came within 1:26 of each other, giving the Irish a 7-6 lead with 8:30 remaining in the third quarter. The lead changed hands several more times, but Webster gave Notre Dame a 9-8 advantage with four minutes left in the contest, but Hobart notched the game with 2:44 remaining and forced an extra stanza. 
Notre Dame fortuitously head­
"At that point we were just thinking, 'Let's end it here,"' observed DeRiso. "We were a man-up, which is an ideal situa­tion in overtime, and we just wanted to give them no oppor­tunities and to get a goal our­selves." 
Notre Dame did not have to wait long. DeRiso tossed a no­look pass to Dusseau who quick­ly whipped a shot that deflected off Cullen and into the net for a 10-9 Irish victory. 
"This was important for us," stated Dusseau. 
"It was nice, but I don't look at games too carefully during the regular season," stated Corrigan. "Win or lose· we still have Hofstra [Friday's oppo­
that the goals would eventually ed into the overtime a man up. nent] on Friday." 
EVER GET THE FEELING 
YOU'RE BEING WATCHED? 
Expect all eyes on you in our hot one-of­a-kind prom dresses. Featuring: Black Tie by Oleg Cassini and NITELINE 

HE-RO Group Evening Wear Outlet 

J 
LOOK LIKE A MILLION PAY NEXT TO NOTHING 
Lighthouse Place 
Lighthouse Pl. 
219-879-4237 

Stepan Center-­University of Notre Dame Wednesday, April 2nd 6:30 PM 
The University of Notre Dame Security/Police 
The Multicultural. Executive Council 
is looking for new members.
Department will be auctioning abandoned 
bicycles, calculators, watches, stereo and jew­elry items, an older stair stepper exercise machine, and 2 University vehicles. Doors open at 6:30 PM, bidding to start at 7:00 PM. Call 631­

Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune 
8340 with questions. Public invited-cash only. 
Notre Dame community members may write 
and are due back to this office by 
checks. All items sold IIas is.II All sales final. 
April 4, 1997. 

page 26 The Observer· CARTOON QUEST Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
W;
o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for-The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eye set on being the next. And the decision is 
p to you. 

That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
This week we continue our contest to find the next cartoonist. The ballots for voting will appear 
below this week. Clip, snip or rip them out during lunch and put them in the ballot boxes located next to .... the doors as you leave the dining hall. Ballots can also be dropped offat The Observer, 314 LaFortune . 


Men About qampus is essentially a comic strip about that
So YOV CA/11 REAcH 1>1£: AT 1ilc I(£ST zvc.o... I CAN'T OBSf!R.I/ffl. 0"-CALL 63'r'·'IH5"... llE LIEVE. .1'1'"1 -a guy's perspective about· Notre Dame. It covers every~ 
thing, including NO ltfiating,• the dining hall, SYRs, football
~~-......::::-.VM~tE ~~ 
otJ~ games, the leprechaun and the weather. Of course, the strip 
H(j.}g will contain women __.;. as for the moment the guys are just moving into their new place? And like the dorms, all campus comics have to contend with parietals, too. 
The comic strip also will address some of the politics of NO, such as the stance on gay and lesbian students, the ever-increasing number of sports edifices on campus, along with the basic humor which a group of four unique men even­tually come up with. 
Dan Sullivan 
JOHN HLAVATY 


r--------------------~--------------------------------------------, 

Take -this pie.t.eJ for el' a..,k.. 1"\e-t-ol \oop.s1 s)'Mboli'Z.i~ s't..den1S
1 

fori"'\ 31'\ i....divi.sible n~-the t-ID 'o'""'""'mlty· 11\e Sol;"!&')' -rr~ r/\ the 1"1\i.:Ldle re~ $1:-y...en!, like o"" ,ollec.tive ~cal$ -r C~o-bi1i00l5, 
\1..' ~to\P\~·
•on 

77'7'7"'( 7J77777I77JWT'7 IT 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
1/E.LL 0 LAb/cS. :r;., 5JN4Lf ~/VI! IT A 
KEVIN TROVINI 

I hove L't> t~l 'fDc.J1 A. 'J.­J:•ve never loo~ o1 Sie~.fneJ•.s bil~ rca 
~ '...13'j bet:Dre. 
7777~"'/""~ 
DAN SULLIVAN 

L-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 



Wednesday, April 2, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 27 


MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

:5" ~ 
~ 
·;:]! 


53 British -­55"The-­
Heart" 59 Mount St. -­62--Canal 63--finish &5 Get--the 
ground floor 66 "Rock of--" 67--nous 68 --spumante 69 "... ~athers no 
70 --the course (perseveres) 71 "Have a--" 
DOWN 
1 "--and Circumstance" 2Et­3--Circus 4 Put--to 5--notice 
6"-­
Rosenkavalier" 7Cyclist-­
LeMond a--and a leg 9Takethe-­
(fly at night) 10-­
competition 11 Arthur-­12 Legai-­13Quod-­
demonstran­dum 21 --Fleming 
23 "Not--" ("Think nothing of it") 
SCOTT ADAMS 


25---Unis 47 Go down in--57 "True--" 27--Romeo 49 Grand -Opry 58-Kett of the 2&Bete--52 Manufacturing comics 3o--Merman 60--bene 
54--Howe
32 --panty hose &11n a-­55--player (agitated)
33 Billy Joel's "Don't-­56 "Cogito --&4 The old college Why" sum" 35 "--in Seattle" 37 "Ready or not, . h' 
__ comet" Answers to any three clues 1n t ts puzz1e · are available by touch-tone phone: 
39 In-(actually) 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 41 The word --Annual subscriptions are available for the 42 Rock's Siouxsie best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
and the -50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Courage will help you find success 1n business and happiness in love. Refuse to be bullied or nagged into doing something that does not feel right. Although teamwork is the key to swifter career advancement, there will be times when you must work alone. Next fall, focus on building a wider base of support. New alliances could mean higher profits! Give young adults an opportunity to find their own niche. Too much "guidance" can undermine self­reliance. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DATE: model Paulina Porizkova, golfer Seve Ballesteros. Playboy founder Hugh Hefner, actress Keshia Knight Pulliam. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Funds held in common could be affected by a third pany 's actions. A younger person offers a friendly warning. Do not panic! You have the inside track. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An inspiring sermon or talk could rekindle your faith. An interest in education grows stronger. Consider giving or taking a class in the ans. Romance heats up when you reveal more of your plans. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Romance takes a tum for the better. Although you do not have to blend in with the crowd, you should not try to offepd people either. Avoid behaving erratically; loved ones will not understand. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do not let a stubborn streak upset a family member's plans. Do every­thing possible to promote domestic harmony. Paying bills on time pro­tects your credit rating. Be diligent. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your nesting instinct comes to the fore. Go ahead and host a wonderful reunion or birthday party. Sharing 
-
• 
JEANE DIXON 

the cooking and clean-up chores will give you more time to enjoy your guests. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Those who give more than they demand will eventually gain their heart's desire. Focus on removing an obstacle to-y~ur love life by peaceful means. Finesse, not force, is required. Speak from the hean. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A panner may be going through a peri­od of transition. Encourage growth and self-knowledge. Although invi­tations come your way, you may be feeling shy. . 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Welcome a reconciliation with a brother or sister. Vacation travel is possible. A stable home is of vital importance. Wear your heart on your sleeve; romantic partner will respond favorably. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Contention is likely between partners as well as competitors. Emphasize good public relations. An ounce of prevention is wonh a pound of cure. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An excellent day for your per­sonal and professional ambitions. You may be asked your opinion on a real estate venture. Settle a domes­tic conflict peacefully, compromis­ing when necessary. Others admire your spunky attitude towards life. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A relationship will bring you more than you bargained for. Luckily, you are in the mood for a challenge. Adventure beckons! Interesting peo­ple seek your company. Shake up your life in any way possible. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Try to forget past disappointments. An element of good luck seems to follow you today. A relationship improves when you feel self-confident again. Good-hearted actions produce a nice pay-off. Friends applaud. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1--Doc Duvalier 5 J. --Hoover 10--au lait 14-­Corporation (ammunition maker) 15Jules-­16 ---friendly 17 "Of--and Men" 18 "--the news today ... " (Beatles lyric) 19"Take-­Train" 20--basket 22 "The --Show on Earth" 24"1t's--!" ("See you then!") 
26 Camus's "The --of Sisyphus" 
27--soon 29Nickat-­31--living 34TV's "--& 
Clark" 36 Hippocratic 
380nthe-­40 Title for this puzzle 43 "Van..Gogh in 
44"Que--..." 45--River, N.J. 46 --the storm 48Jay-­50 Jacqueline 
Kennedy,-­Bouvier 51 "--Fiction" 
DILBERT 
IN 01\DER 10 REDUCE E.~PENSE5 1 ONLY THE EMPLOYEES IN E.5SENTl~l J"OBS MAY HAVE. CJU5INESS CAP-.DS. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
F.i-:-+~:+.=+::-l 
SPORTS 
page 28 Wednesday, April 2, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
March Sadness 
-
-The Observer/Rob Finch 
Junior Kari Hutchinson looks on in despair as the dream of a national chamionship for the Irish fades in a 80-66 loss to the Volunteers. 

Holdsclaw dominates 
By TIM SHERMAN Senior Spans Writer 
Entering Friday's NCAA semifinal matchup against Notre Dame, Tennessee fo_r­ward Chamique Holdsclaw had not ended a season with a 
see VOL/ a e 22 
• BASEBALL 
-
"' 

Experience leads Tennessee to victory 
ByJOECAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
In the battle of old versus new, it was proved that experi­ence does pay off. 
The Tennessee Volunteers, winners of five NCAA champi­onships in 11 years and who have made 10 trips to the Final Four, simply had too many answers for Notre Dame. The Irish, who have won five NCAA 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior catcher Mike Amrhein is currently in the midst of a 19 game hitting streak. 
.. 
Irish shut down Huskies 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
There is good news and bad news. 
The bad news is that three of Notre Dame's four scheduled Big East con­tests were canceled due to rain. The Irish had been looking forward to those games, both as a measuring stick for their progress thus far, and as a means to improve their 0-3 conference record. 
The good news is that the squad took advantage of the one game that they were able to complete, shutting down the Huskies of Connecticut, 7-2. Due to a 14-9 victory over Central Michigan last Thursday, Saturday's win over Connecticut gave the Irish a four-game winning streak, which equals their longest of the season. 
On Thursday, centerfielder Randall Brooks became the second player in eight days to tie the Irish record for most hits in one game. Brooks' five hits keyed yet another offensive explosion for Notre Dame, as the team broke the 10-run barrier for the third consecutive time and pounded out 19 hits against the Chippewas. 
The other major highlight from the contest came in two parts from the bat of sophomore Jeff Wagner. Wagner, who won Big East Bookie of the Year honors last season and started strong in 1997, fell into a bit of a slump in recent weeks. However, tho sophomore slug­ger has begun to pull it together. 
Wagner went yard for his second and third home runs of the year and was four for five with six HBis on the day. 
"I started off the season well," noted the designated hitter, "but I developed some bad habits." Wagner attributed his turnaround to seeing the ball from the time it leaves the pitcher's hand. 
"When I was in the slump," said Wagner, "I wasn't seeing the ball. I've been working hard on it though and it's 
see BASEBALL I page 20 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Women's sports on the rise 
T
here's a trend forming in the sports world. If you don't kno\\' about it, ask any of the Notre Dame women's basketball players. Or for that matter, aqy of the
f em a I o..________ 
a t h l e t e s Betsy Baker at Notre Associate Sports Editor Dame. 
From a universal level to right here in South Bend, Ind., women's athletics is gaining momentum. 
Starting with the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta and looking forward to this year's inaugural Women's National Basketball Association. the female athlete has begun to receive unprecedented recog­nition. 
Don't think for a second that it is undeserved cithrr. 
Following the '96 games in Atlanta in which the United States wori the medal count with 101 medals (Germanv was second with 65). the United States Olympi!~ Committee elected the U.S. women's basketball team as the Team ol' the Year. The women hoopstcrs barely edged out the "Magnificent Seven" women'·s gymnastic team (who can forget Kerri Strug's dramatic finish to win the team gold?) by one votP. 
It doesn't (Jnd there. 
In third place was the gold medalist women's softball team, and in fourth, the gold medalist women's soccer team. Hemember that the category wasn't WOMEN'S Team of the Year, just Team of the Year. 
The same is true here at Notre Dame. 
While the male athletes are working hard to maintain the outstanding tradition created long ago, the women arc cre­ating their own. 
Although Muffet McGraw's squad lost to national champi­on Tennessee in the semi­finals, the team completed a historical season for the pro­gram and Irish basketball in general. 
A week and a half ago, the Irish fencing team placed sec­ond at the NCAA national championships, and leading the way for it was freshman Magda Krol, national champi­on in the women's epee divi­sion. Right behind her was sophomore All-American Sara Walsh, who placed second in women's foil championship for the second consecutive year. 
Add the women's soccer team to that equation. Although the Irish were edged out of back-to-hack national 
see BAKER I page 20 
tournament games and were making their first trip past the second round, saw their dream season finally come to an end. 
Chamique Holdsclaw, who poured in 31 on the evening, and a seasoned Tennessee squad that has the experience of playing 18 top 25 teams on the year, were simply too much for the Irish who saw their sea­son end with a 31-7 record. 
In the first half, both ofl'enses struggled as the Irish shot 35 percent from the field com­pared to the Vols who shot 32 percent and the 4-4 score with 14 minutes left iu the stanza resembled a grade school score rather than a NCAA semifinal. 

A relentless Volunteer defense held Notre Dame sharpshooter Beth Morgan to 1 for 9 from the field for just three points. 
see GAME I a e 22 
vs. Eastern Illinois vs. William & Mary Today at 5 p.m. 
a;
April 5, 3 p.m. 

•• Men's lacrosse defeats Hobart 
• 
at Purdue Men vs. Hofstra

SPORTS o/ 
VJI*· 
~--Tomorrow at 2 p.m. 

April 5, 3 p.m. see page 25 
fd"" ....~ 
at ­
* vs. Purdue Women vs. Ohio State 
• Women's tennis has mixed results 
' ~ 
April 6, 12 p.m.
April 5, 1 p.m. 
fd 
see page 19

GLANCE wf 
~ 




