-----..-~-~--~-----~ -----------­

Thursday, November 20, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 58 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
Session allows campus to examine diversity 

• fACULTY SENATE 
Co0101ittee looks at student rights 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
To help senators address student rights issues, director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup explained the student disciplinary process to the Student Affairs Committee at last night's Faculty Senate meeting. 
The senate built upon the agenda .------..., 
of student-related issues which it  
targeted earlier in the year by also  
discussing graduate students' bene­ 
fits  and  chairman  Michael  
Detlefsen's recent report to the  
Board of Trustees' Faculty and  
Academic Affairs Committee.  
Ava Preacher. chairwoman of the  ,__  _...__  ___,  
Student Affairs Committee, asked  Shoup  
Shoup to speak to  a small group of  

senators as part of her committee's investigation of perceived inequality in discipline at Notre Dame. 
"I think there's a lot of misinformation about disci­pline at Notre Dame," Shoup began. "First off, stu­dents assume they're going to Student Affairs. That's not true: They go to the Office of Residence Life for discipline." 
Shoup commented that vice president for Student i\ffairs Patricia O'Hara is often linked to the discipli­nary process because she delivers Freshman Orientation lectures on behavior expectations _and also because her department shares office space with Shoup's. 
"Patty is very, very careful not to get involved," Shoup explained. O'Hara wants to remain impartial because she could later become involved in subse­quent appeals processes, Shoup said. 
The discipline process begins when Shoup's office receives reports -whether from Campus Security or hall rectors -of behavior conflicting with the University's code of conduct. Residence Life then decides if the activity warrants a disciplinary confer­ence or an administrative hearing, Shoup told sena­tors. 
Conferences arc "one-on-one" for minor violations such as drinking beer in the stadium or having one's car towed. Shoup explained. Senators learned that the most-serious violations warrant administrative hearings. One-hundred thirty-eight of last year's 681 cases were held in hearing form, Shoup reported. 
Senators questioned several of the details Shoup explained. Many took exception to Residence Life's policy of not explicitly informing students of their right to appeal disciplinary decisions. The lack of direct interaction between accusers and-the accused was also questioned. 
The Faculty Senate will use the explanations Shoup presented to formulate its future position on student rights. 
"It was very informative. Most of us didn't know how that process works," Preacher noted. 
• The issue of health benefits took center stage 
see FACULTY/ page 4 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Concerned and frustrated students met with the University Committee of Cultural Diversity last night in a listening session to discuss issues including multicultural educa­tion, student involvement, and the "Men About Campus" strip which ran in The Observer on Oct. 31. 
"Our objective tonight is to listen," associate provost Carol Mooney explained. "We want to listen and learn about the issues affecting the Notre Dame community." 
Much of the night's debate concerned cul­tural diversity education on campus, specifi­cally whether diversity education would be more effective in the dorm or as a course in the First Year of Studies program. 
Students like Cheryl Igiri, a junior from Walsh Hall, and Patrick Parks, a freshman from Dillon Hall, said that a classroom envi­ronment would make it easier for students to be educated on issues of diversity and cultur­al pluralism. _ 
"While I'm not saying that everything would be retained, a class would bring a borrowed view of their (minority students) experience," Parks said. 
Student senator Dan Nisbet, the chairman of the Student Senate's committee on cultural diversity, proposed that mandatory dormitory seminars may be a more effective way of edu­cating students about multiculturalism. Mandatory dorm meetings, Nisbet said, will encourage learning. 
John Fernandez, the president of La Alianza, spoke about the need for a Latino studies program in the curriculum and reten­tion of minority professors. 
see CULTURAL/ page _4 

~one minute after midnight there will be a premeditated and cold-blooded killing of a human being. , 
David Link, dean ofthe Notre Dame Law School 



ND students protest execution 
The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 
L
ast night, members of the ND/SMC community gathered to protest the execution of death row inmate Gary Burris, who was executed early this morning. Above, John Blakeley of the Center for Civil and Human Rights speaks at a prayer vigil; below, protesters walk to the Grotto in a candlelight proces­sion. 
By lAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
Early this morning, the state of Indiana executed Gary Burris at Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. 
At 12:01 a.m. CST, Burris was put to death by lethal injection for the murder of Kenneth Chambers on Jan. 29, 1980. 
Burris was found guilty in 1980 of murdering Chambers, an Indianapolis taxi driver. A 31-year-old father of two, Chambers pleaded for his life when Burris allegedly robbed him of $40, forced him to strip and then shot him execution­style. Chambers' frozen body was found in an alley. 
On Tuesday, Indiana Governor Frank O'Bannon turned down Burris' request to have his sentence commut­ed to life in prison. His last­minute appeals to the Indiana Supreme Court and United States Supreme Court did not result in a stay of execution. 
Burris' execution was the 63rd carried out this year nationwide. 
Last night at 11:30 p.m., 
about 50 members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community gathered at the Law School lounge to hold a prayer vigil for Burris. Several people made the 45-minute trip to the prison for an on­site protest of Burris' execu­tion. 
The vigil at the Law School opened with the hymn "Be Not Afraid." John Blakeley of the Center for Civil and Human Rights briefly told Burris' story. 
''I'm not going to try to justi­fy the crime that he commit­ted," Blakeley said. "But I can tell you that Gary Burris is a human being, and made in the image and likeness of our Lord. 
"Crime was an everyday occurrence, just a part of growing up" for Burris. according to Blakeley. 
David Link, dean of the Law School, spoke briefly on the legality of the execution. 
"One minute after midnight there will be a premeditated and cold-blooded killing of a human being," said Link, 
see BURRIS I page 7 


I 
i 
-_ ___j 

_______ _____,__.,. 
page 2 

This is file in Grade 9 
Saturday ended in 
Heather MacKenzie
slaughter. 
Assistant News Editor 
The afternoon start­
ed out innocently 
enough: after putting on 14 layers of socks, 
sweaters and various other warmth-induc­
ing paraphernalia. my friends and I set out 
to frolic in the mounds of white cold flank­
ing the sides of McGlinn. You see, I don't 
see much snow in Atlanta, where school is 
canceled if the temperature threatens to dip 
below 40 degrees. So this day I had a goal: I 
wanted to go outside and make a fat, 
bunchy snowman. 
I admit that our snow-fest could be 
regarded as a federal offense: we actually 
had the audacity to be playing outside 
WHILE THERE WAS A NOTRE DAME FOOT­
BALL GAME ON. Luckily for us, the fresh­
man police quickly arrived. 
Just as we were completing the first seg­
ment of our snowman's body, the windows 
of the dorm next door flew open and we 
were alternately pelted with expletives and 
snowballs. We certainly deserved this kind 
of treatment: as our kind neighbors pointed 
out, what we were building was obviously 
more of a "snow turd" than a snowman. 
We dared to continue even as the harass­
ment endured, capturing the completed 
masterpiece on film after our friends 
described in colorful detail how they would 
destroy our fun the minute we left the 
scene. We were not surprised to return to a 
grisly display: almost immediately after we 
left the sight, our snowman was annihilat­
ed. Probably during a commercial break. 
This incident made me realize that Notre 
Dame must give out degrees to a lot of 
teenagers. This is not because the 
University is suddenly admitting a plethora 
of 12-year-old geniuses, mind you, but 
because many of us operate with the men­
tality that being a student in college is a 
good excuse to do stupid things, all under 
the grand premise of "having fun." We are 
young, and this is our last chance to sleep 
in, guzzle beer, and have burping contests 
and euchre tournaments with our closest 
and dearest friends. 
But I believe that "having fun" and acting 
immaturely are two entirely different ideas. 
Going to a party and having a few beers is 
fun; drinking until you pass out and remem­
bering the next day that you drove home 
with someone who was not completely 
sober (only after your friends fill you in) is 
acting immaturely. Clowning around with 
your friends in your dorm r_oom is fun; 
destroying every piece of furniture in that 
same room before smashing beer bottles in 
the hallway is something entirely different. 
The inark of maturity is being able to dis­
tinguish between having a good time and 
living with a ninth-grade outlook on life. 
I turn 20 years old today; I can no longer 
hide behind the excuse of teenage awk­
wardness and insecurity as reasons for my 
actions. As scary as it is for me to think of 
myself as a responsible adult, I do not want 
to graduate from this place with the atti­
tude of a puerile teenager. Part of being 
here is learning that there are conse­
quences that come after every action, and 
sometimes having fun is not as important as 
remembering who you are, and who you'd 
like to be. 
Silly and childish as it may be, I had a 
great time building that snowman. I hope 
that destroying it was half as fun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Accent  
The Heathers  Joe Weiler  
Laura Petelle  Graphics  
Sports  Jon King  
Brian Kessler  Production  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Dan McDonough  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  "Photo" Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepc during exam and vaca[ion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 20, 1997 
Baltimore 54 33 Denver 53 29 New York 46 32
c~~uuu (f ~ u 
...:·,,, ,,,', ..... _:. ·=--::=·-::=· ~-=--=­
Boston 44 27 Los Angeles 71 48 Philadelphia 54 
32
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow lee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 45 34 Miami 81 66 Phoenix 82 
50
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Columbus 54 34 Minneapolis 27 24 St. Louis 55 
44 

~.}'· ·\: ,........... /,....... .... ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS AAIN T-STOAMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vis Associ1JI8d Press 
Atlanta 63 35 Dallas 69 45 New Orleans 71 50 
..........------~...,-----­
Thursday, November 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
A show of appreciation... 
The Observer/ Liz Lang University." 
Pro Shop Hours 


i 
.: 
1 
1 
1 
1 


FEATURING 





NDAY 
THE CRYPT 7PM 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE ClASS OF '98 

page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 20, 1997 
Cultural 
continued from page 1 
''I'm discouraged that a Latino studies program in this University existed in 1982 and was then dis­carded. I feel now that there is no interest in a Latino studies pro­gram," Fernandez said. "There are some great professors here, but where is the retention? I don't know what's happening to the Golden Dome." 
Students also expressed their feelings about the offending "Men About Campus" comic strip in which a Mexican was depicted as an "alien without a green card." Most agreed that the strip in itself was just part of a larger problem on campus that should be addressed by continuing educa­tion. 
"Behind a cartoon that serves as a flashpoint are attitudes that need to be changed," director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner told the group. 
The group also declared their concern and disappointment about the inaccessibility and response of administrators dur-

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
when Detlefsen updated the
• 
senate on the Office of the Provost's report on graduate student health care during his chair's report. To attract elite graduate students, the University must have a com­petitive benefit package, the senate president explained. 
"The report's main concern was not an ethical one [of providing sound health cover­agel but was a pragmatic one dealing with Notre Dame's ability to attract good gradu­ate students," Detlefsen said. 
The report made several findings. For Notre Dame's single graduate students, which comprise 73 percent of all graduate students, costs are "comparatively low," but families mandated to pur­chase coverage face a differ­ent scenario. 
"It's difficult to survive on a student stipend. Eighty per­cent supplement their incomes with spousal employ­ment," Detlefsen reported. 
Among the report's recom­mendations was a call to reduce costs of student­spouse policies and raise Notre Dame's coverage from its current $60,000 level clos­
ing the first few days after the 
strip was published. 
"It seems that it's not diversity 
that is a priority here on campus. 
It's not an issue," Fernandez told 
the council. 
The meeting also touched on 
the issue of student involvement 
in the University Committee of 
Cultural Diversity. · The number of students 
allowed on the committee was 
decreased from three to one in 
1996 to allow for more faculty 
members. There are now seven 
faculty involved. 
Warner admitted that the 
decrease in student committee 
members may have been a mis­
take. He promised that the com­
mittee would revisit the issue. 
Mooney and Warner 
announced that last night's ses­
sion would be the first in a series 
of listening sessions that the com­
mittee would attend. Three more 
sessions are being planned for 
next semester. 
The first session will.be an 
open forum for all students to 
address their concerns about 
multicultural issues with 
University president Father 
Edward Malloy and executive 
er to the peer mstitutwns' mean $240,000. Detlefsen criticized the report's explicit reluctance to elevate Notre Dame's offerings above the average of its peers. 
"Is the goal of this University to have an average graduate student program?" he questioned. 
• Detlefsen also told the senate he used his time with the University's trustees to identify a handful of encour­aging trends and items of con­cern. Specifically, Detlefsen saluted the hiring of a new library director and other efforts to improve the library. He also praised plans to increase faculty office space, labeling the current shortage "critical." 
"The classroom is a better place for class and the office is a better place for meeting students and for research than either new sidewalks or stadiums," Detlefsen said. He hopes the University will focus more of its construction energies on academic facili­ties.' 
Detlefsen listed shortcom­ings in graduate student health insurance and faculty equity concerns in parking, recognition and fringe bene­fits as among the concerns he voiced to the Board of Trustees. 
world Hunger coalition THANKSOIVINO BASKETS 


world Hunger coalition, campus Ministry, & Food services are working together to pro­vide good Thanksgiving Meals for south Bend families who probably wouldn't get one otherwise. But we need your help! 
Monday, November 24th 
3-Gpm 


Stepan center 
Help put the baskets together and be there when the families come to pick them up. 1/2 hr, 1hr, whatever you can give 
Questions: Call Karen@ x2297 
sued," the counselor to the presi­dent stated. "Father Malloy, for the second year in a row, has said that he does not like current (multicultural) trends." 
"There are always things to work on, and progress to be made. This is just a start," Mooney said to conclude the meeting. "We've heard ideas, and we will be working on them." 

Course Offerings in the Department of Classics, Spring 1998 
Classical Antiquity 
CLAS 306 01 (HIST 306, 306A) ROMAN HISTORY Mazurek Sure, you've all heard of Julius Caesar-but what do you really know about the culture that produced him? This course traces the development of Roman civilization through the major political, religious, and social institutions of the Roman Republic and Empire. Major topics will include Rome's conquests in Europe and the Mediterranean, the careers of Julius Caesar and the emperor Augustus, and Rome's treatment of foreign peoples and institutions, e.g. Christianity. 
CLAS 309 01 GREEK LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Schlegel The literature of the Greeks has exercised a perennial attraction on the Western imagination, from the Romans down to our own times. Don't let it be 'all Greek to you'! Find out what some of the attraction is in this course, an introduction to the major literary and historical writings of ancient Greece, from the archaic period to Hellenistic times. 
CLAS 423 01 (ARHI423 01,523 01) GREEK ARCHITECTURE Rhodes We've all admired images of ancient Greek temples in travel brochures-but what did they mean in their context to the people building them? This course traces the development of Greek monumental architecture from the 8th to 2nd c. B.C. and treats themes like the relationship between landscape and religious architecture, symbolism and allusion through architectural order, and the humanization of temple divinities. 
CLAS 424 02 (ARHI424 01,524 01) ANCIENT ITALIAN ART AND ARCHITECTURE Rhodes You probably knew that 'the glory that was Rome' produced a rich artistic legacy. But do you understand its growth and develop­ment? And did you know Rome also had a few neighb'ors on the Italian peninsula') Find out about the art and architecture of the Roman Republic and Empire and of its Italian neighbors in this course, which isolates and traces the origins and development of monumental architecture, portraiture, painting and other genres from the first millennium B.C. to the fourth century A.D. 
CLAS 455 01 CLASSICAL EPIC (ENGL 413A 01) Vacca How does struggle create identity? Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and Virgil's Aeneid pose such perennial questions in a rich formal and thematic vocabulary that has influenced writers from Dante and Milton to the present day. Learn about the form, and grapple with the big questions of struggle and identity in this course, which also considers two contemporary novels that draw on such epic themes. 
Irish 

CLIR 301 01 THE IRISH IN THEIR OWN WORDS: READINGS IN IRISH LANGUAGE POETRY 1600-1900 MacQuillan You may be familiar with some Anglo-Irish literature. but did you know there are also literary productions in the native Irish lan­guage? Consider some of them in this course, in particular those from 1600-1900. a period of crisis for the Irish and their cultural and linguistic well-being. The texts will be read in English translation hut students will gain some working familiarity with the Irish through facing translations. 
Near Eastern Literature 
MELC 255 01 (GSC 255 01) WOMEN'S MEMORIES, WOMEN'S NARRATIVES Afsaruddin What do the women of Arab societies have to say for themselves? This course is the place to find out: it examines, in English trans­lation, women's memoirs, autobiographies, and fiction to analyze the construction of the feminine self and identity in modern Arab societies. 
FOR INFORMATION ON THESE COURSES, AND ON COURSES IN LATIN, GREEK, ARABIC, AND IRISH, CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS (1-7195). 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development Proudly presents... 


Kevin McCarthy 
• 
Kevin McCarthy is an entrepreneur who started an internet based company called Atipa 

• 
Check out Atipa's website at www.Aptipa.com 


Come find out the secrets to this 22 year old's MILLION DOLLAR success! 
Friday, November 21st, 1997 4:45pm 158 COBA 
president Father William Beauchamp. 
Provost Nathan Hatch has been invited to speak about the state of the multicultural academic pro­grams at Notre Dame at the sec­ond session. The committee will also specifically discuss the recruitment and retention of minorities in the administration and student body at this session. 
The fmal session will deal with multiculturalism in student life. Vice president for Student Affairs Patty O'Hara has been invited to attend that session. 
Warner expressed his hope that the next three sessions would begin setting initiatives in motion. 
"This. is a committee where issues can be raised and pur­
Thursday, November 20, 1997 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Malaysian committee will monitor Internet reports 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia 

Malaysia has set up a committee to watch 
for any inaccuracies in foreign reports about 
the nation carried on the Internet. "We will 
decide on the appropriate action to correct 
any wrong perceptions in the reports," 
Tengku Alaudin Abdul Majid said in an inter­
view published Wednesday. He is deputy sec­
retary-general of the Culture, Arts and 
Tourism Ministry. The committee will send a 
weekly report to the prime minister's office, 
the newspaper reported. Malaysia has criti­
cized some reports as inaccurate, including 
one six months ago that said people were 
killed while working on a dam project in 
Sarawak state on Borneo Island. The govern­
ment says no one was killed or injured. 
Information Minister Mohamed Rahmat said 
he would meet with officials of Cable News 
Network next week to complain about scenes 
it televised on the haze that has hung over 
Southeast Asia for months. "I hope they will 
replace these visuals with those reflecting 
the actual situation now in Malaysia where 
the haze has cleared," the national news 
agency Bernama quoted him as saying. 
Malaysian officials have blamed a decline in 
tourism on media reports carried worldwide 
on the haze. which was caused by 
Indonesian forest fires. Monsoon rains have 
cleared away much of the polluting, health­
threatening smog, meteorologists in 
Singapore said Wednesday. 
Egypt steps up security 
LUXOR, Egypt 

Edgy at their new guard post, police 
jumped up Wednesday when they saw a fig­
ure on a hill near the Temple of Hatshepsut, 
where Islamic militants massacred 58 
tourists just two days ago. Racing up the hill­
side with automatic rifles, they found their 
quarry -a young boy. Police interrogated 
him anyway, just to be sure he wasn't up to 
something, until his father came and took 
him away. Luxor is jumpy, coping with 
beefed-up security, anxious about another 
attack and skeptical about the police's ability 
to prevent one. Since Monday's slaughter, 
President Hosni Mubarak has deployed heav­
ily armed police all over this southern desert 
city -particularly on the Nile's West Bank, 
where millions of tourists every year visit 
world-famous pharaonic monuments such as 
the Hatshepsut temple and King Tut's tomb. 
With its temples and tombs, Luxor relies on 
tourism to survive, and merchants in the 
city's many cafes and souvenir shops were 
worried the massacre would frighten away 
visitors. "Everything in Luxor depends on 
tourism," said Mamdouh Hussein, a sales­
man at a spice shop. "Without it there is no 
money for anyone." Others scoffed at the 
heavy security, saying it would only be tem­
porary. 

PRICE 

Cyclops Corp OZON 61.29 1.1875 2.125 Transamer Was-Ut WSTEU 56.52 1.625 4.50 MBF USA Inc. MBFA 54.55 1.50 4.25 Amer Champion-WT ACEIW 54.55 .075 2.125 West America Corp WACL 45.45 .625 2.00 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
lonica Group -ADR IONCY 48.18 6.625 7.125 BMC INDS Inc BMC 42.51 13.125 17.75 Genesis Dev & Co GDCOF 26.47 1.125 3.125 Casco INTL INC CASL 23.75 1.1875 3.8125 Chief CONS MNG CFC 22.81 N/A 5.50 
----------~---------------.---------...-----..~--~--------.-------~ 
AFP Photo 

T
his photo, released by the U.S. Navy yesterday, shows crewmembers from the Weapons Department of the USS George Wasnington moving Sidewinder missiles to the flight deck for loading onto F-14B Tomcats and F/A-18C Hornets. The USS George Wasnington is on its way to the Persian Gulf region in response to nsing tensions between the United Nations and Iraq. 
Albright: Iraq may concede 
AssociATED PRESS 
GENEVA 

Iraq appears ready to allow U.S. weapons inspectors to return to the country, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said Thursday, after an emer­gency, middle-of-the-night meeting among the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. 
The United States joined Thursday with France, Britain, Russia and China to demand that Iraq allow U.S. weapons inspectors to return without condition. 
The diplomats said they hoped the Russian initiative to resolve the three­week-old standoff would lead to Baghdad's "unconditional andcom­plete" compliance with U.N. Security Council resolutions. 
Albright said the word of Iraq's inten­tion to permit a return of the inspectors -including the Americans that it kicked out last week -was relayed by Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, who had met with Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz earli­er this week. 
Albright indicated she was skeptical of Iraq's intentions. 
"We have to wait to see if it's carried out," she said. "I will believe it when I see it." She added that the Clinton administration would be pleased if the weapons inspectors were allowed back quickly. 
In a joint statement, Albright and her counterparts from Russia, Britain and France gave no indication of bending to Iraq's demands for a reduction in the number of Americans on U.N. weapons inspection teams. She said the United States made no concession to Iraq. 
The statement said the foreign minis­ters "supported the intention of the Special Commission of the U.N. Security Council to meet on Nov. 21 in New York to discuss and advise ... ways to make UNSCOM's work more effective on the basis of the resolutions of the U.N. Security Council." 
French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine said the plan involves an "enor­mous" movement by Iraq on uncondi­tionally complying with U.N. resolutions and an "American opening." 
The statement of solidarity hid deep 

UN warns that Iraq can make banned weapons with ease 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
UNITED NATIONS 

U.N. weapons experts warned the Security Council on Wednesday that Iraq could resume making banned weapons quickly, reinforcing diplo­mats' belief that U.N. inspections should resume unconditionally. 
The briefing by the U.N. Special 
Commission on Iraq and the 
International Atomic Energy Agency 
took place hours before Secretary of 
State Madeleine Albright and the for­
eign ministers of Russia, France and 
Britain met in Geneva to consider 
diplomatic moves to resolve the crisis. 
Afterward, they issued a statement 
calling for Iraq's "unconditional and 
complete" compliance with U.N. 
Security Council resolutions requiring 
inspections, and said they hoped a 
Russian initiative would lead to their 
resumption. 
After their briefing from weapons 
experts at the U.N.. diplomats from 
Washington, London and Moscow 
were equally tough on Iraq's history 
on producing lethal weapons banned 
by the Security Council. 
"The conclusion of this briefing is that Iraq has a devastatingly bad record in the areas of chemical, bio­logical and other weapons of mass destruction," U.S. Ambassador Bill 
differences over whether military action should be used to force Iraqi President Saddam Hussein into compli­ance. France, China and Russia oppose the use of military force. 
The officials said they hoped the Russian initiative would "lead to the unconditional decision by the leader­ship of Iraq to accept the return of the personnel" of the U.N. inspection team "in its previous composition." The statement was read by British Foreign Minister Robin Cook. 
In Washington, President Clinton said 
~ 
Iraq's arsenal 
Weapons of mass destruction can be smuggled across the border or launched In a missle anack 
Weapons of mass destruction 
The Iraqi nuctear:program. was thought 
~~~~~i ~~~~~·~J:~~~n-type 
Department of a'afe~ believes there are as many as 20 faciMU.. employed in the nuclear program. · ·· 
1 
~-·::. 
Iraq Is suSpected of ~i~ stockpiles ol chemical weapal)$Jfldudmg sarin, tabun, sornan. VX.. tl'itlStard agents and phosphoric bleach; :~N.~COM· must monitor 160 weaptuu.1tes. 

' UNSCOM must inspect 90 facilities capable of produQBig biOlogical weapons. Iraq is thought to :pOSse~ 6 tons of medium for the g~ Gfbio-toxins and 
:~og~rcr~~ of alilh~{:-~J~OJ(in, botulinum, 
' U.N Speaal GomnniOI"I II"ISpeC;t!OI1$ 1n Iraq 
AI-Waleed Mobile launch vehicle 
Source~ Center for Defenu lnlorma11on. UNSCOM. JaneS Str11/eg1C Weapon Systems 
Richardson said. 
Iraq is suspected of possessmg from 6 to 16 modified Scud 8 missiles Their enhanced ver51ons are capable of delivering warheads with nuclear. chemical or biological payloads, from 650 to 3,000 km 
W1\hin Iraq, 28 fixed launch sites are thought to exist with as many as 32 more under construction_ Iraq may also have as many as 19 functional mobile launch vehicles 
Scud B 
single­
warhead 
ballistic 
missile -·---·-
APNJm J Castelkl. Jus11n Gllberl 

"Very serious violations were detailed, and once again it shows a pattern of concealment and untruths has been consistent for seven years" since the inspections began, he added. 
Russian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov and British Ambassador John Weston agreed that the information showed the need for inspections to begin again quickly. 
anew that the United States wants a peaceful solution to the three-week cri­sis but that Iraq could set no conditions on the inspectors. 
By all accounts, the Iraqi overtures that attracted Moscow involve reducing the percentage of American inspectors in the U.N. weapons groups, commit­ting the Security Council to declaring that the searches are unbiased and reaffirming that Iraqi cooperation would lead to a lifting of economic sanctions that have severely damaged the country's economy. 
------------------~---------~ ---~--~ -~------------... 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 20, 1997 
:&@p::::%M1S·' 
Misa En Espanol Mass 
Sunday, Nove _ 1:30pm Stan Chapel Padre Jim Me 
First Year ...c••a• Freshman 
Sunday, N 3:30-6:00 pm 
Campus 
Tuesd 7:00pm Hall 

WHAT COULD PARENTS WEEKEND POSSIBLY HAVE TO DO 
WITH THE THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY ANYWAY? Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Oh, you think you have it all figured out simply from reading the title. You think this article is about something as simple as being thankful for your Mom and Dad at Thanksgiving time. Although that may ultimately be what this article has to say, it is actually much more nuanced, and, may I say, sophisticated than that. 
We are well nigh upon Parents Weekend. Mom, Dad, sibs, and Rover may already be enroute! It's a weekend during which we host our parents instead of them always hosting us. It's an opportunity to welcome them to the home that they have, in many ways, made possible for us, and that we have, or are begin­ning to, claim as our own. 
Do you think it's mere coincidence that this Parents Weekend 
falls only days away from Thanksgiving Day? Well, I'm not sure 
either, but it sure seems to make a lot of sense .... doesn't it? I 
mean what two events are better companions than hosting our 
parents and the day upon which we give thanks to God for the 
blessings we have known in our lives. 
We often speak of the Notre Dame Family. In fact, we so often 
speak of it that I fear the power of the image may be lessened. 
Nonetheless, the reality is, it isn't only you who became a part of 
Notre Dame when you enrolled for that first class. There was 
something more that happened. Mom and Dad's years of love 
and care had moved you to a place beyond the shelter of their 
home, but not beyond the shelter of their hearts. Their partic­
ipation in this place is wrapped up in yours; their membership 
in this family is wrapped up in you. 
All of us, students, parents, faculty and staff, the entire Notre 
Dame community, have much to be thankful for in these days. 
In the same way that families throughout the country gather on 
Thanksgiving Day to give thanks, I think it makes sense that we 
should gather. Although wrapped up in a football weekend, it is 
no less an opportunity for this Notre Dame Family to gather and 
to give thanks for the many blessings that we as a family have 
known. 

One of the most significant ways that we, as a Catholic communi­ty, can give thanks is through the celebration of the Eucharist. The very word, "eucharist," means "thanksgiving" in Greek. I have long thought that no visit to this campus is complete with­out partaking in the Eucharist; I risk offending some by saying that it is more important even than that which takes place in the stadium on six Saturdays in the fall. It is, wherever we choose to partake in it, a central symbol of our shared faith, and an impor­tant moment of prayer and thanks for this family. 
Oh, I'd like to take credit for the fact that Parents Weekend falls days before Thanksgiving ... but I cannot. Perhaps credit is due to someone, or maybe it's just coincidence. Whatever the rea­son, lets not miss the connection. Join me in giving thanks to God this weekend for the blessings that your family has known in the persons ofyour parents, andjoin me, too, in thanking God 

0MPUS 

for the blessings that this larger Notre Dame family has known. 
MINISTRY 

Thursday, November 20, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 .•••••.. 7=30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 •.•....... 7:3o PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21................. 7:30PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... 7:30PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL 

RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 63r-8r28 
DEPT. OF ART, ART HISTORY & DESIGN wlshe• to announce: 
A TI'ENTIONfU!!! 

SILk&CBEEN I (calli 1316) is OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS! PMWING l (califs 1072 lc 3()5()) is OPEN TO AlL STVDENTSI FlGURE DIUWit)~ (callw 3813) is OPtiN TO ALL S11.JDENTSI METAL fOUNQRl {calli 3380) is OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS! A mistake wu made in tl\e DAKf book. These du-are tctually all open to all atudents. 

Burris 

continued from page 1 
adding that Jesus was the victim of "an unjust state killing." 
"Make no mistake about tonight's killing," said Link. "It is not justifiable, it is immoral, it is often racially biased, it violates the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, and it violates human dig­nity. The victim is not only Gary Burris; it is all of us." 
"Violence only institutes more violence," agreed Bernal Monge­Guevara, an LL.M. candidate from Costa Rica where the death penal­ty was abolished in 1877. 
"Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing," said Maria Malkiewicz, quoting from the gospel of Luke. 
"We are here because we have a God who desires mercy and jus­tice, not sacrifice. Governor O'Bannon said, 'We are a nation of laws, not a nation of men,"' she said, quoting from the governor's decision not to grant clemency Tuesday. "We are here because we disagree. We are here because we are outraged that this execu­tion is being executed in our name." 
The speeches were followed by 10 minutes of silent prayer and a candle-lighting ceremony. At 12:40 p.m., those keeping vigil processed to the crucifix in the woods near St. Joseph Hall to pray for Burris during the execution. 
The protesters discussed their thoughts on capital punishment and sang "Jesus, remember me, as you come into your kingdom." 
"We offered our thoughts as a prayer for Gary," said Jenny Bryan, a student who participated in the procession. 
Section 18 of Article 1 of the Indiana State Constitution states that "[the] penal code shall be founded on the principles of refor­mation, and not of vindictive jus­tice." Opponents of Burris' execu­tion, including Amnesty International, have declared that this execution is exactly such vin­dictive justice. 
Burris was abandoned at birth and raised by a pimp who used him in many illegal activities, including carrying drugs and knocking on the prostitutes' doors when the clients' time was up. When Burris was 13, the pimp was convicted of manslaughter and sent to prison. Burris was then placed in a foster home. 
Burris was sentenced during Steven Goldsmith's 1978-81 tenure as Marion County Prosecutor. During that time, 11 people were charged with capital crimes; nine of them were black. 
Burris had an "outstanding" 
prison record, according to a 1995 Amnesty International report. The Department of Corrections staff chose him to serve as a porter, a position "awarded to an inmate who is trusted and liked," the report said. 
The Indiana Supreme Court reversed Burris' original death sentence, issued in February 1981, declaring that the attorneys repre­senting him at trial had been incompetent. The attorneys report­edly described Burris as an "insignificant, snivelly little street person" and did not investigate Burris' childhood for evidence sup­porting a lesser sentence. 
A second sentencing hearing was held in 1992, and when the jury could not agree on whether Burris should die, the judge hand­ed down a death sentence. A brief by the Indiana Attorney General's office stated that a sentence less than death would have been rea­sonable, but the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the sentence. 
Burris' last meal consisted of steak and lobster, salad with bleu cheese and Thousand Island dress­ing, baked potato with sour cream, cheesecake with strawberries and two espressos, according to a prison spokesman. 
The Indianapolis Star/News OnLine, The Chicago Tribune, Amnesty International and Fox-28 News contributed to this report. 


Please join us for an information session 
Thursday, November 20 Alumni Senior Club 7:00-8:30 pm Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 
MEDIA. .. It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At LEO BURNETT, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplcace to go? 
I 



BOLD-BRIGHT-BEAUTIFUL 



The Original3-in-1 Jacket
On Sale 
259-1000 

$129.99 3602 Grape Road 


~ -~~-~--------~------------------------------~----~­
r--------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, November 20, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 63!-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 

The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoinc Ediror, Spores Ediror, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lercers and lnside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lecters is encouraged. 

Arranged Marriages and Respect for Diversity 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski 

News Editor............................Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor............ .. ................ Mike Day Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  
Managing Editor  {>31-4541  Advertising  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  
Spans  631-4543  Office Manager  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  
Day EdirorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

• AROUND THE WORLD fN 100 DAYS ... 
COCHIN. India 

Just picture it, the day you've been dreaming about and planning for as long as you can remember, your wed­ding! (Ok boys. just imagine, work with me here.) You know your bridesmaids and the color of the dresses and flow­ers; and there he is, standing at the alter waiting for you. But wait, who is he? I've never seen him before. l have to spend my life, and longer, with that guy?!?! You best be kidding. 
Can you imagine an arranged mar­riage? That's the way it happens in 
Juliana Vodicka 

India. "Love marriage" is out of the question, that is if you want to k~ep your family. This system, so foreign to me, has its share of problems, but sur­prisingly enough it has many good points as well. All in all, it makes for very different male/female, male/male relationships in India, compared to the U.S. 
First lets talk basics: 

Pros: 1) You don't have to worry, you're going to get married and it's going to work; because 2) there is no divorce. So, "love marriage" no breakups, the family will not be pleased. 3) Good family relations and values are solidified through such arrangements. Your family is the cen­ter of your life in every way, shape, or form; this also makes for 4) altogether healthy social structure. 
Cons: 1) What's fun about arranged marriages? No romance, no courtship, 
Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller... .. ..................................Kyle Carlin 
no getting to know that "special some­of years though. They must be doing one." 2) No soul-mate! No love of your something right. life. Yeah, he's "the me" but in such a Yet, as nice as it sounds and as well different way. 3) No control. I have a as it works, to me it seems to cause large problem thinking someone other some unfortunate problems in the area than myself can decide my future, my of male and female relations. For children's as well. 4) Like I want my example, here at Sacred Heart College, father playing matchmaker. l love we have segregated stair cases, audito­Bruce, but get real; I would just rium, library and the Indian stu­love to see the guy. ----~ dents even sit separated in 
In the States, this system would not fly, it's not us. We are all driven by our individuality and con­trol over our own fate. Here though, it works. Family is always said to be the cornerstone of society and with such a strong fam­ily system, India shares how true that statement is. 
Students at school, and even our professors, think it's odd that we go away and live at college. Why would you want to? Your family is not there, who do you live with? "Spreading your wings" is not a concept that is easily grasped here in India. Their family is their center, their life. Also, just to clarify, when I say family I don't mean Mom, Dad, sisters, brothers, I mean the whole family. 
Family is a commitment, an obliga­tion, a way of living every day, a group effort; there are no individuals. When you get married it's for life, no backing out, it's your partner for life, you must perpetuate the cycle. It's love, just in a way you and I can't comprehend; how could we? It has worked for thousands 
631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

class; girls on the right, boys on the left. They will talk and be friends, but nothing like what we experience. The vast majority do not speak to the oppo­
site sex more than necessary and those who do must 
be careful, so as to not disgrace the family name. 
For the most part, it's on the side of the girls that controversy 
lies. If they seem too forward or express too much 
interest, it's bad news. Boys seem to have it a bit better. For girl, it's always a question of purity, and you know boys will be boys. This whole situation makes 
them all seem uncomfortable around each other and very cautious. But, like any situation there are extremes and this issue does not escape them. 
I don't think I would feel comfortable either, though. What happens when Jamon and Shibby start talking a lot and soon it's turned into more than friend feelings? You can't do anything, you're stuck. You are not in control of such things, so why tempt fate? 
What I also think is a direct result of such segregation is the male/male rela­tionships in India. Men will hold hands, hug and touch as if they were a typical couple in the States. It's not at all implying any sexual relations, just the comfort of a friend. Yet, still when I see it, I always look twice. I mean, just picture it. Ryan and Kevin walking hand in hand past Mike and Scott cud­dling on a bench in front of Alumni. You just don't see things like that at Notre Dame, just being close to a friend. Actually, where do you sec these sort of things? I'm almost con­vinced it's here that it's at such an extreme. It's not as if it's just some men. It's all Indian men, young, old, walking on the street or at school. Whether just talking or catching the bus, physical contact is involved. 
If one looks at the circumstances, though, it is only natural. We need human contact. It's that touch that keeps us going and knowing we are alive. And considering that physical contact of men and women in public is frowned upon makes even more sense. 
So, while I myself could not even imagine such a life dictated by my father, I know it's natural and right for India. We can't imagine because it is so foreign and distant from us. We should spend time examining what makes us so different and what we can take from those differences. A lot of times, I think we just need a middle ground. Then again when I look at things like arranged marriages, I think some things are best left as is. These differences define us, person from per­son, nation from nation. 
Juliana Vodicka is a junior English and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
~t/~3~..~,, lfiATIU4'r;!WPJ£ aJ(JWHlitP YalOOTIF 
W~Vc:l< GeT~/? 
ANI?lt/4VaR acrAGA/N. 
/ 
IPIPN'T 
tvAN/?&1?.CFF/ 
Itt!tWTTO 
"An alcoholic is some­
VISfTMY Sl57lil< 
one you don't like 
P£A!?t/ 
who drinks as much as you do." 
-Dylan Thomas 

---------..... ......--~--~---­
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, November 20, 1997 page 9 
• TABLE TALK 
Grad Students, Medical Care and Meatless Fridays 
Last week the U.S. Catholic Bishops considered reinstating meatless Fridays ... which brings me to the issue of medical care for graduate students and especially their dependents. 
Before those of you'who aren't graduate students skip on to the next column, let me suggest why graduate student health care concerns all of us. 
President Malloy has defended Notre Dame's so-so standing in national rank-supported by Catholic teachings), the remaining $6,000 doesn't come close to covering the nine-month academic year. 
My case is far from unique. Adding a child or two, or international student sta­tus, makes things even more precarious. For too many married graduate students with children, obtaining affordable health care is a no-win situation. It either is neglected altogether or is obtained at the cost of neglecting other family needs (like 
ings of colleges and =========~;;;;;;;;;;::;= forfeiting any sense 
universities, noting that Notre Dame is 
Da .d 

primarily an under-
VI graduate institution and thus suffers in rankings tailored to 
We1• SS institutions revolving around graduate pro­grams (a claim with some truth, no doubt). But it is equally true that graduate stu­dents arn an asset to undergraduate edu­cation here. 
Ask the professors or those who sched­ule teaching loads within departments. By grading papers, running discussion groups, offering extra access to course information, or assisting professors with their own research projects, we enable them to be the sort of teachers and schol­ars upon whom NO's reputation for acad­ernie excellence rests. In teaching our own courses, we insure a range of cours­cs and a smaller class size than would otherwise be available, and the passion we bring to teaching leavens the ranks of those above us. 
Outside the classroom, we add impor­tant diversity to the culture and tone of our community. We are integral to the strength of this university; no more-but certainly no less-than undergraduates, faculty, and sta!T. We, too, are ND. 
And the health care of our families is in 
a state of crisis. 
A typical graduate stipend is $10,000 annually. Insuring a family of four (like mine) on ND health care costs more than $4,000 per year. If your spouse (like mine) stays home with a young child (a decision 
• lET ME CLEAR MY THROAT 
of fmancial security 
in the near future by 
the debt incurred to 
maintain adequate 
health care now ­
as we have chosen 
to do). 
This isn't a new 
situation. The ND 

Graduate Student Union (GSU) has advocated for better health care options for some time. An ad hoc Review Committee established in 1995 recognized the dire straits in which many graduate student families live. Last May ('96) they recommended University subsidized health care for children of graduate students. And the Faculty Senate has called it a critical problem needing immediate response at the con­crete level of budget decisions. 
But the administration itself, while acknowledging it as an "important issue," persistently evades addressing it in the budget. Despite being one of four "major" recommendations made by the Review Committee, a health care subsidy remained noticeably absent from the University wish list that will benefit from the $767 million Generations campaign. The administration's refrain to GSU has become, "We realize it's a problem; now offer us a solution"-but the secrecy sur­rounding any budgetary negotiations effectively prevents GSU from generating anything resembling a realistic proposal. 
The Review Committee and GSU have identified a couple of clear goals, howev­er. First, a subsidy-while a short-term necessity-is not a long-term solution. 

Generalizations Distort Views of the Middle East 
Four years ago, in October of 1993, my father was in Cairo, Egypt, on yet another of the far away business trips on which his job had been taking him since before I had been born. My father likes to leave his work at the office, so when he comes home we usually let him do so, and consequently my brothers and I are not well versed in the particu-Iars of his occupation. He's always told the room. Then he went to the rest room, returned with a small pistol, and started shooting westerners one at a time. Two Americans and one Frenchman died in the attack. The gunman claimed he perpetrated the attack to avenge the killing of Muslims in Bosnia. He was eventually deemed mentally unfit by an Egyptian court and committed to an institution. If Dad was 
us he sells boilers =========~;;;;;;;;;;~ phased by what had 
for a living. His in-laws have long held theories placing him  scott  
in the service of the CIA. Over the years, we've grown accustomed to hav­ c IIu en  
ing him travel to all  
manner of unusual  
places, and a trip to  
Cairo really was not  

that out of the ordinary. 
On the night of October 26, my father and three colleagues were in their rooms at the Hotel Semiramis trying to decide where to go for dinner that night. They had eaten at the hotel restaurant the night before, so rather then repeat themselves, dad and his two friends decided to walk down the block to a nearby Italian establishment. Their fourth associate was tired and opted to grab a quick snack in the coffee shop adjoining the main restaurant in the lobby of the Semiramis. About an hour later, my father and the others returned to find the hotel wrapped by dozens of police and security vehicles, police lines were everywhere. It was a frantic scene. They rushed into the hotel to find the fourth member of their group up in his room, pale as a sheet. Sitting in the coffee shop, he had heard the shots next door. 
A lone gunman had entered the main restaurant, ordered a drink, and cased 
happened, he cer­tainly didn't show it, 
and the rest of us 
stayed calm because 
that was what Dad 
has always told us 
to do. He's never 
wanted us to worry. 
Nonetheless, I was 
rather shaken by 

the incident. Had my father decided to stay in for dinner that night, God knows what might have happened. 
For this reason, last week's attack on four businessmen in Karachi, Pakistan, and Monday's horrific tragedy in Luxor, Egypt have struck a nerve pretty close to home. I recall feeling utterly power­less when we heard about my dad's incident. The idea that I could have lost my father a world away brought about a feeling of ineffectualness. I can only imagine how the families of those who died might feel right now, sitting in Switzerland, Japan and even Texas, with nothing to-do but wait for a casket to arrive at the airport. 
My reaction to my father's brush with tragedy caused me to reflect a great deal. It was one of those unique situa­tions in life in which the big picture and your personal experience come together at the same time and you're forced to confront issues from both as one and the same. My reaction to my father's GSU wants a five-year commitment to subsidy-during which time a long-term resolution would be outlined and imple­mented. The most reasonable long-term solution would grant graduate students partial employee status (with family access to health benefits) at the University; certainly a legitimate idea con­sidering the contributions they make to research and teaching while still students. 
Second, this subsidy should come from "new" money, not from existing Graduate School resources. Where this J'new" money might come from certainly needs discussion -but such a discussion will move forward in earnest only when the University agrees that the "new" money must be forthcoming. 
Third, the ND insurance policy, while mandatory only for graduate students (and used primarily by them), is designed primarily for the needs of undergraduates (who are generally better off on their par­ents' policy). It is fme as supplemental 
-accident/injury coverage, but it is hardly 
complete health insurance. With the pre­
mium subsidy, GSU seeks additional 
major medical component as part of a 
short-term measure. 
Finally, in order for Notre Dame to be the university it wants to be -and ought to be -graduate student health care needs to be addressed -now. There are two major reasons for this. 
As noted above, Notre Dame's overall academic excellence is tied to the excel­lence of its graduate students. Especially for graduate students with families, affordable, sufficient health care (or the lack of such) is a significant factor in determining where the best students choose to go. Failure to address this issue jeopardizes much more than just the health care of graduate students' families. 
Just as importantly. this is an essential opportunity to bear witness to our Catholic character. The Review Committee noted that the key warrant for premium subsidies is the notion that when ND welcomes a student into its "family," it welcomes their families as well. The U.S. Bishops have declared health care, especially for the poor and for children, essential to the Catholic vision which affirms human dignity ­and which must measure social institu­tions, including its own, by the priority this receives (see Economic Justice for All, 1986, paras. 28, 90, 93, and 176-77). 
Which brings me back to meatless Fridays. Some bishops want to reclaim them as an expression of fundamental Catholic unity. Grounded in the peniten­tial identification with Jesus' suffering and death -and with them as an affir­mation of the value of human life -meat­less Fridays offer a simple but concrete way, in the words of Cardinal Adam Maida (of Detroit), to say: "I am a Catholic. I am for life and I affirm the value of life as taught by the church." The solidarity in such a discipline invites Catholics to stand united in witness against the myriad "attacks on human life and dignity," according to Cardinal Bernard Law (of Boston}, whose Pro-Life Committee made the proposal. 
And yet I keep hearing Isaiah (58:3-7) echo in the back of my mind. "Behold in the day of your fast you pursue your own business, and oppress all your workers ... Will you call this a fast, and a day accept­able to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I choose: ... Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the homeless poor into your house; when you see the naked, to clothe them, and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?"' 
Meatless Fridays might indeed bear wit­ness to a Catholic vision which affirms human life and dignity. Here at Notre Dame, however, a far better way would be to offer adequate medical care to all members of the Notre Dame family, espe­cially the children of graduate students. 
David R. Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics in the department ofthe­ology. He appreciates the insights con­tributed by Suzanne Coshow, Margie Pfeil, and Mike Waddell. all ofGSU. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
incident was initially resentful, and it caused me to fall back upon my precon­ceptions as a safety net. These were the preconceptions I had gleaned from many years of watching the nightly news and reading the paper. Generalizations about people and cul­tures from the Middle East. Generalizations about the Islamic faith. Generalizations I had no justifiable grounds for making. 
As time passed and I continued to ponder what almost happened, howev­er, l realized that the attack at the Hotel Semiramis was the action of a lone indi­vidual. One with a political agenda and an unsound psychological makeup. Yet, I further realized that with his actions, the entire country of Egypt had suf­fered. My father's close call also sparked within me a desire to under­stand why I kept hearing about such things occurring in that part of the world. It made me want to have some idea of where it was Dad was taking himself when he had to leave home. In an effort to understand, I gradually began to undertake a sort of self-educa­tion regarding the Middle East. I start­ed paying close attention to the issue confronting the region, trying to get as balanced a perception as possible. I began to realize that what was often treated as a single enormous nation with a heterogeneous culture and a strange unifying faith was in fact a col­lection of diverse nations, cultures, eth­nic groups and religious factions, all with unique histories. I came to under­stand that the minority of violent politi­cal and religious groups which effec­tively captured the attention of the Western media were terrorizing more of their own countrymen than Western tourists. I found out that the majority of · people there value peace and prosperity as much as I do and wanted little more beyond it. I also learned about the failed attempts at peace, and about legitimate governments like Syria and Iran supporting these violent terrorist groups. I read about the harboring of terrorists. I was made aware that the region was horne to many oppressive political regimes who left their people no option but to hate American people. I discovered that many of these regimes singled out women and ethnic minori­ties. And for all these facts, I began to discover reasons and causes, some of which have roots stretching back thou­sands of years. 
All told, I ended up discovering that this region we call the Middle East is not nearly as simple as it is sometimes made out to us to be by our sources of information. It is complex and diverse, and in truth, does not admit to being so easily classified as a sin.gle entity. 
The incidents of terror in recent weeks, as well as our latest disagree­ment with Iraq will no doubt offer us ample opportunity to once again buy into stereotype and misconception. Just last week, The Observer accompanied its coverage of the standoff with Iraq with a photo of a group of gun toting, screaming Iraqi protesters. Such an image is typical of our idea of this com­plicated region, and it is utterly incom~ pletfl. As the news stories of these recent tragedies continue to come in, look at them with an objective eye. and look deeper into what brought about such actions. Chances are the situation is not as simple as we might assume. 
Scott Cullen is a junior Arts and Letters major at Notre Dame. His col­umn appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
>P 

~---~--'""""!--~...,-----....... ....---::~--7--------~------------~ 

Thursday, November 20, 1997 
by Joel Cummins 

ben folds five at stepan center 

O
n Tuesday night, Ben Folds Five delivered an inspiring and eclectic performance that dis­played why their blossoming success is no fluke. Their lineup of pianist and lead vocalist Ben Folds, bassist Robert Sledge and percussionist Darren Jessee overcame the abominable acoustics and aesthetics of Stepan Center at the University of Notre Dame to prove that a trio could muster a sound replete with both taste and texture. 
Folds' repertoire has gained notoriety as one of extremes, in that, their material spans a wide range of dynamics, rhythms, and emotions. This variety seems to be the bands forte, as they convincingly moved from the poignant and melancholy opener, "Missing the War," to an intensi­fyingly anarchic "Philosophy," an early number that has clearly grown since its composition. Folds played off of this con­trast throughout the night, keeping the audience attentive through the more serene passages, while they rollicked along with energetic and exuberant pieces such as "Jackson Cannery" and "One Dwarf and 200 Solemn Faces." Folds' vir­tuostic piano style does homage to greats such as Jerry Lee Lewis and George Gershwin, while his more introverted tex­tures suggest a style reminiscent of Billy Joel. The band's solid vocal harmonies complemented Folds' piano settings quite aptly and displayed the band's obvious Beatles' influence. Their connections to musical predecessors, however, did not do performed marginal but unconvincing sets. Despite detracting factors not involv­ing their musical performance, Ben Folds Five introduced their innovative, catchv sound with verve to a receptive audience that will surely grow with time. 
It is disappointing that this outstanding concert had to take place at the monstros­ity otherwise known at Stepan Ce11ter. The venue is an insult to any performer, and it certainly prevents the listener from enjoying the performance due to its hor­rendous design, for which carrying sound was clearly not one of its prime intentions. It is not a surprise to me that few students want to see eoncerts at such an unpalat­able location, and it is even less surprising that few performers would recommend it. There is no respectable venue on campus for the musical acts Student Union Board brings to campus, because the University only allots Student Union Board enough money to book smaller, but often rep­utable acts. If the University could only recognize this and FINALLY take action in constructing a decent performing arts center, student support for live music would be at least doubled, and thus, the University could afford bigger and more popular acts, while smaller acts would be more than sparsely attended. Correcting the problem is not an easy process, but it must be initiated by the producers of the concerts (i.e., the University), as the stu­dent body's tolerance for concerts in the dingy, atrocious cavern of Stepan Center is wearing thin. 

their own work injustice, as it possessed an authentic edge that was enhanced by the impressive and flavorful drumming of Jessee and the driving fuzz bass occasion­ally implemented by Sledge. Jessee's dynamic and stylistic versatility accentu­ated Folds' amalgam of styles, while Sledge's effects provided for any holes left by the absence of the typical mid-range instrument, the guitar. While Sledge's effects often intensify Folds' heavier mate­rial, on this night they only muddied the sound and rendered the lyrics incompre­hensible. This unfortunate situation great­ly damaged the effect of the music, as F o Ids' lyricism is both powerful and important to the music. Again, this is not the fault of the band, but of Stepan Center, which is quite possibly the worst concert arena for its size-in the nation. Only on the band's strongest piece of the evening, the hilari­ously frolicking, and lyrically overt encore, "Song For the Dumped," were the vocals recognizable enough for the audience to readily sing along and experience the music as a whole. 

Travis, a young Scottish rock band, and Old Pike, a Bloomington-based sextet of the same genre, opened for Folds and 
ben folds takes five with joel cummins 
On Tuesday, Ben Folds, ringleader, pianist, vocalist, and primary composer for Ben Folds Five, talked to me about his band's music, their history, their tour, and a number of other interesting things ... 
Joel Cummins: When you started playing with Robert Sledge and Darren Jessee back in 1994, did you feel that this was it in terms of a lineup? 
Ben Folds: It was more of a personali­ty thing than musical. We also all had nothing to do. 
JC: Do the band members have similar musical backgrounds? 
BF: They are definitely different. I'm probably the most trained, while Robert has played in a lot of rock bands. Darren owned a PA system, so we picked him up. Again, more than musi­cal background, we all had similar vision, and that vision became its own thing once we started playing together. 
JC: Was piano your first instrument? 

BF: Piano or drums. They both kind of happened around the same time in my youth. 
JC: You have also played bass and drums in other bands. How did this affect your piano style? 
BF: I was never centered on piano, I was always tr:'4ing out other things. Musicality came with playing other instruments. Playing drums kind of got me into the more primal and animalistic side of music, while bass lets you feel the music from the bottom end up ... kind of moving lots of air with the low end. Both have influenced my piano style, and I think I've been concerned with moving a lot of air when I play piano because of the bass. 
JC: What obstacles have you run into, if any, performing in a band without a guitarist, and what do you feel are the advantages to this type of lineup? 
BF: With no guitarist, it's something to say who we are. It's definitely advanta­geous for us. Musically, my ear has always gone to the guitar melody, so its something that's hard to get away from. But. other than that, it's advantageous. 
JC: Do you see your primary strength as on the stage or in the studio? 
BF: They are both strong for us in dif­ferent ways. I see the stage as a little bit ahead, but the studio is quickly catching up. The stage is vital in that it allows you to breathe, and you're more uncon­tained when its natural. 

JC: Have you always been as extro­verted and wild on stage, or is this something that just snapped in you one day that said, 'This is how I am?" 
BF: Well, I guess it kind of comes from being the clown at school. I don't really consider myself extroverted, though. I feel more like I'm in the same room with everyone just being myself. 
JC: How is the current tour going? BF: It has been great. Things are real­ly going well for us right now in general. 
JC: In the past, you've had a pretty standard set list. Do you occasionally insert different songs or make space for new ones while on tour? 
BF: It's usually pretty standard, but we allow for wacky things to happen. We usually try to make up two or three songs on the spot, like when someone yells something stupid or funny out from the audience that we can react to. At the Philadelphia show some dude just screamed out at us with this funny accent, "Kick ay-as!" and we were all kind of like, "What?" So we had him yell it up again as Robert turned the micro­phone around toward him, and after we finally could understand what he was saying, we broke into a "kick ay-as" jam. 
JC: Considering that, how would you describe your personal writing process? BF: Kind of weird. I go back and forth between being in touch, aware and 

relaxed and doing cool stuff. and then being a complete control freak that squashes everything good. I have a ten­dency to take a song by the neck and squash it, and then I realize what I've done, and I try to let it go. Sometimes they survive, sometimes they don't. I take a long time writing songs. I usually think of a song, and maybe a year and a half later, it" will happen. It's got to have its own feel, tone of lyric, tone of harmo­ny -it has to be something unusual. 
JC: How would you describe your col­laborative writing process? 
BF: We all contributed to "Brick," where Darren came in with the chorus and then I did the verses later on. Usually, I'll have a song that I'll play, and if the band starts playing along with me, then we go with it. If they don't, then it's tough. 
JC: Did you have any formal training in piano or composing? 
BF: I took one year of piano and one composition class. But, I've been making up stuff on the piano since I was about nine or so. When you write, you just have to be aware of the rhythmic and cad entia! nature of music, and let it hap­pen naturally. Its conversational, not formulaic, and its like "cadence of pref­erence." What I mean by that is that it is the same thing as watching TV and changing channels -that's what's cool about music: its the same thing as life. Compositional techniques are for when you're stuck. When your trying to com­pose, you sometimes get bogged down in logistics and stuck in a corner. That's when technique can get you out of the corner, but I don't think it's a starting point. 
JC: Do you ever find yourself trying to make some kind of statement with your music, or do you feel that you tend to relate personal experience more often? 
BF: I don't have any more than one political song in me. It's mostly personal experience, or distortion of that person­al experience. That's what I understand and can best communicate. What is lit­erally communicated on the surface of lyrics is secondary to what you're com­municating that's not in the language. Imagery is powerful because it means different things to different people. When tension and release is guiding music, it almost doesn't matter what you're saying because people will asso­ciate something they want to o,yith it anyway. I can relate to songs about Vietnam even though I wasn't there because the songs are inherently mov­ing. 
JC: What's your favorite song to play live? 
BF: It's di!Terent every night, but I've really been into "Selfless, Cold and Composed" lately. 
JC: What do you think your strongest 

. ? song IS.  .  
BF: "Brick" is solid  ...  I would say  

"Evaporated" is probably the strongest overall, though. JC: What's on rotation in your CD player right now? 
BF: I'm really into Neil Young, Ellen Sebastian (a young Scottish folk band), and Flaming Lips. 
JC: Do you think that what you're cur­rently listening to shapes your writing? 
BF: Maybe. I'm really inspired by the Flaming Lips, but I'm also just discover­ing old stuff like Neil Young, Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd and Black Sabbath. 
JC: You've got another CO coming out in January. What is the idea behind it, and what will you do until then? 
BF: I really like the new CD. It was kind of necessary, because Caroline had us signed for one more record, but there's a lot of worthy stuff there that hasn't been released, and a lot of live stuff that we wanted to showcase. Since we're signed on Sony now, we couldn't record any new material for them, so that's why it's a mix of unreleased and live stuff. We're on tour until December 13, then we 'II take a break and start touring again in February. 
JC: Do you have any advice to some­one who wants to make composing and performing music their life? 
BF: I do. Always keep focused on the musie and always make music for your audience, that is, make it for you. Music should first and foremost be about you and for you, or it won't end up being an accurate personal reflection. Demo and showcase tapes are evil because they tend to revolve around making music to impress someone, or making music geared toward a specific audience other than yourself. Make music and enjoy it, and never second-guess yourself by cre­ating something that someone else wants. 
to the 


7he Match-ups 7he Insight 
Red-hot Keenan prepares Take a closer look at the storied 
for surprising Sorin in the history and tradition of interhall 
men's final. On the women's football and why it has become a 
side, P.E., a bridesmaid for marvel in college intramurals. 
the last three years, will 
take on Lewis. 

pages 2-3 page4 

page 2 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 20, 1997 
Knights prepare for 
By BRIAN KESSLER Kent Kershenski, "The pressure is on us Sports Writer at 6-0. Of course we are confident, but we aren't overlooking this game." 
s """~ . "~rt:d:W~~ .fj._  '  The Notre Dame-West Virginia game is The Knights' swarming defense has yet not the only game to be played in Notre to allow a single point all season. The Dame Stadium this weekend. "The Knights' playoff conquests include a House that Rockne Built" will also play dominating 27-0 victory over seventh­host to the marquis match-up in men's ranked Siegfried and a 12-0 win against interhall football. the sixth-seeded Keough Kangaroos. The No. 2 Keenan Knights will square Keenan now stands at 6-0 and is only off against the fourth-seeded Sorin one win away from the championship. Screaming Otters in the championship Following the playoff loss to Keenan, game of men's interhall football on Keough's coach Jeremy Cole described Sunday at 1:30 p.m. the Knights as "the best team in the The Knights are without a doubt the league." Cole went on to say, "The favorites heading into Sunday's contest Knights are solid on both sides of the ball with Sorin. According to Keenan captain and just have too many weapons." 1. Zahm 8. Morrisse 4. Sorin 4. Sorin 5.Knott Stadium•Nov. 2 Nov:. 9 Nov. 236. Keou h 2.Keenan 2.Keenan2.Keenan P.E. finally con By ALISON WELTNER other game. It's definitely more exciting Sports Writer than Stepan Field. Even though it's women's interhall and not televised col­The interhall football players of lege football, you still feel a part of the Pasquerilla East and Lewis have been tradition." practicing for more than two months to At the start of the playoffs, the two be the very best. Now, after six regular teams might have seemed an unlikely season games and two playoff contests, match-up for the final game. there is just one competition left. P.E. came off the regular season At 12 p.m. on Sunday, the two will go strong and confident with a 6-0 record face-to-face in Notre Dame Stadium. and a top ranking. Lewis, on the other Only one of them will walk away with hand, compiled a .500 mark on the sea­the 1997 women's Interhall football son, earning a No. 6 ranking. championship. However, numbers cannot always Both sides readily agree that the predict the future. Lewis rallied from chance to play in the Stadium is an behind in its first playoff game against amazing opportunity. P.W. to win 13-6. They then followed Pyro Jenny Shenk is one who knows with a major upset over the undefeated from experience. A senior tight end, she Walsh Wild Women. has been in the Stadium for two of the In the regular season, the Pyros past three P.E. appearances. defeated the Chickens decisively, but "It's definitely not the same as any both sides know this game is long over Women's lnterhall Football Playoffs 1. P.E. 1. P.E. Stadium Nov. 9 • Nov. 23 6. Lewis 2. Walsh  



·­
Thursday, November 20, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 3 
battle with Otters Some of those weapons include fresh­squandering the opportunity. an quarterback Craig Venvertloh, Sarin is 4-1-1 on the season with its phomore fullback Joe Klopp, and only loss coming in the last week of the receivers Nelson Rivera and regular season against No. 1 Zahm. Andy Weis. Running back Nick Costanzo Sunday's game could very well be is just another one of the talented fresh­determined by the play of the two fresh­who have been key contributors for men quarterbacks. Both have led their Knights. team to victory throughout the season, Hflm<ma , Kershenski downplayed the but Venvertloh and Belden will have to of individual standouts. "We focus deal with the pressure of playing in on the team aspect and concentrate on Notre Dame Stadium and carrying the executing as a team. Our success cannot expectations that some of the upper­be attributed to one player. Everyone classmen have worked years to estab­contributes, and we have great depth." lish. The Knights' defense is anchored by Keenan likes to pass the ball but also captain D.J. Hartman who plays strong has confidence in the ground game. Its safety. He leads a defense that has sti­proficient air attack has surprised many fled opposing offenses and has yet to be opponents. Slattery, however, is well scored upon this season. Costanzo (cor­aware of Keenan's ability to throw the nerback). Klopp (middle linebacker), and ball successfully. Venvertloh (free safety) are the "iron "You don't get here without a strong men" for the Knights, starting on both passing game," said Slattery. offense and defense. Sarin has a triple threat in wide Keenan's last trip to the finals was in receivers Chris Bryant, Andy West, and 1992 when it was unable to repeat its Mike Crow. Belden usually looks to one 1991 interhall championship. of these three targets when he goes to "The team has been preparing for this the air. for three months now," said Klopp. "We Neither team seemed too concerned aren't about to let this opportunity just about the weather or the conditions of slip away." the field which may be less than ideal Keenan has made a drastic turnaround following the Notre Dame game and the from a disappointing season a year ago. women's final. Last year, the Knights finished 1-3-1 and "They [the weather and field condi­lost in the first round of the playoffs. tions] are out of our control," comment­Sarin, on the other hand, has been ed Kershenski. "Both teams will have to waiting and building for three years to deal with them." get to this game. After going 0-3-1 two However, look for both teams to run years ago, Sarin made it to the semifinals the ball if conditions are bad. last year. According to senior running These teams faced each other in a pre­back Tim Slattery, "This team has been season scrimmage, but neither team built in a three-year program. Most of us expected it to be a preview of the inter­are juniors and seniors who have hall final. worked for three years to get here." "It was only our second day of contact, The Otters are now on the verge of so it was too early in the season to think winning it all, and they don't plan on anything of it from a coaching point of  The Observer/Joe Stark A surprise finalist, the Sarin Otters, led by their quarterback Pete Belden (above), will have their hands full on Sunday against interhall football's hottest team, the Keenan Knights. view," explained Kershenski. last outing and realizes it will have to Nevertheless, the two teams have play better if it wants to be hailed as faced each other and have seen each champions. Sarin will have to play its other play. Both teams know what to best if the Otters want to have any expect, and both anticipate a hard fought chance at the upset. game. Keenan is just trying to accom­While the Otters promise to make a plish what everyone expects of it, while game of it, the outcome will be settled on underdog Sarin is hoping to play the role the field in a winner-take-all battle that of spoiler and upset the Knights in the could be the weekend's biggest show­Stadium. Keenan had an off game in its down.  


uers Lyons, looks toward Lewis 
and done with. 
"Once we're there [in the Stadium], 
what happened previously doesn't mat­
ter. All that matters is the champi­
onship," said Lewis' Jane Pater. 
Pyro Coach Tom Asci commented, 
"We feel pretty good, but we aren't in 
any way underestimating Lewis. This is 
not the same Lewis team we played 
earlier this year." 
"Being No. 1 really doesn't matter 
once you're in the Stadium," said P.E. 
quarterback Elizabeth Plummer. "Right 
now. our record is much like it's been in 
years past. We hope this game just 
turns out in our favor." 
For P.E., this year will be its fourth 
consecutive game in the Stadium, a 
streak which has thus far been unsuc­
cessful. For the past three years, they 
have faced Lyons in the championship, 
each time coming away without a victo­
ry. This season, however, the Pyros 
faced Lyons in the semifinals and 
secured an 8-0 win, a huge morale 
booster. 
"Everyone's just crazy," said Shenk. 
"We're really excited. Our offense, our 
defense -everybody's just psyched. 
Winning over Lyons was very nice." 
Lewis knows it faces a talented squad, 
but at the same time, has confidence in 
its own abilities. 
"We've had some good practices," 
said coach John Broussard. "The team's 
been very focused, and everyone's real­
ly enthused. There's also a lot of sup­
port around the dorm." 
The game should prove to be an excit­
battle between two excellent offens­
and defenses. 
P.E.'s Plummer has consistently done 
outstanding job, both in pass com­offense. On defense, players such as tough coverage. onship game in the newly renovated 
and running. Lewis quarterback Pyro Stephanie Trautmann and Chicken No matter what the outcome, both Notre Dame Stadium will be one they
Talarico also is critical to her team's Maureen Neville should both provide teams know that Sunday's champi-will never forget. 

-· 
-
-

page 4 The Observer • Irish Insider Thursday, November 20, 1997 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

A Notre Dame tradition continues 

By ALLISON KRILLA lnterhall Spons Editor 

On Sunday, two of the most intense col­lege football games will be played in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The men and women who will take the field do not receive tuition scholarships, national media attention, or adidas sneakers. They have been fighting for practice space on crowded Stepan Field and playing in all kinds of weather for more than two months with one goal in mind: winning an interhall champi­onship. 
On a campus loaded with high school athletes who hung up their varsity jack­ets before arriving in South Bend, inter­hall football has provided an outlet and created strong rivalries in the process. For the men who thought their final full contact football days were over, interhall is a chance to relive high school days. For women, interhall is a chance to prove that football is not just a man's game. 
Without sororities or fraternities, interhall sports create intense rivalries among dorms. The only thing on the line in a game like the interhall football championship is pride. 
Students participate because they love the competition, the exhilaration of catching the winning touchdown pass or stopping the opposition on fourth and inches. Coaches volunteer their time because it's been a dream of theirs to lead an interhall football team to the Stadium. 
In the three years I have played foot­ball for Cavanaugh Hall, I have experi­enced thrilling victories and crushing defeats. I have forged wonderful friend­ships and probably made some enemies too. However, one thing is certain: inter­hall football is serious. 
Sure, everyone is out there to have a good time, but winning is important. It's not the most important thing, but it ranks near the top of the list of inter hall football game priorities. 
I have discovered that there are few people that do not take the game as seri­ously as the players, coaches and dorm residents -the referees. Now I'm not just complaining about a few missed calls here and there, because human error is unavoidable. I'm talking about the refs who bring their young children to the games to help spot the ball, among other things. 
True, it is a game, but the referees are there to keep the game under control. 
When emotions heat up, the refs should be able to assert their authority. For that to happen, however, they first have to earn the players' respect. Finally, the referees should not allow players to intimidate them. When the game is on the line, the refs should not allow any outside factors to influence their calls. Holding a· grudge against a player is unacceptable behavior for a referee at any level of competition. 
I know the refs are paid for their ser­vices and wear the same stripes as the pros, but that means they need to act that way. Of course, I'm not talking about all of them, just the few bad apples. 
This weekend, when the championship is on the line, let the players settle the game on the field because they're play­ing for more than just a title. 


Men's 

men's 
t 
.... 


Name Yr. Pos. Name 
Pos. Name Yr. Pos. Name Yr. Pos. Greg Belden Jr RT/LB Steve Allan K Sara Boblick Jr LB Kate Bamburg So c 
Pete Belden ~-QB John Beasley DE Aubrey Brackm~~ LG Sofia Barbato So LB 
Chris Bryant WRIQB/LB Nick Costanzo HB/CB Dina Brick CB Anna Benjamin Fr s 
Brendan Burns LT/DT Mark Crudo Jr TEIOL Sarah Coffey DE Kelly Benkert Fr DE 
Brian Cannavan r WRICB J.J. Frigge ilil!iff'~ QB/TE Leslie Davis So RB Erin Clary Sr NG C/DT Steve Gehrmanr\:Sb C/OLB Kelly Dillon 
WR Laura Daniels Fr DE WR Herb Giorgio .:(fffi'\ LG Kelli Donohue NG Kathleen Dunn So LB
£~l:i~~r~ 

S/TB D.J. Hartman Sr ss Liz Foglia CB Meaghan FlahertyFr LT
l;J

Fred Faber FB/LB Joe Klopp •. §!l FB/MLB Amy Frigon DE Stephany Foster So DE 
Todd Langager Jr CB/WR Doug Kratt ' $0 · LT Katherine HarcourtFr FS Stacey Fuller So WR 
Xavier Manriqu~~-. TB/LB Dave Mammolai 9(1( SE/HB Charlotte Kuc 
c Kori Georgi .SQ. CB 
Mike McCarthyf'··So) TElDE Brad McDonald· So' DT Maureen Nevi LB Melissa Gorman So FB/RB 
Pat McGrath '<Jfr"'·, WRILB Spencer McKee .SQ.. C/NG Shannon Nort RB Kerry Hanley So WR 
Anthony Netto L3Yet,;~ TEIDT Marty Meyer 'i•W~Jl'!•V RT/DE Rosemary Sag RG Alison Healy So CB 
Sean NeugebauerJr FB/DT Dong Min So WB/CB Jill Saunders Jr DE Robin Horning So LB 
Dave Russo ·Jr P/K Joe Recendez ·· ·So MLB Meg Schlosser ?•i WR Shannon Kelly Jr LT/RT 
Alex Scheidler .Jr DEIFB Nelson Rivera Fr SE Amanda SchuettaF;~ CB Jean Lantz So s 
Andy Simon '~ LB/LG Mike RomancheK§¢ F-i3/MLB Liz Talarico Sr QB Gena Locklar Fr. NG 
Tim Slattery ''St TB/LB Zack Schueller Ff RG Tricia Tildsley ·~~ LB Kristen McGregorSo FB/WR 
Michael Stolze Jr DEIG Craig Venvertlot'l F( QB/FS/P Carrie Upp Sr WR Bridget McNichota~t RT 
Mike Velten 
RG/DE Andy Weis 
· F·;•··· WB TEIPLeigh-Ann wess Elizabeth McShaneSo LB Beth Wild · .
Jim Walsh c RB Kristi Nelson Fr CB Jeff Wawok WRILB Molly O'Rourke So CB Andy West WR Donata Parillo So CB Elizabeth PlummerJr QB 

Molly Rost Fr TE Margaret Sample So WR

Editor Graphic Design Lab Tech
-
Ann Searle Jr RB

Mike Day Tom Roland & Melissa Weber "Crazy" Joe Stark 
Jenny Shank Sr TE 
Laura ThreadgoldJr DE

Assistant Editor Page Layout & Design Cover 
Stephanie TrautmanSo DE 

Allison Krilla "Freebird" Mark DeBoy Katie Kroener 
Erin Wood Jr c 

I • 
Thursday, November 20, 1997 
page 11 
~~~~~

jane's addiction }(ettle l11histle 
(out of five stars) 



•
var1ous 

J
ane's Addiction. Sounds like an old, comfy pair of jeans that had been lost for nearly a decade. One day, you happen to re-discover them in your attic or on the bottom of your closet and remem­ber just what you were missing. The old jeans fit just like before, maybe even better. The now legendary band headed by quintessential super freak, Perry Farrell, is back and busting out of the attic with as much raw energy and hype as before ... maybe not better, but pretty damn close. 
Earlier this year, the band including guitarist, Dave Navarro {from Red Hot Chili Peppers), drummer, Stephen Perkins, and bassist, Flea (also from Red Hot Chili Peppers) who replaced Eric Avery from the orig­inal band, came together to perform a song for Howard Stern that was included in the heralded Private Parts soundtrack. That just got the ball rolling. They managed to compile four new tracks as well as 11 previously unreleased cuts (that feature some new recordings as well) in just a few months in time to release their newest and long overdue album, Kettle Whistle. 
Perry Farrell (and his distinctive croons) along with 
Porno for Pyros bandmate Perkins regressed back to 
their former punk style and away from their hypnotic, 
elemental style of Porno for Pyros. Their instrumenta­tion and writing, as well as Farrell's voice combines with the riff-crazy Navarro and the just plain crazy Flea, and the result is pure ecstasy. With every note wafts the faint aroma of Perry's muse, the ocean. It is extremely rare to hear this much energy yet still maintain a poetic flair. 
Among these songs is very interesting rare footage of faves "Been Caught Stealing" and ·'Stop." A previ­ously unreleased, "My Cat's Name is Maceo," also hightlights the disc and captures the true nature~ of the band, without becoming overly sentimental. Yet, these songs represent just the surface of a truly great compilation. The final track, "City," although some­what comedic, reflects on acheiving fame. Well, Perry, you're famous, and it was definitely worth the extended wait for this album. 
Jane's Addiction may never release another album again, and chances are the band .will never tour again (and those of you who managed to see them live, con­sider yourself very lucky). However, their influence will be felt for a very long time. Like most truly great ­artists, Perry Farrell seems to have a grasp on the world and what his place is in it. It seems better to blow out the flame, than fade away. 
By Joey Crawford 

god street wine 

~~~~~

Tibet Freedom Concert 
(out of five stars) 

F
rom Tibetan monks to American punks, Tibetan Freedom Concert provides a great lis­tening experience. On November 4 Grand RoyaVCapitol Records released this triple CD set documenting the 1997 event in New York City. All proceeds. from the sales of these discs go to benefit the Milarepa Fund, a non-profit organization co­founded by the Beastie Boys to promote compassion through music and the organizers of the Tibetan Freedom Concerts. 
The three CDs provide an array of musical styles featuring bands such as U2, De La Soul, The Fugees, The John Spencer Blues Explosion, Beck, and REM. Discs one and two documentthe 1997 New York City concert. Disc three contains bonus tracks from the 1996 Tibetan Freedom Concert in San Francisco as well as an enhanced CD-ROM. 
The first two discs open and close with prayers from the same monks that the Beastie Boys sampled on Ill Communication. The line up at this event was incredible and this compilation captured the talent well with live recordings of U2 singing "One," the Foo Fighters with "This is a Call," and an acoustic perfor­mance of "Yellow Ledbetter" by Pearl Jam's Eddie Vedder and Mike McCready. "Electrolite" is played by Michael Stipe and Mike Mills of REM while De La Soul sing "Me, Myself, and 1." 
These CDs clearly take a political stance which is to be expected from an album compiled as a tribute to a concert which netted over $250,000 after expenses for Tibetan refugee projects in India and Nepal. The album advocates non-violence, in this case through music, as a means of obtaining freedom from fear. 
Alanis Morrisette's "Wake Up," The Fugees' "Fu Gee La," Rancid's "The Harder they Come," and 
,Radiohead's "Fake Plastic Trees" found their way onto this compilation. The Beastie Boys make their appearance with "Root Down" and Rage Against the Machine performs "Bulls on Parade." The Boston­based Mighty Mighty Bosstones perform "Noise Brigade" and KRS-1 does "The Bridge is Over." Other bands on Tibetan Freedom Concert include Bjork, Porno for Pyros, Sonic Youth, Oasis, Patti Smith, Blur, A Tribe Called Quest and Ben Harper. Cibo Matto, who topped the college music charts for months a year and a half ago, also contributes. 
The quality of the recordings are better than most other live albums I have encountered. This compila­tion contains everything from rap to alternative rock and from pop to punk. It is a CD set which I recom­mend. In addition to the album, a documentary movie on the concert in New York aired this past Tuesday at many universities across the country. 
By Nate Rackiewicz 
~*~~1/2

God Street l11ine 
(out of five stars) 

A
mong the increasingly popular crowd of grassroots jam bands such as Dave Matthews, Blues Traveler, and Phish, there is a band whose notoriety is gradually increasing with each of their seemingly endless stream of concerts. This band is God Street Wine, a Manhattan band which originated in 1988 and since then has grown from the status of New York bar band to up-and-coming national crowd pleaser. In the process, they've released five albums, two of which are on the Mercury label. The most recent release, God Street Wine, offers a refreshed selection of new songs. 
The album opens with "Diana," an upbeat, catchy opener with somewhat of a gospel sounding theme that comes as a result of the sound of Jon Bevo's key­boards. "Diana" also displays a good blend of harmo­ny in the acoustic guitar and vocal combination. 
#Adding a distinctive sound to the opener and other songs on the disc is the gritty guitar helping give a live feeling to the disc. The second song, "Feather" has the both gritty yet smooth blended feel not found on albums previous. While "Feather" isn't a "reach out and grab you" song at first, it exhibits a high­energy vibe which attracts the listener alongside a toe-tapping beat. Other notables are the light, peaceful "Silver" and 
-·  
"Happy Birthday Mr. President." "Silver" strikes a  
great balance among the piano, guitar, and vocals  
which are truly unique to GSW. What pulls in the lis­ 
tener the most in "Silver" is a refrain that holds the  
song together well. Meanwhile, "Happy Birthday Mr.  
President" flows with intensity and the excited sound  
they are known for on previous albums. According to  
the band, it was inspired by the Beatles, and this  
selection could be the best dance tune of the album  
with its in-your face energy. The album concludes  
with two m·ore laid back tunes that provide a pleasant  
conclusion to twelve songs.  
The band exerted quite an effort on this album to  
try to accentuate a more live sounding studio product  
to coincide with their on-stage reputation. Vocalist/  
guitarist Aaron Maxwell commented, "For this album,  
we didn't want it to be such a difference from the  
album to the live show, as far as the energy and emo­tion people are going to get from it." John Popper of  - 
Blues Traveler sits in on harmonica on many tracks,  
leading the band to loosen up and concentrate on a  
freer sound. The rejuvenated live sounds offer a  
promising sign for what GSW will offer in concert.  
Yet, one key reason this album deserves 4 1/2 stars is  
the way it grows on you.  
By Dave Clark  

tune in after Thanksgiving vveekend for your favorite top 1 0 lists and upcoming concerts 
-
--~---~--­

r­

1 
I 
I 
page 20 

NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference 
Atlantic 
W L Miami 6 3 New Jersey 5 3 New York 6 4 Orlando 6 4 Boston 5 5 Washington 4 6 Philadelphia 2 6 
Central 
Atlanta 11 0 Charlotte 5 3 


The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 20, 1997 
•NBA 

Backups magical in OT win 
Associated Press continued to play erratically on Jersey Nets made the Celtics lose offense, scoring 18 points on 8-their cool -and their four-game CLEVELAND for-25 shooting. winning streak ___: with a 108­Derek Strong came off the The Cavaliers led 81-61 with 100 victory on Wednesday night. bench to score 20 points and the 8:39 left, but Brian Evans and Coach Rick Pitino and Antoine Orlando Magic erased a 20-point sparked a 20-6 run. Evans, who Walker were ejected during the deficit in the fourth quarter to had 11 in a reserve role, second half as the Celtics saw beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 96-grabbed a loose ball and banked their record sli~ to 5-6. New 
93 in overtime Wednesday night. in a short jumper to cut it to 87-Jersey won its second straightThe Magic, who won their 78. and improved to 6-3. 
fourth straight without injured Strong sank three free throws, Pitino was called for two tech­Penny Hardaway, outscored then took a pass from former nicals and an ejection with 1:27 Cleveland 31-16 in the fourth Cav Mark Price and hit a jumper left in the third after Sam Cassell and 9-6 in the extra period to to cut it to 87-85 with 17 sec­had a steal and basket for an 82­deny the Cavs' the 1,000th victo­onds left. Armstrong then stole 79lead. 
ry in franchise history. Person's inbounds pass and Cassell hit both technicals 
Darrell Armstrong had 18 off raced in for a layup to tie it. before Dee Brown closed the the bench, including a steal and Former Cav Gerald Wilkins third quarter with a basket to layup with 14 seconds left that started the OT with a running make it 84-81. 
sent the game into overtime. one-hander. Strong followed The Nets opened the fourth 
The Cavs nearly atoned for with a jumper, and Armstrong quarter with five straight points blowing the big lead when made a layup to make it 93-87. including baskets by Cassell and Wesley Person hit a 3-pointer Price, who orchestrated so Williams and a free throw by
with 14 seconds left in overtime, many of the Cavs·· victories as Gatling after Walker was whis­
then stole the inbounds pass. But their point guard from 1986-95, tled for a flagrant foul and eject­he missed the ensuing 3-point had 10 points and five assists. As ed. attempt and Shawn Kemp always, he received a loud ova­The Celtics pulled to 91-87 on missed another one as the clock tion when introduced and was a rebound by Pervis Ellison, but 
expired. cheered on a couple of his bas­the Nets put the game away byCleveland rookie center kets. scoring 13 of the next 17 points
Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 21 Nets 108 including five by Williams and points and 15 rebounds against Celtics 100 four by Sherman Douglas. veteran Rony Seikaly, but it Cassell finished with 20 points
wasn't enough to keep the Magic Jayson Williams had 27 points while Gatling added 17 and 10 from making a late run. Kemp and 13 rebounds and the New rebounds. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Pet 
.667 
.625 
.600 .600 .500 .400 .250 
1.000 
.625 
GB 
.5 .5 .5 1.5 
2.5 3.5 
4.5 

NOTICES  CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR­TUNITY Earn a living while spread­ing God's word. Join Scriptures.  FOR SALE  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  I love to kiss TA's -colleen  just pour on your service people charm ...  
Sign up is FREE. To receive a  Near Campus-1338 Miner St.  sick, but effective....  irish girls love it I hear  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  FREE Info Pack call 1-800-585­ 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  
LaFortune Student Center  5873 option 3 and listen to  Roof, Siding & Carpet.  FOR SALE  hey wait a minute!  Tony is the best griller in the world.  
Store Hours  "Success with Scriptures." Please  Central Air & Full Basement  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  leave my I.D.#5237.  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  EVENING#: 288-2726  Ladies, prepare yourselves for the  Hey, is that the pointer sisters on  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  LOW PRICES  O'NEILL EXTRA VA-DANZA!!!  the radio?  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  Come one and come all!!!  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  SALES/MARKETING  Sega.Genesis w/ 2 cntrls,  FOR SALE  Hutch­ 
(closed home football Sat's)  Excellent opportunity. Part-time per­ 12 games, incl. Madden. FIFA. etc..  Attention ND/SMC seniors:  ! can't believe that I saw you. What  
Phone 631-COPY  son needed. We will work around  $200. Call x-1926.  N.D. G.A.'S  Any ND/SMC senior interested in a  a special day that was! I wish that I  
your schedule. Great income. Fax  joint service project at the Boys and  got to see you more often.  
Spring Break '98  resume to 1-800-333-7562 or leave name & number at 1-800-332-5643.  TICKETS  271-9412.  Girls Club on Mondays or Tuesdays from 2:30 to 4 p.m., please call 284­ Everytime my fingers touch the key­board I can't help but get sentimen­ 
Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas. &  WANTED N D G A'S  4397.  tal. I miss you so much! More than  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  TO ALL HOME GAMES  words can express.  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  ND VS.W. VA TIX  271 1526  -Kathleen  
& Go Free!  Wanted -male tutor for 17 yr old  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  fred­ 
1-800-234-7007  high school boy -meet twice weekly  MESSAGE  WHY is cat wet? what HAVE you  Justin Penn is a big weenie!!  
www.endlesssummertours.com  2 hours each time.  2 stud tix for sale. all home games.  been doing?!  
$30 per week. Call289-5149  ######## For Sale ########  Call4-3313  -holly  For years, we have been awaiting  
2 West Virginia student tickets  this event. Now that it is on the  
Lost and Found  (cheap!!)  For Sale: 4 VW GAs. 243-2643  ND Inquisition  horizon. I can't express my excite­ 
call Jenny@ 687-8435  http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  ment.  
REWARD: Lost gold shamrock pin.  WANTED 2 JANE'S ADDICTION  ########################  We're smarter than you.  
Date on back. Sentimental value.  TICKETS!!!!  Two WV GA's for sale.  Any SMC student interested in join­ 
·­ If found, please contact Louise at x4416.  Please help : 631-5144 or 256-1354. Ask for Zac.  2 West Virginia GA's for sale call Jen @ 687-8435 <-­ Call Shannon 4-3806  BED & BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219 291 7153  ing a great service organization on campus, consider Circle K.  
4 WVA GA's for SALE  Meetings are Sundays@ 8:15p.m.  
Found-Set of keys in DeBartolo. Call Kim at 4-4376:  FOR RENT  I need 1 GA for WV MattX1611  call Victoria@ x1073 FOR SALE: 4 GA's for WV game- Would you like a tossed salad today??????  in Haggar Parlor. Any new mem­bers are welcome. Current members: please turn in  
FOR SALE  x0680 (leave message)  Dude. Are you a rabbit or what?  dues ASAP.  
WALK TO CAMPUS  1 WV student tix  Questions, call 284-4397.  
LOST: Sapphire ring around SDH  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  CHEAP! call Brett @ 0773  come crash into me....  
at dinner Tuesday 11/11. Please  $195/PERSON  I got 2 REAL GA's for WVU -these  Katie is cool,  
- help me find it! REWARD. Theresa x2146  232-2595  4 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT 4 SALE 4 WV  are not those stinkin' student trade-ins. If you want them -call 634­ brad ;s one of our 'special' editors  Meg is cooler.  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  JASON X2010  1471  hi mark deman!  
HELP!!!!!!  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  We won't tell you what John is ..  
I lost my little clown! Help make the  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  If you have two GA's for WV and  I have 2 student section WV GA's  coli'  
world happy and send him home.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  can't get rid of them, please call  call Brett. x3361  yeah, yeah, yeah. but who  Hey Tiines -What 's the scope say  
Call Nick with info.  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  me. I have a friend who would love  wouldn't. why must we continue  
P.S.­No probes.  243-0658.  to see the game but cannot afford  this silly game? It grows weary and  I like squirrels.  
to buy them. Please call Shirley at  I HAVE 4 WV TIX  this old heart has endured enough.  
- WANTED  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  1-7471 before 3 pm or 272-3753 after 4 pm. Thank you. Help keep the stadium filled and make my  WILL SELL AT FACE CALLNICK246-1146 \­ why continue this chrade? -don antonio  Somethimg funny Hey gals! Like beef jerky, call John  
Elementary-Jr HS Girls Basketball  with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  friend happy.,  PERSONAL  Hey Sweet  Daily. He's a blast. x0815  
and Boys Ice Hockey Coach/s  Toll Road, Exit #107,  WV GA's 4-sale. $20 O.B.O  Daisy!  I have to leave now  
needed -responsible, dependable,  1-800-418-9487.  Justin 4-1722  000 Looking for a unique gift?  
studenVgrad to coach 5th-8th grade  Bring in your favorite pictures  Thirsty Thursday Nocture:  
girls basketball or boys ice hockey  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  2WVGA's  and we'll create a personalized  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Nyx and Johnny Utah offer up the  
team/s Jan-Mar. for south side  PROPERTIES.  45 yd ln. x1998  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  LaFortune Student Center  best in 80s music and the best in  
independent school, located near  THE COPY SHOP  .J High-Speed Copies  college rock, every Thursday from  
Scottsdale Mall on Miami.Street. Must be available for practice Man­ 272-6551  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS  LaFortune Student Center  .J Canon Color Laser Copies .J Digital Color Printing  12 until 2 a.m. on 88.9 WSND-FM  
Thus from 1 :30­ 6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ BUY -SELL -TRADE  Andrea­ .J Binding & Laminating  Worm, LOOK AT ME!  
2:30 or 2:15-3:15. Game schedule  6551  You are the champion of champs.  ..J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
- varies with games beginning after  232-0058  Breakfast is so much fun with you!  Phone 631-COPY  Mukalakaheekee Tootie  
shcool at 4:00,  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­ -Mel  
5:00. or 6:00 p.m. Paid position. Call 291-4200 to apply.  TER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC.  wafflehead is on the move...  good luck in minneapolis...  Johnny dearest just wait until Saturday morning  


Thursday, November 20, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
No. 4 Heels roll behind Jamison and Williams 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND. Va. 

Antawn Jamison scored 26 points and Shammond Williams had 21 and 13 assists Wednesday night as No. 4 North Carolina dominated inside in an 84-65 victory against Richmond. 
The Tar Heels (2-0) did almost all of its scoring under­neath and shot 63.5 percent, whjle Richmond (1-1) tried to 
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~==~....lost. 92-73, to Texas Tech in 
the second round of the NCAA Tournament two years ago.
NOTRE DAME HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 
Public Welcome... 
on the campus ofNotre Dame 
Phone (219) 631-2000 


rediscover the 3-point touch that lifted them to a double­overtime victory against Virginia on Sunday night. 
After making a school-record 12 3-pointers against the Cavaliers, Richmond added 11 more, but needed 32 attempts as the Spiders were forced to shoot from the perimeter all night. The Spiders shot 42.4 percent overall. 
Jarod Stevenson led Richmond with 24 points, 
Irish Courtyard 
Hours: Friday 3:00pm-1 0:30pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm 
"Come join us for Irish festivities and football weekend fun!" 
~ 101n9G ·1·n .\Ul-1 IIVIJfl';;tlJA .. . . . -· 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS A 
!STRATION 
CARDINAL O'HARA LEC~J.JRE SERil ON BUSINESS ET~ICS 


F. BYRON NASHER 
PRESIDENT AN FRANK c. NASHER, 
Learnin 
···:.·:·

Re
.·a··di.···.J/t··········h·······... ·e·
.........,.,.,:.k,,. .. 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2 
····~~r:· :.. 

jORDAN AUDITORIUM ~2i~!lt~E STRATION 
SRB
Notre Dame Center 
a 
1 --~­
for Ethics and Religioli~ ;i:t; 
Students for Values in Business Responsible Business 
• 
Grilled Burgers & Brats 

• 
Cold Beverages 

• 
Big Screen T.V.s 

• 
All Under a Large Tent 


Dining Room 
• 
Casual Dining Serving Daily, Breakfast, Lunch, and Dinner 

• 
Reservations Recommended 


Jonathan Baker added 12 on four 3-pointers and Marseilles Brown had 11. 
The Tar Heels struggled working the ball inside early, but once Jamison started find­ing room, the smaller Spiders were helpless. 
He had 16 points by half­time, and all came from within five feet or at the free-throw line. 
J11.mison, who sat out North Carolina's opener against 
• 
Notre Dame Souvenirs 

• 
Live "Irish Band" Fri. 4:00pm-1 0:30pm Sat. 1 O:OOam-2:00pm 


Cocktail Lounge 
• 
Sandwich and Appetizer Menu Available Daily 

• 
Popular Campus Gathering Spot 


Middle Tennessee State with a hyperextended right elbow, showed no ill-effects, scoring 13 in a 9-minute stretch of the first half when the Tar Heels took the lead. 
North Carolina used two 11­0 runs in the second half to seal it, keeping Bill Guthridge unbeaten as Dean Smith's replacement after 36 years. 
The victory came in North Carolina's first appearance at the Robins Center since they 
The Tar Heels are 14-2 against Richmond. 
Brown, 1-for-10 from 3-point range against Virginia, made three in the first eight minutes against the Tar Heels and Stevenson had another as Richmond led 16-13. The Spiders had six threes in the opening 20 minutes. 
North Carolina scored 31 of its 37 points either from within five feet or at the foul line and finished the half shooting 68.2 percent. Williams' two 3-point­ers were the Tar Heels only points from outside. 
KAT 

Antawn Jamison poured in 26 points as the Heels defeated Richmond. 
~ ~ ~ 
I I 
-I I I I 
I 

.. 

~p~ag~e~l~4~---------------------------------------,~~~~~~~~~~._._.__.._._._.__._.._._._._T.h•u•rs•d•a~November20, 1997 
• NFL 
Phillips in trouble with St. Louis again 
KAT 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS Lawrence Phillips is in trouble again. 
The St. Louis Rams don't quite know what to do with their second-year running back, who after a sitdown with coach Dick Vermeil early Wednesday skipped a team meeting and then was a no-show for prac­tice. So far, no disciplinary action has been taken. 
The Rams could release Phillips, who has a personal behavior clause in his contract, although they're not to that point yet. 
But Vermeil said he doesn't know if Phillips will play again this year and plans on starting Jerald Moore at tailback on Sunday against the Carolina Panthers. 
"It doesn't look good right now," Vermeil said. "Maybe we can help him and maybe we can't. Maybe it'll all rectify itself tomorrow. Some guys have a way ~: creating their own prob­lems. 
Vermeil would not comment 

on rumors the walkout is relat­
ed to problems Phillips is hav­
ing off the field. Phillips' agent, 
Mitch Frankel. did not return a 
message. Rams players were 
surprised to hear the news. 
"It's too bad," backup quar­
terback Mark Rypien said. "I 
like Lawrence as much as any­
body on this team because he 
really busts his butt on 
Sunday." 
Center Mike Gruttadauria 
said he didn't even notice 
Phillips wasn't at practice until 
Vermeil broke the news. 
"''m so focused on the game 
plan, I can't see anything else," 

-
Gruttadauaria said. 
Phillips' rookie season in. 1996 was marred by a myriad of legal woes, a knee injury and a training-camp holdout. Earlier this year, he spent 23 days in a Nebraska jail for vio­lating probation stemming from the assault on a former girl­friend when he at Nebraska. 
Phillips has 633 yards ­more than he gained all last season -and is tied for the NFC lead with eight touch­downs. 
Rams' tailback Lawrence Phillips has run into trouble off the field again for missing team functions. 
WIN Six FREE TICKETS 
Visit us on the web and find out how to win six free* round-trip tickets any¥~here American flies in the continental U.S. See web page far rules ond specifics. 
SPECIAL LW AIR FARES 
Sign up for College S~Aver Fares"' and Net S~ver Fares'M announcing special savings to selected destinations via your e-mail. 
RECEIVE TRAVEL CERT1FICATES 
Receive American Airlines/Citibonk" Student Travel Savings Certificates when you're approved for a no-annual-fee Cilibank credit card. 
cw.ecr IADvANTM2 MILES 
Enroll in the Mdvontage travel awards program and also learn about many other ways to travel for less with American. 
AmerlcanAirlines· 
Americantaft 

.. 
llESIIlK:.lJ.!J· •NO PUaCHASE OR BOOKING NECESSAIY. Sweepstakes ~n only to lefvl residents of the Unlled States of America who are full-time students at a college or universiry located in the U.S.A., aged 18 or older as of the date of entry. 1. How to Eoten Sign up to receive American's College SAAver Fares e-mail on the 
~n~.:.A==~~~';7~~~~:J::eivedbe~~t:59~.;~~r!em~~~U~~;l~~~~;:ybeatso~~~~bernat~;,~:!=~~9c;~t~~ci!e~::~o~esewill~~~~re:i~~;~~·~:~~~~:=·t~~r:,.~t
Odds of winning depend on number of eligible entries ~ived Other rules and restrictions apply. A complete list of sweepstakes rules will be p:asted on American Airlines web site, or for a copy of sweepstakes rules, send a self-addressed, stamped envelope by December 30, t997,to CoUese SAAver F~ SWttpstakes Rules, P.O. Box 165447, Irving. TX 75016-5-447. 
1. ODe (1) Gtmd Prize: Six (6) round-trip travel passes, bavin8: an approximate combined total cash value d $2,000.00, that are good for Economy Class travel on American Airlines for one (1) person f~r one (l) year from the date of the postmark on lhe affldavil cJ eligibility and liabihty/publiciry release exeruted by the winner. Tr:~.vel may be to any loc:anon in the 48 contiguou.s United Slates, Bermuda, The Bahamas, Canada, Mextro and the Caribbean to which American Airlines Hies. Tr:~.vel passes are transferable but all taxes, airport fees and all other expenses assocated with their ~ will be the sole responsibility of lhe winner. Tr.!oVel arrangements are subject to availabUity Blackout dates and olher mtrictions apply Sweepstakes void in Puerto Rico and wherever prohib~ by law 3. The name of the winner will be posted on the American Airlines web site. You may also obWn the winner's name by sending a self-addrts5ed, stamped envelope, by ~r 30, 1997, to: College SAAver Fares W'llltlel', P.O. Box l65+i7, Irving, TX 75016-5417. American Airlines, American Eagle and AAdvantage are regisered trademarks. College SAAver Fares is a service mark, and Net SAAver Fares is a trademark, of American Airlines, Inc. American Eagle is Amenc2n's ~~ 2SSOC.iate. American AJrl1nes ~~ rishr to change AAdvlintase program ruJes, rc-gularioru, tmvel 01watds and sp«i.il offers at any time Without ootice", and co end me AA.dv:aru:age program w1th six rnondls notice. American Airlines is not responsible for produas or seMcts offered by other participating companies. Schedules suh;ea to change without notice. C1997 American Airlines, Inc. AU rights ~ed. Printed in the U.S.A. 
Thursday, November 20, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
------~----------------------------------------­
C on g rat u 1ation s Ia jOANNA DEETER, Honda Award Nominee. 
·-­

{ Xow lh'al's yo/nylo lao£yreal on a resume. } 
E
very year, the Honda Awards Program recognizes the rop collegiate women athletes in each of eleven NCAA sports. While you may recall hearing about the thirteen 1996-97 winners of this award, you may not have known about your school's other 
nominees. They are also at the top of their individual sports, and provide inspiration and motivation to other female athletes all over the country. For this distinction, a $1,000 donation will be made to the general scholar­ship fund of each of their schools. And this should most likely add to an already impressive performance record. 

C 1997 Ameril--dn Honda ~lotor (',o.., Inc. 


-· 
I 
I I I I I I 
: I 
I I I 
! I -~ 
I I 
I I I I I 
I 
page 16 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
Michigan State head coach George Perles, has expressed serious interest in landing Notre Dame in Detroit for the bowl's inaugural contest. The game will be played on Dec. 26 in the Silverdome and guarantees a minimum pay day of $750,000, with an increase to $1 million if it is sold out. 
Marshall, which boasts Heisman Trophy candidate and former Notre Dame signee Randy Moss, will take on Toledo in the MAC title game for the right to go bowling in Detroit. 
The Las Vegas Bowl (guess where this one is played) and the Humanitarian Bowl, which is played in Boise, Idaho, are the remaining at-large bids available to the Irish. 
Below are the potential invita­tions which would only come Notre Dame's way given a par­ticular regular season scenario. 
The Liberty Bowl, under its current contractual obligations, must offer bids to the champion of Conference-USA (Southern Mississippi) and the No. 4 team in the Big East. The No. 4 team in the Big East, however, is 5-5 Miami. The Hurricanes would not be bowl-eligible with a sub­. 500 record, and they will face No. 21 Syracuse this weekend. 
A Miami loss would toss the Liberty Bowl into the middle of the Irish sweepstakes. Held in Memphis, Tenn., on Dec. 31, the Liberty Bowl would guarantee Notre Dame $1 million to take on Southern Miss. 
The Insight.com Bowl will take place on Dec. 27 in Tucson, Ariz. It is supposed to pit the runner up in the WAC against Big 12's No. 6 squad. Colorado, 

JAZZMAN~s 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
lND ANNUAL BRING A PARENT PARTY 
NOVEMBER 21ST FEATURING 
SKALCOHOLICS 
(7PCS SKA & FUNK BAND WITH HORNS) WITH SPECIAL GUEST BAND 
GRAVITY HILL 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper IDs $3.00 with College ID-$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security -Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before ll:OOpm, OR Bring a Parent and save $2.00 with student ID and a parent before ll:OOpm 
Coming Soon Thursday, Dec. 4 TASHI STATION 
IIf)f~Iii~Y 
'rlltJilSI)ilY, Nf)\'. 2f) 
7 :()() 
l'S. 

----------.. ---------------,------------------------------. 

Autry Denson and the rest of the Irish backfield will have to continue their success if Notre Dame hopes to grab an at-large bid in a bowl. 
at 5-5. presently holds the sixth position in the Big 12. If the Buffaloes lose to No. 3 Nebraska at home on Saturday, however, the Big 12 will only finish with five teams eligible for bowls, opening up a spot in the Insight.com Bowl for an at-large team. 
It is likely that the WAC repre­sentative will be Air Force, and there is no need to explain how much that would mean to any Irish player who was around last season. The Insight.com Bowl pays $750,000. 
The Gator Bowl is a long shot for Notre Dame. A bid to play in Jacksonville, Fla., on Jan. 1 could only be offered to the Irish if the alliance accepts both Florida State and North Carolina from the ACC. That would most likely require an Arizona State collapse in its fmal game against Arizona on Nov. 28. Syracuse will most likely be the opponent should the Irish find their way to Florida. 
Of course, Saturday's show­down with West Virginia is a much bigger game for the Irish than any of the above bowl games will be. All of the above is meaningless without a Notre Dame victory this weekend. 
Two more wins f(}r the Irish however, and bowl officials will be falling all over each other to woo Notre Dame to their respec­tive holiday extravaganzas . 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Thursday, November 20, 1997 
Thinknfus 
as your scHool bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Mlaway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For Information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 www.busville.com 

I I~ITI=n II~AO 
Vi ~i i i.i.i' i.ii i ~~ 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  .  (via Tri State Coach­ Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:20a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  '  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m.  
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m.  
2:00p.m.  "  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m.  
4:00p.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  

Thursday, November 20, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Irish looking for a pair of wins in next three days 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish hockey team squares ofT against Ferris State University tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center for Central Collegiate Hockey Association action. The Irish travel to Big Rapids. Mich., for Saturday night's contest against the Bulldogs. 
"We know that this is the kind of team that we have to beat," exclaimed senior forward Lyle Andrusiak, who had tallied three goals this past weekend. "These are two very important games and they are ones that we should win." 
Both the CCIIA coaches' poll and the CCHA media poll have Ferris State ranked below the Irish. The Bulldogs, however, own a five-game winning streak against the Irish and averaged 
3.38 goals last season. They also return three out of their top scorers from last season's squad. 
Two victories would give the Irish four pre­cious points and would help them climb the CCHA ladder. 
"This week was a normal grind," observed sophomore defenseman Sean Seyferth. "We have a lot of big games left before Christmas, and we want to put ourselves in a good situa­tion before then. We want to have a good stretch here until the holiday break." 
The Irish come ofT a weekend in which they split their CCHA games, falling to Miami 5-4 in the final seconds but defeating Ohio State 3-2 in a game in which all their goals were special teams goals {including two short-handed goals). 
The victory against Ohio State demonstrated the team's resiliency and also its ability to win the games that it should, a quality egregiously lacking from last year's squad. 
One season ago, the Irish flirted with briJc liance with eye-opening wins but lacked the consistency to play the same quality game against lesser opponents. This year, however, is different. 
"We didn't get all the wins we should have last year," recalled Andrusiak. "But we are a better team this year. When you win, you develop the attitude that you're among the best teams in the league, and that can give you important momentum going into other games:" 
How have the Irish prepared for the Bulldogs? 
"We get their tendencies from the coaches," stated Seyferth, "and we make a few adjust­ments for their style. But mostly we work on our game and get them to adjust to us." 
Keys to the game will be playing solid hockey and avoiding foolish mistakes. 
"We have to stay under control." stated Andrusiak, "and we need to avoid dumb penal­ties. We're strong enough and fast enough to play with everyone in this league, but bad deci­sions can cost us." 
If they Irish are able to avoid bad decisions, the Bulldogs will be butchered. 

Happy 20th Birthday, Heather! 

Love, Ben, Mark, Tobias, & Sven (The Monkey) 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 


• 
Nationally • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 


• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 


CELEBRATE OUR 


DAY ALU~NI/SR. CLUB 
5-7P~ 
~USI' BE 21 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


I 


The Observer/Joe Stark 

The home and away series with the underdog Bulldogs will be a good evaluation of how the hockey team stands this season . 
.::Jrl.1he C~sh_w_a_C_e_n-te_r__,, lJF 
PRFSENTS 
The Hibernian Lecture 
The Politics of Ethnic Conflict: James Michael Curley and the Boston Irish 
James J. Connolly Department of History Ball State University 
Friday, November 21, 1997 4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
-. 
.. 
... 


The Observer/Joe Stark 
Senior hitter Jaimie Lee has helped lead the Irish to three straight Big East regular season titles. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
pie initially invited to try out for the World University Games team. 
She traveled to the Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs and trained for 11 weeks before surviving the cut from 18 to 12 players. Two weeks after placing second in the Canada Cup in August, Lee competed in Italy on the national squad, taking the silver medal. 
"Many people who saw Jaimie play towards the end of '96 might have thought she-couldn't improve much more," Brown said. "But the combination of her great spring and her experience with the national team program has meant so much to her devel­opment. She has the ability to be one of the top players in the country, and she has worked hard to put herself in that posi­tion." 
Lee has proved to be just as strong off the court. She is a candidate for academic All-American status and has been nominated this year for the pres­tigious NCAA Top VIII award. 

The end of the 1997 season will signify the conclusion to the careers of Lee and Angie Harris, one of the best classmate duos in Notre Dame history. 
Lee and Harris are on pace to become the first Irish classmates to average more than four kills per game each. During their career, they have combined for just under seven kills per game, also first in Irish history. 
"I think that Angie and I com­plement each other well," Lee said. "We're relied a lot on offen­sively. We challenge each other a lot during practice, and I think I've improved a lot thanks to her." 
Individually, Lee owns no less than nine spots on the Irish record board. She is one of only two players to rank in the top 10 for aces, blocks, assists, digs, kills and hitting percentage, in company only with former team­mate Jenny Birkner. 
"One of the great things about Jaimie is that she has worked very hard to improve in all phas-

Where: 
·s 
{~~~ 
\JLUJJ 

When: Thursday Night November 20, 1997 
Donations will be collected at the door 
Sponsored by the Young Executives Club
'"" 
Saint Mary's 
I I ~ 
I College 
I 
I I 
Celebrates his 
I 
I 
I I ~< 60~"" .,
I .. L . .l.lg •• 
! ­
lirfl\t1.Y 
Today! 

es of her game," Brown remarked about Lee's presence. "She became a very tough server last season and made huge strides in her ball control, defense and passing skills during the spring. Jaimie had meant so much to this program and has been an excellent leader to the team. If anyone is deserving of a special senior year, it's Jaimie." 

Games team and competing in Italy. . 
Take the less-traveled 
road 

Fr. Jim King, c.s.c. 

Fr. Bill Wack. c.s.c. 
Give us one year. Give yourself the chance. 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate 'Program contact 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER""d;" THECALLW 

Notre Dame Goes Cold Turkey 
Join the Notre Dame Community for The Great American Smokeout on November 20, 1997 
Turn in your tobacco products and receive a couponfor a FREE turkey sandwich 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following times and locations: 
Grace Hall~ 10:00~10:45 a.m. Joyce Center Gate 2 ~ 11 :00~ 11:45 a.m. LaFortune~ 11:00a.m.~2:00p.m. Both Dining Halls~ 11:00a.m.~2:00p.m. Library Concourse ~ 1:00~ 1 :45p.m. Hurley Main Lobby~ 2:00~2:45p.m. Building Services Break Room~ 3:00~3:45p.m. 
ToBAcco CESSATION MATERIALS WILL BE AVAILABLE 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth Faculty /Staff Wellness Program, Food Services and The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 





Thursday, November 20, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
DILBERT OOGBER.I RESEARCH CO. ~ 
1----------------t~ 
0 

FIRST QUE5TION: WHAT ~ WOULD YOU LOSERS DO Ul ~ 


/o -fRAb£ 1f1AI ClqAR£1"-r£ foR A YU!'!I'!Y -ruRKEY SA#t>WJc:u? 
fl 

5!'1o/<,£D, BUT 1 F YoU NEED ME lo DISPoSE oF 1}/0SE PAC/(5 foR 
You J. 1-./1 LL. ? 
MIKE PETERS 
t>.NO TEN (;UCKS TO
BURE~U 

BORROW 
A PEN. 
Of 



WE. WOULD COM.~L~1N TO 1\-\E ... Ul"'\ ... WHO­EVER HI\NOLE.5 IHI\1 
!F 1\. SMALL DOG WITH .. 0 ~ 
SORT Of GLA5SE5 TOOK ADVANTf>.GE. ~ 
'THING! 
YE~H! 
OF YOU? 

I J 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 28 Mrs. John 52 Like a hermit Quincy Adams 
54 Robin's1 Petit chapeau 

and others 
residence

6 Crosswordy ratite 30Wraps 55 It towers over 
9 Theater box 32 Actress Taormina Penelope-560
13 Its capital is Miller
Oranjestad 57 Univ. recruiter 14 "-Life of 33 Use clippers 
59 Genius Johnson" 35 Turtle dove 62 Kind of board 
(classic 36 Genius 65 Hotel chain biography) 42"-66 Like a carpet 
16-Caesar 
questions?" 67 Associate with 
(Caligula) 43 Bartoli riffraff
17 Genius performance 68Lao-­
18 Teetotalers 44-Berg, the 69 Hot pot and 
20Torso's Intellectual of otherswashboard Baseball
21 British baby bearer 45 Convertibles 
DOWN 

23-Domini 49 Collected works 25 French number 51 Substance from 1 It plays it with three D's which the 2 Mouths, to 27 Ones, when universe was 16-Across marching created 3 One who'd like to know more 4 Classic 1896 ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Alfred Jarry play 
5 "No sweat!" 24 It's outlawed 
6 Tidal movement 26 Horned
7 Upright goddess8 In working order 29 Shorthander,9 Writer Deighton for short 

10 Op-ed artist Pat 
31 First name in E+:+.:~ llli.t:::-t:~:-1 11 Expresses 
late-night TV anger, fn a way 

341990 BB-::-t.iiil -::+:-r.:-tr.:t:-•lll"::-t:-1r::t-:t::1 12 Pleasant Matsushita 
distraction 

acquisition 15 Know-it-all 37 Nepalese capital 38 Press 
390newho doesn't know much 

40---chef 53 Medleys 41 Toe in the water sa Butterfingers' 45 Manhattan remark 
ingredient 60 Actor Alastair 46 Changes a suit 6122S 47 Agreeable 63 Maimonides, for 48 Most artful one so Just know 64 Spots 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Aries: Expect a high energy day with a little pause for breath by evening. Large dramatic gestures make your point, but they can also make a mess. 
Taurus: Relationships could be the source of big trouble today. Remember what you like about some­one else, even if it means changing the subject. 
Gemini: Problems might turn into heated debate. Your brain power, properly used, can get you into and out of all kinds of mischief. 
Cancer: It's a good day for negotiating contracts and covering details. You find yourself laughing aloud at an obvious joke that no one else seems to understand. Treat yourself to a movie or a comfort food. 
Leo: With the moon in Leo's house, you have no choice but to go for the gold. Anything you attempt is likely to be successful. Keep your eye on the ball and aim high. 
Virgo: Keep your feelings to yourself today, even if it requires shutting out the world for a little while. You remind yourself of a pot about to .boil over. Unwind socially as soon as you are able to face people again. 
Libra: Friends and family inspire you to do great things today. You are relieved at a chance to focus outward after spend­ing so much time on a rela­tionship. Get a project in motion and worry about the details later. 
Scorpio: Remain humble to avoid falling hard from a greater height. This is not a good day to ask for a favor or a raise. Have a reliable stress reduction technique in hand when your Internet connection fails. 
Sagittarius: Your social life may !Je a little quiet today, but you could use the break. Review your travel plans or visit some­one you don't often see. Even though it's not a three-ring circus right now, you're still the center of attention. 
Capricorn: Expect prob­lems with a client today, especially if you are elbow­deep in his business. Help a customer maintain the illusion that she is always right, even when she's clueless. 
Aquarius: Relationships can be liberating and limit­ing at the same time. Spend the day with your partner remembering why you are a couple. Sometimes you are guilty of thinking too much. 
Pisces: You feel a little persecuted by what seem like unreasonable demands today. Maybe nothing has changed except your ener­gy level. Consider adopting a pet who needs your care and attention. 

.. ~ 
... 

-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, November 20, 1997 
• fOOTBAll.. 

Possibilities abound if Irish can do their part 
.... 
• Vou.EYBALL 

Lee re-writes ND record book 
By BILL HART 
Sporrs Writer 
The end of the 1997 season will mark the conclusion to one of the most successful classes in Notre Dame volleyball history. The class of 1998 has helped the 

..... 
Irish advance 
to the NCAA 
tournament 
each of the 
past three 
seasons, as 
,____.-.c 
well as win Lee 
three Big East 
regular season titles. 
While these two remarkable achievements only became a reality as the result of a com­bined team effort, one of the key players who helped Notre Dame rise to one of the elite teams in Division I volleyball is senior hit­ter Jaimie Lee. 
Even before Lee came to Notre . Dame, it was already clear that she had a great deal of talent. After helping lead her high school to a share of the confer­ence title, she was named one of 10 Volleyball Monthly all­Americans. as well as a second­team all-American from USA Today.

.. 
"[Head coach Debbie) Brown really had an influence in choos­ing Notre Dame," Lee said. "The fact that she was on the U.S. national team really had an influence on me." 

During the 1994 season, Lee led the team in blocks, and was named to the all-tournament squad of the-Shamrock and Golden Dome Invitationals. At the end of the season. she earned a spot on the Midwest Collegiate Conference all-rookie team. 
It was Lee's sophomore year, though, where she had a break­through season. In Notre Dame's first year in the Big East, she led the Irish in kills 14 times. She and classmate Angie Harris became the third duo in Irish history to top 420 kills in the same season. 
After the Irish took their first Big East title, she helped lead them to the NCAA Mideast Regional. 
Things were looking bright for the Notre Dame volleyball team going into the start of the 1996 season. Unfortunately, as is the case with many teams, injuries hampered the Irish's play throughout the season. 
Two weeks before the season began, then-junior Carey May suffered a separated shoulder during a routine practice. 
Without another setter on the squad, Lee was forced to fill in despite minimal experience at the position. 
"Actually, setting was the most fun at a position I've ever had," Lee said about last season. "I enjoy hitting, and setting was stressful at times, but the fun outweighed the stress." 
However, despite having to step in as setter for the first 14 matches, Lee had another remarkable season. In the Shamrock Invitational to open the season, she earned tourna­ment MVP and Big East player of the week honors by leading the offense to three-game wins over three opponents. 
After team injuries healed, she was able to return to a hitting position, providing a much-need­ed boost to the Irish front court. In the final 20 matches after Lee was moved to hitter, she led the team with 3.78 kills per game. By the end of the season, she had once again earned all-dis­trict honors, and was named Big East player of the year. 
During the off-season before her senior year, Lee had a chance to continue to compete on another level. During the summer, she was one of 10 peo­
see IRISH I page 18 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Where will the Irish be head­ing over Christmas Break? 
If they are unable to come out on top in their final two games of the regular season, the answer is home to sit in front of their televisions -the same place they spent last December and January. 
But if they do close out the season by extending their cur­rent winning streak to five games, the final decision on their post-season rate will be an interesting one indeed. 
There has been speculation that Notre Dame, at 7-5, would turn down any invitation to a bowl in which Notre Dame could not improve its national ranking. However, such a requirement is vague and remains open to a number of subjective opinions. 
If you ask the players and coaches, though, it is dear that they would be in favor of accepting any bowl bid. 
"We're honestly just taking it one step at a time," explained Irish head coach Bob Davie. "But this team is extremely excited about the progress they've made, and they'd be excited about playing at the end of the year." 
Senior captain Ron Powlus echoes his coach's sentiments and leaves no doubt about his personal post-season plans. 
"We'd like to play in a bowl game," stated the fifth-year quarterback. "No question we'd be happy to play in any bowl game." 
There are a numbnr of bowls still considering the Irish. They include the Independence Bowl, the Liberty Bowl, the Insight.com Bowl (formerly the Copper Bowl), the Gator Bowl. the Las Vegas Bowl, the Motor City Bowl, and the Humanitarian Bowl. 
Only four of these have an automatic at-large bid to offer. In other words, the remainder of the bowls must take certain conferenc:e teams, as long as they qualify for a bowl by win­
ning  a  certain  numbnr  of  
games.  
Let us  first eonsider the at­ 

large possibilities. 

The Independence Bowl is played on Dec. 28 in Shreveport. La., and matches up the SEC's fifth-placed team against an at­large opponent. The contest will be televised on ESPN. 
Pesky Hill, -6 member of the Independence Bowl selection committee who attended Notre Dame's upset of No. 11 LSU last Saturday, indicated that the SEC representative is likely to be Auburn or Mississippi. The pay­out is approximately $850,000 per team. 
The Motor City Bowl, whose executive director is former 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
Jaimie Lee has been a key contributor for the Irish volleyball squad for the past three years and was named Big East player of the year in '96 . 

vs. West Virginia vs. Ferris State November 22, 2:30 p.m. 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
• Irish hockey preview 
vs. Nebraska 

at Duke, November 23, I p.m. 
November 22, 7 p.m. 
see page 17 Women's Swim at Arizona 
Basketball at Kalamazoo, • North Carolina basketball 
November 21, 10 a.m. 

November 21, 8 p.m. 
see page 12 

---------------~-------­
~--~~------~-------~-------­

------------------~------------------~---------------------------------------­
Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, November 21, 1997 
FIGHTIN' IRISH 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

The ability of Bobby Brown to get open on Saturday will be a key for Notre Dame. 
42 

First Downs Rushing Passing Penalty Rushing Yardage Rushing Attempts Average Per Rush Average Per Game TO's Rushing Passing Yardage Att-Cmp-lnt Average Per Pass Average Per Catch Average Per Game TO's Passing Total Offense Total Plays Average Per Play Average Per Game ND 
22.9 
217 
98 
99 
20 
1755 
422 
4.2 
175.5 
19 
1907 
277-171-8 
6.9 
11.2 
190.7 
8 
3662 
699 
5.2 
366.2 
55 
Opp 20.2 207 100 94 13 1815 416 4.4 181.5 18 1888 
278-166-11 6.8 11.4 188.8 5 3703 694 5.3 370.3 

Kickoff Return Average Punt Return Average lnt Return Average Fumbles-Lost Penalties-Yards 70-621 Average Per Punt 42.3 Time of Possession/Game 30:30 29:29 3rd Down Percentage .46% 42% 4th Down Percentage 29% 38% Sacks By-Yards 17-118 16-115 
Individual Statistics Rushing Att Yds Avg TD Long Avg/G Denson 210 981 4.7 10 50 98.1 Stokes 61 311 5.1 2 20 34.6 Barry 28 148 5.3 0 23 14.8 Driver 33 124 3.8 3 12 12.4 Spencer 21 102 4.9 1 23 10.2 
Passing Effie Att-Cmp Pet Yds TD Avg/G Powlus 126.0 263-166 63.1 1822 8 182.2 Jackson 84.5 12-5 41.7 85 0 17.0 
ReceivingNo Yds Avg TD Long Avg/G Brown 40 488 12.2 5 39 48.8 
Denson 29 1 47 18.3 Nelson 22 0 44 29.4 Getherall 9 11.4 0 20 20.6 
Punt Returns No Yds Avg TD Long Rossum 10 44 4.4 0 12 Denson 3 24 8.0 0 13 
Kick Returns No Yds Avg TD Long Rossum 17 516 30.4 2 93 Driver 10 186 18.6 0 49 Denson 5 93 18.6 0 33 Harper 4 58 14.5 0 23 Sanders 2 19 9.5 0 10 
Field Goals FGM-FGA Pet ·Long Blkd Sanson 5-10 50.0 45 0 Cengia 2-4 50.0 29 0 
Defensive UT AT Total ForLoss Sacks lnt-Yds Friday 49 48 97 1-5 2.0-10 0 Dansby 49 39 88 9-28 1.5-26 0 Minor 46 23 69 8-29 2.5-27 3-50 Bryant 34 31 65 4-7 3.0-17 0 

MOUNTAINEERS 
Passing 92 4th Down Conversion 4-9 Punting No Yds Avg LongTB FC Penalty 24 Baumann 48 1914 39.9 69 2 5 Rushing Yards 1129 Individual Statistics Average Per Rush 3.5 Rushing Att Yds Avg TO Long Avg/G Punt Returns No Yds Avg TD Long Average Per Game 177.6 125.4 Zereoue 191 1120 5.9 11 54 140.0 Terry 24 276 11.5 0 54 TO's 19 9 Keaton 59 269 4.6 3 24 29.9 Fisher 1 0 0.0 0 0 Passing Yards 1725 1917 Mott 17 93 5.5 1 16 23.3 Thompkins 1 28 28.0 1 28 Att-Cmp-lnt 226-135-6 311-165-15 Green 9 74 8.2 1 29 9.3 Matt 1 4 4.0 0 4.0 Average Per Catch 12.8 11.6 White 17 65 3.8 1 12 7.2 Average Per Game 191.7 213.0 Kickoff Returns No Yds Avg TD Long TO's 11 15 Passing Effie Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds TD Avg/G Terry 21 543 25.9 2 100 Total Offense 3323 3046 Bulger 136.62 12-129-6 60.8 162411 180.4 Keaton 7 149 21.3 0 38 Plays 586 634 Seider 103.4 14-6-0 42.9 101 0 25.3 Plants 2 10 5.0 0 10 Average Per Play 5.7 4.8 Porter 1 25 25.0 0 25 Average Per Game 369.2 338.4 Receiving No Yds Avg TD Long Avg/G Kick Returns-Yards 31-727 30-645 Foreman 53 681 12.8 5 46 75.7 Interceptions No Yds Avg TD Long Punt Returns-Yards 27-308 23-214 Ivy 18 269 14.9 1 57 33.6 Green 4 143 35.8 1 83 INT's-Yards 15-249 6-122 Greene 14 193 13.8 0 35 21.4 Terry 4 0 0.0 0 0 
Photo courtesy of West Virginia Athletic Department Fumbles-Lost 20-10 13-6 Wable 13 189 14.5 3 27 21.0 Sensabaugh 2 64 32.0 1 64 
Amos Zereoue will offer a similar challenge 
Penalties-Yards 84-701 63-519 Becht 8 124 15.5 1 35 13.8 Bastien 2 17 8.5 0 11 

to the Irish as Kevin Faulk did a week ago. 
, 2 71.-1.1. 77 Notre -Dame--2--::--------71.---~-~----::PA"""'·._.,-----._;__S_a_i,---nt_M_ar_y_!fs___,jlsunday:
.. __ 
_____________ 12 p.m.-1 a.m. 11 
~GIZIJe GEl!! GEl!! 
r-~1/ll~:l 111\ 1 1\--.--ll~ 1111..1'1' c--.---~'fitt1J;---.--1\l,.\ \!le\'1' _--,
I Ll_'-\..:clclC I l'LL -c~Ll.'clclS I j!/ll~f\ ILI\ 11\ I l'LLc-,~"LLl.'cL\_t I
L-Ll 

~... LL~.-L...L l.. 1-L..lc 
I Offensive Lineman I Defensive Lineman I I Secondary I 1 Special 1 Special 1 Receiver's Special 1 Special 1 1 Large Meats 1 Large Works 1 Large Cheese 1 Large One Topping 1 I Pizza for I Pizza for 1 Pizza for I Pizza for I 
: $9.99 : $10.99 : $5.99 : . $6.99 : 
good tllru 11/30/97 good tlrru 11/30/97 good tllr. u 11/30/97 good tllru 11/30/97 _l
+ + +
t----iGIBJt------tGDZJ·------:GlZIJ,r -­
---!IGDZJ~---, 

1 l'LLl'LL l~ LLl~~c 1 l'[Ll~LL JULLl~~c 1 l'LLL~LL J~LLl~~-1 L'lLl~~L JULW~ 1 
I Linebacker's I Special Team's I Running Back's I Quarterback's I I ~ I ~ I ~ I ~ I I Double Pepperoni I Extra Large Two I 2 Large I Large 1 Topping I I Pizza for I Topping Pizza for I 1 Toppings for I with Breadsticks I 
: $7.99 : $10.99 : $11.99 : $10.00 : 
L-o(IM!Ili.JliliM.JJ./~'1.1..-...L-o(IM!IIi..tliliM.JJ./~'1.1..-...L.-...l:lliJIJ.tiJJ;p..J.J/JIJ/21.-...L-...I:IJ~~·.J.JI.JiJ/21.-.J 
Open for Lunch • Dine-in Available • Visa/Mastercard Accepted
F Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, Be '93 Best of Michiana 

Friday, November 21, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS page 3 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

I
t is going to be a battle of ground games come Saturday, and the Irish tailbacks must continue to roll if Notre Dame hopes to stretch its winning streak to four games. 
Autry Denson and Clement Stokes must get off to a quick start and put the Mountaineers in an early hole. Each back rushed for over 90 yards a week ago, as Denson opened the scor­ing with a nine-yard scamper and Stokes scored twice more to bury the Tigers. 
Denson is only 19 yards away from his second consecutive 1,000-yard season and could raise his 1997 per game average above 100 yards with 119 yards against West Virginia. 
If the Blue and Gold can jump out to an early advantage, as they did last week in Baton Rouge, it will negate some of the strength of the West Virginia offense. Keeping Amos Zereoue 
L
ast time these two teams met, the winner walked away as the national champion. Times have changed, but the Irish feel that the stakes are just as high this season as their dreams of a bowl rest on the outcome of this game. 
Notre Dame leads the series 1­
0. The Irish claimed the national title with a 34-21 victory in the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl. 
The Irish head into the contest with a record of s~s. while the No. 21 Mountaineers enter 7-2. 
"It's a big, big game for us," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. "You look at the second week in a row we played a 7-2 team. We get a chance to play back to back top 20 teams. I think West Virginia is 21st. You look at them. They're very similar to LSU." 
Just as LSU revolves a majority of its offense around its running game, so does West Virginia. The Mountaineers have the sixth­ranked NCAA rusher in tailback Amos Zereoue, who averages 140 yards per game. He sat out last week's game against the Temple Owls due to a reinjured turf toe and a foot sprain. The week off maybe just what Zereoue needed but definitely what the Irish did not want. 
''I'm really impressed with their fullback." Davie said. "He reminds you a lot of Faulk -real quick feet, same style of runner. You know, they held him out against Temple. They had an open date the week against Temple. They had an open date the week before so he's coming back off of really three weeks. So you know he'll be full speed." 
The key for the Irish will be containment of Zereoue. When off the field will force the Mountaineers to abandon their methodical rushing and take the element of surprise away from their passing scheme. The Mountaineer defense is large up front, averaging around 280 pounds per man. The offensive line must maintain its consisten­cy and protect Ron Powlus when the time comes for the Irish to go to the air. 
Coming into his final game in Notre Dame Stadium, Powlus would love nothing more than to lead his squad to victory and into the post-season. If he can simply bail the team out in big down situations, similar to the way he did with his big fourth­down completion to Jabari Holloway on Notre Dame's open­ing drive last week, his perfor­mance will be sufficient for an Irish win. He needs just 178 yards to surpass the 2,000-yard mark in passing this season. 
•.• MOUNTAINEERS ON THE OFfENSIVE 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Linebacker Bobbie Howard enjoyed a coming-out party last weekend against LSU, recording a career-high 10 tackles. 
he gains more than 100 yards, yards. West Virginia is undefeated. West Virginia's offense is solid 
The passing game for the all the way through. Head coach Mountaineers steadily improves Don Nehlen is the winningest with each passing game. coach in Mountaineer history Quarterback Marc Bulger had with a record of 130-74-4. In the passed for more than 190 yards end, it could come down to a bat­in six straight games prior to the tle of coaching. Temple game. Against the Owls, he completed 12 of 16 for 137 -Kathleen Lopez 
I 

Another factor in Powlus' and the team's overall success will be the ability of the receivers to avoid ·costly drops. Malcolm Johnson, who has had a tough time holding onto the ball at times this year,. will also have the incentive of playing for the last time in front of the home crowd. Either he or Bobby Brown should draw the out­standing Nate Terry in coverage, while the other will face Barrett Green. 
Both Terry and Green have four interceptions in 1997 for a West Virginia defense that has picked off 15 balls on the year and returned two for touch­downs. Those matchups could have a significant effect on the Irish rushing attack, as the Mountaineers will likely put eight men in the box if the Notre Dame aerial attack falters. 
-Brian Reinthaler 




Quarterbacks 
On paper, Powlus and Bulger are practically identical. The LSU win keeps Powlus' hopes of leading Notre Dame to a bowl win alive. Now, he has to take advantage. 
Running Backs 
Zereoue has the edge over Denson. The WVU back has simply produced, averaging nearly six yards per carry and 140 yards per game. 
Receivers Bulger has the consis­tent target in Foreman, 


• who has over 50 recep­
tions. But he is also his only target, as no other Mountaineer has more than 18 receptions. 
Offensive Line 
A critical area as usual but even more so for 
• 

West Virginia. The Mountaineers are undefeated this year when Zereoue rushes for triple digits on the ground. Defensive Line 
Stills and Slay are the playmakers up front, pressuring opposing quarterbacks. The Mountaineers have accumulated 32 sacks and 34 quarterback hits in eight games. 

Linebackers 
The emergence of Howard last week to
• 

go along with Kory Minor gives the Irish the clear edge. WVU has been susceptible to the run, as Boston College rushed for over 200 yards in one half. 
Secondary 
Too close to call after the performance of the Irish unit last week. But Guilbeaux is questionable, and Nate Terry is as solid as they come. 


Special Teams 
Place kicker Jay Taylor is 9-of-11, includip.g 5­of-6 from 40-45 yards-stats Notre Dame coaches can only dream of having. 


Coaching 
Don Nehlen is closing in on 200 career wins. Only 17 other coaches have achi.eved that feat, and Davie is still getting his feet wet. 



Overall on: paper, these squads are about as even as it gets. Intangibles favor the Blue and Gold as they have just salvaged a season and don't want to blow it. 

-~--~ -~-­

page4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY Friday, November 21, 1997 
The • • 
zsszn

• 
Where are they now and what could 
1eces 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
F
or a moment, Irish fans are invited to take a look back at what has become an infamous date in Notre Dame football lore -Feb. 2, 1994. In case of a memo­ry lapse, just make note that on this day, nearly everything is right in the land of the Golden Dome. 
Although recently robbed of a national championship by FSU-crazed pollsters (Jan. 2, 1994), the mighty Notre Dame football program still stands at or near the top of college football. In addition, head coach Lou Holtz is considered an icon in the sport and has become the model by which all coaches are mea­sured by. 
Thus, Feb. 2, 1994, is another red-let­ter day for Irish football fans. It is on this day that Holtz and his staff have landed another bumper crop of recruits -the class of 1998. The class includes 20 men from all over the country who have been selected and given the privilege to repre­sent Notre Dame football. 
"This group can run, and they have character and dignity," said Holtz follow­ing signing day. "They want to be at Notre Dame, and they like the game of football." 
So that's how things stood just three and a half years ago. Notre Dame foot­ball was at the top of college athletics, and the class of 1998 was just the thing to keep it there. 
That was then. and this is now. With just two or three (pending on a bowl) games left in their career, the members of the Class of 1998 have compiled an "un-Notre Dame-like" 28­16-1 record. Instead of helping keep the pro­gram at the top of college athletics, the group will most likely be remembered for its role in the 
they have done for Notre Dame? 
decline of Irish football. 
The same class that Holtz described as "wanting to be at Notre Dame" has seen eight of its members transfer from the University within a span of two years. Of the 12 remaining seniors, only live saw extensive playing time prior to the 1997 season. 
"For whatever reason, they [the eight who transferred] decided that Notre Dame wasn't the place for them," said former recruiting coordinator Tony Yelovich. 
l AJhile the Irish have struggled for 
V V much of the year, critics have devoted their time to looking for a player or coach to point the linger at. Head coach Bob Davie certainly has felt the weight of doubters on his back. and offensive coordinator Ji~ l.olletto has been the butt of all jokes throughout the year. 
Among the players, the critics have flocked to Ron Powlus like sailers to a whorehouse following a five-year cruise. The entire team as a whole has been questioned for its heart and will to win. 
In a constant attempt to lind a scape­goat, critics may find that a closer look will lead directly to the class of 1998. Any time 40 percent of an entire class discovers that life would be better away from Notre Dame, a football program is in trouble. 
Leon Blunt, Jeff Kramer, John McLaughlin, Paul Mickelbart, Gus Ornstein, Damian Peter, Corey Redder, and Larry Wright. The group made up 40 percent of a class that was supposed to carry the torch passed on from the amazing class of 1994. Whatever hap­pened to these guys? What exactly went wrong? 
"It's hard to point the finger at exactly one specific thing -whether it be acade­mic problems, trouble fitting in, or frus­tration from not playing immediately," said Yelovich. 
Following the 1994 season, Blunt moved on to Arizona, Kramer to Texas Tech (before finally landing in Iowa), 
Wright  to  Grambling,  Ornstein  to  
Michigan State,  and  Mickelbart  to  
Washington State.  

If that weren't enough, McLaughlin and Redder decided to head elsewhere fol­lowing the 1995 and 1996 seasons, respectively. Peter, the younger brother of former Nebraska thug Christian, suf­fered a neck injury and has since left the University. 
"There is a certain amount of luck involved," said Yelovich. "Evaluating what type of person each is going to be both on and off the field is a difficult sit­
E
ight months after signing the class of 1998 to the dotted line, Yelovich, who has had two daughters attend Notre Dame, took a new position in administra­tion. Bob Chmiel was chosen to suc­ceed Yelovich in late September 1994, and in the three years since he arrived, the Irish have not lost one 
player to attrition. 
"No one wants to bring a player to Notre Dame and see them leave," said Chmiel. "Since I've been here, 
I feel we have a good rapport with the admissions department. They (admissions), like I do, just want to make sure that the people who are admitted will be successful here." 
A dozen players managed to 
Class of 1998 
Recruited
Name Current 
Position 
Status RB Fullback LB Def. End LB Note Guard 
WR Arizona 
nupper Tail k 

Larry Wright Grambling 
~"fl,lftY@f Backup Play&r Transferred 
steer clear of the popular trend to "escape from Notre Dame," but of the 12. only cornerback Allen Rossum, safety Jarvis Edison, receiver Malcolm Johnson, cornerback Ivory Covington, and nose guard Corey Bennett contributed prior to the 1997 season. 
"It's not something that we really think about, but there is kind of a common bond between those of us who have stayed and made it through here the last four years," said Rossum. 
The quintet is a corps of solid college football players, but it could hardly be expected to carry a program or even help the team compete with the Florida States and Colorados of the world. Perhaps the most telling sign is that none of the 12 seniors is expected to have a shot at making an impact in the NFL when they graduate following the season. 
Over the course of a trying season, a lack of depth has enabled seniors Kurt Belisle, Luke Petitgout, Ken Barry, Ty Goode, and Jon Spickelmier to see exten­sive action. While they have certainly paid their dues while managing to "stay" at Notre Dame for four years, they would have more than likely been relegated to the bench on other Irish teams. 
"We are thin in a lot of areas, and some guys who normally wouldn't get the chance have had the opportunity to play," said head coach Bob Davie. 
However, a lack of talent seems to the least of the class's problems. While there are certainly other factors involved, Notre Dame's high academic standards are believed to be the chief reason for the eye-popping 40 percent transfer rate. According to Chmiel, the program is pay­ing closer attention to academics than ever, hoping to never again see that 40 percent figure. 
"One thing that we have emphasized since I've been here is the proper fit," said Chmiel. "The football players that we now recruit here have to walk the walk and talk the talk of other students. There is not a stay-eligible curriculum at Notre Dame. 
"When you are admitted to the University of Notre Dame, you know that you will be competing against top-flight students. For some people in the recruit­ing process, this is kind of a turnoff." 
Perhaps the program has learned from that fateful day when the class of 1998 signed on the dotted line. Regardless, the search for the "proper fit" continues. 
_,w 
~·WI 
Friday, November 21, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 
In the Spo 
Marc Bulger vs. Irish secondary 
After a spectacular effort against Herb Tyler Marc Bulger to catch teams off-guard that has and the Tigers of Louisiana State, the Notre allowed the Mountaineer offense to succeed. The Dame defensive backs have an important assign­Irish will sorely miss the presence of junior ment as the Mountaineers come waltzing into Benny Guilbeaux, who has provided a recent South Bend this weekend. Although West spark in the secondary. The corners will be Virginia is more well-known for its high-powered relied on to shut Bulger down so that the safeties running game, it is the ability of quarterback can provide sufficient run support. 
1st season at Notre Dame

Bob Davie 
Career record: 5-5 At Notre Dame: 5-5 Against WVU: 0-0 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

A'Jani Sanders must play a role in stopping WVU. 



No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR 
1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 SO 1 Damon Cogdell LB 6-2 235 SR 
2 Benny Guilbeaux SS 6-1 207 JR 2 Jerry Porter QB 6-3 215 so 
3 Ron Powlus OB 6-3 225 SR 3 Perla Bastien DB 6-1 185 JR 
4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 4 Charles Fisher DB 6-1 185 SR 
5 A'Jani Sanders SS 5-11 188 JR 5 Dwayne Potts DB 5-1 0 200 so 
6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR 6 David Saunders WR 6·2 205 SR 
7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 6 Scooter Davis DB 5-11 180 JR 
8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 SO 6 Jammie Fields DB 6-1 180 SR 
9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 SO 7 Bryan Bauman K 6-1 200 SR 
1 0 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 SO 9 Chris Keaton RB 5-10 200 JR 
11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 SO 10 Marc Bulger QB 6-3 190 JR 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 11 Gary Thompkins DB 5-11 205 JR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 11 Justin Brown KIP 6-1 165 so 
13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 12 Gregory Hernandez DB 6-1 210 SR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 169 SR 13 Khori Ivy WR 6-2 185 so 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 179 SR 13 John Borosky QB 6-2 210 so 16 Zak Kusiak QB 6-2 190 FR 14 Jon Ohliger K 5-10 210 so 17 Hunter Smith P 6-2 210 JR 15 Rashed Gillespie RB 5-10 205 SR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 16 Shawn Foreman WR 6-1 205 SR 18 Joey Getherall WR 5-9 165 FR 17 JaJaun Seider QB 6-2 225 JR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 SO 17 Greg McHugh WR 6-0 190 so 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 21 0 JR 18 Ken Fisher WR 6-1 205 SR2lY KeVin Kopka l<' 5"-7 2H JR. 
19 Boo Sensabaugh DB 6-2 205 JR20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR 

57-Kaczanski 

20 Amos Zereoue RB 5-10 200 JR
64-Merandip

21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 21 Pat Greene WR 6-2 190 JR22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 SO 22 David Richardson WR 6-3 195 SR23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 22 Jason Belcher DB 5-11 205 JR24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR 23 Sean Lynch DB 6-1 185 so25 T any Driver TB 6-3 205 FR 24 David Carter DB 6-2 205 so26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 SO 24 Maurice Howard DB 5-1 0 175 so27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 25 Khari Matt RB 5-10 200 SR28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR 26 Donnie Pack DB 5-10 190 JR29 Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FR 26 Frank Aliveto RB 5-11 206 so30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR 
FLANKER -~­
27 Kerry Siverand DB 6-0 195 SR31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR 

88-Brown 
28 Michael Amador K 5-10 180 so
DEtNSIVE '. ··.: •.

32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR 
18-Getheral STRONG SAFElY 

29 Hugh Holness DB 5-11 185 so33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 

TACKLE .. 

33-Green 
30 Bryan Lorenz LB 6-1 225 JR34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 SO 

78-Slay t9-Sensabaugh 

30 Matthew Garrett KIP 5-10 180 so35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR 

51-Price 
32 Kamau Brown RB 6-0 235 SR36 Chris Wachtel P 5-11 207 SR 32 Tyshun Evans DB 6-1 185 so36 Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 

37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR 
33 Barrett Green DB 6-0 205 JR 37 Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SR 
34 Leroy White RB 6-1 230 SR 38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR 
34 Jerod Jesso LB 6-2 230 so 38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR 
35 Dave Lightcap DB 6-0 190 SR 
3-Bastlen 
37 T.J. Walker RB 6-0 195 SR39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR 

4-Fisher 

\1.. 
38 K.C. Schiller LB 6-1 225 JR40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR 

; 
40 Wes Ellis LB 6-1 230 so 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 SO 
40 Brendan Farrell SS 5-11 215 SO 
41 Chris Edmonds LB 6-3 220 so 42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 SO 
43 Ryan Brady LB 6-2 250 JR 44 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FR 
44 Jason Williams LB 6-0 240 SR 44 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 215 FR 
45 Bob Baum DE 6-4 260 SR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 SO 
46 Mark Plants RB 6-3 235 JR 45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR 
4 7 Jay Taylor KIP 6-1 185 JR 46 Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FR 
48 Jamie Sweeney LB 6·1 225 SR 47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SR 
I I 
48 Dominic Rondinelli RB 6-0 230 so 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 SO 
49 Anthony Green RB 6-2 240 JR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 
50 Steve Lippe LB 6-2 240 SR

TAILBACK 
50 Bryan Halper LB 6-2 225 so 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 
50 David Payne C 6-0 281 J R 
20-Zereoue 
51 Ryan Price DT 6-6 275 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
52 John Hadley LB 6-2 240 SR 53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 
54 Chartton Forbes DT 6-0 280 SR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 
'~~ 
55 Gary Stills LB 6-2 235 JR 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 
56 O'Dell Tucker LB 6-0 220 SR 58 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 
58 David Shipman OG 6-2 260 so 57 Rick Kaczenski C 6-4 258 SR 
59 Jason Campbell LB 6-2 225 JR 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 SO 
FULLBACK 59 Rick Gilliam C 6-5 300 so 
58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 34-White 60 Randy Dunnigan OG 6-3 305 SR 
59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 
61 Bryan Pukenas OG 6-4 295 SR 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 SO 
62 Steve Ford OG 6-3 300 SR 

62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FR 
·~~~ 
63 OT 275
Matt Ceresa 6-5 SR 

64 John Merandi C 6-3 272 SO 64 Mike Enick OG 6-3 270 so 
65 Anthony Brannan SS 5-11 194 SO 65 Sam Austin OT 6-4 295 SR 
66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 264 FR 66 Jeremy Rizer OG 6·5 260 JR 
67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 67 Eric de Groh C 6-5 290 SR 
70 Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 67 Chris Boyle LB 6-3 220 so 
71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 68 Rick Oleyar OG 6-1 230 JR 
72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 SO 69 Brock Holland OT 6-5 295 SR 
73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SR 70 Donnie Lindsey OG 6-2 280 so 
74 Rob Mowl OG 6-5 294 SO FREE SAFETY 71 Matt Wilson OT 6-5 265 so 
75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 10-Harper 72 David Siljanoski .oG 6-2 290 SR 
1-Cooper
76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FR 73 Jeff Costelnock OT 6-4 290 SR 
77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 SO 74 Bill McElroy C/OG 6-3 300 SR 78 Jon Spickelmier C 6-3 274 SR 76 John Conte C 6-4 290 JR 
79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 77 Solomon Page OT 6-6 300 JR 80 Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FR 78 Henry Slay DT 6-2 290 SR 81 Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 SO 79 Tanner Russell OT 6-7 290 so 
82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 SO 79 Louis Vega DT 6-3 250 so 
-
83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR 80 Carlos Osegueda WR 6-2 200 so
STRONG

84 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR 82 Anthony Becht TE 6-6 255 JR
SAFETY

85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR 85 Mike Matela TE 6-5 240 SR
2-Gullbeaux

86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 SO 86 Mark Corman TE 6-3 230 so
5-Sanders

87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR 87 Chad Wable TE 6-5 260 SR 
88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 J R 88 Don Quesenberry WR 6-1 175 JR90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 SO 94 Richard Allara DT 6-3 295 so 
91 N. VanHook-DruckerDE 6-2 228 SO 95 Steve Johnson DE 6-1 230 JR92 Bryan Mulvena OLB 6-2 222 JR RUSH 96 John Thorton DT 6-3 300 SR93 B.J. Scott • DE 6-3 267 SO 53-Bryant 97 Kirk Mills DE 6-6 250 so94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR 41-Ferrer 98 Kevin Landolt DE 6-5 285 SR95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SR 99 Greg Robinette DT 6-2 280 JR96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 SO "97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 SO 98 John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 SO 
I 
I 
page 6 Irish Insider· THE INSIGHT Friday, November 21, 1997 


give the team and the fans a chance to return to being on the same plane. 
For the team, it gives it a chance to finish its h o m e schedule in the manner it intended thro'ughout the season. 
I.t gives it a chance to leave its mark on the stadium it baptized, and not as the team that was cursed. It 
giVeS plaY-The Observer/Brandon Candura ers like the Notre Dame seniors Kurt Belisle (56) and Rick Kaczenski will be playing in their final home game on Saturday against the 

fifth-year Mountaineers. seniqrs one last chance to walk over to that north­are). it gives them a chance to extend west corner and raise those helmets their loyalty streak to two games. Oh high, instead of rushing out to avoid well, better late than never. booing. Regardless of which side you are on, 
For those fans who have stuck with it gives everyone a chance to be at the the Irish throughout the season, it final historical home game of the first gives them a chance to say "I told you season in the renovated stadium. And so" to the rest of tM boo birds. For the with the roller coaster ride that this boobirds, it gives them one last point­season has been, it might not make a less shot at trying to convince them­bad memory. Granted, it's no national selves and those around them that the championship, but anyone who has Blue and Gold and a multitude of witnessed this season has seen a team 
.. scapegoats have not given them what fight back in a way that would even they rightfully deserve as Irish fans. make Mr. Rockne proud. A~d for the rest of those who just Like co-captain Dansby said, "It's not joined the Irish after last week's rout how you start off that people remem­of the Tigers (and you know who you ber; it's how you finish." 
INTRO 

• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Ryan Meinerding 
II marfinr D 
••• 

Side door A NEW SUSHI BAR 
·~· "Sushi is an ancient Japanese culinary tradition and art form-one that we are proud to continue, right here at Martin's. Prepared fresh daily right before your 
eyes, sushi is unique, healthy and delicious! We offer several varieties of sushi including the California Roll (with shrimp, avocado cucumjger, and spicy sauce), and the Vegetarian Special (with cucumber, avocado, and carrot) to name a few. A not-so-raw fact about sushi is that the word means 'seasoned rice:. The rice, blended with fish and vegetables, is wrapped in a delicious sheet of toasted seaweed (nori} and sliced into bite sized pieces. It can also be easily prepared for vegetarian tastes." 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XX~~XXXX~~~J~)t~XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
Many options and sizes are available, such as the Traditional 
New 

Caesar Salad, the Broiled Chicken Caesar, and the Shrimp Caesar, all available with The Works. 
Caesar 

Create your own salads to your own taste, boasting with fresh veggies, crisp romaine, tasty chicken or 
Salad 

shrimp and freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 
in our Martin's Super Market store located at St. Road 23 and Ironwood, South Bend 



Friday, November 21, 1997 
ll'iBh Expel'tB. 

Mike Day (21-15) Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan Florida State Washington 


Betsy Baker (22-14) Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Ohio State Florida Washington 


Joe Cavato (21-15) Assistant Sports Editor 

~~N=o=tre Dame 
Michigan Florida State Washington State 

Kathleen Lopez (24-12) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan Florida State Washington State 

Brian Reinthaler (18-18) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan Florida Washington State 


Dick Vitale College Basketball Analyst 
Notre Dame Michigan Florida State Washington State 
Irish Insider • THE NATI 0 N page7 
RISH INSID'ERC·­
··=·:'}} 

ye on the Nation Florida looks to derail Seminoles 
Intra-state rivals battle on Saturday 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
..
No. 2 Florida State at No. 10 Florida 
This may be the first time in years that these two are not together in the top five as they collide for their annual show­down. The Seminoles are look­ing to complete back-to-hack perfect seasons for the first time in school history. Spurrier and company would like noth­ing more than plucking Florida State from the ranks of the unbeaten and ruining its national championship hopes for the second time in as many meetings. 
Fred Taylor will attempt to boost his yards per carry over six for the season as he and the Gators run up against the toughest rushing defense in the country. Florida State holds a 8-3-1 advantage in the last 12 contests between these arch­rivals, but Florida leads the all­time series with a record of 25­14-2. Since Spurrier took over, the Gators are 19-1 when play­ing non-conference opponents at home. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Running back Clarence Williams will try to keep the Michigan ground attack rolling as the Buckeyes come. calling in Ann Arbor on Saturday. A victory would give Michigan its first perfect regular season since 1971. 
No. 4 Ohio State at No. 1 Michigan 

It seems as though it comes down to these two teams every No. 11 Washington State at
year. Only this year, the tables are turned. Ohio State will try No. 17 Washington to pay back the Wolverines for spoiling its perfect seasons in The Huskies have taken the three of the last four years as last two meetings by a com­Michigan shoots for a perfect bined total of 10 points and season of its own. Not to men­State has yet to win a game on tion the fact that hopes of a the road in November under national title are alive and well head coach Mike Price. for both teams. Ohio State will Also Washington State has just need help from other con­not won in Husky Stadium since tenders to reach the promised 1985. This year, however, the land. Cougars have a shot at their 
Buckeye wide receiver David first trip to the Rose Bowl in 6 7 Boston has already been spout­years. ing off about guaranteed victo­A UCLA win over USC this ries and the inferiority of weekend, combined with a Charles Woodson to Shawn Washington State victory, Springs, Boston's ex-teammate. should seal up State's trip to It will be interesting to see how Pasadena. Woodson responds to his oppo­Heisman Trophy candidate nent's mouth when he gets to Ryan Leaf has thrown for 3,279 pick Boston up in coverage. yards and 31 touchdown passes Andy Katzenmoyer will need to this season, with 258 yards in step up and lead the charge last week's victory over against Michigan's rushing Stanford. attack if Ohio State hopes to top­This game will provide him ple the first-ranked Wolverines with some television exposure 
The last time these teams as ABC will cover the game were both in the top five at the regionally. Husky quarterback time of their meeting was 1977, Brock Huard is right behind and it was six years before that Leaf in passing efficiency at when Michigan last finished fourth in the nation. with a perfect record. The Washington leads the all-time Wolverines have lost just once series, winning 57 of the 89 to the Buckeyes in the last nine matchups with the Cougars and meetings between the squads. six of the last eight. 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Southern Mississippi 70, Air Force 68, Mississippi 46, Toledo 33, Oklahoma State 31, Iowa 28, Marshall27, Texas Tech 26, Louisiana Tech 23, New Mexico 21, USC 11, Clemson 5, Virginia 4, Utah State 1. 
TJR 

TEAM 
Michigan (44) 
Florida St. (24) 
Nebraska (2) 
Ohio State 
Tennessee 
Penn State 
UCLA 
North Carolina 
Kansas State 
10. Florida 
11 . Washington St. 
12. 
Arizona State 

13. 
Auburn 

14. 
Georgia 

15. 
Mississippi St. 

16. 
Texas A&M 

17. 
Washington 

18. 
Syracuse 

19. 
Virginia Tech 

20. 
LSU 

21. 
Missouri 

22. 
West Virginia 

23. 
Purdue 

24. 
Wisconsin 

25. 
Colorado State 


RECORD POINTS PREV 10-0 1723 1 10-0 1695 2 

...
10-0 1622 3 10-1 1513 4 8-1 1442 5 8-1 1401 6 8-2 1296 9 9-1 1264 8 9-1 1198 10 8-2 1066 12 9-1 1054 14 8-2 1027 15 8-2 888 16 7-2 838 7 7-2 686 17 8-2 657 18 7-3 514 13 8-3 506 21 7-2 494 19 7-3 456 11 7-4 277 25 
7-2 208 
7-3 185 19 
8-3 178 23 
8-2 168 




.. 
I 
$10 Pizza Pack 
t·· ··"ill" 
l Large Hand-tossed pizza''Mth : one free topping 1 10 breadsticks 1 2 dips 
titilriS·II 2 liter Coke product 
.. 
$ 
Large Hand-tossed pizza with one free topping 10 breadsticks 2 dips 2 liter Coke product ~ 
exp. Nov. 31 (valid with coupon only) •--­

------·------------~----------~----------------------------------------------------------­









