
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 69 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY' 

Event Schedule tor 
Assisted-suicide debate continues 
By LAURA PETELLE 

the balance," said Douglas News Writer 'Americans are a prag­Kmiec, professor of constitu­
tional law. The issue of
matic people. They

"[T]he World Government physician-assisted suicide is
prefer to treat problems by 

was making a two-pronged a very complex one that attack on overpopulation. making them go away.' walks a fine line between One pronging was the refusing medical care,
Father Richard McCormick 

encouragement of ethical which is legal, and euthana­suicide, which consisted of sia, which is not. Assisted going to the nearest Suicide suicide occurs when the
' Iflife and death were not
Parlor and asking a Hostess physician provides the to kill you painlessly while enough for one case, patient a prescription for a you lay on a Barcalounger," lethal drug -or the drug
democracy is also in the 
wrote Kurt Vonnegut .in itself-that the patient "Welcome to the Mankey balance.' takes. The issue is current­ly being argued in the
House." Professor Douglas Kmiec 
While this may be an--------------­Supreme Court as a combi­absurd extrapolation of current leg-allowing a patient to seek nation of two cases from U.S. islation, it is one of many issues death to encouraging a patient to Appellate Court: Washington vs. under consideratiqn in the Supreme seek death? Glucksberg from the 9th U.S. Circuit Court's deliberations on assisted "If life and death were not enough suicide: how big a step is it from for one case, democracy is also in see SUICIDE I page 4 

Tickets 
•


Increase for alumni 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Twice as many Notre Dame graduates will get to see the Fighting Irish take the field next football season thanks to recent decisions regarding the allocation of 
the  21,000  new  stadium  
seats.  
According  to  Father  

William Beauchamp, the University's executive vice president, the additional seats will approximately double, from 16,000 to 32,000, the number of tick­ets in the alumni lottery, which serves contributing alumni of the University. 
Presently, alumni can only expect to buy a pair of tick­ets for one or two home games. With the new seat­ing, more people will be able to see more of each season's games. 
"The initiation for expan­sion in the first place was started by the alumni board 


Stadium expansion has created more opportunities for people to attend Notre Dame football games. The renovated stadium will be ready for the 1997 season. 
because coming back to the stadium bring people back here." for the alumni is not just about the The increased alumni allotment will game. It's about a linkage to the also allow for more alumni club and University, a return to a very impor-class reunions, as well as opening up tant time in their lives," Beauchamp the possibility for alumni family said. "And before we weren't meet-games, for which more than two tick­ing half that demand." ets may be purchased by an individ­
"We feel very comfortable and are ual. very happy with the reallocation of Beauchamp also said that the seating," said Charles Lennon, University benefactors and employees executive director of the alumni asso-will benefit from the increased seat­dation. "It's not so much about the ing. "Full-time support staff now will game as it is about the whole week-enjoy the same access to tickets as end that we like to make available to faculty and administrators," a Jan. 9 the alumni that support this press release said. The increase will University. I can give you about sixty put faculty/staff seating at 7 ,000. reasons why they want to come back. Student seating will remain It's a combination of mental, spiritual, social, and recreational reasons that see STADIUM I page 8 


New shuttle available for weekend transportation 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Student Government will be implementing a new program, Saferide, which will provide free weekend transportation for students in order to cut down on campus drunk driving. Staffed by volunteers driving CSC vans, Saferide will ferry students from any local spot back to their apartments or residence halls. 
"We're approaching it from a standpoint of reducing drunk driving," executive coordinator of student life Molly Detgen explained. "All we need now is student support. We think this is a fantastic service, that it's something the University can really do for students." 
The program is pending final Student Affairs approval and should debut in two weeks, on Jiin. 24 and 25. 
While providing a similar ser­vice as the now defunct Weekend Wheels, Saferide has subtle differences. Rather than following a set route, drivers will answer calls to pick up stu­dents at locations anywhere in Michiana, not just bars; the ser­vice can help students stuck without transportation as wen as intoxicated students. In any case, the final destination should be the rider's residence. 
see SAFERIDE I page 8 
Groups remember Martin Luther King, his hope and vision 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
To celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. Day, the Notre Dame campus organizations are planning numerous events which will praise King and dis­cuss his ideas. 
The festivities will commence tonight at 7:30p.m. with a prayer service titled "Martin: The Prophet's Legacy and Challenge" at the Chapel of the Holy Cross in the foyer of Keenan and Stanford. Morehouse College Professor Giles Conwill will talk about King's attempts to bring about social revolu­tion in a non-violent manner and speak on whether indifference and tolerance are still viable solutions to the problem of racism in America. He will be joined by the Faith Christian Center Church Children's Choir of South Bend, El Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, and the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble. 
On Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune, a general debate titled "A Failed Dream: Myth or Reality" will be held for all who wish to discuss the philosophies and works of King. The debate will focu.s on the reality of King's "dream" 30 years after his participation in the civil rights movement. 
The "Let Freedom Ring" rally will be in The Huddle in LaFortune on Monday at 7:30p.m. The student leaders of the rally-Jimmy Friday, Molly Gavin, Orlando Gonzalez, Seth Miller, and Megan Murray -can be contacted for more information. 




SMC dining hall gets facelift 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's students returning from Christmas break were pleasantly surprised to find dozens of changes in their dining hall this week. Following complaints regarding the long lines and usual offer­ings, the dining hall is now equipped with four different serving lines and a more appealing eating environment. 
The women of Saint Mary's now have the option of choosing their meals from the pasta bar, the home-cooking bar, the eth­nic cuisine bar, and the grill bar. In addi­tion to these changes, there is also a new milk machine set up by the cereal bar, a new baker's-style table for ice cream top­pings, and a wider selection of salad avail­able. The ethnic cuisine bar, for example, features a variety of meals such as Cajun, Danish, and Mexican. Food Servke 
see DINING HALL I page 8 


-~-~ 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, January 15, 1997 

A Ren1inder 
to One's Self 
Welcome back to school! Second semester is always a collage of fun and excit­ing activities -all of which are cleverly orches­trated to keep us trouble­some youngsters busy in lieu of the football season. Bookstore basketball is only a shadow in the future, and the next few weeks are stagnant days of wasted hours to keep us company before the stress of deadlines starts its assault. In the meantime, as the deep freeze sets in, we'll all sit in our rooms building forts out of text books and university issued blankets. 
By the tenth inch of snow, several of us will consider the simple feat of walking to class something worthy of being on one of those "Trials of Life" videos. Stepping foot outside even to walk to the dining hall will entail plac­ing our lives in jeopardy, especially for those who live in mod quad, "the unsalted quad." With eyelashes quickly freezing and toes slow­ly numbing, some of us will brave the paths to O'Shag only to find that the professor's car couldn't start, and we will get to attempt the way home. 
At times such as this, I just have to take a deep breath, sit back, and remind myself, ''I'm at Notre Dame." So what if my flesh will freeze halfway to LaFortune? So what if the weight of my texts is causing the bookstore bag that I'm carrying to cut off the circulation in my fingers? 
There are so many people in the United States, much less the world, that would love to be in the shoes of any one of us bn campus ­any one of us. I don't mean just the subway alumni who crawl out of the tunnels and into to bookstore before every home football game .. There are so manypeople who would love to have the opportunity to be students here, pro­fessors here, administrators here, coaches here, staff of any sort here. It's easy to lose sight of that at times. 
It's easy to forget how lucky we are to be here at Notre Dame or to be at Saint Mary's. All of us are receiving an excellent education and are being provided with so many opportu­nities for the future. We participate in an amazing community of intellectuals. We are being groomed to be the future of America. 
When you are sitting in one of your classes, desperately attempting to gather all of the pearls of wisdom dropping from the mouth of your professor, glance at the person next to your. Try to imagine where exactly that per­son will be in ten years. It could be a major corporation or another university. It could be the business that person created or the NFL. It could be a fast food restaurant or the assy­lum. It could be virtually anywhere. Anyone could be destined for greatness. Where will you be in ten years? 
This semester, let's try not to take each other for granted. Try and add a gallon to the think tank.We are continuing the legacy of Notre Dame. We are creating new traditions and new precedents. We are expanding hori­zons and minds. As the water beneath your feet expands into ice and makes your trail barely navigable, consider your lot in life. It really isn't that bad, is it? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Graphics Russ Williams Jon King Laura Petelle 
Sports Production Kathleen Lopez Belle Bautista John Hutchinson 
• WORUl AT AGLANCE 
Bus plunges off bridge into River Nile; at least 35 die 
CAIRO, Egypt 

A crowded public bus veered out of control on a bridge and plunged upside-down into the muddy waters of the Nile River Tuesday, killing at least 39 people and injuring 29 others. 
Blood dripped from the bus, turning the water red as rescue workers used a crane to haul the vehicle 115 feet back up onto the el-Sahel bridge. 
Thousands of onlookers stood on the bridge and watched rescuers pull bodies from the mud and search the murky waters for more dead. 
Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzoury praised the rescuers for their speedy arrival at the accident site, about three miles north of downtown Cairo. "If the rescue operation was not so quick, those rescued alive would have been dead," he told reporters at the scene. 
The cause of the crash was not immediately known, but witnesses said the bus was speeding and veered across the road divider into the opposite lane. 
Some passengers said they believed the driver may have suffered a heart attack.· "The driver fell on the steering wheel ... and suffered a 
sudden bout of vomiting and lost control," the Middle East News Agency quoted one passenger as saying. The driver, Mohammed Kamal Abdel-Wahab, was among the dead. 
Another passenger, Hafsa Abdei-Wahab, said "it felt like the bus went over a big bump and then landed on its back in the mud." 
"Everyone was screaming and panicking,'! she said from the hospital bed where she was being treated for a back injury. 
Several passers-by who helped with the rescue said they were unable to pull some survivors from the mud. 
"These were bitter moments when I saw the passen­gers' hands stretching for help," but couldn't pull them out, Mustafa Attallah told MENA. 
Buses in Cairo are usually crammed, but the city's fran­tic traflic is even worse than usual because of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan; when Muslims fast from dawn to sunset and drivers are anxious to get home quickly. 
The last major accident involving a bus plunging into the Nile in Cairo was in 1961, when 68 people were killed, the news agency said. 

Gingrich call taped for history 
GAINESVILLE, 
Fla. 

A pair of staunch Democrats said Monday they were thinking of history, not political skullduggery, when they taped a GOP strategy session about House Speaker Newt Gingrich off their police scanner. Now John and Alice Martin have been swept into a political firestorm as dramatic as anything they ever watched on C-Span from their home in the tiny north Florida town of Fort White. Democrats are angry that Gingrich was plotting his own ethics defense and Republicans want a federal probe of how the conversation ended up on the front pages of national newspapers. The Martins could even wind up in trouble for intercepting and recording a cellular phone call in violation of state and federal laws. The couple, longtime Democrats, told a news conference their fasci­nation with national politics and monitoring a police scanner converged Dec. 21 as they were driving to do some Christmas shopping. Martin said he has listened to the police chatter on scanners for more than 20 years. He had recently gotten a new one that could monitor the races at Daytona International Speedway. 
Club to sell marijuana legally 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Phones rang, volunteers shouted and marijuana plants grew at the Cannabis Cultivators Club on Tuesday in preparation for what supporters call the country's first legal sale of the drug in over 60 years. Protected from California's anti-drug attorney general by a state proposi­tion and a judge's order, the club was set to provide pot to its first customer Wednesday. Club founder Dennis Peron said the first customer was to be a San Francisco AIDS patient, but the club has 200 physician authoriza­tions on file and expects many more. The drug is known to counter the nausea and loss of appetite in chemothera­py. "We are going to sell the first legal marijuana in over 60 years in America," marveled Peron, who showed off marijuana seedlings growing in the club's basement. The club offers smokable pot at $5 to $60 for 3.5 grams, depending on the quality, Peron said, but "many of our patients can't smoke or don't want to smoke." So the club offers high-grade, pulverized marijuana in gel cap­sules, $25-a-bottle tincture of marijuana soaked in 151­proofrum and dried, pot-spiced pesto sauce at $10 ajar, and classic marijuana brownies. Last week a San Francisco judge ordered the club reopened, saying it was protected under Proposition 215. 

Skater Baiul surrenders for DUI 
BLOOMFIELD, Conn. 
Oksana Baiul, the Ukranian who skated to Olympic gold in 1994, surrendered to police Tuesday on charges she drove drunk and recklessly when her Mercedes went off the road in an early morning crash. Baiul, who received 12 stitches for a cut to her scalp in Sunday's wreck, issued a public apology shortly after turning herself in and being released on her own recognizance. "I am sorry for the mistake I made and the circumstances sur­rounding the accident. I apologize to the many people who supported me in the past and I ask for their under­standing," she said in a statement. She is scheduled to appear in court Jan. 27. The wispy 19-year-old, who moved to the Hartford suburb of Simsbury soon after winning the gold medal in Lillchammer, Norway, had a blood-alcohollevel of 0.168 percent after she crashed her car while returning home from a night out, according to a hospital report obtained Monday by The Associated Press. Someone is considered drunk in Connecticut with a blood-alcohol level of 0.10 percent. The legal drinking age is 21. Bob Young, who runs the skating center where Baiul trains and has been a longtime friend, said she realizes the "magnitude of her mistake." "She is not try­ing to hide anything," Young said. 
Atlantis speeds toward space station 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Space shuttle Atlantis zoomed toward the Russian space station Mir for tonight's docking and five days of joint operations. Before the two spacecraft separate this weekend, shuttle astronaut Jerry Linenger will switch places with fellow American John Blaha, who has Jived on the outpost since September. Linenger and Blaha will work with five Atlantis astronauts and the two Russian cosmonauts aboard Mir to move nearly 3 tons of water, clothing, scientific specimens and other materials from one ship to the other. Atlantis, which took off Sunday, was to dock with Mir at 10:53 p.m. EST. It would be the fifth time in 1 1/2 years that the shuttle has latched onto the space station. Mission operations director Bob Castle said he knew of no technical changes from Atlantis' last trip to Mir in September, when NASA astronaut Shannon Lucid was picked up and Blaha was dropped off. "It's pretty much the same over and over and over again," Castle said. Lueid ended up spending a record six months on the station after her ride home was delayed seven weeks by mechanical and weather problems, but Blaha is set to return to Earth as scheduled. A 54-year­old retired Air Force colonel and big football fan, Blaha will be home in time for the Super Bowl. 


The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan 15. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Pressure 
H L 
~LJ. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLUI=IRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIa ASSOCiated Press 
Lab Tech Kevin Dalum 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  51  41  Fairbanks  10  -4  Minneapolis  1  ·9  
Baltimore  46  32  Green Bay  4  New York  45  34  
Boston  45  34  Honolulu  76  72  Phoenix  62  41  
Chicago  13  13  Los Angeles 61  50  St. Louis  t5  15  
Columbus  23  22  Miami  78  69  Seattle  44  29  


~-----------------­
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCil • SECURITY BEAT 
The dreaded Group will bowl for kids Security experiences first day back 
By SFAN SMITH zation's biggest fund-raisers. News Writer The group hopes to draw 
quiet Christmas-break 
more than 50 teams from Notre Hall Presidents' Council has Dame this year. As an incentive 
By HEATHER COCKS apartments in Turtle Creekpledged its support for Big to students to get pledges for the 
Associate News Editor were burglarized while the
Brothers/Big Sisters of St. organization, prizes ranging tenants were home for the
Joseph County, one of the most from a 27 inch color television 
With the notable exception holidays.
well-known volunteer organiza­to two tickets for a Notre Dame 
of the D2 parking lot, "It was fantastic," he
tions in the local community. football game will be given Christmas Break was a quiet enthused. "We may have hadBig Brothers/Big Sisters is again away. The event will be held at 
time for the police patrols, one car window broken, but
asking the Notre Dame commu­Beacon Bowl in South Bend at 1 according to Rex Rakow, no apartments were hit."
nity for assistance at its 13th p.m. on Sun., Feb. 23. 
director of Notre Dame Williams explained that
annual Big Brothers/Big Sisters In other HPC news: Security. security was increased duringBowling for Kids' Sake event. • Former President Jimmy Nine vandalized cars were the break, but using a differ­Notre Dame and Big Carter may come to Notre Dame discovered over the span of ent approach. "I spoke with
Brothers/Big Sisters started this semester and speak. 
only two days, each with Notre Dame Security, request­working together in 1968. The Carroll Hall is trying to sponsor smashed windows and miss­ing their assistance in drivingorganization serves over 400 this event, but the likelihood of ing stereo equipment. through the apartment com­children annually and is fueled such an event happening is "We had snow right around plex," he said. "Chuck Hurleyby over 200 mentors, more than unknown. Carroll Hall Christmas," Rakow recalled, (assistant director) was eager100 of whom are Notre Dame President Kevin Fumai brought "so it was easy to check the to cooperate." 
students. the possibility up at HPC last lots for footprints." The snow One of the Notre Dame"We are about character night in search of more support had melted by Dec. 28, at patrol cars visited the areabuilding, we are about building for the event. According to 
which time the first in the nightly, in addition to
self-esteem and doing the things Fumai, he will be meeting with rash of thefts occurred. Williams' regular securitythat allow children to grow," Father Theodore Hesburgh Rakow mentioned another vehicles, which cruised thesaid Deborah Bodnar, repre­sometime in the future to dis­incident, possibly related, in complex frequently. Williamssenting Big Brothers/Big Sisters. cuss the possibility of such an 
which a vehicle behind the 


also enlisted the aid of the JACC was targeted by thieves. maintenance staff, asking that "The occupant left the car for they check each building each approximately 20 minutes, morning. and when she returned, her ''I'm delighted that these purse and wallet had been efforts resulted in no reported stolen," he said. problems," Williams said. 
In addition to the usual Claire Myers, a manager of patrols, Notre Dame Security Campus View Apartments, instituted a 24-hour watch credited their uneventful holi­over the parking lots after the day to the addition of officers nine break-ins were reported. who patrolled the area nightly 
"If students see anyone from 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. She roaming the lots, especially claimed that no incidents people who do not fit the stu­were reported, stating that dent mold, they should call "we knew we needed to do as security immediately," Rakow much as we could to prevent urged. He was quick to clarify burglaries." that no Notre Dame students Williams was optimistic are suspects in the thefts. about the results of their 
Sgt. John Williams of the efforts. "I feel like this was a South Bend Police Department good start to the year," he happily reported that no said. 

Plus, we have loaded in hundreds of CD titles 

$12.99 CD priced from $5.99 to 
$9.99 each. Check out our selection filled with great artists and some of their finest work. 

$13.99 CD 

The event is one of the organi-event. 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
Bi-weekly Columnists 
If interested, please contact Ethan Hayward, Viewpoint Editor at 631-4541. 
All students, faculty and staffare welcome to apply. 

c~ 
l'.i\LL!NG INTO YOU 
indudinu;: BECAUSE YOU LOVfD ME 
(Thoma from 
·up Clou & Personan 
IT'S All GOMING BACK 
TOME NOW 
FAlLING INTO YOU 
$13.99 CD 


SALE PRICES IN THIS AD END ON JANUARY 31, 1997 
L___________ 
~--­


I page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 15, 1997 i 
Scalia agreed at a speech at bly result in a "checkerboard es. Choose life so that you and Harvard Law School professor Catholic University in of laws by state." Twenty or your descendants may live," arguing on behalf of the assist­
Suicide 
Washington, D.C., saying it was twenty-five years from now the Pope Pius XII ruled that giving ed suicide advocate in the "absolutely plain that there is issue may come back to the morphine to ease pain-a drug Vacco vs. Quill case, a person
continued from page 1 
no right to die." He expressed Supreme Court as patients which may hasten death-was has the right "not to be forced Court of Appeals in the 
his opinion that the Supreme cross state lines to lind doctors ethical, but seeking death to to be a creature of the state." Court would agree and allow who will assist them in suicide. ease pain was not. McCormick That contention brings up the
Western United States and 
decisions on whether to legal­It is important to note, howev­said that distinction must be point as to whether the state isVacca vs. Quill in the 2nd U.S. 
Circuit Court of Appeals based ize assisted suicide to revert to er, that as 49 states currently ·maintained between seeking compelled to protect the life of the states, 44 of which current­prohibit assisted suicide, there pain relief which may inciden­citizens even against them­
in New York. The assisted sui­
ly have laws that make assisted would be a major change in tally cause death and seeking selves, and whether the state is
cide advocates in the 
suicide a felony, and five of the political climate before death as a form of pain relief. compelled to protect the end of
Washington vs. Glucksberg 
which rely on the judicial sys­assisted suicide would become Kmiec said that the argu­life-but not the beginning, incase opened their presentation 
by arguing that assisted suicide tem to achieve the same ends legalized. ments in favor of assisted sui­the case of abortion. when pursuing legal action The moral and ethical sides cide are "ethically diabolical, Ultimately, the issue again
was equal to abortion because "At the heart of liberty is the 
against individuals involved. of the question are even more placing the poor and the elder­comes down to the sanctity of right to define one's own con­Oregon, the remaining state, complicated than the legal ly especially at risk." human life. passed in 1994 a piece of legis­side. Father Hichard McCormick and Kmiec both McCormick said that the
cept of existence, of meaning, 
lation that approved a very McCormick, professor of theol­cited the Netherlands, which "centerpiece" of the argument
of the universe, and of the 
qualified form of assisted sui­ogy, said that while one can allows assisted suicide in cer­lies in "the nature of humanmystery of human life," as the cide with several levels of argue for the autonomy of the tain situations. In a 1990 autonomy" and whether there
Supreme Court noted in 
Planned Parenthood vs. Casey. checks. The measure passed patients, "it is naive to expect report, a Dutch government are restrictions on human the state legislature by a mar­to control [the legislation]." study cited more than "1000 autonomy and why such
Drawing on the decisions of gin of less than 1% and was The advocates of assisted cases of nonvoluntary euthana­restrictions exist. "AmericansPlanned Parenthood vs. Casey 

and Roe vs. Wade, the land­invalidated by a judge. The suicide say that the autonomy sia, apparently including more are a pragmatic people," Oregon measure is currently of the patient dictates that than 100 cases in which the McCormick said. "They prefer
mark abortion case of 1973, 
"on hold" and will probably be patients should be able to ask patient was mentally compe­to treat problems by makingthe advocates claim that each appealed to the 9th U.S. Circuit for death and that patients tent." Such a statistic is fright­them go away." He said that
person has as much right to 
Court of Appeals, the same have the right to die with dig­ening, and shows how difficult some problems were too com­decide when life ends as when court that tried Washington vs. nity. such legislation is to control. plex to be solved by legislation. 
it begins. 
Glucksberg before the case The difficulty in allowing The American Medical He feels that the issue "should
The assisted suicide advo­

cates in the Vacco vs. Quill was appealed to the Supreme patients to ask for death is that Association (AMA) warned that be allowed to air and mature" Court. the line is too easily crossed to "transforming physician-assist­before any legislation is
case base their arguments 
"The problem, of course, is encouraging them to die. "It's ed suicide into a medical pro­passed.
instead on the 1990 decision of 
that this is not the first time an age of managed care," cedure would create momen­Kathryn Tucker, a lawyer for 
Cruzan vs. Missouri 
the Court has been invited to noted Kmiec, who continued to tum in favor of its usc that reg­the assisted-suicide advocates
Department of Health, where the court concluded that peo­
opine that life-or at least say that the drive for "health ulation could not reverse.... in the Washington case, said ple have a right avoid some "potential" lives-are care for less" could easily Once a patient can choose that the dying patient "does
to 

burdensome to others or with­become the desire to eliminate physician-assisted suicide, it is not have a choice between liv­
unwanted medical treatment 
as a part of the right to protec­out constitutional value," said the problem altogether by but a short step to ask a ing and dying" but that the Kmiec. The Hoe vs. Wade deci­encouraging patients to seek patient why he or she has not patient has a choice only of
tion from unwanted "touching 
and battery," in the words of sion led to more than 20 years death. done so." controlling the manner of of legislation on minor details McCormick sees the idea of The medical ethics involved death once "the dying process
Kmiec. The assisted suicide 
of the decision, which the "dying with dignity" as a sym­also put the physicians in a dif­has begun."
advocates in this case argue that there is a "liberty interest" Court ultimately reverted to bol of denial of death. "We ficult position. Doctors arc "I have to tell you, the dying the states with the provision want it on our own terms: I pledged to relieve suffering, process of all of us has begun,"at stake, which would commit 
the Supreme Court to an ongo­that the states not place want death in my time in my but should the relief of suffer­Justice Scalia replied. "undue burden" on those seek­own way-that's what they ing include death? The AMA The debate comes down to
ing supervision of assisted sui­
ing abortions. The Supreme mean when they say dignity. It said that "assisted suicide is questions of the meaning and
cide to see that the assisted 
Court will likely be unwilling to doesn't work that way," he contrary to the prohibition sanctity of human life thatsuicides stay within the laws make another such decision said. Kmiec cited against using the tools of medi­philosophers have argued for
and restrictions that would 
inevitably follow such a deci­that would ensure them 20 or Deuteronomy 30:19, which cine to cause a patient's centuries. Death is a neces­30 years of regulatory legisla­says, "I call heaven and earth death." sary part of being human.
sion. 
Legally, Kmiec said, there is tion. to witness against you today Yet the advocate of assisted Choosing to bring death early, no Constitutional basis for a · Yet allowing the decision to that I have set before you life suicide argued that, in the McCormick said, is "walking "right to die." Justice Anton in revert to the states will proba-and death. blessings and curs-words of Laurence Tribe, a away from human challenges." 
• • • • • • • • -• • • --• • • --• • •
•• -­
• I
Pure Pleasure ... 
• 

I I 
Buy 10 Get 1 Free! 
• I •
at the 
•

• .Huddle
• I 
• Convenience Store 
I 
I 

Open 7:30am-3:00am • I •
7 days a week 
•• 

• I 
• Ask for your 
I 
I 
•
Frequent Buyer

I • •
• 
Card today 
I

• • and••• 
II 

• I • 
• 
I 
• 

--• • • --• • • --• • • --• • • ­
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________. 
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Peruvian, Ecuadorean leaders visit ex-rebels 
By JAMES ANDERSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LIMA, Peru 

Peru's president visited the former Andean stronghold of a battered guerrilla movement Tuesday, determined to show his government is winning its war against terrorism despite the four-week-old hostage standoff in his capital. 
With no sign of progress in efforts to fr-ee 7 4 hostages held by leftist rebels, Alberto Fujimori and Ecuadorean President Abdala Bucaram inspected a village near the southeastern city of Ayacucho, 160 miles southeast of Lima. 
Ayacucho was the birthplace of the leftist Shining Path guerrillas, which killed thou­sands of people and destroyed millions of dollars' worth of property from 1980 to 1995. 
Members of a smaller group, the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement, seized the Japanese ambas­sador's residence in Lima on Dec. 17, demanding that Peru free about 300 imprisoned comrades. Fujimori has refused. 
Fujimori's government all but declared victory over the Shining Path after the 1992 capture of its leader, Abimael Guzman. 
On Tuesday, Fujimori and Bucaram visited the village of Vilcashuaman, site of some of the worst guerrilla violence. They dedicated an orphanage, donned brown woven panchos and white caps native to the area, and did a circle dance with local girls. 
Ayacucho's Roman Catholic 
archbishop, Juan Lius 
Cipriani, welcomed Bucaram 
to "what was a seat of vio­
lence but today is one of ·peace." 
Fujimori cited his govern­
ment's public works in the 
area as "a clear sign that all 
Peruvians reject violence, that 
all Peruvians are against the 
taking of the hostages and 
insist on their liberation." The 
two presidents later returned 
to Lima. 
Bucaram is the first 
Ecuadorean head of state to 
visit Peru, and toured the 
countryside with Fujimori on 
Tuesday after events in the 
capital Monday. 
Both leaders appeared eager 
to heal relations between their 
countries, which have clashed 
three times since 1941 over a 
disputed border. The last, 
undeclared border war was in 
1995, and killed about 80 peo­
ple. 

Cabinet-level talks on the 
border are set for February in 
Brasilia, Brazil. Peru's foreign 
minister, Francisco Tudela, is 
supposed to attend but is 
being held hostage inside the 
Japanese ambassador's home. 
No face-to-face talks have 
been held since Dec. 31, and it 
wasn't known if the rebels had 
responded to a government 
proposal to create a peace 
commission to jump-start 
negotiations. 
In part because of 
Bucaram's visit, Peruvian TV 
news media curtailed their live 
broadcasts from the area sur­
rounding the Japanese diplo­
matic compound. 

By MIKE ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

Sweeping along on powerful -and brutally cold -jet­stream winds, millionaire adventurer Steve Fossett head­ed across the Atlantic on Tuesday on his quest to become the first balloonist to circle the Earth nonstop. 
The 52-year-old Fossett, :who lifted off from Busch Stadium in St. Louis on Monday night, was over the Atlantic Ocean 120 miles east of the North Carolina coast by Tuesday afternoon and said all was well despite overnight problems with one of two heaters. 
"The heater went down for a little bit, but it went back up," said Bo Kemper, project man­ager of the flight. "Steve is fine. He seems very upbeat. The weather looks promising to Portugal and Spain." 
To succeed in his one-man mission, the softspoken Chicago securities dealer must spend 15 to 18 days in his chilly Solo Spirit capsule just 4 feet wide and less than 6 feet high. Temperatures of 40 degrees were expected inside the capsule and 50 below out­side. 
The plans had called for Fossett to head north across the Atlantic to Scandinavia. Under the revised route, he will reach Portugal or Spain on Friday, then turn north to France and east toward Denmark, cross Poland and Belarus and reach the Russian border on Saturday. 
There was some concern because Fossett had not yet 
received permission to cross Russian airspace. "We are working very closely with the 
U.S. State Department and the Russian Embassy," Kemper said. "This is an educational flight and, as such, a good thing for both of our coun­tries." 
Balloon teams headed by British tycoon Richard Branson and Swiss psychiatrist Dr. Bertrand Piccard failed in efforts earlier this month to set one of the last great remaining records in aviation. Branson was on hand in the snow-cov­ered stadium to watch as Fossett's 150-foot, silver-col­ored balloon ascended into the black winter sky. 
Fossett said before liftoff that he hopes to snatch four hours of sleep a night, usually an hour at a time. 

Work faster with it. Power Macintosh" 5400 120 MHzi16MB RAM/1.6GB/8X CD-ROM Simplify your life with it.15" buill-in disp/avlki!'J•b()(lrd NOW $1499 Communicate to the world with it. Apple" Color StyleWriter· 2500 U/J to 720x360 d(Ji NOW$240Have fun with it. Get $150 back with it. Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. Right now Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebatewhen you purchase aMacintosh'personal computer and an Apple•printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to getyour Mac; amachine that features some of the Apple" StyleWriter"1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anythingJ60.r360 dpi 8/W you'll encounter in your class schedule. So get to your campus computerNOW $99 store and pick outyour Mac. It'll help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price.  
Notre Dame Computer Store  
Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Computer/Math Building, Room 112  Pow81' Macintosh" 7200 120 MHz/16MB RAM/1.2GBI8X CD-ROM/15" display/keyboard Now $2,116  
http://www.nd.edu:80(-ndstore/  
While Supplies Last  

©1996Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Madntosh, Peiforma, Power Macintosh and Sly/eWriler are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Apple mail~in rebate offer mlidfrom November 2, 1996, through january 19. 1997, while supplies last_and subjecJ to amilabilil('-1b qual­ifyfor rebate, printer, romputer and an Apple monitor (ifsoidseparately) must he purchased on the same invoie£. Offer good on any Macmtosh desktop romputer u<th any Apple pnnter. Void where }Jrob1bited by law. See participatmg reseller for further rules and details. All Maantosh rompulers are designed to he accessible tv individuals wilh disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or 77Y800-755-0601. 
page 6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
40% 
cowhide..... 
~Bo/o 
bubble gum 


cocker spaniel
residue 
®

1-800-COLLECT 
'44D/o
SAVINGS 

Diall-800-COLLECT and sate up to 44%.* 
*For long-dlstanca calls. Savings basad on a 3-mlnuta AT&T oparator-dialad lntarstata call. 

--------~-----------·----------~-----------­
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Israelis, Pal~stinians sign Middle East agreement 
By SAMAR ASSAD 
Associated Press Writer 
EREZ CROSSING, 
Israel 

Israel and the Palestinians signed a tortuously negotiated agreement Wednesday on Israel's long-delayed pullout from Hebron and parts of the West Bank, ending a dangerous impasse in Middle East peace­making but still leaving key questions unanswered. 
After a post-midnight sum­mit, U.S. envoy Dennis Ross ­who had pushed for the accord in four months of often-frus­trating negotiations announced that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat had finally closed the deal in a last 90-minute ses­sion. 
The agreement "brings us another step closer to a lasting, secure Middle East peace," President Clinton said in Washington. "Once again, the forces of peace have prevailed over a history of division." 
Israeli chief negotiator Dan Shomron and his Palestinian counterpart Saeb Erekat signed the pact behind closed doors at the summit, held on the Israel­Gaza border. Netanyahu and Arafat emerged afterward to shake hands before the cam­eras but did not speak. 
Ross said the agreement was "fully consistent" with the pre­vious Israel-Palestinian agree­ment from 1995, but the part dealing with Hebron was "more detailed." 
Both sides also signed what they called a "note for the record" dealing with further West Bank pullouts and other issues. 
"Taken together, these two documents represent a very important building block in terms of developing relations between the two sides .. and peace in the Middle East as a whole," Ross said. 
Authorities did not immedi­ately release details of the accord. But according to previ­ous press reports and accounts from officials, Israel is to give the Palestinians control of 80 percent of the Biblical city of Hebron witliin days. Israel also agreed to roll back its presence in the West Bank in three stages -beginning in six weeks and ending in August 1998. 
It is the first concrete step in the peace process since Netanyahu's hard-line govern­ment took office in June, pledg­ing to slow down the handover of land to the Palestinians. Tensions between the two sides have risen sharply as the stale­mate in their relations length­ened. In September, Palestinian frustration sparked clashes with Israel in which 79 people died. 
But Wednesday's agreement sets the stage for future conflict by leaving as many questions as it answers -most notably the scope of the planned Israeli withdrawals. The Palestinians hope to gain control of most of the West Bank, but Netanyah.u by some reports plans to cede as little as one-third of the ter­ritory, which Israel captured in the 1967 Mideast War. 
Netanyahu spokesman Shai Bazak said Netanyahu would take the deal later Wednesday to his Cabinet -where about half the ministers have said they are against it or undecid­ed. Arafat is expected to encounter less opposition when he brings the accord before his own Cabinet. 
The accord is also to be 
Expen"ence the natural serenity if North Shore Club, just minutes.frdm Notre Dame. 
• 
Awise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided Come visit us at $~<;;,


North Shore Club ,,..) 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open 

Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
brought to the Israeli Knesset, where it is expected to pass by a largest majority with the sup­port of the opposition. 
Netanyahu's most ardent past supporters -the Jewish set­tlers of the West Bank and Gaza -were astounded by his decision to commit to pulling out of not only Hebron but parts of the West Bank as well. 
"Netanyahu is on the verge of making a pact with the devil," David Wilder, a spokesman for the 500 Jewish settlers who live amid 130,000 Palestinians in Hebron, said Tuesday. 
"If he goes through with this, he will place all of our lives in severe jeopardy." 
Settler leaders ·met Tuesday night in Jerusalem to map a protest campaign against the government they helped bring to power. 
"This agreement is going to tear the nation into pieces," said Elyakim Haetzni, a settler leader from the Kiryat Arba settlement outside Hebron. "Netanyahu has cheated us.' 
Palestinians started prepara­tions for the Israeli pullout. Merchants painted over politi­cal graffiti on storefront shut­ters in the downtown Bab Izawiya area, covering iron shutters with an Islamic green. Bab Izawiya was the scene of frequent past clashes between Palestinians and Israeli sol­diers. 
But Izzedine Sharabati, one of 15,000 Palestinians living in the downtown Hebron area that will stay under Israeli con­trol, said the troop withdrawal "doesn't make any difference." 
"There will be no peace between us and the settlers," he said. "The only solution is to get them out of Hebron." 
The talks that began in October nearly broke down over Arafat's demands for a timetable for the three further West Bank withdrawals promised in the 1995 peace accord signed by Netanyahu's dovish predecessors. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Richard Scorza said that after the signing of the agreement, Netanyahu congratulated Ross and told him he deserved "the Olympic marathon gold medal" for his efforts. 
The key breakthrough, how­ever, appears to have been secured by Jordan's King Hussein, who convinced Arafat on Monday to agree to allow Israel to complete the with­drawals by August 1998 rather than September 1997, the orig­inal deadline. , 
Bazak said Netanyahu and Arafat spoke to Hussein and Clinton after the signing, as well as Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. 
Still, because of the deep dis­trust that remains between the Palestinians and Israel's hard­line government, the United States has agreed to attach the so-called "notes for the record" to the accord. 
r•-.r•• ••-.r.,
Last Chance to study in ~11.1111 Ireland in '97-'98 1111.11~ ~.1111.'11 111.1111.~
Study abroad at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland
~11.1111 1111.11 ~ ~.1111.'11 1.111'.~
DEADLINE EXTENDED TO FEB. 2 FOR INFORMATION: AND APPLICATION 
I11.11 ill 1111.11~ 
Phone: 284-4596 or stop by
~.1111.'11 111.1111.~
123 Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College 
,,..~ 
~~~~~~ 

})ar·ty (J)3,r'te) 
n. 1. a,) a group of people working together to establish or promote particular theories or principles of government which they hold in common 2. any group of persons acting together; specif., a,) a group sent out on a task or mission 
b) a group meeting together socially to accomplish a task a) a group assembled for amusement or recreation 



Their Idea of a Partv. Our Idea of a .Partv . 
., ., 
Duiigeons&Drago'1~® 
You're tired of towing the party line. You're looking for !lome problem!! creatively, and walking around in !!omeone el!!e'!! !!hoe.!! for a excitement in your life. You crave action. You want a challenge. You while. It'!! playing a game where you control the action. You want to want it? You got it. The ADVANCED DuNGEONS & DRAGONS"' Game i!! all climb that tree, go for it. You want to arm wre!!tle an ore, knock that and more. It'!! you and a group of friend!! playing character!!, like your!!elf out. It'!! your call. There'!! no fini!!h line to cro!!!!, no !!cript to warrior!!, wizard!!, and thieve!!, a!! you explore and adventure your way follow. The only limit i!! that of your own imagination. So join the through !lome of the wilde!!t world!! in fanta!!y and !!cience fiction. It'!! party with the ADVANCED DUNGEONS & DRAGONS Game from TSR. learning how to work together toward a common goal, !!olving 
It's Yottr Party. B.Y.o.B. 
(Bring Your Own Brain) 


To find the store nearest you call toll-free 1-800-384J4TSR. Questions? Call Rob Taylor at 414-248-2902 or Email TSRConSvc@aot.com. Visit us on America Online at keyword: TSR. ®and TM designate trademarks owned by TSR, Inc. ©1996 TSR, Inc. All rights reserved. 

-~-------­

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
Saferide 
continued from page 1 
"We won't take people from Coach's to Bridget's, it's just a safe Tide home, "Student Government Vice President Megan Murray clarified. 
To help ensure that Saferide meets its goal of reducing drunk driving, planners will attempt to raise awareness about the program in bars by posting the Saferide number near pay phones and by mak­ing bartenders aware of the service. 
Students need only sign legal waivers to use the ser-
StadiuiD 
continued from page 1 
unchanged at 11,000, as will opponent seating at 5,000. Season ticket holders, many of whom acquired their tickets . over 30 years ago, will contin­ue occupying 16,000 of the stadium's seats, while University trustees, advisory council members, alumni board, and other benefactors will note an increase of 2,000, putting that total at 9,000 seats. 
Though the recent construe-


You could earn: 
$3000 after your first plasma donation! 
$1500 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+ 
$500 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 

+ 
$1 QOO per person if you recruit someo-ne and they donate 


$3000 TOTAL! 

H 
s 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with plioto I.D. 
Come to: Hours: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAl M-F: 9:00 -6:00 515 Lincolnway West SAT: 8:00 -5:00 South Bend, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
vice. Nearly 1000 release forms were signed at registra­tion, and more will be distrib­uted in residence halls through hall governments. Forms will continue to be available in the student gov­ernment office in LaFortune. Students will not be allowed to use the service without signing the waivers ahead of time. 
"Signing's free, and then at least your name is on the list," Murray said. "We can't let someone in the van if they haven't signed up yet." 
Planning for the program began last October, and orga­nizers' legal counsel quickly found the forms to be 
tion does add a significant amount of space to the stadi­um, Beauchamp does not fore­see numerous, if any, tickets being sold to the public. 
"If we had tickets enough for Notre Dame fans in the gener­al public, we certainly would make those tickets available." Beauchamp said. "The fact is, however, that we could only accommodate public demand for tickets at the expense of some members of the University eommunity whether alumni. benefactors, parents, or employees -all of whom, in fairness, have a stronger claim to tickets." 
unavoidable. Saferide takes on inereased 
Dining Hall 

significanee following Indiana's Jan. 1 passage of a continued from page 1 
zero tolerance law. Under this new legislation, anyone under 21 found operating a vehicle with as little as a .02 blood alcohol content will face stiff fines and license suspension. This ehange applies to more than just Hoosiers, because Indiana's reciprocity policy allows the state to cooperate with other states' enforcement agendes. 
Planners estimate that the program will need 20 volun­teers a weekend to staff the vans. There will be two 2.5 hour shifts spanning 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. 
Anyone interested in volun­teering should call Brendan Kelly at 631-4096.
"""""'-----­
t 
I Help Save I
I 
the 
I 
Rainforests
I I 
I I 
I
Notre Dame Food Service~ and Kellogg Company have partnered to help rai~e money for The Nature Conservancy
I I Ito purchase acre~ of rainfore~t land and finance the crucial protection of tropical rainfm·e~t~. For ever-y ca~e of qualifying product that Notre l)ame 1-<ood Service~ pm·chases during a
I J 2-month period, Kellogg will donate a percentage of the sale 
I
to the Nature Conservancy's Adopt an Acre program.
I 
I 
Everyone can participate in thi~ important environmental effort to protect tropical rainfor·est destruction by selecting I li 
the featut·ed Kellogg cereal~ and waffles at North and South l)ining I Ialls from January 14 until Mm·ch 7, 1997. 
I, ~P· 
t·~.·----"~·-·~·-,.·-·--··"-·--·­
Director Kevin Kirwan said the planning for the renovations start­ed in October with an emphasis on offering "best and fresh quality" food. 
"The goal is to make all of the entrees taste like famous chain restaurants' in order to meet the needs of today's college women," said Kirwan. "Displaying the cooking adds a little fun and excitement to the atmosphere, the students can sec for themselves how the food is prepared and how fresh it is. 
Marriott, the dining hall's man­agement service, in cooperation with Saint Mary's College, financed some of the additional lighting and art posters in the din­ing hall. 
-
"Saint Mary's College is a trend­setter in dorm food services. They are the first to offer 'carte blanche' 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. hours, as well as the displaying of the food," said Kirwan. 
According to Kirwan, letters are being mailed home to parents ask­ing for their daughter's favorite recipes. 
The dining hall will expand on the recipes and display the par­ent's name when they offer that dish. 
The feedback from students has been positive so far. 
"I think that it is great that the dining hall is now offering more varieties of food to choose from, and that it looks more hospitable," said senior Aimee Heimann. 
"We will continue to be more innovative and responsive to stu­dent needs, we are open for 
change continuously. boundary-less," said Kirw--- We arc an. I  
I  


I 
I 
I 
I 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mart Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily rei-leer the policies of the administra­tion of either instimrion. The news is reported as accurately and objecdvely as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Phoro Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Ob.'.erver. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity a.nd to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoint 631-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• Goo ·N liFE 

. A new yeafis a time for .. . rnia­tion. After a long, hard 1996 (arid hec· tic holiday season,) the outlook is bright. We have suddenly Cl,cquired . more time, ahd our goals ref1eetthis. Televiston····comnierciaJs'.... too. It doesri'trequire nn.tc ··'fig to see an advertisement for hea~th equip­ment or diet plans. Travela<:Is increase 
in number, also, as people b~gin plan· ning their vacation for the coming sum­mer. If we let it happen, We can• find ourselves being convinced thafthe way we look, the Clothes we w · .hhhow · much money we spend ll1ak ~wor­thy" of our friends. How wrong that is! 
It never hurts to take a few moments during these first weeks of the year ­or each day. really, to consider what is meaningful to us. Where do an(! in .. the present wi~hGod, family, ds1 What are the practical goalSiWe have set for ourselves: college graduation, fmding a job, paying off bills? 
The most important qwf\stJton might be; "What do I Are we. at peace with we need to adjust how we others, or treat ourselves? transformation is an just as the seasons 
from spting..t6 ""'''"·""'" 
We can·,,.,.~.,~·····1·••w• 9 .•••••~•..,, 
things to Hi>rinn·ri•' effort. Life.~"~"·~"'..,." 
•LEITER To THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Reflecting on the holi­day season, greetings of "Peace on Earth, Good Will to All" and sharing time with our families, I write this with a heavy heart. Returning to our Notre Dame family where we experienced trying times last semester, two incidents of racial harass­
University's commitment to diversity should be openly stated and ingrained throughout the community. 
As an institution of higher education, it is our responsibility to ensure that everyone has equal access to an educa­tion in a safe, nurturing and intellectual environment. This is a student's consti­tutional right to receive and our moral obligation to provide. 
Since his inauguration, [University President] Father [Edward] Malloy has stated that cultural diversity is one of his prime initiatives. This was reiterated in his Oct. 8, 1996 address to the facul­ty. The Observer coverage did not men­tion it, nor is there any evidence of it throughout the campus. 
So how are members of the Notre Dame community to know what is acceptable and unacceptable behavior? There must be formal statements from the administration that explain the importance of celebrating economic as well as cultural diversity and eradicat­ing racism. These statements must go beyond having a Discriminatory Harassment Policy. These formal announcements should be made and practiced during First Year of Studies· Orientation and reiterated in residence halls throughout the year. 
If we provide more opportunities for dialogue through Prejudice Reduction Workshops, Learning to Talk About Race retreats, Walsh Hall's "In Other Words," Town Hall meetings in the Center for Social Concerns and resi­dence halls and an inclusive curriculum, we will be closer to fulfilling Malloy's wish of "Peace on Earth, Good Will to All." 
"Each One Teach One, Each One Reach One." -Anonymous African Proverb 
IRIS OUTLAW 
Director, Multicultural Student Affairs 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure 
of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and con­troversy." 
-Martin Luther King, Jr. 


--~-~------~------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
• lETTERS To THE EDITOR 
King's spirit remains a powerful force 
Dear Editor: 
Just before the death of Martin Luther King, Jr., he began to realize that injustice anywhere in the world was a total threat to the plight of freedom and equality for all peoples and that such injustices could not go unnoticed. The 1997 Martin Luther King, Jr. celebration at Notre Dame has taken on this spirit and would like to embrace the idea th!lt all people, regardless of race, gender, religion or nationality are responsible for upholding the tenets of freedom, justice and equality. 
Although the message of King and his movement originated over 30 years ago, much of what he fought for continues to exist in its most vir­ulent form. King referred to the rate of unemployment as one of the many ills in our society which would fuel the fire for rage and rebellion. Much of his prophetic analysis of despair has come to pass. According to William Julius Wilson, the Malcolm Wiener Professor of Social Policy at Harvard University, the disappear­ance of work and opportunity over the last 25 years has contributed to the catastrophic condition of pover­ty and misery. 
Although African Americans con­tinue to represent a large percent­age of this misery, many other 
• WHERE I'M CAlliNG fROM 
groups are beginning to suffer the recrudescence of social and eco­nomic withdrawal as well. The fight for equality and justice for King was not limited to African Americans; he began to embrace the plight of all, understanding that injustice any­where was a threat to justice every­where. 
Unfortunately, much of what King fought for was not only a dream, but in many cases has turned into a nightmare for many. In 1963, on that famous afternoon in Washington, the nation listened as King spoke about the promise of a new day to come for all Americans, a dream which would forever change the ugly face of racism and inequality. 
King, however, began to realize in his last days that many of his dreams began to turn into night­mares before his very eyes. He recalled in one of his speeches four beautiful, unoffending, innocent black girls that were murdered in a church bombing in Birmingham, Alabama. Not only was his night­mare a reality in the bowels of the Jim Crow South, but also in the cos­mopolitan areas of the North. As King traveled through the Northern ghettos, he was dismayed at the · sight of his brethren perishing on a lonely island of poverty in an ocean 
of material prosperity. 
Corroborating the two, King began to realize the hypocrisy of American poliey as the nation remained idle at the sight of cultural and social stratification among the races, one black, one white, separate and unequal. He began to see his dream fade as he watched the war in Vietnam escalate from 16,000 mili­tary advisers in the beginning to over 500,000 soldiers fighting on Asian soil. He also began to see his dream deferred as the factories and industries of areas such as West Virginia and Appalachia began to close and fall into desolation. 
Although King died withou't a complete fulfillment of his dream, he finished out his life by indicating that in spite of dreams deferred, of blasted hopes, he eould not give up. He indicated that to lose hope is somehow to lose that vitality that keeps life moving, to lose the courage to be, that quality that helps you go in spite of... If King were alive today, in the midst of continued injustice and inequality, he would continue to instill in oth­ers his hope of The Dream. 
RODNEY COHEN Dirccror, Urban Plunge/Ourreach 
Development Cenrer for Social Concerns 
., 
Remembering Dr. King's legacy 
Dear Editor: ,;)l'?i'/t . __ ___ 
The Martin Lijtlier King, Jr. Celebration commit­tee has asked ifI might address a word to thefae­ulty and students about the importance of this cel­
ebration. Much progress has been made in America since 
>that memora~~~ t~!k of Marti~ Luther King at the 
' Lincoln Memtiri{l;rabout his dream of a renewed America. He not cinly worked to enliven this dream during his life, but he was a real martyr, dying for what he believed in. During my fifteen years on the United States 
G~!llmisslon o~ ~iyil Rights, I • crossed paths many ·· •· times with Marim~':t. remember.that wonderful talk · he gave at the end of a White 'House meeting on 
civil rights under the leadership of Lyndon Johnson. I also spoke that evening. Martin's wife also sang that evening in a very touching way. 
lt is not en().9~h that America has great_ and inspiring leaders in the areas that touch our national -life and our values. We must also con­stantly recall their words and their deeds and do what we can personally to make the dream come true. 
With best wis}les and prayers for a wonderful celebration of this newest of our national holidays and a deepening of the message it brings us each year about equality in America. 
THEODORE HESBURGH, CSC President Emeritus 

Fitness represents no more than a state of mind 
A semester at ND helps a student to grow in many ways: in intellect, in piety and, of course, in size. If you found yourself explaining to your mom that the 32" pants under the tree might as well stay there because trying to wrap them around your plump college behind would do them and yourself a world of damage. I can sympathize. If you stepped out of your shower this morn­ing, took a look at your once firm 
Thomas 
Coyne 

physique and calmly muttered: What the %*$#?. I feel your pain. 
And Christmas probably didn't help matters. After gorging yourself on the first proper foodstuffs you've encoun­tered since August (see, your mothers can cook) and pouring alcohol down your throats at a feverish pace to show your high school buddies what you're learning out at school (by the way, that tingling sensation is your side is called cirrhosis) you have used and abused your mortal coils to the point where it's finally time to do something about it. 
You know what that means -the req­uisite follow up to the Christmas choco­lates and the New Year's bottle(s) of champagne, the New Year's resolution. 
January 2: I promise myself this is the year. The old bod could use some tight­ening, the gut could use a pick me up, and the lungs could stand a purging. I figure 78 days to spring break, 50 sit­ups and 1.5 miles on the track per day equals 3900 sit-ups and 117 miles which equals washboard stomach on the beaches of Spring Break which in turn equals one thing: sorority girls. 
January 3: I sleep until two in the afternoon and feel too bored to exercise. l cat a cheesesteak with extra grease and sit on the couch until my rear devel­ops callouses. 
.January 4: I postpone physical fitness to post-graduation. I have come to an invaluable epiphany: college is too much fun to waste time worrying about my waist. 
I hereby resolve not to resolve. I will not make empty self-promises and meaningless commitments to good health and physical fitness. I will not go down the same road as my mother who has to wrack her brain every morning for a reason to delay her resolution of daily exercise. Her pitiful excuses are wearing thin -yesterday's was "you can't start things on a Wednesday" and the day before "I can't exercise today ­I ate chocolate."· 
Let's not kid ourselves. Not only are resolutions a waste of time, but this whole fitness thing is hardly worth the effort. Why is America wrapped up in an obsessive drive for physical fitness, a maniac mission to firm up, get hard, get big? What is 'fit' anyway? To me it's subjective, a state of mind, a judgement call. Personally, I find that my state of being is 'fit' and that perhaps I should be put in a magazine as the bod to emu­late -a healthy "paunch" hanging gen­tly above the waist line, soft and cuddly chest, love handles in full effect for a romantic grip. 
What exactly is "fitness'?" Is it the state of the muscle bound megalomani­acs at the Rock who pump and prim themselves, one half trying to compen­sate for being short, the other half for not being tall? I think not. They prep their physiques for the nine days of sunny South Bend weather when they'll flex and frolic with their friends and their frisbees for the five girls sun­bathing on the quad in jeans and turtle­necks (sleeves rolled up of course.) 
I don't trust such mirror gazing types -the kind of guy who would rather have a good reflection than have a good time, who sacrifices hours of pain and sweat when there is fun to be had. Such priorities don't seem in line with the glory of the college experience. A guy with a bit of a belly is a guy you can trust, a guy who isn't afraid to eat Papa John's at three in the morning, a guy that didn't even know beer had calories in it, a guy that gets by on a personality, not a bench press. 
Nor do I have a shred of trust or respect for fanatically fit eaters. I believe in healthy, well rounded, and balanced meals, yet some malnourished health mongers take "healthy" eating habits to bizarre extremes. They ehomp rice cakes and slurp bottled water (a product I will never understand as long as I shall live) and from time to time stuff themselves with a plate full of bare dining hall lettuce or kidney beans. 
Wherc's the meat! If being fit means giving up the bloody llesh of this coun­try's cattle, then you can count me out. The mind of the vegetarian is one that boggles me -do they not understand the near orgasmic pleasure to be found in a meal of steak and potatoes swim­ming in an assortment of fatty condi­ments? Health, smealth. As for herbi­vores who abstain from the beauty of beef consumption for moral reasons, why do they think cows were put on earth in the first place'? To do tricks at the circus? Cows exist to give milk, die in a slaughterhouse, and feed God's chil­dren. Simple. 
And I hereby implore all health cru­saders to get off smokers' backs. Those whining, coughing, 'can you please take that outside' puritans who feel their per­fect lungs are just too precious for a lit­tle smoke ean take their militant, uncon­stitutional, discriminatory, holier than thou eampaign of smoker persecution and put it in their pipe and, well, smoke it. 
I am mindful of the health threat which smokers and their exhaust pose, but I don't feel it's our job to legislate respon­sibility or longevity to others. To protect Notre Dame's non-smokers from catch­ing the ever contagious emphysema, we force smokers outside to catch pneumo­nia. There are few truly blissful, won­derful things in this world. For some people, that thing is a cigarette. I say enjoy. 
I have never fully understood this 
American puritanism. this great Yankee need to be clean. wholesome. unsullied, ultra-healthy, smoke-free, booze-free, fat-free, and fun-free. We spend our money on vitamins and exercise equip­ment, invest our time and conlidence in diets, and sell our souls to weight loss and exercise "programs" because some­one in GQ or Cosmo told us what we have t~ look like. We sweat and starve ourselves in order to become "better" people. There is nothing "better" about sit-ups, caulillower, and light beer. I prefer the European approach to life. Europeans don't talk of low-fat food and light beer. They smoke like it is their sole purpose in life, they enjoy their fine wines, rieh foods, and big servings and live just as long as we do. 
We Americans think that we can live forever, that if we cat enough broccoli or buy and spend enough hours on our stair master that we might reverse the aging process. Allow me to let everyone in on a little secret -we are all going to die. In the mean time, let's enjoy what we've been given and not spend so mueh time trying to forget that we're mortal. 
I am not condoning sloth or obesity. As fitness and health paranoid as Americans are, at the same time we arc a fat, fat people. If you're going to resolve to do anything to the state of your body this year, resolve to find the proper balance, a compromise between the two poles, between fitness and fun. Be active, but don't sweat till you drop; enjoy food and drink, but don't be a pig. Take care of yourself, but don't kill yourself to look like Jenny McCarthy (unless your really think you can pull it off, in which case by all means). 
So I'll see you by the pool down at Spring Break, my pasty white skin col­lecting melanomas, my paunch in full effect, my love handles alive and well. Granted J'll probably be sitting alone or with three guys that look the same, but we'll be happy and, as far as you know, we'll be fit. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 

------~­
----------------~------·~--------------,~-------~-----------~----~--------~--------------------~----~---------------­
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 page 11 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I 
I i I 
i 
l 
l 
l 
i
l 


As second semester rolls around, Accent realizes that while some students have just 
begun to enjoy their college career, others look back and know that it is almost over. Here are the views ofa senior and a freshman, reflecting upon their feelings as colored by their experiences. 
I
By JOSEPH WIELER on the Kelvin scale. du Lac, is very well-rounded. Football Assistant Accent Editot But I'm not one to complain, really, games here are the greatest. I've I'm not. As I flipped through my copy never been part of such a huge event. t's strange coming to a school of "303 reasons why I hate Notre When the Fighting Irish win it's awe­that I thought I knew so well, Dame"-a Christmas gift-I realized some, and if, by some act of God, they only to find that it's all changing that, as a freshman embarking on his . lose, the entire student body sees it before I can find out what it used to be first semester of studies at college, through to the end and sings the Alma like, you know, back in the good ole' Notre Dame isn't such a bad place to Mater in unison. But, as I keep telling days. One need only glance at the be. I mean, everyone says that the all of my friends, I didn't some here football program to see that. social life here at the University of just for football. Schoolwork is hard, 
The house that Hock built, housing Notre Dame is non-existent, but I but very rewarding. the greatest' college football players in would tend to disagree. You definitely get as much out of it the world, led by one of the greatest Take, for instance, my dorm SYR. It as you put into it. As for the social life, ' coaches, graced by the image of was tons of fun, provided that you I guess that it follows the same rule. Touchdown Jesus, raising His arms in didn't step in any products of what There are hundreds of things to do to victory, only to be hidden behind an must have been a sudden rash of the keep busy around here. Granted that ill-received modification of the sacred stomach flu. , about four of those hundred are actu­stadium, and abandoned by one of it's But, I digress. As a freshman here, I ally entertaining, but as my mother 
greatest leaders. As I held up one of learned that the first thing that I need­keeps telling me, "We're not sending hundreds of signs reading "Thank ed to do to survive in this frozen you to school to entertain you." So, I you, Lou," I wondered, "What for?'' wasteland was to be just a little cyni­guess that's why I'm here. I'm looking Let's just say that this example of cal. As you can tell, it's a lesson I forward to the next seven semesters Notre Dame not being exactly what learned well. being very inter-
I expected is just the tip of the not· All that aside now, esting ones. so-proverbial iceberg. I must say that life 
Not once in the brochure did I see at Notre Dame, anything about the weather reaching if properly down into the low teens daily not even lived according halfway into January-and that's just to the rules of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are noto­er Notre riously lacking in social life come Dame or January, unless you consider sitting S a i n t through broken projector Cushing Mary's 
movies and losing body parts while -· walking to bars entertaining. 
Which brings me to another important thing I've learned in my seven semesters in 
South Bend. As far as a social By MELANIE WATERS life goes, Notre Dame's is about as Assistant Accent Editor realistic as the special effects in 
"Independence Day." Freshmen, if you are already utterly frustrated 
W
e may not be sent to Notre Dame with the idiocy that we try to pass off for entertainment purposes, but as normal gender relations here, don't seven semesters later, I've found join a therapy group just yet. It'll get bet· plenty to be amused with. And much as ter after graduation. I promise. It has to. we may complain of a sadistic workload Really. Doesn't it?!? and sub-zero temperatures (not to men­And for those of you still harboring the tion an often frigid social scene), when it hometown honey, I wish you the best of s t u ­comes time to wrap it all up with a big luck. Not that I don't have a few friends dent. If that golden bow, most of us wouldn't trade our that aren't marrying these very same sig­prospect doesn't four years for all the national champi­nificant others come graduation, but for scare you, the onships in the world. the most part, trying to convince yourself realization that 
OK, that's not true. We'd have at least that the phone bills and petty visiting some of you can liked one, notabiy the one that our Foot arguments will get better with time is like count the number of Locker spokesman friends at Florida State trying to convince yourself that California remaining semesters on ripped out from under our noses freshman Eldorado Casserole is yummy. Few can one hand should. year. Who can forget the lighting of the succeed. Even fewer really mean it. As for me and my fellow number one, like a beacon in the night on Over the next seven or six or however seniors, those single digits will top of Grace Hall, which was replaced by a -many more semesters are left for you, soon be our weeks, and then our much dimmer number TWO in the polls. there are a plethora of bizarre, frustrat­days. So don't let a little frostbite 
If you didn't at least consider shedding a ing, but above all priceless memories yet and the prospect of yet another tear as the entire student section joined to be formed. Road trips. Dances. weekend of Beacon Bowling put hands for the final seconds of the Boston Snowball fights. Twenty-first birthday a damper on your Notre Dame College game and watched as that kick tales that will live in infamy, much to your experience. Your plaid pants sailed right on through the goal posts, regret and dismay. Bad hook-ups. Good are coming sooner tha·n you then you don't deserve your complimenta­friendships. And don't forget, somewhere think. ry pair of plaid pants upon graduation. around 60 percent of us will marry anoth­
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
•NBA 
, ­
~ 
I I 
Denver and Charlotte tally only one basket in OT 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 1995. should have drop-kicked one jumper as time expired. a Vlade Divac's tip-in and free Associated Press Denver also became the fifth through the goal posts." A miss by Smith had given throws by Rice. team not to score in an over­Rice led the Charlotte with 25 Denver a final possession with In an evenly played half, the DENVER time period; Indiana was the points and Dell Curry came off 22 seconds left, but Motta opted difference was free-throw 
Scratching their heads, not a most recent oli March 10, 1996, the bench to add 23. Anthony not to call a timeout. shooting. Charlotte was 9-for­player or coach could remem­in a second overtime against Mason had 19 points and 12 "I didn't call timeout at the 12 and Denver was 3-for-8. ber such a low-scoring game in Portland. rebounds. end because after our previous LaPhonso Ellis brought the overtime. And no wonder. Charlotte made only 1-of-9 Denver's LaPhonso Ellis two timeouts, we had Nuggets back almost single­
Tony Smith's jumper with shots in overtime while Denver scored 19 of his 23 points in the turnovers," Motta said. "When handedly. He scored their first 
1:29 left in overtime-his only missed all 10 of its attempts in third quarter but fouled out Fonz (Ellis) fouled out, we had eight points of the third period points of the game and the only the extra session. early in overtime. Bryant Stith maybe two guys to go to. I'm and 16 of the first 18. He added basket in overtime -gave the "We ended up blowing them added 22 for the Nuggets, who not sure we could have gotten a a 3-pointer late in the period, Charlotte Hornets a 102-100 out 2-0 in overtime," Hornets lost their sixth straight game at better shot than Tommy had. and Denver carried a 79-77 win over the Denver Nuggets on coach Dave Cowens said with a home to tie a franchise record. We just can't buy a basket lead into the fourth quarter. Monday night. laugh. "I can't ever recall an Curry's 3-pointer and when it counts." Mark Jackson, who had 18 
By scoring only two points in overtime like that." Mason's dunk gave Charlotte a Dale Ellis and Stith each went assists, hit a 3-pointer to give the extra period, the clubs set "Two points in overtime is 98-95 lead with three minutes 0-for-4 in overtime. Denver an 86-81 lead early in an NBA record for the fewest amazing," Charlotte's Glen Rice left in the fourth quarter. After Denver fell to 4-14 at home -the fourth, but Curry's 20-foot­points combined in an overtime. said. "But since we're the team Ellis hit two free throws, Mason the worst home record in the er and Rice's fastbreak slam The previous record of four that got the two, we'll take it." slipped inside for a layup to NBA. and pair of 3-pointers moved points was accomplished twice, Nuggets coach Dick Motta give Charlotte a 100-97 lead Stith scored 13 points in the Charlotte to a 91-88 lead. most recently by San Antonio said he had "never seen any­with 1:03 left. first quarter on 5-of-7 shooting, Notes: It was the last game of and New York on Dec. 10, thing like this before. We Stith sank a 3-pointer with 45 including three 3-pointers. His Charlotte's five-game road trek 
seconds left and, after an ex­last trey was part of a 9-0 through the West. ... Mason had change of turnovers, Curry Denver 'run late in the quarter, his fifth straight double-double

Multiple weapons 
missed a wide-open 22-l'ooter helping the Nuggets to a 27-23 and 15th in the last 20 games. as time expired. lead. ... The Hornets have won the The Nuggets missed thPir first Curry scored Charlotte's first last five games in the series.... eight shots of overtime, includ­nine points of the second quar­The Nuggets are 3-13 this sea­

lift Pistons to win 
ing several tip-ins, before Smith ter. Nuggets rookie Darvin Ham son in games decided by five sank his 10-footcr in the lane. had three emphatic dunks in points or less, and they dropped Associated Press Writer Mills hit were really because "lie was in his range," the period and Ricky Pierce their 11th straight game to an we didn't do what we were sup­Cowens said. scored 10 points, but the Eastern Conference team .... A MILWAUKEE posed to on those plays." Denver's Tom Ilammonds Hornets gradually built a 56-50 crowd of 7,573 was Denver's 
The Bucks wouldn't let Grant Hill's two free throws with was ofT the mark on a 16-foot lead at intermission, capped by smallest in five seasons. Hill beat them in the fourth 29.9 seconds left in the third quarter, so Joe Dumars did. quarter narrowed Milwaukee's 
Dumars scored 14 of his 29 lead to 70-69 going into the fi­
Utah wins 15th straight game 

points in the fourth quarter and nal period. The Bucks, who had Hill added 26 Tuesday night as not led since the opening min­Associated Press Writer quarter, which ended with the tographers.
the Detroit Pistons won their utes of the game, used a 12-3 Jazz ahead 77-61. It earned Davis a technicalfifth straight game, beating run to move in front 6 7-62. The 
SALT LAKE CITY Utah took its largest lead, foul and seemed to energize

Milwaukee 93-85. spurt was capped by Newman's The Utah Jazz set a franchise 110-83, on two free throws by Malone even more. lie hit one"They gave me opportunities basket with 2:30 left in the pe­record with their 15th con­Jamie Watson with 58.3 sec­of two free throws, then con­in the fourth quarter by con­riod. 
secutive victory Tuesday night, onds remaining. verted a three-point play to putcentrating on Grant Hill," said After the Bucks pulled within getting a career-high 21 points Heggie Miller led the Pacers, the Jazz ahead 67-51.

Dumars. "And I wanted to put a point at 25-24 in the second and 15 rebounds from Greg who lost their second straight, After that, the Pacers would pressure on their team by being period, the Pistons scored seven Ostertag in a 110-86 victory with 13 points on 4-vf-13 come no closer than 73-59. 
more offensive minded." straight points, including five over the Indiana Pacers. shooting. Indiana shot just 33.8 Notes: Utah turned the ballThe Bucks, who had a two­by reserve Lindsey Hunter. The Utah broke its previous percent (27-80) for the game, over 11 times in the first half,game winning streak snapped, scoring spurt helped Detroit to record of 14 consecutivo wins the Pacers' worst shooting 19 for the game.... Oste-rtagwere led by Yin Baker with 28 a 47-43 halftime lead. 
set in 1994-95 -the season night of the season. had 10 rebounds in the firstpoints, but sorely missed Glenn The Pistons led 21-16 at the the Jazz finished with a fran­half.... The Jazz shot 48 per­Robinson, who missed the end of the first period. 

chise-best 60 wins. Antoine Carr scored 12 points cent after shooting 51.5 percent game with a sprained right an­Notes: A problem with the Karl Malone scored 14 of' his and Malone pulled down 12 re­in their previous six games.

kle. scoreboard delayed the start of 22 points in the second half and bounds, and the Jazz outre­Indiana has allowed only twoThe Pistons opened the final the game .... Newman, who Jeff Hornacek added 15 points bounded the Pacers 63-4 7. opponents to shoot 50 percent
quarter with consecutive 3-started for the injured 
as the Jazz improved to 17-2 Derrick McKey finished 1-ol'-7 or better this season ....

pointers by Dumars and Terry Robinson, blocked two shots by for the year. for the game. Dampier was 4-Stockton will play in hisMills to go in front 75-70, a Hill in the first period ... 
After Utah built a 53-41 half­of-14 and the Pacers were 5-of-1,000th game Thursday atlead they never relinquished. Robinson and Yin Baker went time lead, Erick Dampier 14 from the 3-point line. -home against Phoenix ....

The Bucks countered with a into the game as the NBA's 
scored the first six points of the Malone and Dale Davis got in­Heggie Miller needs four stealsbasket by Johnny Newman, but highest scoring forward duo, second half while Malone was volved in a scrap in the third to reach 900 for his career....

Dumars hit two straight baskets averaging 43.7 points per game missing four straight shots. quarter as Utah was starting to Larry Brown needs one moreto give the Pistons a 79-72 mar­... Defense-minded Detroit is That pulled the Pacers to 53-pull away. win to reach 1,000 wins, in­gin. the only NBA team not to yield 49 with 7:43 lef't in the third, At the 5:19 mark of the quar­cluding NBA, ABA and college"I thought that we played 100 points in a game this sea­but Utah then went on a 16-2 ter, Malone grabbed a rebound games .... Indiana has won
good defense at times," son The victory over 
run to take its largest lead to after several unsuccessful at­three games on the first fiveMilwaukee coach Chris Ford Milwaukee means Detroit coach that point, 69-51, with 3:07 left tempts at a loose ball under the stops of its six~game road trip .

said. "More or less we stuck to Doug Collins needs only one in the third period. basket. As he brought it down, ... The Jazz have won the last
what the game plan was, but more win to reach the 200 
Malone scored 10 points in Davis fouled him and then five games and nine of theirthe two threes that Dumars and mark. 

the run and 12 points in the shoved him into a row of pho-last 10 against the Pacers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and fi-om 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
CANCUN-PADRE-MAZA TLAN SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST! 1·800-328-7513 FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY SPECIAL!/! Up to $200 Discount Coupons on our Website www.studentadvtrav.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beach'es & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale' 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
#1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On 
campus, convenient. Call 
Margrette 284-5261 
WANTED 

Female roommate(s) wanted: Jan-Apr31/97. Close to UNO cam­pus. No cats or smoking. Call631­6531 (9am-6pm). 
I need some responsible early-ris­ers to deliver newspapers. Earn a bonus for the first week. Call Mike x1186 
SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT Minnesota coed children's camp seeks enthusiastic cabin counselors and instructors for over 30 activities including: Archery, Art, Biking, Boardsailing, Canoeing, Diving, Fishing, Lifeguards, Riflery, Sailing, Shop, Trip Leaders. Waterskiing. Rep on St. Mary and UNO campus­es 1/28. Camp Foley HCR 77 Box 172 Pine River MN 56474 218­5430-6161 or sbfhouse@uslink.net 
FILEMAKER PRO database designer needed for projects this 
semester-Call1-5610 
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT-National Parks hire forestry work­ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­guards, + volunteer and govern­ment positions. Excellent benefits + bonus potential. Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841 EASTERN EUROPE t:MPLOY­MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. Find out how to succeed in this field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext K55844 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) & earn an excellent income in the Cruise & Land-Tour Industry. For details, call 1-206­971-3550 ext.C55845 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Benefits often include Transportation and/or Room & Board. For details: (206)971-351 0 ext. A55849 
FOR RENT 
EE grad. student seeks roommate. Private room, $170/mo+electric. 631-7932(day),272-1837(evn) 
2 bdrms, near campus. 
Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. 
Paul 232-2794 Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595 
3 Bedroom $425+dep Available Now 602 1/2 StLouis Across from Rocco's 232-2595 
Furnished Student Apt -6 blocks from campus, affordable, clean 1-bedroom-$265 Heat and water included 755 South Bend Ave. (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320 
FOR SALE 
1988 Mercury Tracer, 5·spd. $1,150. Good dependable trans. 259-7872. 
Add -Bed -Queensize orthopedic premium mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrafice 175. (219) 67 4-2352 
PERSONAL 
Well, definitely Jeremy. I don't know who else though. -Mike Bachscrot 
PREGNANT? Consider the loving option of Adoption. Caring, devoted couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Call for profile and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1­800-213-3960 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 
springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $1391 Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
If you accidently picked up my black wool coat at the Boat Club on Sunday, please call Kerry at 288-1542 -I'm freezing without it! 
..........,. .. "'***"'*"''""'*"'**"'********** elsie's promise Thursday, Jan. 16 at Club 23 
................................... 
POST-NEW YEAR'S EVE PARTY Friday, Jan.17 at Jazzman's featuring elsie's promise 
Spice is coming Feb. 4. Are we ready? 
Jill Trenary is Amazing 
Whitesnake rules 
Hey Jav, where is your towel? 
SPICOLI 
YEAH HEY !!I 
face plants are classic, ecp 
Joey-ice and candle wax? 
HLC-is the honeybrown better ion the garbage can? 
The Great Escape lives on. Tim Corbett will ride again. 
AUDITIONS for Shakespeare's Othello tonight 7 to 10:15 p.m. 207 OS hag Questions? 
Call Adam at 4-4115 

------------· 
Wednesday, January 15, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
opportunity to start his first Thus, any thoughts of a quar­he decided to come back to Powlus has been through," head coaching job with the vet­terback controversy between Notre Dame because he want­said Davie. "A lot of quarter­
Powlus 
eran Powlus at the helm of the Powlus and upstart Jarious ed to be part of this football backs who have been in the 
------------------.------~----------------------.-----------------~------------------------~---------.~ 
continued from page 20 
provement that really mat­ters." Davie, thrilled with the 
offense, attended the press conference in Powlus' home­town of Berwick, Pa. 
Davie made it clear that Powlus is not returning for his fifth year to "be a backup." 
Jackson were put to rest. 
"Ron Powlus had a choice," Davie said. "He could have come out, a lot of people were talking mid to late second round (in the NFL draft). But 

'al,f{.t 
,,,..j •... 
Information Meeting 
Jan. 20th (Mon .. ), 6:30-7:00 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
African American & Hispanic 
Leadership Intern Program (LIP) Summer of 1997 
$2200.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits 
HA St. Procopius-Cgo St. Ben's-Detroit 
•f1.J'):l1\~; ~·~-:1(,: t 

AA St. Agatha-ego St. V. de Paul-San Diego (South Bend) 
program. That says a lot about him." 
As Davie attempts to steer the Notre Dame football pro­gram in a new direction, he will bank on Powlus' passing skills and leadership to help smooth the transition. 
"It's amazing what Ron 
NFL five years haven't gone through what he's been through at Notre Dame. That's something you can't replace, it's something you can't teach." 
Now, Davie and Irish fans are hoping Powlus' final chap­ter will have a happy ending. 


The e\eventh annua\ Late Night 0\~mpic:r, i5 r,c:hedu\ed for Frida~, Januar~ "31, tq<f]. The proc:eedr, from thir, a\\ -night r,portr, e~trava­ganz..a go to benefit the 'St. Jor,eph Count~ 'Spec:ia\ 0\~mpic:r,. for more information, c:ontaGt ~our ha\\ reprer,entative or c:a\\ jZ.ec:'Sportr, at t-(ptOO. 
The dead\ine for entering a team i5 Monda~, Januar~ ~l. 
~e. a rea\ c.nampion, f»upport 'Dpuia\ 0\~mpic.f»!! 
~~­
·--!ipee~al 
0/ympic!'i 

Fric\.a~, Janu.ar~ ?I, 1qq-J • l:oo "PM -4:oo 1\M • Jo~c.e Center • V31-lPIOO 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
All T-Shirts Were Donated by <J:~ 
Have something to_ say? Use Observer classifieds. 
fl__________::_:_:::__ _=:___..::__-· -, 
_ 
WANTED: 
10-15 Paid Student Callers 
Students looking for a part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 
Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by one of our information sessions on Wednesday, January 15 at 4pm or 5pm at the Development Phone Center (northeast corner of Brownson Hall, next to 
Lewis Hall). 
Questions? Call Katy Hart (631-7938) or Steve Camilleri (631-7241). 
r______ 
FITNESS SCHEDULE 
SPRING, 1997 
JOYCE CENTER CLASSES 
1  4:05-5:05  
2  4:05-5:05  
3  5:20-6:20  
4  5:20-6:20  
5  3:45-4:45  
6  3:45-4:45  
7  5:30-6:30  
8  5:30-6:15  
9  6:30-7:15 am  

10 12:15-12:45 11 4:05-5:05 12 5:20-6:20 l3 8:45-9:30 14 7:30-8:30 am 15 12:15-12:45 16 3:45-4:45 17 5:20-6:20 18 5:15-6:00 19 4:00-4:40 20 4:50-5:20 21 5:30-6:15 22 6:30-7:00 
23 12:15-12:45 24 6:45-7:45 
STEP Gym1 M/W $25 Hi Intensity Gym2 M/W $15 STEP Gym 1 MIW $25 Lo Impact Gym2 M/W $20 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $20 Hi Intensity Gym2 Tffh $20 STEP Gym I Tffh $25 Flex & Tone Gym2 Tffh $20 
ROCKNE CLASSES STEP 301 M/W/F $25 STEP 301 M/W/F $25 STEP 301 M/W/F $35 STEP 301 M/W $25 Cardio Combo 301 M/W $20 STEP 301 Tffh $25 
Flex & Tone 301 Tffh $25 AeroStep 301 T/Th $25 STEP 301 Tffh $25 Hi Intensity 301 F $12 PowerSTEP 301 Su $12 All Abs 301 Su $12 Hi Intensity 301 Su $12 All Abs 301 Su $12 
ROLFS CLASSES Aquacise M/W/F $20 Aquacise Tffh $20 
KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 
25 7:45-9:00pm & 12:45-2:00 Joyce Center W/Sa $15 
Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 16, 7:30am @the RecSports office. Classes begin Mommy, January 20. **Class minimum of12 registrants. Have a great physically active semester! 

' 
' 
~ 
II ~ 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Junior forward Derek Manner contributed eight points last night. 

Please Recycle 
How does room, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding

The Observer 
summer sound? 
~~~lfittll~ll 'Tttllfll liltttrfN 1•r•••1r~•••• 
is hiring for its summer sports camp 
Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for more information and to schedule an interview. 
Dr. Martin Luther King ~r. Holiday Celebration 1997 

RECRUITING DATES: January 27, 28, 29 
Reviving the Dream Deferred 

at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
TONIGHT 
Wednesday, January 15, 7:30 pm 
Dr. Giles Conwill 
Associate Professor of History Morehouse College Faith Christian Center Church Children's Sign Choir, El Coro Primavera and Voices of Faith 

0MPU5 
MINISTRY 




~ 
I I I 
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 ..-I 

1?:0cter & Gamble will be on campus, Wednesday, Janu·ary 15th, to provide information about their Brand Management Summer Intern program for students who are currently juniors or first-year MBA candidates. 
Procter & Gamble is a global package goods company ~ and the maker of such well-known consumer brands as Tide, Cover Girl, Charmin, Crest, Scope, Folgers , Coffee, Noxema, Old Spice, Ivory, Duncan Hines, Max Factor, Oil of Olay, and Pringles. 
All Majors are welcome. 




There will be a reception in the MBA Lounge immediately following the presentation 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
• HOCKEY 
Disappointing holiday season for Irish hockey team 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports writer 
During the Christmas Break, the Notre Dame hockey team dropped four of five games, including two Central Collegiate Hockey Association games, to slide into eighth place in the ten-team league. During this stretch, Notre Dame (6-14-1, 4-10-1) has especially struggled on power plays, going a meager 2 for 23. "I don't know what to say," pondered head coach Dave Poulin. "We are playing real well. We are so close to it [winning]." 
On Dec. 28 -29, the Irish traveled to Princeton for a pair of games against the Tigers, who earlier in the season were ranked as high as ninth nationally. On Dec. 28, the Boys of Winter -playing with­
1fi>Ut freshman regulars Ben Simon and Tyson Fraser ­succumbed to the Tigers, 5-2. The Irish uncharacteristically took an early lead at the 1:34 mark of the first period, when.. sophomore left wing Aniket Dhadphale slid the puck past Tiger goaltender Erasmo Saltarelli for his first goal in 10 games, a stretch that spanned 37 shots on goal. Princeton proceeded to produce three unanswered goals on junior Matt Eisler and took a 3-1 lead into the third period. But, early in the third stanza, Irish freshman defenseman Sean Seyferth's shot deflected off a Tiger defenseman into the net, bringing the Boys back within one goal. The Irish kept on the pressure, outshooting the Tigers 14-4 in the final 20 minutes, but were unable to get the equalizer. Instead, two Tiger freshman scored to put the game out of reach. 
The following night, the Boys took the Tigers into overtime but allowed a goal with 19 sec­onds remaining and lost, 3-2. This heartbreaker marked the Irish's seventh one-goal loss of the season and its third defeat in the final minute. Princeton jumped ahead 1-0 on a rebound shot that eluded Irish sophomore goaltender Forrest Karr. Notre Dame answered quickly, as sophomore defend­er Benoit Cotnoir took a pass from classmate right winger Brian Urick and flicked the puck into the net to tie the game. Princeton again grabbed the lead in the waning seconds of the first period. Notre Dame again responded, as Urick's pass across the goalmouth was tipped into the net by senior captain Terry Lorenz. 
Thirty-four minutes of score­less hockey, including 4 min­utes and 41 seconds of over­time, ensued, until Cotnoir inadvertently swept a Tiger shot into the net. 
On Jan. 3, Notre Dame dropped an especially disap­pointing, 6-3 loss to Miami University, which is currently poised atop the competitive CCHA. Notre Dame jumped out to a 3-1 lead behind goals by Urick, Seyferth, and junior winger Lyle Andrusiak, but then proceeded to allow five unanswered goals, including three in the final period, to let the game slip away. "We played really well," mused Poulin. "We just had one little breakdown in the second [peri­od] when it was 3-3." Despite the loss, Miami coach Mark Mazzoleni was quick to heap the praise upon Poulin and his Boys. "I like Notre Dame's hockey team. I think Dave and his staff are doing an excellent job." 
On Jan. 7, the Irish traveled to Mankato State and picked up a 3-2 victory, their only one of the break. Notre Dame enjoyed a huge edge in shots (40-17) but had to overcome two deficits before recording their first one-goal victory since the opener against Western Ontario on Oct. 11. Following a scoreless first period, Mankato State struck first, but Lorenz answered for the Irish less than one minute later. Mankato State again surged ahead midway through the second, but Urick answered for the Irish, knot­ting the game at two. The stage was set for freshman sensation Joe Dusbabek's heroics. At the 12:30 mark of the final stanza, he took a cross-ice pass from fellow freshman Ben Simon and rock­eted a shot through traffic into the right side of the net. 
On Jan. 11, Notre Dame hosted Bowling Green in CCHA action at the Joyce Center but dropped a 3-2 heartbreaker. The game marked the Boys' eighth one-goal loss of the sea­son, with six of those losses coming against CCHA teams. The Irish also outshot the Falcons 25-22, making it the seventh time this season that Notre Dame has outshot its opponent but failed to win (0­6-1). 

The Observer/Jed Donahue 
Despite defensemen Ben Nelsen's effort the Irish dropped four games. 
r------------------------,
: Spring Break 97 : 

Complete Packages From $399 Free Covers, Free Day Parties, Discounts at shops and side excursions  CANCUN Book now and Sunbreaks will throw in 15 Free meals!!! Make your reservation today. Space is limited!!!  
****Spring Break 97 Concert Festival Call for Info****  
Sunbreak Student Vacations lowest  

for info calll-800-446-8355 price I
1
L Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak guaranteed!!! I 


D 
0 
0 
0 


a) 
my sign-up form is still buried under six drafts of last semester's final project 

b) 
I made a New Year's resolution to do something good for myself 


WHETHER YOU CHOSE A), B), OR "NONE OF THE ABOVE," YOU STILL HAVE TIME TO SIGN UP FOR COMMUNITIES ND 
sign up by Friday, January 17 Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry 
RALLY DAY to begin Communities ND: Saturday, Jan. 18 I 11 am-4 pm I LaFortune Ballroom. 
a) 
small Christian communities at Notre Dame, open to ALL undergraduates 

b) 
co-ed, student-led groups of 8-10 underg~·ads which meet every other week 

c) 
a chance to share prayer and conversation and to learn about your faith 

d) 
all of the above 


f .­
Did you guess d)? It's the best answer. No partial credit. A
.. 

Any questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at 631-5242 CO~t j e S n
(2\MPUS

1 
I 
MINISTRY 
The Challenge of ,Ad...lt Ch.-istianity

! r r 
,__. 

--------~------­
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
• SPORTS BRIEFS>' 
Late Nighl''61ympics _,.. 1\AI) "'~;cSp~~¥:1~ cori]oric~'Night Olympics XI is ·scheduled is $~0. ·w&1~if;:· :::Y:.;, tid"n with Notre Dame for Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. at the '}P Ballet...:wRecSp?~ts will be Security/Police will be sponsor­Joyce Center .. Team entries ~e+Dspon:~onl)~. Begm~er ..:; tJ,n1., ing a-.n:A:D class Jan, ~Jh3Q; due by Jan. 27. For the name. AdvQ.nced Batlet. The Begmner The class will meet on Tuesdays of your HallRepresentative classes a:ef~r dancetswith 0~4 and Thursdays from 6:30.;9:30 for more inrnrmationcall year~''e:Kpe~ie~cefan~--·-t~~•%·· p~~· m· R()?kn.~ Rl:ll\ ?01 !'' [he8237. -" · ---· Advanced class ts for dancers ··· celltral.focus of this 12 hour Scuba Course The with'S or more years experi-program is learning and'prac­information meetingfor this . ence: 'J'he ~eginnel''~lass tne(ltS ticffi.g physical tactics to de!eD:d course is scheduled for. Sun(iay ..,.;H;qn Saturday~ from 10:15~;1·1:45 agamst assault.!Th~ pro_gra-m Is at 3:30p.m. in Rockne Rm. 218; wand Mondays from7:30-8:~0. taught by RAD ce:ufie~ mstrlfc­There will be seven classroom The Advanced class meets on tors who are umvers1ty pohce and pool sessions b.eginningr{,··Sundays_·rrom 1:1~~?:4S.~nliii· offi..~ers •. ~~ ~otte P...~~M•
11

Jan. 26. Completion of the ··Wednesday!) fr9m 7:30-8:3~. Regtster ··· m .adyance at 
course results in YMCA Lifetime All classes will be held m RecSportsbegmnmg today. 
Certification. For more informtJ,7 .•,.,_.J{ockne R1llr}Ol; ~isn~ups~i~ Siass size N> l~Jted. _There will 
tioncall1-8237. ''''"''' •i!!lli begin.at s_a:.m>on.Jan; 27,iti notbeafe~f,orthisclass; ;"!l%'!1':!;)1 
Shorin-Ryu Karate the RecSports offi~e. space is _Cross Country Ski Climes.­
Students are instructed accor4;: limit~d. Classes begin _on Feb, HecSport$ ~ill_ be spon~?fmg ing to Okinawan techniques·),,:11 ., 1;.;)11?J .....: · , , ·:: :·'''<:·, , . _ . "'' thtee ~~~:O,lG~ t~is ~nte.J:-;f•·;rhe This semester-long course-Jazz Dance -AJazz D~nce first clinic Will be onJan. ~5 at 
meets in Rockne Rm. 219 on class will be offered Monday 11 a.m. and there will b~.• ~wo 
Tuesdays and Thursdays from ..,, .~n~.Vf~dn~sday _fr~m •. 6~(?\5..(•::9ffere~g~ .•F'~b~-_1, ~t.l?a m: ~ll;d
1

6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. ······-p.m,nn Rockne Rm. 219; A_ll !it 2 p.m: The feefo! _the. clime You must register in advance at levels are welcome, but space ts IS $5 w1th an atiditiOnal $3 RecSports and the fee is $18. limite~. Tber~ will be an i~-re~tal f~~ 
if Y9U ~e~d t rent Call 1-823 7 for more informa-_.:••. formation meetmg on Jan.,~,~ at E)kl$, _ Regt~tra~tol),}J;l ~4 tion. ·· 2 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 30L''The required for all .thre 
Tae Kwon Do -This semes-fee is $30 for the semester and country ics. 
ter -long course meets Sunday~ :11 ::;igl}~Ups Wiltpegin. a~ ~-· ~:nfl' ...:YQga 
from 3·4 p.m. in Rockne Rni. 'Jan. 27 in the RecSpdrtso~c '*-~>$be 
301. You must register in ad-Classes begin on Feb. 3. · · in theR 

ThoiDas 
continued from page 20 
Thomas recalled. "With the top players, it comes down to a lot of luck. They've got a guy here from New Jersey (Thomas' home state), Todd Palmer, one of my close friends. Todd had signed earli­er and I asked him about Notre Dame because he had taken a visit, but I chose to go else­where. I think it's just luck." 
So what's happened to the famed "Luck of the Irish," at least when it comes to basket­ball recruiting? Wasn't the bump to the Big East supposed to help MacLeod in his efforts to get a crack at the big time boys? The days of thunder with Monty Williams, LaPhonso Ellis, Daimon Sweet, Elmer Bennett, Donald Royal, David Rivers, and so on have become nearly obsolete as the Irish have settled to luring one blue­chip prospect practically every four years. 
Some people say that there's the admissions office to blame. How can the Irish take in top recruits if they maintain strin-

Just in case you decide to buy the books this semester. 

It's everywhere you want to be~ 
©Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1997 
page 17 
gent academic standards, dri­ving away the vast majority of the talent pool? 
Thomas dismisses this posi­tion. 
"Once the high school players get their scores, I don't think it's that much harder to go a,nywhere. Once the scores come in for NCAA, you can go anywhere you want to go," Thomas explained. 
Another way to dismiss the argument is to look directly at Notre Dame's present blue­chipper, Pat Garrity. Not only does the forward bang with the best Big East competitors, he excels in the classroom. Those players are out there and they just haven't been captured yet. 
The explanation that seems most feasible to explain the phenomenon is simply that success breeds further success. As Thomas indicated, the top prospects help each other in making the college choices. 
So all you have to do to get a 

-~­
top prospect is to go out and get other ones. 
Well, there you go, a simple answer to MacLeod's quandary. A team with a sup­porting cast attracts star talent to shine with them, not just for them. 
Tim Thomas scored the last 
basket of the game for Villanova, stealing an Irish pass, dribbling perhaps six times down the length of the court, and putting an exclama­tion point on his performance with a limb-flailing, vocal tom­ahawk slam. 
How nice would it have been for Notre Dame had he been wearing a home white uni­form? 
Keep searching, Coach MacLeod. There's still hope, but maybe instead of praying for a Tim Thomas to come to the tundra, you should just pray to take back the luck. 

W, 92-75 Dec 23 NICHOLLS ST. W, 84-75 Dec 30 at Loyola (Chi) W, 70-62 

THE SAINT MARY's COLLEGE 
AccELERATED PROGRAM 
IN NURSING 
for women with a baccalaureate degree as of May, 1997, in any major other than Nursing. {Degree may be from an institution other than Saint Mary's.) 
• 
Earn a B.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 

• 
Application deadline: 2/10/97 


-tit­
For more information,SAINT please contact the MARY'S admission office at 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
219/284-4587. 
... 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 15, 1997 
Wo01en 
continued from page 20 
sistent." McGraw also discussed the team's improvement. 
"We've improved in a couple of areas, we're taking much better care of the basketball. Earlier in the year we were turning the ball over 24-25 times a game without even thinking about it. Jeannine Augustin has played very well and she might be our most im­proved player so far this year." 
The Domers have entered Big East play and will remain in the Big East until the post-season. They have gotten off to a 5-0 start in the conference and them and the Connecticut Huskies seem to be the cream of the crop again as they are the only two remaining undefeated teams. In last year's campaign the Irish went 15-3 in the con­ference with two of those losses coming against the Huskies so the Irish feel good about their position. 
"I think if we play well, like we know we can we should be in a similar situation that we were in last year," predicted McGraw. 
Over the break the hoopsters went 5-1 with their sole loss coming at the hands of the Ohio State Buckeyes where McGraw's squad made their national television debut. Just before Christmas the team trounced in-state foe Valparaiso by the final of 75-56. Five play­ers scored in double digits as they were just too much for the Lady Crusaders. 
Next on the Irish hit list were the Seton Hall Pirates who suf­fered a 40 point defeat as senior Katryna Gaither and McMillen lead the way with 25 and 17 points respectively for a 87-4 7 triumph. 
A national television audience witnessed the host Ohio State Buckeyes upset the Irish by the mark of 74-67. Irish All­American candidates Gaither and Beth Morgan produced the majority of the offense as they Gaither poured in 23 and Morgan 22 on 8 for 17 shooting. Gaither also cleared the glass 

The Best in Reggae Music 
~~ ~ Post New Yearts Eve PartY 
with the 
Elsie Promise Band 
Complete with party favors, balloon drop, midnight countdown and toast. Relive New Years Eve with your classmates this Friday. Also a baby New Year and Father Time Contest. Prizes Awarded to best outfits. 
MUST BE 21 AND OVER 
for a career high 1 7 rebounds. McMillen commented on the Joss. 
"The Ohio State loss was a tough loss but I think we got right back to where we wanted to be with the win against West Virginia and we showed what kind of team we can be against them." 
Despite the loss Notre Dame will benefit by simply playing on CBS. 
"It's a giant step forward for the entire program, especially in terms of recruiting," McGraw said. "I think it's important to kids to and for us to get that kind of exposure where voters will see us. It also benefits our All-American candidates (Gaither and Morgan). People can see how good they are instead of just reading about how good they are." 
After a 16 day lay off the Domers visited Boston College and survived an Eagle come­back attempt as they were up by 16 in the second half before the hosts pulled it two four by game's end for a final tally of 61-57 good guys. Morgan caught fire as she scored 20 on 7 for 10 shooting which in­cluded four for four from three point country. Gaither domi­nated the key for a double dou­ble performance with 18 points and 14 boards. McMillen also chipped in with 11 of her own. 
The Irish hosted West Virginia who were blown out of the gym in the second half as the outscored the Mountaineers 62­23 which gave the hosts a 103­58 win. Five of the Irish scored in double digits as McMillen lead the charge with 24 and Morgan scored 22. 
McGraw expressed her feel­ings on her squad's ability to bounce back from the OSU loss. 
"I think that you can tell a lot about a team in the way they come back after a loss, espe­cially one like that when we came back well and probably had our best game of the year against West Virginia." 
The team continued to roll as they traveled to Villanova and opened a 20 point lead at half before winning 77-54. Gaither, Morgan, senior for­ward Rosanne Bohman and junior guard Mollie Peirick all scored over ten on their way to a convincing win. 
Gaither now ranks in the top ten in points per game and shooting percentage. Gaither's play over the past week earned conference player of the week for the third time this year. In the games against Boston College, West Virginia and Villanova, Gaither had 56 points and 26 rebounds. 
Notre Dame now has 13 more regular season games and they feel that each is important as Big East squads are looking to knock off them or Connecticut. They will look to push their win streak to four as they travel to Syracuse tonight. 

LAST CALL! 
APPLICATIONS DUE JANUARY 22 AT THE CSC 
Info Night Monday January 20 6:00-6:30 p.m. at the esc 
Interview now! 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
$1700 Tuition Scholarship 3 Theology credits 
Auditions for The Grapes of Wrath 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre will hold auditions for the play The Grapes of Wrath on Wednesday, January 15, and Thursday, January 16, beginning at 7:00 
P.M. in Room 110 of Washington Hall. Call-backs will be held Friday, January 17, on stage at 7:00P.M. 
Ifyou are interested in auditioning, you should see Mrs. Mitchell in 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall to sign up for an audition time and to get audition materials. 
The cast will be posted Saturday, January 18, and the first company meeting will be Sunday, January 19, from 1:00-3:00 P.M. Rehearsals will begin February 9. Perfor­mances of The Grapes of Wrath will be April16-20. 
Ifyou are interested in a technical position please 
contact Bruce Auerbach, Director of Theatre, at 1-5957. If 
you have any questions regarding auditions for, or the 
production of The Grapes of Wrath, you may call Bruce 
Auerbach at 1-5957; Reginald Bain at 1-7170; or Tom Barkes 
-5956. 

-
._,_ 
Wednesday, January 15, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

CREAM 0' THE VAT TFY PnAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 


IL\1'1'\ BIKIIII>A\·! IN Till': !';EXT YL\R OF YOUR LIFE: Ikuck your pnontic~ and '>IJCk to them . .lump111g frl)lll tllll' pr<lJCCI to arHllliL·r v. ill bach" lin.:. A new admirer ad<b pi11.a// 10 your son:d l1k. Pay :-.pL·nal ath::tninn \o :-.ccunly mc.nte:rs 
111 Mav. An oum:c ol prc\'Cntion will prl.'\l'l;tco\tly h1\'>l,'\. Nc.\t faiL y,·nlr 
ahll1ty to "pot rrcali\'C talent help.., 
you land an Important client or con­tract. lk v. ill in!.! to travel on \hort llOiil'l' \1antt1J ~L'Il~ioll~ l"adC when "'PllliSL'\ a!:!r~e· to treat each utlH.:r wtth mon.~ I'L'~pcd. B~ consll.kraiL'. 
CEI.EIIHITIES BOHN ON THIS I>,\Y: civil righls lcaLicr Mar­1111 l.uiher King .Jr.. jau drummer legend Gene Krupa. "ingcr Charo. !ennis player \1ary Pierce. 
.\I{IES !March 21-April 1~): lmprming a diiTicull work rclalion­ship will bring mul1iple rewards. Admil carlie.r mis1akcs and vow 10 do hellcr. Someone·, body language is more reveal inn than words 
. TAUIUjS !April 20-M~y 20): Sweeping a misunderstanding under Ihe rug could lead 10 .bigger prob­lems la1er on. Talk things out. A hudgel I'C\ "ion will help relieve l"inancial prc::-.~utl'."' 
CE!\11!\1 IMav 21·.1une 20): Slop hcmg ... uch a hear when thing\ L!.O i.l\\ n You1 hl\ cd ones arc more lllknuil and supportive ihan yuu Jesen e Lei Ihem kll(m how much you care. Your pd\\ cr;-. ol' pcr~ua\ion arc at <.t peak 
CANCER 1.lune 21-.luh 221: An oru~rh \\ nrk and hnmc ·Cil\ trnn· men! liclp:-. }llll ... ta} on track. Turn on the charm \\hen dcalitH! \\ lth a 
cu-\\urkcr \\ ho ,.., ... omet1mC~ unco­upcratl\ c. SpL'Ct<tl Ulu:-.e~ attract \·our altcntton no\\. 
, LEO i.lul' 2~~Aug. 221 lntlucn­
li:il people arc 1111pre;sed hy your tak.L·-chan.?.e attitude. ln\'cstin!! in IlL'\\ \\'Oil .....clothe\ will enhance ;our 
1111a~c Wc:lctJilll' an authuril! 11~ urc's Jnlt:n . .::-.1 111 vour c:florh 
VIIH;o cAul! 2~ Scpl 221 Refuse to let cmotl(lfJ,di\rn set the tone today h:llllil} mcmht.T~ and hu~incss a'\~ociatc:-. \'aluc )'iHII ohjcuivity. Avoid ta\...1ng \ILk~ m pctly dl'pUie,. 
LIBRA (Scpl. 21-0ci. 22): Y•n11 cncrg) level j;-, h1gh: U\l' your 1111\L' wi~cly. Planting till' \L'l.'d.... for a ·"fll' cial prtl.JCCI 111\ohc... ~a1ning the \Upptu·t of a particular grour T:1k~..· thing.~ one \lt.::p at a t1tne. Prur1h "til soon \llar! 
SCORPIO (0Li 23-:sim 21 1 An authorit} l'igure ma} not under­stand vour i.!Cncration's concern:-.. Avoid ·hringi~1g up polillcs in work­related Jiscus\ton!-.. Your romant1c partner Js the hcst pcr\on to li\tell Ill your hopes and plan.,. 
SAGITTARILS c:sim. 22-DeL 
211: Siecr clear of pcssimis1s: 1hc' will only dampen your emhusiasm for a plan 1ha1 could ,·cry well 'uc­cccd. lnve\tigatc 11C\\ \'ocational opportunilics. 
CAPHICOI~!\ cDec 22·Jan 1'1): Dress fnr sULTC". L>pdaic old v • .:ardruhc fa, oritc:-. \\ ith new acl't:"· sorics . ...\ romance that ha~ '\tol>d tilL· test of tnne cnuld chanL!.l' \our ,·jc\\" on a permanent Clllll~lllilllL'IlL (.i, · ahead: lake a d1ancc 1111lmc' 
AQLAR!l'S il.m. 20-Feh. 1:-:1 
lJ~l' VOlll' hLhilll'~\ al'LllllCil (D dl'IL'I· 
mine-if a gct~rich-qu1ck -...chcme '" 'tahle Romance <:tnd finance !.!t• hand-in-hand no\\. It '" \\ i~c. h11~\ 
l'\CL tn keep your l(l\Cd nne... out 11! y(>LJr \\ (wl-..plan.·. 
PISCES 1l:cb. 1'1·\Ltrch 2111 Cullur:d e\·enh lwiJ 'l'l'u:tl appc.tl this ll)!Hllh. Your apprLTJatwn lcll someone\ artt:-.lic ellt>rh in... pJrc }\IU to he mon: LTCati\'t.~ Take ) our ]114..1 from \\ cckcnJ in\'it~tttnth. 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Receded 6 Namesakes of 57-Down 10 "Begone!" 14 Suspect's need 15 Converted apartment 16 Time piece 17 Maugham novel made into a 1946 movie, with "The" 19Bout of debauchery 20 Not now 21 Driver's club, for short 22 Unwanted look 24 57-Down's predecessor 25 Popular cable channel 
29 Before, informally 30 Bled 31 Dernier -­32 Worse than bad 35 Habit 37The Man 38 Rossini opera, with "The" 41 Sailing 42 Part of Q.E.D. 43 Bottomless pit 44 Monique, e.g.: Abbr.· 45 Horse's tidbit 46 Towel stitching 47 "The Amityville Horror" actress 51 Cap with a pompom 54 Ancient greetings 

550.S.S. successor 56 Prix-­57 fan Fleming title 59 Facing danger 62Wallop 63 Highlander 64"--ears" 
65 Modern pentathlon event 

66 1987 Costner role 67 What a will, e.g., may indicate? 
DOWN 

1 Home base, in sci-fi 2 Ennui, with "the" 
3 "The Pearl Fishers" composer 
4 Poet's black 

5 Heading: Abbr. 6 Of an intestine 7 Film maker a Alphabetic run 9 Star-shaped 
10 Did a blacksmith's job 

11 "If I remember 
12 Summer time: Abbr. 13 Have a go at 18 Spinnaker, e.g. 
23 Long time 

25 Shade of green 
26 Artist Max 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
27 Doctoral dread 28WXYphone buttons 29 March 
instrument 32 Embarrass 33 Futile effort 34 Like many · 
writers 35 Mary of the comics 36 Birds-feather 
connector 37 Fam. members 39 Transfer 
40 Heraldic fur 52 Skaters' jumps 45 "A Chorus Line" 53 Actress Oberon finale 
56 Notability 46 Radiator output 57 34th Pres. 48 Elicit 
58 Agent, for short 49 Pains' partner 60 Highlander's 50 Some strings negative 51 Giant 61 Seinfeld, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
-
l 
1 
1 
1 
~ 
1 
~ 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, January 15, 19.97 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Irish outlasted as spotlight lands on Thomas 
Garrity's foul trouble leave ND without offense 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 

Before Villanova went out and lethargically whipped Notre Dame 68-57 last night, Irish fans were treated to the usual pregame ritual. 
As the Irish starting lineup is announced, the lights go out and one player steps into the spot­light. When Notre Dame leading scorer Pat Garrity became illuminated Tuesday night. the moment spoke volumes about the eventual out­come against the Wildcats. 
That's because everyone else was in the dark. 
With Garrity mired in foul trouble the entire contest. no one picked· up the scoring load as Villanova used a 14-0 second half run to pull away and hand Notre Dame (7-7, 1-5) their fourth straight Big East defeat. 
Garrity finished with 17 points but had diffi­culty developing a rhythm after leaving the game with three fouls at the 8:39 mark of the first half. The third violation came as Garrity was whistled for diving after a loose ball. 
With the 15th leading scorer in the country on the bench, the Irish scored only 12 more points by sporadic means to trail by nine at halftime. 
"It affected me because I had a good rhythm going there," Garrity said. ''I'm use to playing 36, 38 minutes of the game. Obviously, I don't want to be sitting on the bench for 10 minutes. So I think it limited what I could do tonight." 
And what the Irish could do. 

Besides the foul trouble. Big East teams are surrounding Garrity every time he touches the ball. The Irish forward was so well-guarded that a simple entry pass turned into an adven­ture against Villanova. Wildcat Chuck Kornegay contained Garrity most of the night, but his job was made easier knowing he would be receiving help. 
Villanova had the luxury of such aid as no other Irish player caught the hot hand in the second half. 
see B-BALL 1page 14 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
VU freshman epitomizes the one who gets away 
T
im Thomas was involved in everything on the floor in Villanova's victory over Notre Dame in the JACC last night. The 6-9 small forward led all per­formers in points, rebounds, and steals with 18, 14, and five respectively. He added three assists and two blocked shots, scored from the inside and out, and even took part in a second half scufl1e with Irish guard Admore White, drawing a technical foul for his role. 
He endured the taunts of Irish fans for his recent Chris Webber "time-out" imitation against Miami, kept his head when pressure,d, held his defend­ers at bay, and answered the press with the laid-back attitude of a veteran. 
This is the kind of recruit Irish head coach John MacLeod drools over, prays for, but. as of late, simply can't get. 
"(Thomas) was pretty impressive tonight," MacLeod evaluated. "He was quick to the bas­ket, he's a quick rebounder, he's got a good soft touch, he's about an 80 percent free throw shooter ... he is a very good basketball player. He's fluid, smooth, doesn't make a lot of mis­takes, passes the ball..." 

What the coach meant is that Thomas is an NBA sure thing. When would MacLeod like to see him make the jump into the big leagues? 
"Next week." 
As a matter of fact, John MacLeod took his shot at the Wildcats' freshman in his prep days. but couldn't land him. 
Why? Tim Thomas says it's all about luck. "I had been contacted by Notre Dame and 
talked to Coach (MacLeod) a couple of times," 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Matt Gotsch and the Irish got a facefullast night against Villanova., 
see THOMAS I page 17 



• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 

Hoopsters just short of perfect 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball squad has passed the halfway mark of their sea­son and it has come time to take a look at what they have been and what they can be. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw has seen her team pull off a couple of upsets. But, she has seen the same favor returned to her team as they have dropped several games to unranked foes which has been the main rea­son for their fall to the No. 21 slot in the national polls with a 13-4 mark. 
However. the Irish feel that they are continuing to improve as their only flaw came against OSU. 

"I think we're gelling as a team and our team chemistry is getting a lot better," sophomore guard Shiela McMillen noted. "We're playing a lot better together and we are more con-
see WOMEN I page 18 


• FooTBALL 
Powlus leads Irish for another season 
By MIKE DAY 
Assistant Sports Edjtor 
The storyline may be differ­ent, but the protagonist has not changed. 
After a month of rumors and speculation, quarterback Hon Powlus, Notre Dame's highly publicized hero and/or scape­goat, declared he will return next season to add one final chapter to his storied career. 
"There was not one determining factor," Powlus said at a Dec. 20 press confer­ence. "There were a combina­tion of things that made me feel good that .I had made the right decision." 
Although Powlus graduated with a marketing degree last month, the record setting quarterback had one year of eligibility remaining after sit­ting out his entire freshman year with a broken clavicle. 
According to Powlus, the promotion of Bob Davie to head coach and the subse­quent hiring of Jim Colletto as offensive coordinator-weighed heavily in the final decision. 
''I'm very much looking for­ward to the new offense," Powlus said. "The new things that we will be doing will give me an opportunity to do a little more." 
While Powlus struggled to find his niche in Lou Holtz's run-oriented, often conserva­tive attack, Colletto will imple­ment a well-balanced, more open offense that will give the 22-year-old a better chance to showcase his rifle arm. 
"My only goal is to improve our team's record," said Powlus. "That"s the most im­portant thing. Individually. I want to lead the team to more victories. That's the only im­
see POWLUS I page 13 








