
Wednesday, February 19, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 94 I DEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ' 
• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 
Artist's renderings special to The Observer 
The new RecSp?rts.facility (sketch of atrium shown above) is sched­
uled f~r completion 1n January 1998. It is located on the former Jake 
Kline f1eld (p1ctured above right). 
New RecSports center proceeds on schedule 
ter having contracted the Casteel 
onstruction Co., construction of the 
ecSports building at the former Jake Kline Field is progressing on schedule for completion in January 1998. 
Fabrication of the building is following the plans conceived last August by the Architecture Design Group,. a local business guiding the project. 'Things are gomg very well, but of course construction is very weather dependent," said Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering. 
A 40-man crew is presently installing the build­ing's foundation walls. "We need to set in these walls because there will be a full basement, where you will see the three basketball courts and the multi-purpose court," said Jerry Giolitto, Casteel project manager. 
Standard mechanical and electrical work is also being done. The erection of the building's structural steel frame is the next planned part of the project, to be started in mid-March. 
The $70,000 building is a gift of the Rolfs family, and "will be for the general student population and will not be intended to support inter-collegiate activ­ities," according to Smith. ' 
-Michelle Krupa 

SMC students learn from CEO 

Lecturer utilizes vast experience to teach students 
By ANN KEARNS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
He's the father of two Saint Mary's women, a recent gradu­ate and a current senior; he's an alumnus of Penn State. and he is the president and chief executive officer of Mark VII, a small business located in Arvada, Colo. 
Philip Mercorella brings the experience from each of these roles together in his series of classroom lectures that he gives periodically on the Saint Mary's and Penn State campus­es. These lectures focus on business, motivation, communi­cation. and management theo­ries. 
After receiving a bachelor's degree in business administra­tion from St. Francis College in Brooklyn, New York, Mercorella attended Penn State where he earned an MBA in marketing. 
Mercorella stayed at Penn State as a professor in the busi­ness school in the late 1960s. 
After four years, however, he discovered that the profession was simply not for him. Because this was during the time of the Vietnam war, Mercorella felt that he was always on the side of the stu­dents, rather than on the side of the faculty, on many matters. "I wanted to be a practitioner," he recalled, and not a teacher. 
Several years after leaving Penn State, Mercorella was invited to come back to educate in a different way. Penn State started a program called "Recognition and Return." It involved bringing graduates back to speak to the current students about their business experiences. This allowed Mercorella, as he said, to "return back to the community what it gave to me." 
The Recognition and Return program is how Mercorella began his lecture tours. He originally gave speeches at Saint Mary's, Penn State, Hope College, Gannon College, and a Pennsylvania high school. As he began doing this, he found that he benefited from perform­ing this service because he was able to "find out what the stu­dents are thinking." 
He believes these discussions give him a head start on learn­ing what the students are inter­ested in and what their con­cerns are. In giving the lec­tures, he discovers their state of mind and what behavior to expect from the future genera­tion. In the 1980s, he learned that the catch-phrase of the students was, "I need a job!" In the 1990s it was, "My God, I need a job!" 
Mercorella adapts his discus­sion depending on the class he is addressing. In a Saint Mary's marketing management class, he focused on the "peo­ple" aspect of business. "At some point you have to deal with the reality of people," he said. 

He also addressed the impor­tance of having an open door policy with his employees. "If you don't have the opportunity to dialogue, it doesn't work," Mercorella claimed, stressing the need to communicate with everyone in the company and to understand their concerns. 
see FEATURE/ page 4 

Hickey receives recognition for years of service 
Observer Staff Report 
Holy Cross College honored William Hickey, president of Saint Mary's College, during Holy Cross' annual convocation cere­mony held Feb. 12. 
In addition to present­ing the convocation address, Hickey was hon­ored for his relationship with the Congregation of the Holy Cross, which has spanned over 45 years. He was also recognized for his service within the 


South Bend community Hickey and his leadership as president of Saint Mary's College. 
Brother Richard Gilman, president of Holy Cross College, also paid tribute to Hickey for his leadership in establishing a linkage pro­gram between Holy Cross Saint Mary's Colleges. 
Hickey said he feels "absolutely mar­velous" about the honor bestowed on him. "I feel very close to Holy Cross [the order] in many ways." Hickey also noted the rela­tionship he has with Holy Cross College. "Holy Cross' first president, Brother Driscoll, helped me in many ways." 
Besides serving a notable academic career at Holy Cross-sponsored institutions, Hickey received his bachelor's degree from King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., sponsored by the Eastern Province of Priests, and his mas­ter's and doctorate from the University of Notre Dame, sponsored by the Indiana Province of Priests. 
Before coming to Saint Mary's, Hickey was a research assistant and associate at Notre Dame. At Saint Mary's he rose through the faculty ranks to professor of biology, and served as chairman of the biology depart­ment, the vice president of academic affairs 
see HICKEY/ page 4 

• HAll PRESIOE!\!TS' COl.li\!ClL 
Committee presents constitution reforms 
By SEAN SMITH News Writer 

After meeting Monday night to hammer out the final details of the proposed rewritten con­stitution, the student govern­ment reform committee pre­sented its recommended changes to the Hall Presidents' Council last night. 
Two of the major changes that highlight the committee's proposals are a new composi­tion of members on Student Senate and the formation of a new executive cabinet. 
"The goals of these proposals are to improve the structure of the current constitution in order to reflect the actual · organizational management," said Erin Hoffman, student body treasurer and member of the reform committee. "There's a lot of confusion • Chaired by student body president.about the roles that different 

The Observer/ Melissa Weber
groups hl!l'e." 

The committee's recommen­each dorm. Hoffman hopesdations propose that the com­that this change will remedyposition of the Student Senate the poor attendance at the sen-be changed so that the body consists of one senator from see HPC/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Can Christians be racist? 
Despite the efforts of the Civil Rights move­ment, the racist situation in America has not improved much, but rather it has changed over the years. No longer is it socially acceptable to publicly be racist. On the ~~~~~~~ 
other hand, racism in the private arena -i.e. the home, among friends ­remains strong. It is dis­heartening to think that all the work and sacrifice that was put to ending racism failed to affect people on 

an individual level.  Eduardo Llull  
Does it follow  from  AssisrantViewpoim  
this,  that America,  a  Editor  
nation with a supposedly  

strong background in Christianity, is not as Christian as we think? How else could racism, which is so contrary to the teachings of Jesus, be perpetuated from one generation to the next. These questions are disturbing and, if true, leave little hope for us ever solving arguably our most damaging social problem. However, I believe that our base in Christianity is indeed strong and that these questions are not true. Consequently, following this assump­tion, there should be no place for racism in America. 
We cannot call ourselves Christians and be racist at the same time. To do so is more than just hypocritical, it is paradoxical. In being racist, a Christian ignores the basic command­ment that Jesus laid out for us: we must love God with all our heart, and our neighbors as ourselves. This commandment comes in two parts, of which we cannot accept one and reject the other. In other words, we cannot profess our love for God and at the same time harbor feelings of hatred for an entire race of His people. Recognizing this paradox and embracing Christianity can help us breech the gap between races. In bringing different races closer together, we work toward a better understanding of each other. Through this heightened sense of understanding we come closer to ending the ignorance that keeps racism alive. 
There is another cause of racism, however, in which people try to justify their hate for another race through personal experiences. They claim they cannot come to love the people of a particular race because of the atrocities they have witnessed, directly or indirectly, committed by people of this race. However, despite the severity of their experiences, there is no room for this hate in the Christian faith. 
Jesus, who was sinless, died for us on the cross. Even tfter being tortured and humiliat­ed, He begged for the forgiveness of His perse­cutors. Using the above argument, Jesus had every right to hate those who persecuted Him. Instead He prayed for them. If Jesus could do this for us, how can we not follow the basic commandment He gave us. As Christians we are obligated to forgive as Jesus did, and to search for the good in all people. No experi­ence with another human being justifies hatred for an entire race of people. 
Being Christian does not come without responsibility. We are held responsible to live as Jesus taught us, through His basic com­mandment. By accepting this commandment, we come to realize that being a true Christian means we cannot be racist. Once Christians take personal responsibility to denounce racism, maybe then we can alleviate, once and for all, the problem of racism in America. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  
Russ Williams  Graphics  
Dave F reddoso  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Karhy Lopez  Hearher Cocks  
Viewpoint  Chris Hahn  
Tara Churik  Lab Tech  
Accent  Michelle Sweer  
Joesph Weiler  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
U.N. council approves five-point peace plan 

KINSHASA. Zaire foreign ministers from Kenya, South 
Diplomatic efforts to end civil war Africa, Tanzania, Cameroon, Congo intensified yesterday, with African for­and Zimbabwe said they would pre­eign ministers converging on the capi­pare the way for a summit of regional tal and a U.N. envoy indicating Zaire leaders to try to end the war. may be interested in negotiating with Zaire has refused to attend two such 
the rebels. summits, though Prime Minister Leon 
The U.N. Security Council in New Kengo wa Dando said Monday that York, meanwhile, unanimously Zaire firmly supports calls for an inter­endorsed a five-point plan last night to national conference on the conflict. end the fighting in eastern Zaire. He once again rejected talks with 
And diplomats from European rebels. However, foreign diplomats nations and the United States issued a and Zairian political observers say joint statement in Paris calling for an President Mobutu is facing increased 
international conference on Zaire and pressure within his party to negotiate urging the retreat of all foreign forces. with rebel leader Laurent Kabila. 
The Zairian government said it resumed airstrikes on U.N. special envoy Mohamed Sahnoun, who drafted the the rebel-held city of Bukavu, but aid workers in Bukavu U.N. peace plan, traveled Saturday to Mobutu's jungle dismissed the report. hideaway in the northwestern town of Gbadolite. He indi­
African foreign ministers arrived in Kinshasa for talks cated Tuesday that Mobutu and his government might be with Zairian officials. Before leaving Nairobi, Kenya, the ready for talks. 
Yeltsin meets Arafat, seems stronger  Witness was wrong about John Doe 2  
MOSCOW  DENVEH  
A visibly stronger Boris Yeltsin  The mechanic who says he rented Timothy McVeigh  
reasserted Russia's role in the Middle  the Ryder truck used in the Oklahoma bombing testified  
East yesterday, discussing peace  yesterday he mistakenly told the FBI that McVeigh was  
efforts in the region with Palestinian  accompanied by the burly, heavy-browed man who came  
leader Yasser Arafat during a Kremlin  to be known as John Doe 2. Tom Kessinger admitted  
meeting. In a televised greeting,  that the man he described was actually a soldier who  
Yeltsin called Arafat "a friend of the  came into the shop the day after McVeigh. Kessinger  
Russian people" and the "generally  said he realized in November. after looking at pho­ 
recognized and legitimately elected  tographs, that he had described Todd Bunting. An FBI  
leader of the Palestinian people." It was the first time  sketch of Bunting was circulated around the world. The  
since Yeltsin underwent heart surgery in November that  FJ.31 has since cleared Bunting of any role in the bomb­ 
he met a foreign leader in the Kremlin, rather than at a  ing. "I think I made a mistake," Kessinger testified. "My  
country residence where he has been recuperating.  memory was in error." The testimony came as  
Yeltsin, smiling broadly and moving with more ease than  McVeigh's attorneys sought to have the testimony of  
in past weeks, appeared to be gaining strength after a  some witnesses thrown out, contending their stories  
bout with pneumonia last month. "Reaching a compre­ were colored by the intense publicity surrounding the  
hensive and fair, peaceful settlement in the Middle East  case. "That and the $2 million reward and the 17 to 19  
remains one of the priority tasks of Hussian foreign poli­ meetings with prosecutors might have had an influ­ 
cy," the presidential press service quoted Yeltsin as say­ ence," McVeigh's attorney, Stephen Jones, said outside  
ing during the talks. Russia, which has a longstanding  court. Kessinger insisted he sure there was a man with  
relationship with the Palestinian leader, frequently has  McVeigh when McVeigh rented the truck at Elliott's Body  
expressed interest in playing a larger role in the Middle  Shop in Junction City, Kan. He said he couldn't describe  
East peace process. Speaking to reporters after the  that man, though a feature of McVeigh's stuck out in his  
meeting, Arafat described it as "warm and friendly" and  mind: "He had beady eyes." Jones pounced on  
said it "even went beyond the protocol." Arafat invited  Kessinger's memory lapses. "How could you be so wrong  
Yeltsin to Bethlehem to participate in celebrations mark­ 60 hours after the event, and so right a year and a half  
ing the 2,000th anniversary of Christianity, presidential  later?" he demanded. Kessinger did not answer.  
spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said.  
Mudslide kills 25, 150 missing  Chinese immigrants welcome freedom  
LIMA, Peru  YORK, Pa.  
A mudslide buried dozens of homes yesterday in an  He Dai He's four-year ordeal as a prisoner began in the  
isolated Andean region, killing at least 25 people. With  spring of 1993 when he left Asia for the United States on a  
about 150 missing, the death toll was expected to rise.  smuggling ship called the Golden Venture with 276 other  
The river of mud and rocks, triggered by heavy rain, hit  Chinese men and women. After the ship ran aground near  
the Tamburco district, 300 miles southeast of the capital.  New York, the men and women were found huddled on  
"So far, we have recovered more than 25 bodies from  the beach. Fearing a mass migration from China, U.S.  
the disaster zone," Tamburco Mayor Alejandro  Immigration and Naturalization Service officials jailed the  
Caballero said. Luis Barra, mayor of nearby Abancay,  survivors. For years, the immigrants languished in prisons  
said as many as 40 families were missing. "It's impossi­ across the country. Now just 53 Chinese nationals remain  
ble to get the bodies that are covered in mud," said  incarcerated -40 of them in York County. But not for  
Victoria Huaman, fire department operator in Abancay.  long. With an order Friday from President Clinton, all the  
Some families were stranded on knolls surrounded by  detainees will be released this week. "I don't know why  
mud, and were waiting for a helicopter to rescue them.  your government should put us in prison for so long," he  
The Radioprogramas radio station reported that 150  said Sunday. "We have been suffering for so long. I hope  
police and 30 soldiers were sent to help with the rescue.  for freedom day after day." A judge still must determine  
It was the second mudslide in Tamburco in three days.  whether they qualify for asylum. The released detainees  
On Sunday, a mudslide killed at least five people and left  will get work papers while awaiting the immigration court  
40 families homeless. Heavy rain in the highlands fre­ decision. The prisoners fear they will be sent back to  

quently causes flooding and landslides. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tempemturc' 

L 
Wednesday~ 
34' Thursday ~ ,..46 32
'*'"' 
~ ilii;,t···4

Friday ~ ~::W1~ 2~;1 

20!'
Saturday ~ 35 Sun~ay 
~" )',.,S---··,~v/ .. 
; 


~,~,~4~~ ~~a 
Showers T·storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~o·;.; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
China and punished by their government. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 19. 
FRONTS: 

..,............ ...&....&.. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 Accuweather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L EJfSSI[TI] 0~ ai) ~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VI• A#;socist6d Prt~u 


-~-----------~----....... 

Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 






SMC hosts Freetown creator 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
As part of this week's Black History Month activities, Ophelia Umar Wellington, the nationally recognized creator of Freetown Village in Indianapolis. spoke at Saint Mary's Tuesday evening. She addressed educators on how drama can be a vital tool to teaching history in schools. 
As a teacher in the Indianapolis area, Wellington was displaced in the 1980s when the city implemented a one-way bussing system. bussing African American children into the sub­urbs. 
As a result of this change in her life. Wellington began to "look to the Bible and read the Old Testament." What she found there was the repetition of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob's his­tory and God's word to the Israelites to "teach your children their history so they will know who they are." She also said that in reading those stories she discovered the first museum. 
"The first museum was a trav­eling museum and that was the Arc of the Covenant. Inside the Arc of the Covenant was the Ten Commandments and a sample of 
----------------------~ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY GINGER! 
r:.lj,.,_.,,, ,//tr-y. . /1;;,.,, 6mrljr. ra1r/ .Jt,:,lfi' 
manna. The Israelites could Jet their children examine things and ask questions. This was interactive teaching and it can be just as useful today." 
Having realized "the impor­tance of history and family histo­ry," Wellington wanted to use her educational background to develop a better way of teaching African American history. She knew that history had to be interesting -otherwise it was "all facts and dates about people we didn't know or understand," -but she wasn't sure how to accomplish this. 
"I thought. 'How did I make lessons interesting when I was teaching?' And I realized that I got them involved in the lesson." 
Thus, Freetown Village was created in 1982 as a way to teach African American history. According to Wellington, the fic­tional community's purpose is "to depict the lives of African Americans in the year 1870, just five years after the end of the Civil War, and symbolically rep­resent the communities of color found in many towns after the war." Wellington chose the year 1870 because it was "a year of post-war prosperity and recon­struction. There were several laws that were passed affecting black people and black colleges were started. It was a time of energy." 
Ten characters comprise the Freetown community, all with different stories and personali­ties. These individuals were cre­ated through the use of actual sources in Indianapolis: news­papers, the 1870 census, diaries, church records and letters. 
Freetown Village has two forms. Not only are the charac­ters a permanent exhibition on a set at the Indiana State Museum, but they are also a touring troupe. The actors in the muse­um interact with the museum's patrons, discussing their lives and experiences as members of this 1870 community. The troupe travels the entire state of Indiana and midwest depicting the lives of post-Civil War African Americans. 
Wellington believes that this genre of acting, interactive drama, is an effective teaching tool. "By using drama, we become emotionally interactive with our audience," she stated. Also, drama allows an interac­tion that cannot be found in text­books. "If you can imagine and see yourself in a position you will be more likely to remember it," she said. "In the museum every­one who wishes to talk to our actors becomes an active part in history. And in the traveling troupe, the audience is interac­tive." 
Wellington gave advice to the educators in the audience. "The dramatization will only serve its purpose as teacher if it is believ­able," she said. "To be believ­able you must do a lot of research in newspapers, espe­cially editorials and social columns, in letters and diaries, in church records and family bibles. You must also consider whether or not your characters will be fictional or not." 
According to Wellington, while "real" characters do have the 
Ophelia Umar Wellington, a nationally recognized scholar in African­American history, spoke last night about the Freetown Village exhibition 
and performing troupe. 
potential of actually recreating a historical event, they are limited to the representation of the actu­al history. "Fictional charac­ters," she said, "allow more free­dom in interpreting emotions and emotional identification with the individuals learning." 
Most importantly, educators must "consider race, gender, background, personality, impor­tant life events and religious and political affiliations when creat­ing characters," said Wellington. And when in the classroom, Wellington suggested that teach­ers "use specific research and get involved on many scales. This helps to relate the history to the present." 
Wellington's ·dedication to 
teaching and depicting African American history has not ended with the creation of Freetown Village as a set in the museum and traveling troupe. Work is in progress to build an actual com­munity named Freetown in White River State Park. The community will house represen­tative buildings and facilitate Freetown's annual programs. Visitors will be able to interact with the villagers in their resi­dences and places of business. 
Erin Furgason, a senior ele­mentary education major at Saint Mary's, found the lecture "insight­ful" and plans to use drama as a teaching tool in her classroom. "I think it is a valuable way to teach history," she said. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
HPC 

continued from page 1 
ate meetings and the lack of 
time its members have to fully 
address student concerns. 
"The current senators are simply just doing too many things," Hoffman said. "Senators won't have the con­straints of HPC and current senate members that weaken its voice." 
The proposed executive cabi­net will consist of members from every major program­ming organization on campus and will be chaired by the stu­dent body president. 
"The cabinet's sole purpose will be to coordinate the pro­gramming of various campus organizations," Hoffman said. 
The cabinet will be a non­voting and purely operational body. The organization and programming of various func­tions will remain the responsi­bility of individual campus groups. 
'The cabinet's only purpose is to increase and enhance the communication between these individual groups," Hoffman said. 
HPC is scheduled to vote on the reform committee's recom­mended proposals next Tuesday at its weekly meeting. 
'There has been close to 30 hours put into the document that you see before you, but it is still open to change," Hoffman said. 'This has been a collaborative effort of a lot of students on this campus." 
The reform committee's pro­posal to the senate is sched­uled for next Wednesday, and a vote on its recommendations is expected on March 5. 
If the reform committee's proposals are passed by both bodies, the implementations of the reforms will begin in mid­March and continue through September. 
Hickey 
continued from page 1 
and the dean of faculty before becoming president. 
Hickey also serves on the board of directors of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities and was for­merly chairman of the board of Independent Colleges and Universities of Indiana. Additionally, he has served on the boards of the South Bend Symphony, the Michiana Arts and Sciences Council, the Firefly Festival, Stanley Clark School and Valley American Bank. Hickey and his wife, Barbara, have four children and reside in Granger, Ind. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 

Feature 
continued from page 1 
Emily Ruffner, a senior mar­keting and communication major, gained insight into the professional world from Mercorella's presentation. "It was reassuring to see CEOs out there interested in employees at all levels," she said. 
Allison Cormican, a sopho­more marketing major and a member of the Principles of Marketing class, also benefited from Mercorella sharing his experiences. "I found his talk to be an interesting insight into the professional world," she said. 
Over the years, Mercorella has restricted his lectures to the Saint Mary's and Penn State campuses. Being able to do this at Saint Mary's is meaningful to him, he said, because it has enabled him to "experience what his daugh­ters [have done]." It gave him an "insight into their daily lives." 
Michiana Paintball 
291-9462 
1/2 price • $5 par parson CaD ahaad for locaUon and rasarvaUons f 
--------------------~------~-----­
NTSB reacts to near disaster 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
The fighter jet involved in a close encounter with a Nations Air plane two weeks ago stayed on the airliner's tail even as the big jet maneuvered to avoid a collision, the National Transportation Safety Board said Tuesday. 
The Air Foree agreed with the NTSB conclusions, insisting that its pilot had followed proper procedures, even though Federal Aviation Administration civilian standards on separation were violated. 
The NTSB described in a report how the Nations Air Boeing 727 went into a dive, then a steep climb, when its col­lision alert warned that another plane was too close. The inci­dent occurred off the coast of New Jersey on Feb. 5. 
The Air National Guard plane approached the airliner to iden­tify it, said Greg Feith, an NTSB investigator. "It was a con­trolled procedure; it was done in a methodical manner," he said. 
"The Nations Air crew responded as they were trained. ... They responded properly," Feith added. 
lie said the F-16 approached within 1,000 feet behind the air­liner and within 400 feet of its altitude. FAA standards require planes in the same vicinity to maintain at least five miles hori­zontal separation and 1,000 feet vertical separation. 
The planes were in no danger of collision and the fighter jet broke away when instructed to leave by a military air traffic controller, Feith said. 
In a Pentagon news confer­ence, Air Force Maj. Gen. Donald Peterson said he would recommend against any punish­ment of the F-16 pilot. 
Peterson, however, acknowl­edged that the F-16 pilot might have backed off when he was told the unidentified plane was a commercial airliner instead of pursuing it. 
"He was completely legal," Peterson said. "If you asked, could he have done something differently, certainly.'· 
Corrective steps unveiled by the Air Force include exhausting other means before resorting to visual identification of an unknown aircraft. 
All Air Force pilots will receive training on the Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System used by commercial liners. The F-16 pilot was apparently unaware that by pulling close to the air­liner, he would be setting off alarms in the airliner's cockpit. 
An cockpit video tape shown to reporters confirmed that the F-16 approached the airliner from behind gradually and, after a few minutes, slowly drew away from the airliner. 
.. 

WEDDINGS IN THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Reservations for weddings in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and Log Chapel for the year 1998 will be opened on the first Monday of March in 19 9 7 (March 3. 19 9 7) from 8:00AM until4:30 PM at (219) 631-4288. 
All reservatious must be milde by phone only in order to avoid confusion. 
WHO CAN BE MARRIED AT THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART? 
Weddings may be celebrated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart if either the bride or groom •is a current Notre Dame student• •is an alumni/ae of Notre Dame• •is a current member of the faculty or administration • •is a member of Sacred Heart Parish • 
Weddi11gs at Notre Dame may o11ly be scheduled i11 the Basilica, the Lady Chapel, or the Log Chapel, a11d at 110 other chapels 011 campus. Couples should make their i11itial co11tact with tlte Basilica office at (219) 631-4288. 
Buy 16 wings, Swiss Valley: get 10 free. Men's Day 
One coupon per couple. 
full day $12 hefore 1 
Not valid wl any other 
offers. p.m.+ $8rentals 
•Women's B·Ball ;,~, .. 7p.m• .JJICC 
Othe Ideas: Comedy Clubs • Ice Skating • 
~~~ Buy ene sandwich 
!ldopt·fl·Highway • Sky Diving • Ice Fishing • .
V'~er salad, get 1/2 eff 

'""'" 

2nd ene. Community Service ).l'( 
.Exp. 3/l/'i7. "if -(:.."' 
Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Observer announces new General Board 
By DAVE MURPHY 
News Photographer Emeritus 
Observer Editor-in Chief­elect Brad Prendergast announced the members of the 1997-1998 General Board yes­terday. 
Joining the 1.997-1998 Business Manager Tom Roland and Managing Editor Jamie Heisler are Editorial Board members: 
• 
Maureen Hurley, assistant managing editor. Hurley is a sophomore from Regina Hall who resides in Casselberry, Fla. She is a mass communications and political science major and currently serves as associate news editor. 

• 
Heather Cocks, news edi­tor. Cocks is a Lewis Hall resi­dent from Houston, Texas, and is a sophomore English and Spanish double major. She is currently an associate news editor and production manag­er. 

• 
Mike Day, sports editor. Day is a junior finance and gov­ernment double major from Kingwood, Texas, and is a resi­dent of Keough Hall. He is cur­rently an assistant sports edi­tor. 

• 
Joey Crawford, accent edi­tor. Crawford, a junior English and communications double major with a concentration in film and video production, is continuing in his current posi­tion as accent editor. He is from Williamsport, Penn., and resides in Planner Hall. 


• 
Lori Allen, Saint Mary's editor. Allen, a Le Mans Hall resident assistant from Cliffside Park, N.J., is majoring in English writing. She is current­ly Saint Mary's news editor. 

• 
Dan Cichalski, viewpoint editor. Cichalski is a junior from Little Silver, N.J., and a resident of O'Neill Hall. Cichalski is majoring in American Studies and currently serves as assistant accent edi­tor. 

• 
Katie Kroener, photo edi­tor. Kroener is a sophomore graphic design major from Dallas, Texas and resides in Badin Hall. She is currently a staff photographer and dark­room manager. 


Members of the Operations Board are: 
• 
Jed Peters, advertising manager. Peters, from Lake Forest, Ill., is a junior Planner Hall resident and a marketing major. He is currently adver­tising design manager. 

• 
Mark DeBoy, production manager. DeBoy, a Keenan Hall resident, is a freshman from Cantonsville, Md. He cur­rently serves as a production assistant. 

• 
Mike Brouillet, systems manager. Brouillet is a sopho­more Morrissey Hall resident from Simsbury, Conn. He is a computer science major and is currently systems manager. 


All general board members will assume responsibility of their positions after spring break. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

Announcing the First >r<o;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~rlr1""""(/\ 

Annual Awards ofthe Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the first annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pUI·­sue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
l) 
an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 

2) 
a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 

3) 
a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 

4) 
a budget indicating the costs involved 

5) 
the names of two references 



Application Deadline: Friday, March 7th, 1997 
You are getting very sleepy••• 

Students flexed their muscles last night while under the influence of hypnotist Tom Deluca. He can be seen again tonight at 8 p.m. in the Library auditorium. 
• BELGIUM 


NATO may join forces with Russia 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press Writer 
BRUSSELS 

Trying to ease concerns in Moscow, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright proposed Tuesday that NATO form a joint military brigade with Russia for peacekeeping operations in Europe. 
Based on successful coopera­tion in implementing the Dayton peace accords in Bosnia, Albright said Russian and NATO troops could also train together under the concept she presented to allied foreign ministers in Brussels. 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
She will take the idea to Moscow on Thursday for meet­ings with President Boris Yeltsin, Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov and other Kremlin officials who take a skeptical and also anxious view of NATO's planned expansion to Russia's western border by 1999. 
Albright, who is also working with the allies on a charter link­ing Russia to NATO, said in a speech, "We will be steadfast in offering Russia our respect, our friendship and an appropriate partnership." 
"We cannot realize our shared vision of a united, secure and democratic Europe without Russia," she said. 
With the 16-nation NATO primed to offer membership at a summit in July to former Soviet allies -most likely Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary ­the United States, France and other allies are searching for ways to allay Russia's anxieties. 
As a result, NATO is increas­ingly finding ways to link Russia more tightly to the Western alliance, while denying it mem­bership. Albright explained that 
< 

"we are trying to include Russia as much as possible," but the allies also want to avoid giving Moscow a veto over military actions that membership would provide. 
In such instances, she said, "we will act as the alliance" ­without Russia's approval. 
The foreign ministers did not act on the proposal for a brigade, an idea that originated two years ago in NATO's mili­tary headquarters. "We are just beginning to think about it," Secretary-General Javier Solana told reporters. 
Albright also called for a meeting in the spring with prospective new NATO mem­bers "to give every ally a chance for direct discussion" before the July summit in Madrid, Spain. 
Turkey has threatened to block NATO expansion if it does not gain membership in the European Union. However, a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Foreign Minister Tansu Ciller "did not in any way threaten a veto" at Tuesday's meeting, and, in fact, voiced strong sup­port. 
Voted Best Wings in Michiana! 
Wings Weekly Specials 

Food and
of all 
much more! 
MONDAY 
25C wings 

TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY --"More than just wings! 
THURSDAY 
Feast for Four 
$1995 
•SOwings 
•Curly 
Fries 

•One 
Drink




Darts 
Pitcher 

ASK ABOUT OUR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) Phone 273-0088 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
•INDIA • CHilE 


Drug trade continues to thrive despite ban 



Prisons put inm.ates to work 
By ASHOK SHARMA 
Associated Press Writer 
GURGAON 
During the day, Rakesh Singh ran a small candy shop. After sundown, he collected even sweeter profits from liquor sold illegally from the back door. 
Singh ran out of luck in mid­January when police arrested him for violating prohibition in Haryana, the state neighboring India's capital, New Delhi. 
A half year after a new gov­ernment swept to power on an anti-liquor platform, some peo­ple in Haryana are questioning w.hether "dry" laws have achieved anything besides cre­ating new criminals attracted by easy profits. 
Singh sold liquor packed in small plastic pouches at almost three times the pre-prohibition price, making more than a 100 percent profit. 
"I was lured by good profit. I had no problems since the liquor was delivered at my shop by my contact," Singh said from behind the bars in a local police station in Gurgaon, a city of 200,000 people 20 miles northwest of New Delhi. 
Haryana is among four of India's 26 states that have adopted prohibition, although one of those is now considering repeal. 
Police constable Ram Kumar said people widely ignore the prohibition laws in Haryana. 
"People are not cooperating at all in the anti-liquor drive. 
We hardly get any tip-offs and catch the offenders through random checks," he said. 
Violators have been caught carrying bags of liquor in their pockets and tied to their legs and hidden in watermelons, rubber tubes, soccer balls and even the containers under car hoods used to hold windshield wiper fluid. 
Prohibition also is costing the Haryana government 5 billion rupees ($145 million) a year in liquor taxes. One state official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid endanger­ing his job, said development projects are at a standstill because of the dropoff in tax revenue. 
Other taxes have been levied in an attempt to make up the loss, sending the prices of com­modities ranging from food to building materials shooting up 10 percent to 60 percent, said Ram Kishen, a village elder. 
The liquor flows into this state of 17 million people from the five bordering states where liquor is still legal. Drinkers are paying more, and unem­ployed young people are get­ting sucked into the illegal trade, Kishen said. 
But 75-year-old Khajani Devi, who worked for eight years in the campaign for a total ban on liquor, says prohi­bition works. 
"The rural life has been free for the first time in memory of the menace of local men who are drunk and stalking the streets," she said. 
By EDUARDO GALLARDO 
Associated Press Writer 

COLINA 
Chilean executives are finding themselves behind bars a lot these days -but it's to oversee new businesses. 
Inmates in some of the nation's prisons are making shoes, cargo trailers, furniture, socks, pots and frying pans, underwear and handbags as a result of a pio­neering joint government-busi­ness program. 
While prisons in many indus­trial nations have long used such jobs as part of efforts to reform inmates, Chile's fledgling pro­gram is unique in Latin America, where prisons are little more than overcrowded, violent hold­ing pens for criminals. 
Under the program, Chile's prisons provide businesses with space for industrial operations and let them hire inmates as workers. The inmates are treat­ed as regular workers, with a labor contract, salary, overtime payments, social security and health insurance. 
"The only difference is that we have a forced place of resi­dence,'' quipped Luis Urrutia, who is serving a three-year rob­bery sentence in the sprawling prison at Colina, a town just north of Santiago, the capital. 
Urrutia is a leather cutter for Carteras Orquidea, a handbag maker that is one of 46 compa­nies that have joined the pro­gram. 
The National Corrections Service is trying to lure more businesses to the program, which has grown from 65 inmate-workers to 950 in less 

AP/Carl Fox 
than a year. Chile has a prison population of 25,000.The pro­gram has everybody happy. 
Prison officials say it reduces violence at prisons. The govern­ment sees it as effective in reducing crime by training inmates for jobs in the outside world and helping support poor relatives who might otherwise turn to crime. Businesses get no­cost facilities and tax breaks for training the prisoners. 
Unions have not objected. Luis Arancibia, an official in the Unitary Central Workers Federation, said the number of inmate-workers is not that big and noted no workers have been fired to be replaced by prisoners. 
The inmate-workers earn about the same pay as people in normal jobs. The prisoners must be paid at least the minimum wage of 62,000 pesos ($145) a month, and officials say most earn more than that. 
"This is serious industrial work," Justice Minister Soledad Alvear said. "Production is not just the typical cheap handicraft that you buy merely for charity and then you don't know where to place it at home." 
She added that the program "is probably the best investment you can make in terms of citi­zens' security, because it increases the chances that the inmates will not go back to crime once they are freed." 
Private workshops are running now at six prisons, and the gov­ernment is planning expansion. 
"We consider this so success­ful that from now on. any new prison being built will include facilities for industrial activities," said Alvear, whose Justice Ministry supervises the prison system. 
The Colina prison houses 1 ,244 inmates, of whom 282 are in the work program. That enti­tles them to separate dormito­ries, dinning rooms and addi­tional visiting rights, including by their wives. 
"Improvement of behavior has been spectacular in the working areas. Fighting and drugs prob­lems have. virtually disap­peared," said Capt. Jose Sepulveda. 
"The inmates here have a lot of advantages so they try hard to behave so they won"t be sent back to the general area. And probably their greatest advan­tage is that they are better pre­pared for life outside." 
The inmate-workers do not have to pay any of their salary to help cover the costs of imprison­ment. But the government does require them to put at least 20 percent in a savings account that they will be able to reclaim when they go free. 




Leave the driving to us. 
Starts this Friday, February 21! Hours: 10 p.m.-3 a.m. Friday and Saturday 

Call the hotline: 631-9999 
UNJVElSITV Of NOTRE D11ME ST\JOfMT GOVflHMIKt 
Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• PORTUGAl 
Portugal is split by heated debate on abortion 
By BARRY HATTON 
Associated Press Writer 
LISBON 
A bill relaxing abortion restrictions has set off a national furor in this Roman Catholic country where resi­dents are arguing an issue politicians have dodged for 13 years. 
As parliament prepares to debate proposals Thursday that would ease restrictions on abortion, the Catholic Church and secular forces advocating more freedom for individuals have galvanized their support­ers. 
Stickers plastered to lamp­
..


·+····· 
posts in Lisbon show a woman's ankle attached to a ball and chain, equating Portugal's abortion laws with the repression of women. 
Church groups have sent parliamentary deputies a 30­minute video containing images of discarded fetuses. The Association of Catholic Doctors has distributed a leaflet titled "Don't Kill Little Johnny." 
Lawmakers have been able to avoid the issue for the 13 years that the current law has been on the books. Debate is resurfacing now because the opposition Communist Party thinks it finally has a chance to change the law. 
The ruling Socialist Party is split between deputies who sympathize with Communists' proposals and those who ­like Prime Minister Antonio Guterres-don't want any easing of the law. Because of the intensity of the debate, Guterres has has refused to publicly ask his deputies to vote as a bloc, instead instruct­ing them to vote their con­science. 
The Socialists hold 122 seats in the 230-seat parliament. The vote could be close. 
Under present law, abortion is legal if a mother's life or long-term health is at risk, or until the 16th week if the fetus has "a serious illness or defor­mation." That description is vague enough to prompt debate about the circum­stances under which abortions can be performed. Another provision allows abortion until the 12th week in cases of rape. 
The Communist Party wants abortion to be legal through the 12th week -or the 22nd in the case of "serious illness or deformation." 
The Catholic church is fight­ing any relaxation of abortion restrictions. 
"All and any attacks on human life must be repelled," said Januario Torgal Ferreira, secretary of the Portuguese Episcopal Conference, a Catholic organization. 
The opposition is led by the Family Planning Association, an independent health group funded in part by the govern­ment and in part by its own revenue. The group says women seeking illegal abor­tions are at risk of suffering from botched procedures in unsupervised conditions. 
It calls illegal abortions "one of the most serious reproduc­tive health problems facing Portuguese women today." An estimated 16,000 illegal abor­tions are performed each year in Portugal. 
Dear Fran, Happy 22nd Birthday 
Love and Kisses Grandma, Mom, Ricky and godchild Amanda (future cheerleader and domer) 

ions Due at the CSC by Fe Interviews Are on Friday, February 28 & Saturday March 1 Questions? E-Mail MPenny@msn.com 
Shrimp FeJJSt 


S6.99 
(Don't let this one get away) 
Here's the really big catch. Loads of our new, no-iails shrimp, deep-fried to perfection and served with french fries, onion rings, cole slaw and cocktail sauce. This ,captain's meal is available for a limited time only, so reel it in now at a participating Perkins" Family Restaurant. 
H~•kf•.o.Di•m•••l
423 s. Dlxieway ,.;,.,.,,,,., '" ""·~· 
• 

'':~~~;:::~~·.::~·.·~:~~j~, p:~~~:~R!:::.~..~~:~~~•.·;:;i~~·t.~~.·;.:~!·:il~~::."~ 
'·' • + 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Desij;n Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the .University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the polactes of the ad":'mtstra-_ rion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edt­torials represent the opinion ofrhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief. M~naging ~dit~r, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Satnt Marys Editor. . Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aU£hors, and no~ necessar.tly those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of rhc: Notre Dame/~atnr Marys com~ muniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letrers IS encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdirorNiewpoinr 631-4 541 Advertising 63!-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

Celebrate God through Mass 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to respond to the inside column from Tuesday, Feb. 11 on the sub­ject of Lent. First of all, when Husemann talks about the Mass and its meaning, she speaks of listening to and thinking about what the words mean. I can't help but think she is missing the entire purpose of Mass. 
Sure, Mass has very valu­able lessons in the readings and in the words of the prayers. However, the greater value of Mass is found in the sacrifice on the altar. Jesus's sacrifice is renewed on the altar every 
in every corner of the world. me must deny himself, take up his cross and follow 
There is no greater prayer we could ever com-me." (Matthew 16:24) We are purified. Penance is pose that even amounts to a fraction of the grace of the way we purify ourselves. By making up for our the prayer of the Mass. Many saints have said that sins here on earth, we find such purification. if we knew the graces received from Mass, how Another point in favor of penance is that it causes much glory is given to God each time we partie-us to grow in virtue. By giving up something, we ipate in a Mass, how incredible of a gift Mass is to are showing that things of this world do not have us, we would never want to go a day without par-control over us. It is good to show temperance in 
ticipating at Mass. all areas of our lives, and by curbing our appetite, 
Jesus is truly present in the sacrifice of the Mass whether it be for food, drink, television, or some and we are allowed to witness His sacrifice again other thing, we can come closer to God and and again. Our God manifests His presence through strengthen ourselves in virtue. Communion. We have the wonderful opportunity 1 agree with Husemann in that we need to set every day here at Notre Dame to go to Mass, the aside time to become closer to God. Another aspect most important thing we can do each day, yet to Lent is prayer. We must increase our prayer many of us let that opportunity slip by us. life, and hopefully it will continue after Lent. But 
The second point I would like to respond to is the we must do both rather than disregarding the "giv­entire focus of her article. She says, "You don't ing up " of Penance during Lent as essential to our have to deny yourself something for Lent." I com-spiritual growth. Once we rid ourselves of the vices pletely disagree, and so does the church. It is of our lives, we arc free to more openly communi­required of us to every day during Lent do some cate with God. Let yourself give up something, to form of penance. Penance is the way we make make up for your sins and to grow closer to Our 
reparation for the sins which we cause Jesus by Lord. each suffered during llis Passion. To make up for these sins, we not only have to 
JEANNINE HAENER. 

say we are sorry, but we must also act upon that 
Senior 

sorrow. Jesus said, "Whoever wishes to come after 
Badin Hall 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 19, 1997 page 9 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Constitution and Scalia: Coming full circle or going in circles? 
Dear Editor: 
Justice Antonin Scalia's recent talk at ND added some sparks to the never-end­ing controversy over the American Constitution, flexibility vs rigidity, origi­nality vs adaptability, a conservative vs liberal approach. Despite the subtle humor, the message was clear: the Constitution means the same as it meant in 1787 -what it ought to mean, and should be treated (read interpreted) as such. But has the Constitution been the same since the Bill of Rights were rati­fied in 1791? 
Undoubtedly, his views can be inter­preted differently by different sections of his audience, students in general, law students, constitutionalists -even "originalists." Each would view the defining elements of the Constitution dif­ferently. Many would find chinks in the Justice's candor, and ardor for "origi­nalism;" he himself gives arguments both for and against "originalism." That the Constitution means the same it did 200 years ago may be politically correct, and appears right at face value. But is it being interpreted the same way? Has it been interpreted the same way in the past? If it were, Roe v. Wade would have been the same decision in 1873. But could it be? 
The Constitution was conceived and written in the light of the British colonial experience, thus the document incorpo­rates clauses pertaining to "quartering of soldiers," "illegal searches," and "titles of nobility." These clauses are irrelevant, if not redundant, except in 
• AWAKENINGS 
case of an acute emergency. The BOR protects the rights likely to be abused by a tyrant, as those were by the colonial power. All other rights were left to the political process, and to interpretation. And these have evolved both out of the political process and the BOR in the last 200 years, like the right of women and those above the 18 years of age to cast vote. 
It is problematic to gauge the extent of "originalism," or how original is "origi­nalism." Going beyond its orismological underpinnings, is it the "originalism" as envisaged by the Founding Fathers, is it the "originalism" of the final document, or the interpretation of Justice John Marshall, or of the Warren or Burger or Rehnquist courts? Scalia concedes that he and Justice Thomas, both original­ists, also differ. It is the spirit of the text that is sacred -and original; but even "original intent" is open to myriad inter­pretations. Does being less than perfect make the Constitution more prone to flexibility or less? The viability of the Constitution lies as much in "original­ism" as in its flexibility, not in its "stag­nant, unchanging" nature. Flexibility gives it more originality, not less, mak­ing it a "living constitution." 
It may seem ironic, but despite the emphasis on "originalism," the Constitution incorporates more than what meets the eye. At the risk of turn­ing around Justice Scalia's words: it means more than what it says, pointing out that nothing in the Constitution says that the Supreme Court is the authority to interpret it; there is the power of Judicial Review, coming out of this blur. 
Scalia concedes that the Constitution has limited number of rights, and not all rights. Understandable. If the Constit­ution is less than perfect, or silent, the Supreme Court is there to fill in the blanks, and break the silence. Thus, it is the Supreme Court that "determine(s) the path of American law," more than the legislative branch. Roe v. Wade set the tone for the debate over abortion. Marbury v. Madison and McCulloch v. Maryland were landmark decisions not just for their short term political impli­cations. 
True, there is a clear line between what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional now as it was then, but when an issue like the right to die or the right to an abortion rises the Court is obliged to give its decision, despite Justice Scalia's belief that the two rights are not given in the Constitution, and should not be decided by the Constitution or Supreme Court. This is when the Court is both necessitated and facilitated because of lack of theory of interpretation. It cannot be otherwise in a dynamic, democratic system. 
It is the people who are the final arbiters of the political process, whether it is the abolition of the death penalty, or ban on abortion. But the Constitution was also meant to check the power of the government over the people, to check the "evil of faction," and "tyranny of the majority." People are moved by passions, politicians by ulterior motives, but not the Supreme Court; that's why nine lawyers/justices are empowered to figure out difficult questions. The Constitution or the Court does not sub­mit to the will or the passions of the people. The Court would view a case on its (constitutional) merits, and strike down any law deemed unconstitutional. 
It is not clear whether the learned Justice gives consideration to the politi­caVsocial "context," and how much. If he did, he would give "originalism" some flexibility, if not, the Court would be unable to stem the tide flowing out of the Bill of Rights, especially under the Ninth Amendment. But he concedes that in the marble building he is out of touch, with the context. Is that why "originalism" comes in handy? The task, if not the challenge, of the Court is to bridge the gap between originality and context, whether it is being liberal or conservative, whether sticking to "origi­nalism," or to the evolutionary approach. It is judicial activism that has made -and keeps -the 200 year-old document a "living Constitution." 
Quest for "originalism" is like the quest for the Holy Grail, reflected not just in the debates over ratification between the North and South, the free states and slave competition and competing inter­ests, only a "living Constitution" can guarantee everyone their "inalienable rights." 
NORMAN SATTAR Graduate student Government 




A call to action for anti-discrimination clause 
Currently, Notre Dame's non-discrimi­nation clause, as stated on page four of du Lac, reads: 
The University of Notre Dame admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and 


J.P. Cooney 
ethnic origin in administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship and loan programs, and ath­letic and other school-administered pro­grams. The University of Notre Dame does not discriminate in admissions, or access to, or employment of persons on its programs on the basis of disability. 
One minority group is noticeably absent from this clause: Homosexuals. 
In her Open Letter in Response to the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, dated April 2, 1996, Professor Patricia O'Hara, Vice President for Student Affairs, agreed to "raise to the officers of the University the issue of modifying the non-discrimination clause which appears in University publications to include sexual orientation .... I am sure that the officers will give this issue and all its attendant complexities full analy­sis and discussion." 
Nearly one year has passed since O'Hara promised to engage the officers in a fruitful discussion of this issue. There is no doubt that she raised the issue for discussion, but there is serious question as to the extent and genuine­ness with which the officers have dealt with it. To date, there has been minimal public disclosure as to where the offi­cers are with their discourse over the clause. 
Sometime following O'Hara's promise, University President Father Edward Malloy appointed a four-member ad hoc committee headed by Vice President and General Counsel Carol Kaesebier to dis­cuss the non-discrimination clause. I have received varied reports as to the mandate of this committee. When I con­tacted Kaesebier to inquire as to the committee's purpose and the progress of their discussion, she insisted that while there were "no secrets here," she would first have to speak with Malloy before disclosing any information to me. 
Since no students and few faculty members seem to know what is going on, and the chair of this supposedly pub­lic ad hoc committee feels compelled to receive permission from her boss before speaking with me, I will assume until proven otherwise that little substantive progress has been made regarding the clause. Let me offer to the ad hoc com­mittee a few suggestions for where they may want to take their discussion. 
Prominent in their dialogue should be the May 1996 ruling of the United States Supreme Court in the Romer v. Evans case. The Court ruled that Amendment 2 to the Colorado state constitution, which made discrimination on the basis of homosexuality lawful, was unconstitu­tional. 
"This Colorado cannot do," the Court opinion reads. "A State cannot so deem a class of persons a stranger to its laws." This violates the 14th Amendment, which guarantees all indi­viduals equal protection under the law. 
While Notre Dame, or the jurisdictions within which it lies directly, have no law specifically allowing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, the absence of sexual orientation from the non-discrimination clause gives homo­sexuals little recourse in the event of discrimination. The Court has affirmed that homosexuals are a legitimate minority, worthy of the same protection granted to ethnic, racial, and other such minorities. "These are protections taken for granted by most people either because they already have them or do not need them; these are protections against exclusion from an almost limit­less number of transactions and endeav­ors that constitute ordinary civic life in a free society," states the opinion of the Court. Whether the absence of protec­tion be explicit or implicit, it neverthe­less exists, and thus violates the Constitution. 
The ad hoc committee will probably discuss the applicability of the Constitution to a private Catholic institu­tion. I am no legal expert, and do not want to get caught up in the private school vs. public school debate. However, the officers should know that with the exception of two other U.S .News and World Report top 25 under­graduate institutions, Notre Dame is alone in its preclusion of sexual orienta­tion in its statement of non-discrimina­tion -and in at least one of the other cases sexual orientation is covered in a city statute, thus is not needed in the school's clause. 
As an elite American academic institu­tion Notre Dame is compelled to uphold the precepts of the Constitution. Among its peers Notre Dame must be a laughing stock for not being attentive to changing social and political trends which have extended the hand of justice to all peo­ple, including homosexuals. 
The ad hoc committee will also want to tackle the question of Catholic teach­ing. I suggest they peruse The Catechism of the Catholic Church for some help in sorting things out. It states that "(Homosexuals) must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided... " (#2358.) It also states that "'Every form of social or cultural discrimination in fundamental personal rights on the grounds of sex, race, color, social condi­tions, language, or religion must be curbed and eradicated as incompatible with God's design"' (#1935, emphasis added.) Homosexuality is a social condi­tion for it affects the way a person thinks, feels, and socializes. Certainly the denial of work or education on the grounds of this social condition is a form of "unjust discrimination." 
They may also want to glance over Cardinal John Ratzinger's 1986 Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, which was approved by the Pope. He writes, "It is deplorable that homosexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or action ... It reveals a kind of disregard for others which endangers the most fundamental principles of a healthy soci­ety. The intrinsic dignity of each person must always be respected in word, in action and in law" (#10, emphasis
added.) ·. Malice is a deliberate attempt to do harm to another person. Since Notre Dame grants no protection to homosexu­als in its statement of non-discrimina­
tion, it implicitly allows this behavior to take place. 
When considering Catholic doctrine, the ad hoc committee should be atten­tive to past precedents, especially the most recent. Just a few weeks ago, Catholic Charities of San Francisco agreed to incorporate sexual orientation into its non-discrimination policy, con­forming to a city code from which it originally sought an exemption for being a Catholic organization. 
The ad hoc committee should also consider whether or not the University really means it when, in its welcome to the student-body drafted by Professor O'Hara in du Lac, it states, "We hope that every student who is a member of this community feels welcomed...we especially want to extend these words of welcome to our gay and lesbian stu­dents" (p. 3.) I find that hard to take as being sincere when institutional dis­crimination on the basis of sexual orien­tation remains acceptable. 
Finally, and most importantly, the ad hoc committee should take some time to reflect upon the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, for whose mother this University was founded. Christ calls humankind to administer justice and peace to all people. So I ask the ad hoc committee to put themselves in the shoes of Christ and address this issue as He would. What would Christ do if this were His decision? How would he treat homosexuals? Would he condone insti­tutional discrimination, or embrace them with open arms and a warm heart to this community of believers? 
In a meeting I had with Professor O'Hara last semester she described this issue as being complex and difficult for the officers to address. This is true ­changing the clause will have dramatic ramifications for GLND/SMC and, for all we know, the University's practices in hiring and admissions. However justice is not and should not be complex. The time has come for the University officers and ad hoc committee to cease dragging their feet and treat this issue with the seriousness and expediency it deserves -as our peer institutions, the Constitution, and Christ call for. 
J.P. Cooney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. He can be reached via e­mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
• ACCENT ASKS 

Iago, from "Othello," is one of the most evil villains in literature. 
Who is your favorite bad guy? 


"Cruella DeVille from '1 01 Dalmatians."' 
Kara Klaas Freshman, Breen-Phi/lips 

"Gargamel from the 'Smurfs."' 

Brendan Johnson Senior, St. Edwards 


"Wiley Coyote from the 'Road Runner."' 
Mara Alvarez Sophomore, Farley 

"Dr. Zhivago." 

Pete Moriarty Junior, St. Edwards 


"Mufasa from 'The Lion King."' 
Kelly Jennings Junior, Holy Cross 

"Lex Luther from 'Superman."' 

Michael Peppard Junior, Carroll 
The Observer/Rachel Sederberg 

;ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February 19, 1997 



By NIC ELIASON 
Accent Writer 
tudent-led cast will perform the Shakespearean tragedy "Othello" this weekend as part of an 

advanced directing project. The production will take place in Washington Hall on Friday and 
Saturday nights, February 21-22. Doors will open a half hour early for the 7:30p.m. show, and 100 free seats are available. 
Senior Adam Weiler will be in charge as the director of this performance. Weiler is optimistic for the show and expects his cast to do well in his largest public production thus far. "We're looking for­ward to a great production. The cast has really latched on to their characters well," Weiler said. 
The story of Othello, like many Shakespearean tragedies, revolves around thriving jealousy and passionate love. Othello is a Moorish general who is serving the city-state of Venice. He unknowingly sets the stage for disaster with two innocent, yet instigating acts. He first names the tactful Cassin as his new lieutenant, skipping over the battle scarred and more experienced !ago, who becomes filled with revenge and jealousy. Othello then marries Desdemona, a woman of prestigious Venetian her­itage who happens to be the love of another Venetian named Roderigo. The calculating and evil !ago pulls Roderigo into a scheming plan to avenge Othello's mistakes. 
Leading the cast will be junior Jason Robinson who will play the role of Othello, a charac­ter distinguished by a blend of trustworthy confidence and naive innocence. Robinson is looking forward to the opportunity to portray such a complicated character. 
"He's really passionate about everything he does. He has a wide range of emotions that fluctuate up and down. His character is difficult because it is not as clear cut or defined as some of the other roles," Hobinson explained. 
Opposing Robinson as the maniacal !ago will be sophomore thespian Matt Holmes. !ago sets a shady tone to the play with a characteristic wit and misguided intellect. Holmes faces the challenge of recreating one of the most evil antagonists in lit­crary history. 
"The role is difficult because !ago interacts differently with each one of the other characters. He is only truly himself when he speaks to the audi­ence. It's kind of like playing eight characters in one," Holmes said. 
Juniors Leilani Pascale and Kim Megna round out the cast of leading roles. Pascale will perform as Desdemona, the loving wife of Othello who draws the attention of Roderigo's love. Megna will play the role of !ago's somewhat outspoken wife Emilia. 
Although this production of the Shakespearean classic will follow the original script, it holds its own unique twist. The early 20th century will provide the setting for this play, replacing a few knives with guns and featuring more mod­ern costumes. "Our portrayal is suggestive of a certain era. We are focusing largely on power of the spoken word. I'm trying to focus on how characters such as !ago can set the plot into motion," Weiler explained. 
Check out "Othello" on video, starring Laurence Fishburne and Kenneth Branagh 
By MICHAEL McALLISTER 
Accent Writer 
P
erhaps one of the major reasons that Hollywood, specifically Kenneth Branagh, is attracted to the works of Shakespeare is for their melodramatic qualities. So often in Hollywood, melodra­ma is consistently overwrought, and therefore many directors and screenwriters shy away from having this aspect present in their screenplays. So we as moviegoers get less of a chance to see "melodrama" on screen because of all the things that can go wrong with it. But Shakespeare is almost the archetype of melodrama, practically inventing the concept. So the works of Shakespeare, brought to the screen, provide the audience with to a return to the concept in movies. And those directors with the gall to make this return need not worry about the problem of avoiding melodrama, but rather have the opportunity to maximize its presence. In Oliver Parker's new version of "Othello," we get this sense of shameless use of melodrama, and we love every minute of it. Actually, this film starts off rather slowly, but builds emotional energy as motivations and events are revealed. So, by the end, the use of melodrama is appropri­ate, effective and justified. You could argue that an indication of well-used melodrama is the cre­ation of the sense that emotions are not overly-extended. The performances are key to creating an effective melodramatic atmosphere. And with one exception, they are in tact. As !ago, Branagh creates an extravagantly devious individual. Branagh's interpretation of the character allows the audience to identify with him, and not imme­diately condemn him for his actions. A common complaint about movie villains is that they are completely one-dimensional, so the audience has no way to identify with them. Branagh does not 
fall into this trap with !ago, and makes his character stand out with complexity. 
Fishburne creates a strong Othello, but at first seems awkward in the role. However, he gains 
credibility through the movie, and by the end, portrays emotion with vigor and flair. 
Irene Jacob, in the essential role of Desdemona, however, at times seems lost. Yet perhaps that 
is just the nature of her role. After all, Desdemona's situational ignorance does not exactly give an 
actress ample room with which to work. So, in that sense, perhaps Jacob portrays Desdemona in 
the most appropriate way. 
Finally, there are a lot of technically outstanding aspects to the film. Parker makes efficient use 
of graphic editing for smooth and creative transitions. The production is convincing and the light­
ing is especially creative in its use of shadows and dark, moody atmospheres. All of these technical 
attributes truly enhance the tone of the film, and create a movie that is not simply concerned with 
telling Shakespeare's story, but in creating it instead. 



ACCENT
Wednesday, February 19, 1997 page 11 -i 


By KRISTEN BOGNER 
Accent Writer 
e Farl~y Hall Players are producing the play "Antigone". This play, based on a recent ranslatwn o.f Sop?ocles' version, is showing this Wednesday and Thursday, February 19 nd 20. It will be m the La Fortune Ballroom at 8 p.m. both nights. Tickets, which will cost 
$2, can be purchased at the door. Monica Secord directs the play and Pete Rufa is the stage manager. 
"Antigone" is a part of the Oedipus cycle. The background for the play begins after Oedipus has left. The throne is left to his two sons, Esteocles and Polynices. It is decided that the brothers will each rule seven years on and seven off. Esteocles rules first. and at the end of his seven years, he refuses to give up the throne to Polynices. A fight ensues, and the brothers end up killing one 
another. The show begins at this point. The plot is no different from when Sophocles wrote the 
play; Creon takes the throne and allows Esteocles, but not Polynices, to be buried. Antigone decides to obey the rules of the gods rather than those of Creon and to bury her brother. As in all Greek tragedies, this play deals with the choices that mortals make and how they ~re affected by them, and, of course, has a tragic end­mg. 
Director Monica Secord describes the play as an act­ing showcase, in that it focuses on the characters and the drama. The set is simple, as not to overshadow the acting. The aud.ience will sit on the ballroom floor in order to recap­
ture the feehng of a real Greek play. The actors will dress mod­ernly, due to both a lack of funding for elaborate outfits and Secord's desire for the actors' characters to shine through above all else. 
Antigone is the central character in the play. She is a strong, noble character, who is proud in her defiance of Creon. Ismene, Antigone's sister, represents the culturally acc~pted attitudes of the time. She refuses to help bury 
Polymces, not out of complete weakness, rather because that is how society feels she should act. The chorus is a central component of Greek drama. Its six mem­
. hers are the conscience of the play and incorporate the audience into the play. They will be mtersperse? throughout. the audience, break up into conversation, and even engage in some Greek chantmg at one pomt in the play. The blind prophet Tiresias will enter with the chorus swirling around him, as he is also representative of the old conscience manifesting itself in the 
play. 
.. T~e ~~~rley Ha~l .Players have a tradition of .performing Greek tragedies. In 1995, they did MLde~ ... by Eunp1de.?· .Secord also has exper~ence with Greek plays. In 1994, she played the nurse m The Bacche w1th the Notre Dame Mam Stage. She credits Bonnie J. Monte, who was a guest director for the play, for teaching her how to deal with such plays successfully. 


t;e~e-eeltea ,, 
By KRISTEN BOGNER 
Accent Writer 
e, Ch.eat, and Genu~ect" is a comedy addressing such topics as drinking and cross­

dressmg. The play IS about two brothers, Tom and Billy, who owe $5,000 to the mob. 
The~ devise a plan to get the money from their recently deceased grandfather. They go t~ the readmg .or the will. at which their cousin Lisa is supposed to receive all the money, and kidnap her. Billy shows up later dressed as a nun, claiming to be Lisa, and ready to recover his cash. 
The director.. An~re~ Reuland, promises utt~r chaos to ensue at this point in the play. The mobster and his girlfnend show up at one pomt, and a lawyer, a drunken maid, and various other humorous characters periodically run around the house and disrupt matters further. 
The play op~ns Thursday, February 20, at 7:30p.m. and will run Friday and Saturday nights a~ the same time. The performances are at the Washington Hall Main Stage and will cost $3. Tickets can be bought at the door. . The play ~t~rs Rob Sudduth as T.om and Mike Haarlander as Billy. The rests of the cast mcludes Knstm~ Howard, Laura DiNardo, James Arabasz, Anna Lou Turil, Billy McNamara, and Jannessa F1tzge~al~ .. The. stage manager is Jennife~ Johnson. The play is sponsored by Cavanaugh Hall. This IS Its third year of performance smce becoming a female dorm. Sister Joanne Baue~, Cheryl Davies, and Meghan Halper are involved with the play's production. Cavanaugh w1ll donate the proceeds to a scholarship fund. 
Tlw l'ast has bPrn rPhParsing "l.ie, Chrat. and GPnufler.t" since Thanksgiving. It should prove to be an entertaining look at greed, nuns, alcohol, and general confusion. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 

No MooR 



O.J.! 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 
O
kay, I will admit that I don't have much knowledge of Shakespeare or the times in which he lived and wrote, but what I do know is that he wrote some pretty fantas­tic stuff. Heck, people are still reading it today and even mak­ing movies about it. Take the new "Romeo and Juliet" with a '90s twist starring that boy Di Caprio and some young girl, designed to intrigue and capture the minds of all those people who would never have thought of picking up a copy of the old boy's book and expanding those brain cells not affected by liquor. 
Shakespeare probably has more fans now than he did while he was alive. The man has young beautiful girls practically throwing themselves at directors in an attempt to get a part in a movie based on his crusty old book written centuries ago. 
And then there's "Hamlet." I mean how many movies can you make about this man's book before you do it justice? I thought the movie was good enough when Mel starred in it and made thousands of young and old women alike go into heat at the thought that they could be on the screen with him. But, of course, some ingenious person had to go and start all over again. What's his name... Kenneth something or other.. .I guess he thinks he can do it bigger and better and have thousands of girls going crazy over him. Well, think again! I tired of "Hamlet" and the remakes. Just stop while you're ahead, fools! 
Just recently somebody thought, "Hey, nobody makes movies 
of "Othello," so why don't we try and live up to the standards 
set for old crusty plays turned into movies to impress non-read­
ers of Shakespeare?" Well, how nice to do "Othello." I felt it 
coincided perfectly with America's favorite trial of the decade 
so far: O.J. Simpson (also better known as the trial that I wish 
America would shut up about). How long has it been? Over a 
year! Shut up already! No more media coverage, no more 
nothing! Now, another trial and the verdict is O.J. has to pay 
money that he probably doesn't have. Okay, cover it for a day 
or two, but then shut up and find something else newsworthy, . 
you parasites. 
Why do O.J. and Othello appear to be synonymous stories? 
Well I don't know. Hmm ... Othello, Moor who kills younger 
Italian wife suspected of cheating on him, and O.J., accused of 
killing young white wife who he suspected of cheating on him . 
Of course, both marriages were looked at by society as wrong 
because they involved the dreaded mixing of the races. Maybe 
Shakespeare was on to something because centuries later the 
same issue is prevalent, but now the controversy goes on for 
years and years. But, enough about O.J. Sorry, I mean 
"Othello." Amazing how I can get the· two mixed up isn't it? 
For those of you who are ready to get your panties in an 
uproar over the fact that I have the audacity to compare a fme 
piece of work such as "Othello" to a played-out racist media 
coverage of 0.J., calm down and take a tranquilizer. I just call 
it like it is and yes, the truth may hurt, but it is about time you 
learned how to swallow it. 
My suggestion is if people are going to make movies about 
old, dusty, but good Shakespeare plays why not make them all 
with an interesting twist. For instance, instead of Romeo and 
Juliet killing themselves , why not have them defy their families 
and live in sin in the neighboring town and have several illegiti­
mate children that refer to their grandparents as "the people 
who didn't have enough sex?" 
Instead of a handsome, nice, young actor playing Hamlet 
how about an old, fat, burping, grouchy man whom nobody is 
attracted to that has a face even a mother can't love? As for 
Hamlet's mother, I think an older woman should play her part 
and in the movies she should sleep with everybody except her 
husband's brother. Now that would be interesting, don't ya 
think? 
As for "Othello," how can you give it a new twist so that 
viewers can't get enough? How about making Othello's wife 
black and let's see how many people actually care if she is 
killed or not? Let's make Othello played by someone funny 
like Eddie Murphy. Now I'm sure you will agree if he played 
Othello that movie would be packing in the people ready to die 
from laughter. (Didn't you see "Nutty Professor")? 
But, for those of you who don't wish to expand your imagina­
tions about the fine pieces of crusty literature done centuries 
ago, I know Blockbuster has at least one copy of "Hamlet." 
The views expressed in Accent Speaks are those of the author 
and not necessarily those of the department. 
..._.. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Purdue upsets Hoosiers 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Purdue's mastery of Indiana still may not be good enough this year. 
Freshman Brian Cardinal scored a career-high 25 points and Chad Austin hit a last-sec­ond, off-balance shot as the Boilermakers, fighting to keep their hopes for an NCAA tour­ney bid alive, completed a sea­son sweep of the 24th-ranked Hoosiers 89-87 in overtime Tuesday night. 
It was the 400th career victo­ry for coach Gene Keady, but Purdue {14-10, 9-5 Big Ten) likely needs three more wins in its final four regular-season games to have a shot for an NCAA berth. 
Indiana (20-8, 7 -7) boosted its record with 13 nonconfer­ence victories but still could be on the NCAA bubble with six other Big Ten teams having better conference records. 
Austin, who had only six points through the first 37 min­utes of regulation, rallied the Boilermakers from five points down, then sent the game into overtime at 77-77 with two free throws with 38 seconds to go. 
Indiana never led in the over­time. 
A 3-pointer by Cardinal put Purdue ahead in the extra pe­riod and the Boilermakers built their lead to five before a free throw by Neil Reed and a 3­pointer by Charlie Miller. Gary McQuay then scored for Purdue, but Indiana tied the game with 27 seconds left on a 3-pointer by freshman A.J. Guyton, who matched his career high with 31 points. 
Purdue then worked the ball 
for a final shot before Austin 
hit from the left corner. 

It was Purdue's fifth victory in the past six games against Indiana and its 1 OOth win over­all -the most by any team against the Hoosiers -iri the 170-game series that began in 1901. It also was Keady's 200th victory in the Big Ten and gave him a 17-17 record against Bob Knight, tying for­mer Michigan State coach Jud Heathcote for the most wins against the Hoosiers since Knight became coach in 1971. 
The victory boosted Keady to 400-177 overall. Knight (698­
255) needs two more victory to become only the seventh Division I coach with 700 ca­reer wins. 
Indiana trailed 13-4 and 18­11 early in the game before two free throws by Guyton started the Hoosiers' come­back. Guyton, averaging 26.8 points over the past four games, added a 3-pointer and a baseline drive that tied the game midway through the period. A layup by Miller gave Indiana its first lead. 
Purdue regained the lead six minutes later after a technical on Knight, protesting a foul against Miller. Austin hit two free throws and then made an­other as Knight and the Indiana bench jumped up, screaming he wasn't the Purdue player who was fouled. 
After huddling among them­selves, the officials wiped Austin's free throws off the scoreboard and sent Michael Robinson to the line. Robinson missed the first of a one-and­one chance on the personal foul, then Austin returned and hit two for the technical, putting Purdue ahead 29-27. The Boilermakers kept posses­sion because of the technical foul, and Cardinal hit a 3­pointer for a 32-27 lead. 
Guyton then started an eight-point Indiana streak that gave the Hoosiers their biggest lead of the half, 35-32. Cardinal made one of two free throws, but McQuay rebounded the missed second foul shot and scored to tie the game at 35. Two free throws by Reed and an offsetting basket by Robinson kept the score tied at the half. 
There were 12 lead changes in the second half, and neither team led by more than six. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 78 ARKANSAS 65 

CHARLESTON 
Ryan Stack sees things more clearly and South Carolina sees the dominant center it needed all season. 
Stack, with new contact lenses to match his gleaming game, scored 10 of his 14 points in the first half as No. 9 South Carolina grabbed a big lead and went on to its first ever victory over Arkansas, 78-65, on Tuesday night. 
Stack has scored 52 points in his last five games after notching just five -that's right, five -in the five before that. 
Strong words from a coach used to seeing his star guards put up big numbers. Larry Davis, Melvin Watson and BJ McKie combined for 44 points, 13 rebounds and 12 assists, but it was the 6-foot-11 Stack who fueled the decisive first­half run. 
Stack had two 3-pointers during the 19-5 surge as the Gamecocks (19-6, 12-1 Southeastern Conference) went up 25-12 and cruised to their 14th victory in 15 games. It also was their first win in seven games with Arkansas since both joined the SEC in 1991. 

field and scoring against the line.· "Boy, you better Tigers was the high game in than that. 1am proud of · the ACC this season. our team, but I · you have "Trajan hit some shots, I'm to go bonkers over what not so sure there is a defense Trajan did....,... aga:inst an out-to stop it," said Clemson standing tea.m;J~m happy I coach RickBarnes. "Then, was ~~re to · · they have t~{l ability to put it 
Langdon' on th~ fl9;<t~ and go into the the highest£ . . . . lane and jump up over you. player sine Christian They have a lot of difference Laettner scored 37 in answers." December 1990 against North The Tigers (20-6, 8-5), who Carolina-Charlotte. and the stayed in the game in the first best single-game mark for half by making 13-of-15 free Duke in the ACC in 12 years. throws, are 4-5 since getting 
And no matter how much as high as No. 2 in The Krzyzewski tried to praise his Associated Press poll on Jan. entire·team fo~.tpe.key win, 20. his . postgame!~trcomments Clemson fell to 24-171 all­returned to his sophomore time on the road against the guard, four ACC schools in North 
"(Langdon) really put us on Carolina and were swept for his back," Krzyzewski said. the 14th time in 29 seasons at "We held our poise but Duke, North Carolina, N.C. Langdon was the story of the Steve Wojciechowski picked game. He was the difference up his third foul on a charging in the game.'' call 5:43 before intermission. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES  I I  WANTED  MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS! ColorWorks is currently recruiting on campus for a limited number of  FOR SALE  Farley Hall Players Presents ANTIGONE Wed Feb. 19, Thur Feb 20  SEPTEMBER 67 and WILCO!!!!!!  
SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  summer '97 management positions. Gain hands on experience in man­aging a business in your hometown.  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­urn mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  8 pm LaFortune Ballroom ADOPTION:  together at Stepan Feb.25 at 8 pm only $10 with an ID.  
..,.  RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373  Opportunities available in SOUTH BEND, ELKHART, FTWAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and  (219) 67 4-2352 ...Pioneer Stereo For Sale'..  Corporate Executive & homemaker can offer newborn a wonderful life filled with warmth, security, endless  COME ROCK and GROOVE!!! Get your tix at the LaFun info desk before they're gone!  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  other areas. Summer earnings $7­ 6-Disc CD Player and  love, education & a bright future.  Compliments of SUB  
BIGGEST PARTY.  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  $9,000. To speak to a campus rep- Stereo Reciever with Remote  Confidential. Mark  
FREE INFO 1·800-488-8828  COUNSELORS needed for out­ resentative call  $350 o.b.o.  & Candace 1-888-811-1141  Sarah Jane is the coolest!  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  standing Maine camps! CAMP  1-800-477-1001.  call Vince@ 257-2932  
VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  top 10 quotes from CHP's "Lie,  shake your moneymaker  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  for boys. Each located on magnifi­cent lakefront setting with excep­tiona! facilities. Over 1 00 positions at each camp tor heads and assis- SPRING OUTDOOR EDUCATION INSTRUCTORS NEEDED BEGIN­NING MARCH 17th. $145 PER  TICKETS Need two GAs for Men's BB Game  Cheat and Genuflect" 10.Don't ever hit me there-you know about my problem! 9. It was just hard ... 8. So we stick her.  Brad says that Derek is the hottest man on campus!!!  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  !ants in tennis, basketball, baseball, volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, field hockey, roller hockey, swim- WEEK INCLUDING ROOM AND BOARD. CALL 616 244 5125  Saturday, Feb 22 vs. Providence. Call Shirley@ 631-7471 before 3PM or 272-3753 after 4.  7. I bet she pads! 6. I will not-that's disgusting! 5. I'll have to discipline you! 4. How do you like them  Villinski for President or maybe just Mr. Stanford.  
Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m.  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  apples? 3. I can't wait to show you  There is nothing like rowing to  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends  water-skiing, archery, weight train­ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Earn up to $3,000-$6.000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare!  PERSONAL  my samples! 2. There's a lot I can't do -I'm a nun! 1. It's better when the lights go on and off! feb20-22  Italian. "Look at me. I'm Taz. I'm a little  
dance  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  JAZZERCISE  7:30pm wash hall  devil. Look at me go. My hat is so  
SPRING BREAK!  uazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  Call  Very close to campus  ...where the lights always go on and  cool."  
MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND  backpacking, horseback riding.  (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  277-0111  off ...  
 
- S. PADRE, TX BEACH FRONT CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT- ropes course, trip leaders, mountain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre- FOR RENT  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend Method 674-6933  Adoption: A very loving, financially secure, well educated young cou- How come you always see the guys I want too?  
ED BY OWNER.  !aries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  John­ 
941-642-5483  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top salary, room, board, laundry, cloth- Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  Close and caring extended family. We offer a special life for your child.  What can I say, it just wasn't the same without you. I miss you!!!!  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM  The highest quality color copies  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  Mike & Mike  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888­ HOMES. AVAIL NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  are now available at THE COPY SHOP  INTERESTED IN LEADERSHIP?  Thanks you guys are the best! - 
- ...ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO  844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  272-6551  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  Recyclin' Irish is accepting applica­lions for Pres, VP, Sec, Treas, and  The word of the day is Dick Addis  
CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 FAX 1185  You play Irish Music? Sesuns at  Historian. Apps available in Rl mailbox in CSC-due back in mail- Simply put, Derek is the man.  
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­DA. 1-800-838-8203  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM-FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097.  Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. 256-9041. Musicians welcome.  box by Mon. Feb. 24. Call Cristin (X4408) or Karen (X1277) for more info.  Why did the drunk guy nibble on Frank's ear?  
~  ILOST & FOUND I book bag outside of 305 DeBartolo Hall between 12:30 and 1 :30 Monday afternoon, please contact Joe at x2088.  Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Live in Prague, Budapest. Tokyo, etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching exp. required. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND2773097 Need a townhouse this summer? We need to sublet ours! Call us at 273-9829!  ATTN SENIORS!! •••••*************** TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE @ LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR THE BLACKHAWKS V. STARS HOCKEY GAME. FEB. 25TH TICKETS ARE $20 GAME STARTS@ 7:30PM SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!  ...Free Laundry!!!''' SUB presents free laundry days, Sat. and Sun. Feb 22-23 at Badin and LaFun. Sign up at the LaFun info desk starting Thurs. Feb 20 at 10am. From SUB, where fantasies are a way of life!  All the news that fits, we print!! Amy, I'll put them in tomorrow .... I don't have enough room tonight Greg, next time you pee outside Corby's, make sure there's no cops around!!!!! $100 bail is expensive!  

Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 



Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Mary Sundy is a senior Photography major hailing from Wexford, PA. Sundy has been quite active in traditional RecSports activities as well as per­forming some "behind the scenes" work that can be seen all over campus. Not only does Mary serve as captain of the Women's Club Water Polo team, she has also used her photography and design skills in several Bengal Bouts and Challenge U Fitness posters. Upon graduation, Sundy hopes to participate in the ACE program. She feels that service after grad­uation is an important endeavor in which she can give back to Notre Dame while at the same time teaching the value of art to youngsters in the com­munity. Mary hopes to eventually earn a Master of Fine Arts in Photography and teach at the university level. 
Recipients receive ([:~~ merchandise from the 



VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Qoyce Center) 

' I I I 
I 
I 
I 
VARSITY SH()P 

'1~­
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 




20% off all Regular Priced <E~ Items! Coupon not valid with any other discount offers. 
altla. 
VARSITY SHOP 
'1~­
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
1se cour esy of and the
merehand. t <J:~· vARsiTYdlalt.sHoP located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 


'I"''

dla'l.

ri;Zior 
is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
• NFL 

Bettis signs richest contract in Steeler history 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 

The Pittsburgh Steelers couldn't afford to keep most of the 20 players they've lost in free agency since 1993. They c o u l d n ' t 
.-------==-----. afford to lose Jerome Bettis. 
With Chad Brown and W i l l i e Williams gone, and R o d Bettis Woodson possibly not far behind, the Steelers were in danger of 
-( being substantially weakened by free agency for the second consecutive offseason. 
On Monday, Bettis signed a four-year, $14.4 million con­tract, the richest in Steelers history and the third highest for 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
an NFL running back. 
"I wanted to stay here, and the Steelers stepped up to the plate and hit a home run," the All-Pro running back said. "This is the team, the city and the offense for me." 
Bettis' $3.6 million average salary ranks with Greg Lloyd's $3.7 million as the highest on the team. Among running backs, it trails only Emmitt Smith and Barry Sanders, who make more than $4 million apiece. Bettis also got a $4 mil­lion signing bonus. 
"Security was the issue for Jerome, and, in this business, security is spelled in the form of signing bonus and gu4ranteed money," said Lamont Smith, Bettis' agent. 
Still, Bettis is convinced he could have made more money elsewhere, maybe lots more. Smith also talked with the Redskins, Cardinals and Chargers, and no doubt Brown's huge contract with Seattle was mentioned. 

If a linebacker can earn $24 million, how much should a 1,431-yard running back be paid? 
"But this wasn't about money.... I was nervous be­cause I knew the other teams might come and try to entice me with a lot of up front money," Bettis said. "I wanted to get this done in quick fash­ion. This is the team for me." 
If he hadn't stayed, the Steelers probably wouldn't have remained the playoff team they've been for five seasons. 
"You want to keep your best people, and they don't come any better than Jerome Bettis," Steelers coach Bill Cowher said. "He's a guy we wanted to keep. You win championships with good people." 
The Steelers also decided they couldn't keep on losing good players. Bettis, the 
Chances of overtime reduced 
Associated Press 

TUCSON, Ariz. I The chances of college foot­
I 
I ball games going long into overtime have gone down. 
i 
Under a change the NCAA

I 
Football Rules Committee ap­

I 
I proved last week, teams are barred from extra-point kicks
I '· 
I after the second overtime. I Instead, Arizona coach Dick Tomey said, teams are re­
I quired to attempt two-point conversions beginning with the third overtime. 
"This will make coaches take a chance," said Tomey, a member of the committee. "It was either going to be that or a limit to the number of over­times, which would result in tie games. Nobody really want­ed that." 
California beat Arizona 56­55 in four overtimes last year when Tomey's team failed on a fake extra-point attempt. Tomey said there were 49 overtime games in Division I-A and I-AA last year, eight of which ran to three or more ex­tra periods. 
Tomey lobbied successfully for another change related to the Bears-Wildcats game, this one dealing with a penalty sit­uation the coach said was unfair. 
When the Bears scored a touchdown to tie the game in the first overtime, Arizona was called for pass interference. 

The penalty was enforced at the beginning of the second overtime, and Arizona elected to take the ball first at the 40 rather than have Cal start in­side the 15. 
The net result was that the Wildcats had the ball first for the initial three overtimes. 
The new rule says that a team must accept or decline the penalty on the conversion attempt. Just as on a play at the end of the half, the penalty does not carry over. 
"We played three of those overtimes with our hands tied behind our back. This was a much-needed change, and there wasn't a person on the committee who was against it," Tomey said Monday. • 
league's No. 3 rusher last sea­son, is the first starter to re­sign with Pittsburgh in the five years of NFL free agency. 
Until Monday, the Steelers had lost 20 of a possible 22 free agents, re-signing only backups Fred McAfee and Jerry Olsavsky. A year ago, they lost Neil O'Donnell, Leon Searcy and Kevin Greene only weeks after appearing in the Super Bowl. 
But after being cast off by St. Louis in a draft day trade last April, Bettis did not want to play for a third team in a third different offense in three sea­sons. 
And, unlike Brown's wife, Kristin, who complained there weren't enough sushi bars in Pittsburgh, Bettis is a meat­and-potatoes guy who feels at home there. 
"If we could get it done with Pittsburgh, I wanted to get it done with Pittsburgh," Bettis said. 
The Steelers felt that way, too, making their most concert­ed push ever to re-sign a free agent. Team president Dan Rooney, who usually keeps out of contract talks, became ac­tively involved in convincing Bettis to stay. 
"We just felt he was the type of the player we wanted to keep," Rooney said. 
Bettis might carry an even bigger load this season if the Steelers start one of their two untested quarterbacks, Kordell Stewart or Jim Miller. However, the Steelers have talked to the Raiders about trading for Jeff Hostetler. 
The Steelers also met Monday with two free agents, Lions cor­nerback Ryan McNeil and Kansas City defensive lineman Keith Traylor. They also plan to work out Redskins cornerback Tom Carter and Buffalo Bills receiver Russell Copeland. 
Trinity College University College Dublin 

INFORMATION MEETING WITH 
Dr. Claudia Kselman, Associate Director and Professor Patrick Murphy 
Wednesday February 19, 199.7 4:45P.M. 126 Debartolo 
WHAT•s THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 23 1 :00 -4:30 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: -Stages of relationship -Steps in making healthy decisions -Long-distance relationships 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21 

Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
I ­
Questions? Call 631-5242 


Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MEN's TENNIS 
. 








Irish defeat Hoosiers, record improves to 8-2 
UPCOMING EVENTS: Blacl~hawl~s v. Stars Trip 
Next Tuesday, Feb. 25 --Tickets $20 @ LaFortune 
Sachire, rated 35th in the na­tion, has plans for entering the NCAA individuals at the end of the season. 
Pietrowski, the other Irish standout, won at No. 2 singles over Gabel, 6-3,6-4. Pietrowski came on strong after going 1-1 in singles play this past week­end. Rothschild was victorious at No. 5 singles where it took three sets to defeat Indiana's Scott Lippit. Eric Enloe, who has been seeing a lot of playing time recently at No. 6 singles, defeated Andrew Held in two sets 6-2, 7-6. Enloe has been a silent star for the Irish, and is now playing a crucial part in the singles 1ineup. 
In No. 3 singles Simme, who came out strong and won the first set, was defeated by McGill in three sets, 2-6, 7-6, 6-2. Patterson was defeated in No. 4 singles by Hoosier Hayden Gibson in two close sets, 7-6, 7­6. 
In No. 1 doubles, junior Jakub Pietrowski and sophomore Brian Patterson lost to George McGill and Derek Pope 8-4. 
The Irish face the North Carolina Tar Heels at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Sunday at noon. The Tar Heels are a ranked opponent, but the team feels confident. Miller said, "We're coming in strong after two straight wins against tough opponents and have a lot of confidence. They hit hard, but we are prepared to face them." Senior co-captain Marco Magnano commented, "Both teams always look forward to this match-up. In the past few years it has always come down to the wire. It will be a battle." 
As the second half of the spring season approaches the Irish are preparing for tour­nament play. "We want to get as many tough matches under our belts as we can·... Magnano said. Miller added, "Our long term goals are winning the re­gionals and qualifying for the NCAA's at the end of the sea­son." 


Buses will leave Stepan @ 6pm 
(bring this coupon for $15 tickets)Game starts @ 7:30 pm (Chi­
cago titne) 

Faculty/Senior Lunch NS Club will1e open this Fri­day from 12-2. Bring your professors. Sponsored 1y Class of 1997 and Endorsed 1y Stu­dent Senate. 

Que1lion1 Ca-ll 1 -5111 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association & Campus Ministry 

proudly present 

An insightful film about religions in Africa by 
Ali Mazrui 




1.'New Gods" 
"NEW GODS" examines the factors that influence religion in Mrica, paying particular attention to how traditional Mrican religions, Islam, and Christianity coexist and influence each other. 
followed by a Panel Discussion: "THE IMPACT OF ISLAM & CHRISTIANITY ON AFRICA" 
featuring: 

Prof james Bellis, Anthropology Dept. at Notre Dame (Chair); Rev. David Bitrrell, Professor, Theology Dept. at Notre Dame; Rev. Sylvanus Udoidem, Dean ofPhilosophy Dept.!Univ. ofPort Harcourt, Nigeria and a Visiting Research Fellow at the Centerfor Philosophy ofReligion at Notre Dame; Prof Peter Walshe, Govt. Dept. at Notre Dame; Brother Raymond Papenfuss, Ghana Mission Promoter at Holy Cross Center; Chandra johnson, Assistant Director, Retreats and Special Projects, Campus Ministry at Notre Dame; Mohamed Ibrahim, Lawyer, CCHRL/Law School 
Wednesday, Feb. 19 • 7:00p.m. • 155 DeBartolo 
FREE ADMISSION http://www.nd.edu/~ndasa 
0MPU5 


1\111NI5TRY 


_j 
ByJIM ZALETA Sports Writer 
Yesterday, the Irish men's tennis team improved to 8-2, after a victory against Indiana University. Notre Dame de­feated the Hoosiers 5-2. Junior Dan Rothschild and senior Ryan Simme won the No. 2 doubles match with a tiebreaker 9-8 to ensure the Irish the doubles point. In No. 3 singles fresh­man Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller defeated the Hoosiers'_ Andrew Held and Kevin Gabel, 8-3. "We knew we were the better team and we executed to win the match," Miller said. 
Sachire continued his No. 1 singles rampage with a victory over Anton Klaric 7-5, 7-6. Sachire, rotating between No. 1 and No. 2 singles has been a star for the Irish this year. 
Put the world at your fingertips. 
Software Engineering Systems Engineering Computer Design Signal Processing Electro-Optics Image Processing 
With Raytheon Electronic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the future of tomorrow's world. You'll maximize your Engineering and Computer Science knowledge and make an impact when you join our team. We currently have over 350 opportunities available in the technical areas listed above. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems will be visiting campus soon. To find out more about the complex challenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placement Office to sign up for an interview. 
For additional information, please see our homepage at: http://www.raytheon.com/res 
Interested candidates who are unable to meet with us on campus may send a resume directly to: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S T2SL2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01876-0901. Fax: (508) 858-1163. E-mail: staffing@res.ray.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 

I I I I I I I ! 
I ~ .. I 
I I 
I 
I ­
I 
•NBA 

O'Neal maintains positive outlook 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 

INGLEWOOD. Calif. 
An upbeat Shaquille O'Neal cracked jokes and expressed optimism in his first extended public appearance since suffer­ing a seriously left knee last week. 
Among other things, O'Neal said he hopes to return to the Los Angeles Lakers ahead of schedule, and believes the team will do just fine in his absence. 
However, O'Neal acknowl­edged he didn't know how long starting forward Robert Horry, who injured his left knee against Seattle on Sunday, would be sidelined. 
Horry, who suffered what the Lakers called a sprained knee early in the fourth quarter, was scheduled to be re-examined today. Horry left the Forum on crutches with his left leg in a large brace. 
"Don't count us out," O'Neal said during a 10-minute news conference with reporters after 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Bookstore B~~~¢i~~~~-~. Sign•ups·will st~;-J'M:~ch 3~.6 from 11;-2 p.m. 'lind 7;,~ p~m. in LaFoitune. It willt:ost $10 pet; t9~m•. On Mar · 7-20, 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 

The Diamond Authoricy®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
RecSports and Human Resources would like to thank the following area businesses for their generosity in support of the second annual Valentine Aerobics class and D ~ American Heart month. n8e 
• "J T ~\111111/f • 

ClfiLJj
flOW8f8Dl8 TG\ Friday's
TIPPECANOE PLACE 


HONKERI 

d ·es

spaghed 1 

NDVarsity Shop 

the SuperSonics beat the Lakers 102-91. ''I'll be well­rested when I come back, and I'll have fresh legs. 
"We've got a very talented team with a lot of hard-nosed guys, and they're going to hold the fort until I get back. We have high hopes, and the guys are going to stay focus!')d. I have no worries at all about that." 
O'Neal was injured in the first quarter of his team's game at Minnesota last Wednesday night. When the injury was di­agnosed a day later, the Lakers said he would be sidelined a minimum of 8-10 weeks, meaning he would likely miss the rest of the regular season, which ends April 20. 
That's nine weeks from Sunday. 
"I don't think it'll be that long," O'Neal said. "I think it will be six weeks. Life is full of challenges, but this is going to be a good challenge for me. The mind can do a lot of things. Mentally, I'm kind of frustrated, but I'm not going to allow myself to get fat and go crazy." 
O'Neal, who turns 25 next month, is the NBA's third-lead­ing scorer and fourth-leading rebounder. 
O'Neal said he wouldn't mind coming off the bench when he returns to action. 
"I wouldn't want to break anything up," he said. 
Then, he said with a smile, "That would make me the world's greatest sixth man ­another award." 






Please recycle The Observer 
a 



Women 
continued from page 20 
"We wanted to come out and dominate the game and prove ourselves again," Pcirick said. "It is a tremendous loss losing Kari (Hutchinson). I think we wanted to prove to other peo­ple in the conference that we're still a pretty good team." 
Not many squads from the Big East will argue that point, as Notre Dame's only blemish in the Big East is against UConn, who no one has gotten close. 
The Irish will enter the con­test with a 14-1 mark in the conference and most of those 14 wins have come in the form of blow-outs. · 
On the other side of the ball the Wildcats have a mark of 13-10 and 8-7 in the confer­ence as they are lead by for­ward Jenn Sliwa with 12.9 ppg and Jenn Beisel with 10.3 ppg. The Domers have won two straight over Villanova but the Irish are focused on finding that one solid all-around game. 
"We want to play the type of ba"sketball we know we can play," Peirick said. "We just need to put it all together, that's our main focus. 
"We know how to do all those things, we know how to win, we know what it takes defensively," she added. "We know it takes all these things, it's just a matter of putting it all together." 
If they can put it all together the Irish will look to be on track to beat their best record ever which was the 89-90 mark of 23-6 as their regular season will end with a home contest against Setoq Hall and a game at West Virginia. .. 
fellas. 

-· 
a 



---~-----------~ ---~-------------------------~------------~--­
page 17Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 

and converted a three point Pat Garrity was playing true toMen play to breathe life into his form, entering the break with teammates. He played 19 18 points without much trou­
continued from page 20 minutes and contributed nine ble, and finished with 27. In -------=--------points; the guard previously fact, Notre Dame won the bat­Pirates scored 26 points off of averaged four minutes per tle in the paint statistically, but Irish miscues. Notre Dame game, and had taken only nine the war was lost when gave the ball away 18 times total shots on the season. Holloway's penetration into the while posting only 13 assists. Freshman guard Shaheen lane made the Irish defense 
Another key problem came Holloway was also instrumen­collapse and give the open out­at the free throw line. The tal in the victory, using his side shot. Irish could not make their quickness and creativity to Center Matt Gotsch finished chances count down the break down Notre Dame's with 11 points in 19 minutes as stretch, hitting only 10-17 in defense time and again. he fouled out early in the sec­the second period and 14-23 Holloway finished the game ond half. His back-ups Marcus overall for 60.9 per cent. with 21 points by raining in Young and Phil Hickey com­
"It's a problem that cropped five treys and going 6-8 from bined for 12 points in one of up from earlier this season," the charity stripe. Young's more impressive MacLeod said. "Our inability The Hall also got a boost offensive showings of the sea­to make free throws really from guard Rimas Kaukenas, son. came back to haunt us." whose streaky shooting result-Shooting guard Pete Miller 
The Irish defense crumbled ed in 16 points. All five of also fouled out of the game after the break as the Hall shot Seton Hall's starters hit for after missing all of his shots the lights out of the arena. double-digits. and finishing with no points in The Pirates, spurred by the "We were a little careless, a 21 minutes. Back-up Antoni gutsy play of little John little full of ourselves coming Wyche took up some of the Yablonski, hit for 64 per cent out of the break," Macleod slack, finishing with 11 points on the floor and 67 per cent evaluated. "Then in the sec­in 20 solid minutes. behind the arc. They were ond half they pressed us and "This is one we wanted to even more effective from the we threw it away. We couldn't win," admitted Macleod. "We foul line, converting 23-24 in stop their penetration, their needed this one." 
The Observer/Rob Finch the half. two-man game... our defense The Irish will have to Senior center Matt Gotsch racked up 11 points in 19 minutes in the Yablonski hit two from deep just didn't do the job in the rebound this weekend to keep 
Seton Hall contest. second half." hopes for a post-season 
Things almost seemed appearance alive. Providence peachy for Notre Dame at half­comes to the JACC on Saturday time, sitting on a nine-point as one of the toughest teams in lead against the cellar dwellars the Big East. This one won't 
of the Big East Conference. be a walk in the park either. 
Gender Studies Conference 
Gender Across the Disciplines: Interweaving Understanding 

Montgomery Thea 
9 a.m. coffee and donu 
Reception immediately 
Ill 

Sponsored by The Graduate Student Union 
&
:z: 

The Gender Studies Program 
1-For a complete program listing http://www.nd.edu;gsu/documents/wrc;conf.html 

ATTENTION: Freshmen and Sophomores 
the 1997-98 year. You may,1 pick up ''A Career in Law: Student Actiy!ti~s, .3 I 5 LaF What You Want to Know" 
..::...~~;:~~:~~~~iil?.ty·,.: ... 


DEADL.INE: 


ALUMNI
Ill 


SENIOR
:z: 
1­


I I 
! 
--I I 
I 
I 
j I j I 
I 
~I 
I 
I 
~I 
I I 

I 
I ­I 
~ 
I I I 
I I 
I I I 
! 
I • I 
I 
I 
,__ 
I I 
I I 
' 
page 18 and Light-weight champion in Europe. In addition to that, he

Bouts 

was a three-time AAU champi­
continued from page 20 

of Notre Dame, and currently a pilot for the University. 
Farrell was a three-time Bengal Bout champion in his four years with the Irish and then boxed in the Navy for 24 years. Although coaching holds special significance right now for Farrell, as his son Chip, a junior, is a Bengal Bouter, he intends to stay with the Bengal Bouts as long as he is still in South Bend. 
"It is only natural to come back and help out with Bengals," Farrell, who is in his fifth year with the Bouts, said. "It really is an easy job. Everybody is so coachable and willing to work hard." 
A new and very valuable addition to the Bengal Bouts' coaching staff is Oliver Lewis, a five-time Golden Glove win­ner in the state of Michigan on, a three-time champion in the Army, and a 1972 Olympic trial runner-up. 
Lewis brings with him both talent and experience to the Bengal Bouts, but his story is especially significant as he is taking the opportunity to pay back a community which he feels has given him much. 
Lewis stays at the South Bend Center for the Homeless, and with Notre Dame's exten­sive involvement in it, feels that Bengal Bouts, his role in particular, is an opportunity for the community to repay Notre Dame for everything it has done for it. 
"Boxing is a both a mental and physical sport, and I try to give them a mental edge," Lewis commented on his role with the boxers. ''I'm just try­ing to pass my experience on to them." 
Rounding out the coaching 

Terry Johnson, director of Bengal Bouts, boasts nearly 30 years of experience with the program. 
~ttention sop omore 6usiness majors! 
Applications are now being accepted for Assistant Student Body Treasurer for 1997--98 
• Gain valuable practical experience in a business oriented leadership role! 
• handle over $400,000 a year! 
Pick up applications in the Treasurer's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
Applications are due this Friday by 5 p.m. Questions? Call Nerea at 1A557 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 19, 1997 

staff is who are referred to as the "best managers in boxing," Jack Mooney and Jack Zimmerman. 
Zimmerman is a former amateur boxer who hails from South Bend and was intro­duced to the Bengal Bouts by a family immersed in the tradi­tion, the Boilchini family. 
Although Zimmerman had no direct ties to Notre Dame or the Bengal Bouts previous to 1988, his first encounter with the Bouts inspired him so greatly that he went home and wrote a poem about his expe­rience. 
Zimmerman claims poetry as his second passion and finds Bengal Bouts a good way to combine his two passions. 
When asked why he contin­ued to be part of the Bengal Bouts, Zimmerman answered, "I've realized what boxing has done for me and I don't want those experiences to die with me. I want to pass them on." 
In general, the coaching staff defers any credit for the success of the Bengal Bouts, mostly crediting the boxers themselves. 
"We are a very low-keyed coaching staff," Suddes said. "We are here for instruction, but our number one concern is safety." 
Summer Grants for Undergraduate Research on International Issues 
Informational Meeting for Interested Students Wednesday, February 19 DeBartolo Rm 118, 4:30PM 
Grant competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Travel and expenses up to $3, ooo 
Further information available from 
Prof Michael Francis at the 
Hesburgh Center Room 312 

Wednesday, February 19, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
14E'f, THA.T'S A. <.JN!ON JOI3. P.UT !T DOWN OR I'LL FILE A GR.!EVANCE.. 
\
"?•-----. 

CROSSWORD 
1 Catch-22 35 Poi ingredients
5 Nimble 36 Bring in
9 Paul of "American 37 Roxy Music Graffiti" co-founder Brian
14 Where pirates moor 38 "Planet of the Apes" spoiler
15 Queen of scat 16 Khomeini, for 
42 Cartoon dog one 43 Provides 17 Ugandan tyrant 
machine maintenance

18 Carpenters' work? 
44 Venusian, for 

19 Frankie or Cleo one 45 Lobster pot
20 "Citizen Kane" spoiler 
47 In high spirits 23 First-class 48 Bells and service whistles 24 Diamonds, to 49 Kind of shore hoods 51 Afflict 25 Scattered 
52 "The Crying 29 Oversized Game" spoiler 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
!'M ONLY /'\0\JING !i Tt.N FEET I tF' I WAlT FOR A UNION Pe:~&ON, I'LL !;E UNA.~I.E TO 00 MY 

ACROSS 31 --and Span (cleaner brand)

:roe, F'OR  A WEEK.  
~--........  
61 Salad bar  
implement  
62 Unpleasant  
person  
63 Roast beef  
request  
64 Hello in Hilo  
65 Concept of  
Descartes  
66 Deck hands  
67 Snappish  
68 Copper  
69 Vehemence  
DOWN  
1 Lasting  
impression?  
2 Pitcher Hideo  
3 Budget  
alternative  
4 Kind of pool  
5 Figure out  
6 Give the slip  
7 Whipped along  
8 "Toodle-oo!"  

MS OMIT ENERO ILIE ,.!:.S~USEAT.~ CORE ANT.EDNA MATTED • 
T AZ I P 51 P I L ED 


TREE. I 0 N A M~C R U N C H E R 
PORIES H-ALV 
CHAN ALINE NUDE T 0 Nil E 8 A N P E T E 5 
S W 0 R D 5 W A L L 0 W. 

E G 0 S.A UN T 

FEEDE~~COLT·~~~ 
LATH 

BOOTLICKER A R 
ERASE AYES p 5 
NO 
AT 
D A T E D B E T A 
JACK OHMAN 
MIKE PETERS 

~ tF' AN.,.ONE 
MA'< eE. 1

! 5EES YOU 
5~0Ul..O ~:,T

f 1"\0VE TI-lE 
U~E T\otE. 

~ PC TONtGI-IT, 
El.EVATOR..

! iP..Y SAYIN~ 
... 
,.

• "''OU'P..E )
·~ 

:0 Jni-\~N'i CA.~H. 
) 


YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Strive to play a more active role in your community. Completing unfin­ished business in April will lead to the renewal of a contract. New pros­perity results! Your love life receives a big boost. Frustration awaits those who pin their hopes on a gamble. Think about going back to school to boost your earning potential. Keep a career strategy to yourself next December. 1998 will bring big money for artistic types. Try your hand at writing fiction. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Smokey Robin­son, novelist Amy Tan, legendary jockey Eddie Arcaro, tennis player Hana Mandlikova. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Go all out to acquire specialized knowl­edge. Higher-ups applaud initiative. Attend a refresher seminar or take advanced training in computer tech­nology. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A salvage operation or recycling pro­ject will meet with limited success. Broaden your intellectual horizons by reading nonfiction and watching documentaries. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The emphasis today is on making others feel at ease. Watch your manners and take extra pains with your ap­pearance. A friendly encounter pro­vides a bright spot this afternoon. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look out for deceptive or mislead­ing propositions. Be careful when interpreting instructions, symptoms or labels. Render assistance only if you know what you are doing. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Contact­ing an instirution is the first step if you want to conduct an investiga­tion. Avoid people with inflammato­ry opinions even if you must beat a hasty retreat. A favorite sport or 
JEANE DIXON 

hobby releases tension. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A friend or relative imparts good news. You will get out of your work only what you put into it. Be dili­gent. Instead of worrying, take con­structive action. Your reputation is an asset; keep it spotless. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do not make a business commitment on the strength of unverified reports. Acquaintances who try to influence a financial decision may have ulteri­or motives. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Continue to make friends wherever you go. Good public relations is a must. Day by day, you will gain knowledge, faith and confidence. Romance is shifting into high gear. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Say "no" to proposals that could be detrimental to your physi­cal well-being or employment prospects. Go ahead with an innova­tive plan to showcase your special talents. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Peace and quiet is what you need to collect your thoughts and calm your nerves. An ally will help you realize your hopes for the future. Thank your loved ones for their continuing support. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Colleagues provide the inside infor­mation you need to negotiate a con­tract or launch a project. Good tim­ing is the key to new financial gains. Do not let loyalty blind you. to a friend's faults. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A family Jllember may make unrea­sonable demands on your time. Learn to compartmentalize your professional and personal life. Financial aid comes from an unex­pected quarter. Your opinions are valued by the powers that be. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors . Join The Observer staff. 
-
-
9 Violet shade 1oGets the lead 
out 11 Knights' garb 12 Actress Jeffreys 13 Bound 21 Opera villain, 
often 22 Autographs 25 Kickoff 26 Times or Post 27 Omni or Forum 28 Donnybrook 29 In the worst way 30 Spring flower 
32 Hidden rocks, to a ship 33 Microchip giant 34 Lawyer Roy and family 36 Hollywood's Kazan 39 "I read you" 40 Baseball's Wynn 41 Champion of 10/30/74 
46 Pickle 
48 Choice cut 
so School 
assignment 

51 #1 Green Mountain Boy 52 G.D.P., for one 53 Swimming -­54 Hazzard County deputy 55 "War and Peace," e.g. 
56 One who takes messages 57 Military parade passageway 58 Dam 59 Rug figure 60 First name on Capitol Hill 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION IS LOOKING FOR PEER EDUCATORS FOR THE 1997-98 ACADEMIC YEAR. 
PEER EDUCATORS ARE STUDENTS FROM A WIDE RANGE OF PERSPECTIVES, WHO VOLUNTEER THEIR TIME TO HELP SHAPE POSITIVE NORMS REGARDING ALCOHOUOTHER DRUGS AND RELATED ISSUES. 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE .... PLEASE PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 1 MEZZANINE LEVEL LAFORTUNE OR CALL X7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 

Defense lets another slip away 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 

A walk in the park. A sure thing. All Notre Dame had to do was show up. 
At least that's what it seemed like for the Irish, who showed up at the Continental Airlines Arena in New Jersey to play Seton Hall last night. And although the first half went off without much trouble, the sec­ond was anything but a casual stroll. 
In one of Notre Dame's most disappointing losses this sea­son, Seton Hall (9-15, 4-11) overcame a nine-point halftime deficit with a 55 point sceond half explosion to beat the Irish 85-74. 
"It was almost too easy in the first half," Notre Dame (12-11, 6-9) coach John MacLeod explained. "We were playing well, holding them defensively, hitting cutters. But we were making turnovers. We should've been up by 14, 15, or 16 instead of nine." 
Notre Dame's downfall came due to a number of reasons. As MacLeod mentioned, turnovers were a major factor as the 
see MEN I page 17 


Wednesday, February 19, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
,..,.,..·:.:.:::·M~:· 

Irish looli to get back on track 
ByJOE CAVATO 
Spor.tS Writer 

Since two losses sidetracked one of the finest seasons in Notre Dame women's basket­ball, the team has responded with a vengeance and is right back on course. Those two 
losses camein the form of a game to the top· ranked Connecticut Huskies and a bro­ken hand 


of one of . their key bench players. 

Since that time Muffet 
McGraw's squad has simply 
blown its opponents out of the 
gym. A week ago they 
grounded the Boston College 
Eagles 91-64, and this past 
Sunday they humbled the. 
Providence Friars 97-74. 

"I think we've responded re­ally well," junior guard Mollie Peirick commented. "The past couple of games we've come out pretty much on a mission." 
That mission has given them a 22·5 record and 14·1 in the Big East while it has also begun another winning streak that the Irish will hope to con­tinue tonight when the Villanova Wildcats visit the Joyce Center. Earlier this year the Wildcats were tamed by the Blue and Gold by the mark of 77-54. 
The Irisll win over the Friars saw three players score over 20 points as seniors Katryna Gaither and Rosanne Bohman dominated the play in the paint and Beth Morgan did her damage from the field. The team shot 57 percent from the field as they received solid perimeter play from Peirick, Jeannine Augustin, and Sheila McMillen who came off the bench to go three of four and two of three from behind the arc. 
see WOMEN I page 16 
Bouts' tradition evident in dedicated coaching staff 
Coaches were participants in the past Bouts 
By BETSY BAKER Assistant Spores Editor 

Behind the intensity, athleti­cism, and dedication that make up the core of the Bengal Bouts lies one word that echoes in the minds and hearts of anyone who has taken part in the sixty-seven year history of the program ­tradition. 
What makes the Bengal Bouts unique from the rest of the ath­letic traditions on the Notre Dame campus is that the names that make up the tradition, and 

who will spend a year volunteering next year­
the cause for which those names work, remain 
and it's really neat to watch and be around
the same. 
them."

The most obvious testament to the Bengal 
Don't let him kid you, though. What they do
Bouts' tradition comes through the seven or so 
involves a great amount of dedication, even to
coaches and managers that head the program. 
the point at which they commute from out of
Regardless of what their official title or position 
state to attend the practices. Suddes makes a 
-might be, they all have one thing in common -a 
drive of over five hours from Columbus, Ohio,
belief in and ardent desire to maintain the pro­
and Johnson drives over from Chicago in order
gram of which they've helped create. 
that they may remain part of the Bengal Bouts
Just ask Tom Suddes or Terry Johnson. 
tradition. However, it is something that they
Both Suddes and Johnson fought for the Bengal truly enjoy. 
Bouts in their four years at Notre Dame. Suddes, 
"It's kind of a mini-sabbatical every year for
a 1971 graduate, and Johnson, who graduated in 
me," Suddes said. "It gives me a chance to con­
'7 4 and remained for four years of graduate
1-
tinue to work with these kids. I love the con­
work, both returned to head the Bouts shortly tact."
after graduating and have been here ever since 
I , And contact he gets. Literally and figuratively. 
then. 

Suddes still gets in the ring and spars with the
"Between Tom and I, we have seen every bout boxers.
for the last thirty years," Johnson commented. 
Another former Bengal Bouter who has
"It's a privilege to work with these kids," he
f returned to coach is Pat Farrell, a '66 graduate
added. "It's a very exciting time of their lives ­

we have kids who are going to jobs, med school,
I . ' I vs. Providence February22, 4 p.m. 
vs. Villanova 
Tonight, 7 p.m. vs. Western Michigan February 21, 7 p.m. 
at Norrhwestern Meet February 22 

see COACHES I page 18 
Men's and Women's 
• Men's tennis downs IU
Tennis at National Indoor Tearn Championships February 20-23 
see page 15 

• Devils defeat Tigers 
Basket ball vs. Anderson Tonight, 7 p.m. 
see page 12 









