--~ --~·----­

Monday, September 22, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 21 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC pride rally unites student body 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
As part of what organizers called "Saint Mary's Pride Day," Saint Mary's students hPld a rally on Friday at noon in lloly Cross llall on th(~ Saint Mary's campus. 
"The rally went gnmt," said vice presi­dent of the Saint Mary's student body Lori MrKnough. who IPad th1~ rally. "It was the !'lllmination all of tlw activity on campus. This <"ould have been a negative thing. But it was unbnliPvabln how unified everyone was." 
Tlw Shahe1m Saint Marv's Bookstore cut 1400 blue-and-white ribbons with the words "Saint Mary's College" printed on tlwm in blue lnttnrs. The ribbons, which organizers began to hand out at noon, wpm gone by 1 p.m. 
"I handPd out 400 ribbons myself." !VkKeough said. "Students, faculty, admin­istration, ovnryonn was out there to sup­port tlw school." 
Tlw rally was plannnd at a meeting in lloly Cross llall on Sept. 15 which nearly :~00 students attended. The meeting addressed a lnttnr written to The Observer by Notre Damn sophomores Catherine Syrwr and Stacey Fuller. in which Saint t-.1ary's College students were called "para­sites" to Notrr~ Dame's host. 
"Thern wern a lot of alumni in town this wePkPnd, and many of them said that they WPI'<' proud of tlw way that things wnre handlPd." said Saint Mary's student body prPsidPnt Nikki 1\lilos. "Students. by wnar­ing ribbons showed that they were proud of tlwmselvns and proud of their school." 
During tlw rally. McKeough read a letter from Saint Mary's vice-president of Student Affairs Linda Timm. "The letter expressed support for the students and rnngratulations on how the situation was handled" r-.kKnough said. "It was also about stn~ngtlwning our bond with each otlwr." · 
Although tlw idna for the rally originated in tlw uproar over Syner and Fuller's let­tPr. McKPough said that the rally was not bas!'d in hostility towards Notre Dame. 
"WP were tlwrP to cclebratn SMC. not to conw back against Notre Dame," she said. "It was really just about how much we love Saint Mary's." 
Research by Sarah J. Hiltz contributed to this report. 

Making it official 
Residents join Welsh family to 

dedicate hall 
By SARAH J. HILTZ News Writer 
Despite cloudy, rainy weather. Welsh Family Hall was officially dedicated Friday. 
The main event began with a mass of thanks­giving at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Thn next step in the dedication was a procession to the front of the new dormitory, at which point University President Father Edward Malloy said a b!Hssing. 
Also attending thfl blessing was Welsh Hall rector Sister Maureen Minihane, as well as Kathleen and Hobert Welsh and their children, Suzanne Welsh Mulshine, Mary-Carol Welsh Puntillo and Dan Welsh. 
Many Welsh residents also went to the dedica­tion and wore blue and silver ribbons as a way of showing thanks to the Welsh Family. Bltw and silver are the colors of the new Welsh Whirlwind. 
The Welsh family also provided Welsh Family Hall hats, t-shirts and chocolates for each resi­dent of the new building on West Quad. and each resident was treated to a catered meal fol­lowing the ceremony. 
Research by Sarah Nelson contributed to this report. 



• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
GSU lobbies Grad School for space 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union office in 219 LaFortune Student Center has room for only GSU secretary Jo Blacketor and one other desk. Because of this, the GSU has decided to lobby the Graduate School for more oftke space this year. 
"We have a closet, and barely a walk-in one at that," said Suzanne Coshow, GSU president, in her report to the Graduate Student Council on Sept. 8. "In 1993, when we were moved to LaFortune, we were initially promised the entire suite. Practically every IGSU] president since then has written a long letter addressing our currently defi­cient space and justifying why we need more [space[ to the appropriate administrators. Every year we get ignored and then assigned the same space," said Coshow. 
In the same report, Coshow announced a plan to submit a report on the need for office space to James Merz, vice­president of the Graduate School. 

-~-~-------~­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 22, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 

What Would 

• Father Sorin Think? 
A long, long time ago, 

Father Sorin was walking Sarah J. Hiltz 
around the American 
News Copy Editor 

Midwest, looking for a place to rest his weary feet and, while he was at it, to found a university. He decided to stop in Indiana. (Experts are still debating the rea­son for this; hypothermic insanity has not been ruled out.) 
Not long after this glorious moment in the history of the wor.J.d, Saint Mary's College was founded as well. Father Sorin was extremely happy to have a few women in the neighbor­hood, since the seminarians were getting lonely and he was running out of clean socks. 
When stumped with what to name his new school, Father wanted to attribute his foundling academy to his native France. "La Sorbonne" was taken, and he didn't have enough perspective chefs for "Le Cordon Bleu II." so he went with "Notre Dame," roughly translated as "Pleasepleaseplease, Mary, let me live through this winter without killing Father Jean-Luc for his parka." 
In 1972, thanks to a moment of clarity on the part of the administration, possibly caused 
by a compositional change in the drinking water, women were admitted to Notre Dame. Saint Mary's College, however, continued to be considered a "sister school," even though Saint Michael's laundry service was fired up to continue the tradition of Clean socks well through the 20th century. 
It is now 1997. and Saint Mary's is still con­sidered a necessary complement to the Notre Dame student body. We share computer labs, dining halls, classes, and (let's be honest, girls) men. It would be irresponsible, however, to ignore the fact that Notre Dame's admis­sions criteria are more arduous, and Notre Dame's parents slap a few more bucks on the table than do the parents of Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
But so what? Although the two schools have different admissions criteria, I can think of a lot of worse things to be mistaken for than a Belle; besides, the difference will show itself on our diplomas, which is all that some people care about, anyway. And as for the money, what's a few more grand when you've already spent half the gross national product on books? 
Apparently, a Saint Mary's student com­plained that she could not see at football games because all the students stand up, and two Notre Dame ladies had a few choice words to say about it. I can't say that this is the first time I've heard anti-Saint Mary's sen­timents expressed. I can certainly relate to Notre Dame women who are frustrated because they go to a "brother school." I would feel perfectly adequate in my educational situ­ation without any additional feminizing influ­ences, thank you very much. 
But petty insecurities aside, we're dealing with a lot more than computer labs and foot­ball games-we're dealing with tradition. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's have always been inseparable institutions, and, like it or not, it's probably going to stay that way. Maybe Saint Mary's is to blame. Maybe Notre Dame is to blame. Maybe the forlorn football fan is to blame because she was not born taller. But I doubt anything is realistically going to change any time soon. 
Besides. there are more important things to worry about, such as where I am going to find a clean pair of socks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Matt Loughran  Melissa Weber  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  Sarah Hiltz  
Sara Andrews  Michelle Krupa  
Kathleen Lopez  Mike Day  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Kevin Dalum  
Accent  Brandon Candura  
Nate Wills  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Hurricane Nora regains strength, heads for Baja 
MEXICO CITY 

Hurricane Nora strengthened Sunday as it shifted course and headed north­ward toward the Baja California penin­sula, threatening a half-dozen tiny islands in the Pacific Ocean. 
The Mexican government posted hur~ ricane warnings for the sparsely popu­lated Socorro Island and nearby Revillagigedo Islands. 
Flood warnings also remained in effect for hundreds of miles of Mexican coastline, from Cabo Corrientes to Punta Maldonado. 
Churning surf and 12-foot waves generated by Nora have pounded beaches and damaged property along thousands of miles of coastline since the tropical storm was upgraded to a hurricane Thursday. There have been no deaths reported. 
Kevorkian aids another death Feds consider vaccine lawsuit 
BLOOMFIELD TOWNSHIP, Mich. 
An ailing 78-year-old Canadian 
r------:::---,--, man committed suicide with Dr. Jack Kevorkian's help after con­sulting with him several times, Kevorkian's attorney said. Natverlal H. Thakore of British Columbia suffered from Parkinson's disease, said Geoffrey Fieger, Kevorkian's attorney. He killed himself Saturday night. In a letter Fieger sent to the media, Thakore said he wanted to die in a dignified way rather than be "reduced to the indig­nities of childhood diapers; spoon-feeding; semi­death." Police Capt. James Anas said in a statement that officers were called to a motel around 10 p.m. Saturday and "found an unidentified male deceased from an unidentified cause." The department declined to comment further. It would be the fourth suicide linked to Kevorkian since Aug. 29. He has acknowledged attending 49 other suicides, but Fieger has said Kevorkian has been present for "nearly 100" deaths since 1990. Kevorkian has been cleared of charges in three Detroit-area trials covering five deaths. 
Test asks why elderly drive so poorly 
UNIVEHSAL CITY, Calif. 
A virtual reality road test takes elderly drivers on a sim­ulated spin through city and country as part of an experi­ment to help determine why seniors are so often involved in accidents. Senior citizens seated in front of a computer screen "drive" through a cartoon scene in which cars cut across the street, pedestrians appear suddenly and stop signs and trees flash by. From the simulation, scientists hope to develop a research model of how brain and motor skills work together. The goal is to devise driver training and engineering designs to improve road safety, "We're trying to break down the system to lind where the weak spots are," said Charles Fox, assistant professor of oph­thalmology at the University of Maryland in Baltimore. The test, developed by University of Maryland researchers, was discussed Sunday during a seminar sponsored by Research to Prevent Blindness, a voluntary organization that supports eye research. The seminar focused on the aging eye and on treating diseases that can rob older Americans of their ability to see -and drive. Car accidents are a leading cause of injury-related deaths among Americans 65 and older, who by the year 2000 will make up 28 percent of the nation's drivers. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 22. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


__.. H 
,r'--·--~···············,.. 
L 

FRONTS:
Thursday ~q~~~7 39,1 

~....a.....a... ............ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1997 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure
Frid~y ./, /'l~-' ,, 1 62 42 

H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
5~-r---............../ ··,c' 
) 

Atlanta 73 61 Dallas 82 68 Los Angeles 87 64 
,·./ 

Baltimore 72 41 Denver 64 46 Miami 88 76 Baton Rouge 92 68 Detroit 68 41 New York 69 49
~~~uu& {) ~ d
',','' '','' :. :. :. ·=·.::=·.::=· -:..-:...-:.. 

Chicago 64 49 Honolulu 90 71 Phoenix 100 73 
Showers T-storms Rain Ffurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 71 42 Indianapolis 71 44 St. Louis 73 57 
Vi:~ A <:<:.fV"iAf~'<rl PrA<:.<:. (;mnhir<:.N"'t 

"This is a large and powerful hurri­Hurricane Nora cane," said Max Mayfield of the National As of5 a.m. EDT~F_ri_da_:_-"~~~~~~ Hurricane Center in Miami, Fla., in a 
telephone interview. 

Position: 14.4"N, 104.0"W 
Moving: N at 7 mph 
"If it docs turn gradually (more) up to 
Sustained winds: 100 mph 
the north it will not only have winds and 
Gusts at: 125 mph 
storm surges but could bring some very
Moving: Stationary 
heavy rains over portions of Mexico,"
Flood warning = . fi ld 'd
L........~---=--~__.....~ .., May Ie sm . 
~· ·. r~""' •-·· MEXIC01·-J Gulfo~ 
T ~ 

24' ! Mexico
' 

Pacific Ocean Mexico%... .,,...~·--;, Cabo Ootr~ntes Cith '<~~':..;;J(. _____;.i 18' Lazaro Cardenas ·\ J .3! 
Acupulco ,/~ r·/ 'r • 
~-PuntoMal • "-·· J 
~ 

14' 114. .106" .102' 
AP

Source: Accu-Weather Inc. 
MINOT, N.D. 
A federal court is considering an Indiana couple's claim that the government should pay them $14 million because of health problems caused by tainted vaceine given their daughter at the Minot Air Force Base seven years ago. Special Master LaVon French will decide whether federal claims court in Washington, D.C., will proceed with Arthur and Bonnie Brown's claim against the Department of Health and Human Services. They are seeking medical compensation and other damages for their 8-year-old daughter, Ashlee. The Browns testified Thursday at hearing before French in Washington. David Terzian, a Justice Department attorney representing the federal government, said French probably will rule in about 30 days. The Browns are asking for compensation under the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Act, a federal law passed in 1988, Terzian said. In such cases, he said the amount of compensation depends on the damages proved. Arthur Brown said he and his wife are seeking $14 million for punitive damages and future medical costs for Ashlee. Punitive damages are damages awarded to punish a defen­dant. The Browns' two small children, Harley and Ashlee, were vaccinated at the Minot Air Force Base hospital against mumps, measles and other diseases in May 1991, while their mother was visiting relatives in North Dakota. 
Ninety volunteer for live HIV injection 
CHICAGO 
A group of doctors and public health advocates say AIDS research is so important that they are willing to risk their lives by being the first humans to be injected with a vaccine consisting of a live, though weakened. strain of IIIV. The International Association of Physicians in AIDS Care, based in Chicago, wants to conduct the test involving about 50 volunteers. The group intends to talk with National Institutes of Health officials about the idea. Gordon Nary, executive director of the Chicago group and one of the trial's volunteers, said the risks of being in the study are diminished by what can be learned from it. AIDS vaccine development is a slow process because of the safety measures and rigorous animal testing needed before injecting humans with a trial vaccine. "Vaccine development has really dragged on because there is an assumption by conservative sci­entists that people won't step up and do this," Nary said. AIDS research efforts have focused on vaccines that do not involve a live virus because of fear that even a weak­ened, live human immunodicicncy virus strain might be capable of causing AIDS or other problems. ''I'm not ... suicidal," Nary said. 
At 1 p.m. EDT, Nora's center was located about 400 miles south of the tipof BaJ·a California. On Saturday, roiling surf washed away beaches, damaged beach houses and exposed the roots of scores of palm trees in the popular resort of Acapulco. In the tiny Mexican state of Colima, authorities made preparations to evacu­ate residents after several dozen homes and other buildings were badly damaged by wind gusts and strong surf. 
Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
. 

Lieberman: Stop American media's 'values vacuum' 
By DINA BRICK News Writer 
Modern American society is suffering from a "values vacu­um," according to Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut. 
Lieberman is a prominent figure in what he calls the "revolt of the revolted," a movement focused on curbing the degradation of collective values in American society. According to Lieberman, this values vacuum is primarily a result of the trend towards the careless inclusion of violence and promiscuity in television programming. movies and video games. 
"The electronic media is speeding the moral breakdown of this society," said Lieberman Sunday night, as he spoke before a near-capacity crowd at the Center for Continuing Education. "Media moguls do not appreciate the consequences of what they are producing." 
Media bjgwigs in positions of such inOuence and power have a moral responsibility to the nation's audience, especially children, to choose program­ming which does not fill the values vacuum with the "per­verse values they are (current­ly) purveying," Lieberman asserted. 
He also pointed to the scan­
dalous state of campaign fundraising as another exam­ple of moral degradation in modern society. 
"We have lost a sense of common foundations," said Lieberman. He cited faith in God, respect and honor for the dignity of human life, cherish­ing of the family, and the belief in the American dream as "America's birthright," univer­sal values which are disap­pearing in modern America. Instead, the values vacuum is being filled with "vulgarity" such as gangsta rap and music groups like Marilyn Manson, as well as gratuitously vioJent video and computer games, among other things. 

JPW JPW ATTENTION SoPHOMOREs! 

Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortune Infomation Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26. If you have any questions please call Jeff Jones at x1631 


JPW JPW 
Children are most at risk from exposure to immoral media, said Lieberman. 
They  are  
learning  to  
respond  to  

disagreeable situations with guns because of perva·sive media vio­lence; also, rampant promiscuity in the media has led to lax sex­ual attitudes as well as contributed to 

toclay's high rates of teen pregnancy, according to the senator. 
Lie berm an The ObserverfThi Linh Chojnacki ' Senator Joseph Lieberman spoke last night about the an obse~vant need to curb violence and promiscuity in the media. 
Jew, pomted . . to the secularization of modern examples of what 1s bemg done society as a culprit. We have about taking the mor~lity judg­driven religion from our public ment aw11:y fr~m med1~ moguls life, he stated, which has sue-and puttmg It back mto the ceeded in lowering our moral hands of par~nts .. It is a step standards. He also indicated towards amehoratmg the prob­that a collective return to the !em of parents in competition values upheld in religious life ~it~ .a culture which !s not would be a step toward arne-mstllhng prop.er v.alues: If pa.r­liorating the situation, as "the ent~ do .not mst!ll values 1.n strongest response will be the the1~ children, the electromc one that begins with faith." media se~ve~ as a surrogate Lieberman continued to say parent, sa1d Lieberman. that we have, however, been Lieberman acknowledged making progress in recent Notre Dame. as being founded years. Television talk shows on such basic tenets as a firm such as those hosted by Oprah belief in God, love. ~f. family Winfrey and Rosie O'Donnell and country, and CIVIlity. By and programs such a~ extrapolation, the United "Touched By An Angel," are ?tat~s ~s a whole should foll?w indicative of a possible trend m similar footsteps, he sa1d. toward a more moral and He closed the lecture with a wholesome media attitude. The reference to President "V-chip," which blocks Kennedy's inauguration unwanted TV shows from a address, the conviction that given TV set, as well a content-"on Earth, God's work truly based TV ratings program, are must be our own." 
''NEIGHBORHOOD RooTs" A BUS TOUR OF DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND & SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES 
FOR THE CLASS OF 2001 AND OTHER INTERESTED STUDENTS 

Notre Dame Football vs. Michigan 





Bus Trip 


Saturday, September 27 Bus leaves: 9:00a.m. Stepan Center 
Tickets on sale starting at 1:00 p.m. on September 23 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Cost: $20 per bus ticket for round trip bus transportation to Michigan Stadium 
(Bus leaves Michigan Stadium 30 minutes following the end of the game) 

2 tickets per student ID 

Brought to you by Student Activities 

NEIGHBORHOOD ROOTS NOTRE DAME 
& 
SOUTH BEND 

----------------------~----------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 22, 1997 

Republicans demand counsel 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Saying their persistent demands for a special investiga­tion had been vindicated, senior Republicans on Sunday insisted 
that Attorney General Janet Reno must now seek appoint­ment of an independent counsel to look into 


White House Clinton 
fund-raising 
activities. 
"I honestly think she has no 
other choice," said House 
Judiciary Committee Chairman 
Henry Hyde, R-Ill. "There is suf­
ficient and credible evidence 
sufficient" for her to ask a panel 
of federal judges to appoint an 
independent counsel, added 
Senate Judiciary Committee 
Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah. 
"She could do that tomorrow." 
On Saturday the Justice 
Department revealed it has 
opened a 30-day review of 
President Clinton's involvement 
in campaign money-raising 
irregularities during the 1996 
presidential campaign. During 
that time, Reno must decide 
whether to launch a more 
extensive 90-day review that 
could lead to her petitioning the 
court for appointment of a spe­
cial prosecutor. 
Notwithstanding a number of 
questionable fund-raising prac­
tices being pursued by congres­
sional investigators -and 
already under review by a 
Justice Department task force 
-a federal Jaw enforcement 
source speaking on condition of 
anonymity said the specific 30­
day review period disclosed 
over the weekend is limited to 
whether Clinton made fund­
raising phone calls from the 
West Wing of the White House 
and whether those solicitations 
violate a law. 
"We suggested she should have done that seven months ago," Hatch said on NBC's "Meet the Press." "She ought to get the burden off her back." 
Republicans have been press­ing Reno to invoke the Independent Counsel Act that comes into effect when senior members of an administration are suspected of legal violations. 
Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Miss., said on CBS' "Face the Nation" that "the Attorney General should resign" to take responsi­bility for delays in the investiga­tion. Other GOP lawmakers have urged that impeachment procedures begin against her if she fails to move for a special prosecutor. 
She has so far resisted, sug­gesting that it is unclear whether a century-old law ban­ning federal employees from seeking political donations from federal offices is applicable to the president and vice presi­dent. 
But a Justice-FBI probe into fund-raising activities has taken on new life in recent weeks with reports that donations solicited by Vice President AI Gore, and possibly Clinton, were moved from soft money accounts, which may be outside the law, to hard money ledgers. Soft money refers to the unrestricted contributions to national politi­cal parties while hard money is directed at certain candidates or races. 
White House senior adviser Rahm Emanuel said on CNN's "Late Edition" that the presi­dent did nothing illegal and "we plan on cooperating" fully with the Reno investigation. 
Both Clinton and Gore have sought to play down the possi­bility of any political damage from the latest development. "I don't know anything about it," Clinton said on Air Force One as he returned from a trip to California. Gore said in Moscow that it would have no effect on his visit to Russia. 
The investigation has taken a toll on public opinion of Gore, CBS News reported Sunday. Just 21 percent of 1,051 adults have a favorable view of Gore, the lowest in any CBS poll since he became Clinton's running mate in 1992. More than half are undecided and a quarter have an unfavorable view, CBS said. 
The poll was taken by phone Thursday through Saturday, and results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. 
Hatch said the real issue was not whether Clinton and Gore made improper phone calls from the White House, but on whether foreign governments ­namely China -illegally tried to influence the presidential election and on whether White House-generated donations went into hard money accounts. 
"This is another Agnew-Nixon situation," said Hyde, also on NBC in reference to the 

Watergate investigation during 
the Nixon administration. 
But Democrat'> on the Sunday news shows stressed that a Justice Department 
decision to call for an inde­pendent counsel was far from cm·tain and that Reno must be allowed to make .that decision based on the evidence. 
"She's been abused almost out of her mind and I wish my colleagues would lighten up and let her do her job," said Hep. John Conyers of Michigan, rank­ing Democrat on the Jlouse Judiciary Committee. 
Sen. Hobert Torricelli, IJ-N.J., a member of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, which is holding hearings on campaign finance irregularities, told ABC's "This Week" that never in the 114 years of the statute has anyone been prosecuted for making phone calls or soliciting nonfed­eral employees from federal property. 
A Hcpublican on the commit­tee, Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, said that while appointment of an independent counsel was "inevitable," he agreed with Democrats that attention should be focused not so much on past problems as on future reforms. 
babor group calls for right to organize 
By KEVIN GALVIN 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 

After the votes were counted at a North Carolina food-pro­cessing plant, workers say. managers let the employees know what they really thought of their efforts to form a union. 
"We ·were pushed out of the room, we were beaten up, spit on/' said Rayshawn Ward, 21. who was sprayed wiih Mace and handcuffed by security guards when he stepped in to protect his wife in the melee. 
lf the AFL-CIO has its way, such stories will be seen as more than random incidents of workplace strife. Thf) giant labor federation aims to make the right to organize the next big civil rights issue. 
The AFL-CIO is gathering in Pittsburgh for its biennial con­vention -the first celebrating labor's rejuvenation under the presidency of John Sweeney, who has made recruitment his top priority. 
Still, fewer than 15 percent of American workers belong to a union. 
While the increasing global­ization of the economy and an anti-union climate in the 1980s stymied unionization efforts, Teamsters President Ron Carey was more blunt about blaming the leadership of the past. 
"A lot of it was because peo­ple fell asleep at the wheel," Carey said referring to what he often calls "fat cat" union bosses who were more intm·­ested in their own advance­ment than in supporting work­ers. 
Currently, unions need to recruit 300,000 new members yearly just to maintain their share of the work force. But without dramatically increas­ing membership, the labor movement will find it difficult to win battles over wage dis­parity or broader social issues. 
Companies that wish to thwart unionization of their workers typically have more resources, can constantly lobby workers at their work sites and use labor laws to delay certifi­cation of union votes for three years or more. 
TIAA··CREF. 
l~roven 
Soiutions 
a Lifetime. 
We take a lot of pride in gaining high marks from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get in the mail every day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, ensuring the finan­cial futures of the education and research community is something that goes beyond stars and numbers. So from traditional and variable annuities to life insurance and personal savings plans, you'll find we provide the right choices-and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime of financial goals. The rating services back us up. So does Bill. 
To receive a free Personal Investing Kit, including charges and expenses, plus our variable annuity prospectuses, call us at 1800 226-0147. Please read them carefully before you invest or send money. 

www.tiaa-cref.org 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.S" 





Monday, September 22, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
l 
business 
\

~<> P e n f o r~r---------------~ 
At a dead run, it can gauge the exact instant to backhand a tennis ball traveling at 95 miles an hour for a baseline winner. Calculate how electrons move in a crystal. Compose symphonies. Even program a VCR. 
It's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we challenge it with a stimulat­ing variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance­ment. And support it with the resources of nearly 45,000 professionals operating across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. 
We invite you to join Andersen Consulting/Notre Dame Alumni tonight to discuss career opportunities. 
TONIGHT! 

7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 
THE MORRIS INN NOTRE DAME ROOM 
All majors welcome! Casual attire is appropriate! 
All students interested in interviewing with Andersen Consulting should submit a resume to the Career and Placement Office by September 23rd. 
© 1997 Andersen Consulting Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. For more information, please visit our web site at http://www.ac.com 
ANDERSEN CoNSULTING 

Americans not about to stop eating burgers 
By SCOTT BAUER Associated Press Writer 
LINCOLN, Neb. So a hamburger can kill you. So what? 
This, fellow Americans, is One Nation, ·under God, Indivisible, with burgers and ketchup for all. And if you think that some itty bitty bacterja are going to change all that, well, you're a Quarter Pounder short of a full load. 
"There's something about eat­ing a big bite of hamburger," said Sam Ross, former manager of King's Drive In, a Lincoln, Neb., fast food restaurant dating back to the 1960s. "It's some­thing you can chow down on." 
There's the "Sunshine Burger" in San Francisco, served with sprouts, scallions and avocado; the "Jiffy Burger" in Lincoln, Neb., with peanut butter and bacon; the five-pound "Family Burger" in Sault St. Marie, Mich., designed to serve 10 to 12 peo­ple. 
Since the 1940s, hamburgers have been America's favorite food, according to Nation's Restaurant News. There were 
5.4 billion hamburgers/cheese­burgers served in commercial restaurants in 1996, that is up 
3.8 percent from the previous year. 
Ross said burger sales make up 75 percent of King's business -about 300 burgers a day. 
He said business did not slow even with the E. coli contamina­tion scare that led to the recall of 25 million pounds of ground beef from a Columbus, Neb., plant ­the largest meat recall in the nation's history. 
No lag in beef sales was reported across the country, even though the contaminated hamburger sickened more than a dozen people in Colorado. 
Of course, many years of warn­ings about cholesterol haven't pushed McDonald's or Burger King out of business, either. 
"All Americans grew up with hamburgers," said Alisa Harrison with the National Cattlemen's Beef Association-a group that, admittedly, has a steak in the burger's popularity. "Especially when you're a teen­ager. What do you do when you get your driver's license? You get a burger." 
The hamburger's roots can be traced back to the tribes of Tartary living in the Baltic provinces in the Middle Ages. German trading partners devel­oped the Hamburg steak -fried beef seasoned with onions -and brought it to America in the 1700s and 1800s. 
Stories vary on just how the 
Hamburg steak evolved into the 
present-day hamburger. Some 
credit Charlie Nagreen of 
Seymour, Wis., with inventing it 
in 1885 and selling it at the 
Outagamie County Fair. 





ATTENTION: 
t--ley Katie!!! 
We can't think of a bet­ter place to t~.o~rn 18 than at Notre Dmne. Hope yo~.o~r day was as great 
On 9-20-97 aS OIAf"S Vl.laS 
on 9-20-79. Wishing yo~.o~ the best 
on yo~.o~r 18th birthday. 
XO's 

1 
I I I 'l 
I 
I 
1 
i 

-~--~-~------------~-~------~-~---~ 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 22, 1997 
•IsRAEl 
Crackdown results in arrests in West Bank 
Gender Studies Critical Issues Roundtable 

Intersections I Insinuations: Gender Studies and the Arts & Letters Curriculum 
Robert Wegs -Professor of History; Director, N anovic Center for European Studies Barbara Green -Assistant Professor of English Patricia Davis-Assistant Professor of Government Rene Rimelspach -Senior, Gender Studies Concentrator 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 4:30-6:00 I I 8 DEBARTOLO HALL 
By GWEN ACKERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 

Israel arrested dozens of Palestinians Sunday in an exteu­sive crackdown on Islamic mili­tants while easing travel restrictions 
o n Palestinians working in Israel. 
Military censors with-
iiiliiiiiili11Ji21.li~l'lllll held the Netanyahu 
names, vil­lages and the exact number of Palestinians arrested. 
However, Israel television Channel 1 reported that about 40 suspected militants were taken into custody during the sweep, which it said took place north of the West Bank city of Nablus. 
An army statement said only that the operation took place in the northern West Bank and elite paratrooper and undercov­er units participated in it. 
The arrests come in the wake of two suicide bombings in Jerusalem that killed 25 people, including the five attackers. The Islamic militant Hamas group claimed responsibility for the July 30 and Sept. 4 bombings. 
The Israeli government on Sunday also loosened a ban that had prevented Palestinians from traveling to Israel. The ban, imposed after the Sept. 4 bomb­ing, had cost the struggling Palestinian economy millions of dollars each day, the World Bank said. 
Israel announced that 4,000 
construction workers would receive permits to go back to 
their jobs. Last week,  some  
10,000  Palestinians  were  
allowed entry.  

"We will check the security sit­uation daily and continue the (easing) process if the security situation allows," said Shlomo Dror, a spokesman for Israel's military government in the West Bank. 
The Israeli government's actions on Sunday came several hours before Cabinet Secretary Dan Naveh left for Washington for meetings with U.S. officials. 
Naveh, one of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's closest advisers, said his trip was intended to pave the way for meetings set for later this week between Israeli Foreign Minister David Levy and top Palestinian official Mahmoud Abbas. 
"In the first stage we will look at what the Palestinian Authority has done as a preliminary step against terrorism, and we hope that the picture we find will allow negotiations and the work­ing groups to resume," Naveh said. 

Israel has demanded that Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat crack down on Islamic militants blamed for the suicide bombings in Jerusalem. It holds Arafat responsible for the attacks because he failed to destroy the militants' infrastructure. 
Naveh said the Cabinet has decided that Israel will not hand over more territory to the Palestinian Authority until Arafat takes serious measures to rein in the militants. 
Also Sunday, scuffies broke out in the Arab neighborhood of Ras al-Amud in east Jerusalem where Jewish settlers moved into two buildings last week. 
Several dozen Palestinians tried to force their way into the 
homes only to be pushed back by Israel and the Palestinians. 
police. Palestinians want east 
The move by 11 Jewish set­Jerusalem to be their future cap­
tlers into Ras al-Amud has fur­ital, and believe even a small 
ther complicated efforts to Jewish presence in Palestinian 
resume Israeli-Palestinian nego­neighborhoods like Ras al-Amud 
tiations. In a compromise with jeopardizes those hopes. 
Netanyahu's government, the Egyptian President Hosni 
settlers moved out Thursday, but Mubarak suggested that the 
10 religious students moved in. moving of Jewish settlers into 
Arafat on Sunday called the Arab east Jerusalem was like 
takeover "a clear violation" of Iraq's 1990 takeover of Kuwait. 
the peace agreements between 
iB RUN 0 'S 
I 
IPIZZA NORTH US 31 NORTH 273-3890 

Every Monday All-You-Can-Eat Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 
6:00-9:30 

~~---------~-------~---~,-~--------..., 
Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• POLANO 



Solidarity wins unexpected victory in Polish elections 
By COLLEEN BARRY 
Associated Press Writer 
WARSAW 
Leaders of a reborn Solidarity claimed a surprise victory over the governing ex-communists in parliamentary elections Sunday, the first step toward controlling the government after four year's in opposition. 
In one of the most dramatic political recoveries in the former Soviet bloc. the group of parties tracing its roots to the trade union that ousted the commu­nists in 1989 won at least 33 per­cent of the vote, according to exit polls for Polish television. A sepa­rate poll for the newspaper RzPczpospolita gave Solidarity 34 percent. 
The governing Democratic Leftist Alliance, the former com­munists, trailed with 27 percent in both the television and news­paper polls. The polls, which flue tuated marginally through the night, indicated a voter turnout of about 59 percent. 
The voting edge would not give Solidarity an outright majority in the 460-seat Sejm, but should allow it first chance to form a coalition with allied parties. On the eve of the elections, most opinion polls and the parties themselves had predicted a neck­and-neck finish. 
lf Solidarity manages to forge a parliamentary coalition, it would share power with President Aleksander Kwasniewski, the for­mer communist who defeated Solidarity founder Lech Walesa as president in a tight election two years ago. 
The cohabitation is not likely to be as contentious as previous periods in Polish politics. Despite controversy over such issues as transfer of state-owned industry to private hands, both major blocs applaud NATO's decision 
to extend membership to Poland and both want to see Poland join the European Union. 
Final elections results were not expected until Wednesday. 
But announcement of the exit polls, shortly after balloting ended in the late evening, 
sparked  a  celebration  at  
Solidarity  headquarters  in  
Warsaw.  

''I'd like to thank all those who voted for Solidarity. I'd like to thank all those who love Poland, who love truth, who love Solidarity," said Marian Krzaklewski, who succeeded Walesa as leader of the bloc. 
"If this victory is officially con­firmed, we will correct all the mistakes that have been made so far," Krzaklewski said, promising to transfer much of the central government's power to local authorities. 
Krzaklewski shook the hand of Walesa, who received an ova-



TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP 
Information Meeting for JUNIORS interested in Public Service 
Tuesday, September 23, 1997 4:30-5:15p.m. 206 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

Notre Dame MIS, CS, CE, CAPP, and other computer related majors: 
We are looking for a few highly motivated people with a strong background in computers who are seeking a career ·. or internship in Information Systems. 
If you are the kind of person who is interested in challenging rotational assignments, exposure to senior management, further educational development, and having input into the direction of your career, the ACCENT Program may be the right full time opportunity for you. We are also hiring Summer Interns for 1998. 
Representatives from Travelers Property Casualty will be on campus for the Engineering Industry Day on September 24th in the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering from 10-4. Please stop by our booth to learn more about these exciting opportunities in Information Systems. 
Travelers at Notre Dame 
• Engineering Industry Day:  September 24, 1997  
•Information Session:  November 19, 1997  
• On-Campus Interviews:  November 20, 1997  

Travelers in:o.urancc. Hartford. CT DhDD. We Arc An ElJual OppnrtuniLy Emph•ycr. Ct1mmiucU hi Wnrk Fun:c D1vcrsiLy. Travelers Insurance acLivcly prnmnLC!<. a Jrug-frcc workpl:u:c. 

Sejm-lower house, 460 seats Senate-upper house, 100 seats 

Poland-28.5 million voters Abroad-tens of thousands of Polish voters Expected turnout-45-52 percent 
Poles at the polls 
The Poles will elect a new parliament on Sunday, September 21. 
1990-Lech Walesa elected president 
1991-First free democratic parliamentary elections 
1993-Eiection called early. Former communists and other leftists win a majority of seats in the lower house 
1995-Aieksander Kwasniewski defeats Walesa for presidency 
1997-Third fully free elections to take place 

tion from several hundred Solidarity supporters in the domed portrait gallery where Solidarity set up its headquar­ters. 
"This time, we'll treat the vic­tory as an obligation to carry out the policies that the nation asked us to," Walesa said. 
Some Solidarity supporters chanted "Down with the Communists." 
But the mood of the leaders was subdued, and they decided not to uncork a bottle of sparkling wine that was on hand, apparently hoping to avoid jinxing the results. 


The Professional Staff of the Univen~ity .. Counseling Center (UCC)Invites you to consider joining a group. 
In ad~ilion 10 Personal Growlh Groups The L.:CC also ulfers SUPPOHT GROUPS for: 
Graduate Students, 
Arrican·American Students 
Transfer  Students  
Gays  and  Lesbians  
Students  wilh:  

Family Concerns 
Eating Concerns 
1  "lhe era ol big issues: the cold war and the budget defic11. are gJvmg way to more pPrsonJI concerns · (USA foday,8/9/':17)  
2  Bill Gates and Stf'\'e lobs agr~! Understandmp; differences and h;n m..:: compatible corrununicat1on IS essential for more growth,  
3  You mtss.ed the cllancc to connect ,11 Lillith fo11t.  
.a  Contact Contact Contact REAL CONTACT  
And  the  number  one  reason  remain!-. ....  
S  :'\lore excitin~~:, meaningful rrlalionship!-1 in South Bend simply can't b~  

round: 
Weekly groups are available on:* 
MONDAYS. Tl'ESDA YS. 4:00 . 5:15 3:30 . -1:45 
WED:'<ESDA YS. 3:30 . 4:45 
Th..:\c 2rf'Up• .rc 11~riii:U1MI~ !o•r ~tud..-nl~ llllol ~~.1111 1" uu.:rc;l'-t: 'l1.:1r •<.'lo~ll<'ll'tlil' -~Ill• 


-------------------------------------------------...-------------------------------------~.. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, September 22, 1997 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager. .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Edi<or .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Edi[Or ........................ Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe studenrs of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reAect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sporrs Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and nor m:ces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of rhe Norre Dame/Saim Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edi<or-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror 63I-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Pho<o 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• fROM THE lEfT 

l~DearPaula, I) 
'' I am deeply 'EI:Jrry for what happened.'' 
'' I re.<lre±. m:~ sbocking behavior.'~. 
'' and. ahY pain and embarrasca~t it may hav-e cau.s~d you and your family.'' ----~f-"'' 
Descent into the Catacombs 
On the wall of the esteemed Oak Room (the best food on campus) is a mural that defies description. An artist in the distant past attempted to compress both Indiana and Notre Dame's histories onto two walls, much like the South Bend post office mural. However, this artist must have been indeed a lunatic, given the lasting impression the mural creates. 
Starting on the eastern wall, a scientist of some sort is examining a test tube with a frustrated look on his face. Why is this great white scientist's frustration so manifest? The answer, of course, lies right outside this door. The Indian slave labor camp is not peeling of bark specimens quir:kly enough for his superfluous pseudo-science! 
Other highlights of the mural include the feuding Indian family which is upset because either the wife dumped a pot of water on the fire, or because they 

David McMahon 
have a tree growing out of the middle of their teepee. Either way, the husband is off sulking at the side of the teepee, much to the happiness of the safari-styled leop­ard hunter to his left. 
The Oak Room mural is only one in the fabric of campus oddities that inevitably pile up over 150 years. The Notre Dame campus is replete with such trea­sures, personalities, flukes, and hidden secrets. The most outrageous historical anomalies are the remnants of old school Catholicism which litter the campus like catacombs. These anomalies, coupled with the University's betrayal of its pacifist Catholic tradition, create a visible web of residual 19th century thinking. Take, for example, the fight over the Columbus paint­ings in the Administration Building. Nearly every truly intellectual institution has recognized the wholesale, genocidal tendencies practiced by the United States during its continuing war against Native Americans. Notre Dame, however. enshrines a man whose men decapitated Indian boys for sport, a man who insisted to his death that he had found Asia, a man who intro­duced slavery to a civilized culture. The real reason behind why the University refuses to deal with American Indian concerns is that they would be forced to comply with the agreement to give Native American people, whose lands were confiscated, a free educa­tion. They would have to come face-to-face with the liberation theology so eloquently taught on campus. They would have to implement their mission. 

The most glaring example of an odd campus institu­tion is, hands down, the HOTC building. This pimple on Notre Dame's progress must be expunged. As a young, impressionable youth, I joined Uncle Sam's imperial Navy in the hopes of someday defraying some college expenses. The combined effects of bland, propagandis­tic lies in the classroom and the tap dance shoes issued to me a size too small by the "quartermaster" and forced a quick retirement for this veteran. I believe what really steamed me up wasn't the fellow camou­flaged, not the Desert Storm patches with scantily clad women cavorting about tanks, not even the tap danc­ing routine we practiced out on the Joyce Center park­ing lot. It was the building itself. I already look some­thing like Bill Murray in "Stripes," but this was too much. On top of my ill-fitting tan monkey suit, I had to wear a crossing guard belt and make notes about whether or not certain "hatches" were secure. Ah, droll task! Sleep was on the horizon. To amuse myself, I ended up doctoring the logs and noting various ghosts passing through what I assumed were secure "hatch­es" and "heads." In any event, it is the conclusion of every thoughtful person that a military instillation has no place on the campus of a university that claims to follow a pacifist, let alone a place of higher learning. 
On a lighter note, I highly recommend to each and every ·member of the Notre Dame community to stave off the coming winter blues by really examining the space in which you live. Such places I nicknamed "machine alley," for instance, entertained me for eons on my passage through Nieuwland Science Hall. For those not in the know, there arc ways to traverse near­ly the entire campus in the frigid winter without so much as stepping outside. Machine Alley is comprised of several rooms filled with odd-looking .James Bond­era devices and white-robed men operating them with frequent suspicious glances over their shoulders, obvi­ously agents of S.P.E.C.T.E.H. l often wondered whether or not these machines were connected with "The Master Control Hoom" of DeBartolo. You decide. The machines are fascinating, and their purpose is nothing short of mysterious. One friend of mine saw two of these "scientists" throwing a football back and forth as a third made notes. Indeed. 
The archive room in the library, the maze of under­ground tunnels around campus and connecting to Saint Mary's, the Snite Museum's vast and varied col­lection, the music and video treasures in the 'Brare, 
''To wl:Pm.. itmay concern'.'. 
'' I understand -you a.r-e a nice., honest person..:· 
'' althou~ I have no idea_ ~ what you're. talking ah::>ut.'' 
'' Here·s a million bucks. Go away.'' 

North Dining Hall (at any given moment I expect to see people clumping around in ski boots). and the radiation building surrounded by dead trees. etc., are all prime examples of the plethora of odd treasures you can experience by becoming a junior detective here at du Lac. 
Stay tuned for my utopian vision of Notre Dame. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate doing social work in Oakland and can be reached at dmcmalzon@hotmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
!iOlJ/?C£S Sit!Y 7H& QUE&N tu!U­
9HOI?fl..Y85SlZI<INGlH& APVIC6 CFCW/3 a::HeR CWN-A $UC¥(J ARISTOCRATMOR£/Nll/N/3 /UITH Tffl3«i4>5 a::COMMON FOU< l 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"And forget not that the 
earth delights to feel your bare feet, and the winds long to play with your hair." 
-Kahlil Gibran 




VIEWPOINT
Monday, September 22, 1997 page 9 

The Ultimate Team: Dispelling the Myths 
You've seen them on the quad. Their !1ying discs come so close to your unsuspecting head that you'd swear they didn't know what they were doing. You hurl obscenities at them for endan­gering your life. You mock their long hair. bare feet and soiled clothes. "They smell." you say with disdain. Those guys probably skip class; or even Mass, to 'play frisbee.' How can their panmts even love them? They have no direction. They just run around like foolish children. In fact, they didn't even go to the Job Fair. On the whole, you may think they are maladjusted, misanthropic reefer addicts. 
But you'd be wrong. For underneath 
Michael Peppard 

their long hair resides a well-trained mind, schooled in the fundamentals of projectile aerodynamics. Underneath each of their bare chests lies a heart which pumps the blood of spirituality and solidarity through their veins. Underneath their eamou!1age threads hums a finely-tuned human machine prepan1d to risk gash and bruise to cherish the disc and protect your head. And their parents do love them. My friends, I'm speaking of the most mis­understood group of individuals on our campus: The Ultimate team. 
This is an expose of sorts, to bring the remarkable accomplishments of this club to the fore. I think the stu­dents of Notre Dame should know at least something about the most suc­cessful dub sport at their school. The Ultimate team. led by the veteran talent of tPam captain/club president Joe Kerbleski. Dave Shiel, Andy "Patch" Pascale. Tim Brown, and Noah "Mama's Boy" Gray, has exploded onto the national collegiate circuit in only four short years since its inception. Last year they won the Illinois/Indiana collegiate division, and they have gone 
• ON THE Pm.LEN PATH 
to the 15-state regional competition each of the last three years. In fact, they missed going to nationals by only one game last spring. 
The team is enthusiastic about the spring season, even though they lost two veteran members -the Brothers Blanchet-to the real world. They have a wealth of talent to back up the seniors with big names like Stitches Kovalik and James Beebe in the junior class and Walsh and Punk in the sopho­more class. When I interviewed Carleton College's Ultimate squad, the second best team in the country, they expressed apprehension about clashing with NO this year. Their remarks included, "''m worried about Stitches ... he's got mad skills." "Patch has got a mean hammer throw, and Kerbleski is a mighty warrior." 
But the Ultimate team is much more than a spectacular bunch of athletes. They are an intellectual and spiritual experience. Boasting one of the highest cumulative GPAs of any Notre Dame sports team, the Ultimate team exem­plifies the union of academics and ath­letics. And for those interested in the idea of "Ultimate as a spiritual way of life," you can ask any of the team mem­bers for a brief explanation. 
Stitches mentioned the spirit of Ultimate when discussing the most recent tournament. "Since Ultimate doesn't have any referees," he said, "all the players just have to live by the spir­it." It doesn't matter if the tournament is on the line-all players must invoke the spirit of peace and harmony when making important calls. If Patch comes down with a diving grab in the back of the end zone, but he knows he landed out of bounds, he is bound by the spirit of the game to call himself out of bounds. If only other sports could learn from this idealistic yet practical code of honor. 
And speaking of practicality, the Ultimate team embodies the economic efficiency hoped for of every campus organization. Existing on only a couple thousand dollars that they graciously share with the women's team (the team represents harmonious gender rela­tions as well), the team manages to travel across the country and continue winning tournaments. For the price of 


If Notre Dame was really trying to be progressive, as they always claim, they could take a few hundred dollars out of the football slush fund and support a team on the cutting edge of internation­al sports. When the Fighting Irish trav­el to a mediocre bowl appearance, they go by plane, stay in plush hotels and enjoy all the amenities of stardom. Yet when the Ultimate team travels to a championship tournament, they cram into a few station wagons and eat rice cakes and water, sleeping 10 to 12 peo­ple in each sleazy hotel room. 
I guess the point of this rambling pro­paganda is to ignite some support for the unsung heroes of Notre Dame ath­letics. The Ultimate team is still in its nascency but is performing like it has years of tradition behind it. When the collegiate season gets into full swing, let's get some crowd support out at Stepan field. Yes, they are bare-footed long hairs, and their clothes are some­what dirty. But that's why we love them. So you're all welcome at my tail­gater next spring before the second annual Notre Dame Ultimate tourna­ment: White Smoke II: Still Smokin '. By then the collegiate circuit will be in full swing, and we can cheer on a group of athletes who actually have a shot at a national championship this year. 
Michael Peppard is a joint major in philosophy and theology (pun intended) who lives in the attic ofthe Halfway House. He is involved in a cult ofhero worship which focuses on certain mem­bers of the female Ultimate team. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Nature is Sacrificed to Convenience and Commercialism 
Contrary to what I used to erroneously believe, Notre Damn is hardly exclusive to northern Indiana. In fact, there exists a small town in northern Maine called Notre Dame. What is important about this town of only a few hundred people which is just a stone's 



Kyle Smith 

throw from the Canadian border? Not much, except for the name of the town and the fact that her citizens proudly sport a McDonald's and a gas station. 
I drove through Notre Dame, Maine, this summer on my way up to a concert being held even further north into Maine's backwoods, and we stopped (against my will and at the insistence of the driver) at that McDonald's. Unless I had seen it with my own eyes, I would have never believed that available for purehase, at selected stores only of course, is a lob­ster sandwieh and fries for $3.99. The smell of processed seafood, very similar to that of the seafood sandwiehes in the grab 'n' go line, permeated my upholstery for weeks. The smell of "lobster" and the long, weary drive from Kentucky, my home state, all the way up to Maine Were not the worst parts of the trip though. The lowest point during my journey was when I rnalized that I could not run out of gas-not even in Maine. 
To many, not running out of gas in the middle of nowhere would probably be a good thing, but it kind of ticks me off. With the notable exceptions of Alaska, and maybe parts of some western states, it's impossible (unless you are not paying attention to your gas gauge) to drive 300 miles or so without encountering at least one gas station and probably multiple McDonald's. If someone can show me a non­circuitous route east of the Continental Divide where it is possible to run out of gas and not to see a McDonald's, please let me know so that I can enjoy a drive there. 
Unfortunately for those of us who seek natural serenity, our soeiety values convenience over the unspoiled beauty of America's landseapes. Are we so naive to believe that fast food and Dairy Marts can somehow improve our quality of life or enhance the forest scenery? When I venture to out-of-the-way places, I want to be able to see trees, rivers, moun­tains and wildlife. I am sick of driving through beau­tiful scenery only to look up and see a billboard reminding me that the Days Inn is only 14 miles away. 
The eastern part of our country is not the only com­pletely commercialized place on the planet though. Recently, "Outside" magazine ran an article lauding what the editors chose as the 10 best cities in the world. One of the factors contributing to the editors' choices was the number of McDonald's in a particular city. 
Prague, the capital of the Czech Republic and noted as one of these top 10 cities, and which up until the early part of this decade was still under communist authority, already boasts 16 McDonald's. 
This article wouldn't be complete without a critical examination of Notre Dame, Indiana, as well. Notice anything different this year on the south-end of cam­pus? Two more dorms were added, completing the ruin of half of the golf course. A new bookstore is being built, interestingly right next to the cemetery. The trees in front of Morrissey have been sawed down, and, finally, there is more concrete, less grass and fewer trees on God Quad. When is the construc­tion going to end? The historic beauty of our campus is due in large part to a few notable buildings and a lot of old, majestic trees and well-kept grassy fields, not the monotony of cookie-cutter dormitories. Can someone please help me to distinguish O'Neill and Keough from McGlinn and Welsh? 
Speaking of grassy fields, allow me let you in on a little secret: every time a few people decide to trounce across the grass instead of using the side­walks, it begins to wear a path. Others, in their haste to get to class, will follow this same depression in the grass, and eventually a narrow dirt trail has been created. This, of course, does not look good for the University, so another stretch of concrete is con­structed which adds to the web-like maze wrapping itself around campus. 
Those sidewalks, like the gas stations in Maine, may get you where you are going a little faster, but they certainly do not improve the landscape. I would pre­fer large areas of grass on which to lie and read, or talk with friends, or even toss the frisbee on those rare sunny afternoons in South Bend. 
In the not so distant future, once all the grass on campus has been paved over, maybe the administra­tion can get McDonald's to move into the old book­store building. The Golden Arches would look good beneath the Golden Dome-don't you think? 
Kyle Smith is a sophomore PLS and philosophy major who resides in Morrissey Manor. He can be reached at Smith.334@nd.edu. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


-··-----~------· ----~-~-~· ~--·....... · -..........-.._.--~-__ , ---~-----­

page 10 Monday, September 22, 1997 
Another Lool< at •Lear• 
and to much disdain, the film The elements of plot, as misleading and to view this film. Previous to any ,, labors through a misguided, abstract as they sometimes seem, attempt at viewing the movie, "A 
lm super-melodramatic story always yield themselves to emphasize Thousand Acres," please refrain from detailing the wretched lives of the torrid relationship of these two sis­partaking in the following experiences Directed by Jocelyn Moorhouse 
A Thousand Acres 

a brutish, debilitated father ters, and both actresses shine through or events: 1) a biology mid-term, 2) the (Jason Robards), his,---------­
Starring Michelle Pfeifer and Jessica Lange 
victimized daughters (Jessica Lange, Michelle rfeif'fer, and Jennifer Jason Leigh), and the men who 

(our of five shamrocks) 

A
invariably fulfill the masculine-stereotypes and ruin what already By JOE LENISKI is a splintered existence for these Accent Movie Critic three women. Director Jocelyn Moorhouse and cinematographer bout halfway into "A Thousand Tak Fujimoto conspire to give the Acres," I began to wonder movie a very soft, feminine feel, whether or not I had walked into btit quite often the result is placid the wrong theater. The preview looked or an uninteresting mise-en-scene rather striking: a sweeping, majestic which detracts from the audi­shot of a serene cornfield falls gently ence's ability to engage the situa­onto a stoic white country farm-house. tion or appreciate the setting. This There is a family gathered together, sit­film was scripted from the ting blissfully in a semi-circle on home­Pulitzer-Prize winning book by made lawn furniture, sharing apple pie author Jane Smiley, thus many and fond memories. Then the aged elements intended to play out or patriarch looks kindly from wrinkled, have significance in the novel sunken eyes at his three lovely daugh­don't translate well into the movie ters gathered around him, and in a lov­story. This dumbfounding plot will ing, modest tone reveals that he is giving establish one situation to be of his land, the thousand acres that his utmost importance, then eclipse it Jessica Lange (Left), Michelle Pfeiffer (center), and Jennifer Jason Leigh (right) star as three sis­father and grandfather worked them­by another twisting event, and ters who are torn apart by the division of their father's 1 00-year-old farm. selves for many years, to his precious then later drop any notion of that daughters, the beings so dear to his second event all together in order to with their convincing, heartfelt perfor­cod-in-salsa at the dining hall, 3) a heart. That was what I expected, and for preserve the continuity and accentua­mances. The second redeeming compo­Notre Dame/Michigan State football the first 10 minutes or so the movie sup­tion of the original event. There were nent is the last 10 minutes of screen game (or any game against Purdue, Bigplies the audience with this rural utopia. times I thought I had mistakenly walked time, the only continuous, well-crafted Ten, or MAC conference teams). Failure Then this myopic vision falls away, and into a campy 80s psycho flick like block of filming. I especially loved the to adhere to the aforementioned guide­soon all of the dark, convoluted secrets "Camp Counselor III: The Swim Test." striking hospital room footage and lines before watching this film will result that inevitably haunt this little piece of Despite the eyes-rolling script and exchange between a debilitated, ruined in extreme depression, loss of meaning heaven on earth crawl out into the light never-ending, excessive tragedy, two Pfeiffer and stalwart Lange, whose tears in life and general homicidal-tendencies and burn gaping holes in the idyllic cur­things save this film from complete finally hold meaning for a previously towards fellow students. Remember, you tain of happiness. annihilation into absurdity. First is the beleaguered audience. have been forewarned. Please proceedBut don't misunderstand, "Steel acting of both Lange and Pfeiffer, who Rather than tell you to go see this to this movie with caution, and thank Magnolias" this picture is not. Slowly play the abused sisters Ginny and Hose. movie, I am going to tell you when NOT you for your time. 
photo courtesy Touchstone Pictures 





Rises Above Shoot-em-up 
given, the script is due all the credit. The plot, while very detailed with plenty of twists and turns, is rela­

L.A. Confidential 

tively simple to follow. The story revolves around three Directed by Curtis Hanson 
L.A. policemen who, through many brawls, arrests, and shootouts, find that what they are individually
Starring Kevin Spacey, Russel Crowe, 
working on comes together as a whole. Then they must help each other, although this film docs not bring across a buddy-cop message. Moreover, it centers on 
Guy Pearce, Danny De Vito, 


and Kim Basinger 
the abilities and characteristics of one man, a detective named Exley, played by Guy Pearce. In the end, it is he who provides a culmination for the film's entire chain of events. While this movie may seem like a day­in-the-life story at the beginning as so many television

(our of five shamrocks) 
shows are, it slowly develops into an intriguing crime drama in which nothing is certain and all ends are loose ones. 

S
By JOSH BECK 
The cast again is interesting because its talents aro Accent Movie Critics not obscured by some well-paid, highly decorated actor, which is a welcome relief in a decade when the urprisingly, the most particularly pleasing aspect big money talks. Kevin Spacey, who won an Academy of the film "L.A. Confidential" is not fully notice­Award for "The Usual Suspects" and is rapidly becom­able until the end when the credits are rolling by. ing a household name, heads up a list which is running This is when the viewer can silently sit back and think, low on stardom. Russell Crowe portrays the tough cop "Whv haven't I seen this more often?" with a heart named White, Pearce the seemingly inno­Lo~ers of old film will think back to a time of rough­cent Exley, Spacey the dapper and star-studded and-tough cops and detailed, intricate plots in which sergeant Vincensse, and Danny Devito plays the sleazy 
photo courtesy Warner Bros.
the real culprit is never found out until a roaring finish tabloid columnist Hudgens. It is also a pleasant sur­
Guy Pearce plays the tough detective Exley in the
where everything is discovered. In a way, the setting of prise to see Kim Basinger as Crowe's love interest who 
entertaining new film "L.A. Confidential." 
the film helps to bring this about, as it is set against a at an age well over 50 looks about 25 and shows that 1950s background where everyone is dapperly dressed "Chinatown" and see resemblances. However, this she still has what it takes. Directed and co-written by and the entire ambience is very innocent and whole­movie, like any other contains a pleasing style all of its Curtis Hansen, who also directed "Tho River Wild," some. And this is ultimately what this film reveals in its own and this is why it is so fascinating to watch. The this film is a welcome sight and a return to the intelli­entirety: a very wholesome atmosphere that hides a script is incredible, as the dialogue is easy to under­gent, well thought-out crime sagas of yesteryear. Best tremendously dark and corrupt society. Directed by stand while what is implied is not. This is what appeals of all, however, is that this film is a perfect reassur­Curtis Hansen and assisted by the grand backdrop of to the viewer -the idea of being confused when it ance that the ideas that created such masterpieces as Los Angeles, this movie succeeds in grasping the view­seems as if he/she knows exactly what is going on. "Chinatown" or "The Maltese Falcon" are not lost for­er by continually surprising in the right places and Although the cast of actors is somewhat unrecogniz­ever, they are simply being reformulated in "L.A. developing a plot that screenplay writers of old would able, the occasional familiar face does pop up, giving Confidential." be proud of. the avid moviegoer something to relate to. In fact, this Overall, "L.A. Confidential" was an excellent film 
Although the beginning of the film is a bit sluggish, it movie does seem to be part of a growing trend in with an intelligent plot. If you love a good mystery it is soon picks itself off the ground and skyrockets into which new and budding actors are given the chance to definitely a must-see. Action lovers will be pleased by unknown areas. Actually, the places it goes and the showcase their talents. In the end, the payoff is some scenes and enthralled by the quick, catchy cine­auras it creates might already be known to the occa­immense. matography. Get comfortable, though, because it is 2 sional ~ovie fan, who can think back to movies such as As the actors are only as good as the lines they are 1/2 hours long. 


Football 


1997 


Not So Michigan State Notre Dame Special Teams 
Kick returner Allen Rossum and the Notre Dame special teams continued to struggle on 
23-7 
Key Stat Player of th~ ~ame 
Saturday against 
The last time the Irish Linebacker Kory Mirior set 
the Spartans. 
scored less than 10 points 
up the onlY. Irish t0:99hd?\ND. ·.•·.··. 
was the 1991 Orange Bowl of the game whenl!iaiintere<. 
see page 2
cepted a Todd Schultz pass. 
in a 10·9loss to Colorado. 




Nowhere to run to 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Irish receiver Bobby Brown is sandwiched by two Michigan State defenders in a way that typified the Spaf\ans' physical play in the 23-7 victory over Notre Dame on Saturday. 
Losing streak stretches to two games 
•IRisH iNsiGHT 

as Spartans physically dominate Irish Learning to cope 
By MIKE DAY crowd in the process. 

F
ollowing Saturday's 23-7 loss to thought -I know how bad I feel after
Sports Editor "We were really fired up before the 
Michigan State, I've been left with Saturday's game. I heard how bad 
game, and I think that took something out 
the dubious task of (in keeping with the everyone else feels as shown by the
/\!though it didn't seem possible, Notre of us," said Davie. "I think we were ready 
title of the column) drawing something booing in Notre Dame stadium and the
Dame watched things go from bad to worse to play. We just didn't execute, and they 
"insightful from the game. omnipresent profanity that comes with 
on a sunny afternoon at Notre Dame did." 

I tried to soak in the attitude after the every loss, and I saw how bad the team
Stadium. Following Renaud's return, Michigan 
game, of both fans and players, I asked felt by the look in their eyes as they
On the heels of last week's upset loss at State found the end zone seven plays later 
around for advice, I even waited until shuffied into the locker room.
Purdue, the Irish fell flat on their face. fail­when quarterback Todd Schultz hit a wide 
the day after the 
That thought has persisted in my
ing weakly in their attempt to erase the open Josh Keur from five yards out. Before 
game to write this in mind throughout the weekend, and the
Boilermaker nightmare. From the opening the Irish could say "two game losing 
hopes that some­one part about that thought that I can't
kickoli to the game's final play, Michigan streak," the Spartans had built a 17-0 lead, 
thing would jump settle is the feeling of the team after
State physically dominated Notre Dame on courtesy of a Schultz touchdown run and a 
out at me. the game. 
the way to a 23-7 victory. Chris Gardner field goal. 

Nothing. It wasn't a situation in which we
"The better team won here today," said The Spartan offensive line manhandled 
It is hard in a loss were stunned and overwhelmed by our
Irish head coach Bob Davie. "They out­the Irish front seven, rolling up 222 yards 
like Saturday's to opponent as in the week before against 
played us on offense, defense, special on the ground. Renaud along with Sedrick 
come up with some-Betsy Baker Purdue. It wasn't a situation in which
teams. They were simply the better team Irvin formed a lethal one-two punch, gain­
thing inspiring, Or AssociateSports we beat ourselves. 
on the field." ing 112 and 106 yards, respectively. 

heck, even positive. Editor "We were beat by a better football
To help set the tone of the afternoon, "They have a tremendous running game, 
However, I refuse to team," Notre Dame head coach Bob
Spartan kick returner Marc Renaud took and we didn't have an answer for it in the 
give into the need for negativity or at Davie said after the game. It was an
the game's opening kickoff and dashed 51 first half," said cornerback Allen Rossum. 
best, controversy. 
yards down the sideline·, silencing the Irish 

see BLOWOUT/ page 2 Therefore, I'm left with one nagging see INSIGHT/ page 3 
L-------------------------------------------------~ 
By BETSY BAKER  Colletto up in the press box, in  felt  by  thn  Irish  offense  on  
Associate Sports Editor  order to give him a better view  Saturday ­ the only touchdown  
of the overall picture on the field,  for the Irish, scored by Bobby  
The only word to describn the  and sent coach Bob Chiemel  Brown on  a seven-yard pass  
Notre Dame offensive unit after  down to the sidelines.  However,  from Ron Powlus, was tho rosult  
Saturday's 23-7 loss would be  once again, all the ofl'ense eould  of an excellent defensive play.  
frustration.  produce was frustraton.  There is no doubt that there  
The Irish came out after a dev­ With the exception of 37 sec­ exist somo serious problems  
astating  loss  down  in  West  onds in the second quarter, the  within tho ofl'onsivn unit, and the  
Lafayette fired up and ready to  offense  was completely shut  players and coachos will bo the  
make a run at Michigan State.  down by the Spartan defense,  first ones to say that.  What is  
Irish head coach Bob Davie even  producing only 242 yards of total  interesting, howevor, is that thoy  
tried something new by putting  offense.  maintain their support for the  
offensive  coordinator  Jim  In the first game of the season,  play-calling and tho offonsive  
the  Irish  had  game plan overall.  
ample  scoring  "It's tough.  Nobody wanted to  
opportunities,  be 1-2. ,nobody expocted to be f- 
but had trouble  2, and wo don't like our posi­ 
moving the ball within the red zone. In last  tion," quartorback Hon l'owlus said aftor the game. "It's not tho scheme that's the problom. I  The Observer/Brandon Candura Tackle Jerry Wisne and the Notre Dame offensive line continued to struggle on Saturday, amassing just 61 yards on the ground.4  
week's loss to Purdue, the offense was able to move the ball, but could not seem to score touchdowns. In Saturday's loss to Spartans, the Irish did neither, as they were only able to get within Michigan State's 30 yard line twice throughout the entire game, one of which was because of a Kory Minor interception that he returned to the 29 yard line. . The Observer/Brandon Candu.ra In fact that playFreshman runmng back Tony Dnver rece1ved h1s. .t if f 1first extensive action of the season. tnh 1 sfe stumts. 0 e rus ra 1011  know a lot of people want to blame tlu~ ofl'ensive sehmnn." In fact, Powlus implied that tho futility on ofl'nnsn could bo attrib­utod to players, not the coaches. "Coach Davie in the past has said aftor a win that it's the play­ers. that tho players desnrve a lot of crodit. The players deserve a lot of what's going on right now too," Powlus added. "The coaches are doing great things ... I think we as players need to crack up the efl'ort. Not that effort's been lacking, but we need to push it more." Even Powlus. who has been one of the bright spots of the ofl'ense thus far, throwing for a career high last week against Purdue. was held to under 200 yards, completing 23 passes for 181 yards. Another consistont performer for the Irish, running back Autry Denson, was held to less than  100 yards for only the second time in the last eight games he has played. Denson ran for 59 yards on 15 carries, averaging only 3.9 yards per carry. 0verall, the Irish continue to incur the same problems on oflense. and as the season eon­tinues and the opponents get more difficult, it becomes easier and easier for opposing teams to read and control the Irish offense. The Irish have been unable to create a big play threat. let alone throw the ball downfield, leaving tho pressure on the running game to make up the yardage. Although Davie put freshman Tony Driver in to hopefully give the Irish ground attack an extra boost, the Spartan defensive line read the run the entire game, holding the Irish to 3.6 yards per carry. The Irish took a major risk, faking a punt in the third quar­ ter, in a desperatn attempt to gnt another touchdown on the board, however-and hindsight is the best tool-on fourth-and­12 at the 23 yard line. down 20­7. one can sporulate about the more conservativn choice of' giv­ing kicker Jim Sanson a chanco to kick the field goal. With Michigan at Ann Arbor next week. and Stanford at Palo Alto the following week, the Irish offense is going to have to get back to work and work out the major kinks in its game this week, or they will continue to find the same frustration they feel now at 1-2. "There a lot of' things we need to do rngardless of where we're playing," Powlus said. "A lot work has to go into next week. And we need to do a lot of work to represent our­selve~ well and bn ready to com­pnte.  

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 22, 1997 

Offense continues to struggle 

last time that they would be seri­As if heading into next week's ously threatened. Although the game against Michigan on a two­
Blowout 
• REPORT CARD

Irish offense limited the Spartans game losing streak weren't to just 151 yards in the second enough, the Irish received <moth­
continued from page 1 
half. the offense could not take er dose of bad news. Defensive 
Quarterback: C out the first half. "They caught us off guard a few advantage of it. end Corey Bennett reinjured his 
Impressive completion per­Linebackers: C-times, and they flat ran over us Tailback Autry Denson was knee and will be out four to six 
centages simply don't cut it Minor and company represent on a few other plays." limited to just 59 yards on 15 weeks. In addition, Goodspeed is 
when the team loses by 16 at the heart of the defense. Trailing 17-0 with under two carries, while Powlus and the lost for four to five weeks after 
home. Powlus has to make Unfortunately, their heart nei­minutes left in the first half. the receiving corps once again failed hurting his shoulder late in the 
more of an effort to get the ball ther prevented unnecessary Irish finally found some sign of to make the big play. fourth quarter. 
downfield on the rare occasions penalties nor forced the Spartan life on defense. Linebacker Kory In the third quarter, Notre "We've had some tough 
that that the coaching staff offense to stall early in the game. 

Minor picked off Schultz and Dame put together its best drive injuries, and it may be catching 
allows for such a route. The Too many running backs broke returned the ball to the MSU 29 of the game, moving the ball up with us," said Hossum. "We 
interception was on a timing into the Irish secondary. yard line, giving the Irish their from its own 10 to the Michigan just have to make the most out of 
pattern and probably cannot be best field position of the day. State 23 yard line. When the what we have." 
blamed on the quarterback Defensive Backs: D+ Three plays later, Notre Dame drive stalled, it appeared that Even Davie could not have pre­
because the receiver failed to The secondary made most o quarterback Ron Powlus con­Davie and the Irish would settle dicted such a sluggish beginning 
complete the route. the tackles for the Irish, but the nected with Bobby Brown from for a field goal. in his first year as head coach. 
reasons for that was the ease 

seven yards out to cut the However, on the game's defin­"We brought good coaches in Running Backs: D+ with which MSU completed the Spartan lead to 17-7. On the ing play, Notre Dame ran a fake here from great programs Denson cannot be expected to 
short pass and ran through the play, the Irish executed a perfect with Hunter Smith rolling out around this country. and they 
carry such a heavy load. 

Irish front seven. They some­timing pattern, something rarely and looking to a wide open Joey didn't come here to be one and 
Regardless. it is his responsibilty how managed to look bad with­utilized thus far this season. Goodspeed on the sidelines. two," said Davie. 

to provide ~ spark. and wjth the out even being tested by Shultz "The play was well designed Smith's pass sailed beyond the "And they knew there was exception of his first two carries 

and they gave up at least one big and well executed," said Powlus, outstretched arms of Gdodspeed, going to be some rebuilding, but 
(10 yards and 9 yards), he was 
play that would have been a 

who completed 23 of 37 passes and the Irish came away empty. that's who I feel bad for are invisible. Freshman TonY,;priver 
touchdown ifthe receiver did· not for 181 yards. "That is the type "That's a play that we've got to these families and these head 
was the only other back to carry fall down. of play that we need to use to be make," said Smith. "It happened coaches and our players. You 
the ball. effective." just like we drew it up. I just know, these guys, they didn't 
Special Teams: DWide Receivers: CFor Michigan State, it was the didn't make the pass that I had come here to Notre Dame to be 

Aside from Smith's punting,Brown continued to get open
to make." one and two." 
these squads were miserable.
enough to catch the ball and The fake did not work, theplayed relatively well on 
return game was stagnant, andSaturday, but he needs to stop the ldck coverage was responsi­dropping catchable passes. The 
ble for at least two Spartan
rest of the receiving corps has scores.
shown signs of potential, but no one has been able to make a sig­
Coaching: D+
nificant enough contribution to 
The staff may have had the
lift the offense out of mediocrity. 
team up for the game, but once MSU shredded the Irish defense
Offensive Line: D 
in less than four minutes to open 
Once again, Denson had the game, all emotion wasabsolutely no running room. 
apparently lost. The halftimePowlus was rushed constantly 
defensive adjustments were sim­
and was sacked three times. 
ply too little too late, and the
Inconsistent would be a kind 
offense never developed enough way to describe this unit's play rhythm to sustain a drive.
thus far. 
Defensive Line: D+ Overall: 1.44 
Sure, they looked like a Jegiti· It looks like the grading scale mate Division I defense in the is going to need a reality shift second half and did a solid job of before next week's report card. keeping the Irish in the game. The team turned in a perfor­Unfortunately, the team was mance this week that was 
already down by 13 points when almost identical to the one that they decided to show up. The they turned in the week before Spartans rushed at will through-against a weaker opponent. 


Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Irish defense finally shows up in second half 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 0 f t he 1 9 7 8 

Defensive end Corey Bennett reinjured his knee and will miss six weeks. season. 
After a mediocre start, defense makes changes 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It was like night and day. 
For 30 minutes, the Irish defense stood up and took care of business. Notre Dame was down by double digits 
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
First Downs 

1 . Florida (32) 3-0 1699 3 
Net Yards Rushing Net Yards Passing 

2. Penn State (28) 3-0 1675 1 
Passes Attempted

3. Nebraska (7) 3-0 1601 7 
Passes Completed 
Total Offensive Plays Total Net Yards 

4. Florida St. (1) 3-0 1530 5 
5. N. Carolina (2) 3-0 1475 6 
Average Gain Per Play 
Fumbles: Number-Lost Penalties: Number-Yards 

6. Michigan 2-0 1412 8 
7. Ohio State 3-0 1287 9 
Possession Time 

8.Auburn 3-0 1180 12 9.Tennessee 2-1 1158 4 
Individual Statistics 

10. Washington 2-1 1148 2 
Rushing 


MSU-Renaud 22-112, Irvin 26-106, Schultz 4-5, Reese 1-(1) NO-Denson 15-59, Driver 4-13, Powlus 4-(11) 
11.1owa 3-0 1062 13 
12. Michigan State 3-0 968 17 
13. Louisiana St. 2-1 805 10 
Passing MSU-Schultz 18-12-1107, Irvin 1-1-0 24 
14. Virginia Tech 3-0 770 18 
NO-Powlus 37-23-1 181, Smith 1-0-0 0 
15. Washington St. 3-0 767 19 
16. Colorado 1-1 725 15 
Receiving MSU-Scott 5-66, Keur 4-38, Irvin 2-22, Renaud 2-5 
17. Clemson 2-1 547 16 
NO-Brown 7-61, M. Johnson 4-33, Denson 4-26, Barry 3-14,
18. Kansas State 2-0 495 20 
Goodspeed 2-8, J. Johnson 1-27, Nelson 1-1 0, Driver 1-2
19. Georgia 3-0 444 25 
20. Stanford 2-1 403 21 
• SCORING SUMMARY

21.Aiabama 2-1 329 11 
1st Quarter

22. Texas A&M 2-0 290 NR 
MSU-Keur 5 yard pass from Schultz (Gardner kick), 7 plays, 
44 yards, at 11 :28 

MSU-Schultz 1 yard run (Gardner kick), 11 plays, 73 yards, 
23. Brigham Young 1-1 215 NR 
24.UCLA 1-2 181 24 
at 4:47 

25. Arizona State 2-1 177 14 
2nd Quarter 

Others receiving votes: Air Force 129, 
MSU-31 yard FG by Gardner, 12 plays, 67 yards, at 6:28 
NO-Brown 7 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick), 3 plays, 
29 yards, at 0:27 

North Carolina St. 73, Southern Mississippi 66, 
Pittsburgh 26, Wyoming 18, California 11 I Colorado St. 11 I Oregon 11, Kansas 10, Texas 
3rd Quarter 

9, Oklahoma St. 8, Arkansas 71 Kentucky 6, 
MSU-32 yard FG by Gardner, 11 plays, 52 yards, at 7:12 
South Carolina 6, Miami 5, Southern California 
4th Quarter 

5, Toledo 4, Boston College 1, Georgia Tech 1. 
MSU-31 yard FG by Gardner, 5 plays, 20 yards, at 6:26 blown open by the Spartans. But they would not let it happen. 
Even as the final minutes were slip­ping away, the defensive unit bore down and held Michigan State with striking distance. 
"I credit our defense for hanging in there and playing," praised head coach Bob Davie. "Especially in the fourth quarter, it would have been really easy for them to cave in." 
Time after time, the Irish offense stalled and forced the defense back out onto the field. Those 11 players clung to a game that was perilously close to getting out of hand. 
Tri-captain Allen Rossum was happy with his teammates' second-half effort. 
"A lot of peo­ple stepped up for us," said the senior defensive back. 
In fact, if it had not been for the play of the defense in the closing minutes of the first half, Michigan State would have strolled out of Notre Dame Stadium with the first shutout against an Irish squad since the Miami Hur­ricanes pulled it off in 1 9 8 7. The last squad to shut Notre Dame out at home was Missouri in the opening game 

• STAT\STICAU.Y SPEAKING 
Scoring 1st 2nd Michigan State 14 3 Notre Dame 0 7 
Team Statistics 

With 1:04 remaining in the second quarter and Notre Dame down 17-0, out­side linebacker Kory Minor picked off a Todd Schultz pass and gave the Irish pos­session on the Spartan 29­yard line. Quarterback Hon Powlus took advantage of his best starting field position of the day and com­pleted three out of three passes, including a touchdown toss to junior Bobby Brown to bring the Irish back within 10. 
It was Minor's aggres­sive play that made the score possible and it was the Irish pass rush that forced the ill­advised throw. 
The only problem was, by the time the interception occurred and the Irish raised their defensive play a few notches, Michigan State was on its way to an unceremoni­ous pounding of Notre Dame. 
The Spartans ran up 145 yards on the ground in the first half and pun­ished the undersized Irish defensive 


3rd 4th Total 3 3 23 0 0 7 
MSU NO 22 17 222 61 131 181 19 38 13 23 72 61 353 242 4.9 4.0 1-0 0-0 6-55 4-60 33:35 26:25 line with their brute strength up front. 
Insight  
continued from page 1  
obvious statement that anyone who saw the game  
knew. However, to hear it from a man whose goal,  
day in and day out, is to win on Saturday, really  
struck a nerve in me, or maybe just kind of pulled  
at the heart strings.  
It is easy for us as fans to feel sorry for ourselves  
and to get mad at the team when we lose. Nobody  
likes to lose, especially to a team like Michigan  
State, with whom we have a history that usually  
falls in our favor. For me, as a senior, it is really  
easy to feel sorry for my class -entering with a  
loss to Michigan at home, going 6-5-1, and finish­ 
ing, thus far, with a losing record, without a nation­ 
al championship in four years. We weren't even  
here for the year we should have been named  
national champions!  
But then I think about how absurd that thought  
truly is. That football team is not out there, playing  
their hearts out, for me. Granted, I'm a member of  
the Notre Dame community, whose name and tradi­ 
tion the team fights to preserve, but if I were a foot­ 
ball player, I wouldn't play to honor some whining  
fan who complains and criticizes when we lose.  - 
The key word in that phrase is "ifl were a player."  
We are NOT players, and we do not dedicate four  
years of our life, more or less, to making people  
happy, who are really only happy when we win.  
No one feels worse right now than the team itself,  
and more importantly, no one has to work five  
times a.<> hard this week to go back out on the field  
this weekend and take more abuse, from either the  
opponents of our own Irish fans.  
I find the fact that Ron Powlus was booed in his  - 
own stadium and, although he was visibly upset. did  
not seemed surprised by it, extremely disturbing. I  
don't care how good or bad he played, it makes me  
ashamed to be a part of a community that boos one  
of its own players.  
We are not watching the NFL, and we are not  
watching professional athletes who are getting paid  
millions of dollars to perform. Just because those  - 
athletes receive scholarships does not gives us the  
right to criticize their efforts any more than we can  
criticize a student on an academic scholarship who  
does not get a 4.0. Those players earn their schol­ 
arships by the work they put into them, not by the  
number of points they put on the board.! know that many people feel that something like this deserves  ....  
more to be on the wall of the Center for Social  
Concerns than the sports page, but I don't think that  
there is anything wrong in finding the human side  
of a sporting event that does appear to be greatly  
affected by the emotional aura surrounding it.  
""­•  

Following a 52-yard opening kick return by Marc Renaud, the boys from East Lansing pounded out an eight­play, 44-yard drive and put the Irish in a hole from out of they would not climb. 
Monday, September 22, 1997 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Quarterback Ron Powlus set a school record on Saturday, completing 14 consecutive passes. However, Notre Dame's inability to connect down field proved to be costly. 



Michigan State 23 Notre Dame 7 
Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, September 22, 1997 

-
The Observer/Brandon Candura Punter Hunter Smith attempts a pass as the Irish tried a fake field goal in the third quar­ter. The pass sailed beyond the reach of intended receiver Joey Goodspeed, and Notre Dame came away with nothing . 
• GAME NOTES & QuOTES 
Game notes: 
Saturday's game was the 131st consecutive sellout at Notre Dame Stadium. 179 of the last 180 games have also been sellouts. 
Michigan State has scored on the first drive of each of its three games this season with touchdown drives of 65 yards against Western Michigan, 73 yards against Memphis, and 44 against the Irish. 
Michigan State is 15 for 17 in the red zone (inside the 20 yard line) this season, totaling 11 touchdowns and four field goals. 
After Saturday's loss, the Irish are under .500 for the first time since 1986 when first-year coach Lou Holtz went 1-4 on the way to a 5-6 record. 
Bobby Brown's seven-yard catch for a touchdown was the first time this season that the Spartans have given up a touchdown in the first half. 
The loss on Saturday ended Notre Dame's eight-game winning streak over the Spartans. Notre Dame's record against the Spartans is now 41-19. 
Notre Dame's record of 1-2, Southern Cal's record of 0-2, and Miami's record of 1-2 make up the first time that these three teams have all started the season with two losses since 1940. 
Quotes on the game: 
Michigan State head coach Nick Saben: 
"I think Notre Dame is a great 
school. They have a great tradition. I think Bob Davie is doing a good job of coaching his team. I think our team was just a little more physical, especially our offensive line versus their defensive front seven, and I think that was our advantage in the game today." 
''I'm very proud for Spartans everywhere that they can relish the fact that this football team made them proud today." 
Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie: 
"We just need to work and become better as a football team. Talk is not going to get it done. Just honesty and hard work." 
"We talked about it at the begin­ning of the season -finish what we started. We're going to finish what we started." 
"We definitely have ourselves backed into a corner now." 
Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus: 
"I think it's going to be a learning process all year. You always want to build on what you have." 
On being booed: 
"Here we are on our home field, getting booed ... Michigan State was a very good team, but we have score more than seven points in a game. So I can see it happening." 
Notre Dame center Rick Kaczenski: 
"We're not keeping defenses off­balance because we're not successful running the ball so it makes it harder to throw the ball and vice versa. We have to have a balanced attack. 

... 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Linebacker Kory Minor's interception gave Irish fans a rare chance to be excited on Saturday. Three plays later, Notre Dame scored its only touchdown of the game. 
-~-----~~-~-~----,--------~--­

.. 
Monday, September 22, 1997 page 11 

'Donnie Brasco' 

By MIKE MCMORROW 
Accent Movie Critic 
n the days of senseless action and unintelligible comedy, it is rare to get a l'ilm in which tlw characters cli(~it a sense of intelligence and/or quickrwss which is actu­ally noticeable to the audience. Not very often do we get a momPnt in a movie that shows 
eye, Lefty gives Donnie a little slice of mob life and gives him a part in a few operations. Soon they becomfl close friends. 
There are a lot of good sup­porting performances by com­ing-of-age actors such as Bruno Kirby and Michael Madsen, but Pacino and Depp stand out. Depp is cover­ing new ground here, and slips into his charac­ter's skin per­haps better than he ever has. lle has never had the opportunity to be sharp and rough before and has always seemed to play these thought­ful yet laconic types of people. But here he has branched out and comes across as con­


Johnny Depp plays Joe Pistone, a tough undercover vincingly as cop that penetrates the New York mafia, in "Donnie anyone could 
Brasco." 
a character thinking on his toes and has the audience in awe. Also. it is rare to get a story that is able to S!~rve as a strong nwdium for character develop­mPnt and genuine interest. However. Mik!~ Newell's newly released video "Donnie Brasco" envelops all of these qualities to (TPatc a lilm that is more than watchable to someone with a microchip or two between his cars. 
The film stars Johnny Depp as an undercover FBI agent named Joe Pistone who has the assignment of attempting to undercover some of the mafia's illegal undertakings under the name Donnie Brasco. To initial­ize his feat, he nwets a guy low on tlw totem pole named Lefty, playPd by AI Par.ino, at a New York diner and convinces him that one of his diamonds is a fake. Impressed by this good 
have. Pacino 
has played similar characters many times before, but here he gives Lefty a great deal of humanity and humor. lie always finds a way to make surn that his choice of parts does not seem monoto­nous, even though the variety may be hurting at times. 
Central to the film, though, is the relationship between Depp and Pacino. There is an unspo­ken tension between the two, of course, because of the nature of Depp's assignment. But such a relationship is bound for failure if there is no chemistry between the actors. Fortunately, the two actors create a strong chem­istry which provides "Donnie Braseo" with its heart. And the screenplay provides the film with a mind. It is a nice fit, and kudos to director Mike Newell for not botching this film with unnecessary melodrama. Highly recommended! 
·::.·.':·::······:·: 



At ~·~ ~,~~l.:bfffh~ 
I. In & Out 
2. 
The Game 

3. 
Wes Craven's Wishmaster 

4. 
L.A. Confidential 

5. 
A Thousand Acres 

6. 
The Full Monty 

7. 
G. I. Jane 

8. 
Air Force One 

9. 
Money Talks I 0. Fire Down Below 


Source: ReutersNariety 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Gen•ral Hospital Correspondent 

Rivera's family tells ~o.nrry both }le a11d his bride are about to bite the dust. A clueless Brenda theorizes abol.lt :VVllf:l .._lJ!liV(!l; as Sonny wakes up screaming and yelling, "Out damned spot!" as he tries tei t)le blood from his hands; Thus another week of General Hospital begirts. A .tip for• So!ltiy: dreaming your second bride is about to be blown up like your first is never a good sign. 
Kathy admits to Stefan that she loveshim, but wonders why he keeps pulling away from her, so he admits that she has been a part of him since her birth. She goes away all mushy inside as Stefan runs to confession to talk about desiring his sister. He settles for confessing to an eavesdropping Alexis. . 
On her birthday, Katherine asks Stefan to make love to her. His response: Eww! He settles for a whirlwind day of activities, hoping to tire her out, but fails. 
A.J. puts it all together and confronts early with the fact that the baby could be his. early tells A.J. if he spills the beans, Tony will leave her and her baby will have a horrid life. Across town a really depressed Tony tells Bobbie about the elopement. A.J. talks Tony out of the elopement and the easy-to-convince Rony reveals he didn't want to go through \vith it any­way. Tony thanks A.J. for caring then tells him to butt the hell out and deal with his own problems. A.J. promises Carly he'll keep quiet, for the moment. 
V's name is Venus (what an idiotic choice!) and if she's Jax's new love interest, I may just scream. Jax mopes around, remembering his wedding and telling Brenda the history of his aboriginal charm. Across the country she opens his present to reveal the same charm. 
Sarah discusses Nik with Audrey and comes to the conclusion that she really likes him and doesn't want to lose him. Audrey uses some of her GH history to council her about truth in relationships. Nik skulks around town and confronts Uzzie. He tries to get a straight answer from her-MISTAKE! He forces her to tell him what she said by withholding her cigarettes. Nik and Sarah talk, and she promises to believe him, and they part as friends. 
Felicia catches Maxie caressing her spills from her grave robbing activities and gives her a lecture about death, truth, justice and the American way. I expected her to run to a phone booth shortly afterward. Mac thinks Felicia made up her date, so she calls every man in her black book to get a date for the wedding, and all of them show up -at the same time. Then they all leave, and she has to ride in the back seat of Mac's ear to the wedding. Jason prac­tices the toast, as Lucy is in Maid-of-Honor crisis mode. Brenda is full of happiness and faith that the day will go perfectly. She talks to Stone and thanks him for his help in getting she and Sonny back together. Lizzie tries to sneak into the wedding and is almost taken out before Lucky vouches for he~o Sonny decides to leave Brenda at the altar, but changes his mind. Brenda walks downthe atsletofind herself alone as the door opens ... 
Genevieve Morrill can be r(U:t,ched at Morr8584@saintmarys.edu if you have any queslions 
or comments. · 

Days of Our Lives 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, 
KRISTINE HOWARD, 
and NICOLE PAULINA 
Days ofOur Lives Correspondents 
What a disappointing we~k of DAYS. In case you didn't notice, Dr. Michael William Horton was on for only one day! Ther~fore \YO ;vvere forced to whet our Mike appetites with our LeAnn Riines "How Do 1Live" cassE;~ttea11d the scantily clad picture of him we downloaded from the Internet. But, as Stefano would<say, we don't call it an obsession, we call it LOVE -the Phoenix himself featured prm:ninerttlythis ·week. 
Stefano, John, Kristen, and Hope finally made it to the uncharted, jungle island where DiMera had a fully furnished bunker/shrine to Marlena. After locking John and Hope in a cell, Mr. Evil had plenty of time to diScuss the nature of love with Kristen. She points out that "I may be obsessed with John, hut at least I didn't build the man a shrine." To which Stefano answers, "Yet." On a more serious note, Stefano proposed using his memory-erasing laser gun on John to obliterate hiS love for Marlena forever. Kristen refused, but we think she'll begin to waver as this storyline continues. 
Jumping over to Home, Carrie and Austin still haven't left their hotel room, Since that's all there is to say about them, perhaps we should mention the cosmic battle for Billie's soul that is raging next door. After Billie .spent three days on a park bench in a hallucinatory coma, Bo found her and continued nursing her back to health. When he realized that the spirit of Curtis would not release her, his own soul left his body to fight for Billie's life. And we thought Marlena's possession was pathetic! 
Speaking of the Queen ofShoulder Pads, Marlena was aided in her task to tame Sami by none other than Sisiter Mary Moira. After lecturing Sami on good and evil and brandishing her ruler wildly, Susan's "Sister Sister" also took it upon horself to give Marlena some advice. She told her that "in the eyes of the Lord," Roman is still Marlena's husband. This, of course, throws a serious monkey wrench into Marlena's plans to become Mrs. Black. Doc has a very hard decision coming up in the next few weeks. 
In lighter news, Vivian dressed up as a flapper to convince Joncsy that she was his "Flora Dora girl." However, even a schizophrenic bum can see through that act. In order to retain his trust, Viv now has to prove that someone named Baba gave her permission to see Jonesy. Internet rumors suggest that Viv, Big Bertha. and Susan may hold a seance next week to determine who this Baba really is. 
Back on Stefano's Island, Jolm, who more than resembled Egon from the Ghostbusters in his gray coveralls, and Hope, who was sporting her usual big hair and crop top, managed to fight their way through eight of Stefano's goons and escape the cell. They ran into Stefano and Kristen in the Marlena Sirrine, where Hope was hit with a poison dart. Luckily it was a dud, so after shaking it ofT {Hey! A model's gotta do what a model's gotta do) all four regrouped in Stefano's secret medical lab. Apparently a cure for Roman is closer than anyone expected! 
And rrnally we cometoJen, the OTHER Horton. In an attempt to help Jack with his prison expose, Jen went undercover a.s "Hope Williams" to get a job as a guard at Jack's facility. With the help of Alice and Susat}, Jen was able to fake the necessary references and earn her uniform. We admit that the brown hair was a nice touch, but doesn't she realize that it's got to be MUCH BIGGER if she wants to impersonate Fancy Face? She surprised Jack with a kiss in his cell Friday, and she refuses to listen to his misgivings about the plan. 
VCR ALERT: Next Friday, September 26, is Mark (Jack) Valley's last day. The switch with his replacement, Steve Wilder, will supposedly take place during a steamy prison shower scene with Jen. WHOA! 
Email us with your "Days" comments or questions: Paulina.l@nd.edu, Freeman.19@nd.edu. or Howard.35@nd.edu 
' 
-
--
---~ --------..----------~--~----­
'trrfTr'\n'l , 
'(J(JI , ', 

Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 

• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Bledsoe leads Pats past Bears 
r-----------------~ -­
NOTICES 
manager involving hiring & training VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 410-737-6115 ~ Digital Color Printing other students. No car required. MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. Married Student TIX For Sale ~ Binding & Laminating Must be outgoing & aggressive! 243-0658. 273-3844 Leave Msg. Papa's coming to town!! For the ~Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Flexible hours & great income! Call love of GOD!!! I need just 1 Phone 631-COPY LaFortune Student Center Val at 800-592-2121 X154 THAT PREITY PLACE, Bed and USC GA FOR SALE! 50 YO LINE-Michigan State GA. Please help. 
Store Hours Breakfast Inn has space available BEST OFFER 271-7458 . CALL TONY@ 4-2195 Awesome job Chaos! You were Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Childcare needed for infant & for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms great! Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. preschooler in my home. Car with private baths, $70-$90, 2 USC Tickets Needed NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK. Your coaches, ron, adam and jay Sat: Noon-6:00 p.m. req'd. 20 min. from ND. Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Call Pete @ 4-0954 800-243-9683. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Experience & references req'd. Toll Road, Exit #107, good job 3a. we rule. what else is (closed home football Sat's) Hourly rate negotiable. 1-800-418-9487. need 2 BC GA's ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME there to say. 
Phone 631-COPY (616)663-6006. call jen @ x0849 GAMES AND LSU CALL MIKE 800-991-0525 danielle, i'll try but no promises!.
FOR SALE 
Childcare needed for 8-yr. old. FAMILIY COMING! I will trade 4 remember, big brother is watching SEASONS INN Wed, Thurs. Fri, 3:00-5:00 pm. Navy GA's for 4 USC GA's. Call So you thought that Riverdance (out for) you Bed & Breakfast Home Transportation necessary. Call 1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio, Kevin at 4-1999. was great and would like to give Rooms Available Angela 234-2211 day, 271-8224 A/C, pwr windows/locks. Irish Dance a try? Here's your My dearest Sean. 10 Miles from Stadium eve. pwr steering, 137 k/mi, drives like a I need BC tix. chance! An Irish Dance club is Thank-you for the best months I 888-226-5545 dream, for 1875 or best 273-1510 forming and if you would like to be a have ever known. With you, I'm 
Daytime sitter needed for three offer. call 634-3660 part of the inaugral year call Patrick blessed with the greatest love imag­SEASONS INN girls, aged 8 to 1 1/2. Near UP mall. ask for Henry NOTRE DAME at 1651. Experience would be inable. With all that I am. know that 
Motorhomes/Campers Call273-3010. FOOTBALL TICKETS great but none necessary. All lev­I will always love you. My heart is Large Sites Available Brass bed, queen size with orthope­BUY -SELL -TRADE els welcome. yours. Sempre. Love, Kelly 10 Miles from NO FREE TRIPS & CASHI SPRING dic mattress set and frame. New, 232-0058 Reserve Now BREAK! Outgoing individuals -sell never used, still in plastic. $250.00. CONFIDE:NTIAL For sale: 2 USC GA's in sec.118. Yo quiero Taco Bell. 888-226-5545 15 & go FREE. Cancun, South 219-862-2082 TICKET-MART, INC. Leave a message with best offer. 
Padre, Mazatlan, Jamaica, South 201-666-6102 Mel and AJ­CHILD CARE Beach, FL Guaranteed Best Car must sell. BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­1 love you guys. $50/wk. w/meals inc. in Clay Twp. Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP. Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door. VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for -Waterworks 243-2821. www .studentexpress.com air, very good condition. 674-7645. USC game. Call 818-790-0094 or 
$2800 or b/o. Call Emidio e-mail JPOOIG@AOLCOM I've obviously had too much coffee. WANTED: 631-8594 Buying GA's seasons or individual

FOR RENT

student volunteers lor games. Top dollar paid. Hey crickets­

-PERSONAL
ALUMNI PUBLICATIONS/ ################ Confidential service. Go home. You're in the wrong 
NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE WALK TO CAMPUS '88 Ford Escort for sale Call 234-5650. place. When? 3-5 hours/week starting 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES white, 2 door, great condition FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay There's no dating here. now; possibly to fill 12 hour $195/PERSON $850 NO FOOTBALL TICKETS Call Margrette 2845099 paid position 2nd semester' 232-2595 call 687-8435 for details FOR SALE I love working with Dan because he CONTACT: 631 ·4638 or ################ DAYTIME#: 232-2378 Hey! ithe MAN! beal. 1@ nd.edu YOU WILL LOVE this SPACIOUS 1 EVENING#: 288-2726 Come have dinner on us at 
bedrm with FIREPLACE & OAK Greenfields Cafe on Wed., Sept. Can I call you Boss or maybe just 

TICKETS

FLOORS. Extra storage available. NO TICKETS WANTED 24. We'd like to hear your ideas God!-ILOST & FOUND I $395 mo., dep. & ref. 219-234-5996 DAYTIME#: 232-2378 about the Huddle, North & South 
(Get your Dad to buy this STATELY I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO EVENING #: 288-2726 Dining Halls, Waddicks, Cafe Ss how does it feel to call me boss? A silver bracelet with a "sisters" 4-unit and you will live FREE!) HOME GAMES.272-6551 Poche and Common Sandwich charm was found Thursday FOR SALE Company. We'll also fill you in on I am so tired'! September 4. Call 4-1271 to claim 1 BDRM. LARGE APT. Wanted: NO Football Tickets plans for the exciting new South it. BDRM. HAS F/PLACE. Discreet Buyer-Call 1-800-255-N.D. G.A.'S Dining Hall Food Market opening Don't judge a place you've never 
$500/MO., $500 DEP. 2850 next year. Reservations required been to. People in Russia do that. FEMALE ONLY. 271-9412. and seating is limited. tall Food

WANTED 

INC. UTILITIES+ CABLE. HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED Services at 631-5589 for more info. Walsh knows how to win a football 
243-2821. Mich/USC. CAll Mel4-1349 if WANTED N D G A'S game! SUPERSTAR STUDENTS NEED­want to sell/trade'! TO ALL HOME GAMES 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 ED! Earn $ signing up friends & ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 271 1526 LaFortune Student Center 
... classmates for our credit cards. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND NEED 5 USC GAs. all together or 4 >I High-Speed Copies 


Newell's guidance key to Belle success 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI Debbie Diemer," said Newell. Sports Writer "Now, people rely on me on and ofT the field." 
Victory came at last for the Newell feels that having played Saint Mary's soccer team when soccer will help her when she they traveled to Franklin College graduates from SMC. Tuesday. Not only did the Belles "Playing on a team has given win, but they shut out Franklin me a sense of trust for the peo­by a score of 5-0. ple I work and play with," she 
Senior Keary Sullivan and said. ''I'm an accounting major sophomore Mary Woodka each and there is a lot of teamwork in contributed a goal, and senior the business world. Also, one Eileen Newell scored three day I hope to raise a family goals. With these three goals, which can also be considered a Newell is tied for most goals team.". scored in a single game. Newell did not take any time ofT 
Ne\vell, a three-year starter during the summer. She spent from Allen Park, Mich., has been time running both on and ofT the a key component to both the soccer field and working on her Belles' offense and defense. ball control. Already this year she has found "Eileen is in great condition. the net six times, which brings She is always setting the pace in her career goals at SMC to 14. practice," said Sharp. "Other Although she plays forward this coaches have noticed her hard season, in past years she has work on the field and her ability played outside midfielder, center to find the net." midfielder and stopper. "I spent a lot of time not only 
"Last year, Eileen played stop­working on my gaine this sum­per and did a good job. Her mer but also preparing myself strengths show up anywhere she emotionally for this season. It is plays," said coach Bob Sharp. my last year of competitive soc­"However, this year at forward, cer, and there are many emo­she is back playing the position tions tied to this year," said she is best suited for." Newell. 
"Playing so many positions has Although the Belles have been helped my overall game," said struggling this season (1-6), Newell. "I don't like playing Newell remains positive and defense, but it has helped me focused on what needs to be become a better forward." done. 
Newell started kicking the ball "We are playing some of our at age four but never thought future conference teams, so it is she would be playing at age 21. important for the underclassmen During her four years at SMC, to play strong," said Newell. "We Newell's role on the team has are taking our team goals one at 
changed. a time." 
"The adjustment to college life In the future, Newell hopes to and playing soccer was tough. I contribute to the sport she loves learned a lot of discipline, trying by coaching soccer. Yet, for to balance an academic, social, right now, she is determined to and spiritual life at SMC. I relied work hard and enjoy the rest of on the upperclassmen and fellow the season with the teammates freshmen Keary Sullivan and who she says motivate her. 

By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Predd Writer 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
The defense was exceptional, Drew Bledsoe was efficient and New England stayed unbeaten. Now the Patriots will start play­ing good teams. 
The Patriots knocked off another p a t s y Sunday, beating the wounded and winless Chicago Bears 31-3, although it was only 17­3 halfway through the fourth quarter. 
New England has outscored its opponents 130-40. But its first three were San Diego, Indianapolis and the New York Jets, and the combined records of their four foes was 2-10 before Sunday's games. 
"I don't think there is a team that can match up with us man­to-man, Bledsoe said after throwing for 301 yards and two touchdowns to Vincent Brisby and Troy Brown, "but we haven't played the elite teams in the NFL yet." 
The easy stretch ends after a bye week when they play the Broncos in Denver. And the Patriots face Green Bay three weeks later. 
"Being in the NFL and being undefeated going into the bye week is pretty sweet," said Pete Carroll, who has yet to lose since becoming coach of the Patriots last February. 
The Patriots, 4-0 for the first time since 197 4, have been out­standing against the bad teams. The Bears, 0-4 for the third time in their 78 years, were New England's third opponent held to seven points or less. 

"They arc obviously a well­balanced team," Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt said. "They are probably a little underrated from a defenThe Patriots gained 402 yards and held the Bears to 199, the same total New England's Curtis Martin ran the previous week. But Chicago played without running back Rashaan Salaam, out for the season with a broken ankle, and wido receiver Curtis Conway. 
"It wasn't total domination," Patriots strong safety Lawyer Milloy said, "We are always looking to get better. but we played a pretty good game." 
The Bears concentrated on stopping Martin and pressuring Bledsoe, but that exposed them to quick passes. 
"They beat teams with deep plays," Chicago cornerback James Burton said. "We'll let them catch little l1arcouts. We had them scouted, but we kept making mental mistakes and committing penalties." 
"Maybo it was a case of des­perate times calling for desper­ate measures," Bledsoe said of the Bears' defensive scheme. 
The Patriots are the only team that hasn't lost to the Bears since Chicago beat them in the 1986 Super Bowl. 
"This year has been the most discouraging year I've had as a pro athlete," Bears linebacker Bryan Cox said. 
The Patriots wasted some excellent .chances against the team that had allowed the most points in the NFL. And they struggled on the ground until Martin broke loose for a 70-yard touchdown run with 7:44 lflft, making the score 24-3. 
Starting Hick Mirer, the sec­ond player drafted in 1993 behind BledsrH~. at quarterback in place of Erik Kramer didn't help. Mirer was 17 -of-25 for 154 yards and two interceptions. 

"They are going to do a lot of things that make you look bad at times," Mirer said. "Unfortunately, we did things to make it worse." 
Bledsoe's touchdown plays covered 7 yards to Brisby in the first quarter and 52 to Brown in the second, with Brown running the last 43 yards. The quartor­baek was 24-of-37. 

The Bears ran only three plays inside New England territory ­one was an interception by Ty Law -until the third-quarter drive that ended with Jeff Jaeger's 38-yard field goal that made the score 14-3. 
Early in the fourth quarter the Patriots had a first-and-goal at the 3, but settled for Adam Vinaticri's 27 -yard field goal, tying Tony Franklin's team record of 14 consecutive suc­cessful kicks. 
Tho Patriots wasted a scoring chance on the first series of the third quarter when Shawn Jefferson caught an 11-yard pass, then fumbled at the Chicago 3, where Barry Minter recovered. 
Backup quarterback Scott Zolak 's 20-yard pass to Lovett Purnell gave New England its !ina! touchdown with 1 :02 left. 
The Patriots lost yardage on each of their first five rushes and got their first gain, 4 yards by Martin, with 3:06 left in the half. 
For the second straight week, the Patriots scored on their first possession, then struggled. 
Starting from tho Chicago :~9. Bledsoe threw the first of six consecutive completions -a 1 0­yarder to Jefferson. After an apparent 7-yard touchdown pass to Terry Glenn was nulli­fied by a holding penalty, Bledsoe connected with Brisby for 10 yards before the 7-yard scoring pass to Brisby. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Opportunity to advance to campus ofRER ND-sMc EVENts If not, call bave 246-1131 No Alum 2 pay fop $$ 4 Usc fix! VCanon Color laser Copies 
Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• StUNT MARY'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Yavello leads Belles in opener 
Saint Mary's looks ahead to Adrian 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's SportS Editor 
Saint Mary's kicked off their first cross country season on Friday at the National Catholics meet held on the Notre Dame campus. Saint Mary's competed in the college division and placed 14th. 
The Belles were led by fresh­man Genny Yavello who placed 57th with a time of 20:59 in the 5K race. Following Yavello was 
:. 
J 
junior Carrie Ferkenhoff who finished 60th with a time of 
21:05. 
"This is a first-year team," said Yavello. "We are all brand new and not sure what to expect. We are really working together." 
Rounding out the top five for Saint Mary's were freshman Katie Hummer with a time of 22:26, junior Kelli Steenwyk who finished at 22:33, and sophomore Jalie Mowry with 23:58. 
''I'm hoping to improve a lot for the next meet," said Hummer. "I hope to drop at least a minute." 
Head coach James Trautmann is optimistic about the remain­der of the season. 

"They are going to get better fast," said Trautmann. "Many of the girls haven't run or raced in years. I expect them to make big strides over the course of the season. Each year we're going to get better." 
Trautmann is a 1995 Notre Dame graduate who was a vol­unteer assistant coach at Notre Dame the past two years. He also served as the Saint Mary's assistant track coach last year. 
''I'm pretty impressed by the team," commented Hummer. "There are a lot of dedicated girls." 
The Belles next meet will be a conference meet on Saturday at Adrian College. 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Squads take first at National Catholic 
Shay, Deeter take first at Invitational 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams breezed through the competi­tion at the National Catholic Invitational on Friday as the both easily finished first over­all. The men finished with 16 points and just missed captur­ing the top five spots in beat­ing second place finisher Lewis by 101 points. The women fin­ished with 21 points, 135 points ahead of St. Benedict. Lewis University won the men's college division of the invitational, while St. Benedict finished first in the women's college division. 
Notre Dame freshman Ryan Shay once again finished first overall as he ended up with a time of 24:53. He was joined in the top five by teammates Antonio Arce, who finished second with a time of 24:59, Ted Higgins and all-American Jason Hexing. The Irish placed seven finishers in the top 10 as they once again easily outdis­tanced the competion. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association & the Gender Studies Program Proudly Present An inspiring film about survivors and sufferers by Pratibha Parmer & Alice Walker 1993.54 min. ''WARRIOR MARKS'' "WARRIOR MARKS" is a poetic and political film about female genital mutilation which unlocks some of the cultural and political complexities surrounding this issue, a symbol of our mutual daring and trust, and a powerful and magnificent film. followed by a Panel Discussion: '.'FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION AND THE SEXUAL BLINDING OF WOMEN" featuring Prof Patricia Davis, Moderator, Govt. Dept Prof De Bryant, PsycholoKY Dept., !USB Dr. Carla Mazzeo, Pyschologist, Pain & Stress Clinic, New York City Dalia Haj-Omar, Peace Studies Program Raphael Kasambara, Center for Civil & Human Rights April Lingley, Ph.D, Candidate, English Dept. Aida Tessema, Saint Mary's College Wednesday, September 24 • 7:00p.m. • 155 DeBartolo http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa  
Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group Tuesday, September 23 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI.  

M&rtfieo>l)~ §liD©)~ JR.~JP&firt Over 40 years of experience Ortho~Specialist Fix any type leather Quick Service -Reasonable m Cl.Open 8~6 Mon~Fri Notre Dame Cl. '< 8~3 Sat 1025 E. Madison St. Mario's ---­288~6211 1025 E. Madison St. • -7-11  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 0-== SANTIAGO, CHILE SPRING 1998 INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON MONDAY SEPTEMBER 22, 1997 4:30P.M. 118 DEBARTOLO APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 1, 1997 Returning students will be on hand to answer questions.  

Notre Dame all-American JoAnna Deeter, recovering from her sixth-place finish last week, finished first overall with a time of 17:39. Irish sophomore Alison Klemmer repeated her second-place fin­ish at the Scarlet and Grey Invitational as she followed up Deeter with a time of 17:4 7. and Nicole LaSelle and Mieke Walsh placed third and fourth respectively for the Irish. Notre Dame placed four run­ners in the top five and five runners in the top 15. 
If you have something to say, 

_,... 
use Observer classifieds. 

-
-

.,, 

rl~,-,[j,., •,.,"'""11 I "'rl I 
page 14 

The Observer· SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBAll 

Netters take second at home 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
This weekend proved to be a difficult one for fans of all Notre Dame sports. For proof, one can look no further than the women's volleyball team. 
Despite a top 25 rank­ing and many successful victories, ranked oppo­nents have proven to be a difficult challenge for the team. Unfortunately, this statement is just as true this weekend, as the Irish took second place this weekend in the Tournament of Champions at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish started off the week­end with a three set victory over the New Mexico Lobos, 15­6, 15-12, 15-12. In the second game, the two teams were tied at 11 points apiece before the Irish pulled away, scoring four of the final five points. 
Notre Dame trailed 11-9 in the third game before scoring the next five points. The Lobos then attempted to rally back, but the Irish sided out and closed the match with a joint block from junior Lindsay Treadwell and freshman Christi Girton. 
Senior hitter Angie Harris led the Irish charge with 23 kills, her highest total ever in a three-game match. Eleven of those kills were scored in a

...._ 
marathon second game which had 113 attack attempts by both teams. 
She also had a .463 hitting percentage, making just four errors on 41 attempts. Senior hitter Jaimie Lee turned in a solid performance, scoring 13 kills despite seven errors on 36 tries. They were assisted by Treadwell and sophomore Mary Leffers, who had nine and 10 kills, respectively. 

"I thought we played very well on Friday," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We made some good adjustments with our offense. I don't think that we played a great match, but over­all I was pretty pleased." 
With the loss, the Lobos fell to 
6-6 on the season. 
The win against the Lobos set up a championship match against No. 14 Texas A&M. The Aggies easily defeated California in three games Friday, and they continued their winning ways aginst the Irish, defeating them in three games, 17-15,15-9, 15-10. 
Despite a 14-13 lead in the opening game, the team could not secure the match point. The Aggies then took advantage of the momentum to take the other two sets through strong hitting and thorough blocking. In the second game, Texas A&M had a team hitting per­centage of .382. In the course of the match, the Aggies had three players who had seven or more block assists. 
The Irish were again led by the team of Lee and Harris, who scored a combined 29 kills on the match. In each of the eight games in which Lee has played, she has registered at least 10 kills. Leffers had another eight kills, while fresh­man Denise Boylan and sopho­more Emily Schiebout recorded two apiece. 
Notre Dame struggled to bal­ance their offense, as Harris and Lee scored more than 70 percent of the team's kills. While the Aggies outhit the Irish .246-.080 and had a 14-7 blocking edge, the Irish did enjoy a 5-3 serving edge, due in part to four aces from Harris. 
"I thought that we had played 

Love, Nick, Aaron, Sean, & Nate 

-
Give Us A Minute, We'll Give You A Buck! 

-
Resource Center ATM Demonstrations* 3:00-6:00 p.m. • Hesburgh Library-Lower Level 
..SOUPCe.. ~iii Bank 
Your partners from the firs~ 
* Limit one demonstration per person 


an excellent first game," Brown commented. "We fought real hard throughout the match, but after the first game, they pretty much controlled it. It was very close at the start, but we were really outplayed in the second and third game. They out­played us in almost every cate­gory: they hit, blocked, and dug better than we did." 
"We have a long ways to go," Harris remarked. "And this match just reiterates how much farther we need to come. It's really frustrating because we have so much potential, and we're not playing to our peak." With the win, the Aggies improved to 7-2 on the season. 
Two Irish hitters, Harris and Lee, managed to earn place­ment in the all-tournament team. Harris had 36 kills over the course of weekend, while Lee managed to score 29 kills, including a team-high 16 against the Aggies. For both players, it is their third selec­tion in four tournaments. Texas A&M hitter Kristie Smedsrud was named the tour­nament MVP. 
With the split, the Irish now have a record of 6-5 on the sea­son, and are ranked fifth in the AVCA Volleyball poll. All five of the team's losses this season come at the hands of ranked opponents. 
Looking ahead, the team will play one final non-conference match against Marquette before beginning its Big East title defense with two home games against St. John's and Connecticut. 
"I think it's going to be a tougher challenge for us," Harris said, "because we have so much to work on. We just need to pull everything together and use each match as a step­ping stone and get better each time we play." 
by Mariner Books 
'~"""("lrl, ,....,. 
\\. \ l ..... ._ ' 
Monday, September 22, 1997 
The Observer/John Daily 
Senior Angie Harris led the Irish with 23 kills against New Mexico. 
Theresa Hi~Ulins! Wake me uP before You 20-20! 
~J~~~~ ~ TI ®~. 
Love. 

Geor2e. Dan. Joe. Denise & the Winos 
Join Emer Martin 
at the Bookstore on 
Wednesday, September 24 2pm 
She will be signing copies of her book"Breakfast in Babylon", the 1996 Book of the Year in Ireland that traces the path of a young Irish woman through the roHen underbelly of Europe. Described as "The female Trainspotting ..." 
She will also be reading from her novel at 
7:00 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
@
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "flnllw<.unpll-." l'h1111t' h.!l·hllh 
www. ndbookstore. com 
·-­
-~­

Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SMC VOLlEYBAll II NFL 
Belles look ahead to Albion Favre breaks Packer 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off an impressive win over the University of Chicago last week as well as a loss to DePauw University in four games, the Saint Mary's volleyball team aims to find consistency in its game tonight versus Albion College at home. 
"We need to be more consis­tent at the net offensively and defensively," coach Jennie Joyce said. 
Other keys to winning the game according to Joyce include staying low and main­taining concentration when passing. Additionally, Joyce emphasized the importance of aggressive play in order to win. 
"We need to be the aggres­sive servers that we have been 
in past matches," Joyce added. 
The play of the outside hit­ters, sophomore Mary Rodovich and senior Meg Kelly, has impressed Joyce. 
"Their serving has been so consistent," Joyce said. 
Another player who has been stepping up in previous games is Jane Ozbolt, a 5-foot­11 sophomore middle blocker. 
"Jane comes ready to play," Joyce said. "She doesn't always get a lot of sets and therefore is not a kill leader, but she contributes whenever she can." 
Megan Jardina, a freshman setter who led the team in assists against the University of Chicago, could also impact the flow of the game if she again demonstrates consisten­cy in her offensive play. 

The Belles' opponent tonight, Albion College, is a member of their new confer­ence. However, the game pre­sents a challenge to the SMC team. According to Joyce, they have little information about the offensive or defensive tac­tics of Albion. 
"We are going into the game not knowing what Albion will do offensively and defensively, but we will just have to make adjustments after the first game in whatever we see them doing," Joyce said. 
Joyce was optimistic not only about the game versus Albion College but also about what she foresees for the rest of the season. 
"If we play our style of vol­leyball, then we have the potential to be a great team," she said. 
touchdown record 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Who says the defending cham­pions can't be the same scoring machine they were a year ago? Not Brett Favre. 
He tied a career high with five touchdown passes and broke Bart Starr's team record with No. 153 as the Green Bay Packers outlasted the Minnesota Vikings 38-32 on Sunday for their 21st straight victory at Lambeau Field. 
After getting outscored 24-0 in the second quarter, the Vikings (2-2) quickly made a game out of it when Brad Johnson capi­talized on two turnovers with TO throws to Cris Carter and Jake Reed to cut a 31-7 half­time deficit to 31-22. 
passes in the second half against the Packers' weakened secondary, Johnson misfired three straight times after the 2­minute warning and the Vikings had to punt. 
Green Bay (3-1) got the ball back with 1:38 left and ran out the clock. 
Johnson hit Carter with a 3­yard scoring pass after Bill Schroeder fumbled the second­half kickoff. Then, after Jason Fisk intercepted a Favre pass at the Green Bay 24, Johnson found Reed for a 7-yard TO, and Charles Evans ran in the two-point conversion to make it 31-22. 
Favre responded with an 81­yard drive, capped by a 2-yard TO pass to Mark Chmura, his first since 1995, making it 38­22. 

--
• 
Recycle He led the Vikings to scores on But Johnson continually pickedTHE SERVICE OF their next two possessions, too, on Packers left cornerback but Johnson failed when it mat­Tyrone Williams, making hisThe Observer. tered most. third start since Craig NewsomeHoLY CoMMUNION After completing his first 13 was lost for the year with a knee injury in the opener. according to After Greg Davis' 31-yard field goal, Johnson hit Reed for a THE BooK oF CoMMON PRAYER leaping 27-yard TO catch over Williams with 6:44 left to pull(RITE I) ., the Vikings to 38-32. After starting the season with a 38-24 victory over Chicago,t • ~~···i•ltll..1.r:1(..,·--~,'1,~i:~~ ~ \\\,~­the Packers had struggled to%e.Feetst Det~ of Setint Xettthew get into the end zone the last two weeks. They scored justMonday, September 22, 1997 two touchdowns, in a 10-9 loss to Philadelphia and a 23-18 winAlumni Hall Chapel ::::: ~ . over Miami.····_···-~­5:15pm  
September 22, 1997 As students of the University of Notre Dame, we are fortunate that we have traditionally enjoyed an open and sharing relationship with Saint Mary's College. Interaction between the students of these institutions should be enriching and enlightening. By encouraging a relationship between our respective schools, we are increasing our opportunities both academically and through individual communication. We also recognize that Saint Mary's College deserves to be respected as a separate institution. The students of Saint Mary's should be distinguished as members of their own proud community. However, we should all take advantage of the opportunity our close proximity allows us to share and enhance our unique college experiences.  


---~----~----~ -~ 
page 16 Monday, September 22, 1997 
"I made the decision (on Thursday) because not only
Soccer 
has she been playing well in 
Staci Wilson 

Freshman phenom shines in weekend play 
continued from page 20 
used a cross from the left wing and a defensive lapse to set up Robin Confer's goal that gave the Heels a 2-1 advantage. 
"We made mistakes, " said Petrucelli, " but Cindy Parlow is a great player and she' II punish you when you make mistakes. She's probably the best forward in college soccer and you can't make a mistake with her on the field." 
Then at 68:10, amid increas­ing showers, Jenny Heft knocked in a Makinen pass that looped over the North Carolina defense, knotting the score. 
Petrucelli decided to give the start to Heft, the team's lead­ing scorer, over freshman Meotis Erikson, and the sopho­more forward rose to the occasion. 
games, but she's been doing well in training," said Petrucelli. "That goal she scored (on Friday) doesn't sur­prise me, because she's been doing that for us all year long." 
Beene passed her first real test in goal for the Irish, mak­ing several spectacular saves on North Carolina shots from point-blank range. 
''I'm disappointed," said Beene. "It was a great game and I just wanted to battle out to see who would be victori­ous." 
Although Beene laughingly said she was tested "a little bit more than usual," the Irish keeper said "these are the kind of games I want to play in." 
And these are the kind of games Notre Dame will look back on when tournament time rolls around. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Freshman Monica Gonzalez challenges Duke's Sherrill Kester in Sunday's 5-0 victory. 
Sophomore defender Jen Grubb solidified the Irish defense in Sunday's shutout of Duke. 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
Sports Writer 

When most freshmen come into a Division I athletic program they are expected to spend their time on the bench and wait for their turn to shine on the field. Somebody must have forgotten to tell that to Anne Makinen. 
Makinen, the 21-year-old freshman phenom, has become 
-· a force on the Notre Dame Women's soccer team. The soft­spoken midfielder with the thun­der foot scored three goals and was named Offensive Most Valuable Player for the addidas Lady Footlocker Classic this past weekend. 
-
"It is a great honor (to be named MVP)," Makinen said about the award. 
Makinen's actions on the field definately speak louder than her words. A midfielder from Helsinki, Finland, Makinen joined the Finnish national soc­cer team at the age of 16. Only a year later she was named
-Finnish player of the year. In all,. Makinen has played in 40 international games and scored 10 goals for Finland. She also captained the Finnish under-20 .. team, scoring six goals in 15 
games. She will travel to France next month for more interna­tional competitions. 
The skills Makinen has brought from her play abroad have added a potent element to 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
lina 
NorthCarolina 
an already talented Irish squad. Against North Carolina Friday, Makinen took a free kick from 25 yards out around a wall of Tar Heel players and placed it' perfectly in the lower left corner of the net. North Carolina coach Ansen Dorrance was astounded. 
"The ball went over !the defender's) left shoulder and curved right into the net," Dorrance said. "We just looked at each other on the bench and said, 'Great shot.' It was a world class shot." 
Later in that same game, Makinen struck again by send­ing a long ball 25 yards over the North Carolina defense to the waiting foot of sophomore for­ward Jenny Heft who flicked the ball into the net and tied the game at two goals apiece. Lightning halted the game three minutes later at 71:16, ending the showdown with a dissatisfy­ing 2-2 tie. 
"We were disappointed that we didn't finish the game," said Makinen. "I was sure W!l were going to win." 
Makinen and the Irish came back with a vengence Sunday as they routed Duke 5-0. Makinen once again displayed her bril­liance, scoring not once, but twice from over 20 yards, out. Her first goal of the game came at the 64:02 mark when she sent a rocket blazing into the upper left corner of the Duke goal mouth. 
"The first goal she scored may be the best goal that's ever been scored on this field," said Petrucelli. "She just wacked it." 
Makinen's second goal was just as amazing, a stinger that hit off the crossbar and just crossed the plane of the goal line. "I feel like I can shoot from out there," said Makinen of her long range blasts. " I just got a pair or new shoes. It must be the shoes." 
With the kind of talent that Makinen displayed this past weekend, she could be wearing combat boots and still score from 20 yards out. It is a kind of talent that could have taken her anywhere in the world. But she chose to come to Notre Dame. 
"It is a great place," she said. "It was just a feeling that I belong here." 

Offens:{YJil MVP:
A,:: Makin 
Defen 


------------------------~---------------------­
September 22, 1997 The Observer • WOMEN'S SOCCER page 17 
Makinen leads Irish domination over Blue Devils 

Freshman Monica Gonzalez contends with Duke goalkeeper Dana Piper for the ball. 
Manthei achieves milestone with JOOth assist in her 83-game collegiate career 
By ERIK KUSHTO 
Sports Writer 
"We dominated the game from the beginning, we scored some great goals, and I thought we played really well." 
Those word spoken by head coach Chris Petrucelli summarize perfectly the Notre Dame women soccer team's 5-0 dismantling of the fifth ranked Duke Blue Devils. 
Domination. 
The Irish outshot the Blue Devils 26-3. Notre Dame had 13 corner kicks at 35:38 when Gonzalez took a back pass from Jenny Streiffer and fired from 20 yards out on the left wing into the lower right corner of the net. Gonzalez struck a second time at 44:30, heading in· a cross from Streiffer and Holly Manthei. The assist by Manthei marked the 1OOth assist in her 83-game career at Notre Dame. 
Great Goals. 
The second half of the game was highlighted by three scoring efforts of epic proportions. Anne Makinen 

to Duke's one. As a matter of fact, the 
'The two goals that

ball rarely entered 
Anne scored were

the Irish defensive half of the field. The world class goals. The Notre Dame defense 
firstgoalshescored

stifled any offensive attack that Duke may be the best goal could offer. 
that's ever been scored

"(The defense) is playing real well all on this field." the way through," Petrucelli said. "Kate Sobrero is having a scored the third Irish goal unassisted after collecting a lose ball and firing a blast from 25 yards out into the upper left corner of the net. Jenny Streiffer struck six minutes later at 70:24 after dribbling through two Duke defenders and shooting from seven yards out. Makinen closed the Irish scor­ing with another scorcher to the upper 
great year for her  Chris Petrucelli  left corner  of the net  
senior  year,  Jen  from  more  than  20  
Grubb  is  a  great  yards out at the 72:42  

player and Kelly Lindsey belongs in the back for us. She has done a great job." 
The Irish offense, who seamed to have countless scoring opportunities in front of the net, started off slow and could not capitalize. 
"(Duke was) a good team and it just took us some time to break them down," said Petrucelli. "You're not going to go in against a team that's one of the top five teams in the coun­try and score five goals in the first half. It's more a credit to how they defended than what we were doing." 
Despite the slow start, the Irish were able to put two goals past the Duke goal tender in the first half, both courtesy of freshman forward Monica Gonzalez. Her first goal came 
mark in the game. 
"The two goals that Anne scored were world class goals," said Petrucelli. "The first goal she scored may be the best goal that's ever been scored on this field. She just whacked it." 

Following the game, Makinen was named the tournament offensive .. MVP. Irish players named to the all­tournament team were goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, Gonzalez, Makinen, Streiffer, and Sobrero. 
The Irish improved to 7-0-1 while the Blue Devils dropped to 5-2-0. 
Notre Dame resumes it Big East schedule this weekend when they travel to Rutgers Friday and Villanova Sunday. 

• IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish shake down the thunder 
True test awaits teams in tournament 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sporrs Writer 
It was a clash of titans. a bat­tle of the unbeatens, pitting the heavyweights of the women's soccer world against each other in a~~~~~~~ rare midsea­son match­up. 
The 3,300 fans who braved the­frequent downpours and light-Allison Kiilla 


ning -to see 
Sporrs Writer 

top-rankedN o r t h ---------­Carolina's first trip to Alumni Field, home of second-ranked Notre Dame, witnessed the Dame's Holly Manthei, the col­lege women's soccer record­holder for assists (100); Anne Makinen, the tournament's offensive MVP and Finnish player of the year at age 17; North Carolina's Cindy Parlow, the 1996 NCAA player of the year, and defender Staci Wilson, a 1996 first-team all­American selection by the NSCAA, just to name a few. 
For just over 71 minutes, the Irish and Tar Heels waged a physical and mental war. Momentum shifted back and forth as rain soaked the sol­diers to the skin. 
Goals were rationed while the lightning in the north crept ever closer. 
Fans cheered, not only for their respective teams, but for the masterpiece unfolding before them. They stood their ground when the skies opened up, refusing to acknowledge that Mother Nature could change the course o"r the con­test. 


• 
more soccer. Having seen 72 ers, to push their limits, to pre­commence. minutes of soccer, only wanted pare them for the season Right now, Notre Dame and ­
finest display of emotion and them craving more. ahead. It was for the fans, who North Carolina may have low­
But nature took control, stop­

athleticism they've probably Maybe even Mother Nature traveled from the corners of ered their records to 6-0-1, but
ping play under the threat of 

seen in quite some time. knew that this was a fitting end the nation, converging on the sense of unfinished busi­
continuing thunderstorms,

On this occasion, the second for two teams so evenly Alumni Field on a stormy ness will bring even more emo­
ending the Irish and Tar Heels' 

game of the adidas/Lady matched. Ninety minutes of Friday night. tion to a highly-anticipated
battle in a 2-2 tie. 

•
Footlocker Classic's opening play may have determined a The true tests come in rematch.
So enthralled were the fans,

evening, a group of the nation's winner, but what would that November and December when When that day comes, they'll
that when the cancellation was 

premiere soccer talents assem­have proven at this point? the conference tournaments be playing for keeps. 
announced they chanted for 

bled. Among them were Notre This game was for the play-and NCAA tournament games 
.. 
---------------------------------~~~-------­

Adidas/Lady Footlocker Classic 


• 

With the help of (clock­wise, from left) Kara 
Brown, Monica Gerardo, 
Anne Makinen, and Meotis 
Erikson, the Notre Dame 
women's soccer team beat 
fifth-ranked Duke Sunday 
to close out the adidas 
Lady Footlocker Classic. 
The Irish scored 7 goals in 
the two games-most in 
the tournament-while 
allowing only two. 

Makinen earned offensive 
MVP honors by scoring 
three goals from more 
-
than 20 yards and assist­ing on Friday's game-tying goal against North Carolina . 
• Photos by Brandon Candura 
... 
Monday, September 22, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bruce Dern~ Parker Stevenson, Dr. Ruth, Ro,alind Russell 
DEAR EUGENIA: [was born on Oct. 26, 1956, at 6:36p.m. I have been d«ting (twice engaged to) the same man for almost 9 ye«n>, but we h~,ve many problen1s. He is a Canct~r. born july R, 1949. I arn thinking about breaking up with him, but hesitate lo do so hecausc of time invested in this rcliltionship. 
Sue 
Dear Sue: You've mel your match and, although itcan be up and down, you do have a link that draws you. By the way-he isn't all that strong a C.tncer. Air and Fire are predomi­nant in his chart, and that is proba­bly what captivates you. 
You have gone through a con­fused period recently, and if you make any decision regarding your personal life right now, it will proba­bly be the wrong one. Your chMt will b<.> in a much better aspect next year. 
If you w.:nt to take a break, he won't die. On the other h.1nd, he probably won't sit around waiting like most Cancers. 
You are in a high cycle for meet­ing potcntbl partners this year. lf you're interested, or if someone has abeady tweaked your interest, check it out. Life is always a gamble. Fol­low through and live life to the fullest-Keep in mind, however, that your Crab does match up quite well, and if you let him go now, he may fill rl soineone new. 
ARlES (March 21-Aprill9l: Money can be made if yo\1 use your ingenuity

A.ND YOU KNOW THAT'S A 
You aren't likely to face any opposition on the home front this week. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You

MAXIMUM OOH. MAYBE 

DO YOU KNOW THERE'S 
A CORPORATE LIMIT OF !=IrTY DOLLAR5 FOR VENDOR GIH5 7 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
LOOK AT THE ''ROLE)(' WATCH I GOT FROM 
A. VENDOR. 
) 
will be emolionnl with regards to fnend~ and their situations. Do not t(lke Ol\ the res~')onsibilities of older relatives. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: You can mak£" headwriv in the work force if you put your mil1d toil. Everything you do will coniTibutc to your good fortune. 
CANCER (June 21-july 22): Op­portunitie> will develop through lho>c you encounter while attending 
~.,)r-t;amzalional l'V(!ntt-. 
LEO (july 2.3-Aug. 22): You will find thJ! superim> may not see sttun­tions as you do. Wait to get all the in­formation before consulting yuur boss. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Plea­sure trips will promote new romantic CtKountc-rs. You will be <1ttracted to unu~ual ft\rn-.s t)f ~ntertailunent n.nd km~·igit cultures. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Oppor­
tunitie$ for romance will develoo 
throui;h group endenvors. Howevel-. 
the t~ssodntinn isn't likelv to last. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Op­
portunities to meet new and exci ling 
1ndividtJnls will develop Attend lec­
tures or sign up for courses of interest. 
S.o\GITIARlUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You c~w make major g"ins profession~ 
ally by completing projects on time. 
Your disdpluw will .aid V<.1U in new 
objectiVe> ' ' 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. l9l: So­
..:iar.,clivities that mvch·e the whole fa­
mily will L:><: enjoy~ble. Take time to li:;­
t011 to children. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Ro­
mM<tk encounlNs will develop 
thwugh colleague;. Mitu_lr health prnlr 
len1s will cause setb<lck'¥f you hnven't 
taken proper care of y,:ut\elf. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sud­
den changes regarding friendships 
are likely lo llCCur if you h~ve tried to 
reiorm nthers. 

THAT'S WHY 
Bon> Today: Your sohd appronch to whatever you do thb yenr will help you get the support thnt you've bee1\ looking for. Be sure to ~nkc a stance if ther~ i~

l-IE WI-liNED 
something th<1t you realiy feel strongly about. Your ded1cated way of present­
ing yourself will k'ad to thli results you've been looking for. 

WHEN l 
TOOK IT Off 
of Center for 
multipurpose Sept-22 and · drivers license 
rth 
Spicy Grilled Chicken Broccoli Cheese Soup Chinese Style Pork 
,.,, Roast . Oriental Vegetables 
Wanted: Reporters, 
40 Having flow controls 41 Pushed 
photographers and 

42 Leo and others 47 Insinuative 54 W. C. Fields film remark "--a Gift" 
editors.

48 Lookout point 55 Important 50 Cartoonist Drake 1930's inits. 
Join The Observer

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
staff.

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
52 Abscind 53 Untenably positioned 54 Without money 
changing hands 56 Dubs over 57 Brutus, e.g. 58 Catch 59 Relatives of 
10-Down 
DOWN 
1 Bookies' concerns 2Ciaws 3 Brainless 
4Warmly welcomed, as a guest 
5 To--(how a golfer wants to perform?) 
6 House ext. 7 Object of S.O.S. 
protest a Reddish-orange 9 Some windows 
10 Worm product 11 Kennedy item 12 Birth 
announcement 13 Well-done 14 Eyelet 
20 Mad magazine cartoonist 
Drucker 22 Falls off 23 This is popular 
in spots 
27 Sitcom set in Tuckahoe, N.Y. 
5UR.E. 
20 Where marathoner Grete Waitz was born 
30 Words teachers like to hear 33 Thirsts 34 "The Virginian" actor 35 Devalue 36 Richard Leakey and others 37 Bluish-gray cat 38 Cooking staple 39Word 


_, 
r 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Detention sites a Banter 
15 Spanish beans 
16 Post, e.g. 
11 Super Bowl XV 
champs 18 Words before attention or arms 19 Banks of 
Chicago 20 Dairy 21 Words of 
explanation in spelling 22 Certain students' wear 24 [all of a sudden!] 25 Roseanne's TV hubby 
26 First president of the German republic, 1919 
27 English poet Nicholas 29 Sauna 31 Thus far 32 Naval inits. 33 Charlton's 1956 co-star 
34 Longtime Olympics sportscaster 
37 Made way (for) 
43 Black-and-white set 44 Deserted 45Long -­46 Midmost: Abbr. 47 Gobs 48 Foot of a food 
chain 49Attacks 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic yearis a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name---------------------­
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------------State _____ Zip___________
two campuses_ Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
'( 
• 
Football 



Michigan 
1997 Spartans hand 
State 
Irish second

23 Notre Dame straight loss 
7 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 22, 1997 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish tie Tar Heels in battle for No. I 
Threatening weather conditions terminate game in second half 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame women's soc­cer head coach Chris Pertrucelli knew his team could play defense, and he knew his squad could score. but in this weekend's adi­das/Lady Footlocker Classic, Petrucelli found out that his team could come back. 
In an emotionally-packe'd contest. second-ranked Notre Dame and top-ranked North Carolina played to a 2-2 tie Friday night before a sold-out crowd of 3,300 at Alumni Field. 
"I was really excited about the way we came back," said Petrucelli. "There was about a 20-minute span in the sec­ond half that we had trouble containing (Cindy) Parlow, and she got in and they scored a couple quick goals. It would have been really easy for us to get down at that point." 
The game marked the first tie at Alumni Field for the Irish, who sport a 70-5-1 all­time record at home. It also 
snapped  a  22-game home  
winning  streak for Notre  
Dame.  

Unfolding as another his­toric matchup, the Irish vs. Tar Heels contest looked to 
• MEr\!'sSoccER 
continue the recent tradition of one-goal games, including last season's 2-1 regular-sea­son Notre Dame win and 1-0 North Carolina victory in the NCAA championship game. 
But intermittent rain turned into a downpour as thunder­storms rolled into South Bend, halting play at 71:16 because of lightning. 
"It was unfortunate that we didn't get to play out the game, but safety-wise, it was a good call," said Petrucelli. 
Notre Dame jumped nut to a 1-0 first-half lead on an Anne Makinen free kick from 25 yards out that found the lower left corner of the net beyond the reach of Tar Heel goalkeeper Siri Mullinix. It was the third goal of the sea­son for Makinen, and it would not be her last of the tourna­ment, as the freshman netted three goals and one assist en route to offensive MVI' hon­ors. 
The Tar I !eels answered in the second half, sparked by the deft foot of junior Cindy Parlow, who set up two North Carolina goals in a H)-minute span. 
Raven McDonald volloyed in a Parlow feed from the right wing past a diving LaKeysia Beene for the first score, and 
see SOCCER/ page 16 


The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

Notre Dame's Anne Makinen and Duke's Andi Melde, both members of the all tournament team, battle for the 
ball Sunday. 

Irish stage comeback with West Virginia victory 
By TOM STUDEBAKER 
and DAN LUZIETTI 
Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team rebounded from two tough losses with a 3-0 win 

.. 
over the West Virginia Mountaineers on Saturday. "I felt that we played extreme­ly well against West Virginia," head coach Mike Berticelli said. "The win put us b:..ck on track as we approach the rest of the Big East season." 
It was the third Big East game for the Irish this year, who remain undefeated in confer­ence play with a record of 2-0-1 and have an overall record of 3-2-2. 
"The timing of this win is key for the team," senior co-captain Ryan Turner said. "We had a rough week with the loss to Buffalo and the tie with Northwestern. West Virginia was a Big East opponent, and we were able to play well. We can now hopefully focus on the remainder of our Big East schedule." 

Turner got the Irish on the board first. Turner took a pass from senior Scott Wells and was able to beat the Mountaineers goalkeeper. The goal was the fourth of the year for Turner. 
Notre Dame's second goal came just before the end of tho first half. Sophomore defender Matt McNew scored his first goal of the year when he was able to collect a loose ball off of a corner kick and put it in the net. 
Wells tallied the third goal for the Irish in the second half. This queued the fat lady, who was getting warmed up on the side­lines. Turner and freshman Conor LaRose were credited with assists on the goal. 
"At first we were worried with the team's performance the past week, but we knew that it was early in the season," Turner said. "We responded well and now need to remain focused and continue down tho right path." 
The Notre Dame defense was tenacious throughout the game. The Irish gave up only six shots en route to handing a goose-egg to the Mountaineers. The Irish have shut out all three Big East opponents they havo faced this year. 
"The team approached this game as a must-win. Tlw defense approached it as a must-win with a shutout," McNew said. "The shutout was key." 


at Michigan,
f!l 
September 27, 3:30 p.m. 
Volleyball a) •Deeter takes first at Catholic Invite 
'" 
vs. Albion,
Iff. 
at Rutgers, 

~ 
September 22, 7 p.m. ~ 
see page 13
September 26, 7:30 p.m. 
"~ 
... 
Eastern Illinois, 
Cross Country ~ •Favre leads Green Bay to victory 
M September 23, 7:30 p.m. 
at Adrian, 
see page 15 

~ 
Marquette, 

September 27, 11 a.m.
@ September 23, 7:00 p.m . 
~ 

... 





