------------~~--~ 

Monday, April21, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 129 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Pro-Alliance rally protests deferment 
By LORI ALLEN About 30 students and facul­members of The Alliance. form their decision after care­Saint Mary's Editor ty members participated in the "It makes me really proud of ful research. I support BOG's rally. Saint Mary's to see the stu­decision both on the grounds The Alliance of Lesbian, While some supporters qui­dents and professors come out that they are the student rep­Bisexual. Straight and etly chatted, other students at to stand up for what they resentatives and because I Questioning Women of Saint the gathering played bongos believe in," Le Mans junior personally support The Mary's College has been and laughed as they organized Shannon Crunk said while ral-Alliance," said Rosalind Clark, through more in its two a march lying. chair of the English depart­months of existence than any around cam-Faculty ment. Clark was one of several other group on campus. pus that members, professors who came out to
'Jt makes me really
Characteristic of its roller­ended in a seizing the support the rally on Friday. coaster semester, The Alliance procession proud of Saint opportunity Clark is planning on propos­staged a rally outside of Le through the to express ing a resolution at the faculty
Mary's to see the stu­
Mans Hall on Friday afternoon lobby of Le their views assembly meeting Wednesday to show its support for the Mans Hall. dents and professors on The to accept BOG's decision on Board of Governance (BOG) "We are come out to stand up Alliance The Alliance. and the student voice that it out here decision, "I hope that President represents. today to for what they believe appeared Hickey will make a decision 
Alliance members as well as show support in.' pleased with while students are still on several other students and fac­for BOG's campus, and that the rationale 
Shannon Crunk the gather­

ulty members donned blue rib­decision ing and anx-for that decision be articulated bons and signed a petition to which repre-ious to show clearly and convincingly," said demonstrate their frustration sents the stu-their sup-Joe Incandela, chair of the with College President William dent voice in the loudest, most port. religious studies department Hickey's decision to defer offi­positive way that we know "It's very important that the cial club recognition of The how," commented Poogie president support the decision 
see RALLY I page 4 

Alliance. Sherer, one of the founding of BOG. They worked hard to 
Officials gather Saferide participarits express satisfaction 
for dedication of By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN pickup. We just want to be part of the Assistant News Editor Saferide experience." "That is part of the fun of driving,"
Habitat house Chants of "we love Saferide," and said Mark Higgins, student body sec­"here we go Saferide, here we go," fill retary and veteran Saferide volunteer. the air when the white van appears at "The students react so well to you, 
By DAVID FREDDOSO an off-campus location to pick up stu­and it is a good time." News Writer dents. Saferide depends on up to seven Despite being plagued by recently volunteers to keep it running on every 
A beautiful Sunday afternoon provided publicized problems with the vans, Friday and Saturday night. One per­the backdrop for the dedication of the lat­which the Center for Social Concerns son sits at a dispatch desk in the back est house completed by the Notre Dame donates to the program, Saferide has of the student government office. Two Chapter of Habitat for Humanity. Father enjoyed widespread popularity with more volunteers drive the early shift Edward Malloy was present to perform the students that it serves. It has in one van. The final four volunteers the blessing of the house at 1125 Bissel grown so popular that, on Saturday, make up the late shift of drivers after
van at Campus View Apartments
Street. just a few blocks south of campus. three residents of Turtle Creek 12:30 p.m., when another van is
(which are within one block of each Condominiums climbed aboard the other,) saying, ''Take us to your next 
see HABITAT I page 4 see RIDE I page 8 


Dawgie paddling•.. 
F
ortunately for the soaked participants, Saturday's running of the Eleventh Annual Fisher Regatta enjoyed fair weather. 
Alumni Hall beat two-time defending champion Morrissey Manor in the quarterfinals and sailed to the title from there. Their boat, "Dawg E. Style," won despite last minute alter­ations. 
Officials were alerted Friday that Alumni's boat was five feet over the regatta's length limit. The extraneous footage had to be sawed off before the Dawgs rowed to victory. 
In the women's competi­tion, "Always on Top," one of Walsh's three entries, proved victorious. Lewis took second with "Six Dips and a Chicken McNugget." 


Schroeder talk brings family values to SMC 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Long before former Vice President Dan Quayle's infamous speech on family values, Pat Schroeder brought the debate on the state of the American family to Capitol Hill. 
''I've spent my whole life trying to deal with family issues," she said. "For a long time, those concerns didn't resonate in Washington." 
Schroeder, a former 12­term Democratic House representative from Colorado, made a stop at Saint Mary's College Saturday as a part of her national "Great American Family Tour." Citing the American family as "an endangered species in the 1990s," Schroeder empha­sized the need for a resur­gence of the family unit as a priority in society. 
"There are no more tradi­tional family styles. Politicians don't understand how far the family has moved, and how crucial their needs are," Schroeder said of her constituents on the Hill. 
"Only ten percent of our families look like a Norman Rockwell painting. In Congress, only ten percent don't look like that~ it's the reverse of society." 
After citing examples of corporate culture diminish­ing the importance of family on society, Schroeder said, "We have three choices right now: we can throw up our hands, wring our hands, or roll up our sleeves and get to work." 
That work is necessary, as the policy-making process hits road blocks throughout the implementa­tion process. "I've passed a lot of bills, and there's a whole range of innovative things America is doing to help American families. But businesses need to embrace them," she said. "We need to figure out how to relieve the stress on our young families, and make the workplace more family­friendly." 
Programs such as better child care and more care for the elderly are neces­sary for starters, she said, noting her experience as the driving force behind the 
see VALUES I page 8 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, April 21, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Always make 

titne for friends 
Well, the academic Nora Meany year is coming to the 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor
end. To us in the ND/SMC community, this month is frought with frantic graduation planning and cramming for the inevitable finals. Many of us will be leaving South Bend to pursue more enlightening paths, leaving behind friends and family. 
How many of us will keep in touch with everybody they promise to? 

The reason I ask this question? I have made the same promise to many people in my life. "Sure, I'll write you soon. We've gotta stay in touch." Camp friends from grade school. High school friends and acquaintances. Friends f~m Ireland. An elite bunch of people that I have lost touch with over the years. 
It's not that I've severed ties with these peo­ple. Far from it. These are people with whom I have shared my life's experiences, and I don't think I would be the person that I am now without them. I Jove them all very much. However, I've been busy. Very busy. 
Well, some of the time. Actually, to be quite honest, replace the word "busy" with "lazy" and you'll have a more accurate picture. Hey, how can I concentrate keeping in touch while "The Simpsons" are on? 
I recieved a wake-up call last week, howev­er, when I decided to bridge the gap between myself and an old friend from high school. I really don't know what made me call him, aside from the fact that it was at a time when "The Simpsons" were not on. 
After exchanging pleasantries, he asked me to tell him what was new in my life. I babbled for about ten minutes about my job, my work and the play that I was in. I tried to recipro­cate the questions and ask him how he was doing, but he'd answer briskly, "I haven't talked to you in so long. My news will proba­bly dominate conversation, so why don't you finish telling me all that you've been doing first." 
Finally, curiosity got the best of me, and I had to know. 

"So, what is this big news, anyway?" He was probably getting married. The bastard was probably engaged, and all I could talk about was moving off-campus next year. 
''I'm sick. I'm very sick. I have HIV, Nora." 

Until that conversation, I had never under­stood what people meant when they said "heart-stopping news." My chest ached, and I tried not to cry. He had been my high school confidant. 
"When did this happen?" 
"I contracted it two years ago. I had pneu­monia this winter, and they've been trying to build my system up since." 
"You had pnemonia? Why didn't you call me?" 
"I was in the hospital, Nora. I couldn't. Why didn't you keep in touch with me? Didn't you wonder? Didn't you care?" 
I thought about that question for a while, and I still can't come up with a reason. Somehow, "The Simpsons" just do not seem adequate anymore. 
No matter where life takes you, I'm sure it will be close to a phone, computer or paper and pen. For your own happiness, I strongly suggest that you make an effort to keep in touch with those you love. The effort may wear you down, but the remorse of ignoring the feat is the true killer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tmurt's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Derek Betcher  Jenny Metzger  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  Nate Wills  
Betsy Baker  Derek Betcher  
Graphics  Brett Huelat  
Melisssa Weber  Lab Tech  
Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


released shortly before the rapper was gunned down. 
• INDIANA WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~'~'~q~~i) ~ 8 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies $~;~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 
• Woru.o AT A GLANCE 

Zaire's dark economy brightened by ordinary life 
WALIKALE, Zaire The problem with Zaire isn't 
When the equatorial sun sears the Zairians in general, it's their insects to silence, men idled by the leaders, said Tcheke Kahubi destroyed economy take refuge in a ! .> Shemususe, a civilian repre­cool, crumbling building to share /'~i;;··it<,',..''--.. sentative of the rebels. 
their dreams for Zaire. -•. "In the past, people were They dream of the day whenzzl:s:_..' forced to do whatever their 
lW:]U:I?J; . •

President Mobutu Sese Seko is part _ ··----boss said, whether it was right of history, and they can start to ·, ' or wrong. They were condi­revitalize their country. ZAIRE tioned to accept corruption, 
"We need a total change -soci-thievery, criminality," Kahubi etal, economic and cultural," said said. Nathanael Nkuba Irumbo. The deterioration of the 
In Africa's geographic center, country's roads, schools and where rulers have been so cruel, economy is bad, but corrup­life is brightened by ordinary tion is worse, he said. Zairians like Nkuba who possess "Our aim must be to change good shares of ambition and laugh-the mentality of the people, so ter and courage. that we can change the coun-
They have survived the colonial 1.a..............................................................................L .............................................................. r....................J try," Kahubi said. 
rule of the Belgians, an era of AP Nkuba, a slight man in his exploitation and greed cataloged in late 40s, is like many Zairians the Joseph Conrad novel "Heart of Darkness." who have no work because Mobutu has run the econo-
Now they hope rebels who have seized nearly half of my into the ground. Zaire in seven months will forever rid them of Mobutu. He's a professor at a college in this northeastern In 31 years he has made himself one of the richest town, but there is no money for salaries or materials men in the world and his country one of the poorest. for the students. 
Carter mediates in Sudan Bay of Pigs vets reunite 
KHARTOUM, Sudan USEPPA ISLAND, Fla. 
Jimmy Carter has returned to his 
Mirto Collazo stepped off a boat and back in time to 1960, peacemaking role in Sudan, talking when he and other young Cuban exiles made their way to this with opposition and government lead­remote island to train under the CIA for the Bay of Pigs inva­ers about bringing more rebels into sion. They numbered 67, the elite of Assault Brigade 2506. peace talks. The former president Some were killed and the rest imprisoned in Cuba as a result arrived Saturday in Sudan, where in of the debacle that left Fidel Castro in power and their home­1995 he brokered a six-month cease­land a communist nation. "We lost the battle," said Collazo, fire in the country's civil war. His latest 62, after walking through a new exhibit about the brigade in visit comes before Monday's signing of the Useppa historical society's museum. "But after 37 years, a peace accord between the Islamic we keep the spirit alive with our hopes for a free Cuba." The regime and four dissident factions of the main rebel role of Useppa in the 1961 inva<>ion had been hidden in classi­group, the Sudan People's Liberation Army. The main fied documents and the memories of the men who started body of the rebel group has refused to sign the treaty, their training on the island, lush and tropical off Florida's Gulf however, and the pact is expected to have little effect on Coast. On Saturday, 18 of the graying Bay of Pigs veterans the fighting. Carter's trip comes at a tense time in Sudan, returned for a walk into the past and a look at the exhibit. with rebels making gains in the east and south. The They remembered defeat and their time in Cuban prisons, but rebels have been fighting the government since 1983, they weren't bitter, telling stories and finding special spots on demanding greater power for the predominantly the private island now used as a playground for the rich. The Christian and animist south. The war and related camouflage that Collazo wore in the invasion is part of the famines have killed more than 1.3 million people. exhibit. 
Tupac's mom sues Parents discovers stalker son 
LOS ANGELES EMERYVILLE, Ontario 
The mother of slain rapper Tupac Shakur is suing Death A widely reported case of electronic harassment was actual­Row Records for $17 million, claiming the hip-hop label failed ly the work of the victims' 15-year-old son, the family said to pay royalties and cheated Shakur out of millions of dollars. Sunday. Police confirmed that the sabotage was an inside job, The federal lawsuit filed Friday follows a $7.1 million lawsuit but refused to name the culprit and said nothing would be Death Row filed against Shakur's estate earlier this month, gained by filing charges against him. Dwayne and Debbie demanding reimbursement for money allegedly advanced to Tarnai issued a statement saying that their son, Billy, had Shakur for cars, houses, jewelry and other expenditures, admitted to making the mysterious calls. The interruptions including recording and video costs. Besides seeking unpaid included burps and babbling and claims of control over the royalties and repayment of disputed expense billings, the inner workings of the Tamais' custom-built home, including countersuit from Shakur's estate seeks to invalidate a hand­what appeared to be the power to turn individual appliances written 1995 contract Shakur signed with Death Row while in on and off by remote control. "It started off as a joke with his prison. Italso asks that 152 unreleased Shakur recordings, friends and just got so out of hand that he didn't know how to which his representatives cannot locate, be ordered into court­stop it and was afraid to come forward and tell us in fear of us 
appointed receivership. The suit is a response to "the deafen­disowning him," the Tamais s~id in their statement. which ing silence from Death Row," family attorney Richard was sent to local news media. On Saturday, the Tamais said Fischbein said Saturday. The primary dispute between Afeni they were planning to take their son to the police to defend 
Shakur, the rapper's mother, and Death Row is over money him against persistent rumors that he was responsible. made by "All Eyez on Me," a double album by Shakur Instead, he confessed to being the intruder who called himself 
Sommy. 

• NATIONAL WEAJHE!i 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, April 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

~ ............ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

© 1997 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure 


r.-:1 
~ ~ 8 a ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  74  56  Dallas  83  61  Minneapolis  60  39  
Baltimore 59  38  Denver  58  44  New Orteans 80  63  
Boston  52  39  Detroit  59  32  New York  58  44  
Chicago  55  39  Los Angeles 81  61  Philadelphia  62  42  
Columbus 59  41  Miami  84  64  Phoenix  93  67  

~-----~ -----~ ~--· 
~ 


Special to The Observer 

This photograph took U. Magazine's top prize in the campus life and traditions category of its photo contest. 



Student wins $1,000 for photo 
By SEAN O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
For Farley freshman Elizabeth Brown, pictures are not always worth a thousand words. Sometimes, they are worth a thousand dollars. 
Brown entered and won the annual photography contest sponsored by U. Magazine, one of the handouts that comes regularly with The Observer. ller picture portrays the Irish Guard marching from the Administration Building towards the stadium on the rn orn ing of Ias t year's first home football game against Purdue. The Fighting Irish derailed the Purdue Boilermakers 35-0 in a strong defensive effort. 
"I thought it was a good pic­ture," said Brown, obviously pleased with her cash prize. Brown is an amateur photog­rapher and was quite sur­
'}read the magazine, 
saw the contest, and thought the picture would be perfect for the category.' 
Elizabeth Brown 
prised when she won. 

Later on in the football sea­son, Brown saw an ad for the contest. She submitted the photo under the category of campus life and traditions. 
"I read the magazine, saw the contest, and thought the picture would be perfect for the category." 
"I can't think of any univer­sity with more tradition," said Brown, who entered the pic­ture in the contest despite her friends' telling her that she would not win. In fact, many of her companions did not even believe her after she informed them that she had in fact won. 
Brown snapped the photo for . sentimental purposes; the Irish Guard is one of the most prominent symbol of Fighting Irish pride on campus, and she wanted the dramatic moment immortalized on film. That one picture has made Brown one thousand dollars richer. 


Whafs up for Today Kids .... 
at 1 l!!l 




t st 
Sack Races & Chalk 
·YwetClothes Race 
Dizzy Bat Race aaah yeah!!!! 1 Orange Pass · French Club Pastry Fest
fR\ a 

LWU'tllWDfllg~ 
f5)fi_UTJ ~~r-•·· 65!\@n· Vr,/·rnd·;@o·\ ~~m' 1
.. ·: :.··liS\ To,···u··'f:n-1 ~m• '46hn··~·t•.
LQ)u~ ~\lo:· \.s;\97 ~. ·~· m\."\ZS9tY· U}cg]::-,, ·=\J31 [)~'-.. · ~_,.; < ~-u~ ·\9~ ... ­
j, 
Class of •gg FREE Movie 
..TOP GUN.. 
...OH TOMMY boy! 
Elementary School ThemeDinner 
+ 
antostal rocl~s ... ....my world dude...and I mean it. 

CME chairman set for Holy Cross ceremony 
Special to The Observer 
Holy Cross College has announced that John Sandner will be the commencement speaker at the college's 30th graduation ceremony on May 10. 
Sandner, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), rep­

.--'--'~­
r e s e n t s Sandner 
more than 2,700 mem­bers and 86 member firms in the Chicago area. Appointed to the U.S. Advisory Commission on Financial Services by U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin in 1995, Sandner played a pivotal role in the develop­ment of GLOBEX, the interna­tional after-hours, electronic trading system. 
Sandner received a BA from Southern Illinois University, '65, and a law degree from the University of Notre Dame, '68, where he has served as a trustee since 1993. Sandner is also a trustee of Rush­Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center, and Roosevelt University where he was awarded an honorary doctor of humane letters degree in 1994. 
Formerly a trial attorney, Sandner is currently a member of the American Arbitration Association, a member of the advisory boards of Mercy Hospital and Medical Center, and Chicago Cares, and a member of the Northwestern University Associates. 
Director of the Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine at the Eastern Virginia Medical School, and the Northern Illinois Council on Alcoholism and Substance Abuse, he also serves as direc­tor of the Economic Club, Chicago. 
Take a gander••• 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 

R£AT\YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 21, 1997 
Habitat 
continued from page 1 
"May we recognize," prayed Father Malloy, "that we are always neighbors in need to each other. We pray that this house may be a place not only of protection against the weather, but also a place where friends can come together in charity." 
Senior Robert Lambert spoke from the porch of the new three-bedroom house of the friendships which were built in the course of the project. "In the beginning of the day, when sent at the dedication. Jake McGuigan, a freshman from Flanner who served on the board of directors for the con­struction, felt a sense of clo­sure with the dedication. 
"It's great to see all our work come together," said McGuigan, acknowledging at the same time help from other campus organizations as well as several private companies which aided the effort with money and supplies. "We had the Alumni Association help us, the student volunteers, and all the contractors; they all con­tributed to building the house." 
Freshman Katie Fallon of Siegfried Hall helped in the 

Rally 
continued from page 1 
and advisor to The Alliance. 
Gretchen Sherer, Saint Mary's class of '91 and English profes­sor, cited the specific nature of The Alliance's purpose as a rea­son it should be recognized. 
"While I recognize the difficul­ty of the position that President Hickey and the College may be in, I don't necessarily agree with the approach that is being taken because it is focusing on this as a club on homosexuality rather than a student club on sexuality, which this campus has a great need for," noted Sherer as the students marched through the lobby of Le Mans Hall. 
A few BOG members were out­side as well, including student body president Jen Turbiak, who was eager to contribute to the rally. 
"I think this fs an outstanding show of support for the commu­nity, and I hope that President Hickey is listening," said Turbiak. 
"The students out here are standing in support of student government. As a BOG member I casted my vote and I'm standing behind it," said Lori McKeough, student body president-elect. 
While most students agreed with the gathering, others were hesitant. 
"I appreciate the respect and time that BOG was allowed to have in making their decision, which I support. I think that President Hickey should be given the same respect," said Sarah Siefert, communications commissioner for BOG. 
Hickey has not yet announced a timetable for his decision regarding the club's status as an officially recognized organiza­tion. He was meeting with the College's Board of Trustees while the students protested. 
manual work on the houseworking on a house with throughout the year. another person, I know that we "I think it's awesome that thehave two things in common. community can come togetherThe one is that we are both like this. It was less that sixbuilding a home. The other is months ago that we werethat neither of us knows what putting down the foundation,"we are doing," he laughed. "But more often than not, by she said. Still, Bob Colett, the execu­the end of the day, I can call tive director of Habitat forthat person my friend." Humanity of St. Joseph County, "We can all see," he went on, was sure to mention that the"how much Habitat for Humanity affects people's real project is only begun. "Habitat for Humanity is alives." Christian housing ministry,"South Bend resident he said. "Stage one of ourStephanie Smith, who will be challenge is complete. Themoving into the new house community came together towith her family, was present to build this house. Stage two isshow her appreciation toward to help this wonderful ladythose in the Notre Dame com­raise her family in a ChristianmunitY. who helped in the orga­nization and completion of the tradition." Handing her a new copy ofproject. the Bible, he said to her, "May''I'd like to thank all the stu­dents for all their time," she you use this book, and make sure that your children use itsaid. "I appreciate everything." as well."Many of the students who helped in the project were pre-You have a voiee. Use it. Viewpoint.I @nd.edu  Monday, 21 April 1997 ~fje 8east of eJaint cf\nse(m ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY (IOJJ'l 109) The Holy Communion (Episcopal) Alumni Hall Chapel 5:15p.m. The Rev. James F. Turrell ~ "0 Christian soul, soul raised up from grievous death, soul redeemed and freed by the blood of God from wretched bondage: arouse your mind, remember your resurrection, contemplate your redemption and liberation." ~Saint Anselm, Meditation on Human Redemption  


B.O.G. 
or by calling Karey at 284-5168 Sponsored by SMC Christ Child 

page 5 
Monday, April 21, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 



Lawyer tied to HubbelliDeeting 
By JOHN SOLOMON Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The day before Webster Hubbell quit the Justice Department's No. 3 post under a cloud. President Clinton's Whitewater lawyer was summoned to the White House living quarters for a meeting with the first cou­ple and ~enior presidential aides. 
Attorm~y David Kendall joined some of the Clintons' most trust­ed political trouble shooters at the March 13, 1994, meeting, which is now embroiled in pros­ecutors' investigation of White House-inspired payments to Hubbell after he resigned as associate attorney general. 
Three weeks after the meet­
ing, Kendall also made a tele­
phone call to Hubbell. message 
logs indicate. 
The contacts could have legal 
ramifications for the Clintons' 
personal attorney in the 
Whitewater ease, making him a 
potential witness in the current grand jury probe. The atten­dance of others at the meeting also could preclude the Clintons from claiming attorney-client privilege of matters they dis­cussed with Kendall that day, leg(ll authorities say. 

Clinton and his wife, Hillary, have said they were unaware at the time that Hubbell was under criminal inves'tigation by Whitewater prosecutors for fraudulent billings at the Arkansas law firm where had been a partner with Mrs. Clinton. 
The contacts also occurred shortly before presidential aides began to make calls to secure work and financial assistance for Hubbell. Investigators now want to know whether that effort was designed to affect Hubbe11' s cooperation with prosecutors .• 
Officials have declined to pro­
vide many specifics about the 
1994 meeting, or to say whether 
any notes exist from it. 
White House spokesman 
Lanny Davis said the meeting 
was called to discuss a host of 
legal issues surrounding the 
transition in the White House 
counsel's office, which Lloyd 
Cutler had just been named to 
head, replacing Bernard 
Nussbaum. 
But neither Nussbaum nor Cutler was present for the meet­ing, Davis acknowledged last week. 
Instead, the president and first lady were joined by some of their most trusted advisers in the Whitewater affair -Kendall; Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff, Margaret Williams; then-presi­dential chief of staff Mack McLarty and then-deputy chief of staff Harold Ickes. 
Davis said Bruce Lindsey, the president's closest personal adviser, does not specifically recall being at the meeting but that others remember him attending. 
Kendall declined to discuss the meeting or a telephone message slip indicating he called Hubbell at his Justice Department office on April 4, 1994 -a few weeks after the meeting and just' days before Hubbell left the depart­ment. 
Davis said Kendall's participa­
tion was consistent with a meet­
ing designed to address Issues in 
the counsel's office. 
The Whitewater affair and 
other controversies were heating 
up in spring of 1994 and deci­
sions needed to be made as to 
which issues would be handled 
by White House counsel. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
proudly presents the Caribbean Film: 
AIME CESAIRE: A VOICE FOR HISTORY 
I.A!'IIJ Uf IUL'TY .1. PUN"H 
By Euzhan Paley, from Martinique, 1994. 
This monumental, three-part study introduces American audiences to the <;:elebrated Martinican author who coined the term negritude and launched the movement called the "Great Black Cry." Euzhan Paley, the internationally acclaimed director of Sugarcane Alley and A Dry White Season, weaves Cesaire' s life and poetry into a vast tapestry featuring many of the most impqrtant artistic and intellectual figures of the past six decades. Andre Breton, the high priest ofsurrealism, described Cesaire as, "A black man who embodies not simply the black race bur all mankind, who will remain for me the protorype of human dignity." 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on AFRICA & THE DIASPORA IN THE NEWMILLENNIUM 
•Prof. Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Dept. (Moderator)• • Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion • •Iris Outlaw, Director, Multicultural Stuaent Affairs• •Verge Gillam alias Brother Sage, Director, Urban League• •Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Programming & Outreach Dept./CSC• •Olaitan Oyetunbi, Andrews University-
Wednesday, April23 • 7:00PM • ISS DeBartolo 
/ Intensive Italian Summer Language Program June -July, 1997 
Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfills Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel*Grammar*Culture*Music*Movies*Art 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/16-7/1 
ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/2-7/16 
ROIT 103, Intermediate Italian 7/17-7/30 
Classes meet daily from 9:10-11:20 AM Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 PM 
Contact: Summer School Director at 631-7282
' 
~ 

Forces target Islamic militant group leader 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS 
Algerian forces killed the leader of an Islamic mili­tant faction and 32 of his followers blamed for vil­lage massacres south of Algiers, newspapers reported Saturday. 
Amir Ayoub's faction was part of the Armed Islamic Group, considered the most radical underground group fighting to topple Algeria's military-backed govern­ment. 
The papers gave no details of the raid on the 
200 km group around the town of L----'-------__L---'A-'-P/-C~ar-1F-ox 
Chebli, 20 miles south of 
the capital, Algiers. 
There was no official confirmation of the killings. They were 
thought to have occurred Thursday and Friday as part of a gov­
ernment offensive south of Algiers where attackers have terror­
ized villages, slashing, shooting and beheading villagers. 
Villagers largely blame Ayoub's faction for the attacks, which 
have killed 180 civilians in a little more than two weeks. 
Security forces have redoubled their efforts to clean up the 
region before June 5 legislative elections, the first since the 
army canceled a January 1992 vote that the Islamic Salvation 
Front was poised to win. 
The army's action then triggered an uprising by Islamic mili­
tants; fighting since then has killed an estimated 60,000 people. 
The Islamic Salvation Front has urged Algerians to boycott 
the June elections, saying the government is certain to rig the 
vote, 
Faculty, Staff, & Students 

BiKe or walK to campus 
Tuesday, April 22 
Security will guard & register bikes from 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the northwest doorway of DeBartolo Hall. 
Refreshments will be available in the morning. 
Two campus bike tours will begin at 
12:15 p.m. from DeBartolo. Helmets are recommended. 
For more information call Jessica at 631-5829 


--~--~--~ -~----~~----------------~~-----------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April21, 1997 
What is Taize? 
"Their joy, mercy, and simplicity provide a tantalizing glimpse of what Christ's Church, healed and reunified, is called to become." 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, describing the monks of Taize 
The community was founded 56 years ago when Brother Roger and a few companions took up residence in Taize, a remote and nearly abandoned village in eastern France. Today the Taize community includes almost a hundred Anglicans, Lutherans, Evangelicals and Catholic monks from more than twenty countries. 
The earliest ministry of the Taize community was hospitality, as Brother Roger and his friends offered shelter and concealment to the refugees of World War II, including many Jews fleeing Nazi persecution. Following the war, the growing community sent several members into Eastern Europe to establish surreptitious prayer circles among young Catholics in Poland and young Protestants in East Germany. Each year since 1978 the Taize community has sponsored large international gatherings of young people for ecumenical discussion and prayer. 
The life of the community centers around prayer, work and hospitality. Its white-robed monks never preach to their guests, insisting that their role is to live together as a "parable of community," a sign of the Gospel's call to reconciliation at the heart of the world. The liturgies at Taize combine elements of the Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant traditions, and the community's distinctive sacred music, mostly meditative chants of scriptural verses, has become popular in Christian churches all over the world. 

University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 
Brother Roger ofTaize 
1996 Notre Dame Award recipient 
Thursday April 24, 1997 
7:15p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Taize prayer and song led by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
7:30p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Prayer service and presentation ofthe Notre Dame Award to Brother Roger, followed by his 
reflections 
8:15p.m. Corby Hall 
Reception for all present with an opportunity to meet Brother Roger 
Earhart imitator even flies vintage 1935 plane 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press Writer 
LUXOR, Egypt 
Water dribbles into the cock­pit when it rains. The two pro­peller engines are louder than a jumbo jet. The flights are long and cold. 
Texas businesswoman and pilot Linda Finch is attempting to trace -and complete -the round-the-world !light plan of aviation pioneer Amelia Earhart, whose plane disap­peared just 7,000 miles away from the finish. 
To add to the realism, Finch is using a renovated Lockheed Electra lOE, the same model Earhart flew in 1935. And fly­ing a plane that was state-of­the-art more than 60 years can be taxing. 
"It's not comfortable physi­cally, but I've spent so much time in it, I know what to expect," Finch said after arriv­ing in southern Egypt on Friday, her ninth country and about halfway into the 29,000­mile trip. 
Next stop: Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
"Amelia set extraordinary records to show people that they can do extraordinary things," said Finch, 46, who restores aircraft in her spare time. "We are doing this to send people that message." 
Finch's quest began when she was looking for a vintage aircraft to rebuild. She already had restored a World War II training aircraft, and a P-47 Thunderbolt fighter, widely used during that war. 
Leafing through an aircraft registry, she discovered that the same model airplane that Earhart flew on her trip was being stored in a barn in Wisconsin. 
It took Finch three years to convince the owners to sell the plane for $300,000. It cost another $700,000 to renovate it -including installing Wasp radial engines assembled from vintage but unused spare parts. Pratt & Whitney, which manu­factured the nine-cylinder Wasp engines, has paid for the airplane and for most of Finch's trip-a total of $1.5 million. 

Plans call for cheap Mercedes-Benz 
By TERRIL YUE JONES 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
The clock has started ticking for the arrival of the colorful, inexpensive Swatchmobile, which goes on sale in a year. 
The peppy two-seater -from the manufacturer of some of the world's most expensive cars and the maker of some of the 
The University of Notre Dame's SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY will again offer 
SUMMER STORAGE 

Storage Policy: 
•  Storage begins April 21, 1997, with drop off at the laundry  
Distribution Center located on campus.  
•  Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from  
their laundry contract, however, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A  
CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE.  
•  All garments and linens MUST be laundered or dry cleaned  
(no leather/suede or pillows) by Saint Michael's at the time  
of storage and a $7 per order storage fee will be added to  
your invoice (does not include the cleaning fee).  
•  All items must pe retrieved from the bundle distribution  
center no later than September 5, 1997, or an additional  
fee of 25% of the total invoice will be imposed.  
Saint Michael's Bundle Distribution Center  
Hours: 8 A.M.-4:30 P.M. M-F 631-7565  

The Univer*A:i~!/''ofNdi'J~ l}ame,s 
The John J. Elltilly''Center 
..,.,,..fi. '"'''.
''·'·or 
Science, Technology,;'(:ltttl~Values 
"'''···· :.. {i'·•······
is pleased to announC'& that tli 
~helby Highsinit:fl Mich~el MacWilliams 

.,,,:;:;:;..·· 
cheapest watches around ­certainly will raise eyebrows with its chameleon-like fea­tures. 
But it enters a small-car field crowded by some of the auto industry's biggest names, which could make sales diffi­cult. 
The Swatchmobile -formal­ly known as the Smart -is the product of an unlikely joint venture between Germany's Mercedes-Benz and Swiss watchmaker Swatch. 
Mercedes-Benz announced Friday that the Smart will go on sale in Europe in April 1998 for the equivalent of $9,400­$11,600, with 100,000 to be made the first year. There are no plans to sell it outside of Europe. 
"It's difficult to see who's going to buy it," says Graeme Maxton, associate editor of the 

IRISH ACCENT!(· 
comedy improv troupe 
SHOW 
Tomorrow night, 9 P.M.! Library Auditorium Admission: $1 ($1.75 with this ad) 
3t's ttot plural, ~egis. 
Economist Intelligence Unit automotive publications in London. "They're aiming at young professionals and stu­dents. It's clearly for use in an urban environment, not some­thing you'd want to drive across Europe." 
Swatchmobile buyers can purchase a special kit with dif­ferent brightly colored body panels to change the shade and shape of the car to suit moods, clothes, or special occasions. 
But despite its unique appearance, it will still face competition in the growing sub­compact-car segment in Europe known as sub-B. 
Ford and France's Renault have sub-B models out already, and Volkswagen and Fiat have models on the way. 
"All are meant to be low-cost city runabouts," Maxton said in an interview from Thailand. 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 21, 1997 
Values 
continued from page 1 
Family and Medical Leave Act and being responsible for implementing the Family Rights Bill. 
The redefinition of the fami­ly is essential to preserve the ideals the nation was founded upon, as the "health of the family is the health of society," she stressed. 
'"In greed we trust' seems to be our nation's motto, unlike President Washington's 'In God we trust,"' said Schroeder, making numerous references to Washington's book, "Rules of Civility." 
"This used to be a country where it wasn't what our par­ents were, but what our chil­dren became," said Schroeder. "If we give up on our future, we're in deep trouble. It starts with the family, and works its way up to the federal government. 
However, beyond the need for "family-friendly legisla­tion," Schroeder stated that there must be a redefinition of family attitudes, as there is a double standard that young women must now help support the family financially, yet they are expected to care for the child. 
"Women believe that if they have a child, it is all their responsibility. No other soci­ety does that to their young people," she said. Therefore, rebuilding of the American 

Take a bow, Liz-You made it to 21! 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
love, Mom, Dad, Meghan, & the Mil~es 
AUDITIONS FOR READERS AT GRADUATION AND LAST VISIT 
Auditions to be held on April 22nd and 23rd at 4:00·p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Information: Sr. Teresita Creighton, O.P. 631-8463 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
family can only happen 
through men  and  women  
working  together,  she  
stressed.  

"The Promise Keepers and the Million Man March both concern the family, but they don't include women," she said. "They can talk the talk, but they can't walk the walk. 
"To succeed, families need to come together," she said. "One thing we know about the best students in America ­which cuts across race, gen­der, economic status and geo­graphic location -is that most of those students have dinner with their parents three to four times a week." 
Jokingly referring to herself as a "recovering politician," Schroeder is the longest-serv­ing woman in Congress. The National Women's Hall of Fame honoree ran for presi­dent in 1988, and is noted for bringing family and policy issues to Congressional debate. After retiring in 1996 after a 24-year tenure in the House, she had a teaching stint at Princeton University. 
"Pat Schroeder knows a lot about change. She fought for it, worked to bring legislation for it, and helped champion it," SMC president William Hickey said. 
The lecture was the first in the Shaheen President's Lecture Series. The aim of the series is to "bring nationally recognized speakers to Saint Mary's, whose work will bring national issues to the College," said Hickey. 
Ride 
continued from page 1 
added to the fleet. 
"We have two people in the vans just in case anything goes wrong," Higgins said. "The driver has to go through a training program over at the security building. They show you a film about van driving and you take a Scantron kind of test. It's a whole lot like dri­ver's ed." 
The other person that rides in the van has the job of keep­ing track of numbers of pas­sengers and helps to navigate for the driver. "This is my first time riding and I have not had a chance to take the training course yet," said Matt Tomko, Knott Hall senator, who rode along with Higgins during the early shift on Saturday. 
The program is currently having staffing problems because most of the people who drive arc also members of the new Student Union. "Ideally our new volunteer:s will go back and tell the peo­ple they live around about it," Higgins said. "Then we would have a network of drivers, and people would only have to work once or twice a semes­ter." Higgins commented that he has driven almost every weekend. 
One Saturday night rider, Molly Syron, a freshman from Badin Hall, described why she thought that Saferide was so popular. "I have been to par­ties and seen the panic that comes with the question, 'How will we get home?' This pro­gram gives students the opportunity not to worry about that, and it's free." 
"Our ride home had been drinking," added her friend Stephanie So, also a Badin freshman. "So I decided that [Saferide] was a better option. But I couldn't remember the number, so I had to call secu­rity and ask them what it was." 
The program has also had to contend with lack of publicity. "A lot of people don't remem­ber the dispatch number (631­9888) because it is not all the same digit," Harris said. "But we are working on getting the word out, and we hope that people will remember." 
Most of the riders for Saferide call during the late shift, between 12:30 and 2 
a.m. "Often we will have peo­ple call just as we are about to close," said Higgins. "So we have to keep going until 2:30 or 3 a.m." 
In response to the increased traffic during the late shift, Saferide has added a new fea­ture to the program. At around 
1:30 a.m., the dispatcher calls Papa John's to order pizza for all the riders to enjoy. 
Between 10 p.m. and mid­night, Harris only picked up four people. But, in the second shift, from 12 until 2:30 a.m., he picked up 41 people from five different locations. One group of seniors that he picked up at Turtle Creek to go to Fisher Hall asked, "why didn't they think about this when we were juniors?" They then pro­ceeded to show their apprecia­tion for the driver by singing the fight song and substituting Mark's name in every refer­ence to Notre Dame. 
Every student that called the service expressed this same type of gratitude towards the drivers. "I think this is a great idea," said Sarah Sweetman, a freshman from Walsh Hall. "But it is amazing that these people give up their Saturdays for it." 
and writers. 
Washington Hall management is now interviewing candidates for four I0-hour per week positions. Washington Hall student managers are trained to facilitate the use of Washington Hall by groups rehearsing and performing in the hall. Managers help groups to use lighting and sound equipment, and they greet patrons at public events. There is also some adminisrative work. Knowledge of FileMaker Pro, Word, Excel, and PageMaker is useful. Student managers usually work evening and weekend hours, and they are the only students who get to meet the ghost of Washington Hall. If you are interested in a position, please visit 125 Washington Hall to see Tom, Kevin or Diane or call 631-5956. 

Today thru Wed. Picl~ up
• 
EVE OOK 

Bool~s dup in LaFo 1-2pm 
Queslions Call 1 -5111 
.-----------------------~------------------~------------------~------~------------------------------------~------------------------------------~--~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 21, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor......•.....................Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager............................. .Jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.......................... .Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Spores Editor, Accem Ediror, Saim Mary's Edicor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Office Manager Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@daiWin.cc.nd.edu 

Administration needs lessons in cooperation 
With only three weeks or so until graduation, the central paradox of the Notre Dame undergraduate experience remains a mystery: Why is it that a university with a student body meticu­lously selected from across the country on the basis of intelligence, character and achievement feels that it must maintain a large and tyrannical enforcement bureaucracy to keep the 

Chris Kratovil 
hand-picked students from plunging the campus into anarchy? Does the administration have so little confidence in its own admissions department that the Office of Student Affairs is needed as a check against the apparent incom­petence of Kevin Rooney and compa­ny? Do so many thugs, hooligans and malcontents manage to bluff their way into ND every year that a de facto secret police force is needed to main­tain order? 
The answer is, of course, no. No finer group of young men and women than an incoming Notre Dame freshman class is to be found anywhere in the country. Certainly there are always a few individuals of less-than-stellar character who slip through the cracks (insert your own football joke here), but on the whole Notre Dame students are distinguished not only by their aca­demic prowess but also by their social concerns. tendency towards religious faith and upstanding character. Almost any publication on college admissions is likely to point out the tendency for . Notre Dame students to be, for lack of a better term, "straight arrows," and this is not a claim that our administra­tion would run from. Brown or Berkeley this place is not. 
Despite the benign nature of the stu­dent body, there is an undeniable cli­mate of suspicion that permeates stu­dent dealings with administrators at this school. From the surly guards at the campus gates who behave like they're running a border checkpoint, on up the line to the Office of Student Affairs itself, an almost adversarial relationship exists between students and administrators/staff. 
Every undergraduate has experi­enced this climate of mistrust: From the guard who won't let you on campus despite your trunk full of luggage, to the dining hall ID taker who refuses to let you back in to pick up your book bag, to those charming ladies who are the after-hours guards in women's dorms and will gladly write you up for exiting the building at 2:02 a.m., all the way up to those petty tyrants in Student Affairs who will equally gladly give you dozens of hours of "communi­ty service" for exiting that women's dorm a minute late. The administra­tors and staff at this University tend to be long on suspicion and short on understanding. What's more, they are, at best, legalistic in their demeanor. Has any NO security officer ever had a good day or is glumness just a prereq­uisite for that job? 
Now I realize that these are broad generalizations and there is no doubt in my mind that somewhere on this vast campus there is an administrator or staff member who is a much-loved saint. Also, it's important to note that the relationship between NO students and the actual providers of the educa­tion we are paying so dearly for -the faculty -seem admirably healthy; professors are accessible and friendly and the cultivation of personal rela­tionships that extend beyond the class room is not uncommon. 
I do not want to turn this column into a simple catalog of student vs. admin­istration horror stories. Such tales are common enough -every upperclass­man seemingly has a few of their own -and tend to lose some punch when not told from the first-person perspec­tive. But the reality of the cloud of mis­trust that hovers over our campus is undeniable; one need look no further than the paranoid and often thugish behavior of those so-called ushers at home football games to see this illus­trated. 
There is no reason that the coopera­tive relationship that exists between students and faculty could not be repli­cated or used as a model for the rela­tionship that should exist between stu­dents and the administration. Indeed, one is hard-pressed to understand how such an adversarial climate came into being at all; undergraduate Domers are a pretty polite and well-behaved bunch and it's not as if there have been any sit-ins in the Main Building recently. 
Insofar as there are no causal rea­sons for the undeniable suspicion and surliness that characterizes adminis­trative dealings with students, we must look for other factors. Upon examina­tion, the conclusion that a fish rots from the head down is unavoidable. In other words, the security guards, sta­dium ushers, women's dorm night pro­tectresses, Dome bureaucrats, and the rest did not unilaterally one day decide to be as rude and uncooperative as possible. Instead, they were hired and trained in a climate where such behav­ior is the expectation and is seen as necessary to control the unruly student body. At some very high level within our administration there is a funda­mental mistrust-perhaps even a dis­dain-of undergraduate students, and. this mentality manifests itself in the actions and demeanor of the whole administrative structure. 
Even a cursory reading of du Lac reveals that the administration has 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
next to no faith in its students. Rather than being viewed as extremely talent­ed adult men and women who have come to Notre Dame out of a genuine desire to better themselves, students are seen as little better than children who need to be carefully monitored with their behavior carefully regulated. The archaic doctrine of in loco parentis -a phrase generally associated with boarding schools, not first rate univer­sities -fails to recognize that virtue which is imposed rather than freely chosen is not virtue at all. 
This unspoken perception that undergraduates are a source of moral rot in the otherwise pristine Catholic city-on-a-hill which is Notre Dame has been the single most disappointing aspect of my four years here. While never enunciated, this doctrine shines through in the actions and tactics of the Office of Student Affairs, amongst others. A top university -especially one blessed with the caliber of stu­dents that Notre Dame enjoys-simply does not need an in-house secret police force. 
Until a relationship based on mutual respect and cooperation comes into being, the climate of mutual suspicion that exists between students and administrators will continue indefinite­ly. While I will miss many aspects of my undergraduate experience, I can­not wait to be done with the kangaroo courts, patronizing overly legalistic rules, self-righteous administrators. and arbitrary enforcement procedures that characterize Notre Dame at its worst. 
Christopher D. Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. He will be attending the University ofTexas School ofLaw in the fall. His column has appeared on Mondays in the Viewpoint page for the last four years. A final "Winter ofMy Discontent" will be appearing in the graduation issue. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
------------~----------~--­
~-~~~---·---~­

page 10 Monday, April 21, 1997 
"Chasing Amy" 
CHASING AMY Directed by: Kevin Smith Starring: Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams 

(Out of live shamrocks) 
By JOHN BARRY Accenr Movie Criric 
W
lile watching a movie, I have a habit of trying to predict what's going to happen next. When the ending isn't what I expect, and it's bet­ter then anything I came up with -it isn't such a bad habit -the movie seems clever and deserving of four or five shamrocks. 
And then there's the other kind of movie. where the ending is a letdown, unrealistic or insulting, dragging down the rest of the movie. "Chasing Amy" is one of those other kinds of movies. 
Kevin Smith, that great entertainer that made you fall in love with "Clerks," brings us a third movie, this one with a clever set-up and a talented cast. He takes the old boy-meets-girl story and 

Photo courtesy of Miramax 
twists it around, filling it with the emo­tions we can relate to, and then throws it full speed into the 1990s. 
Holden (Ben Affleck) is a small time comic book artist who becomes enchanted by another comics creator, Alyssa (Joey Lauren Adams). They seem perfect for one another, and the chem­istry on the screen is strong. Soon Holden's daydreams are crushed: Alyssa is a lesbian. But the connection between these two strong-willed twenty-some­things continues, and they develop a solid friendship. 
ANTOfT AI. 

-+This afternoon from 2 to 
4:30 p.m., the AnTostal activities are centered around the Fieldhouse Mall. Gouge yourselves in the eat­ing contests and French Club pastry fest. Compete in the sack race, wet clothes race, or the dizzy bat race. Display your artistic talents in the chalk medium on the side­walks. 
-+Tonight, take a trip back to grade school for the Elementary School Theme Dinner at the dining halls while your classmates sere­nade you with karaoke. 
-+After dinner, put your video game skills up against others' in the big screen video game tournament in the Huddle beginning at 7 
p.m. Finally, at 8 and 10:30 p.m., enjoy the Class of '99's free movie, "Top Gun." 
Holden, still captivated by the charm­ing and free-willed Alyssa, is uncomfort­able being just friends with Alyssa, because he desperately wants some­thing more from the relationship. 
Thus, Holden expresses 
Love with a Twist 
should be, but for some reason, perhaps on modern society's inability to accept rushed by Miramax or under pressure those with alternative lifestyles, he cer­to mess things up in typical I Iollywood tainly picked a far fetched and unbeliev­fashion, Kevin Smith loses control of his able way to do it (I can't say anything film in the last fifth of the movie. else without giving away the unnerving 
his love for Alyssa in a surprisingly realistic monologue, passionate yet not in the over-scripted manner such drama tends to include. She decides that this guy might be the soul mate she's been unknowingly searching for. 
In an episode of "Seinfeld," a character can just '"switch teams " with comic swiftness. However, Alyssa and Holden's rela­tionship isn't easy going {otherwise it would be a short film, not a feature­length movie). 
Holden's best friend shows great animosity towards Alyssa, and uses SOme harsh slang to try PhotocourtesyofMiramax 
d · · · · ·

an convmce o en o us h . d d' th 1
foolishness {although this omosexua11ty an preJu 1ce 1n e1r romantic 1nvo vement. 
Holden becomes tho kind of character that you want to smack on the back of the head to knock some sense into him. lie met the girl of his dreams, fell in love with her, and despite her seemingly unchangeable lifestyle, she comes to view him as the one 

ending). 
The climax of the movie, which involves a con­frontation to lay all the cards on the table, makes me wonder what kind of experimental drugs Kevin Smith was on during the filming. because it is total­ly out of sync with both his own directing style and the type of characters he created. 
Besides the question of why Alyssa would hide her past heterosexual experi­ences from a guy she only intended to be friends with. tho couple also acts disappointingly when faced with conflict. 
Th!~ir romantic n~lation­ship should havP been more llexible to tlw obsta­clcs they ran into sineP it had been built on the 
is all done in that hysterical raunchy humor similar to "Clerks"), and Alyssa's friends make her an outcast for betray­ing her sexuality. 
Aside from the main plot, the various small dialogues discussing homosexuali­ty in 1990s America are particularly well done. Smith doesn't pretend that everyone easily accepts lesbianism, and even criticizes those who do accept it just became lesbianism has become "chic" {this criticism is voiced by Holden's homosexual African-American friend, who does not feel a "One-For-All" tie with other gays, as he feels espc­cially outcast being a minority among minorities). But more importantly, Alyssa slowly convinces Holden that there arc differences between sex and love, but not between love of the oppo­site sex and love of the same sex. 
So, until now, I've described a movi-e which is hysterically funny at the level of "Clerks," controversial yet realistic at discussing 1990s treatment of homosex­uals, and a fresh perspective on the boy­meets-girl story. This should be a five shamrock movie, right? Well, yes it foundation of a strong friendship. For a couple that grew from policies of open­ness associated with friendship, free of inhibitions, they stumbled dumsily into bizarre Hollywood entanglements. 

"Chasing Amy" is a movie that will 
make you laugh out special person loud, if you enjoyed meant for her. the crude humor of 
His obnoxious "Clerks." The basic friend digs up some plot line is clever dirt on her, involv­and very aware of 
ing her past hetero­the sensitive issues sexual life, which surrounding mis­she hid from him, conceptions of and this upsets him homosexuality and more than any wild prejudice. lesbian experiences Unfortunately, 
she's had. Kevin Smith's char­
Tears are shed in acters eventually some rather act in ways that impressive acting, seem either unreal­and you'll sit on the istic or two-dimen­edge of your scat sional, and the wondering what's movie ends on the going to happen. single down note of But if Kevin Smith an otherwise high-wanted to comment Photo courtesy of Miramax or quality film. 
ous ¢ourt composerin Vie~ his con• ' find character flaws in Mozart. Salicri's fes~i'()ri ·takes :P1~¢t:l, in tht _ .lt1m arid ii•;ltwe plus his contempt mutates into a assumably right before SaHeri s Q.eath. •rJealous rage that ultimately leads to 
This setting is what intrigues me most Mozart's premature death. Because of about the film. The vieweqit:>es not get a his scheming and treachery, Salieri man­strai(l'bt·forward ~lo:rific · f ¥ozart: · · ~::; to keep Mozart poor and relatively Ra.th~.r~ thevie~~!l it:; g ·-~nvlo!ls .b(1rald~phit:; whole }ife. However, and jealous, yet adori 6unt of lleri's PW1l guilt, jealousy, and insecti­Mozart's life and talent. 1 ....· perverse dties ultimately drive him insane as well. account from Salieri gives tp£\Viewer a r:·;We can S(:)e today that Salieri's plan unique perspective on theJi · !this leg• '~fiickfired based on the amount of Mozart 
eJ1(t  ..•  .  •.  ''"~  _.·.  __ •-·-·  · ·  
Sa.Ueri's acco1tnt star._  fi  
introduction to· Mozart i  rt  

Emperor Joseph II in Vienri alieri is proud of his music and eagerjo see the tale1lts of thisrvl~.zart tbath ad be 
:.,! he so. niuc)J.abotlt... . "tha .__ _ ozart makes on Sa shape the plot in this film. While completely 
terial ~yfl,Uable compared with the ~-•· ()fSalieri material ~wailable .• the anty i$ sizeable. w< Beside the captivating plot, the visual 
style in "Amadeus" is amazing. The com-o~jtion within each frame absolutely l.~!Y me .a\v&:y, The lighting in the scenes .-_. the sanit~;tTium is used in an extremely tlever way to show the passage of time. The audio weaves different Mozart pieces a fab .that flows throughout the seems to fit the mood of scene. th~ acting.is also 
is not too much more to film other than if you were and waited 13 years to see 


,.. 
. 

Photo Courtesy Hollywood Pictures John Cusack makes a majorsilver-screen comeback in "Grosse Pointe Blank." 
Monday, April 21, 1997 
Cusack's Second Wind 
GROSSE POINTE BLANK Directed by: George Armitage Starring: John Cusack and Minnie Driver 

lOut or fi\'1' shamrnrks) 
By COURTNEY VOELKER 
Accent Movie Critic 
tion into the world of profes­sional assassin Martin Q. Blank. As Marcella reads him his invitation to his 10-year high school reunion and <'ncourag<~s him to attend. Martin adamantly opposes the idea. 
It is only when he gets an assignment to kill in the same small Detroit suburb as his n•union that hc is convinced to confront his past. His dncision is further encouraged by his therapist. Dr. Oatman (convincingly played by Alan Arkin), who advises him. "Don't kill anybody for a few days. See what it feels like." Oatman also wants Martin to confront the recurring subject of his dreams, his ex-girlfriend Debi Newberry (Minnie Driver), whom he stood up on prom night and never contacted again. 
So, Martin returns to Grosse Pointe and, on 
his existential journey. linds that things have changed. As he searches for meaning and truth in his life, he faces danger confronting both people from his past as well as NSA agents, a hit man, and his old mentor and fellow killer Grocer (Dan Aykroyd). all of whom want him dead. Grocer is tracking .him to kill him since he refused to join his proposed "hit man's union." His days visiting Grosse Pointe are filled with trying to visit old friends. win back his girlfriend, kill his assignment, dodge his enemies, attend his 
rnunion, and sort out his life. 
llis first encounter with the spirited, witty 
Debi is at her radio job as a deejay. Here, 
slw causes him public humiliation by asking, 
on air, whether she should give Martin a sec­
ond chance. She eventually decides to, and 


p10 at the Box Office 
1. 
Anaconda 

2. 
Liar, Liar 

3. 
Murder at 1600 

4. 
The Saint 

5. 
Grosse Pointe Blank 

6. 
The Devil's Own 

7. 
McHale's Navy 

8. 
That Old Feeling 

9. 
8 Heads in a Duffel Bag 

10. 
(tie) Chasing Amy 


10. (tie) Scream 
Source: Associated Press 
the sparks fly as they attend their reunion. 
At the reunion, everyone wants to know what he has done with his life. He answers, "I freaked out. joined the army, became a professional assassin," and people assume that he is joking. However, while still at the reunion. Debi discovers Martin was telling the truth when she finds him upstairs by his old locker after just having murdered a hired gun who was trying to kill him. An old high school buddy also sees what Martin has done and helps him dispose of the body. Now 
that's friendship for you. 
As Martin tries to justify to Debi that these are bad people that he is killing, more of the funny dialogue that is present throughout the movie is deliv­ered. Martin tries to rational­ize his actions saying that if he is on someone's doorstep, chances are that person did something to bring him there. 
Dcbi tells him that he is a psychopath, to which Martin responds, "No, psychopaths do it for no reason. I do it for money." Debi decides that she cannot handle his lifestyle and tells him to leave. 
Will he finish his job and return to his life of killing after leaving Grosse Pointe? Will he win the heart of Debi? Will he join the "hit man union?" Will he ever alter his wardrobe from all black? These are questions that I will leave 
unanswered so I do not ruin the film. 
I must make a few comments about the movie. First. it docs contain strong violence·, more than you would probably expect from the previews, but for the most part, the movie remains light. It is a romantic comedy that does not overwhelm you with mushi­ness. Hather, the chemistry between Cusack and Driver is appealing without overkill. 
The entire cast is entertaining and well­developed, from Martin's office man~ger Marcella to an employee at an Ultimart con­venience store. This is an unpredictable film that consists of numerous short scenes, fan­tastic, quirky dialogue, and is fresh in style. There is nostalgic '80s music interlaced throughout the movie that will have you bouncing in your seat. Some of the groups represented arc the Violent Femmes, The Clash, and Greed Decade. 
"Grosse Pointe Blank" was directed by George Armitage, who previously directed "Miami Blues," his 1990 film starring Alec Baldwin and Jennifer Jason Leigh. 
Without a doubt, the true star of this pro­duction is Cusack, who starred in, eo-wrote, and produced "Grosse Pointe Blank." While it is difficult to imagine that there could be a charming professional killer whose soft side overpowers his profession, Cusack successful­ly portrays exactly this. 
"Grosse Pointe Blank" is a sharp, witty film that delivers a unique form of romance, killing, and comedy. How many movies can say that they do all of that? 
10 Video Rentals 
1
. The First Wives' Club 

2. 
The Long Kiss Goodnight 

3. 
Courage Under Fire 

4. 
The Chamber 

5. 
Sleepers 

6. 
Glimmer Man 

7. 
Supercop 

8. 
Fargo 

9. 
Space Jam 

10. 
2 Days in the Valley 


Source: Billboard Online 

page 11 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 

Genetalllospital 
Everyone at the Q's is thrilled when the article about Dorman har~sing another woman is on the front page. In celebration Stefan tak¢s Katharin¢ for a drive and th~y make out and bond over tales of childhood. Stefan tells tales of his lonely paranoid childhood and how she changed his life. Poor Alexis wants to discuss problems in the testing phase ofsomething, but Stefan is unconcerned and sends her off .. She shares some witty repartee with Luke who invites her to the club sin<oe his wife. is gone and calls her the warm fuzzy Cassadine. Alexis wisely refuses. When she goes to the PC Hotel and receives the letter she is waiting for, Ned surprises her and begins an interroga­tion. Alexis reveals she keeps a room there for privacy. 
Thg n.ext day someone retaliates by revealing that AJ drove the car that 'killed' Jason Quartermaine. The question is, who? Keesha is accused and Emily asks her diary if she did it while high. The answer: Dorman, who photocopied her diary after Matt gave it to him. Jason is convinced Dorman did it and threatens to kill him. conve­niently in front of witnesses. The family attempts to cover. but AJ steps up and takes full responsibility. 
AJ stops by Keesha's, but she refuses to be his substitute for booze and throws him out. AJ goes to Jason's, but finds an empty apartment filled with too lllanY m.elllPties .. Down at the bar, he meets Carly, who had a doozie ofa fight with Tony. First, she gets home to find Luke and Tony talking about Bobbie. Then Lucas mouths off and she gives him a well-deserved tongue lashing. Tony takes his son's side. She questions Lucas' upbringing, then she calls Bobbie a "cheap whore~ and Tony tells her not to speak aboqthis ... and stops. He was think· ing wife and Carly knew it. She flirts. with and goes upstairs with AJ. 
Felicia got the wrong package and concludes Kevin is stalking her. She goes to the Lighthouse and interrupts a domestic scene. Kevin co}1f~ssed to. L'llcY where he went {Oxford) and why (to stop the let­ters). He then reveals the portrait ''Love of my Life" which has Lucy and Sigmund. Kevin assures Felicia he's not that stupid, but she tells him ifthe computer shenanigans do not stop, she'll go to the police. 
Mitll,nda confronts ~renda, butdoesn't bring up the infidelity. :Aft~l;watd Br¢nd~freaksl;ind almostta.kes a pill; later she flushes all of them. Jax threatens to go the Feds about Tracy's new marriage andquick widowhood to a mob boss and have them look at the books. Ned tells him to go for it and he'll expose Miranda. The male postur­ingi~ cut short when.they hear tiny feet on the roof. They find Emily; high bn heroin, on the roof. She attempts to fly, and Ned lunges out the window to grab her. Will Jax hold on or let him drop? 
B"mail Genevieve Morrill with your GH comments at· mi{rr8584@saiiitinarys.iJ'du 
Days::'of ()ur Lives 
.. . . ..... . 
th~re was a big upset i~ Salem, this past week ... the death of Ro1llan Brady. Roman was on a dangerous ISA mission when he was tak~J;l hostage ~y miUta11ts: The first person informed is John, who rU!'iA~? to"Qog!s" si~y·.:.yvethen ~jtness four very long days of Ma}'~ena sobbing and carrying on (Lbout how she's to blame for his death.Kim, Roman's sister, flew infrom LA to grieve (funny that she hadJ:ime to be tQld and fly into town, hut Carrie and Sami were still in t~e ·· k fQ,r (l~hile), r.Marle11~ ;md John.take a detour through Sal \ ..... church-and .. they finallydecide to tell Carrie and Sami. 
Austin and Sami are spending quality time together. The scene 
thatwon the coveted award for "making viewers vomit" went to Sami 
andAqstin fortheir "sit-Up and yon get a smooch" therapy. After wit­
n 
. that $~e11e<. we ~hinkthl!;~ Garrie threw up. too. John and M ·.·..· .a. breakthe newsofRoman'sdeath to the sisters. Carrie acts acy_prdingly, yet Sami is more distraught, obnoxious, and needy than ever. yYith .news of her. father's death, Sami miraculously remembers J()9J:l. ~nd NJ:a:l'l¢na. goi .. ····· it in t~e off'lce .. Sami makes Austin swear th~t he will be ~aithful always pethere. Sami then says that she doesnotwantto reme .· . the lastfour years of her life. Meanwhile, Carrie overhears and says that she has truly lost the battle for Austin. e secr~Jroom .with a candlestick! Laura . . rl¢na U.! tell John the truth, but Marlena .0. Laura yows to reveal th~ truth. Laura then tries to jog her ry by visiting the church and Peter's house. Kristin and Lynn er in the secret ro.om at Peter's house, and Kristin whacks her 

~t~th€) 9 . t~ck. Lyp;t~.bril1gs.adisheveled Laura back aO.d Mike.. ·. . . . then gets treated Hke the little boy who 

c 
. . . olf.1\'hert sh(Ue ~ ofthe place whereStefano and Peter tor· mented her. Laura, Jenn; and Mike take a trip to Peter's house, 


Kristin aur · ullingo}1 the doorto the room and Kristin yi . Il· her ljatdest. It'll be interesting to see 
h.s t . g"o-war... .. 
Susan's plan to be "Krisstan'' was put into motion last week. She started by imitating Kfi~tin's voice. She then sneaks into John and <Kr· bedf?Ol)l; where slle studies tapes of Kristin and wears her 
. . .... ; All 'Veek long Susan had sexually elicit visions of her and 
Jo .. What floated our boat (and Susan's too) occurred Friday, when 
John came backto find Susan dressed in full Kristin garb, and decid­
ed ~~ needed some actjon after consoling Marlena all week long. 
S4~<W:'~dte~tl.ls ~ecomyBElaJityas ~~e and John hit the sheets. 
Co(flments or suggestions? E-mail us at Tracy.A.Gorman.13@nd.edu orfjps.alynn;J, · 
-
-

-
•MLB 
The Observer· SPORTS ________________________p~ge 12 
tensive amount of time, re­on and will implement more sponded with a team-high 66 for next Saturday's game.
Blue-Gold 
yards on 12 carries. "The coaches have done a continued from page 20 "Clement Stokes has done good job of getting us used to everything we've asked him to all the new things," said tail­
"I felt pretty comfortable out do," said Davie prior to the back Autry Denson. "They there," said Powlus. "I know I game. "He is a guy who has a have worked hard to get us to can improve and be more effi­lot of potential and can be an the point of where we are now. cient, but as far as the offen­asset to this football team." You could see a little of that sive system, I think we have a While the game was certain­out there today." pretty good grasp of what ly competitive, it was hardly a Following the game, Davie we're doing." formal affair. With four 10-announced the captains for the 
While the passing game minute quarters and a brief 1997 season. Powlus, corner­struggled, the Irish rushing overtime, Davie and the coach­back Allen Rossum, and defen­attack provided a silver lining ing staff switched players back sive end Melvin Dansby, who is for Davie and the coaching and forth from the Blue to the currently out with an injury, staff. Tailback Clement Stokes Gold side to give certain indi­were selected by a vote of the and fullback Joey Goodspeed viduals more extensive time. players. continue to plead their case Mattison and Colletto also "This is a great group of for more playing time next fall. stood on the field, giving in­guys, and it is a nice honor, 
Prior to suffering a bruise to structions to their respective but I don't want to make too his shoulder, Goodspeed units to avoid any confusion big a deal out of it. It just amassed 46 yards on eight with the new terminology. means that I have to go out to carries. Stokes, given the op­The coaching staff made midfield and call the coin portunity to perform for an ex-adjustments as the game went toss," Powlus said. 
Cubs finally break losing streak on Sanchez single 
By RONALD BLUM who began 0-21. The Cubs, who down the right-field line that The Padres, who scored only nings. mdGORDONSAKAMOTO had lost 28 of 30 going back to glanced off the glove of Alex one run in dropping a double­"I was fighting to find my me­Associated Press Writers last season before the win, Ochoa for a double. header to St. Louis on Saturday, chanics," Ashby said. "But I got 
smashed the franchise record Dunston. however, tagged up broke out of their offensive on top of my pitches and made NEW YORK of 13 straight losses set in 1944 on the play and only made it to slump with an 8-2 win over the them when I had to." Even the Cubs couldn't keep and tied in 1982 and 1985. third. And when Rey Sanchez Cardinals on Sunday. Sean Bergman finished with losing forever. And this was coming from a fell behind 0-2 in the count "We're a good hitting ball­two shutout innings for San 
Chicago stopped its season­team that hasn't won a World against reliever Toby Borland, club," said San Diego manager Diego. opening losing streak at 14 Series since 1908 and captured it looked like another Cubs' Bruce Bochy, whose team had "Ashby and Bergy did a hel­Sunday, rallying in the sixth its last NL pennant in 1945. threat would fizzle. 12 hits. "Right now we're luva job for us," Bochy said. "It inning and beating the New Given a 1-0 lead on Matt But Borland bounced a wild struggling, but every team goes was a well-played game for us York Mets 4-3 in the second Franco's fifth-inning homer, pitch, allowing Dunston to through it." and I'm hoping this will help game of a doubleheader. Dave Mlicki {0-1) couldn't hold score, and Sanchez singled Tony Gwynn, Ken Caminiti get us on a roll. We lost the first 
The Mets, who won the open­it. After stranding eight runners home Orie for a 2-1 lead -and Quilvio Veras each drove in two, but bounced back well." er 8-2 behind a pair of Carl in the first five innings, he hit putting the Cubs ahead in the two runs for San Diego in the St. Louis manager Tony La Everett homers, played like the Shawon Dunston near the wrist second half of a game for only finale of the first major league Russo said the Saturday night Cubs in the second game, blow­with a pitch leading off the the second time this year. series in Hawaii. Rickey doubleheader, followed by the ing a 1-0 lead with a hit batter, sixth, and Dunston stole sec­Henderson and Wally Joyner day game on Sunday, may have botched foul popup, double off ond. Padres 8 Cardinals 2 had three hits apiece, and taken its toll on the Cardinals. an outfielder's glove and game­Kevin Orie's foul popup near Henderson also had two of the "Having to play the next day tying wild pitch. the third-base dugout fell Padres' five stolen bases. is tough," he said. "But the 
Chicago's 0-14 start set a between catcher Alberto HONOLULU The Padres got strong pitch­Padres had to do the same National League record and Castillo and third baseman Matt The San Diego Padres finally ing from Andy Ashby (1-1), who thing." was the second-worst behind Franco -either could have got into the swing of things in limited the Cardinals to seven Bochy said playing in Hawaii the 1988 Baltimore Orioles, gloved it -and Orie hit a liner Hawaii. hits and two runs in seven in-was a "great experience." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a:m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ SUMMER RENTALS  93 HONDA CIVIC EX.  Loaded:  HELP!!! Need 7 tix to the Blue and  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ 
NOTICES  TIONS Positions available evenings  AVAILABLE HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS - Power sun-roof, windows, locks. Air, Cruise. AM/FM!Tape, ASS,  Gold game the 26th. I have 5 peo­ple FLYING in and the game is sold  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage offers On Campus and Off Campus  
4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­ WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­ 5-speed, Air bag,  Alarm.  60,000  out. Contact Shannon 1-8544 or  Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  
THE COPY SHOP  ends from April through  DENTS- miles,  two new tires. Buy at  dealer  299-7026  Insurance, Tape and Packing  
LaFortune Student Center  AugusVSeptember. Our busy call  LOW SUMMER RATES­ cost  and  save!  Materials Included. Call Now to  
Phone 631-COPY  center is looking for candidates with  UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ $9,000.  Jim, 289-1992.  I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!  Reserve Your Space at BOO 3  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  excellent phone skills and a desire  ERS/DRYERS,  WILL PAY BIG$$!! X2369  STORE 9 (800 378-6739).  
Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  to satisfy our customers. Dependability an absolute must. Starting pay is $8.00 per hour,  ALARM SYSTEMS AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR SOONER.  MAC COMPUTER w/ printer & eth­ernet: Performa 6214 w/ CD ROM. Purchased last year from ND for  PERSONAL  UPS ON CAMPUS LOWEST RATES  
Fri.:  7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  $9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply  CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER,  $2000.  Asking $950 obo.  Amy  COUNTRY HARVESTER  
Sat.:  Noon -6:00 p.m.  at Oualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ DOMUS PROPERTIES  x3525.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  M-F 10-5  SAT 12-3  
Sun.: Noon -Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends  sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921 Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  Staying for summer school?  13" Samsung TVNCR combo. Like  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  We are not a temporary service, check us out!  
ILOST & FOUND I  We support a drug free workplace. EOE  Apartment at College Park for rent. Good Location, Parking, Nice/Clean, Sun  new. Orig. box/ manual/ warranty/ remote. $249 o.b.o. Call X4931  The highest quality color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP  Irish Accent's LAST SHOW OF THE YEAR  
Deck,Washer/Dryer. Call243-9360.  Marshall Valvestate 8040 40w  LaFortune Student Center  happens TOMORROW NIGHT  
LOST-Silver Olympus Stylus Camera on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4-1107  FOR RENT  2 BDRM, 2 Bath, WID, Dishwasher,  amp. Like new. $299. Call X4931  Phone 631-COPY  at 9 PM in the LIBRARY AUD! If you miss it-WHAT WILL YOU TELL YOUR GRANDCHILDREN?  
Micro. Close to campus. Suitable  Computer For Sale-Cheap  Family Needs Graduation  
Lost -green bookbag with diskette  Near Campus  for grad student or Prof. in Jamison  243-9357  Tickets-Please Help!  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  
box, COs, class notebooks inside.  Homes for 97-98  Condos. Available June 1 thru May  Christian 273-6967  CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  
- Lost at NOH on Mon. Apr. 14th. Very important. Call Paul at x2018  232-2595 Apt. for 11 wks. V. close to ND (May -Aug), $65 per Wk. Call  31. $800. (818)968-7030. FOR SALE  STEVE MILLER CENTER STATE FLOOR SEATS  PRINT FROM DISK PRINT FROM DISK PRINT FROM DISK  
My name is Yu-zhi Cui. My pass­port from the People's Republic of  Jihad 277-3254 5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER Great nbrhd, near ND  1ST 10 ROWS 272-7233  Tons of Furniture! ... Really, Really Cheap  Very high-quality full-color output is now available at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center.  
China has been lost. It is no longer valid. No.458870  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794 Paul.  2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 288 7862  TICKETS  Couches...Chairs... Dressers.. . Tables...Beds...Bookcases.. . Lamps...Kitchen Stuff...and  Bring in your computer disk to print your files. We support PowerPoint, Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
WANTED Family seeks loving. responsible, fun person to help care for 2 chil­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 thru 6/1 O: 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  Two ND grads ('95) are looking for one or two others (M or F) to share a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for info. Live in a New House During Summer School!  BEAUTIFUL 2 BDRM CONDO ON THE WATER,5 MIN FROM N.D. GARAGE,APPLIANCES,POOL,CL UBHOUSE.BRAND NEW.$92,900. 235-3259. 89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad 277-3254  Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help I Brian-287-4876 Thank You  some! We can even deliver! Call287-4876 HEADACHE, BACK & NECK PAIN RELIEF CLINIC Kaurich Chiropractic 3511 Lincolnway West South Bend  and many many more types of files. It only costs a $1 plus the regular color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color copy price for over ten files. We can print directly onto overhead transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK PRINT FROM DISK  
hr. References and own transporta­ Right By Campus.  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ 282-2828  PRINT FROM DISK  
tion needed.  call @243-9438.  •FURNITURE-Futon $100 Chair  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  mmmm ..... forbidden donuts 2-0!  
Sue 233-6657  $50 273-8673  Please call Paige at X4011  "We Don't Feel Good Until You Feel  
A used car in good condition. Call Rishi at 4-4540 and leave message.  3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST. LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL  Furniture for sale! Call 243-9357  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$.  Your Best" ADOPTION  C-Camp: It's all a part of the college experience, really it is.  
WANTED: MOUNTAIN BIKE­Will pay some$$$ David-234-1840  '97. CALL 234-1440. NICE HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  '81 OLDS CUTLASS, 4-DR, 1-0WNER. NEW MOTOR. CALL 273-2241. FOR SALE: 10' Burmese Python and 7.5' Albino Burmese  ETHAN 4-1659. STEVE MILLER CENTER STAGE FLOOR SEATS  Happily married couple promises love, warmth & a secure future for your baby. Respect for you & your decision. Expenses paid. Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344  L-Cour: What the hell kind of an accent was that anyway. 'It's not a gooudideee.' LA: Just think Bridget's--denied  
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­ Great temperments.  MOOSETRACKS...TOMKO PENN  L-Cour: I mean, where is he from  
RIBELIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  $200 080, cage and heat included.  FIRST 10 ROWS  SCHLECTE BERGEN KELLY... GIVIN' EM THE BUSINESS FOR 2  anyway? Michiana?  
PAID 2773097  2773097  Call Jeff at 283-0739 for details.  272-7233  YEARS --CRAZY  LA: Bridget's--denied.  

Intensity picks up in Bookstore 
gave them trouble. 
"We have to work on our zone offense. That's the first time we've seen that [zone de­fense]," said Dan Fannon of Corby's. "We're not at all sat­isfied with the way we played. We're still a couple of steps from where we want to be." 
Also yesterday, fourth -seed­ed Swoosh III raced out to a 11-3 lead but slowed down in the second half, winning 21­14. 
Swoosh experienced a major scare on Friday when Jason Newcomer was taken to the hospital for a shoulder injury following their win. He was replaced on Sunday by football team member Malcolm Johnson and will return to ac­tion for Tuesday's game. 
Despite the second half slow­down, team captain Benedict Rocchio was still satisfied with Swoosh's performance. "We played well in the first half, but slowed down later. But these tough games early on will only help us get better. Right now our biggest concern is staying he a!thy," said Rocchio. 
One aspect of Swoosh's 
game which really improved was their outside shooting and Darnell Smith's emergence as a dominant offensive force. "I think our shooting was good. Benedict shot real well from the outside. Darnell drove the length of the court a few times real well," said Swoosh's Matt Campbell. 
Eleventh-seeded Downtown Assassins put on an impressive display, defeating The Patio's Yanni, 21-10. The Assassins advanced on the play of quick guards Gerry Barca and Raki Nelson and the athletic play of the supporting cast of tall players, which includes Eric Chappell, Will Martin, and Tom Daignault. 
If the win was any indica­tion, this may be one team to be reckoned with as the tournament advances. Much like the other top-seeded teams playing yesterday, Assassins came out strong early on but slowed down their game in the second-half. 
"We can't be that satisfied. We got lazy," said Downtown Assassin's Daignault. "We were blowing them out early and then got complacent."

Teams start to feel pressure to perfect play 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Senior Sporrs Writer 
Working out the kinks. That seemed to be the dominant theme for the high seeds in this weekend's Bookstore tournament action. 
Top-seeded Corby's, number four Swoosh III, and eleventh­ranked Downtown Assassins advanced to the next round of the tournament, all with hopes of advancing to next week­end's final four which will be held at Stepan Courts. 
Corby's defeated Scooby Snacks 21-10 on Sunday. Tim Ridder was the high scorer with seven points, including a thunderous dunk late in the second-half. Despite the win, none of the team's members were overjoyed with the per­formance, which wasn't as dominating as in Corby's first two games. Scooby Snacks came out with a zone defense against Corby's and briefly 
TilE LEWIS HALL STAFF~ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE NOTRE DAME BIOLOGY CLUB AND PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY~ 
PROUDLY PRESENT 

DELIVERING A PRESENTATION ON 
"WOMEN, GENETICS, & ETHICS" 
BASEMENT OF LEWIS HALL 
TUESDAY, APRIL 22 7:30P.M. fiLL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND 
RECEPTION TO FOLLOW 

Weekly Specials 
How would you like ro teach basic conversational English in Eastern EuroJ?e? Our mareria1s profile many rewarding tc:achmg opporrunitic:s with great benefits. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
.... 
MACRI's MoNDA 
I 
• 8¢ wings 
Service Merchandise, Old Macri's Deli 
• 6 7' screen TV' 
• 
• NTNTrivi 
• Sandwich Grape Road University Park Mall 
• Milk $1 
-
-
.... 
-
page 14 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Turn Back the Clock Night -The Notre Dame Baseball Team is turning back the clock to the glory days of baseball on Wed., April 23 at 8 p.m. The Irish will be outfitted in 1950s replica uniforms when they host Northwestern at Eck Stadium. Admission is just 50 cents and hot dogs, pop­corn and drinks are also just $1 each. The first 250 fans will receive a free Collector's Edition Notre Dame Baseball Cap. A free mountain hike will be given away to one lucky fan and Tony Rice, who quarter­backed the Irish Football team to the 1988 National Championship, will throw out the first pitch. For more information, contact Daniel Thornton at Sports Promotions at 631-8103 
Special Olympics ­Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swim­mers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30­
5:30 p.m. For more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
RecSports -will be hir­ing two full-time, one part­time, and numerous substi­tutes to lifeguard at the St. Joseph Lake ach this summer contact Greg at come to RecSports offi e at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
RecSports -is now accepting applications for student event supervisors and student issue room supervisors. Please pick up an application at the Office of RecSports on the first floor of the Joyce Center. For more information. call 631-6100. 
SUBWAY Catering Service 

You've 
Earned It! 
·Giant 6 Foot Party Subs ·Party Platters ·Party Trays 
PHONE 289-1288 
rua-·--· ...-:_ .
-~ ~ 
~ ·-···­
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
games," said Coach Paul Mainieri with a sigh of relief. "But to their credit, these guys never let up; they have a lot of confidence." 
The nightcapper proved to be a bit more profitable for Irish statkeepers. 
After scoring one run in the first inning and two in the sec­ond, the Irish sluggers hacked apart Wildcat pitching for eight runs in the fourth. 
With two outs and the inning nearly over, the relentless Irish sent 12 batters to the plate, in­cluding grand slammer Mike Amrhein who crushed a bases­loaded horne run for his third career slam. 
The fourth-inning -assault led to a 14-3 Irish triumph. 
Sunday's showdown spelled imminent doom for Notre Dame. The Irish collapsed early, facing deficits of 4-0, 6-2 and 8-4. Each time they made it a two-run game, the Wildcats matched them an inning or two later. 
"I didn't think we played particularly well," said Coach 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 21, 1997 
Paul Mainieri. "But we kept battling back. This team has a poise and experience that really helps them pull out close games. This is a tough time of year, with finals lurking and papers to hand in." 
Indeed, the inevitable can only be postponed for the briefest of moments, and the seasoned Irish baseball fan had to know this was coming. 
Leftfielder Allen Greene and Amrhein peppered the Wildcats with timely opposite field hits, and J.J. Brock carne 
up big with three ~""""'.,.,.,"'7"",..,.,.,......,""""'.,.,....,....,... RBis down the stretch, at one point belting a two-out sin­gle over the head of the second baseman to drive in two Irish runs.· Centerfielder Randall Brooks con­tinued to scorch the opposition, going 4­for-5 and bringing his season average to .389. Brooks is 20 of his last 36, in­cluding a 9-for-12 performance on the weekend. "We just kept scrapping," Brooks 
said. "We had to come out there swinging late, and we did. We know we can do it every time. It's just a matter of being mentally tough." 
"Randall will always be one of my favorite players because he's willing to do anything, and he's always risen to the occa­sion," lauded Mainieri. "You know when it gets warm, Randall's going to be there for you." 
At present, Notre Dame boasts four players with the 
potential to hit over .400 ­Brooks, Amrhein (currently at .430), Ust (.384) and Jeff Wagner (.401). 
Notre Dame needs to win only three of its remaining seven Big East games to qualify for the Big East Tournament, whereas last year at this time, the Irish struggled to make it. 
Notre Dame plays Michigan at Grand Rapids on Tuesday. Some 4,500 tickets have already been sold in what should be a classic showdown. 


While there mav be lots of uood deals out there lor sman the exciting new Ford Escon ZX2, aterrific wav to grab life bV people, this one is available only to colleuo seniors and urad the wheel. BiD fun. For more College Graduate Purchase Program students. Get $400 cash back* toward the purchase or $650 info, call 1-800-321-1536 or visit the web at www.lord.com 
"To be eligible. you must graduate with an associate's or bachelor's degree between tO/t/95 and 1/3/98
cash baell* toward the Red Carpet Lease (or Red carpet OPtionl 
or be currently enrolled in graduate school. You must purchase or lease your new veh1cle between 1/4/97of anv eligible Ford or Mercurv. sman uoinu. And that includes and 1/3/98. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restnchons apply. See your dealer for details. 

College Graduate Purchase Program Mercury iJ 
Monday, April 21, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish sweep S\11 Jol1n.:§, ~plit.do~bl.~h~i~der .. ~ith ·UConn 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sporrs Wrirer 
This weekend the Notte Dame softball team headed east for two doubleheaders against Big East rivals St. John's and North Division leader Conn.ecticut The squad took three of the four conference games to improve to 13-3 in the Big East and 28-19 overall. 
Against the Red Storm, the Irish pounded out 26 hits in 12 innings, including four doubles and two home runs in game one. Catcher Kris McCleary led the way for Notre Dame, going 2-3 with a double and her first four-bagger of the season. 
Meghan Murray hit a solo 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
to advance." 
In the second upset of the day, and the tournament, If it Stinks. Don't Put it in Your Mouth defeated No. 18 Straightballers, 21-16. In addition to a well-balanced attack on both sides of the court by If it Stinks .... one of the major keys to the upset was the "nothing to lose" approach to the tournament. 
While many teams, es­pecially seeded ones, feel the pressure to perform in the tournament, it often can affect the mental game of the team, and therefore, the team's overall performance. 
If it Stinks' laid-back attitude 
homer and scored two runs in the victory, and Liz Perkin~, Sarah Mathison and Lisa Ttdly >~a£;h adged, doubles~ With tb,~ 11~ 1 defeat of St. John's, Angell), Bessolo picked up her team­leading twelfth win of the sea~ 
~on, allQMns .. one run .on fiy~ 
hits. Kelly Nichols retired the 
side in the fifth to preserve the 
win. 
In game two, a 7~o win for th~ 
Visiting Irish, the squad· scoi'~d> 
five runs in the first three in­
nings and added two more in 
the seventh for the .final.tally. 
Murray .Qn(!e again. propeH~q 
the Irish to victory with a dou-: · 
ble, two RBis and one run 
scored. J(elly Rowe went 2~2 
with two R~Is. Korrie Allen ~tid 

allowed them to stay focused 
and knock off the 
Straightballers. 
"I don't think after four 
years anyone's intimidated," 
senior captain Dutch Betke of 
If it Stinks ... said of his team's 
attitude going into the game. 
"I think it's necessary that we 
keep our loose attitude in 
order to stay focused for the 
rest of the tournament." 
Teammate Matt Berilla 
elaborated on the attitude. 
"We're not one of those 
teams that have been practic­
ing since September," Berilla 
said. "The emphasis for us 
now is to not embarrass our­
selves, play some decent bas­
ketball, and have a good time." 
In the third upset of the day, 
4 Inmates and One Loose End 
defeated No. 32 All the 
President's Men, 21-14. 
Dawn Cunningham each scored ~h~ges; as cionnecticut}umped Dame answered with two rims for the Irish~ ~oy oUt to a 1-0lead in tbe third McCleary's RBI double in the Battetsby, who p~tched 
sin Ie and ~B{~?W>le. . second inning and a pair of runs inn o-hitt!J~ ~ga .... D.... rged~ll~~.tiein )l!~riven in by Mathison and John n 1996; improye fourth ... en TaM King . McCleary in the fourth. In the 
. record to 7-6 on the season and drove home Perkins with a sin­
4-0 in.the Big East. 
gletO center · . In the bottom 
In $unday's 4,ppbl e.r fifth, ldsh and 
against Connectfcut, t. .. sh to-b. . itigJes .. .e the 
managed to pull out a 6<~ win Notre Dame 
in game two on aMurraythree­knotted the score in the top of 
run homer; aft~r.f~lling ~T~ to t~~ sixth.wiWi~n unearned run 
the Huskies in the l,'ltstgauie; off. a Connecticut h error. 
The•loss marked theftrst•ever Another Notte Dame error in 
Big East regular season toad the sixth allowed Connecticut to 
loss for the Irish, who were 
J4cO thelQ(l,df?r goo<J;i 
in cflnfetence r~t~atf.gt~. o • aP,~\V~~ .tlj.r~e r~ns o'.fl. L Division riyal Rutgers remain on 
joining the league in 19 s fot the loss, dropping defeat also snapped a nille· her.record to 12-9. game. win streakfor th13 Iris~, ecticlJ'~l~apedo~t to a 2-: 
Tile ~arne incl~~ed t}):tt~~ ~~~4 > · in g~~ fW~ ))~fn~~ .Notre 
Of those ranked teams that did walk away victorious, many were feeling the need to sharpen their skills and team unity. One of those teams was No. 16 Show Me the Money. Although the team looked impressive in its 21-10 win over Ska n' Hole, team captain Ryan Dang cited the need to get things rolling. 
"The competition is getting a little tougher, but we're still not really playing as team yet," Dang said. "We've got another game tomorrow, though, so hopefully we'll be able to get into a rythm." 
One of the top teams that was an exception to the rule yesterday was fifth-seed SFR2: We Still Can't Score. SFR2 got both its second and third round games out of the way yesterday and looked flawless in both. After playing a less than serious team that flaunt­ed dresses and a tutu in the first game, SFR2 looked even better in its second game with a 21-5 victory in the after­noon. 
Sparked by, what one spec­tator called "a human high­light film." sophomore Brian Stuck. who scored over half 
Campus View Apartments  
We are now taklng applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air ·24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball'courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272-1441 Summer leases Available  

-· 
-
--
fifth. the.Irish broke the game open with Kara McMahon's double and Perkin's single to set up Murray's three-run blast. 
Kelly Nichols relieved starter Battersby and picked up the win, improving her record to 9­4; 
Two games against Butler on Wed., April 23 and a four-game series against Big East South 
the regular season schedule for 
the Irish before they return to 
Storrs, Conn. for the 1997 Big )East softball championship. 
his team's points on both fast breaks and some automatic outside shooting, SFR2 easily rolled into the 128 round. 
"Today was actually our first game when we've actually had a team try to play against us," Stuck commented. "We were just happy to go through our offense and get out there and run a little bit." 

page 16 
.._ 



-
-
The Observer • BLUE & GOLD GAME Monday, April 21, 1997 
I ... 

April 19, 1997 
Rushing: 55 yards Passing: 133 yards Total: 188 yards 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
-
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Clement Stokes (32, top and above right) recorded the top rushing performance in the scrimmage on Saturday. Stokes rushed 12 times for 65 yards, averaging 5.42 yards per carry. (Left) Malcolm Johnson (6) was involved in many of the offensive plays of the game. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
.. 
Monday, April 21, 1997 
page 17
The Observer· BLUE & GOLD GAME 
Jackson finds niche in offense 

Captain 
continued from page 20 
He gives me pointers on what I'm doing well and what I'm not. lie's been like a big brother to me." 
The 5-foot-7 bottled speed known as Allen Rossum will likely spend more of the field then the NBC TV timeout guy. Rossum burst onto the scene last season threatening to take it the distance every time he touched the ball. The coaching staff is looking to take advantage of that game breaking ability. 
"Allen. he is a general on the field because he plays on both offense and defense and is one of our main guys on special teams," Jordan said. "I think that him being named captain is great because he's able to take control of the defense and make it his and Melvin's." 
Ther-1-! is probably no other player that has more experience than Powlus which lets his team­mates know what to expect from him. 
"Everybody knows what Ron can do," Jordan said. "lie's a great player and a good person. He was a captain last year and kept control of the team, and I think that the three of them was a great decision." 
Although Powlus, Dansby, and 
• GRADED POSITION ANAlYSIS 
Rossum are the designated cap­tains, the team is comprised of players who are capable of be­ing leaders. 
"We have three captains but all of us share responsibility," Autry Denson said. "Actually everyone is a leader by exam­ple." 
"The best thing about this· team is that we have so many great guys on this team that the captains don't have to do much more than call the coin toss," Powlus said. "With these guys we have a bunch of leaders on the team, and we have a team full ofjust good people." 
Powlus and Dansby's careers have been sidetracked by in­juries while Rossum was criti­cized early in his career, but they have all worked through those road blocks. They now look to take that ability in their roles as captains. 
"When you've overcome ob­stacles you know how to re­cover," Powlus said. "We've had to overcome some things and battle back and do what we could, and that's what we want to do with the team. When we're in a tough situation we're going to try to pu II the team through." 
Although there are still unre­solved issues for the '97 Irish, the team can be confident in knowing who their leaders arc. 
Quarterback: B 
Nothing spectacular but solid play from Powlus and Jackson. Despite being hounded by theN'o. 1 defense, Pqwlus~as 11-,17 with 113 yards while Jackson completed ~r.ofhist6.pass~~,includii1g first for 80 yards to Malcolm Johnson. Chappellshowyased some his skill and youth. 
· 
Running Backs: B+ .. , 
Denson, Goodspeed, Stokes, a11dBarry all av(:)~aged Qver a carry and Goodspeed bro'llgh~,,to, J,Ili:p.d,imag~~ qfE~~ards'... he slightly bruised his shoulder; It's niCe to have Stokes back field as he had 65 yards on 13 carries. .· 
Receivers: B+ 
The second team defense left Johnson alone on the [rrst play as he had the only touchdown of the game. Eight~tf!el'en!,,\yide rect}ivershad two catches including Rossmn and Shannon Stephens who just looks like he needs to get his hands on the ball. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
As expected, the first of the two Blue and Gold contests more closely resembled prac­tice than an actual game. There were few offensive high­lights and even fewer heavy hits from the defense. 
Of course, it was understood before Saturday's intrasquad scrimmage began that the various offensive and defensive units would be focusing on specific aspects of the game, rather than attacking each play as they would in the course of a complete game. 
If there was a highlight of the game, it was Jarious Jackson's 80-yard touchdown pass to Malcolm Johnson on the Gold squad's first play from scrimmage. 
After a short drive by the Blue team to open the game, Jackson and teammates took possession on their own 20 yard line. The rising junior took the snap from center and dropped back_ before quickly lofting the ball over the shoul­der of the streaking Johnson. 
The senior wide receiver 
caught the 'ball near his own 
40 and proceeded to out-run 

the second string defensive backfield for the only touch­down in regulation. 
Jackson went on to complete nine of 16 passes for 141 yards and no interceptions. Head coach Bob Davie was encour­aged by Jackson's efforts. 
"I was pleased with Jarious," Davie commented. "A lot of people have the misconception that Jarious is more of a option-style quarterback than he is a drop-back passer, but I think it's pretty obvious that Jarious Jackson has a strong arm." 
Davie indicated that the new offensive system actually accentuates Jackson's talents -which flies in the face of many speculations about the young quarterback's strengths. 
"The change in scheme may benefit Jarious in the long run as much as it benefits anyone," explained Davie. "I think it's a great situation for Jarious to be in." 
Jackson also displayed the ability to throw to a number of different receivers on various types of routes. On his nine completions, Jackson con­nected with four receivers other than Johnson. 
Following the touchdown 
pass, Jackson completed his next two passes for 19 and seven yards --both to sopho­more Jay Johnson, who fin­ished fourth in receiving yards among receivers on Saturday. 
Raki Nelson was the recipi­ent of a 15-yard Jackson pass in the fourth quarter. Leading rusher Clement Stokes and fullback Ken Barry caught three and two balls, respec­tively. 
Based on the way Jackson has adapted his game to the new look Irish attack, it appears that he will -have no problem taking the reigns of the offense when his number is called. Davie expressed his enthusiasm about Jackson's potential for even greater development. 
"Over the period of the next couple years," stated Davie, "I think you're going to see him develop into a top-notch quar­terback." 
If Jackson can deal with his somewhat limited role as the back-up to fifth-year senior Ron Powlus for one more sea­son, there is no reason to believe that Davie's prognosis could not become a reality. 
And nothing would make Notre Dame fans happier. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Jarious Jackson will adapt to new opportunities with the new offensive style of the Irish. 

Offensive Line: C-•• .. ''''I'',nnd ··.·..s~ ..· .. thr .....,·..... .... rom ... · and 51 yardS. The overtime 
The consistent collapse of the pocketleading to 16 sacks on the day .fiasco.. "Yas si:rnply embarras~ing. as.}t took.. four attempts and three was not a good sign, butone hopes that some.<)f that pad to do with.· differ~nt kic~~Ji~ to hit~ 3.q.y~rdert9~nd the day.the defensive scheme and the two-hand touch rule on the QBs and> i!!•• >< ·.. ·· ·· ·'"1 • ·. ·· ··•······ 
• . than he would have liked as he 
•. total tackles and looks like he'll be the ·will.. ease the pain of los­all overtnertH~ldWith seven tackles and two 
look like they'll fill the vv,tup.uJ.oou for 10 tackles and one 
titst,play,they didn't allow another didn't roake a big play either. A'Jani Ll"'"v"'...... l()oked lik;e they're recovered from their 
Special tea.U:ts: D _., 
.. AI~ a g~tegg~~·(o .•....... .. 'ii ........ Punters Hunter Smith and s ...... tel were a . e at.best as they combined to average over yardS akick. Cen ·a. hit fi~Jd goals from 21 and 34 yards, 
··c:· f!:Ild. (~fl. .~v~ . pe .... . .titp¢ since his freshman year 
-
-
--
-
their red jerseys. 
Defensive Line: B 
Sophomore Lance Legree andj'unior Shelton'Jordanimpressed at times. The front three is a bit srrutll, 1?1.1t they h~ld their.own against the experienceand marnrooth first team•offensive line; · 
Coaching: 8­
Th~ ~en' V\Ti~e-ope~ syste:rn of Jint.Colletto amassed a total of 16 point~ 4nd JtJ.~t one ttmchdown.. on the--day. Mattison's defensive 
scheme gave the offensive ~ines  fits;  There's nothing they can do  
about ~he kicking gatn.e but pr~y.  
-Joe Cavato  


.. 
---------------------------------------~----~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April21, 1997 
• Nfl DRAFT
-
Jacksonville selects Wynn, No. 21 in first round 
By MIKE DAY ·Sports Editor 
Renaldo Wynn rolled the dice, and it paid off-big time. 
A year ago, the Notre Dame defensive end could have played it safe and declared himself eligible for the NFL draft. While he most likely would not have been selected until the fourth or fifth round, Wynn would have been assured of a nice contract and future security. 
Instead, Wynn opted to return for a final year, risking an injury that would have ruined his NFL career while costing him thousands of dol­lars. Indeed, it was a bold move.
-But as the saymg goes, all good things go to those who wait. 
Wynn was nothing short of dominant in his senior year, earning team MVP honors for his performance. He added size and strength to help make him a more valuable commod­ity. 
On Saturday afternoon, Wynn was rewarded for his hard work and patience. The Jacksonville Jaguars selected the 6-foot-2, 290-pound star with the 21st pick of the first round. And to the victor goes the spoils (i.e. millions of dol-Iars). 
"This is a lifelong dream, to be able to provide for my fam­ily," said Wynn. "That's a beautiful thing. To be doing something that I love to do, you can't ask for anything bet­ter than that." 
"I'm just so happy that he made the right decision," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "A year ago, he was rojected 
as a fourth round draft pick, and I'm so happy for him. That's a great success story." · The weekend's draft provid­ed good news for other Notre Dame seniors as well. Marc Edwards, the first fullback taken in the draft, was select­ed by San Francisco with the 25th pick of the second round. 
"I had no idea," said Edwards after being chosen by the Niners. "I found out two seconds before the announce­ment." 
Linebackers Bert Berry and Kinnon Tatum were selected on consecutive picks in the lat­ter part of the third round. Berry was taken by Indianapolis before Carolina snatched Tatum with the 87th pick of the first round. 
"I knew something would happen," said Berry. "I just needed to be patient. I just want to come in, play some 
The ObseJVer/Mike Ruma 
Fullback Marc Edwards will be heading to San Francisco after being selected as the 55th pick overall. 

University of Notre Dame® 
.P. •
-Guitar Players Association 
C.P.A. is a new club for students and· faculty at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and 
Holy Cross College. 
-
• 
Free guitar lessons starting Fall '97 

• 
Yearly raffles of guitars and books 

• 
Technique workshops 

• 
Guest lecturers 

• 
And more... 


-
Interest Meeting Tonight! Monday, April21, 1997 7:30-8:30 p.m. Notre Dame Room (2nd floor of LaFortune Student Center on the campus of Notre Dame) 
More information available at: http://www.nd.edu/-jhugginllgpa/ 
.. 
linebacker, and take the Colts two day draft. .Jeremy Akers, to the Super Bowl." Lyron Cobbins, Robert 
Tight end Pete Chryplewicz, Farmer, and Handy Kinder chosen by Detroit with the will likely try to sign on some­fifth pick of the fifth round, where as free agents. was the only other Notre The South Bend Tribun? con­Dame player selected in the tributed to this report. 

Renaldo Wynn was the first Irish player chosen in Saturday's draft. 
Show your Seniors_I!)U care! 

Advertise in the May 16th Observer Commencement Issue! 

Hurry and reserve space before May 13th! 
1-6900 
Call Early for best results 
Irish Accent: Irish Accent, that scrambled comedy improv troupe, has its last show of the year tomorrow, April 22 at 9:00 p.m., in the library auditorium. 
Right to Life: Do you want to learn how to defend the Pro-life position? ND Right-to-Life will present a Debate Workshop on Monday, April 21 at 8:00p.m. in the Sorin Room of Lafortune. 1 will be an informal discussion of the facts and arguments of the Pro-Life movement. All are welcome to participate. 
African Students Association: "The New South African 
Constitution: A Tool for Reconciliation," a talk by Prof. Oliver 
Williams and Katherine Savage will be given tonight at 7:00 
p.m. in the Peace Studies Auditorium. Also, a Caribbean film: "Aime Cessaire: A Voice for History" will be shown on Wednesday, April 23 at 7:00p.m. in 155 Debartolo. The film will be followed by a panel discussion on "Africa and the Diaspora in the New Millennium." 

Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the 
Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 


---~~-----­
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
'5w~t:T OF 4oD~ 
C,OIVNA 
Stc.l< 
MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
YOUR ENTHU~IASI'\ LI\5T 
~ SOMEONE LE.FT 
~ THE 5UPPLY Ct>.BINET UNLOCKED! \_ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT'!:> Tit'\£ NOW FOR THE WA.LLY RE.POP-.1 I A WEEKLY STA.TUS 
UPDATE. 
1"\Y INCOME I5 SO% OF INDUSTRY ~VE.RA. G£., ENTI-\U51A.SM IS AT 63% OF CAPACITY AND 1"\'1 £GO &1-\IELO IS 1-\0LOINC:, 
AT 15%. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andie MacDowell, Anthony Qui1m, Patti LuPone, Tony Danza 
DEAR EUGENIA: l was wonder­ing if you could tell me what my love life is going to be like this year. I've been after a Cancer guy born the same year as me for quite some time now and l really want to know if I have any chance at all. I just can't go out and pick anyone! I really was hoping that this will be the year for me with the one I've already decided !like' l was born on Nov. 2, 1981, at 8:29a.m. 
Scorpio 
DEAR SCORPIO: You are a Scor­pio all right, but you do have a lot of planets in the sign Libra and that sign doesn't match up too well to the sign Cancer .. However, you also have a good portion of the sign Cancer falling in your house of relation­ships and that is why you are at­tracted to them. You actually match up well to someone who has a build­up of planets in the sign Gemini. You neglected to give me your Crab's date of birth. Therefore, I can't tell you how true a Cancer he really is or if there is some Gemini in his chart that could bring him into your life. As for now, your chart shows a period of transformation and that the last quarter of this year and the first half of 1998 will be an ideal time for romance. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Your ability to be unconventional will bring you favorable results. Past ro­mantic partners may surface. 
TAURUS (April21-May 21): Don't get emotionally involved with some-
Born Today: If you really work hard this year you can make up for past mis­takes. Your ability to charm others will come in handy and help you get the backing you require in order to put your plans into motion. 

one at work. Travel or lectures may have brought you in contact with in­dividuals you can't trust. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): You may be troubled by personal legal matters. Don't take everything you hear regarding this situation to heart. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): Prob­lems with your personal life will make you want to retreat into isola­tion. Someone you care about is prob­ably playing emotional games. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Don't get stuck paying for other people's enter­tainment.. Tempers may mount but you must hold your ground. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): It is best to busy yourself with domestic duties or get out of the house <•ll to­gether. Someone you live with IS like­ly to be on the rampage today. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Don't get involved in other people's affairs. You should go about your business and look out for your own interests. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): It is best to concentrate on the domestic chores that you have let fall behind. You may feel a little under the weather. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Uncertainties about your direction may lead to sudden changes in em­pi.,yment. Don't overreact to the sug­ge-stions made by superiors. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Put your efforts into making the nec­essary changes at home. You will re­ceive very little help from others. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You will get along famously with people who can give you greater under­standing regarding your direction. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Older family members may need your undi­vided attention immediately. Take care of the situation the best you can. 
-
--· 
DILBERT 


CROSSWORD 

28--Kippur 31 Newsman Pyle 35 Puts up 37 Spigot 39Switch 
positions 40 Santa Claus 44 Noted business 
conglomerate 45 Great Lakes 
cargo 46 c.H. 47 Sweetie so 1040 grp. 52 Last name in 
cosmetics 53Photo­(media events) 55 Supreme Court Justice Black 
57 Nobel author, informally 63 Pack (down) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
64Tono-­
(worthless) 65 Snake eyes 67 Lemon go-with 68 Menu at Chez 
Jacques 
690neofthe corners at Four Corners Monument 
70 Blockhead 71 Gouged sneakily 72 Akron product 
DOWN 
1 It may be slung 
ina sling 2 Dumptruckful 3 Where China is 4 B.L.T., e.g. 
5 Deuce toppers 6 Takeoff site 7 Actress Raines a Not distant 9 Cree or Crow 
10 Martha Graham, 
e.g. 11 Castle, in chess 12 Orkin targets 13 Quilting party 21 "The Divine 
Comedy" poet 22 Take advantage of 25 Install to new 
specifications 26 Poet's Muse 27 Brawl 29 Partner for this 
and that, with 
"the" 30Spoil 32Wanderer 33Absurd 
\ 
34 Ruhr Valley city 36 Box-office letters 38 Bit of Trivial Pursuit 
equipment 41 Dernier -­42 Coach Amos 
Alonzo-­43 Discard 48 Went one better 
than 4• Place for a little 
RandR 51 Devout Iranian 54 Rough cabin 
56 Proceeding independently 57 Item for Jack and Jill 58 Bullets and such 59 Writer Hunter 60 Stallion's mate 
61 The "A" in ABM 
62 Vintage 63 Special attention, for short && "--Drives Me Crazy" (1989 #1 hit) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 1 "Too bad!" 5 Sen. Lot! 10 Hardly colorful 14 Parks who wouldn't take discrimination sitting down 15 12-inch stick 16 Superb 11 Water conduit 18 China's Zhou 
19 Do, re or mi, e.g. 
20 "Little Orphan Annie" character 
23 "There-­young .. ." (common limerick start) 
24 WNW's reverse 25 Plant dripping 
Student Government 
A MEMBER Of llU! STUDENT UNION 
.. 

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, April21, 1997 
• BwEANO Gow 
Gold outshines Blue in I0-6 victory 

-
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
It was hardly a thing of beauty. Nevertheless, Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie left Saturday's annual Blue & Gold game with a smile on his face. 
The new coach unveiled a new era of Irish football to over 5,000 fans at Cartier Field, and although the game was far from mistake-free, Davie still found something to smile about in Gold'sl0-6 victory over Blue. 
"Overall, I'm pleased with our per­formance today," said Davie. "There are some areas out there that we need to work on. But right now, I feel we're right where we should be." 
Second-team quarterback Jarious Jackson, who completed 9-of-16 passes for 141 yards, was largely responsible for the grin on Davie's face. On Gold's first play from scrim­mage, Jackson hit Malcolm Johnson in stride, and the 6-foot-5, 213-pound receiver raced down the sideline for an 80-yard touchdown. 
"I was able to get open, and he got the ball to me on the run," said Johnson. "It turned out to be a pretty easy score. It felt good to start things out on a good note." 
That was the end of the offensive fireworks, however. Well aware that the two offenses would be throwing for a large part of the afternoon, defensive coordinator Greg Mattison effectively utilized the blitz, recording 12 sacks on the day. 
"Part of it was pass protection and the defense knowing what was com­ing," said quarterback Ron Powlus, who guided the Blue squad. "I don't 
· think you can judge the offense from what was shown today. The defenses were able to get up on the line and bear down on us." 
In the first glimpse of offensive coordinator Jim Colletto's new sys­tem, the results were mixed. The two teams combined for just 349 total yards, but both the Blue and Gold squads had their moments. 
see BLUE-GOLD I page 1~ 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Bookstore tourney finally sees upsets 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
-
It was a day of upsets and upsetting victories for the majority of the seeded teams in Bookstore Basketball yester­day. 
As the twenty-sixth running 
of the tournament finally saw 
some of its seeded teams fall. it
·-
also saw many of its top teams concerned with their play at this point in the tournament. With the finals only a week away and most of the "joke" teams out of the tournament, the top teams are finally realizing what it is going to take to make a legitimate run for the title. Unfortunately for some of them, it is what could have been, as three of the top-32 teams were upset yesterday. In the first upset of the tour­nament, it was a question of 
experience, and Tort Feasors answered it with a 21-16 vic­tory over No. 24 Steve Masiello Fan Club. Tort Feasors basi­cally outshot the Fan Club who was playing without an injured Joey Goodspeed. Although they filled the spot with a siz­able Rob Mow!, the experience of Tort Feasors. especially that of former Kalamazoo College hoopster and current Notre Dame law student Jeremy Cole, was too much for the young Fan Club to handle. 
"We have a strong team that plays well together. We've been playing together all semester and we're just out here having fun," Omar Munoz of Tort Feasors said. "Today we were able to play their type of ballgame. W€ made some shots down the stretch, and we're just happy to advance." 
see BOOKSTORE I page 15 
.. 

Baseball at Michigan, Tuesday 
Softball vs. Butler, 
Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
Mens Lacrosse at Michigan State, April 26 
Dansby and Rossum join Pow/us as captains 
By JOE CAVATO A"isranr Sports Editor 
Though the Blue & Gold game leaves many questions unanswered, one of those questions was answered as Bob Davie announced the tri-captains -quarterback Ron Powlus, cornerback Allen Rossum, and defensive end Melvin Dansby -for the 1997 Irish. 
Davie said that he thinks the captains need three specific traits in order to fulfill that role. 
"Obviously they have to lead by example on the field, they have to love the game of football, and the third thing is they have to overcome obstacles. All three of the cap­tains fit that criteria." 
The tri-captains certainly have enough experience for the job as senior Allen Rossum and fifth year seniors Melvin Dansby and Ron Powlus were chosen by a vote of their peers as the field leaders. The process by which they were chosen makes the designation more meaningful for those selected. 
''I'm thrilled to be a captain again," Powlus said. "It's an honor to be voted by your teammates." 
Last season Powlus captained with Lyron Cobbins and Marc Edwards so he knows what the duties entail. He also knows that Dansby and Rossum will successfully fill their roles. 
"Allen and Melvin are going to be great captains," Powlus observed. "They're guys that are leaders and know what it takes." 
Dansby who has fended off nagging injuries his entire career is out again this spring but will look to anchor the defensive line come fall. Dansby has been a leader during his years in the [Gold and Blue] as rising junior Shelton Jordan explains,· "Melvin brings leadership to me, personally. 
see CAPTAIN I page 1 7 
• BASEBAll 
Irish pound Wildcats in sweep 
second inning, but Villanova to right field, his eighth home
Notre Dame 
answered with three of their run of the year. Darin Schmalz · 
own in the top of the third. was solid from the mound andextends home For the eighth time this sea­finished what he started. 
son. Brant Ust figured in the "There's been a lot of closerecord to 17-1 winning run -with one out in 
the third, Ust zinged a solo shot 
see BASEBALL I page 14
BY T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
Each time Notre Dame closed the four-run gap, Villanova added a couple of runs to main­tain its lead. But a team can only stand firm under nerve­racking pressure for so long. 
The sluggers of Notre Dame chipped away at Villanova for six innings, then pounded the Wildcats for five runs in the sev­enth inning yesterday at Eck Field to complete a weekend sweep, 10-8. Notre Dame (29­13, 10-4 Big East) has now won a phenomenal 20 of its last" 22 games and is 17-1 at home. 
In Saturday's opener, the Irish pulled out a 4-3 victory in a see-saw battle that virtually ended in the third inning. Notre Dame scored three runs in the 

Track and Field, at Drake Relays, Hillsdale Relays, and Purdue Invitational, April 25-26 
Tennis vs. Hope College, Tuesday, 3 p.m. 


• Wynn picked first round 
see page 18 
• Softball goes 3-1 on weekend see page 15 
.. 



