,~ --~----~-------~ 

Tuesday, January 21, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 73 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Hatch outlines educational priorities 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Yesterday's speech was Hatch's first appointed the new director of the Medieval Assistant News Editor address to the Senate since assuming the Institute, replacing Professor John Van position of Provost in July 1996. Hatch Engen. He is scheduled to begin the posi­University Provost Nathan Hatch replaced Timothy O'Meara, who stepped tion in 1998. 
addressed the Faculty Senate last night in down to return to teaching as a mathemat­The search for a new Director of 
the Center for Continuing Education, tar­ics professor. University Libraries has not yet reached 
geting three major issues he saw as priori­Hatch cited examples of several success­an end. Hatch said that two top candi­
ties for the Provost's Office. ful searches conducted for highly qualified dates, who were "interviewed extensively," In the annual address to the Senate by faculty. He noted the recent hiring of were not offered the position, which was the Provost, Hatch listed as priorities the Carolyn Woo to serve as the new Dean of vacated after Robert Miller's departure. investment of time and resources to the College of Business Administration. Maureen Gleason is currently serving as attract outstanding faculty, the further Woo served in a similar position at Purdue acting director. development of University centers of excel­University, elevating its business program "We plan to revive the search in lence, and wise stewardship of financial into the top 25 in the nation. Additionally, resources. UCLA professor Patrick Geary has been 
see SENATE I page 4 

Rally urges students to share King's dream 
most indicative of the emo­Speakers herald tions of the evening. The Irish defensive end confronted theprogress; address instances of racism he encountered earlier this year.need for more "What do you see?" he asked the audience. "When I By CHRIS SHIPLEY stop at the corner of Juniper, News Writer going to the JACC, I hear the doors click at a red light. But 
The dream of Martin Luther when I put on that gold hel­King, Jr. came to life last met, blue jersey, and gold night as students from all pants, you're my best friend. walks of life joined together to Do you see me? I'm a human celebrate his vision in a rally being with feelings." held in LaFortune Student Friday openly chastised the Center, idea of reverse racism and the 
The "Let Freedom Ring" intolerance and apathy which rally consisted of speeches lead to the continuation of from a five-member panel, tensions between races. primarily lauding the efforts Earlier, student body vice­of the late civil rights leader. president Megan Murray Additionally, it directly chal­began the evening's discus­lenged Notre Dame students sion by sharing the pledge of to face the problems of racism non-violent protest signed by in their communities. the members of the group 
Each speaker contributed to who began the Birmingham an atmosphere in which the sit-in of 1969. She urged stu­crowd could see that, dents to take an equally although the ideas of King's strong stand against prej u­dream have been set in dice, as did members of civil motion, perfect racial harmo­rights organizations of the ny remains a distant goaL past. 
While sophomore Jimmy The second member to Friday was the final speaker, speak was student body presi­his comments were perhaps 
see KING I page 4 



• 

Resolution recommends student input in du Lac 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN ahead of time for general guide­Assistant News Editor lines to follow while revising du Lac. Those consulted, however, 
The Campus Life Council 
decided yesterday that students, rectors, and faculty members should be consulted this sum­mer when the Office of Residence Life revises du Lac, the University's policies and pro­cedures booklet 
The resolution, one of three sent to the CLC by the Student Senate, sparked a heated debate in the Council, calling for wider inclusion in the bDoklet's .revi­sion meetings. 
Under policies established in 1993 by Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, the Office of Student Residences asks the CLC and rectors months 
'Itis our right as 
full members of the community to be present at the meeting that decides what goes into du Lac.' 
Mark Leen 
are not included in the final decision meeting which is held over the summer, 
"[The du Lac revision] is a process for students, but without students or rectors or faculty," 
see CLC I page 6 




RecSports construction begins 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
While the snow-covered dirt atop Jake Kline Field hardly looks notable, it signals the first step toward a new multi-million dollar RecSports facility sched­uled for comple'tion in early 1998. 
A gift of the Rolfs family, the 70,000 square foot building "will be for the general student population and will not be intended to support inter-colle­giate activities," according to Michael Smith, director of facili­ties engineering. 
The facility will include a court that will look kind of like a follows RecSports' recognition of 5,000 square foot fitness room, hockey rink with a mondo field," a campus-wide need for athleticthree maple-floored basketball Smith said. This court, sporting space dedicated solely to ama­courts, two rooms with state-of­a multi-dasher board system teur athletes, according to Sallythe-art floors, a one-tenth mile similar to that of an ice rink, Derengoski, assistant director of elevated track, and sound sys­will be capable of accommodat­RecSports.

tems suitable for dance, self­ing indoor soccer, in-line skat­"We hope that this buildingdefense, and aerobic classes, "It 

ing, floor hockey, and volleyball. 
will also have one multi-purpose The building's construction see RECSPORTS I page 6 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 21, 1997 




Enough already! 
No one can deny that Chicago has a rich profes­sional sports tradition. 
It has had two baseball teams in place since the earliest days of each league. Its football and hockey teams have long­standing traditions of their own, and the basketball 


team has developed into  Dan Cichalski  
a recent dynasty.  Assistant Accent Editor  
That rich past has been  
tarnished by various  

scandals, controversies and futility. The Cubs have not won anything in years. The White Sox will always have the 1919 Black Sox lurk­ing in the shadows of Comiskey Park. And there must be some things with the Bears and 
Blackhawks worth mentioning, but I can't think of any right now. 
The point I'm slowly getting at is a Lucky­Charms-colored fruitcake who wears number 91 for Chicago's beloved Bulls. 
I am not a Bulls fan. I am not a fan of the NBA at all. If I had to choose a team to support it would be the New Jersey Nets simply for the regional affiliation. One day, hopefully before Haley's Comet returns in 2072, the Nets will make the playoffs, and no one will be able to accuse me of jumping on the bandwagon. 
But I digress. Back to Dennis Rodman. The guy's a freak, an outlaw, and many other things that the University and common decency will not let me mention here. 
He has always been trouble to the league and to his teammates, but lately he's passed the point of "disgruntled employee." If he were a postal worker, he would have taken out his whole office with an automatic by now. Dennis the Menace to Society's last two major offenses have been head-butting an official last season and kicking a photographer last week. 
There have been various reports about the alleged groin-kicking incident. Some say the photographer said something to provoke Rodman. Others say Rodman kicked his leg, not his crotch. Call me Detective Dan, but last time I watched "NYPD Blue," it translates into assault either way. 
I don't care how it happened, Rodman should not be kicking anyone but himself. The 11­game suspension and $25,000 fine delivered by the NBA is adequate. But how long are they going to allow this to continue? 
All professional sports have drug policies that eventually lead to permanent suspensions for offenders. Wonderful. However, consider: a drug abuser is only directly hurting himself (and, indirectly, his teammates), but Rodman's long list of assaults have literally injured oth­ers. Eventually he has to use up all his "Get Out of Jail Free" cards. 
The Chicago Tribune's Bernie Lincicome had a wonderful suggestion to curb Rodman's ani­mal activities: from now on, no matter what the offense, the Freak's punishment should be a swift kick to his own groin. That should teach him, "Lincicome says. If not, I say, per­haps nothing will. 
The NBA or the Bulls-somebody -needs to control Rodman. With basketball somehow becoming the most popular sport for America's kids to watch and one of the most popular to play, these players are role models-no mat­ter what Charles Barkley says. 
If this continues, Dennis Rodman will one day cost the Bulls a playoff victory or the cham pi­onship. He's already lost any iota of respect many may have erroneously had for him. There's not much left for him to lose. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint Saskia Sidenfaden Eddie Llull Derek Betcher Heather MacKenzie 
Accent Sports Melanie Waters 
Brian Reinrhaler Leslie Fields Production Chris Uharr Graphics Jackie Moser Peter Cilella 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WOR!Jl AT A GLANCE 
U.N. aid workers continue in face of rebel Hutu attacks 
KIGALI, Hwanda .-----.--~-------.., this would get what they wanted if we 


The United Nations said it would con­tinue working in northwestern Rwanda after the slayings of three aid workers, but advised aid agencies Monday to limit their operations in the region. 
The U.N. resident coordinator, Omar Bakhet, recommended at an emergency meeting that aid agencies restrict their presence to daylight hours in Huhengeri, 70 miles northwest of the capital, Kigali. 
The Saturday night attack near Ruhengeri also killed three Hwandan soldiers and seriously wounded an American. It is being blamed on Hutu insurgents who returned from Zaire with more than 600,000 refugees and have launched a series of attacks across northwestern Rwanda in recent weeks. 
Bakhet is responsible for the security of aid agencies in the central African nation. 
"We are not going to succumb to ter­rorist activities," said U.N. spokesman John McMillan. "The people who did 
Inaugural speech heralds new century 
WASHINGTON 

Promising a "new government for a new century," President Clinton pledged in his inaugural address Monday to work tirelessly to bridge America's racial divide and to shrink the government without shirking its responsibilities. "Let us lift our eyes toward the challenges that await us in the next century," Clinton said in a 22-liiWlllC::..;.L_~_..,­minute speech delivered in the shadow of the Capitol moments after renewing his oath of office. "Our land of new promise will be a nation that meets its obligations. A nation that balances its budget and never loses the balance of its values." Clinton's address was short on policy specifics, touching vaguely on several second term legislative priorities, from balancing the budget and improving Social Security's financial footing to reforming campaign finance laws. Pledging to proceed in a biparti· san spirit, Clinton noted that voters returned a Democratic president to office but also elected a Congress controlled by Republicans. "Surely they did not do this to advance the politics of petty bickering and extreme partisanship they plainly deplore," Clinton said. 

Old man survives stint in snowbank 
CUDAHY, Wis. 

A couple delivering newspapers before dawn found a 78-year-old retired math teacher in his pajamas, lying shivering in a snowbank. Carrie and Duane Baker were driving in their Chevrolet Blazer on Sunday, delivering the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, when they saw an old man fall along a sidewalk in near-zero temperatures. "He fell over a snowbank, so if someone was driving by, the~ wouldn't have seen him," Carrie Baker said. "We walked up to him, and we saw him shivering. He was curled up in a ball." Mrs. Baker wanted to call police in this Milwaukee suburb, but her husband insisted they take him immediately to the hospital. The man, John Delaney, was listed in guarded condition today. Delaney's daugh­ter, Amy Mulrooney, said her father might have heard the paper being delivered and became confused when he stepped outside to get it. He was found a block from his home. The Bakers said they normally don't go down the street where they found Delaney. "For some odd reason, we decided to change my route," Mrs. Baker said. 

tucked tail and ran." 
Several aid workers, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said they believed Bakhet did not go far enough and that they believed foreigners in the region were in danger. The workers are fearful of openly criticizing U.N. officials because they depend on U.N. funding. 
Hwandan defense adviser Claude Dusaidi said Hutu militants are targeting foreigners to destabilize the country. 
"We have offered them extra security in the past, but they have always refused it," he said. "This is what they get." 
Spain said Monday it would press Hwandan authorities to prosecute the killers, whose victims worked for the Spanish branch of Doctors of the World. 
Nitin Madhav, 28, of Pittsburgh, was shot and wounded in the attack on Doctors of the World's small office in Gatonde. 
Madhav was flown to Nairobi, Kenya, after his leg was amputated above the knee in Hwanda. 


'Bleak week' ends GOP defeat 
WASHINGTON 
For Republicans, there was no celebration, just the start of a bleak week. They had to sit back Monday and watch the beginning of their second term of exile from the White House while preparing to punish their leader at the Capitol. Except for GOP lawmakers involved in the inauguration itself, the Grand Old Party basically closed down for the day. A tape recording answered the phone at the Republican National Committee head­quarters. Most GOP congressional offices were closed. 
. The party's 1996 standard-bearer, Bob Dole, did not attend the inauguration. Shut out of the many balls and celebrations around town, one group of young Republicans even planned a "Mourning in America: We Feel Your Pain" alternative ball. It was also the eve of the day House Republicans must swallow hard and vote to discipline their first speaker in four decades. The House votes Tuesday on a resolution to reprimand Newt Gingrich for ethical misconduct and to assess him $300,000. Gingrich himself tried to be upbeat, pro­claiming in a toast at a lunch for Clinton in the Capitol, "This is a joyous occasion." But it was a reference more to the peaceful workings of democracy than to the GOP psyche. 


Schizophrenics find solace in nicotine 
WASHINGTON 
Scientists have located a gene that may increase the risk of inheriting schizophrenia -a finding that., in an unusual twist, could also explain why many schizophren­ics chain smoke. Essentially, nicotine appears to override briefly a brain defect characteristic of the devastating mental illness. providing frenzied patients a few minutes of calm, researchers report in Tuesday's edition of Proceedings of the National Academy o.f Sciences. "Schizophrenics are ·the most heavy smokers of any psy­chotic patients," said Dr. Robert Freedman of the Denver Veterans Affairs Medical Center. "They had discovered this (effect) before we had, and it had been overlooked as a clue to the biology of schizophrenia." At issue is the inability of many schizophrenics to filter out unnecessary sights, sounds and other stimuli -that tapping tree branch or the refrigerator hum that healthy people can ignore -so they essentially suffer information overload. Freedman and colleagues at the University of Colorado discovered that this trait is inherited. 



The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
............._ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 



Atlanta  63  46  Denver  43  42  New York  50  31  
Baltimore  48  25  Fargo  15  12  Paducah  58  52  
Boston  50  27  Las Vegas  55  36  Richmond  55  33  
Chicago  58  37  Miami  77  65  Seattle  44  36  
Columbus  55  43  New Orleans 72  59  Tulsa  55  49  


~~----------~ ----~ ~-----------~.., 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Performance explores race issues 
By ANN KEARNS 

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
To celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Saint Mary's College sponsored the play "B'lack Man Rising" in O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
Written by James Chapmyn, "Black Man Rising" explores the daily obsta­cles faced by African American men. It also addresses the victories these men have accomplished in their strug­gle to stay alive. 
The play was tailored specifically for actors Ron Jenkins, Jeffro Johnson and Noel Rogers, who made up the production's entire cast. Chapmyn studied their individual talents and shaped the characters according to the actors' abilities. 
Additionally, Chapmyn included scenes from the actors' real lives in the script. 
The performance began with Johnson being plagued by thoughts of inferiority and worthlessness; he envi­sioned people telling him that he was lazy and incompetent. 
Johnson blocked these visions and then set the tone for the rest of the play by saying, "You told me I was nothing, but what you didn't realize is I wasn't listening. I was something, first in my imagination and then in my actions. Look at me, a black man!" 
Rogers expanded on this theme when he intoned, "You tried to beat the African out of me, but the more you beat, the more resilient I became." 
Jenkins, Johnson, and Rogers used the performance to address issues fac­
'you told me I was 
nothing, but what you didn't realize is I wasn't listening. I was something, first in my imagination and then in my actions. Look at me, a black man!' 
Jeffro Johnson 
ing the black man such as fatherhood and education. 
The actors also warned against suc­cumbing to violent behavior by repeat­ing some basic chants: "No more guns; no more pain; no more dying!" 
Rogers reinforced this message by asking the audience, "Do you know how it feels to lose a person to gun­fire? Do you know how it feels to have someone act as God?" 
Rogers knows the answers to these questions; this is one of the scenes that was taken directly from his life experi­ence. He recounted the day when he held his best friend and watched him die after he had been shot by gang members. 
This memory led the characters into a discussion about death. Johnson included the audience members and asked them what they were willing to die for. There was one unanimous response: freedom. 
Johnson continued this discussion by telling a story about an old man dying from a weak heart. Despite his fami­ly's protests, he insisted on marching with Martin Luther King, Jr. anyway. With his dying breath, he gasped, "If you have nothing to die for, you have no reason to live. But, if you die for a reason, you have truly lived." 
"Black Man Rising" concluded with a message to men on how to love, respect and cherish women: "If you love a WOII_lan, you will not hit her. You will be quick to protect her. You will miss her when you are apart, and you will cherish her when you are together." 
"Black Man Rising" is primarily per­formed on college campuses nation­wide. Jenkins believes that students are among the most important audi­ence members because the¥ hold the future of humankind in their hands. 

AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 


ensemble ~alllel 
Reki tbe passion in ancient music 
" ... they play with energy, splendid ensemble, good humor and imagination.!' 
-The Washington Post 
Sunday, February 2 2:30PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Tickets: $12/Adults; $10/ Seniors; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, 
.o·Laughlin Auditorium, 9 am -5 pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
THE SAINT MARY's COLLEGE 
AccELERATED PROGRAM IN NuRSING for women with a baccalaureate degree as of May, 1997, in any major other than Nursing. (Degree may be from an institution other than Saint Mary's.) 
• Earn a B.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months • Program begins May 2 7, 1997 • Application deadline: February 10, 1997 
For more information, please contact the admission office at 219/284-4587. 
# 1 ranked Saint Mary's College is accredited by the National League for Nursing. The accelerated program is offered in conjunction with the traditional baccalaureate nursing program. 
All graduates of the accelerated program have been successful in obtaining professional positions in health care. 
-~±~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOLIC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 
you don't ~av~ to be Sfu:nninq-or sophtsttcated to work in the 

AD DESIGN 
department of ~OBSERVER. Only ye:ur ads ha.v~ tt!: b~. 


Have something to say7 Use The Observer classifieds. 

Ifyou have any desktop publishing skills, a flair for the creative and are interested in joining The Observer staff, call Jed at 634-1167. 


MAI(E AN IMPACT ... SIGN UP FOR SERVIClE!! 
Come to the Social Concerns Festival Tuesday, january 21 7:00PM to 9:00PM Center for Social Concerns 
Over 40 service and social action groups represented. 
-~---~----~---­
-

-~-----~-----------­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 21, 1997 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
earnest," Hatch said, indicating that an executive search firm will be used to aid in the process of appointing the best possible candidate. 
Regarding the increasingly important issue of affirmative action in hiring pro­cedures, Hatch lauded the work of Law School Professor Jimmy Gurule, who formulated a plan for hiring historical minorities. 
Hatch stressed the importance of nurturing and expanding Notre Dame's centers of academic excellence. Among the advances made in this area include a new center for Catholic intel­lectual life. The new institute will encourage the study of tough issues fac­ing religious educators, helping to con­nect those issues to contemporary life. 
Acknowledging nationwide college cost increases for college students and their families, Hatch emphasized the importance of fulfilling the financial needs of current and potential Notre Dame students. 
Hatch said that the seven-year plan to slow the rate of tuition increases has been successful; the rate has fallen from over 7 percent to 5.5 percent. Internet access, maintenance costs, and possible salary increases will be addi­tional pressures on managing the bud­get over the next year. 
"It is prudent that we try to control costs," Hatch emphasized, later report­ing on a current development campaign which should help to alleviate budget shortfalls. 
"The financial future of the university looks bright because of the new capital campaign," he explained. "Financial resiliency will allow us to continue to have competitive salaries and carry out objectives set in the Colloquy." 
Another high priority for the Provost's Office continues to be the enhancement of endowed chairs not based on school income. 
"It cannot be solved overnight, but it must be addressed as an academic issue," Hatch said. 
New study abroad opportunities also remain a future consideration for Hatch. A new Australia program for engineering students is near finaliza­tion, as is an expansion of the London program to accommodate students with a wider variety of majors. . 
During the question and answer ses­sion at the conclusion of the meeting, Hatch addressed the addition of Holy Cross priests and Catholics in affirma­tive action hiring polices. 
This issue has received attention this year due to the hiring of a Holy Cross priest in the theology department by University President Edward Malloy last spring. The professor was hired despite the objections of the department chair and its hiring committee. 
Hatch noted that there has been a decline in the hiring of Holy Cross priests to teaching positions at Notre Dame over the last 20 years, but added that any Holy Cross priest would still be subject to University standards and review by a hiring committee. 
In response to the concerns of several Faculty Senators regarding funding of academic resources and graduate edu­cation, Hatch said that "budget build­ing" was a part of his responsibilities as Provost. 
"I hope to be very active in raising academic funds." The next Faculty Senate meeting will be held Feb. 6 in the CCE. 

King 
continued from page 1 
dent Seth Miller, who focused on King's dream of a peaceful­ly integrated and non-preju­diced society. Miller encour­aged each audience member to deliver the ideas laid down by King to their friends in the Notre Dame community. 
Junior Molly Gavin, the third speaker, paid special attention to the "quiet voices" of the women and minorities at Notre Dame. Gavin provided examples of ways in which students can turn King's dream into reality. 
"It is easy to make assump­tions and stereotypes about people," she said. "Make a pact to acknowledge everyone around because you can learn so much." 
Gavin's speech was followed by Babette Reid's acoustical rendition of "Troubled Water," a piece by Margaret Bonds. Reid also performed other songs throughout the night. 
Darren Mooko, assistant director of multicultural affairs at Ball State University, pro­vided the most controversial and celebrated ideas of the evening. 
As his speech progressed, Mooko dared students to look at King's work in its entirety, not just its advocation of inte­gration. 
Comparing the teachings of King to the current work of Minister Louis Farrakhan, Mooko noted that both have pushed for a strong African American economy. 
"In today's commercialized view of Martin Luther King, none of these things are shown," he complained. "King's work does not exist in a vacuum. It is a fluid body of work that needs to be contin­ued." 




Rome Program 
Meeting 
Carroll Auditorium Madeleva Saint Mary's College 
Study in Rome for one semester or for the year. Italian is not a prerequisite for participation. Application deadline Aprill. 

Come and join us! 
Participate in the Wednesday Lunchfast! 


Mooko went on to address activism and the impact that it can have on campus. 
"It is only fitting that we view Martin Luther King Day from a college campus because it is students who sacrificed for the dream of Dr. King. 
"The job of liberating the oppressed is still at hand," Mooko· concluded. 
At the end of his speech, Friday challenged the crowd to combat the effects of racism in the Notre Dame community and work to uphold the vision of Dr. King. 
~OBSERVER is now hiring a WEB ADMINISTRATOR Interest in designin9 and creating websites is helpful but not requjt~d.]"e WEB AUMINISTRATOR is r~sponsible for managing the daily publiq!tion..o.f The O~$erver ?n the intethet.. l'nterested? Cdb:tact Liz F'-•ran at -631-4542 for more '>' information.  

"You know that the dome is made of gold. Well, it's become tarnished. A number of spots have appeared. We can cover them up. Good will always triumph if we keep these dreams alive. 
''I'm going to take my polish and my tools, and I'm going to start working on the Golden Dome. Anyone who wants to come with me... let's go!" Friday exclaimed. 
The crowd then joined hands and sang "We Shall Overcome," a song used numerous times by King, to bring the rally to a close. 
Chandra Johnson, a member of the Martin Luther King Celebration Committee, sum­marized the week's festivities, which culminated with last night's rally; "[It has been] a momentum of acceptance, and a desire to get to know others in the community. People are open to listen and had a will­ingness to come forward and be a part of the reality of life." 



~----~--------------.--------...., 
Tuesday, January 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Endowment brings CSC Congressional issues surfacing 
into national spotlight 
Special to The Observer 
The University's Center for 
Social Concerns has received a 
$500,000 commitment from the 
Andrews and McNeel 
Foundation to endow a series of 
annual conferences addressing 
service learning initiatives in 
higher education. 
"The Andrews and McNeel 
Conference and Communication 
Outreach program will establish 
the CSC and its Summer Service 
Projects as national models for 
other universities and colleges 
interested in the field of service 
learning," said University presi­
dent Father Edward Malloy. 
The newly funded program 
will enable the Center for Social 
Concerns to hold annual confer­
ences on the development of. 
summer community service pro­
jects and their integration irito 
academic programs. Faculty, 
• administrators, and students 
from other colleges and univer.­sities will be invited to Notre Dame for the conferences, which will include presentations by Notre Dame students, alumni, and faculty, as well as social workers and community service agency representatives who have been involved in Summer Service Projects. 
Today with the combined sup­port of the Andrews Scholarship fund and the local alumni clubs, the program provides $1700 scholarships to undergraduate students who devote eight weeks of their summer to a project serving the poor. 
Staff members from the CSC and representatives of local alumni clubs select the scholar­ship recipients and design the service projects. Some 1400 Notre Dame students have undertaken summer service pro­jects since the program was established 16 years ago. 

He stands as a hero to us for his courageous call to racial equality and to justice for all of the citizens of the United States. Dr. King was one ,of ~any voices who shaped the civil rights. movement in the 60s. He called us to acuon that would bnng change to our institutions and make us a more just and humane society. 
His voice was stilled by an assassin's bullet at a time when our country was seething with tumultuous social change. He described it this way: "The deep rumbling of discontent that we 
hear today is the thunder of disinherited masses, rising from dun­geons of oppression to the bright hills of freedom, in one majes­tic chorus singing, 'Ain't gonna let nobody turn us around."' Thirty years have passed since his voice rang o~t for all to 
hear. We still struggle with issues of racism and jusuce. Here at Notre Dame we seem to be in endless conversation about how to build a more tolerant and diverse community. It may be 
that Dr. King's challenge to action is one that we should respond to now. He said, "I have the audacity to believe that people everywhere can have three meals a day for their bodies, education and culture for their minds, and dignity, equality and freedom for their spirit." · 
The Center for Social.Concerns offers the opportunity for you to respond to Dr. King's call to action.. There are p~ogra~s here in South Bend that are currently workmg to make It posstble for all of the members of our community to have their physical, 
emotional and intellectual needs met. You can be a part of those efforts. Today, Tuesday, January 21 from 7-9 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns, approximately 40 ser­vice and social action organizations will be present to explain their programs and invite you to partici­
pate. Here you will meet people from Big Brothers/Big Sisters, from the Center for the Homeless and the Juvenile Detention Center. 
You will hear how they strive to make our community a better place for all of us. Today, as we remember Dr. Martin Luther King and all he has chal­lenged us to be, we ask you to consider getting involved in service. Come to the Social Concerns Festival today and discover the possibilities. Don't let another year go by without putting your ideas into action! 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
In hopes of continuing 1995 and 1996's pro-business lob­bying successes, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce is seek­
ing legisla­tive victories on issues including balancing the budget, entitlement reform, and tax relief for 


businesses. Bergstrand While the budget issue is pegged as one of the most important goals for the 105th Congress, Notre Dame Business Professor Jeffrey Bergstrand feels enti­tlement reform should be our legislators' primary concern. "Clearly entitlement reform needs to be addressed because of the changing demographics of our economy," Bergstrand said, adding that a bipartisan 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
commission would be the most effective way to approach the issue. 
Bergstrand also down played the urgency of balancing the federal budget. 
"As a percentage of GOP, the deficit is not that large by recent standards," he said, noting that last year, the national deficit represented only about one and a half per­cent of the GOP. 
Joe Davis, a media consul­tant for the Chamber of Commerce, countered Bergstrand's assessment, not­ing that the budget issue was the most important item on his group's agenda. 
"We try to bring small busi­ness interests before Congress," he said, explaining that the Chamber's agenda is actually more dependent on Congress' legislative agenda than on its own priorities. 
Davis cited Medicare and tax relief as key non-budget issues. 

Upcoming Important Dates Social Concerns Festival (7-9 p.m. at the CSC) 1121/97 Opportunities to meet with 40 service and social action groups. 
Summer Service Projects '97 (Sign-up Deadline) 1122/97 8 weeks ofservice and $1,700 tuition scholarships. 3 credits, Reflections on Service THEO 360. 
Leadership Issues Modules (Optional Credit) 1/22/97 Modules: Covey Leadership, Ethics, Popular Culture Views, 
Budgeting. 1 credit, THEO 369 optional. 
National Youth Sports Program (Sign-up Deadline) 1122/97 5 weeks ofservice at ND and $1,200 tuition scholarships, Summer '97. 
SPRING BREAK '97 ALTERNATIVE BREAK SEMINARS: 
Appalachia Seminar (Sign-up Deadline) 1129/97 1 credit, THEO 361. 13 sites. 
Migrant Experiences (Sign-up Deadline) 1129/97 1 credit, THEO 36~. Immokalee, Florida. 
Washington Seminar (Sign-up Deadline) 1129/97 "Education in America: the Challenges and Responsible Solutions" 1 credit, THEO 363, GOVT 496. 
INTERNSHIPS AVAILABLE: African-American Leadership Intern (Apply By) 3/3/97 
1 0 weeks ofservice and $2,200 tuition scholarships. 3 credits, THEO. Chicago, San Diego, possibly other sites. 
Hispanic Leadership Intern (Apply By) 3/3/97 10 weeks of service and $2,200 tuition scholarships. 3 credits, THEO. Chicago, San Diego, possibly other sites. 
A capital gains tax cut and a simpler code are some of the Chamber's goals. 
"The economy is in very healthy shape, and it has been since 1991," Bergstrand responded. "We don't need tax cuts for business." 
Instead, he implied that tax reform should focus on simpli­fication. 
Another significant issue fac­ing the Chamber is trade poli­cy. Suggested solutions include reaffirming limited fast-track negotiating authority, making China's Most-Favored-Nation status permanent, and bring­ing Chile into NAFT A. 
Bergstrand said that foreign currencies are currently weaker than the U.S. dollar ­not a bad position for the U.S. to be in in terms of the world economy. 
"I would like Congress to stay out of trade policy, and allow the adjustment of real exchange rates to take place in the marketplace," he said. 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
sion. We [students], as adults, should least intrusive means, and [the CLC] "If you add details about student orga­have at least a voice in the process." should give it a chance to work before we nizations and other pertinent information, 
CLC 

Bill Kirk, vice _president for residence send a very political resolution to students would be more likely to pick up continued from page 1 life, answered these concerns in defense Professor O'Hara," Kirk added. the book, read it, and remember it," Leen of the current policy. Despite Kirk'!> arguments, the Council explained. lamented Shane Bigelow, student senator. "My office is full of student affairs pro­decided by a close vote that a general "We have nothing to hide in du Lac," 
"Besides the Student Body President fessionals. It is their full-time job to try consultation months before revision was Kirk said. "The more students read it, the and Vice President being contacted over and get a sense of the pulse of students," inadequate input for students, faculty, happier my office is." the summer, there seems to be no student he said. "We [the Office of Residence Life] and rectors. The resolution passed almost unani­involvement at all," said Mike Tobin, co­are informed adequately, very adequate­The Council also passed a resolution mously with 18 votes for, no votes chair of the Hall Presidents Council. ly, by the councils and rectors as to what asking the Offiee of Student Residence to against, and one abstention. 
Student Senator Mark Leen added, "It is concerns should be addressed. This deci­combine du Lac with a type of "Student O'Hara, who is required to respond to our right as full members of the commu­sion is not made in a dark room where Handbook." Some members cited laek of resolutions sent by the CLC, is out of nity to .be present at the meeting that men with cigars decide the fate of the stu­interest and what they saw as the overly town this week and will respond to these decides what goes into du Lac. Many of dents." legal tone of du Lac as reasons for the resolutions by the next Council meetingthese rules are imposed without discus-"[The current policy] is a means, the change. on Feb. 3. 
involved in a RecSports spon­sored activity will not be a pre­


RecSports 
requisite for use. The building may also house various physical 
continued from page 1 

education classes and could will give first priority to non­allot limited space for intramur­varsity students who want to al sports. RecSports offices will work out or have a pick-up also move to the new facility. game of basketball. Derengoski feels the new Recreational use will be the first building will round out the ser­priority," Derengoski said. vices granted to Notre Dame 
RecSports hopes that students students. "It will be an out­and staff will only need standing complement to the University identification cards to great facilities we already have be admitted to the facility; being here on campus," she said. 
]PW Lectof" Auditions Tuesday & Wednesday January 21 & 22 at 4:00 p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 0MPUS MINISTRY  
Undergraduate ~ummer Internships  
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint Dame and Argonne National Laboratory, in ~.-u ....uutoluu the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution will award up to 3 summer internshi Laboratory for 19 on campus in the Fall. , room and board are provided for the 10-week at Argonne. Student applicants should have research interests in an mentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned likely to contribute to rh7"understanding, assessment improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US zens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have pleted their Junior Year by May I 997, and registered to the Fall of 1997. more details, contact the CBPC: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, Applicants will be required to complete an applica- 

NOT SURE ... ATTEND THE PANEL DISCUSSION ON "PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVESTMENT BANKING INDUSTRY" SIMULATED INTERVIEW DEMONSTRATION TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1997 7:00-8:30p.m. ROOM 126, DEBARTOLO HALL SPONSORED BY CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES  

The Observer is accepting applications for: 1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 24, 1997. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631 ;.4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune.  

IDOD·thnr 7-9piD





813 LaFortune 
ong·sleeves are back! $15 
------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~ 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timorhy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michad Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The: free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Spom 63 I -4543 News/Photo 63 I-5323 Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Day Editor/Production 63 I -5303 General Information 63I-747I 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Business Office 631-53I3 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 Office Manager 63I-7471 Fax 63I-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

page? 

The rising specter of societal shame in America 
The specter of "shame" in American society has risen again in recent issues of national newsmagazines. 
Part of this is an overwhelming desire to return to the "glory days" of Americana when life was "simpler" in 
. the 1940s and 1950s. Part of it is the frustration of not being able to deal with the ills of society by treating the symp-
Matthew Apple 

toms and not the cause. If only, they say, if only we had a "return to shame," we would no longer have the terrible afflic­tions of teen pregnancy, child abuse, divorce, rape, murder, drug use, violent television programming and political scandals -all of which arc on the rise in the '90s, according to political pun­dits. 
Funny thing, you tend to find what you seek if you look hard enough. 
The concept of "shame" as it applies to society confuses the issue of morality with the issue of popularity. The fact that a certain percentage of a particular segment of society does not approve or accept certain behaviors does not make those behaviors in question "right" or "wrong." If the owner of a bar in Louisiana in 1957 refused to allow a black man to sit down and have a drink in front of white paying customers because he feared public ostracism for unacceptable behavior, did that make racism "right" in the 1950s? 
If Aristotle correctly claimed, "Pain and pleasure are the rudders with which we steer children," then it is also correct to claim that fear and shame are the emotions with which society coerces its members into behaving "properly." Fear and shame negatively reinforce the desires of society; one does not reward for "good" behavior, but one does threaten punishment for "bad" behavior. 
The result is that, even if a member of society does something good, he or she may do it for the wrong reasons. One does not teach what is right and just; one teaches not to do what is "bad" or "embarrassing." Society teaches that life is about trying to get away with as much as possible, and, once you get caught, to go back and to try some more, to push back the boundaries of acceptance until you have enough money and power not to worry whether society approves of your behavior. 
Simply put,· the reason "bad things" happen is that there is no incentive to "do good." There is no reason to believe that our parents or grandparents lived in a society any less volatile than ours; a return to a fabricated "golden era" of pre-1960s societal mentality will not solve any problems that have always existed. 
What once the mainstream had pushed to the edges of American culture and had marginalized into tiny pockets of Motown and Beatnik countercultures has now become a larger part of popu­lar culture. To the remnants and loyal descendants of the 1950s mainstream, the taboo problems of the past have become the conspicuous problems of the present; the once-forbidden segments of society threaten the old order, and the system finally begins to realize that its monotonous, conformist hegemony is on the verge of being overthrown. "Shame" allies itself with "family values" in an attempt to maintain a sta­tus quo whfch never really existed in the first place; that is the real strug­gle of modern American soci­ety. 

P a  r  e  n  t  s  
reward  their  
children  for  

doing something right and repri­mand them for doing something wrong. As we grow older, only the reprimand­ing remains. Perhaps, as a so<;iety, We need to mature beyond the point in which we only respond 
t0 Perhaps as a culture -or loose assembly of various cultures, as the case may be -we need to reevaluate our distinctions between right and wrong, acceptable and unac­ceptable. It is my hope that, after you pare down minor cultural differences, the most central, overriding morals of what remains will be a restating of the "Golden Rule": don't hurt anyone, and don't break or steal what doesn't belong to you. All else is merely the window dressing of self-appointed Decency Squads of all "generational" groups. I suspect this will come as a great 

consternation to some: this will be my last column for a while, as I set aside my opinionated public ramblings and finish my master's thesis of some 150 to 200 pages (oy). 
It may be that this column shall reap­pear within these hallowed pages, but, for the nonce, I shall endeavor to become invisible. 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the Notre Dame English Department. He may be contacted via email at map­ple@skyenet.netor http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple . 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• 000!\IESBURY 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 


------------------------------------, 



ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
How Great Thou Art? ALook at 
tions by both bennf'aetors and artists  (the t  
By LAUREN WINTERFIELD Accent Writer  brought the proj<~et to campus; tuition money was used.  no  struc locat  
Artists from across the <:ountry -lit- DeB·  
A student speedwalks to their 9:30 a.m. class, or a visitor admires  orally New York to California - were  entra  
the progress of construction on the stadium, and they are struck by  contacted. Eager for the widespread  the  

the modeled piece of metalwork before them. The sculpture attracts oxposuro their work would reeoive in Accor them, repels them, reminds them of something. Maybe it puzzles this environment, tlw responso was David them. "I was looking at that one by DeBartolo, in the back noar the huge. Most of the pieces aro new, ere-like ir parking lot, and there's like a shirt on a swing. It's weird because I ated speeilkally for this project. linoag know that one must mean something, but I d<ln't know what," said Two ynars of planning proeedml the the B< Notre Dame junior Courtney Fleming. project's execution. A piece was con-ror c 
Halltree Houseshirt stimulated her: it elicited a response. Sho firmed, its sito sot: and tho emnent fou-totem questioned the piece and looked for symbolism in its rendering of a ndation poun~d. Although artists usual-the ki little bronze tee-shirt suspended from a red tree composed of thren ly sent a prnvinw of thoir submission on passi beams with a tiny bronze house perched at the top. Fleming did not a slide or a model, some pieces were abstn realize that Derek Chalfant. the artist, thinks of it like this: "A shirt seen for the first time upon their lands~ protects the body: a house encloses the body. Larg<J/small, arrival. A site committee decided which Studfl 
0

inside/outside, public/private, adult/child, beginning/end, piece went where. Composed of repro-flick<:· birth/death. The tree is symbolic of life, since trees nourish humani-sentatives from the Snite, the seulp ty." He wonders, "Will generations unborn, our heirs, sec trees Department of Art, Art History, and most where birds nest, or will they have trees to climb on and swing Design, the Public Sculpture sider from?" Committee, and managers of the build-tions. 
Students walk by dramatic modern-looking, freestanding, hard, ings on the quad, they involved every So j often geometric, abstract, stone, steel structures concentrated in the resource they could to help them sculpl DeBartolo and COBA quads and shake their heads. What: are those clPdde where the pieces should go. Tho Hope and why are they here? architects of DeBartolo and what They are part of the COB/\ eneouraged the eommit-TheObserver/MikeRuma with ~ University's Public tee and saw the pieces as a COBA designers encouraged the University to include scupl-they q Sculpture Project which way to complement, rather lures such as this one in the surrounding area of the building. care. began in August of 1995 than compete with, their Sculj and will remain here work. number of responses from an onloo 
through July. Thirty pieces C~1anges inevitably t<~ok place durin.g the exeeuti~m. yhc dislikn. Sonw may hardly have noti of modern sculpture stand proJect was expanded Irom 10 to 30 pwces-allowmg 1t tr pus 1 ~xecpt that they appeared an outdoors, mainly in the include contrib~tion~ from faeult~ and alumni .artist~.-buildings. "I just thought they wei recently built academic when the nnonmty of the area available was realized. S1tm junior Bob Flannnry. · quads near DeBartolo, the needed to be changed. For example, La Favola, a stainlcs~ Onlookers are not expected to u College of Business and eorten steel piece rnsembling a tabln, now rnsides b} of a sculptor, but if they guess Administration, and the the west entrance to Decio. Originally it was placed plislwd. Modern seulptun~s· co Hesburgh Center. They betwnnn thn Univnrsity Club and the Ilesburgh Cente1 engaging. For those who stop to range from tall, striking, whern -it was too diminished hy its surroundings to stanc According to Collins, modern modern structures to subtle, out. dialogun at a Univnrsity in whi private, crouched pieces. And the seulptun~ does stand out. "Thesn pieces are con· important. WP look at how it i Most are temporarily on frontational. You .--~ loan from the artists, can't just walk by I.A.ou (ouLO UI..L IT "B1..uE ~ow f\e.ov~ although some will remain them. They are 3-I here permanently and some dimensional; thny ON l<.£c::: · · "~E AR.Row were taken from the Snite takn up space," Museum's existing collec-• , ,_ -·--Collins said of No. \oo
J 

tion. tlwir visibility on 
About three years ago, campus. Fatfier Austin Collins made Their contrast a proposal to the Campus with the consf~rva-Sculpture Committee to tive campus dis-begin a sculpture project tinguishes them here. 'Tve been involved in <wen more. Thn about 10 publie sculpture nature of this art projects at other universi-follows a diJ'['erent 
ties, and I thought it was a TheObserver/MikeRuma vein than that of really good way to expand "Halltree Houseshirt," by artist Derek Chalfert, stands the decorative art the exhibit opportunities near DeBartolo Hall. in the form of here and allow people to fountains, trellis-interact outdoors," said Collins. os, and foundnrs' sculp-Collins, an associate professor of sculpture, worked on behalf of tures which dominate tho the department of art, art history, and design with the Snite rest of the campus. So what Museum and the Public Sculpture Committee to allocate the is the art trying to do? Many students share cartoonist Dave Kellett's sarcastic opinion of campus art. but resources needed to bring the project to campus. Generous dona-Well, the Root of Jesse Dame. Cartoon courtesy "A Well Balanced Moai. The Very Best of Fo~r Food 
Web-vertising: 
This b,yte's for you 
. HUGGINS " 

time something is written that even suggests support for the commercialization of Int••rn•~t the,::~ve .g QptheNet should be free" crowd passionately complains. To Lm,ese·•1o·:tKs. alLInternet tentis an entitlement -no, a birthright. And anyone who tries to anything on the Net. or charge access to premium content is just another money-chang­
who needsto btl: chased out ofthe sacred cyber·templf:l. 
Well, baloney. The Net has never been free, though these folks are convinced it onco was. They mistake Defense Department funding for free. But those days are over. The Internet is off the governmentpayroll and has to .make it on its own. Selling stuff on ·line is one way to fm()Jlce the Internet infrastructure. Another way is advertising. So bn forewarned, •~yber­panhandlerf! ... stopreadivg here because the restof this column will really bum you out. 
According to a new study commissioned by thl:l Internet Advertising Bureau, advertisers spent $157 million on Internet advertisements through the third quarter of 1996. Though end of the year figures aren'tavailable yet, it is clear that Internet advertising will have topped the $200-million mark last year. 
The growth in advertising on the Internet should be no surprise. Those ad dollars aro chasing a very attractive demographic mix: 
• 
34:8 million U.S. households have a PC. 

• 
55% of those homes use their PCto manage household finances. 

• 
The average computer user is 39, but the average Internet user is 32. 

• 
The median income for Internet-equipped households is around $60,000. 


customers on same them in thH physical world: advertising. Advertising. on the Internet, howevHr, infancy. The rule book is still being written-much of it in red ink. 
Advertisers who buy space in newspapers, magazines and on TV do so armed v lines and rules or thumb developnd over decades. They know exactly what they l for and know it is priced correctly. That's because traditional media established and guidelines long ago, such as Nielsen surveys and audited circulation figures.~: 
Ah, but no such roassuring benehmarks yl}t exist for the intrepid souls who advertise in cyberspace. Here's the current state of the cyber-advertising bus· quick survival guide for those considering taking the plunge. 
The Early Days . 
In the early days of Net advertising, sites priced banner ads the same prieed ads -a set eost per thousand readers/viewers. Instead of using cireu Web sites quoted Web page hits. But it was not unusual for even modest Web 100,000 or more hits a week. Early advertisers paid (wasted, actually) an,nrT1nt\ll money on hit-prieed banner ads before someone thought to ask just how hits ed. 
As it turned out, hits were not a reflection of how many people actually saw at all. Instead hits represented the total numbM of files the Web site server had people rcqucsting_that Web page. Since a single Web page is usually made up text and graphics Iiles, hits returned a grossly inflated figure. For example, a page that had 10 graphies and OM text file would register 11 hits for each 
0

nectcd to that page. 
Advertisers were not amused. 

When advertisers balked, most Web ~ites switched to a new measure -page the number of times the entire Web page containing the banner ad was impressions have now become a Net advertising standard. They are fairly into standard eost por thousand {CPM) rates most advertisers are already Many sites now usc this form ofpricing. 
Currently CPMs for Web advertising range from $10 to $150 per 1,000 page· $60 is th(l ;~.vnragn. It's important to note that this compares with CPMs or $6-$14 al television, $8-$20 for magazines, and $18-$20 for newspaper advertising. So that Net advertising still carries an eye-bulging premium. · 



ACCENT
Tuesday, January 21, 1997 page 9 

ampus Sculptures 
part, polished steel ,_______.,._,.,.....,...,...,..,..,_.. tecture and we ask ourselves, 'What is 
ture of right angles this saying?'" d on the east side of In addition to enhancing the universi­rtolo near the main ty experience here, the Modern ce) makes reference to Sculpture Project provides benefits for ible and beyond. the school. It puts Notre Dame on the ing to its master,' John map in the art world. The University Mooney, it is "a tree­sponsored a successful Sculpture age that refers to the Symposium in September at which of David as found in sculptor Robert Morris was the keynote of Samuel. The mir-speaker. And as a result of the e,xposure omed finish of this the art department received at the ke sculpture reflects Symposium, Collins has already action of light and received calls inquiring about the work pedestrians. It of young artists on campus. Notre Dame the essence of the will receitk more applicants to its grad­pe in form and spirit." uate schools in art, thereby making the nts may notice their program more competitive. Right now, ring reflection 'On the the department is the largest it has ever 
as they walk by, but been with a total of 104 undergraduate bably have not con-majors. . its Biblical implica-The University has faithfully support­
ed the arts and growth of the art ~-------.-____.J department, but the significance of this ture lost? Not at all. TheObserver/MtkeRuma undertaking has created a dialogue 
lly students wonder Weathervane or art? Sculptors on cam-about art. Because Notre Dame is the ney is trying to say pus urge students to look for a deeper second-largest tourist attraction in the he Root of Jesse. But meaning in the art. state of Indiana, an exhibit here neither wonder nor receives quite a bit of exposure. "This campus is sacred to many. We are oblivious to the number of people ure is capable of eliciting any who come here, or whose goal is just to see the Notre Dame cam­
r. be it admiration, wonder, or pus," said Collins. the artistic additions to cam­The presence of the sculptures raises the question about the role nd the same time as the new of modern art at a Catholic university. Critical feedback Collins has e part of the decoration," said received centers around the type of art the project involves. Modern art often lacks the aesthetic appeal of the classical style, and it cer­
erstand the abstract expression tainly docs not conform to Notre Dame's Gothic architecture, but it 
it, the goal of the art is accom­represents the role of art now. 
ntational nature is intellectually It represents the work of living artists making their livelihood from it provokes thought. art; it provides the dialogue necessary for all of the disciplines of a ulpture "creates an intellectual liberal education. Faculty have written in appreciation of its uses. ideas and critical thinking are The Art Department uses it as a teaching tool. The sculpture pro­
with the landscape and archi-vides a good starting point for writers in Freshman Seminar, Sophomore Core, and English courses. Grade schools and high schools come on field
N 1c..~ 1...'"\ l::>or4~ 
trips to see it.

'1.....~ m""'~ -0 Beyond direct interaction, the sculpture is accessible
\ 

through several other medi­ums. The Snite's gift shop sells a catalog of the outdoor pieces which includes a color photograph and an explana­tion of the piece by its mas­ter. A CD-ROM version of the exhibit will be released in March providing views of the pieces from all sides and their installation process, and cata­log of the pieces will appear on the Internet in the spring. 
"Art surrounds everything," said Collins, and its modern form has even infiltrated Notre Dame's campus. 
night be surprised to learn the true meaning of the sculptures around Notre ps of the Apocalypse," 1996. 
hey reach 
still in its Click-Through Rate 
Though the page impression method gives a more accurate visitor count, it still doesn't "th guide­;ive the advertiser any clue how many people even noticed their banner ad. That's why an lre paying ncreasing number of Web advertisers now insist on a different measure -the clicktbrough measures ·ate. Clickthrough is the percentage of visitors to a site who actually click on the ad to get more information. A study recently completed by 1/PRO Research showed that the average decide to clickthrough rate for banner ads on popular Web sites is only 2,H percent. Another survey 1ess and a by DoubleClickNetwork (www.doubleclick.net} put the figur(J.}ljfl'htJ.r,at8 percent; and oth· 
ers daim it's more like 15 percent. Since no one can. agre~ op ~It av'(J.t~g~:~; somesites ar(J. simply charging advertisers a. flat rate "7""" usually aroun,<i ?S · for each visitor who 
actually clicks on the banner; . .. . . . ·. ... .·············• .· .•. •·• ··· 
he media . Cleai'ly;c;ljekthrough is th,(J. saf~stform ,ofwicing, ~i~~t;t n figures, the .We.l:i' .site~. If people c~c~ on yqur b~J,n,uer and are .trft,fl.~ 
to report paid just 25 cents to reacl:l a.. po~entit~.l ()usto~E}r .. .. · ·· s sums of marke1Jng methods. ClickWrpugh priping also allow .. · . .·. •• ..• . adv~h;tisit1g 11 calculat­budget hyletting you putbanners on ~any Sit~s; rather t .. ·•• ................................ ··. r ~udget ~I) a sin, 
gle site; Some sites will generate clicks and soine won'tIn, 'We E) fig tijough; you ortltpay for 
banner ad resUlts. ··· ••• .......... ····•··•· ···· ·· ·· ·· ·•·· ·• ploaded to With the exception of a few dozen Internet mega-sites, few sites are making much money 1numerous selling banner ads. Consequently this is a buyer's market. Almost any revenue that trickle11 
"ngle Web into a Web site is considered manna from heaven by most Wehniasters. So it behooves buy­who con-ers to hold out for a deal that transfers at least some of the risk to the Web site operator. Clickthrough is the cleanest way to accomplish that. In any event. Internet advertising is a wide open medium in the process of inventing itself. 
ressions, That means there are plenty of opportunities to cut innovative deals. But among all the hype sed. Page there is also plenty of fool's gold just waiting for the right sucker to come along. So, when converted you graduate to the ·"real world", be careful out there. 
ble with. For more information about Internet advertising, point your browser to Professor Donna 
Hoffman's site at Vanderbilt University (www2000.ogsm.vanderhilt.edul novak!web.stan­pressions. dards/webstand.html). or nation~ 
•U can see Jason Huggins is ajunior Management f,nformation Systems major from Thousand Oaks, Calif 
Confiding in take­home H IV tests 
By LARRY 
WARD 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
Of course, .no Notre Dani or Saint Mary's student would ever have the need to take an AID$. c:Qnside'ring that all of us are supposedly pure and ill.noeent and h ..·.. ···· Iways abs~ained from sexual intercourse and the u~H of drugs.Eioweyertforthose Notre Dame students that fear that they may have gotten AIDS from a blood transfusion or for those o you who are. simply intere$ted in reading about· a new product avail­able to consumers, read on!. 
Currently, there are·two kit~ on the market which enable consumers to give themselves an AIDStestin the privacy of their own home. Both kits allow people to subn:lit samples of their blood by mail for anony­mous screening for HIV. Qni) kit isappropriately named the Home Access Kit; the other is Johnson & Johnson's Confide. 
Confide was the first of the kits on the market and originally was test marketed to discover ifthere was consumer interest in the product by Johnson & Johnson in the state ofTexas. With successful sales in its first retail market, Johnson & J<ihni>on has now decided to spread the sale of the kit to shelves ofretailer§ aU across the country. 
What exactly is AIDS? AID$isthe abbreviated form of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndr.ome am:Lis a disease which completely destroys the body's il!lmUluf. system;· In: a person with AIDS, a virus known as Human Im.muno~Peficiehcy Vi:rus"Type I -HIV-I for short -has (;}ntered the blood .m and affeCted the helper T -lymphoc~es; This virus then· multjplj · ~. d~stroystM h~alth-promoting helper T cells, In. tll!le, .an AID ·bar; .a!) iii)Illune system which is so weak that it qannot gefen in · ns and. tumors. Thus the body becomes so de~....... · results! 
The v~ru,s th~t. ~y~n,tu, ...• •. the body via a needle that has<been shai.ed W . . . , .~nous .drug user, via homose'/(ual or heterose~ • ourse, otvia plac/ilntal-pas­sage from aninfeetedpregri .· .....·.... o•th.e fet11s that she is:carrying. 
Once mv~Type Ib~s inf •.. ed theJ:!Ody, symptoms such as fever; fatigue, and rash develqp>'fhef,le sy1Uptoxns eventually subside and over the next several years t~el'e marl:m. few or no symptoms. During this time period,the disease multiplies, slowly at first and then more rapid­ly. 
When an infected personsuffers symptoms such as swollen lymph nodes and a low grade fever, heJs suffering from the stage of the dis­ease known as AIDS related Complex (ARC}, Later, when the immune defenses are greatly impa,ired, the.onset of full-blown AIDS develops. This stage of the disease includes an opportunistic infection, one which is caused by a bacterium or.a virus which can only invade the body whenever its immune system is severely damaged. The full effects o AIDS may appear five to tert years after the original onset of the infec­tion of the virus. Death usually follows within two to three years of the onset of full-blown AIDS. . · 
According to estimates. by the World Health Organization, there are more than 500,000 cases of.AIDSworldwide. In addition, there are an estimated.1to 1.5 million HlV carriers in the United States and an esti­mated 5to 10 million carrie($ ofthevirt.tsin the world. Approximately two-thirds of those ~t ri~k~or the ~is ease have never been tested. · 
Heali:drig .that there .ar1:l f39 mU.!lY· of.~as~asofHIV and AJDS in the United StatE)s·anti ack,nq'(\'~!)dging tp~t approximately 4? percent.. of these un,tostod, .at,Iis}{ indi~f~Biils are.. l!19te .likely to take an at-home AIDS .. test.Johnson &Joljm;on deQide~to.il1troduce Confide into the American market. Thy at·p e AJDSt(}~t is safe and simple to use. The kit comes with easy-to"follo rections that are clearly written in bo~h English and Spanish and a( accompanied with illustrations. Using Confide is biologically safe ~ecause the kit includes retracting lancets and lancet disposal c?ntahiers. F\Irthermore, its specially designed mailing system involves threeJevels of protection to ensure that the sample is protected (This pr.otective packaging also assures that no mail-handlers could ever yom~ into contact with the blood sample.) 
Taking the test involves a three..step process. F\rst, the test-taker 
takes a sample of blood from a fingertip and applies itto a special Test 
Card that has a unique personalidentification number, which is used to 
obtain the results of tQe testhy t¢lephone, Second, once finished with 
the important examination., the tesHaker mails the card to Johnson & 
Johnson's laboratory; whic . ~ifi¢ruiy dedica.ted to finding out the 
results of<;onfide Sal!l:P ~ Mf&~.);~ven days, the test-taker can 
call an 800 rmmber iqr ·· · ·· · 
The te$t is. 99 perc · lliples .are screened with . a. test 
known a . '!Y· .... Sof))eriO\ssay. If the results 
·.~. w!th ELISA.. Ifeither o 
p~sltive diagnosis is .con" 
ern IUot test<ihd another 
~ ~nte~s···his .•id.entitication . . . ... . . . ... . ...• higposisdfthetest turned out positive; the q ...······ diately connected with a counselor: These co •• el .·· .•.. . •............... ·· achelor or Master's degrees in social work and have. specialt.rainingil1 dealing with AIDS patients. The counselor helpsJh() i)1fe~te(l p~rs<m receive emotional support, ·develop a personal coping plan, and giv¢s the infected person referrals to local AIDS services, .·· ...·. ... ··· ....•...•.· · The Observer contacted l)niversity Heath Services to inquire if take­home tests are available to stl1d(lnts through the campus pharmacy. ·. We were told that while Health Services does not carry such products, they do offer confidential AIDS testing. As a wider range of counseling is available through the University, Health Services advises students to take advantage of on-campus AIDS testing rather than use a take-home kit. 
Larry Ward is a junior Precptofessional major from Johnstown, Pa. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
•NBA 

Hawks win 17th consecutive game in Atlanta 
By TOM SALADINO Associated Press Writer 

ATLANTA The Atlanta Hawks are a per­fect 10 in 1997. 
Steve Smith scored a season­high 31 points and the Atlanta Hawks extended their winning streak to 10 games, beating the Charlotte Hornets 106-97 Monday at the Omni, where they have won 17 straight. 
The Hawks haven't lost since Dec. 28 at Washington and have lifted their season record to 26-11. 
"The streak is becoming something that we're priding ourselves on," Smith said. "Opposing teams come in say­ing they want to stop it." 
It didn't happen again before Atlanta's third straight sellout, as Christian Laettner added 23 points and Mookie Blaylock had 20 and 10 assists for the Hawks, whose 10 straight vic­tories are the fourth best in franchise history. Atlanta won 14 straight in 1993-94, 12 in a. row in 1968-69 and 11 straight in 1986-87. 
The home winning streak is the second best since the Hawks moved to Atlanta from St. Louis in 1968; Atlanta won 22 consecutive games during the 1990-91 season. 
"It felt great to get my shoot­ing going early," said Smith, who scored Atlanta first eight points. He finished 11-of-24, including 4-of-6 on 3-pointers. 
"My shot's been a little off, and it felt good to get it back today," he said. 
Glen Rice had 33 points and Vlade Divac added 21 points and 15 rebounds for Charlotte, which had a four-game win­ning streak snapped. 
The Hawks, who never trailed. led 88-70 with 9:55 left when Rice got hot and scored eight of Charlotte's points in a 16-5 run that got the Hornets within 93-86 with 5:35 left. But they never got closer. . 
"We made a run, but we never should have been in that hole," Rice said. 
"They're playing good bas­ketball right now. They're play­ing together, they're playing hard. When you have those things working for you, not only can you win at home, but you can be very successful on the road as well." 
"When you're playing like this, there's a lot bf happiness in your heart," said Hawks' center Dikembe Mutombo, who contributed 11 points and 13 rebounds. "We have nothing to lose right now, and that's why we're winning and having so much fun." 
Smith had 11 points in the opening quarter as the Hawks led 29-22. 
Charlotte tied it at 38-38 in the second period before Atlanta went on a 12-1 spurt in the next 2 1/2 minutes to grab a 50-39 lead as Smith had six points during the span. 
Knicks 95, Bullets 79 

It's always the same story when the New York Knicks play the Washington Bullets, and Monday was no different. 
Now it's up to the Knicks to keep their next game -their biggest test of the season so far -from following a similar, al­though less successful, script. 
The New York Knicks, head­ing into their first game of the season against the archrival Chicago Bulls, got 22 points and 14 rebounds from Patrick Ewing as .they beat the Bullets 95-79 for their 13th straight home win. 
It was their 19th victory in their last 20 games against the Bullets and their 36th in 41 games against Washington over the past 10 years. 
Now they must face a Chicago team that has beaten them 10 straight times at home. The road losing streak goes back even farther -to 1992 ­when it includes games that Michael Jordan played in. 
"We're fooling ourselves if we believe it's not a huge game for our basketball team," Buck Williams said. "This is a team we've talked about all season long. Everything we've done in our philosophies and prepara­tion revolves around Chicago. It'll be interesting to see how we respond." 
"We need to go out and do things like we did today," Johnson said. 
New York will almost certain­ly be playing without its best bench player. John Starks, who is out for at least a week with a neck and shoulder strain, al­though Starks left the door open just a little for a possible return. 
''I'm getting down on my knees tonight and praying that I'll be healthy enough to play this game," he said. 
Lakers 109, Mavericks 99 

Annoyed with himself for 6­of-26 shooting in the Lakers' last two losses, Nick Van Exel decided some extra pregame work was in order. 
The practice paid off, with Van Exel scoring 24 points, Eddie Jones 21 and Los Angeles continuing its mastery of the Dallas Mavericks with a 109-99 victory Monday. 
"When I'm playing bad, we don't play too well," Van Exel said. "I felt like I let the whole team down the last two games. I was real depressed yesterday at practice. I dido 't even say ttyo words." 
The Lakers were coming off two consecutive losses for the first time since early November. A third seemed unimaginable considering the Lakers were playing Dallas, and they hadn't lost three straight in 12 1/2 months. 
"We wanted to win real bad," said Van Exel, who was 8-ol'-13 from the field, made five 3­pointers and all three of his free throws. "I just wanted to come out and have a good game." 
The Lakers beat Dallas for the fifth straight time and 19th in the teams' last 21 meetings dating to the 1991-92 season. 
Jamal Mashburn and Jim Jackson combined to score 11 of Dallas' first 13 points as the Mavs took a six-point lead. 
But the Lakers put down the challenge with 16-0 run, in­cluding five points each from Van Exel and Jones, to take a 23-13 lead. 
"That hurts," Mashburn said. "Plus they went to the free­throw line early. That really killed us, when they get points with no time going off the clock, so that was tough. 
"Eddie Jones played a heck­uva game and Nick Van Exel did also. They're tough to play against." 
In the fourth quarter, Dallas cut its deficit to 95-85 with a 6­0 run with 5:37 remaining. 
Worm settles with cameraman 
ByRON LESKO Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Chicago Bulls star Dennis Rodman has agreed to pay $200,000 to the cameraman he kicked durin·g a game against the Minnesota Tirriberwolves, The Associated Pross learned Monday night. 
Cameraman Eugene Amos was kicked in the groin by Rodman during a game at the Target Center last Wednesday. Amos declined comment Monday night, referring all questions to his attorney, Gale Pearson. 
Neither Pearson nor Rodman's attorney, Dwight 
Manley. returned telephone messages left at their offices after business hours Monday. 
WCCO-TV also reported a six-figure out-of-court settle­ment had been reached. A source told The Associated Press the settlement was $200,000. 
The Bulls were playing the 'fimberwolves when Rodman stumbiHd out of bounds over a 
~photographer. Bodman kicked Amos. who was sitting nearby. after Amos turned his camera on him. The game was delayed for seven minutes before Amos was carried off on a stretcher and treated briefly at a local hospilal. 
The NBA suspended Rodman for at least 11 games, the sec­ond-longest suspension in league history. It also fined Rodman $25,000. The suspen· sion is without pay and will cost Rodman more than $1 million. 
Amos filed an assault report the night of the game and said he intended to pursue charges. Police said if charges were filed, it would not be before Tuesday. 
Amos, an in-house camera­man at the Target Center, said last Friday that he already had been to two doctors. He has not worked at either of the Timberwolves' two home games since he was kicked. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lal'orrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
L...__N_o_T_I_c_Es_ __.l 
CANCUN-PADRE-MAZATLAN SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST! 1-800-328-7513 FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY SPECIAL!/! Up to $200 Discount Coupons on our Website www.studentadvtrav.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreak­traveLcom 1-800-678-6386 
#1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On campus, convenient. Call Margrette 284-5261 
Texts -25% Off! 24 Hour Service. Buy/SellfTrade. Open 7 Days per week ND at Howard Street 233-2342 Pandora's Books 

ILOST & FOUND I 
If you picked up my black wool coat at the E)oat Club on Sunday, Please call Kerry at 288-1542, I am freezing without it! 
Found in front of Knott Hall on Friday, 1/17: Woman's watch. Call Amy at 1-7600 to identify/claim. 

I WANTED 
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­National Parks hire forestry work­ers. park rangers, firefighters, life­guards, + volunteer and govern­ment positions. Excellent benefits + bonus potentiaL Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) & earn an exc11llent in~ome in the Cruise & Land-Tour Industry. For details, call 1-206­971-3550 ext.C55845 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Benefits often include Transportation and/or Room & Board. For details: (206)971-3510 ext. A55849 
SUMMER SALES/ADVERTISING POSITIONS University Directories, the nation's largest publisher of campus tele­phone directories, will be on cam­pus January 23 and 24 to recruit top-notch students to sell yellow page advertising for the Notre Dame directory. Gain valuable experience in advertising, sales and public relations. Management and travel opportunities available. For information on scheduling an inter­view call Murray Dameron at 1-800­743-5556 Ext. 156. 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT -Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. Find out how to succeed in this field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext. K5S844 SMC student seeks Fe. roommate for spring,cute duplex,garage,own room, 5min from campus.271-9843 

FOR RENT 
Homes for Rent for 97-98 
ADT Security 232-2595 
3 Bedroom $425+dep Available Now 602 1/2 St Louis Across from Rocco's 232-2595 

. 2 bdrms, near campus. Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Paul 232-2794 
Furnished Student Apt. -6 blocks 
'from campus, affordable, clean 1-bedroom-$265 Heat and water included 755 South Bend Ave. (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 

FOR SALE 

1988 Mercury Tracer, 5-spd. $1,150. Good dep~ndable trans. 259-7872. 
Add -Bed -Queensize orthopedic premium mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrafice 175. (219) 67 4-2352 
WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 TA'MARA 273-5166 

BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/ BEST OFFER 289-1347-ERIK 
4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. system, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947 


TICKETS 
I need one JPW ticket for one or all of the events. Please call Shannon at X1833. Thanks. 

PERSONAL 
PREGNANT? Consider the loving option of Adoption. Caring, devoted couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Call for profile and more info: Andrea and Lee: 1­800-213-3960 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreak­travel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower Level-Thursday, January 23 from 1 to 4:30p.m. Discuss summer opportunities; bring copies of your resume. 
Have a nice day Courtney ..... . 
SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower Level-Thursday. January 23 from 1 to 4:30p.m. Discuss summer opportunities; bring copies of your resume. 
"SENIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, January 21, 7:00-8:30 pm, Room 126 DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 
"SENIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, January 21, 7:00-8:30 pm, Room 126, DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
"SENIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, January 21, 7:00-8:30 pm, Room 126 DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
"JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, Januaray 21, 4:00-5:00 pm, Room 126, DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
"JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­MENT BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, January 21, 4:00-5:00 pm, Room 126, DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
"JUNIORS: PREPARING FOR INTERVIEWS IN THE INVEST­METN BANKING INDUSTRY"­Panel Discussion-Tuesday, January 21, 4:00-5:00 pm, Room 126 DeBartolo HaiL Sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
Poor Mikie: so many women, so lit­tle timet 
SECOND ANNUAL 
CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP $45/ticket includes transpo, rentals, lift tickets, and hoteL Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Mtn. and hotel in Madison. WI Get your ticket @ LaF info desk ··sPOTS ARE LIMITED!!.. 
FINNIGAN'S Irish Pub 
Tuesday Nights HALF PRICE PITCHERS 
Bud Bud Light Mic Light Heineken Honey Brown Bass Michael Sheas Guinness 
Black & Tan 
113 E. Wayne St., Downtown 

Mikey D-That was the best B-day ever but you better start thinking of your speech for next year. 
The St. Ed's Hall Players think you should see: Elaine Bonifield Jeff Dodson Sean Dwyer Louise Edwards Brian Fremeau Chris Kudlacz Jim Lies Laurie Lodwych Jodi Lucena Andy Murray Mike O'Malley Drew Rausch Charity Rieck & Greta Zandstra in ALL IN THE TIMING by: david ives. They'll be your best friends! Thurs. Fri. & Sat. 7:30 PM Washington Hall Tickets $3 @ Lafortune or the door. 
B.G.-And when I'm on the micro­phone you best a wear a sweata 'cause'l'm cooler than a polar bear's toe nail. 

Tuesday, January 21, 1997 . The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
•NHl 
Avalanche overwhelm Panthers in Finals rematch 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

Valeri Kamensky scored twice in the final eight minutes and the Colorado Avalanche beat the Florida Panthers 4-2 Monday night, extending their unbeaten streak to a franchise­record 12 games. 
The Avalanche won in their first visit to Miami since a triple-overtime victory to clinch a four-game sweep of the Panthers in the Stanley Cup Finals last year. 
A. goal by Kamensky in the second period was disallowed because teammate Stephane Yelle was in the crease. The ruling came following a .review of the video replay. 
A.s it turned out, that cost Kamensky a hat trick. He broke a 2-2 tie by skating past defenseman Terry Carkner and flicking the puck over goalie John Vanbiesbrouck's shoulder. 
Kamensky added his 16th goal of the season with two minutes left on a twisting, off­balance, behind-the-back shot. The performance came in just his second game after missing six games with a shoulder sep­aration. 
The Avalanche were without their top two scorers, Joe Sakic (calf injury,) and Peter Forsberg (thigh), but they still improved to 9-0-3 since Dec. 23. 
Colorado goalie .Craig Billington, making his eighth start of the_jear, stopped 33 shots, including two against Ray Sheppard on breakaways in the first period. Billington made a backhanded save the first time, then made a diving stop against Sheppard as the horn sounded to end the pe­riod. 
Colorado's Claude Lemieux assisted on two goals. 
Colorado scored the tying goal in the second period when a shot by Rene Corbet deflected off the skate of Florida's Gord Murphy and into the net. 
Florida scored a shorthanded goal for a 2-1 lead, with Tom Fitzgerald taking a pass from Bill Lindsay on a breakaway and flicking the puck into the corner of the net. 
Mike Ricci scored his third goal of the season on a power play to put Colorado ahead 1-0. Florida rookie Dave Nemirovsky earned his first ca­reer assist on a goal by Dave Lowry, tying the score. 
The Panthers failed to score a 




Ylib.terlesl 

Wed: Movie: Nat'I Lampoon's Vacation @ 9 Cushing Thure: Massage Workshop@ 7-9 Lafun Ballroom Fri: MTV Real World's Lars & Cat Q & A 
@ Lafun Ballroom 6:30-7 MTV Lars DJs an ALL AGES Show @Alumni/Senior Club 9-12 Sat: JAMAICAN JAM 6-9 Lafun Ballroom featuring Reggae Band ATOLL 
Free Braiding, Beads ... 
brought to you by SUB: Where Fantasies Are AWay ofLife 



HeY Saint Mary~s••• 
Keep Your eyes open for information about the upcoming elections. 


If you are interested in running for student body president, info meetings will be next week. 
More to follow 


-t±t­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
PLUS MUSIC FOR REGGAE, BLUES, & HIP-HOP LOVERS BETWEEN BAND BREAKS 
coming Saturday,January 25 Skalcoholiks • 7 piece ska band 
MUST BE 21 & OVER • DOORS OPEN 8:00PM 
power-play goal for the fifth game in a row. 
Sabres 2, Blackhawks 1 

Dominik Hasek stopped 43 shots and shut out the Chicago Blackhawks over the final two periods to lead the Buffalo Sabres to a 2-1 victory Monday night. 
Hasek allowed Sergei Krivokrasov's goal in the first period and made 38 saves the rest of the way as the Sabres improved to 6-0-1 at home over their last seven games. 
Brian Holzinger scored the game-winning goal for Buffalo late in the second period. Rob Ray also scored for the Sabres, who played the first of seven straight and 14 of 16 games at Marine Midland Arena. 
Hasek was coming off a 20­save performance while playing one period in the NHL All-Star game and was brilliant once again for Buffalo. His best save was against Alexei Zhamnov in the second period when he snared a hard wrist from the slot. 
upper level 

GOODENOUGH 
featuring Johnny Gunz • guitar & vocals Brett Hawkes • drums Roger Leech • bass & vocals Dave Stocker • lead guitar Jennifer Hogan • singer 


The Sabres, who were out­shot 44-24, took a 2-1 lead on Holzinger's shorthanded goal at 
17:16 of the second period while Buffalo killed off the final eight seconds of a five-minute penalty on Matthew Barnaby. 
Buffalo defenseman Alexei Zhitnik started the scoring play when his backhander bounced in front of the Chicago net onto the stick of Holzinger, who buried his 14th. 
Barnaby was ejected with 
7:36 remaining when he hit Chris Chelios from behind and drove his head into the boards. Chelios laid on the ice for sev­eral minutes before returning on a regular shift. 
Ray had tied the game at 1-1 for Buffalo at 2:42 of the sec­ond after Sabres forward Dixon Ward fought off a check and sent a soft shot in front of the Chicago net. 
Ray skated in front of Belfour and swatted the puck into the top corner for his fifth. 
The five goals are the most by Ray in one season since 1991­
92. His career best is eight in 1990-91. 
lower level 


STOMPERBOB 
featuring Joel Cummins • keyboard & vocals Matt Butte/ • bass & vocals Nina McDowell--percussion & vocals 
Matt Scherer • guitar & vocals · Mike Mirro • drums & vocals Ricky Za/amea • lead guitar & vocals 
Do you want to Volunteer 
as a Teacher, a Coach, or in a Social Service Position? 
Consider the: 

A representative will be in the Center for Social Concerns 
Wednesday, January 22, 1997 at 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. 
-,-'­
Look us up on the web at: http://www.academic.marist.edu/mvp/ 
page 12 
• COllEGE BASKETBALl Janulis, OrangeiDen shock No. 12 'Nova 

By MICHAEL RAPHAEL Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA 

Marius Janulis scored all 15 of his points on 3-pointers and Todd Burgan had 10 points in his return from a seven­suspension as Syracuse beat No. 12 Villanova 6 2 -6 0 Monday night. 
T h e 0 rangemen '--.......Jua...n....u~li..._s--._ (11-7. 2-5 Big East) . held the Wildcats (14-4, 5-3) without a field goal over the final seven minutes. 
Otis Hill's basket with 2:37 remaining gave the Orangemen a 62-57 lead and they were able to hold off a final rally by the Wildcats. 
Villanova freshman Tim Thomas, who finished with 23 points, missed a running jumper with five seconds left. The Wildcats got the rebound, but a desperation shot by Alvin Williams missed at the buzzer. 
Jason Cipolla added 15 points for Syracuse, which welcomed back Burgan after his suspen­sion for violating university rules. 
Williams made two free throws with 2:22 left to pull the Wildcats within 62-59. Jason Lawson stole a Syracuse pass a minute later and Howard Brown was fouled by Hill. He made one of two free throws to make it 62-60. Villanova got the ball back when Burgan missed a 3-pointer as the shot clock expired with 25 seconds left. 
Thomas scored seven points as Villanova opened the game with a 12-0 run. Syracuse missed its first 10 shots, turned the ball over twice and had two shots blocked by Lawson. 
Syracuse took its first lead three minutes into the second half on a 3-pointer by Janulis, who finished 5-of-6 from be­yond the arc. With seven min­utes gone, Syracuse built its lead to 48-41 and another 3­pointer by Janulis put Syracuse . up 53-45 with 10:18 remaining. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Undefeated sophomore foil Myriah Brown lunges at her Temple opponent during a match on Sunday at Northwestern. Junior epee captain Anne Hoos and freshman Magda Krol combined with Brown to lead the Irish to a five-match sweep of the competition. The Irish remain unbeaten for the season. 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
Complete Packages From $399 Free Covers, Free Day Parties, Discounts at shops and side excursions 
CANCUN Book now and Sunbreaks will throw in 15 Free meals!!! Make your reservation today. Space is limited!!! 

****Spring Break 97 Concert Festival Call for Info**** 
Sunbreak Student Vacations lowest I for info calll-800-446-8355 price 
1

L~t~:~w~~u~e~~::-~m/s!~br!~2:. __ f!..U.!!;~r:!eed~ !_ .J 







Leave the driving to us. 

Coming soon from Student Government 
VNtV~RsiTv llf NoTiu n ... ME 
S Tllllf NT c; 0~ f MNlol f Nl 


Tuesday, January 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL -.. 

Favre welcomes new climate Parcells reported to 
By ARNIE STAPLETON the weather to have its first Louisiana Superdome, seemed Associated Press Writer outdoor practice since Oct. 31. invigorated by their open-air 
be leaving Patriots
"It was nice being outside. practice at the New Orleans 
NEW ORLEANS 

Quarterback Brett Favre cele­brated his return to warmer cli­mates Monday by running windsprints bare-chested for approximately 20 minutes as the Green Bay Packers began practice for the Super Bowl. 
"This is heaven," said Favre, who grew up in nearby Mississippi. The temperature in Green Bay was 10 degrees, with a wind-chill of minus-35, when the Packers left on Sunday, compared to 66 in New Orleans on Monday. 
The team took advantage of 
Information meeting for those interested in the position of Assistant Rector for University Residence Facilities 

Brown Bag Lunch Assistant Rector Positions 1997-98 
Thursday, January 23 
12:15 PM -1:00 PM 
Room 121 Law School 
For Information Call: Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 631-5550 
You know, it's been a couple months since we've been able to do that," said coach Mike Holmgren, who moves work­outs to the team's indoor prac­tice facility across from Lambeau Field every season by November. 
"It was a little unusual prac­ticing outside," Favre said. 
He cracked that his irreverent backup, Jim McMahon, "said his equilibrium was off, but I don't know if it's because we practiced outside." 
"But he was right," Favre added. "We would drop back, it's weird to be out at practice and there's a sky behind you and trees and wind blowing and it's like 60, 65 degrees. It was real nice and it was com­fortable to be outside in shorts and short sleeves. 
"Then, Sunday, we go back and play inside," Favre said. "But, at least we'll enjoy this week." 
The Packers, who will face the New England Patriots for the title on Sunday at the
I 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
RECRUITING DATES: january 27, 28, 29 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
Saints' new practice facilities. 
"You know I'm not a fan of the cold," tight end Keith Jackson said. "I loved it." 
Holmgren devoted the first 30 minutes of practice to special teams and the last hour to team and individual work. 
"All the situations were team situations and we'll work on that the first t~o days here," Holmgren said. "It was the first day back after the trip so you see a couple of things that reflect that as well." 
Everybody practiced, in­cluding dime defensive back Michael Robinson, who was inactive for both playoff games with a pulled hamstring, and center Frank Winters, who missed some workouts last week while attending the funer­al of his 35-year-old brother in New Jersey. 
"He's doing fine," Holmgren said. "He practiced well today. Obviously, it's a tough thing he's going through. He's one of our team leaders, a very bright guy." 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 
New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft criticized Bill Parcells' agent Monday for a report that the Super Bowl would be Parcells' last game as the team's coach. 
But Kraft, who has a strained relationship with Parcells, also said he doesn't think the con­troversy will distract players from Sunday's title game against the Green Bay Packers. 
"Bill and I chatted today and we both feel the same way," Kraft said. "This will be dis­cussed at the end of the season. 
"To me, it's unfortunate that his agent, Mr. (Robert) Fraley, took this time to try to put something in the paper, and I don't think the fans of New England really want to concen­trate on that issue right now." 
In Monday's story citing unidentified sources, Boston Globe writer Will McDonough also reported that the differ­ences between Parcells and Kraft could end up in court. 
According to the report, Fraley said Sunday night that Kraft told him that any team that tried to sign Parcells, whose contract expires Feb. 1, would have to compensate the Patriots. But Fraley said noth­ing in the contract requires compensation. 
Asked if he knew whether Parcells had decided where to coach next season, Kraft said, ''I'm through talking about this issue today." 
And when he was asked whether Fraley speaks for Parcells, Kraft said, "You've got to ask him that. You can talk to him." 
The New York Jets reported­ly are targeting Parcells for their coaching vacancy. Parcells did not comment on the issue Monday, only nodding toward cameramen as he boarded a bus for practice. 

About 90 minute!) later, Kraft spoke with reporters for three minutes before entering a sil­ver stretch limousine. He tried to downplay the rift, saying his focus is on the Patriots efforts to win the Super Bowl for the first time in the club's 37 -year history. 
He said he wasn't angry when he read the story "because I'm so happy this week" with the Patriots going for the NFL title. 
Before this season, Parcells asked to have the final year deleted from his five-year con­tract. Kraft agreed. 
Parcells, upset that he doesn't have final say over per­sonnel decisions, has refused consistently to discuss his future, saying he and Kraft would talk about it after the season. At a news conference Sunday night after the Patriots arrived in New Orleans, Parcells said his decision would not depend on the outcome of the Super Bowl. 
Patriots spokesman Don Lowery disputed Fraley's state­ment in the Globe that Kraft called off a meeting with Fraley for last weekend and, instead, sent a letter informing him of the compensation. 
"That's absolutely untrue," Lowery said. 
Kraft reportedly feels that language in the contract gives him first crack at keeping Parcells and that he can re­quire Parcells to coach the Patriots next season for $1.3 million. 
Fraley contends his client is free to do whatever he wants next season. Kraft said he did­n't think Patriots players were even aware of the newspaper story. 
''I'm one of the happiest guys in America," the owner said. ''I'm. not going to let any fool­ishness, or other people's agen­das, distract us from one of the greatest weeks in football his­tory in New England." 

21~1 annual 


itrenan 1\.e\.lue 
1997 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
Saint Mary's Students Thursday, January 23 
5:30 pm at O'Laughlin Ticket Office 
Notre Dame Students Friday, January 24 
1:00 pm at Joyce Ticket Office (Gate 1 0) One Student ID per person please; two tickets per ID 
--. 
... 




Notre Dame 
---VS.--­


Rutgers 
7:00 p.m. Joyce Center 
-· 
page 14 
• 

By JOHN COPPOLELLA: 1 "by Ron .. .. .·0 meter Sp.. orts Writer <·'.i.ht •@;;, anq,l00 llle~~t ·freestyle. a~d
__:__..,..-_..::w,;;.;..;:;;:;.::;;:,.:.::;:;;;;;;··:::;········:;q·:·:::·:if;~ •Herb Huesriian:iri th~r otHl The Notre o 1:~e ;en's ' meter and three meter diving swimmingand d~vingteam . event~,. Iffi•!t.· •;:· .dk. 
swept all three of their meets T?e n~xt day, ..l~lSh ~ere this past weekend, defeating , swimmi~g .and.divmg m a Bowling Green, Cleveland:? me~t wtth N~agara and State, and Niagara. These Cleveland ~tat_e m Cleyeland. victories improved Notre ,,, Forthe maJOrity, of this meet Dame~s record to 5•3 and'l''' Notre Dan1e trailed Cleveland illustrated just how much the State, but led Njagara. 
have. ~o\Vll ~is year.. ''kx .H \!Cfi Jh sp.}l~ade4"We could have onlywort:l> e fina e, the 400 these match~s \'Vi~ our te fre~styl with a balance ~ said yoaclL . . to.wln . . ~fjth~Y Welsh. '"We hung in th . c swi{ll w~ nough to 
when we fellbel}i~d and wer~ilii pv~rrcom{ino;:tthe.f;r 
able to pull itout'inthe tmd;" 'o' deficit to.theViki_l)gS; .••• 
Indeed, the Irish anniliilate The lnsh rallied, With the Bowling Gr~en,149.5-86.5, rel~Kteau¢:of ~~Y!P~.r.Yh~ce Friday at the Ro!fs Aquat Kun~. Ray FltzpatrJc:te. and Center. U~Uke the close meet; Rob(.)rt Fetter. :they took first these tw() tea111s swa:i)lJast:;:arid the .t~arn p~ 'fim;f:l Poyl~, year, Notre Dame vaulted John K~nnedy, fl.ich Murphy, ahead from the incepti~rtl. of:f .~tnd Brt laced 
the contest and n~'fyerldo,l{ed, thir •...·•·., ...· ······ 
back. '" ,>:; "' · · By,;virtufof these finishes, TheJrish:i:9n ...·.. . tbe.Irisl:t::t4l .J ~ point~their swimmi the 40 e theVi . had man-
meter medley relay, jmnped;t;;.ag~d just'four~\lpropelli~g ahead 15-ZJ;They,would lead,"Notl,'e Dame• ~g:~,t .. dramatlc by as. much as 75 points i · · one~point victory, 121-120. this meet and would ultimate Wjth the.. , .,Big . East Iy defeat Bowling Gree Chanipionshipsa·month away; through strong performances the irish have hit their stride. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Night Olympics -Late Night Olympics XI is scheduled for Jan. 31 at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Team entries are due by Jan. 27. For the name of your llall Representative or for more in­formation call 1-8237. 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-Students are instructed aceord­ing to Okinawan techniques. This semester-long course meets in Hockne Hm. 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. You must register in advanee at HecSports and the fee is $18. Call 1-8237 for more informa­tion. 
Ballet -· RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. The Beginner classes are for dancers with 0­4 years experience and the Advanced class is for dancers with 5 or more years experi­ence. Both classes arc semes­ter long classes with a fee of $35. The Beginner class meets on Saturdays from 10:15-11:45 and Mondays from 7:30-8:30. The Advanced class meets on Sundays from 1:15-2:45 and Wednesdays from 7:30-8::~0. All classes will be held in Rockne Rm. 301. Sign-ups will begin at 8 a.m. on Jan. 27, in the RecSports office, space is limited. Classes begin on Feb. 1. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Monday and Wednesday from 6-7:15 
p.m. in Hockne Hm. 219. All levels are weleome, but space 
•
• 

oin us at The Morris Inn before and after Notre Dame home basketball games. Our dining 
room opens early, at SPM, prior to ight home games. After the game, come and sample some of the new items off of our lounge menu. 
Call 6 3 I -202o for dinner reservations. 
~::····· 
is limited. There will be an in­formation meeting on Jan. 26 at 2 p.m. in Hockne Hm. 301. The fee is $30 for the semester and sign-ups will begin at 8 
a.m. on Jan. 27 in the RecSports office. Classes begin on Feb. 3. 
RAD-HecSports in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame Security/Police will be sponsor­ing a HAD class for women only from Jan. 21-30. The class will meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:30-9:30 
p.m. in Hockne Rm. 301. The central focus of this 12 hour program is learning and prac­ticing physical tactics to defend against assault. The program is taught by HAD certified instructors who are university police officers at Notre Dame. Register in advance at 





The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's News Editor 
Please call Caroline at 631-4 540 for information. 


gaad gaad gaad gaad 

Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
HecSports beginning today. Class size is limited. There will not be a fee for this class. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -HecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Jan. 25 at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Feb. 1 at 10 a.m. and at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $3 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Hegistration in advance is required for all three cross country clinics. 
Martial Arts Institute ­Beginners practices start this Thursday, Jan.23 ar 4 p.m., in 219 Hockne. Classes ·meet .twice a week, Thursdays and Sundays 6-8 p.m., 219 Rockne. throughout the semester. Join us Thursday or call Kyle @ 4­2078 for more information. 
~r-=---r~===-~~~--~~•~s..........~~~.....~--...~-~...-... ~~..-...-.zas...-.... ~..,........~aaass~..zs..~....aaaa........~....~~......~.....-......~...........~-~)AA#~~-~~~~~-~~=~......EP....~........~188188 
Tuesday, January 21, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
... 


MIKE PETERS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
You will find yourself in the win­
ncr's circle' when a shrewd invest­
ment pays off. Hang on to a current 
romance even if a former f'lame 
makes overtures. There is no undo­
ing what has been done. Travel 
beckons in June and July. Go for it' 
You will need to put family needs 
first as autumn approaches. Rising 
prCl'fits allow you to expand your 
base of operations. New doors open 
as you take your place alongside 
prominent members of the commu­
nity. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actress Geena Davis, 
tenor Placido Domingo, actress Jill 
Eikenberry, basketball star Akeem 
Olajuwon. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): A speech you give inspires others. New contracts or clients are forth­coming. Research a financial oppor­tunity thoroughly, pleading for more time if you need it. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Others are willing to take a chance on you. Give a project your best shot. An organized, cooperative approach will boost productivity. Ask your co-workers to help you meet a deadline. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your mood nuctuates wildly today. Connict with an authority figure is possible. Give loved ones a break. Use a velvet touch when trying to resolve a parent-child disagreement. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romance is in a state of nux. Take nothing for granted. Reduce money spent on entertainment if hoping to gain your family's cooperation in sticking to a budget. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An older person brings you good luck. Pursu­ing a career in advertising or public relations is an attractive option. Usc 
e-mail and fax to reduce expensive 
business travel. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be 
open to people and experiences that 
will expand your horizclns. Learning 
a second language is favored. A 
romantic relationship is more­
rewarding than anticipated. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Refuse to let side issues distract you from your primary career goal. Scat­tering your energies too widely would be a mistake. Being a sympa­thetic listener will endear you to your colleagues. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Make plans that will bring you financial security in the long run. It may be time to expand a business. Your intuition is right on the money where a potential partner is con­cerned. Romance accelerates. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Be nexible when making career or business plans. Your priorities could suddenly change. The results of a clever strategy may be difficult to evaluate. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Innovative ideas excite you. Routine tasks may seem stifling. Give in to an impulse. Your intuition is keener than ever; announce a major decision without further delay. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A new goal becomes your top priori­ty. Creative ideas abound' A former co-worker wants to join your team. Putting the details of a partnership agreement in writing will prevent confusion at a future date. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Service to others should be your motto today. Put your best foot for­ward. Do something to help the needy or elderly. Bargains await you in consignment shops. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I CAN'T SIGN THIS 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW! lT'S FULL OF AUEGE.D 
MISOEE05 THAT YOU INVENTED TO LOWER 
~y RA.IING! 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Charl:e Chan portrayer Warner 
6 Letters after a proof 9 1908 Peace 
Nobelist Fredr:k 14 Auger or drill 15--Today 
16 A McCoy. to a Hatfield 11747 and DC-10 
19 • ~-which will live :n :nfamy". F.D.R. 
20 Greek earth goddess 
21 Br:t:sh submachine gun 
22 Temporary stay 
26 Literally, face to face 
E 
0 
u 
.,; 
i 
E 
j 
c 
i 


""'\ 
Wanted: Reporters, 
) 
29 Accents in "resume" 30 Precooking 
solution 31 18-wheelers 32 Founder of a 
French dynasty 33 Meadow 34N:nnies 35 Seeker of the 
Golden Fleece 36Take--at 
(criticize) 37 Singer Kamoze 38 Spanish gent 39 "Zorba the 
Greek" setting 40 Genius 42 Attired for a frat 
party 43 Convertibles 44 Additional 
helpings 45 Moonshine containers 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

'<E.S I BUT I THINK IT REFLECTS THE SORT OF 'THINGS YOU 1'"\IGHT DO. I I-lAO TO MAKE ALL THE 
REVIEWS HT A. 5£Ll CURVE. 
_) 

46 Phnom-­47 Old adders 49 Nickname for 
DiMaggto 54 Italian bowling game 55 Record speed: Abbr. 56 Role for 
Valentino 57 Some sharks 58 Caribbean. e.g. 59 Circumvent 
DOWN 
1 Goal: Abbr. 2 Singer Rawls or 
Reed 3 Pitcher's pnde 4 Lincoln's state: 
Abbr. 5 Small parachutes 6 Wicked "Snow White" figure 7"C6mo-­usted?" 
a Prosecutors, for 
short 
9 Skedaddles 10 Like the Incas 11 "Les 
Miserables" 
protagonist 12C.P.R. 
administrant 13 Deli bread. 18 See 30-Down 21 Theda Bara, 
e.g . 22With more attitude 
23 Pacific islands, collectively 
SCOTT ADAMS 

1. ~"' tl01 
5E.L\..1NG CRACK Ill ..,.. ~'( cueiC.t-E ...
F~On ,., / 

24 Single calisthen:c 25 Big name in 
elevators 26 Gaseous mist 27 Conceptualized 28 Where oysters 
sleep? 
30 With 18-Down. home canning items 
32--Major (southern constellation) 
35 Army vehicles 36 35-Across's vessel 

3B Cheap cigars 49 Some namesakes, 39 Apache chief for short 


photographers and 
50 Gretzky's grp. 51 Game, in 
41 Plaster finish 
42 Camp sight France44 Alabama city 52 Ending with 46 Pontiff human or planet 


editors.
47 Defense syst. 53 Supplement, -48 Feathered stole with "out" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

Join The Observer 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1·900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

staff. 


•.r~----~--~-~~~4~--~·~~~----~--------------.-.-~--------~------------------------~~--~-----------=~·--~-==~-~ 
• 



SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, January 21, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL .. 
Rutgers looks to upset Notre Dame once again 
marked the 78th consecutive
Peirick, Irish game in which senior center Katryna Gaither posted double ligures in the points category.
hope winning 

"The last five games we've been playing really good ball,"

ways continue 

noted Peiriek. "We had some trouble in the second halfBy BRIAN REINTHALER 
against Pitt, but we were able
Sports Writer to pull through." 
The Pittsburgh game "Was theThe womr,n's basketball team first of three Irish home games,
is heading into tonight's con­which ends a stretch of six outference game against Rutgers 

of seven contests on the road.
with some special incentive. 

"Wn have done a lot of travel­
The Scarlet Knights were the ing recently," commented the

only Big East squad, other than junior, "and we are excited to

national powerhouse 

be back home in front of our
Connecticut, to defeat the Irish home crowd."
during the 1995-96 season. 

When asked if last year's loss
Last February 3, Rutgers 

was taken into consideration by
avenged an r,arly season loss to 

the team in preparation for
the Notre Dame by upsetting tonight's gamo, Poirick playedthem 73-62 at Louis Brown 
down any influenco it may haveAthletic Center. 
had.
"They beat us last year," rn­

"Wn an~ taking this game like
mnmbered junior guard Mollie any other," said Peirick. "We

Pnirick, "so that will help get us 

prepared the same way we pre­
pumped to beat them (tonight)." 
pared all of our other games."
The Scarlet Knights finished And why not? Everything haslast snason 13-I 5 ovnrall, with lwnn going Notre Damn's wayan R-1 0 mark in the Big East. 

lately and then~ is no mason to
The Irish have been rolling change anything at this point inthrough tlw Big East sclwduln 

tim(~. The Irish were voted
as of late and are on a five back into the top 20 by thegame winning streak, their 

Associated Press and now standlongest of tho s1mson. 
at No. 1C) in the country.
The team is coming off of a With this

65-49 vietory over tlw Panthers a win evening, 
Notre Dame can improve their
of Pittsburgh at the Joyce 

overall record to 16-4 and 8-0
Center on Saturday. l'nirick 

in the Big East, while also eras­
contributed a season high nine ing the memories of last year's

assists to the n!Tort. 
disappointment in New Jersey.
The Pittsburgh game also 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

By BILL HART Erin Brooks, Liz Barger, Alison this meet." Sports Writer Newell and Leticia Herrera Notre Dame returned hom(' each won one event to round from Illinois to face Minnesota 
The Notre Dame women's out the winners. The Irish the next day. The Gophers swimming team faced perhaps ended the meet by claiming the took a 26-10 lead by winning its toughest weekend of the 400 freestyle relay with the the first two events, but the season, competing in four team of Gallo, Karen Foley, Irish rallied back by winning meets over three days. Shannon Suddarth, and Karen the next four events. Erin 
"Despite the fact that these Daylor. The Irish won the meet Brooks won tho 100 back­meets were scheduled so close­133-108. stroke, Newell claimed the 200 ly together," head coach Bailey Notre Dame left for the freestyle, Liz Barger won the Weathers commented, "J felt University of Illinois the next 200 butterfly and Linda Gallo that this weekend's schedule day to face the lllini and wlm tho 50 freestyle to give the would prepare the team for the Indiana in a double dual meet. Irish a slim 69-62 lead. four-day Big East and the Despite a strong effort, the Minnesota then claimed both NCAA Championships later on." Irish lost 107-193 to Illinois the one-meter diving and the 
However, the schedule met and 154.5-145.5 to Indiana. 100 freestyle to take a CJ0-79 with mixed results, as the Irish Brooks had two second-place lead after nine events. went 1-3 over this weekend. finishes in the 100 and 200 However, Notre Dame rallied 
Notre Dame began their backstroke events and Gallo again in the 200 backstroko to weekend schedule on Friday in was second was in the 100 knot the score at 94-94. .. a dual meet against Bowling freestyle and third in both the Brooks won her second event Green. The Irish started 500 and 200 freestyle. In div­of the day, with Allison llollis strong, taking the first five ing, .Rhiana Saundnrs and coming in second and Molly· events to open a 43 point lead. Ketelhohn were second in the Beeler in fourth place position. Linda Gallo and Natalie one and three-meter events, The Gophers then pull()d away Najarian each won two events. respectively. by winning each of the .last six Gallo took the 200 meter With these two losses the events, to secure a 176-124 freestyle and the 400 individual Irish ended a five dual meet win. medley. Najarian won the 50 winning streak that began "The team performed well and 100 freestyle. against Boston College on Nov. this weekend, despite the dis­The Irish proceeded to extend 8. appointing losses." Weathers . their lead by taking five of the "I felt that the lndianallllinois said, "Minnesota was probably next seven events. meet was more of a rivalry our best meet of the weekend, On the diving end, Gina between those two teams because they were a higher 
Photo courtesy Sports Information 

Ketelhohn took first place in rather than our own. ranked opponent and we kept Notre Dame opened the 1997 regular season with a 7-0 victory at Ohio the three-meter and second Weathers commented, "Both the score very close throughout State. Freshman Ryan Sachire led the way with a 6-2, 6-1 win in the place in the one-meter event. teams were very prepared for the meet." No. 1 singles match. The Irish will visit Wisconsin on Tuesday. 

,y 
vs. -Seton Hall January 22 
a;

Men's Tennis
., •Swimmers glide through competition 
SPORTS, 

at Wisconsin vs. Rutgers 
.. 

Today ~ see page 14Tonight 
......

ATA
.a 
at Penn State Meet Indoor Track 

CIJ • Parcells to leave Patriots 
January 24-25 vs. Indiana

., 
see page 13January 25

GLANCE 
vs. St. Cloud State 
~ 
January 24 







