
Thursday, February 20, 1997• Vol. XXVII No. 95 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
TRIO participants and staff gather to present awards 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will join with hun­dreds of other colleges and universities across the country in celebration Saturday of National TRIO Day. 
Local THIO participants and staff members will gather at 10 a.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium where proclamations will be read in support of the programs and awards will be pre­sented. Among those expected to take part in the event are South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke, State Senator Cleo Washington, and representatives from the offices of Congressman Tim Roemer and Indiana Lieutenant Governor Joseph Kernan. 
THIO programs are federally funded projects designed to enhance postsecondary educational opportunities for economically disadvantaged young people. The programs at Notre Dame are Upward Bound, Educational Talent Search, and the Honald McNair Post-Baccalaureate Program. Indiana Vocational Technical College (Ivy Tech) is the home of a fourth TRIO program in Michiana ­Excel Student Support Services. 
Since 1966 more than 15,000 youths have been assisted by the local THIO programs. Nationally, some 640,000 students currently take part in almost 1, 750 THIO projects at more than 1,000 col­leges and universities. 
For more information, contact Dorine Blake­Smith in Notre Dame's Upward Bound office at 631-5669. 

Play looks at roles of minorities 
By SHANNON RYAN News Writer 
A white male claims he is an oppressed minority. 
As unusual as this may sound, the statement is the basis for the Urban Arts Company's play "American Association of Oppressed Minorities" hosted by Saint Mary's College in celebration of Black History Month. Produced by writer Howard Dukes and director Eugene Staples, the three-act play explores racism, common prejudices, and the roles of minorities in American soci­ety. 
The AAOM (American Association of Oppressed Minorities) tribunal members are forced to confront their oppressor, the white male who is fighting to gain mem­bership as an oppressed minority. 
The AAOM plays off of gen­eral perceptions and preju­dices. The committee, consist­ing of an African-American male and female, an Asian­American, a bi-racial woman, a Native-American, a femi­nist, a homosexual, and a physically challenged man characterize common stereo­types from their appearance to their behavior to their names. For instance, the homosexual male, Outlee Closette portrayed by John 
see PlAY/ page 4 

ND offers master's in education 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Starting this summer, Notre Dame will offer a master's degree to those interested in education administra­tion. The new Educational Leadership Program, a combination of Notre Dame's master of science in administration program and the credits in the degree can be fulfilled with Notre Dame elective courses. 

"The MSA educational leadership program is probably the most truly collaborative effort that's ever hap­pened between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said Karilee Freeberg, chair of Saint Mary's education department. "People are just amazed that we've done this." 
cation leadership program will only be publicized in Indiana schools this year, and will most likely accept 10 to 15 masters candidates. But Housey hopes that the program will expand annually. Ideally the pro­gram will accept 100 education administration students. 
"This will give us an opportunity to prepare a whole new generation of 
Saint Mary's education depart---------------------administrators and leaders, not ment, will mark the first time only in Catholic schools, but in Notre Dame has offered a am confident that schools in general," Rousey said. 
'I 

degree in education in 20 years. the program will The program will mark a new 
"I am confident that the pro-turn for Notre Dame's MSA pro­gram will strongly prepare strongly prepare gram; however, no plans for any administrators for schools," said administrators for kind of undergraduate degree in Glenn Rousey, director of Notre schools.' education are foreseen by 
Dame's existing MSA program. 
The program, designed to cui­tivate effective administrators for primary and secondary schools, will be offered as part of the 1997 summer session at Notre Dame. Primarily for those who already have their teaching certificates and are in teaching positions, the 48-credit pro­gram is focused on providing stu­dents with administrative and lead­ership skills as well as more educa­tiona! background. 
Program participants will be required to fulfill the 24-credit course load of the already existing MSA program, and they will also take 18 credits at Saint Mary's to meet the standards of the Indiana Professional Standards Board. The six remaining Rousey. 

Glenn Rousey "Personally, I don't think you'll see Notre Dame venturing out to do anything at the undergraduate 
The currep.t MSA program at Notre level," Rousey said. "Whatever hap-Dame has been in existence for 40 pens here will be at the graduate years. Since then, it has been edu-level." eating the future administrators of Rousey and Freeman agree that numerous non-profit organizations. this program will be a much-needed With the inclusion of the Saint Mary's addition to those already implement­education program, which will ed at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. secure administrative licensing for "We are very excited about the elementary and secondary schools in opportunity to work with Saint thirteen states, both Rousey and Mary's," said Rousey. Freeberg Freeberg hope that they are meeting added, "To get two institutions of a need for effective administrators in higher education to agree on these education. nitty, gritty programs is really some­
"I think education needs all the thing." help it can get," said Freeberg. The South Bend Tribune con-According to Housey, the new edu-tributed to this report. 
The Urban Arts Company put on "American Association of Oppressed Minorities," last night. 
Targeting the issues of racism, prejudice, and the roles of minorities in American soci­ety, the play was put on in honor of Black History Month. 
The focus was achieved through the portrayal of several common stereotypes. Producers hoped that the audience would recognizetheir own preju­dices in viewing the characters. 


Accounting students offer income tax help 
By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
For 27 years, accounting stu­dents from Notre Dame have helped members of the South Bend community prepare their tax returns, but the clients are not the only ones who benefit. 
The students do as well. 
In Notre Dame's Tax Assistance Program, taxpayers with annual incomes of less than $27,000 receive free assis­tance from the students, if they bring their federal and state tax returns and other relevant doc­uments to one of 10 sites in the South Bend area. Notre Dame's College of Business Administration provides sup­plies and funds for the pro­gram. 
According to Julie Gahm, a senior accounting major at Notre Dame, and Tony Siefring, another senior and program participant, the interaction with lower-income families is one of the most advantageous aspects of the experience. Gahm said it provides exposure to other parts of society. 
"You feel really good when somebody is getting $3,000 back from the government, and you helped them figure it out," Gahm said. 
Siefring, who is a senior and is in his second year with the program, said, "You see the benefits of the different credits poor people get." 
Regarding the accounting­related advantages of the pro­gram, Gahm said, "You get a lot of experience doing tax returns." 
She said the students proba­bly gain more than the people that they are helping. 
Siefring said the biggest advantage to the program was the practical knowledge partici­pants gain. "You never really see what goes into it in class." 

Many South Bend residents come back year after year. "I just did someone's (tax return) Saturday that I had done last year," Siefring said. 
Highlighting the program's usefulness for participants, he said, "A lot of accounting grad­uates go into public accounting. It's a nice experience, and I encourage people to do it." 
Gahm said the program has grown over the past few years, with last year's volunteers filing over 2,000 returns. 
"They've expanded it to sev­eral places throughout the city," she said. 
Ken Milani, professor of accountancy at Notre Dame and coordinator of the program, said that people with more complicated tax problems should bring them to one of five major centers which have certi­fied public accountants on duty: the Hansel Neighborhood Center, the Downtown South Bend Public Library, the Tutt Branch of the St. Joseph Public Library, the Northeast Neighborhood Center, or the Mishawaka Public Library. 
Other locations include the Senior Citizen's Center, Saint Mary's Haggar College Center, Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns, River Park Branch Public Library, and LaSalle Branch Public Library. 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

The tragic loss of Flanner 
Planner Hall is an architectural monstrosi­ty. The place is a jail with vending machines. The ceilings are low, the sections appallingly identical, the suburban-brick facade cold 
and unremarkable.  
I shall miss it.  Mary Beth Ellis  
Keenan puts on a bet- Accent Copy Editor  
ter show. Sorin is pretti­ 
er. Stanford has a  

cleaner ladies room. But the eviction notice served to the men of Flanner strikes at my heart. As a freshman I auditioned several male dorms to adopt as my unofficial SYR date pool. I gravitated towards Planner and Grace, figuring that hanging around a male dorm that could easily house the entire SMC Class of 1999 greatly increased my chances of coming across guys who weren't illiterate, engaged, or perpetually drunk. (I'd already met some who were all three.) 
Although I shrank from the idea of associ­ating myself with men who willingly refer to themselves as '"Cocks," I made Planner my own after a friend hauled me to Mass in their lounge. It took a grand total of thirty seconds for me to fall in love with Planner Mass, which is one of the few places left in America where you can still hear "Let There Be Peace on Earth" sung with all the right words by Catholics in socks and "Drink Like a Champion Today" t-shirts. 
The place smells of aftershave and laundry detergent and testosterone, except during dances and section parties, when it smells of something else entirely. I attended my first dorm party in Planner, much of it spent perched on a windowseat watching the inhabitants argue for forty-five minutes over whether the rhyme goes "Beer before liquor, you'll be drunk quicker" or "Beer before liquor, never been sicker." (The debate ended when they wound up both drunk AND sick.) 
Growing up without a brother or a boyfriend, I was offered a crash course in how the male of the species lives by Flanper. Once I got in the elevator and slouched like the refined young lady I am against the dull metallic wall, which was smeared and water­splotched to the point of modern art. 
"I wouldn't lean against the wall like that if I were you," a resident said. "Oh, I'm not afraid of a few water stains," I laughed. "Those weren't left by water, sweetheart," he said as the door slid shut behind him. 
I became exposed to all this refinement on a weekly basis when I began cantoring at Planner Mass, where I single-handedly and simultaneously serve as the soprano and alto sections. Attending Mass completely sur­rounded by males is a unique spiritual expe­rience for me, providing a culture-shocking few hours of Y chromosome immersion to balance the rather estrogen-heavy society in which I live. They are a rambunctious, tal­ented group, the music ministers of Planner, and I enjoy our attempts to provide a prayer­ful atmosphere through song, which we can usually do when we actually remember to sing at the right times. 
Last week we managed to do the "Our Father" right, and I stood in the back of the post-Vatican II lounge with the unsightly brick walls and nondescript furniture, watching the family of a congregation clasp hands, thinking: "What a lovely place to be -what a beautiful dorm." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF 
Accent News Joey Crawford Bridger O'Connor Graphics Allison Koenig Brian Blank 
Sports Production Allison Krilla Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Jackie Moser 
Brandon Williams Lab Tech Brandon Candura 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, February 20, 1997
The Observer • INSIDE 

• Wom..o AT A GLANCE 
Deng Xiaoping, leader of China's economic reforms, dies 
BEIJING 

Deng Xiaoping, the last of China's Communist revolutionaries who abandoned Mao's radical policies and pushed the world's most populous nation into the global community with capitalist­style reforms, died Wednesday. 
Xinhua, China's official news agency, said he was 93, although the birth date in most records would have made him 92 when he died. 
Though Deng retired from his last official post in 1990 and had not been seen in public for three years, he spent much of the past decade orchestrating Chinese politics from behind the scenes with a loosely defined title: "paramount leader." 
While he put an end to the iron rice bowl ­lifetime jobs for all -he ruled with an iron fist. The military suppression of the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests -believed to have taken place on his final orders -killed hundreds, perhaps thousands, and put a blot on the economic progress Deng had achieved. 
He died at 9:08 p.m. (8:08 a.m. EST) of respi­ratory and circulatory failure brought on by lung infections and the Parkinson's disease that had stricken him long ago, the state-run Xinhua News Agency announced early Thursday. 
The first test of Deng's legacy will be whether his handpicked successor, Communist Party General Secretary Jiang Zemin, and the other younger technocrats he installed in the 1990s will weather political maneuvering that is expected to intensify in the coming months. 
A meeting of China's national legislature next month, the return of Hong Kong to Chinese rule on July 1 and a party congress to reshufne top posts due in the fall will provide chances for the politically ambitious. 
Walters acknowledges investment 
NEW YORK 
Barbara Walters conceded Wednesday that she was wrong in pro­filing composer Andrew Lloyd Webber without telling "20/20" viewers -or her bosses at ABC News -that she had invested $100,000 in his Broadway production of "Sunset Boulevard." "In retrospect, I should have disclosed the investment," Walters said in a pre­

pared statement. "I didn't even think about it, since I haven't invested in another Broadway show before or since. It won't happen again." During the "20/20" installment, which aired in December, Walters advised viewers that ABC's parent, the Walt Disney Co., produced Lloyd Webber's "Evita" and has invested in some of his other musicals. 
Indiana sues nine tobacco companies 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Indiana sued nine tobacco companies Wednesday, becoming the 22nd state to sue the industry to recover millions of dollars spent treating smoking-related health problems. One of the defendants, R.J. Reynolds, said the companies were surprised that Attorney General Jeffrey Modisett filed the lawsuit. "When the industry found out he was considering this, we invited him to talk to us. He has refused to do that," said company spokeswoman Peggy Carter. The lawsuit, which does not specify a dol­lar amount, also asks for punitive damages and seeks to bar the tobacco industry from selling its products to Indiana's children. "Every parent in Indiana should be outraged by the actions of an industry that has so diaboli­cally set out to make our children nicotine addicts," Modisett said. 
China before Deng Xiaoping 
Since its last dynasty fell in 1911, China has been ruled by chaos, warfare and communism: 
Most Chinese1-~~~~~i:1 independence the ruling Qing dynasty; marks the collapse of imperial rule. 
i-"""''-''1911 Sun Vat-sen, regarded as father of modern China, is named provisional president of the Chinese Republic. 
!-~~~~:~·~.. ~·,•Sun resigns and a reformist official and chief trainer of the army, becomes first president. 
Yuan dissolves parliament and dictatorial powers. 

· · Yuan dies; China disintegrates regionalism ruled by feudal warlords. 
Source: AP research 
Oc •1, 1M9 Communist leader Mao Tse-tung declares founding of People's Republic of China. 
~y 22, 1977 Deng is named vice premier and goes on to lead China through its greatest period of modernization and foreign contact. 
APfTracie Tso 

Police charge senator with solicitation 
AUSTIN, Texas 

A state senator spent the night in jail after he was arrested on charges he solicited an undercover police officer for sex in front of a church. State Sen. Drew Nixon, 37, declined comment Wednesday after he was released on his own recognizance. His spokesman, John Doner, said Nixon will not resign. Nixon, a Republican from Carthage who became a state senator in 1995, was accused in a police affidavit of offering an undercover officer $35 to perform oral sex Tuesday night. Nixon faces up to 180 days in jail and a fine of up to $2,000 if convicted of the misdemeanor solicitation charge. It was the second time Nixon's name has been linked to prosti­tution. According to Dallas police records, Nixon had three prostitutes in his car when he was stopped by offi­cers in 1993. At the time, Nixon denied knowing the women were prostitutes. 
Shoe shares name with demon 
BOSTON 

Here's an idea: Name a women's running shoe after the mythical demon Incubus, who had sex with women in their sleep. Reebok did. Now it's doing some major backpedaling. ''I'm horrified and the company is horri­fied," Reebok spokesman Kate Burnham said. "How the name got on the shoe and went forward, I do not know. We are a company that has built its business on women's footwear, so to do anything that's denigrating to women is not what we're about." Incubus has been on the mar­ket for about a year, and Reebok officials said there have been no customer complaints. Instead, they learned of the name's meaning from ABC, which aired a story about it Tuesday. Reebok said Wednesday it is looking into ways of wiping out the offending name, which appears not on the $57.99 shoes themselves but on the boxes. 
• SmrrH BEN!l WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 20. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
: 
. / .....:........................ 
(...................­

Thursd~y Q 36
''... ''
I 
Friday I Q 26 
'''',., 
®

Saturd~y it1 36 24 
! 
.............
SundaY,) 
~ 35 22 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
«:! 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.
) 
Pressure 
Mon~ay 22 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICC SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Via Assoc1a/ed Pra"
\..~.....\r-.. ./... 
....) 

Atlantic City 57 32 Duluth 24 15 Phoenix 72 49 
Baltimore 65 40 El Paso 64 36 San Diego 70 50 
Charleston 76 57 Honolulu 85 66 SeaHie 47 37
4,Q,~Q.c@.8 ¢-~ u 
Chicago 39 37 Miami 81 72 Waco 61 51
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 38 18 New York 61 40 Yuma 77 54
VIB Associated Press GraphicsNet 
.r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Falk: Democracy conflicts with the individual 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
There is a paradox in democ­racy as it approaches the 21st century, according to Richard Falk of Princeton University. 
"At the very moment that democracy has spread its wings and flown to all corners of the world, displacing all of its ideo­logical rivals, at that moment, for inexplicable reasons, democ­racy forgets how, or is unable any longer to fly, losing its recent grandeur as well as its capacity to inspire awe and to excite the political imagination," Falk said. 
He attempted to discover why this occurs and how democracy might be reinvigorated in the annual Hesburgh lecture on ethics. Falk spoke about the idea of humane governance and whether or not democracy qual­ified as such. 
"There is nothing inevitable or automatic about achieving radi­cal democracy," he said. He defined a radical democracy as a democracy that is for, by, and of the people. "The meaning of democracy is being continuously explored and articulated under the pressures of ever-new expe­rience," he continued. 
291-9482 1/2 price -$5 per person 

The state is the essential unit of governance, but post-modern influences and improved com­munication, manifested by glob­al markets and the virtual com­munity of the Internet, have caused the "deterritorializing of states." This decline of the state causes a loss of patriotism and a changing sense of citizenship. 
"There is taking place a fun­damental reevaluation of the capacity of the state to shape the future," Falk said. "The state itself is, in some crucial respects, giving the store away. 
"Mature states seem, these days, to be busy disempowering themselves," Falk continued, "while many of the most vulner­able and precarious states are being disempowered by internal strife as well external forces associated with the world bank­ing and monetary structure." 
Falk questioned whether the future of democracy depends on this disempowerment and indi­vidualism or on the -empower­ment of the state to protect the individual. 
An important series of ques­tions Falk posed were, "Who will control the soul of the state? 
"Will corporations rule the world? Or will the world mutate into some yet unknown species 
Call ahead lor location and rasarvallans! 


$2 Off Food or~everage Everyday.ex~pt'Tu.~sday 
Expires 311/97 

M~~ Buy ene sandwich ¥''cC er salad, get 1/2 eff 2nd ene. 
Ixp. 3/1/'i7. 


The Observer/Adam Andres 

Richard Falk spoke last night on the sometimes conflicting ideals of free-market economies and protection of individuals. 
of a cyber-world? Or are there world," Falk said. in existence sufficient latent nor-Falk then questioned whether mative energies to make the democracy as we know it is true project of humane government democracy. He said that there come alive early in the next mil-seems to be a requirement for a lennium? market-driven economy as well 
"All the baselines of evaluation as free elections, the traditional are being blurred by the impact mark of a democracy. of a highly interdependent "Ideologically congenial and 
Swiss Valley: Two lift tix + Two rentals = $32 Before 2 p.m. 

market oriented" countries, not truly democratic countries, receive United States support, Falk said. "Aristocratic distrust of the citizenry" leads to many of the problems, he added. "Facing democratic society [is] the unsavory destiny of either a passion-led militarism that is ... reflected in the will of the citi­zenry or an interest-shaped geopolitic that is anti-democratic in form and execution." 
Falk said that there were many positive aspects in global­ization, including the opened economy, an increased standard of living for many, de-coloniza­tion, and less Eurocentrism. But he also saw negative factors, including greater reliance on the private sector for welfare pro­gram and a tendency for policy to be too closely linked to finan­cial interests. 
Falk did not have a solution for the problem of the close link between democracy and a mar­ket economy and the tendency to fall to governance by busi­ness. 
"I think we need to do a great deal more thinking about how democracy and different cultur­al conditions can be mutually reinforcing rather than mutually destructive," Falk concluded. 

Rai inducted into science academy 
Special to The Observer 
Karamjit Rai, professor of bio­
logical sciences at Notre Dame, 
has been elected a fellow of the 
National Academy of Sciences of 
India. A native of India, he is a 
specialist in mosquito genetics. 
Rai's election recognizes his 
decades of research. Educated 
at Punjab University and the 
University of Chicago, he joined 
the Notre Dame faculty in 1962. 
According to Rai, this election 
was particularly gratifying in 
view of his longstanding interest 
and involvement with research 
in India. Over the years he has 
helped to establish and foster 
mosquito genetics and vector 
studies there first working in 
collaboration with the World 
Health Organization and the 
Indian Council of Medical 
Research to develop in Delhi an 
international research unit on 
the control of mosquitoes. 

-~---~ --~--~--------------------------------­

_______, 
Play 
continued from page I 
Jolie clutched a purse, as clad in spandex and high heels, and experienced high-strung emo­tions. 
Producer/director Stapleton created a connection with the audience as the actors approached the stage from 5eats among the spectators in Moreau's Little Theatre. "The point is to play on the attitudes people have," Stapleton explained. "When they come out of the audience it gets peo­ple involved." The concept of encouraging the audience to examine their own prejudices becomes evident as the charac­ters stereotypes become their identity. 
John Kennedy, who portrays the white male Goodly Oldaczs, presents his case to the AAOM claiming he has been under the duress of oppression. "How can you understand when you are nothing but the man?" the character Shaniqua Latifa Johnson-Karenga challenges. Goodly attempts to prove his minority status by presenting his statistics. Straight white males make up only 30 percent of the population bu~ aUain over 80 percent of political power and 89 percent of eco­nomic power. Therefore, the prejudiced character argues that since there are more of the oppressed than the oppressor he is indeed a legitimate minor­ity. 

He validates his case for his characterization of oppression stating that he is threatened by "carping minorities who don't want to work." Goodly angrily exclaims that he is tired of diversity and sick of being blamed for everything. 
"My illusion (of America) has kept us safe," he explains. Enforcing this by later repeat­ing he wants the old days back, Kennedy's character empha­sizes his longing for the "land of the free and the home of the brave." 
Kennedy held nothing back in his potrayal of such a dispicable character. He portrayed all of this character's anger and frus­tration but at the same time played him in the light of a fool. 
"I want people to realize that this is inside 99 percent of all white people's heads. I want them to see themselves in this fool and realize it is also a part of them." Although he found it extraordinary painful to 
The Observer • NEWS 
address such controversial issues, the challenge of making audience members look at their own "poisonous ideas" was too tantalizing to deny the part. 
The group of tribunal mem­bers also begin to turn on each other and feed into general stereotypes. Malik Mustafa Karenga portrayed by Eric McCauley steps up and encour­ages the members to band together. He promises to fight for equal rights, health care, and other issues. 
The AAOM enters the stage for the last scene stripped of much of their previous physical stereotypes. After the AAOM declines membership to Goodly Oldaczs, Johnson-Karenga tells his counterparts that what America has failed at is inte­grating the community and instilling the values of family into a fragmented society. The play ends uplifted with a feeling of unity among the reunited AAOM who are determined to work for a better future. 
Stapleton wished for specta­tors to take away the sense that all are ~qual and that racism roots from ignorance. 
"It's like the famous saying goes," he stated, "'We all came over on different ships, but now we're all on the same boat." 

Thursday, February 20, 1997 Millionaire shows Miami students the business 
By TERRY KINNEY 
Associated Press Wrirer 
OXFORD, Ohio 
The students in John Altman's classes at Miami University aren't hearing a lot of hypotheticals and theory from someone who's spent his entire career in a classroom. 
Altman, a self-made million­aire, has been in the trenches, having started six businesses-and seen two of them fail ­over the course of three decades. 
Now the director of the Thomas C. Page Center for Entrepreneurship at Miami, Altman wants his students to know the real story about busi­ness. 
"I want them to carry a lot more value away from the class than just how to start a busi­ness and how to construct a financial statement and a bal­ance sheet," said Altman. 
"I really believe that quote on the back of my business card: 'A teacher affects eternity; He can never tell where his influ­ence stops.'" 
Altman, 58, is teaching full-time, although he still runs a consulting business. 
His subject, entrepreneur­ship, is a relatively new direc­tion in business education. Altman structures his class in a real-world environment, where students create real businesses. 

"I think of entrepreneurship as the arts and science of busi­ness," Altman said. "The role of arts and science is to gradu­ate problem solvers, thinkers. 
"I'm not so sure we do that when we narrowly educate human resource people, "otga• · nizational behavior people, accountants, marketeers, and so on. You've got to have cross-fertilization." 
On the first day of class, Altman challenges students to change the way they think. He constructs a puzzle with nine dots, as if each is in the center of the boxes of a tick-tack-toe grid, and tells them to connect the dots with a continuous line, broken into four segments. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
,-\~-_, 

The Notre Dame 
..) I)'-· 

-· String Trio 
playing works by Franz Schubert, Bohuslav Martinu and Irving Fine 
7:30pm Friday, February 21 20th Century Gallery, Snite Museum of Art 
J .

Free admission; limited seating. I Please call631-620l to reserve your seats in advance. 
"You must solve this problem by thinking outside the bound­aries," Altman said. "And once we get that puzzle solved, we say, 'This is where entrepre­neurship occurs-it occurs outside the boundaries.'" 
John Smale, former chairman of The Procter & Gamble Co. and General Motors Corp., likes what Altman is doing. 
"There is a premium on entrepreneurship in large com­panies, and that is increasingly the case as large companies manage their business in very different ways than when I started my career," Smale said. 
"Even the largest companies are becoming less structured, and certainly more decision­making is being done at lower levels.'' 
Smale, who once taught a course in contemporary busi­ness issues at Miami, applau,ds the school for bringing business people into the classroom. 
Altman founded his six busi­nesses after graduating from Miami University in 1960. His last venture, Continental Polymers Inc., became the world's third-largest maker of specialized plastics. 
Jason Vassiliades, a 21-year­old senior from suburban Chicago, said Altman's experi­ence sold him on the entrepre­neurship class. . 
"Having his influence is prob­ably the single best experience in a classroom that I've had at Miami University," Vassiliades said. "Knowing that he has succeeded -and succeeded greatly -and returned to teach really motivated us." 
Altman relishes his second -career as a teacher; · 
He sold his last major busi-· ness in 1991, remained as an· executive with the new owner, ICI of Great Britain, for a while. At the suggestion of the dean of Miami's business school, Altman in 1992 became a visit­ing professor. 
In 1994, he won full-time appointment as a professor of entrepreneurship and became the first permanent director of the Page center. 

~ ~~--~ 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


String Trio to perform Priest calms baptismal fears 
By SARAH CORKREAN tismal rituals are no longer Fitzgerald cited that all bap­
at Snite Museum of Art 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor adequate or in keeping with tismal fonts should be deep 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame String Trio will perform a recital Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the 20th Century Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art on cam­pus. 
The program will include works by Franz Schubert, Bohuslav Martinu and Irving Fine. 
Violinist Carolyn Plummer, associate professor of music, is the former assistant concert­master of the Houston Symphony Orchestra and a fre­quent soloist with that sympho­ny. She joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1989. 
Violinist Christine Rutledge, assistant professor of music, is a graduate of the Curtis 
l t ;.= H: ·,H• .. :;. ~t~;· ti. 

·:~n_jJ"!'~ r~td ~·:d~:•:t·l ~!~;ad!!. 
-i;:ud '"La;1J: Jr.;,l -~Iii bl<•<-: iJli -·~; :·i·~ ~, ..,t,!nrrs·) 1 :; 1\l' r:i ~!~!)t~ ~ ·,t · 'rr;l d::· •. · .·,•·-~~;,} 
Institute of Music and a prize winner in the Aspen Viola Competition. A member of the faculty since 1991, she is for­mer assistant principal of the Louisville Orchestra. 
Cellist Karen Buranskas, associate professor of music, has made solo appearances in Japan, South America, Europe and the United States. She was a first prize winner in the Concert Artist Guild Competition and in the Aldo Parisot Competition. She came to Notre Dame in 1979. 
The Trio recently was awarded a grant from the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts to produce a recording of Paul Hindemith's "String Trio" on Centaur Records. 
·-. 
.. :..;~~v·;;.• 1n;'t£d~(~ t~~!t:l~!r:.~~;n !1.~;_, .(;ft•~J.·}.J.~J·i #-tr; .:-:.! r:?.\.~at''; ..,,.,n . ,.r-:•!'~ : :.J,~!til •: l ,·:· "· . r ..; ,·~ 1 ,• 
.. 
Trying to calm fears of mis­conceptions and explain the ideas and realities of baptismal waters, Father Timothy Fitzgerald, associate director for education at Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral Liturgy, kicked off the annual Lenten Lecture series at Saint Mary's College. 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality, Fitzgerald launched the series of lectures by inviting audience members to reflect on personal significance of baptism into the Catholic Church. 
Fitzgerald cited the many memories that flood the mind when one reflects on where their roots started in the Church. Reminiscing, the indi­vidual is forced to take a sec­ond look at how they have pro­gressed as a Christian in today's society. 
Many times memories that are painful and dreams that aren't achieved are dangerous to recall. But by reflecting, encouraging insights are revealed and there is a chance for individual growth in the future. 
"At first we find bittersweet memories of unfulfilled dreams, ideals and hopes. But within the Church, subversive realizations are born again and again represented by the massive water font in the Church," Fitzgerald said. 
The danger in the waters of baptism, specifically for Catholics, Fitzgerald noted, is that traditional Catholic hap-
I 1., i;JI ...'1•1 !> ~ IJ .-· t ~ 'J'. . t,·-~ ·. > !t-, , • '#; 

i:n.:~lt~ ... ~ ;;!1·.r"lfh~: •1t~· .'!J~ ·,-. t:i~ft f!J C'~~'iHfc~·4~] '-1! l 1:1'dftt~'.J q -~ ;·!': t . < t'; n..t; ·: r:~ i ~ ~:.' : ~ .• 
personal preferences of indi­viduals. 
Catholics in the past have taken a minimalist approach to primal ministry in believing the individual had no relations with God or the Church before baptism. 
Fitzgerald correlated this notion with the measuring of baptismal water one cup at a time careful not to upset the waters in the fountain. 
The lecture touched upon the notion that in baptismal waters, new life is born or a soul dies in troubled waters. Spirits are loosened and one is able to reflect what has occurred. The occurrence may be birth, baptismal into the family of God, or accepting a new identity. 
Fitzgerald noted that bap­tism, which at one point was a private event exclusive to fam­ily members, should now be shared with the public to pro­mote parish formation. 
Making numerous refer­ences to the eight-sided bap­tismal font at the Church of Loretto on Saint Mary's cam­pus, Fitzgerald noted dis­turbed emotions the Saint Mary's community had toward the modern renovation. The renovation project placed the massive font in the center of the church. 
Many community members felt the size of the font was too massive and in a dangerous location. Yet, Fitzgerald said, "fonts ought to be placed in a dangerous location as a tangi­ble metaphor of baptism." 
I. ~ .t: . ~.: ... i tl:; .J •.-, • J ;,, , .. 
·:~ !··.~1~!.;,:;~-;~f~ "~ ~'~' •r.:rh ~~rr••~·t~ f··u~!l !~[1'!, ~~.t!!~1~)nin; f_!tz~-.:!7~'... ;,~ ... _: .. :~r ~'i~:· • ·•·n". ;, '{•.-:-.,.·· 
enough to drown in. The dan­gers of the size of the font is a reminder of the realities of life and death and the power of stirring water signify the strength and power of God. 
Fitzgerald reminded the audience that baptismal waters also engage people in demanding realities. 
"Because some people say that the Church of Loretto shouldn't have such a large font placed in the middle of the building, and at times obstructing traffic during masses, we should remember the font is an icon of God stor­ing things up within us and making us notice the dominant power of the Holy Spirit," said Fitzgerald. 
Fitzgerald claimed that the jury is still out in the debate over the ability of the Church to handle the radical conse­quences of looking back on baptism and the new ways of seeing Catholics not following with traditional church prac­tices. 
"We want the Church to give birth through baptism and the individual to return to original hopes, dreams, and ideals, not raging waters that are out of control in an individual's life," said Fitzgerald. 
The next presentation in the series will take place Wednesday in . §taplMon Lounge at Saint Mary1S'. Lou Nanni, director of the Center for the Homeless of South Bend, will be the featured lec­turer discussing the "Dangers of Community." 
',I:. ~ J •' • '.' f,, 
• .. .. ; • ~ >. :: • ·-' 

:.>1n I•H; !\C11 iW !J~JrWi bu ffl{}·~~ !I~J,j,; :f[;.i ht•[j,j!)t~ fl~·-~ 
t:i .,....,,,i·~J··;·~-·'il.. ~......~.,.--:-,:.....~,..· 
.,• r'. • . ,~ r 

Leave the driving to us. 




Starts this Friday, February 21! Hours: 10 p.m.-3 a.m. Friday and Saturday Call the hodine: 631-9888 
UNIVflSITY o• NoTat Dun 
STUOfHT GOYfUIIIINT 


page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 20, 1997 
King assassin requests tests 
By WOODY BAIRD argued for years that Ray, a The U.S. House Select Associated Press Writer bungling, petty criminal, could Committee on Assassinations not have pulled off the assassi­had the King rifle tested in the MEMPHIS, Tenn. nation alone. 1970s, but because the slug On a sidewalk near the scene But prosecutors say that no was so mangled, the committee of the Rev. Martin Luther King one has come up with credible could not establish beyond a Jr.'s assassination in 1968, evidence tying anyone else to doubt that it was the murder police found a rifle believed to the killing and that Ray would weapon. Tests showed, howev­
be the mur­der weapon. On it were James Earl Ray's finger­prints. 
Confronted with the rifle and other evidence, Ray pleaded guilty to murder and was sen­tenced to 99 years in prison. 
But now, in an attempt to withdraw the plea and go to trial, the 68-year-old Ray wants court permission for new scien­tific tests on the rifle and bullet in hopes of proving King was gunned down on a Memphis motel balcony by someone else. A hearing is set for Thursday. 
Ray began trying to take back his guilty plea three days after entering it in 1969, but the state and federal courts have upheld it seven times. 
Conspiracy theorists have 
./ Used, rare and 
out-d-print books 

./ Initial cost of $2.00 ./ Nationally -circulated ad ./ Success rate of 50'/o ./ Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

still be guilty of conspiracy even er, that King was killed by the if he did not pull the trigger same kind of rifle and that lead himself. in the slug matched the lead in 
"There might have been the unspent bullets. other people involved. But to To do more tests, Hay's say because others were lawyers must first convince the AR campaign, involved Ray should be released courts that improved technolo­l,was due to from jail is just nuts," said state gy can determine if the rifle ... 9 metropolitan prosecutor John Campbell. found at the scene killed King. th~ spring. A 
Ray contends he brought the To have his plea overturned, ich apparently King rifle to Memphis on the Ray would then have to show much criticism, instructions of a shadowy gun­that test results in his favor •.to9·V'"''"'~..,,u ribbons won't cure runner he knew only as Raoul. help prove his innocence, R.,.,..,,..,."h will." He said he gave the rifle to Campbell said. J1ep.gious leaders in the Raoul shortly before the killing, Having a guilty plea over­DaUas-Port Worth area but that Raoul set him up, turned on a claim of innocence stressed Wednesday that they arranging for the rifle with is decidedly difficult, since the didn't disapprove of research Ray's fingerprint to be dropped law assumes a person knows if to firid a cure for AIDS. They near the shooting scene. he's guilty or not at the time the seeks to educate, just felt that prayer and sexual 
Authorities have never estab­plea is given, the prosecutor the public," said Dr. abstfuence shouldn't be slight­lished that Raoul really existed. said. I•.}Vilatllilcle Krim, cha.irwoman,of 
e<J\,Yi:r 


* * Attention ~D. Senior Premedical Students!! * * 
Interested in a break before the demands of medicCil school? 
IIow about considering a year of service at a medical clinic serving the medically indigent of St. Joseph's and Marshall Counties? 
The Thomas Dooley Service Award Project is Cl year long service project sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Ynlley. 
--Gain valuable experience in a primary care clinic setting --Learn about health ministt·y and serving the needs of the poor 
*Considerable stipend to cover room and board 
*As a registered patient, your health care will be provided by the clinic 
Applications now available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Final date to apply is March 17, 1997 
Questions? Please contact : The 1996-97 Tom Dooley Volunteer--Ryan llefTclfingcr, at SL Joseph's Ileal!h Center @ 289-7662
[ITQJ 
or c • N r • R • 0 R The Director of Postgraduate Service Opportunities--Maureen Skurski, at the Center for Social Concerns@ 631-5779 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
J 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association and The Center for Social Concerns 
proudly present 

p·td''SOCIAL
''The D fl•tt•tng le S 
CONCERNS 
Shell has found itself entangled in a battle between local communities and the military dictatorships in Nigeria, who have used brute force to protect the flow of oil on which their government depends. For 30 years the Ogoni people have quietly endured military oppression and have watched their environment become polluted by oil. Now they have had enough. This film is their story. 
followed by a Panel Discussion: "MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS AND ENVIRONMENT IN THIRD WORLD COUNTRIES: A DOUBLE STANDARD?" 
featuring: 

Rev. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy ofReligion; Proj Denis Goulet, Economics Department; Proj Peter Walshe, Government Dept; Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Plunge/Outreach Development, CSC; John Clark, President-CEO, Solar Tech, INC; Obinna Anyadike, journalist, Peace Studies Program 
Wednesday, Feb. 26 • 7:00p.m. • 155 Debartolo 
FREE ADMISSION http://www.nd.edu/....ndasa 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
China remembers changes under Xiaoping 
By ELAINE KURTENBACH 
Associated Press Writer 
BEIJING 

With the death of Deng Xiaoping, China has lost the visionary leader who launched its ascent as an economic power. But his reforms have gathered such momentum over nearly two decades that they are unlikely to be impaired. 
The current leadership, put in place by Deng as he retreat­ed from the political scene over the past eight years, bases its claim to authority on a commitment to follow reforms Deng initiated when he rose to power following the death of Mao Tse-tung in 1976. 
None of the current genera­tion of leaders -headed by 
THE NON­PROFIT SECTOR 
advocacy arts 
civil rights 
. . 
commumty serv1ces education environment health care human service legal services philanthropy public safety recreanon religion social action youth development 

Jiang Zemin, president and head of the ruling Communist Party -possesses the vision, the political stature or the inclination to sway China from its market-oriented economic reforms. 
When Deng took over, China was isolated and impoverished after the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, 10 years of tumult born from Mao's desire for a more utopian communist order. 
Deng scrapped rural com­munes in favor of family farm­ing. He loosened controls on travel, freeing up a huge pool of cheap labor, and opened the manufacturing sector to for­eign investment, launching China's climb as a major exporter. 
Those changes have made China's 1.2 billion people more affluent than ever before and have fortified the Communist Party's 47-year hold on·power. 
But they also have ushered in grave economic and social problems that now challenge the post-Deng leadership: dyingstateindustries,skyrock­eting crime, a growing gap between rich and poor and over 100 million unemployed rural laborers, many of whom are flooding into cities looking for work. 
Beijing, having loosened the economic ties that bound local governments and party oW­cials to the center, has found it increasingly difficult to enforce its control in the vast country­side. 
Working in Non-Profits 
Career Opportunities and Employer Expectations 
A panel of non-profit professionals will discuss career opportunities, what they look for in the candidates they hire, and how to prepare when applying for jobs. 
•Julie 
Doyal Vice President, Resource Distribution United Way of St. Joseph County, Inc. 

•
Verneil Lewis Professional Recruiter Saint Joseph's Care Group 

•
Dora Reynolds Executive Director YWCA of St. Joseph County, Inc. 


Thursday, February 20, 1997 4:00 -5:30 p.m. 217 DeBartolo Hall 
Presented by Judy Goebel, Career & Placement Services 

The Center for Social Concerns is sponsoring a series of 4 seminars this semester focusing on Leadership. Anyone interested in developing leadership skills is welcome. 
Seminar I 
I 
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People 
I· 
I 
Kathleen Sullivan, Ph.D. Director of Alumni Continuing Education Session 2 Friday, February 21 3-4:45 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
Seminar II Responsible Budgeting Jim Paladino CPA Associate Director, Center for Social Concerns Allison Potempa, Club Coordination Council Erin Hoffman, Student Body Treasurer Sunday, February 23 3-5 p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
*Student Group Leaders--Finished your '97-'98 budget request yet? (due F~bruary 28 You're invited to attend. 
Please calf 637-5379 to register 
Jiang and other leaders have acknowledged the severity of the problems facing the Communists. They have made fighting inflation their top pri­ority. They have slowed state industry reforms that had put millions out of work. They have intensified their cam­paign against blatant abuses of power that outraged the public and tainted the party's once­impeccable reputation. 
Some older party leaders are said to disapprove of the pre­vailing get-rich-quick mentali­ty. The growing gap between rich and poor -condoned by Deng as a necessary evil for economic growth -is heresy to veterans of a party founded on egalitarianism and sacri­fice. 

But the older generation is· receding into history. By the time of his death, Deng's direct influence on Chinese politics had faded along with his wan­ing health. 
Jiang and the other tech­nocrats heading the party look unlikely to face any major challenges to their status as Deng's anointed successors. They are backed by a powerful military and police prepared to quash all opposition or dissent. 
The finaj departure of China's last great revolution­ary leader. however, could help expose .the factional rival­ries that lie .behind the Communist Part.y's facade of unity. · 
Those struggles may become apparent only after a major party congress this fall that is expected to set China's leader­ship lineup for the turn of the century. 

Deng Xiaoplng 
(1904·1997) 
Deng Xiaoping, who inherited a country paralyzed by fear and poverty, is cred1ted more than any other leader with the modernization of China. A 
at his career: 
• 
Joined the Communist Party at age 16. 

• 
Joined Mao Tse-tung, the revolutionary leader, on the 1934-35 "LonR_ March" fli[Jht from Chiang Kai­shek s Nationaltsts.. 

• 
Became a political commissar of the 129th division of the Communist 8th Route Army. fighting the Japanesefrom 1937-45 and the Nationalists in the 1945-49 civil war. 

• 
Founded·the People's Republic of China in 1949. · 

• 
Became vice premier in 1952. 

• 
In 1956, became a member of Politburo Standing Committee ­the most powerful ruling body. 

• 
Fell into political disfavor twice because of ties to Mao's rivals during the Cultural Revolution, was sent to work at a tractor factory. 

• 
Returned to leadership in 1973, only to be purged once again in 1976. 

• 
Returned to position as vice premierin 1977. 

• 
Believed to have given final orders for the military suppression of the 1989 Ttananmen Square pro-democracy protests. 


AP/Amy Kranz 


Put the world at your fingertips. 
Software Engineering Systems Engineering Computer Design Signal Processing Electro-Optics Image Processing 
With Raytheon Electronic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the future of tomorrow's world. You'll maximize your Engineering and Computer Science knowledge and make an impact when you join our team. We currently have over 350 opportunities available in the technical areas listed above. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems will be visiting campus soon. To find out more about the complex challenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placement Office to sign up for an interview. 
For additional information, please see our homepage at: http://www.raytheon.com/res 
Interested candidates who are unable to meet with us on campus may send a resume directly to: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S T2SL2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01876-0901. Fax: (508) 858-1163. E-mail: staffing@res.ray.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems 
page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 20, 1997 
Scripture for This Coming Sunday 

1st Reading Genesis 22:1~2, 9-13, 15-18 2nd Reading. Romans 8:31-34;., Gospel ,~j'; Mark 9:2-10 ·""' 
Cullet 

There is a homily in anything, if you care to look deep enough. 
I found a homily in the spring of 1987, in an unsuspecting place-something of a tourist venue, and a very long way from here. I was traveling though Ireland, learn­ing much about their own traditions of sacred music. And having rattled around in monasteries for a couple of weeks, my restless soul needed a plunge back into the marketplace: So a quick check of the travel guide brought these weary pilgrim feet 
to the steps of-the Waterford Crystal factory. 
You all know the stuff. Beautiful to behold, pricey beyond belief, a motherlode of prismation held in the hand. Wrought by artisans who spend seven years of their life simply in apprenticeship, learning cut after cut, until they finally produce an appren­
tice's bowl-their individual masterpiece-and are acknowledged by the factory and their peers to be a master craftsman. 
Throughout this period of apprenticeship, and even as a mastez·, there is something 
that happens which, when I observed it, left a profound impression. It is the place wherein I found the homily. 
You see, even the Masters make mistakes. A simple tremor of the hand, a momen­
tary lack of concentration, a twitch, a faulty cutting stone .... and all the labors are seemingly for naught. I was told when arriving at the factory that "there are no sec­onds at Waterford." And they meant it! 
What happens to the mistakes? They are cast aside ... but they are far from forgotten. The discarded items are called "cullet," and you can hear the stuff being pitched if you stand in the cutting area of the factory long enough. Box after box of discarded crystal-enough to make the heart sick -is carefully stored, but it is not thrown away. 
Here is the critical point, though, and where the homily is found. Crystal cannot be manufactured without these discarded items, without the mistakes. The cullet is an indis­pensable part of the recipe for these fine masterpieces... things of beauty that eventu­ally show up in showrooms, and on hearths and mantles, and in trophy cases around the world. But these masterpieces could not even come into existence, without the . presence of the discarded crystal, without the mistakes. 
How often do we take our own failings and relegate them to a worthless area of our 
lives, never to see the sun again, never allowed to be shaped back into that master­
piece which is the unique creation of our souls? How quickly do we judge these mis­
takes as an embarrassment, as an unworthy candidate for our spiritual or emotional 
energy? 

Every mistake carries with it the promise ofa masterpiece, if we have the strength to 
bring it back and reshape it in the fire of God's love and our own introspective souls. 
Watching crystal being made is an awesome experience. Molten glass is taken from 
the fire, thousands of degrees in temperature, white/yellow hot. In that lump of 
molten material is the silicon and sand that will become the finished product. In' 
that lump of molten material, as well, are the shards of rejects, the mistakes, the dis­
carded labors ... but also the pivotal ingredient, and the very seed of new creation. 
All of it is brought together in the phenomenal heat of the ovens, and purified. 
Once this is done, and the cullet is intermingled with the new, the crystal begins its journey to a masterpiece. 
Several weeks ago, we celebrated the feast of Candlemas, and we heard a reading 
from the book of the prophet Malachi. It said ... "He shall be like a refiner's fire." A 
wonderful image, given what was just described above! Lo and behold, here we are 
on the doorstep of Lent. Let us pray that we can take all of our lives-the new as 
well as the discarded mistakes of our lives-and cast them into that radiance of the 
refiner's fire, that which we call the love of God. 
And perhaps, when· all of these experiences are purified... especially our mistakes ... 
we shall commence upon ourjourney toward a masterpiece. It is, in fact, that which 
brings delight to our very Maker. 
It is the masterpiece of our own selves, forged from our mistakes ... the cullet of life. 
Steven C. Warner Camjms Ministry 




(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 





Proposal fights teen crime 
leave anything anywhere, and compared code and noncode schools.
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••1111nobody touches it." 
Return To Your Favorite! 

~ttention sop omore




The Original 
6usiness majors! 
Applications are now being accepted 


Hand-Tossed Pizza 
for Assistant Student Body Treasurer for 1997--98 
• Gain valuable practical experience in a business oriented leadership role! 
• handle over $400,000 a year! 
Pick up applications in the Treasurer's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune 


Large Hand-Tossed Cheese Pizzas 

T<»ppi.-.g~ ...Ju~t $"'1 .00 Eaac:h 
CALL



oble,8 
277-5300 
DINE-IN, CARRY-OUT, DELIVERY
THE BmER PIUA PEOPLE"" 
A Crust That•s Crisp On The Outside, But Soft On The Inside With That Great Made From Scratch Flavor! 



By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 
BOSTON 
In a city that has dramatically curbed teen violence, President Clinton proposed a $495 million national campaign against juve­nile crime Wednesday. He warned that America "is going to be living with chaos" unless the problem is 
~~-"""--­attacked. Clinton 
T h e biggest component of Clinton's two-year program is $200 mil­lion for state and local anti­gang prosecution initiatives. It also provides $60 million for 1,000 new after-school pro­grams to keep kids off the streets and $75 million for anti­truancy, school violence and crime intervention. 
Proposing to expand the reach of the Brady law, Clinton called for a ban on handgun sales to those 18 or older who 
had been convicted of a felony 
as a juvenile. 
Fighting juvenile crime "has got to become our top law enforcement priority," Clinton said in a speech in the 
·University of Massachusetts' 
gym, where he got a rousing 
reception. 
The president said that 95 percent of America's largest cities and 88 percent of the smaller cities are plagued by gang crime. The number of people arrested for violent crimes will double by 2010 "unless we do something about it," Clinton said. 
"The truth is that Boston and just a few other cities have removed any fig leaf of excuse that we can't do anything about it," Clinton said. "You have now proved that it can be stopped and therefore there is no excuse for not stopping it." 
Law and order is a politically popular topic, but Republicans and Democrats have clashed over how to combat crime. In 1994, Clinton faced stiff GOP resistance to a sweeping anti­crime bill; Republicans argued he was trying to win money for social programs, such as mid­night basketball, under the guise of crime-fighting. The president's bill was passed and signed into law. 

Pointing to the success of Boston's battle against juvenile violence, Clinton said the mes­sage to Congress should be direct: "Cross all party lines, throw politics away, throw the speeches in the trash can, join hands, let's do what works and make America the place it has to be." 
Republicans have proposed a $1.5 billion, three-year pro­gram against juvenile crime that offers incentives to state and local governments to pun­ish the most dangerous, violent youths as adults. Clinton's bal­anced budget proposal contains the money for his program, but Congress has to approve it. 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, welcomed Clinton's speech, saying "there is substantial room for agreement in many areas" with measures he has already introduced. 
College honor codes reduce cheating, theft 
By ROBERT GREENE 
Associated Press Writer 
STAUNTON, Va. 
Students at Mary Baldwin College won't lie, cheat, or steal. You have their word on it, in writing. 
The honors pledge they sign as freshmen may seem a relic of the past, at a time when polls have found widespread cheating among American high school and college students. 
But this small school, found­ed in the Blue Ridge foothills in the 19th century, takes the subject very seriously, trusting its 1,200 female students to take examinations on their own time with no professors watching. 
"You can leave your books lying around," said Lisa Crigler, 20, a junior from Staunton, standing on the hilly campus that overlooks the Shenandoah and the birthplace of Woodrow Wilson, a champi­on of honor systems. "You can 
The school canceled classes Wednesday so students could spend the day taking a close and lively look at the honor system, an institution that still lives on at dozens of other campuses, including Princeton, Rice and Stanford. 
Most schools with honor sys­tems are in the Southeast, however, with at least a dozen within a 50-mile radius of this campus. 
Cheating scandals have marred the honor system at larger campuses, such as the United States Naval Academy in 1992. Despite their pledge of truthfulness, most of the 133 who were implicated had lied repeatedly about their involvement until given the hard evidence, a Navy report said. 
Codes, nonetheless, appear to reduce cheating even among students who cheated in high school, says Donald McCabe, a management professor at Rutgers University who has 

"Animal House" and  
more like "Night of  
the Living Dead."  
Why?  Because  
too many people are  
afraid of embarrass­ 
ment to stick their  
necks  out  in  the  
name of love.  Too  
many  people  are  
afraid  of looking  
silly  or  getting  
laughed  at  to  go  
crazy, get wild,  or  
just do SOMETHING  
to break the monot­ <fY  
ony of semester.  second Too  'N"~__;'<c  
many people are closed off, conserva­tive, busy, study­ing... dead. What we need, then, is not to steal  ••  I1 
an  arrow  from  a  
pile of junk in South  
Quad.  We  need  





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 20, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.................... ............ Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the U niversiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
• TABLE TALK 
Guns, games and a whole lot of loving 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY

• DcHJNESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  
Sports  631-4543  
News/Photo  631-5323  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  
General Information  631-7471  

Have you seen the T-shirt? "SEX KILLS," it reads. "COME TO NOTRE DAME AND LIVE FOREVER." 
Stop! Before you do anything rash like go read "Cream-of the Valley Road" or something, I promise that I am not, I repeat NOT, here to talk about the sex shortage afflicting the Notre Dame cam­pus. Granted, sexual activity at Notre Dame is kept to a quiet minimum in 
Mick Swiney 
comparison to schools like Arizona State (where half of the student population is estimated to be dead by the year 2000), but certainly this is no cause for con­cern; I for one am proud to attend a school with so many ... healthy stu­dents. The real problem I wish to address is one that exists on a much deeper level. 
Upon coming to Notre Dame, did you ever notice that the dating scene is a lit­tle ... weird? 
Maybe I should put it differently: does the phrase "Dance at the Junior High Gymnasium" mean anything to you? If so, I and many others feel your pain. That why the Hall President's Council has given us Date Week, the biggest thing to hit this campus since the du Lac revisions. 
For those of you who don't read The Observer, Date Week is a program of fun and games around South Bend which actually lasts two weeks (they fig­ured we needed all the help we could get). During Date Week, domers and SMC chicks pair off into makeshift cou­ples and can: 
a) shoot each other 
Business Office 631-5313 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
b) 
shoot everything else 

c) 
eat a whole bunch of Buffalo Wings 


Can you think of anything more romantic? But seriously, this year's Valentine's Day has shown that every­one from the HPC to the "Irish Accent" has been working hard to bring love to NO ... the guys over at Carroll even offered to sell their bodies for a noble cause, but while I commend their self­sacrifice I'm sure most people would just as soon skip the walk. 
The sad fact is that everyone wants love to happen here, but for some rea­son this environment just sucks the love right out of us. There's still the usual same-sex seating in the dining halls (by choice, of course). There's still the usual boxer-clad guys who appear at the crack in their doors when they see a girl in the dorm, whispering in awe-struck tones. ("So THAT'S what they look like up close!") 
There's still the diligent students who put in lots of loneliness and late hours at DeBartolo on one day, and on the next go to C.J.'s and play "Drink until I can talk to girls and not remember if I spoke English or not." 
Now I'm no St. Edward's resident, but to my uninformed eyes this looks like some kind of American tragedy. What's wrong with this school? Have we for­gotten what college is all about? 
"Of course not," you say, "or at least I haven't. I still love football and can do a kegstand without passing out." 
WRONG!! 

Notre Dame, the school you hate to love, is known for its deep-seated tradi­tions and undying school spirit. We are often told that friends and memories made here will last us our entire lives. Long after grades, late hours, communi­ty service and Conversational Italian have fallen by the wayside, that spirit remains. 
Sad to say, in these waning days of February I don't see too many real, hard-core, gut-rubbing memories being made. In fact, this school looks less like 
shimply to forhget that'-------"-----'---------'------''--------'---------<:-----=:..._----=---­
t ere are ot er peo­ple out there and push ourselves beyond the envelope of propriety, just a few inches into the world of daring, bold adventure and deviation from the norm. Before I go all the way and actually become Robin Williams in "The Dead Poets Society," perhaps I should remind you that we owe it to the millions of peo­pie who have graduated from Notre Dame and moved on and who keep wishing they could come back! 
So what stands in our way? Is it the high-stress academic climate and the oh-so-very-Catholic atmosphere'? Is it parietals and the beloved in loco paren­tis policy? 
Most likely all of the above, and a good deal more. But can you really blame the administration for imposing parietals on us, the faculty for assigning heavy work­loads? They, like most of us at Notre Dame, are bound by tradition. We have standards to maintain, a reputation to uphold, and for most of us that beloved tradition is what has drawn us to South Bend (God knows it couldn't be the beautiful scenery). 
For those of us who have yet to find "The One," we need only wait. After all, many of us know grandparents, parents, aunts, uncles, friends who have met their one true love at this school; we know it's possible with a little bit of hope and a couple buckets of patience. 
And maybe one day we'll find love, get married, have kids and send them to Notre Dame. Then when they tell us how messed up they are we can just laugh at them and say, "So were we, kid!! Relax and go play some paintball!" 
Mick Swiney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. He can be reached via email at Swiney.3@nd.edu. 
"pains of love are sweeter farI Than all other plea­sures are." 
-John Dryden 

---------------------~---~­



Thursday, February 20, 1997 
• CLASSICAL CoLUMN 

Star Wars and Fil<m Music 
ByJULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANDERSON 
P
~~!:~s~1:u~%:~r ~~.se~~~f~.·~.t}Yrlt;~j=~t~.t~s,cb~~.··.~ow •·• 
the art of film music has made itself a necessary.com­
ponent of any successful box-office ¥t. •. 
It is a rare instance when the average movie-goer leaves the , theater thinking "Wow, that music was awesome!" Usually, the soundtrack has little or no·impactonthe immediate tions and responses ofthe viewer. 
However, when you ponderit fori.a while, isn't ittruy that the music in a film does have a dirf!ct impact otithe plotand characters? For example, imagine if, instead ofth~ infamous Jaw's theme, there was the Ught, cheery tune. o~ ~'When Y Wish upon a Star." Or if, say Dorothy, the Scarecrow, Lion, and the Tin Man skipped tothe theme of Schindler's List... 
Film music originally began with live ensembles music drowning out the loud sound of the clanky early films. However, when the obsoletesilent film re n(lll~\>t:JJ ..•••J with today's movie extravaganzas, music rt!t11ai an part of the 'movie experience: .... · . 
Essentially, according to Robert$panc;i!l ;in .Pi,~ essay, ''Ihe Three Regimes: A Theory of Film Music," filin needs musiC to bridge the gap between reality and fiction. A film mimics. our everyday existence. Yet it also attyJ1lpts tQ comJ1le.nt.()nthis. existence, or to propose a better way of existing, The constant flux of music from the speakers ofthe theater then suijcon­sciously lets the viewer know that this exp¢rience.is notreali• ty: it is an experience that bombards the senses with an array of special visual and aural effec~ 
In the realm of futuristic film production like Star writer-director George Lucas admits that he created Star Wars in an effort to "make a film so rooted in the imagination that the grimness of everyday life. would. not foll,ow t)le. audter~J,1(il into the theater. In other words, for two hours, they could for· 
get." .• . ....... ·.........· ... . • .,
In order for the audience.to "forget,"· LllC1:!S cl:eated (:rea· tures unknown, places unseen, and noises unheard of. · But more importantly, Lucas relied on the talent of f'm'nnn<><>r Williams to merge this foreign world with .. . . .. music. It was then Williams who reasoned that Wars needed music of an established genre, not music of the avant 
garde. · · · The decision was to mimic the style of 19th century Romantic music -,--natural, tonal, and still ment. Writing for full orchestrai(the'I~i'ii\tdotf~ht.nilfiltollrVI Orchestra), Williams created the score two months. A study or the ""''"'"'·'""'"'" 
with respect to the. characters drew upon a 19th century musical variety of characters, settings and 
The idea of the Leitmotif (a · teristic of Wagnerian:· . . . Williams equips Luke with a • Princess Leia with a ny the appearances qf}Ben 
others. · 
Not limiting hMuself salutes 20th century.·.·~u.ui)4\!.. ~.. jazz ensemble and in the mm. drum, tt.fned 
It is people fitting appropriate ...........,... out being entil:ely critics praises for imagination and creating nent of a movie through page II 
spiders 
-t{~~ 

(out of five stars) 
S 
lowly growing in popularity, Space has put together an album which mixes gen­uinely catchy songs with dull filler mate­rial. In fact this collection can almost be 
divided exactly into two halves, the advice being to proceed no further than the first and appreci­ate what is to be found there. "Money" is a slightly camp, lilting tune which is both unusual and memorable, and "Female of the Species" takes the award for the best moment of the album, combining steel drums with quirky lyrics to great effect. Throughout Spiders the listener is assailed by very odd compositions and illusions to the darker corners of popular culture ­hence, "Keyser Soze's real, so they say," and, "Mister Blond said to Mister Blue, 'who's the cop?"' This should help out the band in terms of future releases; there is talent here, albeit a tal­ent that is not well presented at all times. 
For example, towards the narcoleptic end of the album the tracks tend to be half-hearted attempts to inject some life into a flagging spirit. "Dark Clouds" sounds as if it was planned and executed on a particularly lethargic Sunday afternoon, while "Kill Me" is more an ill-con­
big head todd and the monsters 


beautiful world 
*~~~ 

(out of five stars) 
T
en years of music has seen Big Head Todd and the Monsters come full circle. The boys have turned their amps up and returned to the natural rock sound that was the staple of their original success. Yet as they return to their roots, the new album also ventures into the uncharted waters of a new record label as well as a variety of musical gen­res. The maturity of their latest undertaking reflects the growth of the musical genius that we have already grown to love. 
As their fifth album released, Beautiful World exhibits the far reaching skills and diversity of this native Colorado band. The listener receives a guided rocky mountain tour of rock today. From the breezy levels of the fast-paced, catchy beat of pop-rock, down the slopes of R&B and soul, into the valley of the blues, you are taken on a traverse of musical beauty. The tour mean­ders through the musings of an apathetic super­man, helpless love, animal love, and George Thurgood's "One Bourbon, One Scotch, and One 
Courtesy of Universal Records 
ceived batch of ideas which obviously failed in the early stages and was overlooked by the pro­ducer. On the lighter side, "Lovechild of the Queen" amuses with the vocalist hamming it up and his words dripping with more than a hint of sarcasm, and "Me and You vs. The World" picks up the pace with a bouncy tune more than remi­niscent of what was around 30 years ago. Space probably has a few albums in it, but one gets the impression that despite many good qualities the group could all too easily disappear through fail­ure to improve upon its technique and deliver the kind of consistency necessary to attract the masses. 
by Julian Elliott 


Courtesy of Mercury Records 
Beer." Your tour guides for this eclectic journey are the Monsters, accompanied by rarely fea· tured backup female vocalists as well as blues legend, John Lee Hooker. Enjoy the view. 
This latest undertaking seems to capture the entire range of talent that this band possesses. With simple, clear lyrics, the daydreams of lead singer Todd Park Mohr resonate through the tight guitar work complimented with a strong beat and wafting organ. Put together, you get a live, relaxed, yet polished sound coupled with tight varied songs. 

Full-Bodied. Refreshing. Leaves you coming back again and again. As a friend so elegantly ­put, "It just kicks ass." 
by JeffRauenhorst 

Chisel (nd alums) 
Big Head Todd 
The Wallflowers 
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion 
Blur 
Cake 
Jewel 
De La Soul 
Cake/Babe the Blue Ox 
Presidents of the USA 
U2 
Empty Bottle, Chicago 3/6 Aragon Ballroom, Chicago 3/14 The Riviera Theatre, Chicago 3/14 The Vic, Chicago 3/15 The Riviera Theatre, Chicago 3/15 Metro, Chicago 3/24 Chicago Theatre, Chicago 3/20 House of Blues, Chicago 3/21 Metro, Chicago 3/24 Metro, Chicago 3/25 Soldier Field, Chicago 6/27 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 1997 
.MLB •NBA 

Fielder's a no-show Blaylock leads Hawks to win 
Associated Press Writer designated hitter time, Fielder Associated Press Writer points. have lost four of five. 
is worried he won't get to play "When you have all five Blaylock had five points and TAMPA, Fla. all the time with the Yankees ATLANTA starters in doubles, it makes two assists during a 10-0 run in Cecil Fielder, who has de­this season. The Atlanta Hawks couldn't the game a lot easier," said the first quarter. Blaylock's 
manded the Yankees trade him ''I'm still waiting to find out if believe they lost by 29 points to Blaylock, who also had five as­layup gave Atlanta a 23-22 lead by March 15, was a no-show he said it or meant it," Torre Houston in their last game, and sists and five rebounds in with 3:05 left, and the Hawks Wednesday, the team's volun­said. "I still haven't heard it on Wednesday night they did Atlanta's 21st win in their last did not trail again. tary reporting date for spring from him. If he did indeed say something to forget the lop­22 home games. "You don't The Pacers, who shot 40 per­training. that. I would want some clarifi­sided Joss. have to work as hard." cent for the game, went score­
New York manager Joe Torre cation." "We were very disappointed Atlanta's record against less in the opening 4:59 of the said he expects Fielder to re­Fielder has also expressed with our defensive performance teams that currently have a third period. Blaylock hit a pair port Thursday, when the displeasure about limited play­in Houston," said Mookie winning record is only 10-12. of 3-pointers during an 11-5 Yankees hold their first full ing time at first base. He played Blaylock, who Jed the Hawks "We're not very good and run to give the Hawks a 66-48 squad workout. first only nine times with the with 19 points in their 100-87 they a,re very good," Pacers lead with 5:35 left in the third 
"I think he'll be here," Torre Yankees. victory over Indiana. "We know coach Larry Brown said. "We period. told reporters. "I wouldn't be "We have a better chance to we're better than that. We fig­got in early foul trouble with Atlanta led by as many as 24 here today if I'm him. He win with him," Yankees gen­ured, 'Let's it going again.' We our big guys and never recov­points in the fourth quarter. knows all you people are wait­eral manager Bob Watson said. catch the Rockets again (Friday ered. Mutombo and Laettner Atlanta's James, starting for ing for him." "But if he wants to leave, he night in Atlanta) and we're started the game very aggres­the third straight game since Although the Yankees set has that right." looking forward to that game." sively. Atlanta played more Tyrone Corbin's back injury, Wednesday as the voluntary Meanwhile, gout-plagued All five Hawks starters scored together than we did." had l4 points and six rebounds. 
reporting date, baseball's pitcher David Wells did not in double figures. Mutombo also had 10 Alan Henderson, playing in only mandatory reporting date isn't work out Wednesday. The lefty Dikembe Mutombo added 17 rebounds and four blocks. his third game of the season, until March 1. missed his third scheduled points, Christian Laettner 16, Reggie Miller scored 19 had eight points and seven 
Acquired from Detroit last throwing session from the Steve Smith 15 and Henry points for Indiana, but was only rebounds in 18 minutes for the July 31, Fielder is due $7.2 mil­mound. James 14 for Atlanta, which is 5-of-17 from the field. Antonio Hawks. Henderson missed the lion this season, the final year "It's day-to-day," Wells said. 16-2 this season when all five Davis added 17 points and 10 first 51 games this season with of a five-year deal worth "If it's good tomorrow, then I'll starters score at least 10 rebounds for the Pacers, who acute viral pancreatitis. 
$36,187,500. He hit .260 with throw tomorrow. If it's not, I'll 13 homers and 37 RBis in 53 try for the next day." games with New York last sea­Kenny Rogers has a non­son. baseball related back problem, 
"I think he wants an exten­which affects his sleep, and sion on his contract," Yankees was examined Wednesday. owner George Steinbrenner After the exam, he threw 15 said. ''I'd be very surprised if minutes from a bullpen mound. that isn't it. I think he wants to "Obviously it's not affecting 
be with the team." that part of it," Torre said. 
Fielder said during the Outfielder Paul O'Neill offseason that he was angry reported no problems with his Torre benched him during injured left hamstring following Game 1 of the playoff series his first workout. against Texas. With Tino "Once I start playing games Martinez at first, and Paul and if it feels fine, I'll feel bet­O'Neill, Mark Whiten, Darryl ter," O'Neill said. "It felt fine Strawberry and Tim Raines today." competing for either outfield or 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
FAX IT FAST!!! Looking for a career where you Friday, February 21 Sending & Receiving can really make a difference? 10:30 p.m. L..--_N_O_T_Ic_E_s_ __.llL-_-w;_l\._N_T_E_o_ __.l .._I_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __. Attend WORKING IN NON­
at 

THE COPY SHOP PROFITS: CAREER OPPOR­I'm Tim Bowers and I'm really cool, SPRING BREAK Homes for Rent for 97-98 LaFortune Student Center TUNITIES AND EMPLOYER come see me play at Jazzman's PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SUMMER JOBS ADT Security 232-2595 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 EXPECTATIONS. A panel of SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS FAX IT FAST! II professionals will discuss career Really, I'm cooi-TB RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM opportubities and what they look POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR You play Irish Music? Sesuns at for in people they hire, suggest GEORGE AND THE FREEKS TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE NEAR LAKE PLACID CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. how to prepare for jobs in the TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE 1-800-786-8373 272-6551 256-9041. Musicians welcome. non-profit sector and answer GEORGE AND THE FREEKS BIGGEST PARTY. your questions. DON'T MISS IT. THURSDAY NIGHT 2120 FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Farley Hall Players Presents Thursday, February 20th, 4:00 to AT FINNIGAN'S 10:30 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, 219-291-7153 FAX 1185 ANTIGONE 5:30PM, Room 217 DeBartolo. COME OUT AND DANCE!! 
parks, resorts. Airfare! Wed Feb. 19, Thur Feb 20 THE COPY SHOP Food/Lodging! Get all the options. POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM ·FOR 8 pm LaFortune Ballroom GEORGE AND THE FREEKS LaFortune Student Center Call NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. Secor (e) THIS SATURDAY NIGHT Phone 631-COPY (919)918-7767, ext.A154. ADOPTION: There is nothing more attractive AT DALLOWAY'S AT SMC Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR Corporate Executive & homemaker than a guy with a pretzel hanging You don't need an I. D.
...­
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF can offer newborn a wonderful life from his lip ... and they say you are it's 18 and over! Yes, you can get Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, ND 2773097 filled with warmth, security, endless not talented. in to see the Freeks play! Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight etc. teaching simple conversational love, education & a bright future. GEORGE AND THE FREEKS Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m. English. No languages/teaching Need a townhouse this summer? Confidential. Mark Oh, what a weekend: Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. exp. required. We need to sublet oursl Call us at & Candace 1-888-811-1141 1. I am not anti-social, I just can't Don't worry about me .... I promise Sun.: Noon-Midnight (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. 273-9829! talk to anyone. I'll be well when I'm finally done. Open Early, Late, & Weekends Adoption: A very loving, financially 2. Everything is coming out twice. 
secure, well educated young cou­3. I dislocated my shoulder, but it Okay Danny, I think her ego is 
FOR SALE

SPRING BREAK! FEMALE AND MALE CAMP ple, long to adopt your newborn. popped back in. boosted enough ...you can stop the MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND COUNSELORS needed for out­Close and caring extended family. 4. If I could be any insect I would classifieds now. 
S. PADRE, TX BEACHFRONT standing Maine camps! CAMP Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­We offer a special life for your child. want to be a flying squirrel. CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR um mattress set. Never used still in Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & 5. One word: disabled!! mmmmmmm ..... $695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­for boys. Each located on magnifi­package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Joe 1-800-378-6680. 6. The orange peels and space fiber ED BY OWNER. cent lakefront setting with excep­(219) 67 4-2352 management. 941-642-5483 tional facilities. Over 100 positions Sarah Jane is the coolest! 7. Two pizzas at 220 for five hours? Krat, 
at each camp for heads and assis­Must sell. 1988 Mercury Tracer. 8. I think someone had an itchy Beer on Monday night.... that hasn't MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW tants in tennis, basketball, baseball, 5-speed. $850.00 or best offer. INTERESTED IN LEADERSHIP? nose. been an option in quite some time. OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, Looks good! 257-7872. Recyclin' Irish is accepting applica­9. Mass at eight, no breakfast at GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL. field hockey, roller hockey, swim­tions for Pres, VP, Sec, Treas, and eleven, no I have to work. I can't believe my best guy friend CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, •••Pioneer Stereo For Sale••• Historian. Apps available in AI 10. Earth-shaking and exhausting!! from high school is getting married. 
water-skiing, archery, weight train­6-Disc CD Player and mailbox in CSC-due back in mail­Star the madness! Stop it now! ...ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­Stereo Reciever with Remote box by Mon, Feb. 24. Call Cristin behind-the-scenes quotes from CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, $350 o.b.o. (X4408) or Karen (X1277} for more Lie, Cheat The toliet paper differential. ... FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK dance call Vince@ 257-2932 info. &Genuflect: ... Helga!Faster!You it eexists PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study, have to do it faster!. .. l'm not really a CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­backpacking, horseback riding, •••Free Laundry!!!••• slut!. ..There's nothing wrong with Where o where has my little dog 

TICKETS

DA. 1-800-838-8203 ropes course, trip leaders, mountain SUB presents free laundry days, men with diseases ... We can ride gone? biking, riflery, general (w/youngest Sat. and Sun. Feb 22-23 at Badin them upstairs...!can't fit that whole RAPE SUPPORT GROUP campers). Also looking for secre­WANTED: BASKETBALL TICKETS and LaFun. Sign up at the LaFun thing in my mouth-it's too Le Le, -Offered on-campus for ND taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp FOR SATURDAY! GA OR STU­info desk starting Thurs. Feb 20 at big!...Jane, grab him further down­This on's for you! I can't wait to see 
and SMC students dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top DENT. CALL 10am. Billy, spread out some more...SHE Star Wars with you tonigh! -Completely Confidential salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­273-2580. PLEASE WE WANT TO From SUB, where fantasies are a has to push him out-all YOU have For more information, call ing, and travel allowance. MEN­GO TO A GAME THIS YEAR! way of life! to do is push them in...mine's big­Everybody wants prosthetic fore­Sex Offense Services at CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 ger!. ..No, I mean, you BROUGHT heads on their real heads. 
283-1308 Beacon Street, Brookling, MA SEPTEMBER 67 IT UP!. ..Jesus! I'm a PROSTITUTE!

PERSONAL

RAPE SUPPORT GROUP 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888-and feb20-22 7:30pm I love fridge fun-don't you? 844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, WILCOI!!I!! wash. hall don't miss it!!!! AR: ...We PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, together at Stepan will not be doing THAT in this play ... Craig,
ILOST & FOUND I 
jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­JAZZERCISE Feb.25 at 8 pm I'm your only friend. I'm not your pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE Very close to campus only $10 with an ID. POISSON D'AVRIL only friend, but I'm a little glowing 
.. If anyone found a blue Notre Dame WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME 277-0111 COME ROCK and GROOVE!!! IS COMING!!! friend, but really I'm not actually book bag outside of 305 DeBartolo CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the Get your tix at the LaFun info desk your friend. Hall between 12:30 and 1 :30 LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Electrolysis by Rebecca before they're gone! SKALCOHOLIKS Monday afternoon, please contact Room from 10AM to 4PM. rm Blend Method 674-6933 Compliments of SUB Skankin' their way back home to Hi! Joe at x2088. APPOINTMENT NECESSARY. Jazzman's Nile Club 
I 
I I
l_ 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Sponsoru{6y: Multicu!t:uro['E:(ecutive Counc.i[ 




presenls 
Wellspring House Co:m:munity? Com:miiment? Change 

1ireside Chal 
Speaker -RtnemariJ 1/t~ughlt~n Asst~ciale 1Jirecl11r 


1rida1J, 1ebruariJ 2Bih 
12:00 n,,n 
nt~lre 1Jame Rt~t~m lait~rlune Sludenl Cenler 
-
• I 
' ' ' 
-..... I ~ I I I I 
I I I 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 

.,.,.,...,~....,..,.,....----, 

-
Dame's men's team flfth in the 200 medley time of.1:33.12. ·.· ,,;1Pittsbutrl!ItJwortwith.&<time of 
1.61. ain Matt Rose swam the fastest 50 breast­sttoke split of the 13 teams, thelrlsh with a 25.49. , . , ........ , 20(Jfreestyle relay, the took seventh in 1:24.31. Herb Huesman and Tyler Maertz continued to dive well 

. . ··. <~$ th,~ t\Y1 f~~shman placed
...•. sixth and. 13th in the 30-diver 
I ­
•. we Notre Dame's women's 200 swimming and diving team relay and in the 
won the 200 medley relay in a ·. 200 medley relay, so •I think school record 1:44.9Lshat· nyye turn~~ ip. ihe b(lst per­tering the old record by 1.85 \formances that we could have event. 
"Our relay teams really 
§W&m well. tonight." said men's hea!l coach Tim·Welsh. "This is a very positive start ·for us and we are very happy 
with our performances." 
vidual medley, 50 freestyle, 
women's one-meter diving 
and 400 medley relay high­
light the action today at the 
second day of the Big East 
championships. 


Thursday, February 20, 1997 

• BASEBAll 
Irish atop Big East poll 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports W rirer 
It is only fitting that the first teasing glimpse of temperate weather arrived in South Bend to coincide with the announcement of the Big East preseason base­ball standings. Although midsea­son will probably come and go before the actual spring thaw, there is still plenty to be excited about for the Irish. 
Notre Dame appears to be the conference ·favorite heading into the regular season, despite the departures of seven key players. Each of the ten opposing Big East coaches gave the Irish a first­place vote in the conference's National Division. St. John's cap­tured six first place votes to top the American Division. 
Rounding out the pre-season rankings in the National Division are Rutgers, who received Irish coach Paul Manieri's first place vote, 1996 division champion Villanova, Seton Hall, and Georgetown. Following the Red Storm in the American Division are defending conference tourna-­ment champion West Virginia (four first-place votes), Providence (1 vote), Connecticut, Pittsburgh, and Boston College. 
In 1996, the Irish finished third in the National Division with a conference record of 13-7 and were the Big East Tournament runners-up. They recorded an overall mark of 44-18 to stretch the Irish streak of 40-win seasons to eight and also qualified for the NCAA Tournament for the fourth time in five years. · 
While trying to maintain the standard they have set for them­selves in recent years, the Irish will have find a way to replace a number of key starters in 1997. 
"We'll certainly have a different personality this season," com­mented Manieri. ''I'm sure there are a lot of people around the country who think we'll be down, because the guys we lost were very critical parts of this pro­gram. But I feel that we are still an experienced team." 
If the pre-season conference poll is any indication, it appears that Manieri's fellow Big East coaches agree. It remains to be seen if Notre Dame's experience will translate into another suc­cessful season. 
The Irish open their season on Friday in Arizona where they will face Long Beach State. 
Practically Speaking.....?• ?• ?• ?• ?• ?• Ala mastraled Lecmare? by•?• ?• ?• JOHN H. GORDON, E~D ?• ?• *Consultant NOVA (PBS)?• *Consultant 20/20(ABC}?• * Consultant, Kennedy(NBC}?• * Mvisor, Calilornia State Archives ?• TONIGHT! 7p.m.Carroll Hall Brought to you hy the SAINT MAR\"S COLLECE Student Actwities Board  
Come to the Faculty/Senior Lunch • Friday, February 21, 12:00-2:00 p.m. • at the ,._ I>' -:?~.·a·s~..... ' ..0 ~ "'t 0 ..· -.·· ... --· 0 Enjoy good food & drinks (yes, dnnl<s will be served) with your professors. Sponsored by the class of 1997 and endorsed by Student Senate.  


Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• GOLF 

Golfers look ahead to spring 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
Whack! This sound heard re­peatedly from inside the Loftus Sports Complex isn't the sound of extra points and field goals clanging off the uprights, it is the Notre Dame women's golf team preparing for the upcom­ing spring season. The Fighting Irish are coming ofT a fall sea­son that saw them place in the top ten in each of the three tournaments in which they competed. 
Although it has been cold and the ground has been covered in snow, the team has kept in shape by repeatedly hitting golf balls at Loftus. 
"During the off-season, we tried to keep everyone positive, especially the freshman, in or­der to get them ready for the season," commented junior co­captain Tracy Melby. 
Six of the team's best golfers will tee off today at the Midwest Classic, held in sunny Arizona. The backbone of the team are juniors Katie King, Melby, and Kristin Schaner. King, the other captain, has been a leader ever since she "played through" during her first tour­nament in the fall of 1994. This fall, King captured first in the campus championship with a combined score of 156, nine strokes ahead of the next com­petitor. She also didn't finish lower than eighth in any of the four tournaments this fall. King finished second out of sev­enty-two participants at the Illinois State Redbird Classic early last fall, and is currently ranked third in the district among women golfers. 
Melby is also coming off a stellar fall season that saw her achieve a stroke average of 82 over the course of five competi­tions. Melby's fifth place finish at the Illinois State Redbird Classic enabled the Irish to cap­ture fourth out of thirteen teams. 
The last of this trio, Schaner will also be looked upon to help the Irish cause in the team's six tournaments that will take them to Arizona, for today's Midwest Classic, and Florida, for two tournaments during spring break. 
The sextet is rounded off by senior Marty Anne Hall, and two freshman, Beth Cooper and Andrea Klee. All three will be 
looked on to contribute more 
this season, including the fresh­
men. 
"I don't expect all three of them to play the best golf of their life every tournament, I just want them to play to the best of their ability, and have at least one of the three stand out in each tournament," stated Coach Ross Smith. 
The team is ranked seventh in the district according to the preseason polls, behind peren­nial powerhouses Indiana, Ohio State, Missouri, Purdue, and .. Minnesota. 
"Our goal is to climb up the rankings in the district and get in a position to be third or fourth regionally, so we could qualify for the NCAA tourna­ment," said Coach Smith. 
He would also like to see his juniors qualify for the tourna­ment as well. 
King so far has the best shot, ranked third in the district, but Melby and Schaner could achieve this goal if they played their best. 
The team finishes off their season with three local tourna­ments on three consecutive weekends at Spring Invitationals hosted by Indiana, Purdue, and Illinois, respec­tively. 
"I hope for a better spring. I am also looking for good things to happen with this team against the good competition that we will face. My own per­sonal goal is to improve my score so that by the Pnd of the spring my average is in the high 70's," said Melby. 
-

I 
I I 
__j 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday: 
OJ Dance Party Weekend Giveaways! 
CHECK IT OUT 
Greilt PJ"~£!~ '!~'!!~~ .•. ··.··. •··•·• ... .····...····.··.·•.••.··.·.. 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M-F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 1997 
-• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 



Fighting Irish win battle of tempo, fend off Wildcats 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Mollie Peirick's double-double helped the Irish fight off the Wildcats. 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES Information Meeting Thursday, February 20; 4:00p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
Applications and information about placement in the US with HCA will be available. Application Deadline: March 7. AmeriCorps Education Awards available for US participants. 
CHILE 

Katie Bergin, Scott Curtis, Yvonne McCray and Meredith McCullough have just 
returned after serving two years in Chile with the Holy Cross Associates program. All are welcome to attend as they make a presentation about their experiences. This presentation will immediately follow the above mentioned brief information 
session. For more info call631-5521. 
the perimeter as they let it fly from long range. The 'Cats also took their time on offense as many times they did not start the offense until there was 15 seconds left on the shot clock. 
"We had a real battle tonight," head coach Muffet McGraw said. "It was a battle of tempo, we got it and ran and they got it and slowed it down." 
"You have to play with what you got," Perratta commented. "We knew coming in that we were outmanned." 
Irish center Katryna Gaither proved that point as she scored 18 points and hauled in 15 re­bounds as she got in a full day's work playing the full 40 min­utes. 
The home team jumped out to a quick 9-0 lead in the first half as Villanova came into the game cold, shooting just 28 per­cent from the field. Wildcat freshman and Mishawaka High School alumae Jenea Skeeters started to feel at home as she scored the first seven points for her squad keeping them within striking distance. The Wildcats took most of their shots from Skeeters' home in Mishawaka as they went 9-27 from behind 
the arc and during one stretch had all five of their players positioned outside the three­point circle. 
After the fast start, Villanova's offensive style took control of the tempo but their shooting prevented them from taking control of the game. Notre Dame never trailed and pushed the first half lead out to as many as 14 points, but a Villanova three and a fast break lay.up closed the half 

·"With the score 34-25; ·: ,,; !•>1,:; ~·; · The !Ja·stl c:&'upl~'Mrctht~~s ·1 11Notre Dame was scoring weH11: · into th1{nineties, S0!1ast night's'l contest was quite a change. All seven of the Domers who played in the first scored and all got at least one assist. But 



COME&HEAR the TRUTH 
about the life of Chicago's Gangs after CAPONE AND NIITI. .. 
Members of Chicago's Gangs speak on the realities of 
GANG LIFE IN URBAN CHICAGO 
SATURDAY FEBRUARY 22nd 1:00pm Center for Social Concerns Lecture Hall 

no one took control as Gaither had nine at the break and Beth Morgan was suffering from an off night as she finished the game with just six. But, the Irish made the mental adjust­ment needed to win the game. 
"I was really pleased with our poise," McGraw said. "We didn't really get impatient very often and I think that was im­portant for us." 
Senior guard Jeannine Augustin, who nearly had a double-double the hard way as she scored ten points and had nine assists to go along with her six rebounds, commented on playing against an offense like the Wildcats'. 
"It is a little frustrating. The last. couple of games we've been scoring 90 plus points and we wanted to push the ball up the court and they wouldn't let us do that." 
Coming out of the locker room after the half, Villanova and Jenea Skeeters, who lead all scorers with 23 points, would not go away as they pulled the mark to 40-36 with under 17 minutes remaining. 
The Blue and Gold remained 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents Guest Pianist 

~ttul-,4ndti 8e~pichttt 


~ 'g-ta.ttx. Schu6eu 
. ) Sonata in GMajor (D. 894)
1; ~oha.Jtttts Bta.hms 
...~1/, Seven Fantasias (?p.ll6) '\f~ Y, ) ,: and T.hrie _lnt,~~m,ezZJ (Op. 117) ll?il ~~~:.;Hi! ~'•i:A.J.... dj,, ''~;ti·0·nttl11et9a.t11 e01U~ttt 
. ·' .J.t.-./J ob uJ lwrl 7:'!··' !o 1'JdHJJJ~ li .,;·up 1o\ ~ ::~-1>~, ~~~~~~~ F~-~U~~~~;: rre~~i)nCellttlecl~lie~ Lp~ ' . 
.Annenberg Auihtortum, the Smte Museum·or Art·' ' 
Tickets: $5 General Admission; $2 Students/Seniors For more information, call631-6201. 

'· 
' ' 
... 
patient and forward Rosanne Bohman scored four of her nine points on consecutive trips down the floor to help ignite a 14-2 run over the next six min­utes. 
The shots were not railing for the 'Cats and Gaither and Bohman were feasting in the paint against the smaller Villanova front court. 
"It wasn't really hard to stay focused," Augustin said. "We just needed to get the ball in­side to Rosanne and Katryna and just stay patient." 
"That was one of our pluses tonight," Gaither added. "We stayed patient on offense." 
Augustin's backcourt mate Mollie Peirick had the hot hand in the second half as she scored ten of her 17 arter the break. The junior went 8-10 from the field including a three pointer and 11 rebounds. 
The Blue and Gold will con­clude their regular season with a contest tomorrow night at the Joyce Center against the Seton Hall Pirates and then will make a trip to West Virginia before they begin the post-season. 

ByJOECAVATO 
SportsWriter 
The teams of the Big East have tried and tried to knock off the Notre Dame women's basketball squad. From full­court presses to double teams the Irish had seen it all, but they were hit with something different last night as the Villanova Wildcats tried to lull them to sleep. 
The result was something very similar to the rest of their 14 Big East wins as Notre Dame came away with a 68-51 win, improving their mark to 23-~ overall and 15-1 in the confer­ence. 
Wildcat head coach Harry Perratta knew that his squad was undermanned in the paint as he had his squad played on 
---------------------~---~-­
---------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 mistakes. I don't want robots. I want guys that go out to play



Davie 
to win, not to lose." 
continued from page 20 
head coach. 
In addition, Davie has entered the job knowing just what sort of balance must be struck be­tween change and maintaining tradition. 
"One thing that I have real­ized is that you don't change Notre Dame, Notre Dame changes you," said Davie recently. ''I'm not going to change the uniforms. There won't be names on the jerseys and nothing on the helmets, for example. I'm very slow to change and I'm not going to change just for change's sake. Actually, there's probably a lot more similarities between Lou Holtz and myself." 
Surely, such words must be comforting to Irish fans who are comfortable with tradition, but at the same time, now that Davie is in charge, some as­pects of the program are bound to be different. 
That starts with an attitude. 
"I think we need to re-estab­lish a level of confidence," Davie said of his squad that has gone a 2 3-11-1 over the last three years. We need an atti­tude of what style of team we want to be. Not just what type of offense or defense but I want a personality for this team. I want guys that really look for­ward to playing. I don't want guys worrying about making 
One might think such would be easy to implement, but there is more than meets the eye. 
"That (the fear of losing) happens sometimes at Notre Dame, just by nature. The pressure, expectations, are so high. I'm not saying expecta­tions shouldn't be high but I want us to enjoy our accom­plishments just as much as achieving goals. We do need an attitude of confidence, almost cocky." 
This sort of attitude meshes nicely with the type of defense Davie and new defensive coor­dinator Greg Mattison will in­stall. 
"The defense is going to be more aggressive," Davie as­sured. "By no means were we the most aggressive in the country but we became a lot more aggressive over the last three years (Davie's tenure as defensive coordinator). But we're going to take that to an­other level. 
"There's going to be much more blitzing. We're not very big but we're going to be pri­marily a zone blitz team like the Carolina Panthers and the Pittsburgh Steelers." 
Considering the fact that Davie is well-known for his inclination toward aggressive defenses, the above probably doesn't surprise too many peo­ple, but when it comes to the other side of the ball, Davie is a 
some things down the road that 
0 etto 
I can provide from an experi-

C II 
ence standpoint. But the one 1 ed f 20 thing I think is an advantage is 
coot nu rom page that I've been in his chair so I 
group of offensive linemen know what kind of problems here. The system that we'll use he'll face and I can appreciate and the types of things that what he's doing a little bit bet­we'll do haven't really changed lei' than others wh~ might not mu<;h for quite a number of ha..ve. had to do_ thal . . years. We•ve picked· Lip a·few·n'f ·-Right·llWA)I; I tftl~k ,.I pidt~d things from different teams that the two.. best. coordmators m we've liked, and now we'll just football, ~av1e said. of Colletto try to plug them in, see where and ~efens1~e ~oordmator Greg the abilities of the players most Mattison. J1m Colletto, the 
fit.,_ more I hear about, he has a A .factor in Colletta's favor in great reputation as an offensive getting his job may have been c?ordina~o~. ~hen •. when you his 30-plus years of experience s1t and VISit w1th h1m, h~ _has in college football including 11 some fire, some competitive­
years as the head coach at Cal ness. And he likes to throw the State Fullerton (1975-1979) ball but he knows you have to and Purdue (1991-1996). Bob runtheball~owin." 
Davie will be a head-coaching Colletto wtl_l al~o assume the rookie in the upcoming season, role of offe~stve lm~ .coach next and picking his offensive coor· ~eason: .U ts ~ posltlo!'l he also dinator's brain may prove to be ts famthar wtt~. havmg done one of his favorite past-times. the same at Ohto State before "I used to look and see how defecting to the Boilermakers. old the other coaches were in "It's nice to have the experi­the press guide but now I don't ence and the size that we'll look anymore because I know have on the line next year. who's oldest" the 52-year-old There are lots of good athletes Colletto la~ghed. "I think and bi~ .guys th.at h_ave real maybe that might have been good ~gthty .. I thmk rtght n?w, something that crossed his the btggest Jobs of the: sprm.g mind. I mean there may be are to get the system m thetr The Observer • SPORTS 
little bit of a wild card. 
"Let's face it, our offense has been very successful, and has had some great statistics over the years," reminded Davie. "Let's not forget that. So from the running game stand-point, I hope we stay the same. But I believe that we're going to have to force ourselves to throw the ball, maybe 30 times a game. I mean, be prepared to throw it 30 times a game. Because to beat the top-notch teams on our schedule, you're going to have to be able to throw the foot­ball." 
"If you don't make yourself throw the football when you're ahead, and if you get into that thing of just running the foot­ball, sometimes when you have to throw the football, you can't." 
"We're going to be a little more of a 'formation' team, formation packages -you'll see more players play. We'll have a three wide receiver look, a two tight end look, we'll be a little more diversified formation wise. The passing games and the diversity of formations will be different." 
In particular, one formation that many followers of the Irish have been clamoring for will be utilized more frequently -the shotgun. 
"It (the shotgun) is something (new offensive coordinator) Jim Colletto has utilized in the past," Davie said. "I think Ron (Powlus) can really flourish in that scheme. Ron has great 
minds. and to bring the younger guys along so that we have some real quality depth. 
"Another big thing is that "' (John) Cerasani and (Dan) O'Leary are tight ends that haven't played very much or not at all, so that's going to be a big goal this spring, to get them ffU" enough along to be ready to ..a)'.'~ 11 ;:::i1'''>~ , , , • 
~ Part of coachmg obviously m· eludes becoming familiar with what you have to work with. To that end, Davie and his staff have been doing their home­work. 
''I'm pretty familiar with the players," Colletto assessed. "We've been watching a lot of tape and looking at the things that Notre Dame did, determin­ing the things we'd like to con­tinue and what we don't want to continue. 
"I know enough about (the in­dividual players) to have an idea of what I think they can and cannot do, but I want to give all of the players a fresh start and not make any precon­ceived judgments on who should play and who should-n't." 
This may not be the case at the quarterback slot. Ron Powlus did not return to Notre 

staff. 

vision, so you let him see the whole field and have a passing attack that takes advantage of the field." 
This thinking goes along with Davie's philosophy of emphasiz­ing the abilities of players, not the abilities of one mindset. 
"I like to take advantage of having a lot of players play. I 
Dame for a fifth year to ride the pine. But Colletto understands the unique opportunity he has with Powlus and will try and make the most of it. 
·"His experience at quarter· · back is something we have to go into spring practice very much aware of. The offense is going to h~~...(l'initforeach ~ of 'the qua~kirf::-bUf obvf.: ously Ron iS a guy who~ played a lot and has game experience. done a good job, and we're go­ing to try to do some things that fit in his skill level a little bit more. But there will also be some things that we'll do that'll fit (Eric) Chappell and (Jarius) Jackson." 
The new coordinator also had a hand in the recruiting pro­cess, but came in a bit behind. 
"The players we were going to be recruiting had been de­termined (by the time of his ar­rival),. and what I did was go to the areas where they felt I'd do the most good. But I went to see all of the on offense. I was just kind of the bullpen coach-of-sorts." 
For the most part, Colletto has assembled his own staff of assistant coaches as Urban Meyer, the highly regarded re­ceivers coach, is the lone hold-

ADVERTISE .. ENT 
V•VARSITY 
C•CLUI 

I•INTIIAMURAL 
21 
23 

MEN'S BASEBAU./V 
MEN'S

MEN'S MIW/TRACK/V 
LONG BEACH STATE CLASSIC ALEX WILSON
VoLI.EYBAI.I./C 
BASEBAU./V

VS. LONG BEACH STATE, 7:05 PM 
INVITATIONALVS. WESTERN MICHIGAN LONG BEACH 
MEYO FIELD
WOMEN'S SOFTBAU./V 
JACC AUX GYM, 2:00 PM 

STATE CLASSIC ARIZONA ST. TOURN., TEMPE 
(LOFTUS SPORTS CTR.) 
VS. MISSISSIPPI
W/BASKETBALIJV MEN'S 

NOON ALEX WILSON INVIT., LOFTUS CTR. 
MIW/TRACK/V 
VS. SETON HAU 

JACC, 7:30 PM HOCKEYN MEN'S HOCKEYN 
AT WESTERN MICHIGAN VS. WESTERN MICHIGAN 
MEN'S BASEBALIJV 

LONG BEACH STATE CLASSIC FENCING/V JACC, 7:00 PM 
VS. S. CALIFORNIA, 7:00 PM AT NORTHWESTERN FENCINGIV 
AT NORTHWESTERN 
THE GOAL Of SPOITS'NEEK£NO tS TO lNFORM STUOENlS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. HIKE 00($ NOT SPONSOR ANY YAR$11"'(, INTRAM\.IIItAl 0111: CW8 5rORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULE DOES NOT IN Nit WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
-
-
think there are specific things that each of them can do. By changing formations, you get more players on the field. It helps you scheme-wise, but it also helps you chemistry-wise." 
Chemistry isn't just important for players, in Davie's eye. It matters for the coaching staff just the same. 
over from the Holtz regime. 
"They•re all guys who are coming from solid coaching backgrounds and solid pro· grams. Desmond Robinson (running backs) is coming from West Virginia ... he's worked under Don Nehlen who's an excellent coach so you know he·s well prep•red. Mikt, .~ Sclliford {qiiartei'IJ.acks) h~~ been at (Southern California.) for eight years, been through the big games, he·s got a good background as well. On the of­fense staff you've got a real solid group of experienced guys who have been in big games and are not going to be intimi­dated by the environment they're in." 
"What we have to do is find the things that fit our players the best, things that we're real comfortable in knowing how they work, and not do too many things. We'll try to put together a system that fits the talents of this team." 

-
It seems that in some re­spects, Colletto is a laid-back kind of guy. Find out what fits the talents of the team. Take in things that we like. But don't let it fool you. If he weren't aggressive, he wouldn't be sit­ting in the chair he's in now. 


..... 
-----·--------~-------~----~ .,_ 
----~--------------~--­
I 

The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, February 20, 1997 
said Rans. "He is always will­Rans hails from South Bend, because those missions are 
-
ing to help people out. He is a and attended the Bouts with his solely supported by us," Molina responsible guy, and is really father his junior and senior said. This year the Bouts have devoted to the program. He years of high school. doubled the number of adver­makes an ideal officer." "As a junior captain, my role tisements that they have sold. 
Mantey got his start in the is to learn and be ready for The officers have been focusing program by simply looking for a next year," said Rans. "Also on getting Bengal Bouts publi­specialized sport on campus. there are so many new guys cized in the South Bend area. "When I was a freshman and I this year, that it is our role to "We started last semester and looked around for a sport, and introduce them to the sport. that was the key," Christoforetti found boxing," said Mantey. "I We arc here to help the guys, said. "Our office manager mostly did it to get into shape and answer any of their ques­Emily has been the key. We and meet some new guys." tions." mailed out packets to local 
Captains are selected the pre­The final captain is Kelly. He businesses, and campus organi­vious year by the outgoing cap­transferred in last year, and zations. That has made all the tains and coaches. Some of this took his weight class last year. difference. Another difference year's seniors were junior cap­"What interested me is that is the time and effort, which tains, and they simply inherit the University had such a for­has been dedicated. By having the role the following year. All mal boxing program," said the facilities and personal we agree that the captains are cho­Kelly. have been able to focus on the sen by their attitudes and Kelly, along with his fellow event, rather than just the box­enthusiasm displayed both captains, are concerned with ing." inside and outside of the ring. the cause. This year the groups Each of the seven standouts 
"The dedication and support goal has been to raise $20, 000 have specific traits which they is more important than how to send to the missions. They donate to the program. These good of a boxer you are," said have put extra pressure on seven captains are largely Molina. themselves as far as advertising responsible for making this 
Molina is one of three junior and public relations goes. year's Bengal Bouts one of the 
-captains, and he is set to take a "We have placed a lot of pres­most successful ever. The pro­leadership role again next year. sure on ourselves to send more gram is close to achieving its He came to the University with money to the missions this goal of $20,000, and the hope is some outside training in boxing. year," Mantey said. by the completion of the tour­"A lot of my family are box­"The main reason that we are nament the goal will have been ers," said Molina. "I have loved boxing since I was a young kid. The summer before my senior year is when I started boxing with USA boxing. It is the ama­teur boxing association in the 
U.S. I have been doing it for three summers." 
"These guys are fantastic when it comes to training," said Mantey about Molina and Rans. "Lucas and Ryan work as a team, and they help out with"I have gotten as good as I 
the women's program. Rans is
possibly can, but I don't pre­
a South Bend native and has


Bengal 
tend to be the best. I get down 
been instrumental with connec­
there, and I'm always talking. I
continued from page 20 tions. Lucas is a fantastic
try to bring some charisma to 
teacher. They both are ex­
the ring. " 

is good for the program." tremely dedicated and moti­
The other two senior cap­
Kmetz got interested in the vated."
tains, DeBiasi and Mantey also
Bouts by attending one of his Rans did not get the most
have close ties. DeBiasi and The Observer/Mike Ruma
roommate's kickboxing tour­pleasant introduction to the
Mantey met in the semifinals of Captains Mike Mantey and John Christoforetti spar in practice this
nament. Then he went to prac­Bouts in his freshman year.
the Bouts their freshman year.
tice, and he knew that this was While participating in the
Mantey won by decision.
something that he wanted to do novice tournament he ruptured 
"It was one ·of my best fights
for the next four years. He his spleen and was not able to
in my four years here," said
feels that his role is a moti­participate in the actual Bouts
DeBiasi. "We both went the
vational one this year. "I have in the spring. The injury was
distance."

been doing this for four years," not his initial introduction, as
"Mike is a really great guy,"said Kmetz. 


SPRING BREAK 

-


CANCUN 
Complete 7 Night Air & Hotel Packages Available 
ALL COLLEGE TOURS SPRING BREAK PACKAGES INCLUDE: 
• 
Round Trip Non-Stop Airfare • College Tours famous VIP Party Package: 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accommodations FREE cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drinks, 

• 
Round Trip Airport-Hotel Transfers EXCLUSIVE special events, OVER $150 in savings! 



CAMPUS REPS NEEDED· ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREE! 
LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BEST FLIGHTS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
c.A'-'-, COLLEGE TOl/RS 809·l44-446J C4tt 1'0pA'V'· OR ..~ l11-4d96 l"OD4\'! 

j 
TLa..ks For -t-Le Me..-.ories Se..iors! 
Thursday, February 20, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM '0 THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Emulate Odysseus
1 Catch 38 Exxon Valdez, 
5 Long Island for oneairfield 39 Playsuit?
10 Bureau 42 Company thatprojection produced the 
14 Nightmarish game Pong
boss 
43 Sans purpose15 Rhone feeder 
44 Caricaturist 16 Actress Skye 
Thomas 17 Class-action 45 Send back suit? 
47 Think of it! 20 Act gung-ho 
49 Owl's hangout 21 Dahl and 
51 OverchargesFrancis 
56 Follow suit 22 They may have 
60 Knight'sbrand superioridentification 62 Trump suit? 

23 Globe part 64 Actress 
24 Kind of call 
· Baclanova of 27 Magnetism old films 32 "Roots," e.g. 65 Soft palate 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Some parties 
AG
S N 
DEFTILEMAT 
E L L A I R A N I

cov 
E 
A M I N D U E T L A I N E ROSEBUDWASASLED AC.CE­S P A R S E B ~-I C 
TAROS.EARN ENO 
A P EjWi L D I S E A R T H R E N 0 I L S .A L II E N 
T RAp GAYmF R IlL L s 
IIIIIIL E E A I L 
111
S H E I S R E A L L Y A M A N 
TONGSIPILLIRARE 
ALOHA IDEE CREW T E S T Y C E N T H E A T 
18 Smart 19 Lillehammer event 23 Disney hit of '92 25 Treasure of the Sierra Madre 26 Loughlin of "Full House" 28 Club member since 1917 29 It's near the crazy bone 30 Bench's 
benchmates 31 Formerly, once 32 Traumatize 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You can expect to see more of your relatives. A change of residence becomes possible when your linances improve. Caree-r advance­ment is linked to greater personal effort. An employer who cannot afford to give you a raise may offer special perks instead. A summer romance could still be going strong in late autumn. New business alliances arc favored in December. Do not neglect longtime friendships while pursuing your professional dreams. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Sidney Poitier, supermodel Cindy Crawford, singer Nancy Wilson, auto racer Bobby Unser. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A steady position and income are Important -but so is a happy home. Be willing to make certain concessions in order to please your mate. Turn down a risky proposi­tion: you cannot afford to gamble. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ideas may be years ahead of their time. Prove unconventional methods will work and they will gain acceptance. Your obliging nature is put to the test. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Exciting new developments will affect both your personal and pro­fessional life. Be careful not to let your enthusiasm get out of hand. The true cost of project may not become apparent until later. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 


66 Opponent 67 Norman of 
sitcom fame 68 Lift up 69 Singer Russell 
of 70's music 
DOWN 
1 Alumni-­2 Instrument 3 Fit to be tied 4 Madre's milk 5 Wife of Osiris 6 Fit to be tried 1 Record 8 Pizarro's 
conquest 9 Bradley University site 10 Relative of a 
falcon 11 You name it 12 "The joke's 
--!" 
Although pm1ners are willing to take the lead. you may still be reluctant to get involved. Go slow. Get more facts and figures before making a 
YOU DON'T 
LOOK. Lti4.E 

commitment. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do not
~HNI\l'Y I
F~EEZE., 
let your sensitivity to other people's
CA5H TO M.£ .)

MISCREANT. 
\ 
problems distract you from impor­tant work. If necessary, seek solitude in order to meet a deadline. Your mate should be understanding if this is a temporary situation. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Once someone has lied to you, you find it difftcult to trust them again. Let the person involved know how you feel. Understanding comes when you discuss why this individ­ual misled you. OtTer forgiveness. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your imagination is more powerful than ever. Bounce ideas off friends, then make logical choices. A loan or credit arrangement relieves a cash­now problem. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A problem will be solved when you reflect deeply on its cause. Long­suppressed feelings surface. Expect to receive a nice commission on a sale you arrange. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): The tide may not be in your favor. Avoid pushing other people's buttons. You deserve a break; make good use of any leisure time. A romantic relationship buoys your spirits. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Save your energy for the impor­tant battles. Trade immediate gratifi­cation for long-term benefits. Grant­ing favors to people who have let you down would be pointless. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Others are willing to take a chance if you are. Focus on the broad, overall picture instead of trivial details. A relationship that is going nowhere fast should be terminated. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Progress is slow but sure. Hang in there! Small pleasures prove most rewarding. Share your innovative ideas with your loved ones; they may be able to assist you. 

-
-
33Adenauer monikerDer 
34"Where America's Day Begins" 
35 "East of Eden" woman 37 Salsa 
specification 40 Storied sailor 41 Alway 
46 It's a case 48 Israeli port 50 Party 52 Neighborhood 53 Fatuous 59 Rimsky­54 Basil-based 

Korsakov's Saltan, e.g.

sauce 55 Stout vessel 60 Like some 56 Elvis, for one champagne 
57 Source of a leak 61 Zenith 58 Actress 63 Commercial Swenson suffix with Motor 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 

-





SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 20, 1997 
• fOOTBAll 

-

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Bob Davie's experience and talent allow him to fill the shoes left behind by Lou Holtz. 
Changing the guard, but 
~-­

staying true to tradition 
This is the first in a two-part series detailing an in-depth in­terview with Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie. See Friday's Observer for part two. 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
Change is not something taken lightly at Notre Dame, especially when it comes to the Irish football program. Yet sometimes, it becomes necessary. 
Such happened last fall when Lou Holtz thought stepping down "was the right thing to do." Fortunately for Notre Dame, they had a man, Bob Davie, who had the experience and talent to step right into the position of 
see DAVIE I page 17 

In with the new... 

Colletta adjusts to sur­roundings 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's new offensive coordinator, Jim Colletto, will need some time to get adjusted to his surroundings. Then he plans on adapting to his new talent. 
As of now, he's pulling late nights in his office, paging through the offensive playbook, his dinner a Blimpie sandwich. He won't be joined in South Bend by his family until after the school year. So he's got plenty of time now to do a bit of thinking about the future of the Notre Dame offense. 
For the past six years, Colletto has been the head coach at Purdue University. In other words, giving the orders, not taking them. That's <moth­er switch that he'll need to get used to. 
"You have to get used to it," Colletto said. "In some ways it's a relief to be away from In 1996, the Boilermakers Purdue), we were a big passing 
those pressures, but in some 
averaged 222.5 passing yards team. With Mike Alstott we ways you're somewhat envious per game, a figure that at Notre were a big running team. At 
because you'd like to keep 
Dame would rank as the sec­Arizona State (where he was doing what you were doing, ond-highest mark in team his­offensive coordinator from 
being the boss, so to speak. 
tory. The 1995 Purdue team 1985-1987) we did a little of But it's nice to be able to con­finished eighth in the nation in both because we were pretty
centrate on football and not 
rushing offense, tallying 233.4 good at both. At Ohio State We have to worry about all of those yards per game. kind of leaned toward the run­other things that go along with "He's an offensive-minded ning game a little bit more. It's being a head coach." 
genius," heralds Mike Alstott, just how the players lit togeth-
People unfamiliar with cr.
an All-American fullback at 

Colletto may wonder why the Purdue under Colletto. "lie "I think (at Notre Dame) we former head coach at Purdue, a comes up with unbelievable might be able to develop an of­
team considered a perennial 
plays, schemes, strategies every fense that has all the weapons.
doormat of the Big Ten 
week." There are running backs who 
Conference, is coaching the 
In other words, Colletto has can go the distance, and quar­Irish offense. 
been successful both in the air terbacks and wide-outs that 
What few have considered is and on the ground. lie works can make big plays, and obvi­
exactly what Collctto did for the with his talent. ously there's a big, strongPurdue offense during his 
"With Jim Everett at QB (at

tenure. see COLLETTO I page 17 
• BENGAl Bours 

-Captains lead by their example 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 

In the 67th year of Bengal Bouts, there stand seven elite who have been chosen to guide their fellow boxers. Each of the seven brings their own special traits into the ring. The seven captains for these Bouts are seniors John Christoforetti, Mike DeBiasi, John Kmetz, and Mike Mantey, and juniors Lucas Molina, Fred Kelly, and Ryan Rans. Each of the seven embodies what a Bengal Bouts' participant should be. 
.. 
Two of the captains are more than just fellow boxers, they are roommates and friends. Kmetz and Christoforetti have been roommates for their four years at Notre Dame. 
"John (Christoforetti) cares more about these Bouts, than 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Senior Captain Mike DeBiasi plans to take his best shot this weekend in his final Bengal Bouts. 

Men's and Women's 
vs. Providence, 

Tennis at National Indoor 
• Women defeat Villanova Wildcats 
February 22, 4 p.m. 
Team Championships, 
-
at West Virginia, 
February 20-23 see page 16 
February 25 
• Men's baseball leads pre-season poll 

vs. Western Michigan, 
at Northwestern meet, 
see page 14

Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
February 22 
X 

anyone that I have come across in these four years," said Kmetz. "lie cares as much about it, as the coaches do." 
"lie had no background in boxing before he came." said Christoforctti about Kmetz. "What he brings is an example of what can be achieved in four years. He is an example of what the freshman and the neW guys can Jearn. He always has some words of encouragement for those guys, and that is what 

Notre Dame 
1:oopm r;;,:r Finals 
odb),,..,.~......rday, Mar 1 8 





