
• BASEBALL
AnTostal '97 
There will be balloon tosses, root beer chug­
Irish baseball won yester­
Going, Going...
ging and wet clothes races on Notre Dame and 
day over Indiana on a solo 
Saint Mary's campuses all week long. This 
homerun by Jeff Felker. 
year's AnTostal begins tomorrow. 

Gone!!! 
pages 5, 14, 15 
page24 





Friday, April18, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 128 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Friday Feature 


AnTostal: Breaking a vicious cycle 
Planners of annual festival promise strong events despite obstacles with funding, activities 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer 
Despite a strong tradition as being an entertaining and popular event, most students believe that AnTostal just isn't the event that it used to be. 
According to Shannan Ball, chairwoman of AnTos tal '97. low funding, poor weather and a gener~ al lack of enthusiasm are some of the reasons why student participation in AnTostal has been so lack­adaisical over the past few years. 

The result of this poor attendance is budget cuts for the following years. 
"It's a  kind of a clown- 
ward  spiral."  Ball  
explained.  

AnTostal '97 receives $11,600 from the activity fee paid each year by stu­dents as a part of tuition. The rest of the funding comes from corporate sponsorship. 
This year, as part of the Intercollegiate Health and Fitness Tour. companies like JeepEagle, Sony, TWA 
see ANTOSTAL I page 6 
Photos courtesy of Student Union Board 

This year's AnTostal has been plagued by festivals of the past, leaving it with low funds with which to sponsor events. Despite this, chairwoman Shannan Ball said that, "We're try­ing to do twice as much with the same amount [of money]." 
• SECUfUTV BEAT 

Bomb scare shakes up SMC ca01pus 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A bomb scare yesterday afternoon caused the eventual evacuation of the Saint Mary's College campus. 
The call came at approxi­mately 11:52 a.m. via the information line that goes through President Hickey's office, according to Richard Chlebek, director of security at Saint Mary's. 
"A female caller said a bomb had been placed in one building somewhere on cam­pus," Chlebek said. "We noti­fied local law enforcement, and got help from mainte­nance and building services." 
The call rang through to the switchboard as an off-campus call, however. that does not rule out the possibility of the call being made from the Saint Mary's campus, according to Chlebek. 

The line is not equipped with any call-tracing capabili­ties. 
The bomb was slated to det­onate at 4:30 p.m.; searchers combed the interior and exte­rior of 36 buildings in the vicinity, only to come up empty-handed. The search was handled internally by Security officers and staff members. 
"At about 3:15 p.m., we decided to evacuate campus," Chlebek said. "Everyone cleared off from 4:15-4:45 p.m." 
He attributed the one-hour 
see BOMB I page 4 

Hickey defers Alliance decision 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's Editor 

On Tuesday afternoon, President William Hickey announced his decision to defer offi­cial club recognition to The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College. His deci­sion to defer stemmed from a desire to con­sult with the Committee on Relationships. 
News of-----------­this decision 
surPrise cl 'To believe that the
members of the Saint administration 
Mary's com-would manipulate the 
munity, . 
especially as student leaders does 
the commit-them a grave disser­tee 
has vice.'
operated in relative 

o b s cur itY. Linda Timm 
College stu------------­dents have been left in the dark as to the committee's specific functions and duties. 
Formed late last spring, the Committee on Relationships was instituted in order to actively support the educational environ­ment which has an impact on the cultural norms of behavior involving the physical, 


spiritual, and emotional aspects of the many and varied relationships in the lives of Saint Mary's College students. 
Consistent with the mis­
sions of Saint Mary's College and the Sisters of the Holy Cross, which address contempo­rary issues for women, the administration of the College established a committee rep­resentative of the College community to engage, as a credible voice, in dialogue and programming efforts specifically directed toward these relationships. 
"The Committee on Relationships was established because, in dialogue with the president of the College and senior officers, we thought that it was necessary and timely to recognize that it is important for the 
see ALLIANCE I page 4 

Confusion shrouds Shirt project 


Friday, Aprill8, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN • WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Rotating 
Limes 
Working at a farm~~~~~~~;­
market one summer, I came home one evening to Mom's inevitable question, "What'd you do at work today?" 
Trying to be different and not give the usual answer -"Nothing" ­


replied, "Rotated Dan Cichalski 
limes." Viewpoint Editor 
In short, when the 

fruit on display would get low, I'd go into 
the freezer in the back and bring out the 
new produce. The limes were kept in a 
wooden bucket, and those I had just 
brought out from the back would go on the 
bottom. That way, those that had been sit­
ting out the longest would be bought first. 
This process is called "rotating" the pro­
duce. 

Regardless of the process, Mom got a kick 
out of the term "rotating limes." During the 
fall months that year, she insisted that I use 
it as a title for a college application essay. 
But I wasn't that stupid. See what college 
has done to me since? 

With another year now coming to a close, 
I am reminded of that job and Mom's title 
-obviously. Our lives are like rotating 
limes. The new ones that come out of the 
freezer or wherever are placed at the bot­
tom. Working their way up, they finally 
reach the top -only to move on to another 
bucket to begin the climb all over. 
Where am I going with this? 
When we are born, we are at the bottom 
of the social bucket. Gradually, we develop 
and move up until we are at the top grade 
in middle school. Finally at the crest, we 
move on to high school, where we are 
thrown back on the bottom as freshmen. 
In four years (or so), we are seniors, 
standing at the top again with the rest of 
the school below us, looking up. Then it's 
off to the next bucket, college, where we 
find ourselves on the bottom once again. 
In another four, five, six years that go by 
faster than any four to six years have ever 
passed, we top the heap yet again. Being a 
college senior is perhaps the top of all tops. 
Until graduation. Fresh out of college, 
we're no longer students but we're at the 
bottom of the working world. We claw our 
way to the top only to retire. Even retire­
ment can be tough for those new to having 
days with no deadlines, meetings or obliga­
tions. 

I realize all this as I enter my senior year 
in college. Three years ago I was at the bot­
tom of the Notre Dame bucket with all the 
other limes in the Class of '98. Now, after 
tossing out a few rotten ones along the way, 
my classmates and I prepare to take the 
final step to the top of the pail. 
The Class of '97, completing their year 
looking out over the edge of the bucket into 
the real world, now must return to the bot­
tom to start all over again, green with inex­
perience -like a bunch of limes. 
This may all seem unfair -once we mas­
ter a part of life, we're forced into a new 
area -and there are various cliches I 
could quote here. In a way, it's like bon 
Henley sings, "All the things I've figured 
out, I have to learn again." But what all this 
shows is that life is a learning process. 
Think about it, though. Would it be fun 
any other way? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Production Michelle Krupa Michelle Krupa Sean Smith Maureen Hurley 
Sports Lab Tech Joe Cavato Joe Stark Viewpoint Accent 
Ayana Fakhir Joey Crawford Graphics Nate Wills Jon King 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Two airliners nearly collide over Los Angeles 
LOS ANGELES Two jumbo jets with more than Near miss over los Angeles 

350 people aboard nearly collided over the city during a landing attempt after a pilot failed to follow an air traffic controller's instruc­tions, officials said Thursday. 
A Brazilian V ASP MD-11 veered in front of a KLM Dutch Royal Airlines Boeing 747-B at midday Wednesday, forcing the KLM jet to steer clear, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Both planes landed safely. 
The FAA said it is not clear how close the airliners came to each other. But Kevin McGrath, a spokesman for the air traffic con­trollers union, said they were 200 to 400 feet apart at one point about 10 miles east of Los Angeles International Airport over densely populated South Central Los 
Reno dismisses Republican criticism 
WASHINGTON 

Attorney General Janet Heno brushed aside Republican criticism of her refusal to seek an independent counsel to investigate Democratic cam­paign fund-raising. "The best thing I can do is ignore the politics," she said Thursday. "I take everything based on the evidence and the law," Reno told her weekly news conference in defend­


ing her decision to leave career Justice Department prosecutors and FBI agents in charge of the expanding probe that now involves both political parties. ''I'm damned if I do and damned if I don't, and so the best thing I can do is ignore the politics, ignore the pressures from both sides ... and just call it like I see it," she said. She said she wasn't withering under heavy criticism from Republicans in Congress. Some including House Speaker Newt Gingrich have said she should be called to explain under oath why she won't ask a panel of judges to appoint an independent counsel. "I keep in mind what I have on my wall," she said. "It's what Lincoln said: 'If you were to read all the bad things that people said about you, you might as well close up the shop for busi­ness."' 
Court indicts ambulance chaser 
COLUMBIA, S.C. 

One of the nation's richest personal-injury lawyers was indicted Thursday on ambulance-chasing charges, accused of hiring "accident runners" to recruit clients after a deadly airline crash. John O'Quinn, who earned an estimated $40 million from breast implant cases, was charged along with three other Houston lawyers with illegally soliciting clients after the 1994 crash of USAir Flight 1016 near Charlotte, N.C. "I have done nothing wrong, and I am innocent of these charges," said O'Quinn, who represents the families of five victims from the crash. "Not one client has complained about me. Nobody I represent in the USAir case has complained about me." Flight 1016 was traveling from Columbia when it went down in a thunderstorm, killing 37 of the 57 people aboard. Most of the victims were from South Carolina. Of the five families O'Quinn represents, three have settled their claims, while two others are in settle­ment talks with the airline. O'Quinn and the others are accused of improperly soliciting the business of four vic­tims' families following the USAir crash. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

FridaJ 
Sund~y c::=1 54 42 
Mondf).y ~ 53 38 Tue~d~y _... ib 50 33 
-~--Y ..,, 

~,I~L(V), Q q U -X) ~ U 
,,',,',~,~ ....... ·:·.;:=-.;::·--=.-=--=­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 18. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

..,............ ..........._ ........,_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressur9 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Vtli' A:>soclated Ptess 
Anchorage  43  22  Chicago  52  37  Madison  54  35  
Atlanta  63  44  Cliffside Park  77  55  Miami  76  58  
Baltimore  51  35  Honolulu  86  77  New York  51  39  
Beverly Hills  60  31  Kennebunk  42  32  St. Louis  67  52  
Boston  45  36  Lexington  55  38  San Francisco  64  52  

e servec on rng 
Waco lawsuit seeks to fault officials 
WACO, Texas 
Four years after the fiery end of the Branch Davidian standoff, the cult lives on, pressing a lawsuit aimed at pinning the blame for the 80 deaths on the government. The lawsuit, seeking hundreds of millions in damages, challenges the government's conclusion that the Branch Davidians themselves started the fire and that they also shot first during the federal raid on their compound 51 days earlier. The plaintiffs -about 250 surviving Davidians and the relatives of the dead -contend that when federal agents punched through the walls and fired tear gas into the cult compound in an April 19, 1993, attempt to end the standoff, the canisters ignited, burning the building and the people inside. Joe Phillips, a Houston lawyer for the plaintiffs, acknowledged that they will be hard-pressed to make their case. "Certainly the fact that the government killed most of our witnesses and theirs mostly survived makes it more difficult for us," he said. With hundreds of motions and rulings expected, it will probably be years before the case goes to trial. On Saturday's anniversary of the blaze, the Branch Davidians plan to gather at the site of the fire and hold a ceremony in honor of political prisoners. The siege began in February 1993, when four federal agents and six Branch Davidians were killed in a gun battle. 
Kick the habit, keep the kids 

WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. 
If you can imagine yourself in a battle for custody of your children, divorce lawyer Alan Scheinkman has some advice: Don't smoke. Judges in divorce cases are increasingly considering smoking as a factor in deciding where to put the kids -especially when the children have asthma or allergies. "If you were a prudent parent on the receiving end of a custody petition, and you really cared about the kids and retaining custody, you'd say, 'I'm quitting,"' Scheinkman says. The issue has spilled over into the nation's family courts as the public becomes increasingly aware of the dangers of cigarettes and secondhand smoke. It will be the topic of a panel discussion Friday at Pace University Law School. The nearly universal "best interests of the child" standard used in custody cases means parties can raise, and judges can consider, almost any issue. And if a judge is so inclined, he can see smoking as a negative in two ways: dirtying the child's air and showing poor charac­ter. 
Angeles. "The two targets merged on the radar scope," McGrath said. "The controller watching this was help­less. The individuals working the ai r.cr aft were pre tty shook upabout it." One shaken controller was sent home early, McGrath said. Jetliners are generally kept a mile apart, but that can vary with each airport, FAA regional spokesman Mitch Barker said. There were 344 passengers and a crew of 15 to 20 on board the KLM 11ight from Amsterdam, KLM spokesman Peter Wellhuner said. The number of people aboard the 
VASP flight from Osaka, Japan, was not immediately known, but an MD-11 can carry up to 410 pas­
sengers. 


page 3 
Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Genovese: Societal facets can reflect Catholic values 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Assistant News Editor 
Political theory, social move­ments and business ethics invariably affect everyday life in the 20th century, and Catholic teaching should have a vane in all of them, according to Professor Eugene Genovese of the University of Georgia. 
"The Marxists were right: The twentieth century has been a century of the 'general crisis of capitalism,' even if they erred badly on the nature of that cri­sis," Genovese said in part of his outline of the history of the 20th century. 
He explained that the crises that they should have focused on were "the crisis of the spirit, engendered by the loss of faith in God and a transcendent law," and the crisis of authority. 
Pointing out another obvious flaw in the Marxist political theo­ry, Genovese asked the audi­ence, "How could people who saw themselves as the liberators of the human race hold human life so cheaply?" He then cited past world leaders like Mao Tse­tung, Joseph Stalin and Benito Mussolini as examples of this point. 

"Alas," he concluded, "the great socialist experiments have collapsed, after snuffing out tens of millions of lives and instituting unspeakably and tyrannical regimes." 
His address then moved to the connection between liberalism and totalitarianism. This connec­tion, he explained, has been characterized by Eric Voegelin as nco-Gnosticism. 
"Those inclined to make such a sweeping condemnation of Enlightenment and liberalism might consider that any ideolo­gy, carried to its logical conclu­sion, will end in one or another kind of tyranny," Genovese said. 
One such ideology which he felt fit into such a category was that of the abolitionist move­ment. 
"I do not say that a st:;ripturally grounded rejection of slavery could not be mounted," he pref­aced. "I do say that the abolition­ists did not come close, and nei­ther did the Catholic Church or the Southern Baptist Convention in their belated condemnations." 
He extended that theory by 
cautioning, "The Right to Life 
Movement might ponder this 
small matter before it goes any 
further in its celebration of an abolitionist movement that made a mockery of the Christian doc­trine it opportunistically, not to say dishonestly, invoked." 
In perhaps his most immediate message, Genovese conveyed his feeling on the influence of big business on society. 
"National governments cen­tralize political power, and multinational corporations domi­nate a world economy over which those centralized national governments have less and less control," he said. 
With such an effect on govern­ments, it is not surprising that the same is true of the influence of business on the media. According to Genovese, the "assault on the two-parent, het­erosexual family, and the cam­paign to secularize society and reduce the churches to politically correct social clubs" by the media can be trace.d directly back to multi-national corpora­tions. 
"Meanwhile," he continued, 
"they campaign to commodify 
social, cultural and spiritual life 
by insisting on consumer choice 
in abortion, infanticide, euthana­
sia, and the very attributes of 
God." 
His next question surrounded 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
In yesterday's lecture, Eugene Genovese discussed how Catholicism can permeate and positively affect many parts of society. 
the role of government. in the fight. 
"It is right and proper to insist Thus, the government would that government intervene to be stepping back from the tradi­prevent big business abuses," he tiona! liberal perspective, as he said, "but policies ostensibly described it, that the world could aimed at curbing entrenched not "do without its visions, capital often end by strengthen-schemes, and meddling in every­ing it." thing." 
Instead of spearheading pro-Genovese was this year's nat­grams .to correct these injustices, ural law lecturer. Yesterday Genovese thinks that govern-afternoon's lecture was titled, ment should support community "Twentieth-Century Ideologies groups who should take charge and Catholic Social Teaching." 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authenlic SLcchuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
based on the novel by 
John Steinbeck 
adapted by 


Frank Galati 
directed by 
Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 


~,_....---~-~--~-------------~-­
-
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 18, 1997 
our planning so that the quali­organizations and the possibility ty and manner in which this of opening the production process issue is addressed can be to more students can only benefit 


Alliance Shirt Bomb 
The Pan-African Cultural Center Presents: 
.. FROM POLITICAL TO ECONOMIC INDEPENDENCE: AFRICA CHARTING HER OWN DESTINY .. 





AFRICA DAY CELEBRATION 
UNIVERSITY 0 F N 0 T R E DAME • A P R I L 25-27, 1 9 9 7 
continued from page 1 
campus community as a whole 
to engage in dialogue about 
the area of sexuality," said 
Linda Timm, vice president 
for Student Affairs and co­
chair of the Committee on 
Relationships, along with 
Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice 
president for mission. 
According to Timm, the committee is dedicated to pro­moting discussion and dia­logue that has grounding in the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
"We have a commitment to providing credible voices in those broad discussions, voic­es that can articulate accu­rately the perspectives of the Catholic church," said Timm. 
"Furthermore, as we look to educating students in all facets of life, this is certainly a significant piece of that edu­cation process," she added. 
President Hickey appointed Timm and Schultz as co­chairs of the committee; they, in turn, identified and asked the following members if they were interested in serving on the committee as well: Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry; Sister Kathleen Antol from the chemistry department; Jeff Breese from the sociology department; Suzie Orr, director of Residence Life and Housing; Judy Kenney, director of Health Services; Nancy Mascotte, assistant director of the Counseling and Career Development Center; Sister Bettina Ferraro, assistant to the vice president for mission; and Max Westler from the English department. 
"We are being purposeful in done respectfully and be pre­
sented in an educatedly souud 
forum," said Timm. 
She emphasized that the 
focus should be on the fact 
that Hickey has "deferred". 
and not "overruled" the Board 
of Governance (BOG) decision 
to officially recognize The 
Alliance. 
As stated in the Student 
Handbook and Calendar, the 
decision by BOG to approve 
recognition of a group, club or 
organization will be made 
after review of the application 
material submitted to the 
Office of Student Activities. 
According to Timm, the Committee on Relationships is considering and have dis­cussed the best and most appropriate way to imple­ment student involvement, and have not yet met as a group to discuss The Alliance's stance as an offi­cially recognized group on campus. 
"Based on the statements that I have read," Timm said, "the Committee on Relationships has been char­acterized as 'bickering.' 
''I'm offended by that char­acterization, just as I believe students engaged in intellec­tual discussion would not want to be characterized as 'bickering.' 

"I have not felt that adver­sary relationship that others may be trying to create on our campus, nor do I feel that the· administration has ever acted to manipulate how our stu­dent leaders are going to han­dle any issue. To believe that the administration would manipulate the student lead­ers does them a grave disser­vice," she stated. 
continued from page 1 
the Office of Student Activities, did 
not have to follow the same 
guidelines as other student 
groups. 
One example of this difference in operation is in expenditures. Other student groups are required to get expenditures of more than $500 on a single pur­chase approved by the financial management board, but shirt staff did not. 

"I don't think its too much to ask for them to work within the same rules as other student groups," explained GrifTin. 
Another new provision to the constitution requires shirt coordi­nators to get the design for the next year's shir.t approved ahead of time by the student senate. The design for the 1997 shirt which was delivered this week was not reviewed by the senate as it had already been sent to production by the time the new constitution took effect. 
The shakeup occurred when 

Griffin telephoned Walsh to dis-r.===========================;J 
cuss some of the changes. At that 
time it was realized that unlike 
other student groups who experi­
enced changes in the new consti­
tution, the staff of The Shirt was 
not consulted when the decisions . were being made. 
"The mistake of the reform 

committee was in not checking 
with them ahead of time," said 
Griffin. The resignations 
occurred following several meet­
ings between the staff and GrifTin. 
"I think this is an opportunity to 

bring the shirt back to the stu­
dents," said Griffin. 
From now on, The Shirt will be 

a joint effort between SUB and 
the Student Union. According to 
Griffin, the money from the sale 
of The Shirt directly benefits both future sales. 
"It's true that we made less 

money last year than the year 
before," conceded Walsh. He 
explained that the year before 
had been the most profitable. 
Walsh attributed the slumping 
sales to the combination of a flexi­
ble marketplace and over budget­
ing by student government. 
"What's to be learned is that student government should bud­get in a certain way," said Walsh. "Don't expect the maximum every year." 
According to Walsh, weather and the team's performance are keys to the level of sales in a given year. 
Although the successors to Walsh and his staff are as of yet unknown, Griffin said that distrib­ution of The Shirt will continue and that applications for a new chairperson will be accepted sometime next week. 
Walsh seemed to harbor no ill will after the restructuring, adding, "I think it's really a great time for change." 
love, · Pina &Colada 

continued from page 1 
time lapse to the sheer num­ber of people who had to be notified before each resident and faculty member was ready to leave campus. 
"The first thing that went through my head when I got the news was how was I going to tell all 500 resi­dents," said Jill Aitchison, LeMans Hall director. "With the support of the RAs, we were -able to get the informa­tion out quickly." 
As of 4:48 p.m., no trace of an explosive had been recov­ered, and students began returning to the buildings. 
"We will continue investi­gating the situation," Chlebek asserted, "but in cases like this, it's hard to identify the caller or their reasons for making the threat." 
According to Cheblek, in his 14-year tenure at Saint Mary's, there has never been a bomb scare. 
F_RIDAY, APRIL 25, 1997______ KICKOFF AT 4:15PM MONTGOMERY THEATRE, LAFORTUNE HALL 
"DEMOCRATIZATION IN AFRICA: PROMISES AND CHALLENGES. THE CASE OF BENIN" 
HONORED GUEST SPEAKER: 
H. E. ADAM FASSASSI YACOUBOU, 
FORMER MINISTER OF TRADE AND TOURISM, 
AMBASSADOR & PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF BENIN 
TO THE UNITED NATIONS. 

SATURDAY, APRIL 26, 1997____ 
4:00 PM: ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM SNITE MUSEUM OF ART, NOTRE DAtv1E 
MUNTU DANCE THEATRE OF CHICAGO Electric Rhythms • Pulsing African Drum Beats Wild Swooshes and Swirls • High Voltage Virtuosity 
KEYNOTE SPEAKER: 
DR. R. OMOTAYO OLANIYAN, 
RESEARCH PROFESSOR IN INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC 
RElATIONS, NIGERIAN INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL 
AFFAIRS ECONOMIC ADVISER TO THE PERMANENT 
OBSERVER MISSION OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN 
UNI1Y AT THE UNITED NATIONS. 
HONORED GUESTS: 
H. E. ADAM FASSASSI YACOUBOU, 
AMBASSADOR, PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN TO THE UNITED NATIONS 
H. E. ROGATIEN BIAOU, 
AMBASSADOR, DEPU1Y DIRECTOR OF CABINET OF MINI­STER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND COOPERATION OF BENIN 
O>Spon.sars: The Salon ofFriendship, African and African-American Studies Program, Student Activities, Student Government, Graduate Stutient Union, College ofBusiness Administration, Notre Dame Council on International Business Development, Notre Dame Black Alumni, Multicultural Executive Council, Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs, Community Relations. 

Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Boys: Discuss faiths to understand Shroeder to address 
BY SARAH CORKREAN their traditions not from their own formulated Saint Mary's News Editor perspectives, but through the eyes of others, 

SMC on family values 
noted Boys. 

Understanding others' religious practices  "Through interreligious dialogue, we direct  Special to The Observer  
and beliefs takes place not laboring over books  total attentiveness to step out of our familiar  
in a  library but simply engaging in dialogue  beliefs and pay attention to the attitudes and  Former  United  States  
with others, ac·cording to Mary Boys, the Saint  images others have of the Catholic faith," said  Representative Pat Schroeder,  
Mary's College Center for Spirituality's 1997  Boys.  ·  who ran for President in 1988  
Madeleva Lecture featured speaker.  Focusing  on  interreligious  encounters  and served as a Democrat in  
Presenting interpretations on her recent  between Christianity and Judaism, Boys noted  Congress for 24 years, will  
book, "Biblical Interpretation in Religious  that Catholics and Jews have to face history  speak at Saint Mary's College 
Education," Boys highlighted portions of her  when they engage in conversation.  in O'Laughlin Auditorium at  
text that she feels are pertinent questions to  "Catholics face a history with Jews that does  7:00 p.m. on Saturday, April 
understanding one's own faith as well as find- not allow us [Catholics] to feel good; it is a  19th.  Her speech entitled "The  
ing a common ground to engage in discussion  very shameful history," said Boys.  Family:  An  Endangered 
with people of different faiths.  "A prerequisite for understanding our faith  Species in the '90s" will inau­ 
"When we learn to engage through dialogue  is to face our own history and how we can bet­ gurate the College's Shaheen  
with other religious traditions without losing  ter understand, through dialogue with the  President's Lecture Series.  
our own boundaries, questions arise about our  Jewish faith, what differences need to be  Schroeder graduated magna  
own beliefs." she said. "This is a very startling  brought to an open forum where we can begin  cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa 
and alien experience to see ourselves throu  to clarify our differences in understanding  from  the  University  of  
the eyes of·  each other's dia- Minnesota and went  on  to  
another."  Iogue."  graduate from Harvard Law  
A member  "Through  my  School.  She was admitted to  
of  the  religion classes  the Colorado Bar Association  
Sisters  of  at Saint Mary's  and worked as a field attorney 
the  Holy  and  Boys'  dis- for  the  National  Labor  
N a  m  e s  ,  cussion  of her  Relations Board for Colorado,  
Boys  is  own  experi- Wyoming and Utah from 1964  
presently a  ences, I am bet- to 1966. Schroeder then began 
Skinner and  ter able to relate  lecturing as a law instructor  
M c A I p in  Mary Boys  to the complex  for the Community College of  
Professor of --------------------------"''-----"'--issue of ways to  Denver, University of Colorado,  
Practical Theology at the Union Theological  engage in dialogue," said sophomore Chris  Denver, and Regis College.  
Seminary in New York City.  Kouri.  Schroeder's political career  
Prior to her current position she taught at  "After hearing Boys speak, I feel I need to  began in 1972 when she was  
Boston College, for 17 years where, as an edu­ reexamine the way I engage in dialogue with  first elected to Congress from  
cator. she learned the most efficient way to  people of other faiths to better relate to oth­ the district of Colorado.  She  
study others' religions is through work and  ers."  was reelected to each succeed­ 
virtue.  Fundamentally, Boys believes interreligious  ing Congress and during that  
"When one begins to study why people of  dialogues are about the mystery of God at  time served on such commit- 
other faiths believe and· practice the way they  work in communities of the world today.  -tees as the House National  
do by engagingin conversation, one begins to  "Interreligious dialogue calls us to look  Security Committee, House  
probe differences in their own beliefs and ask  beyond the borders of our knowledge and  Armed Services Committee,  
why they believe what they do," said Boys.  experience to focus on a serious and sustain- House Post Office and Civil  
Boys does  not deny the fact that when  ing forum to question and address the mean­ Service  Committee,  House  
engaging in conversation with people of other  ing of our beliefs," said Boys.  Judiciary Committee, Civil and  
faiths conflict may arise in trying to find  a  As the 13th annual speaker of the Madeleva  Constitutional  Rights  
common ground to agree upon, but she feels  Lecture in Spirituality, Boys was invited by the  Subcommittee  and  the  
tension creates energy within people to strive  Center for Spirituality to address issues facing  Immigration, Refugees and  
.,  harder to understand and compare their own _____________beliefs with oth­ contemporary lay women, their friends and families. .  International Law Committee. She is a member of the envi­ 

ers. Through the Center for Spirituality, Saint ronmental Study Conference, 
By entering an Mary's College shares with students, faculty, Congress for Peace through
interreligious administrators, alumnae and friends its mis­Law, Congressional
forum, Catholics sion as a Catholic, liberal arts college for Clearinghouse on the future
The 

begin to see women. and the National Commission of working women. Schroeder
ickor~ 

is also honored in the National 
The Shaheen President's
Uillase 

Lecture Series is designed to bring the students and Michiana community into direct contact with significant changes occurring as seen 
Love 


Affair 


through the eyes of those most
C E N T E R F 0 R 

closely involved. 
SOCIAL 

A question and answer ses­
Look At What 

sion will follow the lecture.
CONCERNS 

The lecture is free and open to
$295 

the public; however, tickets are required and can be picked up at the Saint Mary's box office 
Can Get You: 

• A3reat One-Bedroom Apartment 
LEADERSHIP FOR SOCIAL 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Box
• (Efficiencies from $280, 
office hours are 9 a.m. to 5 
-, w~ Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

RESPONSIBILITY 
p.m., Monday through Friday.
• Sparkling Poul and Sundeck 
For more information, contact
• S9autiful Clubhouse 
219-284-4226.
• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 


The Center for Social Concerns invites you to the final session in a
• Laundry Facilities 
four part Leadership Series: 

• 
Cable TV Available 

Close to Great Shopping 


• 
Air Conditioning 


• 24-hour Emergency M~intenanr,e 
212-1880 

Seminar IV 
The Representation of Leaders in Contemporary Film Sunday, April20 O'Shaughnessy 
Room242 3-5 p.m. Kathy Royer 
Center for Social Concerns STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 

WOLFF BEDS





··-··· 

Please call 631-5319 to register 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 
277-7946 

•some state i federal regulatiOns may apply. &I copyright 1996 Chicago Haircutting Co. 


Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORij 1 UlLLAC3Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
Women's Hall of Fame. 
Schroeder, who was respon­sible for implementing the Family Rights Bill, has begun "The Great American Family Tour" across the United States speaking on family issues. The purpose is to raise awareness of the importance of these issues for both the public and government. 
Issues on her agenda include child care, pay equity, parental leave, housing, health care and other concerns of the family. Schroeder's tour is committed to "bringing American family policy into the twentieth centu­ry." 
Her goal is to get politicians ' to examine the issues of today's family: "The families of today are working families, and they are not surviving on the system built for at-home mothers and working fathers. There are no more 'traditional' family styles. Politicians don't understand how far the family has moved, and how critical their needs are." 
Schroeder's lecture is the first in a series endowed by the Shaheen family, longtime benefactors of Saint Mary's College. The Shaheen College Bookstore was made possible through the family's generosi­ty. In addition, the family sponsors the Eli and Helen Shaheen Endowed Scholarships. 
The Shaheens also played major roles in the building of both the Angela Athletic Facility and the Cushwa­Leighton Library. 
From 1972 to 1978, Eli Shaheen served on the Board of Regents of the College. Two Shaheen daughters, Christine Shaheen Broussard and Paula Shaheen Eide, are graduates of the College. Currently, grand­daughter Emily Broussard is a junior at Saint Mary's. 
-~-------~ --­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 18, 1997 
years. "Things

AnTostal ND receives 
that are fun continued from page 1 are not ------------a I w a y s 
·and Clearly Canadian 
donated $20,000 to the 
annual festival. 
Still, Ball and others, who 
have worked with AnTostal, 
think more is needed to get 
the event out of the mone­
tary hole. 
"I think the main reason 
[AnTostal '96 had poor par­
ticipation] was because of 
the limited budget we had," 
said Erin Emmons, a mem­
ber of the Event Committee 
for AnTostal '96. "We 
couldn't bring in any big 
events, and what we could 
afford, the University would 
veto." 
The veto decisions comes 
from the Office of Risk 
Management, a committee 
of lawyers hired by the 
University to ensure that 
AnTostal is safe and free of 
liability. 
Risk Management prohib­
ited the rock climbing wall, 
velcro wall and bungee run 
provided by the 
Intercollegiate Health and 
Fitness Tour, because the· 
risk of injury is too great. 
The organization is large­
ly responsible for the disap­
pearance of mud pits, which 
were the centerpiece of 
AnTostal for a number of safe," admit­ted Ball. But, she continued, "mud pits were the focus of the fun. and they took that away." 
Emmons agreed, say­ing that the R i s k Management committee is "over-anx­
Photos courtesy of Student Union Board 

ious" and is 
Many AnTostal events from year's past, like air toys and mud pits, have been prone to vetoed this year by a University risk management committee to ensure safety and 
ex agger ate freedom from liability. 
the actual risk of a proposed activity. 
But Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, believes that stodents have an unfair perception of Risk Management. 
He claims that the decline in participation is a result of a voluntary switch from smaller, more readily avail­able activities, like finger painting and balloon tosses, to larger productions like air toys, which involve fewer students at a time and require fewer students to coordinate. 

Despite the discontinu­ance of activities like mud pits and keg tossing, Cassidy maintained that "most of the things that happened with AnTostal in the late '70s are still approved to happen now." . 
Liability is not the only grounds on which Student Activities disapproves possi­ble events. A proposed fea­ture of this year's AnTostal was the NBA Jam Van, a trailer which contains state­of-the-art interactive games and various sports memora­
bilia. 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631-7361 
12 
ACEDEMY AWARD NOMINATIONS 
INCLUDING 
BEST PICTURE 

Showing Friday and Saturday 
6:30 and 9:30 p.m. at Snite 
$2 http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
This theme would have been timely with the conclusion of Bookstore Basketball, Ball explained, and the fact that it is indoors would not have made it suscepti­ble to bad weather. 
The catch was that the van is sponsored by a credit card com­pany who wanted to set up a booth to solic­it applications to stu­dents. 
Ball said the event was rejected because the Student Union Board does not endorse any particular businesses. Cassidy had a slightly differ­ent explanation. 
"The University policy is that we will not allow any company to come on cam­pus to solicit credit cards. In fact, the ones that are post­ed on bulletin boards are illegal," Cassidy said. 
Cassidy explained that groups marketing credit are singled out in particular, "because that's the most aggressive group to try to come on campus." 
One of Ball's goals for this year is to increase populari­ty of AnTostal to its past levels. 
She hopes to do this by aggressive advertisement and extending the activities to encompass a full week, even though the budget has no-t increased from last year. 
"We're trying to do twice as much with the same amount," Ball said. "When it was in its prime, AnTostal was a week. We wanted to go back to that; so we're going to do it, even if it's going to be really hard on the budget." 


$1.2 million research grant 
;~pedal to The Observer 
.w The University of Notre Dame has ''received a $1.2 million grantfrom the \Walther Cancer Institute in Indianapolis to establi.~ll the Walther Cancer Institute Center of Ex<:ellence in Cancer ·--rding to Nathan Hatch, 
.. ovost. +w: ···-.---.....-· -. 
)><gift will supp9r~' a 
111~titute_· assistant ~!'o~ 
, _. '"~' Jee •-Walther Garieer 
p().sfgo~toral fellows and one C3;,n~er .Institute predoctoral 
is:t#t ~ill.link the wod{ of_faculty 

llular biology and biochemistry and inrplerilent a major thrust in basic can­cer research on campus," Hatch said in .making the announcement. "We hope _the emphasis on the support of fellows ;j.:t\!J ajunior faculty member serve.-to devell>p future leaders in the important 
dis(:ipline ofcancer research." 
·The center is under the direction of Frl,l;licis. Castellino, dean of the College ·· cience and Kleiderer~Pezold ptofes­
of chemistry and biochemistry, who 
<,pbtained the funding for this pro~ 
gram:'ll According to Castellino. this is 
an optimal time for Notre Dame to bring 
together current research programs to 
form a cancer research center. "The 
facilities are in place and a core of 
excellent faculty are present with inter­
ests in this field," he says. 
Notre Dame will fund a Walther 
Cancer Institute Seminar Series for the 
next five years to bring the University 
leading experts in related areas of can­
cerresearch to describe their work. say 
Castellino. He believes these visits V~-ill 
provide a p'Owerful stimulus to the 
Center's progress. 
"Once the Walther Center is function­
ing smoothly and the hiring is com· 
plete," says Castellino, "we will actively 
recruit a senior endowed chairholder 
for the position of the· Coleman Professor. The chair is already fully funded and will be directed to an area ofcancer-related research. 


Williamsburg
olt fbe Ld....D.te~_........... 
302 Village Dr. Mishawaka, IN 46545 
GRADUATE STUDENT DISCOUNT 
$50 Security Deposit $20 Monthly Discount No ~pplication Fee 
• 
Large pets welcome 

• 
30-day Money-Back guarantee • 1,· 2, and 3-bedroom floorplans 

• 
Free gas heat 



Gl Call 256 0237 
EQUAl HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 



Today ... 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
A look at South Dining Hall 
~ 
This weekly section takes a more in-depth look at some of the topics that affect and interest students most.

rpaPUnen~ 
With the addition of 1,000 West Quad residents, South Dining Hall will require renovation to acco­modate the influx. The Oak Room and the basement 
f<iday, Ap<;J I8, 1997 fYJupe 
will also be given a major overhaul. 

After retaining its ambiance for 68 years, SDH succumbs to the need for expansion 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
Departments Page Editor 
Beginning this May, South Dining Hall will undergo a massive renovation project expected to last until the sum­mer of 1998. 
On a daily basis, South Dining Hall serves an average of 1,500 students for break­fast. 2,500 for lunch. and 2,400 for dinne.r. In light of the recent transfer of 500 stu­dents to West Quad, in addi­tion to the women who will fill McGlinn and Welsh Halls next semester. changes pose little surprise to South Dining Hall. 
Besides accommodating the needs of the extra 1,000 West Quad students, the renovation project has an additional goal of improving the view of the building's south end. 
Plans for the beautifi­cation include moving the loading dock to a site near Fisher Hall. from its current location at the build­ing's western cor­ner. 
Director of Food Services David Prentkowski said that the renovation includes plans to isolate and conceal the dock and garbage area with barriers. 
The parking lot behind the dining hall will be removed and replaced with grass to give the area more of the look of a quad. Prentkowski expects the renovation will actually "pull [the four new dorms) into the overan '-­environment of the campus," instead of having them "just sit on the old golf course." 
In order to deal with the sudden influx of students in South Dining Hall, the back wall of the Oak Room cafete­ria will be taken out. Instead of the current setup consisting of two separate food service areas, the new dining hall will utilize one large food court. situated where the Oak Room currently resides and spilling over onto the areas currently used for food service. The new food court will consist of a deli area. pizza area, and an area devoted only to cereal and milk. 
Also included in the court 
will be areas featuring stir­fry, South American foods, and pasta and salad bars, not unlike the format adopted by North Dining Hall. 
South Dining Hall general manager Jim Yarbrough adds that there will be increased space for beverages after the removal of the beverage islands in the dining rooms; the dining rooms themselves, however, will undergo llttle change apart from the addi­tion of a new sprinkler sys­tem. 
In fact, notes Prentkowski, by removing the salad bars and bever­a g e 
islands, 
the renovated 
dining room areas 
will be little differ­
ent from the layout used during the years imme­diately following the build­ing's construction in 1929. 
Future plans for Grab-N-Go involve moving the service areas from their current loca­tion to the basement, facilitat-. ing the often heavy flow of student traffic. The kitchen will be downsized slightly. 
Students can expect to expe­rience some slight inconve­nience during the year-long renovation, however, as the South Dining Hall kitchens will be closing after November 
15. Yarbrough was quick to add that the dining halls will be doing their best to mini­mize the inconvenience, and that in no way will the reno­vation detract from South Dining Hall's ability to service the students. When the South Dining Hall kitchens close, meals will be prepared in North Dining Hall and shipped over to South in trucks. 
"Buffet lines [like those used· during the Candlelight Buffet dinners) will be implemented instead of the food service areas, Yarbrough said, describing next year's situa­tion. 
Also, during the renova­tion's final stages, South 
Dining 
Hall will 
be unable to 
use its china and 
silverware, substituting 
disposable items. "We will only use di-sposable utensils for about a month though," Yarbrough pointed out. 
In addition to renovating South Dining Hall, Notre Dame Food Services has begun construction of what is planned to be a food service support facility. 
Located on the Northwest side of Douglas Road, near Saint Michael's Laundry, the new facility will offer a combi­nation of warehouse and additional food preparation space. 
The facility will essentially function as a support to the dining halls and other campus food service operations. Prentkowski explains that the new building will allow the dining halls to operate more efficiently, permitting more dining hall space to be used for customer service. 

ByJUSTIN HARKIN a wood-fired pizza oven; other Departments Page Editor features include a juice bar, sandwich lines, gourmet coffees 
Perhaps one of the most excit-and capuccino, and an area ing aspects of the upcoming ren-devoted to study space, com­ovation of South Dining Hall is plete with computer outlets and what is planned for the future of internet access. The cafe will the Oak Room. Although South also have a stage which can Dining Hall's new food court will accommodate Acoustic Cafe­call for the removal of the Oak style entertainment Room cafeteria, a similar facility "We're even thinking about will be built in the building's staying open all night. If [staying south end, where the loading · open 24 hours) provides a ser­
dock is now located. vice and keeps people happy, 
The dimensions ,:.:____________:__:____c:___--=..c:....:...., 
of the future 
'We used [a

facility will extend from end 
firm that] of the current 
has done a lot of 
dining areas to 
work with hotels, 

an area not much farther off than restaurants, uni­the end of load­
versities ... we're
ing docks. Prentkowski 

very pleased with their work.' promises that the new cafe will 
David Prentkowski 
respect the origi­nal architecture of South, some­thing he 

'Jt 
will be a show-acknowledges as 
place. It will be one of the dining 
state-of-the-art...
hall's most attractive fea­

we're even thinking tures. One the 
about staying open 
primary objec­tives of the pro­
all night.' ject was, in fact, to maintain the 
Jim Yarbrough
integrity of the

original architec-___________________~
L_ 

ture. we 'II be glad to do it," 
"We used a consulting firm Yarbrough said. "I can really out of Denver owned by Thomas see [South Dining Hall) as being Ricca [a graduate of Notre focal point on campus," he Dame's School of Architecture). added. The Ricca firm has done a lot of Other considerations for the similar work with hotels, restau-future of South Dining Hall rants, universities, and amuse-include placing Scholastic, The ment parks such as Disney Dome, and The Observer offices Land. We're very pleased with in the building's basement. their work," Prentkowski said. Prentkowski noted that director 
He promises that the atmos-. of Student Activities, Joe phere of South Dining Hall's Cassidy, has expressed an inter­new eatery will complement est in the space due to current that of LaFortune in terms of problems concerning student student space and services office space in LaFortune. 
offered. Although Cassidy was unable 
"It will be a showplace. It will to comment on the likelihood of be state of the art," asserted Jim realizing the proposal, the blue­Yarbrough, general manager of prints for the South Dining South Dining Hall. Hall's basement do, in fact, con-
The focal point of the new tain sections labeled for the
••• IN WITH fBI NIW 
facility, notes Yarbrough, .will be offices of campus publications. 

-----------------~-~-­
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 18, 1997 
Judge to test Ray rifle, lawyers may appeal 
By WOODY BAIRD 
Associated Press Writer 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. 
A judge accused James Earl Ray's lawyers Thursday of cre­ating a media circus but said he could do nothing to block new tests on the rifle believed used to kill Martin Luther King Jr. 
Prosecutors asked Judge Chris Craft, the administrative judge for the state criminal court in Memphis, to decide if another Criminal judge, Joe 
· Brown, has the authority to conduct the tests. Brown said he will have the .30-06 hunting rifle fired Monday. It hasn't been fired since King's assassination in 1968. Craft said he could not tell another judge what to do. Prosecutors may seek an appeals court order delaying the tests. Ray, suffering from liver dis­ease, is seeking tests on the rifle in his attempt to take back his 1969 guilty plea and go to trial for the slaying. The rifle had Ray's fingerprints on it, but he said it was used to frame him. Craft accused Jack McNeil, one of Ray's lawyers, of bypassing the court's usual procedure for assigning cases to judges when he went to Brown requesting the tests. "You picked your court ... to create this media circus," Craft said. "The real significance of this case is who killed Martin 
Luther King," McNeil told him. 
Prosecutors said they were not trying to prevent new tests on the rifle but opposed the way Brown was going about it. They also said evidence in the King assassination is under the control of another judge in whose court Ray gave his guilty plea. 
"If Judge Brown does some­thing or somebody else does something that destroys the integrity of that rifle ... whatev­er evidence might be available may forever be lost," prosecu­tor Lee Coffee said. 
He said Brown didn't give prosecutors a say in how or when the rifle will be fired or how test bullets will be com­pared with the one taken from King's body. Brown has not said where or when such com­parisons will be made. 
Senate will investigate race 
By CAROLYN SKORNECK 
Associated Press Writer 

WASli!NGTON 
A Senate committee, over strenuous objection from Democrats on the panel, 
approved a broad investi­gation Thursday into alleged irregularities in the elec­tion last fall of Louisiana 


Democratic Landrieu Sen. Mary Landrieu. 
The Senate Hules Committee, in a party-line 8-7 vote, approved the proposal of its chairman, Sen. John Warner, R-Va., for the probe and picked a Hepublican-led law firm to conduct it. 
Landrieu, who defeated 
[ID.IID
1 Going Out of 1I Business Sole I 
~  Entire store 30-75% off  ~  
~  Includes clearance  ~  
~ ~  THE  All sales final Just 2.5 ml North ofiN state line  ~ ~  
~STILEIco., INC.  Ill­ - ~ I  

Republican Woody Jenkins by 5, 788 votes out of 1.8 million ballots cast, sat through the 4 1/2 hours of committee debate Thursday and tensely denounced the panel's decision afterwards. 
"I won the election fairly and squarely," she told reporters, adding that she was "very dis­appointed today that the bipar­tisan attempt to resolve this issue seemed to break down." 
"Because the real truth is, there is a conspiracy going on in Louisiana," she said, echoing Jenkins' repeated charges that a conspiracy stole the race from him. "It's a Jenkins conspiracy, led and fueled by the radical right ... to steal this election from the people who have right­fully and honestly elected a sen­ator to serve here." 
Jenkins, who had stayed away from the committee's meeting room all day, emerged smiling from a nearby room after the panel's vote. 
"We think it provides the opportunity for the people of Louisiana to have a real investi­gation, a full-scale investigation of the election last year,'' he said. "The things that we have alleged in this case will be proven to be true. It will be plain for the entire nation that a new election is justified." 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., earlier had attacked Warner's proposal that essentially set aside a report by two outside counsels -one a Hepublican and the other a Democrat -for a limit­ed probe. 
As approved by the rules committee, investigators will be instructed to look into alleged "improper activities" as well as illegal ones to determine if fraud or irregularities affected the election's outcome. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
<!Collegium ;fffilusicum 
'l~. jjacb, <!.Cantata Jao. 150 ~einricb ]saar, .:fflissa be ~aneta fflaria 

8:00p.m. Friday, April 18 Church of Loretto Saint Mary's College 
This concert is free and open to the public. 

IID.IID~..:;;;~~~~~~~::;;;:~~~~~~~~~ 

(Edison Plaza-in front of Lula's) ic by: (219) 273-6216 
ynUS 
The Mushroomhead Experience) George & the Freeks) and Jewel and the Future 
Saturday April 19th 1997 

~~~-----.. ---· 
-~ ------~----­
Friday, Aprill8, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• SOUTH AFRICA 
Mandela invites Mobutu for talks w-ith rebel leader 
By ALEXANDRA ZAVIS 
Associated Press Writer 
CAPE TOWN 
President Nelson Mandela invited Zaire's president to talk with the rebel leader trying to 
topple him, a sign of mom­entum Thurs­day after weeks of deli­cate political maneuvering. 
There was no clear sign 

from either Mandela President Mobutu Sese Seko or rebel leader Laurent Kabila that they were ready for talks to end Zaire's war. Each side has offered contradictory positions on talks in the past, and there · was no direct word Thursday from Mobutu or Kabila. 
U.N. envoy Mohamed Sahnoun said Mobutu and Kabila "have agreed that there will be a meeting at the highest level" and called this a "remarkable achievement in view of the complexity of the issue." 
A rebel spokesman said a site had been picked for Mobutu­Kabila talks, but neither the location nor the planned date was announced. 
Kabila's Alliance of 
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo-Zaire has seized more than half of Zaire in its seven-month drive to top­ple Mobutu. Rebels have encountered little resistance from Mobutu's forces. 
Kabila was in South Africa overnight for talks that lasted into early morning, first with Mandela and then with Sahnoun and South African offi­cials. 
He made no public comments during his visit, and after returning to Lubumbashi ­Zaire's second-largest city, which he captured last week ­he canceled a planned celebni­tion and reportedly huddled with advisers at his home. 
A Mobutu envoy was taking Mandela's invitation back to Mobutu in Kinshasa, Zaire's capital, U.N. and South African mediators said in a statement. 
"We are confident that the meeting will be held soon and will discuss transitional arrangements affecting all lev­els of government in the context of a peaceful and negotiated solution," they said. 
Mandela said he had spoken by phone with Mobutu three times since Saturday and Mobutu was "very cooperative." 
In a sign of the changing situ­ation, Mandela referred to both Mobutu and Kabila as "presi­dent." 
"President Kabila is making a great deal of advances, as you are aware, but he doesn't want a military solution," Mandela said. "He wants a solution that will receive the support of President Mobutu and he has also made it clear that he has no intention of doing anything which will humiliate President Mobutu." 
Kabila has demanded that Mobutu give up power before any cease-fire to stop his forces' advance. Mobutu has been under increasing domestic and international pressure to step down after nearly 32 years in power. 


~.---~----------~~------~~--~~-"--~~--.-------------------·-~--·~-----~----?,........~----~----r~~--------------~~--~·.---~--~----­
page 10 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, April18, 1997 
Bankers: Dole gave bad loan to Gingri_ch 
By PATRIClA LAMIELL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Bob Dole may have been the easiest loan officer Newt Gingrich could fmd. 
The average consumer would 
never get a bank to take such a loan seriously, lending offi­cers at some of the na­tion's largest banks said 

Thursday. It's Gingrich also unclear what kind of collateral Gingrich will pledge in case of default. 
At least one big New York bank says it wouldn't risk a conflict of interest by lending to a politician. Others said politician or not, nobody would get terms as·sweet as House Speaker Gingrich got. 
"A $300,000 unsecured eight­year loan with no (periodic) pay­ments wouldn't happen," said Mary Gooding, director of lend­ing for the Private Bank of Massachusetts, a division within the Bank of Boston. 
But Gingrich lawyer J. Randolph Evans said the loan would be secured with "whatev­er collateralization that is required by a commercial institu­tion." The exact collateral has yet to be determined. 
Dole, the former Senate major­ity leader, recently took a job with a prominent Washington law firm that lobbies before Congress. If Dole were to become a registered lobbyist himself, the loan terms require Gingrich to pay him back with a loan from a commercial institution. 
One banker said he thought that clause was unenforceable anyway. Even if it held up, the bankers interviewed said it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for Gingrich to replace the loan with private financing. 
Gingrich's annual salary of $170,500 isn't nearly enough to get him an unsecured loan that big. Gingrich's family assets are in the name of his wife, Marianne Gingrich, who opposed pledging them as collateral. 
Gooding said she would want to review the loan every year. 
"The only thing I can liken this to is maybe a student loan that can go on for five or six years, and then is paid back," said one banker, who like most executives would not allow themselves or their banks to be identified. 
t::ootl Luck, Allison!!! 
Kick some MCAT butt on SatUPday! 
love, your family and friends 
--------------------------------------'1
-

Friday, Aprill8, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 11 
•IsRAEl 

Netanyahu vow-s to stay strong

Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diaurn(()) n J A 1l.1L f h(()) rify 
A division of John M . .Marshall's Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright 199i hy .John .M. ~hm;lwll 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press Writer 

JERUSALEM 
Defiant in the face of an influence-peddling scandal, Benjamin Netanyahu vowed 
Thursday to hang tough through calls for his resig­nation. "We're not going any­where," he told support­


ers. Netanyahu 
The gov­ernment, and efforts to revive the peace process, have virtual­ly stopped while Israelis wait to find out whether prosecutors will follow police advice and charge the prime minister with fraud and breach of trust. 
The police recommendation that Netanyahu and three key allies be charged in the scandal has fueled speculation about ­and calls for -an early end to his stormy 10-month reign. Prosecutors' decision was expected by Sunday. 
At his Likud Party's head­quarters in Tel Aviv, Netanyahu suggested his government was under a politically motivated attack for its policies to keep Jewish settlements in the West Bank and all of Jerusalem under Israeli rule. He told his cheering supporters that "the truth will be victorious." 
"We are not going any­where," Netanyahu said. "We are staying in the place where the people and history put us, and we will continue to lead this people." 
The scandal stems from Netanyahu's decision in January to appoint Jerusalem lawyer Roni Bar-On as attorney general. Bar-On resigned after a day in office amid a storm of criticism that he was unquali­fied. 
Days later, Israel TV alleged that the appointment was part of a conspiracy by senior offi­cials who expected Bar-On to end the corruption trial of Aryeh Deri, head of the Shas religious party. Deri was to ensure in return that the Shas' two Cabinet ministers gave Netanyahu the majority needed to approve the Israeli troop pullback from most of the West Bank town of Hebron. 
Netanyahu denied the allega­tions and called for the inquiry. After a 12-week investigation, police handed in their 995-page report Tuesday. 
In addition to recommending that Netanyahu be indicted, they advised that Deri be charged with blackmail and that Netanyahu's aide, Avigdor Lieberman, and Justice Minister Tsachi Hanegbi be charged with breach of trust. Lieberman allegedly relayed Deri's threats to Netanyahu and Hanegbi is accused of mislead­ing the Cabinet about Bar-On's qualifications. 
The crisis has overshadowed the latest mission by U.S. medi­ator Dennis Ross, who has met with Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to try to revive the disintegrating peace process. 
An Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said little progress was expected until prosecutors make a deci­sion. 
Arafat -whose relationship with Netanyahu often has been antagonistic -reportedly was receiving half-hour updates on t.he crisis. 
The development nipped bud­ding efforts to establish a Likud-Labor coalition that would be freer than Netanyahu's current right-wing coalition government to make concessions to the Palestinians. 
Opposition Labor Party leader Shimon Peres, who had been the leading proponent of such a union, on Thursday called the police accusations a "political earthquake." Labor's Knesset caucus, meeting in Tel Aviv, said Netanyahu had "lost his moral basis to rule" and should resign immediately. 


Monday, 21 April 1997 
~fje 8east of 
eJatnt cAnsefm 
ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY ( 1033'1 109) 
The Holy Communion (Episcopal) Log Cabin Chapel 5:15p.m. The Rev. James F. Turrell 
~ 

"0 Christian soul, soul raised up from grievous death, soul redeemed and freed by the blood of God from wretched bondage: arouse your mind, remember your resurrection, contemplate your redemption and liberation." 
1.14 Saint Anselm, Meditation on Human Redemption 
TltAiI HousE 
RESTAURANT 
Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisin 
Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food 
Dine in or Carry Out 
257-4875 
15% discount when you bring in ad! 
BUSINESS HOURS 
=--=--~~ Mon.-Thur.DD w 11am-9pm
A. Martins K·Mart 

¢ Fri.-Sat. 11am-10pm
a: 

" 
Sun.12-8pm 
508 1111. McKinle Mishawaka, IN 
~ 

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, April 18, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Edi[Or 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ..................•........ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager........ . ................... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor ................................... Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mar~ DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ..................... :.Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institurion. The news is reported as accurately and objecti_yely as possible. Umigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoricy of rhe Ediror-in-Chjef, Managing Editor, Assistant Managi~g Editor, Ne~s Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sporrs Editor, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in·Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 63I-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.I@nd.edu General Information 631-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
of 
Saint Mary's College. Days later. these women discovered the war is not over; .. President WiWam Hickey's decision. to d~fer official C9llege recogmt10n ~f T~e 
.tuva••""'· bas }.f~ vl1Jh advoca~es disappq~t~d and .~?B~~f~· •Fort~e~, H1ckey s r·•rtM'i:i,r<>1~i"'i> fepreSelltS mote t}ia,n another ~o.fdblock t~· ¥}~ ~tatUS ~J~ .represents the Administration's lack of confidence irt the student b()dy. Is he deferring the students~ right to determine their own needs? . Unlike Notre Dame, Saint Mary's allowstbe decisions>affecting students .t~ be 
made by the goy~rning b()ard of the ~tuden~ ::--"the BOG; ~~t. are the~e dectswns oJily supported by th~ .administration\¥.. itc;?nc -~~,y~~t ll'lell'l?l'Y· Hickey has riot deferred a dedsiort ofthe BOG in...• > er to.f ....... ·.•. .~search the 1ssue. , Had The AlliitnCe'been metwith studeritpr()test. or h ·... t been hastily approved by BOG without ylear researth and sound reasoning, Hic~ey would have the right 
to defer the decision. 

• lETTER TO THE ED!TOH 
Senior class officers fail in publicity of formal 
Dear Editor, 
I am very ups<~t with the efforts of the senior class officers in publici~ing the Senior Formal taking place this Friday. More than half of the scmors that I have spoken with in the past few days did not know: (A) that there was one; (13) when it was; or (C) where it was. . 
In Stanford Hall, the advertising for this event is non-existent. Nothmg was ever posted on a bulletin board or taped to a wall in the many stair­wells. I believe that the lack of' advertisements in our dorm is not an isolat­ed incident because of the conversations I have had with fellow seniors. Whoever is in charge of publicizing this dance did not even bother to send out campus mail to the seniors regarding this event. 
Only recently, within the past few days, has an effort even been made to announce this event, but for most of us this attempt is too little, too late. In Wednesday's Observer, an advertisement appeared, the first one I've seen in recent days, but the DATE of the formal was missing. Gathering from other sources that this formal is in fact scheduled for this Friday, there is nothing that I ean do about attending the formal. By Wednesday most peo­ple's plans for the weekend have already been made ~ell in advanc~ for th.e weekend, and changing these plans on such short nottce would be tmposs1­ble. 
I can remember in previous years how the Senior Formal used to be a fairly significant event during our final year at this University. I actua.lly looked forward to it as an underclassman. Here is a case where the senwr class officers have been unable to meet the needs of their constituents. The class officers are supposed to, according to the Student Government consti­tution, "promote the well-being of their respective classes by sp?nsorin.g functions that promote unity among class members and representmg their interests on Student Senate." 
I am ashamed with how the senior class officers have managed the tradi­tional Senior Formal through their lackluster attempts in publicizing it. They are accountable for planning, coordinating and publicizing events for the senior class, and the senior class officers have fallen awful short of car­rying out the duties that we expected them to carry when we voted them into office. 
FRANCIS CLORAN Stanford Hall 

• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, April18, 1997 page 13 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
To the seniors: The Golden Rule 'rules' 
The cherry blossoms have come and gone, but spring is still budding as the most splendid season in Washington. The rebirth of warm weather and long days of 
Gary Caruso 

early sunlight each spring transforms the people of this city. Overnight they go from grumpy old "windbags" to quite civil neighbors. 
Instantaneously, joggers clutter the mall at all hours of the day and night. Softball games become an evening hazard on cov­eted spaces of grass from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial. 
Spring in Washington reminds me of fall at Notre Dame. It is a new beginning. Students arrive on campus with great enthusiasm and anticipation. Yet, while the weather quickly degenerates in South Bend, student friendliness remains in full bloom for several weeks. It is a shame that the press of school work and harried schedules eventually transforms the stu­dents' abilities to be as open to others. Unfortunately, the same waning process happens to Washingtonians as summer arrives. 
For the seniors preparing to graduate this spring, I can identify with your mixed feelings of happiness and sorrow. The school year is ending and with it your col­lege career. 
Many aspects of a Notre Dame educa­tion are unique and wonderful -despite some of the University's shortcomings that tend to frequently appear in this col­umn. But the lesson to learn from the crit­icism and views expressed here is that it was done with respect. Okay, mostly with respect -I confess that the crusading, 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
intolerant right-wing student nuts who printed "stuff'' about others in their "Right Th(,mght" (whatever the heck they call that rag) got under my skin. It still does. 
Interestingly, though, I received the most e-mail this past school year when I blasted the conservative students who published their so-called "Christian" views. Of course, I still received the occa­sionalletter from various Notre Dame administrators when I tweaked a nerve or provided them with "bad press." But they, along with my responses, were usually ones in which each tried to convert the other by using the best logic and most impassioned words conceivable. 
What does it all mean to the graduating seniors? You are stepping out into the "real world," and I do not mean the MTV version. You may have brushed briefly with this world during a Summer Service Project, at a summer job or while study­ing abroad. If you have not noticed yet, the world is not mostly Catholic, white, educated and affiuent. 
Your transition into this "new world venture" may or may not be difficult. But one thing you should recognize quickly is an understanding of how much your Notre Dame experience has shaped your standing in this world. If you treat others with respect -which is often times extremely difficult to do -you will have a less difficult journey throughout your life. 
How well you have tolerated other stu­dents at Notre Dame who held differing views, or how hard you tried to under­stand and get to know those who are dif­ferent, will be a factor of your success in your career and life. Were you truly being humorous or were you actually being insensitive by telling ethnic, sexist and intolerance-based jokes? Did you respect those who believed in ordaining women priests, abortion rights, gay rights, that the Catholic Church's view on con­traception was ridiculous? 
How often you made time to really know the student who was of a different color or from a different background, country or religion will be an indicator of how open you will be toward others in your new world. If you reached out on campus, you most assuredly will reach out wherever your career takes you. If not, many opportunities to make new friends await you. 
Will you be the obnoxious alumnus who develops a beer belly, forces your children to wear "ND" everything and knows every meaningless statistic and fact about ND football? If so, you are the type the University will love when the annual con­tributions are due. 
Or will you be the Tom Dooley type ­reportedly flawed by that "gay affiiction" thing, but who gave his life for others. Most of us fall somewhere in the middle. 
I often mention my grumpy alumnus friend. He actually does exist, and he actually holds the opinions I mention. I withhold his name and where he lives to protect his football ticket allocation, which has gone down since he withdrew from the Sorin Society. It is amazing just how powerful any organization can be when it holds the ultimate authority over a coveted commodity like the University does with football tickets. (Take note, marketing students.) 
It also amazes me that my grouchy friend was the ultimate Notre Dame Rah­Rah while in school, but his brother, while attending at the same time, hated the place. Now the roles are reversed. His brother knows every administrator in the athletic center and gets whatever he asks. "Brother Grouch" has soured due in part from a feeling that he has been betrayed. In his mind, he has given until it hurt and Notre Dame has only coveted the bottom over loyalty from its alumni. To him, it is the Golden Rule in reverse. 
He believes that the $40,000 or so he contributed over the last 20 years is worth more than double that amount if anyone bothered to factor in the worth of those "old" dollars. Rather, he contends that the University created its "inner cir­cle," officially called the "Founders Circle," to make up for the dollar's loss of buying power. 
While the University maintains a $1,000 minimum to join the Sorin Society, those participants receive tickets to every requested game. The circle members pay a minimum of $3,000, and are lavished with parking passes and other goodies that mere $1,000 contributors never received when their $1,000 contribution probably had more buying power 20 years ago. 
My grouchy friend makes a valid point. The point he makes is that when new policies and decisions are made -or bet~ ter, being considered-some political tact and consideration should be part of the process. Unfortunately, academic institutions have never been known for tact or diplomacy. 
How the Golden Rule is perceived by an individual varies as many times as we have individuals on earth. How the rule is applied by individuals varies at least twice as many times more. I tell those ND fanat­ics to "get a life, it's only a game." They, in turn, think I am disloyal. Maybe my pri­orities have mellowed over the years. 
To the seniors departing South Bend for their places in society, I wish you well. Notre Dame brings Catholics closer to­gether and to their religion. The work for you now is to get closer toward others with your eye on the Golden Rule. By being understanding and tolerant with those who are different, you can make society less fractious while maintaining your faith and principles. Tom Dooley, regardless of any personal flaws, is one of Notre Dame's shining examples ... and you can be too. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for 18 years and is now a publicist with the International Union ofElectronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D. C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hotline@aol.com. 
A new book could shed some light on NO's homosexual policy 
Father John F. Harvey has written a new book, "The Truth About Homosexuality." The founder of Courage, the Catholic support group for homosexu-
Charles Rice 

als which is in 26 dioceses in the United States and Canada, Fr. Harvey's insights could be helpful to some at Notre Dame who might otherwise be misled by the University's policy. He affirms the reality, as stated in the Catechism of the Catholic Church, that homosexual acts are "intrin­sically ... contrary to the natural law." 
He insists, as does the Church, that those with homosexual inclinations are entitled to respect. 
"Please note," he says, "that I refuse to label a person 'homosexual'; even if he has the orientation, there is something more fundamental about the person. The Church refuses to consider the person as 'heterosexual' or 'homosexual' and insists that every person has a fundamental identity: the creature of God and, by grace, his child and heir to eternal life." 
Unlike the Notre Dame policy, Fr. Harvey recognizes that the inclination to homosexual acts is itself disordered, as would be an inclination to excessive drinking, shoplifting or any other disor­dered act. And he insists on a point about which the Notre Dame policy is reticent­that some with a homosexual inclination may achieve a change of orientation through prayer, group support and pro­fessional help. 
In his essay in the book, Fr. Jeffrey Keefe notes the "progress in social atti­tudes toward persons burdened with alcoholism. Alcoholism is now widely viewed as a disease ... We need a corre­sponding shift in attitude toward homo­sexual persons. Denying that homosexu­ality is a developmental anomaly or a dis­order is not the way to accomplish this turnabout." 
In 1992, one moth after the Pope approved the final text of the Catechism, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith made public a "background resource letter" it had sent to the bishops of the United States. The letter reaffirmed the Congregation's 1986 statement that, "Although the particular inclination of the homosexual person is not a sin, it is a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil; and thus the inclination itself must be seen as an objective disorder." 
Fr. Harvey discusses Dr. Charles W. Socarides' research into "the politiciza­tion of American psychiatry," in which "Socarides describes ... the manipulative manner by which a small group of psy­chiatrists in league with gay organizations succeeded in having the American Psychiatric Association remove the condi­tion of homosexuality from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual ... Henceforward, homosexuality would be considered a normal variant of sexual behavior ... Among the disastrous effects of [this] is the abandonment of those persons with homosexual tendencies who want help to move toward heterosexuality as the nat­ural and God-given state for men and women. Why should one seek therapy for a lifestyle now considered 'normal"'? 
Fr. Harvey emphasizes "that the term has nothing to do with moral wr>rth or with the free will of a person ... [T]he ten­dency toward homosexual acts is not sin­ful in itself, but disordered, because, if expressed, it is a sin." 
As the Catechism states, persons with "homosexual tendencies ... must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimi­nation in their regard should be avoided." 
"Sadly," says Fr. Keefe, "many homo­sexual persons have left the Catholic Church at least partially because some Catholics reacted to them in a less than Christian manner." 
Nevertheless, as the Congregation noted in its 1992letter, '"sexual orientation' does not constitute a quality comparable to race, ethnic background, etc., in respect to nondiscrimination.... There are areas in which it is not unjust discrimina­tion to take sexual orientation into ac­count, for example, in ... adoption or fos­ter care ... employment of teachers and athletic coaches, and in military recruit­ment." 
Perhaps Fr. Harvey's most important point is that "from the ... testimony of sec­ular professional and religious coun­selors, one may draw the modest conclu­sion that some persons with a homosex­ual orientation can acquire a heterosexu­al one through a process of prayer, group support, and sound therapy. This is not to say that everyone who seeks such change is able to attain it. ... I now see such change as a live option.... I insist, howev­er, on two things: (1) This is an option, not an obligation; and (2) individuals who pursue a change of orientation should not allow themselves to be discouraged if after several years ... they ... are not able to develop a genuine attraction toward the opposite sex; they should then resign themselves to a life of chaste service to Christ in the world." 
"[T]here is a great spiritual hunger," says Fr. Harvey, "not only for the truth of Catholic teaching on homosexuality ... but also for the inspiration to live a new kind of life with Christ ... [T]he majority of the members of the American Psychiatric Association claim that no change in orien­tation is possible or that it is possible very rarely. The minority view ... with which I agree, is that one can grow into hetero­sexuality and that there is a wealth of empirical evidence for this position." 
Fr. Harvey's book could be useful in promoting a sound and fair resolution of this issue at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, the University sends confusing signals to its students, especially those with homo­sexual inclinations. The denial of recogni­tion to GLND/SMC on·the ground that its position is merely "inconsistent with offi­cial Church teaching" raises the inference that the prohibition of homosexual acts is not rooted in natural law but rather is an arbitrary Church edict. GLND/SMC, to the knowledge of the administration, holds regular meetings in O'Shaughnessy which are unofficially publicized. The University conducts forums and presents speakers who are at best ambiguous or incomplete on the issues. 
There is no official statement by the University acknowledging that the homo­sexual inclination is itself a disorder. If it is not a disorder, why may it not be acted upon? The University's remarkable solici­tude for students with homosexual incli­nations, far beyond that accorded to stu­dents with other disorders, could convey the impression to some that it is cool to question one's sexual identity. Nor does the University explicitly atfrrm that its purpose is to assist homosexually-inclined people to try to redirect that inclination itself. Instead, the University's un­balanced position conveys the impression that the defining problem is "homopho­bia." 
If our leaders were serious and practi­cal about this, they would invite Fr. Harvey to give a series of lectures, and to consider forming a Courage chapter, at Notre Dame. But don't bet on it. Fr. Harvey's position is politically incorrect. However, if you are interested you can read his book and call Courage at (212} 421-0426. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 

ACCE-NT
page 14 Friday, April 18, 1997 

Celebrating the end of the school "1 
By NATE WILLS Maguire," will run from Thursday until Saturday. Assistant Accent Editor Participate in whatever events you choose, but there are 


W
ith the last round of tests, papers, and lab reports upon us, and finals just around the corner, it would seem that fun has become an endangered species on the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. But never fear, the fun has arrived. This Saturday is the kick-off for Notre Dame's carnival of craziness, the marathon of merriment, the gala of gaiety, the mother of all study-breaks: AnTostal. For those of you new to this week-long event, AnTostal is an Irish celebration (AnTostal means "muster, pageant, or array" in Gaelic) that dates back to 1953. It was a festival of Irish unity in which 
the Irish people tried to awaken the Irish spirit that had been lost amid economic and political hardships. In much the same way, Notre Dame has fallen into those 
"its-n ice-outside-b u t-1-have-to -study-for-this-class-l've-been­
blowing -off -all-semester-or-l'll-never-graduate-in­five-years" blues. AnTostal invites you to climb out of your shell and have some
21 good, clean fun. 

'I "AnTostal is just Notre Dame's time to have fun," says AnTostal's coordinator, Shannan Ball. "It's a week where students can get together with their friends, just hang out, celebrate being a Notre Dame stu­
dent, and celebrate the fact that Spring does come to South Bend." But there's yet another reason to celebrate AnTostal 
this year, as 1997 is the festival's 30th anniversary. To commemo­rate this event, this year's theme is "Back to the Beginning." 
The theme centers around the idea of reliving those glorious childhood years. And when you take a look at this year's schedule of events, it may send your memory reeling to flash-backs of all that was good and pure in the grade school years-Transformers, friendship pins, School Hause Rock, and Scooby Doo. 
"It's back to the beginning of childhood," Ball explains. "When you're a child, you don't have a lot of cares in the world, and that's the whole point of AnTostal, to forget about your worries and to just have fun." Ball also cited another reason for this year's theme. "AnTostal has been ... sort of diluted in the past couple of years. We wanted to get back to the beginning of AnTostal-back to its origin and whole purpose," she said. 
There's no doubt that AnTostal has seen a few changes over the three decades of its existence at Notre Dame since 1967. Formerly, major attractions included pig wrestling and throwing kegs. "The keg toss? Yeah, that went on until a football player gave a prospective student a concussion," said Ball. 
Though the tossing might be retired forever, there are over a hundred events that should appeal to the lighter sides and varied interests of all students. From Slip 'N Slides on Stepan Fields to big screen video game tournaments at the Huddle, AnTostal should provide immense amounts of fun and recreation throughout the week. 
The celebration kicks off tomorrow afternoon with the Fisher Regatta on Saint Mary's Lake and a showing of Wes Craven's newest thriller, "Scream," at Cushing. Sunday's events include a Volleyball tournament and the showing of "National Lampoon's Vacation." 
Throughout the week, the craziness builds with Root Beer Chugging contests (Burping Contest to follow), Spades tournaments, and Dizzy Bat Races, to name only a few. There will be a daily feature playing at Cushing, going back to the best of the 80s with "Top Gun," "The Breakfast Club,"and "Caddyshack." The weekend feature, "Jerry most exciting will be the "air toys," sponsored by the Inte whole setup was too big to fit on a quad. There's going to about four or five different kinds of air toys that you can pia 
Other must-sees will be Double Dare (complete with Charity Carnival on ' Friday night. Just in case that prizes to be given rooms to be 
/ "! 
----____ j~---·-­


-
Friday, April18, 1997 


certain events that you won't want to miss; among the 
egiate Health and Fitness Tour. Ball explains, "The a ladder crawl, air toys, bouncy boxing, jousting, and 
pits) on Thursday, daily Wet Clothes Races, Saint Ed's from 1-5 p.m. and the Steve Miller Band Concert on 
't enough fun for you, there are literally hundreds of during the week. You may be one of the lucky class­a random pizza delivery, or you can win t-shirts, frisbees, yo-yo's, balls, or even rubber when you participate in events throughout the week. prizes come from the Intercollegiate Health Tour ay, Wednesday, and Thursday) who will be giving everything from t-shirts and sunglasses to a cruise, air-
if you're dead-set on staying in your room for the entire can still join in the fun by setting your web browser to .nd.edu/-antostal. From there you can play the "ND 500" 
rrpetition on the Web and win cash and prizes. Back to the Beginning" theme will invade the dining halls ey serve your favorite Elementary School dishes. The menu includes alphabet soup, macaroni and cheese, foot­
long hot dogs, twinkies and more yummy old-school ' treats that never got packed in your Garfield lunch box. Additional zaniness includes karaoke on Monday, a Buffet on Wednesday, and an 80's dinner by WVFI on Thursday. And finally on Friday, 
r permitting, Student Government will be sponsor-
a picnic on Stepan Fields. your interests may be, there's certain to be some­do for AnTostal this year. So put the books down just 
up ?n your Big Wheel riding skills, and enjoy wtth your fnends before finals claim your life again this ring time is upon us and it's time to have fun and act like 
The purpose of AnTostal is to reawaken the Irish spirit, time, but when spring comes, you have to wake up and 


page 15 

Saint Mary's Lake l .... Fieldhouse Mall 
fl-. 

Cushing . 
2-3:30 p.m. ~ ': ·Hostile Tostal lake Run The Lakes t 3-7 p.m. ·-Volleyball Tournament Stepan Courts l 8&10:30 p. Free movie "National Lampoon's Vacation" 
Cushing I 
e ;;,·;y. ., _ ..: ___ M~.!!~j;--Ap!i~ 21.... 
2-5 p.m. Random Acts of fun " _; Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-7 p.m. French Club Pastry Fest Fieldhouse Mall 
Elementary School Theme Dinner &KARAOKE Dining Halls 7-10 p.m. Big Screen Video Game Tournament Huddle 8&10:30 p.m. ._ Free Movie ~'Top Gun" Cushing 
~-1\lec.a, AD!ii 22 
10 a.m.-4 p.m. Air Toys Stepan Fields 12-4 p.m. Random Acts of Fun --Stepan Fields 
Dinner Concerts Dining Halls ?p.m. Singled Out LaFortune Ballroom. 7-10 p.m. Big Screen Video Game Tournament Huddle 9p.m. Irish Accent Show library Auditorium ; 8& 10:30 p.m. Free Movie "The Breakfast Club'~ Cushing 
W~dnesay, Ap~il 23 .,,_. 
~-· D 
10 a.m.-4 p.m. Air Toys Stepan Fields 4p.m. Random Acts of Fun Stepan Fields 4-7 p.m. Band on the Quad Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-7 p.m. CandlelightBuffet Dining Halls 7-10 p.m. Big Screen Video Game Tournament Huddle __r 8p.m. Spades Tournament LaFortune Ballroom 8:30p.m. O'Neill Brothers Concert Stepan Center 8&10:30 p.m. Free Movie "Caddyshack" Cushing 

"'I'
Thursday...April 24 _ , 
• • > > ------"--~--·-·· ·····~-------~,.~ 
10 a.m.-4 p.m. Air Toys Stepan Fields 2-5 p.m. Random Acts of Fun Fieldhouse Mall 
..

4p.m. Double Dare Fieldhouse Mall 4-9 p.m. BandTostal Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-7 p.m. WVfl 80s Dinner Dining Halls 8&10:30 p.m. "Jerry Maguire"·SUB movie of the week Cushing 

..-:~i~~~v~" l\~~~f 25 •• --~---=-·= _,--co ··_, 
,' 

1-5 p.m. St. Ed's Charity Carnival North Quad _, 4p.m. WSND OJ on the Quad Fieldhouse Mall 1-6 p.m. Random Acts of Fun Fieldhouse Mall 3:30p.m. Scavenger Hunt Stonehenge4:30-7 p.m. Student Government Picnic Stepan Fields 8p.m. Steve Miller Concert JACC 
-------------~---·-------..--...---·---~­
·-·---.... -·--·· . 
The ObseiVerffom Roland 
L-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~-­
-
Friday, April18, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• Nfl DRAFT compiled by Mike Day, Sports Editor 
Irish NFL hopefuls learn fate this weekend 



Jeremy Akers 
Bert Berry 
The quickest and strongest of the Notre Dame linebackers, Berry should receive the call in the middle rounds. "Best chance will be as a rush backer or 'elephant' defensive end for a team like the Panthers or 49ers. Does look like a standard 4-3 backer but can really run and get up the field." He never became the quite the superstar that the Irish projected, but he has the tools to take it up a notch on the next level. 

Pete Chryplewicz 
The 6-foot-4, 255-pound tight end really stepped up in 1996, recording the most receptions by an Irish tight end in 12 years. "Big, solid, blue-collar tight end. A poor man's Mark Bavaro but is not the athlete Bavaro was." Ranked by Buchsbaum as the seventh best at his position, look for a pass­ing-oriented team to take a flyer on him in the fourth or fifth round. 
Lyron Cobbins 
Lacks height, speed, and the other tools scouts normally look for, so he may not be drafted. "Lacks height and plays short. Not very agile. Will struggle to find the ball. Tends to go around blocks instead of taking them on. Lacks top instincts." The only thing Cobbins has going for him is his nose for the football. Although he tailed off some his senior year, he seemed to be all over the field as a junior. 
.... Classifieds 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon -Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
Interested in Making Extra$$$? 
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ing for students to make follow up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flexible hours. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­5754 
.. 
EUROPE $229. Within USA $79.-$129. Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!! http://www.airtich.org AIRTICH 1-800-326-2009 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: A Dark Gray JCrew Sportcoat at the WAKE. REWARD-John 271-3150 
LOST-Silver Olympus Stylus Camera on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4-1107 
Lost -green bookbag with diskette 
box, CDs, class notebooks inside. 
Lost at NOH on Mon. Apr. 14th. 
Very important. 
Call Paul at x2018 
WANTED 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­
MENT -Discover how workers can 
earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise 
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­
mer in the Land Tour industry! Call
-... 
Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext C55846 
NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH NEEDED 1997-98 ACADEMIC YEAR. MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE 
.. 
CEDAINDT EXPERIENCE 
REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH COURSE IN DEBATE. FORWARD RESUME & COVER LETIER BY APRIL19: P.O. BOX 89 NOTRE DAME, IN 46617 OR CALL 631-7753 W/QUESTIONS 
Family seeks loving, responsible, fun person to help care for 2 chil­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per hr. References and own transporta­tion needed. Sue 233-6657 
Looking for roommate or 2 to share rent at cozy runaway bay this summer Call 3864 
A used car in good condition. Call Rishi at 4-4540 and leave message. 
FOR RENT 
Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595 
4 BDRM EXECUTIVE TYPE HOME CLOSE TO CAMPUS.SUITABLE FOR GRAD STUDENTS,PROFS,ETC.2 CAR,APPLIANCES,FIN. BSMNT.QUIET CUL-DE­SAC.AVAILABLE JUNE 1.$1300. 235-3259. 
College Pk Apt (Summer) 243­9357 
Apt . for 11 wks. V. close to ND (May-Aug), $65 per Wk. Call Jihad 277-3254 
FOR 97-98-4 Bedrooms/3 sto­ries-5 min to campus, block to Corby's & Sunny Italy-Huge park­ing lot & yard-$125/mo/person­233-9805 
ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FALL SEM 97 to live with 5 guys who love alcohol-$180/mo, own BR, nice big house on Sorin/St. Peter­willlive w/dog-288-9102. 
5 Bdrms. in private home. Near campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794 Paul. 
Two ND grads ('95) are looking for one or two others (M or F) to share a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for the summer. Call 7731695-2545 for info. 
Live in a New House During Summer School! Right By Campus. call @243-9438. 
NEED TO SUBLET AN APART­MENT THIS SUMMER? WE HAVE A TOWNHOUSE AT TURTLE CREEK! CALL 273-9829 
FOR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER Great nbrhd, near ND 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 288 7862 
Sony Stereo ($100): CD/2-tape deck/ radio/speakers CALL BEN X1718 
89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad 277-3254 
Spacious Oakhill condo! 2 bed­rooms,2 full baths,loft,fire­place;&71 ,OOO.Call Roger Hibbs, Cressy & Everett,272-8668. 
Need Furniture? For Sale-Bed, Desk, Couches, Bookcase, etc. Diana 271-2947 
•FURNJTURE-Futon $100 Chair $50 273-8673 
Sofa, Dining rm table: good 4 dorm/apt. Mike 243-9224 
Furniture for sale! Call 243-9357 
FOR SALE: 10' Burmese Python and 7.5' Albino Burmese Great temperments. $200 OBO, cage and heat included. Call Jeff at 283-0739 for details. 
FOR SALE: NEW 27" TV, 2 ENTERTAINMENT UNITS, 4 COUCHES! CALL CARLA AT 243-9282! 
93 HONDA CIVIC EX. Loaded: Power sun-roof, windows, locks. Air, Cruise, AM/FM!Tape, ABS, 5-speed, Air bag, Alarm. 60,000 miles, two new tires. Buy at dealer cost and save! $9,000. Jim. 289-1992. 
STEVE MILLER 
CENTER STATE FLOOR SEATS 1ST 10 ROWS 
272-7233 
TICKETS 
Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help! Brian-287-4876 
Marc Edwards 

Regarded by most as the top fullback in the draft, Edwards probably won't go until late in the second round or early in the third round. "Blue-collar fullback. Not fancy but can be effective if used correctly. Helped himself at the Senior Bowl and moved up to, or near, the top of the FB list." Although he did not match his junior-year performance, scouts are high on him as a blocker and a receiver out of the backfield. 
Kinnon Tatum 

Like Cobbins, Tatum is undersized by NFL standards and will most likely be reduced to a late-round selection. "Too small to play inside and gets engulfed. Not big or stout. Does not have the lateral speed or agility for safety. Might stick as a nickel backer and special-team player or he may just be an LB-safety tweener." He may not go until late, but anyone who can hit like Tatum deserves a roster spot. 
Reynaldo Wynn 
Could have left early a year ago, but stayed and will reap the benefits. The 6-foot-2, 288-pound Wynn has a chance to be drafted in the top 20 picks of the first round. "Keeps getting bigger, stronger, and better. Much more consistent now. Has an explosive takeoff and good upfield explosion." His attitude and work ethic in the weight room has scouts salivating. Bryant Young's success with San Francisco can only help him. 
Randy Kinder & Robert Farmer 
The pair of talented tailbacks has been grouped together for the past four years and should be selected near one another somewhere in the middle to late rounds. Kinder's speed warrants a second look. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Thank You 

Do you have an extra GRADUA­TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!! Please call Paige at X4011 
I need 2 xtra graduation tix -willing to pay Please call Karen x4588 
I really need grad tickets. Help!?! Diana 271-2947 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. 
ETHAN 4-1659. 
STEVE MILLER 
CENTER STAGE FLOOR SEATS FIRST 10 ROWS 
272-7233 
HELP!!! Need 7 tix to the Blue and Gold game the 26th. I have 5 peo­ple FLYING in and the game is sold out. Contact Shannon 1-8544 or 299-7026 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FASTII! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 

THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!! I 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
Want the best job on campus? 
Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11:30-12:30 M-F or call Debbie at 1-6616 for ?'s (Any qualified student please apply) 
Family Needs Graduation Tickets-Please Help I Christian 273-6967 
Tons of Furniture! ... Really, Really Cheap 
Couches ... Chairs ... Dressers ... Tables ... Beds ... Bookcases ... Lamps ... Kitchen Stuff ... and some! We can even deliver! Call287-4876 
ADOPTION Happily married couple promises love, warmth & a secure future for your baby. Respect for you & your decision. Expenses paid. Joni & Shep 1-800-528-2344 
But remember our deal about for­eign work, even if you are a tradi­tional male. 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­AGE. Collegiate Student Storage offers On Campus and Off Campus Pick up and Delivery, Boxes, Insurance, Tape and Packing Materials Included. Call Now to Reserve Your Space at 800 3 STORE 9 (BOO 378-6739). 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ COME ON DOWN! PANGBORN PRESENTS ... THE PRICE IS RIGHT!!!! SAT, APRIL 19 7 PM STEPAN 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
HEY ANTOSTAL COMMITIEE!! you guys have worked hard all year and it's going to be a great week! GET EXCITED! Thank you so much-love, the queen of voice mail 
It's not plural, Regis. 
BEAT THE RUSH!! UPS on CAM PUS DAILY Pack up and \ship out now! LOW RATES COUNTRY HARVESTER M-F 10-5 SAT 12-3 
Come One, Come All See this SUNDAY Afternoon GAME OF THE CENTURY 
as the yet unranked SAUSAGE, SALAMI, & OTHER 
PORK PRODUCTS Defeat #10 bw3's: Bolivian Yaks @Stepan Courts 4:30 
It's NOT plural, Regis. 
It's not plural, REGIS. 
To the assassins: You're bookstore commissioners you should have known what you were getting into. If you can't han­dle Fancy Face-DON'T PLAY THE GAME! 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! CALL JENNY AT 243-9282 
http://www. nd. edu/-fcloran/pork 
BEND OVER 
HERE COME THE 
PW. RA's!! 
Congrats on a great 
bookstore game!! 
Weasels, aren't you proud? 
STOMPER BOB at BRIDGET'S 
TONIGHT 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK Very high-quality full-color output is now available at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center. Bring in your computer disk to print your files. We support PowerPoint, Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker, and many many more types of files. It only costs a $1 plus the regular color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color copy price for over ten files. We can print directly onto overhead transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
HI THERE! 
if you see classifieds happening ... 
TOP10COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS NOT CHOSEN-'97 
10BOWSER 
9VISOR MAN 
8 GUTSY THE FLYING CAT 
7 ROB PI LATUS 
6 THE SEXECUTIONER 
5 MAD DOG 
4 PETER STEELE 
3 KISSEL 
2CHEWBACCA 1 SLEAZV P MARTINI 
let nothing disturb you, let nothing frighten you. all things are passing, God never changes. 
it's all about budgetary wall charts. 
barb -its over its over its over its over! 
good luck on the meat, chris! 
carrie .... riiiiiikola! 
good luck with THE paper, lis. imagine a facial explosion. or something like that. 
how many more days?!? 

--~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • NFL DRAFT page 17 
Rams trade for top pick 
Associated Press 
The St. Louis Rams obtained the first pick in 
the NFL draft from the New York Jets yesterday, 
giving them the chance to select Orlando Pace, 
the offensive tackle coach Dick Vermeil desper­
ately seeks. 
In return, the Jets received the sixth overall 
choice and the Rams' choices in the third, fourth 
and seventh rounds. That will allow Jets coach 
Bill Parcells to get the defensive player he wants. 
Vermeil. who didn't have a first or second­
rounder his first two years in Philadelphia, 
didn't specifically say he Would take Pace. 
'Needless to say I'm very excited," he said. 
"It's so super to be in this situation. To be in a 
position to start a new program with the number 
one, number one is almost overwhelming." 
Parcells was equally happy. 
"At the sixth spot we'll still get a real good 
player and the additional picks let us address 
our pressing needs," Parcells said. "It's a win­
win situation for both teams.' 
In effect. the Jets are reclaiming the third-and 
fourth-round picks they gave up to New England 
as compensation for Parcells' release from his 
contract with the Patriots. 
The Hams, who consider offensive tackle their 
most pressing need, are certain to use the pick Saturday to take Pace, the 340-pounder from Ohio State who is rated the best player available. 
The Jets, who wanted a defensive player rather than Pace, now will have a shot at either Alabama linebacker Dwayne Rudd or Texas cor­nerback Bryant Westbrook. They might even have a shot at defensive end Peter Boulware of Florida State if Baltimore, as expected, trades out of the fourth overall spot. 
In Parcells' mind, there was no clear-cut top prospect this time. Although Pace is considered the best tackle to come along in years -perhaps since Anthony Munoz in 1980-he certainly was no lock for the Jets, who spent millions on the position last year, signing free agents Jumbo Elliott and David Williams. 
One player the Jets are unlikely to get is Darrell Russell, the Southern California defen­sive tackle who had been considered their top choice if they kept the top pick. Another who will go early is cornerback Shawn Springs of Ohio State. 
"This draft has from six to eight players at the top who really stand out before you get to anoth­er level," Jets personnel director Dick Haley said. "Certainly guys like Pace, Russell, Springs, Boulware are in that top group." 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
r-------------------~ 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Reading Sale! 
20% OFF ALL BOOKS 
WITHTHIS COUPON INAPRIL 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St., downtown South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). Open 10-5, Monday~ Friday (closed 4124 & 4/25) 
Drukenmiller headlines QBs 
By RICHARD ROSENBLATT 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Danny Wuerffel and Ja.ke Plummer were college foot­ball's glamour guys last season, piling up tons of yards, touch­downs, victories and awards. 
Funny thing, but Virginia Tech's Jim Druckenmiller is the No. 1 quarterback on the NFL draft charts. 
And when the draft kicks off Saturday, the 6-foot-4 1/2, 223­pounder could go anywhere from ninth overall, to the Arizona Cardinals, to 26th and the San Francisco 49ers. 
"He's a man among boys," said Tom Braatz, the Miami Dolphins director of scouting. "He has the size, the strength." 
Wuerffel, the Reisman 
Trophy winner who led Florida to its first national title and set 4 7 school, Southeastern Conference and NCAA records, understands what the NFL is after. 
He knows teams are wary of his unusual throwing motion ­it's like watching a shot-putter -and questionable arm strength. _ 
''I've always had the philoso­phy not to expect anything but be prepared for everything," said the 6-foot-1 1/2, 210­pound Wuerffel, who could go as early as the late second round. "One day, you're here in Florida. The next, you find out where your new home will be and what kind of weather you'll have." 
Wuerffel; the most efficient passer in NCAA history, said he most exciting player in col­lege. 
His resourcefulness impressed NFL scouts, and he could go late in the first round -to the 49ers, perhaps, if Druckenmiller goes earlier. 
"This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," said the 6-foot-1, 195-pound Plummer, whose style has been compared to Joe Montana. 
"It's what I've worked for. I'd 
....

just like to go as high as possi­ble and get to camp. The whole thing's pretty exciting." 
And then there's Pat Barnes of California. He played under Steve Mariucci, now the 49ers' coach, and his stock has risen based on size (6-foot-3, 213 pounds) and smarts. 
"The big question you have with Barnes is his (injured) 
~-------------------~ 
plans to play golf in Gainesville, wrist," said 49ers personnel Fla., as the draft unfolds. director Vinny Cerrato. Plummer, who led Arizona "The doctors say he should State within a few seconds of be OK, but do you waste a highTakeThe EasyWay claiming the national title with pick on a guy you don't know 
Out Of College. 

r---------------------,
l()lfo ()fl' Boxes & Su)lplies 
·~~ W:u'drui•f·l•r;,·n f)n:l:p~rd.s. fat~,·-Uubhlf' 11·r,:p. ra:1nanw u. ;n· hm·c· ~-~ il. }'ou'{/ get 1Ji'."of'OlfiH pn'n~.\ t"Hlt/ W(•'if ('\'t"~JI hit\'l'W'k WI,\' ba.\1!'\ ."li•U 
· · doni ll.':f.'. Whi.d! IHi'rUH' \'uu'l! .\(W(' mort.•Jilan emu.' filld rrou!;!e, you ·u san! mum·~·wt•' Cal! Ryda TRS toduy and _t:t.'t a!! :li!' nuJrmc .t·ufJp!it·~· yr•u n~·td. Nm•· thar ·_;;a .ww,.: move. 
RYDERfRS
I 
~ 1111•<t'l,;,l(ffi t'(l\v,.,u(t•)(k>~~,a;tlt\.>llllf.V.:p\)'CW.~nut... hJo'<-.Jif'\o.:!.~m~ U'hl~Y,:II'I< 1®>'1.; 11.\.:ll.to.><t\<'f> • 1 Ill(•~~
I "'lh ~~~· ,ll=.o:r ,1!>:' ,c•..,,~w >!'":":' >e'!(~""' : < )• "'i"'''""b;o!('ll~>!'!.ll ;.:rt..'ux••nli="'"W" ;...;~d~~lll)'.t'••••"'>!'X'rt•·!..(llft"
$ l'o.:'tm1K-v ;:.;•.,.;;_f"J<><-~~-.•:""'1•' , . ..,:t N<Yif,l<,l}f:<\: I'.F ·\ll,li."t-;'·v;~t. ... l<•~~""'•""'~f-.:.:fl':"'ol ,..-tJ,~a~~.a ..~·l..:! >tl•·•• i 
~---------------------~
Jack's Trailer Sales 51370 U.S. 33 North 277-9799 Cira's Service 1914 Miami St. 289-6721 Tom's Car Care 3201 Sugar Maple Ct. 288-0316 RTS 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 277-3550 
Call 1-800-GC>-RYDER 
his daredevil style, was the yet will be OK?" 
A 
SPECIAL 
L _ ~Y!; _.J L ~n_:::e:_ .J L _&~2:1 :... .J LC.!!.t~2T:J 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. 
We hope to see you soon. 
• Please call to schedule your appointment • 
INTRODUCTORY OFFER  Atria Salon  
Ad must be presented to receptionist before  1357 N. Ironwood Dr.  
services are performed.  South Bend, IN 46615  
(Certain restrictions apply)  Tel. 219~289~5080  

Long or tinted hair add $10. Perm includes shampoo, haircut and finish. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires May 9, 1997. 


·.. Dongie fresh & The Get F res -......iiitJtt!!arrer.!iliien~~~~lllL.­
.. Popcorn . 4 Jerks & a Squirt def. We'r i:.Jeannine is i1i}\nnexation of Puerto Rico de 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
"It was all offense today," he explained. "Neither team played a whole lot of defense. But we did hit the boards and we used our big size advantage to smoth­
.... er them." In what areas do the Bailers need to improve before their second round game on Sunday? "Well, we definitely need to get more used to each other," he stated. "Today was a good workout and I think it'll help us down the road." The Smoking 'Cocks, who didn't have a player over six feet at the game, went up in a ball smoke, falling to And 1 by a score of 21-9. And 1 jumped out to a 5-0 lead early and used their dramatic size advantage to muscle their way to an easy vic­tory. "They were just tough," stated Jim Herbe of the 'Cocks. "Their full court press hurt us. We did get into a rhythm-! hit four or fivein a row-but all our hoops were from the outside. We were missing a couple of players; I think that made a big differ­ence." "This was -our first game together," explained And 1's Mike Gandy, who was a fresh­man tight end on the football team. "We were a little rough, but we showed signs of domina­tion. We need to get used to each other and work on our passing, but I'll think we'll be 
tough." 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
Herbe disagreed. Rather than 
How would you like: to reach basic con~c:rsational English in Easrern Euro~e? Our marenals profile 
offer the orthodox, respectful 
many rewarding teachmg oppormnities wirh 
compliments that usually follow grear benefirs. For informa.rion call: (206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
' 
L-0"---. --· 







a loss, he made some choleric comments. Asked if they would be tough to beat, he replied, "I don't think so. If we had our full squad we could have beaten them. Their big men don't have touch and we shot better than them from the outside." 
Show Me the Money, despite playing half the game with only four players, cruised to a 21-5 victory over William Wallace, Lorena Bobbit, and 3 other guys who will cut your head off. Varsity football player Jason Ching collided with teammate Justin Young and received a lac­eration on his forehead, which required stitches. Ching is expected back for the second round game. 
"We didn't know who they [William Wallace ...] were," stat­ed Ching. "So we came ready to play. We put the pressure on them and ran the fast break really well. It was an up-tempo 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Use(l books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-Qf-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 · •Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
TEACH ENGLISH in 
EASTERNEUROP 
game and it was a lot of fun." 
Show Me the Money intends to improve its teamwork before the next round. 
"We have a lot of talent but we haven't played a lot together," Ching explained. "We've got to learn to play as a team." 
In other action, the Waukesha Space Monkeys, thanks to a strong effort by team captain Brad Connors, blew out TEAM, their all-female opponent, 21-1. And We Double Dribble in Our Pants, led by team captain Mark Crudo, advanced with an easy victory over Atari 2600. !lather than playing a man-down for the entire game, Atari conceded vic­tory when one player broke his nose just minutes into the game. 
AUDITIONS FOR READERS AT GRADUATION AND LAST VISIT 
Auditions to be held on April 22nd and 23rd at 4:00p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Information: Sr. Teresita Creighton, O.P. 631-8463 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Moreau Center/ O'Laughlin Auditorium Admission FREE Saint Mary's College 


Insight 
continued from page 28 
Allenspach and Michael Bradley,. decided to look else­where. After a brief visit to Notre Dame, Bradley committed to Kentucky. Allenspach decid­ed to wait until O'Brien settled things at Boston College, but when O'Brien left for Ohio State, Allenspach looked towards Notre Dame and Clemson. 
Adam Allenspach: This was the break the Irish needed. Allenspach-7-feet 220 pounds-would provide an immediate impact at center and coupled with Big East Player of the Year Pat Garrity, would have given the Irish one of the top post games in the Big East. 

The multi-level nite club offering the best in off-campus fun and 
entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can 
go party on the next floor. Two dance floors, DJ's on both levels. 
PRESENTS: 
A 70's DISCO/FUNK PARTY 
Saturday, April 19th. Downstairs Lounge 70's Music Only 70's Attire Required for Admittance to Downstairs Lounge April19, 1997. No 70's Attire-No Admittance to Downstairs Lounge No Exceptions 
Coming Friday, April 25 Sabor Latino Band 
THE UPSTAIRS LOUNGE WILL BE OPEN FOR THOSE WHO DONT COME DRESSED IN 70'S ATTIRE. PLAYING STANDARD 90'S HIP-HOP AND R&B MUSIC. 21 AND OVER WITH ID'S REQUIRED. 
CLASS OF '98 Be apart oyour Class CouncH. 
CLASS OF 
AppHcations due by the 18th. 
Available outside 213 LaFortune.· 
"In my 25 to 30 years of coaching I've never seen a big man who can run the floor like he can," Allenspach's coach Mike Benanti told the South Bend Tribune. "He's a combi­nation of strength and finesse." 
After averaging 15.7 points and eight rebounds a game in 1996, the Parkland, Fla. native has been ranked in the top 100 players nationally by Prep Star imd in the top 75 by recruiting analyst Bob Gibbons. 
Yet, this isn't a fairy tale. If you haven't heard by now, Allenspach signed with Clemson. Last Tuesday, Irish head coach John MacLeod was preparing to fly down to visit Allenspach for a final push. Allenspach .called MacLeod and told him not to bother, he was signing with Clemson. 
"I should be happy for Adam that he has a chance for a good education and to play major col­lege basketball," Benanti com­mented. ''I'm not sure I agree with everything they did for that to happen, though. I question some things they did ethically, though I'm sure it was all legal." 
One Clemson student reported that the university supplied Allenspach with a female "host" for his visit. 
Yet, ethic questions aside, it is the reason that Allenspach gave that is the most troubling. 
"What Adam told me is that it came down to more enthusiasm at Clemson," Benanti explained. "He said it just seemed like bas­ketball was more important at Clemson than it was at Notre Dame." 
A Clemson news service reported a meeting between Allenspach and Clemson basket­ball player Bill Harder during a Clemson basketball awards ban­quet. 
"Allenspach said Notre Dame told him if he signed with them they would be one of the top three teams in the Big East," the report stated. "Harder said Allenspach didn't want to play for a team with such low stan­dards." 
And this brings me to Northwestern. 
Kevin O'Neill: It would be so easy to say that Northwestern sold out. They forsook academ­ic excellence for athletic achievement. Or maybe it would be more correct to say that they rei:dized that excel­lence in athletics and academics was achievable-is not Notre Dame supposed to be an exam­ple of this-and they decided to pursue it full force. 
When the Mildcats hired O'Neill, they dedicated them­selves to basketball. O'Neill is no baby kissing, Madison Avenue coach. He is a bastard to alumni and fans. He is a used car salesman. He is a program maker. 
He can recruit better than David Koresh and can take a program from nothing to the 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Sometimes John Macleod's style has lost the coveted recruits that the car salesmen of the world have been able to land. 
Sweet Sixteen. Just don't ask him to be a better floor coach than Michigan's Steve Fisher. 
O'Neill and MacLeod are exact opposites. MacLeod is an excel­lent coach and a kind and hon­est man. O'Neill will lose a game down the stretch and tell a 4-11 power forward that he has the potential to be the next Karl Malone. 
MacLeod would tell Kobe Bryant that if he played hard in practice and learned the defense he may be able to pass Pete Miller on the depth chart by his sophomore year. O'Neill would sell his mother for a 7­foot center. 
By 1999, Northwestern and O'Neill will own Chicago. Every recruit worth an inch of press will have Northwestern on his short list, and Notre Dame will 
wonder why they can't recruit Chicago. · 
Corey Maggette, you ask? One of the top 10 juniors in the nation out of Chicago. My five bucks is on the table­Northwestern's first big catch. 
Therefore, I have some advice for Coach MacLeod. You may explode if you had to tell a recruit he was the sun, moon and stars. It's just not in your character. 
Thus, find out if Joe Isuzu is still alive. Hire him. Make him your recruiting coordinator. And the next time an Allenspach comes around, have Isuzu point to the Dome and say, "You see that statue of Mary? We'll knock that down and put a stat­ue of you up there-holding a National Championship trophy. The trophy ymfhelped us win." 

we guarantee an apartment for you THIS FALL! we provide: 
• 
Washer &dryer in your home 

•Gas 
heat INCLUDED 


•Mini 
blinds on all windows 

•Fitness 
center, pools, & club­house 

•Central 
air cqnditioning 

•12 
Month lease 

•Cats 
allowed 


• 
JUST 4 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 


One, '1\vo, & Three Bedroom Aparttnents & Townhomes from $415 to $700 
INDIAN SPRING 272-5011~....... ·-~-· 
-


,. 
·-------~ 

~---~ ----~ --~-------~---~----­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 18, 1997 
Shuler traded to New Orleans 
.·... Bec;l<y ~ler'~ .~BI provided for the 1-0Win over Goshen in the first game. Liz Shevik pro~ vided the defense with an out­standing pitching game, allow-

PEACE CORPS 
NEEDS YOUR SKILLS 
We are recruiting students who will graduate in 1997 and 1998 for volunteer positions in Education, Environment, Agriculture, Business, Health, Youth Development, and other areas. 
Call today to discuss your qualifications.
-
(~~
e FORMORE INFORMATION CAU 
1-800-424-8580 
Visit Peace Corps WEB site: http/www.peace corps.gov Online application available at: 
By JOSEPH WHITE that would give the Saints draft back. General manager Associated Press Writer picks in exchange for Shuler. Charley Casserly said earlier The source said an announce­this week that the Redskins WASIIINGTON ment would be made once would be prepared to hang 
Breaking a month-long Sh-uler signs a contract with onto Shuler until opening day if impasse two days before a crit­the Saints, possibly Thursday a deal wasn't reached by ical deadline, Washington and night. The source did not say Saturday. New Orleans agreed Thursday which draft picks are involved That would have ruined to a deal that will send quar­in the trade. Saints coach Mike Ditka's plans terback Heath Shuler to the The Redskins had been to have Shuler compete against Saints. demanding a third-round pick Jim Everett for the starting job 
A Redskins source said an in this weekend's NFL draft for this summer. Ditka has spoken agreement had been reached the former Tennessee quarter-glowingly of Shuler. 
in ourltuge ·election. 
··~, 
~ON10~~ 
AA"""·· More than 60,000 CDs discounted every day 
Mlriyiihi~T·Av· 
All products shown at everyday low·rprice. 
STORE HOURS: MON-SAT: 1 OAM-1 OPM; luN: 11 AM-7PM 
§

····'%.. ,•.. 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawokq~1 271-0696 

Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS . page 21 
Lax 

room supervisors. Please pick 
continued from page 28 

up an application at the Office of RecSports on the first floor while Air Force fell to 5-5. of the Joyce Center. For more "I think we are definitely con­information, call 631-6100. tenders for a national champi­
Bar Bell Club -A weightlift­onship," said DeRiso. "This is 
ing club is coming soon next · the best team we have had in year for novice or serious my four years. We are capable lifters. Learn more about the of beating anyone in the coun­art of lifting and developing a try. If we can execute our bigger and stronger physique. game, no one can stop us." Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign­Though the Irish are confi­ups and more info. dent, they are careful not to 
look too far ahead. 

Antostal is holding a run 
"We have a big challenge in

around the lakes called 
the next two games," said Irish HostileTostal on Sunday, April 

head coach Kevin Corrigan.

20. All participants will get a "We've got UMass at UMassfree t-shirt and there is no sign 
and Harvard at home. It is

up fee, they just need to sign nice to be 7-1, but it is a shortup at the run itself. It starts at ride from the penthouse to the2 p.m. Any questions please outhouse."
call 4-2272 or 1-7757. 
The Irish demonstrated why

Dr. James Moriarty will 
they are the ninth-ranked teamconduct a lecture on the topic in the country by dominating

of Creatine Monohydrate in the Flying Falcons. Despite
Athletics on Monday, April 14 controlling the ball well andat 7:30 p.m. The lecture will outshooting Air Force 26-11 in
be in room 102 DeBartolo 
the first two quarters, the IrishHall. 
led only 4--2 at the half. 
HeSJ Tara McCue! don't just sit there like a plant; get out and partf::} on f:JOLlr birthdaSJI 
Happy 20th 

•tit 
b\ 
L<We. ~ & Z'ad 
"I thought we played very well," explained Corrigan, "we just could not put the ball in the goal. We did not play any better in the second half, but 
we were just able to finish." 
And finish they did. The Irish scored seven straight goals in the second half. 
"In the first half we were not hitting our shots," said DeRiso. "In the third quarter we got back to our regular offense. Had we done that in the first half we would have been all over them." 
Leading the Irish in the win were Chris Dusseau, who fin­ished with four goals, and DeRiso who chipped in three goals and three assists. 
"Chris has been doing good things since the first day," said Corrigan. "He is a great attackman. Will has done an awful lot well for this team. When Will got hurt against Penn State we thought he would be out for a while. We knew we would miss him, but when he was gone we began to see just how much he was doing for this team." 
Notre Dame led 2-1 after the first quarter. Dusseau regis­tered the first Irish goal 3:30 into the contest. Air Force tied the score with 4:38 left in the quarter, but DeRiso responded scoring with 2:46 left and giv­ing the Irish the 2-1 advantage. 
The score stayed at 2-1 until 
2:48 left in the half when Air Force tied the game 2-2. However, the Irish scored two quick goals to give them the 4­2 halftime lead. 
Notre Dame found its rhythm in the third quarter, scoring five unanswered goals. Air Force ended the seven-goal streak with a couple of goals in the fourth quarter, bringing the ­final tally to 9-4. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Advanced Scuba RecSports will be sponsoring Advanced Scuba Classes. All participants must be certified divers. For more info, call 1­6100. 
Drop-in Volleyball HecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on 

Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign­ups necessary. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Holfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30-5:30 
p.m. for more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. 
RecSports is now accepting applications for student event supervisors and student issue 
SMART OPTIONS FOR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 
City Staffing, specializing in temporary and permanent placement, deals with a variety of Chicago's most prestigious companies. 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS 
CALL US TO SET UP AN APPOINTMENT THAT WILL 
312-346-3400 

·I 
_________, 
----~--~-------------------------------~------~----------­
page 22 The Observer • BLUE AND GOLD Friday, April 18, 1997 

By MIKE DAY ed the forward pass. 
Sports Editor Talent will be developed rather than hindered. Ron Powlus will have the It goes beyond a change in personnel. chance to display the skills that once had 
Fans will get a look at a 
Sure, the names will be different, and some of the faces may be unfamiliar, but that won't be the biggest change in this year's Blue & Gold game. 
That honor boils down to one simple word: style. 
Put simply, the style of play for Notre Dame has taken on a new look. While "flashy" is hardly the first word that comes to mind, "simply different" might hit the nail on the head in describing the new direction of Irish football. 
This Saturday, the next era of Notre Dame football will be unveiled -t.he Bob Davie era. 
Lou Holtz was a a legend of the game, one of the true all-time greats in Notre Dame's illustrious history. He resurrect­ed a floundering program and took it to the top of college football. And he did so with his own, distinct style. 
But perhaps it was just that -Holtz's style -that needed replacing. 
Some may call it blasphemy, but in the ever-changing game of football, Holtz often seemed like he was stuck in mud. While it may be harsh to say the game had passed him by, it is pretty safe to say Holtz may have been playing in his own game. 
For a program that seemed to be going nowhere fast, change may have been the -only solution. 
And if change was the answer, it could not have come in a more subtle, yet con­clusive way. Holtz and Davie are not as different as black and white, more like black and gray. 
But whether fans notice it right off the 
new style this weekend 

....,~~. <. ' 
''j.-; 
.:tj2~ .. 



The Observer/Brandon Candura 

New head coach Bob Davie brings a new flare to the attitude of the Irish. 
bat or sometime in the fall, Notre Dame ball is permitted to leave the ground in football has indeed taken a turn for the situations other than third and long. better. When necessary, the ball will be put 
Gone are the days of conservative, up in the air. When appropriate, the smashmouth football. First down is no ground game will be utilized. It is the longer an inside handoff for the fullback combination that has not been seen in to run up the middle. And as of now, the these parts since Knute Rockne perfect-scouts drooling. Instead of opting not to use Allen Rossum on punt returns after a defensive series, the dangerous return­er will be utilized and may even double as a wide receiver. 
The new leader will keep an eye on the future as well as the present. Last fall, Holtz rarely substituted, keeping with his regulars until the game was decided. In contrast, Davie plans to use fresh legs by giving more players an opportunity to see the field. 
However, it is not just what happens on the playing field that will be upgrad­ed this fall. It is the entire atmosphere. That includes the way the Irish play, practice, and live their daily lives. 
"It's as different as night and day," said linebacker Kory Minor. "The play­ers are more up-beat and confident in themselves. For the first time in a while, it is exciting to be out here." 
Added Rossum, "Everybody is so loose, but at the same time, there's no drop in intensity. The practices are hard, and we're constantly working, but we seem to be all on the same page this time around." 
"He (Davie) has the respect of this entire football team," said safety Benny Guilbeaux. "He is 'the type of coach that players want to go out and play their best for." 
Change for the sake of change is never the answer. But change, even when times aren't terribly bad and the leader is more than capable, can lead to pros­perity. 
It's just a matter of style. 
1997 Spring Depth Chart 
SPLIT END Raki Nelson CORNERBACK
•I.... ',
. 'I 
RUNNINGBACK Shannon Stephe Ivory Covington
It ~~ Autry Denson Deveron Harper
.. Ut;;i~= 
Clemente Stokes LEFT TACKLE /7
Chris ClevengerLuke Petitgout 
LEFT GUARD Jerry WisneFULLBACK 

Alex MueiJer

Jamie SpencerJoey Goods Ken Berry 
Rl GUARD Mike Rosentha Tim Ridder ILB 
Jimmy Friday

RIGHTTACKLE 
,_.-..l._.,oe Thomas

Mike Doughty 
/T

John Wagner 
FREE SAFETY

TIGHT END / 
Jarvis Edison

Dan O'Leary Deke Cooper
John Cer!2~!2.n• 
WIDERECEIVER STRONG SAFETY
Malcom Johnso ·' Benny Guilbeaux
Bobby Brown A'Jani Sanders 
CORNERBACK
li.EFTEN. Corey B$U11ett Allen Rossum ) 
Jason Cbillg Lee Lafayette' 


The rosters for the Blue and Gold game will not be set until game time. Here is a look at the current Irish depth charts for the Notre Dame offense and defense. 
w-
Friday, Aprill8, 1997 The Observer • BLUE AND GOLD page 23 
routes that are quick," explained Powlus. "They're quicker than
Pow Ius 
the defense can cover them, so 
continued from page 28 
The fact of the matter is that Powlus is personally happy about many of the changes that have been made, even if he does avoid the word "!" in any situa­tion where "we" can be substi­tuted. 
"We are doing a lot more straight drop-back passing," Powlus said. "I think it's great." 
It has been speculated by many an expert (on the rare occassions when they took breaks from criticizing Powlus) it's a real quick read and a real quick throw. You really have to be on your toes in an offense like that, but I like it. That's what I look forward to." · 
Sanford believes that the up­tempo character of the passing schemes will accentuate Powlus' strengths as a quarterback. 
"I think he has a real good feel for the passing game," said Sanford. "We're doing a lot of timed passing plays. There are a lot of three-step and five-step (drops) and he has a good grasp of that." 
that former ~!!!!!!!'!!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!'!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!'!e!l!!!'!!!"'!!!!!!!!!!!'!"""'!!!!!!!'!~ The first of the head coach Lou ·!'You know, it's hard two games will 
Holtz's offense 1 be played on handcuffed ! to sit here in April Saturday after-Powius and :a,nd say 'Hey, 1 think noon and, 
aeaPowla•:
prevented him according to 
from showcas-we can win the nation-Powlus, will ing his talents al championship,' but I< consist primarily ••••Ju lit •• Motn Daaac can• 
as a drop-back of controlled U1t ,_ toacladewa paase• wida 43. 
passer. don't see a game we work on various 
In fact, some should lose.' have even com-men ted that P o w I u s ' mechanics were better during his senior year of high school than they were after three and a half years in Holtz's system. First-year quarterback coach Mike Sanford may not be willing to go that far, but he he does believe that Powlus has room to.get better. 
"He has not arrived," said Sanford of his No. 1 quarter­back. "There are some things that he has got to continue to improve on. lie's got to continue to improve every day because if you ever come to a plateau, then you're going to actually be slid­ing backwards." 
Powlus certainly seems to to be on the same wavelength as Sanford. 
"Obviously, I'm not as-POlished as I could be," admitted Powlus. "I think we're doing some good things as an offense, myself included, but I think we need to do a little more." 
Sanford has confidence that Powlus will be able to rise to this challenge. 
"The things that I've been impressed with," praised Sanford, "are his attitude and his eagerness and his desire to learn and get better." 
Powlus understands that his cuncentration and focus will be tested by the offense that head coach Bob Davie and offensive coordinator Jim Coletto have worked to implement. 
"We are throwing a lot of 
game situations. ••••k• 3._.. •• Motn a.aac. cane~ 
The second con­
U1t for cotaplctict• wi.tla 376
Ron Powlus test, scheduled for next ...yal'tll with .ssu. 
Saturday, will take the appearance of a typical 
•BalllcanerJ.OO~paolq
game with set teams and timed 
......

periods. 
Despite the fact that the first contest will have more of a prac­•Waa aa8lctl USA Toelay'e offculve tice atmosphere, Powlus is excit­
playu of dae J'eal' Jale eeator
ed because it will be a chance for he and the team to put the year Ia bllb 1daooL things that they have been prac­tieing on display. 
. . . The Observer/Rob Finch, Jon King 
"We love having the fans 
Desp1te 1ncred1ble pressure to perform, Ron Powlus has written his name all over the Irish record books.
there," Powlus said. "It's so much fun to perform that way." 
"I just don't see why we should
Powlus' enthusiasm for the 
lose a game. We have enoughdevelopment of the team can be athletes and enough talent. Youseen at all levels. His confidence know, it's hard to sit here in
in the individuals whom he 
April and say 'Hey, I think weworks with and his willingness can win the national champi­to come to their defense when onship,' but I don't see a gamehe believes that they have been that we should lose." 
unfairly criticized are just some It is not that Powlus lacks
of the factors that have led to a respect for the teams that thesmooth transition this spring. 
Irish will face in 1997. He sim­One group of players, in particu­
ply refuses to allow for any
lar, that he feels should be given excuses.
more credit is the receivers. 
"Michigan's going to be
"I think the receivers are going tough," said Powlus, "going toto be a strong point, without LSU is going to be tough, USC atquestion," Powlus commented. 
home is going to be tough, but"They took a lot of unwarranted hey, we can win them. I'm veryheat last year and I think this confident in our ability."
year they're going to show that This is the attitude that thethey can do it." 
Notre Dame football program
As the pressure mounts on 
needs, and thanks to Powlus,Powlus and the Irish to succeed, this is the attitude it has.
the veteran gridiron general No matter what happens insimply continues to exude a 
1997, it is certain that no onebrand of confidence that has will be able to say that the Irishevery last player believing that quarterback left anything to betheir goals are within reach. 
desired.

"In the fall," asserted Powlus, 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It is a scrimmage that is known for establishing future legends of the game, names such as Leahy, Hanratty, and Theismann. One of Notre Dame's rites of spring will take place this Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. This weekend the 67th edition of the Blue-Gold game will commence. 
The game has seen some changes since its inau­gural scrimmage on May 4 back in 1929. It origi­nally was entitled the "Varsity vs. Old Timers" Game and it featured the current team members who would face off against players of the past. Frank Leahy was one of the participants in the inaugural scrimmage, as he was guided by leg­endary coach Knute Rockne. "The 'old-timers' registered three touchdowns against their less experienced opponents during the four quarters of the opening session of scrimmages,'' according to the Scholastic. 
In 1968, head coach Ara Parseghian changed the format of the scrimmage. He changed it to feature a scrimmage between the current team members. There was one specific reason for the switch. Several of those on past squads found themselves in the NFL and saw a threat because of possible injury. In the initial game, the top squad 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
faced ofT against a combination of the number two
Linebacker Lamont Bryant has been dominant in spring workouts and hopes to build on that in this Saturday's Blue & Gold game. 
and three teams. In this inaugural scrimmage, the 
_Ron Powlus ~njury History: 
*August 28, 1993-Suffered broken right clavicle on fifth play of preseason scrimmage 
*October 17, 1993-Cracked right cravicle while throwing on non-contact ba~is in practice, ending his season 
,,, , :.. 

*November i\.~9.96-Suffered broken left humerus 
(upper arm) whileb 1Oth game of · 
* 

·  led in third quarter of the  
Navy  •  
surgery at St. Joseph  
·...  h left shoulder into  
L.,··.C·~•""··'··'"'  
.. ·  .  .  
·..  ,·.  nt minorsi.irQ"ety to remove  

ro erus bone, then began full-scale rehabilitation 
There should be no doubt in onship or not, every person who anyone's mind: ever had the priviledge of watch­
When all is said and done and ing him play in a Notre Dame the kid from Berwick rides off uniform will be able to say that into the sunset behind the they truly witnessed something Golden Dome, nationa champi-special. 
Scrimmage has new look 
highlights came from senior Terry Hanratty, who completed 16 of 26 passes for 234 yards. The sec­ondary team was highlighted by the play of fresh­man Joe Theismann, who completed 20 passes for 277 yards. 
In recent years, the location of the game has been in jeopardy due to the reconstruction of the stadium. The game is known for drawing over 20,000 plus fans, and in 1990 the attendance record was set at 29,451. 
Last year marked the first year that the game was not held in the stadium. Like last year, the game will be held at Moose Krause field which holds around 5000 plus fans. 
Due to the small capacity of Moose Krause, there will be two Blue-Gold scrimmages. One concern of holding a single scrimmage is that all those wanti­ng to see the game would not be able. Another concern of the organizers was the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley. The proceeds of the game benefit the scholarship of the Notre Dame Club. By holding two scrimmages, the team allows more people to attend and raises more money. 
"In most years, the game raises around $40,000," Shawn Ryan, a member of the Notre Dame Club said. "With it being held in Moose Krause Stadium it cuts down on the amount raised considerably." 
On Saturday, the 67th year of tradition will com­mence and new legends will emerge. 
---·' 

page 24 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, Aprill8, 1997 
• BASEBAll 
Irish outlast Indiana Tech in dramatic fashion 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Editor-in-Chief 
As Jeff Felker headed to the plate in the bottom of the lOth inning of last night's game 
against Indiana Tech, head coach Paul Manieri had a bit of advice for the Irish first baseman. 

"I told Jeff. Felker 'Just get up there and let it rip,"' Manieri said. 
"When Jeff Felker puts his mind to it and gets a good rip, he gets his money's worth." 
And that's exactly what Felker did, hitting a curveball from the Warriors' Jason Bullinger over the right-center­field fence. 
The game-winning solo home run made a winner out of Irish pitcher Tom O'Hagan and gave the Irish (26-13) an 8-7 victory. 
"It felt good," Felker said of the home run, his second of the season. "The pitch was a little high, but I was able to take advantage of it." 
Felker's blast was a redeem­ing ending to a game that had an unsightly beginning. Two errors, two walks and a wild pitch in the top of the third inning spotted the Warriors four runs and gave them a 5-0 lead. 
Although freezing tempera­tures made the environment at Frank Eck Stadium uncomfort­able, Manieri refused to blame the weather conditions for his team's performance early on. 
"Our heads just weren't in the game," he said. "We had played on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday." 
"When you play that many days in a row, players have to start paying attention to their concentration on the game. It wasn't until the fourth inning that we finally woke up." 
The Irish's Pat Davis was able to put an end to the damage in the third, quickly getting two groundouts to end the inning and then turning the pitching over to Steve Szczepanski. Over the next three innings, Szszepanski faced 11 batters, retiring nine. 
"That was key," Manieri said. "Szszepanski took control of the game and got us back in it." 
Szszepanski's relief pitching -combined with four innings of work from O'Hagan -shut the Warriors' bats down and gave the Irish offense a chance to dig into the lead. 
The Irish got three runs in the sixth inning -a rally ignited by catcher Jeff Wagner, who hit his second double of the day and quickly wound up on third thanks to an error by the Warriors second baseman on a pick-off attempt. 
After a walk to Brant Ust, an infield single by Allen Greene scored Wagner. J.J. Brock fol­lowed that up two outs later with a single up the middle, scoring two. ­
The Iris,h actually had a chance to win the game without going to extra innings. 
In the seventh frame, a triple by center fielder Randall Brooks 
1 

and an RBI single by Mike Amrhein chased Warrior start­ing pitcher Ken Fischer. Greene later hit a two-run single that gave the Irish a 7-6 lead. 
But the advantage only lasted until the next inning. The Warriors' Jason Burke slapped a pinch-hit drive into center field that became a triple when Brooks slipped and the ball got by him. The hit scored Tyson Hill and tied the game. 
O'Hagan got out of the jam, catching the Warriors' Brad Casal looking and getting Ivan Sanabria to ground out to short. 
"That was a big strikeout," O'Hagan said of Casal. The reliever faced similar problems in the ninth. An infield 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


Come visit us at .$'~~"" 

North Shore Club ~.,;s~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open 

Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
If you're interested in. ... 
Visual Basic, OLE, Active X, Visual C++, Custom Control Building, SQUODBC, M, QuakeC Client Server, or Web Programming 
... then we're interested in you. 
At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall,
If you have a BS or better in Computer 
summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket.
Science (or related field) with excellent 
Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of 
quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition
grades, then send your resume to. 
· rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and
Epic Systems 
caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the
5301 Tokay Blvd. 
University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
Madison, WI 53711 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're
jobs@epicsys.com 
<tlso getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and 
single off O'Hagan's leg with two outs loaded the bases, but he forced Hill to hit a come­backer to the mound to retire the side. 
"My slider was working well," O'Hagan said. "I was able to use my fastball to go in and out and set up the slider." 
In the top of the lOth, O'Hagan induced the three Warrior batters to hit routine groundball outs, setting the stage for Felker's heroics. 
The win was the first career victory for O'Hagan, a fresh­man. It also improved the Irish's home record to 14-1. 
*HOLY
" CROSS 
[rg' ~COLLEGE 
Office ofAdmissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556

Session I -May 19 to June 26
is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427
Session II -June 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 


Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Morgan invited to USA trials 
Special to The Observer Honorable Mention All-America able mention All-American 
selection, was Notre Dame's selection as a junior and senior, 
Beth Morgan, who led the second-leading scorer and Morgan played on the 1996 Notre Dame women's basket­rebounder this season as she USA Women's Select Team last ball team to its first-ever Final averaged 18.3 ppg and 6.1 rpg. summer. She led Notre Dame Four appearance in March, has The two-time first-team All to three NCAA tournament been one of 33 athletes invited Big East selection finished her apperances during her four­to the USA Women's World ·career as the school's all-time year career. This past season Championship Qualifying Team leading scorer with 2,322 the Irish finished with a school trials May 2-5 in Colorado points. During her career, she record 31 wins en route to a Springs, Colo. set 13 school marks. 31-7 mark, the best in school 
Morgan, a two-time KODAK An Associated Press honor-history. 
QteQeP~ayetshliledm1iJTWCJT81'S\Mitdam~Tri* 
Players ~me College 

Washington Hall needs student managers for 
1997-98. 
Washington Hall management is now interviewing candidates for four 10-hour per week positions. Washington Hall student managers are trained to facilitate the use of Washington Hall by groups rehearsing and performing in the hall. Managers help groups to use lighting and sound equipment, and they greet patrons at public events. There is also some adminisrative work. Knowledge of FileMaker Pro, Word, Excel, and PageMaker is useful. Student managers usually work evening and weekend hours, and they are the only students who get to meet the ghost of Washington Hall. If you are interested in a position, please visit 125 Washington Hall to see Tom, Kevin or Diane or call 631-5956. 
needs 
REFEREE S ! 
Earn $1 0 per game. lnformationql Meeting: Sunday 5:00PM Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Notre Dame senior Beth Morgan will have the opportunity to compete with the best basketball players in the world at the USA team trials. 
BiKeorwaiKtocarnpus 
Tuesday, April22 
ecurity will guard & register bikes from 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the northwest doorway of DeBartolo Hall. 
Refreshments will be available in the morning. 
Two campus bike tours will begin at 
12:15 p.m. from DeBartolo. Helmets are 
... 
-
.. 
.., 
• 

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 18, 1997 
• SOFTBALl 
Irish overcome weather, Valpo 
By ALLISON KRILLA outs in the sixth, and Laboe delivered. The squib­Sports Writer her off the bat of Laboe forced a miscue by Valparaiso's second baseman, allowing two 
While the !lags whipped in the wind beyond the Domers to scamper home. center field fence and the mercury dipped near "I wasn't really thinking about anything," said the freezing mark, Notre Dame softball action Laboe about the game-winner. "I try not to think, heated up as the Irish defeated Valparaiso, 3-1, in because when I'm thinking I'm not swtnging." a non-conference game yesterday. Joy Battersby made the lead stand up, pitching 
Although game two of the scheduled double­the final two innings to pick up her sixth win of header was cancelled due to the cold weather, the season. Bessolo and Battersby combined for a game one's sixth inning provided enough ex.cite­six-hitter, walking one and fanning eight. ment for fans braving the elements. The Irish put their seven game win streak on 
The Crusaders jumped out to a 1~o lead in the the line this weekend as they travel to Jamaica, fourth inning, courtesy of leftfielder Kristin N.Y., and Storrs, Conn., to take on Big East rivals Balding's HBI single following a single, an error St. John's and Connecticut. and a walk to load the bases. Notre Dame's "Winning (yesterday) was definitely a big lift for Angela Bessolo escaped the inning without fur­us," said Laboe. "Wins always give us confi­ther damage.with one of her six strikeouts of the dence." day. The UConn Huskies are the defending Big East 
In the sixth inning, the Irish awoke from their champions, and the Irish are hungry for revenge sleep to score three runs and regain the lead for after last year's 1-0 loss in the conference tourna­good. Highlighting the outburst were back-to­ment title game. Connecticut presents a formida­hack singles by Liz Perkins and Meghan Murray. ble challenge for the 25-18 Irish, as the 1997 A one-out walk issued to Sarah Mathison loaded Huskies return all 10 starters from last season's the bases for freshman right fielder Tara King. squad. King's sacrifice fly to center plated Perkins and "We know that we can beat them," said Laboe. knotted the score at 1-1. Head coach Liz Miller "It's just a matter of performing to the best of our then called on pinch-hitter Amy Laboe with two ability." 
Tracksters have high hopes 
By SHANNON RYAN Building on their first place else." Anaconda PG13 Sports Writer finishes, the Belles' Allyson The coach is not the only one 12:00 2:15 4:30 7:00 9:15 
Liar, Liar PG13

Treloar earned a first place fin­who is impressed with the 
12:30 2:45 5:1S 7:4S 10:00 
"Small yet exceptionally com­ish for the javelin throw while team's unity and growing 
Scream R 

petitive." competing at Manchester strength. Team members such 
-
2:30 S:OO 7:30 9:50 This is the definition Saint College. Treloar shared her as Treloar, has taken notice and Mary's track and field coach glory with Tutko, who proved pride in the Belles' progress. Larry Szczechowski used to victorious in the 800-meter. In "It's neat to see everyone describe his team. Although the high jump, Allison Tradan come together and work hard young and composed of only ten leaped her way to a second as a team," Treloar stated. women, this goal-driven group place finish. Weather permitting, the shatters school records, fea­Most recently SMC gained Belles will head to the Taylor tures an All-American runner, recognition at the Little State Invitational this weekend. The and promises to qualifiy mem­Track and Field Championship, team is looking to continue the hers to Division III national which involved 17 small col­trend of advancements as they competitions. leges within Indiana. Coming race in one of their final three Inventing the Abbots R Beginning their outdoor sea­off a hamstring injury, Davis meets. This weekend's invita­
2:30* S:OO 7:30 1(!:_00__ 
son at the Wabash Helays, the raced across the finish line first tional is a stepping stone for Belles foreshadowed success to in the 100-meter dash. Treloar, many of the women hoping to HE ENGliSH PATIENT (R)too.43o.s3o come as they finished second at however, proved most produc­achieve their goal of reaching 1:30* 4:1S 7:00 9:50 
the meet. Sherri Metalski broke tive as she destroyed the cur­district national competition. *Saturday & Sunday only Times valid lhrough next Thursday the SMC hammer throw record rent school record in the ham­
*No passes

with her distance of 67'7" lead­mer throw by more than 15 ing the team as it placed third feet. After her 84'1" throw, she in the long jump and the high went on to finish second in the jump. javelin throw. The squad fin­
While competing at Hope ished the contest ninth with a College the following week, the total of 20 points. Belles gained confidence as All­The Belles' success is the American Stacy Davis sprinted result of hard training and dis­her way to first place in the cipline. 100-meter dash. Davis was not Szczeehowski explained, "''m the only successful runner as pleased with their work ethtics. Kelly Tutko finished third in the They work hard and have made 1600-meters and fourth in the great improvements. It takes 800-meters. discipline, just like anything 
Summer Service Project 
& 
National Youth Sports Program 
Students 


SOCIAL
Attendance Required 
CONCERNS 
.... 


• 
Friday, April 18, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 27 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
DID .'I'OU I<.NOW Tl-\t>.T OUR CEO Mt>.K.E.S FIFT'( TIMES '!'OUR 5AL~R'I' EVEN THOUGH OUR 5TOCK IS 
DOWN? 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: james Woods, llorbara Hale, Melody Thomas Scott, Eric Roberts 
DEAR EUGENIA: Pleose tell me if my friend born August :1, 1953, is the one for me. 1 was born August 11, 1963, at 2:21a.m. 
L10n vs. Lion 
DEAR LION VS. LION: I for one have always liked to see two Lions together-such a regal couple most of the time or at least in front of others. This relationship appears to be quite favorable physically. I do question the mental connection and feel that there are likely to be some problems or disagreements that stem from out­side influences such as friends, rela­tives, in-laws, etc. You are in a high cycle this year with regard to love, marriage, travel and so on and next year there will be changes in your home environment -possibly chil­dren, more people on your domestic scene or perhaps renovations or a move to larger quarters. The problem with this connection is that he is real­ly not that strong a Leo, having a build-up of planets in the signs Ge­mini and Libra and although these two signs can match up well to the Leo in your chart his Gemini planets do not match up well to the Virgo in­fluence that you have. Don't get me wrong.. this is a workable union but compromise and effort will be re­quired. Try to find sor.1e common hobbies that will bring you closer to­gether mentally. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): You will be able to wurk \\'ell with col­leagues todav. Organize vour plan of attack and get the ball rolling. 
TAURUS !April 21-May 21): This is a great da~' to start a new health regimen. You can make personal changes that will enhance your ap-
EUGENIA LAST 

-I 
pear<1nce and bring about greater so­cial activities. 

1 
GEMINI !May 22-June 21): You can do well \vhere property invest­

jments are concerned. However, some­one you live with may not be thriJJed with your dt..-cisicms 
CANCER (june 22-july 22): Visit friends or relative; if at all possible. You can make special plans for a quiet evening with the one you love. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You can make all the right moves when it comes to work-related matters. Don't let jealous co-workers lead you astray or twist your words. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You will be emotional regarding an issue that you strongly believe in. Don't say things you'll regret later. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Emo­tional upset due to secret activities '"'ill be most disconcerting. You can ferret out factual information if you feel it's necessary 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): You will get sincere opinions from those who appreciate your talents. Make suggestions to groups that ~'OU are in­volved with. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You may have to take care of pressing matters at home. Don't hesitate to ask for professional help if \'OU don't think you can do the job yourself. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 20): You can take hold of anv situation and make accurate assessinents. You 
... 
will find that help will be offered without asking.. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): Chronic health problem' may cause you to miss st~mcthing rmportant. You have to reL1x more in order tore­cuperate properly. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Part­nerships with creative people will lead to financial gains You can offer your mate a commitment or promise that will help stabrlize your personal life. 


GRIMM,~5 ~ND!CAT6 HA~ AFUI..t.. T)A~ OF CARTOON STUN,.S 
FOR~OU 
1t) D'Q, 
DILBERT 
t..e.rs SS5,AT 2 o'CLOCK 'r'OU GET PUNCHE'P OUT 
B~ POPEVi,~eN 
iylOIJ'R5 fNABAR 
FI(;HT lJJI'IH
ANC>Y
CAPP 
lHeN,., 
CA.T5ERT: EVIL 1-\.R. DIRECTOR OUR PLA.N I~ TO RA.I5E '<OUR BLOOD PRE5SURE
WALLY, THE COMI'f>.NY 
TO DANGEROUS LEVELS.
C>OU61-\T A. LIFE INSURt>.NCE POLICY 
. ~ 
~ 

ON '<OU. 
... 

·;; !;;::::::;:===~~::::::::;-, 
E 
w 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 They're called 56 Millionaire stations in makers
1 Japanese or Australia
Korean 58 Mickey Mantle, 3& Sardou play on the ballfield
10 Dutch Abstract written for
Expressionist 59 Hard white
Sarah pottery15--Springs, 
Bernhardt Fla. &o Classic
39 Hike 
advertising40 What a juggler1& Energy annual17 Diviner, of sorts may practice &1 Titled Italians
18 Hardly sweet with talk 
41 Whence the 19 Angler's needs phrase "Thou DOWN 
20 The Celtics' 
shalt love thy "Hondo" 
neighbor as 1 Old coin thyself" 
2 Rat Island
22 Quarter of a calendrier 4& Loudly mourn resident 
3 Reserve
23 Kind of resort 48--Khan 4Mild
24 Generous gifts 51 Precedent setter 
5 Latin 101 verb28 Game to 5.000 
6 Junior
points 53 Fills the hold 7 Creep
31 The Ayatollah, 55 Academy a Militaryfor one founder 
command 9 Anxiousness 
10Counsel ~...,.,r=-lr::-1='1 11 Niceties ~4::+:::.+:;..1 12 Yearned 
32 Cause of Chinese·13 Bring up restaurant
7-l-:=:-li':'-llilllill 14 "Solaris" author 
syndromeStanislaw 
33 Expert 34 Attachment to 
Christ? 3& Law, in Lyon 37 Circle section 38 Kind of cross 42 John and others 43 Hoover, e.g., 
informally 44 Slanted 45 Cache in the 
Sierra Madre 
4& Newsman 52 It's across the Garrick Thames from 47 Split 
Windsor 
53--majeste
48 "So long" 

54 The Muses' winner 
49 Oscar 

domain Davis 55 Free TV ad: Abbr. 50 Boobs 57 Metal shell filling 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Born Today: You're in tune but you must be willing to move with the times. Accept the inevitable and you will soon see how things can and "·ill fall into place. 

--------~--­
E& Saturday, 
Aprill9 
1:30 p.m.

OLD 
Moose Krause Field 
1 9 9 7 
See ~ages 22 & 23 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 Friday, April 18, 1997 


•

Powlus changes perspective 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The lacrosse team feels like the sky's the limit as they hit the road. 
Irish set sights high with UMass up next 
.. 
A tale of two teams 
I
hate Northwestern. First it was football, now it is bas­ketball. But. I'll get to that. First of all, Notre Dame should thank Boston College's 
football team for the opportunity to pursue top 75 recruit A d a m Allenspach. If the Eagle 

football play-Thomas Schlidt ers had not SeniorSporrsWriter gambled, Boston College admissions would not have denied scholar­ships to two of coach Jim O'Brien's four highly regarded recruits. 
By denying Elton Tyler and Jon Depina admission, 
see INSIGHT I page 19 
• 

By ERIK KUSHTO 
Sports Writer 
Is the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team a team with a destiny? Maybe. Is it a team with a serious shot at a nation­al championship? Absolutely. 
That is the contention of senior defenseman Will DeRiso after yesterday's 9-4 victory over the Fighting Falcons of Air Force. The lrish, who are rid­ing a five-game winning streak, improved to 7-1 on the season 
see LAX/ page 2I 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

After four years of devastat­ing injuries, impossible expec­tations, and discouraging dis­appointments, the moment of truth has come. The high school phenom from Berwick, Pa., is now facing his fifth and final year of collegiate competi­tion, and his best opportunity yet to silence his overzealous critics. 
So is he nervous? 

Docs he have any reserva­tions about subjecting himself to another season of scrutiny by every college football writer and fan in the country? 
rs the starting quarterback of the most storied football pro­gram in history afraid that he still might not succeed? 
Absolutely not. 

ln fact, fifth-year senior Ron Powlus is more excited than he has ever been for a football season at Notre Dame. 
"Plain and simple, everyone is excited about playing foot­ball," said Powlus. "In previous times, we were going out and doing what we had to do on the practice field because we had the privilege of playing football here. Now we're just excited to go out there." 
As is typical Powlus, Notre Dame's consummate team player insisted on phrasing every positive comment in 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Ron Powlus looks to thrive in the new system next season. 
terms of the team as a whole. 
"A new enthusiasm has come over this team," said Powlus of the virtual transformation that has come over the squad in recent months. "It's a whole new atmosphere. It's some­thing I'm thrilled to see." 
see POWLUS I page 23 
.· -· --:1., _.... ·-­


at St. John's, Saturday Men's at UMass, Sunday April 19, 3 p.m. 
April 20, 1 p.m. 

• Softball squad wins 
vs. Villanova Saturday Softball vs. Anderson 
see page 26 19, at I p.m. 
April 19, 3 p.m. 
University Saturday April 
at Big East Championship 
• Morgan invited to USA Trials 
in Miami, Aprill8-20 Track at Taylor University see page 25
Invitational Saturday April 19, TBA 







