
Thursday, September 25, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 24 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
> 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Elevation of Mary presents difficulties, possibilities 
By LAURA PETELLE native Poland, and he credits magazines such as Time and 
News Writer her with saving his life after a Newsweek have run articles 
1981 assassination attempt, on the possibility. 
As the year 2000 approach­according to Kenneth Most theologians appear to 
es and Christians all over the Woodward in a recent cover oppose the move. The 
world prepare to celebrate article for Newsweek. Theological Commis~ion of the 
two millennia since the birth "There was a loss of the Pontifical International 
of Christ. Catholics have been sense of the humanity of Marian Academy, which was 
speeulating that thn 77-year­Christ, a distancing of Christ, asked by the Holy See to study 
old, ailing Pop() John Paul II that makes people feel the the possibility, issued a state­
might nlPvat() Mary to the sta­need for a more human piety," ment in June in the Vatican 
tus of coredPmptrix. according to Sister Catherine newspaper that stated. "The 
Marian drl'initions have only Hilkert, professor of theology. titles, as proposed, arc 
occurred five times in the his­This loss of humanity was ambiguous. They can be 
tory of the Church. She was one of the issues dealt with at understood in very different 
dPclared tlw Mother of God at Vatican II, but Catholics, par­ways. Futhermore, the theo­
thr Council of Ephrsus in 4:-n. ticularly older Catholics, had logical direction taken by the 
ller perpetual virginity was become used to the devotion Second Vatican Council, which 
declared at the third Council to the saints, especially Mary. did not wish to define any of 
of Constantinople in 681. the The Catholic press has been these titles, should not be 
Immaculate Conception was wild with speculation that abandoned." 
defined in 1854, and the doc­John Paul II might cap his "Ecumenically, it's inoppor­
trine of the Assumption was career by naming Mary tune," said Father Richard
the power of Papal infallibility have shied away from further 
declared infallibly in 1950. "Coredemptrix of Humanity, McBrien, professor of theolo­
has been exercised. elevation of Mary. However,
The 1950 declaration of the Mediatrix of All Graces, and gy.
Since the Second Vatican Pope John Paul II has always
Assumption by Pope Pius XII Advocate for the People of "It would upset the
Council was held from 1962 to championed the role of Mary. 
was the most recent time that God." Even mainstream U.S.
1965, Catholic theologians Mary is the patron saint of his 
see MARY I page 4 
• STUDCNT SENATE 8.0 liters of fun ... 

Senators roll up sleeves to address 'real' agenda issues 
By DEREK BETCHER It's only been stupid stuiT," Kerr admonished. Associate News Editor Hecently, senators have been compiling lists of concerns from their constituents, and dining hall i 
By addressing student body displeasure with complaints have topped many lists. To work J campus dining halls. Student Senate answered a towards reducing that dissatisfaction, Knott sena­call during yestt•rday's meeting to step foward and tor Matt Tomko introduced to the senate a formal f(wus on productive issues. letter containing suggestions for dining service 
Matt c;riflin openPd his state __._,__._,________,_.,_~ directors. 
of' tlw union address to the Specifically, the letter sPnat!' by urging the sPnators concerns meal times -an to stnp back and evaluate area senators think could tlwir own performance and be improved with little em~ctiveness. Working togcth-inconvenience to the food Pr towards the common goal services. It asks that week-of' making the UnivPrsity a day lunch be available bettPr placn should be their until 2 p.m. and that grab­rhiPf' goal. Griflin PmphasizPd, and-go breakfast times be whilP politicking and squab-pushed back untilll a.m. 
bling need to bP avoided. "There are a lot of things we'd like to change, 
"It's time for smaller issues to be put aside and and meal times are a good place to start," Tomko larger issues to be addressed now," Gri!Tin told the said. senate. • In a series of internal improvements, the senate 
Later in the meeting, senator Boss Kerr echoed dealt with three proposals to amend the student Manufacturers participating in yesterday's College of Engineering those sentiments, urging his fellow senators to government constitution, passing two of them. Industry Day brought a fleet of high performance cars to campus, work f(Jr a productive year. The most consequential of the two ratified items much to the delight of many wide-eyed onlookers. Two RT/1 0 
"Lately, I've been embarrassed to go back to my Dodge Vipers and a brand-new Chevrolet Corvette highlighted the 
extravaganza.
dorm and tPII them what we've done in the senate. see SENATE I page 6 

Shared clubs, activities attempt to bridge gaps 
Editor's Note: This is the third of resources to students of both 
my mind to all other people," ticipants from Notre Dame. 
in a four-part series examining institutions. According to many, she said. "At the beginning, a Program counselor Peter 
relations between the Notre participation in joint programs lot of people wanted to know Checca sees similar relations 
Dame and Saint Mary's cam­allows for an increased under­who was from what school, but between students that Ireland 
puses and the aspects that standing of the similarities as we went on, it was no longer participants explained. 
strengthen or shatter the between the Fighting Irish and 'Notre Dame' or 'Saint Mary's' "The experience has been 
stereotypes. the Belles. or even 'Americans,' but very positive. The relationship 
"I think the bottom line is that accepting everyone into a com­between the two schools is very 
By MICHELLE KRUPA I didn't know who was from of all participants come from mon community." good. No one has ever had any 
Associate News Editor Notre Dame and who was from Notre Dame and that the pro­St. Marie said that sharing a concern about the problem [of 
Saint !Vfliry's until they actually gram has been sponsored by common experience bonds her campus stereotypes]," he said. 
As tlw Notre Dame and Saint said it," said Notre Dame Saint Mary's for over 20 years. to others in the program rather Academic programs here in 
"When they're there, they're
Mary's communities have seen sophomore Laura St. Marie, than making her feel isolated Notre Dame, Ind., also accept 
duri~g the past weeks, rivalries who will embark tomorrow for all in a big group and after a by virtue of school. students from both universities. 
and stereotypes arise with two Ireland through the interna­short while, they don't think "I go to meetings about In fact in 1996-97, 1, 761 credit 
campuses lying a few dozen tional study program at Saint about it [being from different Ireland, and we're all nervous hours were earned by Notre 
schools]." Overdorf said. 

yards from each other. Mary's. about the same things. It's nice Dame students in Saint Mary's 
But students and faculty The Ireland program is one in Saint Mary's senior Bridget to know other people are feel­programs and 1 ,000 credit 
members in various academic which students from both cam­Murphy, who spent last year in ing the same things-it's com­hours were earned by Saint 
programs, clubs and organiza­puses participate and find suc­Ireland through the program, forting," she said. Mary's students at Notre Dame, 
tions have found over the years cess, according to counselor echoed Overdorrs sentiments. The Rome program is another according to Institutional 
that the short distance between Shari Overdorf. She noted that "One of the greatest things sponsored by Saint Mary's that Research. 
the campuses provides a wealth between one-third and one-half about going abroad was seeing draws some of its student par-
another culture and opening see NDISMC I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 25, 1997 
• iNSIIJE COLUMN 

These are the days 
So three years of col­Lori Allen lege life and living 
Saint Mary's Editor 
have come and gone, 
and I find myself a 
senior looking back on all that's been thus 
far. There are some things that I'm proud 
of. some things that I cringe remembering, 
and some things that make me wish that I 
were a freshman again. Yet it's all of these 
"things" together that make my college 
experience and make me who I am. 
As I settle into the beginning of the end 
and get used to everything being labeled the 
"last first home football game," or the "last 
first fall formal," I envy those embarking on 
their "firsts." 
I remember all too well this time fresh­
man year; feeling scared and homesick, 
lonely for friends that have known me for­
ever. When I wanted to quit, when I wanted 
to transfer, I remember the advice that I 
received in passing from a fifth-year senior. 
She told me to remember the times, the 
good and the bad, and everything in 
between. In time, she said, they would 
become sacred. 
And they have. 
As much as I complain, as much as I 
mock, these have been the times of my life. 
Times filled with memories and friends that 
mean more to me than my diploma. Times 
that remind me that we're all here for a 
reason. 
This summer I spent a good portion of my 
time as a substitute teacher in the elemen­
tary schools of northern New Jersey. This 
experience, aside from making me thankful 
that I'm not an elementary education major, 
reminded me that the whole education thing 
is almost over. 
A frightening thought if ever I heard one. 
As a senior, one of the most frequently 
asked questions that I am confronted with 
is: "So, what are you going to do next 
year?" 
You know what? I have no idea. 
I look at my friends who are going crazy 
getting ready for interviews and stressing 
themselves over which outfits to wear, and 
it scares me to death. I'm not ready for any 
of that just yet. Then again, my English 
writing major and I aren't really headed in 
that direction anyway. 
I know what I want to do though. I want 
to write. I want to write a lot. I want to 
write about a lot of things. I am emotionally 
dependent upon words and have an addic­
tion to poetry. I'll go where my writing 
takes me, and do what it asks me to do. 
Whether or not the money follows. 
A lot of people are too focused on the big 
picture that they lose sight of the little 
things that matter; the things that make this 
experience well worth the time and energy. 
Stop and look around today, breathe in 
the moment. Make it last. For too many of 
us, it's not going to last for much longer. 
Sometimes so many words are left unsaid, 
feelings are left untold, and friends part for 
reasons left unknown. Make the most of the 
times. 
Live the now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  John King  
Sports  Production  
Joe Cavaro  Allison Koenig  
Viewpoint  Heather MacKenzie  
Kelly Brooks  Lab Tech  
Accent  "Photo" Joe Stark  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Hurricane Nora soaks Southwest, Baja Mexico 
"It's going to make landfall in Baja After battering tourist towns at the 
ENSENADA, Mexico 

Hurricane Nora California. You've got a range of moun­tip of Baja California with offshore 
As (if 1 I a.m. tains there that will weaken the storm 
EDT Wednesday Position: 23.5'N, 114.8"W 
considerably and then it will proceed
squalls, Hurricane Nora swirled 
Moving: Nat 10 mph 

Sustained winds: 85 mph into the southwestern United States," peninsula -and an eventual soaking 
toward landfall today on the central 

Punta Santo Tomas Gusts at 105 mph said forecaster Michael Formosa at the of America's Southwest. 
\~:',-;. j Humcane warn1ng -J U.S. Hurricane Center in Miami. 
\ ,, ' 
He said Nora's remnants were expect­Mexican authorities declared a hur­: ·~··/ -l?'"''u,?;:\

M (/Pr;Jj~cted• ) 
ed to enter the United States on Fridayricane watch for a 350-mile swath of 

~ 1\_paths ' ~ " ' .,:..•.l""''M~\.,.., 
,j 
morning with blustery winds, then headBaja and a coastal flood warning for 
250

';'.,,, ' Sa.nt.a Rosalia ~"' ~miles 
over southwest Arizona roughly toward
much of the mainland of northern 

\ ',, Baf!iaBallenas -, 250 Km 
Phoenix. The hurricane, well at sea, veered 
Mexico. 

24;.• '·'::;, \\'• MEXICO{ GulJ.of 
"Brace yourselves for a lot of localized 

\ ~ Mextco ...r--, 
rain and possible flooding," he advisedpast Cabo San Lucas at the base of the 

m:m1 { \ ,,l l 
those in the path of Nora, which becamepeninsula early today. 

~,. o .-.r
'-g'

18¢ '·~..••, Mexico cifY' _,r-f •
The U.S. Hurricane Center said the 

a hurricane Thursday, destroying storm, which would probably be weak­
dozens of homes but causing no deaths. ened by crossing the peninsula, likely 
Pacific Ocea11 ·~--."·~~~:;.:~~ 
At 11 a.m. EDT, Nora's eye was about would dump heavy rains later in the 
.w 114' 1()8' 102• 9~~ o~ 
295 miles south of Punta Eugenia, a week on the southwestern United Lso-u-rc..... Pacific coast point near the center of the
e:""A-cc-u--W-"e""at'-he-r-ln-"c~.'-'--"''lL..--""'"--A:_jP 
States. Baja peninsula. 
Albright tries to mediate island dispute Suspect leads police to body of millionaire 
NEW YORK NEW YOHK 
American mediator Richard 
A body believed to be that of a missing millionaire New 1-Iolbrooke said today the United States Jersey businessman was found today on the banks of the 
has been unable to produce a break­Hudson Hiver in upper Manhattan, a source told The through in the decades-old dispute Associated Press. A person described as a possible sus­
over the division of the Mediterranean pect in Nelson Gross's disappearance led authorities to island of Cyprus. "It's a very dif!icult the body, according to the law enforcement source, who 
issue," Hoibrooke said after Secretary spoke on condition of anonymity. Gross was last seen of State MadPleine Albright met sepa­alive on Sept. 17 with two men driving from the parking 
rately with the foreign ministers of lot of the Binghamton, a restaurant owned by his family 
Greece, Turkey and the Cypriot government to try to at Edgewater, N.J. The missing man's silver BMW was 
resolve the impasse. 1-Iolbrooke, architect of the 1995 found Saturday in the Washington Heights neighborhood 
Dayton accords that ended a 3 1/2-year ethnic war in of upper Manhattan as FBI agents canvassed the area. 
Bosnia-Herzegovina, said he eventually would go to the Sources had told the Record of Hackensack that comput­
region to try to resolve the Cyprus dispute but did not erized toll records showed Gross made at least two trips 
know when. "What's going to come out of it I don't into the city from New Jersey on the day he disappeared. 
know," he said of U.S. and U.N. mediation efforts. "We One of the trips was made before he was seen with an 
haven't had any substantive breakthrough. I don't see unknown man at a bank in Edgewater. The other report­
any change in position yet." lie described his own meet­edly occurred after he withdrew $20,000 from the bank. 
ing with Cyprus Foreign Minister Yiannakis Kasoulides Earlier today, newspapers reported that his son, Neil R. 
as "very cordial." Among the issues they took up was Gross, had failed a lie detector test. The son volunteered 
Cyrpus' projected entry into the European Union. to take the test after apparent discrepancies surfaeed in 
Turkish Cypriot leader Hauf Denktash broke off U.N.­statements he gave to investigators, The Star-Ledger of 
sponsored talks in Switzerland on a Cyprus settlement Newark said today, citing a law enforcement source it 
after the European Union decided to proceed with mem­did not identify. Authorities don't believe that Neil Gross, 
bership negotiations with Cyprus. "I think everyone is in 33, was directly involved in his father's disappearance 
a more productive mood than they were at the beginning but believe he didn't divulge everything he knew about 
of the year," Holbrooke said. "They haven't addressed the circumstances, the newspaper quoted the source as 
issues, but that they are talking is important." saying. No charges were filed against him. 
Wall Street's Travelers Group buys Salomon Homeless man saves child from fire 
NEW YORK NEW YOHK Travelers Group will buy Salomon Inc. in a deal valued A homeless man saved a 2-year-old boy from a burn­
r 
at over $9 billion that will bring together two of Wall ing house when he persuaded the mother to throw the Street's most powerful investment firms. The deal is the child down. After catching the tot in his arms, he helped latest in a wave of buyouts rearranging the financial ser­rescue the mother. John Byrnes, 45, who has been vices landscape as brokers, banks, insurers and other homeless for two years and describes himseH as a asset managers are combining forces to compete more "drunken bum," said that "drunk as I am, I knew what effectively. Travelers said today that it will merge to do right then and there." '"Throw me your child!' Salomon with its Smith Barney lloldings Inc. brokerage Heally, that's what I said .... It's unbelievable," he said. division to create Salomon Smith Barney. Under the deal, Byrnes was strolling past the two-family house in Queens Travelers will issue 1.13 shares of its stock for each when he saw the smoke and banged on the door to alert share of Salomon stock for a total value of more than $9 the occupants. Whlm Sonya Lopez appeared at the sec­billion. James Dimon, chairman and CEO of Smith ond-floor window, he urged her to drop her son, Justin Barney, and Deryck C. Maughan, chairman and CEO of Novoa. down to him and caught the 27 -pound boy. Then its Salomon Brothers investment arm, will serve as co­a neighborhood businessman arrived, carrying a ladder. chief executives of the new Salomon Smith Barney divi­lie and Byrnes pushed it up to the window and Lopez sion. Sanford I. Weill, Travelers' chairman and chief eamc down. She was being treated for smoke inhalation executive, said the deal will substantially strengthen at New York Hospital of Queens and her son was doing Travelers' Group's earnings and capital base. Salomon just fine. The house was gutted, though, and the family Smith Barney will be in the top tier of global securities dog, Apollo, died in the fire. The cause of the fire was and investment banking firms, he said. undetermined. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 25.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Thursday ~ iN73 49 Friday ~ 73 54 Saturday ~ <77 60 Sunday ~ ..,.,74' 56i 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 

·.~·· ~~69 ::,s:z:; 
H L
Mond~y 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
\...•;vv ~ .....,_...-

Vta Assoctaled Prttss 
Atlanta 79 58 Dallas 86 67 Miami 85 77 Baltimore 78 55 Denver 46 34 New York 70 60

~cr04'Clu~u ~ ~ u 
Baton Rouge 84 64 Honolulu 90 75 Phoenix 89 66
'~'''~'~ ......... ·=·-::=·.::=· -:..-:...-:.. 
Chicago 68 59 Indianapolis 76 56 St. Louis 77 64

Showers T-storms Rain Aurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 73 54 Los Angeles 95 72 San Diego 92 78 

Thursday, September 25, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 

Notre Dame rector speaks on rosaries and meditation 
By RACHEL TORRES 
News Writer 
The history ol' the rosary and the important role it can play in prayer and meditation were addressed by Sister Mary Catherine Nolan, rector ol' Badin Hall. Nolan's lecture. titled "The Hosary: A New Look," touched on her extensive experience with the development and perception of the rosary. 
Nolan began by inviting the audi­enee to consider their own experi­ences with the rosary. She recalled that praying the rosary was a domi­nant part of her childhood, and reflected that her family followed the idea "the family that prays together, stays together." 
"To advance on our journey of union with God," Nolan said, "we must engage in prayer." She pointed out that prayer. specifically repetitive prayer like that of the rosary, can be used throughout this journey. 

According to Nolan, the repetitious nature of the rosary allows it to be good material for meditation. Meditating on the 15 mysteries of the rosary brings us closer to scripture, and therefore to God. By the same token, Nolan points out, "it can be sufficient just to sit in God's pres­ence," when a deep point of medita­tion is reached. 
Nolan also noted the praying of the rosary calls for a "contemplative ele­ment." Without this, the rosary "becomes repetitive -like a body without a soul," she said. 
The rosary and the church have been closely tied in the western Catholic tradition for some 700 years. 
"Ancient prayer is part of our Catholic legacy," Nolan said. The word "rosary" is derived from "the rose" which in many traditions is associated with love and beauty. 
The rosary prayers are based on the book of Psalms, and the 15 decats of 'Hail Mary's' symbolize 15 decats of mysteries. The use of the beads is simply a logical way to keep track of the prayers. 
Vatican II calls for no specific rosary devotions because of the dif­ferent practices of western and east­ern Catholicism. It recommends devotion to Mary, but because east­ern Catholics did not use the rosary as often as western Catholics, the Vatican II did not call for the manda­tory use. 
In 1969, Pope Paul recognized the 400th anniversary of approval of the rosary, stating, "the rosary should be a public and universal prayer." 
"The rosary has evolved," Nolan said, "and we can see other ways of using it." 
The Saint Mary's Fall Lecture Series continues on Wednesday, Oct. 1, with Father Nicholas Ayo and "Stations of the Cross." The lecture will take place in the North Lounge of Regina Hall. 

• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Saint Mary's board%di 
By KARA KEZIOS  the controversial Observer letter  
News Writer  to the editor by Notre Dame stu­ 
dents Catherine Syner  
The Saint Mary's Board of  and Stacey Fuller.  )  
Governance held it's third meet~  Sara Nienaber, Saint  
ing early yesterday morning to  Mary's senate represen::.  
discuss several organizational  tative to Notre Dame,  
agendas.  announced an invitation  
BOG president Nikki Milos  that was  extended to  
announced that each board  Saint Mary's students by  
would  donate  $25  to  the  the  Hall  Presidents  
American Diabetic Association.  Council at Notre Dame to  
She also extended a personal  attend the football pep  
thanks to those in attendance  rally on Oct. 17. Saint  
for "keeping emotions con­ Mary's  will  be  Notre  
tained" and "remaining digni­ Dame's "special guests," and  dorms. We're encour;:tged that  
fied" last week in the wake of  their presence will be recog­ the Notre Dame stuqent body  



relations 

~  The senior class intends to  
sell Class of '98 hats, as well as  
t~shirts celebrating Saint Mary's  
fourth consecutive year as the  
number one midwest liberal  
arts college. They also plan to  
ngthen the S  execute bi-monthly service pro­ 
Mary:s-Notre Dame Sctu­ jects for which their classmates  
dl:lJ).t relations;"  ...••  can volunteer.  
. HPC cO'>chair Mark  • The  Student  Academic  
Fennell said the idea to  Council is sponsoring volunteers  
recognize Saint Mary's  from the senior class to partic­ 
•at a  pep. rally was .first  ipate in the Breast Cancer  
discussed hefore Syner  Awareness Wa.lk. Th~y are also  
and Fuller's letter to the  working to bring the College  
editor was printed.  Quiz Bowl, a nationwide compe­ 
In other BOG news:  tition, to Saint Mary's.  


~~=;;~


Always .FREE DELIVERY!!! 
$5.00 minimum-Limited Area -Drivers carryless than $20 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 25, I 997 

Mary 
continued from page I 
Reformation churches who hold as a central belief that Christ is the sole mediator." Hilkert agreed. 
The declaration would cause ecumenical difficulties not only because Orthodox and Protestant churches do not look at Mary in the same way the Catholic Church does, but because they do not accept the doctrine of Papal infallibility that would be exercised to declare the doctrine. 
"It's a major doctrinal mis­take," said McBrien. "[The substance] is a very dubious position." Hilkert concurred. citing the section of Lumen Gentium that deals with Mary. 
In Lumen Gentium the Church declared. "In the words of the apostle there is but one mediator: 'for there is but one God and one mediator between God and humankind, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself a redemption for all' (1 Tim 2:5-6)." 
The most recent version of the Catechism of the Catholic Church quotes from another passage in Lumen Gentium. 
"No creature could ever be counted along with the Incarnate Word and Redeemer," the passage reads. 
The Pope still could infallibly declare the doctrine over the protests of his bishops and cardinals. 
Several prominent Catholics believe that he will, including such public figures as Mother Angelica of EWTN and Mark Miravalle, professor of Marian Theology at Franciscan University in Ohio. But this proposed dogma faces the for­midable opposition of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith does not stand unanimously behind it. 
If John Paul II did declare Mary to be coredemptrix, he would do so with little regard for the principle of collegiality so near and dear to the Church's heart. 
On Aug. 18, the Vatican 


issued a statement saying that no such proclamation is planned or even being consid­ered. 
"The pope will not solemnly declare Mary coredemptrix, mediatrix, and advocate," the statement read. 
"This is crystal clear," added Joaquin Navarro-Valls, the spokesman issuing the statement. 
Call During the Gaane!! 

Su.a 1975'
Free Extras.__ 
Parmesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust Extra Pizza Sauce•Side of Banana Peppers 



No coupon necessary Excludes other offers Delivery extra If not on cam· pus Limited Time Offer 
Italian • Ham & Cheese • Steak & Cheese•
I 
1 Veggie • Chicken Club 
IPius Tax Where Applicable. Delivery Extra if Off Campus. IExcludes Other Offers M.so I 
L--------------------~ 

F~TURING 



MICH. TIX RAFFLE 
BOB DAVIE THE LEPRECHAUN THE BAND 
TONIGHT ALUMNI/SR. CLUB 8PM 
DONATIONS @ DOOR TO BENEFIT ADAM SARGENT 
• BUSINESS BEAT 
Parents punished for teacher abuse 
Symposium readies to 
By ALLEN G. BREED going to jail and stuff like that." Associated Press Writer Karla switched to white lip­
focus on management 
stick for court on Wednesday, PIKEVILLE. Ky. after wearing black lipstick for A couple who cursed at jury selection on Tuesday.
By FINN tRESSLY Carolina's Global 
teachers and did Nazi salutes to Karla, then 13, gained
News Writer Manufacturing Hesearch 
protest their daughter's sus­international attention when
Center will speak. 
pension from school for wear­Principal Rosa Wolfe declared
On Sept. 26, the Notre Dame Nathan Hatch, provost of the 
ing black lipstick were convict­the color of her lipstick a dis­
Center for Continuing University, and Carolyn Woo, 
ed of teacher abuse on traction and told her to change
Education will host a one-day dean of the College of Business 
Wednesday. 
it. Her leather-clad father and
symposium titled "The Future Administration, will open the 
Mike and Connie Chapman stepmother demonstrated at
of Quality Management: symposium, which is set to 
were each fined $50 for the the school rather than make
Challenges and Opportunities." take place in the Center for 
Nov. 18 confrontation with a Karla comply. 
The seminar will analyze possi­Continuing Education. The 
group of teachers at a meeting Karla missed more than a
ble ways in which the manage­morning will feature speeches 
over their daughter's suspen­month of classes and reportedly
ment of manufacturing compa­by the six guest lecturers, fol­
sion. 

attempted suicide before trans­
nies could improve in the near lowed by three roundtable dis­
But the jury acquitted the ferring schools. She also has a
future. cussions in the afternoon. 
husband of terroristic threaten­state lawsuit pending against
Six professors, business exec­Each of the discussions will 
ing and the wife of harassment. Ms. Wolfe and the school
utivHs, and management address a specific topic related 
Both charges carry penalties of board.
expPrts will speak at the sym­to the future of quality man­
up to a year in jail and a $500 Teachers from Hunyon
posium. The guest speakers agement. 
fine. 

Elementary School testified
will focus their abilities on cre­The symposium is jointly 
"They shouldn't have been Wednesday that they felt Mike
ating solutions for quality man­sponsored by Notre Dame's 
found guilty of anything, Chapman had threatened their
agmnent. College of Business 
because they didn't really do lives by telling them he was
Pat Toole, senior vice presi­Administration, the Chambers 
anything," said Karla, 14. "But 
"willing to take a bullet" for his 
dent of IBM; James W. Dean, of Commerce of St. Joseph 
I'm satisfied with it, because I daughter and asked if they
.Jr.. head of the County and Elkhart County, as 
was mainly worried about them were prepared to do the same.
Transformations to Quality well as the North Central 
Organizations program at the Indian a Business Assistance National Science Foundation, Center, and will last from 8 !lector Motroni, vice president a.m. to 5:30 p.m. of lluman Hesources and Anyone interested in attend­Quality at Merck and Company, ing the symposium should con­and Clay Whybark. director of tact the CCE for more informa­the University of North tion. 


email us at: obsnews.l@nd.edu 

Merrill Lynch invites you to a corporate presentation and reception 
Featuring Global Opportunities in Investment Banking, Debt Markets and Equity Markets 
Thursday, October 2, 1997 at 6:00PM at the Joyce Center in the Monogram Room 
All Undergraduates Are Invited To Attend 
Visit our site at: www. ml. com/careers 
~Merrill Lynch 
A tradition of rrust. 
Jurors said they didn't accept 
that argument. but also didn't 
appreciate the Chapmans' con­
frontational approach. 
"We just wanted to let it be 
known that the school system is 
there to protect the kids and ... 
teach them something in life," 
said jury foreman Craig 
Chapman, who is not related to 
the defendants. 
"We felt that there could 
have been other ways to handle 
it," he said. 
Chapman said he was just 
showing his devotion to Karla. 
"It was a proclamation of love for my child," he said of the bullet reference. "That is a metaphor. That is not a threat." 
The Chapmans. who could have gotten 90 days in jail and up to $250 fines on the teacher abuse charge said they thought justice had been done. 
Ms. Wolfe and several teach­ers left the courtroom without commenting. 




College costs rise 
By ROBERT GREENE AP Education Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Increases of 5 percent this 
year for tuition and most room 
and board added hundreds of 
dollars to the cost of college, 
an expense that has steadily 
outgrown other consumer 
prices since 1980. 
The increases pushed aver­
age tuition past $3,100 and 
room and board to near 
$4,400 at public four-year 
institutions, the College Board 
reported Wednesday. At pri­
vate four-year colleges and 
universities, average tuition 
now nears $13,670 and room 
and board, $4,400. 
That means parents and stu­
dents are paying on average 
$136 more for tuition this year 
and $194 more for room and 
board at public colleges and 
universities. They're paying 
$670 more for tuition and 
$186 more for room and 
board at private schools. 
The increases for 1997-1998 
come amid growing pressure 
to curb tuition. which has 
nearly doubled since 1980. 
Family income has grown less 
than 10 percent. 
A congressionally created panel is looking into the issue. Parents have organized the College Parents of America to seek more clout. 
"It's horrifying," said Allison Foster of Newport News, Va. Daughter Meghan is a senior in high school; daughter Caitlyn is 14. 
Virginia has frozen tuition at its state universities, but the family is still looking for better deals in North Carolina. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 25, 1997 

ND/SMC 
continued from page 1 
Among the most popular pro­grams is Education and Humanistic Studies, a Saint Mary's program that allows Notre Dame students to earn a teaching certificate through the College. 
Notre Dame junior Kevin Hughes participates in this pro­gram and says that he has never noticed any stereotyping or negative feelings in his classes. 
"It hasn't been a big deal at all. The good thing about Saint Mary's is that they make it pos­sible to graduate and be certi­fied to teach. It's so conve­nient," Hughes said. "The buses are unreliable to get over there, but the classes are good. The professors are just as capable as Notre Dame profes­sors." 
Laura Spaulding, associate registrar at Notre Dame, explained why Notre Dame stu­dents might chose to attend Saint Mary's. 
"Their degree is from Notre Dame and their teaching cer­tificate is from Saint Mary's because Notre Dame doesn't have the state certification to issue that," she said. 
According to Spaulding, stu­dents in any co-exchange acad­emic program meet with their primary college's dean to dis­cuss the viability of a joint pro­gram. They then register for courses at both schools and their transcripts carry connota­tions regarding which grades were earned at which schools. 
"These programs are getting more popular with people interested in different disci­plines. I think that some Saint Mary's students take classes in ALPP [the College of Arts and Letters Pre-professional pro­gram] and begin engineering with the intent to transfer," she said. "Notre Dame students participate in Saint Mary's the­ater programs like dance and sign language." 
Outside the classroom, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents also collaborate in numerous clubs and organiza­tions. According to Tom Purekal, a member of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's club gymnastics team, relations between the two schools are amicable. 
"Our Saint Mary's member­ship has been low in the past few years, but everyone is real­ly comfortable with each other," he said. "Some of the girls from Saint Mary's are a little more competitive than others. and I'm not sure if it's because of the environment there, but overall we get along really well." 
Sherstin Truitt, a Saint Mary's senior, is the co-presi­dent of the Ballroom Dance Club, a group composed of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. She explained that school affiliation is not impor­tant to the group's members. 
"We just get together and we're dancers together. Saint Mary's women are very willing to go to the Rock where we practice," she said. 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Student Activities at Saint Mary's, noted the wel­coming atmosphere between the two campuses with relation to extracurricular organiza­tions. 
"As far as officially recog­nized clubs and organizations, all at Saint Mary's are open to Notre Dame students and vice versa. From my perspective, if it's a recognized group at Notre Dame, we will support their endeavors on our campus," she said. 

Rosenbush sees many Notre Dame students becoming involved in activities on the Saint Mary's campus. 
"Notre Dame people must be coming to our events because the guys must be coming from somewhere," she said. 
According to Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities at Notre Dame, clubs try to be receptive and inviting to all students on both campuses and he often does not know from which campus a student comes. 
"When a student from a club comes to us, we don't know where they're from. We just know that they represent their organization," Cassidy said. 
He also mentioned that fund­ing issues arise with clubs since Notre Dame will not allot money to groups that do not have a majority of officers from the University, but that his office tries to be accommodat­ing. 
"Only dubs that are regis­tered on the Notre Dame cam­pus can apply for funds through the Club Coordination Council and fundraise on cam­pus, but access to space and promoting events on campus is pretty open to everyone," Cassidy said. 
Senate 

continued from page 1 
will create a Constitutional Review Board to help the senate interpret ambiguities and silences in their governing text. Comprised of the judicial council president, judicial council vice presidents and five hall judicial board representatives, the group will confer binding constitutional interpretations. 
The second approved amend­ment calls for a new introduction and accompanying structural adjustments designed to clarify and emphasize the authority of the constitution. 
The third proposal, to include the student body president on the Financial Management Board, was introduced by stu­dent body president Matt Griflin and was greeted with the most discussion of the proposals. 
Griffin informed the senate that he introduced the measure to give the student body an impartial voice on the Financial Management Board, which dis­tributes funds to student groups. Others felt that Griffin would possibly be predisposed to favor his own Office of the President in funding decisions. 
"I believe we have every inter­est [already] covered," treasurer Nerea Arrien told the senate. She offered that the nine voting members of the board already give all interested parties a voice in financial decisions. 
Arrien also explicitly ques­tioned Griffin's motives for want­ing to join the board, with his petitions coming in the wake of having had a funding request turned down last week. 
Before the amendment was sent to the senate's oversight committee for further examina­tion, Griffin offered a compro­mise. lie would be content. he said, to be made a non-voting member of the Financial Management Board. Senators agreed that measure would be consistent with the constitution's balance of powers. 
• Academic Council student delegate Brendan Kelly updated the senate on an undertaking to improve faculty-student relations and revealed plans to revamp teacher course evaluations. 
Efforts are underway to bring faculty and students together in the dining halls by issuing meal vouchers for students to give professors, Kelly reported. 
"There's not a lot of mentoring going on. There aren't a lot of activities for students and faculty to interact outside of class," Kelly noted. 
The program is being imple­mented as a "pilot project" for student leaders to invite their professors to meals, and by fall break it should be in place for the entire campus to use. 

Also, until the time comes for course evaluations, Kelly asked students to take their concerns to the Kaneb Center for Teaching, located on the third floor of DeBartolo. The Center is pre­pamd to pass on helpful teaching suggestions to professors and TAs, Kelly told the senate. 
• Stanford senator Jake Cooper informed the senate of ongoing plans to memorialize Mother Teresa. Establishing a service day and creating a scholarship fund for service project partici­pants were among the ideas pre­sented. 
"We could create something kind of like Christmas in April, but in the fall," Cooper 
explaim~d. 

O'Neill senator Rajit Basu recounted meeting Mother Teresa when he was nine and urged th11 senate to focus on ser­vice to memorialize the mission­ary. 
"We need to keep this low key, to do service and not tell anyone about it. That's the way she would do it," he said. 
The senate agreed to forward a letter to the Center for Social Concerns asking for their advice and help in organizing such a project. 
Which Big Six firm ( advised on 8 of the 10 largest LBOs in history? 
Our national Deloitte & Touche partners will be conducting interviews for students attend­ing the University of Notre Dame on October 6 and 7. Please visit the University of Notre Dame Center for Career Services to schedule a time to interview with us! 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, veteran's status, sexual orientation, marital status, or disabilities. 
Deloitte&

the answer 1• s Touche 
©1997 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
Thursday, September 25, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
Calendar of Events Confirmation 'tn Informational Meeting for Candidates 5:00pm Informational Meeting for "'>'nrn1c;n,rc.'"''·· 
Campus Bible Study (lrtlt~tt.alth bible study) 
7:00 pm CM Badin 
Catechist Program 
Openings are availabl Elementary, Junior H classes. Please call 631-5242 about this 

Hispanic Student 
Friday-Saturday, 
Lindenwood R 

Liturgical Choir Re•tr&Jat<.'. 
Friday-·saturday Septe!r:RbE~r 
Five Pines Christian 

Misa en Espanol · 
Sunday, Septembe 
Keenan-Stanford 
Celebrante: Padre Dbi~':McNE~IU; 

Weekly Eucharistic .llnt\r.=.,.•n 
Beginning Monday, ~l#ntt:<m~\l#r 
each Monday thereafter d 
Academic Year,Canip~sMi 
sor a 24-hour period of ll'h.:::.ri<~til' 
Adoration in Fisher HaiL"''"~"'"''' 
will begin with Mass at11: lfllc\Mn 
Monday nights and endwith Mass 
pm on Tuesday · 
tion,please call 631­
Twenty-Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 


Saturday, September 27 
5:00p.m. Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 28 
10:00 a.m. Rev. John Dunne, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. James Lies, C.S.C 
Vespers Sunday, September 28 
7:15p.m. Rev. James Foster, C.S.C 

Scripture Readings  
1st Reading  Numbers  11:25-29  
2nd Reading James  5:1-6  
Gospel  Mark  9:38-43,  
45,47-48  


I Have Nothing to Say 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Sometimes I sit down to write this column and I have no idea what I'm going to say. Like now, for instance. I have entertained a number of possibili­ties in the past several days, but none has surfaced as the obvious direction in which to go which would awe and inspire as is typical of this column. 
For a while I considered the current Notre Dame/St. Mary's feud. But for three reasons I couldn't go there. First, I found myself wanting to entitle it, "All Are Welcome in This Place," but wondering if it was necessarily true just because I wanted it to be. Second, I found myself getting so angry every time I tried to get at the topic that I couldn't address in the spirit that I want­ed to. But ifl had written the column about that, I would have said that ifwe are the Christian community that we claim to be, maybe we would do well to hear and heed the simple words ofJesus, "Love one another." But as much as I want to say that here, even I have to admit, it sounds a bit condescending. The final reason that I hesitate is that it seems that absolutely everyone else on our campuses has already expressed an opinion on the subject within these pages! 
Following on the "All Are Welcome in This Place" theme, I considered for a while doing a piece on Coach Colletta and even Coach Davie to assure them that we are not as fickle in our support of them as they might assume. Mter all, surely they're included in the "we" of" We are ND!" I can't help but think that the character of this community will not be measured by how much we demand excellence, even while we do, but how well we stand together in adversity and in defeat. But I hesitate because I knew that might be read as too simplistic. 
I even went so far as to consider writing about Zahm Hall, where I am 
the new rector. Some gasp in horror when I tell them where my present min­
istry has led me. It is as though I've joined the ranks of the universally hated. 
But I can't expound on the merits of Zahm Hall here for three reasons. First, 
this is a Campus Ministry column, not a Zahm Hall promo page. (Although, 
if our hall could afford it I might consider it; God knows we need it!) 
Secondly, no one would believe me anyway if I told them that these guys look 
a lot different from the inside; no one would believe that they aren't the guys 
that the world seems to want to make them out to be. And finally, I can't go 
there because there exists the real danger that I would lose my credibility as a 
respected journalist if I attempted to defend them publicly. So I won't. 
At the end of my meandering through potential topics I find myself 
less inclined to say that I have nothing to say, probably much to your chagrin. 
Something in me has me wanting to stand up for the outcast and the margin­
alized of our community, and not only those mentioned here. I find myself 
wanting to say again and again: All Are Welcome in This Place! But who am I 
to say what hospitality looks like? Even as we are all called to it, and perhaps 
expect it of others. Is it simply undifferentiated "niceness"? It may be that 
with which I'm plagued. I find myself burdened by niceness. It may have to 
do with my being raised in a small town in the midwest, central Minnesota 
specifically. Unfortunately, my inclination toward niceness seems suddenly 
passe. I half expect to find it on a list of newly defined psychological disor­
ders. But whatever the case, niceness follows me around. 
My brand is not anti-intellectual, or undiscerning, but it is nice. This 
disorder has given me the capacity to find fault, to be critical, to disagree, but 
still to be nice. It's not something I'm nessarily proud of and so it is not my 
intention here to brag. It frustrates me actually because it has engendered in 
me sensitivities that are easily offended by words like "parasite" and "stupid" 
when used to describe members of our community. Still more, these sensitivi­
ties are aroused when such language, and worse, is used to denigrate anyone 
in this community, especially our brothers and sisters of Color or the gay and 
lesbian members of the Notre Dame Family. 
Or maybe it is something more than "niceness." Maybe, please God, it 
is that to which each and all of us are called: Christian charity. Which is not 
some pollyannish notion of undefferentiated niceness, but which is critical 
reflection bound up with a respect for the dignity of all humanity. I know that 
I have much to learn in this regard, and that I have no right to be "preachy" 
here. It is this appreciation of my own inadequacies, I suspect, that tempts me 
to proclaim that I have nothing to say. Nonetheless, I truly want to believe 
that all are welcome in this place, and something just had to be said about it. 
Please help me to make it a reality. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 25, 1997 
•INDONESIA 




Forest fires prompt sickness, closings 
By HARI S. MANIAM Borneo island, continued for a fifth day, with pollution Associated Press Writer well above hazardouslevels. 
Meteorologists have blamed much of the problem on El KUALA LUMPUH, Malaysia Nino, the Pacific Ocean weather pattern believed to dis­Forest fires in Indonesia hav(~ spewed pollutants across rupt weather around the globe. They warn that seasonal much of Southeast Asia, causing two deaths, forcing monsoon rains needed to put out fires, clear the skies and 
schools to close and prompting the U.S. Embassy to advise employees to leave Malaysia if the choking smog was making them sick. 
A drought blamed on the El Nino weather phenomenon has exac­erbated the problem. Indonesia has tried to clear the skies by seed­ing clouds to produce rain; 1,210 Malaysian firefighters began arriving in Indonesia today to help put out the fires, many delib­erately set to clear farm land. 
Most of the fires have been burning on Sumatra and Borneo islands, sending a choking haze over Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei and the south­

ern Philippines and '-------------~-__;________________,~ 
stu clyr'r1g pl·r.ns to 

southern Thailand. 

In Manila today, Philippine authorities warned that the haze could provoke asthmatic reactions. "We must be cautious about possible health problems," said Frisco Nilo, a government fore­caster. 
Two Indonesians have died after sufl'ering haze-related breathing problems, the People's Welfare Ministry said. 
More than 32,000 people on Sumatra and Borneo islands have suffered respiratory problems in the two months since the haze became a problem. Doctors also report numerous eye infections. 
A state of emergency in Malaysia's Sarawak state, on save crops could be delayed for wonks. 
In Kuala Lumpur, the U.S. Embassy said the State Department had authorized about 75 fHnbassy employees and their dependents to temporarily leave the country if they were feeling sick from the smog. An embassy statement said employees who volunteered to stay behind would be rotated in and out of the country to minimize any ill­effects of continued exposure. 
Malaysian Information Minister Mohamad Hahmat said the government was 
AP/Wm. J. Castello ' 
spray water from 
the tops of tall buildings in the capital to dissolve some pollutants. It has called on citizens to wear protective masks. 
But Thambyappa Jayabalan, a Malaysian physician, called the masks "absolutely useless," saying, "They can hardly hold back 10 percent of the pollutants." 
The government's air pollutant index -which mea­sures levels of sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, lead and dust particles -was about 150 today in Kuala Lumpur, a level considered "unhealthy." Levels of 201-300 are said to be "very unhealthy," and 301 to 500 "hazardous." 
•P~uce kill two 

ETA suspects 
By PAMELA ROLFE 
Associated Press Writer 

BILBAO, Spain 
The chief of the deadliest hit team of the Basque separatist group ETA and another man died today in what authorities described as a shootout with police in a narrow downtown street. 
Interior Minister Jaime Mayor Oreja said the killing of Salvador Gaztelumendi Gil has shat­tered the Vizcaya Commando, which has assas­sinated four people this year. 
The other dead man was not immediately identified. Police said they suspect he belonged to the Basque separatist group ETA. 
ETA's political wing, Hcrri Batasuna, said in a statement that it suspected police ambushed the two men. 
Hours after the shootout, police found in a garage in Bilbao a weapons cache containing plastic explosives, assault rifles, grenades and grenade launchers and arrested four people for involvement in terrorist activities, the state news agency EFE reported. 
The confrontation, the deadliest between ETA gunmen and security forces in several years, happened before dawn near the town hall of this northern city. 
Gaztelumendi Gil and his companion approached a parked car that police had staked out after identifying it as a getaway ear used in the killing of a policeman, said poliee spokesman Juan Carlos Salinas. 
Salinas said the suspects fired first. One offi­cer was slightly wounded in the hand. 
Afterward, ETA supporters laid a half-dozen bouquets over the blood-spattered sidewalk and taped to the wall a Basque flag and a sign read­ing: "Two Basque militants have died. The peo­ple will not forgive." 
Student Ticket Exchange 
DATES FOR EXCHANGE: 
usc 

Boston College Navy West Virginia 
RULES OF THE EXCHANGE: 
Tues, September 30 Tues, October 7 Tues, October 28 Tues, November 11 
A student may only exchange his/her ticket for two ofthe six games. In addition only 300 tickets per game will be available for exchange. In order for a student to exchange his/her ticket, he/she must present his/her ticket booklet and ID and pay the difference 
between a student ticket and a general admission ticket ($16). The ticket exchange starts at g:ooam on the dates listed above and will continue until all tickets are gone. Tickets are to be exchanged at the JACC ticket office on the 2ndjloor ofthe JACC. 
Brought to you by Student Government 

Thursday, September 25, 1997 
page 9 


Harvest del~,,,., 
Prices surge ·in 

two.oil$ siJ:ililil,f '()soybeanface ofpossible oil, and (ir()ught blamed on the El Nino warming trend in record harvest Asia and Indonesia would lead to greater imports there, said The Associated Press analyst Dan Cekander at 
Fimat Futures USA Inc. CHICAGO "There's been a lot of dis­
Soybean futures prices rose cussion about the drought and sharply Wednesday on the how that affects the crops Chicago Board of Trade as over there;'' Ceka11der said~ world demand for the U.S. ''It looksJi#'.eri~ht.nqw .WI:!. crop began to increase and could S!:l~ some .v~ry good '·~"""'".'
demand." · ·· · · 
weather threatened to slow early harvesting. Grain Corn futures prices finished Beef futures retreated. mostly lower, however, as on the 
Soybean futures gained market participants eyed dry, Exchange. Le . gs were amid early signs that even a warmer temperatures expect­mixed, while pork bellies were record crop, as expected by ed to last through the week­higher. the U.S. Department of end. October live cattle fell .42 Agriculture, may not meet "We will have at least three cent to 67.52 cents a pound; what is anticipated to be peak good days of harvest weath­October feeder cattle fell .95 world demand. er," Cekander noted. cent to 78.50 <:ents a pound 
Argentina now is importing Wheat futures retreated October lean hogs rose .07 
U.S. soybeans, with 180,000 after forecasting firm Sparks cent to 70.12ee apound; tons already ordered for the Cos. of Memphis, Tenn., esti· february pot~ rose .•82 

THE DREAMERS. THE VISIONARIES. THE ENTREPRENEURS. 
CAN YOU IMAGINE sJ1t64~ YOUR CAREER IN BETIER COMPANY? 
When entrepreneurs need a financial partner, more often than not, they count on LaSalle National Bank. Why? Because we count on people like you. We offer one ofthe best training programs in the world ofbanking. And beyond that, we offer our professionals the opportunity to truly partner with busi­ness owners. So if you're looking for the chance to make a real impact, you'll find it in Chicago-at LaSalle. 
PRESENTATION Everything you need to know about careers at LaSalle National Banlc Thursday, October 9, 1997 8:00-10:00 p.m.-Student Ctr., Notre Dame Room 
INFO NIGHT Your chance to network with LaSalle National Bank professionals. Tuesday, November 4, 1997 7:30-9:30 p.m. -Student Ctr., Notre Dame Room 
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Sign up today! Wednesday, November 5, 1997 8:30-4:45 p.m. -Hesburgh Library 
For additional information, visit our website at www.abnamrocareer.com. LaSalle National Bank and it~ parent company, ABN AMRO Bank, are equal opportunity employers. 
LaSalle 

nw H\NK TH~r WnHKs 

Employers call for easier Immigration 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL decision-making process is 
Associated Press Writer widely perceived as arbitrary, 
he said. 
WASHINGTON "To be frank, those who use 

Tighter enforcement of the the H-2A program do so out of nation's immigration laws is desperation, not because it is creating a potentially crippling viewed as an effective means shortage of farm workers will­of obtaining labor," Vice said. ing to accept backbreaking Furthermore, employers per­seasonal jobs, employers told a ceive the Labor Department as House subcommittee hostile, said James S. Holt, an Wednesday. agricultural economist work­
They asked Congress to cre­ing as a consultant to the 

ate a tempo-National 
rary program 
Council of that would Agricultural
'This proposal is not 

admit 25,000 Workers. foreign work­about a labor "The pro­ers a year for a gram is admin­
shortage. It is about 

two-year pilot istered in a
granting agribusiness a

period to highly adver­replace the federal exemption ... so sarial fashion,"
illegal aliens he said. "The
that employers may 

now being (department)weeded out of impose subpoverty­regards H-2A the work force. applicants as
level wages and work­
"I am here to potential, if not 

tell you that ing conditions.' actual, law­our industry is breakers and beginning to acts as though
feel the effect Bruce Goldstein its mission is to of Congress' Farmworker Justice Fund keep employers effort to con­out of the pro­
trol persons from working ille­gram rather than to help them gally in this country," Bob L. use this program which Vice, a director of the National Congress provided." Council of Agricultural But two California Employers and of the Democrats on the subcommit­American Farm Bureau tee said they don't believe a Federation, told the House labor shortage exists. Judiciary immigration subcom­Rep. Zoe Lofgren said unem­mittee. ployment rates now are in 
An existing federal program double digits in some areas of 
that brings temporary and sea­her Northern California dis­sonal alien workers is not trict. "I just can't see any justi­working, Vice said. The regu­fication for having more ag lations are too costly, complex workers whatsoever," she and time-consuming, and the said. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
A SCHUBERT CELEBRATION 
with Guest Artists 
SANFORD SYLVAN & DAVID BREIT~IAN 

baritone pianist 
Schubert's Piano Music 
Sun., Sept. 28, 2:00 p.m. 
AnnenbergAuditorium 
Die schone Mullerin 
Tues., Sept. 30, 8:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
For one concert -$6 General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors For both concerts -$1 0 General Admission; $5 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune Box Office. 


SEPTEMBER 25TH, FEATURING FROM los ANGELES, THE DJ TANDEM OF 
DJ Q AND DJ SLICE 

THE BEST TURNTABLE DJ'S TO HIT SOUTH BEND. 
A SHOW YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS. * * * * * * * * * * * 
DOORS OPEN 8:00P.M. 21 AND OVER WITH PROPER ID'S $2.00 WITH COLLEGE ID ~ $4.00 WITHOUT OFF DUTY UNIFORM POLICE SECURITY ~ LIGHTED PARKING SAVE $2.00 WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11:00 PM 





VIEWPOINT 
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland AssiS£ant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Ediwr ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............. Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. I r does nm necessarily reAecr the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisranr Managing Ediror, News Ediror, Viewpoim Edicor. Spores Ediwr. Accenr Ediwr, Saim Mary's Ediror, Pharo Ediwr, and Associare News Edimr. Commenraries, leners and Inside Columns presenr rhe views of rhe aurhors, and nor neces­sarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available ro all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edi<or-in-Chief  6.~1-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EdiwrNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• POSTCARDS fROM MEXICO 

"No Matter How I Spell My Name, I'm Still Hispanic 
My favorite so far this week has been "Berabeth Campos," although "Berenice Pabush" is running a close second. And this is only after 20 minutes on the phone. I'm working at a television sta­tion in Mexico City as an unpaid intern­slash-sacrificial goat, and among my less glamorous duties is the task of spending two to three hours on the phone every day calling everywhere from the Office of the President to Dunkin' Donuts. After close to 450 phone calls in my first week at the desk, no one has gotten my name right yet. 

Bernadette Pampuch 

Part of the problem is that my given name is unpronounceable unless you are of French-Polish descent. If we had followed family tradition and my Mexican-American background, I would now be known as "Juanita," after my mother, but given that I was born in the 1970s I was lucky to have escaped with­out the name "Heather." Unfortunately for me, the actress of the moment in 1976 was Bernadette Peters (if you have seen the movie "Annie" then you know who I'm talking about), and it was in this manner that I have arrived to the problem I have today. 
You cannot say the name "Bernadette" in Spanish. The closest you can come is "Bernardet" or "Bernabe," neither of which I am too fond of. To date the only person who has come close is the nice French-Canadian-Mexican lad down the hall who works with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and finds it hilariously funny that I cannot pro­nounce my own name correctly. 
I do not speak French. No one in my family speaks French. No one in my family is French, has been to France, or even traveled from our home state of Michigan to Quebec. I blame Bernadette Peters in part, and my father entirely. I have a theory that I was named after his grade-school sweetheart, but he will not admit to anything for fear of upsetting my mother after 25 years of marriage. I think that in order to throw ofl' her sus­picions he also cursed my sister with an unpronounceable French name, and Jacqueline has more horror stories than I could ever compete with. 
There was a time in college when I considered changing my name. It was the first year I ran for office with the Hispanic American Organization (now known as La Alianza) and the announce­ment of names for offices went some­thing like this: "President, Luisa Heredia. Vice President, Marisa Limon. Treasurer, Monica Lizrraga. Activities Coordinator. Veronica Flores. Social Service Coordinator, Jose Cortes. Saint Mary's Representative, Bernadette Pampuch." One of these things does not belong here. 
There are quite a few people who can identify with me ... At Saint Mary's I think of Leticia McDonald, Delilah Welch, Tracy Hollingsworth, Myra Arnold, and a few dozen more. Famous people? Christy Turlington. Vanna White. Linda Carter. Linda Ronstadt. Daisy Duke. Rita Hayworth. 
What? Vanna White? Daisy Duke? Yes, Hispanics (gasp!!!). I was 20 years old before I knew that my childhood heroines, the feisty cousin of Bo and Luke Duke and the Lens Express spokeswoman who inspired my sister and me to twirl around the living room in our Wonder Woman Underoos, were Latin. 
The difference between me and movie star Rita Hayworth is that I will never try to hide the fact that I'm Latin. For the same reason that I detest the fact that the glamour girl of the '50s 
changed her name to fit into Hollywood, Viewpoint column, which is to give 
I refuse to change mine. I will always be Bernadette "What do you mean, you're not French?" Pampuch. 
For the critics who wrote to The Observer calling me a racist after my taxi driver tirade, I have this to say: RESEAHCI-1. I am proud of my gente for taking a Americans a broader view of Mexico than cactus, sombreros and tequila. Mexico is ancient Aztec pyramids next to high-rises and skyscrapers, reggae 
music, volcanoes spewing ash, intense tral'!ic, heavy smog, and incredibly stupid taxi drivers. Mexico is not just Jose 
stand and having something Q~df7fl Gonzalez and Marla to say (that's how I got the Rodriguez: it is Antonio 
@lp)[:\:\!J.::JU /.]1..1 job writing the Viewpoint ~ ~ Yashimoto, Jean-Pierre column in the first Shabot Martinez, and place), but I am 0 Georg Weber. as much appalled at how stupid ,-;);,:} ~ Q a crazy mix or cui­people can bo. Don't turcs as the United
{;) fA\ r.'l.J<!!Jc=; 

just assume I am a t!:::J~ 0 States. 
dumb gringa because of' my name; I spent !'our years working with La Alianza at Notre Dame and Fuerza at Saint Mary's, volunteering at La Casa de Amistad and El Buen Vecino, I have taught ESL classes, run the South Bend Latino Vote USA '96 
campaign, worked with the National Hispanic Institute, danced with Ballet Folklorico, sang with Coro Primavera, marched for Latino rights on Washington, and nearly been tear-
In Polish, the name Pampuch supposedly trans­lates to "duck 
feather." In the Silesian dialect, it means "rich farmer,"and in Ukranian it means "donut." No joke. With a name like that you can see why it would be
CJ ) easy to change my name to Bernabe / Campos, which is · what it is usually mistaken for any­way. But I'm no Hita Hayworth and the name stays, whether you can pronounce it or not. 
gassed at a Zapatista rally. I am very proud of 
Bernadette Pampuch, this and will tell my children SMC '97, is a graduate lit­about it someday, the same erature student in Mexico children I plan on giving short, City this year with a scholar­easy-to-pronounce names like ship from Rotary International. Her "Ana" and "Roberto." e-mail is bpampuc@hotmail.com. Her 
I have lived in Mexico City before and column appears every other Thursday. live here now because I like it; I am The views expressed in this column working with a news organization for are those ofthe author and not neces­the same reason I am writing this sarily those of The Observer . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I KfJOt(J,

I MU5T GAY, toRI? BUMBet?.­~Xc:al..CifT, 
ACTUAU~ flJ.

SHOOT, ITIJOtrsSOUMJJ./1$ 7H13 V15Ca.INT/ . 8tJTI HAV!3 ..
HONA80lJT

PAI.Aa CROit/P 15 A UTTZ.e CAN YOU TO GeTMY
lriCOM§

01/TOFWotltlfTJ.I meA~-t.&4Vb' /Y1AI(}Jl/ANA
SATURJ?AY~

NIGEL., FCKTI-W/7H ~ CI<OP/N. 
'\ 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Go, sir, gallop, and 
don't forget that the 
world was made in six days. 
You can ask me for anything 
you like, except time." 
-Napoleon Bonaparte 




VIEWPOINT
Thursday, September, 25, 1997 page 11 
• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS AND GENERAL RAMBLINGS 
Take technology ... to the basement 

Oh, I readily admit it-I have a high­our house is completely rodent free!" if you are so incompetent that you must ly dysfunctional relationship with tech­George smiled, and his eyes began to speak directly with a service represen­nology. My whole family does. It's part twinkle as he came to a full realization tative and waste his incredibly valuable of our heritage. It's a time-honored of the magnitude of ignorance he had time-dial9." Scheibel family tradition to run like mad stumbled upon. "I think I have just the We dialed 9. from anything involving cords, plugs or computer for you," he said. "Currently, no representatives are 
. I (Translation: "I think I can take you for available to take your call. Our business 
Wlfi~S. 

Two years ago, however, we made a all you're worth! Happy joy! Lucky day! hours are Sundays and Thursdays from I'm going to Disney World!") 10:15 to 10:25. Have a nice day." 

Needless to say, he sent us home with We had no choice. Though we, as a the Mother Of All Computers, capable of family, strongly disapprove of instruc­exactly 4.6 gazillion functions, one of tion booklets and manuals (especially which being the ability to pump out 50 those larger than the actual device they pages of color text in Japanese, Swedish accompany), we had to do it -we had and Braille in .03 seconds, while blind­to resort to the 650-pound user's manu­folded and with one arm tied behind its al, or Hernia Helen, as we not-so-affec­
Kathy 

back. tionately call it. 
We have discovered, however, a "Hmm, let's see ... Troubleshooting ... slightly problematic drawback to own­ah -Blinking and Beeping: page 23, ing the Mother Of All Computers -it's 407 ... smarter than us ... MUCH smarter. And 1.) Printer blinks and beeps once -it gigantic leap towards the realm of two years later, we still don't know how is out of paper. modernity -we decided to buy a com­to use it! We HAVE, however, figured 2.) Printer blinks and beeps twice -it puter. Now, for a family that still churns out how to break it! is out of ink. its own butter and balances the check­During one of our very first attempts 3.) Printer blinks, beeps angrily sever­book with the help of an add-a-bead, at using our lovely new purchase, we al times and generally exhibits rather this was a momentous event ... one made what I consider to be a perfectly frightening behavior -You must have which the entire family needed to wit­reasonable request -we very politely REALLY screwed something up! What ness to believe. So, we all hopped in the asked it to print ... Well, we thought the heck did you do to it, you incapable buggy and headed off to our local com­that's· what we did. That's highly ques­twit'?!'?!?!"' puter superstore to make some lucky tionable, though, because it responded So, not only was our computer salesman's day. by having a rather large computer con­smarter than us, but its help line 
That lucky salesman was George. niption: spewing reams of paper, flash­mocked our pain and its user's manual "We'd like to buy one of these here ing lights and emitting deafening beep­ridiculed us! We resented this! And, newfangled, fancy contraptions," Dad ing sounds and other rude noises. well, skipping all the gory details ­said to George. We huddled in the corner in fear. suffice it to say that our Mother of All 
"Well. now, do you want a Macintosh "What's going on?" Computers, along with its nasty little or an I13M? A desktop or a laptop? "I think we offended it." user's manual, and the Joneses' con­Megabytes ... yadda yadda ... gigabytes Our answer to technological difficul­founded phone now reside in the tech­... yadda yadda ... hard drives ... RAMs, ty? Find somebody else to fix it! We nology graveyard of our basement, mountain goats ... yadda yadda ... " called George (on a phone borrowed where for all we care, they can antago­
We gaped; the whole family simulta­from the Joneses, because we, of nize each other for the rest of eternity, neously, in complete and utter baffle­course, did not have one). But, it seems while we peacefully churn our butter ment, gaped as this eclectic array of as though George had abruptly left on a and calculate on our add-a-bead until seemingly unrelated (and perhaps fabri­luxurious Disney World vacation, so we the cows come home ... literally! cated) words flew out of George's were transferred to the "help" line, mouth. where we were greeted by just exactly Kathy Scheibel is a senior Arts and 
"Oh -and yadda yadda ... viruses what we had been hoping for ... the dig­Letters major. and a mouse!" he added. ital voice of yet another computer. The views expressed in this column 
To which Mom responded, "Oh, well, "Hello, and welcome to the computer are those of the author and are not nec­now THOSE shouldn't be a problem. help line. For hardware problems -essarily those ofThe Observer. We've all been recently vaccinated, and dial 1, for software problems -dial 2 ... 

Scheibel 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Love is Always Present! 
This is a response to the Sept. 22 letter entitled "Where's the Love?" In his letter the author, freshman Adam Frick, wonders what "impurity we have put in our sacred Golden Dome" that has resulted in a lack of love, unity and divinity on this campus. 
Nothing, Adam. There is no substance that could ever tar­nish the Golden Dome or anything she stands for. Let me tell you why. Sitting atop the Golden Dome is a representation of Our Lady. Notre Dame. A symbol of the most pure and inno­cent love there is, but also a symbol of strength. It is a diffi­cult concept to grasp, but there is nothing we can do in our years here that will ever change the true essence of Notre Dame. No football loss, or drunken students, or catty attacks on each other can lessen the love that is here at Notre Dame. Like the principles she stands for, Our Lady isn't going anywhere. 
I can understand your being at a loss for words due to the events that have been occurring here since you have arrived. They definitely make the love that exists on this campus much more difficult to find. Rest assured, these past few weeks have not been representative of what this place is all about. If you look hard enough, you will see that although it has seemed camouflaged lately, there is still an abundance of love at Notre Dame. 
I'd like to share with you a story that l hope will help ease your mind and maybe even answer a few of your questions about where love can be found on this campus. 
This story takes place on a freezing December evening, the week of finals, at a time when everyone is feeling a little bit more homesick and wishing they could be with their families stringing lights on their Christmas trees instead of pulling all-nighters at the 'Brare. I myself was in the library with some friends, cramming for a genetics exam I had the next morning. As the night wore on I, along with everyone around me, began to grow tired, frustrated and increasingly panicked when I thought of the long hours ahead of me. I was so caught up in my own thoughts that I didn't notice when an elderly man entered the room and stood silently for a second or two in front of the large double doors leading to the second floor. My attention was captured, however, wheri from out of nowhere this sweet man began to sing. Weary students popped their heads above their study carols in sur­prise, and a few came closer to get a good look, but still the man did not stop singing. For a good 10 minutes, he stood right there and belted out one Christmas carol after anoth­er. I watched as everyone-including myself-became transfixed, closing our eyes and hearing his words, grateful for the break and the reminder of what that season was all about. When he was through with his recital, the man sim­ply turned his back on the thunderous applause and walked away. I went with my friends later that night to find him and thank him for lifting the spirits of everyone on the second floor that night, but to no avail. He was gone as quickly as he had come. 
I cannot remember what grade I got on the genetics final I took the next morning. What I do remember, though, is the joy that this man spread on a cold December evening. It's as if he had just come to remind us of what was truly impor­tant that night. I left the library feeling happier and lighter than I had in weeks, and I remember thinking, "This is why I am here. This is what makes this place special. This is Notre Dame."' 
Adam, don't let the recent occurrences you mentioned in your letter tarnish your view of Notre Dame. To you and to others like you who are wondering what has become of the love on this campus, I have a few suggestions. Take the five or 10 bucks you would've spent on beer this weekend and put it in the Adam Sargent fund in your dining hall. Go to the CSC and volunteer. Stand up and cheer your football team whether it wins or loses. Think about the words of the alma mater the next time you sing them. Sign up for a retreat. Surround yourself with all the wonderful things this campus has to offer. 
Your experience at NO will be as good as you make it. You will find love, if you seek it. 
Jaclyn Villano Sophomore, Pasquerilla East September 24. I 997 

inorities at Jones' Reception? 
When I first learned that Mr. James E~rl Jones wasto grace our Notre Dame community again; I was over­whelmed with joy! Just the thought of being able to hear and meet the man 
Ill.OtethatJ_could ever imagine. 
I rushed hmrie to let my grandchil­dren know that he was coming to the University and that we would have a 
meet this great performer. least, they were excited also. Well the day is here! We're on our · · thelecture. and afterwards we going to the Notre Dame Room 
LaFortune Student Center. The was great! I was amazed at · questions which were 
the question and answer the lecture. Most of the stu­f,,,.,ll:l!:lln.:;vu.I.l wanted to hear him say 
~~.~ "'"'· their names, ''Luke I'm you and "You don't know the power of the dark side." 
..., A[th~ beginning of his speech, he statedthatthe last time he gave a lee· tureat a university, no one in the audience heard a word he said, 
l.<.l:Jec.au~;e he didn't do any of the voices that he is famous for. So. he started off by doing some of the most popular . ones, )'et, at the end, during the ques­tion and answer period,. they wanted more. Which is fme. but did they hear what he spoke about? Some did, but I .feat most didn't. All in all, it went J'Yell•N~! (' ·~~~.~~ it 
+ The private reception afterwards soJmethinl! to remember. It was re•~etlti(Jtn that] have ever 
w~~s.offeJttde~d• more than even though I had people were not 
only concerned tninm!'ifi·,~.c:t ~came into . Jones, which When I ·him sign a tape ask 'Mletlcan gen.tletnan if he Dame. The I'm just a was wonder· facu1ty/adminis­str·A.nf1l'! none of this pri· you wonder thinking private affair. very few minorities function. Some of lobby for a chance 
Please answer that 
Barbara Williams Multicultural Student Affairs September 24, 1997 
• SUBMITTING lETTERS 
T
he Viewpoint depart­ment encourages let­ters to the editor that are submitted via disk or e­mail. Please drop off your letters at 314 LaFortune Student Center or send them to Viewpoint.1@nd.edu. 
Please limit the length of letters to 250 words. 
If you have any questions, please call the Viewpoint department at 631-5303. 

----------~-~---~-----------. 

page 12 Thursday, September 25, 1997 
co.ncert, teview 
by Joel Cummins 



widespread panic incites local frenzy 

W
idespread Panic has the reputation of being weath­ered but spirited journey­men, and on Friday at the Morris Civic Auditorium, its members displayed why they have been blessed with such longevity. Having formed in 1982 in Athens, Ga., they have gone through numerous line-up changes, and finally, it seems they have arrived with an ensemble which best suits their percussive yet texture-laden sound. On Friday night, their achievement of this sound was apparent, as the sextet of John Bell (vocals, guitar), JoJo Hermann (Hammond B3, Leslie, vocals) Michael Houser (lead guitar, vocals), Todd Nance (drums), David Schools (bass, vocals), and Sunny Ortiz (Latin percussion) overcame difficult acoustics and a half-full balcony to put forth a respectable performance. 
While Widespread Panic has taken a cue from the likes of monster touring groups such as the Grateful Dead in performing a large and varied reper­toire of material, the metric and melod­ic variety for which the Dead was famous were not apparent. John Bell's vocals hauntingly resemble those of Dave Matthews, although they do so with less lyrical inventiveness and rhythmic flair. His vocals were, for the most part, buried under the dominant guitar texture, which unfortunately also masked most of Hermann's impressive organ work. Widespread's hour-long first set was both dynamically and rhythmically flat, as the vocal and gui­tar melodies were virtually indistin­guishable. While experienced fans danced and sang along without missing a beat, these shortcomings detracted from the performance for those not 

quite familiar with the material. Only 
on "Dear Mr. Fantasy," a Traffic tune 
which closed the first set, did the group 
appear comfortable and display any 
type of dynamic or rhythmic contrast. 
However, the second set proved much more promising, as it began with a Vic Chesnutt tune entitled "Let's Get Down to Business," rolling quietly out of the silence into a much more subtle and controlled groove. The set gained steam with "Conrad the Caterpillar," a vintage concert staple, and never looked back. ·Bell switched to an electric-acoustic guitar for much of the set, and this 
exposnd the mid-range of the otlwr instruments which had benn previously hidd(m. The success of the changn by Bell was most apparent on a yet-to-bn­titled instrumental, their most mdodi­cally and rhythmically challenging piece of the night. Ortiz's and Nace's percussion were then highlighted with a "Drums" section that displayed why Ortiz and Nance provido the backbone for Widespread's sound: their subdivid­ed yet generally metrically simple tnx­tures drive Widespread's sound and give it the marginal variety that it has. The second set spanned almost 90 min­utes, and the group's stoic stage pres­ence that hampered the first set evapo­rated under the auspices of comfort with the crowd and with the more open-minded material. While Widespread Panic filled the Morris Civic Auditorium with a vibrant and voluptuous sound, performing pieces from a variety of sources and previous releases, it was unable to convert its musicianship into the variety and origi­nality tTecessary to keep the listener attentive and curious for an entire night. 


Courtesy of Reprise Records 

sunday 
primal scream Vanishing Point 

(out of five stars) 

S 
oundtracks allow you to sample bands you Howevnr, Primal Scream rectifies itself. The elnr­may not otherwise hear. Trainspotting, a film tronic effects on "If They Move, Kill 'Em" and "Out depicting the cold realities of heroin culture, of the Void" arc solid and consistent. "Medication" offers songs by Pulp, Elastica (how pre­revisits the stylistic identity crisis discussed earlier, dictable), Brian Eno, Sleeper, and a band I had only but it's over quickly. "Motorhead" starts out sound­previously read about, Primal Scream. The film's ing like Nitzer Ebb, but soon reverts to Primal producers even threw in a Blur track to show empa­Scream's now predictable rock-techno combo thy toward the less cultured among us. sound. After Trainspotting (shameless marketing) Primal Scream's percussion is handled by the for­the record ends with "Long Life." Transcendental mer drummer of the Stone Roses, perhaps the most and sedate, this track represents what this band overrated band of this decade. Vanishing Point by should do more of. Primal Scream serves as a break from the constant Leave the wannabe guitar tinkering to bands like (yet enjoyable) swirl of guitar coming out of Britain Ocean Colour and Ash. Primal Scream should figure today. The problem here is that, in 80s terms, this out what it wants and continue to explore its fledg­band can't seem to make up its mind whether it ling electronic world. But, beware, electronic music wants to be The Psychedelic Furs or Front 242. does not have the durability of a more tr;lditional Listen to the opening track, "Burning Wheel." In a rock sound. However, we all need a breather now lit of nostalgia, you'll want to reopen the Hacienda and then. For best results, use Vanishing Point reg­nightclub and personally submit Manchester's bid ularly, but sparingly. I suggest occasional listenings for the 2004 Olympics. "Get Duffy" follows suit, in between playing of your favorite Burt Bacharach pleasantly reminding you of a sleepless night on the LPs. German autobahn. But, "Kowalski" abruptly kills the smooth ambient soundscape. It conjures up images of a bad KLF or DAF reunion tour. "Star" by Sean King makes things even worse. It's like a cover of "Atmosphere" by Joy Division, only here the singer tries to be sappy and tender. 
wednesday 

Sunday night studies won't be the same this year with Nate Rackiewicz and Scruff and the Boy Wonder, Notre Dame's own Dynamic Duo, bring you twoJason "Funky Ferg" Zimbler behind the microphone. NO's own "radio guy" and hours of the zaniest commentary and eclectic musical taste. From /\dam Ant toNickelodeon's "Ferguson" feature a variety of college pop, ska, and puck, as well ZZ Top and back again, these two will keep you coming back for more. Your as crazy wacky funky contests. Listen as these two continue to light for truth, needs arc paramount on Wednesday nights, from sharing your take on the latest justice, and skinny guys at Notre Dame. 
gossip to that sing you can't live without. How can you resist? 
monday thursday 
Monday nights are special because nowhere else will you lind your favorites in Nyx and Johnny Utah are back, and all revved up for the Thursday night hip-hop and house music. Join Kamora, Sadiki, and Stu-Funk for Nocturne on Nocturne spot. From your 80s favorites to the newest in college music, we'll take Mondays and start your week off right. These three guys know all there is to you for the ride of your life. Call the magic number to make a request, win a CD, know about the current music scene, or your money back. Something you want or predict the outcome of this week's game. We promise it won't be boring. to hear? All you have to do is call and ask. Nicely. Come on! You know you want to. 
tuesday friday 
Tune in every Friday night at midnight to Sonic Empire for two blistering hot Because your friendly neighborhood Spiderman needs his classic rock tix sat­hours of electronic dance music presented by DJs Eric and Glen. We'll have the isfied, Tuesday night Nocturne is where he's -swinging. Melding Led Zeppelin latest and best in Techno, House, Industrial, Trip Hop, Trance, and Drum 'n' with Reel Big Fish and mixing The Bloodhound Gang with KISS is the specialty Bass. We'll have the hottest tracks from the Chemical Brothers and Crystalof Johnny Bird and KJ Rini. Wacky voices, brain-tickling contests, and special Method to Atari Teenage Riot and KMFDM, as well as the newest underground guest appearances make sure listeners' ears stay happy. And, as always, they rave hits. Sonic Empire, every Friday night; South Bend's only source of elec­love to fulfill your requests. 
tronic music. 
Thursday, September 25, 1997 page 13 

belle and sebastian 


If You're Feeling Sinister 

(out of five stars) 

R
obert Smith has become content and Morrissey has lost his relevance. Who, then, will lead the way for introspective shoe-gaz­ers? Enter Belle And Sebastian, a Scottish septet whose latest release, If You're Feeling Sinister, puts an end to the rueful state of melancholic pop. 
Combining clements of The Smiths and Nick Drake, Belle And Sebastian evoke a level of pathos that can only be matched by the tenderness of a Seurat paint­ing or the bittHrsweet recollections of a lost love. 
And what would a sad album be if it did not deal 
with relationships? On "Seeing Other People," front­
man Stuart Murdoch suggests: "Well, if I remain pas­
sive and you just want to cuddle!fhen we should be 
OK, and we won't get into trouble/Cause we're seeing 
other people/At least that's what we say we are 
doing." Though Murdoch shows some emotional 
maturity here, he abandons all rationality on 
"Mayfly," where he surrenders to his infatuation and 
allows himself to be "lovesick on a sunny afternoon." 
Although their collective forte lies in the more lachrymose productions, they certainly aren't adverse to turning out a bouncy song or two. One only needs to listen to the buoyant gallop of "Me And The Major" or the toe-tapping rhythm of "Judy And The Dream Of Horses" to experience the group's ability to craft catchy gems. But again, Belle And Sebastian are at their best when they delve into the realm of the heart-rending, as in the achingly beauti­ful "The Fox In The Snow." 
To be sure, Belle And Sebastian's suecessful for­mula is not based solely on their "winning smiles" as proposed in "Get Me Away From llere, I'm Dying." There is, of course, much more: the delicate arrangements of acoustic guitar, cello, and piano; the short story-like lyrics; the unforgettabiH melodies; and Stuart Murdoch's effortlessly fragile voice. 
"All I wanted was to sing the saddest songs/If somebody sings along I will be happy now," confess­es Murdoch in "The Boy Done Wrong Again." Here's hoping that the rest of the world will take notice of this folk-pop masterpiecH and put a smile on his face. 
by Anthony Limjuco 

nydia rojas 

-:c',l-tr

Nydia Rojas 
(out of five stars) 

I
n to day's music industry, one question is being material, but there are plenty of highlights. Ms. asked repeatedly: What is the next "big thing"? Rojas' vocals are powerful throughout, especially on While answers often vary from electronica to ska songs like "No Me Amenaces" and "No Te Quiero 
to swing music, one genre is constantly over­Ver." The album contains slow ballads {"Hay Unos looked: Latin music. During the last five years, there Ojos"), traditional songs {"Te Olvidare"), and, for any has been a steady injection of Latin rhythms into the serious Blondie fan, a familiar pop favorite {"La American underground. Nydia Rojas, however, could Numero Uno." This album will not cause hordes of be the artist to bring Latin music into the American angry youths to contemplate the meaning of their 
mainstream. existences, and it will certainly not astound anyone Ms. Rojas, a Mexican-American teHnager hailing lyrically (unless English vocals are expected). from California, fuses pop sensibilities and efferves­However, this album will provide the listener with a 
cence with traditional mariachi song structures. half-hour of musical enjoyment and will appropriate­Although her self-titled debut is neither the best nor ly introduce the emerging Latin music scene. the most unique Latin release of the 1990s, it is a perfect introduction to this relatively unknown genre. In many ways Nydia Rojas is to Latin music what by DJ Spak Green Day is to punk or Coolin is to rap. Her songs may not be as creative as the works of Cafe Tacuba or Los Fabulosos Cadillacs, but they are easily digestible pop offerings that introduce the American listener to a completely different style of music. The album only contains 30 minutes worth of 
upcoming concerl~~:iri'iRI···a...a 


Bob Mould Oct. 1-2 Metro (Chicago) Cherry Poppin' Daddies Oct. 3 Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac) Farm Aid featuring Neil Young, John Mellencamp, John Fogerty, Dave Matthews Band 
Oct. 4  
The Jayhawks /The Pushbacks  Oct. 4  
Sonia Dada  Oct. 7  
Mighty Mighty Bosstones/Bim Skala Bim  Oct. 11  
Tanya Donnelly  Oct. 23  
God Street Wine  Oct. 31  
Everclear  Nov. 1  
Guided By Voices  Nov. 1  
ou Free  
2. Polvo-Shapes  
3. Radiohead-OK Computer  
. Jon Specer Blues Explosion-Controversial Negro  
5. Man Or Astroman?-Made From Technetium  
. The Grifters-Full Blown Possession  
7. Superchunk-Indoor Living  
8. Delta 72-The Soul of a New Machine  
9. Stereolab-Dots And Loops  

10. Yo La Tengo-1 Can Hear The Heart Beating As One 
New World Music Theater (Chicago) Metro (Chicago) Bluebird Nightclub (Bloomington) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Double Door (Chicago) House Of Blues (Chicago) Emerson Theatre (Indianapolis) Metro (Chicago) 
1. 
Crystal egas 

2. 
Cherry Poppin' Daddies-Zoot Suit Riot 

3. 
The Refreshments-The Bottle & Fresh Horses 4. Size 14-Size 14 


5. 
Save Ferris-It Means Everything 

6. 
Tanya Donnelly-Love Songs for Underdogs 

7. 
Reel Big Fish-Keep Your Receipt (EP) 

8. 
Boy Wonder-Wonder Wear 

9. 
Catherine Wheel-Adam & Eve 

10. 
The Sundays-Summertime 


.. 
r 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
G~nn approaches milestone 
Big Mac hits another as Cards edge Reds
By BERNIE WILSON 
Associated Press Writer 

SAN DIEGO 
From home runs to kidney stones, it's been an eventful season for Tony Gwynn. By late Sunday afternoon. he could be celebrating his eighth NL bat­ting title. 
Then again. Gwynn. one of baseball's greatest hitters, claims he's not consumed by the chase for No. 8, which would tie Honus Wagner's NL record. 
"Everybody thinks about it for me," said the San Diego Padres' outfielder, who once again is stuck on a losing team. "Unfortunately, I guess I've reached that stage where my career is judged on whether or not I win it. And for me, I don't go home at night not sleeping because I'm down seven points. I just don't worry about it. 
''I'm going to go out there and try to win it, but if I don't win it, I can't be too disappoint­ed because I've had a good year." 
Gwynn was down seven points to Colorado's Larry Walker just last Thursday. But the lefty went 11-for-18 in a series against first-place San Francisco to help raise his average to .373. best in the big leagues, and take a six-point lead over Walker going into Wednesday's games. 
The Padres had four games left, all on the road, while the Rockies had five, all at home. 
"Finishing strong, that's all I think about, because I've been sucking gas for a month," Gwynn said. "The last couple of days I found something. I don't know what it is yet, but I found it and I hope I can keep it going." 
Gwynn was batting .383 on Aug. 8, the night he began ail­ing from a kidney stone while in Chicago. It was surgically removed Aug. 10 and he missed five games. That, coupled with an uncharacteristic 10-for-50 slump, dropped his average 18 points. 
Gwynn downplayed the kid­ney stone episode. saying mechanics were more to blame. When he was striding into the ball, he would leave his front hanging in the air instead of planting it. 
"The last few days I've gotten it down and hit the ball hard," Gwynn said. "Why all of a sud­den it starts to got down now, I have no idea." 
While the Padres have collec­tively failed this year -they'll go from first to worst in the NL West-Gwynn has had an out­standing season. He's set career-highs with 17 homers, 118 RBis, 68 extra-base hits, 49 doubles and 322 total bases. 
On Tuesday night, he matched his 1987 club n1cord of 218 hits. That leaves him 222 shy of 3,000. 
Pretty good stuff for a 37­year-old who's chasing his fourth straight batting title and will finish above .350 for the fifth straight year. 
Gwynn considers passing the 
200-hit plateau for the fifth 
time his biggest accomplish­
ment. 

"You've got to be healthy and you've got to be consistent to do it," he said. "So getting to that point has really eased my mind on a lot of other stuff." 
Gwynn has played in 147 games, the most since his last 200-hit season, 1989. 
September injuries ended every season from 1990-93. When the players' strike 
stopped  the  1994  season.  
Gwynn had 165 hits  - and his  
highest average, .394.  

Last year he hobbled through heel injuries that prevented him from planting his front foot. 
He missed nearly 50 games, but was able to usc an obscure rule to add an 0-for-4 to his total and still finish ahead of Colorado's Ellis Burks. 
Besides the kidney stone attack, the big pain for Gwynn this year is that the Padres have again missed the playoffs. 
After reaching the World Series in 1984, it took Gwynn 12 seasons just to get back to the postseason. And then the Padres were swept by St. Louis in three games last year. 
While Gwynn relishes a race with Walker right down to the final day. with the intensity building with every at-bat, he doesn't like the focus on an individual accomplishment. 
"Obviously for me this has been a really good year," he said. ''I've done some things I haven't done before, so that makes it look even better. But when you don't win, I don't care what you do individually. It just doesn't seem like it's worth it. Being in the hunt is what it's all about." 
By JIM SALTER up against the fence to catch a Associated Press Writer towering drive to right. Burba drew loud boos from ST. LOUIS the crowd in the third when he 
Mark McGwire hit one home walked McGwire on four pitch­run and just missed another, es. MeGwire struck out looking pulling within six of Roger ofT reliever Scott Sullivan in the Maris' single-season record of seventh. 61, but the St. Louis Cardinals MeGwire has hit 21 homers lost to the Cincinnati Hods 5-4 since coming to St. Louis in a Wednesday night. trade with Oakland on July 31. 
McGwire hit a two-run Burba allowed four runs in homer with one out in the fifth six innings. Jeff Shaw pitched _ inning on a 1-1 pitch from the ninth for his NL-leading Dave Burba (11-10) for his 42nd save. 55th of the season. McGwire's Hon Gant, suffering through homer was a line drive down a season-long slump, doubled the left-field line that went an with one out in the first. After estimated 388 feet. following a McGwire's long out, Ray single by Delino DeShields. Lankford walked, and Gary 
McGwire began the night one Gaetti doubled into the right­homer behind Seattle's Ken center gap. scoring both runs. Griffey in their battle for the Hookie righthander Manny major-league home run lead. Aybar shut out Cincinnati until 
The Cardinals han four Jon Nunnally doubled in the games remaining -one sixth and scored on Willifl against Cincinnati and three at Greene's sacrifice fly. home against the Chicago But a trio of St. Louis reliev­Cubs. ers gave up four runs on just 
The blast ended a string of thrne hits in the s~wenth. 19 plate appearances without Bret Boone led ofT with a a homer for McGwire. lie has homer off John Frascatore. hit home runs in 11 straight After pinch-hitter Pete Hosfl Jr. series, and has hit 12 ·in struek out, Pokey Reese September. walked and scored on Mike 
McGwire has hit 107 homers Knlly's double ofT Tony Fossas in the past two seasons, break­(2-7). Fossas then walhd ing Jimmie Foxx's two-season Stynes and Greene on eight record for a right-handed hit­straight balls. ter. Sanders, facing rookie Curtis 
McGwire narrowly missed a King, singled to seorfl Kfllly. homer in the first, when right­Eddie Taubensee flied deep to fielder Heggie Sanders backed lel't to score Stynes. 

The Observer accepts classif.eds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.fl). ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

In-home babysitter for 1 0-mo. old.  2 BC GAs  ONE USC TICKET WANTED-$  and the L2 inner product does ....?  
NOTICES  TUESfTHURS P.M. for 4 hours.  FOR SALE  Best Offer  Please call Mae at  
Home located 5 min.s from ND  x2706  (412)443-0691 COLLECT  So I stunk up the whole room,  
campus. Contact Carmen Nanni:  what's the big deal?  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  234-1744  1988 Pontiac 6000 LE. With radio,  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  Poor college student needs 2 tick­ 
LaFortune Student Center  AIC, pwr windows/locks,  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  ets for the USC game (for my broth­ 5 days until the first Common  
Store Hours  Childcare needed for infant &  pwr steering, 137 klmi, drives like a  243 5609  er and his wife). Please call 634­ Sense, I can hardly wait  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  preschooler TfTH all day.  dream, for 1875 or best  3880.  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Car req'd: 20 min from ND.  offer. call 634-3660  NOTRE DAME  It's a tube!!  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  Experience & ref's desired.  ask for Henry  FOOTBALL TICKETS  PERSONAL  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  (616)663-6006.  BUY · SELL -TRADE  i know that kevin will be waiting to  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  Brass bed, queen size with ortho­ hit me with a sledgehammer when i  
Phone 631-COPY  ...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH ...  pedic mattress set and frame. New,  232·0058  Looking for a ride to Miami U.,Ohio  crash the flight simulator. i wish i  
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  this weekend. Will pay for gas.  had a job like that.  
CHILD CARE  promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15  219-862-2082  CONFIDENTIAL  Call Pat@ 4-1901.  
$50/wk. w/meals inc. in Clay Twp.  trips & travel free! Highly motivated  TICKET-MART, INC.  Looking for a ride to Miami U., Ohio  
243·2821.  students can earn a free trip & over  # # # # # # # # # # # #  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  this weekend. Will pay for gas. Call  
$1 0,000! Choose Cancun,  For Sale:  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND  LaFortune Student Center  Pat@ 4-1901.  
Hey you! Ride that mountain bike  Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  '88 Ford Escort  INDIVIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  ;/ High-Speed Copies  
on actual trails here in the area!  Florida! North America's largest  white. 2 door, automatic  674·7645.  ;/ Canon Color Laser Copies  There is one small problem. his  
Yes. there is actual rolling terrain  student tour operator! Call Now! 1­ great condition  ;/ Digital Color Printing  head is disproportional to his body.  
around South Bend. Join NIMBA  800-838-6411  call 687-8435  Buying GA's seasons or individual  ;/ Binding & Laminating  
(theN. Ind. Mountain Biking  # # # # # # # # # # # #  games. Top dollar paid.  ;/Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  I feel goopy'  
Assoc). Ride/maintain the many  ..Spring Break ..."Take 2" ..  Confidential service.  Phone 631-COPY  
local trails, and develop new ones.  Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  Two Michigan tickets for sale.  Call 234-5650.  Who knew that I would have so  
Meet other cool mountain bikers.  Hot destinations! Free Parties,  Call Laura at 634-1487  Be a part of history at NO's biggest  many options?  
Ask any area bike shop about join­ Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800­ NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  dance party EVER! WSND 88.9  
ing or e-mail  426-771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  Car must sell.  FOR SALE  fm's Relro 70's Dance is coming.  So how does it feel to call me  
Kristin.M.Lewis.32@nd.edu or  Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door.  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Stay Tuned ...  boss?  
NDQuaker@aol.com.  Babysitter wanted for 3 yr. old.  air, very good condition.  EVENING #: 288-2726  
Flexible hours. 2.5 m from campus.  $2800 or blo. Call Emidio  it's lime to PAY THE PIPER!  Bob and Tony ­the best darn  
WANTED:  277-1037  631-8594  NO TICKETS WANTED  grillers in town.  
student volunteers for  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  i think that i failed  
ALUMNI PUBLICATIONS/  Male seeks female roommate to  FURNITURE MUST SELL  EVENING #: 288-2726  It just makes you two so happy...  
NOTRE DAME MAGAZINE  share 2-bdrm home. $325/mo. lncl  New TV+VCR combination,  kevin and co,  
When? 3-5 hours/week starting  utilities. 243-0491.  futon+mattress,  FOR SALE  good luck on your 4:00 endeavor  And Tony Rossmiller is working his  
now: possibly to fill 12 hour  Call Emidio 631-8594  usual shift at Senior Bar tonight.  
paid position 2nd semester!  N.D. G.A.'S  9 handles?  
FOR RENT 
CONTACT: 631-4638 or  YARD SALE  patty, you can't fund all of our  Bob Campeau might be in atten­ 
beal.1 @ nd.edu  Sept 27&28 8-4. Sofas, chairs,  271-9412.  habits  dance ...  
WALK TO CAMPUS  micro., exer. equip., clothes.  
ILOST & FOUND I  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  52589 Lilac Rd. off Cleveland Rd, 4  ••• RODEO ...  I'm done now...  
$195/PERSON  blcks east of Portage.  WANTED N D G A'S  Anyone interested in  
232-2595  TO ALL HOME GAMES  starting and competing  What's up gang. I'm back. Who  
A black watch on a velcro bar 1d was  TICKETS  271 1526  on a RODEO team  thinks they should bring back the  
lost last Tuesday night at Stepan  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  here at Notre Dame  calzones? I do. -Note  
Field. If you know where it is,  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  NO Alum 2 pay TOP $$ 4 USC TIX!  contact Mike at  
please call Ryan at 4-1665.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  410-737-6115  289-2924.  Orioles win the AL East--Sorry Ed.  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  HOME GAMES.272-6551  ... RODEO •••  We'll see you in the ALCS!!  
Lost: Diamond Necklace last  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK.  This year there won't be any little  
Thursday at Jazzman's.  243-0658.  Wanted: ND Football Tickets  800-243-9683.  punk kids to save you.  
Reward. If found, please call  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­ my name is Jim,  
284·4350.  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  2850  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  but most people call me Jim.  O'Rock I just thought I'd give you  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Crazy Joe Needs GA's to BC or  your props. You are such a beast  
Lost-Wallet in NOH on Tues. AM  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED  USC. Call 4x4956  STOMPER BOB &  
9123. Call Cliff @ 4-2080.  with private baths, $70-$90,  Mich/USC. CAll Mel 4-1349 if  TASHl STATION  Bogeys like FIREFLIES all over the  
- Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  want to sell/trade!!  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  at Finnigan's Tonight!  sky.  
WANTED  Toll Road, Exit #107,  GAMES AND LSU  
1-800-418-9487.  need 2 BC GA's  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  Chewy,  No Kitty that's my pot-pie.  
call jen @ x0849  What is the purples of this?  
Looking for a copy of the James  Bed and Breakfast for NO games.  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  Chevy  I swear on my mother you touch  
Earl Jones speech on tape.  Private home 2 miles from stadium.  I need BC tix.  USC game. Call 818-790-0094 or  her again You're DEAD!!  
Will pay $$. Call Nate at 1 x0776  Private baths. 272-9471  273-1510.  e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  one more test baby'  

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
-
Orioles claim their first division crown in 14 years 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMORE 

The Baltimore Orioles ran away from the competition before spring turned to sum­mer. Although they struggled mightily near the finish line, the Orioles had enough of a kick left to claim their first AL East title in 14 year;s -and a formidable slice of history. 
Baltimore clinched the divi­sion crown Wednesday night with a 9-3 win at Toronto, becoming only the third AL team to remain in first place for the entire season. The first two. the 1927 New York Yankees and 1984 Detroit Tigers, went on to win the World Series. 
The Orioles had a 30-13 record and a six-game lead on May 21. A two-game sweep of New York on the road built the margin to 9 1/2 on June 4, and a couple of ensuing slumps only teased the Yankees but never really caused the Orioles all that much concern. 
For the last three months, manager Davey Johnson has been making moves with the postseason in mind. It's a luxury that comes along with being in first place from opening day to the final day. 
"l think in some ways it's given us an advantage. We've 
had a chance to set up for the playoffs for almost the entire season," third baseman Cal Ripken said. "It seems like our pitching staff has been managed very well and we've kept people healthy. Winning early on allowed us to play for the big picture and not the small pic­ture of day to day.'' 
Four of the five previous teams to go wire-to-wire also became world champions. In addition to the '27 Yankees and '84 Tigers. the 1990 Cincinnati Reds and 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers carried their success through the postseason; the 1923 New York Giants did not. 
Ripken was in his second year 

Informational Meeting 
Thursday, September 25 8:30pm 
Coffee House Center for Social Concerns Notre Dame 
All Students Are Welcome 



CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

For Additional Information Contact Rodney T. Cohen Director of Uran Programming & Outreach Development University of Notre Dame 
631-7949 

Jan Pilarski Jus rice Educational Coordinator Saint Mary's College 
284-4512 

in the majors in 1983 when Baltimore defeated Philadelphia in the World Series. He's played in more than 2,000 games since then, and didn't get another title to celebrate until Wednesday. 
"You can make the same comparisons between the '83 team and this team," he said. "We're a pretty versatile team. We pitch very well, we execute very well and find ways to win offensively. If you really com­pare teams that win like that, there's going to be a lot of simi­larities in the pitching staffs and their ability to execute defen­sively." 
The Orioles clinched at least a spot in the playoffs as a wild­card team a week ago, but entering as AL East champions signifies an improvement. 
"It's important. There are a lot of other clubs that would like to have that," Johnson said. "Last year, it seemed like we went down to the next to the last day. We planned on improv­ing on that. Our goals were set real high." 
Said Ripken: "You set out dur­ing the season to be the best team in your division. Last year we were able to make the wild­card spot and we had some suc­cess in the postseason and had a good ride. But I think there's a certain amount of pride in win­ning the division." 


American League Standings 

w L Pet. GB East Division 
y-Baltimore 95 62 .605 y-New York 91 66 .580 4 Detroit 79 78 .503 16 Boston 76 81 .484 19 Toronto 72 85 .459 23 
Central Division 

x~Cieveland 84 71 .542 Chicago 77 79 .494 7 1/2 Milwaukee 76 76 .487 8 1/2 Kansas City 65 65 .417 19 1/2 Minnesota 65 91 .417 19 1/2 
West Division 

x-Seattle 89 69 .563 Anaheim 82 75 .522 6 1/2 Texas 73 84 .465 15 1/2 Oakland 63 95 .399 26 1/2 
x -clinched division title; y -clinched postseason berth ·Does not Include Wednesday the 24th 

Howard Hughes Medical Institute Predoctoral Fellowships in Biological Sciences 
1998 Competition 80 fellowships will be awarded for full-time study toward the Ph.D or Sc.D. degree in cell biology, genetics, immunology, neuroscience, structural biology, epidemiology, or mathematical biology. 
Fellowship tenns 
• Three-year initial awards, • $15,000 annual stipend with two-year extension 
• $15,000 annual cost-of· possible education allowance 
Eligibility 
• Less than one year of post­baccalaureate graduate study in biology: college seniors; first year graduate students; M.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.V.M., students or professionals 
Schedule 
• 
Application deadline: November 12, 1997 

• 
Awards announced: early April1998 


• 
Ifan M.D./Ph.D. student: not in a funded program 

• 
No citizenship requirements: 

U.S. citizens may study abroad; others must study in the United States 

• 
Fellowships start: June 1998-January 1999 


For Program Announcements, Eligibility 
Guidelines, and Applications 
Hughes Predoctoral Fellowships 
National Research Council Fellowship Office 
2101 Constitution Avenue 
Washington DC 20418 
Telephone (202)334-2872 Fax (202)334-3419 E-mail <infofell@nas.edu> http:/ /fell owships.nas.edu 
The Howard Hughes Medical Institute welcomes applications from all qualified
candidates and encourages women and members of minority groups to apply. 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

-
National League Standings
Giants' magic number drops to 3 
.w 

w L Pet. GB 
after Johnson's game-winning hit 
By AARON J. LOPEZ 
Associred Press Writer 
DENVER 
Brian Johnson hit his second game-winning home run in seven days as the San Francisco Giants reduced their magic number to three in the NL West with a 4-3 win over the Colorado Rockies on Wednesday. 
Johnson, who beat the Los Angeles Dodgers with a homer in the 15th inning last Thursday, broke a 3-3 tie with his 11th homer of the season off Colorado releiver Steve Reed (4-6). 
Roberto Hernandez (5-2) pitched two hitless innings for the win. 
San Francisco increased its lead in the NL West to two games over Los Angeles. The Dodgers play a night game at home against San Diego. 
The Rockies, 11 games back on Aug. 30, were eliminated from playoff contention. 
J.T. Snow, who hit his 28th home run of the year in fourth, tied the game with a triple in the eighth inning. 
Trailing 3-2 in the eighth, the Giants rallied against Colorado's bullpen. Stan Javier greeted Mike Munoz with a single and was forced at sec­ond on a fielder's choice grounder by Barry Bonds, who scored two batters later on Snow's triple into the right­field corner. 
Larry Walker, chasing San Diego's Tony Gwynn in the NL batting race, broke a 1-1 tie in the third with an RBI double off Pat Rapp. He stole third and scored on Andres Galarraga's sacrifice fly. 

Walker finished 1-for-4, dropping his average to .366 -seven points behind Gwynn. 
The Giants pulled to 3-2 in the fourth on Snow's homer. 
Colorado starter Hoger Bailey, 0-3 with eight no-deci­sions since July 26, retired the last seven hitters he faced before leaving after seven innings. He gave up two runs on five hits with four walks and three strikeouts. 
Happ, making his first _start since Aug. 16, allowed three runs on five hits in 5 2-3 innings. He struck out four and walked four. 
The teams matched runs in the first inning. Jeff Kent sin­gled home Barry Bonds for the Giants, and Ellis Burks home­red to right field for Colorado. 
San Diego 4, Los Angeles 1 

The Los Angeles Dodgers dropped 2 112 games behind San Francisco in the NL West, losing to the San Diego Padres 4-1 Wednesday night as Ken Caminiti hit a tiebreaking, two-run homer in the fifth inning. 
The Giants, who beat Colorado 4-3, have a magic number of two for closing out Los Angeles. 
The Dodgers, who have lost 11 of 15, finish their season with four games at Colorado. 
San Francisco has three games left, all at home against San Diego. 
Dodgers slugger Mike Piazza, who went 1-for-4, was removed from the game because of an injured left hand in the ninth inning. 
He sustained the injury on the pitch from Scott Hadinsky that hit Tony Gwynn. The extent of the injury was not immediately known. 
Joey Hamilton (11-7) gave up five hits in eight innings. He walked one, struck out three and hit two batters before being lifted for a pinch-hitter 
x 
in the ninth. 

Hamilton retired his final eight batters, snapping a per­sonal four-game losing streak with his first victory since Aug. 
6. He is 6-1 against the Dodgers in his career and 3-0 this season. 
Trevor Hoffman pitched a scoreless ninth for his 37th save. 
Caminiti snapped a 1-1 tie by hitting his 26th homer over the left-center field fence off Tom Candiotti (1 0-7) after Gwynn hit a two-out single. 
Steve Finley doubled in an insurance run in the ninth off Hadinsky. The run was charged to Darren Hall. 
Gwynn, trying for his eighth NL batting championship, went 2-for-4 and was hit by a pitch, leaving him with a .374 average -eight points ahead of Colorado's Larry Walker, who went 1-for-4 against the Giants. 
East Division 
x -Atlanta w -Florida New York Montreal Philadelphia 
Central Division 
Houston Pittsburgh St. Louis Cincinnati Chicago 
West Division 
San Francisco Los Angeles Colorado San Diego 99 91 85 76 64 
81 78 72 71 66 
87 85 82 74 
-clinched diVIs/mi ti/le: w clin-ched Wildcard 
58 66 73 81 93 
76 80 85 86 91 
71 72 75 84 

.631 .580 8 .538 14 1/2 .484 23 .408 35 
.516 

.494 3 1/2 .459 9 .452 10 .420 15 
.551 .541 1 1/2 .522 4 1/2 .468 13 
·ooes not include Wednesday the 24th 
~dd 

197:1 

·'-·-----D-~oPI8 ( ~ 
... 
A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 
11:00-STEPAN CENTER 


"!SHIRTS TO A~L FINISHERS INAPV~NCE AT:.RECSPORTS<k1{~i VAN(:~ }\ND $7.00 DAY OF RACE+:: .ENTAND.STAFF DIVISIONS 


Participate in a 30 Year Tradition...  
The Urban Plunge (The Church & Social Action)  CENTER FOR SOCIAL  
CONCERNS  
What is the Plunge?  

The Church & Social Action, colloquially known as the Urban Plunge is a 2-day experience that takes place in one of many cities throughout the US, observing and/or working with individuals, agencies and parishes, which are striving to meet the needs of the disenfranchised ofsociety. 
What is the purpose of the Plunge? 
The Plunge has three major goals: 
1. 
To allow students the opportunity to experience and learn first-hand the problems of injustice and poverty that exist in the urban areas ofAmerica. 

2. 
To increase awareness of and contact with individuals and organizations that are working to alleviate situations of injustice and poverty.· 

3. 
To help integrate the college experience, curricular and extra-curricular activities with future goals of srudy and work. 


When does the Plunge take place? 
The Plunge takes place any two days, depending on your site, between the days ofJanuary 3 -January 10, 1998. 
How do I learn more about the Urban Plunge? 
Pick up available information at the CSC -Center for Social Concerns Attend one of the Informational Meetings to be held at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
Who can participate in the Plunge? 
Any Holy Cross, Saint Mary's or Notre Dame student that has an interest in learning more about urban issues in an urban setting. 
How do I apply? 

Pick up an application at the CSC; application deadline is November 5, 1997. 
_.. 
DON'T LET THIS OPPORTUNITY PASS YOU BY! 

~-------------------~ -~--­
Thursday, September 25, 1997 
Injuries 
continued from page 24 
r:ommunications standpoint." 
Davie has elected not to try to do to much with the defense from a scheme point of view considering the inexperience. 
"We have a nose guard, Lance Legree, that was a line­backer last year, and we have Brad Williams who was an offensive lineman last year. We'rn so young up the middle that by doing too many things, all wn do is trick ourselves." 
On the offensive side of the ball the squad is in dire need of a spark or a game-breaker. After tho Gnorgia Tneh gamn it appeared that that spark would bn providnd by .Joey Getherall, but his sprained knee has ham­pered the Irish attack. 
"Losing .Joey Getherall, I 

think is a big factor," Davie said. "He was a potential game­breaker player at wide receiv­er. Darcey Levy we continue to work, but Darcey would rather be a running back, but he's a big-play potential guy at wide receiver." 
Despite the disappointing start and rash of injuries Davie still feds that the team has not been demoralized. 
"The attitude of this football team I think is remarkable. I think the attitude of the coach­es under these circumstances is remarkable," Davie said. "1 think that's because we've been honest, and it is what it is and all of us need to work together to try to solve those problems." 
"The thing we can best do for our football team is settle down," Davie said. "Before you can build, you have to have that foundation and right now we're trying to set a foundation." 

The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

With the loss of Bobbie Howard (27) the roles of younger players like Lance Legree (90) have increased. 
Mich 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, has not exactly lived up to its end of the bargain. The Irish are under .500 (1-2), and no longer anywhere near the top 25. 
Even if Notre Dame had entered this weekend's sup­posed showdown with only one loss, Saturday's game still might have "game of the year" connotations attached to it. 
But as it is, Notre Dame visits Ann Arbor after suffering its second loss of the year -to Michigan State. 
That just ruins it for ever body. 
Now, if Michigan wins, so what? The Spartans already did it easily -in South Bend, no less. If the Wolverines lose at home, not only does the early­season bandwagon screech to a stop, but the Spartans go one­up on Michigan. 
The Wolverines, of course, are unified in taking the company line. At yesterday's press con-

L..._____________________ ---­
ference, Michigan players Mayes, Sam Sword, .Jon .Jansen and coach Lloyd Carr all pro­fessed, at separate times, that Notre Dame is "a great football team," that we in the general public can "forget about the records" once the game starts and that Notre Dame's Ron Powlus is "a great quarter­back." 
The first two comments are understandable, coming from a team that has long been plagued by disappointing let­downs. The third comment, however -the one about Powlus -did serious injury to the speakers' believability quo­tients. Anyone who has fol­lowed Notre Dame football for the past four years knows that to call the play of the once-her­alded Powlus "great" is to over­look, well, most of the past four years. This season, Powlus' last, the suddenly pass-happy Irish are ranked No. 45 in the nation in passing offense. 
But the truly surprising part of the press conference was when Sword, responding to a ques­tion about Powlus, said, "I haven't really seen that much of him." 
There are nuns who have seen too much of Ron Powlus over the past four years. 
Nevertheless, the game will take place on Saturday, at 3:30 p.m., in front of a national tele­vision audience, with Keith .Jackson and Bob Griese doing the play-by-play. And Carr made it perfectly clear that nobody in Ann Arbor is feeling sorry for Notre Dame. 
"I don't have time to talk about what Bob Davie is going through," Carr said with a chuckle. "I think anytime you lose in a {major) program, there's tremendous disappoint­ment. Those are programs where you expect to win every game, your players expect to win every game, and certainly, your alumni expect to win every game." 
As for the rivalry aspect of this weekend's game, Carr was equally articulate. 
"At Michigan, we've got about 10 rivalries," he said. "And we've got about nine of them left." 



lr¥&111.1
~ .. ·-.· . 
lliANilATOUY 1.'UYOlJT t•UACTICES 

TUYOlJ'f OATES 
l•'•·icl;t~. (h·toht••· :l  (j-!IJI  .) \('("  
Sotllu·dot.~. Ot•lohc••· -1  1-:JJI  .J \('("  
Suudot~. Ot"toht••· 5  TIC.\  TIC\  



-
; ­
CREDIT 

FIRST 
SUISSE 

BOSTON
---.::;,_ 

CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON IS A LEADING GLOBAL PROVIDER OF WHOLESALE FINANCIAL SERVICES WITH OVER 50 OFFICES IN MORE THAN 30 COUNTRIES. THE FIRM IS FOCUSED ON FOUR KEY BUSINESS AREAS: CORPORATE AND INVESTMENT BANKING, SALES AND TRADING (EQUITY, FIXED INCOME, FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND MONEY MARKET), FINANCIAL PRODUCTS (DERIVATIVES) AND PRIVATE EQUITY INVESTMENT. 
UNDERGRADUATE INTERVIEW DATES 
• Corporate and Investment Banking Monday, November 3, 1997 Cortact career services for resume drop dates. 
For more information about Credit Suisse First Boston, visit our website at www.csfb.com. 
Credit Suisse First Boston is an equal employment opportunity/affirmative action employer. 
----------------------------~----------~---------------------~----------------------------------------------------~--------------.­
Thursday, September 25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NFl 
Rookie Dunn is right on the money for the Bucs 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press Writer 
TAMPA, Fla. 

The first game of the season was a little more than a week away, and house-hunting rook­ie Warrick Dunn, by then a mil­lionaire, couldn't wait to share his discovmy 
"lie came in one day all excited and said. 'I found myself a pla!:o!"' Tampa Bay coach Tony Dungy recalled. '"A little effidPncy, $31 a day. and that includes my cable.' ... I told him I wish I'd been able to find a place like that when I was looking.'' 
The hotel apartment a short drive from the Bucs training facility is only a temporary resi­dence. Dunn's planning to buy a house, and eventually will get rid of the 1993 Mitsubishi auto­mobile he adores. 
Job security isn't an issue. Nor is money, since the diminu­tive running back who's one of the big reasons the Bucs are the only unbeaten team in the NFC: signed a six-year, $8.8 million contract that included a $3.5 million signing bonus in .July. 
"I guess I'm not like the av!~r­age athlete," Dunn said. "I don't worry about poss!~ssions." 
At 5-foot-8, 178 pounds, the NFL's leading rookie rusher is not the typical running back, either. Skeptics questioned whether his size would be a hindrance in the pros, but the more the Bucs inquired about Dunn the more they liked him. 
lin's just not an average little guy. "Whnn you go to Florida 
State, I don't care if you're talk­ing to the janitor, if you're talk­ing to the stadium operator, if you're talking to the head coach ... they're going to talk about him being special," said Bucs general manager Rich McKay. "Special kid, special person. special player." 
"We looked at him and kind of said he played four years at Florida State. They played very big games. They played against the best teams in the country and he was the best player on the field. bar none. Because of that we didn't feel like there was a risk." 
The numbers Dunn has post­ed during Tampa Bay's 4-0 start only tell half the story of what he's meant to an offense that was last in the league in scoring a year ago. 
The rookie has rushed for over 100 yards twice and scored throe touchdowns, one on a 52-yard run and another on a screen pass that he turned into a 58-yard TD play. 
Dunn leads the Bucs in rush­ing with 285 yards on 59 car­ries (4.8 average) and also has a team-leading 11 receptions for 131 yards. 
Miami held him to 17 yards on 11 carries last Sunday night, but the speedy tailback still had a major impact on the game with six receptions for 106 yards. 
The screen pass, on third­and-29, clinched the outcome against the Dolphins. It also was reminiscent of the game­breakers he delivered so often at Florida State. 
But the big-play capability Dunn showed in college was 
just part of what sold the Hues on Dunn. 
lie is an even more com­pelling story off the field, where he has helped hold his family together since the murder of his mother in 1993. 
Betty Smothers, a police offi­cer in Baton Houge, La., was killed during an attempted rob­bery shortly before Dunn signed with Florida State. Just 18, he handled the funeral arrangements and became the guiding force in the lives of five younger siblings. 
"People thought then that he would stay home, you know, play for LSU, because he had to take care of his family. But he told me he could take care of his family from Tallahassee, that it wasn't that far," Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said. 
"I try not to show favoritism to any of my players, but I nearly couldn't help myself for Warrick. The hardest thing for any boy to ever go through is losing a parent." 
Bucs linebacker Derrick Brooks was junior at Florida State when Dunn was a fresh­man. 
"When we first heard about it, it was kind of like everybody embraced him," Brooks said. 
"At the same time, he didn't want everybody to feel sorry for him. It was like: "Thank you for your condolences, but I'm going to be a man about it and ya'll don't have to pat me on the back every time you see me. I'm going to be OK.' He showed great courage. It's inspirational to anybody going through hard times." 
Dunn has grown weary of repeating the story. He acknowledges, though, that the experience has made him stronger and enabled him to keep football in perspective. 
"I don't think there's been any pressure," the rookie said. "I think it was just a matter of staying focused. Once you have obstacles, you tend to stay focused and strive to do better than the normal person." 
If anything has surprised the Bucs about Dunn, it's his dura­bility. He never missed a game in college and demonstrated against Detroit two weeks ago that he can handle a heavy workload, rushing for 130 yards on 24 carries and catch­ing two passes and returning a punt. 

For Tampa Bay, it's good he doesn't pinch talent like he does a dollar. 
"He's cheap at heart, and he'd be the first to tell you," McKay said, breaking into laughter. "Don't ever go to lunch with him. He's got little arms because he's a little guy, but they don't even come close to reaching the bill." 

Notre Dame~s biggest Dance Party 
ever!!! 
IS CODliDg. • • 

·­
Friday, October 3rd, in the Stepan disco ball, from 8:00pm-!2:00am. Featuring WSND radio personalities, the MEC's Taste of Nations, Troop NO free cd's, and your grandmother. Be a part of history!!! Relive the decade you were born in. Show off your innate fashion sense. Look groovy. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 1997 
• NFl 

Reeves ready to take on former team for first time 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
SUWANEE, Ga. 
At least they've changed the uniforms. That makes it a little easier for Dan Beeves to watch film of the Denver Broncos. 
"Those uniforms they have now are so different," he said. "They really don't look like the Broncos anymore." 
Of course, the Broncos are the same tnam that Beeves coached to three Super Bowls, the same team that consumed 12 years of his life, the same team that cast him aside five years ago. 
For the first time Sunday, Beeves will be a coach on the opposite side of the field. The Atlanta Falcons are his team now, but he can't conceal the feelings that linger from his days in Denver. 
"My heart will be beating just like it does before every game," he said Wednesday, "but maybe a little faster. Maybe I'll have a few more butterflies. I'll proba­bly have more than the players d0. " 
Ousted in Denver after the 1992 season, Beeves coached the New York Giants for four 

Attention all 
H.U.G.S. 
Members/ 
Dates for T. B. testing have been changed to Monday, September 29th and Thursday, October 2nd. The times are still 11-3 both days. 

.. 
years -never playing the Broncos -before moving on to Atlanta, where he's suffering through the first 0-4 start of his 17-year coaching career. 
But Reeves and Denver will be linked forever. He was a hot­headed young coach when he took over the team in 1981, and his legacy was assured two years later when he helped engineer a trade for John Elway. 
"I worked awful hard to try to build something that everybody could be proud of," Heeves said. "Now, all of a sudden, you're playing against them." 
Heeves and Elway took the Broncos to three Supers Bowls in a four-year period, but the team was routed each time. OfT the field, the relationship between coach and star player began a downward spiral, the inexorable break coming when Reeves fired oiTensive coordina­tor Mike Shanahan after the 1991 season. 
"I certainly knew at the time it wasn't going to help the rela­tionship," Beeves said. "I knew they were really, really good friends, and still are. But if l was going to do what I thought was best, I had to go ahead and make that decision." 
Reeves lasted only one more season in Denver, let go in part because of the feud with Elway. Once his nemesis departed, Elway unleased a stinging rebuke of the Beeves era, saying the coach's conservative o!Tense had prevented him from reach­ing his potential. 
In 1995, Shanahan returned to Denver as coach, a move heartily endorsed by Elway. Together again, they guided the Broncos to the best record in the AFC last season and a 4-0 start this year. 
So Sunday's game is not just Heeves vs. Elway. It's Beeves vs. Elway and Shanahan, the two men he belinves conspired against him when things began to unravel in Denver. 
"Dan Beeves was probably onn of my closest friends at one time," Shanahan said. "Any time you end the way we did, there's always a little bit on the insidfl of' you that rubs each of' us the wrong way. But we're both mature enough to handle it." 
Heeves was bothered by the criticism he took in Denver for his handling of Elway and Shanahan. Still is. 
'Tm a human being like any­one else," Heeves said. "You don't like to be the bad guy all the time. But I can't do anything about that. l'vn got to move on with my life. I had no problem looking at myself in the mirror." 

Elway insisted that his dis­paraging remarks about Heeves were blown out of proportion. He has spoken with his former coach three or four times since 1992 and they've played golf together in charity events. 
"The bottom line is winning and we won when Dan was here," Elway said. "We had a lot of exeiting times, a lot of wins. I have a lot of good memo­ries from when Dan was hem. 
"Time cures a lot of problems. Some things don't seem so important or as a big a deal as they did at the time. Time moves on. I'll sen him again on Sunday and hopefully we'll come out on top." 

The Original Men in Black 


Who are they? What is their Mission? 

Come and See. An infonnal presentation on the Priests and Brothers of Holy Cross and their ministry. 
Thurs., Sept. 25-7pm Hesburgh Library faculty lounge (Pt floor, near auditorium) 
Fr. Jim King, CSC or Fr. Bill Wack, CSC (219) 63] -6385 
http://www.nd.edu/~vocation 
Answer the Call! 

• RYDER CuP 
Newcomers preparing for spotlight of Ryder Cup 
ByRON SIRAK 
Associated Press Writer 
SOTOGRANDE, Spain 

As Tiger Woods walked off the ninth tee, angling toward his shot in the rough, Hyder Cup captain Tom Kite placed his hand on Woods' shoulder and whispered while the young man nodded. 
Neither would say what Kite suid. but the brief exchange betwnen the 4 7 -year-old veter­an of seven Hyder Cups and the 21-year-old rookie underlined a challenge facing both teams at Valderrama Golf Club this week -keeping the rookies calm. 
Nine of the 24 players in gotrs most pressurized event­four Americans, five Europeans -will hear their national anthem for the first time at the opening ceremony on Thursday. 
llow those newcomers per­form in spotlight when the Hyder Cup starts Friday will be 

Holy Cross Mission Seminar: Phoenix, AZ 

Andre House and St. John Vianney Parish January 3-10, 1998 
The Seminar 

•One Credit Theology Course 
•Creates direct service and learning opportunities within 
the communities of the Andre House, St. John Vianney Parish and Holy Cross Associates 
•Explores issues pertaining to ministry, homelessness, community, youth immigration and poverty • Sunshine, hiking and SERVICE in January!!! 
Information Srssions Applil'ations Wt·dnt·sday, St·pt. 24. I ()t)7 Availahlt• at tlw 7:00-7 ::HI lnfonnation St~ssions Thursday, St·pt. 2-'i, (t)t)7 Oue /)ate: TIHII'sday, O('t.2 7:00-7::{0 at tiH' ( :t•ntt·t· fm· Sol'ial Cont·t·t·ns Ct·ntt•t· for StH"ial Cont·t•t·ns 
Further Information Meggan Hempelman, 4-2184 Fr. Don McNeill, esc, 1-5319 
critical. 
"You've got to put them under your wing, shield them from the bullets and let them go and play and be themselves," Nick Faldo said Wednesday. 
"That is what we want to help them with," said Faldo. "Take a little bit of pressure off them and set them free." 
Woods, Jim Furyk, Justin Leonard and Scott lloch are playing their first Hyder Cup for the United States. Darren Clarke, Lee Westwood. Thomas Bjorn, Ignacio Garrido and Jesper Parnevik arc making their debut for Europe. 
"If you don't enjoy pressure you are in the wrong place," said Leonard. who won the British Open this year and was 
second  in  the  PGA  
Championship.  
''I'm not saying I'm  a great  

pressure player," Leonard said. "But that's when I learn the most about myself." . 
While the Americans have only Davis Love III (2), Mark O'Meara (3) and Fred Couples 
(4) with experience in more than one Ryder Cup, Europe has six men who have played in a total of 34 Hyder Cups. 
"I was under Nick's wing in 1993 and he gave me a lot of advice," said Montgomerie, who is playing for the fourth time. 
"But the number one thing he always told me was always remember no matter how ner­vous you are, the other guy is just as nervous so just get on with it," Montgomerie said. 
In addition to Faldo and Montgomerie, the European team has a wealth of experi­ence with Bernhard Langer. who has played in eight Ryder Cups, Jan Woosnam with seven, Jose Maria Olazabal with four and Costantino Rocca with two. 
Both teams gain experience from their captains. Kite was one of the best competitors in his seven Hyder Cup appear­ances, as was European captain Seve Ballesteros in his eight. 
There is a vast stylistic differ­ence, however, between Kite and Ballesteros. While Kite offers gentle words of wisdom in a casual way, Ballesteros is much more direct. 
On one h·)le. Clarke shanked two shots from a downhill lie in a bunker. Ballesteros climbed down into the bunker and showed him how it was done. 
"I worked it out in five sec­onds so I don't know why he even needs to ask," Ballesteros said when asked if he had any hesitation about helping out. 
"If I see something I can fix I will go straight away, even if it is Faldo, even if it is in the tour­nament," Ballesteros said. 
Kite, on the other hand, has tried to create a fun atmos­phere for his players. 
"Tom is not being extra strict and he's not standing over us on every shot," Love said. 
"I think we are a little more relaxed," he said when asked to compare this team to the other two he has been on. "Tom's stressed to have fun and work hard and that's made this team come together real well." 
"I just need to do what I've been doing this year," Furyr.k said. "That's one of my goals. To play the same golf as I'm playing." 
That will be a key for all the players, and it will be a real test for the rookies. 

Nothing is normal about the Ryder Cup. Not the format, not .. the team play and certainly not the pressure. 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS 
JOSEPH W. KEATING '61 FORMER PRESIDENT MERCK PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURING DIVISION OF MERCK & CO., INC. 
SERVANT LEADERSHIP 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 AT 7:30 PM JORDAN AUDITORIUM, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
Sponsored by: Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
and 

...... 
Students for Responsible Business 
SRB
__.,._ 

a 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Students for 
Values in Business Responsible Business 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 25, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Selig makes deal with Houston to keep team 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The Astros will remain in Houston for at least 30 years if taxpayers and other backers come through with a new ball­park. 
That's the promise acting baseball commissioner Bud Selig made to members of the Harris County-Houston Sports Authority at a meeting in Milwaukee Tuesday. · 
" ... Major league baseball will be in Houston," authority chairman Jack Rains said before flying back to Houston. 
Hains and some authority members have been con­cerned that even if the Astros agree to a lease, financial problems could cause the team to leave. 
Astros owner Drayton McLane Jr. claims the team lost more than $60 million in the first three years after he bought the team in 1992. 
On Tuesday, Rains and authority members Billy Burge and Michael Stevens 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ballet-Classes \\>ill be held on Sundays from 3 to 4 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 
p.m. The fee is $35. Register in advance at RecSports. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 
p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 flew with McLane to Milwaukee to sec construction of Miller Park, a retractable­roof ballpark being built for Selig's Brewers. 
After the meeting, Selig said he assured them that if Houston builds a 42,000-seat. retractable-roof ballpark downtown as proposed, the team won't be allowed to leave. 
Under the antitrust exemp­tion enjoyed by baseball, the league can prevent owners from moving teams. 
"Major league baseball has never ... moved out of a place where it had a lease," Selig said. "We have a 130-plus year history of that." 
Rains said he wants the Astros to put up collateral or dedicate a revenue stream to guarantee an annual $4.6 mil­lion rent for the facility. 
Under a tentative agree­ment, the Astros will give that much to cover payments on $4 7 million of the bonds that will be issued for the $250 million ballpark . 
p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 

Field 'Hockey -Practice begins Oct. 29 and will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9-10 p.m. in Loftus. Any questions, call Maureen 4­4281 or Stephanie 4-2741. 
Blue Jays fire Gaston after seven seasons and two championships 
Associated Press 

TOHONTO 
Cito Gaston, who managed the Toronto Blue Jays to World Series championships in 1992 and 1993, was fired Wednesday with his team in last place in the American League East. 
General manager Gord Ash announced the dismissal and said pitching coach Mel Queen would manage the team the final five games. 
Gaston is the third manager fired this season, following Cincinnati's Hay Knight and Kansas City's Bob Boone. His ouster leaves Dusty Baker of San Francisco and Don Baylor of Colorado as baseball's only black managers. 
Ash, whose team was 72-85 entering Wednesday night, said he hopes to have a new man­ager by the winter meetings in December. 
"Cito Gaston is a quality baseball person," he said. "Loyal, dedicated with a con­cern for everyone's well-being. The Blue Jays have enjoyed our greatest success during his tenure. 
"However, during the past three seasons, our club has not responded to the challenges of competing in the American League East. Certainly, the players have failed, the organi­zation has failed and I have failed. 
"However, the manager, as unfair as it might be, must be responsible and accountable for the lack of results on the field." 
Toronto signed free agent pitcher Hoger Clemens to a three-year. $24.7 5 million free agent contraet in the off-sea­son. He is 21-7 and a favorite for the AL Cy Young Award. But the Blue Jays rank last in the league in batting average and have scored the second fewest runs of any team in the majors. 

Gaston, 53, joined the Blur. Jays in 1982 as a hitting instructor and was appointed interim manager on May 15, 1989, replacing Jimy Williams. Two weeks later, the .Jays removed the interim designa­tion. 
Gaston took the Jays to the AL East title that season. After finishing second in 1990, Toronto won three straight division titles beginning in 1991. 
The Blue Jays defeated Philadelphia in the 1993 World Series. They then dipped to third-, fifth-and fourth-place finishes the next three seasons. 
I Please Recycle The Observer I 
Ever~ Thursda~ 
All ..You.. Can..Eat Pizza &Pasta for 
$5.00 
•\.. 

~~~ ~~ • 6:00 p.m.. 8:30 p.m. •
"0 

... 
1\len's Soccer 
Mens Tennis 

F'l:iday ~ 26 

Fri-Sun Sept. ~6-~StL 
vs. Villanova 7:..30pm
-
All Day

Stl.l"lday ~ 28 
Courl••ey

vs. Rtttge:s 
Tennis Courts

1:00 pro 
Free admission to all students! 

' 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CATBERT: EVIL H.R. O[RE.CTOR 
NEW POLICY: A.Ll COMPANY DOCUMENTS MUST USE. THE OFHClAL COf"\Pf>..N'< F0 NT ... 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 They may be seeded

1 Whey-faced 30 More than 4 Popular snack tubby10 Durable 31 AutomatiC start transports, for 
short 33 East 
35 1989 Jack defeated 1n 14 Proposal 
Lemmon film 1982 36 Ep1tome of ts How some 
sharpness 

coffee is served 39 Prone 
16 Adm1n1ster 42 Swear by, w1th 
nOK 
"on" 

19 cava 43 Dump 20 Outcasts 45 Monomaniac, 21 lnd1ana 
informally Hoos1er: 47 McCurry, to Nevada· Clinton 
23 Inca fortunes 49 5-Down, for 
24 Kyrgyz city example 
26 Most basic 52 Off1ce staple 
21 51-Across, for 54 London theater 
example Old-
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

--r----~--~ ·,/---v 
LET ~ SE.E ... t.JI-\1\T 
WOULD  5E THE M05T  
05SCURE  AND  
li"\PR~ CTICAL FOI\lT  
Il"\f>.GlNA 5LE.?  
55 N B. A ·s N1ck  
Van  
56 Put up  
58 Shock  
60 Br1t1sh title­ 
61 O.K  
63 L1st ender  
64 Take --of  
absence  
65 Schoolboy  
66 Forswear  
67 EnthusiaStiC  
response  
sa Mag. staff  
DOWN  
1 Club. say  
2 Citation's  
JOCkey  
3 Pearly: Var  
4 Sonoma  
neighbor  
50.K  
6 Stylish  

Puzzle by David J. Kahn 

1 Book before Zephan1ah: 
18 Disney head Abbr. 22 Soyuz 6 cosmonaut
s Works at the 
Shon1n
Met 
25 Shakespearean

9 Word with 1ron 
play 1n two parts
or bath 

29 "Comprende?· 10 46-Down. for 
32 Superstore
example 

34 17 -Across, for 11 Tittered 
example 12 Dustin's 37 Suff1x with pay "Agatha' 38 Little wngglers co-star 
39 Assumed, with 13 Like "to" propaganda 40 Apportion 
DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
501'\E.WHERE IN ELBONIA
u 

c ~----:::=======:::i 
'(E.P. UNLESS
1 UNDERSTAND
~ 
-g 

I C.A.N GET TI-\E 
YOU NEED 
~ 
If) 

CONSONANTS FONT 50FTWf>.RE 
EL50NIAN 
FOR SOME Ff\OM YOU. 
RE.A.SON. 
) 


41 Surveyor's 51 Merges assistant 53 Indemnify 44 Cotton or wool 
57 Red-pencil 46 O.K 59"---Death" 48 Unnerve (Grieg work) 50 Fill up agam. 1n 62 Point, in 
a way law 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



CEllBRITJES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tom joJ.w:-., Pnnn·, Thurmtln 
Munson. ]l';<:;~ic.~ Tandv 
DEAR EUGENIA. I ,,m worh.1ng 
t\\'\l p.u.t-tinH' jDb~ <lnd I h,llt' tlwm 
both 
Mv real probll'm t'\J~t~ \\'lth nH hu~b.md. Hl' is cl Ll'U, born (Ill ·\ug 12, 1%!!, and I was born Dl·r. 24, l'lhH, 111 2.20 a.m. He is u~udlly prl'tty pil­tu.·nt, hut he IS getting fed up \\:1th nw JW\ hl'ing able to wnrk full·l!lllL' I h.:we applied to many dJffl'n·nt pl.ll'L'<; nnd r.1rely get <1n inten'H'w. 
My husband is gt._•lting murl' fru~ 
tr01ted \\'ith me. This could aftl'ct Pur 
relationship permanently. Nm,· 11l' 
wants U!> to have a babv, ht._•rau~t· I nm 
homt• anyway. ' 
Lost 111 Space 
DEAR LOST IN SPACE: Your comparison showed me that you have a definite lack of communica­tibn when it comes to what you want out of life. I find this sad, because the synastry was really pretty good. Your husband loves children and is look­ing to regain his respect for you. 
Although last year would have been an ideal time to have a child now is not a bad time to get preg~ nant either, but first you must ques­tion if this is want you want. Your personal life is going through a long period of uncertainty. 
You could get a job if you wanted to. Unfortunately, when you go for interviews, they see that you don't really want to work. I can see your husband's frustration, and· if you don't get some professional help, you may find him leaving you next year. Get motivated. You're the only one standing in your way. ~ 
ARIES (March 21-April 191: Tro,-­el and social C\'t•nts will be L'll· 
hghtl'nmg Sudden changv" 111 1 n 
ctrm<;t,\IKcs mav ll'ad vou m ,, drrt.'t­
tlnn you k•n-;t l'~pcd · 
TAURUS !April 20-May 201: Y"u 
mtl)' OVl'rt'Xil'nd yrHJrs(·lf !nlilllll,lllv rl 
\'OU P,L't tntO a llhl!Ol' rL'IlO\'dilCll) l:h!.., 
1:--. not thl' d.n to tah.l' c1 ch,llKl' 
GEMINf !May 21-June 201: i<l'l,, tum~hip~ will t.1h.e .1 turn for the hl't· ter Ynu G\11 make ~real ...tndl'~ rl \'Pll conununK.:ltt• htmestly_ 
CANCER (june Z1-July 221: 1;,~,. cilre ol the 11L'l·d~ ot l'lders 111 vour (i\· rnilv. lliddL·n nssets are appaient and fl'wards for helpmg others will bl' vour~ todav. 
LEO (j~ly 23-Aug. 221: You will b,, 111 th~' mo0J for love. Laying your emotronal cards on the table wriJ de­tt.•nnirw your pt•rsonal direction. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: \'isit fril'nds or relatives that have been confmed. You can enjoy social C\'ents and lllL't'l new potential mates. 
LIBRA !Sept. 23-0ct. 221: Entl'r­l,lmment should include vour whol£• family. Do not spend too inuch in or­d~r f{} 11npress others. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Sud­den changes concerning financial and legal matters will turn in your favor tndav. Takt• control and don't look 
back.now. SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: \uur magnt'lir personality will en­hemet• your reputation and d.ra w nt.•w potL•ntial mates. CAPRICORN IDee. 22-Jan. 191: l.t~nt1Jcts over joint moneys are likely. (,>ver yourself legally and don't ll't ~-,)ur temper get out of hand. AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): l'lea­s;~re trips should be on your agenda \!Sit fncnds or relatives whom vou don't get to see very often. ~ PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You ,,·ill make Lhe most headway if you put m overtime. Recognition will be \'nur~ If ~'ou can meet your deadline. 
Born Today: Yot~r sen~itive, no-1101\.-'-.l'n~t' npproach to life will backfire if you refuse to comRro_mlSc th1s year. Set~acks \,·ill plague Y<?U if you can't forgive and forget. This IS not thr year to wopardt/l' your p<.lSition professionnlly or pt•rsonally. 

•MENU 
North Buffalo HotWings Potatoes Au Gratin Cut Corn Canadian Cheese Soup 
South Canadian-Cheese Soup Chicken & Cheese Chimichangas Herb Roasted Red Potatoes Buffalo Chicken Wings 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

... 
-
.. 
-

Acoustic Cafe 
Thursday 9pm-12am a Ia Huddle free 
Hercules at Cushing Thursday 10:30pm Friday Bpm and 10:30pm Saturday Bpm and 10:30pm 
$2 

.. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, September 25, 199~ 
• fOOTBALL 

_, 
Linebacker Jimmy Friday was forced to call the signals for the defense after Bobbie Howard's injury. 
Irish coaching staff still searching for ways to fill voids 
By JOE CAVATO year's unit averaged 37 points 
Assistant SportS Editor a game. They have been 
unable to find a groove and 
First-year head coach Bob they are now missing their Kinnon Tatum, 
Davie has been faced with his starting fullback Joey-share of challenges so far in Goodspeed along with tackle 
this young season. It will be Chris Clevenger and receiver 
difficult enough for Davie to Joey Getherall. 
turn around this season. but The coaching staff has had young players 
when you add in the complica­its' hands full trying to find the 
tions of injuries the task seem­right mix. Davie's crew has 
ingly has become insermount­needed to use what players 
able. are healthy and has had to of the defense. 
This weekend Davie will take convert others. 
his troops up to the Big House, "I think that's what coaching 
but he will be missing some of is, and that's what playing is, 
his most essential players. trying to find the pieces of that true freshman 
Junior linebacker Bobbie puzzle to make it all fit," Davie 
Howard and senior defensive said. "And, we've got some 
lineman Corey Bennett will be pieces missing right now to 
out for four and six weeks that puzzle, but we're going to 
respectively. continue to work hard and try that will 
The Irish offense has been to make it all fit." 
disappointing considering last The spot where the Irish 

-
• SMC SOCCER 

Belles overcome Anderson 

By MAHA ZAYED 
Sports Writer 

With solid passing and an impressive team effort, the Belles (2-8) defeated Anderson University on Wednesday night 2-1. 
"We worked hard the whole game and didn't let up," said coach Robert Sharp. "The players all worked togeth­er and created plays for each other especially senior Debbie Diemer who played the best game I've seen her play." 
The Belles scored both goals in the first half. The first one came in the first quarter on an assist from Mary Woodka to senior forwa! d Eileen Newell who put the ball into the net. 
"The forwards did an excellent job breaking through their defense," said Sharp. 
Newell was a force in the seco~d quarter which resulted in another Saint Mary's goal. Newell assisted Diemer who drove the ball into the net. 
Although the Belles only scored two goals, Coach Sharp felt content with his team's offensive play. Sharp saw many improv~ments .in the game against Anderson. The Belles· have been work­ing hard in practice this week on improving the team's offense. 
Sharp does however see some room for improvement in the Belle's defense. Although Anderson only scored one goal, he commented that, "the defense can get tougher and shut down their opponents from creating opportunities." 
With this win, the Belles have momentum going into their game against Hope College today. Saint Mary's will be looking to step up their defense and work hard as a team to keep Hope froin creating scoring oppor­tunities. 
By MOLLY McVOY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team pulled through to win a tough one against Albion College Monday. They won the best out of five match 15-6, 16-14, 15­11, 12-15, and 15-10. 
The Belles came out very strong in the first game, scoring first and winning easily. In game one, they dominated at the net and had a potent offensive working throughout the game. Agnes Bill had an outstanding dig to save a score by Albion late in game one. 
The second game was a tough one on the other hand. Albion sped up the pace and went on to win it 15-10. The Belles came back to win a very close game three however. Saint Mary's scored first, but Albion matched point for point throughout the game. There was quite a battle at the end, and the score was knotted at 14 before the Belles pulled it out. 
Saint Mary's setter Megan .Jardina helped out with strong serving in game three. 
Saint Mary's serving slipped in gamP four, and they opened the door for Albion to win 15-12. The Belles rallied to win game five, however and bettered their record to 5-3. 
Overall, sophomore Agnes Bill led in kills and Betsy Connolly and Mary Rodovich teamed up for great blocking. 
"We started out well, but then flat­tened out," Jardina commented. "I am glad we won, but we could have won in three." 
Coach .Jennit~ Joyce had similar thoughts. "We eeked out a win. They were very scrappy and we never really got into our groove." 

at Michigan, 
(!j 

Q Volleyball Q)
September 27, 2:30 p.m. 
.l.Jc 'C •Orioles clinch AL East
at Carroll College, 
,..,.. 
at Rutgers, 

September 27, 3 p.m. 
see page 15
\~ September 26, 7:30p.m. 
...... 
')ft "• Villanova, 

Cross Country 
•McGwire hits 55th 

s.. ~ 
/k

+tM' September 26, 7:30 p.m. 
at Adrian, 
see page 14
.t.e 

September 27, II a.m.
Sr. John's, 
October 3, 7 p.m. 

~ ~ 
--------~----------------~-~­






