~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------~ 


• Construction plows 
'Kicking off' another season 
ahead on the new golf 
• The Notre Dame soccer teams return to the field tonight
course p. 3 
in their first regular-season matchups p. 22, 24 

Friday, August 29, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No.5 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

e are saying: All students must be respected, honored members of the community. 
--FATHER EDWARD MALLOY 

ND won't revise non-discrimination clause 

i.J::Jy::JJJ.u .L~~lJ]::JJJ J~~.!J ~~ ::.1 l J11!Jl1~ iJ::JJJJ~ . J :.J:.J£ .. .J:.J:.J1 
Jan. 23 -Office of Student Affairs bars 
GLND/SMC from meeting in the University 
Counseling Center. Professor O'Hara 
argued that GLND/SMC was not an officially 
recognized student group. 
Feb. 13 -More than 300 students, faculty and staff protest in front of the administration building in 
_ support of GLND/SMC. Feb. 20-CLC sends 
1995, 1-----------------a resolution to O'Hara 
1996­
1997' ­
urging recognition. March 6 -O'Hara responds by establishing the Ad Hoc '-Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Feb. 29 -Ad Hoc Committee presents its report with 12 
......--------------recommendations including recognition as a student group. 
April 2 -Professor O'Hara accepts the 12 recommendations, including the last which calls for the non­discrimination clause to be evaluated by the officers of the University. 
Oct. 10 -Bill Kirk, Assistant Vice President, denies the 
L--------------College Democrats' request to host a rally on National Coming Out Day. 
April 17 -O'Hara denies CLC's request for a timetable on the officers' decision, but assures Student Body President Matt Griffin that she will notify him when a decision is reached. 
April 24 -The College Democrats hold a rally at the Main building to support the 
1----addition of sexual orientation to the non­discrimination clause. More than 400 people attend. 
Aug. 27 -Officers of the University announce the "Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame." 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 


Legal questions prompt creation ofadditional statement of 'inclusion' 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor 
Notre Dame's legal non-discrimination clause will not be revised by the officers of the University to include sexual orientation, University president Father Edward Malloy said today. 
Instead, University officials have scripted a statement that accepts all people into the campus commu­nity regardless of sexual orienta­tion and condemns harassment of homosexuals. 
Central to the decision against revising the legal clause is the Church's distinction between homosexual activity and sexual ori­entation, which differs from that of the courts. 
"The Church teaches that sexual orientation is neither sinful nor evil," Malloy said in an open letter that appears on page 15 of today's Observer. But, he clarified that outside the Church, the term is often used as an umbrella referring to all homosexual activities, propensities, or lifestyles, which the Church still condemns. 
Because the University's non-discrimination clause is a legal statement, revising it would open the University to the possibility of legal action stem­ming from its disapproval of homosexual behavior. 
The statement, "The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame," will appear in most major University publi­
see ClAUSE I page 8 

Friday Feature 

• When the team dons its helmets for real next week, it'll be a whole new ball game p. 24 

By MATT LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
Student leaders decried the University's new "Spirit of Inclusion" statement as a way of dealing with the issue of the non-discrimination clause but avoiding any substantive change to Notre Dame's policies. 
"We are very pleased that the officers came to a decision so quickly," said student body presi­dent Matt Griffin. "But we are disappointed with the decision that 
'Wehope this action serves as an impetus for revision of the non-discrimination clause.' 
J.P. Cooney College Democrats 

'W:e feel like we put a lot of faith in the system and, for the moment, the system has let us down.' 
Matt Griffin student body president 




Revision decision meets mixed reaction 
they made. This isn't the decision that we were hoping they would make." 
"This was not just an issue that was brought up by the College Democrats in the rally last year," agreed stu­dent body vice president Erek Nass. "(University President Father Edward) Malloy made it sound as though there was no discrimination at Notre Dame. If they lived what they say. we 
see REACTION/ page 5 


Neither rain, nor snow, nor sleet... 
UPS strike means business for Notre Dame post office 
By TARA CHURIK News Writer 
Sophomore Rebecca Perry awaited the arrival of neces­sary dorm supplies shipped via United Parcel Service, but to no avail. 
She, like many other stu­dents. has been affected by the recently settled UPS strike. Because the Chicago Teamsters settled just this past week, much of the West Coast's shipments are only now beginning to make their way to their destinations. 
While UPS could not confirm the number of packages cur­rently waiting in Chicago for shipment to Notre Dame, the processing of millions of pack­ages has undoubtedly affected shipments. 
To compensate, many stu­dents shipped belongings to campus via the Notre Dame post office. This mail center has seen a 25 percent increase in total weight of parcel post shipments this year. 
"Five to 10 percent of this increase will remain with the post office in spite of the strike's resolution," estimated postmaster Michael Walsh. 
He further said that the actual number of parcel post packages arriving on campus has doubled since the strike began, and that existing employees have worked over­time hours in an effort to accommodate the increased delivery demands. 
To aid the post office in delivering all of its packages, a program only at Christmas. the University has hired ware­Even before students house drivers to deliver pack­returned to school, the UPS ages directly to dorms. The strike affected their back-to­University previously ran such school shopping through shortages of merchandise. The slowdown of shipments of everything from SYR dresses to computer repair parts to 

see UPS/ page 8 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, August 29, 1997 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 


Make a choice 
on Labor Day 
We have reached the first weekend of the school year. Seniors will (continue to) rush out to bars, others will hold their first parties at their off-campus homes, and freshmen will hop from dorm to dorm or to a 

sibling's apartment for Dan Cichalski 
their first real college Assisranr Managing Ediror 
party experiences. 

But it's not just another weekend. It's 
Labor Day weekend, a three-day weekend 
invented solely to give people that extra day 
off-as long as you are not a student at 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Upperclassmen may remember a column I 
wrote this time last year questioning why 
students -and professors -must attend 
classes while the rest of the administration 
employees barbeque with their families in 
the back yard. 

This year I am not just questioning the cal­
endar -I'm suggesting we alter it. 
The schedule was changed only recently to 
give the administration the day off. Before 
then, everyone had to come in. The question 
of the day, then, is why not give everyone the 
day off when that decision was made? I 
doubt it is any easier to give the day off to 
those in Grace and Hayes-Healy than it is to 
give it to all of us. 

And how does the teaching faculty feel 
about this? While the offices are closed and 
secretaries get to stay home, professors must 
show up and teach students who would 
rather be outside -unless it is one of my 
professors who, one year, told the class on 
the first day that Monday was Labor Day, 
and he would not be in to teach. Whether or 
not we wanted to show up was our decision. 
And that is a fine idea. Make your own 
decision about Labor Day. If you want to 
treat Sunday night like a Friday night, go 
ahead. Sleep in Monday. Spend the afternoon 
on the quad or the balconies of Turtle Creek 
and Campus View. 

Just do it. Most of us have large lecture 
classes in which the professors don't take 
attendance. And other classes allow at least 
a few absences during the semester, if atten­
dance is taken at all. 

Back east, especially in coastal areas, no 
one would ever consider having school or 
opening any offices on the third-biggest holi­
day of the summer. Labor Day is the tradi­
tional end of the season. After that, teaching 
parents and their school-age children will 
return to the classrooms. Stores will put 
away their patio furniture and bring out the 
Christmas trees. But Labor Day is set aside 
for one last day at the beach, on the boat or 
in the yard. 

Labor Day is a weird holiday. Its only rea­
son for being is to give people the day off. If 
we are not given the day off, than there is no 
reason for the holiday to exist as far as we 
are concerned. I thought I once heard it 
started as a day off for farmers or some­
thing, but I can't find an encyclopedia to look 
it up. I do know that most countries cele­
brate Labor Day May 1, and the United 
States added their holiday when the United 
Nations was formed. 

Why shouldn't we have the day off as well? 
That's a tough one to answer. Take your 
time. Take all day. Take all Monday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY's STAFF 

News Graphics Heather Cocks Melissa Weber Laura Petelle Production Sports Heather Cocks 
Allison Krilla Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Tara Churik Joe Stark 
Accent Joey Crawford Joe Weiler 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member ofche Assoclaced Press. All reproduccion righcs are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
NATO peacekeepers fire warning shots in Bosnia 

BHCKO, Bosnia 

U.S. troops became more deeply embroiled Thursday in a violent power struggle among Bosnian Serbs, firing tear gas and warning shots to fend off rock-hurling Serb mobs. Two American soldiers were injured in the clash, one of the most serious involving peacekeepers since 
the Bosnian war ended. 
Several civilians also were wounded in the melee. Hoving mobs smashed the cars of international officials and roughed up foreign reporters. 
As NATO helicopters clattered overhead, U.S. soldiers in full battle gear -the main component of NATO forces in the region -tried to maintain calm. 
Thursday's violence stemmed from the feud pitting Serb President Biljana Plavsic against supporters of Radovan Karadzic, the Bosnian Serbs' wartime leader 
Chelsea stalker pleads innocent 

A Russian immigrant accused by fed­eral authorities of repeatedly trying to contact Chelsea Clinton pleaded inno­cent to charges of storing a pistol near the White House. Accompanied by an interpreter, Vladimir Zelenkov entered pleas Wednesday through his court­appointed attorney to charges of carry­ing a pistol without a license, possess­


ing an unregistered firearm and possessing ammunition. The weapon, a .380-caliber semiautomatic handgun, and 156 rounds of ammunition were found in a safety deposit box in a bank across the street from the White House, the Justice Department has said. Such weapons are banned in the nation's capital. Zelenkov, 27, had been indicted Aug. 13 by a District of Columbia Superior Court grand jury. None of the charges involved any effort to make con­tact with President Clinton's daughter. Zelenkov was arrested by Secret Service agents at his Elizabeth, N.J., home on Aug. 6 on the weapons charges. He was freed a day later by a federal magistrate, who told him to stop trying to contact Miss Clinton and ordered him to appear in Washington five days later. · 
Think you know your body? 
SAO PAULO, Brazil 

Don't be alarmed, but doctors have replaced your cheek bones with zygomas. Your adam's apple is now a laryngeal prominence. And there's a cubitus where your elbow used to be. If you're feeling like Frankenstein's monster, don't worry. The biological terms simply are part of a just-finished project to create a standard, world­wide list for anatomical terminology. For eight years, a panel of 20 scientists from 16 countries has been work­ing on a common lexicon for the 6,000 terms used to describe the human body. Some of the terms on the final list already are widely in use. About 1,000 represent new standards. "Anatomists have been striving for a universal language for more than 100 years," said Dr. Liberato John DiDio, secretary-general of the Federative Committee of Anatomical Terms, A simpler problem the committee hopes to resolve is the confusion over num­bers to designate the fingers. Which one is the first fin­ger? "In some countries the thumb was finger No. 1. In qthers it was the index finger and in some it was the small finger," said Dr. Ian Whitmore of London's Queen Mary College. "From now on, doctors will refer to the thumb and the index, middle, ring and little fingers." 
• 
Multinational Division North, based In Tuzla, consists of more than 8,000 U.S. troops, a Russian brigade and a Nordic­Polish brigade. · 

• 
Multinational Division Southwest, based in Banja Luka, ls led by British troops. 

• 
Multinational Division Southeast, based in Mostar, is led by the French. It includes Spanish, German, Italian and Portuguese troops. 


and now sought by an international tribunal as its No. 1 war crimes suspect. 
NATO said it moved into Brcko, Bijeljina and Doboj to "deter the outbreak of vio­lence" after receiving indica­tions that forces loyal to Plavsic would try to take con­trol of police stations and media in Serb-held areas of northern Bosnia. 

Its soldiers fired warning shots and tear gas to dis­perse crowds in Brcko after local police failed to do so. NATO officials said they knew of no injuries caused by their forces. · 
NATO has sided increasingly with Plavsic, the Bosnian Serb republic's elected leader -and the only senior Bosnian Serb official who will honor the 1995 Dayton peace accords-but said it also aims to prevent violence between the two factions. 
Stop the presses! Where's the boss? 
NEW YORK 
Marvel Comics editor Mark Gruenwald poured his life into his work. He did the same in death. A 12-book comic series that he created, "Squadron Supreme," was reis­sued in one volume this week -printed with ink blend­ed with his ashes. "Yes, the pages you are about to turn contain the actual particles of Gru," his widow, Catherine, wrote in an introduction. Gruenwald was senior execu­tive editor at Marvel when he died of a heart attack on Aug. 12, 1996, in Pawling, N.Y. He was 42. His will requested that he be cremated, and "for his ashes to be mixed in with the ink during the printing of a comic book," she wrote. The ashes were mixed at a printing plant in Canton, Ohio. "This is something that he really wanted because he really loved comics. He wanted to be part of his work in a very real sense," Marvel editor in chief Bob Harass said. Gruenwald created "Squadron Supreme" in 1985 as a parody to DC Book's Justice League of America, which includes Superman and Wonder Woman. The reissue had a first printing of 4,000. It took some in the comic book business by surprise. Stephen Fishier, owner of Manhattan's Metropolis Comics & Collectibles, said Gruenwald's posthumous inclusion in his work is "pretty morbid." 
China adds 'pets' to banned list 
BEIJING 
Worried that a craze over hand-held video games and eletronic pets will distract children from their studies, China has banned electronic pets from schools, state-run media reported today. The State Education Commission issued the ban Wednesday, noting that the games had already adversely affected some students, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Effective September 1, the start of the semester in China, the toys will be banned from all schools, it said. School officials will confiscate any games they find, and students caught carrying them to exams will have their test scores canceled, it added. The gov­ernment also plans educational activities to convince chil­dren of the disadvantages of the electronic pets, which "die" if not given constant attention. Some schools in Thailand, the Philippines, Hong Kong and South Korea already have banned the games for the same reason. While the original Tamagotchi was an electronic chicken, its wild success has led Japanese toymaker Bandai to produce electronic cats, dogs and dinosaurs as well. The State Education Commission's order prohibits sales peo­ple from marketing the electronic pets or any other types of video games or toys in schools, Xinhua said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Friday, Aug. 29. 
. . Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Friday Saturday 
Sund~y 
Monday 

Tue~day 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMB FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
'~: 
Vt1 AuoclatM Pmss
,;­
' 

Atlanta 80 70 Denver 85 58 New York 83 66 Baltimore 84 62 Los Angeles 84 67 Northbrook 82 59 Boston 80 64 Miami 90 78 Philadelphia 83 63
~L)A&a~ {) ~ <£?
,,',,,~,~:.. :. +.+.+ -=.-::..-=. ~ ~ 
Chicago 82 59 Minneapolis 80 65 Phoenix 103 82 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~~.;_; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 96 74 New Orleans 92 74 St. Louis 88 70 
V1a Associated Press Graph/CSNet 

Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 

New golf course takes 'classic' shape for 1999 opening 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame's new 18-hole golf course is taking shape on schedule, and plans call for a dassic course design. 
Adjacent to the northeast cor­ner of campus, the par-71 course is expected to be ready for play by spring 1999. 
"The philosophy with this golf course is that we're trying to build something that looks like it's been here for years. Correspondingly, we're using old-course design techniques," said Tom Beck. golf course con­struction superintendent for contractor Coore and Crenshaw. 
"Back then, the preference in design was for shot-making," Beck explained. "The bunker and tree placement here will give golfers decisions to make and options on where to hit the ball." 
Officials overseeing the $9 million project are pleased with the pace and quality of the work being done. 
"This craft is more of an art than traditional building," explained director of utilities John DeLee. "We have set plans for tee and green locations, but the contouring and final fair­way shape are done by sight... These guys are the experts." 
The Texas-based designer, 
Coore and Cren.shaw, was 
specifically requested by bene­
factor William Warren, Jr. 
whose $7 million gift is funding 
most of the construction. While 
most donations to the 
University are unrestricted, 
Warren's request was not inor-dinate, according to assistant vice president for business affairs Jim Lyphout 

"The money spent on design is comparatively small," Lyphout said. "The benefactor had previous experience with Coore and Crenshaw. He had seen their other courses and had a lot of respect for their work." 
Aside from the choice of course architect, major work was awarded to locals on a bid basis. 
"It's all fairly competitive," Lyphout assured. 
Campus golfers who are reluctant to trek across Douglas to golf in the future need not worry; the old nine-hole course is expected to remain open. 
"My understanding is that they intend to continue playing the old course for as long as possible. It will continue to be there for students," Priority on the new course will again be given to students, faculty, staff and alumni with only the remaining time being offered to the public," DeLee said. 

University works through envirelimental concerns 
environmental concerns seri­ously: This summer, architects re-engineered their plans, mov­ing Juday Creek further north away from the golf course. 
"We moved it here to get it away from the course and to keep it away from the fertiliz­ers and pesticides," explained Tom Beck, golf course con­Struction superintendent. "They spent a couple hundred­thousand dollars to move this and protect the flood plains." 
The new creek bed has been excavated and lined with indigenous vegetation and gravel. 
Environmentalists had been especially concerned with Juday Creek's decimated brown trout population. Accordingly, special spawning · . were sculpted and fallen and stumps were ·ate:gtcauy placed to simulate 
run 
cowse property, jurisdiction of &gtmcJLtl:::., each of which sign off on the blue-

has been a long, tedious process with lots of details." Kaesebier remarked. 
..' 
Medi,~Fll Ca~kcs; 
-~ 
' ,, """ , ... ~....>,:.'!(:....'" 


We accept Credit Cards 
Mastercard American Express 
Visa Discover ··.·..·.~ coupon only) ·-·­


page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, August 29. 1997 










ACTIVITIES NIGHT 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER l FROM 7:00P.M. TO 9:00P.M. JOYCE ACC FIELD HOUSE (GATE J) 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACTTHE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
The following organizations are scheduled to appear: 
ACADEMIC 
Accounting Club Alpha Epsilon Delta American Institute of Aeronautics and Astro. American Institute of Architecture Students American Institute of Chemical Engineers American Society of Civil Engineers American Society of Mechanical Engineers Anthropology Club Arts Collective Biology Club Computer Applications Honor Society Council on International Business Development Entrepreneur Club Finance Club Hispanic Business Student Assoc. Investment Club Joint Engineering Council League of Black Business Students MAES/SHPE Marketing Club Math Club Medieval Club Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers 
Minority Pre-Medical Society MIS Mock Trial Association Model United Nations National Society of Black Engineers Pre-Dental Society Pre-Law Society Pre-Professional Society Pre-Vet Club Psychology Club Science-Business Club Society of Automotive Engineers Society of Women Engineers Tau Beta Pi Toastmasters International 

ATHLETIC 
Aikido Club Bocce Club Bowling Club Boxing Club Climbing Club Cycling Club Equestrian Club Gymnastics Club Irish Outdoors Club Judo Club Martial Arts Institute Men's Volleyball Team Men's Water Polo RecSports Rowing Club Sailing Club Ski Team Sports Promotion Synchronized Swimming Club TaeKwonDo Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club Ultimate Club Women's Water Polo World of TaeKwonDo Federation Wrestling Club 

ETHNIC 
African American Student Alliance African Students' Association Arab American Club Asian American Association Asian International Society Black Cultural Arts Festival Coro Primavera De Nuestra Senora Filipino American Student Organization German Club Hawaii Club India Association at Notre Dame International Student Organization Muslim Students' Association NAACP Native American Student Association, ND Nuestra Voz Spanish Club Vietnamese Student Association 

MEDIA 
Dome Juggler Magazine Observer, The Scholastic Magazine WSND-FM WVFI-AM 

MISCELLANEOUS 
Class of '98 Class of '99 Class of '00 Flip Side Humor Artists Student Activities Office Student Union Student Union Board Troop Notre Dame 

MUSIC 
Bagpipe Band Chorale Collegiate Choir Folk Choir Guitar Players Association Handbell Choir Liturgical Choir Shenanigans Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Wind Ensemble Women's Liturgical Choir 


SERVICE 

AID~ Awareness/Students with AIDS Training 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assistance 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
American Cancer Society 
American Red Cross 
Amnesty International 
Best Buddies 
Bible Club 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of ND/SMC 
Big Brothers/Big Sister of St. Joe C o. 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
Catholic League 
Center for Basic Learning Skills 
Center for the Homeless 
CSC Information 
CSC Neighborhood Roots Program 
CSC Seminars Information Table 
CSC Summer Service Projects 
CSC Urban Plunge table 
Chiara Home, Inc. 
Children's Dispensary 
Circle K International 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics 
Community Resource Center 
Council for Fun and Learning 
Fire Home 
First Aid Services T earn 
Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council 
Habitat for Humanity 
Hansel Head Start 
Holy Cross Vocation 
Homeless Shelter Children's Group 
Hospice Chapter, ND 
Hospice of St. Joseph Co., Inc. 
HUGS 
Junior Achievement Club 
Juvenile Justice Center 
Knights of Columbus 
La Casa de Amistad 
Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana 
Life Treatment Center 
Logan Center 
Logan Center (Council for the Retarded) 
Manantial Mental Health Assoc. of St. Joesph County Michiana Blues Society Neighborhood Study Help Program Northeast Neighborhood Council, Inc. Operation Smile Rainbows (Catholic Charities) Real Services Recylin' Irish Reins of Life Right to Life, ND/SMC Sacred Heart Parish SADD Sex Offense Services Silver Wings South Bend Boys and Girls Club South Bend Comm. Schools/Adult Education South Bend Heritage Foundation St. Joseph's Chapin St. Health Center Student Tutorial Ed. Program (STEP) Students for Environmental Action Students for Responsible Business Super Sibs University Young Life Volunteers For Youth Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center World Hunger Coalition 


SPECIAL INTEREST 
Air Force ROTC Ballroom Dance Club Basilica of the Sacred Heart Campus Fellowship Campus Ministry Children of Mary College Democrats College Republicans Computer Club, ND Farley Hall Players Hospitality Program and Undergrad. School Irish Accent Irish Marauder Drill Team 
Japan Club 
Juggling Club 
Knights of the Immaculata 
Le Cercle Francais 
NASCCU 
Pan-African Cultural Center 
Physical Therapy Club 
Ranger Challenge 
Salon of Friendship 
Sorin Cadet Club 
St. Edward's Hall Players 
Student Alumni Relations Grp. (SARG) 
Student Players 
Students Supporting Diversity 
Terra Club 


ro"--__..·--~------~-----------~~--~-------~ 
Friday, August 29, 1997 
continued



Groups react to clause decision 
from p. 1 

would have a perfect situation and wouldn't have any prob­lems. But discrimination is there in the subtle acts that occur in everyday policy." 
The non-discrimination clause became an issue after the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs on Feb. 29, 1996. The 12th recommenda­tion in the report asked Professor Patricia O'Hara, vice president of Student Affairs, to raise the issue to the University officers of adding sexual orien­tation to the clause. On April 2, O'Hara agreed to raise the issue. 
"GLND/SMC is obviously dis­appointed but not entirely sur­prised with the decision," said Karl Eichelberger, co-president of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College. "With all of the support that the issue received last spring from the entire campus, we thought 

otre 
there was a chance that the officers and the administration would do something substan­tive. Once again they have dodged the issue with pretty language and no real change. 
"It makes you wonder who the University really exists for, the community at-large, or the administration itself," he con­tinued. 
Not all responses were com­pletely negative, "This decision demonstrates the willingness of the University officers to work with the greater Notre Dame community," said J.P. Cooney, president of the College Democrats of Notre Dame, which sponsored a rally last spring in support of revising the clause. "It is the result of fer­vent student, faculty and administration commitment to this issue and its complexities." 
In Malloy's open letter to stu­dents explaining the new poli­cy, he expressed a desire to keep the category of sexual ori­entation out of the reach of civil courts to interpret. "To make the change requested would mean that our decisions in this area would be measured by civil courts in the broader soci­etal milieu in which we live," his letter states. 

Eichelberger and Elizabeth Karle, a 1985 graduate of the University and the secretary of the Gay and Lesbian Alumnilae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College said that such considerations are unfounded. 
"Non-discrimination clauses are legally binding," Karle said. "That is exactly why homosexu­al persons want the same pro­tections as everyone else. I feel a more pastoral approach would be for the University to define 'orientation' within its clause, ifnecessary." 
"(Father Malloy) distinguishes between a person's sexual ori­entation and sexual conduct," added Eichelberger, a third­year law student. "GLND/SMC recognizes that this is Church teaching. But Father Malloy states that, because 'sexual ori­entation' can mean both, that is justification enough for the phrase not to be included in the non-discrimination clause. Surely the officers and adminis­tration recognize that they have the ability to define sexual ori­entation in accordance with Church teaching in the non-dis­crimination clause. That gets them away from the claim that the civil courts can interpret the phrase differently." 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
On April 24, hundreds of students rallied on the steps of the Main 
Building, supporting the revision of the non-discrimination clause. 
All the leaders said that they non-discrimination clause," continued to support the inclu-added Cooney. "We also hope sion of the phrase in the non-that this will inspire all mem­discrimination clause. hers of the Notre Dame com­
"GLND/SMC's goal this year is munity to reflect on their indi­to be less controversial," vidual roles in making Notre Eichelberger said. "This issue is Dame a more inclusive environ­very important to us. We will ment in the spirit of Christ." continue to fight for it, but it is Griffin also described future not going to change our new action that he thinks can be policy of a new year, new atti-taken by student government. tude." "The Campus Life Council 
"As an alumna of Notre hasn't done anything official on Dame, I am tired of hearing, this yet," Griffin said. "It will be 'you are valued, but. . .' That on the agenda of the meeting attitude has to stop," agreed on Monday. This is a major Karle. issue at our office. We feel like 
"We hope that this action we put a lot of faith in the sys­serves as an impetus for the tern and, for the moment, the revision of the legally binding system has let us down." 
ame 
ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue wHh others, to deepen your understanding ot yourseH, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Chrisllan community and service. 
OCTOBER 3-5, 1997 
September 1 -5, 1997 
Before 4:00 p.m. -SEPT. 5 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$30.00 
GOT A LETTER TO THE EDITOR? 

Drop by, or e-mail it to Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 



£:f)med~ 
()f)ubleheader­
featur-inl! 
f3eur-ae f3r-eenfield Leiahann Lur-d 
FRIDAYI AUGUST 29 
JCC FIELD HOUSE AT 8:1S P.M. 
free admission 
sponsored by the Student Activities Office and SARG 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 
The Websters dream house took 26,000 board-feet of lumber, 13,146 hours and their entire savings to build. Ittook one match to destroy. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. 


~-~~-~--~-­
................-­

The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, August 26, 1997 




win 100 games. 2: The most popular NFL analyst of the decade. 3: The sports video game that historically sells out faster than any other. Oh, by the way, it went on sale at 8:30 this 
i~' the

• '"' ()
MADDEN ;~~ \ rnr -~~
worntng. • aga ((m) tiil,. ~~ 
Pmm;;; lt!fhJ --;.~~~-www.easports.com .!' . '1> 
'I) the ~ 

Software© 1997 Electronic Arts. John Madden Football, EA SPORTS, the EA SPORTS logo, and "If H's in the game, it's in the game: are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic Arts in the U.S. and/or other countries. All rights reserved. Officially Licensed Product 
of the National Football League Players.© 1997 Players Inc. The PLAYERS INC logo is atrademark of the NFL Players. The NFL shield design is a registered trademark of the National Football League Team names, nicknames, logos and other indicia are trademarks of the teams 
• 
~ indicated. TM/©1997 NFLP. Licensed by Sony Computer Entertainment America for use with PlayStation game console. PlayStation and the PlayStation logos are trademarks of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Sega Saturn is a trademark of Sega Enterprises. 24·7 Hut 
Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• ISRAEl AND PAlESTINE 
I'm gonna wear this to my SYR 
Arafat: Israel's gesture 'small' 
Leader says West Bank closure cost Palestine $9 mil 
By NASSER SHIYOUKHI 
Associated Press Writer 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Yasser Arafat said Thursday that Israel's conciliatory move to lift the monthlong siege of Bethlehem was too small a ges­
ture. 
T h e Palestinian leader, who toured a fac­tory and met with profes­sors at Hebron 

U n ive rsi ty, Arafat complained that Israel's broader closure of the West Bank and Gaza Strip constituted collective punish­ment and cost his economy $9 million a day in lost trade and wages. 
"It's a good step, but it is not enough," Arafat said of Israel's move Wednesday. 
An aide to Arafat, meanwhile, called for U.S. pressure on Israel to end the overall block­ade of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
Israel imposed the closure after a July 30 suicide bombing by Islamic militants in a Jerusalem market that killed 16 people. The measure bars all Palestinians, including some 100,000 workers, from enter­ing Israel. 
A Palestinian security official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said Palestinian police arrested two suspects in the bombing in Bethlehem in the past week. 
The information was passed on to the Americans who relayed it to the Israelis. he said. 
However, another official later denied the report. He said Palestinian police in Bethlehem have arrested suspects in con­nection with a bomb factory discovered in the area last month, but that the detainees had no links to the Jerusalem blast. 
Israeli officials believed that Hamas masterminds of the bombing were hiding in the city. The two bombers were never identified, though some media reports said they came from abroad. 
Israel has said that even if the bombers came from abroad, they were likely helped by Hamas activists in the West Bank. 
The siege of Bethlehem barred its 60,000 residents from leaving and prevented many pilgrims from visiting the biblical birthplace of Jesus. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he would only ease the broader travel ban once the Palestinians did more to rein in the militants, particularly the Hamas group which has been blamed by Israel for the market bombing. 
It was likely, however, that Israel would ease the restric­tions to improve the climate before next month's visit of U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to the region. 
Arafat's spokesman Nabil Abourdeineh said the Palestinians had still not been formally informed of the Albright trip and were eager for an American initiative. 
"We ask the U.S. to send the secretary as soon as possible ... as a result of the dangerous sit­uation (and) the Israeli mea­sures," he said. "We are asking for an active American role ... We expect from the U.S. and the secretary of state to exert real effort to push the peace process forward." 
U.S. and diplomatic sources said Thursday that Albright's trip would begin in Israel on Sept. 9 and take her to Egypt, 
Jordan,  Syria  and  Saudi  
Arabia.  
The trip,  likely  to  be  

announced Friday, will be her first to the troubled area in seven months on the job. 
There is no indication Albright will conduct shuttle diplomacy between Netanyahu and Arafat. 

CANDAX McNAIR PRoGRAM 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING WITH PRoF. MARIO BoRELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1997 

6:3oP.M. 
CusHING AuDITORIUM 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION CoLLEGE STuDENTS ON FINANCIAL Am OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS (BLACK, HISPANIC, NATIVE AMERICAN) 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Student Union Board hosted a tye-dying party on the Fieldhouse Mall yesterday afternoon. Skalcoholiks played at the event. 
I 



LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 
Open House~. 

Friday, August 29 1:00-6:00 p.m. 
Enjoy refreshments while you explore our unique selection of books at 237 
N. Michigan (at the corner of LaSalle and Michigan). Free parking south side. Open 10-5p.m. Mon-Fri. 234-0003 


~ --------~-~ 
~----------·~--­
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 29, 1997 
tance of inclusion." the ideas behind The Spirit of leaders and faculty, its mission was to The policy states that Notre Dame Inclusion might affect the eventual evaluate the situation and recommend

Clause 
welcomes all people based on formation of a gay and lesbian student a course of action to O'Hara. "Christ's calling to treat others as we group, nor did he comment on the fact Just one month after GLND/SMC was
continued from page 1 
desire to be treated. We value gay and that gender is not part of the legal barred from campus, the Ad Hoc cations, most notably du Lac and the lesbian members of this community as non-discrimination clause. Committee presented O'Hara with 12 faculty handbook. It is not legally bind­we value all members of this commu­recommendations, one of which asked ing and is not a replacement for the nity." BACKGROUND that she speak to the officers of the non-discrimination clause. In the open letter, Malloy called for University about revising the non-dis­
"If we had chosen to revise the all students to "act in accordance with In January 1995, Gays and Lesbians crimination clause, as printed in the clause, it would be subject to interpre­what we regard as a higher standard of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student handbook, du Lac. O'Hara tation by civil courts," Malloy said. -Christ's call to inclusiveness." lie (GLND/SMC) was banned from meeting agreed. "That could result in it being inter­asserted his satisfaction with the theo­on campus by vice president of One year later, on April 17. 1997. preted in a way other than the spirit logical arguments used in support of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, who the officers' apparent lack of action in which it was written." greater inclusion, though he acknowl­cited GLND/SMC's status as a group regarding the clause led to the CLC's 
The new statement should have the edged that non-Catholic students unrecognized by the University. request for a timetable on the officers' same effect on campus life as would might prefer an alternate rationale. At a student rally three weeks later, decision. O'Hara denied the request. the revision route, he said, with the "It's naive to think everyone will students and faculty protested the The following week, the College key difference being the level of the agree with our arguments," Malloy decision, spurring the Campus Life Democrats sponsored a rally on the University's involvement in enforcing said, "but we are a Catholic school, Council to contact O'Hara. The CLC steps of the Main Building, at which an inclusion policy. and we appeal to what I take to be the requested that GLND/SMC be officially students and faculty spoke in favor of 
"We can do this, not in a civil law heart of the Roman Catholic Church. If recognized as a student group. the clause's revision and implored the context, but as an appeal to the people don't live by that. it's another O'Hara's reponse was to form the Ad officials to reach a decision. Christian sense of justice and society," matter." Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian On Aug. 27, two days ago, they did he said. "We're reaffirming the impor-Malloy declined to comment on how Student Needs. Consisting of studnet just that. 
Questions? Comments? Compliments (yes!!)? E-mail us. 
©\b>~®lf'W®If'~©\b>~llil®W~~ ~ (jlfil~~®~I!JI 



ID··g··, 
. 




SEPT 14 


Morris Civic Auditorium 

7:30pm 

$35.00 and $25.00 Tickets available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, Tracks Records, Method Music (Concord Mall/Elkhart) or charge by phone 235-9190 or 800-537-6415. 
PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS 

Diamond Price Quotations 246-1939 1-888-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 

The Dian1ond Authority® 
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. Key Bank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
UPS 
continued from page 1 
businesses and retailers affect­ed both consumer availability and business profit. 
Because of the timing of the strike, UPS missed its annual "freshman rush" of business, which at Notre Dame usually consists of a trailer and three trucks of packages. During this time, UPS normally delivers 1,500 parcel packages to cam­pus per day. 
Overall, UPS's nationwide loss was about 20 percent of shipments. In the South Bend area, drastic layoffs also occurred at the shipment cen­ter as a result of loss of profit. 
For those who still await packages, Chicago's settlement carries perhaps more signifi­cance because most of the deliveries to South Bend occur via ground transport rather than through air transport. UPS, however, hopes to expand its air transport capabilities in the fall. 
Now that the strike has been settled, UPS will continue to make special arrangements to accommodate the demands for shipment to and from campus during busy seasons, including a shipping site located in the Country Harvester shop in LaFortune Student Center. 


--~~----~-­

Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
• ISRAEl AND SYRIA • THE PEOPlE'S COURT 
Official: Rabin was ready to deal Judge favors dog owner 

But Netanyahu says he isn't bound by past 
By GWEN ACKERMAN Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 

Former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was ready to discuss an Israeli withdrawal from all land it captured from Syria in 1967 if Syria agreed to certain security conditions and established diplomatic ties, a former chief negotiator said Thursday. 
!tamar Rabinovich, who headed Israel's negotiating team with Syria at the time, confirmed a report in the Haaretz daily based on proto­cols of meetings between Rabin and former U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. 
Previous reports have indi­cated Rabin was prepared to trade land for peace with Syria. But this was the most specific, detailed confirmation of Rabin's willingness to con­sider withdrawing. 
However, Rabinovich is quot­ed in Haaretz as saying Israel never promised Syria it would withdraw, but that it simply agreed to discuss it. 
Rabin was assassinated by a Jewish extremist in November 1995, and Israeli-Syrian peace talks have been suspended 

Benjamin Netanyahu 
since the spring of 1996. Rabin was replaced by his Labor Party colleague, Shimon Peres, who lost an election to conser­vative Likud Party leader Benjamin Netanyahu in May 1996. 
Netanyahu has said any 


OPEN AUDITION 

For the Pasquerilla East Musical Company Production 
of 

This Saturday, August 30 6:00pm PE Chapel Lounge 
No preparation necessary 
Questions: call Kelly x 4416 
? 
Wit



AlAliNG 

fEO.MtcOLOM. 

Dflf~C~A1i 

~~ AMPj&DID~ 
understandings reached between Syria and previous Israeli governments are not binding on his administration. Syria has insisted talks contin­ue where they left off. 
Haaretz said the protocols documented meetings held between August 1993 and throughout 1994. 
According to the minutes, Rabin was ready to discuss Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights and from other areas Syria held before the June 4, 1967, start of their war. 
The file of documents was codenamed "pocket," Haaretz said, because the Americans told Rabin his readiness to dis­cuss a complete withdrawal would remain in their pocket and not be passed on to Syria until Syria met Israel's ·security demands. 
Netanyahu, who was visiting Seoul, South Korea, told reporters "there was no legal framework between Israel and Syria that obligates Israel con­cerning a peace agreement." 
"The primary question is not what was discussed between different officials in the past, but what will be discussed." 
Netanyahu's senior adviser, David Bar-Illan, said that the protocols, to be published in full on Friday, strengthened Netanyahu's position. 

when snake devours pet 
By LARRY McSHANE Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
With the wisdom of Solomon and the wit of an ex-mayor, freshly-minted TV judge Edward Koch awarded $1,500 Thursday to the owner of Babette -the California chi­huahua that became a snack for a runaway boa constrictor. 
The decision, reached dur­ing a taping of "The People's Court," was a partial victory for dog owner Flossie Torgerson, whose tiny pet pooch was eaten Aug. 9 by Angus Johnson's 7 1/2-foot snake. Mrs. Torgerson had sought $5,000 for Babette's value and emotional distress. 
"I awarded her the value of the dog," explained Koch, who has replaced Judge Joseph Wapner on a new ver­sion of the syndicated show. "Under California law, there is no compensation for bereavement over a dead dog. She was not entitled to that money." 
Johnson had countersued for defamation of character. Both sides agreed to let Koch settle the dispute, and were flown to Manhattan by the show for some videotaped jus­tice. 

The decision closes the case that Koch's show dubbed "I Can't Believe She Ate the Whole Thing." The new "People's Court" debuts Sept. 8, and the snake-bites-dog tale will air the first week. 
Koch concluded that Johnson was guilty of negli­gence for opening the door of his San Fernando Valley home on Aug. 7 and letting his snake -Alissss -slither out. 
Further, Koch ruled, Johnson was at fault for fail­ing to "accurately alert his neighbors" by posting signs or notifying authorities. 
The snake, which ordinarily enjoyed a monthly meal of three two-pound rats, appeared on Mrs. Torgerson's patio two days later and swal­lowed her dog. 
It was subsequently cap­tured and taken to an animal shelter; Johnson has until Saturday to find Alissss a new home outside Los Angeles. 
At one point in the trial, Koch observed that it was for­tunate the runaway snake hadn't come across a small child. Johnson assured the ex­mayor that a toddler's head wduld be too big for the boa. 
"How would he know," Koch asked, "until he reached the head?" 

IDdustriaJ-ProgrBssivs -Rstro -AitsrDstivsDaDDII 

Classes are forming now•.. enroll today! 
1-800-KAP-TEST www.kaplan.com 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 





SoumBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 

Falll997 Semester 

More than 300 classes 
• 
Professional Development 

• 
Certificate Programs 

• 
Personal Interest 

• 
Languages and Culture 

• 
Tour Programs 

• 
Health and Wellness 


Complete listings online: www.iusb.edu/-cted Or call 237-4261 for a free catalog 





VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, August 29, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Edi<or-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ........................... Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager... . ................ Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor....................... ........ Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accem Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's 'Editor... . ........... Lori Allen Controller ........................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudenrs of the Universicy of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News 
Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofthe authors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor News/Phow  631-4541 631-5323  Advertising Systems  631-6900/8840 631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror/ViewPoim  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  



• DIGRESSIONS, DISTORTIONS AND GENERAl RAMBLINGS 
Another summer. another family vacation, another glorious victory for the Scheibel team of champion family vacationers! 
It's true-we dominate the sport of family vacationing. We are, in fact, the undefeated, undisputed and un-under­stood national title holders. NOBODY vacations better than we do!!! Sure, amateurs engaging in spontaneous frivolity may appear to be enjoying a 

Kathy Scheibel 
pleasant vacation, but veterans like us know that such novices are not vaca­tioning at maximum capacity levels. We know that effective family vaca­tioning depends upon extensive plan­ning and preparation, precise schedul­ing of efficient enjoyment and fixation upon numerous objects/goals/mis­sions/obsessions. 
Our family's vacationing season offi­cially opens about four weeks prior to the actual trip with the declaration of the parents' goals for the pre-vacation period. Mom's goal is to pack proac­tively, meaning to equip ourselves to greet all possible (as well as outra­geously impossible) vacation situa­tions, weather patterns and events with immaculately clean, perfectly starched, impeccably ironed clothing and appropriate supplies. 
For example, say the President were to invite us to a black-tie, potluck din­ner in the middle of a bug-infested tropical rain forest that just happened to be experiencing mud slides and bliz­zard-like weather conditions, we would be more than prepared -and quite spiffy looking, I might add! 
Dad's goal, however, is to create ample room in the car for his golf clubs to enjoy a comfortable trip. 
The incompatibility of these two goals is the reason behind Dad's devel­opment of the "Staging" Strategy For Defying Spatial Laws. The day before departure, we "stage" all luggage in the loading zone and stand back to witness the wonders of Dad's magic packing capabilities at work: "Let's see ... if we fold that suitcase in half, we can fit it in the glove compartment; we'll squeeze the canoe under the front seat, disassemble the video cam­era and put the parts in the ashtrays, lay my golf clubs across the back seat, and kids -you get to ride on the roof!" With the mission of flawless packing accomplished, the pre-vaca­tion period comes to a close. 
Though I can never quite recall the first few hours of departure day, I am told they proceed as follows: At 4 a.m., Dad issues a wake-up call and announces that the vacation shuttle will be blasting off in precisely T­minus 15 minutes, with or without us, and then promptly begins a count­down. 
As we scramble for our positions on top of the car, still in our pajamas, Dad begins his predeparture spiel: "Good morning, and welcome aboard! This is your navigator, Dad, speaking. We'll be ready for departure in just a few moments. It looks as though we have perfect travel conditions today­the skies are clear; the winds are low, and since it's such an insanely early hour of the morning, there isn't a sin­gle car out on the highway! Our vehi­cle will reach a cruising velocity of approximately three times the speed of light and will be arriving in EXACTLY 12 hours and 23 minutes. We trust that all passengers have heeded the suggestion of fasting for the past 24 hours in the interest of minimizing their own discomfort, as absolutely NO bathroom stops will be made! At this time, I'd like to request that you strap in tightly, return your heads to the full prone position and enjoy a pleasant trip." 
Upon arrival at our designated site of paradise (with six new speeding tickets from four different states to add to our collection). we check in ... three hours early (forever eliminating all hopes of developing a positive, meaningful relationship with the hotel stafO and visit the local doctor for treatment of bladder infection, sun­burn, bug ingestion. starvation, dehy­dration and vertigo incurred en route. 
We then make an assessment of the golfing situation, with Dad inevitably determining that, though there arc 3,000 golf courses per square mile in paradise, all of which are world famous and designed by celebrity pro­fessional golfers, none are worthy of soiling his newly-polished clubs. 
At this point, with the preliminaries out of the way, Dad informs us (lest we not be aware) that THE FUN IS NOW BEGINNING and proceeds to read his typed, laminated schedule of events: "We've allotted: 

•30 minutes for productive leisure; 
•one hour for sightseeing of identi­
fied, documented points of inter­
est; 
•one hour for picture taking; 
•two 
hours for procurement of souvenir T -shirts; 

•30 
minutes for intensive beach bumming; 

•15 
minutes for impetuous mirth. 


"Then we begin planning and prepara­tion for the trip home. O.K. kids­ready, set, vacation!" 
Kathy Scheibel is a senior in the College ofArts and /_etters. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
N(JT!JNT!t..
g}U/HAT U//3U., IMGIA/J70
/3161-fT. HOf7!J
77MGAR& r!NAUYGG7 71113 '(()(J RJtK§ Yatt:Oifl CfiA/'ola 7lJKNOal 
M!N/JHAV­
Ft,YING YOU A Ul7l£ eeT­
INGU5
OUT 70/JAY? WR.-YOUKNO!Ah
AROUN/?.
/ MAN TOMAN! 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Aconservative is some­
one who admires radi­cals a century after they're dead." 
-Anonymous 

-----------------------------------------------------~ 


VIEWPOINT

Friday, August 29, 1997 page 11 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
A covenant with death? 

Timothy McVeigh should not be exe­cuted. His case verifies the wisdom of Pope John Paul's 1995 encyclical, Evangelium Vitae, which restricted the use of the state's authority to impose the death penalty. 
A Catholic can rightly support the use of the death penalty, according to Evangelium Vitae, only in cases of "absolute necessity ... when it would not be possible otherwise to defend society." No.56. This appears to refer not to the 
Charles Rice 

protection of society by deterring poten­tial offenders, but rather to protection of society from this convicted criminal. "Among the signs of hope," John Paul noted. "is ... a growing public opposition to the death penalty, even when such a penalty is seen as a kind of legitimate defense on the part of society. Modern society in fact has the means of effec­tively suppressing crime by rendering criminals harmless without definitively denying them the chance to reform." No. 27 {emphasis added). 
Under the new criterion of Evangelium Vitae, one could still argue for the death penalty in very limited sit­uations, such as that of a prisoner already serving a life sentence who mur­ders a guard or another inmate. What sense would it make to give him another life sentence? Or would it be consistent with his dignity to wall him up perma­nently in a cell, with food and wastes passed through an aperture and with no direct contact ever with any other human being? The death penalty could be argued to be absolutely necessary in such a case, although even there it is debatable. Other cases could be argued, such as a condition of unrest in which the authorities would lack the means to keep a murderer securely imprisoned. 
There is no way, however, that the execution of McVeigh can be made to square with Evangelium Vitae. The fed­eral government is not so lacking in effective security facilities that his exe­cution is a matter of "absolute necessi­
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ty" because "it would not be possible otherwise to defend society." 
Despite public approval, the death penalty is a deceptive quick-fix that dis­tracts attention from basic problems. As Archbishop Charles J. Chaput, 
O.F.M.Cap. of Denver said in opposing the McVeigh sentence, "Capital punish­ment is just another drug we take to ease other, much more deeper anxieties about the direction of our culture. Executions may take away some of the symptoms for a time (symptoms who have names and their own stories before God), but the underlying illness­today's contempt for human life­remains and grows worse." 
Popular support for the death penalty reflects the fact that, in our pagan cul­ture, intentional killing is increasingly seen as a permissible solution for prob­lems. Nor is the acceptance of intention­al killing as a "quick fix" limited to cases where the person to be killed is guilty. 
The Supreme Court has found in the Constitution a right to abortion which requires the states to allow the inten­tional killing of the innocent unborn, who are defined by the Court as nonper­sons. This year, the Court held that there is no "right to die" which would require the states to allow the intention­al killing of adult human beings, who are defined as persons, by assisted sui­cide. Washington's law forbidding assisted suicide was therefore upheld. But the Court left open for decision the question of whether a state law allowing assisted suicide would be constitutional. 
Regardless of the outcome of that issue, the Court already interprets the Constitution to allow the states to permit the intentional killing of innocent per­sons other than the unborn. Since the 1990 Cruzan case the Supreme court has held that the states may allow the withdrawal or withholding of treatment, including food and water, from a patient, even an incompetent, under cir­cumstances where the withdrawal or withholding was clearly done with the intent to cause death. This will be the subject in another column. 
The Constitution, as now interpreted, therefore requires the innocent unborn, whom it defines as nonpersons, to be subjected to intentional killing at the discretion of others. It also withdraws from other human beings, who have been born and are therefore conceded to be persons, the constitutional rights to life and to the equal protection of the laws by allowing the states to exclude them from the protection of the homi­cide laws which generally prohibit the intentional killing of the innocent. To this extent, the Supreme Court has transformed the constitution into what William Lloyd Garrison, the anti-slavery leader, described in 1854 as a "covenant with death." 


Pope John Paul challenges this claim of the state to assume the authority of God over life and death. Instead, "Man's life comes from God; it is his gift, his image and imprint, a sharing in his breath of life. God, therefore, is the sole Lord ofthis life: man cannot do with it as he wills." No. 39. 
"God did not make death, and he does not delight in the death of the living." No 
7. 
This is seen in John Paul's discussion of the first murderer, Cain, who is, if possible, even more notorious than Timothy McVeigh. "After the crime, God intervenes to avenge the one killed," No. 

8. 
But he gives a special protection to the murderer's life: 


"And yet God, who is always merciful even when he punishes, 'put a mark on Cain, lest and who came upon him should kill him' .... He thus gave him a distinctive sign, not to condemn him to the hatred of others, but to protect ... him from those wishing to kill him ... Not even a murderer loses his personal dig­nity, and God himself pledges to guaran­tee this. God, who preferred the correc­tion rather than the death of a sinner, did not desire that a homicide be pun­ished by the exaction of another act of homicide." No. 9. 

Before Evangelium Vitae, I and others supported the use of the death penalty, among other reasons, because it seemed necessary to restore the balance of jus­tice with respect to some crimes and because it uniquely promoted respect for innocent life by inflicting a punish­ment for murder which was qualitatively different from the punishment for other crimes. But the Vicar of Christ has raised the discussion to a new level, making the old arguments obsolete. After discussing the death penalty, Evangelium Vitae states, "If such great care must be taken to respect every life, even that of criminals and unjust aggressors, the commandment, 'You shall not kill' has absolute value when it refers to the innocent person." No. 57. If we owe such respect to the life of the guilty, so much more, and absolutely so, with respect to the innocent. But this works the other way, too. To maintain the absolute inviolability of innocent life, we must begin by safeguarding even the life of the guilty from termination except according to the very restrictive law of God.. 
What hangs in the balance here is more than the life of Timothy McVeigh. It is rather the issue: Who is God? The real God? Or the State? 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and are not necessarily those of The Observer . 

Push for campaign finance reform now 


CitizP.ns concerned .about the pur­chasing of favor from elected federal officials should act now to correct campaign financing abuses. 
Current Senate Governmental Affairs Committee hearings are revealing large-scale improprieties in campaign fund raising and the relat­ed granting of favors. Such impro­prieties often result in officials grant­ing benefits to large businesses, organizations and even foreign gov­ernments at the expense of the mon­etary and intangible interests of U.S. citizens. 
Those who contend that limiting campaign funding is equivalent to limiting free speech should remem­ber that no constitutional right is absolute. The extent to which one may exercise his constitutional rights is always limited by the extent to which the exercise of those rights imposes on the constitutional rights of another. Put another way, one's right to swing his arm ends where another's nose begins. 
At all levels of government, those who make large contributions to elected officials often have a dispro­portionately strong voice in public policy making ­often gaining materially. Those so gaining do so at the loss of all other citizens. Thus, the "right" of large-moneyed interests to make campaign contri­butions of unlimited size impinges upon the rights of citizens to be equitably and responsibly represented and served. · 
To promote ethical campaign financing, contact your federal legislators to urge them to: 
1. Recommend prosecution of violators of existing campaign finance laws. 

2. 
Impose disciplinary sanctions of their legislative bodies against those violators. 

3. 
Make any changes or additions to exist­ing campaign finance laws that are neces­sary. 


Additionally, sign and circulate a petition seeking campaign finance reform. Contact Project Independence at 1-800-454-2634 or at http://www.commoncause.org to obtain a petition and other materials. 
Finally, you may promote ethical campaign financing with your vote. Remember and reject candidates who have financed their campaigns unethically and who have granted large contributors unreasonably or unlawfully favorable treatment. Instead, support candi­dates who pledge to finance their campaigns ethically (as all Reform Party candidates do.) These candidates are least likely to be "bought." 
.Prevent future elections from being auc-• 
tlons. Contact your legislators and circulate 
petitions while the nation focuses its attention on 
this serious, perennial problem. 
MARK VENZKE President Reform Party of Lake County, Indiana 




ACCENT

page 12 Friday, August 29, 1997 


Congratulations! 7he first week ol11 have managed to survive. Let's 

Life is not worth living without your daily copy of The Observ1 
The squirrels were lonely 

rHEtit\ELLwArriNaraoit\NoarHoiNINGH4LL Cinema at the Snzte .· 
'· #'JI'k.· 

J F.: "'*·· 
;:,.. 

Stu()ent Affctirs Scholastic ·Endless li ..·.·... 


Zahm 
NOTHING TO DO AT 8:30 IN THE MORNING UNTIL NOW 

Forgot 

DeBartolo Hall may actually function 
's all night long baby. Freshmen four eJopfjomore ;£iteratJJ 8esti~a( 

CLASS I F I E D ADS 
(freshmen orientation is 
:·"';.::..

Living with clergf:} According to USA Today, rage of4.lffiours of stu ,
I} 

Rugby team (well, you can hope) WUFf!0 
"'\%~(· 

\W~~IQ) WNDU weather man Dicl~ Addis Tailgating Of 
• 

. 

Bridget Maguire sFilling Station ANTOSTAL PI 
-
t 



ACCENT

Friday, August 29, 1997 page 13 

lasses is finally· over and all of us review what we've learned ••• ­

ellel r/eed we say mere. Girlfriends Boy fr ierrds 

South Bend weather Actually missed the professors Movies at Cushing_/1* ...
s «:lass 
Lack of privacy 
Jb: 

Endless lines at the dining hall Carpal tunnel syndrome Renovated campus ·ss on the J. Crew catalog subscription Roomyfreshmen tltwm parties 
. nved in Siegfried Of' ~ott, tfte~ wou[d &e co-ed 
One year closer to leaving 
Mmmm, steak burgers ~ODUO[JJ~COJDO u~urnoo~ 

e one ofthem will ~ft Joe hold her hand) Cornfields Who needs sleep anyway?
•
f:'t,'*#, 

.ying anight fit's the highest in the country) Bengal Bouts Women-'s soccer Hesburgh VICTORIA'S SECRET Sl<alcoholil<s T 
)r Diploma James Earl Jones (for those of you·who don't know, he is Darth Vadar) 
. 
~TOSTAL One roll of University-issued toilet paper is three miles long .. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 



Defense dominates OSU win 



By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Stanley Jackson ran for one touchdown and passed for one as ninth-ranked Ohio State got untracked after a lethargic first half to beat Wyoming 24-10 Thursday night. 
Despite teams that each aver­aged almost 40 points a game a year ago, defense dominated. Ohio State, coming off an 11-1 record and No. 2 ranking in 1996, picked off three passes and limited the Cowboys to 323 yards, while Wyoming frustrat­ed the Buckeyes' mistake-and penalty-prone offense again and again. 
Ohio State's 35-game streak of sellouts ended on the third 

-
night game in Ohio Stadium history. A crowd of 89,122, 719 less than capacity, watched the inaugural State Farm Eddie Robinson Football Classic, ben­efiting the Black Coaches Association. Ohio State's high-octane offense of a year ago appeared to be ready to roll from the out­set when Jackson completed a 38-yard pass to David Boston on the Buckeyes' first play. But Boston was flagged for 
pushing off on the play, the first 
of Ohio State's seven penalties 
for 60 yards in the first half. 
Jackson completed 6-of-10 passes for 112 yards and car­ried 11 times for 75 yards. Joe Germaine, the MVP of Ohio State's 20-17 Rose Bowl victory over Arizona State, hit 9-of-13 passes for 98 yards. 
Michael Wiley gained 121 yards on 10 carries and Pepe Pearson carried 14 times for 71 yards as Ohio State totaled 500 yards. 
On Ohio State's second pos­session, Jackson rolled right, sidestepped a defender and then raced down the sideline before sprinting past another potential tackler for a 41-yard touchdown. 
The Cowboys came right back with a drive from their 31 that resulted in Cory Wedel's 38­yard field goal. Jeremy Silcox completed passes of 19 and 27 yards to Wendell Montgomery to set up the kick. 
But as far as offense was con­cerned, that was it for the half. 
Wyoming had one of the nation's most porous defenses a year ago, giving up 439 yards a game. But the Cowboys -with a huge help from a series of penalties and mistakes by Ohio State's offense -held the Buckeyes to minus-5 yards of offense in the second quarter. 
Ohio State's offense, with six starters back, had two holding and three illegal procedure penalties. Buckeyes quarter­backs were sacked five times. 
The Buckeyes struggled on their first possession and most of the second one in the second half, netting 22 yards on seven plays. But on consecutive car­ries, Pearson slanted off left tackle for 25 yards and backup tailback Michael Wiley broke it outside for a 32-yard touch­down. 
Ohio State came right back to make it 24-3 on a six-play, 85­yard drive capped by Jackson's 45-yard play-action touchdown pass to Dec Miller. 
Wyoming relied on a fake punt, a fumble recovery and a surprisingly effective running game to score its first touch­down. 
On fourth-and-4 at the Wyoming 13, punter Aron Langley raced 25 yards. On the next play, backup tailback Mike Jenkins broke free from a tack­le at the line and gained 37 yards before being tackled by Antoine Winfield. 
The Cowboys went for it on fourth-and-1 at the Ohio State 17, with Silcox bootlegging left but fumbling when hit by line­backer Andy Katzenmoyer. Wyoming guard Jeff Smith fell on the loose ball and Jenkins then bounced up the middle for an 11-yard touchdown to close the scoring. 

the longest run in Coors Field hi$t()ry before its largest crowd· ~y~~· leading the Colorado R · es. to a 9-5 win ov · · Seattle Mariners . . e·play Thursday nigh ..•...••.•.. 
The crowd of $().269, in· eluding compJtprentary tick­ets, was the biggest in the ballpark's three.. seasons. eclipsing the 50,247 fans who saw Los An eles on July
14. 
. In the roue showdown •. two Mtri:er• the ruajors, nected twice, Galarraga's ~8 ~rooter to deep 1eft~cent6:r iri the sixth inning exceeded tbe 483-foot homer by St uis' Ray 
Lankford May 19, 19 his 
Friday, August 29, 1997 
home run hitter in the majors with 43, went 0-for-3. 
Pedro Astacio {8-9}. mak­ing his second start for the Rockies after being traded by Los Ang~les on Aug. 17, struck out nine -a season high for a Colorado pitcher. 
Astacio held the Mariners to two runs on four hits through seven innings, but tired in the eighth. Seattle erupted for three runs in that inning, including solo homers by Kelly and Martinez, .to chase Astacio. 
Seattle went ahead 2-0 in the second. Alex Rodriguez led off with a walk. Jay Buhner singled and both runners advanced on a groundout. With two outs. pitcher Omar Olivares hit a sharp single between third and short·...:., the first RBis ever by a Mariners pitcher. 
Earlier. this season, Olivares. tQen with Detroit, went 2-for-3>With a triple in an interleague game at Montreal. 

LOOKING FOR A COOL JOB?  Rooms for rent  For Sale -1993 Honda Sports  Need GA's to home games  FOR  SALE  
NOTICES  Webmasters, graphic designers. database specialists call Chris at 1­ 237-1919  Coupe Book Value $8900 -Selling for $6000/obo  Will sell or trade Navy or W.V. GA's. Call Justin at x1722  N.D. G.A.'S  
5610.  AVAILABLE!  Ssp, Air, Tinted Windows, Alloy  
Bed and Breakfast for ND games.  2BRM, 1 1/2 BA, full bsmt, priv.  Whels, Viper Alarm, Infinity 6-spkr  I need 1 Ml State GA. Please call  271-9412.  
Private home 2 miles from stadium.  EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­ deck. 711 E. Washington. $500 mo.  w/12 Disc Chngr. Taking Best Off  Travis@ 219-634-1651.  
Private baths.  MENT CENTER  Dep nego, lease term nego. 288­ Rcvd by 9-15. Must Sell. Call Rob  WANTED N D G A'S  
272-9471  The Early Childhood Development  3410  243-9277.  For Sale:  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
Center at Notre Dame (ECDC-ND)  -Senior Ticketbook  271 1526  
Need spending money? I'm looking  located at 18680 Bulla Road and  fld & Brit all football weekends  94 GLX Jetta V6, 47K Power,  -50-yard line  
for responsible, early risers to deliv­ the Early Childhood Development  near campus call 219-272-5989  Leather, Sun-Roof, 5 Speed, Many  -best offer  
er newspapers. There's a $15  Center at Saint Mary's College  Extras. 1 Owner  call: 234-0661  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia  
bonus for the first week. Call Drew  (ECDC-SMC) located in Havican  ROOMMATE NEEDED. PREFER  $15,500 277-3199  Tech and/or the Michigan State  
at4-0601.  Hall are currently accepting applica­ F, UPPER GLASSMAN OR GRAD  game!!!  
tions from college students for part  STUDENT. FURN. APT. 10 MIN  92 Accord LX 2 Dr. V-4,  Trade:2 Ga. Tech. GAs. Need BC  Please call Amy  
Shamrock Network Design, an  time positions. The hours vary,  TO CAMPUS. MONTHLY OR  72,000K Power, Auto, 1 Owner  or USC.243-9028  at810-355-9140.  
Internet marketing firm based in  including 11:30 a.m.-1:05 p.m.,  SHORT TERM AVAIL.  Good Shape $8,500 277-3199  
South Bend, has full, part-time. and  MWF and 12:30-1 :30 p.m .. MWF  $300/MO. (ALL INCL.)  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
internship positions available.  and 4:30­ PG. 282-5575.  95% Waveless Waterbed For Sale  NEED SINGLE GA TICKET TO  
Areas include Internet technology.  6:00 p.m. M-F. If you are interested  Best Offer Lisa 284-4598  ANY NO GAME  STUDENT FOOTBALL TICKET  
marketing, graphic design, and  in applying please contact Cindy  THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and  PLEASE HELP 634-2454  CERTIFICATE WANTED!!!  
accounting. Contact  Hestad at ECDC-SMC, 284-4693 or  Breakfast Inn has space available  THE STEP for step aerobics  CALL PAUL@ 233-1741  
paul@snd.com or caii234-SND1  Thayer Kramer at ECDC-ND, 631·  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  w/pylons $45 234-5378  I have 2 Ga. Tech Gas I need 2  
3344 for more information and an  with private baths, $70-$90,  USC GAs. Will trade or pay $$.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
application.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  FOR SALE: A custom crafted,  
Part-time sales/marketing position  Toll Road, Exit #107,  varnished, solid oak-wood  Please call Chris @ 634-4464  
available with eduiNFO, a South  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  1·800-418·9487.  FUTON w/ cover. Sits as a  GEORGIA TECH GA"s WANTED!!!  
Bend Internet company. Contact  The Early Childhood Development  couch and folds into a double  Paul233-1741  
Paul (neuner@snd.com or 246­ Center, located at Saint Mary's  NICE FURNISHED HOUSE  sized bed. Call Greg Leone @  
0117)  College and the University of Notre  NORTH OF ND GOOD NEIGH·  272-0915. Priced at $750.00.  I have 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Will  
Dame is looking for volunteers who  BORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS  WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC  exchange for 2 USC GA's. Call Rob  
ILOST & FOUND I  enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a  2773097  88 Pontiac Grand Am/99.000 mi ..  Family visiting-will pay big bucks for best seats. Call Jon-634-2028  h(214)351·6775 w(214)855-1180.  
week reading children's books,  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME FOR  Black 2-dr with Cassette/Radio.  
A PAIR OF RED PRESCRIPTION SUNGLASSES FOUND IN JULY  building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  air.cond., new trans., and good exterior/interior. Call Ray @ 232·  PERSONAL  
WHILE WALKING AROUND ST.  Thayer Kramer at631-3344  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  5610.  NOTRE DAME  
JOSEPH LAKE ON ND CAMPUS.  (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  FOOTBALL TICKETS  FOOTBALL CONCESSION STAND  
COME IN TO THE OBSERVER OFFICE AT 314 LAFORTUNE OR CALL 631·7471 & ASK FOR SHIRLEY.  284-4693 (ECDC-SMC). Please join our fun filled days. ....INTERESTED IN MAKING  CAMPUS. 272-0615. I TICKETS FOR SALE I I NEED GA TIXS ALL NOL-------------1. HOME GAMES.272-6551  BUY · SELL -TRADE 232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL  OPERATORS: Packets are now available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Packets must be picked up by FRIDAY, AUG. 29. If you are not sure if  
WANTED  EXTRA MONEY•••• LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY  DRUMS 28" bass drum good condition- ND FAN NEEDS TICKET FOR  TICKET-MART. INC.  your organization has a stand. call 631-7308.  
PRACTICE LOOKING FOR STU­ 50.00  11/22 GAME WITH WV. PLEASE  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ 
PART-TIME WORK  DENTS TO MAKE  2 trap cases at 45.00 ea.  CALL 304/465-0775. WILL PAY  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  FREE FACIAL & MKOVR  
Local company filling 15  FOLLOW-UP PHONE CALLS TO  Electronic equipment:  FOR CALL.  674-7645.  w/ Mary Kay Call Margrette  
openings by sept. 7. Earn  SEE HOW OUR PATIENTS ARE  Crate Speaker  2845099  
$1 0.25 starting. Flexible hours  DOING.  Traynor 4200 Mixer Amplifier  NEED: 2 tix-Mich. State game-Sept.  BUYING  BUYING  BUYING  
around classes.  282-2357  FILING & COMPUTOR ENTRY  Octapad  20. Will pay $$. Call Paul­ N.D GAONLY  
ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  Roland Rhythm Composer TR727  (773)525-9373.  SEASON TICKETS 277-1659  0-C FOOTBALL? CALL ANNE  
PHONE RECEPTIONIST  HOURS.  Korg DDS dynamic digital drums  BUYING  BUYING  BUYING  @ 243-4937  
Part-time afternoons. $5/hr. 2-3  CALL GERARD OR DOUG NOW!  Korg KMP68 Midi Patch Bay  NEED GEORGIA TECH TICKETS  
days per week. Call 12-1 pm 282­ ••• 233-5754···  3 foot table and power strip  CALL AMY: 616-473-5825  GA'S SEASON TIX GA's WANT­ 
2341.  Total: 1,000 firm  ED BY LOCAL COMPANY  
FOR RENT  Call 631-4873 or 2723987  WILL BUY 2 GA TX 4 GA TECH (312)744-8794  PLEASE CALL 273·6929  ATIENTION: GAY. LESBIAN. and BISEXUAL STUDENTS,  
PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ Buying GA's seasons or individual  FACULTY and STAFF:  
TIONS  WALK TO CAMPUS  NEED 2 BOSTON COLLEGE  games. Top dollar paid.  
On-Call positions available  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ TICKETS (904)398-6146  Confidential service.  New Year, New Night. New  
evenings 5-9 Mon.-Fri. and/or 10­6:30 on weekends. Our busy call  $195/PERSON 232-2595  dic Mattress set and frame. New, never used. still in plastic. $225.00.  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call 234-5650.  Leadership, New Attitude!!!!  
center is looking for candidates with  219-862-2082.  NEED 2 GA TICKETS  The ORIGINAL campus group  
excellent phone skills and a desire  TO BOSTON COLLEGE  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  will hold it's first Info Meeting on  
to sati,sfy customers. Starting pay is $8.80 per hour for evenings and  IT'S NOT TOO LATE­A newly remodeled 5 bedroom  2.8 cu. ft. dorm refrigerator. $45.  (904 )398-6146 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Wed. Sept. 1Oth. 7PM  
•  $9.05 per hour on weekends. Apply at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  house is still available to rent for the fall semester. 2 full baths, washers and dryer, huge rec room, security  Call 272-3753 after 5 pm.  HELP!!! Devoted Notre Dame Fan  EVENING#: 288-2726  Our first Support Group Meeting: Wed. Sept 17th, 7PM  
Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  system. Call now to take a look  '85 Pontiac stationwagon. Great  needs FIVE GAs for the Georgia  ND TICKETS WANTED  Call236-9661 for details!  
We support a drug free workplace.  277-0636.  condition. Perfecttailgater.  Tech Game! Call 510) 551 8292.  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
EOE  $1 ,400/obo. 272-5132.  Ask for Tom!  EVENING #: 288-2726  

Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
""· 
The Spirit of Inclusion at Notre Dame 
"Strangers and sojourners no longer...." (Ephesians 2:19) 
T 
he University of Notre Dame strives for a spirit of 
inclusion among the members of this community for 
distinct reasons articulated in our Christian tradition. We 
prize the uniqueness of all persons as God's creatures. We welcome all people, regardless of color, gender, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, social or economic class, and nationality, for example, precisely because of Christ's calling to treat others as we desire to be treated. We value gay and lesbian members of this community as we value all members of this community. We condemn harassment of any kind, and University policies proscribe it. We consciously create an environment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish. 
One of the essential tests of social justice within any Christian community is its abiding spirit of inclusion. Scriptural accounts of Jesus provide a constant witness of this inclusiveness. Jesus sought out and welcomed all people into the Kingdom of God-the gentile as well as the Jew, women as well as men, the poor as well as the wealthy, the slave as well as the free, the infirm as well as the healthy. The social teachings of the Catholic Church promote a society founded on justice and love, in which all persons possess inherent dignity as children of God. The individual and collective experiences of Christians have also provided strong warrants for the inclusion of all persons of good will in their communal living. 

Christians have found their life together enriched by the different qualities of their many members, and they have sought to increase this richness by welcoming others who bring additional gifts, talents and backgrounds to the community. 
The spirit of inclusion at Notre Dame flows from our character as a community of scholarship, teaching, learning and service founded upon Jesus Christ. As the Word through whom all things were made, Christ is the source of the order of all creation and of the moral law which is written in our hearts. As the incarnate Word, Christ taught the law of love of God and sent the Holy Spirit that we might live lives of love and receive the gift of eternal life. For Notre Dame, Christ is the law by which all other laws are to be judged. As a Catholic institution of higher learning, in the governance of our common life we look to the teaching of Christ, which is proclaimed in Sacred Scripture and tradition, authoritatively interpreted by Church teaching, articulated in normative understandings of the human person, and continually deepened by the wisdom born of inquiry and experience. The rich heritage of the Catholic faith informs and transforms our search for truth and our understanding of contemporary challenges in higher education. 
This statement was adopted by the officers ofthe University on August 27, 1997, in conjunction with an Open Letter to the Notre Dame Community. 
An Open Letter to the Notre Dame Community 
T 
he officers of the University have been asked to modify the University's non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation. In spring 1996 the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs recommended that the officers consider this issue. The Faculty Senate and the Student Senate passed resolutions during the 1996-97 academic year supporting this change. In addition, the College Democrats, a student organiza­tion, submitted a petition signed by many students in favor of this change. During the 1996-97 academic year and this past summer, the officers of the University studied this issue-first, in a subcom­mittee I appointed, and then in the Officers' Group as a whole. 
The officers began their discussions by reflecting on the teachings of the Catholic Church relating to gay and lesbian persons. The Church distinguishes between homosexuality as an orientation and sexual activity between homosexual persons. The Church teaches that homosexual orientation in a person is neither sinful nor evil. The call of the gospels is a call to inclusiveness-to a recognition of the dignity inherent in each person that flows from our creation in the image and likeness of a loving God, who brings us together as brothers and sisters through Jesus Christ on a common journey back to the God who created us. 
The Church also teaches that all people, regardless of their sexual orientation, are called to live chaste lives in accordance with their vocations as single people, married couples, priests or religious. Specifically, the Church asks all people to reserve sexual union to the covenanted and consecrated union of a man and woman in marriage. Neither heterosexual union outside the permanent bond of marriage nor homosexual union is morally acceptable. 
The University has tried to speak with an authentic voice on both of these dimensions of Church teaching-on homosexual orientation and on sexual union. In a number of different settings in recent years, we have stated publicly that we prize the gay and lesbian members of this community as children of God, entitled to the same respect as all other members of this community. Moreover, we deplo~e harassment of any kind as antithetical to the nature of this community as a Christian community. Our discriminatory harassment policy specifi­cally precludes harassment based on sexual orientation. At the same time and with an equally strong voice, we strive to set policy and make operating decisions-perhaps most notably in the area of student life-in a manner that supports the teaching of the Church calling all people, regardless of their sexual orientation, to reserve sexual union to those who are married. 
In all of our actions we have been guided by gospel values that we regard as normative for this community. We have premised our deci­sions and framed our statements on issues relating to the gay and les­bian members of this community on the language of Church teaching. Indeed, we believe that some of the deepest aspirations of this commu­nity flow from the law of Christ and not necessarily from civil law. 

milieu that does not always accept gospel values as normative. 
Moreover, society at large uses language in ways that mean different 
things to different people. With respect to this issue, for example, American society does not always use the phrase "sexual orienta­
tion" to mean only orientation. Many people use this single phrase in a manner that entangles what we regard as two distinct con­
cepts-homosexual persons and homosexual conduct. Within 
society at large, the phrase "sexual orientation" sometimes becomes a term that does not admit of distinction between sexual orientation and the manner in which people live out their sexual orientation­
a distinction that is critical to us as a Catholic institution. 
We have been asked to change our non-discrimination clause to add sexual orientation as a protected category. Institutional non­discrimination clauses are highly stylized statements which are legally binding. Neither federal nor state law mandates that sexual orientation be included in non-discrimination clauses. Thus, like a number of other institutions, our clause does not currently include sexual orientation. 
After considerable reflection, we have decided not to add sexual orientation to our legal non-discrimination clause. To make the change requested would mean that our decisions in this area would be measured by civil courts that may interpret this change through the lens of the broader societal milieu in which we live. This, in turn, might jeopardize our ability to make decisions that we believe necessary to support Church teaching. We wish to continue to speak to this issue in the Catholic context that is normative for this community. 
Civil law does not constitute the exclusive basis for commit­ments made within this community. As mentioned above, we regard some of our deepest aspirations as flowing from our call to live the message of the gospels. We choose not to change our legal non­discrimination clause, but we call ourselves to act in accordance with what we regard as a higher standard-Christ's call to inclusive­ness, coupled with the gospels' call to live chaste lives. In some senses both of these messages are counter-cultural. It is this dual call that is so deeply rooted in our religious tradition to which we commit ourselves. 
We speak in a variety of settings-most notably, in our student life policies-to our affirmation of Church teaching with respect to sexual conduct. As a way of underscoring our equally strong commitment to the Church's teaching on the dignity inherent in every person as a child of God, we will publish the above statement, The Spirit ofInclusion at Notre Dame, in all University publications. 

~ 4.~··­

(Rev.) Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. .. 
The University exists, however, within a societal and cultural President 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, August 29, 1997 
.. 
•wNBA 

Liberty down Mercury, head to league finals 
By MEL REISNER Associated Press Writer 
PHOENIX 
The New York Liberty, buoyed by Rebecca Lobo's all­around play and Kym Hampton's third double-double of the season against Phoenix, returned to their early-season form Thursday night in a 59-41 WNBA semifinal playoff victory over the Mercury. 
New York will play at 
Houston  Saturday  for  the  
WNBA  championship.  The  
Comets  finished  with  the  

league's best record, 18-10, and finished first in the Eastern Conference, one game ahead of New York. 
Lobo had 16 points, nine rebounds and three blocks, and Hampton had 14 points and a season-high 14 rebounds. She had her only other double-dou­bles of the season in two of the four games the Liberty and Mercury split. 
New York's Vickie Johnson scored four of her 11 points over the final 1:15. 
Jennifer Gillom and reserve Marlies Askamp led the Mercury with nine points each. Gillom also had seven rebounds. 
The Liberty won their first seven games in the league's inaugural season, then went into a nosedive. They came into the playoffs having lost seven of their last nine and with a five­game losing streak on the road. 
But they took a 23-18 half­time lead over cold-shooting Phoenix and put the game away by hitting eight of their first nine shots during a 17-8 run to start the second half. The Mercury never got the deficit below eight points again. 
Michele Timms cut the score 

and convenient. locat.ion. 
(?19) ?87-6797 Rooms c>vc>ilc>ble far footbc>ll wee~nds W..lkina Distance to Not-re D..me 
The Back House 
Religious Gifts 

"Icons" Ill E. Navarre St. Ph. 233-2523 

Flowers & Fine Cigars Madame Alexander Dolls 
602 N. Michigan St. Call 233-2232 
to 42-34 with a bank shot in the lane with 8:31 to play, and was fouled by Kisha Ford. But Timms, 1-for-11 from the field and 3-of-5 from the line, missed the foul shot, and Trina Trice had a three-point play at the other end 25 seconds later. 
The Mercury had won seven straight in the America West Arena, where they led the league in attendance and attracted 16,751 for the playoff game. 
The crowd was not a factor this time. 
Lobo, who had averaged 17 points and 50 percent shooting over her last four games, was 6-of-13 from the field. 
She hit a 17 -footer to start the second half and added two more baskets and a free throw in the decisive surge. 


ATTENTION ALL NDCIBD MEMBERS! 

We are sending delegations over Fall Break to ... 
ASIA, BENIN, and the UNITED NATIONS. 
Interviews will be early next week so act now! 
Call the Council office 1-9044 A.S.A.P. 

Leave your name and phone number. 


Call Now! 

Varsity Women~s Laerosse Tryouts 
0 
lnforrttlltional 




Meetine 

ALL ARE WELCOME 
? Call 631-8352 
• ? •


with questions 

WHEN? 
Monday September I 6pm 
WHERE? 

Loftus Center Room II4 



• BOXING • Wom.o UNIVERSITY GAMES 
-



Bowe charged with assault 




Brooks wins bronze 
Associated Press 
OXON HILL, MD. 

Former heavyweight champi­on Riddick Bowe has been accused by his wife of beating her, according to court records. 
Based on a written complaint filed by his wife, Judy, Bowe has been summoned to appear at a hearing Oct. 6. 
Judy Bowe reported the alleged assault to police Tuesday afternoon. After find­ing no evidence of physical injury, they referred her to a Prince George's County court commissioner. who issued a criminal summons charging Bowe with second-degree 
•NHl 
assault, according to court records. 
In her complaint, Judy Bowe said her husband "assaulted me in our home by punching me in the face and back. He shoved me across the room also. He has assaulted me on numerous occasions, but I never reported them. I am afraid to go back by myself because he has threatened me." 
Rock Newman, Bowe's long­time manager, said Wednesday he was unaware of the com­plaint and had no comment. 
In May, Bowe and his sister, Velma Melton, were involved in a weekend spat in which both reportedly suffered split lips. 
The two soon reconciled and no charges were filed. 
The incident occurred shortly after Bowe retired from boxing to become a goodwill ambas­sador for HBO's boxing com­munity service program. He finished his career with a 40-1 record with 32 knockouts. 
Bowe was the last undisputed heavyweight champion, holding all three titles after he beat Evander Holyfield in 1992. In a dispute with the WBC he dumped that belt in a trash can within in a month and lost that title. He defended the other ti­tles twice before them in a rematch with Holyfield, a fight best known for being interrupt­ed by a paraglider. 
Special to The Observer 
MESSINA, Sicily, Italy 
Notre Dame women's swim­ming All-American and 1997 graduate Erin Brooks won a bronze medal in the 200 back­stroke at the World University Games in Sicily, Italy, on Thursday. 
Brooks was the highest American swimmer and fin­ished in 2:16.76. 
Brooks entered the finals seeded third after swimming 
2:17.20 in the preliminaries. Miki Nakao of Japan won in 
2:15.02 and Noriko Inada of Japan was second in 2:15.88. Another American, Rachel Joseph, finished just behind Brooks in fourth in 2:16.78. 
"Winning this medal is very exciting for me," said Brooks. "I didn't really have many expectations coming into this meet. I just wanted to do well." 
She capped off her Notre Dame career earlier in the 

year by leading the Irish to their first Big East swimming and diving title, while Brooks won both the 100 and 200 Big East backstroke titles for the second consecutive year. 
She swam in the NCAA championships for the second year and placed eighth in the 200 backstroke to earn All­America honors for the second consecutive year after finishing tenth in 1996. 
Brooks is one of three Notre Dame student-athletes rep­resenting America in the World University Games. 
Senior volleyball player Jamie Lee is captain of the USA women's volleyball team which will play for the gold medal against Russia on Friday. 
Beth Morgan, who led Notre Dame's women's basketball team to the NCAA Final Four as a senior in 1997, is a mem­ber of the USA women's bas­ketball team. 
Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Concussions knock out career 
Associated Press The topic also stirred the creating awareness about the 
emotions of 21-year-old Brett, a seriousness of a concussion is 
TORONTO first-round draft choice of the the key. 

The room fell silent when 6-New York Islanders in 1994. He "That's what came home to foot-4, 230-pound Eric Lindros, played just 51 games for the me obviously. My brother can't a hockey superstar feared on Islanders before three concus­play hockey anymore," he said. the ice, broke into tears. sions forced him to retire from "Hopefully, other kids won't 
lie was trying to talk about hockey in May 1996. have to go through this frustra­how concussions cut short his Neurosurgeons told him he tion and a shortened dream of younger brother's promising could suffer permanent brain playing in the league." NHL career. The tears stunted and vision problems if he suf­Repeated concussions have the flow of words, but the mes­fered any more serious hits. sent a number of prominent sage was clear. "You cannot fix a brain, athletes to the sidelines recent­
Concussions are serious busi­that's something I had to learn. ly. ness. It's not like a shoulder or a Quarterback Matt Dunigan
Lindros, his brother Brett and knee," Brett told a packed retired from the Canadian father Carl joined the Ontario news conference. Football League last year after Brain Injury Association and He says a change in thinking suffering yet another blow to minor hockey officials is needed. the head. NFL star receiver AI Wednesday to call on parents, "Hockey is an old sport. It's Toon was also forced to prema­players, trainers and doctors to the old school boys and an old turely hang up his cleats. be more vigilant about concus­way of thinking. And Buffalo Sabres superstar sions on the rink. "We have to change that Pat LaFontaine is consulting 
"It's time to understand that thinking a little bit. I bought neurosurgeons in the hopes of we have a problem," Eric into it, I wanted to be a tough resuming his career this fall Lindros said tearfully. "We just guy. But it didn't do me any after the lastest in a series of don't want anyone to go good." concussions knocked him out through this again." Choking back tears, Eric said early last season. 


r ----~-­page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS

-



Ir-------------------------,

I
BRASS EAGLE FAMILY BILLIARDS 

I I I I
9 Ball Tournament I I
$2000 Prize Fund $25 entry 
I 

I V®rnr;Jll® I I 
This Saturday & Sunday Double Elimination 

I @3[)®~9 I I
~==============~====~II 
I 
• VOllEYBALL 



Irish open with tough tourney 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's volleyball team, ranked 17th in the AVCA!USA Today pre-season poll, starts its season this weekend with the fourth annual Shamrock InvitationaL 
The Irish will begin their Big East title defense with one of the most difficult stretches of their season, with three match­es in two days. 
On Friday, the team starts off against Louisville, ranked 19th in last year's final AVCA polL 
Last season, the Cardinals came back to defeat the Irish 3­2 in the Big Four Classic cham­pionship game. 
Saturday the Irish will face Oral Roberts and Wisconsin, two teams that have proved troublesome in the past. Wisconsin, which advanced to the Sweet 16 in the NCAAs last year, is currently ranked 18th in the pre-season polL 
"It will be physically tough, especially the final match on Saturday," junior blocker Lindsay Treadwell said, "but we've done it many times 
Position requires extensive Macintosh experience, preferably in a computer cluster. Knowledge of MacOS, Word, Excel, Eudora, Web, FileMaker Pro, PageMaker, and PowerPoint helpful. Work 15-20 hours per week. Pay:$9,000 academic-year stipend, or hourly rate. 
Sen 
cover r an resume to Doug Franson, Manager, Technical Support, 612 Grace Hall, 631-4662, dfranson@nd.edu 
before. I think we'll be pre· pared for it." 
"It's definitely difficult for the schedule to start this way," head coach Debbie Brown said, "but I feel that this happens a lot early in the season. The coaches like to see how their players will react in different situations, and tournaments like the Shamrock Invitational are the best chance to do just that." 
Senior co-captain Jaimie Lee, currently competing on the U.S. national team in the World University Games, will miss most of the weekend's activi· ties. 
Lee led the team in kills on Wednesday, as the U.S. de­feated Canada in the semifinal game. She and her teammates on the U.S. team will arrive in Chicago at 4:30 p.m., possibly allowing her to make it to the Wisconsin match. 
"She could definitely help us out," Treadwell said, "but we have two or three people who are able to step up to the job." 
"She's trying her hardest to get to the arena for the last match," Brown commented, "but our plan right now is not to play her. By the time she reaches the arena, she'll have come off a 12-hour plane flight from Italy, and she'll probably be a little tired. We're looking forward to her coming back, with her depth and experience, but we've played through the entire pre-season without her, and we've been able to prepare for this." 
Last season, the Irish man­aged a record of 22-12 and advanced to the second round of the NCAA tournament, de­spite injuries to three starters in crucial parts of the season. They also won their second con­secutive Big East title through a perfect 11-0 conference season. 
"Right now, we're taking it one match at a time, playing for each point." Brown said, "We're not trying to think ahead to long-term goals, but I'm optimistic for this season." 
Today's match against Louisville will begin at 7:30 
p.m. Saturday's matches against Oral Roberts and Wisconsin start at 1 and 7:30 p.m., respectively. All of the matches will be played in the Joyce Center. 

MOCKLSAT Sa71Ul.Jay

-
Augusr 30 


8:00A.M. N1euwland Hall 

Slfjll up Ill 101 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

~­
OR ar ra!J/.es Ill DeBaRTOTO Hall 

on AugliSr 27-29

i 
I 


l.~ ----·-·.-.-.­
1 
Macri's Deli

I I
University Drive 
277·7273 

Wel«:o...e Ba«:• Student 

L-------------------------~ 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Adrienne Shimmel and the Irish hope to bump the competition in 1997. 



lhe 00 
for people to""' following ~ 

~ llflrrR~t.ttiB 
in developing erver Online rst Campus Online Paper 
Friday, Auguat 29, 1997 
Stadium 
continued from page 24 
of Notre Dame" welcomes Irish fans and opponents into the new stadi­urn, and newly planted trees give the surrounding grounds the lively, beautiful look that the rest of the Notre Dame campus boasts. 
For Irish head coach Bob Davie, the new stadium provides a positive-ly-charged atmosphere consistent with the rest of the changes he has made since taking over as head coach in November. The additional 20,000 seats (expanding the stadi­um's capacity to 80,285) afford 
20.000 more screaming voices back­ing the Irish as they take the field for the first official game against Georgia Tech on 

Sept. 6. 'T·.h~~~i~a ·· ous 16,000 allotted c~~!!~~a~~e t~~~:ii~~ •· · .erttf1Usiasntand a ~i~l ~~tmb~i ·e~~~gi~ that the new stadium new level to the pro-to appease the will equate to sue-fanatical Domers. 
th fi ld b gram. There has been Th · d

cess on e 1e , e-e mcrease num­cause while the sta-oxygen put back into it. her of alumni dium itself has request have placed changed, the playing all six home games field remains the Bob Davie this season among same. ------------the 10 most 
"You got to be careful sometimes in thinking that just because there are 20,000 more people in that sta­dium, or just because there's a gor­genus pmss box, and there's a great locker room facility that it's really going to help you win," Davie com­mfmted. "But I do think it's definite­ly an advantage. I feel very fortu­nate, this being my first head coach­ing job, to have the benefit of those changes. There is no question that all those things benefit us because there is a new enthusiasm and a new energy level to the program. There has been oxygen put back into it." 
However, there still exist those who will not get the opportunity to benefit from the new stadium. Notre Dame alumni who had hoped to see 
page 19
The Observer • SPORTS 
a little more of the Irish than they had in the past will have to wait. This year's ticket requests for the alumni lottery set record numbers in the history of Irish football. Even with the number of allotted tickets doubled by the expansion, the University will be sending back more than $2.5 million in refunds to the unlucky alumni. The Notre Dame ticket office attributes the increase in requests to an increased enthusiasm with stadium expansion. 
"The actual demand [for tickets] far exceeded anything that was pro­jected," the ticket office wrote in a letter to its alumni. "Obviously, a great many alumni who have notre­cently taken part in the ticket lottery chose to enter this year in response to the expanded stadium." 
Sixteen thousand seats have been 
added to the previ­
top 
requested games in the history of Irish football. With 57,048 requests, the 1997 Notre Dame vs. USC game 
is the most requested game in Irish history. The USC game is followed by this year's Michigan State and, West Virginia games, last year's Ohio State game, and this season's Boston College game to round out the top five. 
The increase in alumni en­thusiasm is consistent with the over­all increased enthusiasm for the upcoming season. While it may leave many alumni scrambling for a chance to see their beloved Irish, the positive side of the situation remains the fact that despite all the changes that have taken place over the past year, the devotion to the Irish has not wavered. 

The Observer/Kevin Datum The Notre Dame Stadium expansion will add 20,000 seats increasing the capacity to 80,285. It also includes a new press box and a new locker room facility. 

CK ONE 5-PC. LOCKER SET, $45 


counter for your free CK one sample and receive 2 silvertone friendship rings. 
One set per customer, please. 

Get back to school in cool Calvin Klein style with this 5-pc. gift set: 
•
Eau de Toilette Spray 3.4-oz. •CK one Eraser 

•Magnetic Locker Organizer ­

•
Academic Calendar •Black Nylon Backpack 


Offer valid while supplies last. 
ORDER ANYTIME CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 


~--~---~-~ --­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 29, 1997 

Interact 
continued from page 24 
It will not be enough, though, to come out in full force for the first pep rally just because of the new stadium and the typical pre-sea­son hype. 
If the team drops a tough game early in the season, will we find more people at the library than in the stadium on the following home football Friday? 
Once again, Davie is going to do anything he can to keep each and every one of the students involved. 
In addition to holding rallies in the stadium, five or six residence halls will represent the team for each home game and all residents of the selected dorms will person­ally receive a T -shirt from Davie or a member of his staff on the Wednesday prior to their dorm's game. 
Also, certain members of the specified dorms will have the opportunity to attend the team's Thursday practice session and/or the Friday afternoon Quarterback Club luncheon. 
Finally, one student representa­tive will be chosen from among the given week's dorms to speak at the pep rally. 
"With students becoming more involved with the pep rallies and game preparation," said Cantwell, "the student body as a group will become more a part of the Notre Dame football experience." 
It already appears that Davie's tactics may have awakened some of the Irish spirit of yesteryear. There seems to be a buzz about campus regarding the Georgia Tech pep rally even though the night is still a week away. 
"I think its really exciting that Coach Davie and his staff are try-

By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Spores Editor 
Among the many parts of Notre Dame football that have become things of the past since former head coach Lou Holtz left campus is the way in which the team utilizes the preseason to prepare for the opener and the campaign ahead. 
Gone are the ritual trips to Culver Military Academy and the seemingly unending string of two-a-day, full-pads practices which the players had grown to dread. 
Instead, the team practiced three times a day for the first three days in just shorts and shoulder pads so that the play­ers could settle into their roles in various formations and sim­ply get back into the groove of regulated practice. 
Head coach Bob Davie explained that he wanted his players to be excited for their first day of full contact. 
"We came back to the first day in pads and practiced only once," said Davie, "because you should look forward to putting the pads on. You should look forward to contact." 
From there, D:::.vie's troops practiced twice a day -one day in the morning and the afternoon and the next day in the morning and evening. On every third day, the team only practiced once. 
"I wanted to change the rou­tine," Davie commented, "so we did a good job of mixing the routine up." 
Davie also felt that the annual Culver trip simply caused more distractions than it prevented. 
"I didn't want any distrac­tions," said Davie. "I felt by going to Culver -no air-condi­tioning, different food service, the practice fields weren't as nice -I just thought it meant distraction." 
The preseason wound down with a full-pads scrimmage under the newly-installed lights of Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday night. This too was done to increase the overall excitement among the players. 
Although Georgia Tech has been the focus of Irish prepara­tions since last spring, it will be during the next week of prac­tice that the final strategies and schemes will be executed, and it goes without saying that the Yellow Jackets' system will be the only thing on the players' minds. · 
Though nothing will be known for sure until the Irish take the field next Saturday, it seems apparent that Davie's approach has not only helped players relax and enjoy football but also focus on the task at hand. 
"I think it all goes into having a plan and a reason for doing everything," said Davie. "Don't always do everything just because you've done it that way in the past. Do what's best for this specific situation." 
ing to get everyone involved," said Cavanaugh junior Julie Dayton. "I hope that the students can fol­low through on that enthusiasm." 
•s Plans 
If the students do come 
olvement
through, there could be at least 
two more stadium rallies. Davie even indicated the possibility of For each home game, five to six residence halls willholding some late-season pep ral­be elected to represent the team. 

lies in the stadium. 
"We may be out there in ski caps and gloves on," said Davie, "but if you promise me they'll (the students) be there, we'll get the snow ofT the seats." 
The stage appears to be set for what could be a historic season of Notre Dame football. All that remains to be seen is what the students will make of it. 
"It's inspiring to have such thought and effort put into it (get­ting students more involved in game preparation)," explained Friday night, one fiveDayton, "and I don't think we will 

let him (Davie) down." 
Coaches 
continued from page 24 
how it has worked out -I said that if I had my choice, I'd like my offensive coordinator to be Jim Colletto and my defensive coordinator to be Greg Mattison." 
Colletta, former head coach of Purdue University, joined the Irish staff shortly after Davie accepted the head coaching job. Colletta boasts 11 seasons of head coaching experience, six of which were at Purdue and 31 years of overall coach­ing experience. 
Colletta is known as an offen­sive coach, and his experience with the Boilermakers proves this. In his time at Purdue, Colletto produced the top offen­sive rushing team in the Big Ten (1995) and the second best offensive scoring team in the conference (1994}. 
"With Jim it's kind of ironic because during the week I was offered the Notre Dame job, I was offered the Purdue job prior to that," Davie said. "And 
just from the conversations I 

residence halls will speak at the pep rally. 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 

had with Purdue and their administrators, they were so high and so enthusiastic about Jim Colletta and the job he had done at Purdue. That made a real mark on me. 
Mattison is a different story. Prior to spending two years as defensive coordinator of Michigan, Mattison coached with Davie at Texas A&M for three years as an assistant coach. Last year, Mattison was one of five finalists for the Broyles Award, an award that recognizes the top assistant coach in the country. 
"Greg was at the University of Michigan, but we had been together for a couple of years at Texas A&M in the early 90's," Davie said. "So that's how it happened. One, Greg Mattison was my friend, and two, Jim Colletto I got to know really through my discussions with Purdue. 
Adding to the list of newcom­ers is quarterback coach Mike Sanford and running back coach Desmond Robinson. Sanford was the assistant head coach at USC from 1989-96, while Robinson came to the Irish from West Virginia. 
Rounding out the corps of first­year coaches is graduate assis­tant Chris Wiesehan, who comes to the Irish after a year with Colletto at Purdue. 
The five first-year coaches join the ranks of veterans such as recruiting coordinator and tight ends coach Bob Chmiel, assistant head coach Kirk Doll, defensive line coach Charlie Strong, defensive backfield coach Tom McMahon, and receivers coach Urban Meyer. 
In general, Davie is looking to his new staff to bring with them the experience that brought them success with their respec­tive programs. 
"I like to listen to different ideas, different concepts. differ­ent ways of doing things," Davie said. "I really like to take the best of what everyone else has done at other places. It wouldn't make sense to bring these guys in from great places and great backrounds and not let them have a role in our plan. 
"Obviously, the final decision is mine, but it's not just my football team -it's Notre Dame's football team, and this staffs football team. 

Football office gets facelift 
By BETSY BAKER Associcace Spores Editor 
It is not often that you can walk into the office of one of the most powerful football pro­grams in the country and feel like you are in the comfort of your own living room. 
Since Notre Dame head coach took over the job as head coach last November, he has imple­mented a number of changes in the program. First and fore­most on his agenda was to change the Irish football office. 
"That was the first thing," Davie said. "When I inter­viewed for the job, I listed some things that I felt we needed to do. One of the things was that I felt that we were at the point at which our office facility needed to be in sync with the stadium, with Notre Dame football, and the University of Notre Dame. It should be first class." 
And first class it is. The lirst step in changing the office was to make the interior visible to visitors. That was done by adding a glass door that gives a view to the newly-renovated reception area. In the recep­tion area sit several plush couches surrounded by murals of various Irish traditions like the stadium, the Irish guard, and the Basilica. 
"I wanted something that when you look in, you get a quick accurate statement about what Notre Dame football is," Davie commented. "You know, just doing things first class. Not flashy, not glittery, but doing things first class." 

Davie recognized the fact that every weekend during football season, thousands of visitors come to Notre Dame and the football office is right up there on the official tour with the sta­dium and the Grotto. "There's not an office on this campus that gets as many people stick­ing their nose in the window," Davie said. "So we're sending out a statement about what Notre Dame football is." 
In addition to the outward appearance, the new office ren­ovations serve to accomodate those who occupy and frequent it, such as the staff and the players. 
"I also thought it would be good for the morale of the staff and the players," Davie said. "The players come by here more often now. It all goes toward winning and doing what is best for the players." 


~ 
1 
Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 "'II.. 
....._, ~ 
I 
-.. 
_,j 

JHieh's * Coaeh's * Cna
Michiana's 

Coach's • Cnaeh's * Coach's
#1 Sports Bar 

nach\ •. Co;w,h's i$. Coach's., ~r;~rgesthse,ec~iono:or ti,pp'~tize~S~ . . 
< 

Cntu·h s "' Coad1 s " Coach s * Coat n's " Cmtch s * Coach's " Coach s " Coach's " Coach s * toaeh's '* uaeh's $ • Over'·l15 w~ss&CBig Screens:\ 's •fF·oozbaD·· $ Coach's * Coach's & Coarh\ • Coach\; • Coach's " CtHH.:h's • Coach's • Coach\ • Coaeh's '* Coach's • CmtdJ's • Coach's • Coach's 
oath's • ~).SI·NFLclGam~~ a~.ALLci:i;Qle~lach's ¢•c:£(QPI J:Mle~;ach's Coach's • Cna$ 
Coach\•• FUll Melin • Coach's • Coad~Js Dg:r(sBtJard.scoaeh's "Coach's
Coach\ • Coach's • oach\ • Coadl's • Cnach·s * Coach's " Coach ·s .. Coaeh's " Coach ·s * Coach's "' Cna.eh's * Coach's • Cnach·s * Ctmeh\•• Fantastic PiZzas cmu'h's • coach's * cm1d~ Vldeo.GameSoach's * coaeh's 
,oaeh's • ioViituaf'Realit · (G(jJf coach's • coach's ••cG~~atmS~Ji(l\\ii.ches·h's ·c Coach's " Cnaeh's • Coad1's * Coa;~s • Coach's • Cnaeh's • Conch's * Coach's • Coach's " Coach's • Coach's 
•' 
. 
or '•
.... 
,•• 
-~ 
I • 
~ 
~ 
I 
~ 

I , I 
..::_ 



.:>--­
I· 
I. 
' 
page 22 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Irish set sights on taming Panthers 
Defense leads charge in away season opener 
By KAREN SEYMOUR Sports Writer 
Strong defense led the Fighting Irish men's soccer team to a Big East tournament championship last year and will prove a decisive factor this season, beginning with today's season opener at Pittsburgh. 
While the loss of five starters creates vacancies that will take time to adjust to, the performance of upcoming tal­ents Reggie McKnight and Steve Mayo, both of whom are coming off strong pre-seasons, is erucial to the team's suc­eess. 
Physical size will be an ad­vantage as the Irish boast a size increase in the back and front fields. As a result, con­trolling headers, tackling and aggressive offensive tactics will eontribute to their overall 
strategy.  
The  Big  East  polls  have  
sized  up  the  conference  
expecting  a  strong perfor­ 

mance from third-seeded Notre Dame, while Pitt resides at the tail end of the eompeti­tion. 
However, overconfidence is something the men's team seeks to avoid in preparation for the season. 
Keeping focus on the actual game itself as opposed to polls and statistics is the approach sought by team members in order to start the season off with a win. 
Coach Mike Berticelli cites only one major concern, but it has little to do with the mind­set of the players. 


"Our team is not used to playing on artificial turf which is the surface in Pittsburgh," Berticelli said. 
Unfortunately, that can be a major factor, but the team is ready for the challenge" 
Look for offensive outbursts from Andrew Aris, who came out strong in Notre Dame's exhibition match-up with Marquette, and Joe Gallo, a senior midfielder who has continually stepped up his level of play the last two sea­sons with a tremendous work ethic and physical condition­ing. 
While the team concentrates on the Pitt game, an important rivalry with Indiana, leader of the Big Ten, follows at home on Sept. 2, at 7:35p.m. 
An initial win at home would head the team in the direction of the NCAA tournament 

Coach Berticelli will need strong play from the newcomers to succeed. 
again. 

Thinking Of Joining the Church? 
Sacred Heart Parish at Notre Dame invites you to its September RCIA classes 
We offer: -a parish setting on campus -Wednesday evening sessions -a diverse mix of people and ages -a convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 for inf~.
-
......... 
'MLP FICTION'! It'D kHrt you 
........... &.. 
Jtlrt to finis~!" 
..._OIIIWIL ~~,..., 
··Grout Point 
lll•k' Is at
.....,.. 
..hit Jist!• 
Friday, August 29, 1996 
W.Soccer 
continued from page 24 
LaKeysia Beene must fill some big shoes in the net, inheriting goalkeeping duties from the departed Jen Renola, NSCAA Player of the Year. 
"We're excited that we have someone like (LaKeysia) in goal," said Petrucelli. "She is onn of the best goalknepers in the country." 
Petrueelli, the 1996 Big East Coach of the Ynar, leads the Irish against the Hml Storm for the third time, with Notre Dame holding a 2-0 edge, having won the previous meetings 9-0 in 1995, and 6-0 in 1996. 
"St. John's has some young players," notnd Petrucelli. "Sinee we havnn't played any­one, and they haven't played anyone, we don't really have a good read on them." 
Don't be deeeived, though, thn Irish have their eyes fo­cused on one thing this sea­son-a national ehampi­onship. 
"(Winning a national cham­pionship) is something we talk about everyday," said Petrucelli. "It's not a pre­diction... That is the goal of our team." 

CON~GEDUCATION
........GLUII» 
........, 

GRE GMAT LSAT
........_,_...,... xy!• 
.....,..~ 

Our exam review classes will ease your mind. And the strain on your pocketbook. 
GROSSE POINTE 
., 

Be better prepared for the GMAT, GRE or !..SAT with an !USB Continu­ing Education exam review class. Our reviews are priced hundreds of 
llriWutm.t• 

dollars less than other exam prep programs, and offer you proven
·lllr-ldr,
BLANK 
IIIMI>l¥ fij~Clatr.IIIO 

strategies for attacking even the most difficult questions.
I V I Jlf A M I T 1!11 A N 0 I I ' Ill 'II I I A I I C Q N D I .. D 'J, 


GRE Review: Wednesdays, Sept. 10 and 17, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and Saturdays, Sept. 20, 27 and Oct. 4, 8 a.m. to noon. $349. GMAT Review: Thursdays, Sept. 11-0ct. 23, 7-10:20 p.m. $295. LSAT Review: Wednesdays, Sept. 10-24, 6:30-10:30 p.m., and Saturday, Sept. 27, 1-5 p.m. $249.
Cinema at the Snite 

To register or for more information,
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 and 9:45p.m. 


call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 
NO Communication & Theatre 

.. 


Friday, August 29, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
FLf>.5HC>ACK TO THE INVENTION OF THE FIR5T WEB BROW5E.I\ 
WHA-T 5HOULD WE CA-LL OUR PRt\N\<..1 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 What spirits may do
1 Some clauses 34 Total
11 Pond dross 
WELL, IT'S DESIGNED TO t-\1>-.I<.E MILLIONS OF PEOPLE SIT 1>-.ROUNO WAITING FOR NOTHING 
E 
0 
..u 
i 
E 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

On the BIG Screen 

Scream 

Saturday, August 30 8:30pm/Dusk South Quad in front of the Rock 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
!>-. FEW YEAR5 LATER
g 
r-----------------------~ 
HE'(, l CAN 1>-.LM05T 
SEE A RE.COGNlZ.AI:?>LE BLOTCH! THIS IS 
AWE50~E! 
g 


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Bea .-\rthur, Ritchie Valens, )m• Louis, Daphim• du Maurit'T 
DEAR EUGENIA: I am very busy workmg and Vt._•ry serious about st«rt­ing a familv, but unfortunately the women I helve dated were not inter­ested in a st•rious relt1tionship. The last two women weTL~ both born un­der the Capricorn. I'd appreciate it if you could give me a hint or a clue about my dream woman. 1\.m I going to find her in the next couple of years? I low your daily horoscope and your Web sites. 
M.A. 
DEAR M.A.: Your dream lover is just around the comer. Next year you will fall in love, move to larger quar­ters or have someone new living ~ith ~ou and you will find that your hfe will be much better. The past lit­tle while and on and off throughout this year your chart denotes periods of depression. Don't let this get you down. Keep working hard; sign up for lectures, seminars, tours and in­terest courses, or sports groups and you may just ~ind yourself coming mto contact With potential partners. As for starting a family, find your true love and write back with her birth data and we'll see what the 
stars have in store. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do­mestic investments will be lucrative today. Get inmlved in sports events that will use up some of your energy. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't overspend on luxury items for vour home. Emotions on the home front will be unpredictable. Lack of funds may cause upset. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Over­time may be necessary. Don't put off dutil's that rtln be completed now. 

You can make headway cmd receivl' 
rl'wards if you show initiativl'. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You 
will bt:ndit fn>m physical fitness. So­
cial activitiL~ involving rhildn._•n will 
bt• satisfying. Tral't'l should he on 
your agenda. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Make the 
necessary alteration~ in your living 
space Invite friends over for entertain­
n~~'nL Property in\'estments will pay 
ott. Lady luck is with you. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel 
for business or pleasure. Much can bt.• 
accomplished if you organize your 
plan of attack. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Invite 
friends over. There will be plenty of 
action on the home front. Try to pay 
extra attention to the one you love. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Op­portumtles for partnerships will de­velop through traveL You can sign contracts or formulate agn.'etnents. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Arguments and physical confronta­tiOns will result in injuries. Do not take criticism too personally. Financial failures are likely if you expanded your mterests too quickly. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You might have regrets if you allow a disagreement to get out of hand to­day. Be cautious how you handle business or emotional relcltionships. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Colleagues may be evasive or dPCep­tJve today. Make sure you get all the fa, ts concerning an issue before you take action. Minor health problems due to stress mav dewlap. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Acci­dents will occur if you get involved in aggressive sports activity. You may fmd It Lilf!Jcult to control your temper when discussing joint financial ar­ra11gements. 
Born T?day: You'll be your own worst enemv this year if you refuse to listen tothe advice bemg offered by trusted friends, Back up and View your situation With clanty It 1·ou really want to put yourself in a good position bv this time 
next vear. · 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
via SUB 
playing 

Dazed and Confused 
free popcorn and soda rain location: Stepan Center SUB: the foreign object in your head 
-
.. 
.... 

-
• 
53 Language that gave us "kayak" 55 Polish export 59 Speck GO Ampule's kin 
61 Site of the Woodrow Wilson Sch. of Public and Inti. Affairs 
64 Basic French verb 65 Preserved oral 
history, e.g. && Jazz drummer Catlett et al. 
&7 Exams 
DOWN 
1 Greek character? 2 Foreign currency 3 The rest 40newith perfect pitch? 5 Foreign currency &Over 7 "There!" 8 Osmics is the study of these 9Sergeant Preston's horse 1oRocky, really 11 Antares, tor one 12 "If I Loved You" musical 13 Eventual 14 E-mail 21 Computer experts, e.g. 

15 College in i 995 headlines 16 Account 11 Unconventional ideas 18 Kennedy Center focus 19 Fine and dandy, in old slang 200n--with 21 French crowd? 22 Slobodan Milosevic, e.g. 24 Like the surface of Mars 27 John's "Pulp Fiction" co-star 28 Stockpiled 32 Chest muscle 36 Summer abroad 
37 Axioms serving as starting points 
41 What I may mean 
42 "The Joy of Cooking" autho· 
43 Mail abbr. 
44 Simile center 
· 45 Wound 
48 Date for Dizzy 49 Spanish novelist who won a 1989 Nobel 
51 1980's police comedy 
23 They may be made in clubs 25 French city on the Moselle 2& Deliver 29Take away 30 Horn in (on) 31 Standard 35 Canadian pol. party 37 Excuses 38 045, e.g. 39 60's militant 40---dieu 4& High, in a way 
47 Midday event 57 i988film "Rent---"
so They have low pH's 58 "--joy keep 52 Harness 
you": Sandburg features &1 Show of 54 Mer sights 
support 
&2 Herb of grace (boss's order) &3 Keep uine 
5&"Get--!" 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last ·so years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


......-----~ 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, August 29, 1997 
The new face(s) of Notre Dame football 
-~ 
-
... 
-
• 
Talented coaching staff lends wealth of experience to team 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame built the fortress. The ground crew laid the battlefield. Irish head coach Bob Davie was given command last November when Lou Holtz stepped down. He enlisted the experi­ence of players like Ron Powlus and Allen 
Rossum. and the talent 
Mattison of 19 new freshmen. The only thing left was to find a few good lieutenants. 
Davie set out on a mission to find the most capable supporting cast he could last winter, and what he came up with is a staff of 11 coaches who he hopes will turn their previous success and experi­ence into the start of a winning era of Irish football. 
Leading the attack will be new offensive coordinator· Jim Colletto and defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. Colletto and Mattison were Davie's top choices to take over the positions that he and former offensive coordinator and current Baylor head coach Dave Roberts held. 
"Actually," Davie said, "When I in­terviewed for the job -it's remarkable 
see COACHES I page 20 

Stadium.i('expansir;>niadds aura of excitement for Irish 
By BETSY BAKER Associate.Spomr Editor. 
The fate of Notre Dame football has undergone a total reconstruction this yea.~;r and no platte better exhibits this than the new stadium. 
While many traditional Irish fans were skeptical about expanding the 


Head coach Bob Davie looks forward to more student involvement 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
Is it really true what people are saying about school spirit at Notre Dame? 
Is it fading or even dying? 
Is it already dead? 
Have text books and six-packs taken the place of pep rallies and camping out for tickets? 
First year head coach Bob Davie sure hopes not, and unlike the student leadership of recent years, he is determined to do something about it. 
On Sept. 5, Davie and his revamped Irish squad will host the University's first ever pre-game pep rally within the confines of Notre Dame Stadium. giving the present student body an opportunity to reverse the recent trend of ambivalence toward Notre Dame athletics, pep rallies, and school spirit in general. 
"You know," remarked Davie, "Notre Dame football is important to a lot of people. I get let­ters from all over the world. But the most impor­tant people to me are the players who play and the student body who supports them. That's who we're doing this for." 
Now that someone has finallv taken notice of what makes, or made, this university great. it is time for the rest of us to respond in kind. 
Knott Hall junior Sean Cantwell expressed his excitement about the upcoming changes. 
"I think having the pep rallies outside will create a more electric atmosphere," explained Cantwell, "where students will have the opportunity to show how crazy they are about Notre Dame football." 
see INTERACT I page 20 

"House that Rockne Built," anyone similar as possible to the old sta­point of luxury, and a new locker WhSJ: ha~ ~~~:g the l'e£;ently lwmpleted dium, while providiJ"lg a .look that is room bas been added within the sta· renovation<can not deny its beau:ty. consistent with the "new-look" Irish .. dium walls, allowing the team to pre­Although the renovation provides a The new stadium consists of simi­pare for the game at the stadium mod<Jrnized look to the old. worn~ larly-colored bricks and large, open instead of walking from the stadium down l>ric~s>of the ql<f sta~~um, Uni* gates that allow Visitors to see. the to the Joyce Center. A gold-filled, versity officials and architects outside of the old stadium walls. The engraved face that reads "University worked together to devise a plan that press box of the stadium bas been has left ew stadium h~oking as enlarged and redone,. almost to the see STADIUM I page 19 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Lady Irish look to dominate 
A talented Notre Dame squad receives its first test in tonight's opener. 

vs. St. John's, 
at. Pitt,
-ft
Today, 7:30p.m. 
M Today, 7:35p.m. 

vs. Louisville, 
vs. Georgia Tech, 
-
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
All eyes will be on the Irish women's soccer team as they open their season tonight against Big East rival St. John's in a 7:30p.m. contest at Alumni Field. 
"This weekend we'll be look­ing at how well we do keeping possession of the ball," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "that and how organized we are on the field." 
Ranked second in the pre­season . National Soccer Coaches Association of America and Soccer America polls, the talent-laden team is led by senior captains Ilolly Manthei, Julie Maund and Kate Sobrero. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Manthei, a three-time All-

American midfielder, holds the women's college soccer career !95) and single-season (44) assist records, formerly held by national team member and gold medalist Mia Hamm. 
Freshman Anne Makinen, an internationally seasoned play­er, junior Shannon Boxx, a 1996 second-team all-Big East selection, and Kara Brown. whose five assists in the '96 NCAA Championships tied a single-tournament record, join Manthei in the midfield. Reserve Laura Vanderberg gives Notre Dame depth in the middle. 
Led by last year's Big East Rookie of the Year, Jenny Streiffer, the Irish front line packs a more powerful scoring punch than ever. 
Streiffer tallied 22 goals and 22 assists in her rookie cam­paign, while fellow forward Monica Gerardo (43 goals in 51 career games) and NSCAA High School Player of the Year Meotis Erikson solidify a prolif­ic front line. 
Sophomore Jenny Heft and freshman Monica Gonzalez hope to spark the Irish off the bench up front. 
On the defensive end. NotrP DamA returns an experienced and athletic backfield an­chored by senior Kate Sobrero. 
. a three-time All-American. Jen Grubb returns at sweep11r after earning All-America accolades. the only freshman defender in the country to do so. A strong pre-season by Kelly Lindsey earned the freshman the final spot in the backfield. 
see W. SOCCER I page 22 
September 6, 1:30 p.m. 
Today, 7:30p.m. 


• Men's Soccer travels to Pitt see page 22 
• Volleyball opens season with Shamrock Invitational 
see page 18 

... 










