
Tuesday, February 25, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 98 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Griffin and Nass name Gillard as chief of staff 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN working with Matt [Griffin] and Assistant News Editor Erek [Nass]," Gillard said. '"It is really key now that people with 
The incoming student govern­experience, which all three of us ment administration named for­have, are making sure that the mer vice presidential candidate transition goes smoothly." Mary Gillard to the position of That transition is to the new chief of staff. 
"While we were running and after we won, at least 20 people came up to us and asked us about the position," said 

student body
president-elect Matt Griffin. "All were qualified. But in the end, we thought that [Gillard) would be the best choice." 
Gillard, who assumes the post on April 1, when Griffin and Erek Nass take over as student body president and vice presi­dent, will handle all intra-office communication and organize the office of student body president. 
"The job is to make sure the office stays on task and focused, meeting deadlines and advising the president and vice presi­dent," said Brendan Kelly, who served as chief of staff of the present administration until he resigned two weeks ago. · 
"I am really looking forward to Student Union constitution which is being suggested by the student government reform committee. 
Nass, Griffin and Gillard all currently serve on the reform committee. 
"The two of us wanted some­one we could count on and would support us in accomplish­ing our goals for the year," Griffin said. 
"We think that Mary will be the one to do that," he added. 
The new chief of staff will assemble the office staff for the president and vice president. "We will meet this week and accept applications by the end of the week," said Gillard. 

Page stresses responsibility 
NFL Hall ofFarner explains quest for equal opportunity 
By T.J. THORNTON News Writer 

As the first person of color on the Minnesota Supreme Court and an inductee to the NFL Hall of Fame from the Minnesota Vikings, Alan Page· is a natural mentor and leader. This Notre Dame alumnus has actively served as a model by starting a foundation and teaching audiences about his goals and dreams. 
Page began his speech last night with the words of Martin Luther King, Jr. · 
"The biggest problems we face are not the result of bad people doing bad things, but of good people doing nothing," he quoted. 
Page stressed the responsi­bilities that people have as citi­zens to build their own charac­ter and the character of others by figuring out "what is right and wrong, and then choosing to do what is right." Certainly, the "doing" is paramount, and Page suggests that the area most in need of attention is the educational system. 
The Page Foundation addresses the problems of those immersed in this system by providing grants for disad­vantaged students to continue their education past the sec­ondary level, but also by offer­ing hope to students who, with­out financial assistance, would not be able to attend college. The foundation began in 1989 by granting 10 students partial scholarships for post-sec­ondary education in Minnesota; this year it has awarded 325 students with scholarships. The Page Foundation has a unique stipulation that asks its scholars give something back to the educational community, helping to develop the charac­ter of all parties. This require­ment may be fulfilled through 

see PAGE I page 4 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Members discuss summit 
By MELANIE GARMAN News Writer 

Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance met last night to discuss the leadership summit that will take place this Wednesday in Haggar Parlor at 6:30p.m. 
Both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame student governments will be represented at the conference primarily to dis­cuss possible methods of improving relations between the two schools. 
The board recounted the National Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities (NASCCU) confer­ence which took place this past weekend. The confer­ence focused on the Catholic character of American col­leges and universities. 
Sarah Siefert, communica­tions commissioner, suggested that an effort be made to gen­erate awareness about NASC­CU and expre~>sed her feeling that Saint Mary's, having str.ong Catholic character, has much to offer Notre Dame and other like institutions. 
see BOG I page 4 
'Vodou' lounge... 

Nine Vodou flags, made by Haitian artists, are currently on display in the rotunda of the Main Building in celebration of Black History Month. The term "vodou" derives from "vodun," which means god or spirit in the language of the West African Fon people. 
• MUlTICUlTURAL BEAT 

Knott Hall focuses on individual diversity 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Focusing on all differences at Notre Dame, not just those involving race or ethnicity, Knott Hall sponsored an all­dorm celebration of individual diversity last week. 
Including three panel discus­sions. a hands~on workshop, and a dinner prepared by Knott residents, the dorm's multicultural week was derived from the extensive planning of multicultural com­missioner Annette Henderson. 
"Last year we really focused on racial differences," said Henderson. "This year, we tried to incorporate ethnic dif­ferences and also generate a respect for diversity in gener­
1.. 
a. 
A panel discussion hosted by international students and Knott residents who have studied abroad began the week-long celebration. Two other panel discussions, which focused on the idea that diver­sity at Notre Dame is not sole­ly based on color, were also highlights of the week. 
"Multiculturalism is not just about racial differences," Henderson emphasized. "Every type of difference can be diversity." 
The week ended with a "Meal of Nations" prepared for the dorm by several Knott res­idents. Members of the Irish Guard were also present to teach residents the "Irish Clog Dance." 
"Annette did a wonderful 
see KNOTT/ page 4 page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, February 25, 1997 

• INSIDE COlUMN 

Sliding 
•

tnto hotne 
As spring break rapidly approaches, we find our­selves in a flux of seasons. I don't mean the seasons of Mother Nature; we know that real seasons don't exist in South Bend. If you blink, you might miss the transition from cold miserable rain and clouds to warm miser­able rain and clouds. Spring is actually recorded as the 14 minutes of sunshine in April where there is no rain and the mud is shallow enough to wade rather than swim to class. 
I am referring to a different set of seasons, 
which have more in common than you might 
think. In just over a month, the gross national 
consumption of Cracker Jacks and overpriced 
beer will skyrocket as !baseball season com­
mences with Opening Day 1997. r 
If you look around, you may notice that over­
paid men in tight pants aren't the only ones 
anticipating sweaty palms. Seniors in particu­
lar will agree that there's a rash of ridiculously 
happy females perpetually holding out their left 
hand to admiring and admittedly jealous 
friends. They're not checking out a manicure ­
they're checking out the blinding hunk of dia­
mond that recently landed there in exchange 
for a lifetime of love, loyalty, and ·a vow to 
learn to cook lasagna like his mother. 
Engagement season is upon us, and friends 
here as well as old buddies from home are 
dropping like flies at the mercy of Cupid's 
arrow. A frightening reminder that the real 
world is just a toss of rice away, many of us 
would rather hear "here comes the peanut 
guy" than "here comes the bride." 
If you look carefully, though, you'll see that 
baseball and bridal festivities have many hid­
den similarities. What better way to bridge the 
gender gap than to combine the two? 
Guys know baseball involves a big diamond. 
Girls know weddings involve a big diamond. 
No big difference! You can be really symbolic 
by popping her a diamond at the diamond, 
although my research has shown that remark­
ably few ladies would be thrilled to see "Will 
you marry me" on the JumboTron right next to 
Omar Vizquel's statistics. 
Brides-to-be can learn a lot from stadium 
food. Who actually enjoys broccoli quiche and 
snotty appetizers you can't pronounce? 
Weddings would be a lot more fun with hot 
dogs and nachos, and the bride could do way 
better than a pile of fondue pots if she charged 
stadium prices for each guest to eat. 
Bridesmaids have to learn that their chances 
for success would vastly improve if they lunged 
for that elusive tossed bouquet wearing shin 
guards and a Rawlings Gold Glove mitt. 
Baseball and marriage both involve long­
term contracts, although hopefully an engage­
ment doesn't require the mediation of a slimy 
agent to close the deal. If it does, your fiance is 
probably in the mob, and you'll want to maybe 
reconsider this relationship. 
On the upside, unless you're way off the mark, 
getting engaged involves a much lower risk of 
spitting or obscene scratching, depending on 
what kind of weirdo your true love is. And, with 
a little luck, the Macarena will be banned from 
botl1 stadiums and receptions this year. Either 
way, everyone could benefit from letting a little 
hardball into their hearts. Hey, you pop fly, pop 
the question ...what's the difference, anyway? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News  Graphics  
Bridget 0' Connor  Pete Cillela  
Heather MacKenzie  
Sports  Production  
Brian Reimhaler  Heather Cocks  
Viewpoint  Chris Uharr  
Eddie Llull  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Ashleigh Thompson  Katie Kroener  
Melanie Waters  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE 
Indian town cremates its dead after 190 die in hall fire 

BARIPADA, India 

Sharad Das stood near the entrance of the straw-and-thatch hall, watching electricians fiddle with wires. 
"Suddenly, there was a flash and the roof was on fire.," he said Monday, standing beside the charred bodies of his grandfather and uncle. 
At least 190 people were killed Sunday when the blaze gutted the hall at a Hindu religious gathering in this town in eastern India. 
More than 100 others, many cov­ered with burns, were lying on the floor of Baripada's hospital Monday, overwhelming the town's single medical center. 
Das, 30, said 2,000 people were in the hall when he finished lunch. He gazed idly at three men working 
• 

Judge gives gag order in Cosby case 
NEW YORK 
A judge imposed a gag order 
r-----==-­Monday on lawyers in the case of a woman accused of trying to extort $40 million from Bill Cosby by claim­ing she was his illegitimate daughter. 
U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones agreed to the order during a brief hearing at the request of prosecutors. Autumn Jackson, 22, who has been free on bail since her Jan. 18 arrest, and co-defendant, Jose Medina, 51, both attended the routine pre-trial hearing. Cosby has said there is a possibility he is Ms. Jackson's father because he had sex with her mother. Cosby has said he gave money to Ms. Jitckson for edu­cational purposes for several years, as he has for other young people needing assistance. Ms. Jackson pleaded innocent last week. Her boyfriend, Antonay Williams, 26, of Perry, Fla., pleaded guilty to helping in the alleged extortion plot and has agreed to testify for prosecutors. 
Chavis says he's converting to Islam 
CHICAGO 

The Rev. Benjamin Chavis, the former head of the NAACP, says he's becoming a Muslim and joining Louis Farrakhan's Nation of Islam. ''I'm turning to Allah, God bless you," Chavis told a crowd of 6,000 Sunday that turned out for a speech by Farrakhan. Chavis is a minis­ter in the United Church of Christ and worked for that church before he was named executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The NAACP fired him in August 1994 after 16 months for committing $330,000 without board approval to settle sexual harassment claims against him. Since then, he has been a frequent Farrakhan ally and played a major role in organizing the October 1995 Million Man March on Washington. "I have spend the last 40 of my 49 years working in the civil rights movement to build black unity," Chavis told The Wall Street Journal. "So this is a convergence where a Christian minister and a Muslim minister have decided to work together and I intend to help build a new nation, not a new church and not a new mosque." "I still believe in Jesus Christ," added Chavis, who has a doctorate in divinity from Howard University. Most of Farrakhan's speech was an exhortation to followers to lead more righteous lives, though he closed with an attack on commercialism and American values. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 25.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperalures 
\ 
\ 
l'·-~/· 
........ . 
"··~ 
j 

Thesday ~ Wedne~dayu 
i 

Thursday ~ ~!i27xj 
FRONTS: 
............_

Friday.·· 39 
..............-...-ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

Saturday 45 31 
H L B bSl [Til 0 . ~ 8 -o ~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
( )·-/<···· 
Vis Assoclstad Pross 

Atlanta 57 36 Dallas 45 38 New Orleans 58 51 Baltimore 32 22 Denver 32 12 New York 32 21
4,~,~P.e8 (t ~ u 
Boston 21 15 Los Angeles 70 50 Philadelphia 30 18 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries SiloW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 36 12 Miami 85 68 Phoenix 30 18 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNel 
Columbus 36 18 Minneapolis 32 6 St. Louis 60 45 
with wires near the ceiling in the middle of the men's hall, one of three temporary structures on a sprawling playground. 
Another building was a dormitory for women and the third housed the main auditorium, where Hindus lis­tened to lectures on spiritualism, sang hymns and meditated. At least 12,000 devotees had gathered for the annual three-day ceremony to seek the blessing of the late Swami Nigamananda, a Hindu spiritual leader. 
About 2:30 p.m. Sunday, the fire broke out. AP "The roof in the middle of the hall was on fire within seconds. I tried to 
run in, because my grandfather and uncle were inside. 
But people were running out. They were pushing me," 
he said, adding that he stumbled and fell. 
Russia, Chechnya search for missing 
MOSCOW 
Russian and Chechen authorities have agreed to work together to search for almost 1,500 servicemen and civil­ians unaccounted for since the war in the breakaway republic. Chechnya President Asian Maskhadov and his government promised to help search for the missing, exhume unidentified dead and update missing-in-action lists, Vladimir Zolotaryov, head of the Russian commis­sion on the missing in Chechnya, said Monday. Officially, 1,233 Russian servicemen and 240 civilians remain missing in Chechnya, the Interfax news agency reported. Some 400 Russian servicemen and 120 civilians were released last year with the help of his commission, Zolotaryov said. Meanwhile, Chechen refugees have started returning home from the neighboring republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, where they fled during the two­year war between Russia and Chechen separatists that ended in August. The first refugee convoy, assisted by the U.N., set out for Grozny on Sunday, the !TAR-Tass news agency reported. Chechen leaders consider their southern republic to be an independent state, while Russia says it will never allow the territory to secede. 
New data allows for radiation analysis 
WASHINGTON 
A new review of data from the 1979 nuclear accident at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania raises the possibili­ty of stronger links between cancer and radiation expo­sure there, a study said today. Applying new analytical techniques to the old data, the team at University of North Carolina said lung cancer and leukemia rates were at least twice as high for residents living down­wind from the reactor than upwind. But Steven Wing, an epidemiology professor who is the study's lead author, said the analysis is inconclusive and called for further study. The new study was published in Environmental Health Perspectives. It questioned an assumption made by researchers in 1990 who studied cancer cases within 10 miles of Three Mile Island, site of the nation's worst commercial nuclear accident. Maureen Hatch, who was at the Columbia School of Public Health in New York in 1990, assumed that expo­sure to radiation was relatively low following the acci­dent. She said radiation measurements and her math­ematical analyses supported that assumption. The 1990 study found a slight increase in cancer risk after the accident. But the study said that "does not provide con­vincing evidence that radiation releases ... influenced cancer risk" during the six-year period after the acci­dent. 

6:24p.m. An reported the theft from the first floohiiJtie Hasburgh library. The computer was inside a bookbag, which was left unattended at the time of theft. 
7:10 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident 
reported the thetl of het teklbo.ok '·.·• 
the Hesburgh libtary 
unattended at the tif!\!l 
10:41 p.m. Security ;~rr¢ste(j a Send resident onDOUgl~sRoad tor dri· ving while intoxicated. 
TUES., FEB. 18 
Rob Finch won an award for this photo featuring Irish point guard Admore White. The Nov. 22 edition of The Observer (below, left) also won recognition. 
TOP OF THE LINE .... 

Observer photographer, staff win overall honors 
By KEN PRENDERBURG four-year colleges. The paper was West Coast Correspondent represented by the Nov. 22 edi­
tion. The 44-page paper included ORANGE COUNTY, Calif. a 12-page Holtz pullout and a he Associated Collegiate black-and-white football insert. 
esented The Observer The conference attracted orga­
awards of excellence at nizations and speakers from over 
P national convention, held 60 colleges and universities 0-23 in Huntington Beach, throughout the United States. Ca Delegates attended workshops 
Jun or Rob Finch was named throughout the weekend, culmi­Sports Photographer of the Year, nating in the final awards ceremo­winning with his photo of Irish ny on Sunday. point-guard Admore White. The Keynote speakers were David picture ran in the Feb. 7 edition of Gray, executive director of the The Observer. Society of Newspaper Design, and 
In addition, The Observer placed Pam Johnson, .executive editor of third for Newspaper of the Year in the Arizona Republic and the the daily publication category for Phoenix Gazette. 
Leave the driving to us. Thanks to the nearly 300 riders this past weekend for making us a success! Driver training this Wednesday 7-9:30 p.m. in Security Building U>~!YIUITY ,, NnT•f O.u.u ''u~'~•"' r.n~'"""'"'  


page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 


Knott 
continued from page 1 
job to bring together the women of Knott to share in a unique and wonderful meal,"
• said Mary Anne Boley, a resi­dent assistant. "Sampling in each other's creations was a great way to involve every­one." Sister Kathy Haas, rectress of Knott, agreed. "It is enjoyable when the women of the hall can join together in a meal time, especially to celebrate some­thing like our diversity within 
the dorm and on campus," Haas said. 
Cheryl Igiri, a member of the Student Government Diversity Council, was enthu­siastic about Knott's involve­ment in multiculturalism. 
"It is really great when a dorm committee takes the initiative to organize and plan its own events rather than waiting for other cam­pus organizations to do it," Igiri said. 
Igiri hopes that dorm events like Knott's multicu­tural week will help promote diversity awareness in indi­vidual residence halls and throughout campus. 
BOG 
continued from page 1 

Elections commissioner Emily Miller announced that the Saint Mary's class elec­tions would be held on Tuesday in the dining halls; run-offs will take place on Thursday. She encouraged every Saint Mary's student to vote. 
In the course of revamping the constitution, the duties for four more commissioner posi­tions were defined. According to student body president Jen Turbiak, the descriptions of the positions and interviewing process will be outlined on the back of the March calendar. 
The board agreed to fund a pilgrimage to El Salvador. Sarah Gillen, a junior, will travel with faculty members Keith Egan, a religious studies professor, George Trey, pro­fessor of philosophy, and Sister Betty Smoyer to experi­ence the culture and political struggles of a third-world country. Gillen proposed a co­sponsorship from the BOG to offset the expenses of the trip. 
Beth Ann Miller, president of the Student Academic Council, announced that the Honoring Women's Dinner will be held Sunday. She also stated that in support of Black History Month, SAC will be sponsoring Prdeiganda Assenga's speech on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
Lori McKeough, head of the Student Activities Board, reminded board members that applications for the 1997-1998 SAB coordinator are due March 7. 
Nikki Milos, the president of the Residence Hall Association, commented on the success of spirit week and the All-Campus dance. 
The meeting continued with class updates and was adjourned by Turbiak. Next week's meeting will be held Monday. at 8 p.m. in Haggar Parlor, room 306. 


Page 
continued from page 1 
tutoring or encouraging stu­dents in similar -circum­stances. 
Witnessing the damage that ignorance and apathy can cre­ate, Page emphasized educa­tion as a "front-end solution" to the problems of violence and crime. 
"[Education1 prepares people to take advantage of opportu­nities in life," he asserted, but he stressed that citizens must first ensure that opportunities exist in order to prevent peo­ple from reverting to crime and hate. 
"People must be sure that intolerance and the other by­products of an inadequate education do not interfere with the opportunities available to students of color," he said. 
Page reiterated that effective action designed to improve the system can start on a micro level. The educational system requires money and some pro­found reforms, but it also necessitates a student body excited about learning, par­ents who are concerned about the progress of their children, and community members who both monitor and personally interact with the schools and the students. 
Many students in the system are abandoned at an early age; Page relayed a story about the illiteracy of some of his NFL teammates to illus­trate this point. 
According to Page, when mentors encourage students in their educational pursuits and teach them about their own aspirations, it can make a dif­ference in preparing them to be responsible citizens. 
• SCIENCE NEWS 


Scientists create genetically cloned sheep 
By MATT CRENSON 
Associated Press Writer 

It is as if the birds and the bees suddenly have been rendered irrelevant. 
Around the world, biologists gathered at laboratory water-coolers yesterday to assess the latest installment in a gripping biotech soap opera -the creation, as if by magic, of a wee lamb named Dolly. 
Scottish scientists have revealed that they used a mammary cell from an adult ewe to create little Dolly in the spitting genetic image of its ovine mother. They've success­fully repeated the experiment eight times since then. 
"The whole thing is just a mind-blower," said Ursula Goodenough, a geneticist at Washington University in St. Louis. 
The achievement raises countless ques­tions about fate, immortality and the nature of self, but none of that will apply to humans or anything else unless scientists can duplicate their feat in other creatures. And years of failed experiments suggest that won't be easy. 
"There's certainly no way to rule out the possibility, but I wouldn't wager an awful lot that it would ever be successful in humans in the foreseeable future," said David Kirk, an embryologist at Washington University. 
Even if it is, experts are split on how sim-
PLEASE RECYCLE 
ilar a human clone would be to its progeni­tor. A clone would look almost identical to the person who spawned it, biologists said, but personality or susceptibility to some diseases could still vary quite a bit. Childhood nutrition and even a mother's experiences during pregnancy can affect how a person turns out just as much as genes do. . 
That means the chances of evil Nazis reproducing dozens of little Hitlers with blood from a handkerchief, as they did in the 1978 movie "The Boys from Brazil," are pretty remote. Never mind the fact that blood cells don't have nuclei, so there's no genetic material in them to clone. So it's a bit too earl¥ to mourn the End Of Sex and declare a Brave New World in which peo­ple have first names and model numbers. 
In fact, there seems to be something unique about sheep that makes them espe­cially suitable for cloning. Researchers have tried for decades to do the same trick with frogs and mice, with no luck. Frogs cloned from adults die in the tadpole stage. And cloned mice don't develop far beyond an undifferentiated ball of cells. 
So what is it about sheep? 
Nobody knows. But if someone can figure it out, they may be able to extend the cloning process to pigs, cows, maybe even people. 
That would be a boon to the biotechnolo-

Session 4: Epilepsy -Recent Advances 
and Treatments Robert Kingsley, Ph.D. Daniel Silbergeld, M.D. 
Tuesday, March 2.5, 1997 
Session 5: "E.R." (Emergency Room) Mark Walsh, M.D. Tuesday, April 1, 1997 
Session 6: Ethics in Managed Care 
Panel Discussion Philip Newbold, Gary Fromm, M.D., Kevin McDonnell, Ph.D., Stephen Anderson, M.D., John Robinson, Ph.D., J.D., and Jerome lvacic 
Tuesday, April 8, 1997 
gy industry, which-could use the Scottish cloning process to make specially designed pigs and cattle for organ transplantation. 
"Pigs are of great interest to be used as organ donors for humans," said James Rob!, a professor of veterinarian animal science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. 
Pigs are advantageous for transplants because they have organs roughly the same size as corresponding human parts and aren't susceptible to mad cow disease and related affiictions that can be passed to humans. 
The Scottish process would be useful for transplants because, in addition to creating a copy of the adult animal, it gives scien­tists a more elegant means of genetically editing their creations. So a pig clone could be made with special immune system genes that allowed its organs to be trans­planted into a human without rejection. 
Predictably, animal rights activists aren't too happy about that, or the other immedi­ate economic implication of the feat -that genetically identical herds would allow more efficient care and slaughter of farm animals. 
"The main thrust of this experimentation has not been for organs, it's been for facto­ry farming," said Ingrid Newkirk,president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
For more i 
-----------------------~------­
Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
Amid criticism, Clinton 
solicits more donations 
By LAWRENCE KNUTSON 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Ignoring criticism over the way Democrats paid for last year's presidential campaign, President Clinton pressed ahead yeesterday to raise more political cash -even the kind he says should be banned. 
"I appreci­
ate you being here for our p a r t y because this is not something the president can do alone," Clinton told guests at a dinner held by the Democratic Business Council, a donors' group. 
The event raised $500,000 for the Democratic National Committee, 65 percent of it in unregulated ''soft money." 
Clinton told the business audi­ence this is of those historic times when many things are going right for the country, especially for its expanding economy. 
"The tendency is either to relax and let things happen and have a good time, or frankly find something to fall out about and fight about," he told the audience of about 75 contribu­tors. 
"We must not do any of those two things," he said, adding that the positive signs in the econom­ic chart represent "what you are investing in" by contributing to the Democratic Party. 
"This is what are participat­ing in," Clinton said. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry acknowledged earlier that more than 60 percent of the contributions consist of soft money of the kind Clinton raised by the millions for the party in 1996 and which he now says should be banned. 


Monday night's event marked the third fund-raiser Clinton has attended since his inauguration for a second term last month. 
Although the Democratic National Committee has placed voluntary limits on soft money -cash devoted to party-build­ing efforts -it has not banned such contributions outright. 
McCurry was unapologetic about that. 
"The president will continue, as we've said over and over again, to help the party raise money," he told reporters. "They need the money. They need to be competitive with the Republican Party." 
The GOP, he said, "has been actively and aggressively raising money on their own." 
McCurry challenged Republicans either to follow the restrictions the Democrats have imposed on soft money or to ban it altogether. 
Responding to questions at his daily news briefing, McCurry said he had no information to indicate that Democratic fund­raisers sought up-front contri­butions for attending a White House coffee klatch with Clinton or that as much as $50,000 was sought as the price for being invited to watch the president deliver his weekly radio address from the Oval Office. 
"I think (Clinton) would regret anyone attempting to market any aspect of the coffees that required a direct dollar dona­tion, because that would be con­trary to his wishes," McCurry said. 
He said the radio address is 
attended by all sorts of people 
with contributors included 
among many people who do not 
give money to the party. 

~£~ ~Jn 
JJI./UhiagJ.tm,-JJ£. 
Come to the informational meeting .Wednesday, February 26th 4:30-5:30 p.m. 116 O'Shaughnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l @nd.edu 

The Observer • NEWS page 5 

INS admits immigration gaffe 
By CONNIE CASS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The government failed to do full background checks on as many as 180,000 of the 1 mil­lion immigrants granted citi­zenship last year, and nearly 11,000 of those naturalized had felony arrest records, officials confirmed Monday. 
Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the parent Justice Department said they have yet to determine how many, if any, of the immi­grants not fully checked should have been denied citizenship. Their joint investigation won't be completed for several more months. 
Congressional Republicans pointed to the preliminary find­ings as evidence of their con­tention that the Clinton admin­istration's Citizenship USA pro­gram was rushing to produce new citizens who were expect­ed to vote Democratic in the 1996 election. 
INS officials, while acknowl­edging they made errors in screening the 1.2 million peo­ple who applied for citizenship in the 1996 fiscal year, have said repeatedly that the ongo­ing program was not politically motivated. 
They said Citizenship USA was created to end a backlog of cases that forced many appli­cants to wait two years before their cases were proC"essed. 
So far, by matching FBI records and an INS computer database, the internal investi­gation has found the names of about 66,000 new citizens who apparently were never subject­ed to an FBI criminal back­ground check, as required by law. 
"The Justice Department is assuming until shown other­wise that those people were not checked," said Justice spokes­woman Carole Florman. 
INS spokesman Eric Andrus confirmed that the agency so far has been unable to verify that those names and finger­prints were vetted by the FBI, but he said more detailed study might lower the number sub­stantially. 

In addition, in another 113,000 cases, the applicants' names were checked but their fingerprint cards were rejected by the FBI -typically because the prints were smudged. 
In some of those cases, Andrus said, a second set of fingerprints may have been sent to correct the problem, but INS has so far been unable to document that. 
A congressional aide familiar with the issue estimated that from 8 percent to 10 percent of citizenship applicants have some type of rap sheet ­record of a misdemeanor or felony arrest, but not necessari­ly a conviction. 
But many were still eligible for citizenship, especially before a stricter law took effect this year. Only convictions count against an applicant, and only for certain specified crimes. 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one~ year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a life~ time of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631~6385 
--~----~--------~-----­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
• RUSSIA 
Yeltsin chides premier for pension tardiness 
By DAVE CARPENTER the government has been Associated Press Writer unable to pay wages and pen­sions on time," he told a MOSCOW somber Chernomyrdin, who 
A feisty Boris Yeltsin publicly looked down at the floor as the dressed down his prime minis­president spoke to him. ter on Monday and called for a "It may be worth replacing Cabinet shakeup over the gov­someone," Yeltsin said. "Let's· ernment's failure to pay wages have some proposals for and pensions 
changes, some candidates." on time. Chernomyrdin and presiden­
The repri­tial chief of staff Anatoly m a n d Chubais largely have run the brought with country for much of the past it no new eight months while Yeltsin has ideas for been away from the Kremlin resolving a with heart trouble and pneu­problem that monia. has plagued Yeltsin But after Yeltsin chastised millions of Chernomyrdin, his chief Russians for spokesman denied that Yeltsin months. But it was the is considering firing him at any strongest evidence yet that time in the near future. Yeltsin is back in fighting form "There was no mention (in and eager to show he's in the meeting) of the Russian charge after a long absence prime minister's dismissal at because of health problems. all," Sergei Yastrzhembsky 
"Many Russians are dissatis­was quoted by the Interfax fied with the government, its news agency as saying. chairman, and, accordingly, Despite Yeltsin's strong the president," Yeltsin sternly remarks and past promises, he told Prime Minister Viktor has proved una-ble to solve Chernomyrdin in the Kremlin. such deep-rooted problems as "And such people are already the wage and pension delays, a majority. I am worried by which have provoked a grow­this." ing number of strikes and 
His remarks, made at the protests. start of their meeting, were He made assurances when broadcast extensively as the he returned to the Kremlin at top story on nationwide news­the end of December that pay­casts. ments would be made on time, 
Yeltsin called on the prime but did not launch any !llajor minister to make Cabinet initiatives. Two weeks later, he changes if needed to solve the was hospitalized with pneumo­problem. nia and he has been recover­
"The essential thing is that ing ever since. 
in exile' out of Iran. 

avi, 49, is commander of the exile army. His wife, Maryam, 43, resigned as deputy commander in 1993 
. ,),,,;;;,_,,,,;,,16,,!' when she was elected by the 
'.'''··· cpuncil to be "transitional president'' of Iran once the mullahs are overthrown. In an interview, Mrs. Rajavi emphasized that ousting the Te~;~n .regime would involve not,6nly the exile army but · organized resistance in Iran. · 
Are you gay? Lesbian? Questioning? Are you a friend of someone who is? 
Please come to Campus Ministry's FIRST ANNUAL RETREAT for gay and lesbian undergraduate students and their friends . 
. 

APRIL 18-19, 1997 
• Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life 
• Meet new people 
• 
Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ 

• 
Examine ways to reach out to the Notre Dame community 

• Student--led 
For more information, please call


• 
Student talks 


Kate: 1--5242 
• Conversation 
0MPus· Tony: 273--2578 
• Prayer MINISTRY Alyssa: 4-3352 

Tuesday, February 25, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

IRA informant calls for 
U.S. to deny support 
By GENE KRAMER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

An Irish Republican Army member who turned police informant appealed to Americans today to deny all support to his former com­rades unless they renounce terrorism permanently. 
The Clinton administration should join the Irish Republic government in Dublin to make clear to the Irish nationalist movement that violence will not be tolerated, Sean O'Callaghan told reporters. 
O'Callaghan was released from a British prison Dec. 6 after serving about eight years of multiple life sentences for two 1974 murders and other terrorist strikes that he admit­ted committing as a teen-ager. 
He said today that Irish­Americans who drop money into collection boxes should stop "romanticizing" about the movement to drive the British from Northern Ireland and recognize that their donations fuel terrorist bloodshed. 
O'Callaghan gave no figures on U.S. contributions that he said peaked in the 1970s. 
"The tragedy is the donors never have to face the conse­quences of their actions ... they sleep snugly in their beds" while people are killed, he said. American dollars intend­ed for peaceful political action free other Irish Republican Army funds to buy guns, he said. 
With the onset of spring, "Northern Ireland could tip over the edges into really seri­ous bloodshed" because the IRA "has now abandoned the cease-fire and is back to mur­dering people," he said. It could produce a violent reac­tion from extremists among 
Today, Tuesday, February 25 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 
the province's Protestant 
· majority, he warned. Since his release from prison, the 42-year-old O'Callaghan has given occa­sional news interviews but not disclosed where he will live. He plans to convey his mes­sage to Americans at the National Security Council, con­gressional panels, newspaper editorial boards, television shows and think tanks in Washington before continuing to Boston, New York, Chicago, Indiana and California. Asked after his arrival from Europe on Saturday night if he fears for his life at the hands of the IRA, O'Callaghan acknowl­edged "there's the reality of danger" that could increase, but probably not in the United States. "I don't believe they'd be quite that stupid," he said. He .said he has decided "either you do what you think is the right thing or you go into hiding. I'm Irish. I'm not hiding from Gerr}' Adams." Adams heads the legal Sinn Fein party, a political ally of the banned IRA. O'Callaghan grew up in the republic of Ireland, joined the IRA as a teen-ager and rose to become a Sinn Fein executive, then grew disillusioned. As an informant for Irish authorities cooperating with Britain's Scotland Yard, O'Callaghan said his warnings helped foil several IRA opera­tions. They included plans to bomb a 1983 concert at London's Dominion Theatre that Prince Charles and Princess Diana were to attend and interception of a 1985 IRA arms shipment from Boston, he said. On Tuesday, O'Callaghan is to participate in a debate Mga­nized by Rep. Peter King, R­N.Y., a friend of Adams. 
Pope plans trip to Lebanon 
By DANIEL}. WAKIN 
Associated Press Writer 
VATICAN CITY 

In yet another addition to his crowded travel schedule this year, Pope John Paul II will spend two days in Lebanon in 
May-a visit that was delayed in 1994 because of security concerns. 
Doctors have recom­mended that 


the pope cut John Paul II back on his activities, and his trips this year are no more than two or three days, except for a 10-day stay in his native Poland. But the 76­year-old John Paul clearly does not intend to stay at the Vatican. 

Two 1997 destinations will have dramatic backdrops: the war-damaged cities of Sarajevo and Beirut, the Bosnian capi­tal's predecessor as an urban symbol of civil conflict. 
John Paul goes to Sarajevo on April 13 and Beirut on May 10­
11. Both visits were put off in 1994 because of security wor­ries. 
In between, he plans a two­day visit to Prague. Trips to Poland, Paris and Rio de Janeiro also are on the agenda in 1997. 
John Paul's health problems in recent years have included bowel surgery, a dislocated shoulder and a hip replace­ment. His appendix was removed last October. 
The announcement of the Lebanon trip came from papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro­Valls on Monday shortly after the Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, visited John Paul at the Vatican. Hariri also met with leaders of Italy, Lebanon's 
/Sign-ups/ 
WED., Feb.26, THURS., Feb.27, 11 AM to 2 PM, 4 PM to 8 PM AT LIBRARY CONCOURSE Limited Spots Available Questions? Call Mike Dunn 634~3917 
main trading partner. 
The pope is expected to cele­brate a Mass in Beirut and meet with young people as well as religious and political figures. 
The focus of his visit will be to release an "apostolic exhorta­tion," or formal response, to a meeting held by Lebanese bish­ops at the Vatican in 1995. As part of a broad message, the bishops called for the with­drawal of Israeli and Syrian forces from Lebanon. 
Israel controls about 15 per­cent of Lebanese territory, a swath of land in the south it claims as a buffer zone. Syria maintains about 40,000 troops in Lebanon. 
The Vatican has been pushing for troop withdrawals through diplomatic channels, and it is unlikely John Paul will directly call for such a move but he could well hint at it, Vatican officials said. 
"The Holy Father is very aware of the situation, and that Lebanon is in need of regaining its sovereignty,. its indepen­dence, its liberty," Lebanese Cardinal Nasrallah Pierre Sfeir said. 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
Summit targets family values 
By LAURA MECKLER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Former President Bush says he hopes an April summit on community service \\'ill help oth­ers realize what he's been say­ing for years: Government cannot solve the nation's deepest trou­bles. 
"Congress cannot legis­late good parenting. No president can sign a bill forcing you to be a good neighbor," Bush said Monday in a speech to the American Association of Health Plans. 

Bush plans to join President Clinton and retired Army Gen. Colin Powell in leading a meet­ing to encourage private compa­nies and individuals to do their part. Former President Ford and former first ladies Nancy Reagan and Lady Bird Johnson are also expected to attend the Philadelphia meeting April 27­29. 
"I hope the message this gath­ering ... will send is a strong and simple one: You don't have to be president to be a leader and to make a difference. You don't have to be a first lady to touch the lives of others," Bush said. 
"I only wish that I could have done more as president to use the bully pulpit of the White House to help strengthen our families.'' 
The upcoming summit, he said, has already prompted some private companies to pledge free services such as immunizations and eye care. 
Bush noted that he came under fire in 1988 for his "thou­sand points of light" philosophy encouraging Americans to serve their communities and those in need. Some criticized the slogan, saying it was his way of excus­ing government from meeting those needs. 
The April summit is meant to shine a spotlight on volun­teerism and community service; no new government initiatives are expected. 
'The Pill' works the morning after 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

American women who are raped, whose birth control fails or who just forget in the heat of the moment can use high doses of ordinary birth con­trol pills to prevent pregnancy, the government said Monday. 
The Food and Drug Administration said six brands of birth control are safe and effective "morning-after pills," the first federal acknowl­edgement of the emergency contraception that European women have been prescribed for years. 
"The best-kept contraceptive secret is no longer a secret," said FDA Commissioner David Kessler. "Women should have the information that this regimen is available." 
The decision opens the door for companies to specially package birth control pills for women to have on hand in case of an emergency, just as the pills are routinely sold overseas. 
Contraceptive manufacturers so far have refused to sell what the government terms emer­gency contraception here, citing litigation and political fears. 
So while it is legal for doctors to prescribe emergency birth control -and the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology in December endorsed it -few physicians know the proper doses and few women even know to seek it. 

The FDA's decision could change that.. One small company, New Jersey-based Gynetics, is developing a specially packaged version of birth control that it hopes to sell for emergency use next year. 
And the FDA's instructions were purposefully detailed enough to tell family-planning clinics and private doctors the right dose to hand to women today. 
"This should be in everyone's medicine cabi­net," said Janet Benshoof of the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy. 
The FDA announced Monday that high doses of six popular birth-control brands, wh~n taken within three days of unprotected sex, are 75 per­cent effective at preventing pregnancy. 
For every 100 women who have unprotected sex during the second or third week of their men­strual cycle, eight would normally become preg­nant -but only two would if the women took emergency contraception, explained Dr. James Trussell of Princeton University. 
His research convinced the FDA that emer­gency contraception could prevent up to 2.3 mil­lion unplanned pregnancies a year, 1 million of which now end in abortion. 
"We're going to see a really big change here," said Trussell, who helped set up a hot line and Internet service that offers women information about emergency contraception and addresses of nearby doctors who already prescribe it. 
ARE YOU MOTIVATED? 
EASY TO TALI( TOt 
WILLING TO HELP 
OTHERSttt 

IF SO, THEN WE NEED YOU!!! 
The Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education is looking for Peer Educators for the 1997-98 acaden1ic year. 
Peer Educators are students from a wide range of perspectives, who volunteer their time to help shape positive norms regarding alcohol, drugs and other related issues. 
Peer Educators will be involved in Freshman Orientation as well as presenting programs in residence halls throughout the year. 
Ifyou would like to make a difference ...please pick up an application at the Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education l Mezzanine Level LaFortune or call X -7970 for more information. 
~tufty: Drug ptograrii~ 
........ ·· effectiveness······· 
is to begin to get school dis­
tricts to examine what 

.iJdoing," said Bill '''v'""""'·'·'"''A'• 
·director of the 

.•• ., ......,~...r reliable · th~ who!~ country. the·sttidfgive any ...~'"""''... 
. drug use would be 

out any programs, But departt 
ment officials said,Jhis study 
and others make clear that too 
many children are turning to 
drugs. ·· Eighteen percent of eighth~ graders and 24 percent of ninth-graders reported behig heavy users of alcohol, mean· ing they drank more than ten times or were drunk at least once in the past 30 days, Eighteen percent of eighth~ and ninth-graders had · in the montli · 
• and 5 "'"'""""" 
Put the world at your fingertips. 
Software Engineering Systems Engineering Computer Design Signal Processing Electro-Optics Image Processing 
With Raytheon Electronic Systems, you'll create the technologies that define the future of tomorrow's worfd. You'll maximize your Engineering and Computer Science knowledge and make an impact when you join our team. We currently have over 350 opportunities available in the technical areas listed above. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems will be visiting campus soon. To find out more about the complex challenges we have to offer, please contact the Career Placement Office to sign up for an interview. 
For additional information, please see our homepage at: http://www.raytheon.com/res 
Interested candidates who are unable to meet with us on campus may send a resume directly to: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Professional Staffing, M/S T2SL2, 50 Apple Hill Drive, Tewksbury, MA 01676-0901. Fax: (506) 656-1163. E-mail: staffing@res.ray.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required for some positions. Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Raytheon Electronic Systems 
----------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independem newsp;per published by rhe srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent che opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edi.tor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of rhe amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. co'm­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
63I-4540  Fax  631-6927  
63 I -5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
63I-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• fiRST PRINCIPLES 
Where is the right reason in Right Reason? 
"The freedom of which Jesus speaks is not freedom from tyranny or 'external authority'; it is not even freedom from slavery ordinarily understood." -Right 

lrfan Khawaja 
Reason. 
"Here we have religion and robbery the allies of each other -devils dressed in angels' robes and hell presenting the semblance of paradise." -Frederick Douglass. 
The February issue of Right Reason, like its predecessors, contains much howl­ing and growling about the moral and intellectual sins of the fallen world around us. All campus publications play this role at times, but unlike most campus publica­tions, RR has serious intellectual preten­sions. RR invokes Reason, Truth, Authority, and the Church, and wants you to know that it is not embarrassed to cap­italize these words, even when they appear in the middle of a sentence, Read no further than p. 3, and you will find yourself in the august company of Frederick C. Kelly III, holding forth on the unlikely connections between queer theo­ry, Nietzsche, T.S. Eliot, Camus, and God. Pretty heavy stuff. But don't be fooled into thinking that RR is just "frivolous and intellectual stimulation." No, RR is about hard-core morality: "Modern man finds himself alone in the universe with nothing but an abyss beneath him." 
So RR is trying to give modern man the Moral Caulking, if you will, to seal the abyss beneath his woeful feet. Obviously, a publication that takes so haughty an attitude toward its audience is bound to provoke questions about its own moral and intellectual bona fides. Alas, despite its fears about "modern man's" precari­ous descent into "the abyss," I am not sure RR itself has a leg to stand on. 
Consider the argument of RR's cover story, "Casting Off the Yoke," a discussion of Notre Dame's rejection of the strictures of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the apostolic con­stitution on Catholic higher education. As a non-Catholic, I have no real interest in debating the specifics of Notre Dame's responsibilities on this issue: principles first, I say. So what are RR's principles? RR claims that "the principle of academic freedom is a bad principle ... because it misunderstands the purpose of the acade­my." The purpose of the academy, on their view, is the promotion of the Truth; all freedom is properly "freedom for the Truth," not freedom from coercion, slav­ery, or external authority of Christ,· 
embodied  in  the  Catholic  Church.  
Hence...  
Hence what?  Setting aside the dubious  

cogency of their argument, RR is remark­ably evasive about what conclusion they want to draw at this point. One conclu­sion they want desperately to reach is that Notre Dame's Catholic theology facul­ty be required to teach only orthodox Catholicism to their students, as deter­mined by the local bishop. There's just one problem: that is hardly the only con­clusion that their argument implies. The claim about the theology faculty is a pret­ty modest one. By contrast, the cavalier repudiation of the principle of academic freedom -and the entire idea of "free­dom from coercion" -is a wholesale rejection of the very idea of rights as understood in the Bill of Rights, and in the classical liberal conception of inquiry from Milton's Areopagitica on. This doesn't bother our brave would-be cen­sors/dictators, who have the nerve to run a favorable review of Robert Barks's Slouching Toward Gomorrah... in an attempt to show solidarity with "classical liberalism" and the American Way (p. 10)! Freedom for the Truth? Maybe they could start by aiming at freedom from contradictions. 

The repudiation of "the prin­ciple of academic freedom" implies that Notre Dame should be a University by, for, and of orthodox Catholics, that every student's every move should be monitored and held to the scrutiny of Church teaching, and that everyone else, including all Protestants, should just leave town. I'd like to see RR explain that one to the Calvinists on our faculty, what to speak of the Jews, the Muslims, or the atheists. But the repudiation of academic freedom is the least of it, since if the rejection of academic freedom stems from the repu-'-------------------------' 
diation of "freedom from coercion," then it ought to follow that not only Notre Dame, but the entire world, should be ruled by a theocratic dictatorship headquartered in the Vatican. 
I'm exaggerating, right? RR just wants to tyrannize a bunch of Notre Dame the­ologians, not the entire world. And they just want Darners to obey parietals ­they don't mean to justify dictatorship or slavery. Guess again. RR concedes quite openly that the "freedom" they have in mind is "not even freedom from slavery ordinarily understood." That merely sounds like toleration for slavery, but in a truly astonishing passage, the anonymous writers of "Casting off the Yoke" actually quote from St. Paul's letters with approval, saying that "he directed slaves to obey their earthly masters as they obey Christ himself." Well, yes he did. But you would expect conservatives, who are sup­posed to know some history, to know that this is an argument that, for two millenia, has been used by apologists for slavery to justify the peculiar institution. As the his­torian David Brian Davis notes, "As Christians looked less to an imminent mil­lenium and more to the need of accom­modating themselves to the world, they tended to accept [slavery] as a necessary framework for controlling sin ... " (The Problem of Slavery in Western Culture, 
• DOONESBU!W GARRY TRUDEAU 

p. 89). St. Paul's letters, Davis reminds us, fit the bill very nicely. Is this the kind of emancipation that RR has in mind? And they're blaming Notre Dame for "casting off the yoke"? 
Ideas, Fred Kelly earnestly reminds us, have consequences. An odd sentiment, coming from a publication that tolerates slavery but not homosexuality. But if ideas have consequences, shouldn't one take them more seriously? If one's ideas justify slavery -real, temporal slavery of the sort that requires the forced labor of bodies in the physical world -perhaps one should re-examine one's views before one falls into the abyss of idiocy. And if two millenia of moral catastrophe don't convince someone that slavery is such a bad thing, it is a little unclear what basis they have to· be lecturing the world at large about "freedom for the Truth." In his editorial, Frederick C. Kelly III offers the observation that "Camus captured something about twentieth century man with the description 'he fornicated and read the paper."' To this I can only say: if "modern man" had nothing better than to read the February RR, he'd be well­advised to stick to fornication. 
Irfan Khawaja is a doctoral student in philosophy. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Those who make peace­
ful revolution impossi­ble will make violent revolu­tion inevitable." 
ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, February 25, 1997 

II 



Chicago's Wilco visits Stepan tonight 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accent Editor 
W
hen Wilco experienced rebirth after the dissolution of their former pro­ject Uncle Tupelo, perhaps there were some skeptics. And not with­out reason. Few bands make it the first time around, not to mention the second. 
But Chicago-based Wilco is not your average "alternative" band, and even though the music industry doesn't usually take kindly to a band they're unable to place in a specific, marketable genre, their catchy sound is spreading like an unidentified virus. 
But how do you label a band with a vocalist who some have compared to Paul Westerberg, and that claims musical influences ranging from the Rolling Stones to The Beatles to the Beach Boys? Describe the end product as something like The Replacements or Freddy Jones Band? 
Wilco is none of these bands. They claim their own distinct sound and stick to it, and the result ranges from intense to simply fun. 
After attending a-Wilco show, music critic Dave Tianen aptly described them comment-i n g "There's an off­kilter simplic­ity and open­heart­edness about this b a n d that's difficult to dislike. In some ways they're also a better live act than on disc. The up­t e m p o tunes such as 'Monday' seemed to have an extra mea­sure of kick beyond what came across in the studio." 
And the new, unique sound is not going unno­ticed. What began in the recording studio as enough solid songs for a CD with some extra jams recorded for fun, developed into a fine tuning of almost 30 viable tracks. This eventually was nar­rowed down to 19 songs ready to be heard. After releasing this sophomore effort Being There, a two CD set from Warner Brothers/Reprise Records, Wilco wallows in national attention. 
USA Today described them as a cross between "Nashville twang and Seattle despair." Rolling Stone magazine featured Wilco on a recent cover, after rewarding their October release with four stars. 
MTV wanted interviews, and Chicago's famed venue the VIC was graced by a sell-out. Their hit single "outtasite (outta mind)" is on heavy rotation from New Orleans to Chicago's wildly successful FM station, QlOl. They can even be heard on South Bend's own "Bear," WRBR. 
So why this widespread acclaim? Perhaps it's their spontaneity, unpredictability, or simply their honest music. Wilco plays music anyone can hum or dance to. Lyrics can be understood by all. While technically impressive, Wilco never imposes an aura of disdain upon the listener. Tweedy repeatedly tells interviewers that he wants Being There to have a going-through-your-record-collec­tion quality. Good. 
Anyone choosing to jump out of their chair to groove will be aptly rewarded by energy recipro­cated by the band. 
Singing, song-writing, guitar-playing front man Jeff Tweedy seems to be the most vocal of the members, and remarked in a recent PollStar, "We like it when a crowd goes absolutely ape s--t for no reason or when there's a crowd that's kind of dead and it's a challenge. When the keyboard suddenly transposes itself a whole step up, that's a chal­lenge, and we like it!" 
This enthusiasm seems to be shared 
equally among band mem­
bers. 

Jay Bennett contributes with guitar and keyboard, while Ken Coomer con­tributes in the percussion department. 
John Stirrat plays bass, while Max Johnson accompanies on the album with fiddle, man­dolin and dobro. Bob Egan helps out in concert on a variety of instru­ments. Their playfulness is perhaps best expressed in their video for "outtasite," as the band plays the tune while jumping out of an air­plane. Not your average image-conscious garage band. 
And why should they be concerned with image right now? 
A f t e r lllrky, but 1i their debut Which · un,
'Q. 
a I bum capsule de 1~ kind ofa A.M., and this band scnPtion of 
now with 

There's a anyway ... 
B e in g 

There, silllplicit n off-kilter 
e

f w heartedn~ and open­
doubt 

t h e band th ,ss about th. 
d. at s d"tifj 1s
band's 

1Slike I 1 1cuJt t 
talent. th . n so 0 
. ey're also llle Ways hve act th a better an on disc. " 
Perhaps what separates them from other acts is their atti­tude. 
After the recent birth of Tweedy's son Spencer, he seems to offer a new outlook, reflected by the lyrics he writes. He describes feeling more free to create now, with thankful feelings of lessened pressure gained from a perspective of what's 
truly important. 
He admits to being goofi­er, and interviews paint him with a phone in one ear and a baby monitor in the other. When Wilco graces the Stepan stage tonight, they'll probably leave the baby monitors at home, but there's no 
doubt that the energy and talent will be in top form. 
Anyone interest­ed in Wilco can contact them through Reprise Records in California at (818) 846-9090 
or in New York at (212) 484­6870. 

Wilco 
and 

September 67 
. performing at the Stepan Center Tonight, February 25 at 8 p.m. 
Tickets still available at the LaFortune Info Desk 63 1-8128 $1 o students. $ 12 public 

to A.M., Be bring toget grass roots, good meast music indw 
Former t with Jay B1 Coomer ar instrument! double alb unrequited acceptance simple, reri acts across find it nece: cally on th' God knows 
with a rar~
aural ecsta 
Hidden b definite m album, and first disc. reflect the also sets t lyrics are proclaims, apparent, There puts 
se 
T~= 
Se 

at 
keeping s 
updating 

context. I 
that lead 

songs the" 
Worrell 
scene as 

Considere 
which ca 
Lucky Sho 
er solo e 
Ashbury. 

fills in all 
mony (as 
tion of loc 
Van Be"et 
album. 
Septem 

establishe 
the-book 

feeling an 
rock, eit 
expressiv 
Each oft 
placed on 
While v 
organs pr 
of Septe 
feel and 

ACCENT

Tuesday, February 25, 1997 page 11 
wilco 
eing There 
~~~~~ 
(out of five stars) 

ho tlw hPII is Wilco? This seems to be the general sentiment running rampant throughout our respective campuses. Wilco is a great band, who fortunately or unfortunately (depending on your out­
not been overplayed on the radio waves. across the nation (including myself) have ir sound and consistently ranked them among 
ds of 1996. Wilco's second album, a follow up ·ng There, is a testament to their talent. They 1er music from divergent sources frock, blues, 
polka, and even a little country thrown in for re} and prove that there are still artists in the try. ncle Tupelo frontman Jeff Tweedy teamed .nnett, John Stirratt, Max Johnston, and Ken d what seems to be a thousand different 
to produce this very moody and very mellow 1m. The themes of the album range from love and hopelessness to a more optimistic and rejuvenation. The sound is rootsy and 1iniscent of all the great whiskey/piano bar the nation. It is simple in that they do not ·sary to wail on their guitars or pound franti­~ir drums or scream incessantly about only what. They sing and play their instruments class and sophistication that translates into 
·y. 
•neath the raspy voice of Jeff Tweedy lies a lancholic undertone throughout much of the this is especially true in the first two of the Using instrument and voice distortion to 
somber mood of the song, "misunderstood" e tone for the rest of the album. Tweedy's s simple as his music. In the song, Tweedy 'I still love rock and roll." And this is quite weedy, who wrote all of the songs on Being his whole heart and soul into each song and 
ptember 67 
Lucky Shoe 
!,_~~],'('),_'( 
(out of five stars) 

ocietal role of the country ballad has been nd along to a new tradition of song-writing. t~mber 67's first release, Lucky Shoe, provides ughtful re-interpretation of the songs of old, me of ~heir structural elements and style but e lyrics and music into a more contemporary is by adding vocal and structural complexity singer/guitarist Shannon Worrell gives the old 
new depth. 
stablished herself in the Charlottesville music L highly poetic and expressive songwriter. a local hero there, she released a solo album ght the attention of both critics and labels. is her first major label release. It's not anoth­ort though, as Worrell is joined by Kristin orrell provides the lead voice while Ashbury the nooks and crannies with well placed bar­ell as drums). Backing the duo are a collec­1musicians as well as David Lowery (Camper oven, Cracker}, who also co-produced the 
r 6 7 would fall ihto the post-country category d by H.E.M. and Uncle Tupelo. This isn't by­ountry, but the influences are evident in the l instrumentation. It isn't completely country­cr. ~orrell delivers the songs in a highly 
fashwn that recalls earlier folk traditions. e words seems to have the same emphasis t, fusing them into a poetic whole. 1lin, mandolin, cello, Wurlitzer and Mellotron · ide accompaniment, the predominant feature 
er 67 is Worrell's voice, which sets the the !mpo for each song. The instruments follow 

Courtesy of Reprise Records 

doesn't leave the audience wondering what he is think­ing. 
The next two songs, "monday" and "outtasite (outta mind (whose opening notes sound remarkably like the opening of Sesame Street})" offer a strong contrast to the previous couplet. The music is poppy and the lyrics are catchy. This optimistic sound is only experienced on a few other occasions throughout the album, "i got you (at the end of the century)" and "someday soon." With so many sad songs, however, one would expect the music to become whiney, but Tweedy and the gang do an excel­lent job in maintaining their composure and avoiding that infernal bleating. 
In "forget the flowers," Wilco incorporates a banjo into their repertoire to give a country edge to a ballad, a style that can be likened to Cracker. "Say you miss me," sounds like a song from the sixties with its ooooh-ahhh refrain and notes of sentimentality. 
Clearly, Wilco has adapted some of the best music to fit their unique style. The definition of eclectic is taken from the best sources. It is difficult to say that Being There is an eclectic album because of the country twangs, but they put such a great twist on the country sound and other previously recognized styles that it makes Wilco's sound irresistible. Listening to the album is like listening to the Americanized history of music. 
by Joey Crawford 
Courtesy of The Enclave 

Worrell as she climbs hand over hand up the lyrical rope ladders she's hung. Individually they don't offer a great amount of complexity, they simply fill each song out with the perfect backdrop for the intended scene. Worrell cre­ates some clever situations in the songs. An overlooked model pines for Michelangelo's love as he is sculpting David. A rich woman, embarrassed by her wealth, wish­es for the love of a "poor boy" and tries to justify her guilt by sharing it. 
Quoting single lines of the songs wouldn't do them any justice, as the versus aren't just filler around a clever chorus. Rather, they function as a pieces of an intricate structure which relies on all its parts to become a whole. There's not a pronounced hook to be found on Lucky Shoe. Instead, the songs evolve in an on-going process, each part anticipating the next as if it's a cross-country car trip th~ough different states of mind. Each song also evokes a h1ghly personal feel, touching on certain univer­salities which can be found in all events. Lucky Shoe is a warm embrace from a talented emerging songwriter. Shannon Worrell has created a spot for herself among the greats in her craft. · 
by Jim McNamee 
..... 
.. . . 

cari_ ~titi use. you aS have to f':de an income iri<>orrte is greater than the detluc1ted. you are going to have 
.•'• al di~tri~t offl~es 
·_ you;ll have to send of your-roommate. statements to the 

.uu..ll\J..t:>J..!;l;;.lut:uiJ:!, on the other hand, 
rt may seem like a yolJ.:r~ ~()t going •. 
-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
• fENCING • SOFTBAll 
Irish slash Wildcat Season opens in Arizona 
By ALLISON KRILLA The Irish played a solid 10-the Irish offense this week­
hopes of weekend upset 
Sports Writer inning game against a tough end. Marten went 6-12 with 
By DAVID FRICK Spons Writer 
The fencing te~m took the op­portunity at the Northwestern meet this weekend to solidify its place as the top team in the Midwest. 
Led by a strong women's per­formance that combined for only eight defeats to 120 victorious· bouts, the squad soundly defeated their five opponents. The signifi­cance of these victories is similar to the situation for Irish football. For many schools, to defeat the Irish fencers would make their sea­son. 
But the other teams, led by Northwestern University, would have to wait for another day. 
"They were all set to beat us, and we spanked them," said junior epee captain Anne Hoos. 
The women were led by a com­plete effort by each member. Undefeated performances were turned in by freshman epeeist Magda Krol, sophomore epeeist Nicole Mustelli, senior epeeist Maria Thieneman, sophomore foilist Myriah Brown, senior foil captain Rose Saari, and sophomore foilist Sara Walsh. 
For Walsh, her record has now accumulated to an incredible 48-0 this year, and 128-2 for her career. As unpredictable as fencing match­es can become, Walsh is the closest thing to a sure thing. 
"Everything is coming together as we get closer to the post-sea­son," said Walsh. 
The men also delivered a strong performance all-around, though they did hit one speed bump along the way. 
Fencing without a warm-up due to poor driving conditions, the epee squad received a shock as it was defeated 6-3 by Lawrence University. But the team refused to accept this mediocrity and defeated the rest of their opponents 31-5. 
"The epee team did poorly in their first match, but regrouped well to finish out the day fairly strong. We just need more consis­tency," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
The weekend also allowed the team to substitute many members who had little experience in com­petition. Led by freshman epeeist James Gaither and sophomore sabreist Steve McQuade, those members accepted the challenge and led the team to victory in all but tha Lawrence defeat of the epee squad. 
"The weekend gave some of the top fencers some rest and allowed others to get experience. For Steve McQuade to go 7-1 is particularly impressive," said senior sabre cap­tain Bill Lester. 
Perhaps the greatest benefit of the weekend was to get a chance to see the opponents for next week­end's Midwest Team Championships.· 
"The weekend allowed us to sec who we will be going up against in the next couple of weekends," said Lester. · 
Notre Dame softball action heated up this weekend as the Irish traveled to Tempe, Ariz. for the opening of the 
1997 sea­s o n Despite a r o c k y start, the preseason Big East favorites c a m e 


away with Nichols their first win of the year, a 4-2 victory over Auburn. 
Facing host Arizona State, the Irish showed signs of their months of indoor prac­tice on the Loftus Center turf, lasting only five innings in the desert heat, for a 9-1 defeat. Their second-consec­utive five-inning loss came at the hands of interstate foe Indiana, a 10-1 drubbing by the Hoosiers. 
"It was our first time play­ing outdoors, and our first time playing on dirt," said head coach Liz Miller. 
Her message to rally the troops: "Step up the intensi­ty." And that they did. 
Jowa team that participated in the 1996 World Series. Although the outcome favored Iowa, 4-3, starting pitcher Kelly Nichols turned in the weekend's best pitch­ing performance, allowing eight hits and one run, while striking out five. Nichols, last season's NCAA leader in saves, made her first start of the 1997 season and worked seven strong irnings despite being hampered by rotator cuff tendonitis. 
"Kelly threw extremely well," said Miller. "Our main concern is to keep her healthy. We plan to use her more than ever in a starting role." 
Notre Dame saved the best for last, a 4-2 win over Auburn, their first victory of the season. 
Second baseman Dawn Cunningham's two-run sin­gle in the top of the seventh sparked the offense, and fel­low sophomore Angela Bessolo thwarted a late surge by the Tigers to record the complete game. 
Captains Katie Marten and Meghan Murray began the season with a bang, leading a .833 slugging percentage, including two triples. Murray exploded with an RBI triple against Iowa, fin­ishing the tournament with a .417 batting average, one stolen base and one run scored. 
"They (Marten and Murray) were great on and off the field. All the seniors brought leadership and intensity. They have set high goals and arc setting a great example to attain them," said coach Miller. 
Next up for the Irish, the National Fastpitch Coaches Association Leadoff Classic in Columbus, Ga., Feb. 28 ­March 2. 
Their first-round match­ups include South Carolina, a 3-0 winner over the Irish in the NCAA regional in 1996, and Texas A&M. 
"This tournament is unique because all the teams fin­ished last season highest in their region. It will be very challenging," said Miller. 
Notre Dame hopes to be up for this challenge, mixing their offensive and defensive weapons with leadership and intensity. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
....­
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST. One black leather  CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLY­ JAZZERCISE  Junior Service Week  
NOTICES  ladies glove with white fur lining. Oh, how I miss it! Beth x4951  MENT-Industry offers Travel (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean),  Very close to campus  WHY SQUINT AT THIS LITTLE AD?  February 24-March 1 .....TODAY.....  
imcomparable benefits. & good pay.  There's a BIGGER one somewhere  Dismas House Visit  
SPRING BREAK  Found -Blue paperback Bible on  Find out how to start the application  277-0111  in this newspaper that says the  Call1-5225 for info.  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  2/20 on sidewalk near Galvin Life  process now! Cruise Employment  same thing-namely, that the com­ **********"'*******  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  Science. Call Julie @ 1-6085.  Services provides the answers. Call  Electrolysis by Rebecca  edy improv troupe IRISH ACCENT  Later in the week ...  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  WANTED  800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are a research & publishing company)  Blend Method 674-6933 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  has an ALL-IMPROV SHOW at9 PM TONIGHT in LaFun Ballroom and that you can see the show for  Hope Rescue Mission .................. Saturday, March 1  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  only ONE DOLLAR! Please look  Class Mass & Ring Blessing  
BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Going to or through southern Illinois for spring break? I need a ride and  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!! I The highest quality color copies  for that ad-this one pales in com­parison.  5pm-Basilica....................  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS  will help pay for gas and tolls. Liz ­ are now available at  All from your friends at the  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  273-3943  THE COPY SHOP  IRISH ACCENT. DOLPHIN- Class of 1998  
THE COPY SHOP  NEAR LAKE PLACID  LaFortune Student Center  SAFE...SINCE JULY!  
LaFortune Student Center  1-800-786-8373  Phone 631-COPY  
Phone 631-COPY  Wanted: DRIVER to take student  Bread, BGeorge, Mikey D, 4th floor  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Earn up  from Clay H.S. to SMC. M, Tu, Th,  BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN  boyz, SpeciaiK, Mo, Cbreeze,  
Tues.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  2:45pm. $18/wk  Hello boys  STEPAN CENTER FROM  Dfunk, and Brian: Ft. L is just  
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  parks, resorts. Airfare!  233-4581 or 631-7531  6:00-8:00 PM WE WILL BE DANG- around the corner--only ten more  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  ADOPTION:  lNG THE MAMBO AND SAMBA  days to go.  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. • 7:00 p.m.  Call (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  Corporate Executive & homemaker  PART II $3 NON-MEMBERS  
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m.  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  can offer newborn a wonderful life  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  filled with warmth, security, endless  Shooting Cupid records today in  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo,  love, education & a bright future.  WILCO and SEPTEMBER 67  Keenan. Be ready.  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  etc. teaching simple conversational English. No languages/teaching  FOR RENT  Confidential. Mark & Candace 1-888-811-1141  TONITE!!!! tix are still available for only $10 at  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  exp. required.  the LaFun info desk. Don't miss  And the MVP of the Flanner  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  (919)918-7767, Ext.W154.  this awesome SUB event!  Invitational "game" is ...  
CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  Homes for Rent for 97-98  Adoption: A very loving, financially  
FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  ADT Security 232-2595  secure, well educated young cou- 
RAPE SUPPORT GROUP  COUNSELORS needed for out- pie, long to adopt your newborn.  Class of 1998 presents ...  HoJo is back with the Mets. All is  
-Offered on-campus for NO  standing Maine camps! CAMP  AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM  Close and caring extended family.  right in baseball.  
and SMC students  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  We offer a special life for your child.  Blackhawks  
-Completely Confidential  for boys. Each located on magnifi·  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  vs  
For more information, call  cent lakefront setting with excep­ 272-6551  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  Red Wings  Jay Bell is gone to KC. My baseball  
Sex Offense Services at  tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions  life is ruined.  
283-1308  at each camp for heads and assis- Sunday, March 23rd  
RAPE SUPPORT GROUP  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR  SEPTEMBER 67  Limited numbers of  
volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  and  tickets are still available  ••••••••Hey JUNIORs•••••••••  
IMPROV YOUR HEALTH!!  field hockey, roller hockey, swim- NO 2773097  WILCO!!!!!!  at the LaFortune info.  Send letters to your friends abroad.  
IMPROV YOUR LOVE LIFE!! IMPROV YOUR SPELLING!! IRISH ACCENT (that scrambled  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, water-skiing, archery, weight train­ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho·  FOR SALE  together at Stepan Feb.25 at 8 pm only $10 with an 10.  desk.  Drop letters off at 213 LaFun by Friday 2128.  
comedy improv troupe) has an  tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  COME ROCK and GROOVE!!!  NEED RIDE to Kansas City  
ALL-IMPROV SHOW Tuesday, February 25  dance Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­um mattress set. Never used still in  Get your tix at the LaFun info desk before they're gone!  -Spring Break-call Jen X1485  To rny "left-handed secret admirer from Carroll Hall" ­ 
9 PM in LaFun Ballroom Admission $1.00 CHECK IT OUT!! Do you think you can handle it? We dare you! Come party for 7  backpacking, horseback riding, ropes course, trip leaders, mountain biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre­!aries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352 •••Pioneer Stereo For Sale• .. 6-Disc CD Player and Stereo Reciever with Remote  Compliments of SUB •..................************* "The Marketing Life of Curiosity" Presentation by Thomas Quinn,  G, I couldn't have done it without you! Thanks for everything ­I love youl  the V-day flowers were gorgeous-wish you would reveal yourself so I can thank you in person! Love, Heather  
- straight days with students from all over the U.S. College Tours Cancun Spring Break '97 for 7  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ing, and travel allowance. MEN­CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  $350 o.b.o. call Vince@ 257-2932  CEO of J.W.Messner on Tuesday Feb. 25 at 4:00 in 121 COBA. Open to all! Sponsored by the  ATTN: SRS./FB FANS B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES­ PETE: Don't take it wrong. Sorry. Shave and everything'll be okay.  
nights. Call 1-800-244-4463. ILOST & FOUND I  Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@aol.corn, 1-888­844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  1990 HONDA Civic OX HB. New tires, new exhaust, new timing belt, great mileage, CD player. $3900/best. 233-6124  Marketing Club ****************************** Grand Opening:  GRAD/FA OR/FB wknds. 291-7153  Hey Mo--Want to go go-carting??? -Cnote M+Crooked Letter-Crooked Letter- 
jobs@campvega.com, http://cam- THE LEASE ON MY SOUL HAS  1-Crooked Letter-Crooked Letter+  
Lost: Navy blue backpack in SOH at dinner on Wed. Important CPA  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  PERSONAL  CAFE' POCHE'  NOW EXPIRED  Humpback-Humpback-1  
books are inside! Please return if  CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  Located in the Architecture School  
picked up by mistake. No questions asked. Call4-3397.  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  ••Fat Rader and the Bad Guys•• w/ Cod in Salsa Wed. Night-Bridget's  Feb.26, 1997 Free Coffee Mugs. Register to win Electronic Basketball game.  Happy Birthday, "Dad" ­From the other half of the custody battle  Bengal Bouts guys are hot, except for guys with sweaters.  


The Observer • SPORTS 
Champs 
continued from page 20 

Ketelhohn placed sixth in the three meter event while Rhiana Saunders placed 17th. After the first day, Miami led the competition with 105 points and the Irish in second with 87. 
"We knew from the results of the first day that we were going to have a good meet," Kline commented. "The medley relay win and the freestyle results really gave us a lot of confi­
dence  which  continued  
throughout the  rest  of the  
meet."  

"I think we came out excited after the first day," Courtney South commented. "Villanova won the 200 medley relay last year, but we managed to beat them and set a school record. We knew that we did well, but we also knew that we had to keep working hard and get the job done." 
Head coach Bailey Weathers said, "I knew from the first day that our results were going to be better. We knew the first day was our weakest, and I felt that we would improve as the meet continued." 
The second day started with even more thunder, as the Irish continued to keep pace with the Hurricanes. The day began with Gallo setting a new school record as she took second place in the 500 freestyle. Newell placed fourth with an NCAA consideration time of 4:54.59. Shepard's record in the 50 freestyle was eclipsed in less than a day by South with a time of 23.97 seconds. 
The Irish continued their re­lay success with a second place finish in the 400 medley relay. The team of Brooks, Kline, Barger, and South posted an NCAA consideration time of 3:47.25, setting another school record. Ketelhohn and Saunders continued their div­ing success by placing sixth and 13th in the one-meter event. 
"We had another good day on Thursday," Weathers said, "We started the day with one person seeded to make the fi­nals and we had seven by the end of the night. We swam way above our expectations." 
Notre Dame overtook the Hurricanes on Friday through a team effort by several Irish ~wimmers. The duo of Barger and Newell led the Irish as they took first and second in the 100 butterfly, both posting NCAA consideration times along the way. Brooks struck again, as she won her second consecu­tive Big East 100 backstroke ti­tle, claiming another school record and posting another NCAA consideration time of 

.--

Backstroker Erin Brooks won her second consecutive 100 and 200 yard backstroke titles to lead the Irish at the Big East Championships. 
55.85. breaststroke and South was 
Suddarth and Kline took sec-second in the 100 freestyle. ond and third in the 100 The Irish capped off the title breaststroke, with two more with a second place finish in NCAA consideration times of the 400 freestyle relay. 
1:03.70 and 1:04.13 and Forthem,itwasavictory Suddarth breaking another beyond all others. school record. "I thought we worked harder 
Gallo and South took second than ever this year." Brooks and third in the 200 freestyle said. "The freshman class was as Gallo set yet another school just phenomenal this season. record with her time of They played a major role in this 
1:50.72. She too qualified for season's success." the NCAAs with that swim. The final stats give a glimpse 
The Irish finished the night of how the Irish dominated the with a win in the 800 freestyle competition. relay, a seventh consideration The team set seven school time and another school records and posted 11 NCAA record. The team was ecstatic consideration times. The win when it led at the end of the was especially sweet for day. Weathers, as he was named the 
"We knew that once the third Big East women's swimming day was over, we would have a coach of the year. clear advantage," Brooks said. "I think that it was really "Miami's key was its divers, exciting for him to get nominat­and once the diving part of the ed in just his second year competition was over, we could here," South commented. "He take control of the final day." was responsible for recruiting 
"We thought that Saturday the freshman class that played would be our strongest day of a major role in our success." the meet," South commented. "I don't think it could have "After we took the lead on gone to a better person," Kline Friday, we knew that our said. "We went into the tour­chances had increased." nament last year as an under-
The final day started with the dog and we placed third. This Irish holding a slim lead over year, we were in the same posi­Miami. However. they pro-tion. Coach Weathers was able 
· ceeded to give the Hurricanes to turn our team around." no chance for a comeback, as "I think the award is more they out-distanced them by a representative of the team and 661-547.5 margin to claim the hard work and effort they put title. Brooks tied a school in." Weathers said, "More im­record with her 1:57.68 to win portantly, though, I think the her second consecutive Big championship is a really impor­East 200 backstroke title while tant step for us. It's something Hollis was third in 2:01.26. that we can look back on dur­Newell won the 200 butterfly ing the season, and it's some­title while Barger was third. thing the whole Notre Dame Suddarth was third in the 200 community can take pride in." 
r------uniTmff~Tannmg ______ l 
: Until Spring Break 1 
. I 
I for 1 
i $20 : 
L . exp. 3-8-97 I 
--------------------~--~ 
Satisfaction 

TANNING CENTER 
Grape & McKinley 
near KMart 
256-9656 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 
272-7653 

Tuesday, February 25, 1997 

• MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish sal e seven place in Big East 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA teams in 25.49 seconds Sports Writer ;{'1 pace the Irish and -'-----------capped off the men's 
The Notre Dame. men's formance with a second swimming and diving teat:n .secutive fifth-place fin competed in the Big Ea.~~\"· the 200 meter bre ·· Championships in Piscata'Way~; ··Ins timeof 2:05.45 N.J., last weekend. Altb, · reet best they placed seventh f fresh.man Jo competition, the sani ~ce~l fifth in · · they finished lastyea .estyll:l arid Irish were successful in t hris .Fugate, 
meet because they ······· {levHle, and Ron 
their best times of the y ished fifth in the The improvement is chai. medley on Wednesd teristic of this team, which sixth in the 400 meter • has gotten stronger with every on Thursday. 
race this year. While the Irish were uu,<~,m~ •.J 
"We swam extremely well;'' to win the B stated head coach Tim Welsh. Championships like "We were much faster in this male contemporaries. t meet than Wtl were a year ago made important strides and, in 18 of the 20 events we only in this competition, swam, we swam our fastest throughout their w}lole • times of the year. Many t)f son. our swimmers posted se<'l.$ · The Irish bests and lifetime bests." improyed 
Among these strong per o from one year mances, there were a few out-gradually clos . • stauding efforts. Steve between them the Whowell finished second in swimming teams of the · the 100 meter backstroke East. with a time of 57.25 seconds, The Irish return to the pool Senior captain Matt Rose for their last meet of the year swam the fastest 50 meter in the Shamrock Classic this breaststroke split of the 13 weekend. 
Come see i;he••• 
IRISH
ACCENT 
comedy irnprov troupe 
TONIGHT! 
Tuesday, February 25 
9:00PM 
LaFortune Ballroom Admission: $1 
Dolphlin-safe••• since July! 

. page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
• BENGAL BOUTS
-
Newcomers making their presence known early 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
On Wednesday night in the Joyce Center, four first year boxers will be tested on what they learned in the ring on Sunday. In their first test, these four came out with outstanding performances in the first round of Bengal Bouts. 
Some will face their mentors. Freshman Mike Maguire will take on his mentor, junior cap­tain Lucas Molina, in the 13 5 pound weight class. 
In the 145 pound weight class, senior Matt Ramarge must show his new found knowledge against junior captain Fred Kelly. 
Junior Shawn Mahoney will be quizzed on his techniques by top-seeded senior Pat Maciariello, in the 170 pound weight class. 
Maguire managed to settle his first round nerves, as he de­feated sophomore David Murphy in the opening round. 
"I was extremely nervous," said Maguire about Sunday night. "Unless you go out there and do it, you don't know what it is all about. So I didn't know what to expect." 
Maguire does have some ath­letic history. In high school he was a wrestler. Unlike most boxers, Maguire's nerves will remain on edge because he will face his mentor and friend Molina. 
"When I first started, I didn't know the sport or any guys," said Maguire. "I looked up to him (Molina) and the rest of the 
67 

guys. It will be almost like fight­ing a coach on Wednesday night, because I respect him a lot." 
Also facing a captain on Wednesday night will be Ramarge. He defeated fresh­man Brian Daigle, and now will face Kelly. 
"Fred (Kelly) is a really good fighter," said Ramarge about Kelly. "He likes to come right at you, so I am going to have to defend myself." 
The former baseball player and runner attributes "getting and staying in shape" as the main reason for joining Bengals. 
The talk of the tournament may be Mahoney in the 170 pound weight class. Mahoney had a stellar opening perfor­mance against fellow junior Josh Akers. The Bou.ts caught his eye last year, but the time factor came into play. 
"I thought about it last year," said Mahoney. "I really did not have the time, and so this year I had to do it. The main reason I do it is to get in shape." 
Mahoney compares fighting in the ring with being somewhat of a celebrity. 
"It was like something that you only see on T.V.," said Mahoney. 
."Mahoney has a good reach," said Kelly about the newcomer. "It will be a good fight against Maciar.iello and Mahoney. Mahoney will have to do a good job to fend off Pat because he is a strong guy." 
Even though he had a spec­tacular debut on Sunday after­noon and is being touted as the 
Notre Dame 
Semifinals --.. Wednesday, Feb. 28 7:30 pm 
TEACH EllllliSH in . I ---· • -EASTERN £VROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational ~nglish in Eastern .Europe? <;rur materials proftle many rewardmg teachtng opporttJnities with great benefits. For infol'l'TUltion, call: (206) 971-3680 
We u-e' rete.a!dl ol pubUNl~ CO. Ext K55845 
!Udt•t 1w. .., •11riuoiatt!lla...!!Udti. m alilutilllootilrii4li:n"''IM 16-lll .
[iiiihtl) TrctveT 
LL:l-800-2-COUN
www.dee.org' ·· · 


travel:~~~;·;;~~~l~;~;·;· 
•••••••ttt.ltfttftftl.ftltft••······· 
outs 


Finals Saturday, March 1 8:00 pm 
COLLEGE 

FOOTBALL d .. H,~,l:~.~~~~ 2 for 1 a m1sswn 
dark horse of the tour­nament, Mahoney remains modest. "I am just glad that I came this far." 
While some of the newcomers are seeded in the lower half of their brackets, first year standout, freshman J.R. Mellin finds himself in the No. 2 seed in the 150 pound weight class. Mellin, a former runner in high school, is follow­ing in the foot steps of his grandfather and cites that as his reason for joining Bengals. 
"My grandfather was a good boxer, so boxing was in the family," said Mellin. "Also I think that it is a great sport because you have to face your fears. 
"I that it takes a little of the pressure off because of the matchups, like in the first round," said Mellin about being seeded sec­ond in the class. "It is a plus all the way around. For me it just reinforced my own confidence." 

could be a good fight with The question is whether the"J.R. comes straight at you," Polina." teacher or the student will learnsaid Kelly about the freshman. 
Wednesday night is when the the new lesson. 
BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! , APPLY FOR THE POSITION OF 
JPW 1998 CHAIRPERSON!!! DON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 
AND ARE TO BE SUBMITTED TO 315 LAFORTUNE 
DEADLINE HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO 5PM FEBRUARY 26!!! 
QUESTIONS? CALL SUE CHRISTIE AT 4-4825 

Swiss Valley: WomensDay Full day= $12 + $8 rentals. Before 1 p.m. 
•
~lOfffo.od or ae~eroge 
£•cef>.t on Tuesday 
. -A~'f"m"' .,.
.~Buy one sandw~ch 
~ or salad, aet 1/2 oH a 
2nd one. 
, .... Jll/91.
V OTIIER IDEAS: Raquetball and Rocco~s • Snite and · ·Chuck E. Cheese and •~hPfli/,Ar.~
Hofferth Chiropractic I Massage 
256-1008 ljazer Tag and Ijula's • Ice Cream and Ice Skating • Basketball and Bruno's • 
1/2 hr. $19 and 1 hr. $38 
Pool and t•apa John's • Bowling and Bibler's •
Either deal can be between dates! 
--~~ ---~-~-------~~ ----.....-.~~--~--------....-­
-----~-------­
Tue~day, February 25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 


Dillon junior Ryan "The Scar" Rands stretches his neck as he waits for his opponent to arise from the canvas. 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
Mississippi. The Bulldogs came and got five strikeouts.
-
out swinging against juniors (Freshman) Brant Ust (also)
Baseball 

Dan Stavisky and Pat Davis, made some phenomenal plays scoring nine runs in the first at third base." 
continued from page 20 

three innings. Mainieri was hesitant to cite Notre Dame bats remained the team's lack of previous out­
four innings, giving up just one 
hot though, as they out-hit door play as an excuse, but
run and striking out five. 

Mississippi 11-10. admitted that it did present theOn Saturday, second-ranked Amrhein went three for four Irish with a difficult challenge. 
USC offered the Irish no relief. 
with two RBI and designated "There is no question it was a
The Trojans jumped all over 
hitter Jeff Wagner recorded severe handicap. A lot of pitch­
starter Gregg Henebry and 
three hits in five plate appear­ers had tough outings pitching 
chased him from the mound af­
ances. outside for the first tiine," ac­
ter 2 2/3 innings. 

Although Mississippi went on knowledged Mainieri. "WeNotre Dame did rally to nar­to win the game 11-5, head walked a lot of batters and gave 
row the margin to 6-3 at the 
coach Paul Mainieri was our opponents a number of
end of live, but fell apart there­
encouraged by what he saw. scoring opportunities." 
after, allowing eight runs in the 
"Amrhein showed that he is Considering the level of com­
final four innings. 

going to have a sensational petition and the circumstances
Senior right-hander Mike 
year," remarked Mainieri, "and leading up to the weekend for
Balicki provided a silver lining 
Wagner continued to hit the Notre Dame, Mainieri's outlook
for. the Blue and Gold as he 
ball hard. Turco also showed seems appropriate.
threw 2 1/3 innings of one-hit, 
some life with the bat that he "I wish to dwell on the posi­
scoreless baseball in middle re­
didn't have last year." tives," stated Mainieri. "To lose lief. 
There was even a reason for three games to that caliber ofOffensively, Mike Amrhein the coach to express optimism opponent is not (terrible). We
continued to hit the ball well. 
about the pitching staff and did a lot of good things." 
The first baseman went two for 
defense. With some patience and con­
four with an RBI and a run 
"(Brad) Lidge was really a tinued hard work, it certainlyscored. 
bright spot for us," explained appears that the Irish will have
The Irish concluded their 
Mainieri. "He held Mississippi nothing to worry once their
rocky opening weekend with a 
to two runs over five innings regular season is in full swing.
Sunday showdown against 
the floor tonight with a legiti­from Miller and Derek Manner, ·Atf.erstru : rr''to• pi~k up 
mate shot at an NIT bid (some­and threes from Lalazarian and their last two wins, the Irish 
NIT 

thing that hasn't happened White. will take on a squad that they 
continued from page 20 since 1992), they will have an And there were plenty of have had success with iri the 
opportunity to finish their Big cheers from the sold-out crowd past to try tQ geftheir·1f(~n$e 
former walk-on Pete Miller to East season with a .500 record. of appreciative fans. going before post-season play 
leave the squad before the year It would take a win over the These same fans have come begins. ·· 
started (due to a lack of a Hurricanes and a victory at to accept the Irish as is. They Last season, the Irish de­
scholarship), but then return Boston College to achieve the have come to accept them as a feated Westvirginia 73·55 
and be counted on to consis­mark, but don't underestimate team lagging in talent and ath­and earlier t · yea,r they top~ 
tently hit a few threes each the gritty Irish. letic ability, but a team that pled the Mo eers in their 
night, all the while thrilling the Granted, the Big East is expe­makes up for it with hard work. most astounding offensive 
home-town crowd? riencing a terribly down year They have come to accept them performance of the campaign 
Who would have expected Uust one ranked team, No. 17 as their own. with a 103-58triumph. The 
that the home games, particu­Villanova), but to go from a 4-Tonight is the final time for 18~10 We · illia d 
larly the hard-fought confer­14 record in 1995-96 to the these fans to acknowledge the will most lik ... .. the s J:>nd 
ence games, would be so gen­current 7-9 mark is admirable efforts of White, Miller, Gotsch, seed in the upcoming Big East 
uinely entertaining? regardless. and Marcus Young. Tournament;. them. 
The answer to these ques­Saturday's 22-point effort in These four have seen the In Notre Dame's last two "We:rfj just g~ing to .take it 
tions is actually pretty simple. overtime had to be the high worst of Notre Dame basket­contests tM;fhave »ot.dotnh ?ther g~e;" ·~?
'"' >ITW 

The Irish, as a team, did. point of the season. ball, but through their efforts, nated the galile to the ex.tent sat • "Overall we have 
They had to have heard the The Irish showed the crowd among others, they have seen they would have liked. The playing really well recently,.< 
nay-sayers, be it the members pretty much everything they the Irish become a middle of Villanova Wildcats used a West Virginia will lookJor 
of the media or their class­could ever hope to see. the pack Big East club in just slo\\f·paced st le.to. stay <;lose j~nJnt forward ha Hargis 
mates. But they didn't listen. In what amounted to a five­two years. to: the. Iris d Seton f!all tq J~(l.dtben}¥.. h:ope$·gf 
And that's why the squad has minute highlight session, there Expectations couldn't have hting·with ..·... Blue arid Gold kriqcking off th. r1sh.. Hargis · put in such a season. were dunks by Matt Gotsch and been higher. well into the second half. ranks fourth on the Big East 
Not only will Notre Dame take scorer David Lalazarian, swats Who would have expected it? 
Despite the struggles. the scoring list as she averages squad has continued to win by jtistunder 18 Jloints per con-over ten points per game<and . test. The Mcfqptaineers will feels good about its efforts. also have revenge on their 
"I feel really good about minds as their 45 point loss to how we've been playing," the Irish. earlier in the year head coach Muffet McGraw ended a six game West said; "Different people have Virginia winniJlg streak. ... stepped up and .had ·big "I am sure that they will be games." ready to play and have a bit of 
In Saturday's 14-point win revenge in mind," Bohman over the Pirates, junior guard said. ''I think i! will be a lot Mollie Peiriek turned iri a ter~ better game tP:~ .second time rifle first half before seniors around." 


North Carolina edges Irish 
By JIM ZALETA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team was defeated No. 14 North Carolina on Sunday. The Irish fell to 8-3, while the Tar Heels remained perfect at 4-0. North Carolina won the match 4-3, capturing the doubles point which turned out to be the deciding factor as the sin­gles matches were spilt evenly. The heart of the lineup of No. 2, 3 and 4 proved strong for the Tar Heels. 
"There mid to low part of the lineup is exceptionally strong. Where most teams drop down in this area, their whole team is talented," Irish Coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
In the doubles matches junior Jakub Pietrowski and sopho­more Brian Patterson won eas­ily over Tony Thomas and Tripp Philips 8-2. North Carolina took the No. 2 and 3 doubles matches by scores of 8­6 and 8-5. Eric Saunders and Paul Harsanyi defeated senior Ryan Simme and junior Danny Rothschild. 
Harsanyi has an unorthodox 

routine of serving right-handed 
and playing left-handed. He 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association and The Center for Social Concerns 
proudly present 
0

''Th D •tt• F. ld ''
s 
c I A L

e fl tng te S CONCERNS

AFIIICA 
UNil OF AUlll'f &J'I,[NTY 
Shell has found itself entangled in a battle between local communities and the military dictatorships in Nigeria, who have used brute force to protect the flow of oil on which their government depends. For 30 years the Ogoni people have quietly endured military oppression and have watched their environment become polluted by oil. Now they have had enough. This film is their story. 
followed by a Panel Discussion: ~'MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS AND ENVIRONMENT IN THIRD WORLD COUNTRIES: A DOUBLE STANDARD?" 
featuring: 

Rev. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy ofReligion; Prof Denis Goulet, Economics Department; Prof Peter Walshe, Government Dept; Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Plunge/Outreach Development, CSC; fohn Clark, President-CEO, Solar Tech, INC.; Obinna Anyadike, journalist, Peace Studies Program 
HoPE You'vE 
MADE SOME NEW FRIENDS! 
'S 
Special 
one topping for $6.95 


The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Junior Danny Rothschild (left) lunges for a forehand during a doubles match this weekend. Rothschild was victorious in his singles match. 
also has one of the hardest serves in college tennis. Robert Tedesco and Eric Gordon won the No. 3 doubles match over freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller. 
Miller commented, "They play hard, and the matches between these two teams always come down to the wire." 
The last match to finish on Sunday was the No. 2 singles match between Pietrowski and Phillips. 
It turned out to be the decid­ing factor for match. Pietrowski, down a set and trailing in the second 5-2, came back to force a tie-breaker. Phillips took full control of the tie breaker and defeated Pietrowski 7-6, 7-6. 
In No. 1 singles Sachire had a tough first set, but dominated the second to win 7-5, 6-2. Sachire improves his No. 1 sin­gles record to 5-2. 
The Irish also won at No. 5 and 6 singles. Rothschild easily defeated Gordon 6-2, 6-2. Junior Eric Enloe defeated the Adam McNab and his overpow­ering serve. In two sets, Enloe won 6-3, 6-4. In No. 3 singles, Harsanyi defeated Patterson 6­3 in the first set, and shut him 

Happy 19th Birthday Sean! LovE, 
THE SANTA FE BRENNANS 

out 6-0 in the second with his big, strong serves. Thomas won over Simme at No. 4 by a score of 6-2, 6-2. 
"We lacked intensity," Simme commented. "We didn't play like we are capable of playing. It didn't seem like we were our­selves Sunday." 
The Irish continue their sea­son on Wednesday when they travel to Michigan State. The Irish have had a tough time defeating the Spartans recently winning matches with the score 4-3 over the past two years. 
"They play tough match,es," Bayliss said. "We can't under­estimate them." 
The 4-1 Spartans are cur­rently ranked 69th in the coun­try, and 8th in the region, six spots behind the Irish. Michigan State is led by sopho­more Tray Eubanks. Eubanks is ranked 77th in the country. He has an impressive 15-5 record this season at No. 1 sin­gles. 
"We should be fired up after the disappointing loss on Sunday,"'' Simme added. "We are looking to turn things around (after last weekend)." 
The match begins at noon in East Lansing on Wednesday. 
• 
-
.. 

I 
I _..... -I 
-~~----------~ ----~-----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
Canes 
continued from page 20 
they did on the road against Seton Hall in the previous game, the Irish asserted them­selves to the delight of a rau­cous crowd. 
Anyone who has attended a Notre Dame home game knows the term "raucous" must be used loosely, but head coach John MacLeod also knows that it's a start. 
"There's nothing like the crowd we had here the other day," MacLeod said. ''I'd still like to see more students come to the games because they re­ally support our team. This is an exciting team. This is a fun team and it's a good team. We've had a solid following all year long and it seems to be getting bigger throughout the year. This crowd has been great this year." 
As senior Admore White sent the game to the extra session Saturday, the Irish were not about to lose the crowd's en­ergy in overtime. 
"Once the team gets the mo­mentum going, the crowd gets behind us," White added. 
Especially when they cheer for a team that does not give up easily. 
"This team is a very resilient club," MacLeod said. "They don't get discouraged." 
Along with White, starters Matt Gotsch and Pete Miller and reserve Marcus Young will also participate in their last home game against Miami. Each has demonstrated im­provement over their four years, culminating with the
• 
team's best year during this period. 
"It's a special night for the seniors, MacLeod said. "They've accomplished quite a bit this season." 
Beating Miami tonight would be another accomplishment, considering the Hurricanes have been atop the Big East 7 the entire year. The Hurricanes are currently tied for second with Georgetown in that division at 9-7. Now in their sixth Big East season, Miami has a chance to break their own record of nine con­ference wins. 
"Their have a deeper club then last year," MacLeod noted. "They have experience and are a versatile team." 
"Miami is an excellent team,"
-
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your JOb search in National Parl<s. Forests. and Wildl~e 
Preserves. 

Learn from the #1 Source that 
uncovers hundreds of employment 
opportunities in the great outdoors. 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefrts 



.. 

The Observer/Brat Hogan 
Pete Miller, who did not even have a scholarship before the season, has provided an important outside threat for the Irish attack this year. 
White said. "They crash the of­clamp down on the leading fensive boards and they have a Hurricane scorer. James en­unit just like us. They play ters the game averaging 14.8 hard and aggressive and come points along with 7.2 boards out to win every time." per contest. 
The Hurricanes have encoun­Junior sharpshooter Kevin tered problems doing just that Norris also worries MacLeod, in their past three games. as Norris is currently draining Saturday's 77-73 loss to St. 33 percent of his three-point at­John's marked their third tempts. straight Big East defeat. "We have a lot of things we 
"They (Miami) were on a tear . have to be tuned into," to start the year and have now MacLeod said. "Norris is a dropped a few close ones," major problem because of his MacLeod added. "The St. ability to shoot the ball out­John's game went right down side." to the wire. They could have With a win tonight or won it." Saturday at Boston College, the 
Sophomore forward Tim Irish will put themselves in James has emerged as a force good position to make the post­for Miami. James possesses an season for the first time since outside touch while also able to 1992. Asked if that scenario is bang with the big bodies inside. accurate, MacLeod only con­
"Tim James is a very talented fessed knowledge of one fact. player," White added. "He's "The only thing I know is that going to be a focus for us to try the green and orange are going and contain him." to be in here tonight," he said. 
Forward Derek Manner will Knowing they are playing draw that assignment most of here has meant a lot for the the night as he attempts to Irish this season. 
• TRACK 

Stars aim for NCAA Championships 

By WILLY BAUER tiona! ranking. Sporrs Writer Junior Allen Rossum has came full circle after taking a 
Three of Notre Dame's year off, and qualified for the indoor track stars put the Alex NCAA championships. Wilson Invitational to good Rossum, an All-American in use by improving on their 1995, finished in second place national at the Big East meet last ranking for weekend, and qualified in the the NCAA 60-meters. Rossum is cur­indoor rently in sixth-place national­champi­ly, heading into the NCAA onships or meet. qualifying "He has been running for the exceptionally well," said meet. Piane. "He ran a converted 
" T h e 6.18 in the 55-meters. He can meet went be faster than that as well. very well," said coach Joe It's virtually unknown that he Piane. "Actually it went was a track All-American exceptionally well. It was when he was a freshman, and great considering we were I believe that more people coming off the Big East meet. should know that." It was a very good weekend." A meet that was supposed to 
Freshman Jennifer be low-key turned out to be Engelhardt, who has already anything but. The Meyo Track qualified for the NCAA's, im­record in the 400-meters was proved on her best leap of the broken. The former record year at the Alex Wilson high held by Derek Mills from jump event. Engelhardt Georgia Tech was that of cleared nearly six feet to im­45.75 seconds. prove her position for the "It was an exciting meet," NCAA championships. said Piane. "It was a great 
Senior Jeff Hojnacki contin­meet with fantastic perfor­ued to step to the forefront of mances. It was great in all the men's team. He again the events." dominated the longer distance The Irish will be split this event, posting the third best weekend, sending some team time in the country in the 800-members to the USA Track meter run. Ile also has quali­meet in Atlanta and some to fied for the NCAA champi­the Silverton Invitational in onships and improved his na-Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
EMBERS 
Wednesday, February 26th 7:00PM 339 COBAw;;1'JU~ 

Tuesday, February 25, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
THE CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD'S 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE
GUIDE TO RESTAURANTS li: (tctP·N~-s~•t) 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
1'1"\ IOTI\lL'Y FRI\ZZL£.0. THER£. Sif"\PLY ISN'T 
ENOUGH TIME IN THE 
Dt>.'< TO MtTT 1"'\Y 
UPCOMING 
DEADLINES. 
"-----­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Boeing product 29 The "I" in 
1 Pitchers T.G.I.F.
6 Take to the 30 George Bush's dump home now11 Say "pretty • 34 Peer Gynt's please" mother14 Republican 351932 Will politico Rogers film Alexander 37 Tofu source15 Skip the big 38 Late singer wedding named fora16 Genetic letters Dickens 
171978 Faye character 
Dunaway film 
39 Midmorning20 I.B.M. or 3M. 
40 Douglas-.­

e.g.: Abbr. 
41 Adagio and 

21 In this place 
allegro22Taboos 
45 Pennsylvania, 23--ofwar for one 24 Luxuriate, as in 47 Food inspection the sun in its. 25 Tone down 50 Suffix with 26 Incredible convention 
• bargain 51 Kind of closet 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
w A N T I0 M A H AIT IO IU ,, I 
AREA ROSAS WIIISIEI D I A L P R A T T E L A N EAR L THE PEAR Lllllll 
0-EVADE C A VIE R N A T H L E T E S 
AVERS. ATE E-T 
I S D E N Nil S T H 
E MIE NIA 

C E E N D-E T 0 
N.C_lH I EN 

T U EIS D·G·RIA N DE SEEITO SOU IIIIIIW I L T T H E S T I L T 
VOG 'IAHOOTIOOOR 
!AlP OIS S A R A H A L 0 E IKIE PIT s T 0 L E D y N E 
selfless attitude will work wonders. Your many admirers insist on rewarding your efforts. New finan­cial stability is the result. Work demands could increase in midsum­mer, but so will your income. An advertising campaign or charity event will keep you busy when autumn arrives. A dream leads to a spiritual revelation. Introduce a love interest to your family during the winter holidays. Your career surges forward when you take a calculated risk. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: comedian Harvey Kor­man, early feminist Susan B. Antho­
MIKE PETERS 
ny, actress Regina King, baseball player Ron Cey. 
ARIES (March 21-Apri~9): Your ESP is telling you the best way to capitalize on inside information. Weather permitting, take a long walk outdoors with a favorite canine companion. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Think big! Your enthusiasm for a savings program will persuade the entire family to cooperate. A finan­cial deal or secret rendezvous turns out better than anticipated. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A good day to buy and sell. Develop­ing a special talent could boost your earning power. Some surprising news helps you and a partner reach a long-sought agreement. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): SCOTT ADAMS 
Cooperation is the key to getting things done. Encourage children to give free rein to their imagination. Domestic tensions fade when a solu­tion is found to a recurring problem. 
LET'S HI\VE 1\N A.LL-DA.Y 50, YOUR THEORY I.~ THAT 
1"\EETING OFF-5ITE I'LL HA.VE f"\ORE TIME IN 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A delay or mixup could be unsettling. Seek
SO I CA.N EY.PLA.IN THE OA.Y IF YOU E~PLA.IN 
solitude if you need to think some­
thing over. Phone people who can
WHY THE DEA-DLINES 50MHHING 
I ALREADY 
ARE 50 If"\PORTA.NT. 
I DON'T \ 
1-\A.VE A LOT 
Of' TOOL~ HERE. 
) 

52 Italian princely 
family name s3Mata-­541948 Ava 
Gardner film 57 N.Y.C. subway 
operator 58 Olympic judge 59 Come up 60 Prodigy 
competitor, for short 61 Used colorful language 62 40-and 51-Across, e.g. 
DOWN 
1 Puts into office 2 Exit 3 Come out 4 Bronchitis 
symptom 5 Full house sign 6 Tennis's Monica 7 Co-worker of 
Lois and Jimmy a Libertine 

930-day mo. 
28 Bishop of old TV 42 Villain 10 Subject for 
31 Loosen, as 43 Look overGeorge laces 44 Record-settingWashington 32 Recipe directive van Gogh
Carver 11 Wave, as a 33 "Long" or canvas 
weapon "short" amount 46 --King Cole 12 Along the way 34 "Don't look--47 Fallen house of 13 Helium and like that!" literature 
neon, e.g. 
35 Fait accompli 
help you achieve your social aims. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Chasing rainbows will only lead to disappointment. Fulfill an important business obligation even if it means bowing out of a fun commitment. Entertaining a work associate in your home puts your relationship on a new footing. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A loving gesture will set the stage for a wonderful day. Live for the moment! Your spontaneous attitude helps revive a romance or seal a spe­cial alliance. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The housework could pile up unless you get better organized. Encourage others to pitch in and help. Base a financial decision on what is best for the entire family. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Welcome an opportunity to conduct business with people at a distance. Give priority to career con­cerns but fulfill family responsibili­ties as well. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your "can do" attitude will let you complete a multitude of chores. Shop by phone or catalog to save time and effort. Weighing your career goals brings new clarity. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put your best foot forward when introducing yourself to newcomers. An older person can help you achieve a key goal. Be willing to meet a former friend or employer halfway. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Information from afar could be con­fusing or misleading. A solution is found when you talk things over with trusted allies. Devise a timetable for launching a pet pro­ject. Sharing confidences will strengthen ·a romance. 


48 Squirrel away 49Rock's--Leppard 

Wanted: Reporters, 
52 Outside: Prefix 53 Munchen Mr. 55 Detroit labor grp. 

photographers and 
56 Grape masher's work site 

18 Mortgage agcy. 
36 Singer Coolidge . . 
editors.
19 Teeming group . Answers to any three clues 1n th1s puzzle 24 Hard punch 37 53 m1nutes past are available by touch-tone phone: 25 French the hour 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). assembly 39 Puget Sound Annual subscriptions are available for the 27 On-board City best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Join The Observer 
greeting 40 Frenzies 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

_z;:~~~z;;;.;-... 
IntramurAl Deadlines 
Jeb.2~ 

Women's 9nterHall Soccer 9nterHall Softball (jVlen/Women) fJrad/Jac/Staff Softball ·Campus Soccer Conec 9ndoor Soccer 
631-6100 


... 
.,. 
-

r 
t 
.. 
.. 
-~ 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, February 25, 1997 
• WoMEN's SWIMMING 
Women :S swim team
Pool Shar-ks 
captures its first title at Big East Championships 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 

Last year, Notre Dame was an underdog who man­aged to overcome everyone's expectations and finish third in the Big East This year, the critics did not think that the Irish were contenders for the Big East crown. 
Again, the critics were wrong. 
This weekend, the Irish improved from last year's ranking and won the Big East Championships at Rutgers University. 
"It's just a great feeling," Alison Newell said. "We overcame the adversities and the distractions and the results can speak for themselves." 
Notre Dame began the competition at full pace, win­ning the 200 yard medley relay with a school record 
1:44.97. They shattered the old record by almost two seconds. The relay team of Erin Brooks, Brittany Kline, Liz Barger, and Linda Gallo were just .07 sec­onds short of the NCAA consideration time. 
Laura Shepard swam the first leg of the 200 freestyle relay in 23.97 seconds, setting a school record for the 50 freestyle. Jler record led the Irish to 
The observer/Rob Finch a second place finish in the event. In diving, Gina 
Over the weekend, the women's swimming team shocked the Big East by claiming the championship title for the first time in 

school history. Butterflier Liz Barger was one of many Irish swimmers who qualified for the NCAAs with her performance. 

• BASEBALL 
"""''' 

Irish show heart despite losses. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 

In their f:trst outdoor action ofthe season, the 
·baseball team displayed a great deal of promise despite dropping three contests in the Long Beach Baseball Classic. · 
The Irish, who had been forced to work out indoors until this weekend, were lit· eraUy thrown into the fire as they faced national powers Long Beach State. Southern California, and Mississippi in their first regular season contests. Each of these squads had played at least Amrhein 10 regular season games before facing Notre Dame. 
"I think it was a little bit tougher for us." commented sophomore Paul Turco. "It was our first time on the clay and these teams were already into their regular season." 
The Irish faced host Long Beach State on Friday evening and were beaten in a shootout, 10-8. Right-hander Darin Schmalz had a rough first outing on the mound. The senior allowed seven runs, on,ly three earned, on seven hits and two walks in 2 1/3 innings. 
However, the squad displayed a great deal of heart as they battled back after falling into a 9-0 hole in the fourth inning. Turco con­tributed two hits and three RBI to the effort and freshman Jeff Felker knocked in three runs on three hits, while crossing the plate twice himself. 
'Twas .swinging the bat well,'' said Turco, ''and Felker did a real good job for us!' · 
Although the Notre Dame rally came up·· shorUn the end, the team out-hit Long Beach 14-10 and re~eived a strong effort iii relief from sophomore Chris McKeown. The south~ paw scattered two hits and three walks over 
see BASEBALL/ page 16 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Senior effort appreciated 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 
Tonight's final regular season men's basketball game at the Joyce Center may elicit an Irish teardrop for more than one reason. 
Besides marking the last game for Notre Dame seniors, it will also mark the last time this season that the Irish take to a JACC court where they have enjoyed remarkable success. 
The Irish (13-11, 7 -9) have posted an 11-3 mark in South Bend this year, while going only 2-8 on the road. 
Saturday's inspired overtime come­back against Providence may have pro­vided the best example of the JACC, jacking up the Irish. Instead of experiencing a second half collapse as 
see CANES/ page l 8 

Point guard Admore White (12) is one of four seniors who will be playing his final regular season home game when Miami invades the Joyce Center this evening. 
see CHAMPS I page 13 
• JOCK STRIP 

Year of great 
•

surpnses 
Who, in tL!eir right mind, would have expected what has happened at the Joyce Center this season? 
Who would have expect­ed that an overachiev­ing Notre Dame squad would carry an 11-3 home record, 
'----"',C::,""--"=--' including a Tim Sherman 6-2 mark in Sports Editor the ever-competitive Big East, into tonight's final • home game against Miami? 
Who would have expected that the Irish may have to can­eel that trip to Key West (or South Padre, et a!) due to an NIT bid? 
Who would have expected that coach John \1acLeod almost surely saved his job by molding the Irish into the Big East's hardest working team? 
Who would have expected Pat Garrity to blossom, in every facet of the game, to make himself the league's most valuable player? 
Who would have expected a much maligned Admore White to bounce back from heart­breaking missed shots against Indiana and Connecticut to drain a game-tying three­pointer with .4 seconds remaining in Saturday's exhil­arating overtime win over Big East 7 leader, Providence? 
Who would have expected 
see NIT I page 16 
• 
vs. Michigan State, 
vs. Miami, 
\_ a;
February 28, 7 p.m. 
•First year Bouters impress 
Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
SPORTS 
Women's Tennis 
at West Virginia, 
~ 
see page 14at Wisconsin,
.,

ATA Tonight 
February 27 ·~
ri:J • Women's hoops prepares for finale 
Men's Tennis Indoor Track see page 16at Michigan State,
.,• 

at USA Track, February 26 February 28-March 1
.,

GLANCE 
~ 





