---~-----.._...---------------~-~-~--~----~----------~----~ ........ 

Tuesday, October 28, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 41 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Wall Street suffers worst single-day point drop 
Associated Press loss on Black Monday, which It remains to be seen how marked its lOth anniversary much of Monday's selling was NEW YORK slightly more than a week ago. fueled by mutual fund investors. The Dow Jones industrial Still, the selloff put the Dow's Publicly, however, many individ­
NYSE circuit breakers 
average suffered its worst sin­losses at about 900 points over ual investors portrayed an gle-day point drop Monday, tum­the past four sessions and 1,100 unflappable facade. 
After the crash on Black Monday,
bling 550 points in a $600 billion points since it set a record high "I wish I had more money to selloff that 
at 8,259.31 on Aug. 6. invest," said Helen Ginty, 60, a 


Oct. 19, 1987, the New York Stock Exchange adopted
prompted the 

"It's a bloodbath," said Arnold secretary in New York, asserting stork market to 
Kaufman, a market analyst at that she plans no change in her 
safeguards designed to slow amarket fall. 
shut down for 

Standard & Poor's. "It scares retirement investment strategy. the first time 
you because when you get a "I don't think people are as since the 1981 
decline this fast, there's a risk it crazy as they used to be" during assassination 
.,,,,+'. will keep snowballing." a downturn. attempt on 
The stock market's drop For many analysts, the drop
p.l

President L_____...J amounted to a $600.04 billion was notable because the Dow Reagan. 
loss Monday, shrinking its value has now fallen 13.3 percent, 
The Dow, the market's best to $8.537 trillion, as measured from its Aug. 6 record high of known barometer, fP.!l 554.26 to by Wilshire Associates. 8,259.31, its first downturn of at 7,1(>1.15, surpassing the 508-The Dow's drop triggered two least 10 percent in seven years, point Black Monday crash of circuit breakers on the New the longest such streak since the 1987 as its biggest point drop York Stock Exchange that had 1960's. PVC I". never been set off since they "The market was very vulner­
But on a percentage basis, were put in place after the 1987 able prior to the Southeast Asian Monday's 7.18 percent drop by selloff. The first circuit breaker, crisis, and after rising 110 per­
50-point gain or loss from  Computer program  
previous day's close  trading limited  
100-point drop  Trading orders set  
aside for five minutes  
350-point drop 550-point drop  Trading stopped for 30 minutes Trading stopped for one hour  

L___________________________ J
tlw [)ow only ranked as the 12th at 350 points, closed the market cent since the beginning 1995, it biggest cvnr and didn't come for 30 minutes. The second, at Source: New York Stock Exchange AP/Amy Kranz closn to the Oow's 22 percent 550, halted trading for the day. see DOW I page 5 
Phelps speaks of 

•BoARDoFTRusrEEs 

Students propose transportation pool
schools' needs 

By DEREK BETCHER Transportation met that billing and meeting Notre Dame's needs, the
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 

Associate News Editor also has a timely nature as the cur­report emphasizes. Circle K trips, off­
Editor-in-Chief 

rent fleet of esc vans deteriorates. campus men's volleyball trips, and With a goal of aiding all campus "I think [the trustees] were defmite­student government's SafeRide pro­FORT WAYNE, Ind. 
extracurricular activities and service ly troubled by the problem, A lot of gram are among the many dozens ofIf former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger efforts, student government issued a them thought we already had a trans­trips vans are repeatedly charteredPhelps had his way, a new program _analogous to formal proposal on Oct. 16 to the portation pool," executive coordinator for. The average van, for example,"Christmas in April" would be set up to help reno­Board of Trustees calling for the cre­
has 73,000 miles on it and is used 18vatn inner-city schools every June. 
ation of an independent University times a week. Because mileage on thePhelps, who was in Fort Wayne transportation pool. vans is so high, in fact, the esc noOct. 21 to promote his book, In its bi-annual report to the board's longer allows travel outside of St.
"Basketball for Dummies," took Student Activities Committee, student Joseph's County in the vans.

the opportunity to tell an audi­government officials assessed the doubt to the need for this The report also notes that the CSC is 

ence at a local bookstore his 

need, cost and demand for a trans­stretching its resources to maintain
ideas for addressing some of the improvement.'
portation pool -all to build trustee its aging fleet of vans and is "over­problems facing teenagers in support for creating a campus motor whelmingly" in favor of relinquishing urban areas. 
pool. Katie Beirne, control of its makeshift transportation According to Phelps, now a Despite a start-up cost approaching program.
executive coordinator ofreports
basketball analyst for ESPN, the $600,000. the "Transportation Needs" "The way we presented the issuelikelihood of inner-city youths proposal enjoyed a favorable recep­leaves no doubt to the need for thisgetting involved with potential dangers such as tion from the trustees, according to of reports Katie Beirne said. "There improvement," Beirne said. 

drugs and gangs increases when reduced funding student government members who was no argument that this is a prob­Specifically, the report calls for thefor after-school programs leaves the teenagers with presented the report before fall break. lem to be addressed." creation of a small Transportationfewer structured activities. 

"They were very warm," said stu­The problem begins with the 200 Services branch of the Office of"In ord1~r to take out the bad elements, we need dent body president Matt Griffin. clubs operating on campus. Member Student Affairs based in the Securityth1~ education procrss," Phelps said. "Cutting out "They were very receptive to it, but students need to travel to conventions, Building, where a staff member would extracurricular activities doesn't help." 
we expected them to be because this tournaments, meetings, service pro­coordinate use of 13-15 late-modelPolicymakers havr. long noted that the decrepit is such a cut-and-dried issue." jects, and social events throughout St. 15-passenger vans and three to fivestatus of some inner-city middle and high school When selecting a focus for its Jospeh's County and the greater minivans.
buildings results from property tax revenues that report. the Griffin!Nass administration Midwest, and the University has only As another part of the report'sarP lower in tlw cities than in suburban areas. 

wanted a concrete issue it could both 10 esc vans to meet those needs. 
Plwlps said that a "Christmas in June" program, in see BOARD I page 5
identify and otTer concise solutions to. These over-worked vans are not
which voluntePrs would spend a weekend every .June renovating schools, would be an ideal way to 
address that problem. 
"I want to try this in June," he said. 'This is some­

KeyBank adjusts campus machines 
thing the country should do. It's pathetic what these 
kids go through." 

By MICHELLE KRUPA deposit and transfer funds.
PhPlps said he plans to talk to Rotary clubs to 

Associ are News Editor The changes may require
push local busincssr.s to provide funding for the 
more machine maintenance,
program. 

After receiving many com­according to Baierl.
lie also noted that the problems of drugs have plaints from students and "When you go with the tens,spread from their urban origins. His schedule last merchants, KeyBank has it lowers the amount of trans­week included visits to schools in several rural implemented a system in actions that you can get. It willIndiana eommunities to talk about drug use. 

which $10 bills can be with­mean that we will have toPhelps coached at Notre Dame through the 1990­
drawn from the company's keep up with the stocking of
91 season and then served in former President ATM machines in LaFortune's the machines, but it shouldn'tBush's administration as the head of Operation basement. cause any interruption in ser­Weed and Seed, a grass-roots program aimed at "As of right now, they [the vice," Baier! said. 

wr.nding out the destructive elements in communi­ATM machines] are now dis­Overall, LaFortune mer­tics and then providing after-school activities and 

pensing tens and twenties," chants are pleased with the
mentor programs. Ile now regularly speaks to stu­

KeyBank public relations change.
dents about the dangers of drugs. 

manager Ken Baier! said. "I think it's a majorPhPlps was also on the Notre name eampus last The change required com­improvement, and I'm reallyweekend to promote "Basketball for Dummies." The puter software changes as happy with it. With break andbook includes chapters on setting up office pools for well as alterations in the phys­all, I haven't had the normalthe NCM tournament and some humorous advice ical structure of the machines. crowd so I'd need a week orfor parents interested in coaching youth basketball The renovated machines will so to see if the change reallyteams. 
also allow customers to buy affects business that much,"
"If your kid is playing basketball and you're inter­

postage stamps as well as
estpcJ:-in coaching, don't eoach your kid," he said. 

check account balances and
"Trade your kid instead." see ATM I page 5 



Tuesday, October 28, 1997

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COlUMN 




Free falling 
I must say I was a lit­tle disappointed that I Heather MacKenzie arrived back from fall Assistant News Editor 
break without visiting 
the ER at home one measly time; I guess I 
had a particularly klutz-free vacation. 
Now, I am willing to place a rather large 
wager on the assumption that most of you do 
not consider a ride in an ambulance a vaca­
tion highlight, but I have come to enjoy my 
rather frequent rendezvous with the doctor­
types. 
I mean. you get to wear an already air-con­
ditioned paper gown, people make you con­
tort your injured limbs into thousands of 
painful positions for X-rays, and they give 
you a FREE highly fashionable plastic 
bracelet! What could be more thrilling? 
Perhaps I should explain: you see, I am 
really good at falling. 
Falling up downward-moving escalators, 
falling down countless flights of stairs, falling 
off loft ladders, falling for the wrong guys 
and falling into bad situations have all added 
to the colorful trauma of my 20-year exis­
tence. 
Call me balance-inept, trippy, or just plain 
stupid: I have a penchant for clumsiness. 
Case in point: last fall break ended at the 
hospital. My family and I arrived at the Fox 
Theater in downtown Atlanta to take in a 
showing of the musical extravaganza "Beauty 
and the Beast." Being the dutiful daughter 
that I am, I offered to clear up some minor 
confusion concerning our seat assignments 
with the usher at the bottom of the balcony. 
As I began to gracefully descend the nar­
row staircase, I tripped and catapulted down 
the stairs in front of about 500 horrified peo­
ple. Fortunately, the rail around the orches­
tra pit (and the fact that I smashed into the 
aforementioned usher) quickly halted my 
acrobatics, and I gracefully re-climbed the 
stairs as if nothing had happened, deter­
mined to watch the damn musical before 
having my already-swelling arm X-rayed. But 
I'll always remember the fall, because it 
reminded me that I'm not always in control 
of myself., 
Obviously, my falls are not confined to 
physical calamities: it seems I fall in every 
aspect of my life. I fell into a major; I fell into 
journalism; I fell into Notre Dame. I fall into 
conversation and controversy; I fall into com­
mitments and care. I've found myself falling 
in love and then out again, and realized that 
clumsiness can affect the mind and the heart 
as well as the body. 
I've continuously lost my balance, and now 
it seems like I'm just waiting for something 
new to trip me up. And I always expect some­
one to be there to pick up the pieces, or to 
just congratulate me on my survival. It hurts 
so much more to fall alone. 
It gets to be exhausting, all this falling. 
Some of the falls are productive, if you learn 
how to develop yourself based on where you 
landed. Sometimes the falls are painful, and 
the bruises acquired from clawing your way 
out of whatever it is you have fallen into can 
be permanent. 
I used to think falling indicated a lack of 
leadership, an apathy toward life paths and 
future goals. 
But falling is a part of growing: the wisdom 
that comes from standing up again or the 
strength that is born from choosing to stay 
where you land are the true keys to success. 
Who can trust the person who never falls? 
What have they really learned about life? 
Have you fallen lately? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF 
News  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Pete Cilella  
Allison Koenig  
Sports  Production  
Kevin Robinson  Chris Uhart  
Viewpoint  Matt Loughran  
Dan McDonough  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Joe Stark  

Tuesdqy 54 37 Wednesday 52 33 Thursday 55 38 57 38 50 33 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Wall Street drop sparks decline in Hong Kong market 

Nixon taped plans to raid Archives 
NEW YORK 
Richard Nixon hoped to get dirt from secret archives that might darken the reputation of Franklin D. Roosevelt, according to White House tapes described today in Newsweek maga­zine. "We're gonna expose, God, Pearl Harbor," Nixon said, an apparent ref­erence to hoping to find documents showing the four-term Democratic 

president at fault for the naval fiasco that let the United States into World War II, Newsweek said in its issue out today. Newsweek said Nixon also was sure there was information damaging to John F. Kennedy about the Bay of Pigs and Cuban missile crisis and he proposed break­ing into the National Archives to get it. Much of' what Newsweek reports, including the proposed National Archives break-in and another plan by Nixon for a break-in at the Brookings Institution, was reported earli­er in the San Francisco Examiner. There was no known break-in at either institution. 
Man gets death in lesbians' killing 
MEDFORD, Ore. 
A former accountant who admitted killing a lesbian couple after they refused to give him money that he wanted to rekindle his relationship with a Las Vegas stripper was sentenced to death on Monday. Robert Acremant, 29, lured Hoxanne Ellis, 53, and Michelle Abdill, 42, to an apartment in December 1995 and tried to force them to write him $50,000 in checks from their property management business. When they refused, he bound and gagged them with duct tape and forced them to lie in the back of a pickup truck next to boxes containing a Christmas tree and a present for Ellis' granddaughter. Then he shot each twice in the head. The slayings sent a shudder through the gay community of southern Oregon. Partners for 12 years, Ellis and Abdill had worked for the defeat of a statewide measure to limit the rights of homosexuals and had cared for AIDS victims. Acremant pleaded guilty last year to two counts of aggravated murder. The jury took four hours Monday before unanimously sentencing him to death by injection. The defense hinged on the testimony of a psychologist who testified Acremant's life, built on hard work and achievement, descended into chaos. 
Surgeon accused of fondling patients 
LOS ANGELES 
The plastic surgeon who sculpted Michael Jackson's face and rejuvenated Elizabeth Taylor, Joan Rivers and Phyllis Diller is accused of disrobing, fondling and ridiculing anesthetized patients. The Medical Board of California said Monday it is investigating Dr. Steven Iloefflin. It received a telephone complaint in 1996 alleging that he used drugs and fondled and photographed patients ­many of them in the entertainment industry -while they were under anesthesia. Hoeff1in, 51, denied the accusa­tions and said they stemmed from infighting between him­self and two former partners, Drs. James Ilurvitz, 50, and Wallace Goodstein, 51. "I am appalled by these totally false and outrageous statements," Hoeff1in said Monday in a statement. "This story ... is old news and represents dis­gruntled individuals who in the past created false charges to hurt me." In an interview, Goodstein recalled that Hoefflin once "had a very prominent male star in the recovery room. He exposed the guy's genitals and made some comments." Goodstein said lloefflin set out to destroy his reputation by calling him mentally unstable. 
Occult killer handed life sentence 
VENTURA, Calif. 
The occult-driven grocery clerk who abducted and killed her lover's wife as a human sacrifice birthday gift should be imprisoned for life, jurors recommended Monday. Diana Jlaun, 36, cried when the same jury that convicted her of murdering Sherri Dally rejected a death-penalty verdict and voted instead for life in prison without possi­bility of parole. Superior Court Judge Frederick Jones set sentencing for Nov. 24. He is not bound by the jury's rec­ommendation. Deputy District Attorney Michael Frawley told jurors in his closing statement Friday that "a life sen­tence is too lenient" for the killer of the mother of two young boys. The prosecutor said Ms. Haun "has ice in her veins." Hahn's lawyers had asked jurors to spare her life, saying she had fallen under the spell of Michael Dally and was "overcome by obsessive love." "A person who never would have killed was manipulated into killing,'' Deputy Public Defender Susan Olson told jurors Friday. "That is what happened here." During the trial, prosecutors said Hahn followed occult practices and killed Mrs. Dally as a birthday gift for Dally. Mrs. Dally was kidnapped from a Target store parking Jot May 6, 1996, but her body wasn't found for nearly a month. She was stabbed and dumped in a remote area north of Ojai. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 28. 
',t·,,.._,./,_:,.....,..,.,..,.,.,..................,H L 

Pressure 
H L B 5SI [Til 0 [3] 8 i) ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORAfS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Atlanta 62 35 Helena 53 30 New Orleans 65 43 Baltimore 55 35 Honolulu 87 72 Pittsburgh 51 27
4,~,~96.}.8 {) ~ u Boston 54 43 Indianapolis 55 34 San Francisco 71 50 
Showers T-storms Rain F/u.rries snoW Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 54 34 Las Vegas 69 42 Seattle 54 41 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

~------~~------­
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT • CHEMICAL ENGINEERING 
Security reports calm week Grant will fund two 
By MICHELLE KRUPA most part, it was a really nice, ager Claire Myers said. Associate News Editor quiet break for those of us on "A lot of students left for the 

new CHEG courses 
campus," Hurley said. break, and they did their stan­
No serious incidents were He noted that crime was dard locking-up and securing reported over fall break to held to a minimum, even as of property before they left," Notre Dame Security/Police, two football weekends sand­she added. "We also have a according to ,------.., wiched the academic vacation. South Bend police officer liv­the depart­"Our staff got some paper ing on the property, and we ment's assis­work done, but as for new hire a security company when tant director, incidents, we didn't have a lot there's a home football week­c h u c k to deal with," Hurley said. end." Hurley. Off-campus crime was also Turtle Creek assistant man­
"It was a held to a minimum, according ager Marina Roberts noted a fairly quiet to managers at Campus View similar situation at her com­break, thank and Turtle Creek Apartments, plex. God. We're two facilities that house many "There were no crimes that still having Notre Dame and Saint Mary's we are aware of. We have a some prob-students. police officer who lives here lems with bicycle thefts and "We just didn't have any and keeps an eye on things," such on campus, but for the problems," Campus View man-she said. 


Today, Tuesday, October 28 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 

The Notre Dame African Students, Association 
Proudly Presents 
CHOCOLAT 
1989 105 min. A feature film by Clair Denis {Cameroon) 
A mesmerizing memoir of life in colonial Africa in the 1950s, seen through the unblinking eyes of the young daughter of a french official. Followed By a Panel Discussion on: "Colonialism Revisited: Impact on the Colonized and the Colonizer" 
1. 
Prof. Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Department, moderator 

2. 
Prof. Ann Loux, English Dept. Saint Mary's College 

3. 
Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafa, Economics Dept./IUSB 

4. 
Prof. Don Sniegowski, English Dept. 

5. 
George Mugwanya, Ph.D. Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights 

6. 
Kolawole Olaniyan, LLM Program, Center for Civil & Human Rights 


"France Dalens, a young woman, has returned to Cameroon to trace her past. Soon, the rush of sights, sounds, and smells sweep her back to her childhood, to a desolate land of harsh, haunting beauty. Then her only friend was Protee, the regal and handsome houseboy, who taught her the riddles of the stark landscape. Her father and beautiful young mother are as remotes as the natives young France spends time with. Stifling isolation, sexual frustration create an undercurrent of tension that threatens to explode as an assortment of Europeans with little past and less future pass through their sun-baked out­post. Visually breathtaking and emotionally haunting, this stubnning directoriak debut by Claire Denis presents a side of Mrica-and of youth-never before captured on film." 
• Wednesday, October 29 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Controlling pollution, cleaning up the environment and cutting­edge research will be highlight­ed in the undergraduate chemi­cal engineering curriculum with the help of a $350,000 grant from the National Science Foundation. 
The grant will be instrumental in developing two new courses that incorporate environmental concerns into chemical engi­neering and will also introduce fresh technology and research into already existing courses. 
"This new grant will support both research and teaching," said Joan Brennecke, a profes­sor of chemical engineering and a developer of new environmen­tal programs. "We will be able to teach undergraduates new and exciting stuff, bridging the gap between research and what is actually taught in the class­room." 
Brenneke, along with chemi­cal engineering professors Mark Stadtherr and Roger Schmitz and department head Mark McCready, will develop their program under the premise of understanding the impact of pol­lutant release on ecological sys­tems and pollution prevention. 
"The new program this grant will fund will solidify efforts in environmental research within the realm of chemical engineer­ing," McCready said. "Previously, individuals had been working on individual pro­jects. This is an experiment in collaborative efforts." 
t. 
· •·· ·c 
Like to Dance? 




TROOPND 
CLUB MEETING! 
TOMORROW NIGHT! 7:00PM at Montgomery Theatre in LaFun 
Strong friendships founded in Christ are forming. 
The Holy Spirit is empowering students to give their lives to God and to know him deeply. Students on both campuses are gathering daily for prayer and to share meals. 
Weekly, God is filling the Notre Dame room with his Spirit as students come together to praise and worship him. 
Morning prayer: ND 8:40 M-Fri. Keenan-Stw1ford Chapel 
Night Pra:yer: SMC 1 O:OOpm Sun. and Tues. Holy Cross Chapel, Mon., Wed., and Thurs. Regina Chapel 
Prayer Meetings: ND 7:30pm Fridays in LaFortune's ND room (secondj7oor) 

Part of the new program will be the introduction of new courses: Environmentally Conscious Chemical Process Design, which was offered last semester and will be taught again this upcoming spring, and Ecology and the Environment, which will be taught for the first time in the fall semester of 1998. 
"The idea here is learning how to prevent pollution," Brennecke stressed. "Chemical engineers can make a big difference in cut­ting down the amount of pollu­tion that is released into the nat­ural world. They can make a big difference." 
Along with the new courses, funding from the grant will help to update already existing cours­es and bring newer research into focus. 
"We will introduce more mod­ern and useful examples, but we can now also move outside tra­ditional chemical engineering," McCready explained. "You could say our focus will be on 'saving the world' examples instead of merely textbook models." 
"We want to integrate the new examples with the old ones," Brennecke added. 
According to Brennecke, the grant will also help the department of chemical engi­neering at Notre Dame pro­duce course materials for other universities who do not yet have environmental awareness programs. 
"The broadest impact we can have is to touch the next genera­tion of chemical engineers," McCready said. "We hope to make them more aware." 


-----~-~­

----------------~---­
page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 28, 1997 

+Campus Ministry This Week + 








OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 
Eucharistic Adoration 
From 11:30 p.m. on every Monday through 10:00 p.m. on Tuesday, there will be Eucharistic Adoration in Fisher Hall Chapel. Adoration begins after celebration of the 11:00 p.m. Mass and end with Benediction. Every Friday when the University is in session in the Basilica: Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament from 12:00 pm until5:00 pm. 

Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 
On Saturday, November 1st, the Folk Choir will offer its annual Concert for the Missions, "Song of the Saints," a program celebrating saints' lives through the year, at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Proceeds from this concert will be given to Holy Cross orphanages in Santiago, Chile. 

Freshmen Retreat #13, Nov.7-8 
Application forms for the retreat for residents of Badin, Keenan, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Siegfried, Walsh and Zahm are available through the rectors and at Campus Ministry at 103 Hesburgh Library. Deadline: October 30. Don't miss the sign-up! 

Natural Family Planning 
On Thursday, October 30, at 6:30-8:00 pm, at the Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune, the natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County is presenting a night of introductory information on the Ovulation and Sumpto-thermal Methods. This program is open to all staff and students. Starting Thrusday, November 13, NFP will conduct an instructional6-part class series for engaged and married couples. The fee is $125, including materials. Financial aid is available. To register: Call the NFP Office at 237-7405. 

Small Faith Sharing Groups 
At the beginning of the semester, many students signed-up to express their interest in belonging to a Small Faith-Sharing Group and/or to participate in a student-led Bible Study Group. We are now ready to gather together all interested students to talk about a Campus Ministry vision for Small Faith-Sharing/Bible Study Groups and to hear from you about what your hopes and needs are. Please join us for a pizza dinner and listening session on November 9 from 5:00-7:00P.M. in Walsh Hall's basement social space. We need a head-count for dinner so please R.S.V.P. at 631-5242 and ask for Kate, John, or Sylvia. 

University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students who are interested in doing some volunteer work at University Village, the Married Student HousingComplex on campus. Students are needed to volunteer in a "Mother's Time-Out" program that meets in the community center on Wednesdays from 9:00A.M.-11:30 A.M. This ministry would entail working with two mother's to plan activities and games for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. "Mother's Time-Out" will not meet during breaks or vacation periods. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 

COBA hosts family talk 
Board 

found that "on average, one­fourth of clubs' planned activities have had to be canceled because of lack of transportation." Also included in the report: 20 percent of clubs use the esc vans, 38 per­cent instead use rental vehicles, and 86 percent resort to using private vehicles, a practice which raises liability concerns. 
Despite the well-supported call for a transportation pool, improvements could still be a couple of years in the future. Because the trustees are largely an advisory body concerned with directional issues, they cannot immediately pioneer change. 
"But they do have the influence to tell the proper offices what they want to see happen," said student body vice president Erek Nass. 
"They asked good questions concerning the logistics of our proposal, so I could tell they were paying attention," he added. 
Student government's BOT Report Committee's next task, under the direction of the Board of Trustees, is to assemble specif­ic costs for its proposal and assemble a "more substantial financial performance," Beirne said. The committee will then report to the Office of Student Affairs to work toward imple­menting improvements. 
Observer Staff Report 
In honor of the 25th year of co-education at Notre Dame, the College of Business Administration Diversity Program is sponsoring a panel discussion about the pressures of balancing a family and career. 
The talk, "Maintaining a Balance: Family, Career, and Community," is at 4:30 p.m. today in COBA's Jordan Auditorium. 
Among the panelists are Muffet McGraw, head coach of the women's basketball team; Laura and Gabriel Radvansky, professors of psychology; Stephanie Jones, a former cor­porate vice president; and Debera Wells, a first-year MBA student. 
"With the increasing demands placed upon us by career, fami­ly, and community, it is some­times difficult to maintain a bal­ance," Jannifer Crittendon, a counselor in COBA, said. "While you may not be experiencing this tug of war on your time now, you definitely will once you enter the workforce." 
The discussion is free and open to the public. 
\\'

.,\\arrtott 
___..__,.................................... 
HOTElS· RESORTS· SUITES 
The Marriott Hotel Downtown, the premiere customer service provider in the Michiana area, is actively pursuing friendly, outgoing people. Apply today if you are interested in: Flexible, part-time, & full-time jobs, ideal for college students. Competitive pay, Medical, Dental, Vacation, and Retirement Benefits. EEO/AA/M/FIVID 
continued from page 1 

emphasis on hard data, a sam­pling of peer institutions' services gave the trustees a comparative look at Notre Dame's transporta­tion services. Duke University, for example, has a 68-vehicle trans­portation pool and the University of Michigan has 175 vehicles for student group use. In fact, of the 25 schools surveyed, only one shares Notre Dame's status in not having an organized motor pool. 
Surveys of campus club leaders included in the trustees report 
DOW 
continued from page 1 

was susceptible to anything neg­ative," said S&P's Kaufman, asserting that a stream of weak earnings reports or a jump in interest rates could have set off a steep decline just as easily. "The Southeast Asia crisis is just a trigger. Something would have come along at some point. This is what came along." 
Stocks started the day lower as another sharp selloff in Hong Kong triggered another wave of selling in financial markets around the globe, but the selling didn't pick up steam in the United States until Monday afternoon. The Dow, for exam­ple, was down just 115 points at midday. • 
Later in the day, Asian stock markets got off to another rocky start. Tokyo's Nikkei Stock Average tumbled 423.77 points, or 2.5 percent, to 16,614.59 points after the first hour of trading Tuesday. It was the low­est level so far this year for the benchmark indicator of 225 blue chip stocks. 
The mounting financial crisis in .Hong Kong has ignited fears about whether global business conditions will be undermined by Southeast Asia's shaky eco­nomics, where mounting trade deficits have sent interest rates soaring and local currencies plunging. 
But with corporate profits still beating Wall Street forecasts and the U.S. outlook on inflation and interest rates remaining favorable, many analysts con­cluded that the stock market had taken a turn for the better with this sharp pullback. 
"There was no margin for error" at the market's histori­cally high valuations, said Larry Rice, chief investment officer at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross. "It's very healthy to shake some of this out. We have a very sound economy here. We're going to survive." 
And once again, analysts stressed that although plenty of 
U.S. companies do business in Asia, this nation's financial health is only slightly dependent on the fortunes of Southeast Asia. 
ATM 
continued from page 1 

said Rose Horak, owner of the Country HalVester. 
University Hairstylist employee Diane Hixenbaugh agreed, but does not think it will affect her business drasti­cally. 
"It's going to help the process of making change. It's still not going to affect us so much though, because we make change in a lot of tens and ones," she said. 
Baier! noted that the change ultimately came in response to bank customers' requests, and he hopes that the new service will fulfill their needs. 
"They [customers] had some legitimate concerns, and we listened to them and got the problem fixed," he said. 

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN A CAREER ON 




WALL STREET? 
Come find out about 
''Life on the Street'' 
and how to get there! Commercial Banking • Investment Banking • Asset Management Executives from 
Chase Manhattan • Credit Suisse/First Boston Goldman Sachs • Lehman Brothers • Merrill Lynch Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Robert Baird • Salomon Smith Barney • T. Rowe Price 

Who: 

All Majors & Classes Welcome 

When: 
Friday, October 31, 1997 • 10:00 a.m.-3:30p.m. 

Where: 
Jordan Auditorium-College of Business Administration 
For further information contact: 
Prof. John Affleck-Graves 631-6370 • affleck-graves.1 @nd.edu Students may submit resumes to COBA 102 by October 30 for inclusion in the Wall Street Resume Book 

------------------------------------~----~---------------~----------~----------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 


VIEWPOINT 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY

• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor....... . ...... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager... . ............ ] ed Peters Viewpoint Editor.. . ............ Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .... Jennifer Breslow 
Sports Editor....... . ....... Mike Day Production Manager ....................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager..... . ............. Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller .......................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Obs~r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Nobody's Laughing 
Dear Mr. Caruso: 
I just finished reading your column in today's Observer and I must say I am shocked. What the Stanford Band did was by no stretch of the imaginination "sophmoric humor," but outright racism and religious intolerance. You maintain those offended by Stanford's band calling the Irish "stinking drunks" and then mock­ing the potato famine are overreacting. 
Imagine, if you will, if the University of Notre Dame played Illinois, who proudly calls their sports teams the Illini, after an Indian Tribe. The Notre Dame Band does a skit in which they call the Illini "stinking drunks" (American Indians have an alarmingly high rate of alcoholism) and then make fun of the "Trail of Tears," one of the worst incidents in the history of the American Indians. 
Or what if Notre Dame played Grambling, an all black school, and called them "a bunch of crack heads" and then made fun of the slave trade, probably the worst incident in their history. 
Or instead, what if we played a school from Long Island, known for their high Jewish population, and made fun of the Holocaust. Would you be defending the actions of the Notre Dame Band as "sophmoric antics"? 
I highly doubt it. You, and every liberal in the country, would be denouncing the actions of the band as racist and typical of the tyranical Catholic Church. The lead story on every national new­cast would be about the actions of the oppressive University. Radio talk shows around the country would be flooded with calls about the incident. 
The NAACP and the ACLU would be screaming bloody murder. But when the situation is turned around, when Notre Dame, Irish people, and Roman Catholics are the butt of others' hate and racism, we can laugh it off, right Mr. Caruso? 
We can say that the Irish Catholics are "overly sensitive" and have "no sense of humor." In the eyes of you, Mr. Caruso, and people like you, it is only racism if it happens to someone who's origins are not European, and only religious hatred if it happens to someone who isn't Catholic. You should be ashamed. 
Joseph F. A. Lombard Junior September 20, 1997 
YOtJ HAVW7HeAI?I?? THe!N­aJMIMS aA9.7HA!? 0NtYONe BtACK 5T/Ja:NT01/TOr/4 APM!Trl31?/ TH8' Y/i.4R!Jff(F£ BOAt-TAllMITTW 75 /JI.AC/<'3/ 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 

VIDEO 

G.Re4TMe95A~HtJH!? 
ANI?HOWAR& lHOS/3 7!:i 9JPPOSU?70F£a-NOW A80l/TE!i31NGAP­M!Tlli/??HCWAM :I 5i{jf'f'()Gt3/? 70 / f=&et-'2' 
Okay, I pay $25,000 a year to attend one of the best universities in the nation. What do I expect for my $25,000? Well, for starters, I expect pro­fessors who are not just knowledgeable in their fields of expertise. I expect professors who know how to handle themselves in society in general. 
Well, I'm sure I'm not the only one to notice this, but too many professors at this university don't handle themselves well in public. Above all, they don't understand the fact that being highly intelligent is not an excuse for being as anti-social as Ted Bundy and as cold as Leona Helmsly. Please don't misunderstand me. I've had more good experiences with professors than bad, but that isn't good enough. 
You see, this is the student's sehoul. The class­
VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 page 7 
• ALL ABOUT You 
Beanie Baby 
Addiction Strikes 

B8anie babies. They are everywhere. For so long I had managed to escape the madness. I never owned one, or understood their appeal, until now. 
I went.to Disney World over fall break. I don't know what happened to mP. I hopped onto the plane a sane person, but sometime between then and the plane ride home. I became obsessed. The day we checked into our hotel. my mom saw a beanie baby in the lobby gift shop. 
Bridget Rzezutko 

"That is so cute. Do you want it? I'll get it for you," she said to me. Of' !'.nurse I wantnd it! I am not one to pass up anything for free. 
i\nd that was it. I got my first beanie baby. He is a leopard named Frer.kles and is quite adorable, but I wasn't hooked yet. I was still able to pass these things up. 
Tlw next day while wondering through MGM, my family and I spot­tnd more beanie babies. But this time, they were Disney beanie babins. "Oh. wp're getting this for you, Bridget. It is so you," my 

mother told me as she paid the cashier. "Thanks," I said mumbling, as she handed me the beanie baby of the Seven Dwarfs that I can relate to-Grumpy. I was truly touched by her thoughtfulness. 
However, the purchasing of beanie babies did not stop there. It turned into a vicious cycle. Anywhere we turned there were more and more beanie babies, and both my mom and I were ready to dish out cash for them. 
I got an Eeyore beanie baby. But I couldn't just take home Eeyore and not his other friends from the Hundred Acre Woods. So Winnie the Pooh, Piglet, and Tigger made it home in my now stuffed shopping bag. · 
I got a sea turtle beanie baby from the Rainforest Cafe, but that one makes a little more sense. I actually like turtles. I collect turtle para­phernalia. What doesn't make any sense is why I ended up with a Flounder beanie baby. That was an impulse. When I saw it I just had to have it. 
Now I am in trouble, though. Forever I had ripped on these crazy people who had to have beanie babies. They stand in line and try to beat other people to the racks first. They buy the beanie babies in bunches hoping they will become retired and worth money someday. Please! These are $5 toys that can be worth up to $2,000 in the case of the blue elephant beanie baby. Why would someone pay this much l'or something that is clearly only a fad and has very little potential for staying a high price item? 
My good friend has about a hundred of these things. Although I love her dearly I had always ripped on her for having them. Last year she dragged me to every McDonald's within a twenty mile radius in order to collect all of the beanie babies that were included inside of the happy Meals. I ate so many cheeseburger Happy Meals that even today the thought of one makes me sick. 
My aunt is obsessed with these things, too. She made my mom travel with her early one morning to meet with a McDonald's employee in the back of the parking lot, before the store even opened, in order to get the beanie babies she was missing from her collection for her three children. I guess you could say those beanie babies were hot and came from the bla'ck market. 
Did you know that the beanie babies that are worth money, if their tag is bent or ripped in anyway, their value immediately decreases? They are worth anywhere from half price to nothing. How can you enjoy these objects if you have to worry about the tag being bent? 
Or more importantly, how can you enjoy these toys if you keep them locked away so they don't get ripped, or dirty, in the hopes that one day it will be worth money? 
Sure these things are cute. I might even check out what other ones arc available. But I don't care if mine are ever economically worth money. I don't care because they are worth something to me. 
Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at Rzez1904@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• SHADES OF GRAY 
A Call'to (Affirmative) Action 
America likes its movies loud and its food fast. It likes headlines and buzz-words. 
Mostly, though, it likes itself. It likes to like itself. America likes results, and, at least superficially, it gets them. 
But Americans are in denial. We've been unable to transcend racism and other shame­ful legacies because we're unwilling to con­front them. We ignore unpleasant facts and glorify the "success" of shallow responses. Still, under layers of politically correct lan­guage, America remains a country where race matters. 
Across the nation. affirmative action pro­grams for blacks, Hispanics, Asians and American Indians are under attack. Last year, Hopwood became the longest four-letter word in Texas when the case by that name banned the race-based admissions process at the University of Texas law school. And the California radical initiative of the year award went to Proposition 209, which eliminated most forms of "preferential treatment" on the basis of race. 
Isaac Ruiz 


The Hopwood co11rt said that there is only one justification for racial classifications: remedying past wrongs (i.e., if you missed out on institutionalized segregation, you're out of luck). 
The court was right-we must right the wrongs of yesterday. But the wrongs of today are equally compelling. The truth is that inner-city students and the children of migrant farmworkers don't get the same edu­cation that most white students get in public schools. 
And if you think our country has rid itself of racism and discrimination, you are mistaken. In 1995, Pennsylvania documented 64 exist­ing white supremacist groups in that state alone. In the same year, data showed that 96 percent of all government contracts went to white males. 
For those who suffer from "reverse discrim­ination," my question is, how big a piece of the American pie do you want? The rest of us are hungry. 
A study reported in The National Law Journal earlier this year found that if law schools around the country selected appli­cants based on race-neutral LSAT scores and GPAs, only three percent of black applicants would be accepted (down from 26 percent). The percentage of successful white applica­tions would remain at 26 percent. 
So, how do we step out from under the shadow of Hopwood? At UT law school, the focus has shifted from race to the more palat­able idea of socioeconomic status. The bad news is that like many things that are politi­cally correct, this idea is strikingly incorrect. 
People aren't black because they're poor. All too often, they're poor because they're black. We didn't hear secret recordings of Texaco executives demeaning poor people; we heard them demean minorities. Now, if discrimination based on race is what we're battling, why should our focus shift to socioe­conomic status? 
Besides, it's unclear whether this kind of affirmative action would achieve the desired results. Because the poorest minority candi­dates have the lowest combined GPA and LSAT scores, the group of minority students admitted this way would be "significantly" less qualified than under race-based affirma­tive action. 
The numbers show that the old system of race-based preferences works. Minority law students pass the bar exam at credible rates, and a study published this month in the Journal of the American Medical Association found that students receiving admissions preferences graduated at the same high rates and had similar career paths as their white medical school counterparts. 
Of course, affirmative action based on race is not a complete solution to America's racist legacy. Our goal should be to create inner­city and rural schools that our politicians would be willing to send their children to. Until then, race-based affirmative action won't be a necessary evil. It will just be nec­essary. 
It is true that some white males have been hurt by affirmative action. This is accept­able, for now. Our nation isn't colorblind, and, in a sense, neither is our Constitution. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall once said, "There's not a white man in this country who can say, 'I never benefited by being white.' There's not a white man in the country who can say it." 
I concur. 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law student. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


;ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, October 28. 1997 

The CSC's Appalachia Seminar gets st': the country. Through working, playin! the people of Appalachia, students a' 

Peace a1
I 
a Darn 

I
By MARY MARGARET NUSSBAUM 

I 
Assistant Accent Editor 

T
he Indigo G: I 
get out of l 
nail I Learn just my head I I,ll' know a re.fuge nee hand and a thout earth ifyou want ( 
dents are doing Concern's Appalachia SE of books and overflowin 
bial hammer and headi 
ing, they are learning b During their week of s volunteer at a house for garden, visit someone' build a house, read wit clinic. Last week 17 Seminar. They brough his­
"[This week]· exceeded Farm in Hinton, West Vi convicts from Washingto of us went. Some of us renovated a room in a c Some of us did chores ar They [the homeless me One night we played a Another night we had a night we had a little dan them having a good time 
It really was· a fantasti Catholic Worker's Farm] helps one person it is wo everything into perspectivE 
· we deal with here like hon son to the problems of th~ were really appreciative whole experience." 
The Appalachia Seminar take Required orientation classes and nars goals. The seminar counts as 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Healthy defense proves to be critical for Irish 
By MIKE DAY The decision paid off. On the game's this season, the Notre Sports Editor opening possession, safety Benny Dame offense took Guilbeaux helped the Irish get off on the advantage of the defen­
The flip of the coin turned up just the right foot, intercepting a Matt llasselbeck sive effort, rolling up 28 way he wanted. And given the opportu­pass on just the third play of the game. points before the game nity, head coach Bob Davie made a deci­"We felt like we needed to go out there was 20 minutes old. sion that helped set the tone for things to and kind of set the tone," said Guilbeaux. "I think the defense come on Saturday afternoon at Notre "The interception gave us momentum, going out and taking Dame Stadium. and the offense took advantage. It's charge early was a key 
Davie instructed captains Ron Pbwlus, always nice to get oil' to a good start." part of the game," said Allen Hossum, and Melvin Dansby to An opportunistic Notre Dame offense Davie. defer and receive the football in the sec­took advantage of the good field position A week ago against ond half. He decided not to start the and scored less than two minutes later. Miami, the Eagles rolled game on offense, opting instead to open "Every time we stopped them, it up a whopping 360 yards up things with his defense going head to seemed the offense was there ready to on the ground in a 42-41 head against Boston College. capitalize," said linebacker Kory Minor. loss to the Hurricanes. 
"We felt like we had improved on With momentum on its side, the However, the Notre defense and wanted to go out there first defense followed up its strong start by Dame defense prepared for that mason," said Davie. "It was the forcing four consecutive Boston College all week to stop the run first time since the Georgia Tech game punts. In the first quarter, the Irish limit­and were successful, lim­that we have had all 11 players healthy. ed the Eagle offense to just 24 yards on iting BC to just 83 yards We also wanted to give ourselves more 15 plays. rushing. possessions in the second half." Meanwhile, for one of the few times "We decided this week 
that we needed to stop the run to have the best chance of beating them," said defensive coordina­tor Greg Mattison. "We didn't play as well against the pass as we 
LB Kory Minor and the Irish put the clamps on the Eagle run­needed to, but our ability ning attack, limiting them to 83 yards on the ground. to stop the run played a 
Despite the second half turnaround, itbig impact in the result of the game." 

turned out to be a case of too little, tooWith a 28-0 lead against a Boston late for the Eagle offense. After BostonCollege unit trying desperately to pass College closed the gap to 31-1 7 late initself off as an offense, the Irish defense the third quarter, the Irish defense finally could afford to let its guard down -and found its way out of the locker room and

it did. 
"declawed" the Eagle offense. 

Boston College head coach Tom A solid fourth quarter from the defense O'Brien decided to abandon an ineffec­enabled the Irish offense to put the gametive running game and allow the experi­away, scoring 21 points in the final 15enced Hasselbeck to take his chances minutes to close out a 52-20 victory. 
with the Irish secondary. 
"The offense and defense did a goodIn the second half. Hasselbeck respond­job of complementing one another anded by completing 17 of 22 passes for 178 playing well at the same times," saidyards, including a school-record 14 in a Minor. "When we are clicking like the 

row at one point. -· 
way we were in the first half, we are a"I thought he had a good game," said a tough football team to beat."

dejected O'Brien. "Maybe we should
Despite giving up 277 yards passing to Boston College quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, To think, it all started out with just a
have thrown the ball from the start." 
the Irish secondary did record three sacks and an interception on the afternoon. flip of the coin. 



Insight 
continued from page 1 

• STATISTICALLY SPEAI\!NG 
1st Boston College 0 Notre Dame 14  2nd 7 14  3rd 10 3  4th 3 21  Final 20 52  
First downs Rushed-yards Passing yards Sacked-yards lost Return yards Passes Punts Penalties-yards Time of possession  BC 19 32-83 277 3-20 16 23-33-1 7-40.9 10-95 30:24  NO 29 48-203 323 2-14 33 21-35-0 3-44.7 6-61 29:36  
Individual Statistics  

RUSHING: Boston College-Cloud 8-39, 0. Walker 12-33, Hemmert 3-12, Chamberlin 1-1, M. Hasselbeck 8-minus 2. Notre Dame-Denson 18-81, Stokes 13-50, Barry 5-41, Driver 4­24, Jackson 4-16, Spencer 1-1, Powlus 3-minus 10. 
PASSING: Boston College-M Hasselbeck 23-33-1-277. Notre Dame-Powlus 18-31-0-267, Jackson 3-4-0-56. 
RECEIVING: Boston College-Pollack 5-69, Dragos 4-42, DiCosmo 2-40, Crittenden 2-34, Guazzo 2-31, Hemmert 2-8, 0. Walker 2-6, Tardio 1-24, J Walker 1-10, Chamberlin 1-7, Cloud 1-6. Notre Dame-Nelson 6-110, Getherall 3-46, Brown 3-31, Denson 3-5, Holloway 2-48, M. Johnson 2-40, J. Johnson 1-32, Barry 1­11. 
Att: 80,225 
and a look of intensity that takes over the field, like the Irish did against Pittsburgh and Boston College. 
However, with eight games behind them and only four left, the Irish seem to have found a balance in the team's split personality, and although its evil side is still able to peak out from time to time, the good side appears to becoming stronger and stronger. 
But then again, "two-faced" seems to be a widely­accepted theme of Notre Dame football this season. From its fans to the team itself, Notre Dame football seems to have been at war within itself throughout the season. 
There have always existed two components to Notre Dame football in any given season -the actual team on the field and the aura that sur­rounds it. Within that aura lies the history that backs up the team and the fans that support the team. 
This year, those two components have not been on the same plane. As Davie said after the USC game, "When you play at home, you would like to have your fans behind you. We would have liked to have had the momentum of the fans, especially when we were tied in the fourth quarter, behind us." 
It's hard to tell among 80,000 fans exactly who is booing -whether they are students, alumni, or subway alumni -but one thing is for sure, there was definitely not enough noise elsewhere to drown it out. 
So I guess the team is left doing things on its own. But as shown by its performance after a week with­out dining hall insults and classroom criticism, it seems to be the way it likes it. 
And if it can settle its own internal struggle and decide which face it's going to put on against Navy on Saturday, this season might not be as long as everybody thinks. 
Next up for Notre Dame: Navy 
The Midshipmen have not played since defeating Division I-AA Virginia Military 42-7 on Oct. 18. "It's definitely going to be an intense couple of weeks getting ready for Notre Dame," said quarterback Chris McCoy. "We should be really hyped up after spending so much time getting ready for them." 
McCoy, a pre-season Heisman Trophy candidate, has completed 36 of 84 passes for 583 yards anq four touchdowns this season. Meanwhile, the Midshipmen defense ranks eighth nationally in total defense, giving up just 277.5 yards per game. 
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 

1. Nebraska (35) 7-0 1704 1 2. Penn St. (25) 6-0 1665 2 3. Florida St. (8) 7-0 1629 3 4. Michigan 7-0 1514 5 5. North Carolina 7-0 1507 4 6. Florida 6-1 1400 6 7. Washington 6-1 1281 7 8. Tennessee 5-1 1245 8 9. Ohio St. 7-1 1233 9 10. Washington St. 7-0 1143 10 11. Auburn 7-1 1049 11 12. UCLA 6-2 942 13 13. Kansas St. 6-1 894 14 14. Georgia 6-1 789 16 15. Iowa 5-2 727 18 16. LSU 5-2 714 17 17. West Virginia 6-1 579 21 18. Purdue 6-1 522 22 19. Oklahoma St. 6-1 463 12 20. Arizona St. 5-2 444 23 21. Michigan St. 5-2 405 15 22. Toledo 7-0 290 24 23. Virginia Tech 5-2 124 19 
24. So. Mississippi 5-2 64 NR 25. Texas A&M 5-2 55 20 
Others Receiving Votes Colorado 50, Wisconsin 48, Georgia Tech 47, Rice 42, Ohio 32, BYU 26, Syracuse 23, Colorado St. 17, Missouri 14,Texas Tech 7, Cincinnati 6, Air Force 5, Miami (OH) 5, Alabama 4, Clemson 3, Southern Cal 2, Utah 2, Louisiana Tech 1, Mississippi 1. 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
1st Quarter Notre Dame-Driver 1 yard run (kick failed), 3:00 Notre Dame-M Johnson 4 yard pass from Powlus (Holloway reception for two­point conversion), 6:42 
2nd Quarter Notre Dame-Jackson 3 yard run (Cengia kick), 1:27 Notre Dame-Denson 8 yard run (Cengia kick),4:51 Boston College-DiCosmo 27 yard pass from Hasselbeck (Matich kick), 13:40 
3rd Quarter 

Boston College-FG Matich 27 yards, 5:46 
Notre Dame-FG Cengia 20 yards, 10:53 
Boston College-Hemmer! 1 yard run (Matich kick). 12:59 
4th Quarter 

Notre Dame-Brown 10 yard pass from Powlus (Cengia kick), 1:16 
Boston College-FG Matich 37 yards, 4:46 
Notre Dame-Rossum 80 yard kickoff return (Cengia kick), 5:04 
Notre Dame-Jackson 2 yard run (Cengia kick), 14:27 

The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 1997 
The Obse!Ver/Brandon Candura 

Tailback Autry Denson failed to gain 100 yards on Saturday but still tallied 81 yards on 18 carries and extended the Irish lead to 28-0 on an 8-yard score in the second quarter . 
-... 

• GAME NOTES & GUOTES Game notes: 
Unlikely unranked: Saturday's game was the first time in the nine­game series between Notre Dame and Boston College that both teams have entered the game unrankcd. The Irish have been ranked in thP last live meetings, and seven of the previous eight. 
Series streak: Notre Dame now leads the series 7-2, with a three­game winning streak. 
Null and void: Up until Eagles' final drive of the first half, their o!Tense totaled 67 yards and 65 yards in penalties. 
Happy at halftime: The 28 points scored in the first half for the Irish arc the most scored by halftime since last season's game against Rutgers in which they scored 35. 
Action Jackson: Jarious Jackson's 17-yard completion to to Joey Getherall in the first quarter was his first completPd pass of the season. 
Out of the blocks with a bang: The Irish have scored a touchdown in each of their first drives in the last three games. Against Pittsburgh, Allen Hossum returned the opening kickoff for a touchdown. Against USC, Rossum 's 40-yard kickoff return set up a two-yard touchdown run by Autry Denson. Against Boston College, Benny Guilbeaux's intercep­tion set up a one-yard Tony Driver touchdown. 
Awaited interception: Guilbeaux's interception on the first drive of the game was the first Irish interception in four games. The last one was by Kory Minor against Michigan State. 
Upped average: The Irish offense entered Saturday's game averaging just over 11 points in the first half in its last sevfln games. It nearly tripled its average with 28 first-half points against the Eagles. 
Primed passing: Notre Dame's 323 passing yards were the most since Hick Mirer, Kevin McDougal, and Paul Failla eombined for 331 passing yards against Michigan State in 1992. 
Awesome Russum: Allen Hossum's 1m-yard kickolT n~turn tied an NCAA record of eight for most career returns for touchdowns. Hossum has returned three punts. three kickoffs, and two interceptions for touch­downs. 
Powerful Powlus: Hon Powlus' 153 completions through seven games leave him two short of Joe Theismann's single-season record for completions set in 1970. With 236 attempts, he is also very close to breaking Theismann's single-season attempts record of 268. 
Driving Denson: Autry Denson is just 44 yards short of third place on the Irish carrer rushing list with 2,638 yards. 
Game quotes: 
Jarious Jackson. on the execution of the quarterback draw for a touch­down in the second quartt~r. "I gave a couple of dummy calls to thr receivers, took one step and turned it up the middle. I could've drove a Mack truck through the hole the line opened up." 
Bob Davie on thf~ emergenee of Raki Nelson as a big-play receiver, "I think he's another guy that has a real good attitude. Bobby Brown, Malcolm Johnson and even Joey Getherall got a lot of attention early in the year. And it's kind of like Clem Stokes too. Those kids persevered through that, and I think because. of it they are stronger." 
Davie on Hon Powlus' response to Jarious Jackson's increase in playing time: "He's competitive. He came out with the fire in his eyes all week in practice, and he played good. He responded the way you're supposed to respond when you're challenged." 
Ron Powlus on being taken out of the game: "I don't like to come out of a game, but it's a decision that was made. I have to deal with it. It's tough to be on the sidelines when the offense is on the field, but I'm happy for Jarious." 



---·---~~­
Football 
1997 
Key Stat 
Eight different receivers caught passes on Saturday as thelrishrolled up a sea• son-best 526 total yards. 

Shooting down the Eagles 
.. 
For the first time this year, the Irish earn ·;;r~ 
high grades on offense, defense, and ~ special teams. 
see page 2 


Pow/us, Jackson lead 28-point sprint as Irish dominate Eagles 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Editor-in-Chief 
As a 2-5 team coming off a loss to Southern Cal and facing a weeklong dis­trac.tion over the question of who should play at quarterback, the Notre Dame Fighting Irish entered Saturday's game against the Boston College Eagles looking to regain some pride. 
Consider mission accomplished. 
The Irish, on the strength of Ron Powlus' passing, Jarious Jackson's rush­ing, and Raki Nelson's receiving, scored 28 straight points within the first 20 min­utes of the game en route to a 52-20 vic­tory at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"This is a big, big win for us," Irish head coach Bob Davie said of his team, now 3-5. "This was all about pride." 
Powlus, heavily criticized after the loss to Southern Cal, put to rest any questions that he might be replaced as the starting quarterback by turning in an 18-for-31, 267-yard performance. 
The fifth-year senior was effective when rolling out of the pocket to com­plete short passes, and also found receivers on deep post patterns several times, including a season-best 44-yard completion to Nelson in the third quar­
ter. Davie had high praise for Powlus after the game. 
"I thought Ron Powlus played extreme­ly well," Davie said. "Ron Powlus is a competitor. He wouldn't have played as well as he-played today if he wasn't. 
"He responded the way you're sup­posed to respond to a challenge." 
Powlus downplayed any notion of a quarterback debate between him and Jackson. 
"There's no controversy," Powlus said. "I was in a situation where I wanted to play a good game and I needed to play a good game. 
"I don't like coming out of the game, but it's the coach's decision and you have to respect that." 
Davie attributed the Irish passing attack's ability to go downfield more on Saturday than in previous games to advantages that Irish receivers had over the Eagles' cornerbacks. 
"We matched up pretty well against BC's secondary," he said. "We were able to get into specific [routes] that worked out well for us." 
But Jackson also strengthened his case 
see BLOWOUT I page 2 

• 

Fall.break proves to be just what the doctor ordered 
N
o one appreciated fall break more so ferent team showed up to face Boston than the Notre Dame students them­College than the one we saw just a week selves. Except maybe the football team. before. It has been a continual mystery After a devastating 20-17 loss to USC throughout the season -which Notre 
last week, it would have been difficult for Dame team will show up? 
any member of the team to show his face Will it be the one who ran over the 
on campus. Not only r------­number one defense in the nation in the 
because of the obvious f.irst half against Michigan or the one who 
disappointment seen single-handedly shot itself in the foot in 
in their faces after the the second half? 
loss to the Trojans, but Will it be the one who allowed 
also because of the Stanford's offense to have two running 
anger and frustration backs collect over 100 yards each, or the 
that head coach Bob one that turned around and did the same 
Davie expressed with thing to Pittsburgh, with Autry Denson 
the fourth-quarter and Clement Stokes combining for 237 
booing that has yards, the next week? 
become as Maybe its not actually two teams. 
omnipresent at Notre Maybe its just one team with two faces. 
Dame football games as plaid pants and On one face, there exist the insecure and 
drunk freshmen. tentative eyes of a team that has been 
However, by the hand of fate and a little desperately groping for some kind of 
bit of lucky planning by the University, rhythm and consistency in its play, and 
the Irish were able to have a week of allows itself to be bullied by teams like 
silence -aside from a few local and Michigan State and Michigan. On the 
national jeers -to regroup. other face, there is a smirk of confidence 
And regroup they did. 

Once again, it appears as though a dif­
see INSIGHT I page 3 

page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 28, 1997 
New weapons add needed spark 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer  the challenge to spark the offense, turning in their best per­ Brown. Powlus' single-season completion total now stands just  
formances of the year.  two  shy  of  the  155 Joe  
All eyes were on the Notre Dame ofl"cnse against the Eagles of Boston College on Saturday. How would Hon Powlus and  They combined for 32:1 pass­ing yards, the highest total since 1992 when Kevin McDougal, Hick Mirer and Paul Failla com­ Theism ann eolleetml in I 970. "I thought Hon Powlus played extremely well," said Davie fol­lowing the game. "When we're  
Jarious Jackson respond to Bob Davie's decision to give Jackson more playing time? Would the team's third quarter scoring woes continue to haunt  bined for 331 yards in tlw air in a 52-31 Irish win over Michigan State. Powlus completed 18 passes for 26 7 yards, distributing the  able to get the ball down the field and make some big plays, we're a good offensive football team." Nelson, who led the receiving  
the Irish?  ball to a wealth of receivers,  corps with 110 yards, picked up  
Davie's attempts to dismiss the quarterback platoon as "hype"  including a spectacular 44-yard toss to rising star Haki Nelson  the slack when Johnson went down with an ankle injury, and  
were certainly right on target, as Powlus and Jackson accepted  and touchdown passes to Malcolm Johnson and Bobby  Brown, Getherall and even tight end Jabari Holloway consistently beat Boston College's coverage,  
making big plays after catching  
the ball.  
"(The defense) was playing us  
man-to-man, and we'd been  
practicing all week that if they  
play us that way we should go  
deep, and Hon would throw the  
post," said Nelson.  
And just as planned, .Jackson  
came  in  to  provide another  
option when the olltmse became  
bogged down. Seeing his first  
extensive action of the year, the  
junior finished the day with four  
carries for 16 yards and two touchdowns, and he completed his first pass of the season en  The Observer/Brandon Candura Quarterback Jarious Jackson provided a spark off the bench, rushing for two touchdowns while completing 3 of 4 passes for 56 yards.  
route to a 3-for-4, 56-yard per­ But Notre  Dame's offense  ries, and fullback Ken Barry ran  
formance.  hardly got bogged down in the  for 41 yards, averaging 8.2 yards  
"I just went out (on Saturday),  first half, putting 28 points on  per carry.  
and approached it lih I was  the board, 1warly triple the 11­ "Wn've made improvements  
going to practice," said Jackson.  point average the team carried  on offnnse," said Davin. "Tiwy  
"To be honest, I got more time  into the contest.  may not be as noticeable to the  
than I thought I would get."  While Powlus and Jackson  fans, but we've bnen abln to  
"We accomplishml what we set out to accomplish by playing  took charge of the aerial attack, Autry Denson lnd the well-b;tl­ make more of the big plays." With 526 yards of total ofl"ense,  
Jarious," said Davie. "When our  aneed running game with 81  the Irish proved that they arP  
offense bogs down, we wanted to  yards on the ground. But it was  capable of making the big plays  
sec if Jarious provided us with  not only the stars that burned  when it counts. Even against a  
an option to put him in the  the Eagles for 233 rushing yards.  mediocre Boston College team,  
game. I think based on the way  Senior Clem Stokes, who has  Notre Dame was in a battle for  
The Observer/Brandon Candura  he played today, he provides us  emerged as a powerful runner,  pride, and the offense was not  

Quarterback Ron Powlus, who completed 18 of 31 passes for 267 with that option." yards against BC, is still cemented as the team's starter. 
Blowout 
continued from page 1 
for more playing time, engineering a drive of his own for a touchdown early in the second quarter. 
As Powlus watched from the sideline, Jackson completed his first two passes of the season -one a bullet to Joey Getherall for 17 yards. Autry Denson added three rushes for 39 yards, including two runs of more than 15 yards in which he avoided would-be tacklers near the line of scrimmage. 
The drive ended with Jackson running three yards on a draw play out of the shotgun for a touchdown, giving the Irish a 21-0 lead and effectively putting the game out of reach. 
"I could have driven a Mack truck through that hole," Jackson said of his touchdown run. "The offensive line really played well today." 
Jackson saw limited action after that drive until late in the fourth quarter, when he scored from one yard out to cul­minate a nine-play, 90-yard drive with under a minute to play. He finished the day with 3-of-4 passing for 56 yards. 
Notre Dame went into the game plan­ning to use Jackson at quarterback begin­ning with the fourth offensive series and then as needed thereafter. Jackson led the Irish to a touchdown in the fourth series, but the offense's performance throughout the day made it unnecessary for the coaching staff to play Jackson more often. 
"We accomplished what we set out to accomplish by playing Jarious," Davie said. "When our offense bogs down, we wanted to see if Jarious provided us with an option to put him in the game. I think based on the way he played today, he pro­vides us with that option." 
Davie added that he expects both quar­terbacks to play the same amount of time next week against Navy. "I think it'll be the same," he said. "We'll approach next week the same way we approached this week." 
Boston College head coach Tom O'Brien said preparing strategies for two different quarterbacks was difficult. 
"We had to prepare two game plans," O'Brien said. "That's not the easiest thing to do." 
Nelson paced the Irish receiving corps with six receptions for 110 yards. Powlus and Jackson spread the wealth, with four receivers catching three or more passes. Malcolm Johnson had a touchdown catch before leaving with a sprained ankle. 
Notre Dame began the scoring with a 20-yard drive early in the first quarter when tailback Tony Driver punched the ball into the end zone from one yard out on a run off the left side. The touchdown drive was set up by an interception by Irish safety Benny Guilbeaux and was keyed by a 16-yard pass from Powlus to tight end Jabari Holloway to the four-yard line. 
The Irish added another touchdown less than four minutes later when Johnson scored on a four-yard pass from Powlus on a fade route to the right side of the end zone. The drive began with a 36-yard pass on a post pattern from Powlus to Johnson. 
On the ensuing two-point conversion attempt, Powlus dropped back to the left and then rolled right and found an isolat­ed Holloway for the score. The Irish went for two after Scott Cengia's extra point kick on the previous drive was blocked. 
Boston College finally got on the board late in the second quarter. Anthony DiCosmo caught a 27 -yard pass from Eagle quarterback Matt Hasselbeck after beating Irish cornerback Deke Cooper near the goal line. The two teams entered halftime with a score of 28-7. 
Hasselbeck ended the game with 277 yards and one touchdown on 23-of-33 passing, but most of the yardage came when the outcome had already been decided. Boston College was held to 83 yards rushing and was penalized 10 times for 95 yards. 
The two teams traded touchdowns and field goals in the second half before Notre Dame's Allen Hossum returned a kickoff 80 yards for a touchdown. Hossum got caught in traffic around the 30-yard line, but squeezed through and raced to the end zone, making the score 45-20. 
It was Hossum's eighth career return for a touchdown, tying the NCAA record of Errol! Tucker from the University of Utah in 1984-85. Hossum has returned three kickoffs,. three punts, and two intercep­tions for touchdowns. 
picked up 50 yards on 13 ear-about to give up without a fight. 
• REPORT CARD 
Quarterbacks: A-Linebackers: B+ 
The duo of Powlus and Jackson, This unit also deserves praise for despite Jackson's limited playing time, shutting down the rushing attack that proved very effective. Powlus connect­rolled over Miami a week ago for morn 
. ed on only 58 percent of his passes, a than 350 yards. Howard led the team 
marked decrease from his usual effort, in tackles with nine, including six unas­
but compensated by averaging over 14 sisted take-downs. Two of Minor's four 
.. 
yards per completion and tossing two tackles went for Boston College losses. touchdown passes. The only blemish on Jackson's performance was a badly Defensive Backs: C overthrown ball to a wide open Tim The secondary brightened its other­ll.idder in the end zone. · wise dismal performance with sacks by 
Covington, Rossum and Guilbeaux, Running Backs: B+ . whose interception set up the first Irish 
The Irish racked tip 200 yards on the score. Seven of the 11 Eagles who once again, despite averaging just over caught passes grabbed two or more, four yards per carry. Denson found the and quarterback Matt Hasselback used end zone as usual and Barry turned in this wide array of targets to shred the another impressive performance, rush­Notre Dame secondary for 277 yards, ing tor 41 yards on only five carries. while completing 23 of 33 passes. 
Receivers: A Special Teams: B 
Despite some confusion regarding Smith continued to show why he is routes in the first half, the receivers one of the most valuable special teams allowed Powlus and Jackson to pic}c the players in the country. Rossum picked Eagles apart, EJghtplayers caught up where he left off in Pittsburgh by passes for Notre Dame and only driving a dagger through the hearts of Denson averaged less than 10 yards the comeback-minded Eagles on an 80­per catch. Nelson was outstanding yard kickoff return for a touchdown fol­with six catches for 110 yards, lowing a BC field goal. Cengia and Getherall, Holloway, and Malcom· Sanson got off to shaky starts on place­Johnson each caught two or more balls kicks and kickoffs. respectively, but set­for over 15 yards per catch, and Brown tled down as the game went on. caught three passes including one for a touchdown. Coaching: B+ 
Many questioned why Davie did 11ot Otfensive Line: B+ bring Jackson back.aft.er watching him 
The line allowed two sacks, but got drive the team and score a touchdown the job done when it counted. It cer• early in the second quarter, but Powlus tainly deserves. some of the credit for was solid and it appeared when all was the 29 first downs and 526 yards of said and done' that Jackson was used total offense. The men in trenches also just the right amount to keep the limited the penalties which have been Boston College defense off-balance. plaguing them for most of the season. 
Overall: 3.25 Defensive Line: Bt The Irish responded well to the dis­
In what may.haVe been their best appointment of the Southern Cal game effort of the season; Dansby and co111~ and the offense finally performed up to pany held the Eagles to just 83 yards . expectations in all areas. It remains to on 32 carries. That forced the Eagles be seen if Notre Dame can put together 
to look to the air and to take more risks solid back-to-hack performances. Navy 
than they otherwise would have. should present a tougher challenge Dansby recorded seven tackles to lead than the Eagles and Panthers. the line. -Brian Reinthaler 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 page 9 
ACCENT 

dents out of the classroom and into , praying, eating and struggling with both the servants and the served. 
d Justice and 
ood Time 
Is are singing it -nGotta d and get a hammer and a how to use my hands, not hink myself into jail I Now I r grows I From a chin in a htjul pose I Cotta tend the rose... " and Notre Dame stu­
t. Through the Center for Social ·nar they are leaving behind their piles Eudora accounts, taking up their prover­
lg for the hills. They are serving, they are act-
living and they are learning well. rvice students may be asked to split firewood, birds of prey, plant and weed in a community. 
grandmother, sort clothes in a thrift shop, a third-grader, or help paint a rural health 
·-· 

students participated in the Appalachia tome many stories. Junior Jed Donahue tells 
. of my expectations. I was at a-Catholic Worker's nia. Recovering drug addicts and alcoholics and ex­).C., live there in an attempt to start a new life. Twelve Bed tires from riverbeds in a national park. Some of us ter for abused women to make it into a children's playroom. :1d the farm, scooping cow poop. were so nice. They really took us in, they were so friendly. , me of touch football -40-year-old men and college kids. 
1 
1 
mfire. We sang songs and roasted marshmallows. Another ~ party. It was really neat to see all of 1d forgetting their problems. ----­~ experience. I think that [the can and does work. Even if it 1rth it. [Last week] truly puts 
l. All of the frivolous problems ~ework really pale in compari­~ 'real world.' All of the men and I am so thankful for the 
· place every spring and fall semester. >llow-up meetings are integral to the semi­one-credit theology course. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 1997 
• WORLD SERIES 

Notre Dame's Counsell leads Marlins over Indians 
By DAVID KRAFT Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 
Craig Counsell looks like he should be playing American Legion ball in Dubuque for a team called Anderson Plumbing and Heating instead of second base in the World Series for the Florida Marlins. 
But Sunday night, in Game 7 of the World Series, he became the baby-faced assassin -at least as far as the Cleveland Indians are concerned. Trailing 2-1 with one out in the bottom of the ninth. Counsell hit a fly ball to right field deep enough to score Moises Alou with the tying run. Two innings later, Counsell hit a harmless ground ball to Cleveland second baseman Tony Fernandez that got by the four­time Gold Glove winner for an error. After an intentional walk and a force out at home, Counsell scored the game-win­ning run as Florida won its first World Series championship. 
"You want to be there when the game is on the line" Counsell said. ''I'm glad I got the opportu­nitv." 
Counsell, who played at Notre Dame from 1989 to 1992, is actually 27 years old, though he looks half that. On a team that 

photo courtesy Associated Press 
Craig Counsell's fly ball in the ninth sent Game 7 into extra innings. 


spent $89 million on free agents during the offseason, he arrived without fanfare on July 27 from Colorado in exchange for right­handed pitcher Mark Hutton. 
lie played three games for Colorado in 1995 and one more this season before coming to the Marlins. Once in Florida, he began platooning with Kurt Abbott at second base. By the end of the season, the job was his. 
Ilitting eighth in a lineup of big hitters, Counsell had a big Division Series against the Giants, hitting .400. lie had a big National League Championship Series against Atlanta, hitting .429. But through six games of the World Series, he had just four hits 19 at bats -a .211 average. 
He made up for it in the ninth Sunday night. Moises Alou had singled to left to open the inning. After Bobby Bonilla struck out, Charles Johnson singled· to right, sending Alou to third. 
Up eame Counsell, 0-for-2 with a walk against Cleveland starter Jaret Wright. lie took a fastoall low for ball one, then a strike. lie lined Jose Mesa's third pitch into medium-deep right field, scoring Alou easily. 
"I was just trying to put the ball in play," Counsell said. "A base hit would have berm great, but I was really just trying to put the bat on the ball. 
"I knew if we got something going (in the ninth), I'd have a chance to make a di!Terencfl," he said. 

Two innings later, Edgar RPnteria won the World Series with his single -and Counsell photo courtesy Associated Press 
scored the winning run. In the 11th, Counsell's heroics continued as he scored the winning run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day 
classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includ· ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP ()()() 
Lafortune Student Center 
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s) 
Phone 631-COPY 
ILOST & FOUND I 
would appreciate anyone who finds keys to room 308 to call x 1862 If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862 
FOUND: SWISS ARMY WATCH WI/ BRWN. LEATHER BAND. SIL­VER FACE. CALL TARA 243-8563 
FOUND FOUND FOUND Did you lose your ND umbrella at the library Sun. nite (10/26)? I have it. Call Mary Beth @x2510. FOUND FOUND FOUND 
WANTED 
Gold!! Wanted reps., unlimited 
earning potential!! 
616-461-6772. 
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages available!! INDIVIDU­ALS, student ORGANIZATIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED 
please call 219-271-0633 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! SPRING 
BREAK! Outgoing individuals -sell 
15 & go FREE. Cancun, South 
Padre, Mazatlan, Jamaica, South 
Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best 
Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP. 
www.studentexpress.com 
..Spring Break ... "Take 2" .. Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties, Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'.. CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 19981 Sell 15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated students can earn a free trip & over $10,000! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest stu­dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­838-6411 
Silver Hawks Baseball Team Office Receptionist needed at Coveleski Stadium Mon-Fri 8:30am-1:OOpm Call 235-9988 for more information 
FOR RENT 
BULLARD, MCKINLEY TERRACE, SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551 
1-bdrm, turn. apt.. Downtown SB. $400/mo. + $150 dep. Lease. 233­
2900 or 272-7305. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND 
OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and 
Breakfast Inn has space available 
for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms 
with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487. 
FOR SALE 
NEW STEREO EQUIPMENT many names 25-70% off retail full warran­ty Nick @ 4-2033 
Brass bed, queen size with orthope­dic mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082. 

DAYS INN room-2double beds, free breakfast (US 31,3 min. from cam­pus)..*Fri.&Sat. nights -Oct 31 &Nov1-Parents Weekend Joe 634-1631 
Two eras-Honda, 89 Civic 4D, DX, Very Clean, Low Milge, Like new, $3590 0/B, 86 Prelude, V.G. Cond. Normal Milge. $16500/B, Call: 2773254 L.M. 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551 
Wanted: lndividual.wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820. 
GA's for sale at cost: 4 Navy and 4 WV call Jill 3850 
ND MOM NEEDS 8 NAVY GA's­PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568 x2242. WILL RESPOND ASAP. 
For Sale: 4 GAs Navy-Joe 1631 
For Sale: 1 Navy GA Call243-1623 with offer. 
9 NAVY TIXS FOR SALE. BEST OFFER 243-5354 
ND VS. NAVY & W. VA TIX FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE MESSAGE 
Married Stud Tix sale 273-1997 
.# ############### For Sale: 4 Navy Student Tickets (cheap) (not GA's) call Jenny @ 687-8435 # ############### 
# ############### 2 student ticket booklets for sale call Jenny @ 687-8435 # ############### 
4 NAVY GA's $32each x1998 
Navy & W Virginia GAs 289-7581 Hey, you want my 
4 NAVY GA's 
don't you? 
good. then call 
jodie @ x3645 

Navy & W Va stud tix avail (face) Steve 4-2795 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
232-0058 

CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. 
BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645. 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378 EVENING#: 288-2726 
ND TICKETS WANTED 
DAYTIME#: 232-2378 
EVENING#: 288-2726 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 271-9412. 

WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 
Need 2-4 tickets for Navy Call Vince 4-1690 
FOR SALE: TWO Navy GAs ONEW. VaGA Call Colby @ 4-4903 
I have NAVY GAs!!!! Do you need them? Call X1287 

4 NAVY GA'S FOR SALE 
x3947 Michelle 

NAVY and WV FOOTBALL GA's 
FOR SALE: 273-0428 
PHISH PHANS Going phishing 12/6 in Auburn Hills, MI. Have 2 xtra rods but need boat. Call X4238. 
For Sale:Four Navy GAs Call Bill @ 4-4721 2 Navy GAs 4 sale. 271-0035 
For Sale: 2 Navy GAs & 1 Student Call: 634-2997 
... NAVY-WV GA'S ... pair for sale for each 631-77471eave offer 
for sale 2 navy ga's call 3773 
PERSONAL 
Married, childless white couple of 13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please call 1-800-916-5629, access code 92. 
I like 40 types of british sheep 
bryan needs to read a good book soap operas suck 
south dining hall, come back!! we miss you 
well, not too much 
Congatulations to the Marlins, you showed us that money is every­
thing. 
GO CUBS 
I hate the chicago bulls. dennis 
rodman is a good candidate for 
social darwinism 
I have too much work to do, why am I still here. i'm leaving 
ARE YOU A VEGETARIAN? 
We need to hear from you! Join us for a focus group after fall break to voice your opinions to 
Notre Dame Food Services. 
Call the marketing office at 631­
5589 for more information. 
I HavE CaRL BuY a BOWl oR You WiLL NEvEr sEE hiM agAin! -The ICKy BlaCK Hand oF DeATH-Nick Walle, hoped you liked the campus. See you next year. 
I Jove corn fest. it is cool. 
()()() Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
hello, the observer had a panther sighting! 
the panther eats pain like candy! 
Finkelmeyer... l think I may need the BOOT this weekend ...is it Friday yet? 
BOSSTONES BASH!! Free all-ages fun tonite at Senior Bar! Prizes at door, Cd raffle and great DJed ska for all from 9 pm to 12 am. Don't miss it! 
()()() THE COPY SHOP ()()() 
Lafortune Student Center " High-Speed Copies " Canon Color Laser Copies " Digital Color Printing " Binding & Laminating "Public Fax Service 631·FAX1 
Phone 631-COPY 
The 'Backer is more than just a bar, it's a state of mind. 
Halloween is coming .. do you have a costume yet? Nursing costumes are the only way to go. 
Come see Fisher's own "little stud puppy," Paul Burke, rm. 218. "There's a reason to check in at Notre Dame." -Kathie lee 
TRess-We need a 'backer night soon. It just wasn't the same without ya. The car, the pole ... just not good. 
SCamp-I just thought the name was funny. 
"It's the coolest!!" 

·------------------­
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• StUNT MARY's Vou.EYBALL 
Belles find success after loss to Franklin College 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team delayed the start of its fall break and instead, played two matches. 
The Belles fell 3-1 to Frankin College on Sunday, but rebounded the following day to defeat Rose­llulman Institute of Technology, 3­
1. Head coach Jennie Joyce was hoping hfw players could postpone their desire to catch up on sleep and focus on winning. 
"We played exactly like it was the end of midterms and the beginning of fall break," Joyce said of the game against Franklin. "We weren't focused and came iri with no eonlidence." 
/\!though a notoriously strong team. Franklin was in the midst of an ofT year. The Belles were hoping to prey on the 8-13 Grizzlies' weak­nesses. but to no avail. 
"They were playing scrappy," .Ioyce commentPd about her oppo­nPnts. "But anytime we bothered to get the side-out. we couldn't take advantage of it." 
/\!though the team strives for aggressive serving. it compiled a total of 24 missed serves. 
"The fact that our serves were falling apart really brought the team down," co-captain Betsy Connolly said. "We started getting really frustrated and hung our heads." 
At times, it seemed the Belles had more than enough reason to jut their chins out with pride. 
Despite their spurts of glory, Saint Mary's could not combine its indi­vidual efforts. The Belles fell as a team, 15-13, 10-15, 14-16, 13-15. 
However. 24 hours later, the Belles redeemed themselves at Rose-Hulman. "We had a whole day together to regroup," Connolly said. "We were ready to win." 
The squad then found a spark in its offense in Jardina. The 5-foot-4 freshman's 34 assists. 11 points, and two aces did not remain unno­ticed as she led her team through long rallies. 
"Jardina did a great job moving the sets around," Joyce stated. "It was really key to our victory." 
With individual successes and improved serving, the Belles smoothly defeated the Engineers, 6­15, 15-9, 15-9, 15-9. 


TIPS FROM AMERICA'S EXPERTS 
Join bestselling author Jane Bryant Quinn, Sound Moneys Chris Farrell, Nobel laureate James Tobin, and other top financial experts for a lively informative look at personal investing. 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997, 2:45 PM-4:30 PM Center for Continuing Education's Auditorium (Space available on a first come basis) 
A University of Notre Dame Human Resources Employee and a TIM-CREF representative will be available to answer your specific questions following the teleconference. 



Soccer 
continued from page 16 
game, a 10-0 win over Wisconsin for the Irish, Streiffer netted two goals to reach the milestone. 
Notre Dame's defense, led by goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene, has held opponents to 59 shots, while the Irish have scored 81 goals in 17 games. 
Since the North Carolina game on Sept. 19, the Irish have outscored the opposition 69-2 and have outshot them by a margin of more than 225-20. 
"Our goal is just to keep composure back there and try to play the feet of our midfield­ers and forwards and keep possession of the ball," said Lindsey. 
Beene's shutout of Connecticut on Sunday marked her 13th of the season. With two regular season games remaining, Beene will have the opportunity to break the record in her first year as Notre Dame's starting goalie. 
Beene also maintained her hold on the nation's best goals against average and set a new Big East single-season shutout record with eight in 10 confer­ence games. 
BUY DIAMONDS BELOW WHOLESALE! 
9!J'!t. :Peck&-rtd{){
Since 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 
BUILDING 
THE BRIDGE 
Paving the way for Tomorrow's Leaders 

If you wont the chance to pursue professional challenges and push the possibilities of achieve· men!, now is the time to join Old Kent. We ore oleading financial services provider based in Grand R.api~s, Ml that is experiencing continued growth and expansion, all in on environment that mamtoms apro~~n reco~d lor motivation, prosperity and stability. (urren~y, we hove unbeatable opportumt1es ovo1loble for those who share our commitment to excellence. Join us: 
• Branch Management Trainees 
We seek energetic, creative ca~idates with strong sales orientation and adesire to use man· ag~ment a.n~ analyti.cal sk~~s. Our trainees will be involved in promotingiinancial products ~lule prov!dmg quality .serv1c~ to customers. Success demands proven initiative and an interest mdevelopmg acar~er mretail banking. Alt~r training, candidates will be assigned to abranch to assume challenging management, operations and special projects responsibilities. 
• Credit Analysts 
Keys to ~u.c~~ss !" this position. indu~e solid analytical and proven relationship building skills. Respo.n~1blll!1es mdude onolyzmg m1ddle market companies that ore interested in financing, exom1mng post performance and projecting future performance levels. This is on excellent opportunity to learn about ovariety of industries. Analysts will complete acomprehensive training program to gel them started on the path to success. 
AI ~ld Kent, .our em.ployee.s are e~pected to make decisions and pursue challenges, as well us oct1v~ly port!c1pate mour mnovotive efforts Ia enhance traditional banking products on on ongomg bos1s. All Old ~~nl employees ~njoy ?competitive compensation and benefits package. So~e of the above pos1fton~ also offer mcenft~e compen.sotion. Join us during this exciting time of Improvement and evolution, and start bu~dmg the bndges to ogreat professional future today. 
We will be on campus interviewing for MBA positions on Oct. 29 and Nov. 17 for undergrads. 
Please contact your Career Services Office for more details. EOE 
OLDI(ENT 



------~-~~-----~-­
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 1997 




• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish fall in all four matches 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sporrs-Wrirers 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team had a rough fall break. It faced four important Big East opponents but came up short. 
The Irish started the break at 8-4-2 on the season and 4-1-1 in the Big East and ranked sec­ond in the conference. A lot has changed since then as the Irish dropped all four games. 
Notre Dame started the week three points behind rival Georgetown in the Big East standings. The Hoyas brought a high-powered attack to Alumni Field. The teams played great defensively, with both teams struggling for quality scoring 
24 to face fifth-ranked St.
chances. Regulation ended in a John's. The game was another1-1 tie. 
defensive battle for the Irish. 
Both goals came in the sec­Junior Shane Mulholland pro­ond half within two minuteS of vided the game winner for the 
each other. Junior Jeremy 
Red Storm when he beat Irish McKitrick scored for the Hoyas, goalie Greg Velho. 
but Irish senior co-captain 
Next up for the Irish were the 
Ryan Turner was able to 
Seton Hall Pirates. Notre Dame respond quickly. 
jumped out to a 1-0 lead when
He received the ball just senior David Cutler's 12­inside the penalty box and 
yarder beat Seton Hall goalie
sneeked a shot past heckled Derek Martin. SophomoreHoya goalie sophomore Tyler 
Andrew Aris was credited withPurtill. Assists were credited to an assist on Cutler's first goal of 
senior Scott Wells and junior his career. 
co-captain Matt Johnson. 
Seton Hall responded with In the overtime period, 
two unanswered goals.
Georgetown freshman Charles Sophomore Jeff Rigby tied the Beyer tallied the game winner 
game in the first half on a
with 33 seconds left. 
header from 10 yards.
The Irish did not have much Freshman Brian Cuddy provid­
time to swallow the loss, as ed the game-winning goal for
they traveled to New York to the Pirates. An assist was given
face St. John's. Notre Dame 
to senior Skjalg Mykelebug.
brought a national ranking of Despite the loss, Velho regis­tered a season-high nine saves in the game. 

The final stop for Notre Dame on-its East Coast road-trip was Connecticut. The Irish once again jumped out to an early lead when freshman Reggie McKnight scored his fourth goal of the year. Freshman Conor LaRose, making his first colle­giate start, assisted on the play. 
Connecticut tied the game late in the second half on a goal by sophomore Alex Cortes, sending the game into over­time. Six minutes into the over­time period, freshman Roberto Vargas gave the Huskies the win and Notre Dame its fifth straight loss. 
The Irish fell to 8-8-2 on the season, and 4-5-1 in the Big East. They have dropped six of the last eight games. All six losses have been by one goal, two coming in overtime. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
match against No. 9 Texas, who was in the middle of a six-match winning streak. Despite a strong start, the Longhorns defeated the Irish in four games,12-15.15-11,15-11,15­9. 
The team was led by Austin native Lindsay Treadwell, who had 11 kills on a team-best .318 hitting. Treadwell also had 14 digs and five of Notre Dame's 11 blocks. Harris also had 18 kills on .239 hitting as well as 12 digs. _ 
After losing a marathon open­ing game in 30 minutes, the Longhorns began to show their true form, equaling every Irish rally. The match took a pivotal turn in the third game when Texas took a 9-5 lead. Finally, aees from Heather Rasmussen and Tammy Jurgens helped the Longhorns take the game. 
The loss to the Longhorns ended a seven-match winning streak for the Irish, their longest of the season. All six losses for the team this season have come at the hands of ranked teams, including four currently in the top 10. 
"We didn't play at the level we needed to be," head coach Debbie Brown remarked. "We had two major breakdowns against Texas, in passing and serving. That was unusual, considering how we've played this season. I antieipate that we'll improve on this as time goes on." 
The team had little time to recover, as it had to face Houston the next day. However, the Irish regained their composure and defeated the Cougars in five games, 15-8, 15-9, 11-15, 8-15, 15-8. The match was the first collegiate match-up between sophomore Mary Leffers and her sister Emily, a senior hitter on the Cougar squad. Notre Dame was led by Mary Leffers, who had 16 kills and a career-high 12 blocks, while Emily Lefl'ers had 21 kills, 13 digs and four block assists for the Cougars. The Irish cause was also helped by 13 kills from Girton and 14 kills from I Iarris. 
After losing the first two games, Houston took a 10-2 lead in the third game before the Irish went on a run to tie it. However, the Cougars scored the last five points of the game to force a fourth game. The Irish took a 10-5 lead through rally scoring. Irish freshman Jo Jameyson from nearby Alvin, Texas, entered the lineup and converted the final kill of the mateh. 
The win ended a spotless record for the Cougars, who had defeated Notre Dame in all four previous eontests, dating bar.k to 1983. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame closed out its fall break sched­ule with a eonfenmce match at Syracuse. In another strong conference match, the Irish defeated the Orangemen in three games. 15-5,15-7, 15-9. 
The team was led by senior hitter Jaimie Lee, who had 15 kills on .429 hitting, while Girton and Harris had ll and 10 kills respectively. The squad kept a .353-.161 hitting edge while closing out the match in just over an hour. 
The win against Syracuse extends Notre Dame's confer­ence winning streak to 6R matches. 

Tuesday, October 28, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• HOCKEY 
Irish begin season 3-0 before falling to Eagles 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team had a productive fall break, winning two of three games against nationally­ranked opponents. On Oct. 17 and 18, the Boys of Winter traveled to perennial national powerhouse St. Cloud State for a pair of non-Central Collegiate A.ssor.iation !Iockey games. 
Por the first time in 15 years, Notre Dame recorded its first two-game sweep, defeating the Huskies 4-3 in overtime on Friday night and trouncing them 4-1 on Saturday night. 
"Those were some big wins for us," stated sophomore for­ward Joe Dusbabek. "They are ranked nationally, and their rink is probably one of the touglwr pla"c:es to play in the country, so it was amazing to get both victories." 
On Oct. 24, Notre Damp, host­ed top-1 0 ranked Boston College. The Irish couldn't hold the 2-0 lead they had in the third period and ended up los­ing, 3-2. 
"We should have won this game," lamented freshman for­ward Mark Eaton. 'They will bp, one of the top teams in the country this year, and we were right with them the whole game." 
The Boys' first victory against the Huskies demon­strated the resiliency the team has developed. Due to a St. Cloud State spurt during a 3:09 span early in the second peri­od, the Huskies collected a 3-0 lead. 
The Irish, however, recorded three power-play goals to erase the lead and knot the game. In the overtime period, junior forward Brian Uriek set up the winning goal. 
lie emerged from a scramble with the puck behind the net and sent a pass into the crease for sophomore center Ben Simon, who one-timed a shot that silenced the capacity crowd and gave the Irish their 4-3 victory. 

"(Senior goal tender) Matt Eisler was amazing," recalled Dusbabek. "He really made some huge saves. We also had our power play clicking; I believe that we had three straight power play goals. It was a very big win for us." 
The following night's game was not nearly as close, much to the chagrin of the capacity crowd at the National Hockey Center. The Irish scored two goals early in the first period, and junior forward Aniket Dhadphale added two more in the third period to give the Irish the win. 
Eisler again had a stellar night, making 36 saves to lower his season goals-against average to 1.65 and raise his season save percentage to 93.9 percent. 
"Matt Eisler was the man," stated Simon. "He played very well. Sometimes it seems like we don't help him out, but he came up big for us." 
The win put the Irish at 3-0, their first such start since 1983. "This was a big, big win," stated head coach Dave Poulin. "We had a good feeling right from the start, even when we fell behind 1-0. We played much better in terms of pro­tecting the puck and making tape-to-tape passes." 
The Irish's return to the Joyce Center proved ill-fated, as they dropped their first game of the season to Boston College, 3-2. Following goals 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Irish goalie Matt Eisler played a key roll in the victory over the Huskies. 
by Dhadphale and Simon, the goal losses, but this one does Irish carried a 2-0 lead into the not compare. Boston College is third period and had chances the favorite in Hockey East this to even increase that lead. year, and we stuck in there 
"We had opportunities that with them the whole game. we should have capitalized We had some great scoring on," lamented Dusbabek. "We chances, and we needed to could have made it 3-0 or 4-0, capitalize on them." but we'll learn to do that. This These four pre-CCHA season game was very beneficial. We games greatly beneffted the have to develop that killer freshmen, who have developed instinct, and we will in time." and contributed heavily during 
The Eagles' first goal the past fortnight. occurred during a power-play, "We have all contributed a ending Notre Dame's perfect lot," said Eaton. "It's really 17 for 17 penalty-killing good to get four games under streak. The other two goals your belt before you start were transition goals that league play; it gives us (the caught the Irish short-handed freshman) a chance to develop because they had players com-and get comfortable at this ing off the ice. level. Now we've got to get 
"This game was different, ready for the CCHA season very different" stated Poulin. because the CCHA is probably "Last year, we had a lot of one-the best league in the country." 

WIN SIX FREE TICKm 
Visit us on the web and find out how to win six free* round·triU tickets anywhere American flies in the continental .S. See web page for rules and specifics. 
>1/j 
~··· 
SPECIAL LOW AIR FARES 
SiJJn up for College SrJ!Aver Fares"' and Net S'rJ!Aver Fares'M announcing special savings to selected destinations via your e-mail. 

RECEIVE TRAVEL CERT1FICATES 
Receive American Airlines/Citibank'" Student Travel Savings Certificates when you're approved for a ncx:mnual·fee Citibank credit card. 
·~ 
--­
,._,.d<'"'A'1r 
C«.LECT aDVANTAGE• Ml.ES 
Enroll in the AAdvantage travel awards program and also learn about many other ways to travel for less with American 
AmericanAirlines·
American£atfi 

~-•No PURCHASE OR BOOKING NECESSARY. Sweepstakes is o~n only to legal residents of the t:nited States of America who are full-time students at a college or university loca_red in the U.S.A., aged 18 or older as of the date of entry. I. How to Enter: Sign up to receive American's Colleg(' ~AAver Fare!"> e-mail on the 
:.:r~~e:C:~\!:5o~~~~~r~'f{~d~~::~=~~ ~~llll:~u~~~:~~r~~f~~~n 6:e':t!e~.5~~~~f:.f.%~!~::bema~~~~er:~~~.r ;~~~=~~~~ ~~~~=~. 01°~~~~~~: ~~:e~n~~~~ ~~~r:~rt!~~r F~~5R~:~~~~;~n:~~~~7~~~:"~· ~ ~~~:·~~;~ ~~~~-:
winnin~ depend on number of eli~ihle entries received. Or:her rules and restrictions apply. A complete list of sweep~akes rules will be posted on American Airlines web site, or for a copy of sweepstakes rules, send a self-addressed, stamped envelope by December 30. 1997. to: eotf:se SMver Fares Sweeptakes Rules, P.O. Box 165447, lrvmg. TX 75016-S447 2. One (1} Grand Priu:: Six t6J round-trip travel passes. having an approx1mare combined roral cash value of 52,000.00, thai are good for Economy Class travel on ~rican Airlines for one (1) person for ?ne (l).year t-:om the ~le of the postmark ~n. r_he affldavil.of eligibility and liability/publicity ~lease ex~~-~ by rhe wmner. Tnwel may be 10 a~y location m rhe -\8 COOII&OOt!-~ l:mrecl ~res. Bermuda. The Bahama.!!, canada, Mexico and the caribbean to which American Airlines fl~. Travel ~are tr:msferable bul all taxes, airpOrt fees and all other expenses as5002ted with lheir use wdl be the sole re8jXlllS1blitty of the WIMer. Travel arrangements are ~bject to avadab1hty. Blackout ~tes and ot~r restr1('1IOOS apply. Swetpstakes ~Oidm Pueno Rico and wherever prohibited by law 3, The nafll(' of the winner will be posted on lhe American Airlu-.es web stte. You may also obtain the winner's name by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope, by Derember 30, 1997,10: College SAAver Fares Winner, P.O. Box 165447, Irvmg. TX 75016-5447. ~rican Airlines, American Eagle and AAdvanta~e are re&tStered trademarks, College SAAver Fares is a service mark. and Net SAAver Fares is a trade!Tillrk, of .Arrkrican Alllines, Inc. American Eagle is American's regional airline associate. American Airlines reserves the right to change AAdvant.age program rules, regulations. travel awards and special offe~ at any time without notice, and to end the Mdvantage program wrth SIX months notiCe. American Airlines is not responsible for prcxluct.~ or services offered by other participaring companies. Schedules subject to change without norice. 01997 American Airlines, Inc. All righfs reserved. Printed in the U.S.A. 

--~---~---­
----~-------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 28, 1997 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Madness returns to JACC 
By MIKE KOGGE Sports Writer 
Green. gold. and blue played at midnight on Oct. 17 before thousands of Irish eyes. who were judging if the fire from last year was still burning. 
New faces appeared in the ranks of the old, as Notre Dame danced on the Joyce court with the inevitable anxiety of pre­season. In midst of the players' pre-season rustiness. however, a bright exuberance and opti­mism shined on the midnight Irish. 
The optimism of a future and season untold and unwritten. A season still perfect. The romance of Irish basketball has begun. 
And with that romance, ques­tions lurk in the minds of all supporting the program: will this team surpass last season's success? Is there any hope that the energy of 1970s Irish bas­ketball can be rekindled? 
Last year's NIT quarterfinal against Michigan perhaps defined the crowning achieve­ment of Notre Dame basketball in the late 90s. 
After a brilliant NIT run and Big East honors for coach John MacLeod and Pat Garrity, peo­ple started to notice the Irish again. Fans crammed into the available areas of the Joyce Center or pleaded for tickets outside. Even the reluctant stu­dents came in numbers, many of who had never seen an Irish basketball game in their life. 
"The Michigan game was incredible," said coach John MacLeod just prior to Midnight Madness. "It gave us an impe­tus -that we were making a move, with a big burst at the end. We created an excitement that hasn't been seen in quite some time." 
Now, six months later, the season begins again. Admore 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back 
cover. 
White, Pete Miller, and Marcus Young are gone. Only Garrity and Dereck Manner return as starting Irish seniors. To fill those gaps, MacLeod will have to rely on younger players, especially at the guard spots. 
"We have a lot of young play­ers in key spots," said MacLeod. "Right now, {Jimmy) Dillon and {Antoni) Wyche are starting as guards, backed up by {Martin) lnglesby and Keith Friel. Leviticus {Williams) will back up Manner." 
The freshmen are not forgot­ten in MacLeod's scheme and will play a large role in support­ing the starters. 
"All of the freshman are going to play. Martin, Leviticus, Hans {Rasmussen), and Peter {Okwalinga) will all be involved. We have some inexperience, but we're counting on the freshmen and sophomores." 
MacLeod's main goal, howev­er, is not to relive the 96-97 sea­son. Improvements away from home and in the Big East tour­nament are necessities if the Irish wish to go anywhere in March. 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$1 sao if you donate alone (first visit) +$ sao if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 
+$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current adclress with photo I.D. 
Come to: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 
515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46601-1117 Hours: Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 Sat: 8:00-5:00 234-6010 
"We want to be better than last year. We won one road game last year {against Syracuse). In order for us to continue to grow, we must win on the road and advance in the Big East," said MacLeod. 
Notre Dame's trip through the Big East will be a difficult one. Although many sports analysts regard this year's Big East as yet another "Big Easy," espe­cially with the departure of stand-outs like Page, Thomas, Croshere, and Shammgod, they forget that the Big East outlived their estimations in the last few NCAA tournaments, such as Providence's Elite Eight appear­ance last year and Syracuse's contention for the national championship in 1996. 
"The Big East is still a strong conference," said MacLeod.­"UConn will be tremendous as will Villanova and St. John's. Georgetown is always very good and so is Syracuse. " 
And as MacLeod has "high expectations" for his team, so does he for the fans, both stu­dent and adult, subway and alum. 
To David~ 
our 
~oC)~?;czila~acz 
Wr!Jar!q) 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
f:&,r, f?lJrr/ ~N, 




Help 
La Casa de Amistad 
help people 

Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today 

La Casa de Amistad ­
offering youth empowerment programs, emergency food assistance and a range of community services 




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·----· 
Tuesday, October 28, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I DISCOVERED T~A.T OUR POINTY-HA.IRED BOSS DOESN'T KNOW HE'S BEING 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 35 Strait of Dover port
1 "Holy mackerel!" 
37 Got some shuteye

5 Shady lady 38 Hightail it 
9 Landscaper's tool 
40 New Zealand native

14 California wine valley 
43 Executive: Abbr.

t5 1847 South Seas adventure 
44 Bit of parsley 

46 "You've got my bowline, e.g. 
16 Running 
support" 48 Settles bills 

17 Desert mount SO How many
19 7-11 game bouquets are20 Full up 
made 21 Aria, usually 
53 Desperation23 "j" topper football pass 
24 "Yuck!" 56 Native: Suffix 
25 Place for 57 Bad Ems, e.g marbles 
60 School sports 29 Baby blues org. 
31 Hillbilly TV fare &t Gave a ttcket 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


42 Operatic prince Annual subscriptions are available for the transport 45 Camel's cousin 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 27 Part of SEATO 47 Rolls's partner 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Knoc:\Cout WorKout  
Round 1  Beginners  $20  
MON/WED  10/29-12/10  4:15-5:30  
Round 2  Rduanced  $1 5  

~ 
0 
~ 
.. 
~ 
~----~~~u_~------~ 
63 Caterpillar, for one 65 Irish locale of song 68Caper &9 Go--detail 
10 "The Masque of Alfred" composer 
71 Kind of answer 72 Kind of tide 73 Humorist Bill 
and others 
DOWN 
1 Finishes 2 Home annex 3 Rx purveyor 4Woman of 
distinction 5 Physique. 
slangily 6 Physicians' grp. 1 "What's the 
--that could happen?" a"--mind?" 


28 Barker 49 Paparazzo's 57 Leave laughing 9Theyfollow 30 Reverend's prize 58 Glazier's unit standing responsibility 51 Ev'rlasting 59 Theater, opera, ovations 32 Like many titles 52 Goes brunette etc.
10 Golden, in 33 "Tarzan" extra this time 62 Tabriz's land 

France 34 Lb. and kg. 54 "E pluribus 64 Bordeaux, e.g. 
t 1 Spur 12 Hockey great 

36 ---disant unum:· e.g. 66 Educ. group (self-styled): Fr. 55 Bath's state 
Phil, familiarly 67 Top 40 music 13 Take five 
38 Recipe amt. 

39 Emissions tester: Abbr. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle ta 1957 Ford 
debut are available by touch-tone phone: 

41 Pro-­
22 ---di-dah 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute) 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
10/28/97 Aries: The Libra Moon opens your heart to others. You are compassionate in per­sonal relationships and tolerant in your public life. Including others in your plan helps you reach your goal, rather than distracting you from it. 
10/28/97 Taurus: Take a moment to remember the rea­sons for a long-standing habit or rou­tine. Small gestures of charity have 
~ 

big results today. Romantic partners 
.. ~--li:J) 

find that friendship is a major part of 
their chemistry. 
,.-C-A~NI~/'1-E_R_£_q-RE-S5-1-0fi/-!-I~YP_N_t>5-,-:-5]' 
10/28/97 Gemini: Today you are the hostage of wild
MIKE PETERS 

ideas that take your brain for a joyride. Be sure to take notes--a few hours of babbling could result in a year's worth of projects. People of your preferred gender find you irre­sistable. 
10/28/97 Cancer: Emotions well up today and distract you from something you'd rather be doing. Watch other people's eyes when discussing painful subjects. Familiarity might bring sadness as well as comfort. 
10/28/97 Leo: Today you are extroverted, minding everyone else's business, a friend to all. Other people's energy feeds you and makes you strong. This is a day
SCOTT ADAMS 

on which you have more friends than you can count. 
~ll DUE RE5PECT, 

10/28/97 Virgo:
YOUR FI\CE OR 

Your thoughts move quickly today, 

MONKE'r' CLIMBING 


but there is nowhere new for them to go. Tum to your partner for a bi,t of constructive criticism. Debate can be a healthy way to get things moving. 
0 l-LI~Ul--------~~~~ 
l'O(i4 
Mondays 11/3-12/8 $18 
Sign-ups begin Thursday, October 30, 8:00am 
'·:·:·:>'~'" 
• )'iii . 

~--·~······································· 
! ~All Challenge U Fitness classes are half 

10/28/97 Libra: When the Moon is in Libra's house, you can have your cake and eat it,too. This is a day for running yellow lights and flirting shamelessly in public. Your word is law, but only because others believe in you. 
10/28/97 Scorpio: Some brilliant idea hovers on the tip of your tongue but refuses to come out. Others will take charge until you can adequately explain yourself. Let your subconscious do the problem solving, and get on with your life. 
10/28/97 Sagittarius: 
Anybody who knows you believes that your word is your bond. Finely tuned plans glide toward completion today. At the end of the day, great friendships make your shadow even 
taller. 
10/28/97 Capricorn: 
All the social connections in town 
won't take the place of working for 
what you want. And you may not achieve your goal with a single day's work. Keep your dream in sight to 
avoid losing all hope. 
10/28/97 Aquarius: Your luck seems to be improving today. You feel a strong kinship with people who once seemed very distant. Every answer is the right one, no matter how hard the question. 
10/28/97 Pisces: You are swimming with the sharks today, and you have no way of know­ing when they had their last meal. Call in sick, or at least avoid all legal matters.Restaurant menus seem to be written in another language. 

TUES/THUR 10/28-12/9 6:30-7:45 : price! Get active before 
For More Info. Contact: 

It'f> not too \ate to nign-up in the ~eG~portf> : the holidays! 
RecSports -1-6100 

offiGe. ContaGt 1-')q(p') for more info. •• www.nd.edu/-recsport 
---~~------­
Football 


SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, October 28, 1997 

Erikson, Irish take top spot 
By ALLISON KRILLA Spans Writer 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team took advantage of the mid-October break to cap­ture its second consecutive Big East conference regular season title, overpowering conference foes Syracuse, Seton Hall, and fifth-ranked Connecticut. 
Entering the weekend tied with the Pirates and Huskies atop the Big East standings, the Irish (16-0-1, 1 0-0-0) assured themselves of the No. 1 ranking for the Big East championships to be held Nov. 7-9 at Rutgers. Notre Dame will face fourth­seeded Villanova in the semifi­nal round. while Seton Hall and Connecticut will square off in the other semifinal game. 
While the Irish displayed their depth and stingy defense by outscoring the opposition 16-1 over the three games, freshman forward Meotis Erikson made her presence felt with her first two career hat tricks against Syracuse and Seton Hall and the lone goal in Sunday's 1-0 shutout of Connecticut under heavy rains and ncar freezing temperatures at Alumni Field 
"We may not have won the game four or five to nothing," 
'As long as the team succeeds, I don't really care if (the scoring streak) contin­ues. As long as some:.. body scores the goals, it doesn't really matter to me.' 
Forward Meotis Erikson 
said coach Chris Petrucelli, "but this was a pretty good win for us." 
Erikson converted on a rebound off Connecticut goal­keeper Jen Traw's diving stop of a shot by Kelly Lindsey to extend her scoring streak to nine games, matching former Irish standout Amy VanLaecke's 1995 record. During the nine­game span, Erikson has notched 15 goals and five assists, earn­ing Big East rookie of the week honors twice in three weeks. 

"As long as the team suc­ceeds, I don't really care if (the scoring streak) continues," said Erikson. "As long as somebody scores the goals, it doesn't real­ly matter to me." 
The rest of the team is not content to remain in merely a supporting role, however. Notre Dame's evenly distributed scor­ing load has provided the team with seven 20-point scorers, including five wih at least 30 points. Seven of the top 15 scor­ers in the Big East come from Notre Dame. 
Among them is sophomore Jenny Streiffer, who became the fastest player in school history to reach the 100-point scoring plateau. In her 40th career 
see SOCCER I page 11 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

The Irish dominated their competition all season and will enter the Big East tournament as the No. 1 seed. 
• VOLLEYBALL 

The Observer/John Daily Angie Harris and Lindsay Treadwell, pictured above, have been two of the leaders for the Irish this year. Harris recorded 16 kills against UNC. 
Irish win three over break, lose to Texas 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
While most studonts were tak­ing advantage of' a well-earned fall break, the members of Notre Dame's volleyball team contin­ued on with thoir n~gular sea­son, competing against four teams in one of the most difli­cult stretches of the year. 
On Oct. 1R, Notre Dame faced ofT against North Carolina in its final home match before a six­match road trip, its longest of the season. Despite a strong effort by the Tar I I eels in the second game, thn Irish prevailed in three games, 15-7, 15-13, 15­5. 
The Irish were led by senior hittnr Angie I Iarris, who totaled 1(J kills, 12 digs and five aces. Notre Dame held a 10-1 service aec advantage while outhitting the Tar Heels .317-.151. North Carolina led in tho soeond game 13-12 before a UNC serving error gave the Irish possession. Another Tar Ileol error, fol­lowed by one kill each from Harris and freshman opposite Christi Girton, closed out tlw game. With tlw loss, the Tar lleols drop to 12-9 on the sea­son. 
The matrh held a special sig­nificance for assistant coach Elaina Oden. whose sister Kim is an assistant coach for North Carolina. 
"It was kind of difl'erent for us this time around," Elaina Oden commented. "ber.ause we don't have the pressure of being com­peting players, or even coaches." 
"It's wonderful to finally see her," Kim Oden said about her sister. "It's good to see that she's doing well here, and I think that Notre Dame is very filrtunate to have her." 
Notre Damo began its longest road trip of' the season with a 
see IRISH/ page 12 
vs. Navy, Hockey vs. Michigan State, November 1, I :30 p.m. 

October 31, 7 p.m. a) •Craig Counsell helps Marlins 
•.... 
vs. Michigan, \~ October 31, 7:30p.m. 

Volleyball at Calvin College, ~ see page I 0 
• ...... 
.•.. !• L
s~ October 31vs. Boston College, 
• Men's soccer struggles
M November 2, I p.m. 

Soccer at Bethel College, see page 12at Villanova, 
Stt ~ 
October 29
"'\!.!
October 31, 7 p.m. 

~ ~ 


