
Tuesday, November 11, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 51 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Love weaves tale of achievement, struggle 

• SECURITY BEAT 
Clay case moves to St. 
Joe County 

prosecutor 
Office must decide whether to press charges in shooting 
Observer Staff Report 
The St. Joseph County prose­cutor's office will decide in the next few days whether to file charges in the case of a local resident who shot a Notre Dame student Sunday morning in a neighborhood just south of campus. 
Corey Clay, a Morrissey Hall sophomore, was shot in the upper thigh at 3:20 a.m. Sunday while outside a home at 602 E. Howard St., South Bend police reports said. The shooting occurred during what may have been a verbal alter­cation between Clay and the resident of the house, police said. 
According to police reports, the resident said Clay knocked on his door in search of an unknown person. When Clay attempted to enter the house, the resident told police, he fired a shot into Clay's leg. 
Clay is recovering in the care of University Health Services after being treated and released from St. Joseph Medical Center early Sunday. lie allegedly had a blood-alco­hol level exceeding 0.260 at the time of the incident, according to reports. The legal blood-alcohol content limit in 
see CLAYI page 6 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Fans from the University of West Virginia will not be given the opportunity to cheer their football players by name at next weekend's football game. 
Before the Boston College game on Oct. 25, the athletic department eliminated the recitation of any team's starting line­up prior to the game, according to Mike Enright, assistant director of Sports Information. 
Enright said the students themselves spurred this ban, which effectively ended what became a tradition of yelling "sucks" when the visiting team's roster is read. 
The administration received numerous phone calls and letters condemning the 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 

Bob Love, former starter for the Chicago Bulls, did something yesterday that he never did during his NBA career: He addressed an audience, telling the tale of his lifetime struggle with stuttering. 
"I bring you greetings from the five-time world champion Chicago Bulls," said Love as he welcomed the Notre Dame Club of St. 
Joseph Valley to a lun­school; he usually cheon yesterday at the ended up swallow­
'ToACCOMPLISH ANYTHING IN
Morris Inn. ing two of them. 
LIFE, YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE A

Beginning his profes­Despite his stut­sional career in 1968, DREAM.' ter, Love earned a Love played eight of his scholarship to 11 seasons in the NBA Southern with the Chicago Bulls. BoB LoVE University in He led the Bulls in scor­
FORMER STARTER, CHICAGO BULLS Baton Rouge,

ing for seven straight years and is the second highest scorer in the franchise's history, accumulating 12,623 points during his career. 
Love played over 700 games with the Bulls, and in 90 percent of those games he led the team in scoring, rebounds, or assists. 
But even during his heyday, Love never gave an interview because he stuttered so badly that he couldn't speak. 
Love was raised by his grandmother in 
student body's conduct and deeming the chant unsportsmanlike. 
"We got enough complaints about [the chant] to stop calling out the names. This is a way to prevent profanity from being yelled in our stadium. It was a University decision, and I don't see it [the announcement] being reinstated," he said. 
The ban carried through the Navy game; rather than read the line-up, tech­nicians flash the names across the screen of Notre Dame Stadium's new score­board. 
Assistant vice president for Residence Life Bill Kirk noted at last Monday's Campus Life Council meeting that he has also received comments regarding the 
see CHEER I page 4 
Louisiana, one of 14 children in the home. Growing up with only three beds for his entire family, Love realized that to escape poverty, he had to get an education. He set out to earn a sports scholarship. 
Love said he "always knew the answer" in school but was afraid to speak up because of his stutter. His grandmother tried to cure his impediment by putting three marbles under his tongue to help him speak when he went to Sunday 
where he majored 
in foods and nutri­tion. He was later drafted by the Cincinnati Royals, only to find out he was one of 1,000 men competing for one or two spots. 
Love overcame the odds and made the team, but was quickly traded to the Milwaukee Bucks, where he led the team in scoring. 
After one season, the manager told him he would "never be any use to Milwaukee" 
see LOVE I page 4 

SMC professor receives award of excellence 
By JANICE WEIERS News Writer 
Mana Derakhshani. an associate profes­sor in the modern language department at Saint Mary's College, won honors as the 1997 French Teacher of the Year at the university level. 
At the association's annual meeting for French teachers in Indiana, the attendees filled out short questionnaires to nominate a teacher of the year at both the secondary and university levels. 
When asked about the method of selec­tion, Derakhshani answered modestly, "I guess I was nominated. I did not nominate myself." 
Derakhshani, the 1995 recipient of the Saint Mary's Multicultural Award, was pre­sented with a commemorative plaque this past weekend at the association's fall meeting in Indianapolis. 
Derakhshani expressed her positive reac­tion to receiving the award Monday in an interview: "I guess [I felt] incredulous. But very pleased." 
The recognition did not surprise those who know her well. 
"She works hard; she deserves the award. We're proud of her achievement," said senior French major Genevieve Morrill. 
"Professor Derakhshani works hard at creating an atmosphere where students feel comfortable speaking the language. She's impressed me with her accessibility out of the classroom, even taking time dur­ing break to help me with a paper," Morrill continued. 
Derakhshani, who earned her master's and baccalaureate degrees as well as doc­torate from the Universi~ of Utah, does not hide her talents, according to those who work closely with her. 
"She has been a wonderful and innova­
see AWARD I page 4 


---~-~­
----------------~­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Not just 'horse-play' 
I do not think I'll ever be  P. Colleen Nugent  
able to fully understand  Associate Saim Mary's  
this situation; we live in a  News Editor  
society where every day  

women and men are assaulted, raped, and tor­tured. We live in a male-dominated world. MEN run the majority of the businesses and it is the MEN who run the world. It will be some time before women begin to get the respect they deserve. 
Yes even here in the SMC and ND community, women are treated improperly. We may say that we all receive "equal opportunity" as we wish to think. but who are we to even try to fool our­selves? 
When I say this I speak from experience. 
I tried to hide a personal experience from the world for almost four and a half years because of embarrassment. I tried to make it all seem okay to everyone else. In the end, it has all caught up with me. 
As a sophomore in high-school, l was physically assaulted and mentally tormented by two of my classmates. Before that afternoon in May 1993, my vision of the world was picture perfect. Then reality struck me and my family. 
In short, the two boys directly involved with this situation got away with their harmful actions. The president of my high school said that this incident was merely an accidental act of ADOLESCENT HORSE-PLAY. That is to say that was at least the opinion of Chicago's fine Jesuit Community. 
It's sad to think that men, even educational offi­cials, choose to ignore the fact that violence exists within our communities. Violence has perma­nently scarred me, both mentally and physically. Although dentists and others were able to heal me physically, the hardest part of the battle con­tinues yet ... 
The ability to win mentally depends on the love, strength. and encouragement your family and friends give you. 
Most of all, you have to possess the power to believe-in yourself and recognize the fact that you can and will get through even the most challeng­ing times of life. 
Almost four and a half years later, I admit that it can be a struggle for me to get up in the morn­ing, put on a smile, and go through life's motions. 
Even during those times when you experience personal times of difficult flashbacks, it is extremely important for you to allow yourself to be a survivor. 
Getting through another day is a major part of winning this battle, but it can be done. 
FRIENDS are another special gift. and the true ones will be there for you during both the stormy and sunny days. Most importantly, they are the ones who love and accept you simply for being the person you are. 
The fact that our society promote these behav­ior types through television, movies and media will never be fully understood by me. Religious organizations are to guide us through life choos­ing right from wrong, right? 
If this is true, then why would a Jesuit high­school allow two BOYS to drag a girl through a gymnasium and into their locker room. Scream rape repetitively, knock several of her teeth out against their cement floor, and get away with their harmful actions? 
Oh, yeah ... sometimes I tend to forget that they were, as the president of my high-school stated, simply performing the actions that can be expect­ed from the typical adolescents. Those of "Adolescent Horse-Play." 
How could I have ever been so naive as to think that people should take full responsibility for their actions? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Pete Cilella  
Sarah Hansen  Production  
Sports  Mark DeBoy  
Kevin Robinson  "The Heathers"  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Dan McDonough  Mike Boland  
Accent  
Andrea Jordan  
Tuesday 35 22 Wednesday~ 34 25 Thursday ~ 35 28 Friday ~ 31 24 Satqrday ~~ 29 18 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
exccpc during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Tuesday, November 11, 1997
The Observer· INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled by U-wire reports 

U. of Michigan president hosts impromptu post-game bash 
ANN ARBOR, Mich The swarm of students pushed about that, but it all turned out all 
University President Lee Bollinger through the small door of 815 South right. It was wonderful." sat on his bed watching the Michigan­University Ave. Hundreds of students Students said they did not want to Penn State game with his wife packed into every room of the house, cause violence or destruction -they Saturday night when more than 1,000 including Bqllinger's bedroom, living simply wanted to party with the presi­University 
room and study. dent and celebrate the victory peace­students Kinesiology sophomore Bob Lehrer fully. hurdled his made himself at home in Bollinger's "He's a great guy," said LSA sopho­bushes, bedroom. more Jason Ragnick. "He let us party climbed the "I sat on Lee Bollinger's bed and in his house. We're not making vio­trees, was watching football on TV," Lehrer lence. We're partying with the presi­crammed said. "I called from his phone to my dent." onto his lawn and began screaming answering machine and left a mes­The students then ran to the qui­his name. sage. He gave me a hug and on the etest place on campus, the Law 
As the crowd mounted the steps of way out he said he loved us all." Library, shouting and chanting "The the white house shouting "we want Bollinger, who had watched the Victors" while tuba players followed Lee," Bollinger emerged and invited frenzied students sprint down South closely behind. the students in -making the University toward the house, said he The Ann Arbor Police Department President's house the home of the was concerned that the celebration and the Department of Public Safety largest post-game party on campus. would mirror the recent riots at said there were no arrests made last 
"You can stay here as long as you Michigan State University after the night. want and come inside," Bollinger said, Spartans defeated Western Michigan. Although students blocked the roads hugging and embracing students in "I didn't know what the crowd was for about an hour, the motorists were celebration of the Michigan victory. like," Bollinger said. "I was worried not disturbed by the inconvenience. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY • COlORADO UNIVERSITY 
MSU questions job guarantees New bill bans affirmative action 
EAST LANSING, Mich. BOULDER, Colo. 
Despite their growing popularity and the benefits pro­Minority freshman enrollment at CU is up 6 percent, but vided to students, some MSU officials say that job guaran­if the state Legislature passes a bill to ban afl1rmative tees are too costly and not feasible for a university of action, CU may become an almost all-white campus, a MSU's size.Creating an alternative plan for graduates who national study suggests. Currently, white students make up have not found jobs after graduation is unheard of at 80 percent of the CU campus. Asian-Americans and MSU. However, graduates from the College of Engineering Hispanics/Latinos each make up 6 percent of the college at the University of Miami, Fla., are offered a free year of community; African American and American Indian stu­graduate school tuition if they are unable to !1nd a job dents make up 2 percent and 1 percent of the college com­within six months or do not have a job to their liking. St. munity, respectively. Other categories, such as foreign stu­John Fisher College in Rochester, N.Y., has promised dents, make up the remaining 5 percent. Leisha Conners freshmen $417 a month and up to $5,000 if they have not Bauer, assistant to the president, said the admissions office found a job in six months. But offering these guarantees has been working hard to increase minority enrollment at would be "shaky for a university of this magnitude to CU and recent numbers show that. But all of that could stand behind," said Patrick Scheetz, assistant director of change depending on the state Legislature. A recent study Career Services & Placement. If MSU were to adopt such a released by the American Association of Medical Colleges warranty, it would have to save close to $111 million, showed that in states like California, where Proposition 209 Scheetz said. Job guarantees would force the university to struck down affirmative action in admissions to state uni­set aside a fund for students who are unable to !1nd jobs versities last year, and in Texas, where a federal court and, as a result, tuition would rise in order to pay for it, ruled against duel admission policies at the University of Scheetz said. Texas Law School, minority enrollment is down. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY • BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
President promises scholarships Student elected to city council 
WASHINGTON PROVO, Utah 
GW President Stephen Joel Trachtenberg offered 48 One of Orem's newest city councilman is still reeling students at a District junior high a free ride to GW when after Tuesday's elections. Joseph Andersen, a 21-year-old they begin applying to college in five years. Trachtenberg BYU student, said his recent appointment to the city coun­spent an hour last month with seventh and eighth cil has not fully registered yet. "My head is still spinning a graders at Northwest Washington's Paul Junior High little bit," Andersen said, "I think a lot of people are School as part of Teach for America Week. The students scratching their heads, particularly my opponents." thought he would teach a math lesson, but instead he Despite the shock of the win, Andersen said his young age offered them a tuition-free GW education. He said, how­was a big help in the success of his campaign. He believes ever, that the offer is not without limits -students must his fresh outlook was appealing to voters who are fed up first be accepted to GW on the merit of their high school with local politics. "They're not happy with how the city's records and test scores. Rhoda Fischer, special assistant been run," Andersen said, "they feel the city council has to the president, said Trachtenberg's promise of a free made a lot of mistakes." A desire to show the public that college education is an investment in the city's future and younger citizens should be taken more seriously led an example to other District organizations. Andersen to run for office. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 11. 
H L 
~j'-"JV"'-J'/\1,._:""' .• 


Atlanta 59 44 Denver 29 21 New York 50 40 Baltim~re 49 37 Helena 33 7 Phoenix 70 554,~,~8Q.Q (f ~ 8 Boston 49 40 Indianapolis 42 28 Pittsburgh 41 33 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 38 24 Memphis 53 39 San Francisco 63 54 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Tuesday, November 11, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NO graduate wins piano prize 
ByKATYSOBY 
News Writer 
Tamari. Gurevich, a 1996 graduate of Notre Dame with a master's degree in piano per­formance, recently received the Grand Prix award at a piano competition in Porto, Portugal. 
To earn this honor, Gurevich had to advance through two preliminary rounds of piano competition, in which 75 international contestants con­tended for the grand prize. In the final round she played a solo recital and performed a concerto with the symphony orchestra. 
Gurevich also received a separate prize for the best performance of Debussy's Preludes, one of the required competition pieces. 
In addition to a cash prize, the winner of the Grand Prix prize earns concert engage­ments for the next year, including solo recitals and symphonic performances in Spain and Portugal. 
Gurevich is originally from Georgia, a former republic of the U.S.S.R. She was born into a family of musicians, and both of her grandparents were renowned professors of piano in Georgia. 
Gurevich recalls being "exposed [to music) from the very beginning of life" and was playing in solo recitals by the fourth grade. She debuted 
'MyEXPERIENCE AT 
NOTRE DAME IN 
BOTH STUDYING AND 
TEACHING IS ..• VALUABLE 
ON BOTH A PROFESSIONAL 
AND A PERSONAL LEVEL.' 
TAMARI GUREVICH 
ND '96 
with the Georgian symphony at age 11. 
Gurevich studied music with 
her grandmother Rozalie 
Rozjok at a special conservato­
ry for the musically gifted in 
Georgia where Rozjok taught. 
Gurevich recognizes her grandmother as one of the most influential people in her life as a musician, and claims that her grandmother deserves some credit for her success. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents \!rbe ~otre 119ame <!Cborale & <!Cbamber C!&rcbestra Alexander Blachly, Director Music of: DuFay Palestrina Schutz Bach Brahms 8:00p.m. Wed., Nov. 12 Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free & open to the public.  

Another valuable influence on Gurevich's musical life is her time at N"otre Dame. 
Gurevich came to the University after receiving her masters at Indiana State University in South Bend. 
Gurevich accepted the invi­tation to attend !USB right before she graduated from the Tbilisi State Conservatory in the republic of Georgia, where she was studying with the famous Georgian musician, Tengiz Amiradjibi. 
While studying at Notre Dame, Gurevich practiced with William Cerny, a professor in the music department, and acted as a teaching assistant. 
"My experience at Notre Dame in both studying and teaching is extremely valu­able, both on a professional level, as well as a personal level," she explained. 
While a student at the University, Gurevich competed in numerous competitions in Germany, the former Soviet 
Republics  and  the  United  
States.  
One  exceptional  perfor­ 

mance in 1995 earned her a second place finish in the Beethoven International Piano Competition in Memphis, Tenn. 
Gurevich currently teaches private piano lessons at Notre Dame. She will continue teaching at the University, pleased with the close rela­tionships she maintains with professor Cerny and the entire music department. 
"It [her Notre Dame experi­ence] means a lot to me and has become a very important part of my life, and I hope it continues in this way," said Gurevich. 


Today~ Tuesday~ November 11~ 1997 For time and location of meeting~ call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C' 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
<>.UJif,F,<H>.,UlJ<.· that 
St. .ua.ul"'u adoc­and the •• •· another female · holiness," Egan 
.... • • .· ·. film was sponsored by the.Campus Ministry of Saint 
Mary's. 

HAPPY 31st BIRTHDAY TO THE OBSERVER! 
Come join in the tradition! 
If you're interested in working with us~ call or drop by the office at 314 LaFortune. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 
I T H E 

AN IMPROBABLE FARCE IN THREE ACTS by 
NOEL COWARD 
MOREAU CENTER­UTllE THEATRE 
NOV. 13, 14,15 at 8pm &NOV.16at2:30pm 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open Mon.· Frt., 9 om to 5 pm. Credit Card orders by phone : 
219/284-4626 


-~ --~-­

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 11, 1997 
again without a crutch or to help him enroll in speech cane, and a job seemed like therapy.
Love 
an unattainable dream. "They cared about me as a Things continued spiraling person," Love recalled. "Itcontinued from page 4 
downward for Love. His wife never would have happened if because of fits stutter, and cut left him, leaving him a note I had played the victim. If you him from the team. saying that she didn't want to make the first step, someone 
"Lesson number one: if any­be with a stutterer and a crip­will help you with the second one ever tells you you can't do ple. step." something, you tell them you "I prayed for strength and He was 45 years old when can," Love said. courage," he said. he entered speech therapy. Love asked the manager to After these tragedies, Love "If it is to be, it's up to me," at least try to trade him, and resolved to put aside the Love said, sharing his philoso­
soon after Love was traded to crutch and force himself to phy on life with the audience. the Bulls. Once there, he set walk. He got a job at a restau­After s u cc essful speech record after record for scor­rant busing tables and wash­therapy he was promoted to 
ing. ing dishes for $4.45 an hour. director of 160 restaurants, But words were still a prob­Love recalled that many then to director of community lem. people from the NBA would relations for the Bulls. 
"Every day I prayed to be Recently, Love sold the able to speak," Love said. rights to his life story, and He confided the dreams he also has a book and a movie
'EVERY DAY I PRAYED TO 
had of speaking like Martin about his life pending. 
BE ABLE TO SPEAK••• I
Luther King, Jr: "I just had to "It's all because I refused to hold on to those dreams," he JUST HAD TO HOLD ONTO play the victim," Love said. said. "To accomplish anything in 
THOSE DREAMS.'
Love said that the most life, you've got to have a embarrassing moment of his BoB LOVE dream," he insisted. life was when he was asked to SPEAKING ABOUT HIS STRUGGLE "I was 45 years old when I 
speak in front of 3000 people started therapy, but success
TO OVERCOME A 
at a boy scout convention. He comes before work only in the 
SPEECH IMPEDIMENT 
stood at the podium for three dictionary,"he added. "There minutes trying to force the are no shortcuts. If you have words out before he sat down eat at the restaurant, whis­faith in the Lord, that's some­in shame. pering behind their hands thing no one can take from "I cried after that," he about him. you." recalled. 
"But I became the best bus The audience thanked Love 
Even though he had a col­boy in the world," Love said. for his remarks with a stand­lege degree, Love was unable He worked for six months ing ovation. to get a job after retiring from with no days off. After those Love's jersey was retired at the NBA because of his stut­six months, his bosses said the Chicago Stadium on 
ter. they wanted to promote him, January 14, 1994. He is one of Because of a back operation but his stutter prevented it. only three Bulls to earn this in 1984, he would never walk Love's bosses then offered distinction. 
add to the notion that she is one of the most talented French

Award 
professors in the Hoosier state. ''I'm not surprised," said

continued from page 4 
junior Katie Wehby when she 

tive colleague who has found out about her professor's already been recognized in award. her efforts in promoting diver­Wehby, a political science sity," stated fellow French major, finds Derakhshani's 
professor Renee Kingcaid. teaching approach refreshing. 
"We're delighted that she's "She realizes that everyone is been recognized by the larger not going to be a foreign lan­Indiana Community of foreign guage major, but makes sure 
language." that we understand all of the 
Prior to her basics before Saint Mary's she moves on. experience, That's really
'WE'RE DELIGHTED

Derakhshani nice. A lot of taught at THAT SHE'S BEEN teachers have Indiana RECOGNIZED BY THE LARGER a syllabus
University­that is set in INDIANA COMMUNITY OF stone," she
Purdue said.
University, the FOREIGN LANGUAGE.' University of The stu-Georgia, the dents and University of RENEE KINGCAID faculty in the 
Utah, the SPEAKING ABOUT COUEAGUE foreign Ian­University of MANA DERAKHSHANI guage depart-Southern ment are Colorado and .excited to St. Mary's Elementary School in have the award-winner on the 
Salt Lake City. Saint Mary's College campus, But Derakhshani found her saying that the award speaks niche at Saint Mary's. well not only of Derakhshani's 
"I have no plans of leaving teaching, but of the gifted for­here; I've found a place where eign language program to professors have room to grow," which she gives her time. 
she said. The award is currently being 
"Saint Mary's is very con­kept on her bookshelf, propped ducive to experimental tech­up by a wall of books. niques, which are essential to "It will probably stay there 
growing." she said. until I get tired of moving it out Her students' reactions only of the way to get a book," she said. 
Cheer 
continued from page 1 
cheer. 
"I have received, in the office of Student Affairs, letters that state that this is uncourteous and unsportsmanlike behavior of Notre Dame students. Clearly people find it offensive," Kirk said. 
He later established that Student Affairs had nothing to do with the decision and com­mented further on the letters. 
"There were many letters 
expressing concern that this [the 'sucks' cheer) was contrary to Notre Dame tradition," Kirk said. 
"We are known for being warm and welcoming and at the same time having a competitive athletic venue, and the cheer did not convey that," he added. 


The pursuit of our dreams has resulted in the creation of three companies. 
DCSystems Consulting (1987) 
Pro~HHes anagell1ent and technical consulting to a broad spe~t clients/from Arthur Andersen to Zurich-American Ins: 
Do:"Systems Education (1992) 
Trains software developers world-wide how to write their own industry specific applications. 
DC Syst~rns Software (1994) 
Creates software licenses that provide full servi,~e customer 
management for large corporate call centers and sales force 
teams. 

Meet DC Systems on November 17th at 7:00p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room. Refreshments provided. Interviews November 18 and 19. 
e 
DC SYSTEMS 
EDUCATION 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
' 








Tuesday, November 11, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NATIONAl NEWS BRIEFS 
Jury convicts Kasi in CIA killing 
FAIRFAX, Va. 

A Pakistani man was convicted today of killing two CIA employees in a shooting spree outside agency headquarters in 1993 and could receive the death penalty. A jury delib­erated four hours before finding Mir Aimal Kasi guilty of one count of capi­tal murder. another count of first-degree murder and three counts of mali­cious wounding.Kasi showed no emotion as the 
Logo courtesy of 

verdicts were read. After CIA Web site the verdicts, Kasi was sen­tenced to life in prison for the fatal shooting of Lansing Bennett. Jurors will return Tuesday to decide whether to recommend the death sentence or life in prison for the capital mur­der conviction in the shooting of Frank Darling. Kasi also received maximum sen­tences of 20 years each for the three mali­cious wounding counts and 18 years for firearms violations. Darling, 28, and Bennett, 66, died in their cars while stopped in morn­ing traffic in Langley. Two other CIA workers and a telephone company employee were wounded. before he was captured in a hotel in Pakistan in June. 
WorldCom wins MCI bidding war with $37 billion offer 
NEW YORK 

WorldCom Inc., an upstart Mississippi com­pany led by a former high school basketball coach, beat the telecommunications giants Monday to win a takeover battle for MCI with a $37 billion deal that would be the biggest merger in U.S. history. The agreement, subject to regulatory approval, would transform the landscape of the telecommunications industry, and should speed up merger talks by other companies trying to take advantage of changes in federal rules governing competition. The combined company, MCI WorldCom, would be a behemoth selling a full range of services ­from local and long-distance to Internet con­nections -to 22 million customers in more than 200 countries. The new company expects to have $32 billion in revenue next year. WorldCom's bid leapfrogged a $28 billion cash offer from GTE Corp. and also thwarted a $24 billion merger agreement MCI had reached with British Telecommunications PLC. MCI already is the nation's second-largest long-dis­tance company, behind AT&T, and would remain so after the merger with No. 4 WorldCom. Consumer groups expressed con­cern that a combined MCI-WorldCom could stifle competition in the residential phone mar­ket., possibly reducing choices for customers and driving up rates. For customers, the deal should speed the advent of all-in-one packages of telecommunications services, ranging from phone to Internet access, on a single bill. 

S&P 500: Composite 
921.13 Volume:7552.59 -6.38 567,557,670 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
Biomune Systems BIMED 52.73% +1.035 2.156 Group 1 Software GSOF 57.14% +4.000 11.00 Thermo Tech TIRIF 41.94% +0.813 2.750 Digital Data DID A 28.57% +0.750 3.375 Eimers Restaurant ELMS 28.00% +0.875 4.000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
CKS Group Inc. CKSG -63.10% -22.88 13.38 Venture Sets-WTS VSEWF -27.27% -0.750 2.000 NeoMedia Tech·WT NEOMW -26.32% ·0.625 1.750 Med Resources MRII -26.04% -3.125 8.875 london Financial LONF -25.47% -5.125 15.00 
AFP Photo 

S
up port for jailed Bri~ish nanny Louise Woodward ~hows no sign of abating in her home village of Elton, Cheshire, in the United Kingdom; Sunday ntght, protesters gathered there tn a rally to have her murder sentence overturned. Woodward was sentenced to life in prison in Boston last week for the murder of an eight-month-old baby in her care. 
OVERTURNED 
Judge reduces charge, frees 
Woodward on probation 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
A judge reduced Louise Woodward's murder convic­tion to manslaughter and set the au pair free Monday in 
hopes of bringing "a com­passion­ate con­clusion" to a case t h a t threw a 

spotlight Woodward on every­thing from working moms to the American legal system. 
As the world watched, Judge Hiller B. Zobel sen­tenced Ms. Woodward to the 279 days served since her arrest last February in the 


death of 8-month-old said. But he added: "It is, in cuting cases this is the most viction and life sentence 
Matthew Eappen. 

my judgment, time to bring bizarre series of events I were too harsh. The round-faced 19-year­the judicial part of this extra­have ever seen," said District To prove malice, a neces­old showed no reaction in 
ordinary matter to a com­Attorney Tom Reilly. ''I'm sary element of second­court. Her lawyers said she passionate conclusi sickened by what happened. degree murder, prosecutorswould have no comment. 
on." I'm saddened by what hap­had to show that "a reason­
Hours earlier, the judge Cheers went up outside the pened. I really am." able person would have ruled that she killed the baby courthouse and inside a pub The case drew worldwide known that her intentional by shaking him violently but 
in her village of Elton, . attention to the issues of act created a substantial risk that her actions did not con­England. "Thank you Judge working parents and the dif­of death," the judge said. 
stitute second-degree mur­Zobel -Elton," said one ficulties of finding affordable The judge said he believed der because she did not act sign held by a supporter. and reliable child care. The that Woodward's actions with malice. Second-degree Others drank champagne. verdict also prompted criti­were "characterized by con­murder carries a mandatory 

Prosecutors immediately cism of the jury system and fusion, inexperience, frustra­sentence of life in prison with said they would appeal the the highly public nature of tion, immaturity and some the possibility of parole after reduction of the conviction, America's legal system, with anger, but not malice." 
15 years. 

and Zobel ordered its televised trials and As the sentence was read,
"In selecting the sentence 

Woodward to stay in celebrity lawyers. Gary Woodward, the defen­here I do not denigrate Massachusetts until a court Woodward denied harming dant's father, clasped his Matthew Eappen's death nor 
decides she can leave. the baby, and supporters hand over his face and cried. 
his family's grief." Zobel "In all my years of prose-argued that the murder con-His wife, Susan, stood up and 



page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 11, 1997 



Be a teacher.~n.d experience:
/Jit 

~~acher .Pt:eparation 
• Community Life 
ion Meeting: 
Clay 
continued from page 1 
Indiana is 0.10 
Police have not arrested the 48-year-old resident of the home. 
A revolver from the home was confiscated Sunday by police. 
Clay was returning from an off-campus establishment early Sunday after celebrating his 20th birthday. 
He was walking with a female companion through a neighborhood three blocks away from Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard when the incident occurred, police said. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report . 

Hussein threatens but fails to act 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's top mili­tary advisers canceled foreign trips Monday even as the administration sought a diplo­matic solution to the standoff with Iraq. 
Clinton, speaking with reporters at the White House, observed that an American U­2 spy plane safely completed a mission over Iraq earlier in the day without being fired on by Iraqi forces. 
"That's a good thing," Clinton said. "But it does not change the larger issue, which is that U.N. weapons inspec­tions have been stopped by Saddam Hussein." 
Iraq's refusal to allow American weapons inspectors in the country two weeks ago has halted the work of U.N. teams trying to ensure that Iraq is not developing weapons of mass destruction. 
Saddam, meanwhile, has threatened to shoot down any 
U.N. surveillance planes entering its airspace. 
Clinton said he now was looking to the U.N. Security Council for a strong statement on the urgency of resuming weapons inspections in Iraq. 
"Then we will go about man­ifesting that, demonstrating our determination to begin those inspections again," he said. 

Underscoring that U.S. mili­tary options remain on the table,Defense Secretary William Cohen and Gen. Henry Shelton,chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, postponed scheduled trips to Asia this week. 
Cohen said Clinton asked him and Shelton to postpone their trips so they could be more readily available for con­sultations. 
"The president made a request for me to be here and be available ... until this situa­tion with Iraq is resolved," Cohen said on PBS's "Newshour with Jim Lehrer" 
When asked about direct 
U.S. military action against Iraq in the absence of a provo­cation such as an attempt to shoot down a U.S. plane, Cohen said the American pub­lic should expect "not neces­sarily military action immedi­ately, but it is always a possi­bility." 
Shelton told reporters that Saddam "was smart" in not making good on repeated threats to harm the U-2 on its reconnaissance mission. 
"We will continue to act in accordance with what the United Nations asks us to do, and we will keep our range of options open," the four-star Army general said of potential military action. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRIDAY, NOV. 7 
11:30 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident report­ed receiving a harassing phone call. 6 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from outside the Band Building. His bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
SATURDAY, NOV. 8 
2:30p.m. A Welsh Family Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 4:30p.m. Security transported a University employee to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
5:30 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
SUNDAY, NOV.10 
1:15 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 3 p.m. A Keough Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

sts discover new lienge in Britain 
.ancient remains without ·dis• turbing the land. The evidence ;,..,..•, . . .... LONQQ~'"' sqfar points to the existence of Archaeologists ~ay they have:qr:timber Circles and a ditch, or ·.found .. butied"'r ins of a../ bel).ge, the Erigllsh Heritage 
ti .·· .. l!IPle. commission sa;id. 
.. the size of .... ·.·. / u~ent Geoffrey Walqwright. the 
t ~ton~ben~~.?.n~ just· ?S'•~tgroup's chief archaeologist, 
~portant. . . ·•.. · : imks r ·. ·· ... ·•• A survey ofStanton Drew in •· Somerset, southwest. England; revealed traces o.f"one of the 
largest and most elaborate prehistoric ceremonial sites ever found in Britain/' a gov~. ernnient commission tha.tlooks after historic sites and build­ingsannounced Monday; 
The site, concealed by a series of stone circles, was detected with sensitive instru~ ments designed to reveal called the discovery the most significant in British prehis· .toric·archaeology since the 1967 excav tion of a timber temple of Durtington Walls, near Stonehenge. 
"We have about 3,ooo stone circles in Britain, but previous­ly only seven timber temples." he said. 
•''The Stanton Drew find is by far the largest -twice as big as anything previously discov­
· ered." 

Like Stonehenge1 Stanton Drew was probably a meeting place for dances ·and. religious rituals. Many.of Britailt'.s Stone Age monuments, including Stonehenge, also served as primitive astronomical obser­
vatories. ·· 
The newly discovered. benge is a near-perfectclrcle With an ()Uter diameter Of about 443 feet. Within the Great Circle are at least nine concentric cir· 
cles that are thought to be bur­ial pits. 
"This site complex is atleast or equal significance to its more famous contemporaries," Wainwright said. 
Sir Jocelyn Stevens, chair· 
man of English Heritage, sug­. gested that the complex struc­ture was built as a "symbol of power" by people seeking to 
control the supernatural. 
English Heritage said it wiU 
examine only the remains of 
the temple posts, which may 
have stood up to 30 feet above 
ground. . 
'fhe rest of the site will not 
be extensively excavated, offi­
cials said, since it conforms to 
seven other timber temples in 
Britain. 
The find was made in 
September by archaeologists 
using ground-scanning equip­
ment in an. attempt to learn 
more about the three stone cir­
cles at Stanton Drew. 

Tuesday, November 11, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Country reels after recent killings 

Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 
The South· Korean econ 
has been takhtg some s 
blows recently,.with its 
rency reaching new low!> 
against the dollar and major:: 
companies going bankrupt. 
But the government is mOV" 
ing furiously to re · 
investors. that· the pillars 
economy are firm, not shaky 
like some of those in Southeast 
Asia. 
Last week, the government 
vehementlydenied · 
news reports that South 
had spent .so much · 
reserves in defending its 
rency, the won, that it 
considering seeking a 
from the Interna 
Monetary Fund•. as its nn<~i'a•F: 
Asian neighb()rs Th 
Indonesia have· been t·....,..".,.,1 .:vv:.: do. lMF chief Michael Camdessus backed up the South Korea claim, saying th while the country has b() ·· 


BY jEss BoRGESON, ADAM LoNG AND DANIEL SINGER DIRECTED BY MARK SEAMON 
WEDNESDAY, Nov. 19 ........ 7:30 PM THURSDAY, Nov. 20 .......... 7:30 PM FRIDAY, Nov. 21................. 7:30 PM SATURDAY, Nov. 22 ........... 7=30 PM SuNDAY, Nov. 23 ............... 2:30PM 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL RESERVED SEATS $8 • SENIORS $7 • ALL STUDENTS $6 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 6]I-8128 
Associated Press 
ALGIERS, Algeria 
Using explosives to blow open the doors of people'_s homes, militants raided a government­held village and slaughtered 27 people, hospital sources said Monday. 
The massacre -one of sever­al over the weekend that left a total of 56 people dead -was the latest spasm of violence in a six-year insurgency that has left about 75,000 people dead. 
Also Monday, in an interview published in a Paris newspaper, an Algerian intelligence agent accused his country's military security of being behind the recent massacre of 200 people in Algeria, as well as two deadly 1995 Paris bombings. The dead­ly attack on the government­controlled village of Lahmalit, 30 miles south of Algiers, occurred Saturday night. A gov­ernment-backed militia recently had seized the village from Muslim militants, the sources said. 
About 30 men forced their way in before stabbing or shoot­ing the victims, splattering walls with blood during two hours of carnage, ambulance workers said. The victims included 12 children, including a 3-month­old baby. 
In other weekend attacks, armed groups in the northwest killed 23 motorists near the town of Tlemcen and six shep­herds near Mascara. Ten bomb­ings -four in Algiers, three in Blida and three in Medea ­caused damage and injuries, according to independent Algerian newspapers. 

The massacre in the Chrea Mountain village, only a mile from an army garrison in near­by Blida, was Algeria's third in two days, according to survivors who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Soldiers arrived three hours after the attack. 
There was no claim of respon­sibility, but suspicion fell on Muslim militants fighting to top­ple the military-backed govern­ment of President Liamine Zeroual. 
The insurgency was sparked in January 1992, when the gov­ernment decided to cancel an election rather than risk politi­cal defeat. 
The Islamic Salvation Front ­fueled by voter anger over cor­ruption and high unemployment in this petroleum-rich North African nation -had been favored to win the 1992 elec­tions. 
Hundreds of people have been slaughtered in recent months while Zeroual proceeded with a series of elections to rebuild the nation's political structure and consolidate his power after ban­ning the Salvation Front. 
Meanwhile, in his interview 
Talking Trees, 

t/Jis day onu.•ard, ~M~~ The Saint Mary's Students for 
From (~ Whispering Waters 
..,;// ~' Environmental Action Invite You to 
walk 

••\"LISTEN TO THE SOUNDS AND 
easy 

on SHARE IN THE VERSES OF earth. 
NATURE" 
...;II 

at 
restore 

tfw 
Dalloway 's Coffee House 
earth where 

Thursday, November 13 
And \ 

7:00pm 
~::::· ~·Bring your favorite music or poetry to 
lo ~~~ ehare. ;1 ;~ '"~ Bring your own mug... :://;, ,, Refreshments will be served 
9 

me. -M./. S/;.., Hooey Sponsored by SM-SEAC 
with the French newspaper Le Monde, the Algerian agent blamed military security for the July 1995 bombing in a subway at St. Michel, which killed eight people, and the October 1995 bombing at Maison Blanche neighborhood, which injured 13. 
The attacks "were committed at the instigation of the action service" of Algeria's military security to turn public opinion against Islamic militants, the agent said. 
Such attacks have been, in each case, blamed on Muslim extremists trying to replace the military-backed government with an Islamic state. 
"ln Algeria, everyone has blood on his hands," said the man, who identified himself to Le Monde as a ranking intelli­gence officer still living and working in his country. He refused to be quoted by name, according to the paper, which called him "Hakim." 
According to Hakim's account, the September massacre at Beni Messous, in which more than 200 people were killed, was clearly the work of security ser­vices. There are a half-dozen military barracks in the region of Beni Messous, an Algiers sub­urb, Hakim said. 
Hakim's allegations echo those by a colleague published Sunday in The Observer news­paper in London. 
'7\.s tt..ll 
s~~Sol'\ (o b~ FkEEZIw'l 0~ 15 IT? 

London $256 Paris $232 Canoun $238 
San Jose, CR $280 
J~,...-1~U 
,_............, ....-...., •.._._ --·~­
"""'•"•u•n-•.•-•-c•~--W'!~P. 
__ ,._.,,.,.............MfWIU .....--... 
...._.,,.......... -.."-"'-'·~--.... --·.oon­
.,..._._.,~ 

1-800-2-COUNCIL 
1-800-226-8624 

Holy Cross Priests and Brothers: 
Working to Beat Hell 
What is their Mission? Why do they do it? Could I share one day in their ministry? What does Corby Hal/look like? 
Frs. Mike Baxter, CSC and Jim Lies, CSC will offer some reflections on being a Holy Cross Religious on campus and in the classroom. 
Wednesday, Nov. 12, lOpm-llpm Corby Hall-Miller Room (Go to Front Door) 

For more information: Fr. Jim King, CSC & Fr. Bill Wack, CSC (219) 631-6385 

http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
or talk with your Rector or another CSC! 


SAINT MARY's Cou.£Ge O'I..AUGHUN AUDITORIUM ~ 

TICkets on sale at the Scint May's College Box Office in Olaughlin Auctnorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., 
M8fifiiJ 

Monday -Friday. I ~#;; THE ARTS Credit card orders by phone: 219/284-4626 ~ NOTRE DAME,IN 
r--~--~---~------·-~ ----~----~-~~ ~ ------------~-----~-----~... 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, November 11, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jami~ Hdsler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .....................Jennit~r Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ···············~···········Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudcms of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame 
du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the: policies of rhe adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Phow Editor, and Associate 
News Editor. Commentaries, lc:rrers and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and nor neces­
sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4 543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Saim Mary's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day EditorNiewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• SHADES OF GRAY 

Quick ••• but not Easy 
My good friend and Notre Dame One day, while we were picking vegeta­celebrity Francisco Guadalupe Suave bles, the insects were really annoying de Gortari has agreed to his first inter­the farmworkers. Everyone else was view since starring in "Quick and Easy too afraid to complain to the patron, 

but I yelled to the foreman, "Hey you, the mosquitoes are eating us alive!" Wouldn't you know it-the next day, while we were picking vegetables in the 
Isaac 
field, a plane flew overhead, spraying pesticides and other chemicals on us. 
Q. What did you learn from this 
Ruiz 
experience? 
A. You never get what you want 
unless you ask for it. Oh yeah, and now Halloween Costumes," a particularly our shoes glow in the dark! Do you controversial episode of the comic strip know what those glow-in-the-dark "Men About Campus." In that comic shoes cost at the mall? strip, he played an "alien," a Mexican Q. Yes. I guess Santa Claus came 



Q. So you feel okay about being labeled an "alien"? 
A. I don't feel okay about being alienated, but that's just the way it is. People are alienated because others are uncomfortable with their language, their looks, or whatever. It's a tragedy, but the last time I checked, the best label for someone who's alienated is "alien." 
Q. Our time is almost up. Do you have any final words for your audi­ence? 
A. "Quick and Easy Halloween Costumes" was offensive. It was in poor taste, and it shouldn't have run. Still, those of us who care enough to complain should care enough to make a difference. Join a club focused on improving campus race relations, or do whatever you can to make "aliens" feel less alienated and feel more at home. 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law student. He can be reached at isaac. ruiz.13@nd. edu. His column runs every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
without a green card. [Disclaimer: Everything about this "interview" is make-believe. Read it at your own risk. The columnist is not liable for any injuries caused by this column or the corniness therein. Special apologies to Siegfried and Roy.] 
Q. Welcome, Paco. 
A. It's great to back at The Observer, and it's great to see Senor Dan again, after so long. 
Q. Most people know you as Alien, a Mexican without a green card. But few people know the real Paco. Who is Paco? 
A. Well, I was born in Miami. My father was the leader of a successful, shall we say, import-export business. 
Q. Yes. I know the family was the focus of a Justice Department investi­gation in the 1980s. What remains of the family "business"? 
A. Well, we've still got a couple of Laundromats in Miami. 
Q. It must have been tough. 
A. Yeah, we really fell on hard times after the investigation. My family -we all became migrant farmworkers to make ends meet. That was where I began to develop my leadership skills. 
early that year. 
A. You better believe it. I emerged from the vegetable fields with a sense of purpose. 
Q. Paco was politicized? 
A. You could say that. I led a march in Washington. 
Q. About the march, you proclaimed in front of thousands of people, "Enough with injustice! We're a team, and the man is keeping our team down." Many people have said this language was a little harsh. 
A. And they're right. We all make mistakes, and I'd like to go on the record right now apologizing to Jim Colletta for those remarks. 
Q. So how did you break into the car­toon business? 
A. After a while, I realized that being a political activist wasn't going to pay the bills. I wanted to entertain, so I hitch-hiked my way to Las Vegas. On the day I arrived, I was discovered by Siegfried and Roy, who were looking for a personal assistant. 
Q. Yes. Siegfried and Roy have said that you had the right "look." 
A. They're sweethearts. They hooked me up with a talent agent who got me in touch with Senor Dan. Those days I spent with Siegfried and Roy were some of the happiest days of my life. 

Q. Perhaps you'd like to come back next week for a Symposium on Notre Dame's Spirit of Inclusion Statement. 
A. What do you mean? 
Q. Tell us about your upcoming pro­jects. 
A. "Quick and Easy Halloween Costumes" was just the beginning .. I'm reading a lot more scripts these days, but only a few have caught my eye. I'm working on a fast-action comic strip due out next summer. On vacation in California, I have a little run-in with the cops. It's called "Quick and Easy Ways to Get Beat Up." 
Q. And your role in this comic strip? 
A. A Mexican without a green card. 
Q. Many people would say that you're perpetuating negative stereo­types of immigrants by participating in these "Mexican without green card" projects. 
A. These roles are accurate portray­als of how immigrants are treated in America. Sure, maybe Senor Dan is going for quick laughs, but ... 
• DOONESBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
(f0){}/'/&95, YOU WN7HAV£3 
70 7lfU. M&/ 5011&OFMY 
FON/?!3ST!<£MA/NIN6Mt:MC1<1/i6 A~ OF 7H£GR!iAT,G/..!TIEI?IN6 COTIUION5 OF7J..f& Jl:tZZ ~.' 
• QuoTE OF TBE 0AY 
'High hopes were once 
formed of democracy; but democracy means sim­ply the bludgeoning of the people by the people for the people.' 
-Oscar Wilde 
·· . f. I J. · I a
. -·· ____-;...! I;, 
...... : 

-------------------~ --~-~----~~ ---------~­
VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, November 11, 1997 page 9 

• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER • I..ETIER TO THE EDITOR 
The Angel at the Grotto 

How Could
I am a firm believer in angels. I think that Grotto that night. She remembers lighting a 
God uses them to perform the little miracles candle and kneeling to pray. but she soon that help keep our faith strong. I also believe became absorbed in her thoughts and lost all that when an angel isn't available, God expects sense of time. She didn't even realize she had 

We Forget? 
us to step in, to be His hands and to act as been crying until a gentle hand touched her angels for each other. shoulder and she heard the words, "Hey, are you gonna be OK?" 

How easily we forget what happened here. Surprised, my friend looked up. Standing in 
We pass it each day 
front of her was a stranger. someone she had On our way to work, to go shopping, or out to dinner.

never seen before, peering down at her with a 
look of worry etched across his face. My friend
Jaclyn 

Construction trucks rumble past was touched by the gesture of this kind Litterbugs set free their McDonald's, Burger King and Wendy's bags stranger, and his genuine concern for her well­
Villano 

and our cigarette butts and chewed gum are tossed and land where and he nodded and quietly took a seat next to being. She assured him that she would be fine, 
it happened. her. After a few minutes in silence, my friend A little memorial stands, weathered by all seasons
realized that the stranger was sitting there for One of my friends wholeheartedly agrees with her, waiting for her to speak if she so desired, 

at the place where someone's life was stolen. me. We were discussing the issue over a bowl or to just sit in silence and know that she was 
Maybe none of us knew her, but did we? 
of cereal in the dining hall one night, and that's not alone. My friend turned to the compassion­A young woman, eager to do and be so many things,
when she shared with me a story that touched ate stranger and they began to talk. She shared my heart and reminded me of how lucky I am with him all that had been upsetting her, as he 

wanting to enjoy football games on brisk fall afternoons, to be at this place called Notre Dame. We listened patiently and without judgment. 
wanting to take pride in passing a college course, talked for a while that night. not just about her They became good friends that night. Later, story, but about all the other "little miracles" as he walked her back to the dorm, she 
wanting to graduate, to move the tassel over. that we have encountered here at NO that thanked him and told him that he had 
wanting to succeed in a career,
make it the extraordinary place that it is. answered her prayers. She had asked God for and wanting to one day be married and have a family.

I went back to my dorm that night still pon­someone to help her through this, and that was dering our discussion. I realized that with all exactly what she received. He smiled at her, 

How familiar this sounds to us, the controversy that has been sweeping this and told her that he honestly didn't know why 
Yes we knew her. 
campus in recent weeks. it has become far too he had gone to the Grotto that night. He had easy for stories like my friend's to go untold. been sitting in his room and something just told 

So how could we forget? This is my inspiration for writing this column, him that he needed to be there. 
Remembering Mara Rose Fox 
"Chicken Soup for The Observer." It is my hope Stories like this one are reminders that Notre a Notre Dame student killed Nov. 13, 1993 
that the stories shared in this column will Dame is a special place, for reasons that have Pncourage and inspire others in the way that nothing to do with football games, or Tuesday 

while walking along Douglas Road they have done so for me. nights at Bridget's. or even education. This 
with friends. 
My friend's story takes place on a day when campus is made special by people like the kind everything that could go wrong, did. We've all stranger at the Grotto, who did not hesitate to had days like these, when it seems that the reach out to someone who was hurting and in world is out to get us with a vengeance. Like need. many of the rest of us would, my friend needed Who says that angels don't walk the earth? 
Andrea Dominello

a place to go and spend some time making Senior
sense out of everything that had been happen­Jaclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and 
Saint Mary's 
ing. So she headed for the Grotto. On the way Letters major. Her column appears every other 
November 10, 1997
there. she asked God to send her someone to Friday. talk to and help her through the rough time she The views expressed in this column are those was experiencing. ofthe author and not necessarily those of The 
My friend has no idea how long she sat at the Observer. 
• ALL ABOUT You 
Life Without Cable 

I called home this weekend and that's probably be a disaster. I know my same. I do know the special Halloween when it hit me -I miss cable. I want it. grade point average appreciates being show is already in the mail on its way to I need it. I am in withdrawal. without cable, but my lazy "I really just me. It should be arriving today around 
When I called my house, after about want to watch TV that is not a South noon. You know what I will be doing six rings my dad finally answered. Bend local station" side really wants after lunch. "What took you so long to answer the cable. Anybody else need to see it? In with­phone?" I asked him immediately. But most of all. I want my MTV. drawal? I have it. Come on over. Now 
I really want to know what is happen­please don't write me any e-mails say­ing on "Beavis and Butthead." Has ing I am ungrateful for what I have Butthead gotten off the couch? Are they been given here if I can sit and com­still working at Burger World? "We plain about no cable. I don't want to
Bridget 

have chocolate, vanilla and strawber­hear it so I will tell you all now. I am ry." Remember when they went baby­very grateful. I already admitted if I had sitting? "Baby-sitting sucks." cable I would be watching it all day 
Rzezutko 
And "The Real World." I know, it is in long. I am addicted to trash. I already about the seventh season and getting watch enough shows that I shouldn't, kind of old, but I still love it. I wonder such as "The Simpsons." "Doh!" Or what the Boston cast is up to. I need to "General Hospital" or "Jerry Springer." 
Daria. They were watching Daria, and get caught up. I hope I didn't miss a Hey, I need to know what is happening my favorite episode. You know, the one marathon. with Brenda and Jax, and everyone can where Daria enrolls in a self-esteem Do you remember the show "The only benefit from learning about the class and she tells the teacher she State"? That show was hilarious. My topics Jerry entertains you with, such doesn't have low self-esteem; she just friend has the video. We still watch it. as transvestites who ran away from has "a low esteem for others." I guess And every once in awhile I see a rerun home and are now in the circus. 
there was a whole marathon of Daria of it on MTV. I guess I was just reared in a TV fami­shows on MTV this weekend, but none Whenever I call up my friends at state ly or something. My dog is even in a of us would ever have known since we schools, I feed off their cable knowl­commercial for Comcast Cable. Ever are all cableless. edge. Puff Daddy has a new video? Wu seen it? Well that's my golden retriever. 
Sometimes I feel maybe this is for the Tang Clan was on "Yo MTV Raps"? No joke. His name is Bailey. So that's best. If I had cable I would watch TV all Dave Matthews Band was on "MTV my reason, or I guess more like excuse, the time. Most of us would. Let's face it Unplugged"? I missed a cute guy on for loving cable. I have family in the -how many of you can recite movies "Singled Out"? business. such as Tommy Boy or Billy Madison But what I miss the worst about no word for word? I know I can. "Were you cable is "South Park" on Comedy Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English calling from a walkie-talkie?" "No, it Central. I love that show. "Oh my God, major at Saint Mary's. She can be was a cordless." Or my favorite: they killed Kenny!" Do you think they reached at Rzez1904@saintmarys.edu. "Shampoo is better. I go on first and will ever make an episode where Kenny The views expressed in this column clean the hair." doesn't die? My mom tapes them for me are those of the author and not neces­
Without cable I watch movies all the and every once in awhile one appears sarily those of The Observer. time, so if I did have cable it would in a care package, but it is just not the 


. 

----------------------, 
page 10 Tuesday, November 11, 1997
ACCENT 

e 
• AccEttl Asi{s ••• 
How often do you see plays? 

"Four times a year. I enjoy plays, especially Shakespeare." 
Monica Salazar Freshman, Howard 
"I went to one, 'Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead,' because I read 'Hamlet' and I wanted to view the play." 
Luis Nunez Freshman, Alumni 


"Never. I am an engineer." 
Rachel Kasinskas Junior, Lewis 
"Never, except when they're assigned." 
Ben Dusbabek Sophomore, Keenan 


"Twice, three times a year, whenever I can't get out of it. I'm forced into culture." 
Lis Sonneveld Junior, LeMans 
The Obse<Ver/Kevin Dalum 


irit 0 

En_j oy Life "Bli-the S 

By BRIDGET RZEZUTKO 

Accent Writer 

'' Blithe Spirit." What? "Blithe Spirit." It means happy, cheerful, carefree. it is the art and theater department's current production at Saint College. Every semester Saint Mary's produces a play on campus at Moreau Center inside The · 
"Blithe Spirit" was written during the 1940s by Noel Coward. It is the story of Charles, a Ruth, his second wife, after his first wife dies. He holds a seance in his house with Madam obtain information for a book he is writing. During the seance, his past wife, Elvira, who has been 
years, becomes re-materialized. Then ... well, I can't tell you that. Let's just say things then begin control. This is an improbable farce performed in three acts that guarantees many laughs. The talented actors who make this play come to life on stage are Molly Burns as Elvira, David Car Dombrow as Madam Arcarti and Mandi Moburg as Ruth. 
"Saint Mary's went all out for this play. This is my third production here and nothing like it has ever ed junior Mandi Moburg. The play is entirely student-oriented. It is all student-run except for the is Mike Morris. Every other semester he directs a play, with Katie Sullivan directing for the other se 
Scenery and lighting are both run by Thomas Boelman. Students in art classes helped to paint the enact the special effects that this show promises. The costumes are all made to resemble the styles designed and made by Tatjana Longerot. 
"They arc quite extravagant and beautiful. They were made special for each of us. It is really fun to these wonderful costumes," said Burns. Since the play is a British farce, the cast had to listen to dialect tapes and learn the proper a'-'l·""'"'l but to the cast, it was definitely worth it. "The play has been a lot of fun to be involved in. '"''"'r"n"' 
has been a real bonding experience," Moburg said. The only part that no one seems to enjoy is the makeup. "Since I play a deceased character, I entire body in gray makeup in order to look realistic. It takes a long time and is hard to wash 
men ted. Opening night for "Blithe Spirit" is on Thursday at 8 p.m. Shows continue on Friday also at 8 p.m., and concluding with a matinee on Sunday at 2:30p.m. Tickets can either be purchased at the door or by calling Saint Mary's College Box O'Laughlin Auditorium (284-4626), Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ticket prices are $8 for adults, $7 for senior citizens, $6 for members of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community and $5 for students. 
Tuesday, November 11, 1997 page 11
;ACCENT 


eatre 
a 

nd Mary's 
ttle Theater. 1 who marries carti in order to leceased for seven to get a little out of 
ol as Charles, Janelle 
een done before," stat­>r. who for this semester 
The Observer/Kevin Datum 




.. 



page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 1997 

the win. 
"We were trying to put our best defensive players in the continued from page 20 game, and they worked very, 
Women's
Simon's slur causes uproar 
very well together," McGraw 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Chris Simon of the Washington Capitals, indefi­nitely suspended for making racial slurs against an oppos­ing player, will have a hearing before NHL executives on Tuesday. 
Brian Burke, the league's director of hockey operations, will listen to Simon's explana­tion before determining if fur­ther discipline is warranted. 
Simon, an American Indian, is accused of slurring Mike Grier. a black forward for the Edmonton Oilers, during Saturday night's game. 
The league said it has reviewed the officials' game reports and spoken on the phone with Simon and two on­ice officials. Some players and Edmonton coach Ron Low have said they heard the slurs. 
"That's what was strange to me, that it was someone who has his background and his race," Grier said Sunday in Buffalo, where the Oilers were to play the Sabres tonight. "I didn't expect it to come from another minority. It's just a lit­tle more shocking." 
Simon, who honors his Ojibwa tribe heritage with long hair and a tattoo, trav­eled with the Capitals to Florida for Sunday night's game, won 3-2 by the Panthers. 
He had no comment on the issue, and the league did not disclose what Simon had said. 
The Capitals-Oilers game ended with players shouting at each other. The officials broke them up before any punches were thrown. A gross miscon­duct penalty was called on Simon at 20:00 of the third period. 
"I definitely heard a racial slur from Mr. Simon," Low said. "I thought with his race and proud background that he wouldn't do that." 
Bryan Lewis, NIIL vice presi­dent of officiating, confirmed Low's account. 
"Yes, there were racial remarks made on the ice," he said. 
Simon, a left wing, has two goals and two assists this year. He recently came back from a bruised shoulder that sidelined him. 
The five-year veteran had nine goals and had 13 assists last season, his first with Washington after coming over in a trade from Colorado. He had a career-high 16 goals in 1995-96 as the Avalanche won the Stanley Cup. 

Classifieds 

Early in the second half, Brisban guard Trisha Bader caught fire, dialing long range three times in the first five minutes as the lead began to slip away. Things were tied at 66 with 8:44 left, and the Blazers continued their excel­lent shooting with the Irish offense falling out of sync. 
The Irish trailed by as many as six with just under four minutes left, but they battled back behind junior Danielle Green, who scored six straight on her way to 20 points in 38 minutes. 
Senior Mollie Peirick com­pleted the Irish comeback with two clutch free throws with 4 7 seconds left. Pcirick's free throws were her only points in the second half. She finished with nine points, eight assists, and six rebounds. 
Peirick had the opportunity to win the game in the final seconds, but her jumper was off the mark, forcing overtime. 
In the first overtime, Green scored five of the team's nine, but Brisbane answered. Bader, who was the thorn in the side of the Irish, came up with two big jumpers, as Brisbane would just not go away with the first overtime ending in an 87-87 tie. 
In the second period of free basketball for the 502 Joyce Center fans, the Blazers built a lead at the charity stripe, but a McMillen break-away layup tied things setting up the third overtime. 
Notro Dame thrived at the free throw line in the final overtime, going 9-for-12 to take the lead and finally put away tho Blazers. The Irish, led by Green and sophomore Niele lvey, shut out the Blazers in the third overtime to secure said. 
Green and Ivey were both out all of last year due to injuries, and both played key roles in the win in their first competitive game back. Green added four rebounds, three assists, and three steals to her 20 points. Ivey had a solid all­around game, scoring 11 and snaring seven rebounds to go with four assists and two steals. 
"Danielle had an outstanding game," McGraw praised. "Ater taking a year of,f she didn't show any signs of being rusty mentally with the offense. She worked real hard on defense, and I was very pleased with her. She made a lot of big shots for us." 
"Niele did a great job also. I think coming of the bench was good for her," McGraw contin­ued. "She handled the ball well and made some good deci­sions, and defensively made some key plays at the end." 
While the Irish still have a lot of fine-tuning to do, McGraw feels that the team's attitude is excellent. 
"I think this is a fun team to coach because they work hard, and they really are giving a lot of effort out there and they have great chemistry and arc very unselfish," McGraw said. "It's been a lot of fun so far this year, and I think we're going to have a little bit of an up and down times during the game. Maintaining conscstincy is something we're definitely going to have to work on." 
They will continue to work on consistoncy as well as the rest of their game this Thursday in another exhibition game at the Joyce Center in preparation for their opener Nov.18 against Butler. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  NOTRE DAME  lneterested in a FREE ticket for Ben  ... SWING'··  
NOTICES  please call 219-271-0633  PROPERTIES.  FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL-TRADE  Folds Five?? If you want to help load-in in Stepan from 10-3 on  ..in a place you'd never imagine a dance. Students. staff & faculty are  
Tutor wanted for basic computer  272-6551  Nov.18, call Ashleigh at 1-7757.  invited to the periect date event.  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  help. Call 234-8938 after 5.  232-0058  88.9 WSND's LIVE BIG BAND  
LaFortune Student Center  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­ -i like my big bowl better  DANCE. This Friday through Gate  
Store Hours  Wanted female helper for errands  6551  CONFIDENTIAL  quote of the day from carl the inani­ 1 in the JACC from 7-11 pm. Call 1­ 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  and babysitting. Call  TICKET-MART. INC.  mate fish  7342 for info on this "South Bend  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  234-8938 after 5.  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­ Classic".  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  TER AND NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ going to work now.  ... SWING ...  
.­ Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s)  1997-98 NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT-Work in America's  2773097  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  martin, have fun writing you paper remember. as soon as you think  Got a date for Friday but don't know  
Phone 631-COPY  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Companies hire entry  FOR SALE  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  you're ready, we're going head to head .... and your puny little planet  where to go? WSND's Big Band Dance!  
level/skilled/volunteer workers.  FOR SALE  is going to be destroyed. have a  
Spring Break '98  Summer/Year-round. Competitive  Honda Accord Hatchback  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  nice day  i'm feeling completely uncreative ...  
Cancun. Jamaica, Bahamas. &  wages & bonuses! We can help you  1987. 93K miles.  EVENING #: 288-2726  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free  make the connection. (517j324­ v. good condition. 1 owner.  LOW PRICES  yeah, yeah. yeah, i can only do so  
Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  3082 ext. N55841  $3,000  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  many classifieds ...  
& Go Free!  631-8672  FOR SALE  LaFortune Student Center  
1-800-234-7007  Music Merchandiser: WHR Inc., CD  ,J High-Speed Copies  "what is essential to cheeseburg­ 
www.endlesssummertours.com  supplier to The Hammes Notre  Near Campus -1338 Miner St.  N.D. G.A.'S  ,J Canon Color Laser Copies  ers?''  
Dame Bookstore, is looking for a  2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  .J Digital Color Printing  "cheese???"  
Will TYPE thesis, term papers,  merchandiser for 1 0-15  Roof. Siding & Carpet.  271-9412.  ,J Binding & Laminating  "nooooo, buns"  
resumes.etc. IBM & MAC-Word,  hours/week. Must be available M,  Central Air & Full Basement  ,J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  "oooh, of course..  
WP, Excel. Pgmkr,Ciaris, Photo  TH, F mornings. Pick up application  $44,900 1-800-382-2952  WANTED N D G A'S  Phone 631-COPY  
Shop.Call LINDA 1-9468.  at Bookstore office.  TO ALL HOME GAMES  "i'm going like I am and nobody bet­ 
271 1526  yesterday was yesterday  ter say a word"  
Ever Dreamed of Your Own Business?  FOR RENT  MAC-12MB, CD-ROM, color moni­tor, printer, fax/modem, $750/0BO.  ain't that strange  I should be content and happy on  
TASP International seeks students  4-4322  We NEED 2 GA's for WV  hi holly and eric,  this ink spot where I stand.  
for next summer who want entre­ WALK TO CAMPUS  lv. msg. (800)321-4110x10986  keep that one out of public K?  
preneurial and management experi­ 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  just kidding  Who stole beer from the Fisher  
ence. Positive attitude a must. Full training. Earn $8K to $10K. CALL 1­ $195/PERSON 232-2595  TICKETS  4 WV GA's: CALL 273-0428.  party on Saturday. We're looking for you.  
800-543-3792.  B.O.M.  
HOUSE FOR RENT. FALL 98.  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  NEED  Productions  Jaimie won't let us print white space  
4/5 SR. 1 BATH. WASH/DRY.  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  1 conv stu tix or GA  Tuesdays @ Finnigan's  so I'm going to scream for a few  
ILOST & FOUND I  DISHWASHER. DISPOSAL. FRIDGE. NEW GAS FURNACE.  cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747-8820.  forWV call Christian x3290  Half Priced pitchers Shot specials  lines. AAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHH  
2 BLOCKS FROM NO. HAS SECU- No Cover  HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH  
Found • Found • Found'Found Piece of Jewelry in C 1 Parking Lot  RITY SYSTEM. 289-4712  NO VS.W. VA TIX  PERSONAL  HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH  
_;  near Juniper Road. Please call  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  FOR SALE 273-3911 LEAVE  I hate working late at the Observer.  
Dana @ 271-0250 to describe and  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  MESSAGE  jon's quote of the day  I'd rather be home sleeping, watch­ 
claim. Thank you.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  -tools are the only people in life  ing TV.  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  Mall.  who are guaranteed to get what  
Lost: Navy Polo Blazer at the  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  they deserve.  It must be "so nice" to be from  
Pangborn Formal. Call Brad  243-0658.  4 ND-WVU football tickets for sale.  Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price  Helena, Right Jake?  
at 4807 if you have it. Reward  Call 860-623-3682.  field fee. 291-2540.  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  BARBARIC YAWP!!!  Fooled you!!!  
WANTED  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  ######## For Sale ########  do you know how it feels when  Only when you hold it, Katie.  
with private baths, $70-$90,  2 West Virginia student tickets  ADOPTION Happily married couple  someone just hits you i'l the head  
Gold!! Wanted reps.. unlimited  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  (cheap!!)  with lots of love to share with new­ for no appearent reason with a bat  I've lied for and paid off my boss  
earning potential!!  Toll Road, Exit #107,  call Jenny @ 687-8435  born. Can help with doctor bills.  and then smiles at you?  today. What's next in Obsever cor­ 
616-461-6772.  1-800-418-9487.  ########################  Please, call 1-800-484-6399 X2706.  neither do 1 ...  ruption?  


----~·-~----------------------~-­ --------------~------­ ----------------~~~~~--------~.--,  
Tuesday, November 11, 1997  The Observer • SPORTS  page 13  
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll  

Clemens easily tops Johnson for Cy Youn 
KRT 

This Cy Young award is Clemen's fourth of his career, making him the first AL pitcher to accomplish this feat. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Roger Clemens became the first AL pitcher to win four Cy Young Awards, beating Handy Johnson to take the honor for the first time since 1991. 
Clemens, who in his first sea­son with Toronto became the first pitcher to lead in the AL in wins, EHA and strikeouts since Detroit's llal Newhouser in 1945, got 25 of 28 first­place votes and three seconds for 134 points in balloting announced Monday by the Baseball Writers' Association 
-of America. Clemens went 21-7 with a 
2.05 EHA and a career-high 292 strikeouts in 264 innings, topping 11 wins for the first time since 1992 and reaching 20 for the fourth time. His ERA was the lowest among AL starters who won the Cy Young since Ron Guidry's 1.74 in 1978. 
He didn't gloat that Boston made a bad decision in allow­ing him to leave, saying again that Red Sox general manager Dan Duquette was the cause of his departure. 
"That's one guy I don't want assessing my baseball abilities, especially sitting in front of a computer," Clemens said. 
Johnson was second with two first-place votes and 77 points after returning from back surgery to lead Seattle back to the AL playoffs. He missed four late-season starts because of tendinitis in a fin­ger. 
"I think it was a big factor," Clemens said. "I think Randy would have been right there and we would have knocked heads." 
Clemens also won the award with the Boston Red Sox in 1986, 1987 and 1991. The only other pitchers to win four Cy 
"Still Watching What You Drink" "Happy 21st Hilary!" 

Love, 
Mom, Dad, and Charlotte 


'i>tudent Tenni& C-\iniG 
Monday, November 17 
6:00 PM -7:15 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke Analysis 
& 
Playing Situations Presented By:Men's &Women's ­Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 
Youngs were in the NL: Steve Carlton and Greg Maddux. The four awards give him one for each of his children. 
"I got one for Koby and Kory. I got one for Kasy, and I need­ed one for Kody," he said. "It kind of takes the pressure off Dad a little bit." 
The 11 years between Clemens' first and last Cy Youngs is the most ever, one more than Carlton, who won his four from 1972-82. And the four awards probably boost his status for the Hall of Fame. 
"It would be unbelievable. That's the final stop, I guess," he said. "Hopefully, one day I can take the kids in there turn them lose and let them see what their dad did for 15 or 20 years and I won't have to tell them about it." 
After leaving Boston to sign a $24.75 million, three-year contract with the Blue Jays, Clemens got off to an 11-0 start and was picked for his seventh All-Star game. He wound up sharing the AL lead in innings, complete games (nine) and shutouts (three) with teammate Pat Hentgen, who won the AL Cy Young Award in 1996. 
Minnesota's Brad Radke was 
third with 17 points, and 
Baltimore reliever Randy 
Myers got the other first-place 
vote, finishing fourth with 14 
points. 
For winning the award, 
Clemens gets a $100,000 
bonus. Johnson didn't have a 
bonus clause for finishing sec­
ond and Radke gets $50,000 
for finishing third. Johnson's 
first-place votes came from 
Mike Sullivan of The Columbus 
Dispatch and Harland Beery of 
The (Bremerton) Sun in 
Washington. Pat Caputo of The 
Oakland Press in Michigan 
gave his first-place vote to 
Myers. 
A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of. .. 
r-------, r-------, r--------, r------, r------,
I 10% OFF I I $25 I I $59 I I $65 I I $65 I 
I I I I I I I I I 1 : A veda : : Cut & : :Color, Cut & Styl<: : Perm, Cut : : Hilites & : I Retail I 1 Style 1 1One Process 1 1 & Style 1 1Cut & Style 1 
L-------~ L-------~ L--------~ L------~ L------~
•Please call to schedule your av,poz:n>Jrne;ru;• 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your conftdence and patronage. 
We hope to seeyou soon. 

Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires December 1, 1997. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 

Informational Meeting With Prof. Margaret O'Callaghan 
Thursday November 13, 1997 4:30P.M. 138 DeBartolo 
l__ 

Atr~a ~al0!il 

5ince 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 

r-~-~------~~~-~~ ~---~ 
. The Observer/John Daily 
The lnsh were able to defeat the Athletes in Action in this weekend's pre-season game at the JACC. 
B-ball 
continued from page 20 
contest, the Irish were running smoothly, but at others, the play was sloppy. 
"There were a lot of good things and a lot of not so good things," MacLeod said. "We had a ton of turnovers, and we aren't going to be a successful team doing that." 
As a team, Notre Dame had an eye-popping 27 turnovers to just 16 assists, but the majority of the turnovers came from the post players as Ingelsby cer­tainly didn't look his age. Ingelsby played 34 minutes against a pressing Athletes in Action team. The Pennsylvania native had nine assists to just three turnovers and added six points. 
"They were really all over hirr, in his first college game with a lot of heat against veter­an players," MacLeod noted. "He did a heck of a job, and he's just going to get better." 
The leading scorer for the Irish was no surprise as Pat Garrity finished 7 -of-15 to fin­ish with 23 points and 12 rebounds. Garrity had missed some practices, and after the game said that he felt the effects of missing those prac­tices. 
"I felt pretty good, but I'm not near in the shape that I need to be in," the senior said. "I was huffing and puffing out there." 
A big contributor for coach MacLeod was senior forward Derek Manner, who finished the game second on the team in points (17) and rebounds (11, including six offensive). 
"We knew that Garrity was going to be tough, but I thought Derek Manner killed us getting loose balls and offensive rebounds," Athletes in Action coach Chuck Badger pointed out. 
"Those are great numbers from Derek," MacLeod said. ''I'd like to see him calm down a bit. We need better judg­ment from him. I love his heart, and he plays with reck­less abandon that very few players can muster." 
Athletes in Action couldn't keep any of the Irish off the boards as Notre Dame enjoyed a 47-27 rebounding edge, including a 16-4 edge on the offensive glass. 
In the exhibition contest, many of the younger players saw time as freshman Leviticus Williamson and Hans Rasmussen both cracked the box score with two points each. After the game Garrity talked about the play of the freshmen. 
"They're fitting in great. I 
~ All Students and 

Faculty 
are cordially invited to attend the joint ROTC Veteran ,s Day Ceremony to honor those who have served our nation. The ceremony begins at: 
4:30p.m. Tuesday November 11th 
and will be held at the Flag Pole on South Quad. 
Inclement weather site Stepan Center 

thought Martin did a tremen­dous job, and I was really pleased with Hans. He was all over the boards." 
"It was good to play in my first college game," Ingelsby said. "I thought we played pretty well as a team, and now we just have to go back to work." 
The dramatic win probably makes it easier for the hoop­stars to go back to work as they have definitely have got­ten the season off on the right foot. Now they hope to build on this game before opening night when they host The Citadel on Nov. 17. 
"It's good to get a win early, and it's good to get some of those butterflies out in front of the crowd with the lights on," Garrity said. "We just got to see where we are, and I think that's what we're going to get from this game." 
At halftime of Sunday's con­test, Ryan Hoover spoke about the mission of Athletes and Action, and afterwards he spoke about the experience returning to Notre Dame cam­pus. 
"It was a big night for me, and it was hard to concentrate on the game. It was great to see everybody again and be back here. It's a lot different being on the other side, but I really enjoyed it." 
The Observer/John Daily 

Sophomore Todd Palmer goes for a block in the Blue and Gold game. 
T~e Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation is seeking cre­atiVe, aggresstve, college graduates to join our Management Trainee program. 
• 
Finance 

• 
Accounting 




January 6th-11th, 1998 
The Seminar 

•
Five day seminar in the city of Chicago 

•
Focuses on the positive programs being implemente to aid underresourced neighborhoods 

•
Provides an opportunity for service in various educational arenas 

•
Emphasizes group reflections and prayer 

•
Earn one credit hour 



For additional information please contact Jennifer Weigel 243-2656 Christine Haley 243-8262 
BNSF 
.

• . 
If you cannot attend our information session and want to know more about Burlington Northern Santa Fe, please send a resume to: BNSF, Attn: Human Resources, P.O. Box 961055, Fort Worth, TX 76161­0055. 


Tuesday, November 11, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• FENCING 
Fencing sweeps competition 

By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
The opportunity was there for the taking, and they snatched it. 
Given the chance to work the kinks out and prepare itself for this Saturday's showdown at Penn State, the Notre Dame fpncing team took full advan­tage, sweeping its competition in last weekend's opening meet of the season. 
"With Penn State coming up, this was a good chance for us to knock some of the rust off and get some quality experience," said senior captain Brian Stone. 
When it was all said and done. the men's squad com­piled a 7-0 mark, while the women's team won all six of its matches. Six teams, including Big Ten foes Northwestern and Purdue, made the trip out to the Joyce Center. but none were able to even threaten the Irish. 
"Today, we're just trying to see what we have, and then we can go from there," said head coach Yves Auriol. "We've got a long season ahead of us, and we're just hoping to get some things accomplished and get off to a good start." 
Led by the trio of Stephane Auriol, Charles Hayes, and John Tejada, the men's foil team did not suffer a loss, matching the performance of the epee and sabre team. Stone and sopho­more James Gaither sparked the epee squad, combining to go 17-3 on the day. 
One of the true surprises for the Irish was the immediate impact of freshman sabreman Andrzej Bednarski. The new­comer sparked the sabre team with a 13-2 record. 

"We have some new guys who are going to play a big role for us this season," said Stone. "Someone like Andrzej Bednarski has a chance to real­ly help the team this year." 
On the women's side, second year captain Anne Hoos com­piled a perfect 17-0 record, while teammate Nicole Mustilli finished an impressive 17-2. 
"I just wanted to go out and sharpen my skills and try to get where I need to be," said Hoos. "I think it's important that with Penn State coming up, we get to the point where we are ready for a big challenge." 
In a truly remarkable outing, the women's foil team finished 
the afternoon with a 89-7 
record. Junior captain Myriah 
Brown sparked the squad with 
a perfect 11-0 mark. 
Meanwhile, the epee team was 
almost as dominant, with 1997 
NCAA champion Magda Krol 
leading the way with nine con­
secutive victories. 
"Individually, it's my job to go out there and make improve­ments and prepare myself for the rest of the season," said Brown. "As a team, we have to · make all the necessary adjust­ments that it will take to keep 
improving." 
The Irish travel to University 
Park, Pa. on Saturday to com­
pete in the Max Garrett Penn 
State Open. It will be the 
team's last competition of the 
fall semester. 
page 15 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and ju­jitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 p.m. on Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All are welcome. 
Field Hockey -Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. in Loftus. Call Maureen at x4281 or Stephanie at x2741 with any questions. 
Synchronized Swimming -Synchronized swimming prac­tices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 

[I 

Pasquerilla East advances to finals Lyons, last year's winner, falls 8-0 
By ALISON WELTNER Sports Writer 
For their fourth year straight, Pasquerilla East will play in Notre Dame Stadium. This time, however, they will not face the reigning champion Lyons Hall. Defeating the Lions 8-0 on Sunday, the Pyros will advance to the champi­onship game on Nov. 23 to face Lewis. 
Emotions ran high on both sides going into this game. For the past three years, Lyons has beaten P.E. in the champi­onship game. However, a loss and a tie during the regular season put Lyons behind in the standings this year and brought the two teams together early. 
"It's awesome to win this game," said 
Pyro Melissa Gorman. "We played 
tough, and they played tough too, but 
it's great to finally beat them." 
Lyons looked strong in the early por­
tion of the first half. Although their first 
possession was without success, they 
held P.E. to only five yards and forced 
them to punt. Lyons then put together a 
strong run, gaining two first downs. 
On a third down, however, quarter­
back Kathy Tschanz was tripped up for 
a loss of about eight yards. A dropped 
backward lateral on the next play gave 
P.E. possession at midfield. 
On the second and fourth downs, the Pyros' Ann Searle caught passes to give back sack and a near interception. yards would have given Lyons posses­The Lyons players, although disap­her team a first down. Quarterback The Lyons offense took over, achieving sion with 1 :20 remaining. pointed with the loss, were proud of Elizabeth Plummer then completed a a first down on Katie Yanez's run, but The Pyros completed a pass to their performance against the tough25-yard pass to Molly Rost. Three plays this drive eventually sputtered. Later, Gorman to prevent any last minute P.E. squad.

later, Gorman caught the ball in the end the Lions' Angie Fister intercepted a comeback before wearing down the "I thought we played a really out­zone for a touchdown. Searle caught a tipped ball, but once again the team remainder of the clock to clinch the vic­standing game," said defensive head pass for the two point conversion, 

could not reach the end zone. tory. coach Norm Beznosko. "We've got to putting P.E. ahead 8-0. 
The first three downs of the Pyros' "It feels great," said P.E. Coach Tom give P.E. credit. They're a fantastic Pasquerilla East had the first posses­final possession resulted in only mini­Asci of his team's win. "But our goal of team, and their quarterback Plummer sion of the second half. Searle caught a mum gains. On fourth down from the the season has always been to win the is excellent. I think this game just came pass for a first down, but the Lyons Lions' 30-yard line, the Pyros decided championship, and we still have one down to a few plays which went their defense battled back with a quarter-
not to punt. A failure to achieve 10 game to go." way." 



Underdog Lewis easily defeats Walsh 
By TIM CASEY then found West again for a Sporrs Writer touchdown to end the half with a 18-14 Lewis lead. 
Lewis pulled off another While the offenses dominat­improbable upset on Sunday, ed the first half, scoring on the defeating second-ranked final five possessions of the Walsh 24-14 to advance to the half, the defenses finally came finals on Nov. 23 in Notre on strong in the second half. Dame Stadium. The sixth­Lewis's Dina Brick intercepted ranked Chickens had previ­two passes on Walsh's first two ously beat P.W. and played possessions of the half. their best ball when it counted Brick's first interception the most. halted a Walsh drive and 
Lewis took an early 6-0 lead turned the momentum back to on a 30-yard touchdown pass Lewis. Running back Shannon from quarterback Liz Talarico Norton scored for Lewis on its to Leigh Ann West. first drive of the second half to 
Walsh came right back to give the Chickens a 24-14 score on the n~xt possession lead. The defenses took over on a quarterback keeper by after this and halted any Carolyn Parnell. Luz Maria remaining scoring attempts, Rodriguez caught the one­and Lewis had pulled off point conversion to put the another big upset. Wild Women ahead 7-6. Lewis coach John Broussard 
However, Talarico and West was ecstatic with his team's hooked up for another touch­performance and is looking down on their next possession forward to playing unbeaten to take a 12-7 lead. PE in the finals. 
The offenses continued their "Last time we played them hot play when Walsh's Laura we got behind early 16-0 and McGrimley scored on a 60-lost 16-6," he said. "We hope yard bomb from Parnell before to change our game plan a lit­catching the one-point conver­tle and contain their offens<~. sion to make it 14-12. We've been playing well latnly 
As can be expected, Talarico and look forward to the finals." 


--------------------------~--------------------------~----------------------------~--~~----------------------------------------~ 

... 

. I 
Iorin soars over 
th•.. a M.-··a-.. n.o··_·.r
... . ...... . . .....· . .• .. . . . ........... ·. 
With a 7-0 victory over the Manorites, the Screaming Otters advance to the finals 
By ANTHONY BIANCO game also turned out as Sorin expected with a 7-0 Spons Writer victory to place them in the finals. The Manorites expected Sorin to focus on its run­
Sunday's matchup between Morrissey and Sorin ning game to carry them through the day. Although is what one has come to expect from a men's inter­the offense concentrated on just that, the key for hall football game -low scoring and a strong the Screaming Otters was the establishment of a defensive effort, especially in the red zone. But this strong passing game. 

"Our offense, both the run and the pass, kept the pressure on," said Sorin's Alex Scheidler. "The key for us this game was the offensive line. They gave our quarterback the time to work out the passes and our backs the room to run." 
It would only be a matter of time before they broke through completely to get on the board. "It just clicked," commented Sorin running back Tim Slattery. 
It did indeed click early in the second half as a Scheidler touchdown reception was the only score of the day. Sorin pushed a 60-yard drive against the Manor defense, including a seven-yard first down pass to Slattery on fourth down at the 50­yard line. 
The drive was capped when quarterback Greg Belden hit Scheidler out of the backfield for a nine­yard touchdown play. 
"I ran the pattern a couple of times against them before, and I knew I could punch this one in," said Scheidler. 
The point after try was put through by Dave Russo to give the Screaming Otters a 7-0 lead. good enough to give them the victory. Sorin controlled the game on the defensive side of the ball too. 
Morrissey's running game never developed into a threat, and the Sorin secondary was able to control the Manor passing attack. 
"That was our biggest improvement," said Slattery. "They were the key to ending any of their hopes for a drive." 
The Observer/John Daily 
The Sorin defensive attack was led by Todd
Alex Scheidler's 60-yard reception sends Sorin to finals. 

ay BRIAN KESSLER 
SportS Writer 
As expected, No. 2 Keenan to .... o victory against underdog Keough this ~~t •. Sunday, defeating the Kangaroos, 12~0. · · 
The Knights their week two formance when out score of 16-0. The '"'"''"'"""' 
a point on defense; and bestrecord>atfi;;o; >They to face the Sotlri Otters in game to be held in Notre l)am¢rt.~ti~(iiitmf in two weeks. 
As for Keough, its playoff run.h(I.Scome to an end. Nevertheless, its season.was a suc­cess, overcoming a mediocre 2-4 With an upset win over No.3 Dillontcir win in the playoffs~ The team: was diS~ ed With the lossbutrealizestli · premier team fil men's interhat 
The whole complexion of th have been different if Keough . .. . . able to put pressure on Keenan by }ll.lni:hirig the ball in from the 10-yard line in the 
game. 
Keenan went three and out session and punted to mounted what turned out threatening dtiY.~ of the . move-d the ball downfield at key passes· from quarterback 

The Observer/John Daily 

Sorin celebrates after this game-winning touchdown. 
Langager, who picked up three interceptions. 
The Screaming Otters will face Keenan in the finals. Both teams have seen each other first hand this year in an early season scrimmage. 
"We were able to contain their running game, but you don't get this far without a strong passing game," said Slattery. "As for their defense, I know we have both the run and the pass to open up their defense and keep them guessing." 
"This team has been built in a three-year pro­gram," Slattery said. "Most of us are juniors or seniors who have worked for three years to get here." 
Two years ago, they went 0-3-1. Last year, they made it to the semifinals. And now they have the chance to win it all. For the Screaming Otters, it's exactly what they expected. 
I 
I
I ~ 
I 
I 
I ­
eight of 400-yard team of Chris 
,,Whowell, Ray Fitzpa ball in motion with its the first race. 
The other winners in Friday's meet include: ·Scott Zumbach in the lOOO~yard freestyle with .a time of 
·· .. 9:46.78, Ron ~oy~r in the 200-yard freestyle (1 :46.04), Vince Kuna ih th(f 50-yard freestyle, Fugate ih the 200­yard individual medley·, James Scott Browne in tho 200-yard butterfly, Russell Preston in the 10 frP.·AArvlP.. and .• ·· 
p ..; '.· .· '; ....•_,.,... yard and 200-yard ijack~ stroke, and Scott·BrO:wno added a second place finish in the 200-yard butterfly. "I thought we looked strOllJ(at both meets." said sop}1~mote John Lu}1~$r. ''Rfce,;yvas a piece of.?ake. Wfl had some chances to win [against TCU] but didri't italize'" 
The Keenan Hall Intellectual Life Committee presents 
Keenan Hall Fellow KATHLEEN BIDDICK 
Professor of History and Director of the Gender Studies Program 
"Co-ed Keenan Revue?" The Stakes of Co-ed Dorms at Notre Dame" 
Tuesday, November 11th 
7:00pm 
in the Keenan Hall Kommons 

The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 1997 
• WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Gallo, Irish swim past Pittsburgh 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Spans Writer 
The Notre Dame women s swimming team dunked Pittsburgh last Friday at Pittsburgh for its second dual meet victory of the season. The win lifts the Irish to 2-0 on the season. 
The Irish beat the Panthers 201-99, with senior standout 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Linda Gallo winning three indi­vidual events. Freshman phe­nom Carrie Nixon and sopho­more Shannon Suddarth also won multiple events, leading the Irish to victory. Notre Dame won 12 of the 16 events. 
Nixon controlled the short free-style events, winning the 50-yard free-style in 23.89 and the 100-yard free-style in a speedy 52.58. 
Suddarth also won two events. the 100-yard and 200-yard breaststroke events in 1:06.50 and 2:21.24, respectively. 
Gallo dominated all three free­style distance events, winning the 1000-yard in 10:04.98, the 500-yard in 4:57.79, and the 200-yard in 1:53.04. 
The Notre Dame women return to the pool Nov. 21 at the University of Minnesota. 

Hope. gives Belles first loss 
Saint Mary's drops to 1-1 on the season 
By MOLLY McVOY Spans Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team has a new coach, a new confer­ence, and high hopes for the new season. The Belles (1:1) have started the season ofT well, putting forth very strong show­ings in both of.their meets. 
The team swam at Hope College on Saturday. Even though Hope, last year's confer­ence champions, won the meet, both the Belles' coach and the swimmers were very happy with their performance. Hope defeated Saint Mary's by a score of 134-93. Individually, Allison Smith won the 500-freestyle and the 1000-freestyle for Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's swimming has been in the background the past few years, but new head coach Jini Cook wants to bring the program back into the spotlight. She believes SMC can place high in its conference and send some individual swimmers to the NCAA Division III nationals in 
Tuesday 
(Madeleva Hall) 
SMC 

March. 
She was thrilled with the swimmers' performance on Saturday commenting, "Overall, they dropped their times and ~warn really well against Hope. 
The swimmers themselves could not be happier with their new coach, citing her enthusi­asm and supportive nature. 
"Our new coach is wonderful," said freshman Jeanne Tierney. "She gives us great support. She is more than a coach to us. We are going to do really well 

Happy Birthday Johnny Utah! 
From Your Fans 
... ...

THERESE 
this year. We are becoming a family. We work really well on the relays together, and I think we can have our best year yet." 
Saint Mary's has a very busy schedule in the next few weeks, swimming six meets in a three week span. The Belles swim against Olivet on Tuesday and Calvin on Saturday. Olivet is not a high pressure meet for SMC, so the Belles should be able to come away with a win. The team wants to continue to improve and build on its record from here on out. 


Following the movie, a discussion will be held concerning the life ofSaint Therese ofLisieu.x (The Little Flower) proclaimed the third woman Doctor of the Church. 
Sponsored by the Division for Mission MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DILBERT 
--~ 

Tuesday, November II, I997 The Observer • TODAY page I9 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Aries: The Moon moves into Aries' house and sets the world on fire. Today the Ram is in a mood to charge. Follow through on new ideas, driving them hard toward the finish line. 
Taurus: Today you are the invisible observer. Remaining quiet and unnoticed will keep you out of the chaos that flutters around you. Neutrality is a useful strategy, but do not confuse it with a goal. 
Gemini: Reach out to co-workers or business associates and bring them into your social circle. Discover the human being behind the business persona. You delight someone by simply being yourself. 
Cancer: An unpleasant interaction with authority figures leaves you feeling small and helpless. A single incident doesn't have to signify a trend. Find a sympathetic ear and a soft shoulder to help you cry away your blues. 
Leo: Release some of that excess energy with a display of physical vigor. Team players will have their moment of glory by making a win­ning move. Avoid heated debates­your power could make you irra­
SCOTT ADAMS 

tional. Virgo: Watch for headaches today from too much stress. Go out and treat yourself to something you've been craving lately. Nothing
THE WORK-

relieves tension like a satisfied urge. 
51-101' IS 

Libra: All is not running smoothly 
I I-lEARD THAT />.. 5TACK OF YOUR I'MER5 FELL OVER AND KILLED A 
in the romance department. One of the people in your relationship is being too demanding-it's not you. is it? Do not put orr making minor repairs today. 
Scorpio: Sometimes nobody will lis­ten unless you raise your voice. Do not use any more force than neces­sary to get people's attention. This is a day for rational method, not blind heroics. 
Sagittarius: Today feels like the first dr.y of summer vacation, no matter what season it really is. Everyone around you is playful, and everything seems possible. In this state of mind. big, outrageous plans unfold naturally. 
Capricorn: You feel compelled to stay at or near home today, per­haps because of a minor household repair, or a sick partner or child. You're in luck if you've been look­ing for an excuse to escape from work for a day. 
Aquarius:Every brilliant thought has its time and place. This a good day for getting your ideas across, but you may have some opposition. On the other hand. someone might embrace your facetious suggestion with great excitement. 
Pisces: Chaos looms when there is no clear chain of command. You are tempted to take charge just because everyone else is trying to as well. Distance yourself from the problem before you make it worse. 


CUI.)ICLE. COP. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Follower of Mary 5 Return to base before proceeding 10 Hot springs t3 Resort town near Santa Barbara 14"You-­Beautiful" {1975 Joe Cocker hit) 15 Hard to comprehend 16 Sneaky thief 18 Flying-related 19 Mined metal 20 Real howler 21 In shreds 23 Dagger handle 24Ciose 25ln-­(intrinsically) 

50 "Pardon me" 51 Draft org. 54 Double-reed 
instrument 55 Theme of this 
puzzle 58 Ship's spine 59 Chrissie of 
tennis 60Jai -­61 UF.O. crew 62 Old yet new 
again 63 Toasty 
DOWN 
1 Nuts or crackers 2 Slightly open 3 Aussie buddy 41t's usually 
served with lobster 5 Import duty 
& Shoptalk 7 Moolah Bit's a free 
country 9 Window onto 

28 Comedy brothers of 60's-70's TV 
32 Satirist Mort 33 Set in "Die 
Fledermaus" 34 Prez's stand-in 35 Skater's 
maneuver 36--Carlo 37 Spanish 
general Duke of 
38 A very good pair 39 Egyptian cross 40 Cherished 41 Bargain with the 
prosecutor 43Jumpy 45 Signals at 
Sotheby's 461tem on a cowboy boot 47 Slightly bounce 
46 Bake, as eggs 52 Wound reminder 


15 Luke 28 The daddy of 47 Speechmaker's 53 Dairy-case Skywalker's decals opening choice father 29 Went congering 48 "Yeah, sure'" 56 Adam's mate 
17 Russia's -­

I-::-R-=+~~-oi-=::+=::-8J.i.l.iOJ-=-fl...lllll 12 Each 
30 Pack again, as 49 Proceeds 57 Jurisprudence
Mountains 
groceries
22 Not at home 
31 Fifth wheel 
23 Member of a 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 


t.iO.I.ii.B~~=+-=+:.:-fl...lllll-!-=+;t+::~ notorious biker 33 Tommy Lee of 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
55-Across
gang 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 24 Will of 36 Seagoer's woe Annual subscriptions are available for the 55-Across 42 Campaigner, for best of Sunday crosswords from the last 25 Writer Asimov short 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

26 Tourist mecca 43 Not rejecting so Work without near Mexico out of hand -(be daring) the ocean 
10 Caught sight of 11 Lima's land 44 Not feeling 51 Hacienda room
City 27 Blind followers 


J 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, November 11, 1997 
• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 

Irish down Australia in triple overtime 
ByJOECAVATO ance last spring. Notre Dame Getting the squad out to a Assistant Sports Editor turned away the Brisbane quick start was junior co-cap­Blazers from Australia 103-92 tain Sheila McMillen, who hit 3­Women's basketball coach in a marathon triple overtime of-4 three-pointers in the first Muffet McGraw has a lot of new victory. half on her way to 25 points in 
faces on her squad, and last "Overall. thought we the game. 
night was her first opportunity showed our youth at times and "It was a good feeling. I got a to get a look at her team in at other times a little bit more lot of good shots early on and action. poise than our years," McGraw that helped my confidence," And boy did she ever get a said. "Of all the things we McMillen said. "Throughout the look -a good, long look. expected going into this game, game, I got a lot of good looks, Last night, the Irish were scoring 100 points was not one and I credit my teammates for 
back in action for the first time of them, so I was really pleased that." 
since their Final Four appear-with that." McMillen's sharp shooting and early inside domination by freshman Kelley Simeon helped the Irish build a 22-point lead with just under two minutes left in the first half. McGraw was pleased with the play of her freshman forward who fin­ished with 13 points and 13 rebounds. 
"I thought that Kelley as a freshman did just an outstand­ing job in her first college game," McGraw praised. 
"I was pretty nervous, but I feel like I have played pretty competitively over the sum­mers and that helped me get ready for this," Simeon said. "But after the opening tip, I felt fine." 
Before the end of the half, the momemtum turned like a boomerang as the girls from Down Under ended the half with a 10-0 run to get them back in the game, with the score 47-35 at the half. 

see WOMEN'S I page 12 Notre Dame hopes to continue its enormous success from last year . 



Garrity leads scoring in pre-season victory 
By JOE CAVATO close the gap to four. then fouled the right man on Assistant Sports Editor After Athletes in Action's the floor, big man William Landon Hackim, who had a Cunningham, who hit just one 
The last time the Irish took team high 19 points, hit one of of his free throws, leaving the the floor in competitive play, two free throws, freshman door open for Friel's heroics. they watched the celebration Martin Ingelsby drained a Friel took a pass from of the Michigan Wolverines on three-pointer from the right Ingelsby, pump faked, drained their dramatic last minute win side to pull the score to 72-74 the game-winning shot with no in the NIT semifinals. with 1 7 seconds left. time left on the clock and was 
Sunday night it was a differ­Things still looked dismal for then mobbed by his team­ent story for coach John the Blue and Gold as David mates in a celebration that MacLeod and his squad. A compared to one that would celebration ensued after 'IT LOOKED LIKE IT WAS follow winning a conference sophomore Keith Friel sank a championship or extending a
OUT OF SIGHT THERE

last second three-pointer, cap­tournament run. ping off an incredible last half FOR A WHILE. BUT BAT­"We showed a lot of charac­minute that propelled Notre ter staying together and com­
TLING LIKE HECK, AND 

Dame to a 78-77 win over ing back to win," Friel said. 
BEING ABLE TO COME BACK

Athletes in Action in front of "We had a lot of mistakes and nearly 9,000 fans at the Joyce AND WIN THE GAME WAS turnovers but at the end, Center. everyone stepped up, and it
REALLY ENCOURAGING.

Athletes in Action and 1996 was just a great collaborative Notre Dame graduate Ryan THESE KIND OF GAMES team effort." Hoover came into the game on "It looked like it was out of
GIVE YOU A BIG BOOST.' 

a roll after convincing wins sight there for a while," over future Irish foes, Indiana MacLeod said. "But battling (94-77) and St. John's (78-64) COACH JOHN MACLEOD like heck, and being able to as well as an earlier 95-93 come back and win the game thriller over Michigan. Daniels hit both of his free was really encouraging. These 
But the timely long range throws extending the lead to kind of games give you a big shooting by the Irish handed four, but Antoni Wyche had boost." Athletes in Action just its third different ideas. The phenomenal finish loss in 11 contests. Wyche, who finished the ended an extremely competi­
MacLeod saw his squad game just two of eight from tive 40 minutes of basketball down by six with just 40 sec­the field, buried another Irish as there were 11 lead changes onds left, but Phil Hickey got three-pointer with just under and seven ties. At points in the two of his 15 second half 10 seconds left to pull his points at the free throw line to squad to within one. Wyche 
see B-BALL I page 14 




Fencing at Penn State Open, 

See pages 18 and 17

November 15, 16 Swimming at Oliver, 
for coverage of the 

Today, 6:30p.m. 
lnterhall Football

Basketball at Kalamazoo, November 21, 8 p.m. 
semifinals. 




