

Friday, March 21, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 110 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Despite selling out, 3,812 seats remain empty at NIT game 
By JAMIE HEISLER Managing Editor and DAN CICHALSKI Associate News Editor 
As the tail-end of the lunchtime crowd approached the ticket sales tables on Wednesday, they soon learned that the Notre Dame-Michigan basketball game had already sold out. 
"Sold out" had a slightly differ-
See also 
ent meaning, however, as stu­dents also discovered that 3,812 seats were unavailable because of 
Editorial "~ 
the pre-scheduled Michiana
paget,f'" 
Horne and Outdoor Living Show.
"-'''~"" 
Students living at off-campus residences like College Park may be losing certain rights thanks to the restructured stu­'------"""""' In (act, !J.Ccording to Perry Baert, dent government constitution. 
assistant ticket manager, 3,500 people were turned away from the ticket offices because of the quick sellout that resulted from the limited seating. 

·Are rights for 0-C students fading?
The annual horne show, scheduled for Friday through Sunday in the Joyce Center, had signed a By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Union these roles have either been contract with the University two years ago for these eliminated or reassigned to a new off­dates. The Joyce Center was the only location campus senator. between Ft. Wayne and Chicago large enough to arnpus View, College Park, "The new system really divides the hold the Michiana event, according to assistant Creek, and Notre Dame Avenue job in half," said Mike Irvine, one of the director of athletics Bill Scholl. "It's the livelihood a few of the locations that current off-campus co-presidents. for many of these people," he added. when students consider "Under the current system, we spend 
The conflict between events arose because of the housing. With almost all of our efforts simply going to meet­setup time required for the show's participants. 1,300 undergraduate students ings. But now, the senator will repre­"The game severely curtailed their set-up times," stretched between apartment com­sent the off-campus students to these explained ScholL "The participants should have plexes, houses, and rented rooms, off­meetings and the co-presidents can been setting up this [Thursday] morning." campus students are a major con­concentrate on getting more money 
The directors of the horne show compromised, stituency for the newly created and planning more events." however, allowing only the tnost time-consuming Student Union. "It gives a clearer role to the co-pres­set-ups to begin constructing their booths prior to However, the new constitution idents," agreed Brendan Kelly, the today. The others were forced to wait until this removes the off-campus co-presidents newly appointed transition council morning to move in their merchandise. from their previous roles as voting president and a writer of the new con­
"There are hundreds of exhibitions and only two ,servas:~JRi•InQI members of the Hall President's stitution. "The presidents should be Council, ·Student Senate, and Campus see TICKETS I page 4 Life Council. Under the new Student see RIGHTS I page 4 


Fridav Feature 

"" 


Great balls of fire 
Recent halogen lamp fires threaten safety of dorm residents across the nation 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE News Writer 
Black, acrid smoke pours out of the doorway and into the hall. The shrill tone of the alarm pierces the air, and panicked dorm residents pour out of the fire exits and into the quad. 
This catastrophe was not caused by contraband electrical appliances or simple careless­ness; it could happen to almost any dormitory resident in the United States. Halogen lamps have been the cause of numer­ous fires at colleges across the country, and even if properly used, these common lighting devices produce an immense amount of heat and danger. 


Kristi Klitsch and Sarah Spitznagle know all too well the peril a halogen lamp can cause. On Nov. 15, 1996, at 11:30 a.m., Klitsch walked into her Knott Hall room to find the flag hung on the wall above the room's halogen lamp on fire. Only absent a short time, Klitsch says she had not had the lamp on for very long. 
"It was on for about two hours," she said. "There was black smoke everywhere ... I beat the fire out and then the fire department carne." 
Spitznagle commented that the roommates were fortunate that no more damage was caused ·by the fire. 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne "Th h d d b h J d h
Students at Notre Dame and all over the e eat pro uce Y t e amp cause t e country have halogen lamps to light their fire ... the flag was three or four inches away," rooms, but the appliances could be more ------------------­dan(Jerous than they appear. see LAMPS I page 6 
Saferide Vs. Weekend Wheels 


SafeRide drives success past Weekend Wheels 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN get at least two or three calls Assistant News Editor from Movies 10 or the UP Mall. 

Now in its third week of opera­tion, SafeRide has achieved the success that will insure its conti­nuity into the next administration. 
"This is our last week at the head of the program," said Molly Detgen, the organizer of Safe Ride. "But Matt [Griffin] and Erek [Nass] are very enthusiastic about the program and will appoint someone to this position soon." 
SafeRide has taken 500 passen­gers from off-campus locations to their homes over its first two weeks of operation. But, unlike the program's predecessor, "Weekend Wheels," Saferide picks up people from the movies and restaurants around town. 
"Ridership has been very strong," Detgen said. "We had 300 the first week and 200 the second week. And every night we That is why we have the early hours. 
But since most of our calls come in from two to three in the morn­ing, we were considering chang­ing the times from 10 p.m. until 3 
a.m. to 11 p.m. to 4 a.m." 

SafeRide is run by student vol­unteers who drive vans lent to the program by the Center for Social Concerns. "Volunteer involve­ment has been fantastic, but we always need more," said Detgen. "The volunteers have to call stu­dent government and be trained in a two and one half hour pro­gram at the security building that we are trying to hold every week." 
The program runs from 10 p.m. until 3 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. The hotline number to reach the program is 631-9888. 




page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
\ 
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Michelle Krupa  Dan Cichalski  
Dave Freddoso  Graphics  
Sports  Jon King  
Joe Cavato  Production  
Viewpoint  Michelle Krupa  
Ayana Fakhir  Heather Cocks  
Anna Restovich  Lab Tech  
Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

except during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducr.ion rights are reserved. 
Returning to our roots 
The cover story in the March 17 edition of Newsweek presented a debate between the new generation of Black America, the hip hop generation, and what the article called the civil rights generation. The article placed hip hop 
music at the core of this debate. 
The older generation blames the materialistic and violent nature of the music for the problems in our society. On the other hand, the new hip hop gen­eration defends this genre. 

They claim rap is truthful  Eduardo Llull  
art reflecting the tough  Associate Viewpoint  
life in the streets.  Ediror  
Rap may perpetuate  

the problems in our society, but it is first and foremost what the younger generation calls it­a reflection of our society. It reflects the loss of virtue and morality through a loss of God. In the article, both sides of the debate raised concerns over this loss of God in the hip hop generation. 
The loss of God is not confined to the hip hop culture. The same values shown in rap are reflected in alternative music as well. Looking beyond music, we still see the same values in television, movies, even literature. All reflect our society; all reflect an absence of God. 
God has always been a focal point in the life of America. What happened? It has to do with family life, but to a greater degree the American school system has evolved into an institution void of God. 
A girl in my English class in high school was once forced to rewrite a paper because, accord­ing to my teacher, her argument was not feasi­ble. She had based her argument on the Christian faith. My teacher informed the girl that bringing God into school can be "offensive" to certain people. 
I did not think much of this at the time. I agreed with my teacher. I went to Mass every Sunday, and yet I agreed that God should not be part of our education in a public high school. I was conditioned, in my thinking, by the school system -conditioned by teachers. 
Even though belief in God is very rational and logical, I believed He had no place in the very institutipn where we were supposed to be developing our reason. 
Through the philosophy of Aquinas, Ignatius Smith, a Catholic writer and thinker, concluded that it is the responsibility of government to direct citizens toward religion. He called it an "abuse" not to. Religion teaches virtue and morality, which coincidentally are deteriorating in our society. 
As Americans, we have taken our freedom of religion the wrong way. It is not a freedom from religion, but a freedom to express ourselves to God as we desire. Discussion of God in school should not be thought of as offensive. 
America is conditioned, as I was, to believe that God belongs in Church and not in our everyday lives. This philosophy has permeated American society to the core, so much so that God does not influence our daily lives as He once did. 
The Newsweek article is an interesting com­mentary on this situation. Our culture has turned its backs on God. We see the result of this in rap music and other forms of artistic expression in our society. The materialism and violence that these artists express reflect our warped values, values that result from lack of God. 
School should open our eyes to God, and in this way direct us to His goodness. We need to reinstitute God into our democratic system. Where better to do this than in school? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 

Friday, March 21, 1997
The Observer· INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Burundi military: Hutu rebels killed 235 
Leaders open talks to calm tensions 
HELSINKI, Finland 
Both on the mend, President Clinton and Boris Yeltsin opened talks Thursday struggling to calm tensions in the thorniest East-West dispute since the Cold War. Changing his tone from tough rhetoric, Yeltsin hoped for "compromises" while Clinton offered arms concessions. Clinton said he was 
encouraged by the Hussian president's 
__..__......____ conciliatory remarks -after Yeltsin's remark last Friday that this would be his "most difficult" summit ever with an American president. "I think we'll work something out," Clinton said. "I hope we will." The two leaders were deadlocked over the U.S.-led move to expand NATO eastward toward Hussia's borders. "We're going to disagree on NATO enlargement," said Sandy Berger, Clinton's national security adviser. The question of NATO expansion has been a sticking point between Washington and Moscow since 1994 but tensions have grown as the date nears for NATO's July announcement of new members. 
U.N': Security Council may expand 
UNITED NATIONS 
The president of the U.N. General Assembly proposed Thursday to expand the 15-member Security Council by nine members next year -five of them permanent members and four non-permanent. But U.S. and British diplomats expressed reservations, saying the number was too large. The Security Council, the United Nations' highest decision-making body on international security matters, currently has five permanent members and 10 non-permanent members. Assembly President Razali Ismail of Malaysia did not name any candidates for an expanded Security Council, but it is widely believed that Japan and Germany would be among the first to join as permanent members. Razali proposed that the five new permanent members be two industrialized countries and one developing country each from Asia, Africa and the Latin America-Caribbean region. The four non-perma­nent members would be from Africa, Asia, eastern Europe and the Latin America-Caribbean region. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
; ./
\ •'t--~,,--/"··••oo-••o•oooo •••oo •oo•\: H 
I  "'·~.  
Friday Saturday  ~ ~  59 ···::=:::·),•' 43  32 24  
Sunday_;  ~  48  39  
Monday  ~  52  34  
Tuesday  ~"/!!43  24  

/~.;;:~ \\'""'"-......,,r·"\.1,~ 

Q,Q,~AQ-8 (f ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphJcsNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather forecast for noon, Friday, March 21. 
Noriega: Feds bargained to get Castro 
MIAMI 
Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega claims federal prosecutors offered him a lighter sentence if he implicated Fidel Castro in drug smuggling, a charge the prosecutors denied Thursday. Noriega, who is serving a 40-year sentence for protecting U.S.-bound cocaine ship­ments through Panama, made the Castro claim in a prison interview that aired Wednesday on CBS' Spanish­language network Telenoticias. 'They would need testi­mony against Fidel," Noriega said in the interview. Without offering any details of the government offer, he said, "In the legal field, it sounds like a cruel joke." Noriega's claim was denounced by Myles Malman, a for­mer as'sistant U.S. attorney who prosecuted the Panamanian general. "That's ridiculous," Malman said. "There were some plea negotiations early on in the case, and (Castro) was never mentioned at all. lie never ever mentioned cooperation in any form, shape or fashion." But Noriega's attorneys said Castro's name came up in pretrial discussions that never went anywhere because Noriega had no information to reveal. 
Tupac Amaru rebels infiltrate Lima 
LIMA, Peru 
Rebels holding 72 hostages in the Japanese ambas­sador's residence have summoned 60 fighters from the central jungle to Lima to help in case of a government raid, a newspaper reported Thursday. The rebels moved from the jungle to Lima in mid-January, led by a woman known as "Gladys" or "La Gringa," the opposi­tion newspaper La Republica reported, quoting govern­ment intelligence documents. According to the newspa­per, the documents said little was known of the woman but that she was clearly a respected leader of the Tupac Amaru rebels. Intelligence officials reportedly believe the rebels came to Lima to help their comrades defend the diplomatic residence or escape or take more hostages. "One cannot discard the existence of possible alternate plans for an incursion and the taking of hostages in other diplomatic missions," the newspaper quoted the intelligence documents as saying. The gov­ernment recently reported arresting 38 suspected rebels. 
dumped last week from army trucks into a pit latrine and a ruined house. 
Nibizi told the radio he knew nothing about the report, although he had told the same station earlier that 50 Hutu rebels had died in a battle with the army near the market town of Kanyosha. He said two soldiers were killed. 
Reports of mass killings have become commonplace in Burundi. Retired army Maj. Pierre Buyoya seized power in a July 25 coup he said was neces­sary to put an end to the violence, but the deaths have continued. 
Human rights groups say at least 3,000 people have been killed since the coup. U.N. human rights observBrs have been unable to travel in much of the country to investigate. 
The Tutsis, who make up about 15 percent of Burundi's 5.6 million peo­ple, have controlled the country since independence from Belgium in 1962 ­with the exception of a four-month period from July to October 1993. 

Pressure 
H L i) ~ d 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·SWRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
\Ia Associated Press 
Atlanta  75  49  Columbus  67  37  Minneapolis  40  32  
Baltimore  60  37  Dallas  82  54  New Orleans  73  52  
Beverly Hills  53  32  Denver  60  46  New York  47  35  
Boston  44  32  Los Angeles  79  63  Philadelphia  55  36  
Chicago  56  41  Miami  8t  68  Phoenix  96  65  

BUJUMBURA, Burundi 

The army claimed today that Hutu rebels killed 235 people in attacks on refugee camps in northwestern Burundi. 
The attacks on Gasenyi, Ruhagarika and Kaburahtwa camps took place Wednesday night and early Thursday, army spokesman Col. Isaie Nibizi told independent radio Studio Ijambo. 
Nibizi said 144 people were injured and 305 grass huts were burned. 
Hundreds of thousands of people have been moved into camps or lled the central African country since Hutu rebels began fighting with the Tutsi-led army. The violence beg-an with the October 1993 assassination of Burundi's first and only Hutu president by Tutsi paratroopers. 
More than 150,000 people have died, most of them civilians. 
On Wednesday, people in a market town south of Bujumbura, the capital, told independent Studio Ijambo radio that they had seen at least 40 bodies 
''?' 
, Bujumbura 
rrJ 


BURUNDI 
~:~~anyik (TANZANIA 
/ 40 miles 
e::s 
,..__ / 40 km 
Today ... 



A look at Licensing 
Notre Dame is home to some of the most recog­nizable icons in consumer America. From the lep­rechaun to the words "Fightin' Irish," the University's trademarks are fiercely protected by the Licensing department. 





Do you have a license for that leprechaun? 
through royalty reports. them in the future. For national sales, a potential licensee would have "Trademark law is very facts specific regarding an
Licensing Notre. 
to contact Donnan, who will initiate the national item's particular use and context," said Kaesebier. license application process. "Every case is individual and you cannot generalize." The parameters for a national license depend upon For example, a phrase or design cannot be used in a

Dame trademarks 
what kind manner that is of product confusingly simi­has been Jar to another

makes big money 
proposed person's trade-and the mark. "If there's
By JUSTYN HARKIN · d d new
1 n ten e an Irish sweat-
Departments Page Editor 
points of lab. That's money that can't always be shirt in an Irish 
It's 2:32a.m. on a cold winter's night somewhere in sale. A heritage shop," 
downstate Indiana. You browse through the "gift" licensing said Kaesebier, 
section of the store while your friends are pumping committee, "We won't raise 
the gas, and you find yourself admiring the large comprised of members of various administrative an issue." However, in the case of some Notre Dame selection of trucker-style baseball caps hanging next offices, meets monthly to review all national license high schools across the country, the University may to the sunglasses rack. One with the slogan "Drink till applications. not be so forgiving.
it's cute" catches your eye, but you Other kinds of license agreements include University "Sometimes they [the high schools] like to use our 
wisely convince yourself that ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ marks and in most cases they 
the hat is a "want" and not a will have to make a change,"
"need." Kaesebier said. "We try to be As you arc about to leave, flexible, but we have to do
OFFIC J\ I I 'YLICENSED 
however. you come across :f"\LL what we have to do to protect some Notre Dame merchan-our rights." dise that's the ugliest you've PRODuc~oFll-IE There are two kinds of 
ever seen. Everything, from · I trademark protections that 
thimbles to coffee mugs, even the University uses: regis­
those trucker-style baseball tered and common law trade-
caps, seems to have some-marks. For a registered 
thing associated with Notre trademark, indicated by an 
Dame written on it. Being the encircled "R" next to the 
savvy Notre Dame student phrase or design, an applica­
that you are, you notice that tion has to be sent to the U.S. 
all of the items are officially Patent and Trademark Office 
licensed because they all have for approval. 
tags with Notre Dame's There are different classes 
"Golden Dome" logo on them. for registering, like clothing, 
If, however, that "I'm a drinking glasses, and sports 
future Domer" baby bib did equipment, for example, and 
not have the "Golden Dome" all trademarks must be 
logo on its tag, it would mean renewed on a regular basis. 
that its producer has used Common law trademarks, 
one of Notre Dame's trade-on the other hand, are not 
marks or copyrights without registered through any office 
permission or paying for it. and a court would have to 
Freida Donnan, the director decide whether someone had 
of Licensing, is in charge of infringed upon them. 
making sure that manufactur-Kaesebier cited expense and 
ers know that Notre Dame's technical problems as the 
trademarks are protected. main reasons why a common 
The licensing department law trademark, indicated by 
negotiates all licensing agree-an encircled "TM," would be 
ments regarding Notre Dame used instead of a registered 
products. All products, one. 
graphics, and slogans ulti-Another distinction made in 
mately have to be approved trademark law is one 
by a licensing committee. between copyrights and 
"Anything that would not trademarks. A copyright is 
look good for the University, used for a creative item such 
including the quality or type as a song, book, or a draw-
of product, or something that ing, and it refers to the item's 
may be offensive, will not be artist or creator. The lop-
granted a license," Donnan rechaun, for example, carries 
said. a copyright. 
Although there are over 240 Trademarks, on the other
uNIVERSITY 0 F
official licensees of Notre hand, are used for words or Dame merchandise across the phrases and refer to the country and about 200 source of a product. "Fightin' licensees who sell their prod-Irish" would be an example of 
ucts on the actual Notre NO~RE DAME atrademark.
Dame campus, Donnan Although the amount of 
revealed that Notre Dame has money that licensing agree-
the fewe-st number of ments make for the 
licensees of any major school. University is confidential, 
"We are very conservative Scott Malpass, the chief 
with what products we allow investment officer for Notre 
licenses for. [In fact] most license seekers are turned vendor agreements, student vendor agreements, and Dame, notes that approximately $2 million of it is 
away," she said. Alumni Association agreements. budgeted for the University's general operations bud-
The official proce-Carol Kaesebier, general counsel for the University, get alone. 
dure for applying is in charge of The finance department does not budget all of the 
for a license agree-prosecuting all licensing revenues because of the unpredictability of 
mont varies, I ice n sing the market. 
depending upon cer-infringements. "Whatever goes above and beyond [that amount] has 
tain criteria. Should Notre Dame traditionally gone to either the financial aid endow-
a potential licensee has several mont, or expendable financial aid gifts. Also, the 
wish to sell on cam-trademarks -monies can be used for academic needs that may arise 
Freida Donnan · f

pus venues only, for rangmg rom over the year," said Malpass. example, a pur-the words "Special priorities come up over the year sometimes, chase of the license "Fightin' Irish" like recruiting a new faculty member or setting up a seeker's product from a campus store will initiate a to the interlocking ND monogram -and all of them new lab. That's money that can't always be planned campus license agreement. The licensing department have to he protected. According to Kaesebier, if viola-for and licensing gives us the flexibility to cover those will then issue a license agreement and monitor sales tions are allowed to slide, it will be harder to protect costs," he added. 
page 4 
. 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
elevators. They physically would not be able to move ev~ryone in Friday morning," Scholl said. 
Because the showdisplays the exhibits in the concourse of the Joyce Center, it was these early set-ups which required the bleachers to be pushed forward for the game last night. On Wednesday, the show conceded the opening of another set of bleachers to accommodate 350 additional students, thereby pushing back the set-up tim~s for several groups. 
According to Scholl, it was only with the full cooperation of the home and outdoor living show that the game could in fact be held at the Joyce Center. 

Captain to serve time for scandal 
By DAVID DISHNEAU Associated Press Writer 
ABERDEEN, Md. 
The highest-ranking officer accused in the Aberdeen Army sex scandal was ordered to serve four months in prison and dismissed from the service today after pleading guilty to adultery, sodomy and other charges. 
Under a plea agreement, Capt. Derrick Robertson, 31, was sen­tenced to a year but will only serve four months. He was cleared of more serious charges of rape, indecent assault and obstruction of justice after hav­ing sex with a female trainee he instructed. 
Robertson is the first male officer to be court-martialed at the Aberdeen base in the scan­dal, which sparked investiga­tions at Army installations around the world. 
He begins his sentence next week at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., followed by two months' probation. 
Under questioning from a mil­itary judge, Robertson said he had sexual intercourse with the woman at his home Sept. 14, 1996. He was her company commander at the time. 
"I did not seek the relation­ship but I did enter into it and for that I take full responsibli­ty," Robertson said in court. "I would like to apologize to every­one involved for my poor judg­ment and the pain I caused to everyone I love." 


'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258·9996 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
The Observer • NEWS 
Because of the show's contract, its directors could have protest­ed the playing of the game at the Joyce Center. They chose, however, to work with the University in order to accommo­date the team. 
The fact that the game would have 4,000 fewer seats did not factor greatly into the NIT com­mittee's decision to make Notre Dame the game's host. 
"We determined that the game would be more favorable at Notre Dame even though it had limited seating," NIT presi­dent Frank McLaughlin said. "We deal with absolutely no favoritism, however." 

In line with the NIT guide-· lines, the choice of the Joyce Center was made Tuesday night during a conference ca)l of the five directors. Typically, if there is not a consensus, the five vote on a site. But accord­ing to McLaughlin, there was consensus among the group. 
Several factors played into the NIT's decision including the number of NIT home games already played at each school, previous ticket sales, and the great number of Michigan fans in the area. None of these were an overwhelming factor, howev­er, according to McLaughlin. 
"There are a lot of Michigan fans in the Indiana area so there would be a number of Michigan fans at the game tonight," he said. 
"[Michigan's low ticket sales! was a factor but not an overrid­ing factor. Ticket sales are a factor if the difference is between 3,000 and 10,000, but if the difference is between 6,000 and 8,000, then it's not a factor. Both teams had played two home games. If Michigan's last game had been away, then the game would have been held at Michigan," McLaughlin said. 

A cappella group to give concert at SMC 
Special to The Observer 
Anonymous 4, an acclaimed a cappella quartet specializ­ing in medieval music, will perform at Saint Mary's College today at 8 p.m. in the Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium. Renowned for its vocal interaction and techni­cal virtuosity, the group's innovative programs weave ethereal music with poetry and narrative. 
Formed 10 years ago to experiment with the sound of medieval chants and polypho­ny as sung by higher voices, Anonymous 4 celebrates musical, literary and histori­cal scholarship with 20th century performing intuition. 
The group has achieved a commercial success, record­ing near the top of Billboard music charts and playing to sold-out venues throughout the country. 
Tickets are $12 for adults, $10 for senior citizens, $6 for Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community members and $5 for students. Tickets are on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Visa, Discover and MasterCard orders are accepted at (219) 284-4626. In addition, Treatseats dis­count coupons for the perfor­mance are available at area Target stores. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 
1~5323. 
Friday, March 21, 1997 






Rights 
continued from page 1 
planning events and now they can focus all of their energies on that." 
Previously, the Hall Presidents Council would budget the off­campus co-presidents a certain amount of money for their pro­gramming. Often this amount was too small to even cover the 
· costs of advertising any events. "They gave us$ 1,000 this year," said Irvine. "But with nearly 1,300 students, that's about 80 cents per student: We cannot put together an event with that. It wouldn't even pay for postage for a newsletter to publieize events, whieh was one of our ideas." 
Under the new system, one of the co-presidents is on the Financial Management Board, the body that plans the Student Union budgets. 
"This direct connection is something that the hall presi­dents do not even have," Kelly said. 
"Maybe now we can get more funds to program events," Irvine said in reference to the Financial Management Board connection. "This year we got no support and no funds, but hopefully that will change and we will have more power." 
In reference to communication between the co-presidents and their constituency, Matt Griffin, student body president-elect said, "It is entirely up to them. 
But they have the power to cre­ate an off-campus council similar to the class councils to help them do that." 
The problem of representing 1,300 people with only one sena­tor was a major point of con­tention when the new constitu­tion was voted on by the Student Senate earlier this month. 
"No group is really represented in terms of population," Kelly said. "Because of the natural dis­organization of this group, [off­campus students} who are spread over such a wide area, we thought it only fair that every group receive equal representa­tion." 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and T.heatre 
631·7361  
Alec BALDWIN  AI PACINO  Aidan QUINN SISKEL & EBERT  Winona RYDER  Kevin SPACEY  

."TWO THUMBS UP 
...WAY UP!" "ATRUE REVELATION! 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY MARCH 21ST AND 22ND 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

as ofMar. 20) are.. I .Pack:.Sh~~~ II Nigh.~,t~i.:a.1 
•Top s lea~ers ~ill be post­



~:::::::::c::::hases 
~~~=:~ :'e"f.a ~ohn's items
1 
& March 31 will receive free ~~:~/or their dorm's ~P':~~:~~t:rr ~i~c~:;;':nto 
•See Hall President for 
·~ 

N: 
P.E. ('.·..~,,.tO.~A if ·· 

:·.~· ~~!·~•n'~ " l­
~a~~l v;c:~w~~ ~,r,~:::rh 
· 
Hours: 

Mon thru Thurs: 1 1 a.m.-I a.m. 
Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.rn.-3 a.rn Sunday 12 p.m. -1a.m. 
I Sttckst;Jil~~~~~!cks I I Larg :::ifr;e~ing I I ·.~~~~'kes II (t·~'.~.···,~£h31) 1 
I ~~;?! ! ! $'S:99 ! 
F::::=:= =j i=:::::=j 
I Lenten ~Pt!Cial 1 1 
I Larg)~ , izza I I I (t7f~s!~r) only I I 

I t.s:99 I I 


,, 1 
1 I 
I 



----.J 
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• BUSINESS BEAT 
Students to compete in MBA contest on campus 
By MICHAEL LEWIS. 
News Writer 
This Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, for the 16th consec­utive year, the Notre Dame College of Business Administration will sponsor 
its  MBA  Invitational  Case  
Competition.  
And  also  for  the  16th  

straight year, Paul Conway, Associate Professor of Finance will be involved, as will repre­sentatives from Duke University, the University of Maryland, Ohio State University, the University of Texas, and Notre Dame. 
During the competition, stu­
r----~-------___, 
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 
WOLFF BEDS 
[mCAGO HAIR & TAN~


'·--·' 

5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 
277-7946 

·someslale&Jeder&. regulatronsmayapply. ~copyright \996ChrcagoHarrcuttmgCo. 
dents are given a business problem, involving anything from marketing to accounting to other facet-s of business, and a company profile at 8:30 the first morning. 
They then spend 24 hours attempting to solve the prob­lem, culminating their work in a presentation given the fol­lowing morning. 
"It [the competition] gives them a chance to interact with other MBA students," Conway said of the advantages of the event. 
He has run the competition for 16 years, and he coached the Notre Dame team for the first two years of its existence. 
He and three MBA students started the program in 1982. In that year and the next, the 
Irish won the event. He has been the chair of the coordi­nating committee, made up of MBA students, for the con­test's entire existence. 
The competition began as a regional event, but through the years, it has attracted entrants froPl all over the country and Canada. The winners of the event often receive invitations from other competitions throughout the United States. 
Conway said the event gives students an opportunity to advance their oral and pre­sentation skills. 
They have to do an analysis in limited time, and it gives them practice in preparing projects on a deadline, high­pressure basis. 
"They call on everything they've learned," he said. This year, every second year Notre Dame MBA student competed to represent the University at the competition. 
Originally, they were in teams of five, and from these 
Lip Sync :r: 
0

Contest 
E 

Wednesday April 2nd in a the Lafortune Ballroom ~ 
Q 

Sign up your act in either dining hall during lunch & dinner Friday March 21st & Monday March 24th 


teams, six finalists were cho­sen. These finalists competed to select the winners, who in the end were Richard Crandall, David Hennekes, and Cherly Reid. 
They will compete for Notre Dame, as the competition involves teams of three stu­dents. 
"Jim Davis and John Michel did all the original screening in their corporate strategy classes," Conway said. The initial cuts were made by the professors, while the final decision was up to a board of judges. 
Of the students-' reaction to the competition being manda­tory within the college for the first year, Conway said, "I think the majority were very happy they participated." 
The head judge this year will be Michael Hitt, the for­mer editor of the Journal of Management, and the Paul and Rosalie Robertson Chair in Business Administration at Texas A&M University. He is also President of the American Management Association. 
The Fannie May Corporation will sponsor the competition. John Jordan III's company, Jordan Industries, owns Fannie May. 
Jordan is a trustee of the University of Notre Dame, an Notre Dame alumnus, and a benefactor of the Business Administration building. The Jordan Auditorium in that complex bears his name. 
The students will be sup­plied with computers af!..d a software package. They are allowed to bring reference materials with them. The awards ceremony will be held on Tuesday night at the University Club. 

SMC alumnae to return for program anniversary 
Special to The Observer 
Nearly 90 Saint Mary's College alumnae will return to campus today and tomorrow for the 40th anniversary celebration of the humanistic studies program. 
The agenda will include pre-
TEACH ENGLISlit~~ERN EUROP 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conyersational English in Eastern Eurore? Our matenals profile many rewarding teach1~g oppor~unities with great benefits. For mformauon call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
w~an:arnc:o.rch&l>llbli.hingw. 
sentations by humanistic studies professors, and will feature Bruno Schlesinger. He founded the program, which was origi­nally titled Christian Culture, in 1956. Following three colloquia discussing selected publications tomorrow, the weekend will con­clude with a luncheon and remarks by Dorothy Feigl, vice president and dean of faculty, along with a special liturgy .. 
The program recognizes the roles of Christianity and antiqui­ty in forming Western thought, society and art. 

Leave the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! Friday and Saturday 10 p.m. 3 a.m. 



631-9888 
UNIVE.R.SIT\" OF NOTRF. DAME !iTUnFNT GnVFIINioHNT 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 21, 1997 
Zerr said that it is "also a possibility" to restrict the
Lamps Princeton bans lantps for safety
wattage on the lamps without 
continued from page 1 
she said. "The lamp melted and bent over and the ceiling is still black from the smoke. Everything in the room was covered in soot." · 
A fire like this one raises the question of whether halogen lamps should be banned on the campus. Almost every stu­dent at Notre Dame is in pos­session of these lamps, mostly because dim lighting in dorm rooms makes other light sources a necessity. 
"Halogen lamps are compact and also produce a great amount of light," said Tracy Harrington, another Knott res­ident. "The rooms are so dark you really need one." 
Due to the possibility of dan­ger 'and injury, a decision was 
. recently made at Princeton University to ban halogen lamps. It is currently being reviewed, but the subject of general lamp use has also come up at Notre Dame. Kevin Cannon, director of Student Residencies, said that the issue "has been looked into by the Risk Assessment Committee." This committee, formed sev­eral years ago, looks into safe­ty problems at the University and is still discussing the topic according to member Bob Zerr, director of Risk Management and Safety. "At this point, we are recom­mending that students not use [the lamps]," he said. "We are not going to make the decision whether or not to ban them this semester, but a decision may be made before the end of the summer." 
that measures need to be taken to improve lighting before halogen lamps are abolished. Klitsch and Spitznagle, whose fire is a major factor in Notre Dame's recent assessment, expressed those ideas. 
"I don't think there should be a ban on these lamps," said Spitznagle. "They can be used properly." 
Klitsch said, "There definite­ly needs to be more awareness about how dangerous these lamps are." 
Whatever the decision of the Risk and Assessment Committee, students are in need of a safe form of ade­quate lighting. Whether safety translates into restrictions on halogen lamp wattage or a ban altogether, some sort of con­clusion will be reached by the end of the summer, according to Cannon. 
"Part of the danger is that people don't properly use their lamps," said Sister Kathy Haas, rector of Knott. "The students need to be more aware." 
Please recycle The Observer 
completely banning their use. 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 

Students against the ban say 
News Writer 

Halogen lamp safety has been the center of heated debate recently at Princeton University. Previously, the lamps had been banned at the university, but now a decision has been made to overturn the ban "until substantial mea­sures are taken to provide ade­quate lighting in campus dor­mitories." 
The student-prepared reso­lution, presented to an admin­istrative committee, advocated the lift of the ban until more adequate lighting is provided for the students by the univer­sity. Student body president Jeff Seigel presented the stu­dent's case. 
"Our dormitories do not have the outlet capacities to com­pensate for the loss of halogen lamps," he said. 
The d'ecision to ban the lamps was made after many safety issues were brought into the arena. Bob Gregory, the 
fire marshal at Princeton, explained the nature of halo­gen lamps. 
"The light from a halogen lamp is like a spotlight," he 

Richard Spies 
said. "The temperatures that are reached from the radiated heat can get very high, even up to 1,200 degrees." 
Gregory cited "carelessness and lack of knowledge on their proper use" as reasons for most halogen lamp fires. He said that he thinks he lamps should be banned because "the risk far outweighs the gain, but the university needs to research some alternate ways of lighting." 
The administration at Princeton will most likely make the final decision on this mat­ter regardless of student opin­ion. 
"While student opinion is extremely important," said Richard Spies, Princeton's vice-president for finance and administration, "safety issues should not be proposals to be voted on." 
Whatever the decision, stu­dents at Princeton are clearly upset at the university for not providing more adequate light­ing. 
"This issue has infuriated and upset me more than any­thing in my four years," said Michael Smith, undergraduate student life chairman. 
Added student· body vice president Brian Johnson, "Administrators get to go home to their well-lit houses." 
The Daily Princetonian con­tributed to this report. 

Part-Time 
••• now hiring ••• 
Not Sales Not Telemarketing Interviewers are needed to conduct public opinion research 
Job requires excellent PC keyboarding and verbal skills 
$6+ at start highly flexible shifts training provided 
Especially good opportunity for anyone pursuing degree program in: Marketing, Business, Sociology, Public Affairs or Communication 
CALL MARKET STRATEGIES INC-219-233-3453 

r6\ 


INFORMATIONAL MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 
7:00PM 
The Irish Racing Team is an ND student project that develops and competes an electronically powered lndy..style race car. We are looking for students from all majors. If you are interested in anything from producing videos to designing electronic systems, we can use your help. 
Contact Dr. Bill Berry@ 1-6102 for more information. 
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Scientist, theologian discuss recent cloning issues 
was accomplished, the DNA was 
placed into an egg cell which had 
had its nucleus removed, and the 
egg cell was placed into a surro­
gate mother sheep. The result­
ing offspring, Dolly, was geneti­
cally identical to the sheep from 
which the udder cell with the 
original DNA had been removed. 
This new method of cloning ·opens the door for scientists to 
choose a mature individual with 
desirable characteristics and 
duplicate it. The earlier embryo­
splitting method of cloning only 
guarantees the production of 
identical individuals, but there is 
no way of knowing what the 
characteristics of this individual 
will be. 
Lodge posed the questions, "Is 
Dolly identical [in every way] to 
the ewe from whose genes she 
developed? Would human clones 
be identical [in every way]?" 
The important answer is that 
no two individuals can be 
absolutely identical because of 
the role of environment in the 
development of any individual. 
Lodge stressed that, "interactions 
of nature [genes] and nurture 
[environment] are strong and 
critical in shaping everything 
from morphology to personality 
and behavior." 
Considering the issue of 
cloning as it relates to practical 
applications in science, Lodge 
mentioned the possibilities of 
creating new human organs 
identical to one's own for use in 
transplants, replacing a dying 
baby, or even reproducing a 
"valuable" person. 
Solomon then took the floor to raise certain ethical concerns related to human cloning. The thrust of his argument was that most of the ethical questions sur­rounding the cloning event are not new, but have already been considered with regard to earlier medical breakthroughs such as in vitro fertilization. 
The pope already has ques­tioned the integrity of that prac­tice, he stated, and there is little difference between this and the production of a human clone. 
Another set of issues arises with regard to choosing children for certain traits. Solomon says this, too, is nothing new, because "serial abortion," or the practice of aborting children based on gender preference, already exists. 
The problem with cloning, according to Solomon, is not that it will raise new ethical question for our country, but that cloning has entered the scene at a time when no agreement exists in society on what our values should be. 
Solomon suggests that, "we need to have more integrated discussion." He closed with the proposal that, to reach a reason­able consensus, we need scien­tists to consider ethics and philosophers to understand sci­ence. 
The colloquium, titled "Thinking Twice About Cloning," was held at 7:30 last night in DeBartolo Hall. 
By LIZ NAGLE 
News Writer 
In the wake of science's recent breakthrough in the world of genetic technology with the do­ing of an adult sheep, numerous biological and ethical questions have been raised in places all over the world, including Notre Dame. 
Professor David Lodge of the biology department and philoso­phy professor W. David Solomon addressed cloning and its ethical consequences for human life at last night's Honors Colloquium. Lodge opened the discussion by addressing the fundamental questions of what cloning involves. biologically. 
"Clones are not something 
you're unfamiliar with," he began, reminding the audience that identical twins are one obvi­ous example of clones. Clones are simply genetically identical individuals, whether they are produced naturally or by human technology, he said. 
Bacteria, plants, and many invertebrate produce clones reg­ularly through asexual reproduc­tion, as in the case of a starfish's leg generating a whole new starfish, noted Lodge. 
He continued that human­aided cloning of non-human mammals has been occurring for decades, through the process of splitting early-stage embryos, and this same project was attempted with human beings in 1993, until research was halted under the enforcement of certain ethical guidelines. 
So what's new about the cloning of Dolly the sheep by Dr. Ian Wilmut, an event that has grabbed headlines and national attention for the past few weeks? 
The answer, Lodge says, is that, "the genetic material that governs Dolly came from the cells of a full-grown sheep." This is remarkable because the cells of an adult organism have differ­entiated to perform specific func­tions, and the previous assump­tion was that specified cells would not be able to govern an entire organism. 
The problem was to separate out the nucleus of the cell and allow the DNA to regain its full, unspecified abilities. Once this 

• 
An lnterdenotninational P1·ayer Service 
"On the Road to Calvary" A Reflection on the Passion ofJesus Christ 
Wednesday, Marcl1 26, 1997 7:30 p.n1. Badin Hall Cl1apel 
Please bring your Bible 
(?MPU5MINIS1RY 

• 
Be our guest for the A time to share your 

ON NATIONAL TOUR 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND Main Auditorium -Northside Hall -MARCH 25-30, 1997 ­
Tues. 7:30 p.m. • Wed. 7:30 p.m. • Thurs. 7:30 p.m. • Fri. 8 p.m. Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. • Sunday 1 :00 p.m. & 7 p.m. EST Tickets -$27.50 to $49.50 
For tickets Call 219·235·9190 (Morris Civic) 
Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.-till 4 p.m. Show Week 
Show Nights from 6 p.m., Weekend from 11 a.m. Call 237-4203 (IUSB) 
Charge to VISA, MasterCard & Amex

j A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 21, 1997 





House votes to ban 
partial birth abortions 
By DAVID ESPO he vetoed it was bl:l\:~use of Assoclanxl Press Writcr those Hes ·~· :• • .·•. ·. .• 
The White House responded 
WASHINGTON with a veto threat thatsaid the 
In a debate that blended measure "contains the same emotion and politics, the House serious flaws" as the identical voted by a veto-proof m~jQrity bill Clinton rejected last year. on Thursday to han .pertain Supporters of the measure late-term 
· · said the abortion procedure abortions. was inhumane. 
The 295-"We are not dea,ling with the 136 vote unborn child; dealing crossed with the child ... .. partially party lines delivered, that!~ In effect fourc and marked fifths horn,'' /argMd Rep. the second Charles Canady; R:-Fla., a lead­time in as ing sponsor of the measUre. many years Lott. Opponents coqntered that the that the hill threatened women with a Republican -controlled 
COI1gl'~~ss return to the e t preceded moved to ban "p the Supreme C slandmark abortions'' Roe vs. Wade 197 

the th~t g4ata~t .~t danger. · abortion; Re .. .. . .f!Y; P~ In the Senate; M riiy N.Y., said the tn ..·· 's pas-Leader Trent Lott said he sage would mark ''the first step would schedule a springtim(;l on the trip to the back alley." debate on the hill, but conced­Clinton vetoed an identical ed support does not yet exist to bill last year in an emotional override President Clinton's ceremony in which where five threatened veto. women who had undergone 
In hours of debate on the such abortions spoke tearfully 
about the e ······ and the
House floor, a}?o.rtiq.~ sought to capitalize on·~···•· fetaldi~ .· !thei~ confession by al:>orti() ·decisions.. . . pres!~ supporter Ron titis . ns dent said, he a mea• that he had "lied . through my sure that allo ) . .•.••.. I'J ·prace­teeth'' when he said the proce­dunf in protect+a mother's 
health. · ·· ·dure was performed rarely and only to save the mother'$life or The to abort malformed uatcll>""'· 
"We need to · again and den .'' s 

Court faces WWW restrictions 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Debating the future of the Internet, several Supreme Court justices raised doubts about a federal law that restricts online 
access to sex­ually explicit material to keep it from children. 
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor suggested in 

arguments O'Connor Wednesday that the Internet could be viewed as a public place, "much like a street corner or a park," where speech has strong First Amendment protection. 
Justice Stephen Breyer said the Internet law could "make large numbers of high school students across the country guilty of federal crimes" for having online conversations about their sexual experionces. 
The Clinton administration mounted a spirited defense of the 1996 Communications Decency Act, which makes it a crime to put indecent words or pictures online where children can find them. 
"The Internet threatens to give every child a free pass into the equivalent of every adult bookstore and every adult video store in the country," Justice Department lawyer Seth Waxman told the court. 
But the attorney for those who challenged the law said it also would keep indecent mate­rial away from adults who have a right to see it. 
"The government cannot 

reduce the adult population to reading or viewing only what is appropriate for children," said lawyer Bruce Ennis, represent­ing groups including the American Libmry Association and the American Civil Liberties Union. 
A three-judge federal court in Philadelphia blocked the law from taking effect last year, saying it would unlawfully chill adults' free-sp(~ech rights. 
Sexually oriented material is protected by the Constitution's First Amendment if it is deemed indecent but not obscene. 
The Supreme Court is expect­ed to rule by July in its first case involving the global com­puter network -a place where Ennis said "average citizens can speak to the world for free." 
Several justices tried to decide what kind of communi­cation to compare to the rapidly expanding Internet, which is thought to connect as many as 40 million people using more than 9.4 million computers worldwide. Justices' question­ing during arguments does not necessarily signal how they will vote on a case. 
O'Connor saw an electronic similarity to a park or street corner. Breyer said, "The Internet is rather like the tele­phone." 
Justice David Souter said the law could allow a parent to be sent to prison for allowing his or her child to use a computer to view sexually explicit materi­al. 
And Justice Anthony Kennedy said that under Waxman's analysis, the government could prohibit some conversations in public places. 
Rut .Justice Antonin Scalia said that in any context it is lawful for government to require that pornographic material be kept away from children. 
"We say 'tough luck, you have to sell it in stores'" rather than on the street, Scalia said. 
The law makes it a crime to make indecent or "patently offensive" words or pictures available online where they can bo found by children. 
Violators could get up to two years in prison and a $250,000 fine. 
Waxman said any child who knows how t.o "click a mouse" can go online and find sexually explicit material like that found in Hustler and Penthouse maga­zines. · 

WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
A lot! The training and analytical skills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools are looking for. 
Can you be more specific? What kind of jobs have recent Notre Dame mathematics graduates found? Two jobs that have been very popular with our recent graduates have been as actuaries in insurance companies and as computer programmers or sys­tems analysts in technology-related firms. Companies that have recently hired Notre Dame mathematics graduates include Aetna Life, Allstate, Arthur Andersen, CIGNA, Eastman Kodak, General Electric, General Mo­tors, Hughes Aircraft, IBM, McDonnell Douglas, DuPont, Morgan Stanley, Metropolitan Life, NCR, Prudential, The Travellers, and Xerox. 
That is an impressive list-but are these desirable jobs? The 1995 publication Jobs Rated Almanac rated job classifications using the criteria of income, outlook, physical demands, security, stress, and work environment. The top six, out of 250 job classifications, were: actuary, soft­ware engineer, computer systems analyst, accountant, paralegal assistant, and mathematician. Four out of the top six jobs are in the mathematical sciences! 
What other areas have Notre Dame mathematics graduates gone 
into? Of course, not every mathematics major pursues a career in industry. Some have gone on to professional training in law, medicine, education, and busi­ness; others have done graduate work in computer science, statistics, oper­ations research and economics. 
They have pursued graduate studies at places like Harvard, Princeton, Chicago, Oxford, and Berkeley. Many of these now teach at colleges and universities across the country. Others work at places like Bell Laborato­ries or at government agencies like the National Security Agency. In the last several years, three of our graduating majors received National Science Foundation fellowships for their doctoral work in mathematics and another received a Fullbright fellowship. 
What programs are offered by the Department of Mathematics? 
The Career Program in mathematics is a degree in the College of Science designed for students who want to use mathematics as a tool in science or in­dustry and emphasizes problem-solving while still providing a grounding in theory. In addition to the Career Program, we have designed mathematics programs with concentrations in the following areas: applied mathemat­ics, life science, education, engineering science, social science, computing, and business administration. It is also possible to pursue more than one concentration or even arrange a double major, like mathematics and, say, philosophy. 
We also offer an Honors Mathematics Program which can be completed either in the College of Science or in the College of Arts and Letters. This is a rigorous program aimed at students who thrive on challenge and enjoy mathematics for its own sake. 
We are confident our mathematics programs will provide you with a first­class mathematical education and give you a good start on any one of a number of career directions. 
For more information come to our Spotlight Program Monday, March 24, 8-9 P.M. Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall 
You may also make an appointment with Professor Dennis Snow, Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Department of Mathematics. Call the Mathematics Office at 631-7245 or write to snow. 1@nd. edu. 
-~~ -~~....-~--------------~-~­
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gore announces 
education tax-relief 
By ROBERT GREENE 
Associated Press Writer 
ARLINGTON, Va. 

With a suburban high school as the backdrop, Vice President AI Gore announced legislation Thursday aimed at 
making a 13th and 14th year of schooling as routine as a high school diploma is now. 
The pro­


posed legis-Gore lation would make good on President Clinton's cam­paign offer of tax credits or deductions for middle-class families sending children to college. 
The bill also raises the limit of Pell grants available to stu­dents from poor families to $3,000 from $2,700 and makes more students eligible. 
The package, worth $81 bil­lion over five years, has gotten a chilly reception from con­gressional 
Republicans because of the $38.4 billion in tax breaks. Critics say the plan would be a paperwork nightmare for the Internal Revenue Service and would used the tax code to create a federal entitlement. 
Other critics contend the plan gives too many benefits to families that would send children to college anyhow while not raising Pel! grants high enough to keep pace with inflation. 
Gore said voters endorsed the plan when they elected Clinton to a second term. "The American people have said, 'We choose that direction,"' Gore said at a gathering of students, educators and par­ents at Washington-Lee High School in Arlington, a Washington suburb. 
Education Secretary Richard Riley said families can be mid­dle-income yet "educationally poor" because of tuition costs. 
The administration came up with several examples of what would happen in 1998 under the plan: 
• A family earning $35,000 could save for their children's college by putting $955 into an Individual Retirement Account annually for 18 years. Assuming an 8 percent inter­est rate, the family would raise $40,000 that way. 
The money would be with­drawn, without penalty, and protected by a $10,000 annual deduction for college expens­es. 
Without the tax break, the family would need to put away almost $1,280 yearly before taxes, for a difference of $325 a year, to raise the same amount. 
• A family earning $60,000 and_ sending one of two chil­dren to a community college would get the maximum tax credit of $1,500 -equal to tuition at the community col­lege. The family would pay $4,260 in taxes instead of $5,760. The credit is available for the first two years of col­lege. 

Firm admits cigarettes' danger 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The maker of Chesterfield cigarettes agreed today to settle 22 state lawsuits by putting warning labels on cigarette that state smoking is addictive and admitting smoking causes can­cer. 
Under the settlement, Liggett also will acknowledge publicly that tobacco companies have marketed cigarettes to teen­agers as young as 14, Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods said in announcing the settle­ment. 
"They know it and they will help us prove it," he said. 
Liggett Group Inc. also agreed to turn over to the states thousands of documents detail­ing industry-wide discussions on nicotine and other subjects. 
However, in a pre-emptive strike, Philip Morris won a tem­porary restraining order today to prevent attorneys in the set­tlement from reading the docu­ments immediately. 
The settlement also requires Liggett to pay $25 million, plus 25 percent of its pretax profits over_ the next 25 years, Woods said. 
The settlement does not end state litigation against Liggett's competitors nor affect more than 200 private lawsuits pend­ing against cigarette manufac­turers. Nor does it provide a framework for a global tobacco settlement. 
The documents involved in the case include conversations among industry lawyers, and Philip Morris, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Brown & Williamson contend they are 





WARNING ' • 
The Liggett Group's plan to say "Smoking is addictive" on its product labels is the strongest warning in U.S. history. Warning labels are a fairly new concept, and have long been a source of contention. 
!) U. S. warnings 
1965-----1970 
WARNING: Cigarette Smoking May Be 
CAUTION: 
The Surgeon General Has Hazardous To Your Health. 
Determined That Smoking Is Dangerous To Your Health.
.i<·: 
1984 to present ----------------­
SURGEON GENERAL:S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, And May Complicate Pregnancy. 
::::· 
SURGEON GENERA~S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result In Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, And Low Birth Weight. 
. 
SURGEON GENERAL:S WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks To Your Health. 
SURGEON GENERAL:S WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide. 
!) Those federally approved labels were the tobacco industry's alternative to stronger labels desired by some states... 
" ~ New York planned to place a skull ·-~ .f and crossbones ~n packets. .t!''­
!) ...and are far less strong than some nations' labels. 
Belgium-------Ireland--------­
Tobacco seriously damages health 
SMOKING CAUSES FATAL DISEASES Irish Government Warning 
privileged attorney-client com­munications. 
Before the restraining order was announced, Attorney General Scott Harshbarger of Massachusetts called the Liggett agreement "one of the most important breakthroughs in the battle against Big Tobacco." 
The settlement also obligates Liggett, the smallest of the major 
U.S. tobacco companies, to coop­erate with the states in similar lawsuits against the other major companies, Harshbarger's office said. The settlement does not end state litigation against Liggett's competitors. 
INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS LITIGATION IN U.S. COURTS: 
State of the Law and Future Prospects 
A PUBLIC CONFERENCE Saturday, March 22. 1997 8:30 ~.m. 
Auditorium. Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

PRESENTED BY The Cemer for (Jnl .mJ Humom R1ghts Notre 0Jm.: ~.... ~(hL,tll .. ­
IN COOPERATION WITH The Midwest Cl1ailunn f,,r Humom R1ghts The AmencJn ~~~:lei~ \,f lm..:m.tuon;ll l..Jw 
C.L.E. crcdn Jud.ibl•.: 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION 
Since the first modem use of the Alien 
Tort Statute nearly twenty years ago, this 
law has been the primary basis for sumg 
human rights violators in United States 
Couru. As the number of ATS cases has 
grown, complex jurisdictional and other 
issues have a~n in lidgation, including 
head or state and other immunities, jury 
trials, scope or damages and other 
n:medies, tnl'orcement or judgements, and, 
most recently. corporate liabilny under the 
statute.. 
At this confen:nce, the litigator.; of the major ATS cases will discuss problems and issues that have arisen in practice. The program will solicit the views or the judiciary, the State Depanment, and representatives of fortign governments on the issues raiSed by the Conference. Other potential statutory bases for suing human rights violators will also be discussed. Panicipants will receive Conference papers, case and bibliographical references. 

CONFERENCE AGENDA 
SATURDAY, MARCH 22, 1997 
8:30a.m.  REGISTRATION Ei REfRESHMENTS  
8:45-9:00 a.m.  WELCOME Dean DaVId T. Link joseph A. Macson Dean & Professor of Law. Notn: Dame Law School  

MORNING SESSION 
9:00-10:00 a.m. ALIEN TORT CLAIMS: FILARTIGA AND BEYOND Chair: Martm D'Urso, Attorney Kohn, Swift & Graf, Philadelphia 
jurisdiction: Violanons of Trccuies or the Law of Nauons Professor Dinah Shelton No!R Dame Law School 
Barriers: lmmunincs. Act of Slllle, Forum non Conveniens Professor R.alph Stemhardt George Washington Law School 
Damages and Remedies Peter Weiss. Attorney C.nter for Constitutional Rights, New York 
10:00 a.m. BREAK 
10:15-11:15 a.m. LmGATING THE CLAIMS Chair: Cr.stobal Bonifaz, Attorney 
.Prcpanng the Calc and the Client: Abcbe-Jira 'v. Ntgtwo 
Paul Hoffman. Attorney 
Settlements: Ltssons from Siderman Professor Michael Bay;:ler Whimer Law School 11:30-12:30 a.m. COMMENTARY 
A Vi<W from !he Bench The Honorable DaVId Thompson, judge. Unued States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cin:uu 
A Vi<W from the State Department David Stewart, AssiSWlt Legal Adviser for Human Rights and Refugees 
A View from Abroad 
Dullah Omar (inVIted) Miruster of jusuce of South Africa 

12:30-2:00 p.m. LUNCH The Morris inn (pre-n:gtStrauon requlrtd) 
AFTERNOON SESSION 
2:00-3:15 p.m.  OTMER BASES OF JURISDICTION  
Tht TortUre VICtim I Prot<erwn Act.  
Prohibition on lmpotulnon of Goods  
Produced !tv Forced Labor. Ftdcral  
Questwn, RICO  
Professor Beth Stephens  
Rutgers-Camden Law School  
Professor Robert Blakey  
Notre Dame Law School  
3:15-3:30 p.m.  BREAK  
3:30-5:00 p.m.  NEW ISSUES  
Amntsry Laws and Corpora.tt  
Complicity  
Professor Diane Orentlicher  
American Universuy Law School  
Professor R.alph Steinhardt  
George Washingwn Law School  
5:15p.m.  CLQSING REMARKS  




·~---------...--------------~-~ -~--------·---------~ 
Friday, March 21, 1997

page 10 The Observer • NEWS 
Astronaut fights fire on Mir space station 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press Writer 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

When fire broke out aboard the Russian space station Mir, the smoke was so thick that NASA astronaut Jerry Linenger could barely see his fingers. The first emergency oxygen mask he put on didn't work -he had to grab another. 
"We need to fight this fire, we need to get this fire out, we at least need to contain this fire," Linenger kept telling himself. 
In an exclusive interview Thursday with The Associated Press, Linenger relived the 90 harrowing seconds that the fire burned late last month and the long, anxious minutes that smoke filled the station. He also discussed Mir's dwindling oxy­gen supply and other recent problems. 
"I feel safe up here," said Linenger, 42, who's halfway through his four-month mission. "It's not like I stay up at night thinking what might go wrong. I'm very relaxed and very busy doing science." 
Linenger, the fourth American 
to live on Mir, was working at a 
computer in a nearby module 
when a solid-fuel, oxygen-gener­
ating canister burst into flames 
Feb. 23. 
Alarms went off, and smoke 
immediately began filling the 
station. Some of the cosmonauts 
grabbed fire extinguishers. 
"Basically, you had to react to 
the situation. You had to keep 
your head about you. I guess it 
The ickory Uillase Love Affair 
Look At What 

$295 
Can Get You: 
• 
A3reat One-Bedroom Apartment 

• 
(Efficiencies from $280, 1wo Bedrooms Available from $355!) 

• 
Sparkling Povl and Sundeck 

• 
Beautiful Clubhouse 

• 
Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees 

• 
Attentive Staff 


• Laundry Facil~ies 
• 
Cable TV Available , · Close to Great Shopping 

• 
Air Conditioning 

• 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance 



212-1880 

Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 

rl-UCKORU 

VlLLAqE~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

was just a matter somewhat of survival," Linenger said. 
The fire, unfortunately, blocked access to one of the two Soyuz capsules docked at the time to the station -the crew's sole means of escape. Each Soyuz can hold only three peo­ple, and six men were on Mir: four Russians, one American and one German. 
"Without getting that fire out, there was no way to get to one of the Soyuz capsules ... and we were planning an evacuation if needed. We were definitely pre­pared to do that," Linenger said. 
It was one of the worst fires ever in space. 
Once the flames were extin­guished and the smoke dissipat­ed somewhat, Linenger, a doc­tor, examined his five crew­mates. No one had suffered any serious smoke inhalation. 
Less than two weeks later, after three of the men had returned to Earth on one of the two Soyuz capsules, Mir's main oxygen-generating system broke. And just Wednesday, Mir'.s motion-control system ran into trouble and the station experienced a partial power out­age. 
Since the failure of the two pri­mary oxygen generators earlier this month, Linenger and his two Russian crewmates have been forced to use lithium-perchlorate canisters similar to the one that sparked the blaze. One cosmo­naut stands guard with a fire extinguisher while the other cos­monaut activates the oxygen­generating canister. 

is currently accepting applications for the following Saint Mary's News positions: 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor: The Editor works directly with the SMC Editor in coor­dinating coverage on Saint Mary's campus, assists the News Editors with the daily story and photo content, and is responsible for a weekly Wednesday feature focusing on an aspect of Saint Mary's College. However, primary responsibility for the time being will be to regulate coverage of Saint Mary's sports. 
Saint Mary's News Editors: The two Editors work together to coordinate and super­vise the daily content, accuracy, and publication of the Saint Mary's News section. They are responsible for developing and organizing the Saint Mary's staff, in addition to assigning stories and acting as a link between The Observer and the Saint Mary's Public Relations Office. 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor: The Associate Saint Mary's News Editor is responsible 
Applications and questions should be directed to Lori Allen at 631 ~ 4540 
• At.BANIA 







Premier faces pressure on two sides 
By JUDITH INGRAM 
Associated Press Writer 
TIRANA 
Albania's new premier was caught in the middle Thursday between heavily armed south­
ern · insur­gents who 
w a n t 
President Sali Berisha oust­ed and sup­porters of the president who have 

vowed to stop Fino the rebels. As Prime Minister Bashkim Fino's new coalition govern-

Interested in applying for Judi~ial Coun~il President for tLe '97-'98 a~ademi~ year~ 
Applications are now available in the Student Governinent office and Inust be returned by Tuesday~ March 25 at 5 p.m. 
For more information, contact Ryan at 1-4553 


~OBSERVER 
ment tried to assert its author­ity, there also was concern that Berisha was scheming to consolidate his own power. 
Fino has reportedly resisted Berisha's attempts to direct the workings of the new gov­ernment-and has refused insurgents' demands that Berisha step down before elec­tions, to be held by June. . The newly appointed Socialist leader has announced twice that he would go south to push his plan for national rec­onciliation with the leaders of 12 rebel-controlled districts ­and both times canceled the trip without giving a reason. 
The latest postponement 
for generating and developing daily story and photo content for Saint Mary's College, and will work closely with the SMC News Editors in coordinating communi­cation between the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame News departments. The Associate News Editor is responsible for training SMC Copy Editors and Assistant News Editors newly hired by the SMC Editor, and evaluates, edits, and instructs reporters on story content and style. 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor: The Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor works with the Associate News Editor in developing the SMC content of the paper, but is primarily responsible for contacting the various College department heads on a weekly basis to assure that departmental happenings on campus are being covered. The Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor will also regulate the weekly beats in accordance with the SMC News Editor. The Editor evaluates, edits, and instructs reporters on story content and style. 
came after the shadowy Committee for National Salvation warned Wednesday it would mobilize thousands of supporters to fight those who insist on Berisha's removal. Militant supporters of Berisha's Democratic Party are suspected to be behind the group. 
In other signs of a power struggle, the Democratic-con­trolled legislature has refused to transfer authority over state radio and television from the parliament to the government. It also rejected a government bill to allow newspapers to start publishing again without censorship. 

The Observer • NEWS page 11 


Indians chafe at eagle feather laws 
March 22, 1976 
lo 

March 22, 1997 
Happy 21st Birthday Cheryl 
£ove, 

rt\o-n.._, ClJ~d, ~""d 8tep4~""ie CZJ~vie-6 
By SUE HOLMES 
Associated Press Writer 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 
It was seen as a showdown 
-the federal government's 
need to protect bald eagles 
pitted against the right of 
American Indians to exercise 'their religion. 
In the end, however, no 
definitive answers carrie out of 
the court case that began two 
years ago when a San 
Ildefonso Pueblo man shot a 
bald eagle for a religious cere­
mony. 
As a result, many Indians 
contend, they essentially still 
have to rely on the federal 
government to be able to prac­
tice their religion. 
While federal laws make it 
illegal to kill bald eagles 
because the bird is a threat­
ened species, the laws carve 
out exceptions for Indians to 
acquire eagle feathers and 
body parts for religious pur­
poses. 
Most often. Indians get per­
mits to obtain feathers and 
body parts from a federal 
repository set up to take in 
carcasses from eagles electro­
cuted by power lines, hit by 
automobiles oi killed illegally. 
Under special circumstances, 
Indians can get permits to kill 
eagles. 
"What really bothers me is 
that we as Indian people have 
to have a law to allow us to 
practice our religion, yet this 
country was founded on reli­
gions and religious princi­
ples," said Wallace Coffey, 
chairman of the Comanche 
Tribe based in Lawton, Okla. 
To Indians, the eagle is holy, 
"the only bird that flies close 
to God," he said. 
"We still believe the eagle is a very powerful bird. Even just to see one gives us a bless­ing," he said in a telephone interview from tribal head­quarters. "But to be able to hold a bird in your hand, an eagle feather in your hand... " 

Robert Gonzales did not have a permit when he shot an eagle on San Ildefonso land on Feb. 7, 1995, for an upcoming pueblo ceremony. 
Although the Bureau of Indian Affairs verified the eagle was for religious purpos­es, Gonzales was charged with violating the Endangered Species Act, the Eagle Protection Act and the Migratory Birds Treaty Act. 
U.S. District Judge James Parker dismissed the charges earlier this year without the case going to trial. He ruled the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's permit process vio­lated Gonzales' freedom of religion and ordered it changed. 
Requiring Indians to name the religious ceremony at which an eagle will be used and requiring certification by a religious elder are not the best ways for the government to protect eagles, the judge ruled Jan. 31. 
"Native Americans will still need to apply for an eagle per­mit but they will not be required to provide" that information, he said. 
The Justice Department is deciding whether to ask the lOth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Denver to review Parker's decision. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Gerson of Albuquerque, one of the pros­ecutors, said courts all over the country have ruled "con­servation of these animals within the context of a permit system is not a violation of people's free exercise of reli­gion." 
The government argued dur­ing hearings on the case that the government has a com­pelling interest in protecting the bald eagle and that a less restrictive process would not work. 
But Suzan Harjo, head of the Morning Star Institute in Washington, which deals with native cultural and traditional rights, applauded Parker's decision. 
"Basically it says stop pry­ing, you needn't delve into the details of this particular man's religion," said Ms. Harjo, a Cheyenne. 
Alfonso Ortiz, a University of New Mexico anthropologist and San Juan Pueblo native, testified in a Dec. 4 hearing for Gonzales that the whole application process for eagle parts was unnecessary, inva­sive and intimidating to tradi­tional pueblo leaders. 
Ortiz, who died in late January, told the court he was especially concerned by the requirement that the BIA approve the request. 
"To have their spiritual practices be validated by fed­eral government officials on a case-by-case basis is, I think, quite disagreeable, to choose a very mild term, to them, to the free exercise of their religious prerogatives. 
"It's a substantial burden because, as is most often the case, you have to explain yourself and account for your­self and your need for the eagle feathers, eagle parts, to someone who is not in a posi­tion to understand your spiri­tual life at all," Ortiz said. 
---~~~~~~~~

5.99 DEALI 
14"

llQ 
Large Unlimited Topping 
IIIII! Exeires 4116!9' 


$4.99 DEAL 





I Ja I 
3.99--DEAL 

I Cheese Pizza
11.. rii/iJies4116197 


page 12 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 21, 1997 
• WEST BANK 
Violence erupts over housing 
By JACK KATZENELL 
Associated Press Writer 
BETHLEHEM 

Clouds. of tear gas filled Bethlehem's streets Thursday after Palestinian anger over Israel's decision to build Jewish homes in disputed east Jerusalem erupted into clashes with Israeli soldiers. 
Hundreds of protesters threw stones at the soldiers, who fired back tear gas, rubber bullets and a barrage of water cannon spray. 
Stone-throwing clashes also broke out between Palestinian youths and soldiers in the vil­lage of Beit Omar, on the main road between Jerusalem and Hebron. 
In an apparent effort to appease the Palestinians, the government has drawn up plans for 6,000 homes for Arabs in east Jerusalem, Israel TV reported. 
Palestinian officials respond­ed warily to Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu's proposal to skip the interim phase when Israel is supposed to make two further withdrawals from the West Bank, and move directly to talks on the big issues ­Jerusalem and Palestinian demands for statehood. 
Yasser Arafat, in an angry speech to Palestinian legislators in Gaza City, alluded to Netanyahu's proposal, accusing the Israeli leader of trying to get out of Israel's commitment to give back land. 
"Day after day, we have more statements from this (Israeli) government about their non­commitments and suggesting new ideas and new additions," Arafat said. "They want to replace land-for-peace with the peace-for-peace notion." 
Arafat accused Netanyahu's government of "trickery and conspiracy" for building the Jewis·h neighborhood in east Jerusalem, which Israel cap­tured in the· 1967 Middle East war and where the Palestinians want to build their future capi­tal. 
He said the move would return the region to a "cycle of violence and destruction." 
"Do they think us dumb or lazy children?" Arafat asked. "We reject Israel's attempts to decide the future of Jerusalem unilaterally." 
The clashes in Bethlehem broke out during a Palestinian march protesting the start of construction on the new Jewish neighborhood. 

Hundreds of Palestinians stoned Israeli troops guarding the grave of the biblical matri­arch Rachel on the outskirts of the city. Soldiers fired back rubber bullets, tear gas, water cannons and sound grenades in clashes that lasted more than three hours. Some demonstra­tors grabbed tear gas canisters from the ground and flung them back at soldiers. 
Palestinian officials made sporadic efforts to hold back the crowd, beating demonstra­tors with wooden batons. 
Twenty Palestinians and one soldier were treated for tear gas inhalation, and two Palestinians were injured by rubber bullets. 
Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai, visiting troops guarding the east Jerusalem construction site, 

7-PIECE SKA BAND WITH HORNS 
With special guest performers 

QATURDAY, MARCH lD 
DOORS OPEN AT 9 PM 
Coming... 

Thursday, April I 0 • STOMPER BOB 
21 and over with proper ID lower level 18 and over with college ID upper level Jazzman's provides uniformed security guards inside and outside of the club 
said he had received new warnings of Palestinian vio­lence following Muslim prayers on Friday. 
He urged the Palestinians to return to talks with Israel "to find how we can move forward together.'' 
Arafat has refused to meet with N.etanyahu since the con­struction began, and Israel­Palestinian negotiations are on hold. 
A Housing Ministry proposal for 6,000 new Arab homes in east Jerusalem, including 2,500 adjacent to the new Jewish neighborhood, was to be discussed in the weekly Cabinet meeting Friday, Israel TV reported. 
It was not clear whether the plan involved building the homes or merely providing infrastructure and approving 
• building permits, in line with previous plans for Arab hous­ing in Jerusalem. Netanyahu's proposal would set aside the step-by-step approach that has prevailed since the lsrael-PLO accord signed in September 1993. The two sides would focus on the so"called final status issues -the future of Jerusalem, Palestinian refugees, Jewish settlements and Palestinian demands for statehood. Talks would last six to nine months and move to a Camp David-style mediation super­vised by President Clinton if agreement were not reached by then. If the accelerated efforts failed, Netanyahu pledged to go back to the old timetable calling for a three-stage pullback from rural areas of the West Bank to be completed by mid-1998. 
Saeb Erekat, the Palestinian chief negotiator called the pro­posal a "gimmick." It was also criticized by Arab leaders. 

AMMAN 
The killer of seven Israeli schoolgirlsshould have been shottq ~~~th by )lis . col-
gues:ilia,~ soon 's the Jordanian soldier began firing, King Hussein said Thursday. 
In unusually harsh words. the kin wrote security forces a · ~f~~r a Jordanian soldier 
tfie girls on an island in 
Jordan River and said the soldiers' comrades should have tried to · immediately." 
... · d 

ity. His nifuily, howey~!', ·s !tewas mentally unstable. 
Hussein in his letter described Daqamseh as "a coward who sought to show manhood" and urged his secu­rity men "to be vigilant. to pre­vent any treacherous or hateful agent from infiltrating your ranks." 
Underscoring his determina­tion to pursue peace with Israel, Hussein wrote: "We do not betray people with whom we have made peace.... We fight il) honor and we make pe~cein honor.'' ...• 
.,.. Jordan signed p. peace treaty with Israel in 1994. Hussein is a keen peace partner, but he has. been alarmed of late by 
· Minister Benjamin hard.,Jine policies :t.-.iiiii>>•i'l the Palestinians. 


TltAiI HousE 
RESTAURANT 
Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisin 
Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food 
Dine in or Carry Out 
257-4875 
15% discount when you bring in ad! 
BUSINESS HOURS

HOUSE 
Q 
=---=--Ia: Mon.-Thur. 
w
DD 
ICI. 11am-9pm 
·Martins K-Mart 
<C 
Fri.-Sat. 11am-10pm

a: 
" 
Sun.12-8pm 


i40MD4~ ItCLAII I'ICTIOM D4~! Vote for your class officers and off-campus reps on Monday from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. 
.. 
Vote in hall lobbies or 
•


lfi the Huddle 

Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• PAPUA NEW GUINEA 


Chan: No more mercenaries 
By GEOFF SPENCER Associated Press Writer 
PORT MORESBY 

In a victory for rioters and army mutineers, the govern­ment suspended its contract . for mercenary soldiers Thursday. Five people were seriously injured in protests over the use of foreign forces to quell a rebellion on a resource-rich island. 
The hiring of mercenaries to help put down a nine-year uprising on the island of Bougainville has provoked four days of street riots and an army mutiny, with soldiers detaining 43 of the foreigners sent to train them. 
The army deported about 20 · 1 AUSTRALIA other mercenaries before · Prime Minister Sir Julius Chan suspended a $27 million mili­tary contract with British­based Sandline International on Thursday for at least two weeks pending a judicial 
I l~eed a job fur-{t; 1997-98I academic year? 
Student Activities is now acceptir g applications for: 
LaFortune Building Manager~ Stepan Center Manage'rs Information Desk Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound T~chnidam 

Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew · 
I

2 4 Hour Lounge Monitars ND Cake Se1 vice -~ 
Applications are availabie Jt 31. S Lafortune. :~i 
Deadline for applying is Friday, March 21:.I 
~~::.a· ' .· . . . . -:...:3§:.. ··• ;" ··~$; . i"i' ;Gi;l>i• -';::;. :$>~ • ~~~li:~::~::::;:;t;~::.l:.. <~·?-;J 
investigation. 
Brig.-Gen. Jerry Singirok had sparked the unrest in this 
The Healing Arts Center presents 

Spontaneous Healing 
An Evening with Andrew Weil, M.D. 

Monday, March 31, 1997 Andrew Weil, M.D. is the author of the international best seller Spontaneous Healing and a recognized expert on complementary medicine, medicinal plants,addiction, altered states of consciousness and the redesign of medical edu­cation. In addition to being a frequent lecturer and talk-show guest, he is a Harvard­trained physician who has been described as a "rare and reliable guide through today's deluge of conflicting health fads and philosophies."Don't miss this illuminat­ing program and book signing opportunity. 
In person, Monday, March 31, 1997 ~t-,Sin-.9 ~~~ 7 To 9 P.m. 0 · ';; O'Laughlin Auditorium, 
~ ~
t) ~,: St. Mary's College, South Bend, In 
Reserved Seating Only • Tickets $20 
Phone(219)284-2442 Visa And Mastercard Accepted. 
NEED HELP JOB HUNTING? 
READY-TO-WORKsM will electronically market your availability to potential employers throughout the Internet for as little as $10!!! 
* 
RTW will easily & quickly, put YOU on the net 

* 
RTW will give you international visibility 

* 
RTW will bring employers directly to you 

* 
RTW will forward your resume to employers 


Advertise your availability through READY-TO-WORKsM! EMPLOYERS, search our database for FREE! 

For details, call: (847) 604-2452 Or visit: www.readytowork.com 
READY-TO-WORK, L.L.C. P.O. Box 7470 Libertyville, IL 60048-7470 (847) 680-7894 

NEED HELP JOB HUNTING?SM
Fax: (847) 680-7917 
• 
1 
I 
~ 
1 
, 









VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Friday, March 21, 1997 

NIT· Slloulc.l~::baveybeen th.ere St d t h ld b · 
.• .. f·· .·· >·;.. . ,,m1m,1!w''' ,,~,·:Hi!~'"' ·.· · . u en s s ou e given Jo~~:t ~!~!~s hN:J :d~!=~~~~nfi~~~:ji~~ lo,~f;~u really Want to see March madness, priority for sports ti•ckets but at least it was at the Joyce Center, talktq the students who wanted to buy a where the Irish had won eight con~~c~tive ti.: ...•. ..•.•....t. pu;t we · r.n.e ... way at the tioket
..~.k.· e., .. ...· .....d •.a 

home games. .... .. : of9?t1 ~t-n.d int i fr1ghalls ort Wednesday.
N ••• 
Unfortunately, 3,812fans who might have Granted, only 8 students bought season wanted to see the game -a garne during tickets last fall, but students have the right the first post-season run of the men's bas-to chang() their opinion about the basketball ketball team in five yea;rs -were pot able tellJ)J .as the seasop progresses, and they to. A previously sche~uled hom ?out• · .tto che~r th~lr school door show in the Joyce Center pr ted the ason tournament. · · team frorn playing in frortt of a full-capacity And imagine the frustration of those tried-crowd. and-true fans; the season ticket holders, 
To the credit of Joyce center officials, they who were too far back Itt the ticket lines to took into account many potential scheduling he abl.~. ~o se~ t~~ir team playin the.biggost conflicts before agreeing tothe datesJorthis gaxne qftheyea,r: weekend when the contract with the ·. Fortunately, it.,yvas the Michiaria Home Michiana Home and Outdoor Living Show and Outdoor Living Show that was gracious was signed two years ago. The two sides enough to allow. last night's game to he considered possible NCAA women's b{tSket-p~<J;y~d in South. Bend and not in Ann Arbor ball post-~easongames, hockey c?n~~terice . o · · · · · · · Wi!hJq~~ll.Coopera, playoffs, arid even the t'il'St two roundS of the . outdoor show's orga~ men'sNationallnvitation Tournament nizets that the ga.rne could in fact be held at 
What the powers-that-be didn't 4J¥ednto the Joyce Centf;\lt'tBecause of the show's account was a third-round game o JT, ~qiJ:t#Mt ~ w · ~tipuiELted that the ven­exactly the game that·took place I ht. dorscoril setting up yesterday -.its If Joyce Center officials we efit ..d protested playing tM enough to think towork around two g . tt e .. .. ntet. _ · · · rounds of the NIT, they should have gone · This weekend's show is a needed source the extra step and considered the possibility of revenue forth~ 250 vendors, both local of a third-round garrierno m how. ~411,~ 'lbe setting up booths doubtful it seerned :tWo years the ill: .~~e .•.· .......• ·. . .. cordin~ to BillScholl;
1996-97squad would make it th .. anassist~nt ic.direct(}r; Moreover, 
The NIT is a five-round tourn With Scholl noted t e show could not have the final two games•ptayed at J',.fadison , sele<;ted anothersite; no other venue in the Square Garden in New York. With a. maxi-· etween · ago and Fort Wayne 
mum ofthtee game.~t~~t could po~i~~ybe .• snqvvof~~¢11 ~ize ... ·. ·.··.· played at the Joyce·ceriter, offi.CiaJSi,snoilld · .........·........•..•.... kindnessofthe!l garden • have made the effort to account for the . out-s organizers that they agreed to post-side chancethat the team would make it pone setting up some booths along the bas-through those three rounds, not just first ketball arena's concourse so that 350 addi­two. ti.orial)>leacher seats could l:>e opened for• 
And if stic11. a consldetatiop, ·W Iii$tpigljt'~ . . . . created contractual diffictllties bet . . e @in all. 1 gracious and key com-Joyce Center and the home and outdoor promise on the part of the home and out­show... well tough. This :is March Madness, door living show. and this is the Joyce;Center. Basketball Butif the Joyce center had considered should be the priority · · il:J~ljty, su.~P a compro" this is the>21st e. home been necessary. door show at the Joyce Center, the basket· Let's hOpe that steps are taken to prevent ball squad has been around for a little this situation next year: 
The prioritir,s at this school are definitely screwed up. I go to a school where students are not the first priority. This is evident every­where, and today I got slapped in the face with this fact. I have always had this feeling, but without any evidence to support it. Well now I havr, the evid·mce. 
I picked up my copy of The Obs!lrver today to see how I could get jekets for tomorrow's NIT bas­ketball game. They say the students do 11ot have any support for teams other than football, so I was about to make my contribution. I got a wind of the Notre Dame spirit. It is Wednesday. I don't have lunch on Wee nesday's -I have class until 
1:40. So when I saw in The Observer that I could go to the J.A.C.C. to get tickots, I went over there right after clas:;, liguring that by the time din­ncr came around the game would alre :tdy be sold out. 1:45 and I arrive at the J.A.C.C. met with a sign on the window blatantly telling me that the student tickets were already sold out. I started questioning the ticket agent after I noticed that a whole section of the bleachers was marked off ­meaning that they were not able to sell them. When I questioned as to who exactly all those seats were for, she told my that 6,000 seats in ten bleachers were reserved for the Home and Garden show. I stared at her mystified. "What?" You mean to tell me that you can sell 6,000 tickets to p.:lOple from the Home and Garden show hut only 2,000 are available for the students? Apparently this was exactly what she was telling me. The ticknt lady said that they had made a contract with the I lome and Garden Exp•J and that that was the deal. The end I walked away dejected, after no surprise to me. That students here always seem to be the ones get­ting the shaft. In other words we are always the last ones to be ablr to get the tickets, and the administration feels they are so generous by reserv­ing us a small section. Well, guess what, WE are this school. Not the people from the Home and Garden Expo. Have you ever been here on one of our breaks?? What will you find. Emptiness. Nothing. That is exactly right. Without the students, this school is nothing. Granted there are still the pretty buildings to look at, but there is no life, no energy. The administration (I know that term is vague, but I really do not know who is behind it) tells us that we are NO, but do they really mean it? Actions speak louder than words. 
I think I have said my peace. I probably would not be so vocal if this had not been the first time I walked up to a ticket counter with a Sold Out 
_ sign taped up to it. I could tell you another sad story of how my cousins and brother drove up (from Chicago) for the last home hockey game. We got there over an hour before it started, and I thought we were in good shape (me being the one who is never on time for anything in her life). I don't know if there were any political reasons behind why that game was sold out so darn early, but all I know is that as a student there was nothing even I could do to get in, while somehow millions (ok exagger­ation) of Michigan fans poured into the stadium with their already pre­purchased tickets. I was a little miffed to say th.e least. 
LISA NACKOVIC 
Sophomore Cavanaugh Hall 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• llUOTE OF THE DAY 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, March 21, 1997 page 15 
• RIGHT OR WRONG 
Broderick a 'Chief' example of the spirit and tradition of Notre Dame 
Most readers of this column were not born when Jack Broderick left this University. So let me tell you about this great teacher whose story exemplifies what has gone wrong at Notre Dame. 
John J. Broderick, professor emeritus at Notre Dame Law School, died in South Bend on Feb. 28. Born in New York in 1910, he graduated summa cum laude from Washington and Lee and St. John's Law School. He practiced law in New York until World War II. Declining an 


Charles Rice 
officer's commission, he served as a Chief Petty Officer assigned to the Navy offi­cers' training program at Notre Dame. In 194 7, the "Chief' joined the faculty of Notre Dame Law School to teach evi­dence, labor law, trial practice and legal ethics; he also served for several years as assistant dean. For more than 20 years, he and Father Mark Fitzgerald chaired the annual Union-Management Conference at Notre Dame. 
The editors of the Notre Dame Law Review dedicated their 197 5 volume to him, saying "the Chief has been a con­cerned friend as well as a scholar and a teacher. His offers to help find part-time work for...students and his willingness to share a concern of any student are well known .... [T]he Chief has often sought out students to offer his aid when he hears they have difficulties of any kind. His presence has added a special dimension to our study of law, a dimen­sion that will stay with all of us through­out our lives. [He is] a scholar, a teacher, but even more, a noble friend and truly the embodiment of the spirit of Notre Dame." 
The Chief was faculty advisor to the Boxing Club, he was on the sidelines at every football game and he helped ath­letes in various sports with their prob­lems. Occasionally, he would invite a football player or coach to speak to his class on Friday mornings before a home football game. This practice took on a life of its own. As Scholastic said in 1975, "Friday morning before a home football game, the Law School lounge is trans­formed from a haven of quiet chatter to a teeming throng of enthusiastic Notre Dame rooters. It is here that the Chief ... conducts his traditional pep rallies which draw law students, alumni, and curious bystanders, all attracted by the sounds of the Chiefs personal student band, which features a variety of instruments, ranging from kazoo to trumpet." 
That sort of thing, in my opinion, may have contributed to Broderick's undoing. What would they think of us at Harvard and Yale if word got out that a professor of law was standing on a desk leading the fight song? Jack Broderick was an origi­nal. As the Law Review editors said, "Many have been surprised to find that the short-sleeved lawyer with the nuts­and-bolts approach to law was a scholar of classics and history and has held scholarships for his work in Latin and Greek. However, his interests were never limited to academic study. Those who have witnessed the white-haired profes­sor jogging around the golf course at dawn can easily appreciate that he was captain of his college track team. By the time he left Washington and Lee he was. already the man generations of Notre Dame lawyers would come to know; fast thinking, fast moving, and as playful with words as Cicero." 
Broderick did not fit the image of the stuffed-shirt research professor sought by academic leaders on the make. When he reached the then-mandatory retire­ment age of 65, he applied for a full-time post-retirement appointment for 1975­76, for which there was precedent. His request was unanimously endorsed by the Law School faculty, the Advisory Board, the Student Bar Association and the Law School dean. The University ten­dered only a half-time appointment which it was financially impossible for him to accept. "The granting of a half­time appointment," the Law faculty protested vainly, "is ... in effect ... an out­right denial of his request. We,... believe that [this] is unjust ... in view of his past performance and future usefulness to the Law School." 

Unfortunately, Broderick reached age 65 as Notre Dame was striving to become a Great Research University. Broderick had published scholarly articles on evi­dence, labor law and legal ethics. But he was essentially a teacher and not a man­ufacturer of useless "scholarship." Somebody like him would never be hired, let alone receive tenure, at the Notre Dame of today. 
So Notre Dame fired Broderick out the torpedo tubes. But he surfaced and sur­vived. The Chief received seven offers from other law schools. Spurning the big money offers from other schools, in 1976 he joined in the founding of the law school of Campbell University, a 100­year-old Baptist school in North Carolina. This man, whom our leaders considered not good enough for Notre Dame became an institution at Campbell. 
When I lectured at Campbell at Professor Broderick's invitation, I saw the affection the Campbell students had for him. In 1985, they hosted a national con­ference, the Dr. John Broderick Civil Rights Symposium, to honor the man whom they described as "a very special friend. Dr. Broderick -the Chief-is truly a student's professor. He has left behind him a collection of admirers that even the most esteemed of celebrities would envy." 
The Baptists at Campbell were better judges of human worth than were the leaders of this National Catholic Research University. At Campbell they praise and honor the teacher. At Notre Dame, the response to declining teaching is to get funding for a new center to do research on teaching. When he retired in 1992, Campbell dedicated the John J. Broderick Seminar Room in his honor. Broderick and his wife, Louise, then returned to South Bend. Jack loved Campbell and its students. But his heart was always at Notre Dame, even when its movers and shakers gave him the back of the hand. 
On his retirement, the Notre Dame Law faculty resolved that "the Chief embodies, in a way all his own, the ideals and spirit of our school.. .. No one within memory has touched so many minds and hearts, or endeared himself to so many students -not only law students, but students, all over campus. His... pervasive presence... reaches out to those in need of counsel and encouragement .... From the moment he arrived on this campus, he has gone about doing good. The Broderick legend is made of stern stuff. His dramatic, ebul­lient personality is fed by deep springs. He lives an intense spiritual life. With what Aquinas called magnanimity, he manages to make it seem easy to give abundantly. It is a privilege to work with him, and... to publish our esteem and indebtedness to this beloved friend and teacher. 
Well said and true. But it is a sad reflection on what our leaders have done to Notre Dame that we shall not see the likes of the Chief on this campus again. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN Oomn 
'Money corrupts; lots of 01oney corrupts lots of people' 
AIDS is not sexually transmitted. It's not an epidemic. It's not "breaking out" of risk groups and into the general pop­ulation. AIDS is not caused by HIV. AIDS discriminates. AIDS is not conta­gious. 

Christopher 
Regan 
These things are far more likely to be true than what most believe about AIDS. The evidence for these claims is com­pelling. The evidence for their denials is not only unconvincing, it's hard even to find. 
HIV stands for "Human Immunodeficiency Virus." Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome is suppos­edly a disease that hurts your immune· system. You get sick because your body can't fight off disease. There are two kinds of disease, though. There's a kind that your immune system fights, like the flu or chicken pox, and there's a kind that your immune system doesn't help with, like cancer. You get liver cancer because you drink too much or breast cancer because it runs in the family, but you don't "catch" cancer. 
Despite this, cervical cancer, Kaposi's sarcoma, lymphoma, dementia and wasting disease are all AIDS diseases. They are not "catching" diseases. Does that make any sense? A disease that works by breaking down your immune system causes diseases that don't have anything to do with the immune system. 
A general rule of infectious diseases is that they do not discriminate between the sexes. AIDS does, of course. Nine in ten AIDS patients are male. If AIDS itself were infectious, men and women would contract it at a similar rate. In the beginning of the "AIDS crisis," it was predicted that women would begin to get AIDS too. They haven't. About 90 percent of AIDS patients are still men. 
The general outbreak of heterosexual AIDS is also not happening. The growth in AIDS cases over the years is tied mainly to expanding the definition of AIDS. The CDC routinely reclassifies people as having AIDS, renaming their conditions to create an illusory epidem­
ic. Now scientists are running around in Thailand, testing people for HIV and calling every sick person with HIV an AIDS patient. This then becomes "epi­demic spread" of the disease. 
There's a tricky point here that has to be clear. No one dies of AIDS. The story is, you get HIV, HIV causes AIDS and then you get another disease because of AIDS. You die of the other disease. Suppose you die of pneumonia. Does that mean you had AIDS? Well, not nec­essarily. You only had AIDS if you died of pneumonia and you test positive for HIV antibodies. No HIV antibodies? Then you just died of pneumonia. 
The 100 percent correlation between HIV antibodies and AIDS is not evidence for the theory that HIV causes AIDS. The correlation is achieved by definition. It isn't like they lined up 1000 people with AIDS and then noticed that they all had HIV. That would be evidence. No one is allowed to have AIDS until they're determined to have HIV. There have been numerous cases of people who look exactly like people with AIDS, but don't have HIV antibodies. These people are also "reclassified." 
How does HIV cause AIDS? No one has any idea. No one even claims to have an idea. The HIV test itself is an antibody test. They look for the antibod­ies -the things that kill viruses ­instead of the deadly AIDS virus itself. Why? They can't find any HIV, even in people with full-blown AIDS. Does that make any sense? 
If you've got the flu, you're full of flu viruses. Tons of them in your blood, doing whatever viruses do. Multiplying, mostly. That's how viruses cause dis­ease. Despite the enormous impact HIV is supposed to have on your body -it's not even there. That's an important piece of information. 

Which is part of the reason it's not contagious. The probability of transmit­ting HIV through sexual contact is about 1/1000. What? I'm not making this up, no kidding, 1/1000. When you think about that, it goes a long way towards explaining why Arthur Ashe's wife doesn't have it. It's also related to the fact that there's not much of it in you. There are about 17 million people in the world with HIV. That number remains fairly constant. 
That's peculiar. Contagious viruses spread exponentially. They don't stay constant. If the number of people with HIV is constant, it's hard to believe that HIV kills everyone that has it, isn't it? All the HIV should have disappeared a long time ago, right? And another thing: Why is Magic Johnson feeling fine? 
This must be crazy. HIV has to be the cause of AIDS; they've been telling us that for 12 years. How could they be wrong? Even more, if it's this obvious that they're wrong, how can they fail to change their mind and tell us? 
Dr. Kary Mullis, who won the 1993 Nobel Prize in chemistry has an idea: "We know everything in the world about HIV now. There are more than 10,000 people in the world who specialize in 1-IIV. None have any interest in the pos­sibility HIV doesn't cause AIDS because if it doesn't, their expertise is useless." 
So why are a great many people dying from this disease while physicians waste their time on a discredited theory? Money. Lots and lots of money. Money that's already been spent researching HIV and money that people are willing to dole out for more studies on the "unquestioned cause of AIDS." If all those researchers admitted they made a mistake, would we shell out the billions of dollars for their next epidemic? 
Scientists have begun to break ranks. 
Peter Duesberg, a virologist from Berkeley has written a book entitled "Inventing the AIDS Virus." This book details all of the arguments against the HIV-AIDS theory and presents them in an exact way that isn't possible here. The sources and the studies relied on here are all there. It's well worth read­ing and evaluating for yourself. 
What is being done for people with AIDS? Physicians prescribe AZT and several similar drugs. AZT basically kills people. It stops their cells from dividing. That's why it was originally used to fight cancer. You get 1-IIV, the doctor prescribes AZT and you start dying-just what you're supposed to do. The sicker you get, the higher your AZT dose and the more rapid your decline. 
To echo a familiar phrase, money cor­rupts people and a lot of money will cor­rupt a lot of people. The degree of com­plicity required for this tragedy to occur is not unprecedented, but we find it now among those from whom we would hope for more. 
Notes and Asides: 
• 
Concerning the president renting Lincoln's bedroom by the hour: Anyone who gets away with something will come back to get away with a little more. I'm not saying "I told you so," but I did. 

• 
Book St. Joe's in the Final Four. Unless they lose to Kentucky. 

• 
Most people would say they'd rather be in the NCAAs, but with this team, I'll take three more home games every day of the week and twice on Sunday. 

• 
The War on Smoking is a complete waste of time. You have to die of some­thing -it may as well be something you like. Second-hand smoke never killed anyone, and the study that said it has was terrible science. More on that later. 


Chris Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 


;ACCENT
page 16 Friday, March 21, 1997 




\ A 
ri ics Guide to th 
6 The English Patient' to Win A1nong Tight Co111petition 
MIKE MCMORROW Accent Movie Critic 

I
n 1994, they were easy. And in 1995. "Schindler's List" and "Forrest Gump" stole the show. Last year, they were slightly less predictable, but "Braveheart" ended up clean­ing up, despite lacking its predecessors' momentum. But this year... 
Despite an impressive 12 nominations for "The English Patient," there is really no telling what could happen. Last year, I felt the same way ("Braveheart" did not appear to me to have the loyal support that usually coincides with the best movie of the year), but it came in a year without "Schindler's List." "Braveheart" won for a lack of a really strong "sweep­er." It was like a consolation for Hollywood. But I am very weary of making predictions this year, but what fun is it if you don't take a risk? So here goes ... 
Best Picture 
In the best picture department, "The English Patient" will prevail, but I do not say this confidently. The only one you can rule out here is "Secrets and Lies" (lack of wide distribution and momentum work against it). "Jerry Maguire" is the only studio film nominated, but it has already grossed $140 million, and Hollywood may feel no need to reward the film. Plus, being a comedy (well, at least in some respect) doesn't help its chances. "Shine" or "Fargo" both have strong support from little "Hollywood Action Committees," if you will. So beware of these two, they could sneak in if they generate enough support (and if Hollywood's conservatives can get past the off-beat humor of "Fargo"). But in the end I will declare "The English Patient" as the winner of the cherished statuette. It has all the "Oscar Elements": sweeping cinematography, rich and com­plex story, big emotional scenes (including an "Oscar-luscious" death bed -or in this case stone -scene). The Academy would not b(;l taking a chance by awarding "The English Patient" the statue. It is a fine film. and certainly not a poor choice. (I really would love to see Joel and Ethan Coen -the producers of "Fargo"-smirk at us all, though!) 

Best Actress 
In the acting categories, the selection gets a little easier. For best actress, look for Frances McDormand to take away a stat­ue. This may be the only chance the Academy gets to recog­nize the best film nominee "Fargo." Brenda Blethyn could, however, sneak up and win; she 
· won the Golden Globe and is a favorite in many circles. Diane Keaton has already won and has not generated much talk, so rule her out. Kristen Scott Thomas has an Oscar-fond role in "The English Patient" but probably doesn't have the momentum either. And Emily Watson still probably has some Academy voters rushing to the theaters to see "Breaking the Waves," and can be ruled out due to many voters' immediate dis­missal out of ignorance. So look for McDormand to win, who supplied "Fargo" with its heart (this phrase has become a cliche in Hollywood over the last 10 months, but it does make the point). If not her, Blethyn could sneak away with the award. 

Best Actor 

For best actor, predictions become a little bit more difficult to make. Tom Cruise may lose out of jealousy from voters; his career is too perfect and has been rewarded in this regard. As for Ralph Fiennes, is his per­formance really Oscar-worthy!? Voters will probably be asking the same question, and may lose for this reason. Woody Harrelson gave possibly the best perfor­mance in "The People vs. Larry Flynt," but his victory is out of the question because of the feminist backfire against the picture. And Geoffrey Rush appeared to be the frontrunner for quite a while but has lost some momentum lately. lie does have many awards already to his credit for "Shine." But Billy Bob Thorton (for "Sling Blade) is the underdog favorite and may come out victorious. He seemed out of the ques­
tion when the 


nominations were announced, but wide release may push him over the top. I'll declare Rush the winner, with Thorton looking behind my back as I write this. 

Best Supporting 
The supporting categories have cleared up a bit since the announcements. I will confi­dently declare Cuba Gooding Jr. and -Lauren Bacall winners. In the actor category: Edward Norton is too young; Armin Mueller­Stahl too unknown; James Woods is out of the question because he is up for a Hollywood­declared unworthy film; and a William H. Macy victory would be giving "Fargo" one award too many for those in Hollywood who found the woodchipper scene a bit much. As for the actress category. Bacall is a lock. She has never won, and it has been commonly said that she should have won many times. Barbara Hershey and Juliette Binoche are both vulnerable con­tenders who will give way to can­didates with more buzz. And Marianne Jean-Baptiste came out of nowhere and has generated little underdog hopefulness. Joan Allen is Bacall's only competition, but Hollywood's backlash against "The Crucible" will be her downfall. 
So look for "The English Patient" to win picture, Mcdormand to win actress, Rush for actor, Bacall and Gooding for the supporting cate­gories. And if you have any sense about you, you will ignore all of these predictions because, for the most part, anything could happen. . 
• LJ AND THE MAC DO THE OscARS 

T
he time has come for yet another se congratulatory, highly visible fas show with horrible comic and routines which, as a sidelight, hand awards for "excellence" in film. Yes, 
it is time for the Academy Awards. The nominees that dominate this fiasco range from the extremely odd the painfully generic. With such stunningly wide range of was an odious task to determine oil winner in each category. But, desp~ the effort, here are the best of tb choices that were offered. 
Best 


Supr,orting
Ac ress 
In the category of best supportii 

actress, the winner should be Juliet Binoche of "The English Patient." Eve though she was actually in the movie fc more total screen time than her female cr league Kristin Scott Thomas, who is up f, best actress, she is the only choice that feasible amongst a field for performanc that bring nothing spectacular to mind. 

Best Actress 

For best actress, it is a toss-up betwe homas and Frances McDormand fr< "Fargo." However, in this batt: McDormand comes out on top. Her portn al of the pregnant, midwestern sher makes the movie one of the more appeali oices for best picture, despite its exceE gly eccentric script and disgusting subjt 




ACCENT

Friday, March, 21, 1997 page 17 



Academy Awards I 


Best sur.porting
Ac or 
In the category of best supporting actor the academy made a major oversight. Noticeably absent from this year's nomi­nees was Alan Rickman's portrayal of Eamon DeValera in "Michael Collins." Rickman brought this character to life like no other actor has done for a historical 

character in recent years. It was one of those per­formances where, if you saw the movie, you had to wait until the end credits to actually know who played the character because the actor's persona did not surface even once. However. if forced to choose one of the poor substitutes, James Woods, one of cinema's greatest character actors, should win for his role in "Ghosts of Mississippi." 

Best Actor 

Arguably a vote for the prettiest face in Hollywood, this year's nominees for best actor has two leading con­tenders: Tom Cruise in "Jerry Maguire" and Ralph Fiennes in the "The English Patient." It has even been heard that Fiennes' costar, Kristin Scott Thomas, remarked that "it is hard to star in a movie when your male costar is prettier than you are." Both actors turned out a good performance, but it is hard to discern where their fabulous screen appearance ends and quality acting skills begin. But whether the winner is based on looks or pure acting ability, it is clear that Woody Harrelson in "The People vs. Larry Flynt" is not a contender. Hair plugs and mediocre acting skills do not equal an Oscar, even if you did star in "Cheers." However, 
Geoffrey Rush, who played David Helfgott in "Shine," should be the winner. The convinc­ing portrayal of the mad pianist and emotional conflict between Helfgott and father that Rush brought to life on th screen makes him a clear favorite for the award. 

Best Picture 
And now. the part you have all been 
ing for ... Best Picture. Two of these were brilliantly filmed and written. them should not have even been considere And the final film, "Secrets and Lies," not make it to a theater near these review ers. As for the films that are worthy of the nomination, "The English Patient" had the more elaborate sets and the better perfor­

mances from the entire cast. This puts just a step ahead of "Shine" for the honor Best Picture of the year. "Jerry Maguire" relied too heavily on the antics of a adorable four-year-old in the face of substance, making it a cop-out contender. "Fargo" was just too weird of a story and too rambling of a movie to be a real contender. Sure, creativity is a fabulous commodity, this film went just a little too f&r. "Secrets and Lies" is a noteworthy nomina­tion, but if it follows this year's general rule of blatantly average films, it could not over­throw "The English Patient." 
miss the four one-act plays ·performed this wekend, lnirt:)f't.:::~n and performed by First-Students. The plays will tonight at 7:30 p.m. and witl 1oe.oeno1rmE~a in the auditoriumof Hesburgh Library. 
John Montague will be read'" · hiswork at 7:30 p.m. on March 22 .in Notre Hesburgh u 

ACTOR INA·  
LEADING ROLE  
RGO  Tom Cruise  
RRYMAGUIRE ECRETS AND LIES . HINE  Ralph Fiennes Woody Harrelson Geoffrey Rush Billy Bob Thornton  
ACTRESS IN A  
LEADING ROLE  
Brenda Blethyn Diane Keaton  
Frances McDormand  
Kristin Scott Thomas  
Emily Watson  
DIRECTING  
THE ENGLISH PATIENT  
FARGO  
THE PEOPLE vs.  
LARRY FLYNT  
SECRETS &LIES  
SHINE  
CINEMATOGRAPHY  
THE ENGLISH PATIENT  
EVITA  

Jon King I The Observer 
-":· 

•· 




ACCENT 
page 18 Friday, March 21, 1997 
• AT THE MOVIES 




I . ' 

• 
t 
' tne omes azz· n
~ 
I 
I I 

hine" Directed by Scott Hicks 
**** 
(out of four) Starring Geoffrey Rush 
By DAN CICHALSKI Special Accent Movie Correspondent 
T
~rob~ I e m w it h m a k­ing a movie out of a true story is that everyone knows how it ends. The chal­lenge for the director and the 

cast is to make the movie suspenseful, emotional and interesting nonetheless. Ron Howard did it with "Apollo 13" and the same can be said for Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List." Add "Shine" to that list. 
The first thing viewers will notice 
"Fargo" Directed by Joel Coen 
**** 
(out of four) Starring Frances McDormand 
th the Academy Awards just around the corner and the scent of gold statues in the air, many people have already made up their minds as to who should win. The big Hollywood moneymakers are scarce this year, and the screen has been blessed with 
about this movie is the fine perfor­
mance by Geoffrey Rush. Within the first two minutes of the film, this viewer had given his Best Actor award to Rush for his portrayal of David Helfgott. 
Rush plays an Australian pianist of Polish decent who possesses a remarkable ability to play the piano. Under a home run like a dicta­
torship by his father Peter, played by Armin Muller­Stahl, young David is forced to live the way the elder Helfgott deems right. 
When a piano instructor approaches David and his father requesting to teach the prodigy, Peter refus.,,, choosing to do things his way. Eventually, as David grows up, he tires of his father's stubborn wishes and runs away to the Royal College of Music in London. 
This conflict between father and son presents some of tl , emotions in a film that contains many. The picture shows Helfgott's earlier life through flashbacks and Noah Taylor's performance as the adoles­cent virtuoso is just as notable as Rush's. 


The way "Shine" was put together is perhaps what warrants its best pic­ture nomination. Director Scott Hicks' blending of the past with the present shows what David went through growing up in Australia a n d ~~::;:::_; 
London and where it has brought him in the present. 
What this picture will be known for, though, is Rush portraying Helfgott as a hyperactive adult. From the endless chattering to the chain smoking and 
fidgiting, Rush has Helfgott's manner­isms down. Adding to his impressive performance is the fact that Rush did not have a hand double in his place for the close-up finger scenes. The music in the film is performed by llelfgott himself, but Rush mimicked his character's playing. 
One wonders if David Helfgott's cur­
rent sold-out tour of the United 
States before and during the 
Academy Awards is a 
coincidence or if it 
might have 
been planned 
that way. 
Helfgott's 
playing has 
been criti­
cized as 
wild and 
unorga­
nized, but 
"Shine" does a 
fine job of portray­
ing the pianist as an 
overall good 
K'fi!Jl.!A~l\ image.It may not 

be the best picture of 1996, but "Shine" surely had the best performance by an Actor and many other superlatives for which there are no awards. 

the dreariness of the film. But this 
movie is cold in other ways besides the climate. Directed by the Coen brothers (Joel and Ethan) and based on a true story, this movie delves deeply into the hearts of both good and evil men. 
After directing mediocre 
a number of superb independent, films. Yes, this year's awards promis­es to be one of the best in a long time. No more of Tom Hanks faking lovable 
t disabled people and getting away with it. 
This year the Academy has its work cut out for it. While flashy money­makers such as "The English Patient" or "Jerry Maguire" might catch the committee's collective eye, they surely will not sidestep the movie "Fargo." 

extremely cold film that deals with 
both the certainties and uncertainties 
of life, this film, which has been nomi­
nated for seven gold statues, might 
surprise everyone Oscar night. 
The word "cold" is the best word to 
describe this film. As the film switch­
settings between North Dakota and 
innesota, snow, an entirely white 
and a sense of chilling cold add to 

('I~I 
-~ 

Played extremely well by Frances McDormand, the sheriff investigates the killings, which builds up to a somewhat shocking and unexpected end. 
What might shock you about "Fargo" is what it gives you while you are watching it, and that is 
films such as "Raising.-----:::-..;;;-----, the uncontrollable urge to 
Arizona" and "Barton Fink," these brothers have finally found a winner. The directing in "Fargo" is fan­tastic, and it is compliment­ed all the more with a host of incredible actors. 
The facet of this movie that does not do it credit, however, is that these actors are mostly unknown to the viewing public. However, in a year in which little-known actors come out of the woodwork to show­case their amazing talents, members of "Fargo's" cast might be holding statues by the end of the night. 
This movie is cold. In the beginning, a flustered husband (William H. Macy) in need of money decides to run a scheme in which two men kidnap his wife. When they ask for ransom from his wife's wealthy father, the husband plans to collect a certain percentage. 
The two men, however, turn out to be nothing but screwups. One is the obsessive talker who gets extremely angry and confused when things do not go as planned. The other one is a cold and deadly killer yet slow on the uptake. After the wife is kidnapped in a wryly funny scene, the criminals head for Brainerd, Minnesota. 
However, on the way they kill a state trooper and two other people. Enter the pregnant sheriff of Brainerd and her unseasoned, innocent staff. 

laugh. This movie is cold in many ways, but it is also darkly twisted in nature. First off, you will probably chuckle at the accents dis­played by the characters and wonder if this is the way pen-pie actually talk in the upper midwest (I wondered that myselO. 
This is where the ·screen­
play helps out immensely, as the lines given the characters seem to fit them exactly. And many of the scenes that pass by in the film seem to want a laugh; they seem to have been made that way as insurance to get you to laugh. 
However, plenty of these scenes are violent and shocking, leaving you won­dering if you are supposed to laugh at the other scenes. The inevitable answer, however, is yes, you are sup­posed to laugh, and this is the twisted beauty of the film. The audience is essentially finding humor in the outra­geous misfortunes of others. 
To say this film is a comedy would be saying too much. Though it is funny in many places, the underlying premise for the film and the fact that it is based on a true story seem to go beyond a comedy status. Also, the gratuitously violent scenes that sparsely appear in this film lead you to believe that this film is, albeit uncommon, a comedic drama. 
The Coen brothers have someh figured out how to make a see dark and twisted drama become fu nier than it should be. This may als leave the audience feeling somewha guilty afterwards, as they have been laughing at something which, witho the brilliant script, would be altogeth cr the exact antithesis to comedy. However, in the end, we mav feel be ter knowing that we saw ti brillian film despite its content. 
As far as the Academy Awards go this film is being nominated for of them including best picture, be director (Joel Coen), best actres (Frances McDormand), and best sup­porting actor (William II. Macy). Another race to watch that includ this film is best cinematography, as is film masterfully by Hoger Deakins, with many great overhead and sidescreen shots. 
It is also being nominated for be original screenplay (Joel and Eth Coen). At the outset, this movie m· be viewed as the dark horse in category, but I certainly do not thi that to be the case. 
McDormand is certainly the fron­trunner in her category, and i William H. Macy does not have an Oscar in his hands by the end of the night, I will be extremely surprised. 
This movie also has a good chance in every other category, although Anthony Minghella will probably win the best director award for "The English Patient" and that usual! means the Best Picture award wi also go in that direction. However, "Fargo" is worthy of consideration, and its cold and twisted nature seems to be what attracts attention in a ban­ncr year for the movie industry in which anything is possible. 

o:w .£ a ¥ = Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Insight 
continued from page 32 
For several years there was absolutely nothing to say. The truth is, compared to Michigan, the Irish couldn't do squat. 
But last night, Notre Dame stepped up and gave me lots to talk about. 
When the Wolverines jumped out to a double-digit lead 6:45 into the game and the fans still drowned out "The Victors," and even though the offense felt like pulling teeth, it still felt like only a matter of time until the Irish kicked it in. And they did, to the surprise of the Wolverine squad whose grins in pre-game plainly said that they were planning on a Leprechaun dinner. 
So at half-time, when the Irish had taken the game off of the train to oblivion and made it into a contest ESPN wished they had broadcast, it became plain to everyone that perhaps Notre Dame does have something grow­ing on the basketball front. 
Then it so happened that the Irish struggled to tie the game, but could never take a lead. Four ties, no dice. But still. it was another step closer, another demonstration that perhaps times have changed. Heart goes a long way, I planned on telling him. Cars may be nice for show, but you can't say enough about heart. 
Then Garrity slammed it home for the lead. 
Oh, boy. Give me a phone. Time to call Ann Arbor. What's up now! 
I admit, this was extremely naive. But when a rivalry like this exists and you've felt stifled for so long... well, still naive. 
Then the bands kicked in. Victory March. Victors. Victory March. 
Then the students drowned out the Michigan band, trying to keep the Irish and their one point lead on solid ground. 
Brandun Hughes, of all people, pops a jumper from the free throw line. Here I am, phone in hand and in mid-dial, and Hughes ruins it all. 
Boy do I hate Michigan. 
But in the press room after the contest ended on Admore White's blocked drive, I still felt like call­ing my friend and bragging. Sure, we lost and it sucked. But when John MacLeod, Pete M.iller, Admore White, and Pat Garrity spoke after the game, their words made it abundantly clear what the game meant to Notre Dame. 
·Thoughts that pervaded were the value of team work. Struggling through adversity. Belief in themselves even through the losses and the shooting slumps. Love for the game. Appreciation for the seniors. Sheer determination and grit. 
How can any Notre Dame sup­porter feel anything but pride? 
Michigan, boosters and all, has a great basketball tradition, and a talented group of athletes that presently wear the baggy shorts. Their potential this season was immeasurable. But on March 20, 1997 they found themselves in the Joyce Center as an NIT team. 
Notre Dame, as the team itself acknowledged, wasn't supposed to go anywhere. What talent? What potential? Yet here they were playing host to the Wolverines. So I'll call my friend and congratulate him. He'll tell me that we played surprisingly well, but did I really expect any­thing else but a loss? 
No longer do will I be tongue­tied, unable to respond. Notre Dame does have a bas­ketball team, pal. And I'll take the Victory March over The Victors any day. 


First round Second round 
MIDWEST 
(1) Connecticut 
1411
-'-'-'=1lin;;;;oi:..s--.,(4) Illinois 23-7 
(13) Drake 

Iowa City, Iowa 
(6) Oregon 
March 22 & 24 
(-~-~}..~~~--~~~~~..~!:..... 
(3) 
Tennessee 

(14) 
Grambling 


J!l..~!~.~!,~~!tin (7) Stephen F. Austin 79-66 
(10) 
Toledo 

(2) 
Colorado 




Cincinnati
EAST 

March 28
(1) North Carolina 
:(1) North Carolina 78-53 
(16) Harvard : (1) North Carolina 81·71 
OT J~I..~.?.~~~~~......~ ...JJ~~ichigan Slat 756~ 
(8) 
Michigan Stale 

(5) 
Geo.Wash. 


~~~~~~5~)G~eo~.W~a~sh~.6l1~6
(12) Northwestern
~ 
5 Geo.Wash. 81--67 
(4) 
Tulane···-·-·······-··-·-··-··-·:(4) Tulane 72--69 

(13) 
UC Santa Bart>. : 



Columbia, S.C. 
(6) Notre Dame March 22 & 24 
~~~==~:(6~)N~ot~,e~D~am~el93--62
(11) Memphis
~ 
l.~~)..~~..~-~e 86·83
(3) Texas 
........................... -.. -··-!(3) Texas 66-38 ~ 
(14) 
SW Texas Sl. ; · 

(7) 
St. Joseph's 


t~~L~~~~~~.~~......... 
(2) 
Alabama 



(15) St. Francis, Pa. 

• BOXING 

Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must. be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cents per character per day, including all spaces.  
New 5 bedroom home, two bath, NEED ND  GRAD. TIX. hello  
Need ride to Philly for Easter NOTICES Will help pay  two car garage. Central air, dish· PLEASE washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker, PM. OR L CALL 272·3753 AFTER 5 Adoption: A very loving, financially wicket, i'm still waiting for my mes· V. MESSAGE ANYTIME. secure, well educated young cou· sage  
Bridgette X2580  washer/dryer included.  pie, long to adopt your newborn.  
THE COPY SHOP  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232·4527 Do you ha ve an extra TICKET(s) for Close and caring extended family.  
LaFortune Student Center ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  or 638-5038. GRADUA TION? (will pay!) Please We offer a special life for your child. elsie's promise  
Phone 631·COPY · Fishing Industry.  call Paige  @ 4011 Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & at  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. · Midnight Learn how students can earn up to  Furnished upstairs apartment avail·  Joe 1·800-378-6680. Corby's  
Tues.: 7:30 a.m. · Midnight $2,850/mo + benefits (room &  able to subled for summer. P Sat. March 22 ERSONAL 
Wed.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight board). Call Alaska Information  College Park Condominiums­ .........CLASS OF '98•••••....  
Thur.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight Services: 206·971·3514, xA55841.  washer/dryer/air conditioning/dish  mom and dad, sleep is for the  
Fri.: 7:30a.m. ·7:00p.m.  washer. Call4·0745. GREAT Electrolys is by Rebecca SEND LETIERS TO FRIENDS weak.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE!!! Blend Me thod 674-6933 ABROAD. THE LAST CHANCE  
Sun.: Noon· Midnight Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in  OF THE SEMESTER. DUE BY Who else could set off a sparkler  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM COLOR C OPIES ON CAMPUS!!! TUES. MARCH 26th AT 213 involving incence and cowboy  
Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR COLOR C OPIES ON CAMPUS!!! LAFUN. boots? Smile, sweetie, for  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Campus Call (919)918-7767, ext. AI 54.  2773097 COLOR C OPIES ON CAMPUS!!! ****************•***"'*********** K·ROCK WINS AGAIN!!!!  
Bands!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  The high est quality color copies  
Get your demo tapes or CO's in to CRUISE LINES HIRING·  NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR are  now available at Are you athletic and looking to  
315 LaFortune Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 T HE COPY SHOP increase your endurance, energy hey tough guy, we'll trade you strait  
make sure that they are broadcast world travel (Europe, Caribbean,  LaFor tune Student Center and mental focus? You are a phone up: fresh goat for our sign back.  
quality (no swearing) etc.). No exp. necessary.  5 BDRMS IN HOME· close to cam·  Phone 631-COPY call away from changing your entire why are you so mad? we'd be  
or at least close to broadcast quality (919)918·7767, ext. C154.  pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all  future! 1·800-927·2527 ext. 1051 proud. dolt.  
(no swearing) (Member, Better Business Bureau  utilities & kitchen privileges. BED 'N B REAKFAST REGISTRY  
Write "Station Manager" and your CARE Program.)  $225/mo. 219-291-7 153 IF YOU ARE GOING TO THE  
band name on the tape  232-2794-Paul  BLACKHAWKS hey gimp, try not to hurt your ankle.  
Then listen to WSND 88.9 FM for NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  Now acc epting applications for: VS. how can you run away from the  
the "campus block" on Wednesday Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, nights Ranches, Rafting Companies. Up to  FOR SALE GENER REDWINGS women? they might maul you and AL MANAGER of the ON SUN. MARCH 24th WITH THE tear your clothes off.  
from 12 a.m. untill2 a.m. and hear $12/hour. Nationwide openings.  STUDEN T BUSINESS BOARD CLASS OF '98  
yourself play on the radio with Nate Call (919)918-7767, ext. R154.  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, -Overse e and advise operating BUSES LEAVE @ NOON beware!!! the panther is on the  
Ddoggg  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 decisions  for the student-run busi-FROM STEPAN prowl, and baby, is he MAD. (but  
I need an affordable place to stay  min. in the nesses on  campus (Irish Gardens, not 1Oam like originally planned. not so mad that he won't try the g- 
this summer.ILOST & FOUND I  U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card, ND Video PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN -Create  & Adworks) yukka-shukka again) and remem· & review financial happy bd, dt. ber, watch the drunk funk.! p.s.  
If you need a roommate or need  46947 Statements  Love, me you'll never catch up with semper!!  
Found: Green & Purple Sierra someone to sublet your apartment,  -Run mo nthly meetings for the stu· -king  
Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik· call Ryan (634·3323).  DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING dent sena te Campus band Sabor Latino is look·  
ing boots and other items. Please  THESE ND WINTERS? LLBean  ing for good musicians to fill carrie-hm. it's friday, isn't? just  
call 277-6982 to claim! Need to sublease. your Turtle Creek  down coat for sale· great cond., Applicatio ns can be picked up in the following openings: one more week ...... heh heh.  
Apt. for Spring 98??  men's S-this is the warmest coat Stud. Act.  off. (315 Lafortune) bass, trumpet. keyboard  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with Call Melissa @ 4-0740  you can find! will keep you warm on and are d ue Mon. 3/24 riiiiiiiik·ola!  
my name written in gold on the  those walks to & from 02, 06, Ct·  If interested, call 277·5240 or 289­ 
cover. Extremely important infor· Summer Girl Needed -Chicago  great deal for $125! JAZZJAZ ZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZ 9025 Things heard around the Joyce  
mation inside. I really need it! North Suburbs. Live in and help  call Wendy @ 243 9430 •it's comi ng• get into the swing• Center last night  
Please call Tara at 4·1291 care for 3,5,1 0, and 14 year olds.  put a little  groove in your thing sticky wicket! i miss you remember 1. Dance Naked!  
Non-smoker with drivers license.  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS NEXT *********** *********************"'* lhat though you may carry the sign, 2. Show Me The Money!  


Salary plus room and board. 
WANTED 
Interested person call 847·295· 

3493. SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
FOR RENT

PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID Near Campus 1·800· 786·8373 Homes for 97·98 
232-2595 CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY· MENT · Discover how workers can Furnished upstairs apartment avail-earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise able to sublet for summer. Ships or up to $5,000·$7,000/sum-Washer/Dryer, wood floors, and mer in the Land Tour industry! Call dishwasher. College Park Condos. Cruise Information Services: 800-Call ASAP x-1291. 276-5407 Ext. C55846 YEAR? WE HAVE EVERYTHING FOR YOU!!! 2-bedroom appartment package for sale, including: two bedroom sets, dining room set, living room set inclluding TV and VCR, and kitchenware (including all appli­ances), etc... Very good condition. For more information call 272-5702 
TICKETS 
NCAA FINAL 4 2 Tix for Semi's & Finals in Indy. B/0 Chris 243-9025 

National 
Championship Cincinnati March 30 
NATIONAL CHAMPION 


Second round First round 
WEST 
Sian lord (1) i 
K~J..:.~.~-~-~-.:.~:.~:.~~~~1.. .......... ......~~~-~-~-~~ ....!~) 
Utah (5) (5) Utah 66-57 
{____Ia~!.~!!!~.~~)

(4) Virginia 6546i : Virginia (4) 1(4) Virginia 96-74 r··~·---·--·-····-·-·· ..;.........-----..~-····-! Troy State (13)
Missoula, Mont. March 22 & 24 
Vanderbilt (6) r·(~l.Y.~~~-~-~~!~!..?.~.~, washington (11) 

· (6)Vanderbill 51-44! .......K.•a..n.•s..a..•......!.3••l -..~---~(3) Kansas 81-67 , ........... . ________ _ Detroit (14) .-,---A_n_zo_na_;_;(7) 

fE!.~~~~~~~-~:~~......f Western Ky. (10) 

{2) Georgia 80-74l Georgia (2) ~(2) Georgia 91-55 Eastern Ky. (15) 
Cincinnati March 28 
MIDEAST Old Dominion (I) . (l) l~~.E.~.~-~~-~-~-~-~-~~~r···-·-······-···~~;~··{~~-; 
(1) Old Dominion 69--65:
·-..··----or~ 
~~(B~)P~u~rou~e274~-4~8~--~P~u=rou=e~(B) 
[,_.,..,,,,,,_,~~.2'~~-~~ ...i~l 
Clemson (5) 
(12) Marquette 70--66{--·--·......-·-·-··--· 

(4)LSU 71·58 r-··---··-·-----·· Ma,queHe (12) 
LSU (4)!(4) LSU 88-79 Maine (13) 

W. Lafayette, Ind. Southern Cal. (6)March 22 & 24 
(6) Southern Cal. 68-55~·-·-·--.......-:~....~­

l  :  San Franc1sco (11)  .  
(3)Fiorlda 92·78  ~ ; {3) Florida 92-68  Florida (3) L..................~.~~:.!~!:..!~~)  
(7) Auburn 68-65  Auburn  (7)  
Louisville (10) 

! 

(2) L~\:!!~~~!!~~ Louisiana Tech. (2) 74-48: (2) Louisiana ;~;O L St. Peter's (l 5)I I seed 
AP 

Kansas police arrest Morrison for DUI 
Associated Press ving 52 mph in a 30 mph zone, Dixon said the alcohol level in said Police Chief Larry Dixon. Morrison's blood was OA6. The FORT SCOTT, Kan. Morrison was the only person in legal limit in Kansas is 0.08. 
Boxer Tommy Morrison was the pickup truck near down­Morrison was booked into arrested Thursday on suspicion town, Dixon said. Bourbon County Jail and re­of driving under the influence of "The officer originally ob­leased a few hours later. His ar­alcohol, violating the terms of a served the vehicle, with radar, raignment in municipal court is suspended sentence for carrying speeding," Dixon said. "It April17. a loaded handgun. weaved across the center line a The 28-year-old fighter plead­
Morrison, of Jay, Okla., ~as couple of times and weaved ed guilty Oct. 28 to transportingpulled over about 3 a.m. for dri-back." a loaded firearm. 
1997 NOTRE DAME COLLE· GIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL april!! & 12--­
check out smooth tunes from Northern Arizona, Michigan (Central, Western, Ann Arbor), Virginia, Iowa, Purdue, and some of the most outstanding pros in today's jazz scene ..... GET CULTURED FOR CHEAP 
you know you want to watch for info, or if you can't stand the suspense, call 1· 7757, or email cjf.t@ nd.edu ................. JAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZJAZZ 
,.I 
you do not belond to big D. 3. Nice Carl 
4. C. B.A.! C. B.A.!

......................................... 
5. Just Say No! BLACKHAWKS vs agathe tuche! RED WINGS ***********•• *******"'********** Hey Pothoff. Fork off MARCH 23 (Sun) Love 9AJ1 buses leave at noon, Stepan I am as dumb as I look ... ALL CLASSES WELCOME Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk Amy I need more Diet Coke, I've $30 only had about 6 liters so far 
today ... Sponsored by Class of 1999 
Je ne tfe quoi and joie de vive .. 


' 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 21, 1997
I~ 
• WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT • WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


Women begin Sweet Sixteen Individuals travel to 
F 

Regional action begins with UConn leading the way 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER Associated Press Writer 
At 6-foot-7, with great hands and a soft touch, Connecticut's Kara Wolters is so good she often makes the game look easy". 
Sometimes, her coach says, she makes it seem a little too easy. 
While Wolters is the focal point for the top-ranked Huskies, who play Illinois in the Midwest Regional semifi­nals on Saturday night, coach Geno Auriemma doesn't want her to be the only point. 
"We could just pass the ball into Kara, because we know that every time we do that, she scores," Auriemma said. "So it would be easy for our kids to come down and say, 'I don't feel like cutting, I don't feel like screening, I'm tired, so why don't I just throw it to Kara and get it over with?' 
"But I don't think we can live with that in this tournament and be successful. I don't think anyone can do it by them­selves ... I think Kara needs help." 
The fact that she usually gets it is the reason Connecticut is 32-0 and winning by an aver­age margin of 28 points. 
Wolters, a two-time All­American, leads Connecticut with a 17.1 scoring average and is shooting 62 percent -a good reason to throw the ball to her. 
But she's averaging only 25 minutes ~ game, and the Connecticut system is such that Nykesha Sales had enough opportunity to shine that she became a second-team All-American. 
offensively and we get into a Iet's-pass-to-Kara-and-stand­around type of mode, that's when we struggle," Auriemma said. "When our offense is moving and everybody is touching it and we're able to get all five people involved, that's when we're at our best. 
"That's what we're going to be working on in the next cou­ple of days, making sure that we have all five players in synch." 
Playing in Iowa City, Connecticut will face an Illinois team that has made major strides in just two years under coach Theresa Grentz, who had a long, successful tenure at Rutgers before moving to the heart of Big Ten country. 
The Illini (24-7), tri-champi­ons of the Big Ten, had eight consecutive losing seasons prior to Grentz taking over. They were 13-15 last season before making the big jump this year and landing in the final 16 for the first time. 
"I honestly believe Theresa Grentz has done a national coach of the year type job this year because of the fact this is so unexpected from everybody except for her and her kids, how so quickly she has been able to get the program to this point," Auriemma said. 
"The reason for that is they play so well together. They have great team chemistry, they shoot the three exception­ally well, they do solid things to help themselves win. They obviously believe in Theresa and her system and that's real­ly important." 
Grentz has done it with a young team. Forward Ashley Berggren, the Big Ten's player of the year, and center Nicole Vasey are juniors. No. 2 scorer Alicia Sheeler is a sophomore and regulars Tauja Catchings and Katie Coleman are fresh­men.. 
what the challenge. 

"Our players our looking for­ward to it," Grentz said. "This is their chance to go out on the noor and see how they mea­sure up against the best, see where they fit." 
Defending national champion Tennessee (25-1 0) plays Colorado (23-8) in the other Midwest Regional game. 
· In the West Regional at Missoula, Mont., Virginia (23­
7) will rely on its defense to try to slow down Stanford (32-1), · which has won 23 straight. 
Virginia leads the nation in field goal defense, allowing opponents to shoot only 33.7 percent. But Stanford is the nation's deepest team and can score from every position. The Cardinal ran past Texas Tech 67-45 in the second round even though All-American Kate Starbird, slowed by a sprained ankle, scored only six points. 
SEC rivals Georgia (24-5) and Vanderbilt (20-10) meet in the other West game. 
Old Dominion (31-1) risks a 30-game winning streak against LSU (25-4) in the Mideast Regional at West Lafayette, Ind. 
LSU just lost its best inside defender, Keia Howell, to a knee injury and that could be critical against Old Dominion's talented front line of 6-5 Clarisse Machanguana, 6-3 Nyree Roberts and 6-1 Mery Andrade. 
In the other Mideast game, Florida (23-8) sends its talent­ed duo of Murrie! Page and All-American DeLisha Milton against Louisiana Tech (31-3), which is seeking a ninth trip to the Final Four. 
The East Regional at Columbia, S.C., has North Carolina (29-2) meeting George Washington (27 -5) and Notre Dame (29-6) facing Alabama (25-6). 
Now reviewing '97 graduates resumes for 
those interested in pursuing a career in 
trading futures & options on the Chicago 
Board of Trade and the Chicago 

Mercantile Exchange. 
If you are: •Aggressive •Disciplined 
•Ath 
letic 

•Strong 
Background in Mathematics 


send resumes to: Norm Singer First Options of Chicago 30 South Wacker Dr. Suite 1105 Chicago, IL 60606 

Indy for NCM tourney 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's women's swim­ming team will finish one of its most successful seasons this weekend as three Irish swim­mers will compete in the NCAA Championships this weekend in Indianapolis. 
The Irish are led by senior Erin Brooks, who will swim the 100-and 200-meter backstroke. Throughout her career at Notre Dame, the backstroke has been one of the events in which she has excelled. En route to the Big East Championships, Brooks has won 13 of 16 backstroke· events, losing only to Illinois and Michigan in the 100-meter backstroke and to lllinois in the 200-meter. 
Her fastest time during the Big East Championships broke a record set in 1993. She met with great success last year as well, placing 1Oth in the 200 backstroke at the U.S. Olympic Trials. She earned All-America 

Friday & Saturday: DJ Dance Party! 
Mix of newest and hottest 
high-energy rock 

Always open 'til 3AM M-F open at 3 PM, Sat open at noon 
honors by placing 13th in the 100-meter backstroke at last year's NCAA Championships. 
Two freshmen round out the Irish contingent, also compet­ing in two events each. Alison Newell will compete in 100­and 200-meter butterfly, after posting NCAA consideration times during the Big East Championships. This year she broke a live-year-old record in the 100-meter butterfly as well as a record in the 200-meter butterfly set in 1989. 
Shannon Suddarth, who will compete in the 100-and 200­meter breaststroke, has also made a splash in her first year. During the regular season she won eight dual-meet events. 
At the Big East Championships, she set a school record in the 100-meter breaststroke in a second-place finish. She also swam the fastest 200-meter breaststroke as she took third place in the fi­nal round. Both were NCAA conisderation tjmes which were eventually accepted. 

-~------------...­
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
-
• NCAA SWEET SIXTEEN 



Cinderella Friars, Mocs tip-off in Round of 16 
By EDDIE PELLS 
Associated Press Writer 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

Providence wasn't even con­sidered the best team in its state. Chattanooga may have been, but with two coaches at bigger schools on the way out and Peyton Manning's decision yet to come, who would have noticed? 
Two teams used to getting second billing should feel com­fortable Friday when they play in the second game of the Southeast Regional semifinals, after Kansas and Arizona are finished. 
"Everyone on the outside says we're playing for the right to get beat by Kansas," said Providence forward Austin Croshere, who led the 10th­seeded Friars (23-11) in upset wins over Marquette and Duke last week. "We've been in the underdog role all along and now we're in a situation where the other team has done the same thing. So there's no over­looking this game." 
Both coaches agree the 
matchups should make for a close contest. But, as Croshere says, not many people give the. Friars or the No. 14 seed Mocs (24-10} much of a chance of beating the Kansas-Arizona winner. 
That's just the kind of motiva­tion these two teams seem to thrive on. 
"There's no question we're the underdog," said Mocs coach Mack McCarthy. "We've played with that kind of chip on our shoulder all year. That's how our kids stay self-moti­vated." 
Located in the southeast cor­ner of Tennessee, Chattanooga won its seventh title under Mc­Carthy in the Southern Confer­ence, wher·e the Mocs play home games in front of about 6,000 fans a game. 
It's a loyal crowd that has formed a waiting list for seats in the lower deck of Chat­tanooga's UTC Arena and quickly snapped up the school's 1,250-ticket allotment to the Southeast Regional in less than two hours Monday. 
"Basically, there's an itty-


The Nonze Dame DEpaRTOJenT OF Mus1c pResenTs 
FLeuR de Lzs 

Music FOR an 18Th CenTuRy GaLLeRy 
JVORkS by HanoeL, ScaP.Lani, CORELL! ana RamEaU 

7:15pm Saruxaay, MaTtch 22 18Th Cenruxy Gai.l.eTty, The SniTe Museum OF ART 
. Lwmeo SEannq; Tzckns REQUIREo; No ChaRqE; ~ CaLL 631-6201 FOR TICkeTs OR moRe InFOROJaTl011. ~ 
bitty part of the state where Tennessee­Chattanooga is a big deal," McCarthy said. "But we know that we're in the middle of SEC country, in the middle of football country. We know we're the big show in our town, only." 
Drive 10 minutes in any direction and the focus changes to coach Larry Finch's resignation from Memphis, Kevin O'Neill going from Tennessee to Northwestern and the Peyton-watch -the Tennessee quarter­back's winterlong con­templation on whether to return for his senior year. 
But playing in rela­tive anonymity hasn't seemed to bother the Mocs. 

"We've had a feel­ing all along that there's nothing we can't accomplish," said Johnny Taylor, who scored 19 and 12 points, respectively, in wins over Georgia and Illinois. "After the first two vic­tories, it does boost our confi­dence more." 
Meanwhile, Rhode Island took the limelight away from Providence this season as the Rams chased St. Joseph's for the Atlantic-10 title. Providence was more-or-less written off after falling behind early in the Big East race and losing its last three regular-season games. 
But the Rams lost to Purdue in the first round of the Southeast Regional while Providence strung together its upsets to make it to 





ITUDINT UNION 
W4NTI~OU 

to serve as your dorm's senator 
•motivated and thoughtful individuals 

•eager to represent, research, and vocal~ 
ize student opinion on all issues affecting student life 
•working to achieve a unified student ·voice that produces results! 

All senator elections are held before April 1. Contact your hall government for election dates, or Transitional Council at 1-7668 for more Senate info. 
Birmingham. 
Croshere credits coach Pete Gillen's late-season pep talks for an attitude change that sparked the turnaround. 
"We had a long meeting and realized we needed to win some games to get into the tourna­ment," Croshere said. "We decided to start playing for one another and the attitude is as good as it's been all year." 
Croshere has blossomed in the tournament run, averaging 30 points, 12 more than he did all season. Derrick Brown scored a season-high 33 in the 

Happy 22m£ 


~irthday §race~nne! 
~e-ve Ao-n....., 

' 1f~ 1C~ ·~ Tl~ §
&'•
.• SHOOT OUT Tuesday, March 25, 7:00 PM Jd·yce Center Arena. 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
Register in Advance at RecSpurts Deadline: Monday, March 24 No Charge 
win over Duke. 
Providence comes in hurting, with only seven players .who have seen action in 30 or more games, but players and coach warn that any of those players could be the Friars' main weapon against the Mocs. 
"They started accepting a lit­tle better of what we were try­ing to say about playing hard, defending, looking for each other and being unselfish," Gillen said. "With guys banged up and losing three in a row, it makes you accept it a little more and listen a little harder." 


,__--------------~-~--~ --~---··----.~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 21, 1997 
-
• NCAA SWEET SIXTEEN 

Utes prevail in OT to advance in Big Dance 


the world is getting smaller smell better. 
·­
·-E 
...... 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN JOSE, Calif. 
With its best player fouled out and its energy sapped by a remarkable Stanford come­back, Utah turned to a pair of unlikely heroes to salvage an overtime win in the NCAA West Regional semifinals. 
Hanno Mottola. a freshman from Finland, broke the final tie and Andre Miller had five points in overtime as Utah ­which led by as many as 16 points in the first half -held on for a 8 2-77 victory. 
Mottola hit a short jumper and followed seconds later with a free throw to give Utah a 76-73 lead in the overtime. Miller added three more free throws as the Utes -whose leader, All-American Keith Van Horn, watched from the bench -scored their final seven points at the foul line. 
Van Horn had fouled out early in the overtime after scoring 25 points and grabbing 14 rebounds. 
Stanford point guard Brevin Knight, who got his fourth foul early in the second half, scored 25 of his 27 points after halftime and hit a 3-pointer with 7.1 seconds left to send the game into overtime. 

I 
Stanford's players waved in derision as Van Horn fouled 
l' 
out seconds into overtime, and 
Knight made one of two free 

l throws to give the Cardinal their only lead of the game. But the Utes (29-3) then re­gained control. Though Stanford (22-8) tied the game twice after that, the Cardinal never led again. Miller had 19 points and Michael Doleac had 16 for Utah, which heads into Saturday's regional final against the Kentucky-St. Joseph's winner with a 14­game winning streak. It was amazing enough that Stanford, which shot 32 per­cent in the game, even made it to overtime. The Cardinal 
missed 12 of their first 13 shots in the game and trailed 35-21 at halftime, their low­est-scoring first half of the season. 
But Knight, who spent much of the first half sitting deject­edly on the bench with a towel over his head, took command after getting his fourth foul with 13:09 left in the seeond half. 
The second-team All-American led a furious rally that culminated in Knight's 3­pointer from the left side to send the game into overtime. 
Stanford spent the entire seeond half trying to cut into Utah's lead, but-until the final seeonds -Van Horn always was there with a dunk or a jumper or a pair of free throws. 
Van Horn's three-point play with 2:48 left, after grabbing the rebound of a missed Utah foul shot, gave the Utes a six­point margin that looked com­fortable until Stanford's final rally. 
Ever the team leader, Van Horn did not march straight to the bench after fouling out. He walked over to gather his teammates, and talked to them for several seconds before leaving the game. 
In just 25 seconds of the first half, Van Horn had turned a helter-skelter game between two teams with early jitters into his personal showpiece. 
Van Horn hit a 3-pointer from the top of the key, blocked a shot at the other end, then dribbled from half­court and twisted into the lane for a short jumper that made it 16-4 as Stanford struggled to get started. 
Stanford had not been this far in the NCAA tournament since it won the national championship in 1942. And it seemed to take the Cardinal nearly that long to warm up. 
With Knight making several uncharacteristic errors and the Cardinal missing all but one of their first 13 shots. 

Specializing in the following: 
• RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) 
• Multi-Test Allergy Testing 
• SNORE NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
• 
Tattoo & Birthmark Removal 

• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

•Spider 
Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel lnjecfion 

• 
Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 

•Heel 
Pain 


(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive (Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, IN 46635 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • Closed Thurs. 

Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• MHJ'S lACROSSE 


ND prepares for Dartmouth 
starters off last year's team, Teaming with Cade are the Irish are expected to onc-e defenders Dave Cashen, Todd again achieve that feat. And Rassas, and Laurence Galli, with Dartmouth coming to who helped the unit earn a

build on their town this Saturday, there is reputation for being aggres­
Irish hope to 
no time like the present. sive and relentless at the Notre Dame returns its top defensive end.


quick start 
three scorers from a year They will need to be at the ago. Junior midfielder Jimmy top of their game if the Irish Observer Staff Report Keenan led the Irish with 34 are to survive a talented points in 1996 and is begin­Dartmouth squad. Notre 
It never hurts to start some­ning to receive recognition as Dame scraped by with a 14­thing out on the right foot. one of the nation's best. 13 victory over the Ivy League And that's the philosophy the Joining him are sophomore power a year ago and expects Notre Dame lacrosse team attacker Chris Dusseau, who a similar battle this time has taken this season. led the Irish with 29 goals around. 
Despite falling 12-11 to last year (31 points), and Dartmouth finished 6-6 in Loyola last weekend, the Irish senior attacker and captain 1996 but lost seven starters are sitting exactly where they Will DeRiso (22 points in to graduation. want to be: ranked No. 15 in 1996). However, Tim Nelson's the nation and a favorite to Goalkeeper Alex Cade squad is always competive win the Big East Conference. anchors what promises to be and is expected to give the 
Kevin Corrigan's squad is one of the conference's top Irish a run for their money in coming off a solid 9-6 season defenses. the 5-foot-8, 165 the Blue and Gold's home in which they earned a trip to pound junior saved nearly 66 opener. their fifth consecutive NCAA percent of opponents' shots a The setting is 1:00 p.m. on tournament. year ago and allowed just Saturday at Moose Krause 
Having lost just three 7.16 goals per game. Stadium. Notre Dame fans' wait has finally come to an 
Defender Dave Cashen and the Irish hope to improve their record to 3­
end. 

1 when they host Dartmouth Saturday at 1 p.m. 
JVOTRE .D~.E GOLF COURSE 
R.ockn.e J'lvt:emorial 
Student daily 9 hole rate $5 Add'l 9 $3 Student Club Rental $5 
Call 63 1-6425 for Tee Times 
COME WATCHDfE IRISH WOMEN'SBASKEIBAU TEAM BEAT ALABAMA IN THE NCAA SWEET 16 WITH YOUR CLASS AT BW-3s. 

. l
THIS SATURDAY 







STMTSAT2PI 
FREE liNGS fPOP (REFILlABLE} 



--~-~-~---~----~---~ 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 21, 1997 
;.._ 
• NCAA SWEET SIXTEEN 

Texas prepares to face 6th seeded Louisville 

I . 
By JOHN KEKIS Associated Press Writer 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
If Texas remains one of the surprise teams still left in the NCAA tournament, it shouldn't be a surprise any longer. Pay­backs have a way of motivating. 
These Longhorns (18-11 ), seeded 1Oth, have longed for this moment -a rematch Fri­day night against sixth-seeded Louisville (25-8) in tho East Re­gional semifinals. 
"When we first looked at the draw, we said overall it was pretty good for the University of Texas," Texas guard Brandy Perryman said Thursday after a shootaround. "And then Louisville two games down the road -if we got that far. The first game sticks in the back of your mind, and knowing that you'll get another chance at them." 
Courtesy of Louisville Sports Information DeJuan Wheat and the Louisville Cardinals will look to continue their run and enter the Elite Eight.  
This summer, why not swap SPF 1S for PLSC 211?  Voted 1 1 -Mic~iana Now  

The Cardinals won that first game, 85-78 in overtime, over­coming a 15-point deficit in front of the hometown Texas crowd in mid-January. Eric Johnson sent it into the extra period with a 3-pointer at the buzzer, and the ringing hasn't stopped. The Longhorns thought time had expired. 
"We made some mistakes down at the end and Louisville took advantage of every one," Texas coach Tom Penders said. "Whether that's an advantage for us or them, I don't know." 
Texas, making its second Sweet 16 appearance since the field was expanded to 64 teams in 1985, didn't let the defeat put a damper on its season. 
"We had Oklahoma coming up the next game," Penders said. "We didn't have time to feel sorry for ourselves. I thought it would be good for them to feel that they won the game, not to get down in the dumps. 
"This team has been so re­silient all year. We've never had a stretch where we had more than two losses in a row. It could have been one of those devastating losses because we had a lead and we didn't take care of the lead." 
The Longhorns have since fig­ured that part out. They got here by protecting a tenuous 82­81 lead over Coppin State. Reggie Freeman swatted away a shot by Danny Singletary with four seconds left and DeJuan Vazquez intercepted the ensuing inbounds pass to send the Longhorns on. 
"We've gotten all of our mis­takes out of the way," said Freeman, who is averaging 25.5 points, seven rebounds and 4.5 assists in the last four games. 
'1 Dance Club 
Expose yourself to some­thing really bright this summer-the chance to wrap up a required course or get a jump on finishing your degree-at Loyola University Chicago. 
Enroll in our Summer Sessions (May 19 -June 20 and June 30 -August 8) and get something that outlasts a tan: 
• 
A superior education with top-quality faculty at Loyola, rated as one of the nation's "best" universities. 

• 
A wide choice of under­graduate courses in business, arts and sciences, education and nursing, including Political Science (PLSC) 211: The American Presidency. 

• 
Access to 400+ networked computers and one of the nation's top-ranked university library systems. 


• Flexible class schedules­days, evenings and weekends-at Loyola's 

ii.LIVE BANDS EVERY FRIDAY! 
four Chicago-area 
campuses, plus a 
convenient touch-tone 
registration (TIR) system. 

Summer Sessions 
May 19-June 20 June 30 -August 8 Enroll now. 
-
\ 

.2I 
28 
Nationally Recognized. Individually Focused. 

Looks Contest
LOYOLA For The Summer Sessions Catalog, ~. ~ UNIVERSITY Call Today: t~~ CHICAGo 1·800·7·LOYOLA, ext. 72014 ~~At.\>~': Or visit our Web site: http://www.luc.edu 
Loyola University Chicago is an equal opportunity educator and employer C1997 Loyola 
A P R I L 

4 SIMPLE SIMON rrom chicago 
II P.S. DUMP YOUR BOYFRIEND I8 DEAD LOCK VELCRO PYGMIES 
SATURDAYS 



~!TijRDAY 
NmHT ~AN[[ PARTY 
Get ready ~or a nig/lt o~ high energy 
MARCH 
CAPITAL RECORDING ARTIST 
STIR 
PUSH DOWN uTURN DARLAHOOD 
GENE LOVES JEZEBEL 
~1219) 272-7979 
coming &oon' en& &cliadie& 


Friday, March 21, 1997 

Junior Jaimie Lee has been chosen to play for the USA squad in the World University games this summer. 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 
The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art H_istory and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for considera~ tion in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. Two copies of the submission my.st be delivered to the Art Department office, 132 O'Shag, by 3:00p.m., Monday, April 7, to be eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. Rules governing the com~ petition are available in the Art Department Office. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. For additional information you may contact Prof. Charles Rosenberg, 128 0' Shag, ext. 1~5672. 


DIVERSITY DAY CELEBRATION 
TODAY 

~"''' LAt..., 

Procession will start from Keenan Hall 
The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
• Vou.EVBALL 
Netter selected for USA Team 
Observer Staff Report 
The USA Volleyball office an­nounced that Notre Dame ju­nior volleyball player Jaimie Lee is one of 10 official candi­dates to represent the United States in the 1997 World University games, to be held August 19-31 in Sicily, Italy. 
Lee was named the 1996 Big East conference player of the year. With an injury to starting setter Carey May, Lee moved from her outside hitter spot to fill the void left by May. 
Lee filled in for the first half in the season and the team fin­ished the year winning the Big East and lost in the second round of the NCAA Tournament to Ohio State. 
The team was selected from an initial group of 87 that took part in three days of scrimmag­ing and drills last week at the Olympic Training Center. 
"I was a little surprised I 
made it because everyone else is six feet or taller and I thought they wanted big, dominating players," Lee said, 
"And yet they picked me and I think it was because of my ball control," she said. 
"We had 87 players and Jaimie ended up as one of the top players," Mick Haley, USA women's volleyball head coach, said. "Now it's our job to figure out how to get her involved." 
"I think J aimie fits our needs," Jim Moore the 1997 USA Women's World University Games coach said. "One thing the national program is trying to do is speed up the offense. A player like Jaimie fits in with the system we're trying to im­plement. 
"She gives us a great ball con­trol player who also can still put the ball on the floor (offensive­ly)." 
USA Volleyball may name up to six more players that will join 
• 
Over 300 courses in 44 departments 

• 
Premeds: earn a year's worth of credit in biology, chemistry, or physics in eight weeks 

• 
Day and evening classes 


• Smaller class 
SIZeS 

SUMMER BETTER THAN OTHERS 
• Five ways to study abroad -Alexandria, Egypt -Cusco, Peru -Prague, Czech Republic 
-South Africa -Verona, Italy 
the recently-named group of 10 on the World University Games training team. 
The squad then will be cut to 12 players before heading to Italy for the World University Games. 
"I think you can only get bet­ter by playing with people who can take it to the next level. And I am ·going get that day in and day out," Lee said about her fu­ture teammates. 
"I think this experience for me is also going to help our team in the long run. 
"I also really am thankful for (head coach) Debbie Brown to give me this chance, because it might involve missing the first few matches matches of our season and a lot of coaches wouldn't let their returning players troy out because of competition dates," Lee said. 
Maybe coach Brown also sees how Lee's experience can help the team. 
• 
Great courses in the social sciences 

• 
One-to eight-week courses available 

• 
Courses in everything from the Beatles to biochemistry 

• 
A beautiful lakefronr campus 



Friday, March 21, 1997 page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
• fENCING 



Time for Notre Dame fencers to walk the walk 
be counted upon to finish
The Irish join 
strong if the team is to have a serious chance at a title.Nittany Lions as These two have the confidence to confront the challenge.NCAA favorites "Bill and I both have a good 
chance at winning individually By DAVID FRICK as well as helping the team. Spans Writer Neither of us gets the respect 
we deserve, but this is our 
The weekend of reckoning year," LaValle said. has arrived for the fencing 
Two other fencers on the 
squad. The rest of the season men's side who will need was simply preparation for strong performances competethis moment. for the epee squad. Friends Traveling with the full com­since high school, juniors C.J. 
plement of 10 fencers, the 
Jackson and Brian Stone seem 
team must be considered 
to have a special magic when 
among the favorites along 
they get together on the strip. with two-time defending "When C.J. and I are togeth­
champion Penn State. 
er, we are extremely competi­
Though the squad lost to tive. If someone beats him,
Penn State earlier in the sea­
then it's my job to take that son, they are prepared to guy down, and vice versa," overtake their annual neme­
Stone said. sis. "When Stone and I are to­
"I think we have the edge 
gether, we can't be stopped," over Penn State just because 

Jackson said. we are so much more of a The women also will have a of favorite. 1!1.1!1 
team than they are. We are solid chance to contribute to a "Sara does what she has to 

friends as well as teammates, 

national championship. do. She has immense skill ~ New Spring Arrivals ~ 
and I think that togetherness 

Though fielding a younger and experience. She has a 
will help us to win," junior squad than the men, the fenc­solid chance at an individual ~ 1Oo/o off with student ID ~ epee captain Anne Hoos said. 

ing experience of the four title," head coach Yves Auriol This team spirit may best be women compares favorably to said. ~ • Hemp, Beaded & Silver Jewelry ~ 
defined by several individuals 

the men. The team has prepared for @! • Unique Dresses We @!
who did not qualify for the na­Hoos, freshman epeeist six months for these four days 

~~ii!l HOURS: • Urban Outfitters UBszetyd ~~ii!l
tionals. These team members Magda Krol, and sophomore of competition. 
• Toe Rings

will be sacrificing several days foilist Myriah Brown all have The team feels as if they !m~ M -F: 10 -7 L . , lm~
ii!l Sat: 10 -6 • Mexican Purses evt s ii!l
and 20 hours of driving to the experience and skill to have put themselves where 

~ • Vintage Levis ~
cheer on their teammates. score among the best. they want to be. Now they
"The fact that we have six or 

Sophomore Sara Walsh, only have to execute in the seven people driving out to however, may have the best most critical weekend of the @TIJE 1912 s. 11th st. Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line @ chance to come away with an year.
support us is incredible. That @! (U.S. 31) @! just speaks for the team spirit individual national title. "We've done what we had to @! s~ IJ' Niles, Ml 1687-91231 @! 
we have," sophomore sabreist 

By finishing as runner-up do, but that isn't enough. The ~ I··~ ~~ . . ~ Luke LaValle said. last year and losing only two key is to go out and prove we 
@co Tr&l:c •-~ ~;':: -viSA ~ 
LaValle and fellow sabreist bouts this year, Walsh has deserve the championship," re:J ., I!..' • . ~ ~tw:~ ii!1 senior captain Bill Lester will 
placed herself in the position said Auriol. 
1!1.1!1 
Celebrating 25 Years ef ceeducatienl 
T~Jl)\Y-4-7 p.m. Fieldhouse Mall celebration, co-sponsored by SUB. Featuring the music of Shooting Cupid and Skalcoholics ~f-R£.&. popcorn, soda, cotton candy, and sno-cones! 
T~M~RR~\V -4 p.m. -Join Father Hesburgh as he addresses the student body from the steps ofthe 
-~­

Administration Building. Also featured-Mary Bliley, '72, ND's first female baccalaureate 
r !" 

graduate. Reception to follow. 
-Grab your bellb:G=tteim:s~ and join George and the Freel<s at the 70's mixer at Fieldhouse Mall! 
Questiens? Centact Patrick at 1-7668 


UNIVliUTY Of N<'>TU 0AMl \~nnONT r':nvoow"''"' 

----·-·~ ·---=---=...:::.=-­
~------------­

Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
• BASEBALL 

Baseball squad looks to swing into the Big East 

The Observer/Brandon Candura The baseball squad had its season opener yesterday and they came away with an extra inning victory over IUPUI. 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Celebrates its 60th Birthday and 25 years of Coeducation! 

-Naughfest 1997­
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music present:) 
New Music at Notre Dame Festival 

Chamber Recital 
Monday 4 pm Annenberg Auditorium 
Lecture by Guest composer Ingram Marshall Tuesday 4 pm Room 124 Crowley Hall 
Final Evening Gala Concert 
featuring several premiere performances Wednesday 8 pm Annenberg Auditorium 

Monday, March 24 fo Wednesday, March 26 
All events are free and open to the public. 

By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Spores Editor 
After a 9-8 start, the Irish will look to improve their con­sistency and get further above .500 as they open their confer­ence schedule this weekend at Seton Hall. The Pirates will host Notre Dame in a double­header on Saturday, and the teams will close out the series with a single game at noon on Sunday. . 
It was a confident Irish squad that took to the road for 10 games in San Antonio over the break, but following a win over Southwest Texas, the Blue and Gold proceeded to drop three of their next four contests, includ­ing a doubleheader sweep at the hands of Texas-Pan American on March 10. 
The squad entered the Irish Baseball Classic with a record of 5-6 and a desire to do some­thing about it. They responded to their slump by rattling off three consecutive wins over Penn State, Creighton and Northeastern Illinois to propel themselves into the champi­onship game of the tourna­ment. 
After falling in an extra game against Northeastern Illinois on the morning of March 15, the Irish came up short in the Classic title with a tough 8-5 loss to Creighton. 
"We went 5-5," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "And we played at aboout that level all week. We would have a good game and a then a bad game. We were very much up and down." 
Senior J.J. Brock was on the same wavelength as Mainieri. 
"We wanted to win more than five games," explained Brock. "But you've got to look at the big picture." 
Yesterday, the Irish were back in action as they played 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search in National Parks. Forests, and Wildlrte 
PreseNes. 
Learn frorn the #1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year-Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 




a Mazzeo e Couns ng Center presents: 
Come Jearn: 
• How to interpret dreams. 

• 
Techniques to remember dreams. 

• 
How to get the most from dreams. 


• How dreams can be a guide ­psychologically and spiritually. 
This Sunday, March 23 
4-5 pm 
FOG Community Center 

an extra game against IUPUI. Mainieri scheduled the game late last evening to provide the squad with a little more game experience. 
The Irish again struggled a bit more than they would have liked but pulled out an extra­inning victory. The highlight of the contest was a five-hit game from sophomore leftfielder Allen Greene. The perfor­mance tied the Notre Dame record for most hits in one game. 
Brock also put in a notable performance against IUPUI. For the third time in a little over a week, Brock delivered the hit that sent the opposing team off the field on the losing 
end.  The Irish won the game  
8-7.  
"It  seems  like I've had  a  

bunch of chances to win games in the late innings," said Brock. "I haven't been swinging the bat particularly well through­out the game, but I've been swinging well later in the game." 
Seton Hall provided the Irish with with three wins late in the season, as the Pirates had already been eliminated from playoff contention. Notre Dame dominated the Pirates, handing them a three-game sweep in which the average score was 11-2. 
"We know they're going to be hungry to beat us," Brock stat­ed. "They had nothing to shoot for last year. They are going to be ready. We've got to be ready." 
Mainieri is convinced that what Notre Dame saw from the Pirates in 1996 is far from typi­cal Seton Hall baseball. 
"They (Seton Hall) have a rich tradition," praised the Irish skipper. "Not too long ago they had an infield which included Craig Biggio, Mo Vaughn and John Valentin. They are a much better team than last year." 
The Irish have a number of hot hitters right with which to combat Seton Hall, and there are none hotter than senior catcher Mike Amrhein, who has a blistering .483 batting aver­age, with three home runs and 20 RBI. Last week's Big East Player of the Week, Amrhein has hit safely in his last 12 games and is swinging the bat at a .500 clip, with seven RBI and five runs scored in his last seven contests. 
"I think it was a very deserv­ing award," Mainieri said of Amrhein's Player of the Week honors. "He has been a real leader for our team early in the season. He is a veteran player and I think the position change to catcher has rejuvenated his 
gam~." 
Youth has also been serving the Irish well at plate this sea­son. Freshmen Brant Ust and Jeff Felker, along with sopho­mores Jeff Wagner and Allen Greene, are batting over .300 with at least 49 at-bats. Felker and Wagner have been strug­gling a bit as of late, but Mainieri is confident that they will come back around. 
Ust is already following in the footsteps of Wagner, last year's Rookie of the Year in the Big East. The frosh has starte~ all 16 games for Notre Dame and is currently batting .397 with two home runs and 10 RBI. 
Mainieri recently noticed that Ust, who had been covering the hot corner for the Irish, was struggling with the throw across the infield in recent games and decided to move him to second to minimize any difficulties with infield defense. 
"Brant (Ust) was having a tough time with the throw from third to first," explained Mainieri. "So I flip-flopped Brant and J.J. I felt that putting -a veteran at that posi­tion (third base) would help." 
Despite the strong hitting from specific players though, the Irish offensive machine must start producing runs a bit more consistently to support the pitchers. 
The hurlers, who have per­formed well overall, continue to search for consistency. They have held opponents to five or fewer runs in nine of Notre Dame's last 13 games, buthave given up eight or more runs in three of their last five contests. 
''I'm not really worried about the pitching," Mainieri said. "We can get better, but we're not not going to pitch a great game every time out. I'm actu­ally very pleased with our pitching." 
Considering the importance of conference record, it will be key for the Irish to take at least two of three against the Pirates this weekend. 
ENTERTAINMENT YOUR WAY! 
BANDS 
UNLIMITED 
BOOKING AGENCY 

Wedding Receptions are Our Specialty 
• Over 20 Disk Jockeys including a wide variety of music 
• 
Live Bands 

• 
String Quartets 


• 
Pianists and Harpists 

• 
Vocalists 

• 
And Featuring Moonlight Oasis: A blend of OJ, MC. vocalist and light show 


Someone•s 
Happy 
She's 

Finally 21 t Happy B·Day IIina. 
• I 
I 1 
I 
l 
1 

.x. l I 

~I 
page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 21, 1997 


i I I 
I 
l 
~ 

The Obse!Ver/Rob Finch and Brandon Candura 
Head coaches John Macleod and Steve Fischer received prime time performances from their star players, Garrity and Traylor. 




Tractor and Garrity duel in classic contest 
By TIM SHERMAN dual with 5:28 to play. tion." excellent offensive moves. We just Senior Sporrs Writer First, it was the Irish junior's turn, as And he took advantage of it. couldn't get him under control." Garrity hit a pull-up jumper to tie the At the 3:45 mark, Garrity banked home Steve Fischer must have thought the 
Though the littlest men on the court, game at 55. a jumper from the right wing to put the same thing of Garrity. Michigan's Brandon Hughes and Notre Traylor, who finished the contest with Irish in front 61-59, but, on cue, Traylor With the athletic Maurice Taylor tightly Dame's Admore White, had the ball in 26 points, then made one of two free answered. guarding him, Garrity hit a 10-foot their hands with the game on the line throws. And he did so emphatically with a put­jumper from the wing as he was fouled last night in Michigan's 67-66 NIT semi­Not to be outdone, Garrity, who tallied back slam that left the basket shaking. by a helping Louis Bullock. final victory, it was the bigger men and 23, subsequently made two from the Less than a minute later, the "I can top His converted free throw was the final stars of their respective teams, Robert charity stripe. that" mentally was evident again, as salvo in the offensive mano-a-mano dis­"Tractor" Traylor and Pat Garrity, who On the next trip down-court, Traylor Garrity took a nice White feed and play, but Traylor had the last say, as he controlled the main thrust of action. converted an athletic lay-up. jammed over Traylor. got a hand on White's potential game­
That was particularly true with At this point, the shoot-out was on. "Garrity's a great player," Traylor con­winning lay-up. regards to the fmal four minutes that led "I never really looked at it like that," ceded. "He's one of the better we've "Traylor just caused all kinds of prob­up to the game's dramatic ending. sophomore Traylor said. "I was just try­faced all year." lems for us. He's just a moose," said 
"They are both helluva ballplayers," ing to do everything I could for my team But again, the 6-foot-8, 300-pound MacLeod, coining his own nickname for said Hughes, who nailed the game-win­and he was doing the same." Traylor refused to back down. Traylor. ning jumper. "Traylor had a great game Garrity, the Big East Player of the Year, He tied the contest with a driving one Garrity was an outstanding response to but so did Garrity." felt the same way. handed half-hook. those problems but it just wasn't enough 
In fact, the two superstars engaged "I wasn't trying to take every shot," he "He made some great plays," said Irish to overcome the Moose. Or the Tractor what basically amounted to a personal said. "I just got the ball in good posi-coach John MacLeod of Traylor. "He has for that matter. 

NIT 
continued from page 32 
John Macleod screamed for a final timeout, but never got one. 
"Like in any normal situation down the stretch we were try­ing to get the ball to Pat or Pete," White said. "I got the ball with a couple seconds left and I didn't really have any choice but to take it to the hole. I tried to get it up on the back­board and it just didn't fall." 
White left the door open for Hughes, missing the front end of a one-and-one with 20.9 sec­onds left and the Irish ahead by a point. 
"It was a tough way to finish," MacLeod said. "Admore puts everything he has into it and he's really something. He'll probably remember those free throws for a long time, but he shouldn't feel like he's the rea­son." 
"Admore did the right thing at the end of the game," said Miller who ended his career with 13 points, including three crucial treys. "He had the line to drive and they played tough defense on him. He had a tremendous year. He was dis­appointed. We were all disap­for a majority of the contest and did not break through until a Garrity dunk with 2:20 left. The lead only changed once more on Hughes' winning bas­ket. 
"It would have been awful for us to lose that game and it's awful for Notre Dame that they did," Fisher added. "You saw two teams that fought their 
hearts out."  
"It hasn't hit me  that it's  
over," Garrity said.  "I can't  
even believe it's over.  The past  

two years I was like 'thank God it's over.' But this year, I don't know." 
Notre Dame didn't know what hit them after the opening tip. Michigan raced out to a 21-6 advantage as the Irish missed their first eight shots. Midway through the first half, Notre Dame had just two points. 
"We weren't really playing that badly," Garrity added. "We just couldn't make a bas­ket. We were really emotional because we probably haven't had a crowd like that since Indiana when I was a freshman. Everyone was really excited, but once we calmed down. we just went out and played bas­ketball.'' 
No one at the Joyce Center was calm during a 12-0 Irish the lane with a thunderous slam, pulling the Irish to within five. . 

Once the Irish climbed back into the game, neither team would be out again. The sec­ond half contained six ties until Garrity's slam on the break gave Notre Dame their abbrevi­ated lead. 
"In the second half. we began to score the ball," MacLeod added, "and from that point on, it was a game destined to go right down to the wire." 
At the wire, Traylor helped Michigan cross the finish line first. Traylor had a career-high 26 points and added 13 rebounds. For every hoop Garrity converted, Traylor had an answer. Both Gotsch and Hickey their hands full with the 6 foot. 8, 300 pound center. 
Traylor alone had two more offensive rebounds then the entire Notre Dame squad. In addition, Maurice Taylor added 16 points, while Louis Bullock had 12. 
"Traylor caused all kinds of problems for us," MacLeod said. "Traylor is just a big moose. We could not keep him from driving the ball to the basket." 
"Sometimes it's better to be lucky than good, but we were both lucky and good," Fisher 

this Irish season, however. be easy to replace them 
pointed, but he has nothing to hang his head about." 
White closed his career by distributing a season-high 13 assists to complement his 14 points. Forward Pat Garrity led Notre Dame with 23 points. 
The Irish battled from behind run late in the first half. It seemed as if the dome of the JACC was going to pop off as Marcus Young implemented his own full-court press. 
Young stole the in-bounds pass and then tossed a no-look dish to Matt Gotsch who filled said. "If you hang in there, sometimes you get lucky because you've been good." 

That theory did not prove true for Notre Dame last night, but Garrity knows last night does not make a season. 
He does know who did make 
It seems only appropriate to close with him. 
"It's going to be tough next year losing four seniors," Garrity said. "You can't really put a finger on what they bring to the floor. You can't just look at the statistics and say it will because they bring something totally intangible to our team. But they leave on a positive note. I think everyone on the team realizes we can be a big­time program now and hopeful­ly they'll bring that attitude next year." 


----------------------------~~~------~-•ww---=~-------~-------.--.-~------------------------------~----------.-~---­
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
• TRACK AND fiELD 


Irish tracksters garner All-American awards 
By WILLY BAUER events; Hojnacki in the 800­Sports Writer meters, Dominque Calloway in the 55-meter hurdles, and 
After a successful indoor Jennifer Engelhardt in the high track season. the Notre Dame jump. outdoor team has quickly begun Hojnacki walked away with to duplicate the previous two All-American awards, and achievements of the indoor the other six Irish participants team. also garnered All-American 
The indoor team ended the accolades. season at the NCAA Indoor There was no rest for the Track championships in team as Coach Joe Piane sent Indianapolis, March 7 and 8. the team to the first outdoor The team walked away from the meet of the season the weekend meet with ejght All-Americans. after the indoor championships, 
The highest finish by an Irish at the California Polytechnic participant was Allen Rossum's State in San Luis Obispo. seventh-place finish in the 55-Three on the squad provision­meter sprint. ally qualified for the NCAA out­
The Notre Dame distance door championships in the first 

medley team, comprised of meet of the season. Calloway 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Derek Seiling, Danny Payton, qualified in the 100-meter hur­Jennifer Engelhardt rose to the occasion to join several of her te!'lmmates in All-American performances. 
Jeff Hojnacki and Jason Hexing dles, Engelhardt again in the 
finished eighth in the country. high jump and Matt Fleisch in of the team will make a return a few people provisionally qual-south this weekend. Three other Domers qualified in the shot put. visit to California, participating ify for the NCAA's." "They should do very well this ninth place in their respective This weekend some members in the Stanford meet in Palo Among the distance teams weekend," said Piane. "We 
Alto. that will be racing the Irish are have some pretty good young Only the distance team will be Brigham Young University, sprinters. Errol Williams ran a making the return engagement. Stanford, Wisconsin, 14.28 in the hurdles last week­
HAPPY 

Seiling will compete in the Georgetown and Weber State, end, Marshaun West is jumping steeple chase while Matt Althoff who, according to Piane, boasts real·well and the shot-putters 
and Joe Dunlop will run with a solid steeple chase team. and javelin team should do Hexing in the 10,000 meters. The sprinters and the field well." Janel Kiley will represent the event teams will be participat-Since the first indoor meet in 
JJRD 


BIRTHDAY 

women's team in the 5,000-ing in the Alabama Relays over Michigan in the middle of meterrun. theweekend. January, the track team has

REGINA 

"The distance races are al-Most of the team, including been going non-stop. There will ways excellent (at Stanford)," Calloway, Engelhardt and be no rest for the team in the
BKA 

said Piane. "God willing, that Fleisch, that was in California coming weeks, let alone this we do well. I think we can have last weekend, will be down weekend.

"MUKE" 
~(We, 

If you see Sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 

-· 
.... 
I f Friday, March 21, 1997 
I The Observer • SPORTS 
f-.,_ 
points and rebounding eate­can play with the elite teams 
I 
gories with 16.7 ppg and 8.8 in the country," MeGufT said.

NCAA 
rpg. Sophomore guard The Blue and Gold know Dominque Canty pours in 16 that each game could be their
! continued from page 32 
points and 7.3 rebounds per last and they have played accordingly.
Mollie Peirick r.ontrol the of­contest. In the middle, 6 foot­fense. This Irish backcourt 2 Yolanda Watkins averages "Each game we've played 
11.3 points and seven we've come out ready to go
combines for over 13 points 
right from the start and I
and nine assists a game. rebounds a game. 
Augustin also provides a "Alabama is a great team, think that will be the ease in South Carolina," MeGuff said.
defensive spark for the squad, they're very athletic," McGuff and despite being hampered said. "They are going to try to "We're there to enjoy but to also win two games and move
by an ankle injury all season score a lot of points. Their long Peirick's court vision and team speed and athleticism on." ability to knock down the trey are very good so we're going The Crimson Tide stand in 
have been essential. to play a lot of zone and try to the way ol' the Irish. but the team is simply radiating confi­
Off tho bench, McGraw calls play at the pace we want to on Sheila McMillen's outside play at-a little more patient." dence and it may not matter 
touch which was pivotal in the The squad's mix of super­who stands in their way. 
stars, role players, senior "We feel real· good about thewin over Texas as she drained 
a three when the Irish ·were leadership and ability to over­way we've been playing," five points down to get them come adversity has created a McGuff said. "We're feeling right back into it. The sopho­team chemistry that is at the confident and we feel like 
heart of the team's success we're playing our best basket­
more guard averages over 
eight points a game. and its drive to the Final ball and that we're peaking Four. right now."
Junior Kari Hutchinson's 
size and athleticism provide "Our team togetherness and "It's going to be a great versatility off the pine. way we've played lately is a game and I think we have a Freshman center Julie little bit better than what they very good chance if we. play Henderson's size gives have which is a lot more one­our game and like the way we on-one play." did against Texas," McGuff
McGraw some depth behind Bohman and Gaither in the The Irish were given a six said. "I know one thing, seed and have proved the we're going to go down there
post. 
Alabama coach Rick Moody error of the selection commit­and play hard and give it counters McGraw's lineup tee's ways with their impres­everything we've got." Judging by their recent play,
with an extremely athletic sive first two victories. 
"With the first game we that might be enough to upset
squad and three players who score in double figures. proved that we're better than the Tide and continue to Senior forward Shalonda a six seed and with our win dance on the road to Cincinnati.
Enis leads the Tide in both the over Texas we proved that we 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Ill
All-American honorable mention player Beth Morgan hopes her 
straight shooting can help the Irish straight to Cincinnati. 

:z:
Catch the Notre Dame.­

All~bama regional semi-fin:i' 1­
on ESPN Saturday at 2 p.m. 


Go Irish! 

Dome join the tradition. 
\.../Applications are now being accepted for BARTENDERS at the Alumni..Senior Club for the 1997-98 academic school year. 
Return of the Jedi PG (in DTSl 
12:45 3:45 6:45 9:45 
Return of the Jedi PG 

DEADLINE: 
'1:00,3:00,4:15,6:40,7:30,9:35, 10:25 

·-­
AR WARS: A NEW HOPE (PG) 
1:30, 2:15, 5:00, 7:45, 10:30 JONES(R} 12:30, 3:10, 5:40, 05, 10:35 
THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK 
11:45,2:30, 5:15,8:00,10:45 DONNIE BRASCO (R} 1:20,4:10, 7:00, 
' 4:40. 7:25' 9:40 HINE (PG-13) 4:35,10:15 ENGliSH PATIENT (R) 1:00, 
through next Thursday *No passes 
1:15 4:15 7:15 10~­
Jungle 2 Jungle PG 
1:00 4:00 7:00 9:30 
Absolute Power R 
2:00* 4:45 7:30 10:10 
1:30* 7:15 
*Saturday & Sunday only 

MARCH 27, 5:00 PM 1fl~7. 
ALUMNI

Ill
SENIOR

:z: 
1­


1Jl.,_;,,_JI1
-,......,., the lstwomen's lacrosse game at Notre Dame! ND ch~llenges "Q~nver at 4:00 p.m. ~~ ~~watch" the natl~nally ra~ked men's 
'======w~:~===·,.: ·: ·:.::.=w::;,::::==,. · ·, · . = .. :.':=:\lf;.:,·:=.=.. ·.·=·=H=' ,.}{r:=:,. :%=n·=·· 
lacross~.team take o~.. ~aftmouth atl:OO p.m. 
1 

bid4r~ fVIii';at ..Aioou K~U:uue q.ieiJ,, 
FREE*FREE*FREE*FREE*FREE 
Friday, March 21, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 31 
MIXED MEDIA 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM iH5/I.I t,lOLI'U. FORG6f 
Aeour At.J., -rnts 
ROCK STAR 
NONS6NS6. 

DILBERT 
" 
0

Irs CALLED A "SMART 0 CARD," A NO WE SHOULD .. ~ @ 0 
.,

[)UILD OUR. NEXT PRODUCT ,... TO H/>.NOLE THIS SORT ..0 
... OF PAYMENT TECHNOLOGY.§
.. 
. 
E 
.:.. 
30 Calendar 49 Alicia of "Falcon periods: Abbr. Crest" 31 Manitoba 50 Poker choice native 52 Some spreads 

15 End of a routine 32 Lipton 53 Guns16Mall 
alternative 
55 AI-Assad's land forerunner 34 Some artists 57 Abbr. next to a17 Embryological 36 "Crimes and telephone

layers 
Misdemeanors" number18 Former Chiefs' 
actor 58 Fancycoach Hank 37 Prefix with 60 Hog with erect 19 Squeeze (out) space 

ears 38 Mainstay 
63 Madonna role 41 Is suspicious 
64 Talents 44 Most eligible, 
65 "Walk Away once _ .. (1966 hit) warning 45AAA's 66 Convention26 Postponement opposite? 

figures27 Unfavorably 
47 Late 2BJohn--, Mexican­California gold American 
DOWN 

rush figure vocalist 1 Zips 2 Get a break 3Triple-­4 "Green": Prefix 5 Scholar's goal 6 Motivation for 
Manolete 7Bug a Rancor 9Turnpike 
locales 10 Used to be 
=+=+:~:-i 11 Govt. employees .;..,+;..:+=+:~ 12 Available ~7-+7+.~:-t 13 Kind of park 14 Salesman's load 21 Kind of analysis 
24 Capital on the Rideau Canal 25 "I cannot-­lie" 29 Satisfaction 31 Spiny cactus 331958 #1 song 35 Undesirable 38 Transient 39 Shake up 40Stet 42 Not make an issue of 


HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Setting new busincs~ goals will help vou accumulate real wealth. Intellec­tual curiosity makes you question what others take for granted. Launch an invcsti£ation into a situation that arouses y~ur suspicions. An excel­lent studem gives serious thought to a career in teaching science, geogra­phy or history. Your offspring will show respect if you practice what you pn:ach. Exercise restraint when
UNTRUSTWORTHY 
faced with temptation. Avoid making

MOVIE REVlEWS". 
idle promises. CELEBRITIES BORN ON 

MEDIA 1996@ AOL.COM 3/21 
THIS DAY: actor Matthew Broder­
ick. poet Phyllis McGinley, compos­er Johann Sebastian Bach, actress

MIKE PETERS 
Sabrina LeBeauf. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep an open mind about a new­comer. You may he in for a pleasant surprise' Take advantage of an edu­cational oiler. A conservative ap­proach 10 >pending will work like mag1c. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be strong if an old name reappears. Seek a romantic panner who is emo­tionally mature. I leeds. not words. will convince so11 ·~one of your sin­ceritv. 
GEMINI (Ma. 21-June 20): You could find yourself irresistibly at­tracted to an older indi1·idual. Do not confuse admiration with love. Your career should remain a top priority. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are at 1·our best at a fom1al gath­SCOTT ADAMS 
ering. Rev up your wardrobe with a few well-chosen accessories. Once 
u 
your financial affairs are in better

c I'VE. NE\IER 
order. you will he able to relax. 

. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A long­
SEEN Tl-\~1 
range plan gets the nod. You receive
.. ~ u 

. ~ good news in a strange setting. Do­
f-1.1\PP[N. f-I.IS ~ODY
.. c 
mestic ditliculties can be resolved if 

, ~E.:JECiEO 
·you sho" a willingness to do your
.
. 

... THE. "SMA.R.T 
..
. 
Cf\R.O." 
c 
::0 
,_ 
"' 
"' 
@ 

43 Villain, at times 54 Fill 
46 Land on the 56 Similar Mediterranean 
59 Pearl Bailey's middle name
48Size up &1 I stand: Lat. 
51 Epithet for Harry Callahan 62 Shack 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
share. Attend a group gathering to­night. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A new chapter begins your career. Your know-how will be 'er\' l'alu· able to an employer planning a pro· ject. Put more fun into a romantic re­lationship. The couple that plays to­gether stays together' 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22J An intuitive revelation will show you the next financial step to take. Someone who singles you out for high praise could haw a hidden agenda. Play it cool until this per­son ·s motives are revealed 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-:'\ov. 21 ): Unexpected problems with financ­ing could a1ise. casting doubt On a proposed plan. Do not rei) on guess­ing games: assess the situation with an objective eye. 
SAGITTARIUS (No1. 22-Dec. 21 ): Act confident. Mapping out a long-range strategy will bring you luck. YIPs and new friends "ill be attracted by your creatil e ideas. salesmanship and charisma. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. I9r Sticking to the well-traveled path will preserve higher-up confidence in your abi_lities. A news flash may he misleading. L0, >k beneath the sur­face and vou will discover the truth. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18J: Remember -an ounce of pre\·en­tion is wot1h a pound of cure. Check and recheck any financial figures before presenting them to YIPs or new clients. Accuracy is e>Sential: your reputation i~ on the line. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A breakthroul!h at work sho11; that an extensive ~plan could work quite nicely. You will find your greatest ally in your own neighborhood. Jointly owned funds deserw special protection. Romance puts you on cloud nine. 
-








SPORTS Weekend 
page 32 Friday, March 21, 1997 


ND-Michigan rivalry takes another twist 
I hate Michigan. 
Unfortunately, my best friend goes to school there. This fact has nearly led to blows on sev­
eral sions over any number of topics. 
Me: Why do Michigan fans yell 'Go Blue?' Half of the teams 

in America T
0
wear blue. · ave reacy
Senior Sports Writer 
Can you----'---­also see the distinct lack of originality? 
Him: Why does a school with a French name call themselves the Fighting Irish? Split person­ality, or what? 
Me: Will Traylor drive his big car down here to show us all or does his aunt need it back? (nervous laughter coming from the other side) 
Him: How can you even com­pare the "Victory March" to "The Victors?" 
Me: Are you kidding me? 
Him: When is Notre Dame going to have any semblance of a basketball team? 
Me: Hey, now. Just a minute. 
see INSIGHT I page 19 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Despite Admore White's terrific effort, the Wolverine's made one more shot than the Irish and will now head to the Big Apple. 

Wolverines burst Irish bubble 
By JOE VILLINSKI Senior Sports Writer 

Amidst the seesaw second half battle last night, Michigan guard Brandun Hughes asked head coach Steve Fisher to be taken out of the game. 
Following a turnover, frustration over­came Hughes until Fisher told him, "We can't win without you." 
Hughes later composed himself and sank the biggest shot on a night with plenty of big shots. Waving guard Louis Bullock off, Hughes took it himsel(. converting a runner in the lane with 7.6 seconds remaining, putting the Wolverines ahead 67-66. 
That proved to be the final count after Michigan forward Robert Traylor deflected a last-ditch Irish attempt as time expired. Guard Admore White drove the baseline for a reverse layup as Traylor got a piece of it to seal the win and send Michigan to the NIT Final Four. 
The final play was designed to find guard Pete Miller coming off a screen, but the Wolverines double-teamed White off the in­bounds play. Center Phil Hickey was forced to bring the ball up as head coach 
see NIT/ page 28 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 

Women look to roll over Crimson Tide in NCAAs 
round. 

The eighth-ranked Tide rolls into the contest after a first round 94-50 victory over St. Francis of Pennsylvania and a second round 61-52 win over seventh-seeded St. Joseph's. 
Muffet McGraw's 15th ranked squad is on a roll as it has won 19 of their last 21 games with the two losses coming at the hands of the top-ranked Connecticut Huskies. 
In first-round action they blew the Memphis Tigers out of the gym and the tourna­ment with a 93-62 victory. Then the Irish came out on top of the Longhorns 86-83 in what had to be one of the most exciting contests of the NCAA tournament thus far. Despite the high of the emo­tional historic victory, the Irish are focused on what they need to do to advance. 
"We're excited about the win," assistant coach Kevin McGuff said. "But, we still believe and know that we can move on and continue to win." 
The senior Irish frontcourt of Morgan, Katryna Gaither, and Rosanne Bohman are all averaging in double figures. Morgan's outside range, driv­ing ability, and overall knack for knowing how to put points on the board help her average 
17.9 ppg on the year with 6 rpg. Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer has picked up her play in the post-season as she is averaging over 20 points a contest in NCAA play. 
Gaither and Bohman do the damage in the paint for McGraw, who will be looking for her 300th career win this Saturday. Gaither, who broke Beth Morgan's single season scoring mark of 626, averages just under 20 points and 10 rebounds every time she steps on the floor. Her 6­3 height and quickness have allow her to dominate under the glass. In the Texas win she had a double-double before end of the first half. 
Bohman's blue-collar style of play is good for 10 points and 5.8 rebounds per game. Although she does not get many shots, she takes advan­tage of her opportunities. She will be coming off an 8 for 8 shooting performance and she is averaging 12 points a game in the tournament on incredi­ble 67 percent shooting. 
On the perimeter senior Jeannine Augustin and junior 
see NCAA I page 30 
Men vs. Dartmouth 
·.> Tomorrow, 1 p.m. 
? 
•Fencers prepare for NCAA duels 
vs. Purdue March 29 see page 26 
vs. Ball State 
• Baseball preview 
Tomorrow, 1 p.m . 
see page 25 
at Seton Hall This weekend 
"" ,..M! 


-

By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

This past Monday evening in Austin, Texas, Beth Morgan found herself at the charity strip with a chance to put her squad up by three points with just 10 seconds remaining in the game. 
The senior drained her shots, and after a block of the Longhorns' desperation three at the other end of the court, the entire woman's basketball program was overwhelmed with joy. 
Morgan's clutch shooting capped a remarkable perfor­mance by the entire team and coaching staff as they beat the 14th-ranked Longhorns in their backyard. The win pushed the Irish's record­breaking mark to 29-6 and it gives them a date in the Sweet Sixteen. 
This Saturday at 2 p.m. in South Carolina, the Irish will look to have a repeat perfor­mance as they will take on the 26-6 and third-seeded Alabama Crimson Tide. RegiO'nal action is uncharted territory for the women's pro­gram as the farthest it has previously remained in the Big Dance was the second 
.. 






