-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~ 

Tuesday, November 25, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 61 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Committee forms to· re-examine student rights 

By DEREK BETCHER 
A.sociate News Editor 
A new student committee formed to address student rights in du Lac met last night for the first time and established an early goal of identifying existing rights on campus. 
"This committee is developing a long-term strategy for creating a comprehensive student bill of rights," committee co-chair and founder Brendan Kelly said. 
Academic rights, access to records and other privileges, residential rights and discipli­nary rights will all fall under this committee's examination. 
Kelly, a Dillon senior, empha­sized that this effort to address all student rights will differ from previous efforts which focused only on disciplinary rights. 
This year's du Lac -which mentions rights in its preamble -is the first in recent years to specifically refer to student privi­leges. Committee co-chair Jen Dovidio noted at last night's meeting that "inherent rights" remain in the current du Lac, but the document's language evolved over time and altogether stopped using the word "rights." 
Du Lac previously contained 14 formally identified rights for students in disciplinary proceed­ings, she said. This number was pared down to five in 1988 before a listing of rights was eliminated in 1993. Dovidio explained. 
Members of the new student rights committee agreed to work towards clarifying these existing, inherent rights. Kelly noted the committee may also recommend expanding rights. 
"We may ask for things we don't have, and we want to clari­fy the things we've got," Kelly said. 
Specifically, the committee's members hope to create a quick, accessible listing of all student rights in du Lac. Students could then easily consult this guide when necessary. 
In recent years both the Faculty Senate and the Student Senate have considered student rights issues, eventually passing those concerns to the Academic Life Council and the Campus Life Council, respectively. 
"In order to get a student bill 

see RIGHTS I page 3 

Track runners intervene in fight Students rally 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Four members of the Notre Dame cross-country/track­and-field team intervened in a domestic dispute during a run yesterday afternoon down 
U.S. 31/33 in l~oseland. 
Mike Greiwe and Rob Lythgoe. both sophomores, were on a late-afternoon run north of campus with team­mates Ryan Blaney and Nick Sehring when they saw the dispute. 
"We were on our way back to campus and turned left on 
[U.S. 31/331 from Cleveland Hoad." Greiwe said. "When we turned we saw this man and woman grabbing at each other to our left. 

SMC begins technology expansion 
"The female started hitting the male in the face so Rob and I just stepped in the mid­dle and tried to get the woman off of him. It was all kind of crazy." 
Greiwe said by that time the owners of a nearby motel had called the police. All four run­ners were questioned as wit­nesses before being allowed to r€turn to their run. 
"It was kind of funny because the guy didn't fight back or anything," Greiwe recalled. "He just stood their and took it." 
The Roseland Police did not have a report available at press time and would only confirm that the dispute took place in front of one of the motels on U.S. 31/33. 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The department of Information Technology at Saint Mary's has been extremely active in the past few months in implementing new technology. instructing the commu­nity on the usc of the new computer programs, and proposing additional improvements and programs to better serve the College. 
Saint Mary's students, unaccus­tomed to the presence of men in the campus' underground tunnels, have necessarily adjusted to this scenario over the past few weeks when the ·first steps to implement­ing a collegP-wide computer net­work began. 
The work in the tunnels. part of the first stage in tho plan to techno­logically update Saint Mary's College, began on Nov. 1. "Phase one," as Dan Mandell, director of· Information Technology, calls it, involves thfl networking of the administration. faculty and staff. 
Mandell stated that the tentative goal for the completion of the first phase is approximately Feb. 1, four months from the start date. 
Mandell estimates that the second phase, which will involve the imple­mentation of modem outlets in the· residence halls. will begin as soon as possible. lie was quick to add that a timetable for phase two has not yet been established but assured that information regarding the process will be passed on when it becomes available. 
In addition to his role as supervi­sor of the physical adjustments made to the College's technological availability, Mandell is also involved in the development of measures to help the Saint Mary's community learn to cope with the new addi­tions. 
"A lot of people are intimidated by information technology," he said. "We can build the network, but we can't necessarily make folks comfortable with it." 
A main source of suggestions and innovation is the technology COLT (community leadership team). whose activities are funded by a federal grant for post-secondary education. Both students and facul­ty are active participants on the COLT teams. Main areas of con­cern right now involve an examina­tion of the human issues related to the up and coming changes. 
"In some respects, the students are more knowledgeable," Mandell said. referring to computer skills and internet usage alike. 
"In this area, students can fill the leadership role on campus," he added. 
Saint Mary's student Tracy 

see SMC I page 3 


to end parietals 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
Carrying signs reading "End parietals!" and blast­ing loud music, a small number of students rallied on Fieldhouse Mall yesterday afternoon to protest University visitation policies. 
"It's about time that we demand the University give us the respect we deserve," said Cavanaugh junior Erin Bliss. "Everyone on this campus is an adult. The administration demands we act like adults, but they don't treat us like adults." 
"We need an explanation of parietals," said off­campus senior Ben Voigt. "[The administration] say[s] it has nothing to do with the opposite sex but with quieting down the dorms. Then quiet hours would do the same thing. Parietals jeopardizes gen­der relations." 
The chilly afternoon air kept many students from staying long, but the protesters drew a sizable if fluid crowd, ranging from 20 to 40 students at a time. 
"Oh yeah, we're cold," said Keough junior Adrian Cuellar, who had been outside for a:lmost two hours. "But it's an unfair policy." 
The students chanted "No more parietals!" and "End parietals!" to the sounds of bands such as The Notorious B.I.G. and Bush. 
"The word parietals comes from the Latin pari­etus, meaning wall or barrier," shouted one woman over the loudspeaker. "Break down the wall!" 
"Parietals serve to limit interaction between stu­dents. With the hours that it encompasses, you can­not study with anyone after midnight, or twu on weekends, 'til10 a.m., so you can't prepare for any early classes," said off-campus junior John Gilge. "If this is about bringing a dorm to rest, then a sys­tem of quiet hours should be able to accomplish that." 
At the rally students were also collecting signa­tures on petitions aimed at banning parietals to present to the administration. 
"We collected two to three hundred signatures before the rally," said Cuellar. "We're trying to match that at the rally." 
While most students signed the petitions and briefly joined in the protest, some dismissed the subJect matter as irrelevant. 
"If you're going to raise issues, raise real ones: issues like racism and homophobia. This is a Catholic university. If you don't like it, don't come," said grad student Daniel Montiel. "This is a waste of student energy, and God knows we don't have enough of it as it is around here." 


-~------­

The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 25, 1997 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Police use pepper spray, force on Michigan football fans 

page 2 
• iNSIDE COlUMN 
Live by the 


sword ... 
A few weeks ago, as Dan McDonough I'm sure you all noticed, 
Assistant Viewpoint Notre Dame received its 

Editor first covering of snow this semester. For many students it was a time to recapture childish pleasures. Unfortunately, some students are more childish than others. I am speaking of the ignorant fools who joined together in a pointless and malicious attack against the men of Zahm Hall. For the men of Zahm Hall. the first snowfall is a cause for worry. You see, every guy on campus with a bad case of unresolved teen angst feels the need to attack Zahm when they know that they have the security of 300 or so others protecting them. Windows get broken, rooms are in disarray until maintenance can arrive the following week, and people get hurt, last year a female Notre Dame security officer sustained a serious injury that kept her out of work for a few months. This year, the first snow fall coincided with Zahm 's formal. The classy men of the other dorms decided that just because the men of Zahm had dates in evening wear with them that was no excuse to postpone the annual attack on Zahm. They didn't just throw snow­balls, they also flung epitaphs not suitable to print in this paper. Way to be classy, gentle­man. We are all privileged enough to attend one of the finest universities in the nation, founded on ideals inspired by a man named Jesus Christ. Instead of uniting around the message of Jesus set forth in the gospels, these members of our community decide to rally around aggression and ignorance. Have any of you, and you know who you are, ever questioned why you hate Zahm? I was once told that upperclassmen in many dorms simply tell their freshmen, "Oh yeah, learn to hate Zahm." While I understand that rivalries and the like are fun. learning to hate seems out of place at a school where Mary, the Mother of God, keeps her vigil over all of us. My message to you spineless, want-to-be­tough guys, is if you have a problem with Zahm Hall, that's fine. Root against us, sing the oh­so-catchy "Zahm's gay" song (a stunning dis­play of originality), you can even throw snow­balls at the brick structure that houses the spir­it of Zahm Hall. What you fail to understand is that Zahm Hall does not care what you do. While people will be bothered that you break windows, and curse at girls, we realize that you have serious self esteem and identity problems. Anyone who is so blind as to try to hurt people just because of where they reside, are people who would make great Nazis or Klansmen. Of course I am getting a little worked up myself. but after three years of this, it docs in fact get a little old. I understand that there were people out thete that were not trying to be malicious, and that not everyone in Zahm is up for canonization. However, at this school where we are sup­posed to expand our understanding of this life, and learn what it means to have Christian val­ues, can't we put pettiness behind us? Now, I have message for those individuals who showed up outside of my dorm in a spirit of maliciousness. I challenge those hundreds of people gathered on the quad to throw projec­tiles for an hour or so to come together to serve the less fortunate members of South Bend. If you choose not to accept that challenge, and I hope you do, if only to prove me wrong, be warned, for as Jesus said, "I did not come to bring peace, but a sword." (Mark 10:34) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Sarah Hansen  Pete Cililla  
Sports  Production  
Kevin Robinson  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary-Margarer Nussbaum  Jeff Hsu  
Accent  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Although thousands of sports fans will remember Saturday as one of the finest days in Michigan football histo­ry, some also will remember the amount of force police used after stu­dents rushed the field. 
Police released pepper spray into the crowd, tackled students to the ground and escorted others off the 
led onto the field before thousands got 
turf after euphoric fans rushed onto past police barriers by jumping over 
the field for a post-game celebration. 
the seven-foot wall and rushing down 
"I saw the cops kicking the legs right stairways.
out from underneath students," said DPS spokesperson Elizabeth Hall 
junior Jeff Tompson. 
said about 8,000-10,000 students 
"Three (officers) would jump on rushed the field, but said she did not 
them. One cop, right in front of me, know of any related serious injuries. 
grabbed some kid right by the collar Hall said two officers suffered minor 
by his shirt. He pinned him up against 
injuries, one from assault and the 
the wall and sprayed mace in his eyes. 
other from being hit with a whiskey
When kids were rushing the field, the bottle. 
cops were spraying indiscriminately." 
During the game, 120 people were 
Handfuls of students gradually trick-ejected from the stadium for various 
degrees. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions anu high temperatures 

r--·-----·····------·····----H L 
Tuesday ~52 40 Wednesday~ 51 37 Thurs_day c:Ja 52 42 
.:..~. 
Friday 
Q 51 39 Satur~ay 44 34 
()'/\f'"''···,.---· 
~;\~,~A.G8 !) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
person." 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 25. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
~ ....._._ ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CO 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
offenses, Hall said. 
First-year student Caroline Gregory, whose friend was tackled as he rushed onto the field, said police used pepper spray to intimidate the crowd to avoid a dangerous full-scale rush. 
"You can understand that they did­n't want anyone to get injured," Gregory said."! definitely do not agree with the macing. If scared the stu­dents to not rush the field too quickly, but there was no reason to inflict pain on them." 
Hall said the police's use of pepper spray was acceptable and that "there are guidelines for when (pepper spray is) used." She did not elaborate on the guidelines. 
One first-year student said he was left screaming on the ground after officers sprayed pepper spray in his face. 'To me, it was the most excruci­ating pain I've ever felt in my life," said the student. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta Assoc1ated Press 
Atlanta  61  32  Honolulu  85  70  Phoenix  82  57  
Baltimore  44  24  Indianapolis  55  35  Pittsburgh  45  24  
Boston  36  21  Memphis  65  40  San Francisco 62  50  
Chicago  52  34  New Orleans  74  44  St. Louis  62  43  
Dallas  75  48  Oklahoma City74  44  Tulsa  74  45  

• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA • WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY Police charge running back with assault Professor files lawsuit against police 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. PULLMAN, Wash. 
Virginia football player Antwoine Womack was arrested Homework assignments for a WSU journalism class by Charlottesville Police Thursday for assault and battery quickly resulted in a freedom of information lawsuit against of a female University student earlier this month. local police. Journalism assistant professor David Demers According to a police report, Womack, a first-year College filed the lawsuit last Friday in Whitman County Superior student, allegedly struck fellow first-year College student Court after Pullman Police refused to release daily report Nefertiti Leach during a Nov. 9 party at the Phi Gamma information to his Journalism 305 reporting students. "By Delta (Fiji) fraternity house. Police sources said Womack's withholding access to routine police data, Pullman police arrest followed a week-long investigation prompted by a are violating the state's public records law," Demers said. complaint submitted by Leach after the incident. "We can't have a public democracy with secrecy in our According to the police report, Leach sustained no serious criminal justice system." Demers' 23 students were physical injury from the alleged assault.Womack was assigned to gather facts and information from Pullman released from custody on Thursday through a $1 ,000 per­police records to cover a basic crime story. Detailed reports sonal recognizance bond. He is set to appear at the of when a case occurred, what happened and the names of General District Court for a Dec. 12 hearing. The misde­victims and oll'enders were to be obtained from the incident meanor charge carries a maximum penalty of 12 months logs. "This was a routine assignment to write a crime story in jail and/or a $2,500 fine. University Athletic Director and looking at the police log just didn't provide enough · Terry Holland said officials have not yet decided how the information," said Sandra Wilson, a senior journalism stu­incident will affect Womack's playing time. "Normally dent. "I asked if I could look at the incident report or get there have been penalties, but I don't see how we could further information, but I was told to fill out a request form try to determine that at this stage," Holland said. that would take live days to process." 
• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT Students live as homeless for one night Dean suspends frat for racial threats 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
BUHLINGTON, Vt. Sometimes, the strongest lessons are learned by walking 
A Vermont fraternity faces possible expulsion from the in someone else's shoes. Collegians Helping Aid Rescue 
University of Vermont after an alleged hazing incident last Missions (CHARM) held a sleep-out Friday night in front of 
week that was racially motivated. Vice President for the Wesley Student Center, 256 E. College Ave., to raise 
Student Affairs Dean Batt announced on Friday that the awareness about homelessness in Centre County. "I think 
local Acacia fraternity has been placed under suspension so many things in life have to be experienced to be under­for allegedly sending their pledges on a scavenger hunt in stood, so here I am," said Lea Keal (sophomore-geogra­
which they were asked to insult a student of color. Batt phy), who is not a member of CHARM but showed up to 
stated that the the victim was woken in the middle of the support the sleep-out. Keal had seen fliers about this event 
night by a pledge and was asked to come meet the pledgeand felt drawn to it, she said. "I really have a heart for the 
at a campus location. The victim said a group of students homeless and this was something that just spoke to my 
met him there, one had a golf club and one had a camera. soul," Keal said. When CHARM met at 8 p.m., it had just 
He said their intent was to hold the club up so it would started to rain and the temperature hovered around 40 
look in the picture like they were threatening a "colored 


Tuesday, November 25, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Stadium ushers hurt in field rush on Saturday 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Eight stadium ushers com­plained of injuries sustained at Saturday afternoon's field rush after the Fighting Irish football team beat West Virginia. 
"I went to the stadium infir­mary with one usher from sec­tion·34 who was then taken for x-rays on his leg. It could be as simple as a strain and a bruise or as bad as a fracture. I'm not sure at this time," said Cappy Gagnon. coordinator of Stadium Personnel. 
Other ushers. all from student sections. reported bumps and bruises. Most injuries were sus­tained before ushers were given orders to allow students and 

Rights 
continued from pagel 
of rights passed with these bodies, our best plan is to be very delib­erate, to be sure that what we propose is so well-thought out that it has to be taken seriously," Kelly said. 
Some of the committee's raw material has already been assem­bled. Last year, Dovidio and Ryan Mcinerney ('97} initiated a survey of 25 top universities and 50 other Catholic universities to prepare a comparative study. At last night's meeting, attendees learned there is ample precedent in higher education for Notre Dame to enumer­ate its student rights. 
Last night's meeting ended with Kelly instructing the handful of attendees to begin fact-finding about the current state and campus sentiment regarding student rights. 
The group's organizers plan to meet twice a month for the rest of the academic year. Students interested in participating in the com­mittee's efforts are encouraged to contact either Kelly or Dovidio at: bnmdan.f.kelly.83@nd.edu or jennifer.a.dovidio.1 @nd.edu. 



1/~N~t !D~~~~~~~;~~ 
-,oun& Spend '""' •omm" monoomginner city kids while you live il" community on campus wilh other sttudents. lnio meeting Tuesday, 11125 7·8 p.m @ esc 1-4432 with ques\ioos. 
The Student Government Gender Issues Committee Presents 

iF MEN CAN Do iT WHY CAN7T WOMEN?~ 
A PANEL DISCUSSION ON THE ORDINATION OF WOMEN IN THE CATHOLIC CHURCH 
An opportunity for students, faculty and staff to address one ofthe most controversial issues facing Catholicism today. 


When: December 3, 8:00 PM Where: Hesburgh Auditorium HesburghLibrary 
Refreshments will be served 
fans to enter the field area. 
"When it was obvious that we couldn't control it [the crowd], we tried to get out of the way. We try to take the blows rather than the students," Gagnon said. 
He reiterated that ushers must change roles quickly, from try­ing to keep fans in their seats to aiding them in escaping the pressure of a crushing mass. 
"We frankly don't like it when one minute we're trying to stop the surge, and in the next minute, we're trying to help the surge," he continued. 
"We try to help so that every­one enjoys it," Gagnon said, not­ing that a field rush can be very exciting, but emphasizing that people can always be hurt and that ushers need to try to hin­der that situation. 

Holy Cross adds three trustees 
Special to The Observer 
Holy Cross College has announced the appointment of three new members to its board of trustees: Michael Kiley, J a m e s r---::--::-----, Kennedy, and Richard (Digger} Phelps. 
Kiley is a partner in the law firm of Kiley, Kiley, Harker, Michael & Certain in Marion, Ind. The firm specializes in corporate, admin­istrative and probate law. 
Kiley's wide range of legal 
experience includes past roles 
as Grant County public defender 
and municipal judge in Marion, 
Ind. He has served on the board 
of managers of the Indiana State 
Bar Association, the board of 
directors and executive commit­
tee of the Indiana Bar 
Foundation, and as president of 
the Grant County Bar 
Association. 
Kiley has been a member of 
the Indiana Natural Resources 
Commission for 19 years and 
has held the office of chairman 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Phelps 
Patzner is currently filling one of these leadership roles. 
Patzner, along with .other stu­dents, is an active member of the COLT as well as a student worker in the Instructional Technology Resource Center. 
The center, located in the basement of LeMans across from the computer labs, offers assistance to students, profes­sors, and administrators who seek help with computer-related issues. 
"The amount of information that's available and all the pos­sibilities ... are intimidating," Patzner said. "People are just basically overwhelmed." 
COLT's goals for the year, mostly aimed at helping the Saint Mary's community cope 
Summer Engineer"ng Program 

in London 
Applications are due Wednesday, November 26, 
371 Fitzpatrick Hall 
since 1990. He is a recipient of the American Bar Association Award for Court Administration. 
A 1956 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, Kiley continued his studies at Georgetown University, where he received his JD degree in 1959. He and his wife, Carol, reside in Marion, Ind. and have three chil­dren, Ann (Kiley) Schneider, Daniel Kiley and Matthew Kiley. 
James Kennedy has a private law practice in Riverside, Conn. He was a tax partner and asso­ciate general counsel for KPMG Peat Marwick from 1969-1995, representing the firm in tax liti­gation and served on their board of directors from 1990­1994. 
During the mid and late 60s, while working in the Chief Counsel's Office of the U.S. Treasury Department, Kennedy represented the Internal Revenue Service in the United States Tax Court. 
Kennedy received a BBA in 

with the new technology situa­tions, include: 
• 
Developing a model for an effective and ongoing task force to provide continued leadership in the effective use of institution­al resources for the enhance­ment of teaching and learning environment. 

• 
Locating institutiona! resources to support the innova­tive curriculum development and pedagogical uses of technol­ogy. 

• 
Founding a collaborative leadership team to recommend appropriate instructional hard­ware and software tools and support. 

• 
Identifying and providing training and funds for the employment of additional tech­nologically skilled students capable of serving as student teaching assis tants, student interns, or even student volun­teers. 



19 56 and a JD in 1960 from St. John's· University. He is affiliat­ed with Holy Cross College through his son's attendance there from 1989-1991, as well as through his niece, Kathleen, who attended Holy Cross from 1991­1993. 
Digger Phelps served as head bas­ketball coach for the Notre Dame from 1971-1991, leading the team to a record 393 overall victories. These wins included 14 appearances in the NCAA Tournament, an advance to the Final Four in 1977-78, and three trips to the National Invitational Tournament (NIT}, where his teams finished in the runner-up position twice. Under his leadership, all 56 of his play­ers received their degrees from the University. 
Prior to his association with the Notre Dame team, Phelps was named "Coach of the Year" by Metropolitan Basketball Writers Association for his 1970-71 season as head coach of Fordham University. 


In the framework of program­ming possibilities, COLT fore­sees technology workshops, res­idence hall or social events, and brown bag lunches as channels through which to accommodate students. 
Eventually, they hope to see a curriculum addition which will require students to take a com­puter class in order to graduate. 
"I think it's stupid not to have a requirement already," Patzner said. "Anywhere you go, you need these skills; technology use is not going to ever decline." 
Mandell expanded on Patzner's point, saying that a required computer course would help a Saint Mary's grad­uate be more prepared for life after college. 
In the meantime, COLT and the department of Information Technology are focusing on what can be done with current resources and availability. 
"What I hope, with the com­pletion of phase one, is that there's an explosion with the use of technology in offices and in the classrooms," Patzner said. "I think it will be slow at first, but will eventually take off." 
-BUY DIAMONDS ··-::-· BELOW ,WHOLESALE! . 
9!Jft. f/J~ &::-rrirA 
Since 1921 

1 CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
Direct Diamond Importers 1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest lookS mort Editor's Choice Award 



Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Expen'ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 114 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


Come visit us at $~~"'"' 
North Shore Club ~~,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 
_ _j 





VIEWPOINT 
page 4 Tuesday, November 25, 1997 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
God made ND football and it is good 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergasr 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 

Assistant Managing Editor 
D•n Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................. Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by rhe studenrs of rhe Universiry ofNorre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither 
insti[Ution. The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Ediror, News 
Edicor, Viewpoim Editor, Sporrs Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Edicor, Photo Editor, and Associate 
News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Ediror-in-Chief Managing Ediror News/Photo Sports Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Viewpoinr General information 
• SHADES OF GRAY 
Football players are students first 
C 
third of colleges and universities with a major basket­team is winning. Perhaps more importantly, 
ollege sports are fun, especially when your 

ball program, fewer than one in live players ever though, college sports are profitable. According 
graduates. Student athletes competing far from the spotlightto a recent NCAA study, 67 percent of Division and money (i.e., women's teams) fare much better.
1-A football programs averaged $3.9 million in annual Recent NCAA data indicates that Division I female stu­profits. Basketball programs brought in about $1.6 
dent-athletes entering college in 1990 graduated at amillion each. 
far higher rate than the general
The NCAA holds as its objective to "maintain intercollegiate athlet­
==============
student body.
The news wasn't so good for ics as an integral part of the edu­cational program and the athlete football players. The graduation rate for Division 1-A football play­as a integral part of the student 


Isaac 

ers was down 4 percent from the This is a noble p1·upositiun, but previous year. in practice, the primary purpose of 
body." 
Schools which give special pref­
Ruiz

college sports is not to educate the erences to talented athletes during athlete but to cultivate profits and 
admissions have a special duty to publicity. _____:========-----assist and educate these athletes. 
-

Last year, at the Big 12 football championship, the right catch at the right time gave the University of Texas a major bowl berth and a pay­off in the millions. After less than an exemplary sea­son, Texas was rolling in the dough. With stakes this high, colleges naturally want the best athletes on their teams. 
Rut the best athletes aren't always the best stu­dents. At the 1993 Nike summer basketball camp fea­turing some of the best high school players in the country, about half of the athletes tested below their reading grade level, and one-fifth of the athletes read somewhere between the third and fifth grade level. 
Universities have responded with a special kind of affirmative action, lumping talented athletes in an applicant pool where athletic ability is emphasized over academics. This is understandable. As far as uni­versities (and their alumni) are concerned, whether a college athlete can contribute to a classroom discus­sion isn't as important as whether he can catch a ball in the end zone. 
This special admissions process has paid off at some schools. In 1989, the University of Washington led the nation in the number of "special admits" and, begin­ning the next year, made three consecutive appear­ances at the Rose Bowl. 
Further, a study by sports economist Robert Brown showed that each special admit brings his major NCAA football program more than $150,000 in addi­tional revenue. 
But as the trophies have added up, graduation rates for student athletes have lagged. In his book, "College Sports, Inc.," Murray Sperber reported that at one-
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4 541  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoinr.1 @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


A. TUPkey's Reprieve 


But many colleges don't take this duty seriously. Some go as far as to create courses of "minimal academic worth" so that their athletes can choose classes they can easily pass. 
At Indiana University, Introduction to Sports Management (a popular class among athletes) was composed of one exam of 50 vocabulary words, an essay about what the student wanted to do with his life ( 1-3 pages), and attendance, which counted for half of the grade. 
Of course, not all schools have fallen into this trap. Notre Dame graduates a high number of its athletes and, year after year, proves that a school can produce teams composed of stellar athletes and competent stu­dents. 
As Harold Hilborn writes in the Northwestern University Law Review, intercollegiate sports have become a multi-million dollar industry. Sports like football bring in big bucks, especially at a place like Notre Dame. And if giving athletes special preferences during admissions is part of the equation, so be it. 
Athlet~s work hard at practice and win big games. The NCAA should do more to see to it that schools keep their end of the bargain. After all, even a mili­tant college football fan can't deny that the primary purpose of a university is to educate. 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law student. He can be reached at isaac. ruiz.l3@nd. edu. I lis column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In the br,ginning, when God err,ated the heavens and the earth, the earth was a formless wasteland and darkness covered the abyss. Then God said, "Let the earth take form." And it did. The land took the form of one huge football field. The earth was flat and covered with grass. And the grass was green. And God called it Notre Dame. And it was good-the first day. 
Then God noticed that there was no light on the field. And he said, "Let there be light." And God created the stadium lights. And when the lights were on, it was game time. And when the lights were oil", it was called darkness. And it was good-the second day. 
Then God said: ''I'm all alone up here. I'll make peo­ple." And God made people. First He made football··­players: He made quarterbacks and wide receivers and linebackers and a kicker! He called them the Irish ­the Fighting Irish! Then He made assistant coaches and ball boys and the leprechaun. And they were all good-the third day. 
Then God said: "These boys need something to do." And God created a ball, a football. And it was good. And the boys played football and God was their coach. And some of the boys referred to God as Coach I Joltz, while others called him Coach Leahy or Coach Rockne. And it was all good. Then the Gipper said: "Coach we need some music down here." And God created the Notre Dame marching band, and the band wrote the fight song. And it was good -really good-the fourth day. 
Then God said: "My defensive linemen aren't big enough. They need food." And God created fhed chick­en and steak and apple pie. And it was good. But then the boys got cold and God created clothes for them: big, blue jerseys, with shoulder pads, tight gold pants, and shiny gold helmets-the fifth day. 
Then God said: "This game needs rules." And God made rules. He made touchdowns and field goals. But he also made interceptions and fourth downs-the sixth day. 
God made the seventh day holy. The seventh day was game day. On that day, God's children, the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, ran onto their football field with their gold helmets shining in the light. They played teams from all over: teams like USC, Florida State, Michigan, BC, and Miami (these were all Satan's chil­dren). And every week, Notre Dame experienced a great victory-and it was definitely good. 
Lindsay Westby Age 15 Portland, Ore. November 21. 1997 

A9 Yat KNOtU, !T!'3 Ol/IT/3A 
MY... 'y()tJ ,w, me 

5P&CIAL-HOI/Se. Q?MeC¥1/IN 
~AINL-Y 80!teR'5 

ANI?aeTR£-ACOtJAIN"!W/ 
/(#pIT Jl./5T5HOT. COOt., IUMAI<& 
-......--.., SCOT. A F/R&. \ ~ 

" A. s a white candle in a .1-\.holy place, so is the beauty of an aged face." 
-Joseph Campbell 


~---------------------~-~ ~----­




VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 25, 1997 page 5 

Platonic love exists between all people 
Topic: Gender Relations ing themselves. 
Also know as: Oh God, That Topic Again Example: A man and woman have just OR Yet Another Excuse for Lectures and seen a film consisting of equal parts guns/ Panel Discussions and Whiny Observer car chases/ general gore and character Editorials development/ symbolism/ actual plot. They 
Courageous Personal Stance: For Gender have the following conversation: Relations MAN: That was a good movie. 
Reason: I go to a WOMAN: Yes. women's college, genius. What the participants We only have one gender in the conversation to relate to. actually meant by what 
What I mean by that is: they said: Of course men and WOMAN: I identified women can be friends. with this film not only 
With or without hook­because the action was 
ing up: Without compelling, but it por-Case in point: Myself trayed man's struggle Specific proof: Kevin against incongruous 
and Sam and Flip and paradigm shifts in soci-Brian and Jim and Rich and Tom and Matt ety. I found the main characters to be arche­and ... types portraying the universality of patriar­
And these people are: Friends of a gender chal cultures. other than my own. MAN: That was a good movie. 
With or without hooking up: Without. You Who wants to deal with all that? Better to only have one thing on your mind, don't stick with you own gender, some say, and you? know what the hell everybody's talking 
Reason columnist consorts with a person about. who refers to himself as "Flip": He has a Columnist thinks above sentiment is stupid car. because: Conversations in which you don't 
And this is a big deal because: I don't have know what the hell everybody's talking a car. about can be the most productive of all. How 
Columnist will now actually address issue else do you think Congress gets bills passed? at hand in the following manner: In high What the columnist thinks about friend­school I didn't have any friends of a gender ship within the context of a romantic rela­
-other than my own, largely because I tionship: A successful friendship is the basis attended a women's academy and I was of a successful romantic relationship­focused on developing my identity within a would you lie to, abuse, or take advantage same-gendered context and besides, boys a friend? were gross. Type of above question: Rhetorical. 
Columnist's views were changed via: A To quote scripture: "A romantic relation­lobotomy. ship not grounded in friendship is just crap­
No, seriously, columnist's views were py." (Luke 12: 3-7) changed via: Coming into actual collegiate Reason why columnist is extraordinarily contact with men by singing and learning proud of herself at this point: Has success­and praying and writing and laughing with fully discussed th11 issue of men and women them, all, amazingly, without becoming as friends for five hundred words without infected with what the Center for Disease once mentioning "When Harry Met Sally" ... Control refers to as "cooties." 
Reason why more men and women aren't Mary Beth Ellis is a junior English writ­friends: They fear each other. ing/political science major at Saint Mary's 
Probable reason why men and women fear College. Those of you with a gender are wel­each other: Men and women communicate come to be her friend. differently. Women, for example, tend to The views expressed in this column are display concerned affection through eye con­those of the author and not necessarily tact and attentive posture, whereas men those of The Observer. may declare the same sentiment by scratch-
Harry was right: 
women and men can ,t be friends 
Men and women cannot be friends due to the with other heterosexual woman and men with something causes the specific feeling to mani­forces of sexual attraction. Admittedly, my ini­other men, because there exists no sexual fest itself into the emotion of attraction. tial idea of this notion was adapted from the attraction. So a close friendship among two Now, having laid out the basic groundwork of movie, "When Harry met Sally," in which Billy same sex people can ensue, due to the equilib­my theory, I have found this issue to be highly Crystal gives a skeleton of my current theory. I rium of intimacy that becomes the foundation volatile among the women and men of Notre have since taken Crystal's of the kinship. Dame with whom I have shared my initial thoughts and drafted a more You may be asking thoughts on this subject. Understandably, if one logical experience based on yourself, "What about considers himself or herself to have a few, if not philosophy. Jenny and Dick, who a majority, of opposite-sex "friends," then this 
Without any further intro­claim they are best theory turns everything upside down. In duction, I'd like to present friends, who have been women, more than men, I have noticed their 
Ben 
my theory based on infor­dating for three years, immediate disgust and surprise at pondering mal observation. Friendship and probably will get the notion that the guy they considered a
Voigt
is defined by the New married?" Well, Jenny "friend" is actually attracted to them in a "more Expanded Webster's and Dick probably are than a friend" manner, and the guy they would Dictionary as "intimacy rest-best friends. When two like to be more than a friend considers them ing on mutual esteem; kind-opposite-sex people are just another good buddy. Mixed into this mess ness." The key word in that equally sexually attract-is the mysterious, intangible force of attraction definition is mutual. Due to the actions of sexu­ed, then the opposing forces of attraction cancel to the opposite sex, which can be as overt as a al attraction between the opposing sexes, there one another, and true intimacy can ensue. On drunken proclamation of love, or as covert as a is never intimacy based on mutual respect, but the other hand, a man and a woman that are subconscious thought or feeling that cannot be rather, unequal motives. A "friendship" not sexually attracted could in the abstract deciphered by the attractor. Whether these between two opposite-sex heterosexual people become friends, due to the complete absence of attracting forces are known or unknown to a is the result of an unbalanced attraction of the sexual attraction, but they will never meet, as person, they will always play an integral role in women to the man or visa versa. In other nothing is pulling them together in the first altering the course of an opposite-sex hetero­words, the guy is sexually attracted to the girl, place. sexual relationship to the extent that either but the girl is not interested in the guy on those You ·ask, "What about Jane and John who person stands on unequal ground, unable to particular terms, or the other way around. were 'friends' for a year, but then started dat­attain mutual intimacy. Because friendship hinges on mutual intimacy, ing, and they are still dating after two years?" the fundamentally unbalanced relationship, due Simple. They were both attracted to each other Ben Voigt is a senior Arts and Letters major. to sexual attraction, does not allow for a friend­from the beginning, but other things cluttered The views expressed in this column are those ship to commence. Instead an awkward, super­this realization, until something caused one or ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe ficial bond occurs, where confusion and anxiety both of their feelings to shine through. Many Observer. rule. times these feelings are buried deep within our 
Now, heterosexual woman can be friends unconscious so we are unaware they exist, until 
Mary Beth Ellis 

-
Tuesday, November 25, 1997

page 6 
e 




• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
How often do you thinli people wash their hands after using the restroom? 

"I don't think anyone ever does. Their parents must 
not have taught them proper 
hygiene." 
Ayana Fakhir Sophomore, McGlinn 

"Half the time, and people assume they're clean most of the time." 
Wendy Gebert Sophomore, Cavanaugh 



"Three out of four, but sometimes you just don't have time!" 
Frank McDonald Sophomore, Morrissey 

"Obviously, it's not too many when we have to post signs to remind them." 
Shana Jackson Sophomore, LeMans 



"Five percent and that is because I'm optimistic." 

Monica Cernanec Junior, LeMans 

By NIKOLE HANNAH Accent Writer 
T
hey say that cleanliness is next to Godliness, so one would think that at a prominent Catholic university like Notre Dame, good hygiene would be at the top of the list among students. 
After four years as a student, I beg to differ. 
For many of you readers, today's topic might appear to be rather gross. but this artiele is very factual and needs to be written. The topic today is the vir­tual non-existenee of good hygiene among the student body, especially when it comes to using the restroom. 
Bluntly speaking, the majority of stu­dents at Notre Dame do not wash their hands after they use the restroom. In an informal observation, only one student out of 17 in a certain dorm bathroom was witnessnd to have washed after using tlw restroom in tho past week. 
An informal survey of some Notre Dame students correlated this linding, revealing that frighteningly small numbers of Notre Dame students are practicing the simplest acts of good hygiene. Obviously, the majority of the students do not feel that washing one's 
-hands after using the restroom is important or necessary. They are gravely mistaken. 
Everyone will admit that using the bathroom is not a clean act. One uses the bathroom to excrete those things that we have consumed and our body neither needs nor wants. These excrements are filled with bacteria and other nasty things. The bacteria and germs that thrive in these excrements can and will make you sick. Assuming that everyone wipes when they use the restroom, everyday we come in close (very close) proximity to the germs and bacteria that live in our excrements. 
This is not a pretty thought. 
The odds that you have not made contact with any of these bacteria cannot be very high. Where women are concerned, there exists no nastiness greater than not washing ones hands during this certain week out of the month. llow would one know if the toilet paper accidentally slipped, or if your hand brushed some bacteria? It is impossible to know. Notre Dame students might be smart. but bacteria have been around much longer then us, so why do some of us think we can out maneuver them? 
Just because your hand does not stink or feel wet does not mean that you have not gotten anything on it. Yet for some odd reason, the majority of stu­dents do not appear to be concerned about this. Each day they walk right past the sinks after using the restroom. What do they think that sinks are put in the restroom for? I have never seen a restroom without a sink. This is not a phenomenon unique to Notre Dame, but most students seem to think that sinks are somehow foreign elements in the restroom setting. This may come to a surprise to some of you, but the sinks are not meant to be decoration. Their purpose is so that people may cleanse themselves after doing their dirty little deed. 
Those of you who are perpetrators of these crimes of uncleanliness may think, "Who cares if I do not wash my hands -I am the dirty one who will have to suffer for it." This is a selfish and untrue statement. The bad hygiene practiced in the restrooms is :wt isolated to the restroom, but affects hun­dreds of others each day. As you read the following case study, keep in mind that the hand one wipes with is the hand that one does everything else with. 
Imagine the ease of Jen. .len uses the bathroom and unknowingly gets some fecal bacteria on her hand when wiping herself. She passes by the sinks with­out a glance; most likely she has never ar,knowledged their existence. She then touches the door handle with her contaminated hand. 
Beth, who was in the restroom at the same time, does wash her hands, yet she has to touch the same door that was just contaminated. She opens the door and now she has washed in vain, as she is contaminated by someone else's fecal bacteria. (Now if that is not a grotesque thought, I do not know what is.) We now have two contaminated individuals on the loose, not to mention all the other people who will use the restroom and touch that door hamlin for the rnst of the day. 
Back to Jen. After Jnn leaves the restroom she walks to her boyfriend's dorm and calls him for dinner from the campus phone using, of course, the contaminated hand. Now ewryone who uses that phonn will be exposed to 





room 
her bacteria. Jen m dining hall. As Matt grabs her nasty little particles As Jen walks into cent, unexpecting d as she swipes the the other students gets worse. 
Jen then enters the nite. Jen reaches in to 
infesting the entire 
On her way out of number for a class in Megan's notebook. pen biter, puts the tip the rest. 
From this case study, restroom is a serious · nated in that small that do not wash their wash their hands are after all of this, some after using the restroom 
However, a study e restaurant counters fecal matter on the basket of mints after usi you will think twice befo· But then again, people \! restroom probably do no 
This problem of bad I takes less than a minu1 would encourage everyo like it! 
For those of you 
for it is done. After exiting washes dishes in. Turn urn to heavy pressure. dispenser, which that could be???) between your hands have been thoroughly cl 
As I said above. the will emerge from the take a paper towel contaminating waste ruinated by the dirty ones 
Now that I have brougb hope that those who hav• the very least, shamed ill others. And for those of li 
the bathroom, keep up tt any of your fellow clas6 themselves, call to them Hemember, Notre Dame our brothers and sisters safer, cleaner tomorrow. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


Tuesday, November 25, 1997
page 8 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBAll 

Irish receive nine letters of intent for class of 2002 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
WANTED 2 JANE'S ADDICTION  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Would you like a tossed salad  
NOTICES  TICKETS!!!! Please help : 631-5144  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  TICKETS  today??????  Need a ride home for Christmas? If you're going anywhere along 1·90, I  
or 256-1354 . Ask for Zac .  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  can take you. If you're really cute I  
Spring Break '98  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  FOR  SALE  Hey  can detour anywhere on the East  
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, &  243-0658.  Sweet  Coast. If you're cute with a good  
Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash  FOR RENT  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS  N.D. G.A.'S  Daisy!  personality I can detour anywhere on the West Coast. If you're a guy I  
& Go Free!  PROPERTIES.  271-9412.  can talk sports but I'm not detouring  
1-800-234-7007  Hey, I'd likeio give a shout out to  anywhere. Call Bryan @ 271-8624.  
www.endlesssummertours.com  WALK TO CAMPUS  272-6551  WANTED N D G A'S  my big bra' Dr. Johny K., M.D.!  
ILOST & FOUND I  2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595  6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  Congrats! • luv, yo' little sis  Lost: the personality of one T. Rossmiller; last seen leaving the  
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES ON NOV. 19.  L......-_F_o_R_sA_L_E_  _JIIL..._P_E_R_so_N_A_L____.  STOMPER BOB at Finnigan's TONIGHT!  store with a Nintendo 64 and a copy of Madden football  
CALL NICK 246-1146.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Ok Dan with the fair skin -I see a  
2192917153  000 Looking for a unique gift?  STOMPER BOB  sunburn on your horizon  
WANTED  Near Campus • 1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New  Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized  at Finnigan's TONIGHT!  you know that just didn't make me  
Roof, Siding & Carpet.  COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!!  feel any better  
CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR·  VACATION OVER THE CHRIST·  Central Air & Full Basement  THE COPY SHOP  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
TUNITY Earn a living while spread­ MAS HOLIDAYS ON THE BEACH  $44,900 1-800·382-2952  LaFortune Student Center  LaFortune Student Center  you know why? because you're  
ing God's word. Join Scriptures.  OF SIESTA KEY, FLORIDA IN A  vHigh-Speed Copies  going to Hawaii .. and I'm just not  
Sign up is FRE;E. To receive a  BEAUTIFUL, DELUXE CONDO­ vCanon Color Laser Copies  
FREE Info Pack call1-800·585­ MINIUM ON THE GULF OF MEXI­ Sega Genesis w/2 cntrls,  vDigital Color Printing  last classified before break bob; I  
5873 option 3 and listen to  CO. UNIT HAS A FULLY  12 games. incl. Madden, FIFA, etc.,  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  vBinding & Laminating  hope you can make it a whole 6  
"Success with Scriptures." Please  EQUIPPED KITCHEN AND  $200. Call x-1926.  Mall.  vPublic Fax Service 631-FAX1  days without one  
leave my I.D.#5237.  SLEEPS 3. THERE IS A HEATED  Now open for indoor/outdoor play.  Phone 631-COPY  
POOL WITH HOT TUB.  Students w/ND-SMC ID-1/2 price  five days ... fourcities{quad some  
SALES/MARKETING  12-19-97 TO 1-2-98.  Seized Cars from $175. Porsches,  field fee. 291-2540.  HELP: Need ride to Allentown, PA  might say) ... three district bars ..  
Excellent opportunity. Part-time per·  SEA CLUB VROOM 114  Cadillacs, Chevys, BMW's,  for Thanksgiving. If going to NYC,  two parents {not mine) ... one hock­ 
son needed. We will work around  VALUE $1630, RENT FOR $800.  Corvettes. Also Jeeps, 4WD's. Your  NJ or anywhere near Allentown.  ey game ... no nintendo 64  
your schedule. Great income. Fax  CALL LARRY GRUMMELL  Area. Toll Free  ND Inquisition  please help me, I just need to get  
resume to 1-800-333·7562 or leave  219-291-2988.  1-800·218·9000 Ext. A· for current  http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu  close. Will help pay for gas. Call  I wanna go to Hawaii ...  
name & number at 1-800-332-5643.  listings.  We're smarter than you.  Dave@ 243-1868.  

.....franchises of MAACO Enterprises, Inc. Prices, hours and 
• services may vary. 
sistently throw strikes. The 6­foot-1, 170-pound righthander spent the summer of 1997 as a member of the Indiana Bulls state all-star team and earned a spot on the all-tournament team at the 1997 National Amateur Baseball Federation World Series. 
Bushey, known for his natural left-handed swing and ability to hit to all fields, played summer­league ball with current Irish freshman infielder Ben Cooke on the Youngstown Astro Falcons. He hit .444 while lead­ing the Astro Falcons to a 45-7 record in the summer of '97. 
The 5-foot-11. 195-pound Drevline is expected to contend for time behind the plate due to his strong all-around ability, ability to hit from both sides of the plate and leadership skills. A former Norwood Blues team­mate of current Irish freshman leftfielder Alec Porzel, Drevline most recently hit .459 on the Hersey high school summer league and .329 with the Rollins Meadows Royals semi-pro team. 
Duff is noted for his competi­

,,\.. 
'· 
• 
'1 


SOUTH BEND 
250 East Sample Street 
234-1925 
Bodywork, rust repair and stripping of old 
paint extra. Vans, trucks and commercial vehicles by estimate. Additional surtace preparation may be necessary. Not valid with any other offer. MAACO Auto Painting & Bodyworks centers are independent 
tiveness, a tough curveball and a fastball that has touched 91 miles per hour. A four-year starting shortstop at Sevier County Iligh School, the 5-foot­11, 160-pound Duff posted a 
2.80 ERA, 28 strikeouts and just four walks in 25 innings last spring. 
Golom attracted the Irish coaches due to his scrappy style, versatility and aggressiveness at the plate. The 5-foot-9, 160­pound righthander participated in the Team One Showcase. He was named all-conference and honorable mention all-area at Providence Catholic High School after batting .420. 
O'Toole's versatility, hitting ability and strong throwing arm could help him make significant contributions for the Irish in '98. His 1997 summer highlights included leading the Mainstreet Muffins to the Connie Mack state championship and earning a spot in the Team One Showcase. 
The 5-foot-11, 17 5-pound Rodda is known for his ability to consistently throw four pitches for strikes, as evidenced by his 

The Developmental Phone  
Center gratefully  
acknowledges  
those who have  
supported its student  
.,~ e~  caller incentive program.  
Barnes &Noble  Karen's Home Stvle Deli•· '  

Booksellers King Gyros of Roseland BW3 Sports Grill &Pub Outback Steakhouse Funny Bone Comedy Club Shear Phazes Garden City Cleaners, Inc. Sunny's Korean Garden Granger Tap &Grill Patio Honker's The Varsity Shop Kalefat's Restaurant & Wings Etc. Restaurant & 
Green Onion Lounge Pub 
combined 38-1 career record in high school and summer-league play. 
Stanley, another Team One participant, should bring excel­lent speed and all-around ath­leticism to the Irish program as a prospective centerfielder. As a sophomore at Worthington Christian High School, Stanley led the Columbus area with a .595 batting average and 41-of­44 stolen bases en route to becoming the only sophomore to be named first team all-state. 
The 6-foot-5, 225-pound Strickroth could prove to be the surprise member of the signing class. A talented two-sport ath­lete who selected Notre Dame over college football scholarship offers, Strickroth could add power at the plate for the Irish. As a junior at Santa Margarita Iligh School, he hit .398 with six home runs and 28 RBI in 88 at­bats, after hitting . 329 with five home runs and 23 HBis as a sophomore. 

RING IN THIS HOLIDAY SEASON WITH CUT-METAL DECORATIONS FROM HAITI 
UN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES... 

Formerly Global Gifts 
Holiday Sale Through Nov.29th 
919 West McKinley Mishawaka (219) 255-3536 
FAIRLY TRADED HANDICRAFTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
• 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame baseball team has signed nine high school seniors to national letters of intent, head coach Paul Mainieri announced today. The signees include righthanded pitchers Matt Buchmeier, Drew Duff and Jason Rodda, catchers 
J.P Drevline and Paul O'Toole, infielders Andy Bushey and Ed Golom, outfielder Steve Stanley and infielder/outfielder Matt Strickroth. 
"This was an important recruiting class because we had to replace the five seniors who will be graduating next May, in addition to losing two of last year's recruits to the profession­al draft," said fourth-year Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. "You also always run the possibility of losing some of your juniors to the pro draft, so the fact that we were able to sign a class of this quality and quantity is very sig­nificant. 
Buchmeier is known for a fastball that can touch 90 miles per hour and his ability to con­
+ 
Nationwide + Free Guarantee Estimates 

+ 
Oven Baked + Expert Finish Body Repair 


• Thousands of Colors 

pag' 9 ------,
Tuesday, November 25, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Mn.J's CRoss CouNTRY 

Rexing leads Irish in nationals .­

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Senior all-American Jason Hexing led the Notre Dame men's cross country team to a 12th place finish at the NCAA cross country championships in the final cross country meet of his college career. 
Notre Dame ran to its sixth straight top-15 finish yester· day. The Irish scored 309 points in the meet. Stanford and Arkansas battled it out for first place, and defending champion Stanford made it two in a row, winning 53 to 56. Colorado and Michigan ran for third and fourth places, with 108 and 116 points, respective­ly. 
H1~xing placed 40th overall in the 10,000 meter raee with a time of 30:34. This was his sec· ond straight year as the top fin· isher for the Irish. Last year, he attained all-American status. 
"Cross country has always b1)en my favorite sport. Cross country is the ultimate team sport, and track tends to get a little individualized." said Hrxing about his last cross country race for Notre Dame. "There's never been any feel­ing like running for Notre Damn." 
Junior Ryan Maxwell turned in an impressive performance, finishing in 50th place with a time of 30:57. 
Freshman Ryan Shay finished just after Maxwell in a time of 30:58, which was good for 51st place. For both Maxwell and Shay, this was only the second 10,000 meter race of their careers. Maxwell was shooting to be in the top-60 going into yesterday. 
Maxwell really came on strong this year. 
"It's exciting. He's a wonder­ful kid and so upbeat. He strug­gled with injuries his first two seasons," said Coach Piane. "This is exactly what you want to see as a coach -when a kid puts in the work and then gets the results." 
The final four runners for Notre Dame stayed in a fairly close pack, with only a 16-sec­ond difference between their times. Junior Antonio Arce, the top Notre Dame finisher in two meets this year, placed 80th overall and fourth for the team with a time of 31:28. 
Seniors Mike Conway and Scott Grace stuck together, rac­ing to 88th and 89th in the meet in 31:35 and 31:36. Freshman Anthony Alt was 96th (31 :42). 
DEPT. OF AR.T, ART HISTORY & DESIGN wlahee to announce: 
A 'ITENTIONfll!!! 
SIUCSC:BEHN I (call" 1316) it OPEN TO ALl. STIJOENTS! QRAWING l {call#s 1072 &t 3050) i& OPEN TO AlL STUDENTS! FIGURE D&AWINQ (call' 3813) it OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS! 
-.. 

METAL FOUNDRY (call• 3380) is OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS! 
Amistalc.e wu made in the DAKf book. These daues are actually illi open to all atudents. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

ANGERS9 FRANCE 
1998-99 Academic Year 
"Where Do We Go From Here" 
With Professor Paul McDowell 
Tuesday, November 25, 1997 7:00pm Room 126 DeBartolo 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
"It was a solid day," said coach Joe Piane. "We would have liked to finish four places higher. but we had some kids run well so that is exciting. Ryan Maxwell and Ryan Shay ran particularly well for us." 
Going into the meet, Notre Dame was hoping to finish somewhere between fifth and lOth place. Prior to the meet Piane said, "If we can repro­duce what we've done every time out, we can be in the top 10." 
However. each runner on the team improved his time from the Great Lakes Region meet to the Nationals, but the team still could not finish in the top 10. 
Notre Dame was one of 22 Division I teams that qualified to run in yesterday's champi­onships. 
They were held at Furman University in Greenville, S.C. The Irish were ranked ninth last week. 
This meet capped off a suc­cessful season for the Irish, which won its first-ever Big East championship, the Scarlet/Gray Invitational, and the adidas/Notre Dame Invitational this season. It also concluded the cross country careers of Hexing, Conway, and Grace. 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 


Irish swim to third place finish 
By LAURA PETELLE finish. 
Spons Writer Senior standout Linda Gallo led the Irish, winning the 1650­The Big East defending cham­meter freestyle in 16:34.43. pion women's swimming fin­Sophomore all-American Alison ished third out of five teams at Newell finished second in the the Minnesota Invitational this · 200-meter butterfly. Sophomore weekend, landing a score of765. Uz Barger took sixth in the same 
Minnesota won the meet with race. 117 4 points. Wisconsin, with a Freshman phenom Carrie score of 770, barely edged out Nixon took a solid second place Notre Dame for a second place in the 100-meter freestyle, and sophomore all-American Shannon Suddarth won second -· in the 200-meter breaststroke. Freshman Tiffany O'Brien came in fourth place in the 200-meter backstroke, and freshman Kristen Van Saun was sixth in the 100-meter freestyle. 
The strong relay team of Gallo, Van Saun, Nixon and Katie Collins finished second in the 400-freestyle relay. 


-

Tomorrow, Today, November 25 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 


page 10 Tuesday, November 25, 1997 
Another interception, this-. time by Pyro linebacker Sofia
ChaiDps 

Barbato on second down, gave 
P. E. a quick turnaround andcontinued from page 12 
excellent field position. Again. Lewis prevented the touch­
paigns to points. 

down, even after a pass inter­''I'm extremely proud." said ference call against the defense 
Lewis linebacker Sarah 

moved P.E. 10 yards closer.
Boblick. "All around we were Three tackles behind the line of really good. P.E.'s been to the 

scrimmage pushed the Pyros
stadium before and came ready back a total of 14 yards, and

to win. but we gave them a 

Lewis took over on downs forgood run." 
the third time.
To start the game, P.E. had Three passes to wide receiverpossession but four downs later Kelly Dillon, only one of which 

was still five yards short. 

was successful, and a short
Deciding not to punt, Plummer yardage passing play were notpassed to Searle, but the play enough for the Chickens to putwas broken up by tackle Kelli 

together a successful run
Donohu·e and the Chickens took before the endover on downs. 

of the half.
Lewis's posses­

Forced tosion started out 
'THIS WIN IS INCREDI­
punt, P.E.
strong with two 

BLE. IT'S AN INCREDI-attempted a
consecutive pass­es, but on third BLE FEELING TO PLAY IN THE quick run for 
the goal withdown. Pyro cor-STADIUM.' 
nerback Donata onds remain-

Parillo intercept­ed the pass. SOFIA BARBATO ing. The first The Observer/Brandon Candura The Pyros then play, a 14-P.E. finally got its chance to celebrate in the stadium, after losing the last two championship games. yard pass to
started their 

sion, Plummer made a quick a tackling penalty called up with a huge play by tackling 
Rost, waslongest drive of 
slide across the 40-yard line for against P.E., but the next plays Plummer behind the line ofenough for a first down, but the
the game, made possible by 

a first down. A five yard pass to resulted in only a minimum scrimmage. The Lewis offensePyros could not complete anyexcellent receiving on the part Rost, followed by a quarterback gain. On fourth down with time then had one more opportunity,
more plays before the clock
of tight end Molly Rost and full­keeper up the middle, was good running out, the Chickens knew but the distance and shortageexpired. At the half, the gameback Melissa Goreman. On first for another first. they could not punt. A brilliant of time proved too great anstood scoreless. 

down, Plummer threw to Rost Just 20 yards away from the 20-yard pass from Talarico to obstacle. The clock ran out,"We had trouble putting the

for a gain of 12, then to 

goal line, the offense was set West gave Lewis a first down at and P.E. was declared champi­ball in the end zone, but weGoreman for a first down. Two back by a 10-yard penalty. P.E. 's 36-yard line. on.
were clearly dominating duringplays later, Rost caught an 11­They quickly rebounded, how­Unfortunately for the Chickens, The Pyros' celebration imme­the first half," said Plummer of
yard pass for a second first 

ever, with a 15-yard pass to they could not build momentum diately erupted as the teamher team's performance.
down. 

Rost, who ran the ball into the off this big play. Three consec­was awarded the championship After halftime, Lewis had theDeep in Chicken territory, the end zone. On the extra point, utive incompletions and a quar­trophy and T-shirts. Teamfirst possession. A completedPyros appeared to be on fire, however, Brick broke up a pass terback sack destroyed their members spoke glowingly of
pass from quarterback Liz
but Lewis defense held them 

to Searle and the score last big chance. their victory.
Talarico to wide receiver
tightly, only allowing Plummer remained at 6-0. P.E. did experience some dif­Said Barbato, "This win isCarrie Upp resulted in a first

a gain of three yards on first 

"It was good to score," said ficulties on its last possession of incredible. It's an incredibledown. The P.E. defense, how­
down and five yards on an 

Rost after the game, "but we the game. With 30 seconds left, feeling to play in the stadium.
ever, prevented further
option run second down. 

knew there was still five min­a penalty against the P.E. Defense played its best game ofyardage and Leigh-Ann WestBrick then made a big play utes left. We knew the game offense gave Lewis the choice the season." 
was sent in to punt the ball
--
for the Chickens, covering 
wasn't over yet." of fourth and one, 21 yards Searle commented. "We're all back.
Goreman on third down and 

Lewis took over at its own 35, from the goal, or third and 11. so happy and really proud.
Plummer ran for a total of 12 
breaking up Plummer's pass. 

and Talarico threw a complet­Declining the penalty to pre­We've been trying for this foryards in two plays, bringing up
Plummer then slipped on 

ed pass to Leigh-Ann West. The serve the clock, Chicken line­the past two years. It's great tofourth down and one at mid­
fourth down to bring up the 

Chickens further profited from backer Maureen Neville came finally win." 
field. Attempting the conver-Lewis offense once more. 
-
fourth down in its own territo­Although it was early in the ry. The snap from center Jim game, Keenan opted to go for

Keenan 

Walsh sailed over the head of two. 
continued from page 12 punter Dave Russo. Russo "We didn't want to take a recovered the ball but was chance with the wind, and we game as a result." tackled deep in their own end. have been going for two all 
Keenan had been able to Keenan took over on the season," commented Hartman. throw the ball successfully all Sorin 35-yard line. After pick­Venvertloh ran a play action season. but with the swirling ing up a first down, freshman pass and after scrambling a bit, winds inside the stadium, it quarterback Craig Venvertloh found Klopp out of the back­was risky for the Knights to air was flushed out of the pocket field for a successful conver­it out. by the Sorin defense. He sion. 
"We weren't able to run the scrambled 20 yards to the end The Knights took an 8-0 lead deep fade route as often as we zone for what appeared to be at the half and never looked like to, so we had to stick to the go-ahead touchdown. back. short passes," commented However, the play was called "We were confident once we Klopp. back on an illegal motion got some points on the board," 
However, it was the fade penalty. Two plays later, said Hartman. route that provided the Venvertloh went up top and After all, the Knights had Knights' only points. In the sec­connected with wingback Dong every reason to. Keenan had ond quarter, Sorin was in a Min for a 25-yard touchdown dictated its opponents' play all punting situation, facing a completion. season, stifling opposing 

Sarin's powerful running game, lead by Tim Slattery (above), had some shining moments but was kept in check by Keenan's defense. This defense did not give up a point during the entire season. 
offenses. The smothering defense is led by middle line­backer Joe Klopp and senior captain and strong safety Hartman. 
"Our defense has been the backbone of the team," added freshman running back and cornerback Nick Costanzo. "We didn't allow a single point all season." 
The defensive line played an outstanding game for the Knights, taking the pressure off the linebackers and secondary. 
"They supplied a good pass rush which made our job a lot easier," explained Costanzo, who broke up several passes in the secondary. 
Klopp had a key interception in the third quarter. Sorin had started to drive and decided to run a curl pass that Klopp stepped in front of and picked off. 
"They had run the play earli­er in the game, and I guess I read it well," explained Klopp. 
"Klopp played great," com­mented Costanzo. "He had that key interception and a few huge runs." 
Klopp and the rest of the Keenan b.ackfield played solid, but the Sorin defense was tough. However, the Knights, as they have done all season, got the job done when they needed to. 
Klopp had some of his biggest runs late in the game, which enabled the Knights to keep the clock running and to almost score again. Late in the fourth quarter, Keenan looked to have a sure touchdown, but Venvertloh's pass hit off the hands of Costanzo and fell incomplete. The Knights turned the ball over on downs deep in Sorin territory, and Sorin fum­bled the ball on the last play of the game trying to lateral it. 
Sorin's running game, behind 
L------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
fullback Alex Scheilder and running back Tim Slattery, was tough to stop, but the Otters just couldn't put any points on the board. 
"They came out in the first half and played smash-mouth football," commented Hartman. "Slattery had some good runs off-tackle, but we settled down in the second half and got back to our game." 
Sorin crossed the 50-yard line several times but could never move the ball much fur­ther than that. The Otters' defense kept them in the game, however. 
"They were tough. and they came after us with some stunts that caught us off guard," explained Hartman. "We really got fortunate on that special teams play. which we capital­ized on. That turned out to be the difference." 
"We're really excited about the win," said Klopp. "We deserved it, and we went out .and got it." 
Keenan had been practicing all week, as late as midnight on Thursday, and it paid off as the Knights played probably their best physical game of the year. 
"We had been working toward this since day one," commented Hartman. "We achieved our goals one at a time. We got better each prac­tice, went undefeated and unseored upon. and got to play in the stadium and won." 
Keenan's season of domi­nance was a total team effort. There were no superstars on the team. They played as a team, executed as a team, and won as a team. The younger players made key contributions all season, and it looks like Keenan will be a dominating force in men's interhall football for years to come. 

---~---~ ~~---~---------------­
~------------~--~------------------------­
Tuesday, November 25, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
The Observer • TODAY 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 

SHE SNIFFS 
ME,~SHE
SNIFFS ME 

NOT... SHt: SNIFFSM& 

SHE .... 

DILBERT 
INSTALLING AN ISDN LINE 
r-----------------------------i 
FtR5T WE NEED TO ~AI<.E 
SURE YOUR 15 CONNECNETWORK.  PHONE TED "TO  LINE OUR  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 29 Portuguese India territory 

1 Rear ends 30 PartitionBAgog 31 Faience glaze 
15 Vanessa ingredientRed grave film of 32 A bundle 1968 33 Long time 16 Tombstone 36 Point at a shoe locale store111n trouble. in 38 [I'm scared!] slang 40 Bee: Prefix 18 Lie 42 Muffler19 Chance 45 Atlantis was 
occurrences one: Abbr. 

20 Sister in 46 Offensive"Sisters" 49 Bigger than22 Signal in a med. 
courtroom so U.S. Army 

23 48-Down. in landing point, 
poetry 

9/9/43 24 First name in 
51 It comes in 
exploration 

strands 26"---tu" 
52 Free silver 27Commit champion 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

21 Was, in Latin 




Come Join Our Team! 
::; 0 
~ 
0 
<t 
@J 
U! 
::; 
<t 
<t 
" 
I­I­
0 
0 
U! 

54 Sheepherding 
locales 
55 Shrivel 
56 Viceroyalty that included Argentina 58 Eye 
60 Adjective for some lens cleaners 
61 Thick cornmeal mush 62Act 63 Stretcher at the. gym 
DOWN 
1 Men stay1ng on one color 2lndiana Jones, often 31968 #1 hit 4 Time of the month 5 Cousin of "Well 
&Imagined 

7--'sWells 
24--Fiite

(renowned 
(bicycle brand) 

London theater) 
8 Like most aluminum ore 9 Beverage server 10 Beginning, informally 
11 Jerusalem visitor from the Persian court 
12 1971 # 1 hit 
l'LL '<ANI<. IHE WIRE 
WHILE "''OU LISTEN 
FOR. A ''WHUt'\P" 
SOUND AT 11-\E CENTRAL OFFIC.£.. 
25 Robt. E. Lee, e.g. 28 Budding twitter 32 Peacekeeping skill 34 Zippo 35 Result of a kitchen accident 37 U.S. brand retired in 1972 38 Adventurer of 18th-century 

French literature 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS . 
SCOTT ADAMS 

39 Commander at so Bollix Shiloh 53 Made it to the 
41 "Aha!" ground 
43 Go over 55 Astronomer­
44 1996 campaign 
turned-architect issue 57 Little one 47 Sawies 59 ---broche 48 Clear (cooking style) 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
page 11 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

Aries: Pay attention to issues of control and influence today. Your power over others helps you elicit their cooperation. But be sure to look up and see who is pulling your own strings. 
Taurus: Look at your motivations to find what is holding you back. An imperfect system could be interfering with your efficiency. Untangle yourself carefully instead of wildly trying to kick free. 
Gemini: Today's mundane responsibilities are like walking on a treadmill to nowhere. Fun and games beckon you off the path. Your day improves when you find a playmate who shares your desire to escape. 
Cancer: Family members are unhappy with you today, and it could be your fault. Pride and stubbornness are being used as defensive weapons. Along with everyone else, you need to calm down and start talking. 
Leo: Heach out and initiate some­thing today. Make plans, dates, and sales calls. Interpersonal communication, and all that flows from it, is like a work of art in your hands. 
Virgo: Money swims into view, and with some help you may be able to hook it on your line. Authority is your friend today, even if it comes with a finder's fee or finance charge. The conve­nience of the modern world has its price. 
Libra: The planets are lining up and coming to bat for you, which means you can achieve a Jot without using too much energy. Others notice something unusual about you. Make the most of their attention. 
Scorpio: Delay responses as long as possible today. Words slip out sideways, taking on unintended meaning as they fall heavily on the listener's ears. This is not a good day to show someone how smart or cool you really are. 
Sagittarius: This is a good day to make your hopes and wishes known to someone with the power to grant them. Be frank with clients or employers. Open your heart to friends and loved ones. You have nothing to lose. 
Capricorn: Your first milestone comes into sight, but there is still a long way to go. If you stop com­pletely, it may be hard to get mov­ing again. Take small steps until you find the energy to resume your stride. 
Aquarius: Words are your cur­rency today, or perhaps an elec­tric current. People look to you for energetic answers to their questions. The last person you would have expected to see is first in line for your free advice. 
Pisces: Today finds you in the sat­isfying role of care-giver. Before making major financial· commit­ments, be sure to consult with everyone involved. Take risks only if you feel absolutely lucky. 


Happy Thanksgiving from The Observer. 
Gobble, gobble. 

RecSports is now hiring,§tudents to serve as C~g~rol D~s~~upervisors and Fitness Room Supervisors in the Rolfs'sports Recreation Certt~r. Inter~~ted su;dents should stop by the RecSports office, located in the Joyce Center, and fill out an application. 
Due to the Thanksgiving Holiday, all Fitness Classes will be cancelled on Wednesday, November 26, 
For More Info. Contact: 

through Sunday, November 30. Classes will resume 
RecSports-1-6100 

on Monday, December I. 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 


-
-~·-~ ~ --------~· 






SPORTS 

page 12 Tuesday, November 25, 1997 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Irish look to return to winning ways tonight 
By MIKE DAY cent from the floor, and Garrity Sporrs Editor received little help at the offensive end. In fact, guards Martin lngelsby, 
The best way to judge a team's char­Antoni Whyche, and Keith Friel shot a acter is to see how it bounces back combined 4-for-20. from defeat. And last Friday's. 72-48 "We can't afford to shoot that badly loss to Marquette was no normal again," said lngelsby. "Their defeat -it was a complete and thor­(Marquette's) defense did a great job, eugh thrashing. So when Notre Dame but we have to be ready for that. We hosts Northeastern tonight, the char­can't let Northeastern take us out of acter of 15 young men will certainly our game plan the way Marquette be put to the test. did." 
"Marquette pretty much dominated After Garrity received ample support us on both ends of the court." said in last Tuesday's season opener, the Notre Dame head coach John 1996 Big East player of the year didn't MacLeod. "Now. it's up to us to put see much help from his teammates that loss behind us and bounce back. against the Eagles. We cannot afford to let that loss haunt "We have got to have guys step up us." and take some of the load off Pat," 
Fortunately for the Irish, they will said MacLeod. "We will not be suc­not face a team of Marquette's caliber cessful if he's forced to carry us by for quite awhile. Instead, the squad himself." will have the opportunity to improve Following tonight's matchup with its record to 2-1 when Northeastern Northeastern, the Irish will host Sam makes its way from Boston to the Houston State on Friday. With the Joyce Center. light schedule, this is the perfect time 
This marks the first time the two for Notre Dame to start racking up teams have met. but Notre Dame has wins that may help them when the compiled a 12-0 record against the NCAA and NIT determine tournament America East Conference. A year ago, brackets following the season. the Irish defeated AEC power New "We know from last year that the Hampshire, 68-47. won-loss record is critical to getting 
"We don't know a lot about them. into post-season tournaments." said but they've already won their first Garrity. "We know it's too early to game -so we can't afford to lake worry about that kind of thing (mak­them lightly," said forward Pat ing a tournament), but it's never too Garrity. early to worry about improving your 
The Observer/John Daily 
On Friday, the Irish shot just 33 per-record." 
Coach John Macleod, last year's Big East coach of the year, looks for his second win tonight. 


Interhall 
Keenan 8 Sorin 0 P.E. 6 Lewis 0 
Knights defeat 
Lewis topped Otters for title by P.E. in finals 
By BRIAN KESSLER By ALISON WELTNER Sporrs Writer Sporrs Writer 
The Keenan Knights' intflfhall football sea­After three years of leaving the champi­son can be summed up in a single word -onship game empty-handed, Pasquerilla East dominance. They dominated opponents all finally achieved its goal. Defeating Lewis 6-0 
season on their way to posting a perfect 7-0 on Sunday, the Pyros emerged from Notre record. Dame Stadium as the 1997 women's interhall 
Their defense dominated opposing offenses. football champions. not allowing a single point all season. And they "This is what it's all about," said Pyro coach marched into Notre Dame Stadium this past Tom Asci. "We have worked hard all season, Sunday and dominated an underrated Sorin and we deserve this." Otter football team, defeating them 8-0 en For the Chickens, the game brought an excit­route to the 1997 men's interhall champi­ing season to a rather disappointing close. onship. Still, Lewis team members remained proud of 
The players from both teams were fired up their accomplishments as a sixth-ranked team as they took the field. that made it to the stadium. 
"It was a thrill to tap the 'Play Like a "P.E. is really tough, but we played our best, Champion' sign and run onto the field from the and I'm very proud," said Lewis cornerback tunnel." commented Keenan fullback/line­Dina Brick. "We played with a lot of heart." backer Joe Klopp. For proof, one need look no further than tiH 
The skies were overcast, and the weather final score. Although P.E. dominated the game turned out to be a major factor in the contest. with regard to time of possession, Lewis's 
"The wind definitely played a factor in defense did an excellent job of defending the today's game," said Keenan captain D.J. goal line jn key situations, making it difficult Hartman. "We had to rely more on our ground for the Pyros to convert their offensive cam-
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

see KEENAN/ page 10 Keenan's defense consistently stopped Sarin from reaching the endzone. see CHAMPS/ page I 0 

.... 
at Hawaii vs. Lake Superior,
t,t aJ
November 29, TBA 
November 29, 7 p.m. 
~ • Baseball recruits commit

• 

Men's Basketball, 
titilo 

~ 
see page 8 
vs. UCLA, 

vs. Northwestern
\~ November 29, 1 p.m. 
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 
••CIJ •Men's cross country championships 
•• Women's Basketball, 
see page 9 
at UCSB, 

at UC Santa Barbara 
November 28, 5:30p.m.
~ 
November 28, 7:00p.m. 
~ 
... 

. . . . . 
With expectations and 



pressures at his back 
Ron Powlus has survived five years in 
one of the highest pressure positions in college football.The Irish 
Insider examines his take on the job. 
.. ; . .;-· ..-.· 

Page4 

. -. . . ... . . . . . . . . 
• • • -•• -4-• • • -•• ' • • • • • • • 
. .....

-----··_·.. ······ 
Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Tuesday, November 25, 1997 

FIGHTIN' IRISH 

Penalties-Yards  
49  3rd Down Conversion  Driver  
4th Down Conversion  Harper  
NO  Opp  Denson  93  0  
22.7  19.6  Individual Statistics  Sanders  39  0  
First Downs  233  226  
Rushing  104  111  Rushing  All  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Passing  108  101  Denson  236 1125  4.8  10  50  102.3  Rossum  10  44  4.4  0  12  
Penalty  21  14  Stokes  66  314  4.8  3  20  31.4  Denson  5  51  10.2  o.  20  
Rushing Yardage  1903  2063  Barry  31  168  5.4  0  23  15.3  
Attempts  464  457  Driver  34  119  3.5  3  12  10.8  Field Goals  FGM-FGA  Long  Blk  
Avg Per Rush  4.1  4.5  Spencer  24  105  4.4  23  9.5  Sanson  5-10  45  0  
Avg Per Game  173.0  187.5  Cengia  2-4  29  0  
TO's Rushing  20  20  Passing  Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt  Pet  Yds  TO  Avg/G  
Passing Yardage  2124  2028  Powlus  127.4 280-175-7  62.5  1978  9  179.8  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  Long TB  FC  120  
Att-Cmp-lnt  297-183-8  306-178-13  Jackson  143.7 15-8-1  53.3  146 1  24.3  Smith  43  1822 42.4  64  6  2  12  
Avg Per Pass  7.2  6.6  
Avg Per Catch  11.6  11.4  Receiving  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  Defense  UT  AT  Total ForLoss  Sacks  lnt  
Avg Per Game  193.1  184.4  Brown  43  517 12.0  6  39  47.0  Friday  49  54  103 2-10  0  2  
TO's Passing  10  5  Johnson  40  567 14.2  2  45  51.5  Dansby  51  44  95  10-30  1.5-26  0  
Total Offense  4027  4091  Denson  29  183  6.3  1  47  16.6  Minor  53  24  77  9-23  3.5-32  3-50  
The Observer/Brandon Candura Safety Benny Guilbeaux leads the Irish with five interceptions.  Total Plays Avg Per Play Avg Per Game  761 5.3 366.1  763 5.4 371.9  Nelson Getherall  22 9  294 13.4 103 11.4  0 0  44 20  26.7 17.2  Howard Bryant  46 39  30 36  76 75  6-13 5-8  1-7 3-17  0 0  


RAINBOW WARRIORS 
Rushing  No  Yds  Avg  Yds/G TO  Long  
Tharp  169  682  4.0  62.0  5  55  
Team Statistics  UH  Opp  Mims  42  209  5.0  19.0  1  29  Punt Returns  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
Total First Downs  189  188  Jacobs  45  120  2.7  30.0  2  15  Klaneski  31  256  8.3  0  32  
First Downs Rushing  62  86  Weaver  13  40  3.1  3.6  0  11  
First Downs Passing  107  89  Charles  6  18  3.0  2.0  1  7  Kickoff Returns No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
First Downs Penalty  20  13  Tharp  8  192  24.0  0  35  
Rushing Yards  931  1480  Passing  Att-Cmp-lnt Pet  Yds  Yds/GEffic TO  Kane  18  398  22.1  0  46  
Attempts  422  438  Robinson  4-2-0  .500  30  30.0  113.00  Jacobs  1  19  19.0  0  19  
Passing Yards  2333  2088  Skinner  193-109-12 .565  1416 157.3 110.83  Kemfort  11  169  15.4  0  23  
Cmp-Att-lnt  194-345-21  182-299-29  Carey  145-83-9  .572  887 177.4 100.82  Morris  1  8  8.0  0  8  
Total Offense  3264  3568  
Punting Yards  3100  2700  Receiving No  Yds  Avg  Yds/G C/G  TO  Long  Field Goals  FGM-FGA  Pet  Long  
No-Avg  75-41.3  65-41.5  Tharp  37  395 10.7  35.9  3.4  1  29  Hannum  12-21  .57  46  
Fumbles-Lost  25-9  30-12  Kalama  31  305  9.8  27.7  2.3  0  23  
Penalties-Yards  79-653  79-634  Macon  25  348 13.9  31.6  2.3  1  35  Defensive UT  AT  Total  ForLoss  Sacks BrUP  
Sacks By-Yards Lost  29-168  44-288  Ellison  23  342 14.9  31.1  2.1  2  37  Klaneski  73  45  118  1-6  0  13  
3rd Down Conversions  43-170  66-161  Mims  18  164  9.1  14.9  1.6  0  58  Shinnick  66  49  115  1-9  1-5  6  
3rd Down Conversion Pet 4th Down Conversions 4th Down Conversion Pet  .253 12-20 .600  .410 6-18 .333  Punting Shrout  No 61  Yds 2814  Avg 46.1  Long 71  Blk 5  Rosevold 77 Chapman 30 Paul 26  24 15 11  101 45 37  8-11 4-14 0-0  1-4 6-32 1-7  2 1 1  i Safety Eddie Klaneski leads the Rainbows with 71 tackles.  

, 

on s 
Christmas Tree Decorating Party 
*********** 
Come help us get into the holiday spirit! Put an ornament on the tree in the LaFun ballroom or the tree in the 1V lounge and help yourself to somefree holiday goodies. Take a study break and join in the Christmas cheer! 
Monday, December 1 LaFortune Ballroom &1Vlounge 7-10 pm 

FRIDAY DEC 05 1997 SPM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
8:00 Christian Parillo 
8:30 Stemper Dob 

9:30 Off the Wall Blues Band with Dave Myers Tickets ND, HCC & SMC $3 General Admission $5 


-~-~ -----:----:--:--~~--:---------------·--·--~ 
page 3 

Tuesday, November 25, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
H
awaii is 3-8. The wins have come against powerhouses such as California State Northridge and Fresno State. Hawaii is in the WAC and has a WAC defense so if the Irish are hopil).g to continue their win streak and travel to a bowl, it appears to be in their own hands. 
After knocking off two top 25 teams in consecutive weeks, Notre Dame has the momentum and is more likely to be slowed by jet lag or a surfing accident than it is by the tenacious Rainbow defense. 
Last season Hawaii finished 14th out of the 16 WAC teams in scoring defense and 14th in rush­ing defense. The defense has improved some this year only surrendering 26 points a game compared to last year's 36, but it still gives up more than four and a half yards per play. 

Over the last two games the Notre Dame rushing attack has returned, averaging 4.6 ya, ds per carry against .LSU and West Virginia. The ground attack should continue in Aloha land as its top two tacklers are safties Chris Schinnick and Eddie Kalenski. 
In Saturday's win over the Mountaineers, tailback Autry Denson accumulated 144 yards but the running attack was not as consistent as head coach Bob Davie would have liked. 
"They [West Virginal were able to have some· negative plays against us," Davie said. "I think our backs need to block better, more consistently. So, we've got to get more consistent running the football." · 
With the re-emergence of the rushing attack, the passing game has flourshied as the Irish are not passing out of necessity on third and eight anymore. Freshman tight end Jabari I lulluway is coming off two solid outings in which he came up with big plays in critical situations for the Irish. 
T
he Rainbow Warriors are in the midst of stormy weather with their current record of 3-8 and are looking to break free from the clouds in this week­end's game against the Irish. Currently, the team rests at the bottom of the Western Athletic Conference, chalking up only a single win in the conference. 
The team's three wins came against the likes of Minnesota, Cal State Northridge, and Fresno State. 
The team is under the tute­lage of second-year head coach Fred vonAppen. Last year, the team finished with a record of 2-10. Heading into the season, the Rainbow Warriors entered with confidence about securing a winning season, the first since 1993. 
Hawaii is coming off a tough 
overtime loss against Northeast Louisiana, 23-20. The Rainbow Warriors headed into the locker room with a 10 point lead at half but managed to let the lead slip away in overtime. 
Hawaii's quarterback situation this season is a bit questionable with two players sharing a majority of the time. Sophomore Josh Skinner has seen a majority of the action because of senior quarterback Tim Carey's shoul­der separation. Both share simi­lar stats. Skinner has three touchdowns for the season while chalking up 12 interceptions. Carey also has a measly two touchdowns to nine interceptions. The ineffective passing attack has forced the team to rely heavily on a running attack. 
Freshman Charles Tharp finds himself at the tailback slot for the Rainbow Warriors. The true 


Senior wide receiver Malcolm Johnson is coming off probably the best game by an Irish receiv­er this year as he caught six passes for 125 yards and a touchdown. 
However, the corps of receivers continually to be plagued by sev­eral drops in each game. 
"I thought the negatives on offense, once again, we had three dropped passes," Davie said of the West Virginia game. "We seem to have that just about every week. We make some big catches, but we have some big drops and they're in critical situ­ations." 
Another area of improvement in the Notre Dame offense has been the play on third downs. Earlier in the season, it appeared that the Irish couldn't buy a criti­cal third down conversion. But in recent games Ron Powlus has 
.•• RAINBOWS ON THE OFFENSIVE 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Cornerbac~ lvorx Covington has stepped up his play over the last few weeks and 1s a ch1ef reason for the defense's improvement. 
freshman averages four yards per carry. He chose Hawaii over a football powerhouse, Texas, and emerging Washington State. Tharp has chalked up as many points as the quarterbacks com­bined with five touchdowns. 
He is their go-to guy. Tharp leads the team in receptions with 37 for 395 yards. He averages around 10 yards per catch and has a single receiving touchdown. 
Gary Ellison leads the team in rushing, averaging 5.5 yards per carry. However, he has yet to find the end zone. 
Head coach Bob Davie assured people that the team still means business and that obtaining a bowl bid is the main thing on its mind. 
"We are going to travel on 
Thursday and we are going to practice over there on Friday," Davie said. "We' re not going to go to the beach, we're not going to get on a surfboard, we' re not going to snorkel, we're not going get sunburnt, and we're gonna play that game on Saturday. 
"Then we are going to enjoy it Saturday night and Sunday. Then we are going to come back Sunday evening." 
If the truth lies in numbers, then the Irish should have no problem handing the Rainbow Warriors their ninth and final loss of the season. Too many fruity drinks or bad poi are the only things which could stop the Irish from returning home with a victory. 
-Kathleen Lopez 
been able to spot the open man in critical situations to sustain drives. 
"I think we can throw the foot­ball ata pretty bight level right now," Davie said. "We had six big third down pass completions that led to first downs in the West Virigina game." 
That trend could continue on the islands as opponents have converted 41 percent of third down plays. 
"I think things are a lot more smooth right now," Davie said. "But, we still have a lot of prob­lems and some of them we're not going to be able to solve them right now." 
But playing against the Hawaii defense will likely allow Davie to work on those problems, and the Irish offense should have no trouble in paradise. 
-Joe Cavato 
throw just five touchdown passes and a whopping 21 interceptions. ll,t the top of his game, this a no brainer. 
• 

Rainbows this year. However, Denson is rock solid for the Irish. 
· Receivers 
It's hard to judge the Rainbow unit without a 

• quarterback to throw to 
it. With Johnson, Brown and Nelson, the Irish have a clear-cut advantage here. 

Offensive Line 
Hawaii has been ane­mic offensively, averag­

• ing 15.3 points per game. Meanwhile, the Irish line con­tinues to improve after a slow start and. should control the line of scrim-

Defensive Line 
Sam Collins, the lead­ing tackler up front for 
• 
the Rainbows, has just 

28 . tackles on the year. The rest of the line can't hold a candle to Dansby, Williams and Bennett. 

Running Backs 
Freshman Charles Tharp h<J,s been a rare bright spot for the 
I 



Linebackers 
Rosevold, Chapman, and Cobb-Adams are considered "below 

average" at best. The group lacks 
and speed. With Minor and all over the field, Hawaii will to move the balL 

~ Special Teams 
'M' Like the Irish, the 
Rainbows are solid at punter iri Chad Shrout. Both teams have struggled covering kicks. However, they don't have an answer for the electrifying Rossum. 

Coaching 
Believe it or not, Davie . will face a coach with
• 

· less experience and fewer victories than him. The Irish general continues to learn and improve. 

Overall 

• 
Hawaii is simply awful. The Irish could get more out of a scrimmage with St. Joseph's high school. 
This one should be over by halftime. 
-Mike Day 



~----------------------~--------~----------.---------------------------..-------------------------. 
page 4 

Irish Insider • COVER STORY Tuesday, November 25, 1997 





___-Facing the Pressure 
What it has taken to overcome four years of adversity 

By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 

Trying to live up to the expectations set for him is a losing battle for Ron Powlus. 
Coming into Notre Dame, the Berwick. Pa., native was labeled as the "Messiah," deemed the savior of Notre Dame football. and basically assumed to have a national championship in one pocket and the Heisman trophy in the other. 
His first letdown came when he broke his collarbone only hours after a team meeting in which Lou Holtz announced that the true freshman had beaten out senior Kevin McDougal for the job of starting quarterback for the first game of the '93 sea-He 
had an opportunity to come back and prove his immortality, but rebroke the same bone during a non-contact part of practice on Oct. 17 of that same season. Already, a situation that was out of his hands had caused disappointment for those who expected him to go into Notre Dame as a freshman and deliver a national championship on a silver plat­ter. 
But he came back the next year, and as a sophomore, tied an Irish record by throwing four touchdown passes in his first collegiate game against Northwestern at Soldier Field in Chicago. Powlus amassed 1,729 yards passing and 19 touchdowns in his first season with the Irish, ranked 20th nationally in passing efficiency. third among sophomores behind FloridaOs Danny Wuerffel and Bowling GreenOs Ryan Henry. The Powlus -Derrick Mayes connection dazzled fans through­out the season and finally, Ron Powlus began to fulfill the inhuman role created for him when he came to the Irish. 
However, the first sea­
son he led the Irish 
was a 6-5-1 season, 
and after being voted 
out of a national 
championship 
the year before, 
Irish fans quick­
ly found their 
scapegoat for the 
'94 season. 
Still, Powlus 
continued 
to fight. 
H e 

ignored the hate e-mail, death threats, and discouraging phone calls, and came back as a sophomore and through 10 games, threw for 1,853 yards and 12 touchdowns. He had four straight 200­yard plus games that marked the first time an Irish quarterback had done that since John Huarte in 1964. Injury struck again, however, and Powlus sus­tained a broken arm against Navy. PowlusO efforts were once again thwart­ed, and he was left being fed to the criti­cism of those who were waiting for their silver platter. 
Powlus returned as a junior and con­tinued to improve his numbers, throw­ing for 1,942 yards, 12 touchdowns, and only four interceptions the whole sea­son. Still, another disappointing year, added to the controversy of Lou HoltzOs resignation, left Powlus' career incom­plete. 
Powlus decided to return for a fifth year under new head coach Bob Davie. Ironically, while many felt Holtz was the coach who coddled Powlus, he stated that he would not have come back if Holtz had stayed around. Many people speculate that much of the underlying motivation behind Powlus' return is the opportunity to play in a new system, that under new offensive coordinator Jim Colletta would hopefully give him the opportunity to throw the ball more than in Holtz' system -and of course, the hope of the elusive national champi­onship and Heisman trophy. 
"Obviously, I wanted Ron Powlus to come back, but I wanted to him to come back for the right reasons," Davie said. "I wanted him to make that decision, though, I didn't want to talk him into it. But I think he made the right decision coming back." 
However, Powlus' fifth year has not gone exactly as planned. Powlus is not a Heisman candidate, and the Irish national championship hopes were dashed after their first loss to unranked Purdue. A 1-4 start caused many [air­weather fans to turn on the Irish, and Powlus has received the brunt of the adversity. Powlus was booed at the end of the losses to Michigan State, USC and Boston College all in his own stadium. In fact, the situation got so bad in the Boston College game that his dad and uncle had to leave the stadium and go somewhere they could watch the game in peace. Many have called for Powlus to be replaced by junior Jarious Jackson, and Jackson has come into the last four games and made some big plays. 
Still, Powlus, seasoned by criticism and adversity, learned to shake off the booing and go on with the season. Although he does not deny that the crit­icism, especially within his own stadium, bothered him, if the last four years have taught Powlus anything, it has been to put his emotions aside and stay focused on football. Regardless of how bad the situation got for Powlus, he did not hide from reporters or shy away from the next opportunity to go out and face the Notre Dame community. In fact. follow­ing last weekend's 21-14 win over West Virginia, Powlus was one of the first players to go over and salute the student section, with his helmet in one hand and grasping the game ball with the other. 
"There's been a lot happen over the last four years," Powlus said. "A lot of cheers. A lot of boos, a lot of wins and losses, injuries and touchdowns, and a lot of things have happened. I'll never forget the cheer. and I'll never forget the boos. But it's a time for me to reflect on that and to show some appreciation for the suppo;ters who have stuck by me all this time.' 
Davie compliments his senior quarter-­back for getting through the adversity that he has faced this year and coming out on top like he has with the recovery the team has made. 
"It was unfair at the time [for him to be booed]." Davie said. "People were giving him a lot of advice. He got a lot of advice from me. I'm sure he got a lot of advice from his wife and his parents, but at some point it came down to him, and he did it. He responded. I give him credit because he had to dig down and do it himself, and he's done a lot of phe­nomenal things here his senior year." 
Overall, no one can deny that Powlus had done exactly that. He has broken nearly every passing record that exists at Notre Dame, and his name now stands in front of names like StPve Beurlein, Joe Montana, Joe Theismann. and Rick Mirer. Although he has not won a national championship and is not even in the running for the Heisman, he has no regrets about coming to Notn~ Dame or returning for a fifth year. 
"I've never regretted my decision to come here. I still don't," Powlus said. 'Tm thrilled with what Notre Dame has had to offer me, and what I could do with Notre Dame. I've enjoyed my four years. As far as the fifth year, I would certainly do it again because you just grow as a person in tough times. You get to show some character, and you build yourself up. I've continued to make improvements. I haven't given up on the season. And I'm thrilled that I've had the chance to be part of turning Notre Dame around." 
Powlus has possibly two games left (pending a bowl bid) left in his career at Notre Dame, and that means two more chances to show his resilience, tenacity, and to hear the sound of his supporters one last time. He will be eligible for the NFL draft in February, but it is still questionable how high he will be draft­ed. Davie has full confidence in Powlus and feels this season will make him more attractive to professional teams. 
"I know if I was an NFL coach, based on the way Ron Powlus has responded this year, I would be even more con­vinced that he has a fine future in the NFL," Davie said. "Because he's a com­petitor and was able to bounce back from a pretty sensitive situation and take control." 
For Powlus. the last five years have not been perfect. He has faced much adversity, both on a personal and a uni­versal level, but it seems like even he realized that he could never fulfill the expectations created for him. No matter how good he has been, people always seem to want more out of Ron Powlus. But they cannot argue the record books. and no one can question his loyalty to the Notre Dame. 
"I came to Notre Dame with many high hopes, and dreams have been real­ized here," Powlus said. "''m thrilled with my career here. I've worked hard, day in and day out, to win as many games as we can and to be as prepared as I can, and play as best I can. I have a way that I'll remember Notre Dame and the fans and everything that has hap­pened to me, but how people remember me, that's certainly not up to me." 

Tuesday, November 25, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 


In the S 
One of the few bright spots for the 3-8 leading candidate for WAC newcomer of the Rainbows this year has been the play of fresh­year. man running back CJ1arles Tharp. Entering Having faced Amos Zereoue and Kevin Faulk Hawaii amid high expectations, Tharp has the past two weeks, the Irish are familiar with exceeded them all in his first 11 games. With top-flight running backs. Look for them to 682 yards rushing and a team-leading 37 make some adjustments after giving up 234 receptions, the 18-year-old has emerged as a yards last week to Zereoue. 
1st season season
at 
-·~ 
at 
\·~r:4"'
Notre 
Hawaii 
---'
Dame

Bob Davie Fred vonAppen 
-
Career record: 6-5 Career record: 5-18 At Notre Dame: 6-5 At Hawaii: 5-18 Against Hawaii: 0-0 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR Deke Cooper FS 6-3 SO 
Name Pos. HI. YR 1 Quincy Jacobs RB 5-10 224 SR 
Benny Guilbeaux SS 6-1 207 JR 

1 Blase Austin DB 5-10 163 SR Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SR 
2 Johnny Macon WR 5-11 197 SR Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 
3 Tim Carey QB 6-4 180 SR
TAILBACK~

23-Denson ·. " 3 Ron Wood DB 6-2 204 JR Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR 
A·jani Sanders SS 5-11 188 JR 
32-Stokes 

4 Jimmy McClain TE 6-3 240 JR 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 
4 Denny McClain p 6-1 195 68 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 SO 
4 Magnum PI 6-2 190 DET 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 SO 
4 Ricky Lumford DB 5-7 170 FR 1 0 Deveron Harper CB 5·11 185 SO 
5 Jason Vaughn WR 5-7 150 so 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 SO 
FULLBACK 
Jason Mane WR 167

33-Spence 6 5-9 SR 
12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 7 Echo Charles WR 5-10 t93 so
28-Barry
12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 

7 Chris Shinnick DB 5-11 201 SR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 
8 Kiavash Badii WR 6-3 187 FR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 169 SR 
8 Rinda Brooks OLB 6-0 213 JR 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 179 SR 
8 Kelly Brooks TALL 6-3 140 SR 16 Zak Kustok QB 6-2 190 FR 
9 John Gurasich QB 6-3 199 FR 17 Hunter Smith P 6-2 210 JR 
10 Jay Amina ILB 5-11 193 FR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 
11 Chad Shrout KS 6-2 170 so 
18 Joey Getherall WR 5·9 165 FR 11 Anthony Smith DB 6-1 183 so 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 SO 12 Wesley Morris WR 6-0 185 JR 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 12 Dan Cichalski POLE 5-7 150 SR 
20 Kev1n Kopka K 5-7 214 JR 13 Fred Lau FB 5-10 181 JR 
20 Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR -13 Bryan Fu~<:a ROOM<i-11 .160 SR 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 14 Eric Hannum KS 6-2 170 so 
22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 SO 14 Robbie Robinson DB 5-9 166 SR 
23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 15 Jerimi Bourland WR 5-11 174 FR 
24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR 16 Josh Skinner QB 6-1 190 so
TIGHT END
25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FR 17 Jeff Ah Quin TE 6-4 242 SR
87-Holloway
26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 SO 18 Dan Robinson QB 6-3 204 JR
89-Ridder
27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 18 Chris Gamier OLB 5-11 207 FR28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR 19 Mark Jenkins ILB 5-11 228 SR29 Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FR 20 Yearby-Saunders RB 5-11 213 so30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR 21 Eddie Klaneski DB 5-9 190 SR31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR 21 Jamie Heisler WIMP 5-7 130 SR32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR 22 Lonn Kalama TE 6-0 226 SR33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 22 Michelle Krupa INE 5-7 135 so34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 SO 23 Kekoa Lee KS 5-11 162 FR35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR 23 Brad Prendergast EIC 5·11 170 SR36 Chris Wachtel P 5-11 207 SR 24 Calvin Mims FB 5-10 204 JR36 Tim Lynch CB 5·9 177 SR 24 Brandon Candura PHOT 6-0 190 SR37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR 24 Donovan Forges DB 5-11 172 JR37 Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SR 25 Kaipo Batoon DB 5-7 187 JR38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR 26 Robert Kemfort WR 6-1 185 FR38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR 27 AI Hunter DB 5-8 181 SR39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR 28 Eleu Kane WR 5-1 0 183 so40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR 28 Citizen Kane ROSE 5·1 0 183 BUD
40 Brendan Farrell SS 5-11 215 SO 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 SO 28 Daniel Ho-Ching DB 5·1 0 195 so 29 Robert Ornellas WR 5-7 151 so42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 SO 43 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FR 

30 Jade Charles RB 5·11 199 so 44 Mike Tribe ILB 5·1 0 215 FR 
31 Russell Grant RB 5-6 189 JR 
34 Doug Rosevold ILB 6·1 229 SR45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 SO 34 Mike Day STUD 6-0 165 SR45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR 35 Morrie Roe FB 6-1 283 SR46 Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FR 

36 Celnell Bobbitt DB 5-11 173 SR 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 SO 
47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SR 

38 Ryan Battin FB 6-0 200 SR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 
39 Nick Reuss OLB 6-2 206 SR 50 David Payne C 6-0 281 JR 
39 Dr. Seuss AUTH 5-8 156 DR 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 
TAILBA~C25-Tharp 41 Punahou Aina OLB 6-0 224 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
42 B. Santamaria DB 5-9 176 JR 53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 
31-Diieso 
43 Corey Kelli WR 5-6 166 FR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 
43 Damien Arafiles DB 6-1 187 JR 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 
44 Gery Graham OLB 6-1 205 SR 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 
47 Matt Paul ILB 6-2 226 so 57 Rick Kaczenski C 6-4 258 SR 
48 P. Kamakeeaina ILB 6·1 235 so 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 SO 
50 Joaquin Avila ILB 6-2 223 FR 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 
51 K. Cobb-Adams OLB 6·0 219 JR 59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 
51 T. Washburn BG 5-6 130 HOT 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 SO 
52 Stephen GonzalesiLB 6·2 236 SR 62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FR 
FULLBAC~ 53 Brian Chapman OLB 6-1 240 SR 64 John Merandi C 6-3 272 SO 
24-Mims 
54 Rufus Ayeni OLB 6-3 201 JR 65 Anthony Brannan SS 5-11 194 SO 
33--Weaver 
55 Larry Slade ILB 6-1 220 SR 66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FR 
57 Eddie Robles OLB 5·11 212 JR 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 
63 Adrian Klemm OL 6·4 282 so 70 Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 
64 J.R. Directo OL 6-2 285 SR 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 
65 Shane Oliveira OL 6-1 272 SR 72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 SO 
68 Andy Phillips OL 6-4 313 so 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SR 
69 W. Makaneole OL 6·3 265 JR 74 Rob Mowl OG 6-5 294 SO 
69 Betsy Baker BAR 5-2 90 SR 75 Chns Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 
70 Jose Martinez OL 6-5 255 JR 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FR 
71 Kaulana Noa OL 6-4 292 so 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 SO 
NOSE 

72 Akoni Sandoval OL 6-2 301 FR 78 Jon Spickelmier C 6-3 274 SR GUARD 
73 Sione Tafuna OL 6·0 270 so 79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 
95-BenneH 

75 Gary Krug OL 6-4 281 JR 80 Justin Sm~h WR 6-1 185 FR 90-Legree 
75 Dan Ventrella C 5-8 165 SR 81 Lew1s Dawson SE 5-11 186 SO 
78 Conrad Paulo OL 6-2 292 SR 82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 SO 
79 Ben Bright DT 6-2 259 JR 83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR 
80 Josh Hawkins WR 6-0 187 so 64 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR 
81 Ricky Daley WR 5-11 182 SR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR 
82 Gary Ellison TE 6-2 225 SR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 SO 
83 Ellie Kapihe DE 6-2 251 SR 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR LEFT EN~ 

83 Elle Macpherson MOD 6·0 130 HOT 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR 
77-WIIIIa 
86 Brian Marquardt OLB 6-3 227 FR

56-Bells! _
90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 SO 

87 John Kirby WR 6-2 173 JR 91 N. VanHook-DruckerDE. 6-2 228 SO 
88 Davey delaura WR 5·8 163 FR

/92 Bryan Mulvena OLB 6-2 222 JR 
89 Tyler Tanlgawa LS 6·2 228 SR

CORNERBACK 
93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 SO 92 TonyTuioti NG 5·11 274 so
15-Rossum 
94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR 38-Williams 93 Sam Collins DL 6-0 255 SR 

95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SR 
93 Tom Collins ALC 3in 5oz POT 
96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 SO 
94 Kekoa Kilcoyne ILB 6-0 245 SR 
97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 SO 
95 Soon Togiola NG 5-9 234 so
98 John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR 
96 Olen Rosehill DE 6-2 246 FR 
99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 SO 
97 Bob Pigott DL 6-2 290 SR 


Tuesday, November 25, 1997

page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT 
• IRISH INSIGHT 


Seniors provide spark for improbable turnaround 
I
t's common. It's cliche. It's even a little tired. To attribute success the of a college athletic team to the leadership of its seniors is often just lip service to the play­ers who have paid their dues and will soon arrive at their final moments on the field of play. 
For the 1997 Notre Dame football team though, nothing could be further from the 
truth. The fourth-and fifth-year players have bean an essential part of one of the most improbable turn­arounds in college football history. 
Now some may say that the Irish lost early on because the level of 


-
the competition was Brian Reinthaler higher and there is Assistant Sports Editor certainly some merit 
to that claim. After all, look at where our favorite team from Ann Arbor is heading now. 
But that is really my point. After a crushing defeat at the hands of Purdue and a flat-out stomping by Michigan State, a big loss at Michigan would have 
.been surprisingly understandable by Notre Dame standards. And what hap­pened? 
Ron Powlus stepped up and completed 20 passes on 27 attempts, including a perfectly placed touchdown pass to Bobby Brown to open the scoring. Malcom . Johnson hauled in seven of Powlus' 20 completions, converting them into 106 yards of total offense. All of this came against one of the best secondaries in the nation. In fact, Notre Dame has been the only team to give Charles Woodson any serious problems all year. 
Sure, the adversity, the losing streak, and the mental strain of the middle game of the three-game road stretch was too much for the entire Irish team when it arrived in Stanford. But the team contin­ued to persevere, led by its seniors. 
The contest at Pittsburgh did not only present Notre Dame with a shot a come­back. It challenged the Irish with the pos­sibility of a loss that would be the icing on the cake for critics of the Blue and Gold everywhere. It may have meant that the skid the team was experiencing would not be reversed. 
Senior cornerback Allen Rossum would have none of it. He grabbed the opening kickoff and sped downfield 93 yards for a touchdown which took the Panthers out of the game before it had even gotten underway. 
There was plenty of action throughout the remainder of the game, but the cap­tain's kick return made it all seem like a formality. Those are the kind of plays that a team needs from its veteran players in order to succeed. 
Again, the Irish were hit with a disap­pointing setback, getting nipped by rival Southern California for the second con­secutive season. 
Instead of letting the team get down on itself, the seniors rose to the occasion once again against Boston College. Powlus, Johnson, and Rossum all made big plays, while getting help from class­mates Ken Barry ( 41 yards on five car­ries), Melvin Dansby (seven tackles; Eagles rushed for only 83 yards on 32 carries), and Scott Cengia, who despite missing his first PAT attempt of the game (and the season), went on to hit fom extra points and two field goals. 
We all know how the story has gone from there. 
Rossum averted a titanic disaster with his hustle against Navy, Powlus avoided mistakes and thereby accentuated those made by Herb Tyler in Baton Rouge, and the unlikely combination of Ivory Covington and Ty Goode turned away the attempts of the Mountaineers to scale the mystique of Notre Dame. 
These seniors led the way into Death Valley and left its inhabitants high and dry before returning to the House that Rockne Built, and defending it (in their final appearance there) like it was always meant to be defended. 
Notre Dame now hops on a plane for the middle of the Pacific Ocean, carry­ing a four-game win­ning streak and the ability to determine their own post-season fate. What's more, the Irish seniors have helped to re-establish a program that many observers had assumed was on its death bed, while restoring hope to the hearts of Irish faithful whose faith had begun to waver. 
If the departing members of the 1997 Fighting Irish football team are to "go out in style," as senior cen­ter Rick Kaczenski (who is scheduled to start his 34th consec­utive game for Notre Dame on Saturday) declared after beat­ing West Virginia, they must do what they have done all along. They must dig down deep inside themselves and reach for just a little more heart, a little more grit, and a little more pride. 
If they are able to do so, and the rest of the team responds in kind by beating Hawaii and advancing to a bowl game, then these outgoing players will be remembered for much more than their win-loss percentage over the last four or five years. They will go down in Blue and Gold history as the class that refused to let Notre Dame football fade into the mediocrity and who set the tone for the next generation of Irish champions. 

,---------------------------~ 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden 
Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Mark DeBoy, Jon King 


INT ••• 

A NEW SUSHI BAR 
"Sushi is an ancient Japanese culinary tradition and art forrrr one that we are proud to continue, right here at Martin's. Prepared fresh daily right before your 
eyes, sushi is unique, healthy and delicious! We offer several varieties of sushi including the California Roll (with shrimp, avocado cucumber, and spicy sauce), and the Vegetarian Special (with cucumber, avocado, and carrot) to name a few. A not-so-raw fact about sushi is that the word means 'seasoned rice'. The rice, blended with fish and vegetables, is wrapped in a delicious sheet of toasted seaweed (nori) and sliced into bite sized pieces. It can also be easily prepared for vegetarian tastes." 
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
Many options and sizes are available, such as the Traditional 
New 

Caesar Salad, the Broiled Chicken Caesar, and the Shrimp Caesar, all available with The Works. 
Caesar 

Create your own salads to your own taste, boasting 
with fresh veggies, crisp romaine, tasty chicken or 

Salad 

shrimp and freshly grated Parmesan cheese. 
in our Martin's Super Market store located at St. Road 23 and I ron wood, South Bend 
i­



Tuesday, November 25, 1997 




II'iSh Expel'ts. 

Mike Day (23-17) Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Arizona State 

Betsy Baker (24-16) Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Arizona State 

Joe Cavato (24-16) Assistant Spons Editor 
Notre Dame ·Penn State ~. Georgia Arizona State 

Kathleen Lopez (27-13) Assistant Spons Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Arizona State 

Brian Reinthaler (22-18) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Arizona State 
Tim Sherman Sports Editor Emiritus 
Notre Dame Penn State Georgia Arizona 


Irish Insider • THE NATION 




RISH INSIDER 
Spartans search for possible bowl bid 
Pac-10, ACC 
rivals battle for state pride 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
No. 4 Penn State at Michigan State 

Their Rose Bowl hopes dashed, and their thoughts of a possible title all but crushed by the Wolverines, the Nittany Lions will attempt to earn a bid to an alliance bowl by tak­ing on the intra-state rivals of their 1997 nemesis. The Spartans, who have fallen from grace in many respects, hope to salvage their season and a shot at a bowl by play­ing the role of spoiler when they host Penn State on Saturday. 
Michigan State defeated Illinois last Saturday to end a four-game losing streak which began back on Oct. 18 when upset-minded Northwestern ambushed the undefeated Spartans. 
From that point, until last weekend, the schedule was not kind, as Nick Saban's team received visits from 
· national ·championship favorite Michigan and power­ful Ohio State before travelling to West Lafayette, Ind., where only this week's opponents have prevailed in 1997. Paterno and company must not let their guard down as they travel to East Lansing. The Spartans, who have not won at home since Oct. 4, are aching for a home victory to close out the season. The Lions should be headed for a showdown with a top 10 team on New Year's Day. 
No. 14 Georgia at Georgia Tech 

Georgia enters this week's match-up with its biggest rival as another team who has missed opportunities in 1997. Having lost just once, a defeat at the hands of the Volunteers in Knoxville, the Bulldogs hosted Auburn in a game that could have all but assured a berth in the SEC champi­onship game. However, the Tigers upset Georgia between the hedges to earn their own shot at the title by virtue of their win over LSU earlier in the year. 
Once again, the host team would love nothing more than a victory over its archrival in front of its home crowd to close out the season. The Yellow Jackets owe the Bulldogs one because Georgia salvaged its losing season in 1996 by knocking off Georgia Tech in the annual Peach State battle. 
Arizona at No. 12 Arizona State 
Its only loss of the season came at the hands of the Huskies in Seattle, so a win here would give the Sun Devils a fitting sequel to its 1996 run for the Roses. Arizona State was eliminated from contention for a second consecutive Rose Bowl berth when Washington State did what the Sun Devils could not and beat Washington on the road. The Cougars will repre­sent the Pac-10 instead of Arizona State, despite the fact that Washington State suf­fered its only loss at the hands of the Devils. 
The Wildcats are also look­ing to make their year by beating their in-state enemies. State embarrassed Arizona in 1996 on their way to an unde­feated regular season, so keeping the Sun Devils out of an alliance Bowl would be the perfect revenge for the Wildcats. 

OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Virginia Tech 112. Iowa 70, Virginia 60, Wisconsin 44, New Mexico 41, Louisiana Tech 30, Marshall 30, Notre Dame 20, Virginia 6, USC 4, North Carolina State 2. 
TJR 
10-1 9-2 9-2 
10-1 
10-2 
10-1 
10-1 8-2 9-2 8-2 8-2 8-3 7-3 8-3 7-4 9-2 7-4 7-3 8-3 
10-2 8-3 
1470 1311 1285 1236 1206 1178 1163 978 907 865 727 648 589 473 433 359 270 257 192 148 118 


2 
7 
10 
8 4 11 9 
12 13 14 16 18 20 23 21 25 17 15 


...--~-~------­ ----:-----,-:---~  ------...--------------------------.  
page 8  The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  Tuesday, November 25, 1997  
-­ 

Give away your coat...



PROJECT 
WARMTH and SHARE THE WARMTH. 
FACTS AND 
FIGURES ON 
POVERTY AND 
AMERICA's 
WoRKING PooR 
* 
Fastest grow­ing segment of homeless popu­lation: families and children. 

* 
The growth in the working grew by between 19 and 1990, all which were accounted for by the growth of female working poor. 


* In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African­American chil­dren and 3 9% of Hispanic young­sters living in poverty. 
* In 1993 the bottom 20% of households received only 3.6% of U.S. income while the top 20% amassed 48.2%, the widest gap since the Census Bureau started keeping track in 194 7. The top 5% of households earn 21% ofthe
.
Income. 

CI:':Nfl:':~ "0~ 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 

Also, 
201 


~,~so~.
G 



f:tt"'~· 
r o 

-< 0= 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 
ATING UP AGAIN! 




und the sta­and 22. 
Hammes Bookstore St. Mtchael's Laund1y 

STUDENT AcnvtTIES NOTRE DAME SUPPORT SERVICES 








