
..... 
Monday, September 15, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 16 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS REACTHJN 
Nicolosi receives mixed response 
By DAVID FREDDOSO A.sistant News Editor 
Psychiatrist Joseph Nicolosi visit-• Lecter co the ed campus editor regard­! a s t ingAPA 
Thursday to 9
p.give a lecture 
'---------~ in which he 
discussed his view that homosexuality is a "psycho­logical disorder" which can be treated through psychia­try. 
J\ccording to Randall Smith. a graduate student who was involved in bringing this speaker to campus, "This is a really important issue, and it seems to me very important that the eampus should talk about it. We didn't do this to end the dis­cussion but to begin the dis­cussion." 
Diseussion was begun as responses to Nicolosi's lec­ture have been many. rang­ing from jners to person<~;! int1~rest. 
Last Thursday, the day of tlw lecture, Father Hichard Warner of Campus Ministry used that organization's col­umn on page 19 of The 0 bserver. titied 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN A<Snciarr News Editor 

On Sunday, the Center for Social ConePrns and student government plan on taking members of the freshman elass on a tour of South Bend as a part of tlw Neighborhood Hoots Program. 
The program consists of a bus tour of major landmarks in South Bend and a dinner at Saint Adalbert's Parish on South Olivo Street. 
"Freshmen come into the University not knowing anything that 1~xists outside of the campus," said J\ndrea Selak, who is organizing the program for student government. "The purpose is to give the freshmen a bf'ttnr sense of the eommunity that they live in. The tour and the dinner are' planned to foster a relationship with the people that arc outside the University." 
Among the stops on the tour are the Logan Center, Northeast Neighborhood Center, and the South Bend Center for the Homeless. Lou Nanni. director of the Center for the Homeless, will give the students a 
• GRAOIJATE STUDENT UNION 
"Considerations," to discour­age students from attending the lectures in this series. 
While acknowledging that homosexual activity is "not in accord with the Gospel," Warner stressed in his col­umn the fact that Nicolosi's lecture and the second pre­sentation this coming Thursday may hurt many students who have or feel they might have a "homosex­ual orientation," which, he wrote, "in and of itself is nei­ther sinful nor morally wrong in any way." 
"My.. con­cern, he wrote, "is that these two presen­tations will cause unnecessary pain and a deepened sense of isolation on the part of some of our homosexual students." 
Warner later explained that he felt that all the atten­tion given to this issue on campus is detrimental to many people who are not in the public eye and who are either confused about or uncomfortable with their sex­ual orientation. 
"I think that it is important that our gay and lesbian stu­dents do not have a roller­coaster ride," Warner said. "I would not want to be on the front page of The Observer every day, in the spotlight. This could increase the sense of isolation gays and lesbians on campus feel." 
He also noted that the spirit of Nicolosi's lecture would differ greatly from and even be at odds with the official respect the right of gay citi­zens to live their own lives." 
'"Tolerance' is a loaded word," he said. "I don't think that [the Spirit of Inclusion] is a statement of 'tolerance.' It is a welcome to our homo­sexual students, a statement of being brothers and sisters in Christ." 
"I think," Warner added, "that the spirit behind the 'Spirit of Inclusion' is an opportunity to give an 
unequivo­c a I response to our gay and les­bian stu­dents." 
' 
"A uni­

for all opinions to be voiced," he acknowledged, "but I think that it is important for us all to pull together on this, not to confuse the issue as I think this presentation may." 
Smith, who is one of the two graduate students responsible for bringing Nicolosi to Notre Dame, said that he was grateful to 
versity is a place 
Spirit of Inclusion statement made by the University. 
"I think that the "Spirit of Inclusion" statement is clear and gives the most serious treatment of the issue," he said.· 
Warner pointed out the wording of the advertisement for Nicolosi's lecture in last Thursday's Observer, which 
ND begins -''"'" HoloGaust 

will mark the beginning of a olocaust program that organiz­levolve intO a permanent part of 
t~ity.•.• ·-__ ,_,. '·'• 

r'ti'mtplans for this year's program a \;:1:1 oflt::~:.tures, workshops and displ -.. at each address an aspect
ity aJfecte<l by the Holocaust, such ; theb1o'gy, ethics. racism and arts atn.re::i!V ____ ___ ·"" ,;.• 
~ g{}~I is to reach as many students, 
·faotilty apq' community members as we can and to_ e as an educational tool so we ·can thi about the lessons of the J:lplocaq~t:~'i sai~ Betty Signer, project coordi­rt~torx:<•-••••••·••_ '''ilw·•,,.. ._--~ccq[.gl~g _to Signer:t these lessons are refuted to is~ues of genocide; discrimination, diyers~ty ~nd the response of the Catholic Church toWorld War IL 
WilHa;m.. Rielly. chairman of K·III Cot.rllll.lniic(ltions and Notre Dame alumnus, d6nated tl;ie seed money Aug. 1, 1996, to begill_this· project after hearing about a Holocaustclass currently in the curriculum. 
"R~rea;UY. wantedto have something more significant on campus,;, Signer said. "He 
Freshmen to tour South The official welcome ... 
Bend volunteer centers 

tour of the faeility and will talk to them about the purpose of the Center. 
"This is not just a tour of the civic areas of South Bend," Selak said. "We wanted to show the freshman the various service opportunities around town as well. That is why the esc got involved. 
"Ideally, we would like to have freshmen see these opportunities and get involved in the community," Selak added. 
The tour will also pass by the Century Center, South Bend Museum of Art, South Bend Tribune Building and Stanley Coveleski Stadium. 
The program costs $3 per person, which goes towards the dinner. South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke, Father Don McNeil of the CSC and Jessie Whitaker of the Charles Martin Youth Center will speak at the dinner. 
Buses leave from the main circle at 1 p.m. on Sunday. The tour still has 150 seats available, and stu­dents can sign up with the social The Observer/Ali McElroy concerns commissioners in their University provost Nathan Hatch spoke at yesterday afternoon's Mass at the Joyce Center. The 
dorms. ceremony served as the official opening of the school year . 
stated that "Our society must 
see HOLOCAUST I page 4
tolerate homosexuality and see REACTION/ page 4 



Council resolves to improve infrastructure 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN A<Sociare News Editor 
The Graduate Student Union plans to focus on the improve­ment of its infrastructure this year. according to Michelle .Ianning, GSU vie1~ president. 
J\t last week's Graduate Student Couneil meeting. the council passed a resolution to use unbudgeted funds for com­puter equipment to be used for reeord-keeping. 
"Every year, we elect new rep­resentatives, and it is like start­ing over again," Janning said. "When we elect a chair to a com­mittee, the chair should be able to scan documents and record things eleetronieally so that the next chair will be able to follow the old records. That way when someone is elected to a position, it is more focused on the position than on the person. 
"This will also make it more organized from year to year and help in the transitional stages after the elections of new repre­sentatives," she added. 
GSU president Suzanne Coshow, in her report to the GSC last week, described the need for improving an infrastructure, then suggested the resolution to buy the equipment needed to keep the records electronically. 

"We found some money in an old, defunct account that we didn't even know existed before," Janning said. "So Suzanne sug­gested that we use that money to buy this equipment." 
Janning also spent the week contacting graduate school departments that do not have representatives to the GSU. 
"Certain departments just don't get our mailings, and we are trying to change that," she said. 
"Beeause there should be somebody in your department that you can contact to get infor­mation about events and things that the GSU is planning. Hopefully we can get all the departments to have representa­tives soon," Janning said. 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 15, 1997 
• iNS!IJE COLUMN • WORI.O A.T A. GLANCE 

Mary: Our Co­Redelllptrix? 
The relatively recent movement for the Pope to infallibly declare the role of Mary as Co-Redemptrix of the human race has created controversy throughout the world. 
If declared by the Pope. this fifth Marian dogma would officially give Mary the title that has been circulating in the Church for centuries: Co-Redemptrix, Mediatrix of All Graces and Advocate for the People of God. 
Christians throughout the world, including 


many Catholics, are appalled at this apparent 
heresy. They are concerned that Catholics 
have elevated Mary to the status of our 
Savior. However. the entire issue has been 
misconstrued. 
The main reason for this misunderstanding 
stems from the intimidating title of Co­
Redemptrix. Such a title induces this image 
in our minds of Mary and Jesus playing equal 
roles in our salvation. The problem lies in 
the translation. The prefix co, which we take 
to mean "equal to," comes from the Latin 
word cum which means "with" and carries 
with it the connotation of secondary or subor­
dinate to. The Catholic belief is that salvation 
is obtained through Jesus ALONE, and that 
Mary plays a subordinate role in that salva­
tion. 
The idea is that when Mary freely agreed to 
be the mother of our Savior she began her 
mediation in our salvation on Earth. She con­
tinues that mediation now in heaven as the 
distributor of all graces allotted us by Christ's 
sacrifice on the Cross, and the presenter of 
our petitions to Christ. If made Church 
dogma, although Catholics would not be 
forced to implore Mary during prayer, we 
would be bound to believe in Mary's role as 
Mediatrix. 
The opponents of this movement site this as 
completely contrary to the Bible which states 
that there is one Mediator between God and 
Man. and that is Jesus Christ. Once again, 
however. we lose something in the transla­
tion. The original meaning in Ancient Greek 
does not mean one and only mediator, but 
has the meaning of first or primary. We are 
all called upon by Jesus to assist him in our 
salvation as mediators. Whenever we pray 
for each other we are taking the role of medi­
ator. Whenever we lead someone to Jesus we 
act as mediators. Cannot Mary do the same? 
Mary, the perpetual Virgin, was chosen by 
God to be the mother of His Son. She was 
born without Original Sin and was assumed 
into Heaven body and soul. Is she not then 
closer to God than the rest of us? It follows 
that her role as mediator would be on a high­
er level. 
Mary is not the source of the graces won 
for us by Jesus on the cross as many oppo­
nents claim Catholics believe. Jesus is the 
source. Mary is but a channel through which 
these graces flow. It is the role of our spiritu­
al mother Mary to guide us in finding the 
Hedeemer. Jesus Christ. 
When the facts are made clear. accepting 
Mary's role is much easier. The question 
remains however. in lieu of the Pope's desire 
to reunite the Christian world, is making this 
infallible statement worth the further divi­
sions it is bound to create? We shall see what 
the Pope does as the millennium draws t<> a 
close. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

U.S. Navy divers recover bodies from Haiti ferry wreck 
MONTHOUIS, Haiti 

U.S. Navy divers recovered another :H bodies Sunday from the wreckage of a ferry that sank last week. leaving more than a hundred corpses still buried deep in the hold of the submerged boat. 
Few mourners stood on the shore, which smelled of disinfectant and rotting flesh, as the bodies were brought to the ocean surface from the remains of the vessel120 feet below. 
A brass band played a funeral march and a dozen hearses drove along a dirt road leading to the pebble beach Sunday to retrieve the bodies for burial. 
About 130 corpses so far have been recovered from the Pride of Gonave. whieh sank Sept. 8 ofr Montrouis after a one-hour journey from Anse-a-Galel'i on Gonave Island. 
Authorities are unsure how many peo-
DOMINICAN REPUBUC , DOMINICAN 

~~~!.)·~·~ 
···.• ,c HAITI \_ Gonave ... > ... 
lsi~J'Id ~,~MontroliJs 
~~ 
Caribbean Port-au-Prince 'l,_ Sea 

ple were trapped below decks when the boat sank, so estimates of the number of victims are imprecise. 
Twenty divers in teams of two plunged to the wreckage Sunday and will return Monday, said Col. Jon Stull. who is head­ing the U.S. recovery effort. The opera­tion was suspended in the late afternoon as sunlight faded 
Bereaved relatives are eager to claim the bodies so they can perform last rites -which. according to the country's voodoo n~ligion. allows the dead to find eternal peace. But President Rene Preval claims the bodies are too decomposed to identify, and has proposed a mass grave. 
U.N. oflicials say about 50 people sur­vived the sinking of Pride of Gonave. which !lipped over when the captain cast anchor and everyone hurried to one side to get oil', some survivors claim. 
• Too;.w's STAFF 
News Accent Michelle Krupa Ashleigh Thompson Sarah Hiltz Nate Wills Sports Graphics Sara Andrews Melissa Weber Kathleen Lopez Production Viewpoint Michelle Krupa Colleen Gaughen Nate Wills Lab Tech Joe Stark 
The Observer (USP.S 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associa[ed Press. All reproducdon righrs are reserved. 

Leaders ask Clinton to give up cause 
WASHINGTON 
William Weld is counting on Main Street America to push for a hearing on his nomi­nation to be amba'iSador to Mexico, but con-· gressionalleaders say it's time for Weld and President Clinton to give up. "Thi<> nomina­tion is dead," said Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, who ha<> the power to bring the nomination before the full Senate, bypa<>sing Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., and his Foreign 
'""'""---"'--~­Relations Committee. 'The president, for the sake of our rela­tionships with Mexico and all the other issues that we need to take up. needs to go ahead and find a way to move away from this nominee," Lott said Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation." Lott said he talked with Clinton Saturday and encouraged him to find a new nominee. But White House spokeswoman Julie Green said Lott did not persuade the president to give up on a hearing for Weld. "Absolutely, the president continues to support the nomination," Green said. Weld. a moderate Republican. has been criticized for ruflling conservative Helms, who ha<> refused to allow Senate hearings on the nomination, saying the former Massachusetts governor's support of medical use of marijuana means he's soft on drugs and unqualified for the job. ''I've been advised by a number of experts in Washington. D.C., that the thing to do is come down here on bended knee if you want any­thing from your government." Weld said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
U.S., German planes reported missing 
WINDHOEK, Namibia 
U.S. 
and German military planes with 33 people on board were reported missing off the coast of southern Africa on Sunday amid indications they had collided and crashed into the Atlantic. The South African air force said a signal received from a life jacket emer­gency beacon was evidence there might be survivors. German Defense Minister Volker Huehe said the German plane, a Soviet-made model inherited from the former East German army, was last heard from at 4 p.m. Saturday German time {10 a.m. EDT). He said it apparently crashed into the Atlantic ofT the coast of Angola. The German Defense Ministry later said a 

U.S. 
military C-141 cargo plane with nine crew mem­bers was missing in the same area and presumed crashed. "We have no information that they collided," a ministry spokesman in Bonn said on condition of anonymity. "But we have information that they went missing at the same time and in the same area. When you add one and one together ... a crash is very prob­able." The exact location of the apparent crash was not immediately known. 


Fish lesions cause river to close 
BALTIMOHE 

Part of another river on Maryland's Eastern Shore was closed Sunday after an outbreak of lesions was discovered in the river's fish population. It's the third Maryland waterway where fish lesions or kills have occurrcd in the past month. Lesions were first seen Saturday evening on thousands of menhaden swimming in the Chicamaromico River. said Nancy Howard, spokeswoman for the state Department of Natural Resources. "They're not dead. They're swimming," Ms. Howard said. "Most ... have lesions." Fish kills or lesions have been reported in the lower Pocomoke Hiver and tiny Kings Creek off the Manokin Hiver. Though they haven't proved it conclusive­ly, scientist-. believe a toxic microbe called Pfiesteria pisci­cida is causing lesions and sores on fish and also causing health problems in some humans. Pfiesteria is a harmless one-celled organism unless something triggers it to change form and emit a poison that attacks fish. allowing the organism to feed on them until they die. The toxic chemical given off by pfiesteria also causes human health problems such as short-term memory loss. So far. there have been no human illnesses specifically linked with the Chicamacomico Hiver's waters, Ms. Howard said. Gov. Parris Glendening announced the closing of the six-mile area Sunday. Scientists suspect excessive nutrients from chicken plants and farms in the Eastern Shore may be running into waterways and nourishing the microbn. 
Hurricane Lindaweakens 
LOS ANGELES 

Crews began building miles of sand berms and home­owners installed rain gutters as Hurricane Linda moved toward Southern California, weakened but still threaten­ing to bring heavy surf and rain. The hurricane was about 800 miles south of San Diego on Sunday, moving west-northwest at 13 mph, and was expected to reach the area late Monday, the National Weather Service said. Linda's top winds had decreased to near 105 mph but still could bring rain and 14-foot waves in some areas. Beach erosion and flooding in coastal areas were possi­ble from a predicted linn of showers extending from San Diego through Las Vegas. Los Angeles County workers used sandbags to protect boardwalks. bike paths. access ramps and buildings from encroaching surf. Crews unclogged drains and began constructing seven miles of' sand berms to guard parking lots. lifeguard towers and buildings. "We'd rather be prepared like this than try to do it afterward," said Wayne Schumaker. a county chief of' facilities. "Once the storm hits onshore, because of the erosion, we don't have the sand to work with to con­struct these berms." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Hend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 15. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Monday ~ 80 60 Tuesday 80 60 Wedn~sday~ 77 53 
FRONTS: 
"T""'T' ..a....&._ ............... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure
77 57 

H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
\ 

Atlanta 87 64 Denver 86 55 Los Angeles 83 70 Baltimore 81 61 Detroit 79 59 Miami 89 78 (f Chicago 80 63 Dublin 64 46 Milwaukee 79 61
4,~,~8GQ ~ u 
Columbus 80 59 Honolulu 91 73 Oslo 57 50 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 94 73 Indianapolis 79 60 Santa Fe 86 56 
Via Associated Press GravhicsNet 
Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
A Latin beat...
SMC dedications set for today 
Special to The Observer the Academy and the College" and carvPd in Italy. It was origi­and dedicated it to their chil-nally a gift from the students of 
The dedication of "Mary's dren. Saint Mary's Academy in South l'lacp," and the biP-ssing of "Our The furnishings and appoint­Bend to the school. Lady of Wisdom Chapel" at Saint ments of "Our Lady of Wisdom The original academy was Mary's College will oecur on Chapel" are also the gift of thP­established in 1844 by the Mon., SP.pL 15. at 12:15 p.m. Hammes family in appreciation Sisters of the lloly Cross in "Mary's Place," which consists of ·of William Hickey's 10-year Bertrand, Mich., and was the a statue of Mary and the sur-tenure as pre.sidcnt of Saint early foundation of Saint Mary's munding landscaped environ-Mary's. Located on the main College. In 1855. th~ academy nwnt. is located next to level of McCandlP-ss Hall, the was moved from Bertrand to the McCandless llall. "Our Lady of chapel will be used primarily by present Saint Mary's College Wisdom Chapel" is on the main students who reside in campus. In 1945, when the col­floor of the dormitory. McCandless. The name "Our lege needed additional space, 
Dorene and Jerry llammes, Lady of Wisdom" was chosen to the academy was moved to a trustees of Saint Mary's College. symboJizp, both thP educational location in South Bend now provided landscaping and a spe-focus of the CollegP and the wis­known as Erskine Manor. rial Pnvironnwnt in thP-nxl<mdPd dom that charact<~rizes the rcli­WhPn the aeademy closed in space around tlw statue to crP-gious sensibility of the institu­1983, the statue was relocated atf' a place of' quiet beauty and tion. to the front entrance of Our rdlnrtion. Mr. and Mrs. The statuP in "Marv's Place" Lady of lloly Cross Convent, a llarnrnns donat<~d th<~ space "in was dn.signcd by· Daprato r!ltirrment facility for the Sisters apprP-riation of thr studPnts of Studios. a statuary company, of the Holy Cross. That facility 
closed in 1997; the statue was once again placed at the College, University of Notre Dame eompleting a cycle of relocation whieh connected the evolving
International Study Program history of Saint Mary's. Hammes is founder and chair­
ln 
man of the board of two bank holding corporations and a bank. Hammes has had numer­ous affiliations with Saint Mary's 



Jerusalem 
Col!Pge including serving as vice ehairman of the Board of 


The Observer/Ali McElroy 
Trustees. 

The Latin jazz group "Toledo" performed on Saturday night for a
Spring 1998 

crowd in LaFortune. 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
~•.····''·.:··:· 

~ 
..··:·:::·:·,.''':':''''•·:·'·'·:'''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''/::·:·:·:::::.:.:.:.:.::::::::::::
@}::::::::::::: ·OO··o:::::::, .... 
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 4:45P.M. 


. . Seasons and Individuals . GA's only;•Confidential
21 7 DeBartolo 

23~I:S65o:;;: ,:;;.::: ,_
Returning students will be on hand to answer 
=·= =·=···=·=·=·· :·:=: I:::;.;. . . . . . . . . . . . .. ~if{~:
questions 
• 
=It;~~~~~;~t~ ~ ~~)~~ff ~:i:=:::::::::::.: ·.=.-.-·.:.:============= ·==·= · · 


Arthur Andersen presents A Panel Discussion of Service Lines Assurance Services, Tax, Business Consulting, Economic and Financial Consulting, and Computer Risk Management Tuesday, September 16, 1997 ~rn®~ \{~'"Jli r~'1n) ~Q\:;:J !...Il...!.~~r!..!!l Q \.wrnim~~ Pizza and refreshments to follow presentation. .. Sponsored by The Finance Club and The Accounting Club  Internatio If you missed our meeting last Monday ...no sweat! Here is a listing of the times our different divisions will meet starting TONIGHT! Operations Management: 5:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater of La Fortune Communications: 5:45pm in the Montgomery Theater of La Fortune Business Services: 6:30 pm in the Montgomery Theater of La Fortune Internships Division: 7:15 pm in the Montgomery Theater of La Fortune Citizens Democracy Corps (CDC): 8:00 pm in the Montgomery Theater of La Fortune Accounting: 7:00pm in 205 Cushing Finance: 7:30pm in 205 Cushing  

-----~--------~------------------~-------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 15, 1997 
~~~~~----------------­

Reaction 
continued from page I 
that he was grateful to Warner for his criticism. but hoped that the lecture provid­ed an important perspective on the issue. 
"I think that Father Warner is motivated by a deep pas­toral concern for the homo­sexual community on campus. and I value his input" Smith said. "I think that there is an important advantage to these being viewed through a Catholic pastoral perspective." 
When asked. Smith also confirmed reports that some students had approached Nicolosi after the lecture for his help and advice. 
"If he touched the lives of people there in the audience who were struggling with a gender identity problem, and if the things he said made sense to them. then it was worthwhile." Smith said. 
"It is not the intention of those sponsoring these talks that they be directed against the homosexual community," he said. 
However. Fran Feeley. class of 1990. who is the chairman of Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA-ND/SMC). discounted the lecture altogether. 
"Dr. Nicolosi's claims of high success rates with his clients suggest that he is a shrewd businessman." said Feeley, who has a PhD in psy­chology. "His presentation had the feel of an info-mer­cial." he added. pointing out that the American Psychiatric Association does not consider homosexuality as a condition curable by psychiatry or psy­chology. 

"This is not science. There have been no studies showing that conversion therapy is possible," Feeley added. 
"A therapist has the obliga­tion to obtain informed con­sent from his client." he argued, "and to me. that implies that he would have to inform the client that the APA believes it is not a disease." 
Karl Eichelberger, who serves as chairman of the campus group Gays and LAsbians at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College IGLND/SMCl. did not feAl that any comment on the lecture would be appropriate. 
Among those who attended the lecture on Thursday night was Nathan Yee, a graduate student, who said he did not have a strong opinion. but was nonetheless intrigued by Nicolosi. 
"I was initially attracted by this talk, by its being so out of the norm, so counter to the media we usually see," Yee said. "I certainly disagree with some of the things he said, but I also think that his opinion is worth evaluating." 
SPONSORED BY ND HOLOCAUST PROJECT 
Returning studenrs will be on hand to answer questions 

Holocaust 
continued from page I 
thought this was a wonderful way to introduc:e the students to the past so we can apply those lessons to the future." 
Since the initial donation, sever­al other alumni and charitable organizations have contributed to the effort. The United States Memorial Holocaust Museum has also helped underwrite and plan this year's event. 
"We'm hoping to develop a rela­tionship with the museum so stu­dents ean do an internship at the museum through the Washington program." said Signer. 
Currently, therA are no studenl'i involved in the organization of this year's program. although Signer welcomes any interested parties. 
Events for this fall include five scholars-in-residence who will each visit the r,ampus for a few days to give one major public lec­ture and to moet with undergradu­ates, graduate students and facul­ty in department classes or infor­mal gatherings. A one day work­shop for Catholic educators will also oecur Oct. 5. Studonts are welcome to attend the workshop. 

"We're hoping that this confer­ence in October will mako Notre Dame the repository for Catholic: educators to work on lloloc:aust curriculum," Signer said. 
Spring events ineludo several artistic: displays and a lilm sympo­sium at the Snito Museum. Organizers especially encourage students to attend the sc:reenings March 20 and 21. 
The projec:t will also produce three of its own videos throughout the year for use by educators. The yearlong activities will c:ulminate in an international conference April 26-28 involving sc:holars from all around the world. 
"This is the first time a confer­ence of this magnitude has ever been at a Catholic university." said Signer. "Our goal is to have a lot of interdisc:iplinary conversation 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR ANGELA BORELLI 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997 4:30PM 205 DEBARTOLO 
SPRING 1998 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCT 1 1998-99 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC 1 
between theologians, artists and scientists. We're hoping to create a very unique cxperir.ncA where WA can draw some lessons about tho llolocaust." 
Habbi MichaP! Signer. Abrahms Professor of Jewish Thought and Culture, is co-directing the llolocaust program with Professor 
J. Hobert Wegs of the Nanovic Center for European Studies. Habbi Signer has high hopes for this year's program and its futun~ at Notre Dame. 
"My hopes arc that the N"otre Dame Holocaust Project will allow mom students and faculty to have the opportunity for rr.flection, learning and response to the most outstanding moment of fwil within our century," he said. "We hope thAre will be furthAr opportunity and educational material for Notre Dame and other universities which would grow out of the intAnse oxperience of this year." 


Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• BosNIA-HERCEGOVINA 
Bosnians flood polls in final day of local elections 
By AIDA CERKEZ Associated Press Writer 
SARAJEVO 

Overcoming fears of violence, Bosnians flooded polling stations Sunday to vote in local elections that could altnr the divided coun­try's ethnic map. 
The unexpectedly high turnol.lt during weekend voting forced elec­tion organizers to open additional polling stations and drew praise from international officials. 
"It proves the hunger for democ­racy in this country," said Carlos Westendorp, the top international envoy in Bosnia. 
The results of the voting -the first local elections in Bosnia since the end of a 3 1/2-year civil war that uprooted 1.5 million people ­are not expected for days. But the number of refugees who crossed former front lines to cast ballots in their prewar hometowns suggest the outcome may change Bosnia's political and ethnic landscape. 



wrong 
A spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, David Foley, estimated Sunday that 89 percent of those eligible to vote reg­istered in their prewar hometowns. They did have the option of voting in their current towns, but had to meet stringent conditions set by the government to do so. The high par­ticipation rate could have serious repercussions in areas now con­trolled by other ethnic groups -if, as expected, 
refugees elect municipal officials from their own ethnic groups. Such a result would reverse losses suf­fered during the 1992-1995 civil war. 
The elections were one more step in a strategy by Western nations to force Bosnians of all ethnic back­grounds to coexist. 
Organizers have said they won't certify the elections as free and fair unless local councils abide by the voters' wishes by the end of the year. Sanctions could be 

imposed to isolate communities that insist on continued separatism. 
That prospect dearly preoccu­pied Serb officials over the week­end as they watched buses full of Muslims pull up to vote and absen­tee ballots pour in from abroad. 
Observers said it would be diffi­cult for Serbs and Muslims to work together on town councils. 
"It will be very, very hard," said Dragan Coric, a Serb judge who heads the Rogatica electoral com­mission. 
THINGS TO DO WITH SCISSORS. 
I I I I 

coupon I 
I I I I I I

L. _______ .J 
Do the right thing. Cut out these MasterCard Exclusives"' coupons and present them along with your MasterCard® card and you'll cut costs on all kinds of good stuff. Which feels a lot better than a sharp stick in the eye. 

ExclusiveS"" 
FOR COLLEGE 

r-----~1:~::~;:;~------r-----~U-~S~A-~;;-----,------~------·---------~---------r-----~~-;~~-----, 
ON ANY PURCHASE OF $70 OR MORE 
Use vour MasterCard" card and save 20% on 
your. purchase of $70 or more. For the store 
nearest you, calll-800-853-2920 
RING 11162119 
011trandcouponvalrd8115f.l7to12131197Purchasemus!~ bllmadeMIIlaMasler'C¥d"cardCougonrrusrbllprasented ~ ll!lllltolPt.rt~We t~~n~loneCOIJI?OOperputthm Olll!r~ Eltduslve:r 
nolbecomDillldWiltran,oOihlrdlscouniiJ(ollef VOtdwl\ere FOil COLlEGE 
protub!tld 
L-------------------------•-J Pdyless SheeSeurce 
$2 OFF 
Choose from hundreds offilshronahle Mvles ilnd save $2 on any regular price item $9.99 or more V.:hen you use your MasterCard• card. For the store narest you, please call 1·800-444-SHOE (7463) 
RECEIVE A CAP OR A PUTTER 
WITH PURCHASE OF $40 OR MORE 
Use vour MasterCard• card to make a punchase of 140 ~r more a; participating Golf USA locations and receive your choice of a FREE cap from any of the top names in golf, such as Nike~ Titleisl'!' Taylor Made• and more, or get a FREE putter (up to a 120 value). 
Offer and coupon valid B/15/97 to 12/31/97 Purchase must be made with aMasterCard'~~" card OHer avarlable only at partic­Ipating Gall USA stores Coupon must be presented att1me ol purchaSe llm•t one coupon per purchase Otter may not be combined with any other discount or oner Vo1d where proh1blled 
SAVE $6 O'V A PURCHASE OF $20 OR MORE 
Get just the look you need when you shop at Bed Bath & Beyond~ Use your MasterCard" card and save 16 on your purchase of 120 or more. For locations nearest you, call 1-800-GO-BEYOND:" 
Offer and coupon valid '8/15/97 to 12/31/97. Purchase must be made with aMasterCar(fl' card Coupon must be presented at time ol purchase. Only one to acustomer Not valid with any other olfer Not valrd 101 purchase ol gih certificates. Catphalon~ All-Clad, J A. Henckels or Krups« products. Olfer void where prohibrted. 
Exclusives­
FOR COLLEGE
• 
ONE FREE PERSONAL PAN PIZZA• 
WITH A PURCHASE OF ANY MEDIUM OR LARGE PIZZA 
Use vour MasterCard•card for dine in, ca;ry out or delivery at Pizza Hut• and receive a FREE Personal Pan Pizza when you purchase any medium or large pizza at regular menu price. 
Olferandcouponvahd8{15!97to12!31197.Purchasemustbe made with aMasterCard* card, where credit cards are accepted Otler available only at participating Plua Hut8 locations Coupon must be presented at time of purchase Umit one coupon per party per visit or order. Offer may not be combrned with any other discount or offer. limited delivery area. Delivery charges may apply 1/20 cent cash redemption value 
©1997PiuaHut.lnc. 
ANY CD, CASSETTE OR VIDEO 

Save on the hottest music and movies every day -you'll find thousands of COs, movies and cas.seues. Use your MasterCard• card at panlcipating locations to save 20% on any CD or a.ssctte regul2rly priced at J7.99ormort, or on anyvilko regularly priced 
at S9.99 or mort. 
___________________________ 
J 
SAVE $10 
ON NCAA FOOTBALL 98 SPORTS. VIDEO GAME 
iii\ 

------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 15, 1997 
Goldman sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate In 

MINDS. WIDE OPEN:M 
www.gs.com 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 
Investment Banking Division presentation for undergraduates 
7:30-9:00pm Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
36236 NOire Dame 10xt6 

-~--------------~----~-­
Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Stealth fighter crashes into houses, injures four 
By RAJU CHEBIUM 
Associated Press Writer 
MIDDLE RIVER. Md. 
An F-117 A stealth tighter broke apart during an air show perfor­mance and crashed into two houses Sunday, setting both on !'ire and causing six minor injuries on the !-,tround. The pilot rjected safely. 
The crash happened about 3 
p.m. as the jet was. making its final passes during the Chesapc~ake Air Show at the Glcm Martin State i\.irport. 
Several witnesses said they saw parts of the plane break off just bcl'ore it went down. I lome video of the crash showed a pier,e of the airr,raft, which appeared to be 
-from the tail section, flying off the 
jet before it went into a slow, flat 
spin and crashed. 
"Some people were saying it 
was part of the show," said Rudy 
Medina, who was at the air show. 
"But I knew it wasn't part of the 
show. No aircraft of that caliber 
disintegrates in midair like that." 
The plane, carrying 11,000 
pounds of fuel, went down about 
a mile from the airport, into two 
houses and two cars at a condo­
marina complex on Chesapeake 
Bay in this suburb northeast of 
Baltimore. 
Baltimore County Fire Capt. 
Stcwe Gisriel said six people at the 
complex suffered only minor 
injuries and were not hospital­
ized. Among them was an elderly 


Reflect Remember Resolve 


POW and MIA Observance Day 
Monday, September 15th 
• 
8:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. 12 Hour Vigil Field House Mall 

• 
7:30p.m Memorial Service Field House Mall 


Join the Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC and remember the men and women who sacrificed great(l' for our country. We will never forget tHeir actions. 
woman who managed to escape her home seconds after the plane slammed into her garage. 
The pilot, identified as Capt. Bryan Knight, was taken to Andrews Air Force Base for eval­uation of minor back and neck injuries. 
Witness Kimberly Chaapel said she noticed that "part of the wing · fell off' before the plane went down and the pilot ejected. 
"He started rolling head over tail and (the pilot) ejected proba­bly 500 feet before the ground," she told CNN. "He was very, very lur,ky." 
Andy Kunkowski said he was watching the show from a small boat near the shoreline, and immediately went to the scene of the crash and spoke to the pilot after he parachuted to the ground. 
"He said he was truly sorry about what had happened and said he tried to pull it out," Kunkowski said. "lie wanted to 

Stealth bomber crash 
An F-117 stealth fighter that was performing at an air show crashed into two houses in Middle River, just outside Baltimore. 
F-117 stealth fighter Nighthawk 
• used in the Gulf War 
• has the ability to evade radar and radar-guided missiles 

S<XJrce:J<rn'sf>JiheAiraaflsi"llhev.uld AP/ N. Davis 
land this thing in the water, but couldn't." Gisriel said the fire was under 

Thursday, September18 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree -6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 17 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
• 
Wide-ranging courses 

• 
Internships & service-learning 

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Organized study-travel 

• 
Grants, scholarships, loans 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244 800-235-3472 snabroad@syr.edu http:/ /sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
AUDITIONS 
Opera Workshop 
Wed, Sept 17 4:00-6:00 pm Washington Hall Tuesday, September 16 
Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music 
for the pianist. An accompanist 'I.Viil be provided. 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 
Roles &pen for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester Opera Workshop Production_ 
NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
Call 631-620 I for more information. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
AUDITIONS 




SYRACUSE 
STUDY ABROAD 
control about an hour after the crash and a three-block area of the neighborhood was evacuated for military officials to conduct their investigation into the cause of the crash. Military police were brought in to help guard the area. 
"It is a secret airr,raft. obviously we want to protect it the best way we can," said Capt. Drew Sullins, a Maryland National Guard spokesman. 
Sullins said he was not aware of any communications between the pilot and the control tower at the airport, but said the aircraft's black box had been recovered. 
The Air Forr,e said the F-117 A had taken off from Langley Air Force Base, Va., and was to return after flying by the air show. 
The aircraft, assigned to the 7th Fighter Squadron, 49th Fighter Wing at Holloman Air Force Base, N.M., was one of two F­117As loaned temporarily at Langley to support air shows along the East Coast, the Air Force said. 
The boomerang-shaped F-117 A Nighthawk, armed with laser­guided bombs, was used in the Gulf War against the most heavily defended Iraqi targets because of its ability to evade radar and radar-guidPd missiles. According to an Air Forr,e far,t sheet, each F­117 costs $45 million. 
Stealth tec:hnology uses curved or angular surfar,es to reduce that radar reflection -known as a cross section. When combined with radar absorbing composite materials, a plane with a 43-foot wingspan displays the cross sec­tion of a bumblebee. 
Air Force spokeswoman Capt. Keri I Iumphrey said three Stealth fighters have been destroyPd in crashes since the F-117 A wa_<; put into service in 1990. The only fatality was on a night training flight in 1995 in New Mexico. 
Before the planes were in offi­cial service, there had been at least three other crashes of the once super-secret planes. 
--------------------.-------------------­
-----------------~----....-----.------~--~----------------------------------~--~-------------, 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, September 15, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor...... . ..... Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks 
Sports Editor... ................... . . .... Mike Day Accent Ediror ........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ................ Katie Kroener 
Business Manager Tom Roland 

Advertising Manager.. . ..... Jed Perers Ad Design Manager... . ............... Jennifer Bresow Production Manager... . .... Mark DeBoy Systems Manager..... . ............ Michael Brouillet Controller... . ..................... Kyle Carlin 
The ObServer is the independem newspaper published by rhe smdems of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reAecr the policies of rhe administration ofeirher insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurarely and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assisranr Managing Ediror, News Ediror. Viewpoint Editor. Sporrs Ediror. Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associare News Ediror. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe aurhors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available ro all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines  
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  
Managing Editor  63!-454!  Advertising  
News/Phoro  63!-5323  Systems  
Sports  63!-4543  Office Manager  
Accem/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
General Informarion  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

• JED! MIND TRICKS 
631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 



------------------..------~-----~ 
Who is to Blame for Saturday's Stupidity? 
Stupidity. That one word sums up the entire NO/Purdue football game. Stupidity is not why we lost-it was only a contributing factor. 
Football is a strange game. On any given day, either team can win-which is why we actually play the game. On Saturday, however, stupidity reigned supreme. When the biggest impediment to victory for both teams could be summed up with the phrase "Purdue's 
Kevin Patrick 

Head Coach" {current and former), I can only ask, "What were you think­
. ?"
mg. 

In years past when Notre Dame expe­rienced a malaise on offense, a fresh­man Randy Kinder or Autry Denson would be inserted into the lineup to shake things up a bit. Why didn't we see Tony Driver or Cooper Rego? Probably because the players on the field weren't the biggest problem. That distinction goes to our brilliant offensive (choose your own meaning) coordinators. They knew that despite our superior person­nel, it was their duty to out-think {their word, not mine) the opposing coaches rather than let the players do what they were recruited to do-play Notre Dame football. 
On Saturday, Jim Colletta was the best coach Purdue had. Why do we have a highly touted offensive line going 6-foot­6, 300-pounds and pass repeatedly? Just ask Jim. "If we are going to get the quality wideout to come to Notre Dame, we can't run the ball 100 times. The game we are going to play is designed so we can ~et good wide receivers." 
{Even if we lose ... repeatedly, he forgot to add). Check my math here, but didn't Notre Dame successfully recruit Derrick Mayes, Randy Moss, Raki Nelson and Joey Getherall in the recent past? Aren't these quality wideouts? 
Colletta then explains away our unsuccessful running game by saying, "It's not like we were cramming (the ball) down their throats every time." We averaged four yards a carry on Saturday -not exactly great numbers. But Jim Colletta should know the basics of footbalL Football is a game of momentum controlled at the line of scrimmage. In the fourth quarter, when you need a sustained drive, you line up behind your 6-foot-6, 300-pound offen­sive line and simply blow the other team off the balL How do you guarantee the results will be to your liking? You do this straight forward. smash-mouth football and eventually our 300 pounders wear down their 240 pounders. Additionally, the barbaric nature of football is that the more you blast the other guy, the more adrenaline you build up, and the better you get as the game wears on. That breeds confi­dence. That is Notre Dame footbalL 
Passing teams lack heart. They are finesse teams who have drives stall no matter how many yards they rack up. There is a great saying: "There are only three things that can happen when you pass, and two of them are bad." (For those not familiar, the options are to have the pass completed, have the pass fall incomplete, or have it intercepted.) A sustained drive predicated on running builds the adrenaline while weakening your opponent. A drive with third down attempts predicated on passing does not wnar down your opponent and increas­es the likelihood that you'll fall on the wrong side of the "Three Things" axiom stated above. On Saturday, after sus­tained drives predicated on passing for third-down conversions, which side of the axiom did we end up on time and time again? 
When will we feel confidnnt that Autry Denson will run straight ahead behind a bull-dozing offensive line? Not until Colletto is either gone, or he stops tak­ing those "stupid" pills before each game. Colletto was brought in to spice up the already potent Notre Dame offense. What would make Colletta scrap an offense that has kicked his butt repeatedly for an offense that yielded no 
'passing teams lack heart. 
They are finesse teams who have drives stall no mat­ter how many yards they rack up. 
success while at Purdue? Stupidity, that's what. 
How do you explain two time-consum­ing draw plays during a "two-minute" offense? Oh, I forgot, that's what smart coaches do to win football games. llow is it that Ron Powlus has not thrown one deep ball all year? That stretches the defense, Coach-you know, opens up the running and short passing game ... you with me? How can Purdue go deep against our "prevent" defense and we have dump passes to the back out of' the backfield? llow do we go for one point after the late touchdown? (Understood that it appeared to be Davie's call, but Colletta is hired to do something, right?) 
Colletto had one brilliant quote before the season had even started, "When I get some players with talent, you will see that lam a good coach." Uh, Coach, you want to follow up on that one for me? 
Dospite all of the stupidity from Purdue's former head coaeh, how were we still in the game? Because Purdue's current head coach, Joe Tiller, did everything within his power to snatch defeat from tho jaws of victory. Late in the game, he threw a half-back option that had a better chance of being inter­cepted than caught (see axiom above). Then on third and 2 with the game on the line he throws again! And it was the same play we had seen all day! Of course we had no answer for it. This play truly typified the entire day. If a Notre Dame defensive back decides to gamble (and maybe become a legend), it is possible that that screen pass could have been picked off (we had seen it all day and knew it was coming) and then it is off to the races. So what, we don't gamble. If we make the tackle, it's our ball on the subsequent punt. But we missed the tackle. So how did the receiver get to the two yard-line? Where was Allen Rossum? He was bla­tantly held in full view of the referee. (But I don't want to even start on the inequities of the referees! Autry Denson. Joey Goodspeed. Ugh!!!!) 
Anyway, the play worked, and the game is over. We have no timeouts, and there is one minute on the clock. Kneel on the ball, and savor the upset, right? Wrong. In all his brilliance Joe Tiller scores the touchdown instead of run­ning out the clock. Granted we had little chance of scoring two touchdowns so late, but I'll take 1 chance in 1000 over 0 in 1000 any day. Maybe we could run the kickoff back -we have done that once or twice. And aren't we famous for mirar.le comebacks? What was he thinking? Sorry, I forgot, he knew Jim Colletta was on the other side of the field. 
Despite all of the opposition's stupidi­ty, we still lost. What does that say about us? 
Keuin Patrick is a third year JDIMBA student who will nol give up on Notre Dame -ever. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. They are definitely not those ofThe Observer sports department. 
• DOONESBURY 
PR£.9/aNTKING .7 51/?K/9/J!TZ HER£/I !<8P Y()(}R. N&t(J PROSPeCT,8.1/./ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
tJSllfN,K/~I WNT I(IANNA /JUST YOU!< S!lJN£GH£1?£, 8IfT I'M60NNA NliW A 5~YEAR PIJCI(AeG tfJITH A 200 G at/!3&, 
liN/? A G~ RJ5/T1CWON 
7}1& 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"It is better to remain 
silent and be thought a 

fool than to speak out and 
remove all doubt." 
-Abraham Lincoln 

r-----------~----------------------------------------------~------------~--------------~-~ 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, September 15, 1997 page 9 
• DIGGING DEEPER 
Ants Marching: The Dangers of Living Superficially 
"When all the little ants are marching 
Red and black antennae waving 
They all do it the same. 
They all do it the same way. " 
-Dave Matthews Band 

!lave you ever seen ants marching? They are everywhere, even here at this prestigious academic institution. Sometimes. in fact. they arc you and I. Ants arc those people who live out their days without giving much thought to exactly what they are doing or why. They simply follow the other ants, marching toward whatever fancy suits them at the 
Aaron Kheriaty 
moment. Ant-ness is a trap that we all 
fall into at times to a greater or lesser 
degree. Our culture promotes it; confor­
mity and superficiality are the norm. If 
we want to avoid becoming another ant, 
we must actively resist. 
"fle never changes a thing; the week ends the week begins ... " 
It is tempting to live on the exterior surface of life where things are safe, familiar, and easy. We often get stuck in ruts: WE~ allow our daily routine to take over our active consciousness. When this happnns, everything we do becomes superficial -our work. our interior life, our friendships. We become so busy that we f(>rget to dig brmeath the surface of our various activities. We stop asking the important questions. We stop searching for meaning. We stop challenging our­selves and those around us. 
I do not, of course, imply that everyone here is like that. Certainly there are plen­ty of people who truly think about what it is they are doing, about what they are liv­ing for. There are many who understand that "the unexamined life is not worth liv­ing." We must take our cue from those who genuinely search for the truth, for what is. Without this search, our lives remain exterior, superficial, and lacking purpose. 
The first step in avoiding the traps of the ant culture is to realize that we are in possession of an intellect capable of more than Sega video-hockey or hanging out at Bridget's. Not that there is anything wrong with these activities, but they hardly constitute our highest calling. I recently talked to a fellow student who was going out drinking on her 21st birth­day, even though she was highly allergic to alcohol. Now I am all for getting your free beer on the one day of your life when they will not charge you for it. But is this such a time-honored necessity that this ant would feel inadequate without doing it? Or is she just marching along with the other critters? She knows beforehand that her whole body is going to break out in hives (these are not pleasant, I assure you). Then again, I suppose hives are not your biggest concern when you're passed out on the floor. 
Some may say that ants are victims of a corrupt or indifferent system. All we need to do. they argue, is to restructure our educational or political agenda, and we will get them thinking again. This view grossly underestimates the need for per­sonal responsibility. Many ants, of their own volition -not because of a corrupt system -simply opt for the ease of rou­tine. This is not due to a lack of other options. Especially at a place like Notre Dame, where all the opportunities to engage in intellectual activity, take part in faith formation, or participate in philo­sophical inquiry are found in abundance. 
"We look at each other. wondering what the other is thinking ... " 
Maybe I am being unfair. It is true that I cannot see what is inside another's head as they go marching along the quad. But I am not just referring to aca­demic knowledge. At a university where one is literally sur­rounded by religious images, it is alarm­ing how many stu­dents never give much thought to higher things. The 'Tm okay, you're okay" concept of God (as long as I don't murder, rape, or steal, God will 
many students ever go. Even Sunday worship is often this way. The rest of the dorm goes to Mass, "so I guess I will too." 
"But we never say a thing, and these crimes between us grow deeper ... " 
Time passes quickly. Each day is a pre­cious gift. While we are here, we need to make the most of it. 
Some want to save the whales. I say we try saving the ants. Building true friend­ships is the best remedy. Be bold. Challenge your friends. Take steps to make your time with them more mean­ingful. Thomas Merton once said that if you really want to know a person, ask them what they are living for. Some of your most memorable and real conversa­tions may come out of these moments of daring. Even if you cannot seem to find answers to any of life's larger questions, at least the questions are being asked, and the search is begun. 
at Notre Dame are fast and few. Life itself is short, and before you know it, "Lights down, you up and die. " 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior philosophy and pre-med major at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached by e-mail at aaron.d.khe­riaty.J @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

APA: Homosexuality not a Mental Disorder 
Clinical psychologist Joseph Nicolosi's {Encino, Calif.) views on homosexuality (The Observer, Sept. 9) should have been more fully reported. ,, 
In a "Resolution on Appropriate Therapeutic Responses to Sexual Orientation," adopted by the Council of Representatives of the American Psychological Association, Aug. 14, 1997,; Nicolosi's claim that homosexuality is a mental disorder-~,_ 
unconditionally rejected (cf. ., .__, httpJ/www.nd.eduf... amanier/atrso.html). 
Don't unhappy homosexuals deserve a chance to change? 
Hemember Nicolosi also claimed that the "sissy boy" syndrome (in evidence by age three) is a remarkably stro:ng predictor of male homosexuality. It's easy to "repair" homosexuality at this stage. At age three! Future ND parents can stamp out the dis­ease of homosexuality by packing little Billy off to the Thomas Aquinas Psychological Clinic to be reprogrammed to enjoy gen­uine male physicality. No need to worry aBout the "gay gene," __ ,_ Nicolosi will save the day. All you need to have really virile male children is an unethical psychologist. · 
A. Edward Manier Professor ofPhliO$ophy & History and PhilosophyofScience 
University ofNo(te Dame September 12, 1997 

ViewpCO>int lis nCO>w ,aucceptiing &JP>JPliiicatiiCO>ns fCO>rr" coh.11mnists" Send CO>Jr' 1brr"ing a tynJ>eJ s,mmplie cCO>RUJ.rrnn 9 50(Jt.§50 WYCO>n~Js 9 t<()) Tli11e 01bserr"verr"9 3Jl ~ [_A,&JF CO>rtUJ.ne" IFCO>ll" rrnCO>rr~e infCO>rr"ma"" timn 9 llJ>lieasce caU 631.,5303" [)eaJRiineg MCO>nJay9 Se]p>to 22" 
ND Women Resent SMC Privileges 
We are writing in response to the inside col­one game. The Saint Mary's girls pay just a little umn of The Observer on Sept. 11 entitled, bit more than we do for season tickets. "What's the Matter Here?" written by Rachel We are tired of hearing about the "Notre Dame Torres. community." Saint Mary's is more like the Great 
We want to explain what's really the matter Notre Dame Parasite. They use our facilities, here. We understand some of her points, espe­mooch football tickets, take classes with us, and cially about drunk students and students claim­have the nerve to pass themselves off as Notre ing seats minutes before kick-off. However, we Dame students. Granted we are allowed the would like to remind Torres that she is not a stu­same privileges at Saint Mary's, but how many dent of Notre Dame. In fact, she should be grate­people do you know who use Saint Mary's to the ful that she is even allowed to step foot in our extent that they use us? As Notre Dame women brand-new stadium. There are parents, alumni, who worked hard to get into this school, we are and fans of Notre Dame who would withstand tired of the Saint Mary's girls infringing on our more than the minor inconveniences Torres university. It's time to take back our school! We describes to see a Notre Dame football game. hope Torres has this letter to chew on while Instead, we get Saint Mary's students who get she's "suffering" through another game. the same seats as Notre Dame students and then turn around and complain. Our parents, who Catherine Syner shell out $25,000 dollars a year, have to pay Stacey Fuller exorbitant amounts of money to see one game. Sophomores Alumni donate large sums of endowment in the Pasquerilla East hopes that they will have an opportunity to see September I I, I 997 

Time to Follow Christ's Footsteps 
As a sophomore at Saint in their education and personal tion in recent months, and it is Mary's, I was appalled when I development, but I also realize now obvious that the issue of discovered that racial slurs had there is much we need to work multiculturalism also needs to defaced a fellow student's pri­on. When walking around cam­be addressed. As adults we must vate property. What type of per­pus, it appears that we are a act. We can not wait for the son has such little respect for predominantly white middle to administration to change things. their fellow residents to do such upper class student body. I feel This is OUR school. We cannot a thing? If this type of behavior this is an area which needs to be expect the world to show a is acceptable to you then I feel changed. It allows too easily for Christian and accepting attitude you should find another school. cultural ignorance and preju­if we do not have one here with­And if this type of behavior can dices. These events prompted in our own small community. As go without reprimand then our myself and five other students to you go to church on Sunday, school needs to re-evaluate have one of the most empower­please reflect on what type of what we stand for. ing evenings I have experienced attitude Christ had toward ALL 
I am proud to be a Saint in my time here. We discussed people and how He wants us Mary's woman. With this comes how we the students are faced treat others. To call yourself a certain values I feel every with the responsibility and have Christian you must try to be woman on campus should the power to reclaim our cam­Christ-like and there is no room acknowledge. We have been pus and make changes. As inde­for racism and prejudices in ranked top ranked in the mid­pendent, intelligent women we Christ's heart. west for the past four years, but need to take the opportunity of we are not the top ranked col­a new president and act upon Erin Donnelly lege for "white women" only. I the issues we see here on our ·Sophomore, McCandless Hall firmly believe that our campus campus. The issue of homosexu­September 1 I, I 997 has much to offer young women ality has received much atten­

----~----~---~--··-------------------~-------------....--------, 

page 10 Monday, September 15, 1997 




Pack your bags for a ride into stupidity 
I 


hoarding laser weapons just yet. Instead consider "Thn 
Game" as a more realistic alternative. Directed by David Fincher 
The Game 
Imagine what would happen if Quentin Tarantino ever gotStarring Michael Douglas, Deborah Kara 
a hold of "Alien in Wonderland," and you would
Unger, Sean Penn, and James Rebhorn 

(our of five shamrocks) 

By JOE LENISKI 
Accent Movie Critic 
S 
orne nights, while you are sitting alone at your desk studying for a chemistry exam that annually ruins the semester for many college students, do you suddenly find yourself wishing 
photo courtesy Polygram for the events of "The Game." When Nicholas Van Orton (Michael Douglas, left) goes The plot twists and turns Jo_oklnQ for some excitement, the dev~.ilsh Sean P~mn through a maze of bizarre see­(nght) mtroduces him to the world of The Game. . . k" d f "l' t 1 
for some natural disaster to strike northern Indiana? Or perhaps for a fleet of UFOs to drop down over Notre Dame, demanding our immediate surrender under threat of universal war? Well, don't start storing bottled water or 


Excess Baggage 
Directed by Marco Brambilla 
Starring Alicia Silverstone, Benicio Del Torro, and Christopher Walken 

(our of five shamrocks) 
By SARA BRANDON and MARTY HARRIS Accent Movie Critics 
M
ellow. You think your pot smoking neighbors are mellow? No, no, no; Vincent, played by Benicia Del Taro, personifies the word mellow. Let's just say we are ready to check for a pulse. Every word from his strangely, no oddly, no strangely attrac­tive self takes light years to reach your ears. This speech impediment will either drive you wild or take you to the edge of madness. It is a love/hate thing. 
The movie Excess Baggage i~ a rich, random teenag­er's dream. Alicia Silverstone debuts as a producer. Wonder how she got the lead? And we know the answer to the question of why Mr. Grand Theft Auto is no crack Iovin', beer gutted, jerk. Alicia is no fool. Anyone else who locked herself in a trunk of a car would be greeted by Jeffrey Dahmer but not our pal Alicia. 
We've all seen the commercial previewing the movie; Alicia, looking for love from daddy, devises an elabo­rate kidnapping scheme. She locks herself in the trunk of her Beemer which is subsequently stolen with her inside. The rest of the movie finds Vincent, her acci­dental kidnapper, trying to get rid of her. That is until he finds he is oddly, no strangely, no oddly attracted to her. This is where the movie gets good. 
The driving force behind our three shamrock rating is the beautiful sound of the song "Crash." Though our favorite part of the song was brutally cut {oh, I watch 
end up with "The Game." This f1ick is a mind-trip. It draws you into the compla­cent world of Nicholas Van Orton (Michael Douglas), a middle-age yuppie who wants to make his ordinary upper­class world a little more exciting. Enter Conrad, a sadistic Mephistopheles 
played with snide glee by Sean Penn. He offers Nicholas the chance to rev up his life, the kind of "mid-life crisis buster" that all men wish for. But rather than an adventurous trip to the wilderness or a long cruise on a big red 
boat, Nicholas gets trapped in 'The Game," a live-simulation that makes Russian Roulette look like Monopoly. 
If there were an Oscar for "Best Nine-tenths of a Film," this flick would be the shoe-in just ahead of "Conspiracy Theory." Director David Fincher, who siphoned audi­ences in to the perverse head­in-the-box world of "Seven," has once again crnated a con­
___] vincing Hell on Earth backdrop 
nanos 1or a Ill o o a Recall" experience. The acting is down­played but strong enough to be convinc­ing. These qualities alone would have made for a truly great film, but I still left the theater a bit disappointed. 
Despite the strong premise and 

you there ...), Alicia did not seem to mind as she was unele, hot wirin' man, and arson. There seems to be a 
busy gazing at Vincent. The music inspires Alicia's pattern of delinquency in this movie. 
selfish heart to opnn. She commits herself to helping Highlights from the movie include the beautiful dis­
the man who stole both her heart and her car. play of "hot" cars and Vincent's shy sideways glances. Our favorite shot includes Vincent and Alicia in a closed trunk. Let's just say the film wasn't pro­duced by First Kiss Productions for nothing. By the way how are they going to get out of the trunk? Oh yeah, who cares? 
And now our ratings: 
Fashion: To be in this Iilm you had to wear leather. Leather pants. Leather jackets. Leather car seats. We grew to hate Alicia's lipstick T­shirt, but she more than made up for it with her purple/blue button down shirt in the Vincent trunk scene. 
Hair: As much as we want to run our fingers through Vineent's mane, the thicknnss is too intimidating. Alicia's hair gets a thumbs up from those who love thn just-rolled-out-of-bed-with­Vincent look. Gangsta uncle's hair is by far the best match of hair eolor and skin complexion. Who dyed his hair, Carrot Top? 
Most unrealistic scone: Not that Alida sueceeds in burning down a warehousn with tlw flick of one cigarettn but that she kicks Vincent when h!) is down instead of getting down with him. 
Best Advicn: As Alicia says: "You don't have to be drunk to kiss me." 
Music: Soundtrack is better than the movie. 
We recommend this movie to those mellow indi­viduals who like to see Alicia pout. The plot is not
photo courtesy Sony Pictures 
Alicia Silverstone plays the attention-hungry brat Emily in "Excess strong enough for Oscar contention so don't go Baggage." looking for depth. The message of the movie is that money buys gorgeous cars but not paternal We found "Excess" to be a cute, love. The movie is mildly entertaining being the comedy/adventure/romance. The characters are amus­Clueless version of Bonnie and Clyde. We'd say this ing and the dialogue has snap. The storyline has has definite appeal to the 15-and-under crowd; howev­
unique aspects such as Alicia's gangsta father, gangsta er, the college cynic should pass. 
photo courtesy Polygram 

Nicholas Van Orton (Michael Douglas) gets in over his head with a real-life adventure game that he can't walk away from in the suspense-thriller, "The Game." 
intriguing storyline, there were gaps in the film where I was so bored that I started counting the crushed M&Ms on the tile floor. The camera action is sometimes static and subdued, and the secondary characters are entirely unin­teresting. The audience feels sorry for Van Orton, but he remains a flat, unlik­able character. The best acting was done by Scan Penn, but ironically he is only on screen for a total of around 15 minutes. The climax is also downtrod­den. Just when you expect the grand mask of conspiracy to be lifted from the visages of the villains and the hero to come rising triumphantly from his dilemma, the screen goes black and credits roll. Now, you can either see this as a "Usual Suspects" shock-ending, or a confused "Mission Impossible" blunder. I was baffled to the point whnre I stayed until the film ran out hoping to· view the seeret ending, only to have the theater-nmployees quietly escort me out of the building. 
This shouldn't dntract from seeing "The Game." Go see it because it is a dark, twistnd roller-coaster ridn through one man's sordid life. Go see it if you loved the macabre, daunting quagmire­of-dnspair backdrop of "Seven." Go see it because Sean Penn's character reminds you of that evil friend from back home who always dan~d you to steal the road sign or take the car with­out your par!mts permission. But most importantly, go see this movie because for two-hours it completely removes you from the bland capriciousness of Notre Dame Land. And besides, the aliens already came to Earth, and we won. Hemember "Independence Day'?" 
Football 


Recurring mishaps lead to second lackluster effort 
• hmm INS!GHT 
Resist urge to jump on blame bandwagon 
"We're embarrassed as a coaching staff. We're embarrassed as a football tPam." 
Tlwre was simply no other way for Irish head coach Bob Davie to explain his feelings about the first loss of his 
t<~nure. 
Tlw embarrassment began after an excellent punt by junior Hunter Smith, which pinned the Boilermakers on their own one yard line. Purdue launched an 11-play, 99-yard drive. culminating in a one-yard touchdown run by Ed Watson. · 
Not only did the score give the home team an early seven-point lead, this serins sent the message that Purdue inte.nded to dictate the tempo of the game from the very outset. 
"I knew coming down here," said Davie. "it would be a different Purdue u~am. In all honesty, I really hoped to see a different Notre Dame team." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, there were 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Ediror 
familiar mishaps that contributed to many of their problems all day long. The Boilermaker defense played the "bend, but don't break" game to perfec­tion and the Irish did little to break their momentum. 
Early in the second quarter, Notre Dame penetrated the Boiler 20-yard line for the first time, on the strength of two grabs by sophomore tight end Dan O'Leary. 
The drive was cut short however, when flanker Raki Nelson dropped a Ron Powlus pass that would have been good for a third down conversion. Jim Sanson then drilled a 34-yard field goal to get the Irish on the board. 
The mistakes continued on the ensuing kickoff with a 15-yard late hit penalty. Three plays later, a pass interference call on inside linebacker Ronnie Nicks put quarterback Billy Dicken and the Purdue offense on the Irish 14-yard line. It took just three more plays for Ed 
see UPSET I page 2 
T
here must be an unwritten clause in every 
acceptance letter 
that the University 
of Notre Dame 
sends out that gives 
all Notre Dame stu­
dents, their families, 
anyone related to 
them, or for that AssociateSports 
Editor

matter anyone who 
has ever met them, a say in the Notre 
Dame football program. In fact, let's 
extend that to anyone who watches 
NBC on Saturday or, in this case, ABC . two days ago. 
It never fails that, no matter how glo­
rious the win or how devastating the 
loss, there are over a million "coaches" 
in the world who are willing to cele­
brate as if they called the winning 
touchdown, or delegate the blame 
when the scoreboard does not read in 
favor of the Irish. 

Unfortunately. in the case of Saturday's pounding of the Irish by Purdue, the latter remains the more outstanding of the two existences. 
Granted, even Irish head coach Bob Davie said that "there is enough blame to go around for everybody," but it never ceases to amaze me how many armchair .quarterbacks emerge with excuses for how the mighty Irish could fall to an unranked team who lost its first game to Toledo. 
Blame the offensive coordinator. Blame the head coach who hired the offensive coordinator. Blame the ath­letic director who hired the head coach. Blame the University that hired the athletic director. Who cares who gets the blame, just make sure some­body takes it and knows how much of it there is. 
This mentality has long existed in the mind of the Irish, almost to the point at 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 15. 1997 

Futility plagues Irish offense, 
left searching for redemption 
By BETSY BAKER No doubt exists that the Irish was that of recovery. 
offensive attaek has the man­"I know the character of this power and potential to sPt coaching staff, and I know the In a desperate search to find a reeords. The problems lies in character of this football team," positive side to Saturday's loss the fact that potential doesn't Irish head coach Bob Davie said to Purdue. Notre Dame fans can score touchdowns nor dons it after tlw ganw. "And I told look at the Irish offensive statis­win games. them after the game that it's not 
tics. "We're moving the ball, but the bad things that happen to Unfortunately. they'd have to not getting points," Denson. you, it's how you respond." ignore the scoreboard. whose official total was 104 The players also reverberatnd 
While quarterback Ron yards on 22 carries, said. "It's the need for an immediate full Powlus threw for a career-high not about yardage, it's about recovery. 31 completions for 293 yards, points." "Now is when we're going to 
only one of those was for a Although primitive in theory, have to show our team chem­touchdown. that lesson left the Irish stunned istry," offensive gu.ard Mike 
And even though Autry and speechless, sending them Hosenthal said. "We can either Denson ran for over a hundred baek to the drawing board once fold right here, which I don't yards for the sixth time in the again. The only sentiment, that think we're going to do, or we last seven games he has played, echoed like a broken record can build upon this." the Irish still lost 28-17. throughout the aura of disbelief. Hosenthal and his company on 
the offensive line remains one of the biggest mysteries in the incompetency of the Irish 
Associate Sports Editor 
Fullback Joey Goodspeed, limited to 24 yards on just six carries, wasoffense and the most critical hardly a factor in Saturday's loss to the Boilermakers. 
point  upon  which  to  build  
The Observer/Brandon Candura Although he completed a career-high 31 passes for 293 yards, quarter­back Ron Powlus' fumble in the fourth quarter was the turning point in Saturday's 28-17 loss.  improvement. As Powlus's statistics indicate, the offensive line's pass protec­tion has proven consistently good over the last two games. The one major exception was possibly the hy play of the game when. midway through the fourth quarter, Powlus. under pursuit of Boilermaker defenders. was stripped of the ball. and Purdue's Adrian Beasley returned the ball 4:{ yards to pound another nail into the Irish eonin. Still, Denson was forced to (Teate his own holes throughout the game once again, and although he was eventually able to move the ball, did so with lit­tle help from the line. By shut­ting down the Irish running  game, Purdue was able to put the pressure on l'owlus whose completion percentage was exceptional. but inability to move the ball lert the Irish behind tlw whole game. In addition to an irwpt rushing game. the Irish reenivnrs failed to come up with the big plays needed to get points on the board. including numnrous dropped balls and thn inability to make things happen after the catch. Tho one bright spot of the receiving game, how<wer, was that the Irish were able to usn a variety of its talent, verses only four receiv<~rs used last week, including the nmergnnce of tight end Dan O'Leary as a reliable target. In a first half that was  frustrating at best for the Irish, O'Leary game up with three key receptions, and although his effort ended in futility, was able to keep the Purdue defense momentarily oiT balance. The bottom line remains in thn fact thn Irish cannot rnly on only orw or two memb0rs of tlw offense to carry the team and are now fo.rced to put Saturday's pPrformanee behind them and move on. Unfortunately, tlw road not only doesn't gnt easiPr, but will con­tinue to intensify from week to week. If thn Irish ofTenS<' does not resurrect its<df within tlw next five days and find a way to score points, the only rising sta­tistic that will be noticed is the number of losses.  


Upset 
continued from page 1 
Watson to punch it in for his second touchdown of the first half. 
The offensive line bore down after falling behind by 11 points and led an impres­sive drive. in which Notre Dame rushed the ball seven times and averaged 9.9 yards per carry. The key play of the series was a third and seven from the Purdue 32 yard line, in which Powlus avoided a sack and picked up the first down by scrambling for the necessary yardage. Denson capped the drive with a 16­yard touchdown run. 
The third quarter slipped away without a point from either team, although the Irish had their chance. On their second possession, the Irish drove to the Purdue 15 yard line and came up against a third and two situation. Denson carried for five yards, but fumbled. By the time full­back Joey Goodspeed recov­ered the football. it had been knocked back to the 18 yard line, leaving Notre Dame with fourth and four. 
Davie elected to go for it, rather than insert Sanson for a 35-yard field goal attempt. 
"I don't mind going for it when you have a plan," explained Davie. "We knew ahead of time, if we got them in that situation, what play we were going to call and we pretty much knew what kind of dp,fense we were going to get. We knew we'd get an all­out blitz." 
An all-out blitz is exactly what Purdue gave the Irish and the Notre Dan'le offensive line simply did not have what it took to make Davie's plan work. The Boiler defense shredded the Irish line off the snap and Powlus was forced to get rid of the ball before Goodspeed was in position for the first down. The sopho­more did not come up with catch anyway though, and Purdue had dodged another bullet thanks to break downs in Notre Dame's execution. 
Half way through the fourth quarter, after a missed field goal that would have given Purdue another seven-point lead, the Irish were beginning to drive once again. Powlus dropped back to pass on a second down situation. but was forced out of the pocket by pressure from his right side. 
As he crossed the line of scrimmage, looking to pick up the first down on the ground, the ball was batted out of his hands from behind and free safety Adrian Beasley took it 43 yards the other way for the score. 
Powlus responded by rally­ing the Irish to an 11-play, 71 yard scoring drive. Denson scored his second touchdown of the game and fourth of the year on a 1-yard toss from Pow Ius. 
Denson was assessed a 15­yard celebration penalty for spiking the ball in the end zone though, and despite the mathematical logic of going for two, the Irish settled for an extra point by Sanson and a 21-17 deficit. 
The proceeding onside kick did not cover the required 10 yards and Purdue scored once more to ice the game. 
"We have very high expec­tations for this team," com­mented Powlus, "and its dis­appointing to lose your second game ... You give Purdue a great deal of credit, but we're embarrassed ... I feel really bad for Coach lJim) Colletto. I feel like we let him down." 
• REPORT CARD 
Quarterback: B· 
Powlus had one of the best passing games of his career (31 of 43, 293 yds., 1 TD), leading the team on a critical fourth-quarter drive and looking very comfortable under pressure. When all is said and done though, he did not complete a pass for more than 23 yards and his turnover turned out to be the decisive moment for the Boilermakers. 
Running Backs: C+ 
Denson made the most of the running room he was given and was the only truly productive offensive player aside from Powlus. His fumble did cost the Irish a first down, and the fullback tandem of Goodspeed and Spencer was mediocre at best. 
Wide Receivers: C-
This corps sorely missed the presence of Getherall, which says a great deal about the group as a whole. O'Leary's performance was a bright spot and Brown had seven more catch, es, but at no point did any receiver gain signifi­cant yardage after a catch and there were still a handful of dropped balls. 
Offensive Line: D+ 
This unit defies explanation. The team did gain 163 yards on the ground (a slight improvement from last week), but Notre Dame's line outsized Purdue's defensive front by three inches and 31 pounds per man. There is no excuse for not pummeling such a weak Boilermaker front four. The Irish backfield hardly had room to breathe in a game that had the potential to be a coming out party for the entire group. 
Defensive Line: D 
Purdue became the second team to run the ball down Notre Dame's throat in the first quarter of a game this SElason. The only reason that the Boilers did not have more than 133 yards rushing was because they stopped run­ning the ball when they realized that they could pass at will against the Irish secondary. 
Linebackers: C 
The only acceptable performance from a defensive unit. Whenever the coaching staff called for a decent blitzing play, the lineback­ers were able to pressure quarterback Billy Dicken. Minor's interception may have been the only thing that prevented a Purdue romp. Bryant also turned in another solid perfor­mance. 
Defensive Backs: F 
Swiss cheese. Good high school teams would not have missed more tackles at key moments than the Irish secondary did. How many times can you ask Rossum and Edison to make touch­down saving plays because of their teammates' failure to bring the ball carrier down? Dicken looked like a Heisman Trophy candidate. 
Special Teams: C 
This group was non-existent, unless Smith's punting can be considered a highlight. Rossum almost broke one return for a touchdown and Sanson was solid unless you count his six-yard onside kick. A painfully average performance. 
Coaching: F 
Where to begin? No matter how many times Purdue threw their simple screens for 20 yard gains, the coaches refused to adjust. No matter how many passes Powlus completes under the opposing coverage, the staff refuses to look deep with an out-and-up or a post pattern. And most glaringly. there is simply NO way (even if the team is 40 yards out) to justify kick­ing an extra point when the team trails by four with 1:47 remaining in regulation. Anyone in the stadium could have made that call. 
Overall: 1.44 
Purdue played well, but there is no excuse for the result of Saturday's game. Even the few players who did show up in West Lafayette made at least one key mistake that helped 
bring the Irish ship down.  A miserable loss to  
a mediocre team.  
-Brian Reinthaler  

Monday, Seprember 15, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
-

Dicken leaves Irish defense searching for a pulse 

By MIKE DAY this time around. In fact, in just one on eight catches, while Alford added Sports Editor year, Notre Dame transformed this live receptions for 65 yards. The Notre mediocre, marginally-talented signal Dame secondary did roll up an aston­
Tlw honeymoon is over. The party caller into an all-American. ishing 43 tackles on the day, mostly by has eomn to an end. On a sunny after­"''ve got to give him credit; he played chasing receivers after they had been noon at Hoss-Ade Stadium before a a great game," said Irish safety Jarvis beaten to the football. capacity crowd. Purdue gave Notre Edison. "He made the plays when he Cornerbacks Ivory Covington and Dame a lesson. had to and did some things that we Deveron Harper failed to keep up with 
It started early, and it never ended. didn't expect." their man for much of the afternoon, For 60 minutes. the Purdue offense In return. Dicken could give credit to and Edison and Benny Guilbeaux would beat the Notre Dame defense. the Irish defense for neither pressuring rather forget about their trip to West 
No. they didn't just beat the Irish him or covering his receivers. In lead­Lafayette. defense; they destroyed them. They ing the Boilermakers to victory, the "We had several breakdowns, and buried them. They humiliated them. sophomore quarterback completed 26 they made us pay for them," said 
While there are many culprits in a of 39 passes for a career-high 352 Edison. "You can't afford that in any performance that Bob Davie described yards. game because a good offense will make as "embarrassing," when it comes On the other end of Dicken's passes you pay for them." down to it, it all starts with the defense. were receivers Vinny Sutherland and The tone was set in the first quarter Put simply, the unit, under the guid­Brian Alford, who somehow ended up when the Boilermakers marched 99 ance of Davie and coordinator Greg looking like the second coming of yards down the throat of the Irish for a Mattison. was lifeless. Raghib Ismail and Tim Brown. touchdown and a 7-0 lead. And when 
After brutally punishing Boilermaker When it was all said and done, the Irish needed a stop late in the quarterback Billy Dicken last season, Sutherland, an unheralded freshman, game, Purdue delivered the knockout the Irish couldn't lay a hand on Dicken torched the Irish defense for 100 yards punch in the form of a three play, 42­
yard scoring drive. 

-
"Their offense played really well and their receivers were tough after the catch," said Guilbeaux. "I got to give them credit for the way they played." 
It was not just the Irish secondary that ended the day by showering the Boilermaker offense with credit. The Notre Dame defensive front seven also helped out in making Saturday one of the most memorable days in Purdue history. 
In giving up 485 yards, the Irish 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

With 13 tackles and this sack, LB Jimmy
struggled to put any pressure on 
Friday was one of the few bright spots. 
Dicken, and the Boilermaker rushing attack, led by Kendall Mathews and Irish would be able to find replace­Edwin Watson, picked up the clutch ments. On Saturday, it became obvious yardage when they needed it. that the Irish have some more work to 
"They didn't do anything that compli­do. cated, and it wasn't a lack of prepara­"You just don't replace players that tion," said defensive end Brad Williams. mean that much to your football team," "They just made the plays when they said cornerback Allen Rossum. "It had to." takes some time, and it may not come 
While the loss of Renaldo Wynn, Bert all at once." 
Head coach Bob Davie and defensive coordinator Greg Mattison had no answer for the 
Berry, Kinnon Tatum, and Lyron The Purdue offense made sure of
Purdue offense on Saturday as the Boilermakers compiled 485 yards of total offense. 
Cobbins was painful, it seemed that the that. 
• STAT!ST!CALLY SPEAKING 
Insight 

Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th F 
continued from page 1
Notre Dame () 10 0 7 17 Purdue 7 7 0 14 28 
which it could be considered brainwashing. Irish fans are trained to accept nothing less than a ND PU 
national championship, and if it is not delivered on
TEAM -RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
First Downs 26 25 a silver platter, there had better be a scapegoat.
Hushes-Yards (Net) 41-164 34-133
1. Penn State (25) 2-0 1641 1 
Even if there does exist a viable scapegoat in Passing Yards (Net) 293 352 
Saturday's loss, if Irish fans continue to entertain
2. Washington (19) 2-0 1615 3 
Passes Att-Comp-Int 43-31-0 40-26-1 this type of thinking, the ending will be as tragic as Total Offense Plays-Y ds 84-457 74-485 
if Shakespeare himself had written the script. Punt Heturns-Yds 1-13 2-19 
3. Florida (14) 2-0 1598 2 
Our biggest blessing as Irish fans is also our
4. Tennessee (6), 2-0 1543 4 
Kickoff Returns-Y ds 5-91 2-33 
biggest curse. While we will not settle for medioc­Interception Returns-Y ds 1-33 0-0 
rity, we set ourselves -and more importantly our Punts (Number-Avg) 6-43.5 5-45.6 
5. Florida St. (3) 2-0 1483 5 
team -up for continual disappointment.
6. No. Carolina (1) 2-0 1379 7 
Fumbles-Lost 2-1 0-0 
Regardless of how successful or unsuccessful the Penalties-Yards 8-67 7-60 
Notre Dame football team is, the standard is alwaysPossession Time 48:51 21:30 
7. Nebraska (2) 2-0 1364 6 
set one notch higher by its fans. 
8. Michigan 1-0 1253 14 
Anyone who was near the Irish locker room after Individual Statistics 
the game on Saturday knows that the last thingRushing
9. Ohio State 2-0 1235 9 
Davie and his players need to hear is why they lost 
10. Louisiana St. 2-0 1165 10 
ND-Denson 22-104, Powlus 7-25, Goodspeed 6-24, 
that game. Spencer 3-6 
They themselves had no answers. They offered PU-Matthews 12-56, Watson 9-34, Dicken 10-22, Jones
11. Alabama 2-0 1007 15 
no excuses, gave no fancy explanations, and while it 
12. Auburn 2-0 878 16 
1-20 could have been so easy to do, they were the only 

people in West Lafayette that did not place the Passing
13.1owa 2-0 850 18 
blame on someone else.

14. Arizona St. 2-0 698 24 
ND-Powlus 43-31-0-293 

The great irony of the situation is that the same PU-Dicken 39-26-1-352 
people who can come up with 101 reasons why we
15. Colorado 1-1 696 8 
should have won that football game on Saturday
16. Clemson 2-0 696 19 
Receiving 

are the same people whose brain you can see calcu­ND-Brown 7-76, Denson 7-54, Johnson 4-50, O'Leary 4­
lating the possibility of a national championship. 
17. Michigan St. 2-0 660 21 
49 "If Purdue beats Penn State and goes to the Rose PU-Sutherland 8-100, Alford 5-65, Jones 4-82, Watson 4­

18. Virginia Tech 2-0 603 22 
Bowl and loses to Washington, whose only loss is to 44 
USC, who maybe we'll beat and go 11-1 ... then
19. Washington St. 2-0 490 NR 
maybe we can still play Tennessee in the Orange
• SCORING SUMMARY

20. Kansas State 2-0 431 20 
Bowl for the national championship." You know how it goes. 
21. Stanford 1-1 323 17 
1st Quarter 

In the grand scheme of things, Saturday was a bigPU-Ed Watson 1 yard run (Shane Ryan kick), 11 plays,
22. Miami, Fla. 1-1 244 13 
blow for the Irish. Beyond the hope of a national99 yards at 4:30 championship, it hurt the team, the coaching staff, 
23. Colorado State 2-1 172 25 
2nd Quarter and every fan that lives the life of the eternal Irish 

ND-Jim Sanson 34 yard field goal, 11 plays, 60 yards at
24. UCLA 1-2 131 NR 
optimist. But the bottom line is that, while some 8:49 
people feel it is their God-given right as Domers, it 
25. Georgia 2-0 127 NR 
PU-Ed Watson 1 yard run (Shane Ryan kick), 5 plays, 50 
is not our job to find blame in the inadequacies of yards at 6:28 
the Notre Dame football team. We are not going to
Others receiving votes: Texas A&M 113, 
ND-Autry Denson 16 yard run (Sanson kick), 9 plays, 84 tell Bob Davie and his team anything that they don't 
yards at 2:39 already know or feel, and we are not going to get us any closer to the ever-present hope of a title. 

Notre Dame 104, Texas 52,Brigham Young 
4th Quarter

43, Southern Mississippi 40. North Carolina 
So let's try for once not to be typical Irish fans,PU-Adrian Beasley 43 yard fumble recovery (Shane Ryan frustrating as it may be, and accept Saturday's
St. 37, Kansas 23, Wyoming 13, Air Force 
kick), at 8:37 defeat as exactly that, and moving on. That's what 

9, Purdue 8, Oregon 7, Oklahoma St. 6, 
ND-Autry Denson 1 yard pass from Powlus (Jim Sanson coach Davie is doing. That's what the players arekick), 11 plays, 71 yards at 1:47
Virginia 6, Wisconsin 6, Texas Tech 5, West 
doing. And if we don't move on with them, we'rePU-K. Matthews 2 yard run (Shane Ryan kick), 3 plays, are going to be left here, saturated in disappoint­
Virginina 5, Arkansas 4, Northwestern 4. 
42 yards at 1 :02 ment. 


-
-
--' 
.._ 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Receiver Bobby Brown, shown here after a dropped pass, and the rest of the receiving corps suffered their share of ups and downs on Saturday. 

reporter about an exchange
of words with center Rick 
Kaczenski: 
"I knew you'd sec that. I knew one of you guys would see that. No ... I was tellinghim I saw his dad in the stands and he did believe me ... It was nothing. You know, you talk to your teammates, you get 'em g.oing, you try to get peoplefired up. I knew someone would look for the negative in it all, and there was none." 
Notre Dame offensive 
coordinator Jim Colletto on 
returning to Purdue: 
"Well, it was interesting. I've been through some of these before, and the fans got their little shots in, that was nice, but I was happy to see those kids." 
On the Irish: 
"We had better get better in the next six days." 
Notre Dame tight end Dan­
O'Leary on the upcoming
week: 
"We're going to come out hard every single day of prac­tice. You can test somebody's character by the way theyrespond to defeat. I think we'fl come out hard and show a lot class, and show peoplethat just because we lost a game.,it doesn't mean we're rosers. 


• COMMENTS ON THE GAM£ 
Notre Dame head coach 
Bob Davie: 
"If we're looking to put the blame, there's certainlyenough blame for everyone ... offense, defense, kicking game,straight across the board ... I don't know if there's an~way to turn this into a positive.' 
On Autry Denson's 
unsportsmanlike conduct 
Renalty following_ the touch­
Clown that brought the Irish 
within four points: 
"That's unfortunate •that that would happen. I expect more from a third-year player. I'm not sure exactly what he did ... He told me he wasn't sure exactly what he did." 
On how he plans to pre­
Qare the team for Michtgan
State: 
"We're going stay on course. My first templation is to bringthis team back tomorrow, but we're going to stay on sched­ule. We're going to start Monday mornmg, and I think be rea1istic ... sit down and look at exactly where we are ... come back and solve prob­lems. Don't bring in a fot of outside distractions and out­side things to create problems. We've got enough problemsright now to solve without bnng other things in. 
Notre Dame quarterback
Ron Powlus, sarcastically
after being questioned by a 

Monday, September 15, 1997 page 11 

• .. .. .>i:· 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
'Eight Men Out' 
By JOE KRAUS 
Acccnr Movie Criric 

By GENEVIEVE MORRILL General Hospital Correspondent 
Well folks the Tin Man is dead and along with him my hopes for grisly ends to Lucky. Keesha, and V; However, we must move on. After Sonny whacks him, Jason rides to the rescue. but no one can save Joseph. Thus, Sonny says a prayer and plans a fitting funer­al for his loyal soldier. As he prepares to go to Mrs. Joseph and tell her the news, Sonny recalls all the times that Brenda has nearly died and the night that Lily actually did die. 
A.J. confronts early and wants to figure things out. She assu~es him that he is delusi?n­al. but his vodka-soaked brain, rusty from underuse, puts 1t together that somethmg happened the night that he blacked out. Determined to remember what happened, he goes to Kevin for hypnotherapy. Wow, Kevin has more, patients now tha~ when he :vas truly practicing. A.J. remembers slowly, butsurely, as Carly freaks. out. First, A.J. thmks he did something truly heinous, but later remembers theirromp m the hay. Carly and Tony plan to elope; unfortunately, their plans are almost ruined when Keesha ~onfronts her. The Master Manipulator puts her off, but Keesha assures her that there will he hell to pay -someday! Carly shares her problems with a besuited Jason. Listen to his advice, early, he is strangely wise. 
Katharine wants to know what's up with Stefan's attitude, but he assures her that he loves her. As Alexis eavesdrops, Stefangives Katharine a medallion that was blessed by a saint and worn by a murdered woman. Nice history for a lous~ old medallion -very Cassadine • don't you think? Stefan is determined to prove that he IS not related to Kathy and contacts the INS. They confirm the fact that Kristin and Natasha were sponsored by Avery Stanton. Later Stefan learns of a dead Natasha Nielson an~ ventures to find her grave. There he digs it up to prove that she is dead. Grave robbmg? You should have brought Maxie. As Alexis girds herself for "Night of the Decomposed Dead". we all learn that the coffin is empty! 
Heartbroken by the impending nuptials of his true love, Jax hightails it to Malibu, and takes off his shirt! He should get depressed more often. V is left in charge of the office, but is convinced by Katharine to go to the coast to make a move. Jax is either paying her an extraordinary amount or .should start checking expense accounts because she flew first class. Katharine, repeat after me, "I am a romantic disaster, I WILL NOT give advice that will ruin the lives of others." Kathy promises Stefan that she will wait for him to work out his problems so that they can be together. lt seems to be that that could be quite awhile. 
Sonny and Brenda have a romantic evening, but he is plagued by violent visions. Brenda can't understand why Joseph took a sudden vacation. Hello, Sonny is a mobster! Life insurance companies charge his employees large premiums for a reason. . 
The underage crowd and Nikolas start school and strangely enough they are all m the same class~ Nikolas coulq be Lizzie's father, and they are in the same class. Does Port Charles run its school system based on ability, not age? And if so what does that say about the supposedly excellently educated Nik? Lizzie flirts with Lucky, but is still reject­ed. Nik tries to get Sarah to talk to him, but she won't even read his notes. When Lucky jumps in Sarah tells him to butt out. Does the gi:I have a backbone or .not? So Gene:al Hospital is taking us back to high school· cafetertas, football games, trymg to score w1th that hottie in English class ... Uh oh, the only difference between ND and GH is Senior Bar. I'll meet you there andwe can commiserate about how the guys at our alma maters didn't have Nik's looks or his Jaguar. 
Genevieve Morrill can be reached at Morr8584@saintmarys.edu if you have any ques­tions or comments. 

By NAOMI FREEMAN, KRISTINE HOWARD, and NICOLE PAULINA Days· of Our Lives Correspondents ·· 
W
ell. tlw baseball season is enjoyable film. If you are looking winding down, and the for a strictly baseball movie, this pennant races are heat-is not for you. You arc not going ing up. The Chicago Whit<~ Sox fig-to see homeruns galore, (except urPd to be right in tlw thick of when "Lefty" Williams will not things all the way clown to the throw the curve ball) and there is win~. With a lineup that featured no high drama like you see in tlw likes of Albert Bell1~. Frank "The Natural." However, there is Thomas. and Hobin Ventura. how plenty of baseball history, senti­could tlwy Jose? mentality, and romance to go 
Well. things did not exactly turn around. out for the White Sox this year. This film could have easily got­Tiw CIPveland Indians are stealing ten bogged down in relaying the tlwir thunder by leading the details of how the fix went down. ;\nwrican Leagu1~ Central. This It could have mapped out every would not be tlw first time that play where the players botched it. tlw White Sox were tlw lwavy However, this film was just the 
favoritPs and failed  to  ----~  right balance of detail  
produce. ;\  ~~Prtain  /  "  and entertainment.  
tinw comes to mind  The editing back  
wlwn the White  and  forth  
Sox  were  3-1  between base- 
favorites to win  ball scenes and  
thP  World  gamblers, and  
SPries but lost  b e  t w e e n  
to  the  courtrooms  
C i n r i n n at i  and kids kept  
HPdlegs.  this  movie  
anotlwr team  moving  for  
from Ohio.  two  hours.  
Tlw two situ-\  This  movie  
ations  are  not  '  throws  a  lot at  
carbon  copies,  the  viewer,  but  
though. This year 's  '-......,,  docs not make the  
\Vhitn  Sox  tPam  just  viewer work too hard to  

blnw it. The above-mentionnd get it. That is where this Whit<' Sox team from 1919 threw movie succeeds. If you have a cou­it. This fixing of the 1919 World pin hours, and you arc a baseball SPries beeamn known as the history nut rent this movie some "Black Sox Scandal" and is the time. Even if you just want to subjnct of tlw rnoviP "Eight M1m make fun of the fact that no team Out," this wenk's vidno pirk. from Chicago has won a world An all star rast including Charlie sPries in years, watch this movie ShPnn. John Cusack. D. B. and find out where the supposed Sw!'nney, and John Mahony turn "curse" comes from. Either way, this story, which changed tlw face you cannot go wrong with "Eight of basPb'lill fornver, into quite an Men Out." 
Att~~ c~ 
-
'· 

-

Well, the Carrie and Austin wedding has come and gone, and our feelings on the sub­ject can best be summed up by Kate's line to Sami on Thursday: "What the HELL are you wearing?" Yes Salem's finest turned out in their best duds to watch Carrie marry one. In case it isn't obvious, your "Days'' Correspondents are vehement supporters of Mike and Carrie. Trust us, this wedding will not last long. 
But first, the events in Rome, also known as the Salem Place Mall with lots of ivy. Billie is still on drugs, yada yada yada. WHO CARES? With Franco out of Salem, Bo should drop the addict and head back to Fancy Face. 
With the John!Stefano storyline, "Days" seems to be making a return to the great super couple adventures of the eighties. The only problem is that the super couple in ~his arrangement is John and Hope! Yes, "Days" fans after Jolm refused to let a hystencal Marlena come along with him to find Roman's cure, skilled cop/model Hope stowed away on John's plane by hiding in the bathroom. Mr. Black's jet is presently winging his way to an "uncharted jungle" (probably Salem Place again), and we can only wait to see how long Fancy Face can resist the charms of Salem's most oversexed bachelor. 
And finally, the most eagerly anticipated and despised wedding of the summer; Carrie and Austin tied the knot. Of course, it was a little distracting to have the bride's sister peering in the windows and screaming hysterically, but in Salem weddings, you take what you can get. Ladies, the look on Mike's face throughout the ceremony was inde­scribable. To top it all off, the poor guy had to give the toast at the reception. The other post-wedding highlight came when Carrie threw the bouqet over her shoulder only to have it intercepted by Sami in a great imitation of Kory Minor. The Queen of Mean was vanquished, though, and the happy couple retired to a hotel suite to do what they do best. It made us sick! Baby Will was hysterical back at home, so ex-dad Austin went to calm him. Apparently newly-redeemed dad Lucas wasn't up to the task. VVhile he was gone, Dr. Mike happened upon Carrie and proceeded to b~rate Austin. fo~ leaving h.er. Then Carrie managed to spill champagne all over her negligee, necess~tat~ng that M1~c dry it with a hair dryer while she showered. Austin, of course, returned m time to see h1s new bride in a towel with his #1 rival beside her. However, Austin shrugged ofT the whole story by saying, "A hair dryer? Been there. Done that." WHAT? After Mike took his leave to let the couple get back down to business, we saw another great "How Do I Live·~ .montage ofCarrie a~~ Mike as the lovelorn medic walked the pier. He ran into Sami, who wasted no time in ascertaining Mike's feelings for her sister. We can only guess what the witch will do with that information. 
Email us with your "Days"comments or questions: 
Paulina.!@nd. erJu, Freemati.19@nd. edu, or Howard.35@nd. edu 
I. The Game 
2. 
G. I. Jane 

3. 
The Full Monty 

4. 
Money Talks 

5. 
Fire Down Below 

6. 
Air Force One 

7. 
Hoodlum 


8.. 
Conspiracy Theory 
9. Excess Baggage I0. George of the Jungle 
Source: Associated Press 
• 
Accent would like to apologize to Xtreemz Nightclub for printing incorrect information on Wednesday, Sept. 10. Xtreemz is two miles from campus, and the drive takes about 10 minutes. Thursday specials are 1¢ drafts and 50¢ well­drinks. 
---~----------------~---------­
page 12 The Observer • NFL Monday, September 15, 1997 
-
George victorious in Georgia Dome 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA Jeff George had the last laugh. 
George, released by Atlanta a year ago after a sideline tantrum, made a victorious return to the Georgia Dome on Sunday. He threw a 76-yard pass that set up Cole Ford's tie­breaking field goal with 4:24 remaining, and the Oakland Raiders defeated the Falcons 36-31. 
George, booed by the sparse crowd every time he stepped on the field, played a minor role for most of the game. Napoleon Kaufman had two long touch­down runs for the Raiders and Atlanta quarterback Chris Chandler was injured for the second week in a row. 
After downing the ball to run out the dock. George took a victory lap around the field, taunting the fans by pumping his arms and waving the ball in the air. He strolled over to a group of family and friends and exchanged high-5s while being pelted with empty beer cups. 
After the Falcons tied the game at 31 on second-stringer Billy Joe Tolliver's 6-yard scor­ing pass to Terance Mathis with 
7:17 remaining, George and the Raiders took over at their 8, backed up by an illegal block penalty on the kickoff return. 
George. whose arm strength has never been an issue during a stormy career, lofted a pass to Rickey Dudley, who was standing alone at the Oakland 40 and rambled all the way to the Falcons 16. That set up Ford's 31-year field goal. 
The Raiders added two more points when rookie Darrell Russell, who knocked Chandler out in the third quarter with a bruised sternum on a hit that drew a roughing penalty, forced Tolliver out of the end zone for a safety with 3:19 to go. 
Atlanta had one final chance in the battle of winless teams, driving to the Oakland 45 with about a minute remaining. But Tolliver was sacked by Anthony Smith and his pass to O.J. Santiago came up 2 yards short of a first down on a fourth-and­19. 
George was 12 of 22 for 286 yards and had a 51-yard touch­down to James Jett, providing a much-needed lift to a Raiders team that lost its opener in overtime and had a devastating last-second loss to Kansas City last Monday. 
Kaufman rushed for 140 yards on just 14 carries, scor­ing on a 61-yard run in the first quarter and on a 58-yard run during a wild third period, when the teams combined for 31 points after the Falcons led 14-10 at halftime. 
Chandler left with 2:17 to go in the third when he was driven to the turf by Russell. The quarterback, who suffered a concussion against Carolina the previous week, tried to get back to his feet, but collapsed again and had to be carried off on a cart. 
Chandler, who completed 16 of 25 for 199 yards. had short touchdown passes to Santiago and Bob Christian before he left the game. Tolliver was 10 of 17 for 100 yards. but took four sacks in just over a quarter. 
Turnovers hurt New Orleans 
Young completes three touchdown passes in win 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Steve Young shook off hits and hurries to throw three touchdown passes, and the San Francisco 49ers took what the 
New Orleans Saints gave them-eight turnovers ­in a 33-7 win Sunday. 
R o d Woodson. a star in 

Pittsburgh for Young 10 years who came to San Francisco this sea­son as a free agent, had a career-high three interceptions and recovered a fumble as San Francisco (2-1) scored 30 points off turnovers to win in new coach Steve Mariucei's home debut. Woodson left the game midway through the third period with a pulled right calf. 
The Saints (0-3). winless under first-year coach Mike Ditka, have a league-high 19 giveaways. 
The return of Young, side­lined last week due to his third concussion in his last 10 regu­lar-season games, was watched closely because he could be one hit away from being driven into retirement. 
But he completed 18 of 21 passes for 220 yards and weathered five sacks to quiet, for now, the talk that the 35­year-old should quit. lie even scrambled for an 8-yard gain on his first play. 
Heath Shuler, a disappoint­ment in Washington before joining New Orleans prior to this season, threw three more interceptions and has eight in three games, with no touch­downs. 
He was benched after going 5-for-11 for 66 yards in a disas­trous first half in favor of rook­ie Danny Wuerffel, who also had three interceptions. Woodson ended Wuerffel's opening series by getting his third interception, leading to Young's third touchdown pass, a 1-yarder to Garrison Hearst for a 30-0 lead. 
Rookie Jim Druckenmiller rdieved Young at the start of the fourth quarter. 
Much of the pressure on Young and the 49ers offense, ranked last in the league enter­ing the game and operating without injured Jerry Rice, was eased by the Saints' mistakes. 
A 59-yard opening kickoff return by Chuck Levy and a 36­yard punt return by lheanyi Uwaezuoke, coupled with five turnovers, allowed San Francisco to run all but three of its plays in Saints territory dur­ing the first half. 
Three 49ers scoring drives totated 6, 6 and 10 yards fol­lowing Levy's return, an inter­ception by Woodson and a fum­ble recovery by Ken Norton Jr. The drives ended in field goals of 43, 22 and 40 by Gary Anderson, who also kicked a 38-yarder in the third following an interception by Tim McDonald. 
Woodson stepped in front of Andre Hastings for his first interception, leading to Young's first touchdown pass to Jones, an 18-yarder. 
Tony Johnson's fumble at the end of a 15-yard reception was forced by Lee Woodall and recovered at the 49ers' 42 by Woodson. Young then took the 49ers 58 yards in eight plays, their longest drive of the day, and finished it with a 1-yard toss to Jones for a 23-0 haltime lead. 
New Orleans avoided its first shutout since 1983 when Wuerffel threw an 8-yard touchdown pass to Hastings with 14:54 remaining. The Saints have scored in 212 straight games, the second­longest active streak to the 49ers. San Francisco has scored in an ongoing NFL record :109 straight games. 
Detroit 32 Chicago 7 
Bunning like an All-Pro again, Barry Sanders helped drop the winless Chicago Bears to their lowest point in three decades. 
Sanders, held to 53 yards in the season's first two games, rushed for 161 Sunday as the Detroit Lions rolled to a 32-7 victory. 
While the Lions (2-1) excelled, Chicago (0-3, all against NFC Central rivals) looked awful after two decent but not-quite-goad-enough efforts. The last time the Bears opened with three losses was 1969, when they went 1-13 in the franchise's worst season. 
Hick Mirer. acquired in an unpopular offseason trade with Seattle, made his Chicago debut after coach Dave Wannstedt benched starting quarterback Erik Kramer in third quarter. Mirer's first possession ended with a fumble, and he finished 1 0 of 21 for 90 yards. 
Scott Mitchell, meanwhile, responded to criticism from Lions coach Bobby Boss, going 16 of 25 for 215 yards and two touchdowns. 

The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dameoffice, 314 LaFortune andtrom 12 p.m. to 3_p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadlme lor next-day claSSifieds IS 3p.m. All classiheds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I need GA's for USC. Call Nikki @ HELP! Need 3 MSU GA/stud I need 8 (eight) that's right 8 GA's 634-2367. upgrades. Call Dave @ 243-1868 to the Mich. St game. I'll take all three days off? dang, i'm gonna die 
offers and as many tickets as I tomorrow!! "For Sale" can get · X-3530 Ask for JOE 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 WALK TO CAMPUS GAs FOR SALE to MS. MI. BC, Bk of Stud Ftbl tix LaFortune Student Center 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES &wv 288-3975 $125 SALE Married student tix 283-0920 hoby is here but enthus needs 
Store Hours $195/PERSON Call Clare @1305 ·some work. time will tell. Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight 232-2595 Wanted: NO Football Tickets NO Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX! Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255-NEED MICH ST TX! WILL PAY 410-737-6115 A SECRET MESSAGE FOR THE Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. THAT PREITY PLACE, Bed and 2850 $$$!! CALL KELLI 634-4054 PANTHER: Sun.: Noon-Midnight Breakfast Inn has space available Have Mich St; 6 together; will Hector is right about the horse. (closed home football Sat.'s) for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms SELLING 2 MSU AND 2 USC GA's. NOTRE DAME' TRADE only far USC or other Beware the gods of the north, they 
Phone 631-COPY with private baths, $70-$90, TAKING BEST OFFER. 243-2168 FOOTBALL TICKETS game; 813-281-2339 are watching you. Mike, easy to ·' Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. BUY -SELL -TRADE beat up, but hard to kill. We need 
Toll Road, Exit #107. NEED 4 MSU GA'S Local Models Needed for Natl carpet. I like to meet a girl..... if you SEASONS INN 1-800-418-9487. CALL KATE 243-1 089 232-0058 Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to only studied cheek structure. Bed & Breakfast Home New York! 18 to enter! No cost or END MESSAGE Rooms Available bed & breakfast football weekends CONFIDENTIAL obligation. Call 679-4745 for details 
10 Miles from Stadium near NO 272-5989 NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's TICKET-MART, INC. by Sept. 20. Hope you had a good birthday John 888-226-5545 call284-5198 G. What do you love? For rent for academic year or will pay$$$ BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­WILL TRADE 2 NO HAWAII 30 SEASONS INN semester or FAMILY FOOTBALL VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. YARD LINE GA' s FOR 2 USC BRENDA HOBAN has the BRA 
Motorhomes/Campers WEEKEND apartment 1 mile from I need 5 USC tix for family 674-7645. GA;s 2773097 Large Sites Available NO, 2 bdrms, LR, KTC, utility room, Will pay $$ X3872 SMC Cartoonist wanted! 10 Miles from NO 1 1/2 bthrms, W/0, stove, refrig .. Buying GA's seasons or individual I sell two stud ticket booklets. (5 If interested call Lori @ 631-4540 
Reserve Now Very safe area. Ford, 277-I Need 1 Michigan State Ticket for games. Top dollar paid. games) Call 634-4465. ASAP! 888-226-5545 5828/631-5118. my girlfriend, GA or Student. Please Confidential service. 
call Michael @4-0790 Call 234-5650. I HAVE 2 GAs FOR ALL HOME FINKELMEYER, thanks for the GAMES. LEAVE BEST OFFER burgers, we'll have to do it againILOST & FOUND I FOR SALE I need 2 GA's to BC. Please call or NO FOOTBALL TICKETS ASAP! 713-799-8237 soon. You bring the cheese ball 
leave msg. for Brendan @4-3245 FOR SALE this time. Lose a set of keys to room 407? Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter DAYTIME#: 232-2378 HELP! ask Carlo at x 1862 w/memory. W/xtra cartridge. Married Student TIX For Sale EVENING#: 288-2726 NO Alum. needs 2 USC TIX! I'm losing my mind and nobody 
$95.00. 233-4414 273-3844 Call Terra at (904)744-3903 cares! LOST! Silver Bracelet w/ NO TICKETS WANTED or e-mail at TCROMAN@aol.com "sisters" charm. Patti x-1363 Tickets for sale HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED DAYTIME#: 232-2378 Purdue followed the map -take 
234-4681 Mich/USC. CAll Mel 4-1349 if EVENING#: 288-2726 Highway 14, to State road 2, and 
'=====N=O=T=IC=E=S~__JII FOR RENT 
PERSONAL
Lost Saturday before game: want to sell/trade!! then get off on 1-10. Black Fuji SmartDeluxe camera FOR SALE
TICKETS
Near Portable Toilets in Parking Need 2 Mich St tx NEED 2 NAVY TIX. Call Sara 634-Does have a fat baby have gas? Lot. If found, please call: N.D. G.A.'S 1499 Rachel x1467 I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO call Sean 273-3227 Out of all 700 people staying in this HOME GAMES.272-6551 271-9412. Will trade 2 BC for 2 USC tickets hotel, who gets on the elevator? Need 2 Mich. GA's. Have GA's to call Betsy 243-8409. 
WANTED 

trade. Call Erin #4220 WANTED N 0 G A'S We all know who the queen of Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. TO ALL HOME GAMES Personal feeties is, now don't we? 4-1, Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259-Senior ticket book, unsigned 271 1526 Baby! 
SUPERSTAR STUDENTS NEED­1731 or during the day call 243-2187 FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay 
ED! Earn $ signing up friends & (201)316-4117. Leave message. Call Margrette 2845099 Walsh is awesome classmates for our credit cards. ################ I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Michigan Opportunity to advance to campus For Sale: State game!!! May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be Hey guys-manager involving hiring & training Looking for GA's to Any & All 2 Michigan State vs. NO Please call Amy adored, glorified, loved and pre­Road trippin' was great! Who knew other students. No car required. NO Games! STUDENT football tix at 810-355-9140. served throughout the world now that we had gone by the McDonalds Must be outgoing & aggressive! Will Beat Any Offer! Call Jenny@ 687-8435 and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus the first time. Now we know and Flexible hours & great income! Call Will Trade Any Home Game for ################ NO ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­have mercy on us. St. Jude worker knowing is half the battle!!! 
Val at 800-592-2121 X154 LSU. Call 634-4872 ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 of miracles pray for us. St. Jude helper of the hopeless pray for us. 

---~-----------~------------~--­
Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer • NFL page 13 

International Study Programs 
Study at the American University in Cairo 
(Instruction is in English) 

-
Information Meeting for Spring 1998, Fall 1998 and Spring 1999 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
4:30 PM, 108 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students Are Welcome! 
Packers coping with injuries 
Green Bay struggles to victory, 23-18 
By ARNIE STAPLETON Associated Press Writer 
GHEEN B/\Y, Wis. 

Even in victory, the Green Bav Packers find themselves dealing with big losses. 
With five starters from their Super Bowl team already hav­
ing missed at least one start. the champions sustained two morn injurins on Sunday when they 


struggl!)d to Marino a23-18vic­tory over the Miami Dolphins. 
Gilbert Brown. the champi­ons' 350-pound run stuffer, strained his right knee and All­Pro strong safety LeRoy Butler tore his right biceps. It's uncer­tain how many games they'll miss, if any. 
The Packers were minus two starters on the offensive line. including center Frank Winters (footl, whose 82-game streak came to an end. 
It's been like that all season for the Packers: struggle and pain. 
"Toward the end of the gamn, I was telling myself that it's going to be this way every week," Packers quarterback Brett Favre said. 
"People are asking why we're not blowing teams out like we did early last year. But that stuff is over with," Favre said. "Beating the Packers gives you a chance to boast, to stick out your chest." 
"We did just enough to win, and that's all that counts," receiver Antonio Freeman said. 
But the Packers were sloppy once again, losing two fumbles and drawing four flags in a seven-play span in the fourth quarter. ' 
"It was a great win for us," Packers coach Mike Holmgren said. "Now, if we can kind of clean up some of the stuff ... " 
Favre threw two touchdown passes, including one to wide­open fullback William Henderson from 10 yards out with 5:33 left as Green Bay (2­
1) bounced back from a loss at Philadelphia. 
Ryan Longwell, who missed a chip shot in the final seconds that would have beaten the Eagles, hit all three of his field goals to counter four from Miami's Olindo Mare. 
Brown went down in the first quarter and didn't return. 
"It doesn't appear to be liga­ments, which is a good thing," Holmgren said. "! don't mean to make light of this, but his leg is so big, they're having a little trouble with the diagno­sis." 
Butler was hurt when he tackled Karim Abdul-Jabbar for a 4-yard loss on the Dolphins' first series of the sec­ond half. He returned. but said he's not sure if he'll be able to play next week because he can hardly lift his arm. 
Dan Marino hit former Packers receiver Charles Jordan with a 29-yard TD pass with 1:47 left to pull Miami to 23-18. That prevented Marino from going three games with­out a touchdown pass for the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997 4:45PM 118 DEBARTOLO 
first time in his 15-year career. 
His 2-point conversion pass failed, however, and Miami's hopes of an upset died when the onside kick was recovered by Green Bay's Terry Mickens, and Dorsey Levens gained 31 yards on three runs. 
Levens finished with a career-high 121 yards on 21 carries. 
"Just giving the effort and having the opportunities is not good enough," Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson said. 
The Dolphins (2-1). who faked a field goal, were burned in the third quarter when Bernie Parmalee gained just 2 yards on a fake punt on fourth­and-11 from the Miami 32. 
That led to Longwell's third field goal, a 39-yarder that made it 16-12. 
"When you're going up against Green Bay at their place and they've got the momentum, you've got to try," Johnson said. 
For the third straight week, the Packers got off to a sput­tering start, but Favre led them on scoring drives of 72 and 82 yards for a 10-9 halftime lead. 
After running just one series in the first 13 1/2 minutes, Fa-vre hit Freeman for a 2-yard TO pass and a 7-6 lead early in the second quarter. 
Freeman, like Longwell, was seeking atonement for last week, when Freeman dropped five passes. 
That TO also made Favre the second-fastest to 150 career touchdowns. He did it in his 84th game. Johnny Unitas reached the milestone in 87 games. Marino was the quick­est ever -in just 62 games. 
Still. the Dolphins found solace in their defeat. 
"We came out of this a better football team," Troy Draytom said. 
And the Packers came out of it a little more bruised and bat­tered. 
Grbac finds Chiefs another win 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

One-yard touchdown passes can be just as heroic as 32­yarders. 
Elvs Grbac, who hit Andre Rison with a game-winning 32-yard TO toss in the final seconds at Oakland on Monday night, found Tony Richardson from the 1 with 
6:55 left Sunday, and the Kansas City Chiefs held on for a 22-16 victory over Buffalo. 
The Bills drove from their 33 to a first-and-goal from the Chiefs 7 with 27 seconds left. 
But Todd Collins' pass on fourth down was intercepted by Mark McMillian. 
After Buffalo seized a 13-9 lead early in the fourth quar­ter, Tamarick Vanover took the ensuing kickoff on his 6­yard line and sped almost untouched to his fourth career touchdown return. 
The Bills tied it at 16 a few minutes later with Steve Christie's 30-yard field goal. But Grbac engineered a six­play, 50-yard march capped by the TO toss to Richardson. 
On the first play after Vanover's 94-yard return boosted the Chiefs (2-1) into the lead and electrified the sellout crowd, Collins con­nected with Quinn Early for a 45-yard gain to the 16, set­ting up Christie's 30-yarder with 11:52 left. 
But the Chiefs, unable to move all day, quickly retook the lead. Grbac, the former San Francisco backup making his home debut with his new team, went 16 yards on a bootleg to the 5 to set up the TO. 
After a dull first half where the Chiefs took a 9-3 lead on Pete Stoyanovich's three field goals, Buffalo (1-2) set the tone for the second half with a flea-flicker play that went 77 yards to Andre Heed for the game's first touchdown. 
From the Buffalo 23, Collins pitched to Thurman Thomas, who took one step toward the line and then turned and tossed back to Collins. The quarterback heaved a pass downfield to Heed. who had gotten behind Pro Bowl cor­nerback Dale Carter. 
Reed took the ball on the 35, then juked Carter at the 20 and the 18, leaving him on his knees as he sped into the end zone for a 10-9 lead. 
Christie made it 13-9 with a 33-yarder 31 seconds into the fourth period as the Bills took advantage of successive pass interference penalties of 18 yards on Reggie Tongue and 40 on James Hasty. 
Hasty's penalty, which negated Jerome Woods' inter­ception, put the ball on the 
13. But Tongue sacked Collins on third down and Buffalo settled for Christie's 3-point­er. 
The Bills then kicked off to Vanover, who took the ball on the 6 and burst through a gaping hole up the middle. By the time he reached the Buffalo 45, Vanover had only Christie to beat. 
Stoyanovich's first field goal was a 46-yarder that barely cleared the crossbar. He added a 45-yarder late in the first quarter and connected from 42 yards with 1:03 left in the half. 
Christie got Buffalo's only points in the first half with a 46-yarder. 
• 

---~----~---~---~-­
..-~-----------· 
Monday, September 15, 1997 

page 14 The Observer • MLB 
-Galarraga breaks Dodgers break losing streak 
which lost 4-1 to Chicago. The get a fastball. At lirst I didn't 
up scoreless duel Noma holds off Dodgers, who led the NL West think it would go through, but I 
by 2 1/2 games on Aug. 31 and knew I'd hit it hard."Astros for then dropped one game back, Astros shortstop Ricky Astacio, 4-0 since Colorado are tied with San Francisco, Gutierrez made a move toward
By ED SHEARER 
Associated Press Writer acquired him from Los Angeles which lost to Florida 5-4. Piazza's drive through the
seven innings
on Aug. 17, allowed four hits in "This was a big, big win for infield but had no chance to ATLANTA eight innings and walked two. By MICHAEL A. LUTZ us," Eric Karros said. "With catch it. Even though he has base­He had been 0-9 against Associated Press Writer everything that happened to us Los Angeles had taken a 3-2 ball's hottest team, Don Baylor Atlanta before beating the today, losing the lead, the ball lead in the eighth when Russ 
HOUSTON
says talk of catching San Braves with a three-hitter on going off EY's glove, Darren Springer walked Karros with With the season starting to the bases loaded.
Francisco and Los Angeles in July 19. {Lewis) getting called out, we the NL West is premature. "It was just a big win," slip away, the Los Angeles could have folded our tents and Houston tied the score with 
The Colorado Rockies won for Astacio said. "I felt good. I had Dodgers needed a big win. packed it in. But we didn't two outs in the bottom half the 15th time in 17 games on a good breaking ball today. I Hideo Nomo and Mike Piazza against a very good team. And when Derek Bell singled, stole Sunday, completing a three­was moving the ball around." saw they got it. we stopped our streak. This is second, took third on Darren game sweep of the Atlanta Smaltz allowed all four runs Nomo held off Houston for the kind of win you can look Dreifort's wild pitch and came Braves 4-0 on a combined four­and nine hits in 8 1-3 innings, seven innings and Piazza sin­back on as being a big one." home on a single by pinch-hit­
gled home the go-ahead run in
hit shutout by Pedro Astacio struck out eight and walked Los Angeles, which lost a ter Tony Eusebio off Scott 
the 1Oth inning, and the
and Jerry Dipoto. three. chance in the ninth when Lewis Radinsky (5-1), a ball that went "No, not yet," Colorado man­"LA will be kicking them­Dodgers beat the Astros 4-3 was called out after he was hit off the glove of Young at second ager Baylor said when asked if selves soon for letting Astacio Sunday to stop a five-game los­with pitcher Billy Wagner's into right field ing streak and climb back into
it was time to think about mov­go," Smaltz said. "He's thrown throw on the inside part of the "The pitching was awesome," ing up with the division's front­well against us the last two a first-place tie. lirst-base line, broke through in Astros manager Larry Dierker runners. "You have to get with­times, but now he's throwing "It's good to get out of here the lOth after Wagner (7-8) said. "Nomo had great stuff. 
with a win," Dodgers manager
in three. If you get to three, his curve and change for struck out three of his lirst four You can't be too hard on om 
strikes. He keeps doing that, Bill Russell said. "We've strug­hitters when you see what h,·
then you start thinking." batters. Otis Nixon and Eric The Rockies began the day he's going to win a lot of gled lately and this hopefully Young walked with one out, was doing to them." will help us get going in the
six games behind first-place games." and Piazza then singled to cen­Jeff Bagwell hit a two-run San Francisco and five back of "This is the best I've seen right direction. They're a very ter off Jose Lima on a 1-2 pitch. homer in the first off Nomo. second-place Los Angeles. In its 
him,'' Cox said. "He didn't good team. I'm glad we're out 'I wasn't concerned about who allowed just three more last nine games, Colorado will overthrow a single time. He put of here." being behind in the count, just runners. Nomo pitched the play the Dodgers seven times on a clinic, but Smaltz was Houston maintained a 4 1/2-trying to get a ball to hit," seven innings from a stretch and the Giants twice. right there with him the whole game lead in the NL Central Piazza said. "I stayed off the position, a decision he made 
over second-place Pittsburgh,
Andres Galarraga's eighth­game." bad pitches. I was fortunate to Saturday night. inning hit broke up a scoreless 
jPRELAW-sOCiETY:
VanderWal had a three-run homer in the ninth. his first is inside homer since last Sept. 16. 
"We got a chance,'' Scholastic I MEETING I 
Galarraga said. "We just got to 
back

keep playing the way we are." Before getting swept, Atlanta 
-.. cover. I September 16, 1997 I
had won 40 of 56 from Colorado. including 20 of 25 at home. 
I 7:00P.M. I I Room 121 --Law School I I I I I I I I I I I 
I Seniors should attend ... Juniors are I welcomed! ..J
L 

-
MEET KEITH BIELE You could earn: 
Director of Scouting Model Search America 

$30°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) 
NO EXPERIENCE NECCESARY-MEN·WOMEN·CHILDREN {AGE 4 & UP) 
************
ALL SHAPES & SIZES FOR FASHION, COMMERCIAL PRINT &TEL"EVISION MODELING $5°0 ifyou show college 1.0. (first visit) $10°0 per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice. 
MODEL SEARCH AMERICA HAS DISCOVERED NEW MODELS FOR THE MOST IMPORTANT MODEL MANAGERS IN THE WORLD $30°0 TOTAL! 
*ELITE* COMPA!vY *NYTRO MEN* GENERATION* ZOL/ *BETHANN *GILLA ROOS *L.A. MODELS
*PAGE PARKES* FORD &MANY OTHERS INCLUDING AGENCIES FROM PARIS &MILAN! 
IF YOlJ CAN DREMIIT -YOlJ CAN DO IT: 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D.
oNEoAv WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 17th at 6PM 
Come to: Hours: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9:00-6:00 ... -800-&4-AMERICA 51 5 Lincolnway West Sat: 8:00-5:00 BE THERE-YOU HAVE EVERYTHING TO GAIN AND NOTHING TO LOSE-PARENTS WELCOME! South Bend, IN 46601-1117 Ph. 234-60 I 0 NOTE: MODEL SEARCH AMERICA IS THE MOST SUCCESSFUL AND EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL COMPANY IN THE COUNTRY 
ONlY 
SOUTH BEND MARRIOTI 


Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
-

r~~~~:~;~~ E=­
t . . . / ~:::. :; .;•-i: .({ .<t t··. it /~-ht _f::· .i~ . . ···.·· :f ··.:.:.:: :-·::.· . ; ... ::\-~?l ·: \;;~.;::;:).::: :::.. 
.,: '·' .:. :·, va~~ ......i,.>:.::l:il·j:i·I:t 
EJ1gineerjngw~~~ E~VjrODmentafl
.. . ·. ., .. .. 1 , .,. \'· .:-( p .r:=.l:':··-''·''·'~'· ., ,·.:"'' ... : :..: .. 
.SemesteJf/StlJdY,"':4broad coc;;.l,_ 
1 

N 0 R1~ E R N . ·.. .. titM I


/le<i>Yi : / j j / 
·: '! \. -:::: .·. . 
·. : . ·\···.·........ ·. I ' ;:· .. :, .:=::·/'' 
Fal~ S~~f-~te~ a~~~"1-/)!~~~"ilk
I J k H 14 , ...,. < 1 F; v ' '·.. ' ~ 
,~,tre 'l?a~~Jl}rtStrtt{ittJ,~."1.
I 
I 
I
l 
' 
·~ .. 

Ct:·,&\::tL:n ······.,.) .. 
I .1 
! . \...-·:···"·"''.. 
s ·\ n . 
I /Fi·~rf·~ ·,.~
. 
! 
j 
t :.
IFREMANTLE :., . . 
~ lt. -=~\.H~>~~n~-l 
1 
' Opportunities Include: i * Field studies 
~ 
* Exposure to a unique and 
·• ~ lfe •· \.
l \ . 
See tf thiS! Un.,.qM~.,~.ijuc~tton·ai~,.-.,.Ww.,,.~... -·~,,<<·,-·.-~l·'=-~'-~,~1~~i.~ 
~ __ ...~...~.1 ·~ 1 H: ·<~ t. ~ F~\ 1 Bc:,1rf,;~~' ' \,:;,..~..=' .! i 
C<=Y.~.f..~~,e.p.. portuiltfy"·.·..·~·-'is~·.,f~r YOU ~:-~:·. / r 
A~ ' . V. l • .·~ w .


...,..... 
...:·· 
...... -.--· 
........-.-......,.-.. . 

'* ,. .; . :r: 
/~-.... 
¥'·"·~·. 
/~ ... 

INFORMA.trt(}~,,j~~:ETiNGstWITH 1 
Prof. \biiv~l~~~~R.:·:<·== N~·:f:~;=.:;e::)I::;atl . ··l 
:l ·­


~ 
.; 
: ' 
I .. 


. . I 
·'; 
·. i 
,· /f.:j 

~--------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 15, 1997 
--weekend, bring her season 
• GOLF

total to five. Beene can share
Irish 
that recognition with the Irish defense, who limited opponents
continued from page 20 
Woods absent at CVS Classic
to only three shots all weekend. 
the half with a 25-yard blast to the lower left corner to give the Irish a 3-0 halftime lead. Goals by Monica Gerardo and Jen Grubb in the second half sealed the win for the Irish. 
"The team played well against Pitt," Heft said. "Coach gave the starters a rest to help with some nagging injuries. Everybody stepped up and played well. I was excited to start and to play. I had some good opportunities and I was just able to finish." 
The Irish continued their rampage Sunday afternoon despite a slow start with a -3-0 blanking of West Virginia. Jenny Streiffer shone for Notre Dame with a goal and two assists in the match. 
Also scoring for the Irish were Boxx and Heft. The Irish outshot West Virginia 30-1 in the match. 
"We came out a little flat [against West Virginia]." said Streiffer."I didn't think we played that bad, but at half time we got yelled at. We came out a little better in the second half.!' 
While the Irish came out shooting, the Lady Mountaineers came out fouling. West Virginia played physical, commiting 12 fouls to Notre 
.. 
Dame's 5. 
"They played pretty physical­ly. We knew that they would play hard and would fight for everything," said Heft. "They were pretty big and they really used their size to their advan­tage. They didn't play dirty, but they worked really hard. They went in strong." 
Sophomore LaKeysia Beene recorded two shutouts over the 
The wins over th-e two Big East foes improve the Irish con­ference record to 3-0-0. 
The Irish now look forward to the adidas Lady Footlocke-r Classic and their battle for No. 1 against top-ranked North Carolina Tar Heels. 
Kickoff with the Tar Heels is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. Friday. Notre Dame will then meet Duke Sunday at 1 p.m. 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press Writer 
SUTTON, Mass. 
Loren Roberts shot a 64 Sunday to finish with a tourna­ment record 18-under-par 266 total and win the CVS Charity Classic by one stroke over Bill Glasson. 
Roberts' total was one stroke better than that achieved by George Burns in 1985. Roberts, who finished tied for second in the Greater Milwaukee Open in his last outing, earned $216,000 for his first tour vic­tory of the year and the fifth of his career. 
Glasson, the third-round leader, shot a 68 Sunday. Peter Jacobsen, who was tied with Glasson for the lead after two rounds, birdied No. 18 to cap a 65 and was third at 268. 
The tournament at the par­71, 7,110-yard Pleasant Valley Country Club had three differ­ent sponsors in the previous three years, with 12 different names since its inception in 1965. After moving the date back this summer, it drew its best field in years, despite the absence of Tiger Woods. 

Notre Dame-Michigan Game Ticket Lottery 
Two ID 's per person 
One Ticket per ID 3Jl-=­
onday the lSth@ 4:00pm Drawing starts at 6:40pm 
PIZZA, SODA, FREE ND STUFF!!! 
-
Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, TM offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 



Monday, September 15, 1997 
• MLB 
Cleveland rallies 
past Chicago, 8-3 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CIIICAGO 

Sandy Alomar hit a bases­loaded single to key a bizarre seven-run t~ighth inning Sunday as Cleveland rallied to beat Chicago 8-3, moving the Indians 7 1/2 games up on the White Sox in the AL Central. 
Chicago dropped into third place in the division, one game behind second place Milwaukee. The Whitn Sox are 10 games bar.k in the loss column of the Indians, who have 18 games remaining. 
.Jaime Navarro had allowed just two hits in 6 1-3 innings and the White Sox had a 2-0 lead entering the eighth when Sox manager Terry Bevington began switching pitchers ­using five of them, including Keith Foulke, who apparently had not wannnd up. 
Chicago tied a major league record by using nine pitchers in the nine-inning game. 
The Indians loaded the bases with one out in the eighth on singles by Omar Vizquel, Richie Sexson and Manny Ramirez. 
Jim Thome, facing Tom Fordham, Chicago's third reliev­er of the inning, hit a check­swing bouncer to the hole at short for an infield hit. Vizquel scored to make it 2-1 and the Indians tied it on David Justice's sacrifice fly. 
Bevington then made his third pitching change, bringing in Foulke to walk Matt Williams and reload the bases. 
Matt Karchner, the fifth pitch­er of the inning, came on and Alomar sent a two-run single to center as fans began to boo and leave Comiskey Park. 
Marquis Grissom followed with an RBI single and Vizquel capped the inning with a two­run double. 
Tony Castillo started the eighth for the Sox and was fol­lowed by Jeff Darwin (0-1), who allowed Ramirez' single, Fordham, Foulke and Karchner. 

The Observer/Frank Daily 

Junior Lindsay Treadwell racked up 10 and 8 kills this weekend. 

LONDONPROG 

INFORMATION MEETING FOR FALL l98 AND SPRING l99 
Tuesday, September 16, 1997 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm 
ALL SOPHOMORES WELCOME! 
F;;;:;:~~iiiiiiiii~ii~;;~~~~;;;~lrH~o;l~y~C~~ro~s~s~M~i~s~si~o~n~in Coachella, California 
Sankofa, a film by Haile Gerima from Ethiopia, will be screened on Wednesday, September 17, at 7:00p.m. in room 155 DeBartolo Hall. It will be followed by a panel discussion on "Lessons From The Past: How They Can Foster Our Identity." 
• 
Iris Outlaw, Director of Multicultural Student Affairs Office 

• 
Rodney Cohen, Director Urban Plunge & Outreach Development, Center for Social Concerns 

• 
Chandra Johnson, Assistant Director Special Projects, Campus Ministry 

• 
Kolawole Olaniyan, Lawyer, LLM Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights, Law School 

• 
R?phael Kasambro, Lawyer, LLM Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights, Law School 

• 
Kimberly Farrow, Junior, Arts & Letters, Vice-President, African Association 


Other films are scheduled for Sept. 24, Oct. I, 8, IS, and 29 at the same venue, same time. 

January2-9, 1998 


uestra enora e Soledad Parish 
S -d 0MPUS 
Coachella, California 
MINISTRY 

* 
Experience small Christian Communities 

* 
Dynamic Latino church leadership ... Including special programs involving youth and the poor 

* 
Daily group prayer and reflection 

* 
Immersion into the Latino community and Holy Cross Parish 


Informational Meetings Tuesday, September 16, 7:30p.m. Thursday, September 18, 7:30p.m. 
Where? Coffee House -Center for Social Concerns 
*Some knowledge ofSpanish or experience of Latino culture required 
Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry 
page 17 

Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
on .214 hitting. Junior middle Lindsay Treadwell scored eight kills and was the only other Irish player to score more than four. 
"J think our performancr, overall was average," head coach Debbie Brown remarked. "We didn't play the best volleyball of the season, and I think we could have played better. We did less than we should have, and we should improve as time goes on." 
Lee, along with Harris, were named to the all-toumament team. Overall, Harris had 21 kills on 56 attempts. 
The Irish have lost 19 straight matches against ranked teams, dating back to a three-set win over then No. 15 Colorado on September 24, 1995. Since then, only two losses have come at the hands of unranked opponents. 
"I don't think that our perfor­mance against ranked teams is some kind of jinx," Treadwell said. "I can't pinpoint the rea­son to a certain area, but as a team we need to continue our pressure against those teams throughout the match." The loss is the team's third in eight days, all of which have been against ranked teams. 
The Irish, now 5-4, return to the Joyce Center for a six-game home stand that lasts through the first week of October. The stand begins with the "Tournament of Champions," in which the team will compete against California, New Mexico, and Texas A&M. 
The tournament, which will be played every other year at rotating schools, will reunite coach Debbie Brown with three former teammates from the 1980 USA Olympic Team, who are now head coaches of the other teams: 
The Irish will face the Lobos on September 19, and depend­ing on their performance, they will play either a championship match or a consolation match against one of the other two teams the next day. 
"It should be a fun week­end," Brown commented. "''m looking forward to seeing my former teammates again, and there should be a lot of compe­tition. We'll be taking a look at each of the teams later on this week, but they all should be a fair challenge." 
-

I. 
-
-
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 

-
-
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Synchronized swimming -be an informational meeting The first practice will be held on Sept. 21 at 5:30 p.m. in the on Monday, Sept. 15, from 8 lobby of Pasquerilla East. Call to 10 p.m. at the Rockne pool. Maureen at 4-4281 or Amy at 
Women's instructional box­4-4308 with any questions. ing -An information meeting Volleyball tournament ­will be held on Monday, Sept. RecSports will be sponsoring 15, at 7 p.m. in the Joyce a one night Volleyball tourna­Center boxing room, across ment on Thursday, Sept. 18, 6 the hall from the football p.m. at Stepan outdoor courts. office. Contact Amy at x4633 Space is limited and sign-up with questions. deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 
Field hockey -There will 17. 

Give Us A Minute, We'll Give You A Buck! 
Resource Center ATM Demonstrations* Beginning August 26, 3:00-6:00 p.m • Hesburgh Library -Lower Level 
..source. 
liiiiBank 
Your partners from the first" 
• Limit one demonstration per person 
Special to the Observer 
-
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams each finished first at the Scarlet and Gray Invitational at Ohio State this Friday. On the men's side, Notre Dame ran away 
with the race as the Irish fin­ished first with 18 points, easily out-distancing Ashland University and Ohio State, who finished with 51 and 67 points respectively. On the women's side, the going was tougher as the Irish finished with 28 points and narrowly defeated Penn State, which finished with 31 points. Ashland and Ohio State claimed the third and fourth spots with 91 and 96 points respectively. 
Notre Dame freshman Ryan Shay, running in his first colle­giate race, took first place with a time of 24:56.1 while team­mate Antonio Acre finished sec­ond with a time of 24:57.7. Returning all-American Jason Rexing finished in eighth place with a time of 25:04.5. The Irish placed eight in the top 10 as they easily overpowered the rest of the field. 
Sophomore 1\.lison Klemmer, running in her first collegiate race after being sidelined all of last year with injuries, was the highest finisher in the women's race for the Irish as she fin­ished second to Penn State's Erin Davis with a time of 
17:40.6. Nicole LaSe lie contin­ued to run well for the Irish as she finished in fourth with a time of 17:54.1, and sophomore all-American JoAnna Deeter was sixth, her lowest finish ever in her collegiate career, with a time of 18:07.3. 

International Study Programs 109 Hurley Building 
....,... 
-
The Application Deadline for Spring Semester 1998 Undergraduate Programs in 
Athens, Greece Cairo, Egypt The Caribbean Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia Jerusalen1 Mexico City, Mexico Monterrey, Mexico Santiago, Chile Toledo, Spain 
has been moved up to OCTOBER 1, 1997 
Applications and advising available in 109 Hurley, 631-5882 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
co-captain Hyan Turner was also credited with an assist on the play. The goal was the third for McKnight in the last three games. 
Buffalo tied the game seven minutes later when Butcher beat Irish goalie Greg Velho. The Bulls caught the Irish defense niT-guard with a long pass that Butcher was able to collect and capitalize on. 
Notre Dame responded by controlling the tempo for the next 30 minutes. During that time, the Irish created many scoring chances for themselves­but failed to take advantage of' them. 
1\t the 72-minute mark. Bulls defender Triston Burton was n~d-carded for taking Irish for­ward 1\.ndrnw 1\.ris down on a breakaway. 1\.s a rnsult, Buffalo was forced to play short-hand­ed for tho remainder of the game. 
Brian Cruickshank broke the 1-1 tie for the Bulls with eight minutes to play in the game by beating Velho from the left cor­ner of the pnnalty box. Butcher 
Monday, September 15, 1997 
was credited with an assist on the play. 
With time running down, Notre Dame tied the score on a goal by sophomore /\ian Woods. Amidst a chaotic scene in front of' the net, Woods was able to collect the loose ball and put it past Schoenberg to send the game into overtime. 
The Irish carried the momen­tum into the overtime period and pressured the Bulls defense early. Notre Dame had many chances to end the game, but came up short. 
The game nnded when Butcher beat Velho. giving Buffalo the win. Velho bobbled. a save in front of tlw net. and Butcher was there to put in thn rebound. 
Throughout the gamn. Buffalo played with tremendous ennrgy and spirit that Notre Dame was unable to match. 
"Every time you put on a Notre Dame jersey. the othf'r team is going to play with a certain amount of passion," Bertic111li said. "We didn't play with the sam1~ amount of pas­sion as we have in the past." 
The Irish hope to rebound when they play at Northwestern on Tuesday at 4 
p.m. 


Monday, September 15, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-


DRIVER TRAINING TODAY AT 5 PM IN 203 LAFORTUNE!!! 
SP~FERIDE 1-9888 
10 p.m. 3 a.m. Fridays & Saturdays 
-r.;o Et€5  SIT,  GLOAI(€!>  BY  T'H£'/R  ANI>  THS PREI:>Aiofl. f;Ot:'i TKE XII... L-•••  IN 1=01(  
SUf!RouNP!N'(jS.  f'A1"1€Nrt-Y,  7"HEY  
WAlCH  A  (/l?.ollP  OF  /1/c!f< PoTE,•I/H£. 
Pf(.cY.  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Annette Bening, John F. 
Kennedy, LaToyaJackson,Al Unser 
... 

Dear Eugenia: My boyfriend and I want to go on a short vacation to­gether and we would really like to know when the best time would be. The last time I went on vacation, the timing was bad, and I'd like to gej: it right this time. Any advice you could offer would be greatly appreciated. I was born on Jan. 26, 1967, at 8:13a.m. 
Karen 

CANCER (June 22-July 22): Your memory will aid you when dealing with legal paper work that could in fact make a financial difference to your personal life. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): You will be thinking about love. Social or sports events will promote romantic at­tractions. Moneymaking opportuni­ties may develop. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Argu­ments will arise at home. Female members of your family may be un­predictable. Listening to their prob­lems will be more beneficial than ag­
MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
90NTASKME HOW I KNOW You've gEEN
CHASING 

CARS.• ~UST 
STOP lTf, 


YOU'RE 1'\A.I<..ING A 5IG ti\ISTAKL I'M NO ORDINARY f"\OUSE. IF 
'YOU K.IS5 f"\E. I'LL TUR.N INTO A PRINCE.!!! 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32Muchof kindergarten
1 Neanderthal's · 31 Sports venueweapon :se Woeful word 1 Basketballer 37 The first XoftO Tramp 
X-X-X

t4 Sharpen, as a :Ill Spotless
razor a No longert5 Dateless working: Abbr. 
tl Finished 
43 Parts of bytes 17 Touch up, as 
44 "Frasier" text character tl Repeated Chris 41Weaken O'Donnell 
48 Ulcer cause, in 

movie role popular belief 
18 Org. expanding 411 Emergencyinto Eastern room supply Europe 
10 Cosmonauts' 20Healthy space station 23 Toward the It Taut 
stern 59 Certain boxing 24 September blow bloom a send. as 28 Mother that payment can't be fooled 13 Seldom seen 
------------· 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE t2 Craps action 
_.::-r:-r:"''':'"" t3 Treasure ofthe Sierra Madre 2t See-through wrap 22 Minstrel's song :=+=-tiiillliiilliiill. 21 Y. A. of the Giants 28 Novelist Zola and others 27 Alcove -=+:+.:+::-! 28 Mother-of­pearls 
"What's My 

Line" panelist 30Wobble 3t Spanish article 
,. 

SCOTT ADAMS 0 DID I SA. Y "PR.lNC£"? YOU'RE 11\1"\U"'E
() ------..... 
L 1'\E.ANT I'D BE.COI'\E. IO t;OIH THAT'S RIGHT. THE 5'iMBOL FOR THE F\OM.I\NC.E. A~D I'M. 1\N PEF\FORt'\ER FORMERLY M.ll\Tl-1 · YOU ENGINEER. 
MUS\ BE A... to. ...

KNOWN AS PR.lNC.E. 11A 11A ~;.,!! GE.T IT? 
114 Mitch Miller's instrument u "Goodnight" girl 
ofsong u The dark side aT Still sleeping u Copier powder 
•A.F.C. division 
DOWN 

t Worker with an apron 
2 New Jersey city south of Paramus 
3Armyoutfit 4 VHS alternative 5 Chianti container 1-:::-+--+--:t-+-­aSkyward ?Mongolian 
desert a Camelot lady 8Split 

10 "I'm telling you the truthI" 
11 Lab eggs 
32 Batter's position 33 Statutes M Baseball bat 
wood :111 ·--was in the 
beginning .. ." 38 Lawyers' org. 40 Prefix with 
venous 4t Madam's mate 48 Uke a wagon 
trail 47George Marshall's alma mater, briefly 

48Nun M Strong thumbs­so Down East 
up review aStick-to­
17 "Mila 18" novelist itiveness 18 Liquefy, as ice 53 Submarine 
cream 
sandwich nMauna-­MFeds aoDecline 55 Attracted at Antagonist 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (7511: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
DEAR KAREN: First of all, you didn't submit your boyfriend's birth data -not that it really matters in your case, because your natal chart is not very good when it comes to trav­el, especially when it is out-of-coun­try travel. There will be a period coming up during the summer months next year that will be better for long-distance adventures. As for a short vacation this year, it is best to go the last week of June or the first two weeks of August. Unfortunate­lym you are going through a transit this year that could result in trips costing you more than you antici­pate. Budget carefully to diminish such happenings. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Mem­bers of your family will be overly sen­sitive to criticism. Changes in your home are probable. Older relatives may be demanding. 
TAURUS (Aprii21-May 21): Do not take financial risks. Problems will surface if you try to convince elders to do something they just don't want to do. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Your social activity should be conducive to love. A romantic dinner followed by a quiet evening with the one you love will be most satisfying. 
gressive retaliation. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Travel 
for pleasure and social gatherings 
should be your major concern. New 
romantic interaction will develop 
through the company you keep. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Al­
though your thoughts are clear re­
garding your home today, when it 
comes to financial investments, you 
will make the wrong choices. Get 
sound advice. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You will communicate well with ac­quaintances, but difficulties talking about personal matters with those you are close to will disturb you. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Take time to visit friends or relatives 
-

who have not been well. You should take care of matters that require deal­ing with red tape or government agencies. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): So­cial activity or pleasure trips should be on your agenda. New romantic en­counters will develop if you are re­ceptive to members of the opposite sex. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your best efforts will come from working quietly on your own. Pay close atten­tion to detail. Idle chatter or gossip will only get you into trouble, so don't pass judgment. 
., 
-
.,. 


--------------------------------------~---------------· 
Football 
-1997 
Purdue 
A dose of 28 realityNotre Dame 
17 




SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 15, 1997 
• MEN's SoccER 

-
-
The Observer/John Daily 

Sophomore defender Alan Woods watched as his team fell to Buffalo, 3-2. 
Bulls outlast Irish in sudden death 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
On a day of upsets, the Notre Dame men's soccer team lost to the Buffalo Bulls 3-2 in sud­den death overtime on Saturday night. 
Steve Butcher scored 5:4 7 into the overtime period to give the Bulls their first win of the season. With the loss, Notre Dame fell to 2-2-1. 
"Hopefully we mature a lot coming off of this game. We still have a lot of young play­ers in key positions, and this is 
a valuable learning experience 
for them." Irish coach Mike 
Berticelli said. "It was a loss 
that teaches you a lesson." 
The first half was dictated 
by defense. Both teams 
refused to give up any quality 
seoring chances and entered 
the locker rooms tied at 0-0. 
The Irish came out strong in 

the second half, scoring the first goal of the game. Less than five minutes into the half, ·freshman Reggie McKnight redirected freshman Stephen Maio's pass to beat Bulls goalie Jim Schoenberg. Senior 
see SOCCER I page I 8 


vs. Michigan Stare 

vs. North Carolina 

• Cross Country captures second 
September 20, I :30 p.m. 

September 19, 7:30 p.m. 
see page 18 

• Nomo leads Dodgers 
at Northwestern 

vs. New Mexico 
see page 14
September 16, 4 p.m. 

September 19, 8 p.m. 
• VoLLEYBAll • 
Netters seek out consistency 
By BILL HART senior hitter Angie Harris, who the loss, the Bulldogs drop to 3­Sports Writer had 17 kills on 31 attempts. 5 on the season. Two other players, senior hitter The win against the Bulldogs 
While most Irish fans kept Jaimie Lee and junior middle set up a championship match their eyes close to home this Lindsay Treadwell, also scored against No. 22 Colorado. weekend, Notre Dame's volley­big with 14 and 10 kills, Despite a strong effort, the ball team faced a tournament respectively. team failed to capitalize off of in Boulder, 
In her first extended action of poor hitting with a three-~a~t Colo.. a the season, senior Carey May loss to the Buffaloes, 15-7, 15­sharp change came off the bench to help the 9.15-12. from the Irish offense with 37 assists. Colorado was led by a bal­fields of "Carey played great this week­anced hitting attack that saw Indiana. In end," sophomore opposite four players total between the second Emily Schiebout said. "She got seven and nine kills. In the "Western out on the court and really first game, Colorado managed Expansion" sparked our offense during the to hold the Irish to .087 team of the season, May Georgia match. She adds a lot hitting, despite a low percent­the Irish took of experience and skill to our age of .16 7 for themselves. second place in the Powerbar team." Notre Dame battled back in Invitational. The Irish had one of their the third game to take a 12-10 
The Irish started the tourna­most impressive serving efforts lead. but the Buffaloes scored ment strong on Friday with a of the season, scoring nine aces the final five points to clinch four-set win over the Georgia and 11 service errors. The the match. Bulldogs, 15-12, 15-7, 4-15, 15-team also held a 11-5 blocking Lee led the Irish with 17 kills 
5. Notre Dame was led by advantage over Georgia. With see VOLLEYBALL I page 17 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Sophomore Jenny Streiffer hopes to have a repeat performance againt North Carolina this weekend. 
ND pounds Pitt, West Virginia 
By ERIK KUSHTO opponents a combined 68-3, Pitt Stadium. Heft scored her Spores Writer improved to 6-0-0 overall, first 12:46 into the match off a while Pittsburgh and West pass from junior midfielder 
The Notre Dame women's Virginia fell to 0-2-1 and 4-1-0, Shannon· Boxx. Heft's second soccer team redefined the word respectively. goal came at the 24:28 mark oiT "domination" this past weekend Notre Dame utilized two early an assist by Mentis Erikson. in victories over Pittsburgh and goals by sophomore forward Erikson scored the third goal of West Virginia. Jenny Ileft to cruise by 
The Irish, who outshot their Pittsburgh 5-0 Friday night at see IRISH I pagel6 






