
• 
Thursday, April3, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 116 
E INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

•FAcuLrvSENATE 
Senate demands student rights 
By SEAN SMITH News Writer 
After a brief debate last night, the Faculty Senate overwhelm­ingly voted to pass a resolution strongly urging the Office of Student Affairs to publish a stu­dent bill of rights in the next edition of du Lac. 
The resolution was proposed by the Senate's Student Affairs committee and presented to the members of the .Senate by corn­mittel' member Valerie Sayers. 
"\Ne [the Student Affairs com­mittee] strongly urge the Senate to puss this resolution." Sayers said. 
The goal of the resolution, as stated in the document, is for "the benefit of students, faculty and administration !so that they may! understand clearly student rights in the context of universi­ty regulations r-egarding all areas of student life." 
The resolution reads, "Be it therefore resolved that the Faculty Senate Academic Council requires the Office of Student Affairs to write, in com­plete collaboration with repre­sentatives from the Student Union, rectors and faculty, an explicit student bill of rights and to publish it in the next edi­tion of du Lac." 
Notre Dame students have not always been without a bill of rights. Prior to 1988, 14 rights were guaranteed to students in du Lac. That number, however, was cut down to five following 

The Observer/Brat Hogan As chairperson, Father Richard McBrien opened the Faculty Senate meeting concerning the student bill of rights. 
that year. Finally in 1993, the five remaining rights were all together stricken from du Lac. 
Twice, in the past seven months, has Patricia O'Hara, vice president of the Office of Student Affairs, denied requests to amend du Lac to include a student bill of rights. 
"We [the Student Affairs com­rnittee] think that a student bill of rights is the right thing to do and that it [the bill of rights] is very important for the academic environment of the University," Sayers said. 
Many members of the Senate expressed their opinions that it was crucia! for th~ resolution t_o be passed Immediately, as revi­sion of du Lac is scheduled for this summer. After the sum­mer, another revision is not scheduled for another two years. 
The Faculty Senate Ad Hoc Nominating Committee is also still in search of senate mem­hers wishing to run for senate leadership positions. In his 
see SENATE I page 4 
Cox wins Fulbright scholarship 
By SARAH CORKREAN Saint Marv's News Editor 
It is not very often that a stu­dent who studies abroad in France !'or an academic year has the opportunity to return as a Fulbright Scholar. 
Amy Cox, a senior French and Iiumanistic Studies double major at Saint Mary's College will be taking advantage of that opportunity next year. 
The Fulbright Scholarship program was designed to increase cultural understand­ing between the people of the United States and the people of other countries. Applicants are chosen on a highly competitive basis nationwide and receive funding for educational. living, and traveling expenses. The Fulbright Scholarship, also known as the Fulbright Grant, was established in 1946 under legislation introduced by the Late Senator J. William Fulbright. 
In conjunction with the Fulbright Program, Cox will spend the year teaching English conversation classes in a French high school through a French government teaching sponsorship that is a division of the Fulbright program. 
"Hopefully, with the teaching experience, I will be able to decide if I want to pursue a career in teaching or explore some other career," said Cox. 
Cox is no stranger to the French culture. As a sopho­more at Saint Mary's, Cox par­ticipated in the Saint Mary's France program where she studied and lived with a French family for a year. Through daily interaction with her host family, Cox was forced to con­verse in French on a daily basis. 
"Even if we wanted to isolate ourselves as American students and speak only English it was almost impossible because we had to go home to our French family every night," said Cox. 
Cox applied for the scholar­ship when a friend who also went on the Angers Program suggested she would be a good candidate. When she became one of the 40 applicants accept­ed from the pool of 300, Cox could not believe she was seri­ot~sly considered by the pro­gram directors, let alone accepted. 
see FULBRIGHT I page 4 

Center prepares to Roast Holtz 
Observer Staff Report 
Celebrating his 11-year 
tenure as Head Coach of the Notre Dame foot­ball team, Lou Holtz will return to campus for an event in 


his honor Holtz sponsored by the Life Treatment Center. "Roast the Coach" is an event designed to raise funds for the center by bringing a variety of celebrities to the University, each saluting Coach Holtz's career. 
"This should benefit Lou as well as the center," said Father Steve Newton, Sorin Hall rector and coordinator of the Roast. "It'll be great closure for his time here." 
"It'll take a miracle, nothing is as boring as an ex-coach," Holtz told Newton recently. "Why would anyone come?'' 
Newton feels differently. "I think the community wants one last chance to thank Lou for everything he's done at Notre Dame," he asserted. 
Joining Holtz and master of ceremonies Regis Philbin are Jerome Bettis, Derrick Mayes, Tony Rice, Barry Alvarez, and 
.Gerry Faust, among others. "There are others we're con­tacting, and we might have a few surprises as well," hinted Newton. 
The Class of '97 is co-spon­soring the event, which will be held at the Joyce Center arena on April 8 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are on sale for $5 at the LaFortune information desk. 
Recorded copies of the Roast will be available from WNDU. 

Urban Plunge plans 
.


program expansion 
By MICHAEL LEWIS News Writer 
One of Notre Dame's most successful social justice pro­grams, the Urban Plunge, is prepared to announce the names of those on next year's task forces. 
This includes both what is called "the executive task force" and. "the task force." The members of both of 
these groups participate in 
around the Plunge 200, but the and organize total has and publicize been as the event. The high as 280 naming of the or 290, he new task force said. members will "We usu­be at 7 p.m. ally aver­this Sunday in AnneWerring age a little the Center for over 200," 
Executive task force co­chair Stephen Ponzillo said the task force consists of dorm representatives who put up signs and help pro­mote the event. The execu­tive task force has a little more of a time commitment and has more responsibility, according to Ponzillo. 
Ponzillo wants to increase the number of students in the program to 400. Last year 
there were 

S o c i a I Concerns. 
"The Urban Plunge gives us the opportunity to see people who live in poverty in a new and d·ifferent light," task force member Anne Werring said. "We get to see them as people and not just stereo­types." 
The program includes stu­dents from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross. The participants take their 48 hour experiences in over 70 sites in nearly 50 cities each year during Christmas break. 
he said. He 
planned on catering to Core classes, freshmen and seniors to increase the participation. 
He also said the program would target students in the business school and pre-med program where there has not been much involvement in the past. Common activities during the Urban Plunge experience include serving meals at soup kitchens, tour­ing homeless shelters, and speaking with activists and 
see PLUNGE I page 4 

~----------------------------------, 
• STUDENT UNION 

The Observer/Brat Hogan 

Newly appointed Student Union Executive Cabinet members met together for the first time yesterday in 203 LaFortune. 
Sink or swiiD tiiDe for new leaders 
Y
esterday afternoon marked the first meeting of the new Student Union's Executive Cabinet. The cabinet will address student government programming for the coming year. 
Newly created by this spring's reformed student government constitution, the cabinet represents a major step towards coor­dinating the planning and funding of campus activities. 
"We're just jumping in the water and starting to swim," said student body president Matt Griffin, who chairs the Executive Cabinet. 
With 18 official members, the Executive Cabinet includes class presidents, off-campus co-presidents and representatives from SUB committees, Hall Presidents' Council and the Club Coordination Council. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April 3,1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Technology with an attitude 
It all started when my laser printer ate my National Merit Scholarship application my senior year of high school. After writing a wonderfully generic personal statement, I 
placed the pea-green application in the printer and willed the computer to do my bidding. I watched as the paper flowed smoothly into the feeder, thanking Hewlett-Packard and God for creating such a wonderous machine, 

then almost had a coro- Heather MacKenzie  
nary when that glorious  News Copy Editor  
invention suddenly  

made a sick mech-anical crunching noise and unceremoniously spewed my mangled appli­cation onto the floor in front of me. I'm thank­ful that my scholarship advisor was also my guidance counselor, because without guid­ance I fear I would have made it my own per­sonal quest to pummel every member of the Hewlett-Packard company with their little brain-child. Even with guidance, it took months before I touched that wretched machine again. 
However, I have realized that it isn't the technology that I have a problem with so much as the attitude this technology carries with it. Even though I am an Arts and Letters major, I think that the modern "conve­niences" that I choose to surround myself with should at least be nice to me. I'm paying for the damn things. 
I'm sure that by now you are all familiar with your telephone. You know, that ugly piece of beige plastic with the huge red growth on the side that you stare at waiting for the gods or your rector to send you a silent message. This intimate relationship with the phone also means that you are under the decidedly non-benevolent dictatorship of The Evil Queen of Notre Dame Voice Mail. Acquiesce-she has totalitarian rule over our piddling lives. Sure, you can check you messages from any phone in the universe, but screw up your passcode? Terribly sorry: "Call back when you remember your passcode!!! Goodbye." She might as well have said, "I hope your fingernails are pulled out slowly while you are immersed in a tank full of starving sharks." Same general sentiment. And if you forget the sacred "user option" numbers? Tough: "That is NOT a user option!!" 
It is quite a shame that we can't all be as infallible as the Queen. The problem is, bloody revolution is definitely not a user option. Who can fight a woman who, regard­less of your social status, has the sole ability to give you permission to leave a message. "You may start your message now." Oh thank you, wonderous and omnipotent ruler over all of Domerville. I am overwhelmed by your presence. 
And then there's DART. I already feel like a miserable failure for not being able to get into the classes I want; I don't need Mr. DART­man spouting his feigned sympathy on me. Sure you're sorry. And I was prom queen. 
Now all you computer-type people may think I am on a personal vendetta against your very life-blood; I mean you no ill-will. Technology is great when it actually works. But when machines that exist solely to serve me start to backtalk, I get a wee bit agitated. Selfish? I think not. I already know I'm mechanically incompetent; I just don't need machines to point it out to me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Bridget O'Connor  Brent DiCrescenzo  
Dave Freddoso  Graphics  
Sports  Brian Blank  
Self-appointed production  Production  
guru, Tom Schlidt  Laura Perelle  
Viewpoint  Maureen Hurley  
Dan Cichalski  Brett Huelat  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Kristin Doyle  Brandon Candura  

The Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


LOS ANGELES the berries had different lot numbers, the 
Schoolchildren in six states may have agencies said. been exposed to the hepatitis A virus by Those states arc Florida, Illinois, eating contaminated frozen strawber­Indiana, Maine, New Jersey, New York, ries that had been shipped as a part of North Carolina, North Dakota and a federal school lunch program. Wisconsin. 
So far, the only reported illnesses In Los Angeles, up to 9,000 youngsters linked to the tainted berries were in and adults may have been exposed. Michigan, where about 151 students School and health officials determined and teachers have been sickened, that fruit cups served last week in eigh­apparently after eating strawberries teen Los Angeles public schools may have provided at lunch, federal authorities been contaminated with the hcpatitus said. virus. 
But today, the agency and the Food As a preeaution, California health and Drug Administration said only six offieials planned to offer proteetive states -Michigan, Arizona, California, gamma globulin shots later this week. Georgia, Iowa and Tennessee -"It's not a panic situation," said Dr. received berries believed linked to the Shirley Fannin, Los Angeles County's outbreak because all bore the same lot direetor of disease control programs, not­number. ing that there is a 14-day incubation peri­
Nine other states and the District of od. "We're here within a week of eon­Columbia received shipments from the same company but sumption. We have another week to plan." 
Yeltsin signs treaty with Belarus 
MOSCOW 
In the biggest step toward reintegra­tion by any of the former Soviet republics, Russia and Belarus signed a treaty Wednesday meant to bring their people, economies and armies closer together. President Boris Yeltsin, who signed the aecord with Bclarusian eoun­terpart Alexander Lukashenko, stressed that the two Slavic nations will remain 

sovereign and separate. "We'll not transform our eommu­nity into a unified state for now, but a union of two states," Yeltsin said at the ceremony. No other ex-Soviet republics have shown a real desire for reunification since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, ereating 15 separate states. The two countries plan to coordinate economic reforms and military activities, create joint energy and transportation systems and possibly introduce a common eurreney. They will set up a Supreme Council, including top leaders from both countries, to outline joint polieies. The treaty appears to have solid support in both Russia and Belarus, but Belarusian opponents fear their eountry of·1 0 million peo­ple will lose its independence to much larger Russia, with a population of 148 million. In the Belarusian capital, Minsk, police in riot gear eonfronted about 5,000 stone-throwing protesters trying to march to the Hussian embassy. Police beat 50 people with fists and clubs, opposition activists said. 
Court orders murderer shot, crucified 
SAN'A, Yemen 
An appeals court on Wednesday ordered a man who opened lire on two schools, killing six people, to be execut­ed by firing squad and his eorpse nailed for publie display. Mohammed al-Nazari was sentenced to death Monday for killing a headmistress, a teacher, a cafeteria worker, a bystander and a student. Another student died Tuesday of wounds suffered in the weekend attack, and the appeals eourt added his name to the eharge sheet retroaetively. The lower court rejected reports that al-Nazari acted after one of his daughters was raped and that the slain head­mistress and her husband had a role in the assault. The appeals court ordered that ai-Nazari should be executed and his body nailed to a eross near the two schools, which face the house where his wife and children live. The appeals court said displaying the body in public would serve as a warning to potential eriminals. In Yemen, death sentences are usually earried out by firing squad and the bodies are buried immediately. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast Accu\\\:alher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 


Thursday 65
~­
Friday ~ 59 Saturd~y 61
~ Sunday\ I ~ 67 Monday il:1-60 
~ \'A.)' '' -../
( 
~·-,/ 

~-~-~4~~ l) 
Showsrs T-storms Rain Fluffies snoW fee Sunny 
Via Associsled Press Gr aphJcsNe/ 
42 44 49 47 
t·---­
38' 
~ ~ 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Jury deadlocks on bombing charges 
SPOKANE, Wash. 
A federal jury deadlocked Wednesday over charges that three white separatists earried out a series of bombings and bank robberies in the Spokane area last year. Proseeutors did not immediately say if they would retry the Idaho men. While unable to reach a verdict on eight counts related to three bombings and two bank robberies, the fed­eral jury convieted the men of lesser charges involving an Oet. 8 trip to Portland, Ore. The government said it was a failed bank robbery attempt. Verne Jay Merrell, Charles Barbee and Robert Berry were eaeh eonvicted of conspira­cy, interstate transportation of stolen vehicles and posses­sion of hand grenades. They could get up to 35 years in prison at senteneing June 10. Merrell, 51, a former nuclear plant engineer, Barbee, 45, a former AT&T supervisor, and truck mcchanie Berry, 42, were arrested Oct. 8. After four days of deliberations, the jury deadlocked on charges related to the bombing of a Spokane-area Planned Parenthood ofliee and The Spokesman-Heview newspaper, along with charges of robbing and bombing a U.S. Bank branch in a Spokane suburb. The newspaper office was bombed April 1, 1996, moments before the nearby bank was robbed and bombed. On July 12, the Planned Parenthood office was bombed shortly before the same bank braneh was robbed again. Government witnesses ­and Merrell-testified during the trial that the three were members of an anti-govemment militia cell with strongly held religious beliefs against banks and abortion. 
Italy's premier visits war-torn Albania 
TIHANA, Albania 
Italy's premier made a sudden and heavily guarded trip to Albania today to discuss plans for an Italian-led military mission in the troubled Balkan country. Homann Prodi crossed the Adriatie Sea by-helieopter this morning and met with Prime Minister Bashkim Fino in the southern city of Gjirokastra. Helicopters hovered above monitoring secu­rity while Prodi and his staff landt~d. accompanied by 40 armed members of the Italian special forees. Fino said Prodi had eome "to reeonlirm that the Albanian govern­ment still wants the deployment of the multinational force." European military ollicials were meeting in Rome today to plan the mission, expected to require 5,000 troops, half of them from Italy. The force is to secure aid shipments and bring some order to the anarchy in Albania. Fino also said that before leaving, Prodi aceepted an invita­tion to visit with rebels soon in the southern port of Vlora. Fino then flew to Athens for talks Thursday on Albania's future with former Austrian Chancellor Franz Vranitzky. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
TheAccuWeather forecast for noon, Thursday, April 3. 

C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc 

Pmssure H L HIGH LOW' SHOWERS \Ia Associated Press  RAIN  T·STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  i) SUNNY  ~ d PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
Atlanta  79  58  Dallas  86  67  Miami  85  77  
Baltimore  78  55  Denver  46  34  New York  70  60  
Baton Rouge 64  64  Honolulu  90  75  Northbrook  68  59  
Chicago  68  59  Indianapolis 76  56  Phoenix  89  66  
Columbus  73  54  Los Angeles 77  59  St. Louis  77  64  

• 
Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Circle K sweeps district awards 
By BETH WILD 
met with laughter. After one year's time,
_Ne_ws_wr_ire_r____

1 Notre Dame Circle K 
however, they were Notre Dame sports 
able to subdue that weren't the only teams 
Awards from Indiana 
laughter by presenting making headlines in the 
a club with 106 mem­

District Convention 
month of March; mem­
bers which garnered

their 
bers of Notre Dame's 
several awards at thatand 

fP'>Jil . "'fHCI<>TI 

Club of the Year
Chapter of Circle K 
year's district conven­

the .,.u,., ~~.y·~v·'" International captured tion. In the 1996-97
Single ServiceAward
pared to tak(l on 
every award for which 
school year, the Notre University in the 

Most Spirited Club 
they were eligible in the Dame Chapter of Circle menton a neutral Indiana District Circle K K boasts a membership

Dues on Time Award
out the support 
Convflntion in Evansville, 
of 178, 112 of whom 

The strength o.f 
Convention·· Participation Award
Ind. 
have paid the

alumni ties was '"I f'eel very proud. This International dues.
Outstanding Officers-
makeshift band is su typical of what the "We had a really good er at the last minute to 
(Ray Petrino, Mike Lewis, Paula Conolly, 
people of Notre Dame year last year," com­

team to victory over 
stand for," remarked 

Becky Greco, Vince Garlati) 
mented Ray Petrino.

Eagles in the March Brian Cullen. "It is really "We were lucky to have
Outstanding Member • (Mory Finley) 
When band a team atmosphere with a lot of good officers.
Margaret Nemeth hP:u•tJoAtlr feelings of camaraderie," L--------'--------------' This year, we just con­
the situation 
he explained. Since he is tinued growing. We local one of the members responsi­willing to merely sit back and have been blessed with greatform. ·With such 
ble for chartering a chapter of enjoy their success; they have members, and we have three only fo:rme,r b~rid · 
Circle K on the campus, the new goals for the future. freshman officers this yearfrom the Indiana and successes were particularly "We are pretty much striving who made tlhe transition from 
areas were called, 
satisfying for Cullen. to be the best in the world," last year an easy one." 
response was entirely iln,,w.,.m 
The Notre Dame Circle K asserted Sara Morand, who Morand said. ''I'm actually
dented. With only two 
provides 100-150 hours of var­was elected the North very excited about this. I real­advance planning, 3.2 ious types of service to the Division's Lieutenant Governor ly wasn't involved in Circle K and· students joined South Bend community at the convention. "Right now, before, so it's refreshing to
cheer on the Irish in 
through such activities as we have the most members. have this opportunity. I'mSeveral alumni in tutoring and volunteer work at We want to help Saint Mary's glad not only to be involved 1 area, including Bob different community centers. and Tri-State (the other mem­with the club at Notre Dame, I 
Notre Dame class of' 
The club also has social events bers of the North Division) to but with the division as well." j
together annually to and leadership opportunities · achieve the same level that we Cullen added, "Our goal is tothe St. Patrick's ·Day for its members. have. go above and beyond Notre
downtown Chicago, 
The activities of Notre "We are trying to achieve Dame. We have been asked to
Nemeth called Keeley ....,~ ....v .. ,., Dame's Circle K far surpass unity within the division, and conduct a workshop for the tioned the NIT game, he ..··. , . 
the international standards, then from there we want to other service clubs on campus.
responded with enthusiasm. .·.••· tr·t.e· urnvE~rsJTV · and this was crucial to the make an attempt to unify the Our main goal is that we want"I called ·some of my buddies ··• · ()fstapding·ino.t; 
club's success at the conven­district. We plan more service to share. I think what we have
around the area, and they were tion. projects involving the whole is a good thing.". all thrilled to perform at Notre .. '"'"""'" Twelve members of Notre North Division as opposed to As a result of the group'sDame again," he said. "It was · 
Dame's Circle K attended the projects done by individual success, Cullen was asked to 
an eclectic mix, but we ended 
convention on the weekend of clubs," she continued. conduct a workshop at last 
up ·with... all the sections.',. March 21 through the 23. The club was founded three year's InternationalWith Keeley rounding The event, which was hosted years ago, and they were able Convention in Philadelphia. 
many of the older al . 
by the University of Evansville, to send only four members to ''I'll do it again this year in
Nemeth called on 1991 provided an opportunity for the district convention. When Chicago," he said. "The struc­ate Michael Coffee, prElSU1.ent 
Notre Dame's Circle K to be founding members Brian ture of our club is very differ­the Chicago area band recognized for the strides Cullen and Ray Petrino told the ent, and we hope to help out to contact some of th toward excellence it has made other representatives at the other clubs by sharing withrecent band graduates. 
in the past year. convention that the University them our ways of doing things. 
"We have periodic alumni 
Despite winning every award of Notre Dame's Chapter We have a good thing, and wereunions, but this was a at the district convention, the would have 100 members the want to help others achieve
experience for 
members of Circle K are not next year, their remarks were the level that we have." 

page 4 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
committee report, committee chairman Col. Thomas Runge stated that the committee's two requirements for candi­dates wishing to be consid­ered for positions are interest and experience. 
"We need a strong Faculty Senate if we are going to accomplish any of the tasks that we have set out to do," Runge said. 
The committee hopes to have a set of candidates determined by April 15, so that senate members will have two weeks to consider their choices before the actu-· al vote at the next Faculty Senate meeting on April 29. 

Fulbright 
continued from page I 
Cox will also be joined by a fellow Angers Program mem­ber, Dominique Schott, a Notre Dame senior. 
Cox attributes her knowl­edege of the French culture and ability to speak the lan­guage to the academic require­ments and environment of Saint Mary's College. She high­lighted the benefits of smaller classes, including the greater ease with which a student can become acquainted with the professors on a personal level. 
She also mentioned that the professors are therefore able to write more personal recom­mendations based on their interaction with students. 
"In smaller French classes of ten to 15 students it is less intimidating and easier to speak French," said Cox. 


Plunge 
continued from page 1 
residents in disadvantaged areas. 
The program was founded by two students in 1974, and recently, approximately 15 percent of each graduating class has participated. 
According to Yvette Piggush, a task force member, many students find their perspective on poverty and their own life changed by being part of the Urban Plunge tradition. 
"People who are poor or homeless are the same as everyone else. We talked about politics, the Super Bowl, cartoons, and crime," Ponzillo said.· "They are not on the periphery of society unless you put them there." 
Rodney Cohen is the pro­gram's new director, and the task force is looking forward to implementing some cre­ative innovations for the 1998 Plunge. 
They are considering a web page to increase awareness about the program. 
Ponzillo described one of the task force's duties by say­ing, "We help him (Robert Cohen) in any way he needs help." 
The task force eventually hopes to make registering easier by putting the applica­tiorr for the seminar on the web. 
Selecting the members of the task force this year will also help increase the strength of student involve­ment in the years to come. 
The meeting for those inter­ested in joining the task force will be at the CSC this Sunday. Contact Rodney Cohen at 1­7949 for further information. 



Reclain1ing 
The Contemporary 


Hun1an 
Christian 


Sexuality 

Challenge 
Fran Ferder and John Heagle April 6, 7, 9, 1997 nationally Chapel of the Holy Cross 
recognized Keenan-Stanford Hall authors and 7-8:30 pm speakers on 
Each session will include
the topic of an experience of prayer, sexuality 
presentation by the speakers and 
and refreshments. spirituality. 
Students are welcome to attend all three sessions­or as many of the three

0MPUS l\111NISTRY as they can. 


Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Tyler displays holographic images 



~tjmrfrrt! 
Black Catholic Eucharistic Celebration 

Second Sunday ofEaster 

APPALACHIA SEMINAR TASK
Sunday, April 6 4:00p.m. 


FORCE 
The Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking two members to join the 
Badin Hall Chapel 

Appalachia Task Force for the 1997-98 school year. This is a two semester commitment. The Task Force consists of seven undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experiential learning as a
Celebrant: 

means to enhance higher education; therefore, we are in need of interested, enthusiastic, and committed people to join us.

Fr. D. Reginald Whitt, OP 

If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying 
to the Appalachia Task Force. 

Law School 

APPLICATIONS: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday, April 4, 1997 

For further information:


All Are Welcome! 

M.J. Adams, 634-3880, Lauren Stein, 271-1699 or Rachel Tomas-Morgan, 282-2209 
SUMMER HELP WANTED 

LOOKING FOR A SIMPLER 
Job Coach 


FINANCIAL CHOICE? 
Maryville Academy-Ci1y of Youth, Illinois' largest private Residential
Take the Direct Route with Direct 
Child-Care facili1y has part-time posi­tions available. We are seeking ma­

Deposit and No.-Fee Checking. 
ture, energetic individuals who have or want experience working with trou­
Don't get lost in a maze of requirements and endless 
bled children. 

fees. At NDFCU, we make it simple and affordable. 
In this role, you will ·function as a mentor and counselor for the children 
• No~FEE CHECKING 

throughout the summer In both work and recreational activities, supervising 
• No MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 
children in their job settings. Afternoon hours, 20-25 hours per week. Interns 
• No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIRED 
and college students welcome to apply. Interested candidates must be 
• No PER~CHECK CHARGE 

at least 21 years of age and possess a valid drivers license. 
• 0VERDRAIT PROTECTION. AVAILABLE 
For further information, call Monday­Friday, 9am-9pm:
A Better Choice to Make 
MARWILLE ACADEMY

-(219) 239.-6611 or (800) 522.-6611 
CITY OF YOUTH

Independent of the University 
1150 N. River Rd. Des Plaines, IL 600 1 6 

rA NOTRE DAME NCUA 

Ph: 847/294-1978 
.._.. FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Equal Opportuni1y Employer rn/f/d/V 
Web Address: www.ndfcu 

Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's College art instructor and internationally­renowned hologram artist Doug Tyler recently exhibited his work simultaneously at Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo. Mich. and the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts. 
Tyler's first exhibit, "Holographic Images by Doug Tyler." opened at the Dalton Center. located on the campus of Western Michigan University, on Feb. 12 and ran until Feb. 21. The exhibit fea­tured examples of Tyler's work over the past 20 years in the medium of holography. 
Tyler says the exhibit was designed to "introduce stu­
dents of the university to the conceptual and technical issues that an artist working in a technological medium might encounter." The latest images in the exhibition are reflection holograms which were created in England dur­ing Tyler's 1994 sabbatical leave from Saint Mar"y's. These pieces touched on the issues of gender and shifting perceptions of male roles in modern society. 
The exhibition also included some pieces that pre-date Tyler's work in holography. These non-holographic works were meant to illustrate the means by which Tyler became interested in the medium and the manner in which the artist's work was influenced by his involvement with holog­raphy. 
Tyler's second exhibit opened at the Nay Gallery of the Kalamazoo Institute of Arts on Feb. 8 and continued through March 3<1. The exhib­it, entitled "Ephemeral Gardens," was a single site­specific work which was cre­ated for the Nay Gallery. It marked a departure from the previous modes in which Tyler has worked with holog­raphy. 
The work itself was only approximately five inches in height, and was unique in that it was uninterrupted and occupied the entire perimeter of the gallery. 


page6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 3, 1997 
Calend~·'i· 
ofi Events 
........ Mark your clendar -First 9<i~~' First 
. "" served: seni()r Class Retrtafon April 19­
20. ALL Seniors are welct!Jme. Sign-tip at Campus Mlnlstry-103 Hesburgh Llbra.ry:., •<•.. 
t Application deadline • Aptlt8; ·lnfol'ft1atlolf::mi;:;[Uiliii:Hi!j! Jim Lies, C.S.C. at 631-4779. .:+< 
Power Lunch: Who Runs the Church Thursday, April 3 Faculty Dining Room 
Freshmen Retreat 
we Keeping ·Spirituality 
.·n:l#~~~~~~t 
'chapel 

Jesus Christ is Among Us Yet and Always, as One Who Serves 
On Saturday, April 5, four deacons of the Congregation of Holy Cross will be ordained to the priesthood by Archbishop Charles Schleck, C.S.C. Several remarkable life lines will intersect on this special day and occasion. 
The four deacons join a long line of thousands of young men who have pronounced their final profession as Holy Cross religious and responded to the call of God's people to accept a lifelong mission as a Holy Cross priest. The ceremony on Saturday has taken place on similar Saturdays, and in the same beautiful Basilica, from the late 1890's until today. These young religious priests are committed to serve the Church -­God's people--through the Congregation of Holy Cross with single mindedness and with zeal all the days of their lives. 
One among them who will be assigned to the University of Notre Dame will join many Holy Cross religious "whose blood is in the bricks" of Notre Dame, in Professor Ed Fitzgerald's words. They will become "the heartbeat of Notre Dame," in the words of an advertisement of Mr. Art Decio's Skyline Industries which appeared in a Football Program a few years ago. 
This newly-ordained priest is Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Jim has lived among us "as one who serves" for the past year, as a member of the staff of Campus Ministry. We have marveled at his talents, his boundless energy and his zealous dedication to respond with generosity to Jesus Christ in proclaiming the Gospel. 
The man who will ordain Jim and his Holy Cross confreres to the priesthood will be one of their own brothers, Archbishop Charles Schleck, C.S.C. Archbishop Schleck, adjunct secretary of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples and president of the Pontifical Mission Societies, has humbly, effectively and generously served the Church as a member of the Roman Curia for many years. He is one of ten Holy Cross priests who today serve the Church as (arch) bishops, as John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., former archbishop of Philadelphia, did in his day. Cardinal O'Hara was president of the University of Notre Dame before his appointment as Bishop of Buffalo, and, subse­quently, Cardinal-Archbishop of Philadelphia. 
All these people --the Cardinal, the Archbishop, and the deacons who will be ordained priests--have two elements in common. First, they are Holy Cross men with "a pas­sion for ministry" which has led them to serve the Church to the best of their abilities. Second, they are members of the Congretation of Holy Cross, a brotherhood which has attracted them to a way of life that is a happy and challenging way of living out a personal commitment to Jesus Christ. Their service is offered to men and women who are their brothers and sisters through baptism which joins them together with Christ forever. 
So when you hear the Basilica bells ring out their joyous sound on Saturday for many minutes, offer a prayer for the long and unbroken line of Holy Cross men and women who have dedicated themselves to the service of the Church and God's people through the instrumentality of the Congregation of Holy Cross and the University of Notre Dame among many other ministries. 
Father Jim Lies and his brothers will celebrate the sacraments of the Church --our her­itage as followers and disciples ofJesus Christ. He will pour water over the brows of innocent babies and they will be incorporated as members of God's people. He wi_ll be an instrument of God's care for us in the sacrament of reconciliation, when we place our turst in God's unconditional love for each of us. Jim will confort the sick with oil in the Sacrament of the Sick, and offer dying men and women the Viaticum which will be their last Communion until they live forever in God's presence. He will be the Church's witness to a young man and a young woman whose love leads them to a life­time commitment to each other and to all others, when he presides at the wedding. Jim will be present at the final profession of religious vows of his Holy Cross brothers and sisters, whose profession is a public commitment to live a life based on the Gospel. Jim will present for the ordination to the priesthood of his younger Holy Cross broth­ers in the years to come. 
Jim, you have already done much for us through your words and actions during this year. We pledge our support to you and to your ministry as the most recent Holy Cross presbyter, ordained to the priesthood by a Holy Cross Archbishop, with three of 
· your brothers, and in the presence of family and friends. 
Dear God, what a vocation and calling is yours as a Holy Cross priest. Congratulations to you, Jim, and to your brothers Jay, Steve and Brent. 
And thank you. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
C[\MPUSMINISTRY 

,.-----~----~----~-.......---------------~-­
-------~~~ 

~---­
Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
'Let them eat cake•••' 

Ethanol lobby fights to"'keep tax subsidy 

By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Armed with plans for a nationwide letter-writing cam­paign and optimistic new research, the industry that makes corn-based fuel is fight­ing back against an assault on its federal tax subsidy. 
The tax breaks that make ethanol competitive with other fuels are being targeted by a coalition of powerful interests led by Rep. Bill Archer, R­Texas, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, at a time when the industry seems especially vulnerable. 
Ethanol's longtime chief defender, Sen. Bob Dole, is gone from Congress. Its biggest player, Archer Daniels Midland Co., has been hit by a series of legal problems. Criticism of federal "welfare" for corpora­tions is mounting. And now a new study by Congress' General Accounting Office is undermining the industry's main arguments. 
So what's the prognosis for 
TEACH EJIIlliSH in 

EASTERN n:ROPE 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KJW<OW Huw would you like to teach basic conv~rsational English in Eastern Europe? Our matenals pro€ile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefirs. for mfonnation, caH: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext. K55845 
W••rota.-tdl6pv.bl.toll'tc. 
the tax breaks? 

Not bad, at least for the next few years -and that is testi­mony to the deep lobbying roots ethanol interests have put down since their federal subsidy was created during the 1970s oil crisis, experts say. 
"What keeps this tax give­away going is the political muscle and influence of (ADM chairman) Dwayne Andreas and Archer Daniels Midland," said Stephen Moore, an analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute, which opposes feder­al subsidies. 
ADM has been a steady source of political money for both parties. Last year, the company gave $918,000 to candidates for the House and Senate and to the national Democratic and Republican organizations. 
At the same time, the indus­try wants to extend the support it has cultivated for its 54-cent­a-gallon subsidy far beyond its natural base in the Midwestern corn belt. 
A coalition of corn growers, the Farm Bureau and ethanol­makers is seeking to shore up backers both on Capitol Hill and in the Clinton administra­tion particularly the Environmental Protection Agency, which has boosted ethanol as an environmentally friendly alternative fuel. 






Summer Rome 

FRIDAY AND SATURDAY APRIL 4-W AND 5TH 7:15 and 9:45 p.m. 
next weekend: THE CRUCIBLE 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 3, 1997 
• WEST BANK 





Firebomb hits Isr!ieli troop transport, injuring 13 
By SAMAR ASSAD 
Associated Press Writer 
JELAZOUN, West Bank 
A firebomb smashed the front windshield of a truck carrying Israeli soldiers today, sending it tumbling down a slope near this Palestinian refugee camp, the army said. Thirteen people were hurt. 
The truck came to a stop on its side just a few yards from the first homes of Jelazoun, a camp about 12 miles north of Jerusalem. Troops imposed a curfew on Jelazoun, and Israel TV said tracks of two assailants led to the center of the camp. 
Smoke was still rising near­ly an hour later from the wreckage, the front of the truck crumpled, the left tires burned out. Side windows were covered by chicken wire, stan­dard protection for Israeli vehi­cles in the West Bank. 
The attack came at a time of growing crisis in relations between Israel and the Palestinians -and just a day after two bungled suicide­bombings outside Jewish set­tlements in the Gaza Strip. Only the bombers died; seven Palestinians were wounded. 
The trouble began nearly two weeks ago, after Israel began work on a new Jewish neigh­borhood in disputed east Jerusalem. 
An army truck -with a sep­arate driver's cabin and the back fitted with seats for pas­sengers -passed the refugee camp at about 1:40 p.m. today when a firebomb smashed the front windshield and exploded 

• Total Palestinian control • Israeli before Israeli pullout settlement 
r ' Total Palestinian control !1lll Municipality ~ ~ after Israeli pullout
-
near the driver, said an Israeli army commander, who was identified as Col. Shlomo. 
The driver lost control and the vehicle rolled down a slope until it came to a stop. Soldiers climbed out, and some carried out the driver, who had broken a leg, according to Palestinian witnesses watching from Jelazoun. Paramedics said 13 people were hurt. 
Palestinian police today detained 30 people, most fol­lowers of the militant Islamic Jihad group, in connection with Tuesday's bombings. Thirteen were released after question­ing, Palestinian officials said. 
Two Palestinians also were shot to death Tuesday by Israeli troops in the West Bank. 
President Clinton has stepped up U.S. efforts to end the crisis, asking Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to meet him Monday at the White House. Clinton also urged 

Palestinian  leader  Vasser  Clinton's meeting Tuesday with  but said Arafat must first com­ 
Arafat to show "zero toler­ Jordan's King Hussein.  mit himself to ending violence  
ance" for terrorism.  In  Washington,  Israeli.  and terrorism.  
Secretary of State Madeleine  Ambassador  Eliahu  Ben­ "That is a definite condition,  
Albright called Arafat twice at  Elissar said Israel was ready to  that there be  no  violence and  
dawn today to review develop­ put negotiations on a fast-track  terrorism," Ben-Elissar told  
ments  and  brief  him  on  to avoid a lot of "quarreling,"  The Associated Press.  

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
ARE PLEASED TO PRESENT 
.. 

lAC AND EBSCO DATABASES 
The University Libraries invite you to search our two new web-based databases. The Information Access Company (lAC) and the EBSCO databases provide the researcher with access to information in the areas of business, sociology, psychology and other fields. In addition, newspaper articles, Books In Print, general and academic periodical indexes--including some full-text articles --can all.be accessed via lAC and EBSCO. 
After searching lAC or EBSCO, the Libraries would appreciate your feedback in two areas: the coverage and content of the indexes and the access software and its features. Both databases can be reached through the Libraries' homepage, which provides an e-mail link for your comments. 
The URL is: 
http://www.nd.edu/~ndlibs/iac.htm 
Are you gay? Lesbian? Questioning? Are you a friend ofsomeone who is? Please come to Campus Ministry's FIRST ANNUAL RETREAT for gay and lesbian students and their friends. April 18--19, 1997 Explore your gifts and the milestones in your life Meet new people Discuss how we are all called to follow Christ Examine ways to reach out to the Notre Dame/ St. Mary's community Student~ led Student talks Conversation Prayer '  

Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 




discrimination, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop. 
LIMITED ENROLLMENT-CALL IMMEDIATELY 
SATURDAY, APRIL 19 9:30 AM -4:00 PM 3RD FLOOR LOUNGE OF HEALTH SERVICES BUILDING 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
This workshop is being presented by the Notre Dame Affiliate of the National Coalition Building Institute 
Contact: Adele Lanan • 631-7308 


Mickey Franco • 631-4355 
Thursday, April3, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Major unveils election platform 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Prime Minister John Major presented a campaign platform Wednesday that pledges family tax breaks and a tough stance on European union, appealing for a fifth straight term for his strug-
Attenti 
gling Conservative Party. 
"It is time for change -time for a change into the next phase of Conservative prosperity," Major said, playing off a top sell­ing point of the Labor Party. 
His 22,000-word platform for the elections was emblazoned with the campaign theme, "You can only be sure with the Conservatives." 
Major promised lower taxes and sales of remaining state­owned enterprises, including the London subway system. He warned wary voters that Labor will bring the country closer with the rest of Europe. 
This Saturday th¢}Yomen's 

5:00 PM at the Cent~rfor Continuing 
women students t6tliscuss the Mary's and Notre Dame. Through j~'tJ~i:;~ ~ 
ersbip,tl;la,t lps·knit a~}l~!J:~ll~{yJcollective-res] 1 
We :would like toiitVi.te all outsp(\)l{en women stud~1'tts 

disciplines, areas of activism, athle ·· ·· ndeavors, and · in student govermttEJI1t, campus pr dormJ~ ership, feminist groups, soci4Jfservice gro an atlil' Woman at Large-cO:~~ contribut 
In the first roundta~l~', tiria;ing Pot~r: 'YnJfien :"!lUlOeDJ out issues such as co-ed I ship and feniini$tldentity. Is th workplaces? Is (women's t leadershipei\couraged or disc continually have female vic residents and male presidents? Is What is its nature? What are our futures in power as women and 
Come tothe Center for Continuing ~~ycatiofi' 2:00~ij.~:OO PM, to help build a diverse, campus-wide women'$J~aders . . The St.ri'nfnit will follow a lecture series entitled "Speaking in P9litical Ton i ·•• xual Identlt.~s and Identity Politics" sponsored by Gender Stud\~~.-Nationally ~~~i:J?;lesbian sc}i()l,ars Katie King and Lauren Berlant will speak on ~Gender, Sex, antl•(litizenship." W¢'11 see you there! 
Af2 .... 
Do You Assume the Risk 




of Going to College?!? 
The Journal ofCollege and University Law 
Notre Dame Law School 
presents 

Robert Bickel & Peter Lake speaking on the doctrine of 
In Loco Parentis 




April 4, 1997 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Reception to follow 

• ZAIRE 
New prime minister known as 'the Sphinx' 
By RON KAMPEAS 
Associated Press Writer 
KINSHASA, Zaire 
The newly nominated prime minister's first reaction to a request for a victory statement was succinct: "Get serious." 
Those words from Etienne Tshisekedi, accompanied by a dismissive wave of the hand at reporters staking out his back­yard Tuesday night, typify the cranky opposition leader dubbed "The Sphinx" by Kinshasa's voluble press. 
But they also reflect the rock­and-a-hard-place job descrip­tion that being prime minister of Zaire has become. On one side is President Mobutu Sese Seko, a power-hoarding auto­crat who habitually sacks pre­miers. On the other, a disci­plined rebel army sweeping in from the east, promising to oust the government once it gets to Kinshasa. 
Tshisekedi (pronounced CHEE-sa-kedie) started his opposition to Mobutu's one­party dictatorship in the 1970s, when he quit a cushy position as a Mobutu functionary to campaign for democratic reform. 
His chubby, casual look and phlegmatic charisma endeared him to many. The privations he suffered -imprisonment, beat­ings, house arrest and internal exile-added to his popularity. 
He is known for precise, odd habits. He maintains two offices, one in his house and one in his garage. Every night, at 11 p.m., he moves from house to garage. No one knows why -Tshisekedi, 66, eschews interviews. . 
In 1992, a national confer­ence of delegates from the gov­ernment, the opposition and civic groups elected Tshisekedi to his first stint as prime minis­ter, after Mobutu acceded to demands for democratic reform from a West that no longer needed him as a buffer to St>viet expansion. 
Tshisekedi's Democratic 
Union for Social Progress advo­cated a constitution guarantee­ing basic human rights and the reform of a system that had dis­enfranchised most Zairians. 
Mobutu refused to let him assume the post, not least because Tshisekedi demanded the key to the treasury. Diplomats and opposition lead­ers accuse Mobutu and his fam­ily of plundering Zaire's enor­mous natural wealth -with some estimates of the family fortune as high as $5 billion ­while the vast majority of its 43 million people languish in poverty. 
Ever defiant, Tshisekedi ran a powerless shadow government from his backyard. 
Meanwhile, Mobutu named a new prime minister each year, each emasculated by the dicta­tor's insistence on keeping power for himself -and then fired for not saving the country from ruin. 
His most recent casualty was Leon Kengo wa Dondo, sacked last month for mishandling the seven-month rebellion in the east sparked by government repression of ethnic Tutsis. 
Parliament nominated Tshisekedi as prime minister on Tuesday, and on Wednesday Mobutu accepted the choice, presidential spokesman Kabuya Lumuna Sando said. Mobutu and Tshisekedi were scheduled to meet, but the spokesman did not know whether they had actually met. 
With a government delegation heading to South Africa for peace talks, the new prime min­ister will have to make ending the war a priority. It is a tall order. 
Zairian soldiers are unmoti­vated, not having been paid in months, and are clearing out of town after town as Laurent Kabila's rebel army advances from the eastern hills to the western savannas. 
Kabila is in less of a mood to compromise: He says he will topple whichever government is in Kinshasa once he gets there. 

What will you do after graduation? 
Why not help us change lives? 
We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 
Houston, TX 77266-6581 
Voice (713)529-0639

casa Fax (713)529-9179 
de esperonzo 
Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, April 3, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. ] ed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Spons Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......•••................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager.. . ............... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Pho[O Editor ........•.................. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editOrials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­s~uily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to al1 members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.J@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• 0HEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN 00UI3T 
A modest proposal to the ND admissions department 
John Wooden said, "It's what you learn after you know it all that counts." I'm hot sure what that means, but it sounds important. In 1997, Notre Dame seems to know everything about being a first-class university. Highly ranked, highly rated 

Chris Regan 

and highly regarded by all. More than Father Sarin could ever have dreamed it would be. Now that we know it all, what can we learn? 
1997 has been a special year for Notre Dame's athletic teams. So much more than a football school. Women's soccer; fencing; men's and women's basketball. tennis and lacrosse are all vying to be the most successful team in 1996-97. 
How has this athletic excellence been achieved? Start at the top and work your way down. Former Athletic Director Mike Rosenthal hired out­standing coaches. They assembled outstanding staffs who pushed the players they had to the limit. 
That wasn't enough. So they went out and got more players. They brought Jen Renola, Beth Morgan and Pat Garrity to Notre Dame. Players like them transformed ordinary teams into contenders and contenders into champions. 
Ultimately, those players make the difference. Take them away and our teams would be ordinary. No matter if John Wooden himself is coaching­you've got to have excellent players to bring about team excellence. 
This pedestrian analysis of what is, after all, a secondary aspect of Notre Dame's mission should not surprise anyone. I mention it because it has led me to imagine a modest proposal directed towards our admissions department. 

The outstanding athletes who allow Notre Dame to be a leader on the courts and the fields have one thing in common. They are not here by acci­dent. They were all vigorously recruit­ed. We sent them letters; coaches vis­ited their homes and spoke with their parents. When they came to visit the campus, we rolled out a red carpet. 
Why shouldn't we? These people are some of the very best in the country at what they do. The example of excel­lence they can set here is beyond price -certainly valued above any scholar­ship. Nevertheless, the special treat­ment accorded them often arouses resentment. 
Let us eliminate any shred of justin­cation for that feeling. We can extend the successful philosophy of the athlct­
• ic department to other areas of admis­sions. Let us recruit more than just athletes. Notre Dame needs the leading engineer in the country as much as the leading halfback. Notre Dame will need the leading philosopher and the leading musician in 1999 as much as it will need another power forward and another goalie. Notre Dame should hire some people and send them out to look for the most talented writers in America, bring them here, put them on scholarships, get them to practice 20 hours each week and then send walk-ons like me to the bench. There is no shame on any bench of any sports team here. How much effort will it take to say the same about the back row of every classroom? 
Some people don't like that notion of competition. They think it is too hard; too sharp for an atmosphere of learn­ing. At some schools, students steal library books to make sure they get the top grade on assignments. That's not the kind of competition we're talking about here. We're talking about a total team effort-from the gilded offices in the Dome to the cinder-block walls in Stanford. 
Some argue that general admissions doesn't work that way-too many stu­dents to lind, no one else does that, etc. Who cares how it's done else­where'? If you want to be a leader, you'll have to take somB chanc.es. This doesn't seem like too great a risk. 
The very best academic talents in thr, country might be harder to find than the finest athletes. So what? If we bring in some excellent people and tell them to start looking, we are going to find them. Then we should do what we do best. Write the letters. have profes­sors visit with UHlir folks. bring them here for the guided tour and roll out the red carpet. Whatever it takes. 
To what extent are we breaking new ground here'? There aren't even any NCAA rules. It's very touchy to bring a great athlete to campus, but a great musician'? Anything goes. Why assume they will come on their own? Seek the finest people out-that is how you build something special. 
So there's 18 soccer players and 1,800 freshmen. Why let that be an obstacle'? If we need 100 people to find the best 1,800 we can lind, so be it. Let's choose that 100 with the greatest care and let them do their best for us. There is no better place to spend our money. 
It is an old eliche in sports that a player is always better when he has someone to push him. Ilow much of the innate talent in our student body is wasted for lack of sufficient challenge? How many students can really say they've done thcir"best to learn every­thing they could in each of their class­es? 
Some people think college is too stressful-that there is too much pressure. Right. Whatever. How many hours a week do varsity athletes spend in practice -above and beyond academies'? How drastically could any student improve their performance in their fields by adding that kind of effort? 
Maybe not at all. Maybe the current level of academic achievement at Notre Dame represents the maximum intel­lectual capacity of its students. If that's true, there is only one thing to do. Go get better students. Whatever it takes, bring them here. bcc.ause this is where they belong. 
Go get the best people there arc. Do whatever it takes to bring them to the best place there is. If you do that. they will make this place into somewhere the best people are dying to go. That is the business of championship teams and that should be the business of a "first-class" university. 
Notes and Asides: 
• 
Don't miss Kevin DiCamillo's read­ing in the Library Auditorium next Wednesday at 7:30p.m. It's going to be all that and a bag of chips. 

• 
No athletes will ever do more for their sport at Notre Dame than Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither have. If we are very fortunate, we'II get to see them play one more time on the most hallowed courts of all -the ones behind the bookstore. 

• 
True love and admiration from myself and on behalf of many, many others to tlw eighth dwarf. 

• 
There was justifiable concern expressed to me over the phrase "treated unequals unequally" in my column of several weeks ago. A chari­table reading (which I always require) might apply the construction to the organization and not the individuals discussed. That, in turn, might allay some of the concern. 

• 
After the rousing success of my NCAA predictions, there is only one thing to say about Bookstore: Forget about it. I· 


Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. 
• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE 0AV 
"christianity taught men that love is worth more than intelligence." 
-Jacques Maritain 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, April 3, 1997 page 13 
• lETTER TO THE tOITOR 
Calling for an end to discrimination against men 
Dear Editor, "Even women can learn"? As a result, men are left with to love? woman" in the eyes of society. 
Would they not be outraged at a crippling sense of shame for It is important to note, how­Thus she has the option of 
Once again, Notre Dame, in the patronizing attempt to "put just being male, particularly ever, that believing in the madonna or whore, neither of trying to move forward them fn their place"? So why when they are around women moral inferiority of men and which are realistic expecta­towards gender equality, has then do we put up with this and especially when they are the moral superiority of women tions. In short, by claiming actually moved further away · misandry and what effects does with their sig­
hurts women women are morally superior, from it. Father Hesburgh's it have on the men and women nificant oth­too. While we deny them the right to be speech on Saturday [March of Notre Dame? ers. There is women do human beings, with human 
221. and The Observer article Traditionally, women have little more benefit from needs and desires, and who covering it on Monday [March been taught that they were hurtful to a being consid­make human mistakes. 24]. contained not-so-subtle defective in their ability to do man than ered virtuous Thus, when we behave as if notions of misandry. Hesburgh things properly, be it holding experiencing and morally men are morally inferior and saying, "Men are better when down a job, supporting a family the following pure, prob­women are morally superior, women are around," and allud­financially, or fixing a car. scenario: A lems arise we end up hurting everyone. If ing to the perception of the This kind of socialization creat­man cares when we men are considered morally moral superiority of women ed a feeling of shame in women deeply about a observe inferior, they can easily be dis­that "civilizes" men is clearly when they internalized the woman he has w o m e n counted and dehumanized. anti-male, and thus, anti-egali­teaching and believed that they been seeing behaving This in turn justifies treating tarian. If you doubt my conclu­were indeed defective. This for a long more like them inhumanly, which only sion, consider the following: kept women "in their place." time. He h u m a n leads men to see themselves as What if a former president of Fortunately for American wants to share beings and less than human and to feel a Saint Mary's delivered a speech women, the women's move­that love with less like profound shame for just being
. li!:~ .....•. .•. ·..•.\ 
to their student body in which ment challenged this notion his partner in saints. If we born male. This shame scars
they are bad, born ··· · 
he said, "Women are better and helped to liberate women a very person­expect their lives and cripples their when men are around," what from these confines and see al, very inti-trouble makers and are women to emotional relationships. leav­would the stud·ent reaction be that they were not defective mate very naturally immoral.' save civiliza­ing them scared, confused and to that? Exactly. Public out­when it came to "doing." They physical way. tion by hurt. This dichotomy hurts rage at claiming that women just hadn't been trained to "do" He offers the changing the women by likewise denying aren't good enough on their the same way men had. As gift of his sex-behavior of them their own humanity and own and thus "need" men to women empowered them­uality to his partner out of love men, what happens when making them solely responsible make them "better." And selves, this sense of shame vir­only to be told that all he wants men's behavior doesn't for solving the moral problems rightly so. Any group has a tually disappeared. But ... is sex and that he's just like change? Instead of accepting of the world. In the end, we right to be enraged when they Men likewise experience a every other man. No matter men's behavior, we conclude both end up so hurt that self­arc told they are a Jesser form sense of shame, but for differ­how he tries to explain to his that the women are somehow help books can create a multi­of humanity, even men. ent reasons. Men are taught partner that the offer wasn't at fault since they are morally million dollar industry trying to 
Calling pre-women Notre that they are defective in their about sex but love, she persists superior and thus should have give us back the humanity that Dame "a raunchy place ... won­morality, their ability to relate in emotionally abusing him and been able to affect change. we have taken from ourselves. derful ... for feisty young men," and love, and their ability to telling him how she hates men This belief is especially hurt­Society cannot hear what men calls for a belief in the moral feel emotions properly. Men like him who "only want one ful to women when it comes to do not say, so guys, speak up! inferiority of men, that is, with­are taught that they are bad, thing." He is left rejected, sexuality. By being required to Tell the world you're tired of out women. men degenerate born trouble-makers and are hurt, and ashamed of trying to act morally superior, virtuous being treated like a lower life into unfeeling, uncaring "cave­naturally immoral. After all, share his sexuality with some­and pure, women are forced to form that is vilified and demo­men" who can be saved only by "boys will be boys" and they one he loves. I would be will­act as sexual restrictors, which nized by everyone you the infusion of females and are made of "slugs and snails ing to wager that the majority in turn prevents them from get­encounter and that you're not female values (which are con­and puppy dog tails," right? of men on this campus have ting in touch with their own going to take it any more. We sidered morally superior). Unfortunately for American experienced something very sexuality and the positive deserve better. .Joking that "Even men can men, there has been no men's similar to this scenario. Any expressions thereof. A women Jearn'' perhaps most clearly movement to challenge this wonder there is so little dating who breaks with societal BILL MAURER elucidates the anti-male preju­notion of moral inferiority or to at Notre Dame when men are expectations and does not act Junior dice present at this university. help liberate men from these constantly the objects of as a sexual restrictor becomes Flanner Hall llow would Notre Dame women confines and help them to see demeaning and dehumanizing labeled a "slut" or "whore" and feel if llesburgh had said, they are not immoral or bad. remarks that deny their ability is no longer considered a "real 
• WHEN PlGS fLY... 
The best and the worst of life on the road 
Road trips come in four varieties, all that you nearly took her arm off dur­because you learn to enjoy the journey Road trips with friends almost never of which begin with a car and end in ing the infamous close call with the instead of the destination. involve cultural activities and are various states of disaster. In general it neighbor's mailbox when you were 14. The solo road trip: Traveling alone characterized by fights over control of is safe to assume that knowing the Your sister will insist on playing the involves crazy schemes to see some­the radio stations and strange mixes subtle differences between them will same Boys II Men tape 15 times in a one you love and are taken to the of music ranging from "La Calle de Ia 
row. These trips also involve sharing a remote backlands of places like Sirenas" by obscure Spanish-language 
bed with a sibling who does not take Madison, Wis. Driving is tedious and New Kids on the Block wannabes to 
kindly to being pushed off the edge of lasts forever; you marvel at how con­The Best of Snoop Doggy Dogg. 
the hotel bed for snoring too loud. venient cruise-control would be if you Friendly-fire road trips involve learn­Bernadette One of the nicest benefits of the actually had it installed in your car ing to share a pull-out couch with four familial road trip is that you don't and instead hold your foot at a 45-people and eating dry cereal for have to pay for your food and your degree angle for six or seven hours at breakfast, lunch and dinner. You will 
Pampuch 
father will sometimes give you the a time. You are afraid to get out at fall asleep in the car, drool all over 
leftover change from the hot dogs for truck stops at night because strange yourself and not really care because 
the arcade if you ask nicely. people wearing overalls and chewing your friends are all doing the same 
The spur-of-the-moment road trip: hayseed look at you funny. thing. do little to save you but may at least Spontaneous trips come about You do not have to worry about vis­Friendly-fire road trips are good offer something to ponder while star­because you are sick of the Midwest iting places like Mystery Hill or The because they sharpen your skills at ing out the window for hours on end. and decide that Toronto, Canada is World's Biggest Clam because you are games like "Shotgun! -I get the front 
The familial road trip: Road trips the most exotic place you can get to too busy holding hands and snuggling seat!" and "Bididdle! -A car's head­with family members are generally during a four-day Easter weekend. with your loved one. Solo road trips light is out!" and because, if you can taken to culturally or environmentally Spur-of-the-moment road trips involve involve sharing a bed with the person stand someone's presence in a car rich areas like the Toronto Shoe sleeping in the Pizza Hut parking lot you drove eight hours to see, or sleep­during games like these and they are Museum or Mackinac Island, Mich. -at 3 a.m. because you can't make it to ing in their brother's room (located not your family members, you proba­places which are rarely frequented by the next rest stop without falling right next door to their parents') while bly have a friend for life. anyone over the age of 13 or under asleep and are overshadowed by a you spend the night wondering how In conclusion, when planning a road the age of 40. If someone should be $30 expenditure limit that forces you loud the floor boards of their house trip it is best to remember that no spotted who appears to be closer to to eat nothing but cold pizza for days might aCtually squeak. Solo road trips amount of planning can change the the 20-year-old bracket they will on end. are good because you have control of fact that a road trip, by definition, is a almost always be the gorgeous local The spontaneity of these trips is the radio. collision of family, friends, music and waiter serving root beer to you and marked by constant orientation prob­The friendly-fire road trip: So cars waiting to happen and that learn­
your family while your mother tries to lems which surface only when exits named because, much like friendly­ing to enjoy even the wrong turns is set you up on a date and you try to are not clearly marked and force the fire, no one has any intention at the the only way to really enjoy it at all. slip under the table. driver of the car to miss entire coun­start of causing harm and/or maiming 
During these road trips you are tries -Canada, for example -yet other members traveling in the car Bernadette Pampuch is a senior never allowed to drive, no matter how offer many opportunities to perfect but usually end up doing so anyway. English writing major at Saint Mary'sold you are. Your mother and father the art of making aU-turn every time Friendly-fire road trips are achieved College. Her column appears everywill each drive eight-hour stands someone yells "No! Wait! Turn there, by placing people who usually call other Thursday and she can be before they will let you get behind the there, there!" without giving any themselves "friends" in tight quarters reached at pamp2025@jade.saint­wheel of the minivan and yet complain warning. If you have the good fortune for five or more hours at a time then marys.edu endlessly about how tiring the driving to travel with a Brazilian and a releasing them several hours later is. You will point out that you are 21 Panamanian, you will quickly learn to than originally planned only to marvel years old and have never had an acci­swear in two new languages. Spur-of­at how far the bonds of friendship can 
dent, and your mother will remind you the-moment road trips are good actually stretch. 



page 14 
Thursday, April 3, 1997 
'{:{'{:{'{:{'{:{

Various Artists Nowhere Soundtrack (out of five stars) 
T
ake love. S&M, hallucinogens, alien abductions, music from its aphrodisiatic qualities, and one listen will reveal why. two suicides and an exploding boy. Add the the gregg araki movie Just make sure you're around someone you like. warped genius of director Gregg Araki, sit for 90 Catherine Wheel. a band that deserves more media atten­minutes, then enjoy a healthy dose of the new film tion than it seems to get, provides the soundtrack with its "Nowhere." · highlight. "Intravenous." Curve li1llows with a loud. distort-
After "Totally F***ed Up" and "The Doom Generation," ed track full of aggressive, background feedback that com-comes this final third in Araki's Teen Apocalypse Trilogy. petes for space with the vocals. Lush eases this tension Compared to Beverly Hills 90210 on acid, the films are with the next lloaty track, romancing the listener with. described by Araki as "the search for love in this world "You have the sun, I have the moon." Quirky diva Ruby of sh**." · provides an incredibly strong effort, and takes control of 
Out of a desire for a musical experience as intense as her live minutes of air time. The lyrics "I laugh when you the film comes Nowhere -Original Motion Picture die/ I cry when it feels good/ and then I scnmm because I Soundtrack. Featuring some of the freshest sounds in want to," describe in words what B.uby contributes with music, the 15 tracks on the album become as addictive music. as the heroin they accompany in the movie. James lures anyono on a trip through space. soothing just 
After a throaty voice declares, "L.A. is like nowhere. enough to prepare for the driving outburst of' Chuck D on Everyone that lives here is lost," the energy of 311 his track "Generation Wrekkked." The intensity continues explodes to start off this hour-long musical trip. Their with Marilyn Manson's contribution to the album, and some tune "Freak Out" is fun enough to get even the toughest interesting chords may be all that save the song from its 
12-year-old skateboarder on his feet. Gears switch as ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pile of evil noise. But never fear: any relief-seeking ears 
Radiohead croons through "How Can You Be Sure," will be relaxed by The London Suede. who come through which is not only trance-inducing, but also one of the on their solid-if not inventive-song "Trash." strongest songs on the album. Courtesy of Mercury Records One encounter with this soundtrack merits another. and 
The loud guitar riffs and pogo stick pace of Elastica interrupts this calm with a before long, each song presents its own unique feel and sound. The well done pro­minute and a half of enthusiasm, which climaxes into "Dicknail" by Hole, as the lis-duction of the album brings out the best in nach song, intermixing loud with gentle, tener is left wondering how Courtney Love still hasn't managed to shred her voeal pulsing with relaxed. Jumps from mw styl<~ to another ke<~p the listener's interst chords. The eight minutes of Chemical Brothers that follow volley between pulsing peaked. Whether or not the movie ent<1rtains movie audiences, the soundtrack innovation and monotony, but the throbbing background beat eventually triumphs, should appeal to many, as it walks tlw tightrope betwt1nn mainstream popularity sending the listener straight to the mental dance floor. The smooth. upbeat sounds and alternative innovation. Immersed in "Nowhere," listeners may feel as if they of Massive Attack merge into this flow. When "Killing Time" by Coco and the Bean finally ended up exactly where they wanted to be. rounds out this wave of seduction, it's not too hard to figure out what kind of movie scene it accompanies. Rumor has it that this track may actually merit a patent for by Ashleigh Thompson 

The Orb 


Orblivion 
W
hen the Orb came to prominence at the start of this decade they heralded a new age of ambient music. Smooth and imaginative. they rapidly acquired criti­cal acclaim and took their place as the reigning mon­archs of this genre. After their excellent 11rst two albums. however, a string of mediocre releases wern panned by many former fans and they descended into relative obscurity. Now, a .few years later, a minor personnel change and a willingness not to mst on their laurels have fed to a new and much improved album. 
Orblivion is one of those records which sets the tone for other practitioners of ambiance to emulate. Packed full of the usual odd samples ("to white sharks, the tuna are the equivalent of a singles bar with a good restaurant," for example) and varied textures, what really stands out is the mixed progres­sion of the album. Not just content to maintain a slow and relaxed pace, The Orb have also included more 
'{:{'(:{'{:{'{:{ 

(out of five stars) 
energetic moments. thus avoiding the pitfall of' born­dum which plagues many an ambient excursion. "Toxygene" presents itself as tlw best example of this strategy; a bouncy and fun track reminisc<mt of th(, band's best rnonwnts, its catehy tune and well-timPd samples represent a good demonstration or how to make an iunbient record which does not induce nar­colepsy. Also worthy of mention is "Secrets," a dark­er and more ominous track which highlights The Orb's talent for taking extracts from everyday life and making them seem downright spooky. Iloprfully Orblivion represents what will be a successful come­back from a slump that has lasted for too long. By taking account of the current state of tlw game. and by sticking to what they do best, The Orb have at last again produced an album interesting and quirky enough to keep people listening. 
by Julian Elliott 
'(:{'{:{'{:{'(:{

Bra iniac Electro-Shock for President 

I 
n movies when then want to show crack they crush up macadamia nuts and toss it in a Ziplock or a • pipe. If someone were to actually smoke that and 
then pick up some instruments, my guess is that 
they'd sound like Brainiac on their new EP, Electro­
Shock for President. Brainiac forewarned that this 
EP would be "experimental" compared to their past 
work, which is a bit like Jean-Luc Godard announcing 
that his next film is going to be a bit "artsy-er." 
Previously Dayton, Ohio's quirkiest quartet manipu­
lated their instruments through whatever electrical 
appliances they could get their fingers on. Now, 
they're turning those electrical appliances into the 
instruments. Synthesizers, Black and Decker power 
tools, lntellivision game effects, Speak and Spells, and 
drum machines are blended, tweaked, filtered, and 
fused with Brainiac's trademarks squiggley guitar 
chords, mucus-clearing bass, and collapsing drums. 
There's only a few fleshed out songs mixed with a 
couple of noodling excursions, but "Flash Ham" and 
"Mr. Fingers" are neuron-cauterizing!y brilliant. The 
former's vocals are mixed to sound like the evil robot 

'\WW7: 
U 
Silverchair Ben Folds Five Orb I Chemical Brothers They Might Be Giants 

(out of five stars) 
#4 in Short Circuit as a smooth. slushy groove cycles beneath. Brainiac's mixed aesthetics can frighten, awe, and make you get down. 
As every magazine from People to Alternative Press is hyping the oncoming onslaught of "efectronica." (By the way, if I see one more picture of Keith Prodigy in the press I'm going to cut myself off from the out­side world and live in the Appalachians.) It's refresh­ing to know that good old American indio-rock is out­doing the knit-capped Brits and NIN factory clones. Anyone with a Macintosh and a Moog can pump out mindless rump-shakers, but Brainiac combines the full-blast rock of Fugazi and Girls Against Boys with the sonic manipulations of the Chemical Brothers and Daft Punk. It's a natural progression from Brainiac's last two LPs-the stellar Bonsai Superstar and Hissing Prigs in Static Couture_:_ and after a sample of the new 11avor I'm starving for a full course. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 
4/20  Aragon  
4/24  Metro  
4/26  Aragon  
4/30  Metro  

Pavement .Widespread Panic 
The Offspring 
No Doubt/Weezer 5/1 Metro 5/9 Aragon 5/13 The Riv 
7/3 N.W.M.T. 
-----~-­
.---~~~~-~-~--~-~---~------------------~~----------~--~-­
Thursday, April3, 1997 
page 15 


• 

.. a nee 
Hom e work 

One of the most interesting techno albums to come along in a while. Daft Punk-a Parisian duo that insists on being photographed only when they wear masks­seamlessly meld disco and Old Skool rap samples over beats that make you shake yo' rump. If techno could ever be classified as accessible and minimalist -as far as dance music goes-:--this is the album that does it. 
Chemical rothers **** 
Block Rocking Beats 
·yeah, yeah, so they've been in every piece of print that covers music for the last two months and the words "over-hyped" quickly come to mind (considering that they've been placed on the "next big thing" mantle with­out hardly selling -any discs commercially here in the United States), but dang, it if this is the funkiest thing to come along in a while. Complete with a truly PHAT bassline and a sample of Schooly D puttin' the smack down, the Chemicals follow up the 'breakthrough' "Setting Sun" with this mackadocious offering. If this doesn't make you shake, I don't know what will... 


Too Many Days ·without Thinking 
Swell: Precise strurnmin' and intense drurnmin'. Trippy acoustical numbers (oh there's electric there too, man). Swell has taken the art of repetitive complexity to where it ought to be. De-sobering, unplugged shoegazing that massages your mind muscles-which is what one would expect with the autumn sundown colored artwork and song titles like "Throw the Wine," "(I Know) The Trip." and "Sunshine Everyday." This album is great. Took the guys four stinking years to 


give it to us, but. finally. 
various artists 
F
or those in the mood for dance music and aren't quite satisfied with the drones of the MTV-inspired Party to Go collections or The Jock Rock series, deconstruction presents.... is the perfect compila­tion. England's legendary independent dance music label, Deconstruction. teamed up with RCA records to release an all'fum full of cutting-edge dance tracks as well as some remixes and adaptations of certain classics. 
The journey into the world of London house music kicks off with Harmonix's "Landslide" which marks a tribute to U2 and the primal beat of the London clubs. Harrnonix, which includes the duo of Harnish Brown and Hamish Williams incorporates the familiar guitar line of U2's classic track from The Joshua Tree, "With or Without You," and the results are phenomenal. 
Way Out West's song, "The Gift" featuring Joanna Law, is the album's first single and is exactly what the song's title promises. It is a gift. The mix converts the 70s song by the diva of soul herself, Roberta Flack, into something that the original artist probably could not have even imagined. The mesmerizing vocals and strong back beat create an ambiance that any club kid would be proud of. 
Dance music aficionados will recognize the club hits 
that were included in this collection including N-Jois energetic "Anthem," Bump's "''m Rushin," and Hed Boys "Girls and Boys," whose sound in parts seems a bit reminiscent of early Beastie Boys music. The Grid's "Swamp Thing" utilizes a ere­

dgy 
*** 

Free Peace Sweet 

Another Brit-rock band washes up on our shores. These lads are far from special, but like most of the Brit-bands in madding crowd, Dodgy tends to crank out a pop treat now-and-then. Acoustic, roots rock that borrows heavily from later-era Stone Roses ("Ain't No Longer Asking" and the masterfully titled "U.K.R.I.P. "). Other moments are part Oasis, part Partridge Family, part ... well, Stone Roses and full on harmony-laden 60s flower rock. Possibly the Blind Melon of the U.K.? 
Ill 
IS 

Circle 


The Offspring wear latex button-down shirts and sing ballads now, and every Epitaph Records release for the last two" years has been as fresh as Swanson's meatloaf. However, Pennywise's fourth LP brought back high-school memories of skating to convenience stores and wearing obese jeans. Pennywise are about as big in California as Michael Jackson in Thailand, and it's no wonder. The drums are faster and tighter than a steamroller in neutral on a ski jump, the vocals are about fightin' the man, and the guitar riffs like a tommy gun. Sure it's not ground­breaking, but it's jack-hammering, and every once in a while we need that to snowboard or work-out to. 
ollins and 
** 

Come In and Burn 

Henry "The Neck" Rollins writes songs that sound like symptoms lists in Charter Hospitals commercials, such as "Shame," "Saying Goodbye Again," "Rejection," and "All I Want." He also shows more veins when he sings than the Mississippi and all it's tributaries. Put that on top of wan­dering jazz-metal and you have the Rollins Band. The spoken word lyrics haven't changed since Black Flag and the tunes mimic the last LP Weight like a carbon copy rub­off. Longtime fans may eat it up, but no newcomers will •• flock to Rollins Band's Dreamworks label debut. Which makes me wonder-is this the stuff Steven Speilberg lis­tens to? 
by Brent DiCrescenzo, Chad Vivar, and Jim McNamee 
1:ddrC:.r

Deconstruction Presents ... 
(out of five stars) 

ative use of a banjo in contrast to the strong techno beat which creates an absolute aural delight. The rhythms of the two conflicting sounds actually compliment one anoth­er quite well. ­
Death in Vegas bring all of their equipment on their debut single, "Dirt." They bring together eclectic ele­ments of music when they combine rap and powerful gui­tar riffs and lace it with a strong house beat. "Dirt" is fol­lowed by Monkey Mafia's "Work Mi'Body," and they show what mixing is all about. The album closes with the Chemical Brothers remix of the Lionrock track, "Packet of Peace." In the world of house music, the Chemical Brothers are gods and it is easy to see why in this closing track. 
A blemish on an other wise good compilation is Black Box's "Everybody, Everybody," which ironically has received the most air time in the United States. It tends to wane on one's nerves with the incessant repetion of the words "Everybody.~verybody." 
The vision of this album is unique. The sound created in this album reflects this vision. This is where the true tal­ent in the music industry lies, as these artists are willing 
CourtesyotDeconstruction/RCARecords to break from the norm and create poetry and energy with their music rather than striving for the Top 40. 
by Joey Crawford 

2. Bjork -Telegram 
2. "Nowhere" Soundtrack 
3. Mighty Mighty Boss tones -Let's face it 
3. L 7 -the beauty process 
4. Pavement -Brighten the Corners 
4. Ben Folds Five -Whatever & ever Amen 
5. Jon Spencer Blues Explosion-Now I Got Worry 
5. Hanson -Middle ofNowhere 
6. David Bowie -EART HL lNG 
6. The Chemical Brothers 
7. Ben Folds Five-Battle ofWho Could Care Less 
7. Mighty Mighty Boss tones -Let's face it 
8. Built to Spill -Perfectfrom now on 
8. Morphine -Like Swimming 
9. Mary Lou Lord-Martian Saints 
9. Gigolo Aunts-learn to play guitar 
10. Chisel-It's Alright, Your O.K. 
10. Live-Secret Samadhi 
--------------~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 3, I997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 

Averag~ baseball salary
Ripken finally lands a new deal 
Opening day average salary in major league baseball, based on· a study by The Associated Press.
By DAVID GINSBURG was to be announced and held Wednesday. 
Figures were obtained from management and player sources and include 
Associated Press Writer Wednesday night or Ripken and Orioles owner 
salaries and pro-rated shares of signing bonuses. In some cases, parts of
Thursday, the source said. Peter Angelos met briefly on 
salaries deferred without interest are discounted to reflect
BALTIMORE The sides have been negoti­the field before the game, but 
present-day values. $1 ,383,578 \
Cal Ripken and the ating for several weeks in an the team did not announce a 

Baltimore Orioles essentially  effort to get the contract com­ deal as the 14-time All-Star  $1.4  
have agreed on a  contract  pleted by opening day. Ripken  took the field for his 16th  
extension that guarantees the  and general  manager Pat  opening  day  start  with  1.2  
perennial All-Star about $15.1  Gillick said they would not  Baltimore.  
million over the 1998 and 1999 seasons, The Associated  negotiate past the opener. Ripken has played his entire  Ripken had two doubles, a homer and a walk in his first  1.0  
Press learned.  career with the Orioles and  four trips to the plate. He was  
Ripken will get $6.3 million in each of the next two sea­ said during the spring that he wanted to finish in Baltimore.  playing in his major league­record 2,317th consecutive  .80  
sons, a management source  Most of all, he didn't want to  game, only the seventh at  
said Wednesday on the condi­ worry about the contract dur­ third base since July 1982.  .eo,___~~-~----+--+--~­ !2-~­ 
tion he not be identified. The  ing the season so  he could  Hipken broke Lou Gehrig's  
Orioles have  an option for  concentrate on playing third  record of 2.130 consecutive  
2000 at $6.3 million with  a  base.  games on Sept. 6, 1995. Last  
buyout of about $2.5 million.  Baltimore's opener, origi­ year he played in his 2,216th  
Ripken, 36, is entering the final season of a $32.5 million,  nally scheduled for Tuesday, was postponed because of  game, breaking the word mark set by third baseman  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  
five-year contract. The deal  high winds and cold weather  Sachio Kinugasa of Japan.  AP  

Key, Ripken lead Orioles past Royals 4-2 
By DAVID GINSBURG before signing with the Orioles as a free bled twice, homered and walked. Ilis went 3-for-4 in addition to being hit by Associated Press Writer agent during the offseason. The left­previous 14 opening day starts were at a pitch. bander, filling in for the injured Mike shortstop. Down 2-0, the Royals got two BALTIMORE Mussina, allowed no earned runs, four A day after high winds caused a post­unearned runs in the sixth following an 
Regardless of what uniform he wears, hits and a walk to improve to 7-0 in ponement, Baltimore broke a 2-2 tie in error by Mike Bordick, Rip ken's Jimmy Key can't be beat on opening eight career opening-day starts. the sixth when Brady Anderson got an replacement at shortstop. day. Key struck out four and improved his infield hit off Jamie Walker and scored After Jose Offerman reached second 
Key pitched six strong innings in his record against the Royals to 13-6 -on a two-out double by Eric Davis, also on a throwing error by Bordick, Key hit Baltimore debut and Cal Ripken had including 3-0 on opening day. Handy making his debut with Baltimore. Tom Goodwin with a pitch. Bip Hoberts three hits, including a homer, as the Myers, the fifth Baltimore pitcher, Anderson hit an RBI single in the sev­then singled in a run and Jeff King fol­Orioles defeated the Kansas City Hoyals struck out the side in the ninth for the enth to make-it 4-2. lowed with a sacrifice fly. 4-2 Wednesday in their weather­save. A week ago, Anderson was expected Key retired the first nine batters delayed opener. Ripken, playing at third base in an to begin the season on the disabled list before Offerman led off the fourth with 
Key spent eight seasons with Toronto opener for the first time since 1982, with a cracked rib. But he started in the a single and moved to third· with two and four with the New York Yankees saved a run with a sparkling play, dou-leadoff spot as the designated hitter and outs. 

The Observer accerts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre
•· Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  FRIENDS OR SIBLINGS GRADUATING? WORK CATERING FOR  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· MENT-Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up  Oldsmobile Cutlass 4 dr 1981­only 60.000 mi. -new motor-body in good cond. Call 273-9111  Need some info but don'l know JVhere to turn? Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs  hi lis. sorry to hear about your aunt. sounds like a front page story to me. where's your new car?  
GRADUATION!  to $2,850/mo + benefits (room &  from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear  
THE COPY SHOP  • FREE ROOM/BOARD  board).  FREE Phone Card. No restric­ professionally audiotaped materials.  hi chris. and mark. too. sorry  
LaFortune Student Center  • $6.75 PER HOUR  Call Alaska Information Services:  tions. Nothing to join. Nolhing to  See pg 3 of your ND/SMC  about the frantic messages. it  
Phone 631-COPY  MAY 10-18  206-971-3514, xA55841.  lose, .19 min. in the U.S. SASE to :  phonebook for a list of !apes.  wasn't my fault  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  HOUSING DEADLINE 413197 SIGN UP: M-FRI 10:00-5:00 CATERING EMPLOYMENT  FOR RENT  Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041. Logansport, IN 46947  Sponsored by lhe UCC and Psychology club. Let Counseline help you!  Hey you-blah. blah, blah. Indy. blah. blah.  
- Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. Sun.: Noon -Midnight  OFFICE SOH LOWER LEVEL 631-5449  Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595  DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIV­ING THESE NO WINTERS? LLBean down coat for sale-great cond., men's S-this is the warmest  FREE BECK TICKETS for anyone who can help load-in for BECK from 11 am til 6 pm on  blah. Cleveland. blah. blah. blah, Syracuse Love, me  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends ILOST & FOUND I LOST: String of pearls and a cross between Hesburgh Library and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Call Dolores at 1-5729 or 234-7287.  I NEED a female to deliver news­papers on South Quad. Less than 1 hour per day. Bonus for first week plus free paper. Call Mike x1186 SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM. Assist Education Curator with summer youth art program focusing  College Park Sublet for June and July '97. 3-4 People 2BR, 2 Bath. Washer, Dryer in Apt. Call 273-3054 College Park Apartment 2/2 Available June 1 for '97-'98 school year Call 271-5601  coat you can find! will keep you warm on those walks to & from 02, 06, C1-great deal for $125! call Wendy @ 243 9430 • '89 Dodge Caravan. Rebuilt Engine. V.G Condition. $1700 olblo. '83 Honda Civic. Good Cond. $500 olblo.  Tues. 4/8 at Stepan. call Ashleigh at SUB al1-7757. HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! Friday, April 11. Join your ND/SMC family in an experiencia religiosa. Open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, sponsored by Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat  -and using other initials doesn't fool anyone May the Sacred Heart of Jesus -be adored. glorified. loved and pre­served throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus have mercy on us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray for us. St. Jude helper of the hopeless, pray for us.  
Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring Reward! Call Dee at 232-5474.  on museum objects and related hands-on activities. JUNE 2ND TO AUGUST 1ST, 10 hours per week.  Lease our College Park Apt. for the Summer! Call X4620 for info. Thanks!  Call Jihad 277-3254. TICKETS  Neary at 631-7712 for more info. STOMPER BOB at Finnigan's  Today is Danny Eisenbacher's 22nd birthday! Call him and give your regards! x3170  
LOST:  Brown leather portfolio  Fine Arts MaLar with exp. teach­ TONIGHT!  
with my name written in gold on the cover. Extremely important infor­mation inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291 WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHI OREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 Cruise Lines Hiring · Earn to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.). No exp. necessary. (919)918-7767. extC154.  ing and/or working with children preferred. (JUNE 23 TO AUG. 1ST, addi­tional Work Study hours-if eligible­with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired, PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. 1st). CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley. 631-4435, ASAP. ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Earn up to $3.000-$6.000+/mo_ in fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919)918-7767, ext A154.  New 5 bedroom home. two bath, two car garage. Central air, dish­washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker, wash­er/dryer included. $1500/12 mo. lease. Call232­4527 or 683-5038. FOR SALE I "--==========-----~ 1986 Acura Integra 5 sp, AIC. cass .. sunroof. Good shape. $1900 273-5930 IBM PS/1 486/modem/software $500 or best offer Call 273-97 4 7  Graduation tickets needed. Will pay $$. Please call Christian x1 071 NEED NO GRAD. TIX. $$ PLEASE CALL 272·3753 AFTER 5 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANY­TIME. '---::1=P=E=RS=O=N=AL~ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! I! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJOR~ Want the best job on campus? Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11 :30-12:30 M-F or call4-1188 or1-6616 for ?'s (Only MALES need apply) Oh yeah, LF? Two can play that game... What are you doing SATURDAY NIGHT? Well, forget that and come party  EX NO STAFFER AND SPOUSE (RETIRED) WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON·SMOKERS. NON­DRINKERS, NO PETS. REFER­ENCES. WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MULBERRY FL 33860 OR PHONE (941)425-4404 ANYTIME. Nothing like having your section done and. before you print all nine pages completely, the computer crashes and you lose your whole layout and have to start over at 2:20 am. Nothing like long run-on sen­tences at 4:15 am either. Please let me graduate! Please! I love Math.  
Paid Record Label Internship:  BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ with  
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOYMENT-Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5.000-$7,000/summer in the  Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt.! rock music. 1 0­20hrs/wk, working w/record stores, lifestyle  Moving Off Campus? ·Beds, Table, Desk,etc. VERY CHEAP call 273-97 4 7  ISTRY 219-291-7153 OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your  SHOOTING CUPID In the basement of Keenan Hall. The music starts at 11:30 p.m. Everyone will be there, you should too!!  Tom Lopienski (6-3, 235. 4.55), a fullback from Ohio, and Ryan Scarolla (6-6, 315, 5.2), an OL from Franklin Regional, Penn., are the first two commitments to Notre  
Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800-276­5407 Ext. C55846  stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ANTS.  Two ten speed bikes 35 ea 288-7502  child. visits,photographs,more. Tom & Tammy, South Bend. 1-800-484-1607code:9883  darn the luck. we missed the big one-year rik·ola anniversary.  Dame's football class of 2002. Never too early to secure good talent.  

Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sheffield signs record $61 million extension 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

Gary Sheffield sat at the table wearing a new suit, diamonds in his bracelet and a pen in his hand, looking like a million bucks as he signed a contract worth much more. 
Sheffield and the Florida Marlins finalized the largest 
contract package in baseball history Wednesday, a $61 mil­lion, six-vear extension. 
"A deal like this, guys haven't gotten it before," the All-Star right fielder said. "I can't believe it. I'm spaced out, basi­cally." 
The contract runs from 1998 through 2003. In total money, it surpasses the $55 million, five­year contrac~ Albert Belle 
MUSLIM STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION 
AND PROGRAM IN MIDDLE EAST STUDIES 
!In-vile-c:!lo-w /Y{)/A !lkctef/W' @w !J~ ~ 
BY 

MR. SHERMAN JACKSON 
Associate Professor in Islamic Studies at Wayne State University, MI. 
DATE : FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1997. TIME : 5:00 P.M. VENUE: HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM TOPIC: " FOLLOWING THE PROPHET: PROPHETIC ACTIONS AS THE SOURCE OF LAW." 
signed with the Chicago White Sox. San Francisco's Barry Bonds is third at $43.75 million over six years. 
The agreement had been in the works for weeks. Sheffield's current $24.45 million, four­year contract expires after this season, but he decided to remain with a team that is expected to contend for the pennant for the first time this season. 
The contract continues an unprecedented spending spree by the Marlins, who committed nearly $100 million during the offseason to hire manager Jim Leyland and sign six free agents. 
"Based on what we did in the winter, we didn't want to lose our franchise player," general manager Dave Dombrowski said. "The dollars are large, but if we wanted to keep him, those were the dollars we were going to have to pay." 
"Dave has put his neck out there," Leyland said. "I give him a lot of credit." 
When Leyland managed the Pittsburgh Pirates, he lost slug­gers Bonds and Bobby Bonilla to free agency. 
"Other than Gary and his family, I'm probably the happi­est guy in South Florida," Leyland said. 
Sheffield, 28, had his best season in 1996, hitting .314 with 42 homers and 120 RBis. 
At a news conference to announce the contract, he and Dombrowski shook hands and shared smiles. The scene would have been unimaginable last August, when Sheffield was angry about trade speculation and called Dombrowski a liar. 
Both men agreed that Sheffield has matured in recent months. The Marlins' slugger credits his newfound faith in God. 
"Since I've gone in that direc­tion, I've been a lot more posi­tive person," he said. "I don't think the deal would have got­ten done if I was the Gary of old. I've changed tremendously and I'm more at peace with myself." 
Clearly his financial worries are over. Sheffield will earn $6.1 million this year, and the 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
AuthenLic.SLcchuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 
..-~­

Dinners starting at ....$5.95

1!-= 
Banquet rooms available up to 200

~~ 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
llO Pixie W1y N, South,Bcnd (noxt to Howard Johnson) 
new deal calls for $10 million per season from 1998-2002 and $11 million in 2003. Florida has an $11 million option for 2004. 
As part of the payment sched­ule, the Marlins will give Sheffield a $2.5 million advance on Jan. 6, 1998. 
1997 average major league baseball 6?\ players' salaries ~ 
Figures in millions of dollars 
1 New York Yankees m· 
2 Baltimore Orioles 2.0 3 Chicago White Sox fJ•I 
<l Cleveland Indians 2.0
,,.
5 Texas Rangers 6 Atlanta Braves 1.8 7 Florida Marlins 
Ill 
8 Los Angeles Dodgers 1.6 9 Cincinnati Reds 
IIii 
1 0 Toronto Blue Jays 
1.6 
11 Colorado Rockies 
12 Chicago Cubs 
13 St. Louis Cardinals 
14 Boston Red Sox 
15 Seattle Mariners 
16 San Diego Padres 
17 New York Mets 
18 Minnesota Twins 
19 Houston Astros 
lfJ 
20 San Francisco Giants 1.2 
21 Philadelphia Phi/lies 22 Kansas City Royals 23 Anaheim Angels 
24 Oakland Athletics 
25 Milwaukee Brewers 
26 Montreal Expos 
27 Detroit 'rigers 
28 Pittsburgh Pirates 


PINNACLE athletjc club 
205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545 
1 
es 
II' 
1.1 
11·1 
0.9 
(.!:1 
0.7 

....
l•lil 
0.3 
AP 

..... 
Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 events start at 6:00 PM Ray Meyer Hall of Fame Legend, Former Coach of the DePaul Blue Demons will be there 
WRBR Live Remote! 
~---AA-------------q~------------~~~~~----~-------------~·-~---------~~·-----------~--~--~------~---~----~--~~--~ 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, April 3, 1997
-
British officials fear 1996 freshman of the year quits 
steroid use in racing 
By KATE WATSON-SMYTH 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 
Random drug testing, com­mon in the human sporting world, is to be carried out on British racing pigeons following concern that some are being fed anabolic steroids to improve their performance. 
The Royal Pigeon Racing Association said the new rules, which will involve testing drop­pings in pigeon lofts, were needed because of the substan­tial prize money now offered in the sport. 
Britain's 80,000 fanciers, who b~eed about 2.5 million birds a year, will face a three-year ban and loss of prize money if found guilty of using drugs to make their birds fly faster. 

Tests are standard in Europe following a scandal in Belgium, where fanciers were found to have been administering steroids in eye drops. Cheating in Britain has mainly involved tampering with the clocks that register the when the birds are released and when they return. 
A spokesman for the RPRA said the steroids build up mus­cles and make the pigeons fly further. Even without drugs, racing pigeons can fly at up to 30 mph into a wind and 90 mph with the wind behind them. 
"You can win motor cars and prizes in competition, so it is competitive," the spokesman said. "But one must win with honor and dignity and it must be a fair contest for all the par­ticipating fanciers and birds." 
Hamilton assistant found dead in ravine 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Michigan State sophomore forward Nicole Cushing-Adkins will be leaving the university and will not return to play basketball next sea­son, the school said Wednesday. 
Cushing-Adkins, the Big Ten's freshman of the year in 1996, is leaving the school to join her husband in Oklahoma, the university said in a statement. 
The Pinckney native, who was married in December, said she wants to enroll in an Oklahoma university to continue her studies in animal health science. She is not expected to· continue her basketball career. 
"Nicole has made a decision that she feels is in her best interest," coach Karen Langeland said. "It's tough to lose a player of her caliber, but we have to support her decision and we wish her the best of luck." 
Cushing-Adkins was the team's third-leading scorer last season, averaging 11.1 points per game. She also averaged 5.4 rebounds per game and is the school's career leader with a 59.1 per­cent field goal percentage. 
Michigan State was 22-8 last season and lost to North Carolina in the NCAA East regional's sec­ond round. The Spartans shared the Big Ten reg­ular-season title with Purdue and Illinois. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
proudly presents 
Prospects for Developing Economies: 
Sub-Saharan Africa on the Brinl~ of the 21st Century 
A lecture by Prof Douglas Agbetsia/a, Economics Department, !USB Moderator: Prof Patricia Davis, Government Department 
Monday, April 7 • 7:00 PM · Hesburgh Center Auditorium/Peace Studies 
-
-. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The body of a college assis­tant basketball coach who was here to watch the NCAA bas­ketball finals was found on Wednesday in what police said was an apparent accident. 
Robert North, 56, of Clinton, N.Y., a volunteer assistant bas­ketball coach at Hamilton College in N.Y. was found dead, floating in a ravine near the Indianapolis International Airport, said Detective Becky Buttram of the Marion County Sheriffs Department. 

"From the looks of some of the injuries, it looks like he had fallen into the ravine," she said. 
"At this time there are no signs of any foul play." 
The NCAA championship game was played at the RCA Dome on Monday night. 
Buttram said North's friend, Matthew Stowell, reported him missing on Tuesday. 
The body was found shortly after noon Wednesday when a motorist on an overpass noticed the body in the ravine. 
ATTENTION NOTRE DAME STUDENTS: 
We are asking for your enthusiasm to help welcome potential members of the next Freshman Class to Notre Dame. Last week we sent decision letters to thousands of students who applied to Notre Dame. Now, many of those admitted would like to visit the University, meet some students, spend a night in a dorm, and in general, get a sense of the community tp.at is Notre Dame. We initially approached our Hospitality Program members to fulfill this,,rql€'~ Howey~r, W:~ can never be certain what the demand for overnight visits will be. 
f.;~f:::·==::. ·.. .,_ ..··:·· ··=.=·::::·=::::::::==<·=···· :=:<{~:~:::·,
To insure that we do'ri()f dis,appoint an)i' potential visitors, we want to open the invitation to host to any enthusiastic undergraduates of Notre Dame. We will host on all of the following nights: 
Sunday, Ap'ril 6 , Monday, 1pril z,'wt Tuesday,"'April 8 · Wednesday, April 9 '{hursday, April.J cFriday, Apr!h,.lt't: . 
Saturday, April "12 
Sunday, April 13 
Monday, April14 
Tuesday, April 1 D Wednesday, April 16 D D Thursday, April 17 D D Friday, April 18 D D Saturday, April 19 D D Sunday, April 20 D D Monday, April 21 D D Tuesday, April 22 D D Wednesday, +\.pril 23 D D Thursday, April 24 D D Friday, April 25 D 
If you can host a student on any night, please let us know. We need all the student hosts we can get. To volunteer, simply check the day(s) that you would be available to host, clip this advertisement from the paper, and drop it off in the Admissions Office: Room 113 Main Building. 
If you have questions or concerns, please contact our office. On behalf of the newest members of Notre Dame, we thank you very much for your enthusiasm and generosity. 
Sincerely, 
Office of Admissions 
113 Main Building 
631-7505 

Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
-
C o n g r at u 1ati o n s /a CINDY DAWS, Honda Award Nominee. 
{ Xaw !hal's yoinylo lao£yreal on a resume. } 
.­
E
very year, the Honda Awards Program recognizes the top collegiate women athletes in each of eleven NCAA sports. While you may recall hearing about the fourteen 1995-96 winners of this award, you may not have known about your school's other 
nominees. They are also at the top of their individual sports, and provide inspiration and motivation to other female athletes all over the country. For this distinction, a $1,000 donation will be made to the general scholarship fund of each of their schools. And this should most likely add to an already impressive performance record. 

CftJI.J7 :\mcrit·;~n llnnda \lmorCo_lnc. 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 3, 1997 
-
•NBA 
Injuries clear way for Brian Williams to join Bulls 

Associated Press "It remains to be seen (if he minimum salary of $247,500. Williams was asked about the "That may be one of the rea­can play well), because I And he will remain a free agent possibility that he will return to sons they wanted to sign me,"DEERFIELD, Ill. haven't played a game," after the season. the Bulls next season for less Williams said. "Who knows? I The Chicago Bulls and free Williams said Wednesday. "If If he plays well, the Bulls will than the $7 million he report­may like it here. I'm sure that 
agent Brian Williams needed the games are five minutes have to compete with other edly asked for at the end of last I'll like it. What the future each other, which is why they long, then I'm All-World." NBA teams for his services. season. holds, no one knows." came to terms Wednesday on a Williams, 27, had a break­contract that will keep the cen­through season last year with ter in Chicago for at least he the Clippers, averaging 15.8 rest of the season. points and 7.6 rebounds in 65 
The Bulls needed a backup games. + center after placing Bill "Brian has a ways to go + + Are you looking+
Wennington on the disabled before he'II be in condition to + + 
+ + +
list. Wennington ruptured a play basketball," Bulls coach + + esc for e01ployment + + 
tendon in his left foot during Phil Jackson said. "From what + + + + + +
last Saturday's game against he did this morning (at prac­+ • for the FaD?the New Jersey Nets. tice) he looked great. He has a + + SOCIAL + 
Williams needs to prove he good shot. He has a nice body. + + +still has the ability to be an And he can rebound. lie can + + + CONCERNS WeD, look no further••• + + NBA player who can command help on the court." + + + + 
+ + +
a big salary. The 6-foot-11 cen­Williams will not be activated 
+ + + +
ter underwent knee surgery until sometime next week so he + + + + + +
after last season and teams can learn the team's system, + + The Center for Social Concerns + +
backed off signing him to the general manager Jerry Krause 
+ + +big bucks he was demanding. said. + + has Student Assistant Positions Available + 
+ + + +
Traded to the Los Angeles "The addition of Brian + +
Clippers from Denver before Williams gives us a proven NBA + + + + the 1995-96 season, Williams rebounder, scorer and defender + + 
+ + +
opted out of a $2.5 million con­to help us in our quest for Positions include some generaltract for this season, as was his another championship," he + + + + right, and became a free agent. said. + + + office work hours, plus a + 
+ + + +
He admits to being a bit The Bulls signed Williams to 
+ position focusing on one + 
rusty, despite working out two a contract that will give him a + + + + + + +
to three hours a day during the pro-rated share of the NBA's of the following
+ + + +
Vehicle Upkeep
season. 

+ + + 
+ areas: + + about our record," Shilliday + + Social Action Groups + stated," and just try to feed off + +
Baseball 

+ + +
Hospitality
of the win streak." + + + + One Irish hitter who has + +
continued from page 28 + + Senior Transition Programs + + 
come to know a great deal + + last night and is now batting about feeding off of streaks is . + + + +
Cultural Diversity
+ + +
just under .390, good enough senior Mike Amrhein. 
+ + + +
for second best on the team. The catcher/designated hitter + Clerical Assistant + "The key for the type of pitch­extended his hitting streak to + + + + + es they (Eastern Illinois) were 20 games with a first inning Urban Plunge
+ + + + throwing," said Ust, "was stay­single last night. + + 
+ + Others + +
ing back and seeing the ball." Amrhein was then hit by a 
+ + +
The level-headed Ust has pitch in his next at bat, and + + + + +
been one of the most consistent walked two more times in his + 
+ + +
hitters for the Irish and under­following plate appearences, 
stands that it is important to proving that pitchers have sim­+ + Applications are available at the CSC + + + + + +
come and play a solid game ply begun to avoid the Irish from. 4/2 -4/4.
+ + + +
every time out. slugger. + + + "The key is to come out Amrhein and the Irish will + + 
+ + + +
strong and not take any team look to maintain their respec­+ + + + + ·• + + + + + + + + + + for granted," said Ust regard­tive streaks tomorrow when + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + 
+ + + + + ·•· + + +
ing the momentum that Notre they take on Wisconsin­Dame has developed. Milwaukee in a doubleheader "We just need to not worry at Eck Stadium. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $20. 
TakeThe EasyWay
Tae Kwon Do -Students are instructed in accordance 

Climbing Wall Orientations 
with World Tae Kwon Do 

are available at the climbingFederation techniques. This wall in the Rockne Memorial 
Out Of College.
semester -long course meets every Sunday at 1 p.m. andSundays from 3-4 p.m. in 

Wednesday at 6 Sign ~pRockne Rm. 301. YoU: must 
outside the wall. 
The Multicultural Executive Council is looking for new members. 
r~--------------------,
lOo/o Off Boxes & Supplies 
I 

~ Wardrohe hoxc'.L Di.o;hpacks. Tapl'. Buhhh• u·r"t'-You IUimc• it.,,... han• 
I 

it. You'll xet di.rcmmt prices and wc•'ll e1·en buy hack any boxes _wu 
I

don't use. Which mc•wu you'll sm•e more than time wultrouhle. -~"'II 
.wve money roo.' Call Rydc•r TRS tlX.Iay ami Ret all the mm·in.t: supplies Y• 
I 

need. Now that's a.mmrt move. 
I
RYDERJRS 
I

Applications are available in the 
Thl~coupon Dill vahd fnr bo~ and JOOYIIIJ ~~ pun:ha.~ tu.dudinsaa,~)a~ pan~.:•J*tnf lo:auom only.ttill... ""uh ;my 01hn nff".di-.cou1M nr pnwnohnn. (lii)Hltlporl 'uhp11o bm .1nd mo.wm~ Wl'fll~ 1\lllatMiuy.li\')O.:OUfiiii'C'\p!IY'\ 
I 

[.A.ttmhctli.IW"' ()ncol'flliiiOI\p:rvi\fl NOTETODEAI.D·AttiJctl~'flUJ"•IO~~<dmllwllhytV....ay~ 
..J

Student Activities Office, 
L
315 LaFortune and are due back to this office by 
Calll-800-GO-RYDER
April 4, 1997. 
~-------..--~~------------------~~~----------~-----~ 
Thursday, April 3, 1997 
NAME: Jim O'Brien. 
OCCUPATION: Head men's basketball coach, Ohio State University. AGE:46. BORN: Brooklyn, N.Y. EDUCATION: Boston College, 1971. FAMILY: His wife, Christine, died in 1991. Two daughters, Erin 
and Amy._ 

COACHING EXPERIENCE: Assistant coach at Connecticut from 1977-82 and head coach at St. Bonaventure from 1982-86. Became head coach at BC in 1986. He is 168-166 in 11 seasons at BC and 235-217 in 15 seasons of college coaching. The Eagles are 41-20 in the last two seasons and have won 17 or more games in four of the last five years. They made it to an NCAA regional final four years ago and won the Big East regular-season and tournament titles this year. BC under O'Brien is 5-3 in the NCAA tournament and eliminated one of the Buckeyes' biggest rivals, Indiana, in 1994 and 1996. The Hoosiers were the higher seed in both games. 
RECORD AS HEAD COACH: 
YEARS 
1982-83 1983-84 1984-85 1985-85 
1986-87 1987-88 1988-89 1989-90 1990-91 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 
COLLEGE 
St. Bonaventure St. Bonaventure St. Bonaventure St. Bonaventure 
TOTAL AFTER FOUR YEARS 
Boston College Boston College Boston College Boston College Boston College Boston College Boston College Bo.ston College Boston College Boston College Boston College 
FREE EXTRAS 
Sauce • Parmesan Cheese Crust Garlic Butter Crust 
-Just Ask-
W-L 
20-10 18-13 14-15 15-13 
67-51 
11-18 
18-15 
12-17 
8-20 
11-19 
17-14 
18-13 
23-11 9-19 . 19-11 22-9 
TOTAL OVER ELEVEN YEARS 
168-166 

CAREER TOTAL AS HEAD COACH 
235-217 

The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
O'Brien to leave BC for OSU post 

By JOHN McCARTHY coaches such as Pete Gillen of Associated Press Writer Providence and Cincinnati's Bob Huggins were never under 
COLUMBUS, Ohio consideration. 
Ohio State picked Boston "I think Jim has coached at a College coach Jim O'Brien on high level in a conference (the Wednesday to return its men's Big East) I think is comparable basketball program to the glory to the Big Ten," Geiger said. it enjoyed just a few years ago. He said O'Brien convinced 
O'Brien accepted athletics him that he really wanted to 
director Andy Geiger's offer of come to Ohio State and was not a five-year contract after visit­dissatisfied with Boston ing the Ohio State campus on College. 
Monday. Two other coaches -"It was really important to Clemson's Rick Barnes and me that we not be romance on Georgia's Tubby Smith -the rebound. He was ready for turned down the job. change and this is a change he 
Geiger also interviewed feels very, very good about," Illinois State coach Kevin Geiger said. Stallings Tuesday. Two of Ohio State's three O'Brien's deal includes a base incoming freshmen recruits ­
salary of $150,000 a year. The forward Jon Sanderson of Boston Herald reported Lexington High School and Wednesday that the total pack­guard Michael Redd of age, including outside endorse­Columbus West said ments and radio-TV contracts, Wednesday that O'Brien's hir­is believed to be worth about ing would have no affect on $650,000 a year. their commitments to the 
Geiger said the contracts for schooL outside endorsements had not "I think we'll be real success­been signed and he did not ful next year. The sophomores know what they were worth. will be juniors and they will be 
more assured," Redd said. 
Recruit Shamar Herron, a 6­foot-9 center from Detroit Pershing, declined to comment. 
At a news conference announcing O'Brien's hiring, Geiger also said Stanford assis­tant Amy Tucker decided she was not interested in replacing fired women's coach Nancy Darsch. 

Tucker was believed to be the leading candidate. Ohio State also has interviewed Detroit­Mercy's Nikita Lowry and San Diego State's Beth Burns. 
O'Brien said in a news release issued through Ohio State's athletic department that he was excited by the opportu­nity. 
"I was extremely impressed by the commitment to success of the people I talked to, and I believe there is reason for great optimism." 
Boston College athletics director Chet Gladchuk issued a statement congratulating O'Brien. 
"We thank Jim for his many positive contributions to the Boston College basketball pro­gram, and we wish him well at Ohio State," he said. 
O'Brien will be in Columbus for a news conference Thursday afternoon. 
He met with his former play­ers briefly in Boston on Wednesday afternoon to tell 
them  he  was  leaving.  He  
declined to co mment on  his  
new job.  

The 46-year-old has coached Boston College for 11 seasons. He will replace Randy Ayers, who was fired March 10. 
The Buckeyes finished 10-17 the last two seasons. They wound up in ninth place in the Big Ten this past season. 
CASTING &:ANGLING 
~'CLINIC 
Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM 
Open to Students & Staff 
$8.00 Class Fee 
mJCSU[[C5@9~ 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 8

(12)0~~@ 
APRIL 15 

95 
Sub Choices 

•Italian •Ham & Cheese 
•Steak 
& Cheese 

•Veggie 
•Chicken 


$ 
Only 
$ 
~
.. 
APRIL 17

54533 Terrace Ln. 
At S.R. 23 East of Ironwood 
Classes Held in the joyce Center,
243-.1111 
Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
EVER GET THE FEELING 
OU'RE BEING WATCHED? 
Expect all eyes on you in our hot one-of­a-kind prom dresses. Featuring: Black Tie by Oleg Cassini and NITELINE 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAM· 
PUS 
No Coupon 

HE-RO Group Evening Wear Outlet 

LOOK LIKE A MILLION 
00 
PAY NEXT TO NOTHING 
lighthouse Place 
Lighthouse Pl.
OFF 
219-879-4237 

Not Valid With Any Other Offer 
F ----~---­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, April3, 1997 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 

Clemens blows by White Sox, Reds down Rockies 
Associated Press 
TORONTO New blue uniform, same tough Roger Clemens. 
Clemens buzzed a fastball past Frank Thomas' head in the first inning, then got Albert Belle on a double-play grounder with the bases loaded to end the eighth, winning his Toronto debut Wednesday night by beating the Chicago White Sox 6-1. 
Clemens earned his first career victory with the Blue Jays -his other 192, along with three AL Cy Young Awards, came in 13 years with Boston. He pitched a six-hitter, struck out nine and walked one in the AL's first completa game this season. 
Benito Santiago put Toronto ahead 3-1 in the fourth with his first AL hit, a two-run homer off Wilson Alvarez. Orlando Merced, another Blue Jays newcomer, broke open the game with a three-run double in the seventh. 
A crowd of 31,310, about 6,000 more than Toronto drew in its second home game last season, clapped every time Clemens got two strikes on a batter. The 34-year-old right­hander often rewarded his 
Softball 
continued from page 28 

-because they weren't really sure how the season would play itself out. Now other peo­ple have taken on roles which have helped to balance the team." Mathison has added her own punch to the Notre Dame line­up, blasting her team-leading third home run on Saturday against Seton Hall. The rookie 
fans. 
Clemens, who left the Red Sox for a $24.75 million, three-year deal in Toronto, took the mound to start the game as "Rocket Man" by Elton John played on the SkyDome sound system. He took one, deep breath before his first warmup pitch, and went to work. 
Clemens struck out Tony Phillips to begin the night and then, two batters later, zipped a fastball up-and-in that backed Thomas away from the plate. 
Belle, who homered, doubled and drove in three runs Tuesday in his first game since signing a $55 million contract, was the only White Sox batter to get beyond first base in the first five innings. 
Chicago's big hoppers got another chance in the eighth, down 6-1. With two on and one out, Thomas hit a chopper that third baseman Ed Sprague fielded and threw high to sec­ond, loading the bases. 
Reds 5, Rockies 3 
CINCINNATI 
For Colorado manager Don Baylor, the feeling is the same but different. 
The Rockies' road woes con­tinued Wednesday night as 
has shown the maturity of a veteran at the plate, ranking near the top in almost all of the team's offensive categories. 
For Mathison, the team's per-. formance comes before her own, though. 
"Everyone is doing their job, so I just feel that I'm doing mine," said Mathison. 
Playing with confidence and poise, the Irish head into today's matchup against Purdue with Friday's home opener against conference rival Boston College on the horizon. 

Attending Summer School? 

Jlren RISE hetore the FALL at the 
Midwest's #J Comurehensive Universitv,* 
Creighton. 
For more information and a 1997 Summer Sessions Bulletin, call ( 402) 280-2424 or Toll Free (800) 637-4279. e-mail: univcoll@creighton.edu http://www.creighton.edu 
*U.S. News & World Report "America's Best Colleges" -I 996-97 

Summer Sessions 
2500 California Plaza • Omaha, NE 68178 
Deion Sanders had four hits time -just to see how that and Reggie Sanders hit a three­feels," Baylor said. run homer in another big first In two games, the Heels have for the Cincinnati Reds in a 5-3 outscored Colorado 7-0 in the victory over Colorado. first inning. The Rockies, 28-53 
''I'd like to have the lead one away from Coors Field last sea­
son, lost Tuesday's opener 11­
4. 

"It's going to turn around," Baylor said. "We have better foeus bettor at-bats than last year " 
Attention to All Urban Plunge Participants 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you 
to 

an Urban Plunge Task Force InforJDational Meeting 
Members of the 1996-97 Urban Plunge Task Force will be present to discuss and answer questions about the 1997-98 Task Force 
Students interested in becoming members of the 1997-98 Task Force are encouraged to attend 
Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m. Sunday,April6, 1997 
·#4 ~U.oFs.T:R·A v.s~ #t:a ·.N.oT:fl..s· :l):4..~:.s· Friday, 3:00pm Moose Krause Stadium 
**FREE Mini Lacrosse Balls to those in attendance!" 
Free Pizza! Free Pizza! 

Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

-! 
I 
~I 
page 24 The Observer • CARTOON QUEST Thursday, April 3, 1997 
~~----------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------­
o will follow in the path ofDave Kellett and Ed Leader as the next cartoonist for The Observer? Each of these candidates has his eye set on being the next. And the decision is 
p to you. _ 
That's right: your vote will determine which comic strip appears in The Observer. 
This week we continue our contest to find the next cartoonist. The ballots for voting will appear 
below this week. Clip, snip or rip them out during lunch and put them in the ballot boxes located next to the doors as you leave the dining hall. Ballots can also be dropped offat The Observer, 314 LaFortune. 

Men About Campus is essentially a comic strip about that -a guy's perspective about Notre Dame. It covers every­thing, including NO "dating;" the dining hall, SYRs, football 

Dan Sullivan 
.i;j!{:.>games, the leprechaun and the weather, Of course, the strip 
-
>t: will contain women __... as for the moment the guys arejust moving into their new place. And like the dorms, aU campus comics have to contend with parietals, too. 
The comic strip also will address some of the politics of NO, such as the stance on gay and lesbian students, the ever-increasing number of sports edifices on carnpus;along with the basic humor which a group of four unique men even­tually come up with. 
JOHN HLAVATY 
W• II -tl-l·s 'o€
v-·1'1 

o>" tl<\e -\<eS-t.-:> 
I w;11 ·,1: htut ,· ""''I G-Y.A.? 
c 
s.~~-~--­

THE LILYPAD JEREMIAH CONWAY The strip is about Ron, Pete, and everyone else's crazy lives 
here at ND. The Stars o' the Show: Ron is pretty delusional, _and Pete tends to be more sane, as 
does Lissa when· compared to her roommate, Jem. Lissa Is an engineer, and Jen is an architecture major, although that may change. Crazy Bill is the demented next·door neighbor of Ron and Pete; he's pretty messed up. The Two Giant Squirrels are friends of CrazyBill on the Bookstore Basketball team. Lenny, a chupacabra,livesiilP~te's pillow.~' ""'' .. 
an'~ay 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------,
' 
J:ote Submit your vote :oryour 
favorite comic strip 
" ~ A LoNG WAY FROM SOMEWHERE MEN ABOUT CAMPUS
0 

N.D.C.D. BLUES _, ________& D THE LILYPAD 
( c 0 " 
I..-,~ /
,~-w, -711} 

0 
'• D 

((·' (Rti~ '#11 ' 

Place ballots in the boxes by the dining hall doors 5Ef/fS:_:'_ '_ ~,
if 



L-----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
.-~----------------~~~-~----------------­
-------~-~---·-~-­
Thursday, April 3, 19'!7 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• GOLF 
-
Irish conquer foe, weather in Butler Invitational 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
Today marks the beginning of one of the most fabled golf tour­naments in the world: The Masters. 
Played down in Augusta, Ga. each spring, The Masters marks the beginning of the Majors, each of which deter­mines who the best golfer in the world is. 
Included with the Masters is the U.S. Open, the PGA Championship and finally the British Open. 
The British Open is the biggest tournament in all of Europe. 18 team tournament, their 
It's play, though rather tran­biggest victory in a tournament quil, is trademarked by the (with this many competitors) of fierce weather conditions that the decade. each golfer must endure. The Irish "drove" out to an These conditions include dri­early lead on Sunday, with all ving rain and gale force winds. five of the team's golfers plac­Only those who possess amaz­ing in the top 10. ing driving power are able to The ironic part is that only conquer the course as John the top four finishers on each Daly did in 1995. team were scored. This left 
Down in Cicero, Ind., the junior Bryan Weeks out with an men's golf team must have opening round 77. Leading the believed that the Butler way for the Irish was freshman Invitational had been trans­Todd Vernon who carded a one planted to jolly old England. over par 72. Despite these harsh conditions, "It is gratifying to see a player the men were able to quell the who hardly played in the fall, storm and captured first in an work hard in the offseason so 
Attention... 
Students with creative ideas, leadership abilities and organizational skills: 
Programming Assistants needed for 1997-1998 
If you want to improve student life by planning and implementing programs sponsored by student activities, apply now for a paid position as a student programmer 
Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office (3 IS LaFortune) and return it by Monday, April 21st. Interviews will be conducted April 23rd so sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Questions? Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 
that he can play," stated Coach George Thomas on Vernon. "His 72 was the highlight of the tournament. I was really pleased." 
All this was done through the drizzling rain, cold weather, and brisk winds that plagued many. 
After the first day, the Irish (295} led second place Cincinnati (308) by 13 strokes. 
"I couldn't believe how well we played, and neither could the other teams as they stood there in awe. The last time I saw this team play that well 
was  at  the  Big  East  
Championships last fall,"  com­ 
mented Thomas.  

After the first day, the Irish believed that the worst of the weather was over. 
But, they were wrong. On Monday, the team battled through more rain and harsher winds. 
The weather also did damage on their scores. A day after shooting the lowest team score of the 1996-1997 season, the team shot a 317. 
This time led by Weeks who shot a three over par 74, and finished second out of 98 com-
Insight 
continued from page 28 
Simon put half as much time into being a leader off the court as he did into his mus­cle spasm-ish dance, the story might be different. 
As it is, Simon is no differ­ent from the next guy; he is no more of a w·inner than the man who won the road race by se~retly cutting through the woods. 
For a moment, allow the trite definition: a leader in college athletics is one who accepts responsibility both on and off the arena of play. If the contrary were true, then Robert Traylor of Michigan would be admired for his $48,000 Suburban in­vestment, and Boston College football players would be lauded for their own gam­bling investments. 
Miles Simon ought to be jettisoned into the same cate­gory as the above. 
Unarguably he is a special 


You've heard how much fun JPW was.. : Here's your chance to be a part of planning YOUR JPW! Apply for a position on the 
JPW 1998 Executive Committee 
Applications are available at Student Activities They must be submitted to 315 LaFortune by 
S:OOpJR on Wednesday, April 9! 
petitors. 
The team's lead was not tar­nished, though, but on the final scoreboard they found them­selves 13 strokes ahead of in state rival Indiana instead of Cincinnati. 
Besides Weeks, senior co-cap­tain Joel Hepler found himself sitting at third with a 153, with first round leader Vernon fin­ishing tied for sixth one stroke behind. 
The other two Irish golfers, sophomore Brad Hardin (157) finished one stroke out of a top 10 finish, while senior co-cap­tain Brain Donohue carded a 159. 
"My play was very solid con­sidering the conditions I was dealing with. I was also pleased with how extremely well the team played on a very difficult course," commented Helper, "On the final day we weren't happy with how we played but it was good enough to keep us in the lead." 
The men's team "looks to do greater things," Thomas stat­ed, as they travel to Lexington, Ken., to compete in the Johnny Owens Intercollegiate on Friday and Saturday. 
player. 
He represents experience on a team inundated in youth; he can relax and pump up his teammates at the same time; he moves with a lightning grace; he wants his victims to foul him when the pressure is on -when most players would just as -Soon crawl under a bench or throw the ball away then be placed un­der the mad torture of shoot­ing free throws. 
Best of all, Simon scored 30 points in the championship game against Kentucky, grab­bing the honor of tournament Most Valuable Player. 
But one who fails to lead off the court can hardly be hailed a hero never mind the fact that one doesn't have to be a rocket scientist -or even an American studies major -to pass a course in family stud­ies. 
Then again, Darryl Strawberry, brother-in-law of Simon, was never a genius. Maybe it just runs in the fam­ilv. 
EMPlOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
F1nd out how to begin your job searr?h 
in National Parl<s, Forests. and Wildlife 
Preserves. 
Learn from the #1 Source that 
uncovers hundreds of employment 
opportunit1es in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year ~Round 

• 
Excellent Benefits 



./ Used, rare and ~­
out.<Jf-print books 
Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 50'/o 
,/ Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne Soveh Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


------------------------~-------~------------~------~--·~ 
page 26 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April3, 1997 
~~------------------------------~--~~-----­
-• ULTIMATE fRISBEE 
Papal Rage dominate Notre Dame's first tournament 
By MEGHAN KUNKEL 
Sports Writer 
If the discs flying over Stepan 
field two weeks ago caught 
your eye, it was for good rea­
son. Sixteen college teams 
gathered together March 22-23 
for Notre Dame's first Ultimate 
Frisbee TournamenL 
Notre Dame's No. 27 ranked 
Papal Hage convincingly defeat­
ed Indiana. Purdue, St. Olaf, 
Michigan and Rose-Hulmann, 
while the women's team was 
victorious over Wisconsin. The 
only loss for both squads was to . 
No. 7 Oberlin. 
Unfortunately, this tourna­ment was the last opportunity to see the Ultimate teams play at home for the spring season. They will be traveling to Northwestern this weekend and then to a Big Jen meet in Madison Apr. 12-13. Coming up Apr. 19-20 the teams antici­pate sectionals at Purdue. 
Notre Dame is the returning champion, beating out Indiarya last year by default. The week­end of Apr. 26-27 will bring NO Ultimate to the regional competition, hosted by second ranked Carleton University. From here the top three teams of 20 advance to the nationals at UC Davis in California. 
As of today the Papal Hage is considered the fifth ranked team in the region. It will be a struggle to make it to this final round. but the team is capable and optimistic. 
Over the past three years, Ultimate has established its presence on campus with a core group of committed stu­dents. Through the effort and dedication of club president Luke Mullany, Ultimate achieved official status as a Notre Dame athletic club this year, and it has met with great 


success. The girls team which 
had trouble fielding enough 
players for games in the past 
now boasts a No. 23 ranking. 
Leaders like Captain Michelle 

Paduch, Katie Gott, and Carrie 
O'Brien have been key supports 
in the team's progress. The 29 
member men's team has accel­
erated from recreational status 
to a serious threat in the 
Midwest conferences and 
beyond. The skill and experi­
ence of juniors Dave Shiel and 
Tim Brown lend force to a pow­
erful squad of young members. 
Luke Mullany will be the only 

senior lost to graduation this 
year, going on to attend med­
ical school at John Hopkin's 
University, and his leadership 
will be sorely missed. 
Still, able players like next year's club president Joe Kerbleski and sophomores Jeremy Morris and James Beeby will help to give the team another successful season. 
It has been a difficult impetus for the team. Like all prospec­tive groups applying for athletic club status, Ultimate had a two year probationary period, and all expenses were independent­ly funded. 
The tournaments certainly stretched budgets, and as their playing skills improved, so did their creativity in fitting people into vehicles and hotel rooms. 
Advance to varsity status for Ultimate was rumored to take place in 1999, but admission by the NCAA may take longer than once predicted. 
This is due to the fact that Ultimate Frisbee wasn't fea­tured as an exhibition sport in the 1996 Olympics. Popular recognition of the sport is a bit late in coming, so the teams continue under the regulation of the Ultimate Players Association. 

SATURDAY & SUNDAY APRIL 12 & APRIL 13 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T-Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at Z?.-..~= Deadline: Thursday, April 10 




0 !I 
s , 
.. 
TONIGHT!!! 'Of} 
Thursday, April 3 
at Alumni-Senior Club 
DOORS OPEN AT 9:00PM 
•

*there will be prizes 
for the best outfits!!!* 
ERis a repeat so come early!!! 



page 27Thursday, April 3, 1997 The Observer • TODAY MIXED MEDIA 

JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IT SOUNDED LI I<. E. I "ME.LP! 



DILBERT 
l H~Tf. TO INIEP-.RUPT '(0U~ LOUD CONVER5ATWN OUTSIDE MY CUBICLE... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Mom's mate 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 "It all-!" 
F E

CA 0 L I N V E R N E 

PAPAIEOGAR 
E R MICE IREAD THEA P I C N I rc llf(; 'A~ A T E S T 
u s 

-ADAT!GY 
T ~­
AND.~lTE EARNA L 0 I 5.0 AT 
H.L 0 0 S El F I 
I N T H N K SL L E Bl L A 

.ES._A.TOMSI
EOF LENO.NEE P U L P I ~l E 5-­

TELLTALE~HELENS 
ER EI'""" T "I' N 0
I N

A G E S E N T R E A S T I 
M 0 S S S T A Y S S E A T 


these great events are brought to you by your friends at SUB 
showing this weekend at Cushing 
Thursday@ I0:30pm, Friday &Saturday@ 8&10:30 pm $2
EVIT'A 
Collegiate Jazz Festival PREVIEW NIGHT: Wednesday~ April 9 @ 7:30pm in the Band Building & admission is Free 

0"' 
(.) 
J 
0 
<( @, 
<n 
<( 
"' 
0 

NICE! 
C>UT tF '<OU 00~'1 GO f:...WA'<, I'LL POUNO '<OUR 1NCONSIOE.Rto.iE 1-\Et-.0 50 FAR INTO 'YOUR TORSO 
61 Greet the morn 62 Choir members 63 Coupon sites 64"TheWild 
Swans at Coole" poet 65 Chicago team, with "Da" 
DOWN 

1 Michelle Phillips, e.g,, in 60's pop 
2 Skater Heiden 3Message concealer 4 Tacitly 
approved 5 Friend of Henri &Sore 7 Remote control 
button 1 French summers !Veto 
<n. 

NOISE? 

46Terra-­47 Rose 
pest 48Appears 51 Inter-­52 Telephone 
book, 

essentially 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665 
THURSDAY, APRIL3, 1997 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Doris Day, Eddie Murphy, jen­nie Garth, Herb Caen, Alec Baldwin 
DEAR EUGENIA. I was born on May 28, 1973, at 12:30 a,m, My hus­band was born on jan. 11, 1971. We have a 2-year-old son, Lately, my hus­band has been so mean to me, He says abusive things. Until now, we have been fairly happy. I work at a very hard physical job, We are trying to save for a home. I can't keep up with the household chores, raising a child and work. If I quit my job, my husband will be angry with me. I love him, but something has to give. I'm depressed and our son doesn't de­serve to feel this tension, Is our mar­riage going to last? 
Hurt 
DEAR HURT: The comparisbn did show sorrow in the home. How­ever, this means that the two of you need help opening up and becoming more communicative. If your hus­band refuses to meet you halfway, I'm afraid that he will eventually use you up. Once you become a mothe~; it is difficult to watch your child suf­fer if there is verbal abuse in the home. Your chart indicates that you are going through a high cycle this year and that if you feel that a sepa­ration will benefit you and your son that you should go for it. Your hus­band may stop the abuse if he real­izes that you will leave him. Your chart favors a residential move. Your son's birth data would have helped me determine the outcome. Without your husband's time of birth, I can not give you any specifics. However, I do question his loyalty, honesty and integrity. 

ARIES (March 21-April 20): Act quickly. You can get others to do 
Born Today: You've got everything going for you this year Don't lose sight of your goals or spread yourself to thin. It's better to do less and do it superblv 
54 Smidgen 55--about (approximately) ss ''The Untouchables" 
protagonist 58 Wrath 59 Bill 

things for you but be sure not to ovt'r· pay them or lend them money, 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Diffi­culties with your mate may lead to estrangement Don't rely on others to handle the workload. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Luck is with you. Everything is moving quickly, just the way you like it You can utilize your versatile mind to daz· zle others. 
CANCER (june 22-July 22): Health problems may prevail if you haven't been getting enough rest Be careful not to take on other people's prob· Iems. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): You will find that relationships are not going as well as you'd like. Disappoint· menls are likely 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You can come up with future trends in creative fields. Don't hesitate to pre· sent your unique ideas. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 23): You can pick up wonderful buys today Don't forget that your budget is limited right now 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Be sure to double check the house on your way out The locks, stove, gas or electric wires may not be secure. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 
You can get phenomc·nal returns if 
you present your idea, to those who 
can back your interests 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): 
You can mix busin~ss with pleasure 
to get favorable result>. Your persua· 
sive nature will win a heart. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb, 18): You 
will learn valuable information if you 
travel today You can make reasonable 
bids on real estate. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
can make personal changes that will 
enhance your appearance and bring 
you greater popularity 

.... 
• 
1 Hajj destination 
6 Correct 11 RR stop 14 "--With a 
View" 15 Baby doll 16 Toy with a string 17 1978 movie 
scripted by Oliver Stone 20 Got no return from 21 Baloney 22Weird 23 Thor's lord 25 Comes in 261990's sitcom set in Arkansas 31 Preacher's admonition 32 Galley propellers 
36 Monopoly card 
37 Experiment 
38 Femur, e.g. 
39 Aldous Huxley's 
','--and Essence" 40 Jungle cry 42 German ballads 44 1967 Otto Preminger film 46 Las Vegas sight 49 Machu Picchu resident 50 "Pagliacci," e.g. 51 One of the Baldwins 53 Utah national park 57 Rod Serling TV show 60 "A Christmas Carol" boy 

11 Cubic meter 12"--With 
Love" 13 Church nooks 11 Sparkle 19 Nerve network 24 Cacophony 25 Beagle feature 26 "Das 
Rheingold" role 27 Number two 21 Dueler's 
weapon 2S "My mistake!" JOFarm food 33 Dunderhead 
34 Freshly 35 "Jurassic Park" actress Laura 37 Feather's 
companion 38 Blind 401961 Del 
Shannon hit 41 ElDorado 
treasure 42 Midday break 43 Corp, abbr. 44 Trumpeter AI 45 Fort-capturing 
operations 

r ­
----~­

-
SPORTS 
page 28 Thursday, April 3, 1997 
• BASEBALL 

Bullpen stymies Panthers as Irish win 7-5 
I 
I I 
I 
t 
• 
By BRIAN REINTHALER The 7-5 victory was the fifth innings. Assistant Sports Editor in a row for Notre Dame and "Shilliday was the key to the was made possible by the Irish game for us," said head coach The Irish improved their bullpen, who stifled the visiting Paul Mainieri. "All three of the 
record to 14-11 last night at batters, allowing just one run guys who came out of the 
Frank Eck Stadium despite on three hits and two walks bullpen were good for us." 
struggling to put away Eastern over 6 113 innings. The sophomore hurler retired 
Illinois until reliever Larry Right-bander Alex Shilliday the first six batters he faced 
Mohs closed out the Panthers to was the backbone of the relief and nine of the first 11 after 
claim the save. effort as he threw 4 1/3 solid taking the place of starter Chris McKeown. "I think the main thing for me is to get into my groove,'' explained Shilliday, "and I did early on. My arm felt fresh since I only pitched four innings (over the weekend)." 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

(Above) Third baseman J.J. Brock has paced the Irish with a .455 bat­
ting average over the last ten games. (Right) Having recently returned 
froman injury, Justin Scholl had two hits against Eastern Illinois. 
• SOFTBAll 

Irish look to extend win streak 
By ALLISON KRILLA winners of 14 of their last 18 games, the Notre Spons Wrirer Dame softball team is riding high going into today's doubleheader against Purdue. 
In the midst of a four game win streak, and Coming off a four game sweep of Big East con­ference rival Seton Hall, the Irish face the Boilermakers of the Big Ten conference for the first time in the team's nine year history. 
"We're looking to play well (against Purdue) as a team," said Sarah Mathison. "II' we play the way we're capable of playing, we'II do well." 
The high scoring Irish offense looks to contin­ue its torrid play against Purdue, after scoring 34 runs in their last four games. While the entire Notre Dame squad's batting average hov­ers above the .300 mark, three players, co-cap­tains Katie Marten and Meghan Murray and freshman Sarah Mathison, have distinguished themselves as impact players at the plate. 
Two-time All-American Katie Marten leads the team in slugging percentage and hatting avor­age, hitting above .400 on the Sf~ason. Marten tagged the Seton Hall pitching staff for moro than ten hits in the four gamns against the Pirates, including her fourth triple of the season, tying her 1996 season total of three-baggers. 
After struggling at the plate early in the spring season, Meghan Murray's bat has come alive in recent weeks. Murray blasted a home run on Saturday against Seton Hall, and showed why she was 1996 Big East player of the year with her all-around solid play. 
The emergence of the captains as leaders on and off the field is a ·sure sign of improved team chemistry for the Irish. 
"At the beginning of the season, there was a lot of pressure on the seniors," said Mathison. "I 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information think they felt like they had to carry the team 1996 Big East player of the year Meghan Murray has emerged as a leader for the Irish. see SOFTBALL I page 22 


The Panther hitters were completely fooled for the first few innings of Shilliday's out­ing. 
"At first, it (my best pitch) was my change-up to keep the lefties off'balance," Shilliday said. "(Later on) I was just try­ing to spot my fastball and use my curve." 
The Irish started fast after M,~Keown worked his way out of a first inning Jam, allowing just ono run despiU~ walking thrne hitters. The squad tallied live times in the o1wning stanza on the strength of four hits, a walk and a Panther error. 
One of the runs came in the form of an RBI single by second baseman Brant Ust, who has been sensational for Notre Dame this season. 
"Very few make the adjust­ment to college baseball as quickly as Brant," acknowl­edged Mainieri. "But we knew when we saw him in the fall that he had the talont (to make tlw transition)." 
The freshman went threo for four with a walk and two HBI 
sec BASEBALL I page 20 
Simon's leadership 
lacking off court 
"Family. studies" -the NCAA progress requirements course offered at Arizona has when he made the grade in a Jeopardy-like ring to it. four of live classes but shot an lioller it --=~~~~~:--­air ball in family studies. The 
out: I'll T. Ryan Kennedy NCM would not comment yes­
t a k e Sporrs Writer 
terday on what guideiine "family Simon failed to meet, citing, studies" for $500, Alex. ironically, the Family 
Unfortunately for Miles Educational Rights and Simon, leader/sainVhero (cir­Privacy Act. cle one, apparently the media Among the NCAA guidelines has chosen all three) of this is a rule that would require year's national champion, that Simon to post a 1.80 cumula­category has proved to be tive GPA, and another that quite iritellectually stimulating. would require him to have 25 
Hailed as if he fust attained percent of his major requirn­world peace, Simon in recent ments completed as a junior. days has been called a "hero." Both were possibilities for his a "leader" and even a "hard · ineligibility, and the thought of worker'' for leading his either transgression is rather Wildcats to its first champi­repulsive. onship. As a result, while his team­
Unfortunately had Simon mates were paving the road to worked a little harder last fall Indianapolis, Simon was in his family studies course at forced to re-take the class to Arizona, he would have been boost his GPA and attain the eligible for the first 11 games required credits for his of the year. degree. He ended up with an 
He would have earned the "A." leader label, rather than been What a role model. Perhaps undeservingly bombarded he did his little jig for the pro­with it, as so many athletes fessor and his classmates. If are: 
Instead, Simon failed to meet see INSIGHT I page 25 

vs. Wis-Milwaukee vs. William & Mary Today at 5 p.m. 
April 5, 3 p.m. 

vf a; •Ultimate team wins ND tourney 
at Purdue Men vs. Hofstra

SPORTS !¥ 
VJf 
;P
oti'" Today at 2 p.m. 
April 5, 3 p.m. see page 26
••--=
at ­

. l vs. Purdue . Women vs. Ohio State 
Irish golf team wins Butler Invite 
;P riJ •
April 5, I p.m. 

April 6, 12 p.m. see page 25
GLANCE rf 
~ 







