
Monday, April 7, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 118 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Garrick analyzes actions of Ad Hoc committee 

ure of the Administration to act on the 12th resolution of the Ad Hoc committee, which suggests the addition of "sex­ual orientation" to the non­discrimination clause of du Lac. 
Garrick, a non-practicing homosexual, believes that adding the non-discrimination clause will ultimately con­tribute to giving good role models to young people com­ing to terms with their sexual orientation. For this reason above all others, he noted the urgency with which sexual orientation should be added to the non-discrimination clause. 
As it is now, he said, many young Catholics who discover in their youth that they may be homosexuals are driven to insanity or suicide because the world does not offer them a future in accord with their values. 
He gave an appropriate 
see GARRICK I page 4 
• MLIU!CULTURAl BEAT 


La Alianza presents annual talent show 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
Tlw essence of Latin soul was celebrated last Friday night with a colorful display of I lispanie culture presented by La Alianza, Notre Dame's Latino student organization, at the Eighth Annual Latin Expressions Variety Talent Show. This year, Latin Expressions was titled "El Alma Latina," Qr "Latin Soul." 
The event, held at Stepan Center. featured speeches, skits, poetry, songs and dances from a wide variety of Notre Dame performers like Trio Soledad. Sabor Latino, Mariachi NO and Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora. In addition, La Alianza wel­comed Brown and Proud, Infancia, and Sangre Latina, three South Bend community dance groups, as well as a salsa dance group from the University of Illinois. 
The evening began with the poetry of Orlando Gonzalez 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
News Writer 
Last Wednesday marked the first anniversary of vice presi­d(Jnt of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's response to the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. One year after the response, Father David Garrick says that there is much left to be accomplished for gay and les­bian students, but he is hope­ful nonetheless. 
Garrick is the Holy Cross priest who wrote a full page letter to The Observer two days after O'Hara's response to the Ad Hoc Committee last April. In his letter, Garrick declared his own homosexual orientation, and argued that it is perfectly in line with the teaching of the Catechism of the Catholic Church for a homosexual student group to be recognized on campus. 
On Thursday, Garrick spoke in particular of the fail-
and the music of Sabor Latino. Skits such as "Los Vendidos," "Friday Night" and "Latino Dating Game" offered points of comic relief and received great applause from the audience of approxi­mately 800. 
Brown and Proud, which is composed of young adults from around the South Bend community, brought the crowd to their feet with their performance of a Selena Cumbia medley. 
Musical acts like Trio Soledad, Mariachi ND and Coro Primavera gave distinct performances which repre­sented the entire Latin music spectrum. 
The variety show was capped by the performance of the folk dance company Ballet Folklorico Mexico Los Hermanos Avila. The compa­ny began their act with a daz­zling display of color and ornate Aztec costumes made with pheasant feathers from 
see ALIANZA I page 4 



Panel explores premarital sex 
By DEREK BETCHER Associate News Editor 
Sexuality and religion were linked in the Keenan-Stanford chapel last night. As part of Campus Ministry's series, "Reclaiming Human Sexuality, ... speakers Fran Ferder and John Heagle explored the bal­ance between relationships with God and with others. 
"This is what Yahweh asks of you, only this: to act justly, to love tenderly and to walk humbly with your God," Heagle said, quoting the words of the biblical prophet Micah. Much of the ensuing dialogue expanded upon that key focus between justice, love and faith. 
One of the most compelling ideas from the panel emerged in the question and answer session following Heagle and Ferder's formal presentation. 

Responding to an audience member's perceived connec­tion between sex and sin, Ferder said, "That's the wrong ourselves," Heagle said. "The You all know [the position] on focus." church teaches that the [final that," he added. 
"Sometimes people ask us, deciding place] is within our Much of the opening dialogue 
'how far can I go in my genital individual consciences. centered around defining the behavior?' That is a question "You didn't come here to concepts [justice, love, etc.] we each have to answer for hear what the church says 

about sex outside of marriage. see PANEL/ page 6 



Kichner aids graduate students with job placement 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
Students pursuing advanced degrees in Notre Dame's gradu­ate school now have an admin­istrative office that helps them find employment after gradua­tion. 
Russell Kichner has worked as assistant director for gradu­ate student career services in the Career and Placement Services office since October. 
"When this position was set up, it was envisioned to be a method of placement and career development for doctor­al and selected master's degree candidates in the graduate school," he said. The graduate school at Notre Dame includes all disciplines that are offered for advanced degrees except business and law. 
"I don't know how many of these positions there are [at universities across the country] but there are not many," Kichner continued. "Most schools arc historically focused on assisting undergraduates and recent graduates with their career objectives. There has been an understanding that graduates and Ph.D.s would be successful utilizing other means, short of administrative help." 
The Graduate Student Council worked to get Kichner's posi­tion created. 
"He is just great," said Rob DeHaan, former Graduate Student l:.lnion president. "He .is one of three or four in that sort of position anywhere in the country. I think [his office] shows this university's commit­ment to graduate education." 

Kichner believes that his office is a necessary step towards making Notre Dame graduates more successful in what he sees as a tightening job market. 
"The market for Ph.D.s has always been competitive, but now it has gotten inordinately so," he said. "This means that the University had to address a couple of factors associated with this phenomenon; among these are to cultivate a relation­ship with other colleges and universities that might have an interest in hiring our students. 
"To do this I talk to other pri­vate, church-related schools that may be interested in the quality and academic prepara­tion of our graduates, which is congruent with their missions, whether the schools be Catholic, Methodist, or whatev­er." 
Kichner spends the majority of his time dealing with stu­
see KICHNER I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April 7, 1997 
';+ 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Must Be The Money 
Ladies, gentlemen, members of the press: 
I want to thank you for coming out today. It's been a tough couple of weeks for me, but I've done a lot of thinking and have made my decision concerning my future. 

I am giving up my  Dan Cichalski  
final year of eligibility  Viewpoint Editor  
and leaving Notre Dame  

to enter the field of professional journalism. 
After weighing all my options, I have con­cluded that this is a prudent move. Look around -football and basketball players are dropping out of college faster than members of Heaven's Gate can say, "Take me with you, Hale-Bopp," to enter the drafts for their sports. Some aren't even going to college, so I figure I'm three years ahead of them. 
Looking back on my Notre Dame career, I've done everything I feel I can do here. As a freshman I joined the Accent staff and was made a copy editor after a few weeks. I ascended through the Accent ranks until I was chosen to serve as Viewpoint editor and asso­ciate news editor in the Prendergast Era. This summer I have an internship with a newspa­per-eight weeks in the "minors," if you will. By September, I'll be ready for the Job Draft. 
With my experience and all that I've learned here, I'm sure of becoming a first-or second­round pick. Whether I'm picked up by Sports Illustrated, the New York Times, the Washington Post or Newsweek, I plan on hold­ing out for more money. Developing your skills to make the most money possible in your field is what college is all about, right? At least that's how it seems with these athletes. 
As I said, this decision does not come with­out a lot of discussion with my editors, profes­sors and family. And my family is the real rea­son behind my decision. I want to be able to provide for them and to help them out for all the years they helped me. 
But I must stress that I am not giving up on my studies. If my professional journalism career does not work out, I have the skills nec­essary to make it in the real working world; "Welcome to Taco Bell. May I take your order?" No, if things do not work out for me, I will return to Notre Dame to earn my degree in People Relations. 
I've considered all my options and have weighed the reasons for staying and leaving. I just feel that leaving Notre Dame is the right thing to do. I've been here long enough, and there's just too much out there for me to accomplish. I hope to use the field of journal­ism to launch my movie and recording career, since both fields now seem to look more for a name, any name, than talent. I also feel that leaving Notre Dame will provide me with a better platform from which to espouse my reli­gious beliefs. 
This is the toughest decision I've ever had to make, but I do it with all the confidence I had when I decided to come to Notre Dame. I could have gone to another school with a journalism major; I could have been at Syracuse or Ohio University. But I decided to come to Notre Dame where I knew I would have a strong academic background to support my extracur­
ricular activities. 
Notre Dame has prepared me well, I believe, and I have no regrets. As someone once said, "You don't come to Notre Dame to change it. Notre Dame changes you." 
I will now answer any questions you might have. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
• TooAv's STAFF  
News John DeBoy Sarah Hiltz Sports Betsy Baker Viewpoint Jenny Metzger Accent  Graphics Melissa Weber Production John DeBoy Nate Wills Bretr Huelat Lab Tech Shannon Dunne  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wom.o AT A GLANCE 

Zaire rebel leader wants U.S. troops to go home 
GOMA, Zaire 
Rebel leader Laurent Kabila objected Sunday. to the presence of American troops on Zaire's border, calling them a threat to his country's integrity. 
"They could move in at any time. They don't recognize the sovereignty of our people," Kabila said at rebel headquarters in eastern Zaire. 
"For us it is a threat to our territor­ial integrity," said Kabila, whose forces have taken control of the east­ern third of Zaire during their seven­month campaign to oust dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. 
Kabila also said there should be no international intervention in Zaire. 

About 1,200 U.S., Belgian, French and British sol­diers forces have set up camp in Brazzaville, Congo, across the Zaire River from the Zairian capital of 
Russia-Belarus dissent continues 
MINSK, Belarus 
Russia's prime minister acknowl­edged Sunday that Russian officials argued over whether and how to reunite with Belarus, disagreeing over the terms of a union treaty in the final hours before it was signed. In an inter­view with Russia's RTR television, Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin denied there was a split in the govern­


ment over reintegrating the two former Soviet republics but admitted "there were disputes." "That is a normal sit­uation," Chernomyrdin said. "There must be different opinions but a single decision must be found."Last week, Russian President Boris Yeltsin (above) and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko signed the treaty, which calls for economic, political and military cooperation, but retains full sovereignty for both countries. In the week before the signing, Lukashenko -an authoritarian leader who wants to re-establish the Soviet empire -launched a crackdown on his nationalist opponents, breaking up protests with riot police and jailing participants. When television footage of police beating protesters stirred opposition in Russia, Lukashenko barred TV networks from broadcasting out of the country and expelled a Russian journalist, accusing him of slanted reporting. 

Bomb scare forces evacuation 

LIVERPOOL, England 
Thousands of people forced to evacuate Britain's top horse race following bomb threats retrieved their cars Sunday after spending the night in area homes. The Grand National, postponed by Saturday's threat, was rescheduled for Monday afternoon. No bombs were found during an extensive police search of the Aintree racetrack, site of the world's most famous steeplechase. Although nobody claimed responsibility for Saturday's threats, two callers used recognized IRA code words. Authorities gave the racegoers a little more than three hours Sunday afternoon to retrieve about 20,000 cars and hundreds of buses. Local residents offered overnight accommodations to many ofthe 60,000 people who were evacuated from the track Saturday about a half-hour before the race was to start. The Grand National attract­ed a worldwide television audience of 400 million and about $120 million had been wagered on the 38 horses. The 4 1/2-mile race has a $400,000 purse. Politicians in both Britain and Ireland attacked the IRA, which has conducted a violent campaign to end British rule of Northern Ireland. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Kinshasa, in case Westerners have to 
be evacuated. The U.S. warship 
Nassau is also stationed off the coast 
of the central African nation, with 
about 1,000 Marines aboard. 

While Kabila didn't say specifically ; that American troops should leave the : region, he apparently fears there are 
more U.S. soldiers than would be . needed to evacuate the 500 or so i Americans who live in Zaire. 
State Department officials in , Washington refused to comment : Sunday on Kabila's objections, but ; reiterated that the possible evacuation ! is the soldiers' sole purpose. 
The rebels have kept up their 
APN/m. J. Castello advance through Zaire, although their representatives are meeting in South Africa with offi­cials from Mobutu's government, trying to sort out a peaceful resolution to the crisis. 
FBI leader considers quitting 
WASHINGTON 
FBI Director Louis Freeh said he has considered quit­ting his job, according to a published report. "I have wondered about leaving," Freeh told Newsweek in an article appearing on newsstands Monday. The magazine also quoted unidentified friends as saying they have heard Freeh wonder aloud, "Have I run out of my string? Am I hurting the FBI?" Since becoming director Sept. 1, 1993, Freeh has had to defend an agency hit by one controversy after another. Republican lawmakers accused him of presiding over the ruination of the bureau's reputation. Among other things, critics have accused the FBI's crime lab of mishandling evidence, and the agency came under close scrutiny for its investi­gation of Richard Jewell, who was ultimately cleared in the Olympic Park bombing. Freeh was in conflict with the White House when Clinton administration officials accused him of failing to fully brief the White House on China's alleged efforts to contribute money to U.S. politi­cal campaigns. During an appearance before the House subcommittee last month, Freeh told lawmakers that he shouldn't hold his job if they cannot trust him. "The only asset I've built up over the years is my reputation for integrity," said a somber Freeh, who has spent his entire career in public service. "If you lose confidence in my integrity, then I should not be FBI director." 

Fire kills five, injures eight 

PHILADELPHIA 
Fire swept through a three-story row house, killing two adults and three children -including a week-old baby-and injuring several firefighters who got trapped when the building collapsed on them. Neighbors said they saw about eight people jump from the second floor or crawl into an adjacent row house. "The blaze was quick," said neighbor Jason Robinson. "It just took 10 to 15 minutes before the whole house was on fire." Fire Commissioner Harold Hairston told radio station KYW that the Saturday night fire was apparently caused by a faulty electrical outlet. Authorities identified the dead as Larry Blackman, 40, Angela Moore, 37, and three of her children, 5-year-old Ashley, 3-year-old Christopher and a week-old infant, Keith. Ms. Moore's two other children, a 6-year-old boy and a 2-year-old girl, were in critical condition Sunday at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, a hospital spokeswoman said. Eight firefighters suffered minor injuries. Neighbor Celestine Wright heard the panicked voice of the children's father. "He was in the middle of the !ltreet screaming, 'My family's in there,"' Wright said. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



Thesday 
iWedne~day 

Thursday 

Frid~y .. ~ 
( ""'',.....,,
( ..) .; ~........ 




~,~,~9-r&.~~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 

The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Monday, April 7. 
Lines separate high lemperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE Allanta 66 50 Columbus 45 37 Baltimore 64 50 Dallas 72 43 Bayonne, NJ 65 50 Denver 54 23 Boston 65 47 Los Angeles 72 54 Chicago 39 27 Miami 84 73  Cl 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Minneapolis 32 29 New Orleans 72 58 New York 62 52 Philadelphia 66 57 Phoenix 78 55  




--------------------~-----------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, April?, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Center promotes Asian awareness with film festival 
By JOHN DeBOY studies on campus, and it also will continue with "Beijing the early stages of its develop­need for improvement as well, Assistant News Editor serves as an alternative to the Watermelon," a 1990 Japanese ment, Brownstein noted that, at particularly in the area of films shown by (the department film by Nobuhiko Obayashi. the present time, the group is course offerings. 
In order to promote a greater of) communication and the­The remaining films in the officially known as a "faculty Lukito, who came to Notre interdisciplinary understanding ater," Brownstein said. "If peo­series include "Rhapsody in cluster." Dame from Indonesia, feels that of Asian societies and cultures ple take an interest in it, it's August" (Japan) and "Chil-Su "But we look forward to the certain nations are emphasized on campus, Notre Dame's something we'd like to continue and Man-Su" (Korea) on April day when we might become a in Asian studies at the Center for on a regular basis." 14, "Taiga" (Mongolia and full-blown center," Brownstein University, while others are Asian Studies The film festival, which is Germany) on April 15, "Cyclo" said. more-or-less ignored or left in is currently being held in Fitzpatrick Hall's (Vietnam) on April 17, and Those involved with the cen­the background. sponsoring a Cushing Auditorium, will fea­"The Scent of Green Papaya" ter see their efforts as a neces­"The problem at Notre Dame series of crit­ture a total of 10 films, all with (Vietnam and France) on April sary part of expanding Asian is that when people hear 'Asia,' i c a I I y English subtitles. 24. awareness at Notre Dame, an they tend just to think of East acclaimed The first two of the festival's All remaining films will be area that many feel has demon­Asian countries, such as Japan, films from offerings, "Shanghai Triad" shown at 7 p.m., with the strated a significant need for China, and Korea," Lukito said. 
L...__ __,

various Asian (China) and "The Surrogate exception of "Chii-Su and Man­improvement. "But India and other nations nations. Brownstein Woman" (Korea). were shown Su," which will be shown at 9 "It's not as if Notre Dame has are part of Asia as well, and 
The series, yesterday. p.m. following "Rhapsody in no Asian awareness, they tend to be given less atten­titled "Asian Cinema at Notre The series will continue August." Brownstein said, "but we'd like tion here." Dame: Premiering tonight at 7 p.m. with a screen­According to Brownstein, the to see it grow. And we hope to Hatch admits that Notre Contemporary Classic Films ing of "The Story of Qui Ju," a Center for Asian Studies, which promote that through activities Dame's primary emphasis ­from Asia," began yesterday 1993 Chinese film which chron­is sponsoring the film series, like the film festival." especially in the area of lan­and will continue on selected icles the tale of a woman who was formed in the spring of last University Provost Nathan guage study -is presently on days through April 24. challenges her village's legal year and consists of faculty Hatch agrees that there's room Japan and China, although he Admission is free and open to system, demanding adequate members from throughout the for improvement in Asian stud­sees room for expansion in the the public. compensation for an injustice University who arc somehow ies on campus. future, after the current pro­
According to Michael done to her husband. involved in the study of Asian "I think on balance [Asian grams have been satisfactorily Brownstein, associate professor Tomorrow at 7 p.m., the festi­society and culture. awareness] needs to be enhanced. of Oriental languages and liter­val will present "Charulata," a "Our purpose is basically to increased," Hatch said. "Our thinking is that until our atures and director of the 1964 Indian film about a young promote Asian awareness "Overall, we certainly need to foundation is firmly built in Center for Asian Studies, the woman's struggle to come to among students by sponsoring expand course offerings, lec­those two powerful civilizations purpose of the festival is to help terms with the boredom of her a number of activities," tures and cultural activities on (Japan and China). we won't be facilitate a greater emphasis on upper-class status, her sup­Brownstein said. "And it's for campus with respect to Asian able to expand considerably," Asian studies and culture in the pressed literary ambitions, and the faculty as well; it provides a studies." Hatch said. "I don't see us hir­Notre Dame community. her illicit love for her husband's forum for the exchange of Additionally, some students, ing any Korean or Vietnamese 
"The film series seemed to us cousin. ideas." including Notre Dame sopho­language professors in the near 
a good way to promote Asian Then, on Sunday, the series Because the center is still in more Mugimin Lukito, see a future, but it certainly is a real possibility somewhere down the road." 
For more information on the Asian cinema festival or the Center for Asian Studies, con­tact Professor Michael Brownstein at 631-7769.



rth 
K 

APril 6 to APril 13 
Pia nt a Tree 
with Students for Environmental Action 
Sunday APril 6~ 12PM Main Circle
Last Year we Planted over 1.700 seedlings in the South Bend communitY 
Volu~teer to helP Recyclin· lr!sh Rec\Jcle on CamPUS
APnl7-1 0 from 9-5 dallY ' 
Call Sheila at 1-5615 rBuilding ServicesJ 
Learn about ComPanies who Care 
at the 1st Annual Environmental Career Fair APril 1 0 from 12-4PM Center for Social Concerns 

Organized by the Terra Club 
Discuss Air Polution PolicY with local officials and the Environmental Law SocietY 
APril 1 0 from 3-4:30PM room 121 law School 
esPeciallY around the lakes. with Irish Outdoors Clean uP CamPus APril 12 from 12-1 PM Fieldhouse Mall
the squirrels and birds will thank you later 
·e Que sa·nn o_ Dancefrom1-5PMField~ouseMall
Tl -' ~ G ~ SaturdaY~ APril 12 
with Your friends and favorite camPus bands at the ShamROCK Greenfest rRecyclin· lrishJ 
Mass at 5PM The Grotto Listen to Fr. Hesbureh SaturdaY~ APril 12 
hear the call to be a steward for the earth. rSEAJ 
Join Irish OutdO?rS ,..a ke a H ,. ke 
Sunday~ APril 13 1~ 

in the sand at the Indiana Dunes State Park 
meet at 12Pm library Circle 

SPonsored BY the Environmental Coalition: RecYclin· Irish • Students for ResPonsible Business • Irish Outdoors Students for Environmental Action • Terra Club • Environmental Law SocietY 

TrACH EllllLISH in ·....; · 
EASTERN El'ROPE 

PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would yoLO like to teach basic -:onversational E:tglish in Eastern Europe_? Our ~atertals profile manv rewardmg teachr:1p opportunities with great benefits. For IDfonnation. call: 
(206) 971-3680 Ext K55845 
Wi! 're' ,_uch olr. publiihirls co. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 7, 1997 



Kichner 
continued from page 1 
dents individually or traveling to corporations to establish contacts and keep them informed about particular pro­grams. 
"It raises serious time-com­mitment questions," he said. "I spend a lot of time out of the office because things are changing in the corporate world. Corporations these days are less likely to pick a school and recruit from there, and instead are more likely to look at a department or a specific type of research that effects their business. So I have to go to these places and keep them abreast of our departments' research." 
Kichner described one aspect of his work as more subtle and unforeseen when creating the office. 
"As I learn more about the corporations and what they want, I feel responsible to come back and perhaps bring a dif­ferent perspective into the issues that underlie curriculum and degree requirements," he said. 
"For example, computer applications, foreign language and international experience are very important to corpora­tions. We are living in a small world, and international think­ing, business and relationships could and should be considered when refining requirements." 
One part of Kichner's job that he sees as very important is taking each individual stu­dent's experience and turning it into something that will get that student a job. 
"Often students will go into the program just because they really love their discipline," he said. "So I put some meaning into their graduate work." 

He says that this aspect of his job ties into the quality ratings for the graduate school. 
"Where we are ranked is dependent upon peer reviews," Kichner said. "Many of the ele­ments do not measure quality, but instead measure status. A school that places its students in the high-status jobs are ranked higher [than schools that do not]. whether or not their graduates are that good. There is little or no correlation between the rankings and the quality of the graduates. 
"Often, the rankings are sim­plistic and inaccurate," contin­ued Kichner, who spent 25 years in various academic sup­port, student affairs and insti­tutional research offices evalu­ating graduate programs. "(Ranking graduate programs] is not a science, U.S. News and World Report notwithstand­ing." 
Kichner received his doctoral degree from Texas A&M. 
"I think that I can bring a special sensitivity to the posi­tion predicated on the fact that I have been there," he said. "I have had to consider whether or not to finish my degree, thought about the impact on my family and have had first­hand experience with a less than embracing job market for advanced degree holders. These are all problems that graduate students will face." 

Contact The Observer
QuESTIONS? 

News Department 

CoMMENTS? 

at 1-5323, or e-mail us at IDEAS? Observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 


Garrick 
continued from page 1 
analogy for heterosexuals. 

"Suppose that you didn't know of any happily married heterosexual people, and your only role model was Hustler Magazine. You might despair of your future, because you wouldn't want to become like those people in Hustler." 
Many young gays and lesbians at Notre Dame, Garrick explained, are in this very position, without the example of a Catholic homosexual who lives a life of chastity. 
"Until it is easy for responsi­ble adults to come out as gay or lesbian, young homosexuals will not have role models. 
"And without role models, sane young people despair of 

"The Church teaches that sexual acts outside of marriage are not permitted," he said. "We know that some heterosexual students break [the sexual morality code]. But we have gone along and let heterosexual men and women associate with each other, because we assume that they will not break the rule. So why do we single out the gay and lesbian students and assume that they will [break it]? There's noth­ing in Church teaching, let alone in duLac, that suggests that homosexuals should be singled out. 
"The consequences should be the same for students who break the rules," he asserted, "whether it is heterosexual or homosexual 
sex." 
Another result of the fact that 

gay students are often not con­
sidered as equals, he added, is 
the "machismo" often present 
among peers and in dorm life. 
their future. They will say to respect the students' "Machismo produces a false themselves, 'I'm supposed to relationship with women ," he embrace a highly promiscuous rights. It's part of their said. "[It] means having effort-
lifestyle? That's my future?'" education.' less power over women, and he said. gay men don't look for that, According to Garrick, the generally." result of this is that nQarly 30 Father David Garrick As a result, he explained, percent of suicides in the ------------"the other males think of a gay 
United States are related to homosexuality. 
And while he admitted that gay and lesbian students, faculty and staff are unlikely to have their careers here threatened by their sexual orientation, Garrick· remarked that there is something suspicious about the administration dragging its feet on the issue. 
Even the Faculty Senate, he noted, has now put off a vote on changing the non-discrimina­tion clause for the second month in a row. 
"It is as if people are saying, 'We'll treat you equally, but we don't want to put that in writ­ing,"' he said. "There is something very uncom­fortable about that." 
Garrick went on to strenuously object to what he saw as a bias against homosexuals in the administration's implementation of the University's sexual morality code. 

Alianza 
continued from page 1 

Australia and Mexico. Among their first dances were the "Sacred Eagle Dance" and the "Dance of Fire," both of which are historic dances from the Aztec Empire. 
"This group goes out of its way to represent all of the regions of Mexico," one of the group mem­bers told the audience. 
Ballet Folklorico then added dances from person as a class traitor, because he gives the impression that males do not dominate females. 
"There is shunning that goes on on this cam­pus," he went on. "Some students have report­ed to me about being shunned in the residence halls after they have come out." 
Although Garrick saw that gay and lesbian students still face many difficulties at Notre Dame, he believed that the whole debate over gay issues on campus has produced some posi­tive outcomes. 
"The most positive thing that has happened has been the discussion of student rights on campus," he said. "If you are going to teach students to respect other people's rights, you have to respect the students' rights. It's part of their education." 
Guerrero, Michoacan, Jalisco and Sonora. Each member of the company was adorned in authen­tic Mexican costumes for the style and geogra­phy of the dance. 
"This was a very educational show," offered John Fernandez, a member of La i\lianza. "The Ballet offered a different perspective to our cul­ture. It was excellent." 
This is the eighth year that Latin Expressions has been presented to the South Bend communi­ty, and the second year that the show has been held in Stepan Center after five years in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 


LifePaths. 
There are times when we all feel lost. When that time comes, there 
is a path to take, a path to where you will find a full and satisfying 
life. That path is LifePaths. Where you'll find comprehensive 
psychiatric treatment programs. We believe in using a team 
approach where administration, nurses, therapists and physicians 
work together for your benefit. All under the direction of board 
certified psychiatrists. The right path? 
LifePaths. 800-491-8888
Ill 

Memorial Hospital ~JLifePaths 
Fifth and Pine Streets • Michigan City,JN 46360 • (800)491-8888 or (219)873-2888 
Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

ND publications collect top Indiana press awards 
Observer Staff Report 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Three Notte Dame student publications won top honors, in addition to other awards, at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association convention this weekend. 
Scholastic Magazine earned the distinction "News magazine of the Year;" the editors-in-chief of The Dome accepted the "Yearbook of the Year" award, returning to the !CPA competi­tion for the first time in several administrations. 
The Observer won "Newspaper of the Year," as well as accolades in each of the 24 categories. 
Chief photographer Rob Finch was recognized 10 times for his work, including a 1-2-3 sweep in Best Feature Photo and Best Photo Essay. Named Sports Photographer of the Year by the Associated Collegiate Press in February, Finch also placed first in Best Sports Photo. 
Bryan Meyer won first and third, and Wendy Klare received an honorable mention, for their photo art that appeared as covers for the Irish Extras. 
Among the remaining recipi­ents from The Observer were John DeBoy, Joe Villinski, and Tim Sherman, who each won two certificates for their writ­ing. 
The Observer congratulates all those recongized at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association awards. 


Sullivan, 'Men' win cartoon quest 
Observer Staff Report 
"Men About Campus" was the top vote-getter in The Observer's cartoon contest, conducted over the last two weeks to determine the news­paper's next campus comic strip. 
"Men About Campus," drawn by Dan Sullivan, a Zahm Hall sophomore, will begin appearing regularly on Wednesday. The strip received 
40.1 percent of the 19 2 votes cast. 
"A Long Way From Somewhere" finished sec­ond with 28.6 percent of the vote. "The Lilypad" and "NDCD Blues" rounded out the field with 
16.7 percent and 14.6 percent, respectively. 
The Great White Man of Lambarene 
A feature film by Bassek ba Kobhio 
followed by a panel discussion on 

Colonialism Revisited: 
·The Colonized View 
featuring: 

Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafia, Economics Dept./IUSB, Moderator Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion Karni Pal Bhati, Ph. D. Candidate, English Dept. Rodney Cobern, Director, Urban Plunge/Outreach Development, CSC Joseph Karanja, Ph. D. Candidate, Andrews University 
FREE ADMISSION 
Wednesday, April 9 7 p.m. • 155 DeBartolo 
New project helps deal with perilous weather 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associated ~ress Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Americans are treated to a seemingly endless litany of weather disasters on the· evening news, yet most do not expect it to happen to them. 
"A lot of people believe that severe events happen some­where else, but don't happen where they are," said Rocky Lopes of the American Red Cross. Citing a poll, he said, about 52 percent believe they are not at risk. 
But weather disasters can, and have, happened in every state, Lopes noted. 
That is why the Red Cross and The Weather Channel are launching Project Safeside, an effort to teach .the public about the dangers of severe weather, how to prepare for it and what to do when it occurs. 
Informational 

Meeting: 
Wednesday,April 9th 
8:00PM 
at the 

LaFortune Sorin Room 
or 
call Steve McMullen at 
4-0600 



~OBSERVER 
The Accent Section is looking for people interested in the following paid positions: 
Assistant Editors Copy Editors _ Music Editor 
.We are also looking for music critics, film critics, writers in 
general, and anyone interested in writing an advice column. 
For information please contact Joey at 1-4540 and write a one page personal statement. 
Floods, hurricanes, lightning, tornadoes and extreme heat are the five hazards to be stressed in brochures, broad­casts, lectures and the comput­er Internet in the education effort, beginning about mid­April, Lopes said. 
Red Cross offices can add 
locali-zed assistance, such as 
sites of shelters and evacua­
tion routes. 
A random telephone survey of 2,039 households in January found only 15 percent of peo­ple claim to be "very pre­pared" for a disaster. 
Only 45 percent said they would know where to go if told to evacuate their homes, just 43 percent have stored water and 39 percent have a first aid kit. 
There is a lot of denial among people when it comes to expecting weather disasters, Lopes said. Many think their area is safe because nothing has happened recently or they believe in myths, such as that a "hundred-year" flood actual­ly happens only once in 100 years when that's only an average. 
The first step in being pre­pared, Lopes said, is to have a family plan to meet some­where if a disaster occurs while the members are scat­tered at work or school, and to have essential supplies in one place "so you can grab and go when disaster strikes." 
What should a preparedness kit contain? A flashlight, bat­tery-powered radio, extra bat­teries, first aid kit, canned food and at least three gallons of water per person, Lopes said. 
SORIII SOCIEIY I 991 
April 1Ith & 12th 
WORK CATERING WAITSTAFF/ FOOD SERVICE WORKERS $5.95 PER HOUR 
Sign up: 10:00 am -5:00pm • Monday -Friday Catering Office • South Dining Hall • Lower level 631-5449/ 8792 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 7, 1997 


Israeli settlement building continues 



Panel 
continued from page I 
involved. Also, Heagle and Ferder tried to answer the question "where do I go to find out what it means to love?" 
"We would define sexuality as energy for relationships," Ferder said. "Currently, sexu­ality has been trivialized... Sexuality has to do with our heart, feelings, attitudes as much as what we do with our genitals," Ferder offered. 
Justice in our· society has been represented by a blind­folded woman holding scales. but that representation is dis­passionate and individual com­pared to the Christian ideal, according to the pair from Seattle. 
"Biblical justice goes beyond that," Heagle said. He pro­ceeded to tie justice to God and passion. 
Energy is the unifying link; God is passionate; passionate energy characterizes love and sexuality; love is power; and these powerful passionate Christian energies dictate jus­tice, the pair explained. 
"Without a developed sense of sexuality, justice is not pos­sible," Ferder said. 
Throughout the evening, their advice took a variety of forms: 
"Never underestimate the power and energy of love. That sincerity is always there," Heagle emphasized. 
"We are the sons and daughters of a very erotic God, a God who designed us to have connections with each other," Ferder said. 
Ferder and Heagle's talk was the opening event in Campus Ministry's Keeping the Faith '97 series. Monday's forum, "Making Love: Sexuality and Intimacy," and Wednesday's forum, "Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity," will contin­ue the series. Both events will begin at 7 p.m. in the Keenan­Standford chapel. 
Russians launch cargo ship 

The Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

Russia launched a cargo ship loaded with crucial oxy­gen generators and carbon­dioxide removal canisters Sunday to the troubled Hussian space station Mir. 
NASA astronaut .Jerry Linenger and his two Russian crewmates need the supplies to continue living on the orbit­ing outpost. The Progress-34 ferry is due at Mir on Tuesday. 
The Progress, which blasted off from the Baikonur space center shortly after 8 p.m. Moscow time, contained three fire extinguishers to replace those used to put out a fire aboard Mir in February. 
Also among the 2-ton cargo: parts to fix one of Mir's two broken oxygen generators as well as food and scientific equipment. 
The 11-year-old Mir has suffered a number of serious equipment failures in the past 1 1/2 months. 
A flash fire on Feb. 23 used up three of the station's 10 fire extinguishers. and was followed two weeks later by a failure of the main oxygen­generating system. Then Mir's motion-control system ran into trouble, and the station experienced a partial power outage. And just last week, the primary system to purge carbon dioxide from the air had to be shut down. 
That carbon-dioxide removal unit still is not work­ing, and the three men are relying on a backup system of lithium-hydroxide canisters. Their supply of canisters quickly is dwindling, until the Progress arrives with more. 
By DINA KRAFT "The relations between Associated Press Writer Israel and Jordan are impor­tant. They reflect one of the JERUSALEM foundations of the peace that Working day and night, we have in our area that we Israelis pushed ahead with seek to expand," Netanyahu construction of Jewish settle-said after a 45-minute meeting 
.ments on Sunday -even as alone with Hussein . Benjamin Netanyahu left for Netanyahu, who refused to Washington to meet with elaborate on the meeting, said President Clinton on the con­he will talk to President troversial expansion, which Clinton in Washington on has devastated the peace Monday "about the efforts to process. bring stability, end violencc 
Six mobile homes rolled into and move the peace process the Ofra settlement in the forward." West Bank. In east Jerusalem, work continued on the new Har Hom a n'eighborhood, where groundbreaking last month drew international con­demnation and triggered almost daily Palestinian riots and a suicide bombing. 
Israe.li TV reports said Clinton was expected to ask Netanyahu to freeze settle­ment-building for the duration of peace talks. Israel's Channel 2 TV said Netanyahu would be prepared to promise Clinton that there would be "no more Har Homas." 
Still, Israeli Cabinet" Secretary Danny Naveh told Army Radio that "the building in Har Homa will continue." And the Maariv daily newspa­per reported that Jerusalem Mayor Ehud Obnert ordered round-the-clock, speeded-up construction. 
"As (the construction) requires security arid police and causes tensions, it's healthier to complete it quick­ly," Olmert said. 
Netanyahu departed Sunday morning for the United States, where he is to meet with Clinton and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. 
His first stop was the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., where he met with Jordan's King Hussein, his closest friend among Arab leaders. Hussein is recuperating fol­lowing prostate surgery on Saturday. 

Ashrawi is to meet in Washington this week with Albright and chief U.S. envoy to the Mideast, Dennis Ross. After Netanyahu's return, Arafat's deputy, Mahmoud Abbas, and top Palestinian negotiator Saab Erekat will go to Washington on a follow-up mission. 
Israeli media reports said the United States was pre­pared to embrace Netanyahu's proposal to speed up talks with the Palestinians on a final peace deal in which issues like Palestinian statehood, borders and Jerusalem would be resolved. 
Asked about such a plan, European Union envoy Miguel Mauratinos told Israel TV: "Yes, I believe in that, and I think all the parties believe in that." 
In addition, the United States wants Israel to begin building immediately for Palestinians in the same area as Har Homa, the Yediot Ahranot newspaper reported Sunday. 
The West Bank was quiet Sunday, after three weeks of daily stone-throwing protests mostly organized by Arafat's Fatah faction. At Hebron University, however, thou­sands of students attended a rally where Israeli and American flags were burned. 
"The enemy only under­stands the language of force and bullets," the militant group Hamas said in a leaflet issued at the rally. "This is the best and safest way to achieve the rights of our people." 
Israel has accused Arafat of giving militant groups the green light for attacks such as the March 21 suicide bombing in a Tel Aviv cafe that killed three Israeli women and the bomber. 
The United States is expect­ed to press Israel's demand that Arafat make a clear state­ment committing himself to combatting terror. 

IPIPE The Cm1lceJt1lhatiil[])llll im IP[llii[I[])SI[])]plhy 9 IPl[])[ii tics 9 &Jtu.ll Eci[J)Jtlll[])ll1r1liics 
The Concentration in Philosop_hy, Politics, and Economics (P P E) is designed for undergraauates with special interests in the intersecting areas ofpolitical philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many_ ofour students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the acaaemy. 
PPE has three main attractions: 
(1) 
PPE integrates different approaches to politics and justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

(2) 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members, both in courses and in advising and conversation (the student/facudy ratio in PPE's seminars and colloquia is about 10: 1); · 

(3) 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves, especially through the Justice Seminar, PPE's intensive gateway course. 


Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE; check it out to see ifit is for you. You can contact one of PPE's student con­
sultants for the insider view:  
Karla Arenas  4-428 5  Arenas.l @nd.edu  
Michael Williams  288-0116  Williams.! 08@nd.edu  
Cristina Coronado  243-9172  Coronado. I @nd.edu  

You can also contact Professor David O'Connor at O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos at Roos.l @nd.edu. 
APPLICATIONS and further information are available outside Professor O'Connor's office, 307 Decio. The application deadline is April 9. You may also apply electronically. Simply send Professor O'Connor an e-mail message, subject "PPE application," with the following information: name, address, telephone, e­mail, year you are in now, expected major, courses you have taken in philosophy, government, and economics, your GPA, and a statement of no more than 300 words of why you are interested in PPE and why PPE should be interested in you. Acceptances will be announced April 10. 
._.._..---~ -----------------~-----~-~~-­
Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page7 


States hang on to tobacco stocks Virus may prove to 
By GLENN ADAMS market tobacco products group pressing Alaska's Associated Press Writer despite Gov. John Engler's Permanent Fund to selL $150 push to sell them off. Their million in Philip Morris Inc. 
be cause of obesity 
States are suing tobacco value has neai-ly tripled since shares. companies and passing laws to the stocks were purchased. Philip Morris spokesman By LAURAN NEERGAARD eries that viruses and bacteria stamp out butts, but when it The investment board in Nicholas Rolli declined to com­Associated Press Writer contribute to heart disease comes to making money, many Minnesota, another litigant, ment specifically on pension and some cancers, even ulcers. consider the weed a depend­has $281 million tied up in investments but said the com­WASHINGTON "I have no reason to believe able friend. tobacco-related stocks, despite pany had been a solid per­Frustrated dieters searching obesity would be any differ­
State pension systems keep challenges by Gov. Arne former for investors. Philip for something to blame for ent," he added. "I think it's billions of dollars in tobacco Carlson to justify it. Morris delivered a 31 percent those extra pounds might have very plausible." stocks, and overseers are "Why do we want to invest in return las-t year, including a new culprit: A virus may Dr. John Foreyt of the Baylor reluctant to dump what has a ship that's sinking?" Carlson stock appreciation and re-increase some people's College of Medicine cautioned been a cash cow. demanded. investment of chances of obesity, University that the Wisconsin scientists 
"So long as tobacco compa­"You have to dividends, he of Wisconsin scientists say. cannot yet speculate how the nies make money, we'll make do it," said said. Only circumstantial evidence virus, biologically, could cause money off them," said Dee David Bronner, Figures from so far links the virus with obesity. But he said veterinari­
Williams, public pension sys­director of the the states put human obesity, researcher ans have proved that certain tem director in Utah, which pension system the total in Nikhil Dhurandhar empha­viruses cause obesity in horses has one of the nation's lowest in Alabama. tobacco stocks sized, although he did prove it and pigs, so one for humans is smoking rates. which has held by pension fattens animals. not farfetched. 
At the same time, other almost $100 systems at $6 Early study of the virus "With the big increase in states are swearing off tobacco million in Dee Williams billion to $7 bit-yielded an intriguing paradox: obesity in the world ... I stocks. Maryland's retirement tobacco stocks. lion. Obese patients who show signs wouldn't rule it out," Foreyt 
agency last year divested after "It's the same Most states of viral infection have normal said, calling the new study 
joining 21 other states in a suit thing as mak--------------say tobacco cholesterol, not the heart­"provocative." against major tobacco compa­ing investments investments threatening levels typical of The government estimates nies to recoup health-care in the gamblin_s industry." make up 1 percent or less of overweight Americans, said that one-third of Americans costs associated with smoking. James Tierney, a former their total portfolios. The col­Dhurandhar, who was pre­are obese, about a 25 f>ercent 
New Hampshire, too, has sold Maine attorney general who is lective portfolio of all of the senting his findings today at a rise in 30 years. The extra its tobacco holdings, after its coordinating the 22 states' states' pension systems was biology meeting in New pounds cause high blood pres­pension manager branded cases, believes the tobacco about $1 trillion as of the third Orleans. sure, heart disease and dia­them a bad investment. investments themselves are a quarter of 1996, said Paul "We cannot prove the virus betes, and obesity-related dis­
South Carolina lies deep in gamble. Zorn, manager of the causes (human) obesity unless eases kill 300,000 Americans a tobacco country, but its long­"If we win one suit," Tierney Government Finance Officers we inject people and they get year. standing policy bans pension said, "the whole industry will Association in Washington. fat," something clearly impos­Poor diet and lack of exer­investments in any stocks. A become a very bad investment. California has the largest sible, said co-researcher Dr. cise are the overwhelming pending constitutional amend­"If you're sitting there run-sum socked away in tobacco: Richard Atkinson, a Wisconsin causes over overweight, doc­ment could lift that prohibi­ning a pension system, you $1.2 billion in separate teach­medicine professor who is tors agree.tion, however. have to bet whether there's ers' and public employees' president of the American But Dhurandhar suggested
West Virginia is also barred going to be a congressional pension systems. A bill that Obesity Association. "But this that the Ad-36 virus, from a from dabbling in stocks, and settlement" in the case, would have required the public is tantalizing evidence." common family of adenovirus­Indiana hasn't bought any Tierney said. funds to divest died last year. The findings are preliminary es that typically cause mild since it got the go-ahead to Health groups say more is at The board of the California but strong enough to justify respiratory infections, mayinvest pension funds last year. stake than money. Public Employees Pension prompt additional research, play a role, too. 
But other states, including "The governor and legisla-Fund, or CalPERS, "is guided said Dr. Benjamin Caballero of He studied 105 patients at many that are suing tobacco tors feign this self-righteous solely by obtaining the highest Johns Hopkins University, a the University of Wisconsin's companies, remain heavily indignation over smoking, then return for the fund, and social leading specialist in obesity. obesity clinic, and 23 lean peo­invested in companies that the state gives the tobacco and political decisions really "Look at the larger picture ple for comparison. Eighteenmake cigarettes. companies millions of dollars are not to influence our invest­of infectious agents causing percent of the obese people
Michigan keeps $353 million to play with," said Rick ment policies or decisions," chronic diseases," Caballero showed signs of infection with invested in five companies that Steiner, who heads a citizens said spokesman Brad Pacheco. said, pointing to recent discov-Ad-36. 

-----------------------------------~~----------~ 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, April7, 1997 

Military compensates


Blizzard stuns northern Plains 
By JEREMIAH GARDNER They're helping feed the resi­Ronald Olson, a volunteer fire­
frostbitten veterans 
Associated Press Writer dents and just doing whatever fighter from Clara City, Minn., 
BISMARCK, N.D. 
A blizzard shut down much of the northern Plains on Sunday with blinding wind­blown snow and drifts up to 20 feet high, stranding travelers and making life miserable for volunteers sandbagging flood­threatened towns. 
Hundreds of miles of high­ways were closed in Wyoming, the Dakotas, Nebraska and the eastern edge of Montana. Thousands were without elec­tricity. 
The blowing snow rebuilt drifts that had begun melting after a winter of record snow­fall. 
"My mailbox is probably 30 yards away. At times I can't see it," said Chad Klinske, who lives about a mile outside Grafton, N.D. "My drifts that were down to 4 or 5 feet are now 12 feet." 
With the electricity off, Klinske had to borrow a gen­erator to run a small space heater and run the sump pump keeping water out of his basement. 
"Right now, I'm walling off the living room with cushions from the couch, to try to reduce the area I've got to heat," he said Sunday after­noon. 
Snowbound day-shift employees couldn't get to work Sunday at the Elim Nursing Home in Fargo. 
The overnight crew put out a call for help from people in the neighborhood, and 15 to 20 volunteers showed up, admin­istrative assistant Louise Swanson said. 
"They're making beds. 
they can to help," Swanson 
said.  ,  
North  Dakota  Gov.  Ed  
Schafer  asked  President  

Clinton to declare the state a disaster area. "We've got the whole state virtually para­lyzed," he said. 
Across the state line in west­central Minnesota, dikes failed throughout much of Breckenridge during the night, letting the Red River pour as much as 3 feet deep into streets. Most of the downtown was knee-deep in water and snow-crusted ice, and parked cars were frozen in place. 
Hundreds of people had been evacuated in Breckenridge because of the flood caused by melting snow from previous storms, and oth­ers were stranded by the bliz­zard, police Chief Dennis Milbrandt said Sunday. Temperatures were in the 20s and the wind-chill was below zero. 
"We've had officers going door-to-door with chest waders," Milbrandt said. "We thought about boats, but there's so much ice and wind, we're concerned about that. We don't want to put anybody else in danger." 
In Montevideo, Minn., 100 miles southeast of Breckenridge, waves driven by 40 mph wind crashed against dikes along the bloated Minnesota River, splashing volunteers as they piled sand­bags and coating their clothing and men's beards with ice. 
"It doesn't get any worse than this. We had flooding last week, but that was in warm weather. This is bad," said who was piling sandbags in Montevideo. 

At Watertown, S.D., Lake Kampeska, fed by the swollen Big Sioux River, had reached a record 42 1/2 inches above the full mark and residents of a 30-block area were urged to evacuate. 
Most highways were closed in North Dakota, including all 600 miles of Interstates 94 and 
29. Amtrak's Empire Building passenger train was stranded in Fargo by signal failures. 
Two charter buses were stranded overnight with their passengers on J-29, about 35 miles north of Grand Forks. And an ambulance crew was rescued Sunday after 14 hours of being snowbound on a state highway. 
"It wasn't bad, really," said Lori Oldenburg, an emergency medical technician on the ambulance. "Not being able to get up and walk, not being able to go to bathroom. But we survived." 
Travelers also were strand­ed across most of the eastern half of Wyoming, with 1-80 closed outside Cheyenne, and rescue workers fanned out on snowmobiles. 
"Some people are worried about relatives they haven't heard from. 
"We have a couple reports of people who are unaccounted for," said Misty Mills of the Campbell County (Wyo.) Fire Department. She said drifts were up to 20 feet high in the country. 
South Dakota Gov. Bill Janklow urged people to avoid travel throughout the state because of the blizzard. 



Generator halts shuttle mission 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press Writer 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Space shuttle Columbia and its seven astronauts will return to Earth on Tuesday, 12 days earlier than planned, because of a deteriorating and poten­tially explosive power generator. 
It is only the third time in space shuttle history that a mission has been cut short by equipment fail­ure. 
While NASA considered commander James Halsell Jr. and his crew to be in no immediate dan­ger, shuttle managers did not want to take any chances with the generator and, on Sunday, cut short the 16-day science mission. 
"The conservative thing to do is land on Tuesday," shuttle program manager Tommy Holloway announced at a hastily arranged news conference. 
Holloway said a Monday landing was ruled out in order to allow for an orderly return, and because Columbia's two other electricity-producing fuel cells were working fme. 
The fear was that hydrogen fuel and oxygen in the degraded generator could mix, overheat and blow up if voltage in the unit dropped far enough. Flight controllers had the astronauts turn off the unit Sunday to reduce, ifnot eliminate, that risk. 
By JOE WHEELAN 12. Also in the works is a video­Associated Press Writer tape to educate VA doctors. Frostbite as a wartime med­RALEIGH, N.C. ical problem is not new, notes 
Phlebitis put Vincent Derize in Dr. Susan Mather, chief public the hospital twice, and his health and environmental haz­throbbing feet keep him awake ards officer with the Veterans nights. So do Gerald Foley's. He Health Administration in walks with a cane and wears Washington, D.C. special shoes. What is new is recognition 
Searing pain invades Frank that frostbite can cause long­Kerr's legs, feet and hands. The term complications for aging older he gets, the shorter his veterans, even if they didn't lose walks. appendages to the initial 
All were Marines at "Frozen encounter, she said. Chosin" -the Battle of Chosin The most common, she says, Reservoir in North Korea, a are diabetes, circulatory prob­fierce, two-week struggle lems, arthritis, skin cancer in against overwhelming Chinese frostbite scars, chronic night forces 46 years ago. All suffered pain and fungal infections frostbite in temperatures of 30 caused by the skin's loss of below and colder. immune functions. Researchers 
For thousands of veterans are still looking into potential already dealing with the infirmi­long-term effects on internal ties of age, that prolonged expo-organs. sure to severe Hamlet says cold has added the VA has a host of prob-_known about !ems not obvi-cold-weather ously linked to complications battle ordeals, about 40 since the 1940s such as dia-but officially betes and skin late in getting ignored them cancer. organized.' until the early
This year, 1990s, when such victims new VA leader-are getting Ernie Pappenheimer ship and the compensated-------------veterans' cam­
for the first time, as the Department of Veterans Affairs formally-and finally-recog­nizes the long-term effects of frostbite as a service-related injury. 
Once VA doctors are trained ro recognize symptoms, as many as 4,000 surviving Marine and Army veterans of Chosin may be compensated for frost­bite, says ·Dr. Murray Hamlet, a director at the Army Hesearch Institute for Environmental Medicine in Natick, Mass. 
With World War II veterans included, the total could surpass 5,000, he says. 
Evaluation criteria are still being overhauled, but affected vets are already beginning to receive monthly checks and free medical care, with 80 cases set­tled of 498 filed, according to a Chosin veterans group instru­mental in urging the new policy. 
Hamlet, who's directed cold­injury studies for the Army for 26 years, is among experts who will advise VA doctors in a nationwide teleconference June 


Here's your chance to be a part of planning YOUR JPW! Apply for a position on the 
JPW 1998 Executive Committee 
Applications are available at Student Activities They must be submitted to 315 LaFortune by 
5:00pm· on Wednesday, April 9! 
paign revived interest. Official recognition came last October. 
"The ones I've looked at, they've really had their lives compromised by this injury," Hamlet says. "The .sad part is there are a lot of wives whose husbands died and they didn't get compensation for all those years." 
The man being credited with researching frostbite complica­tions, building veterans' support and attracting the attention of medical experts is retired Marine Gunnery Sgt. Ernie Pappenheimer of Holly. Mich. 
Pappenheimer, who lost his toes and part of a foot to frost­bite, is head of the Cold Injury Committee of the Chosin Few, a veterans group formed in 1990 and based in Waynesville, N.C. 
"We're trying to correct some of the wrongs," he says. "Unfortunately, we're about 40 years late in getting organized. 
The VA expects cold-injury claims to be limited because vir­tually all the nation's post­Korea conflicts have been fought in warm climates ­Vietnam. Grenada, Panama, the Persian Gulf. Pappenheimer says some Bosnian peacekeep­ers might eventually qualify because of the below-freezing wintertime temperatures com­mon there. 
The Chosin veterans "had the most vivid experiences with cold," Mather says. "They have survived into their 60s and 70s and are having increasing prob­lems with their limbs." 
In November 1950, the 1st Marine Division, elements of the Army's 7th Division and a unit of British Royal Marines ­20,000 troops in all -marched 70 miles into the mountains surrounding Chosin Reservoir, part of a final drive to defeat North Korea. 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 
NATIONAL PARKS 
~~a~~~~~Pa~:1~~~r~: ~fJ~~ 
Preserves. 
Learn from the IJ1 Source that uncovers hundreds of employment opportunities in the great outdoors 
• 
Seasonal & Year -Round 

• 
Excel'ent Benefits 




--------------~------------~----------~--------------­
Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Clinton to meet with Netanyahu Jurors hold out in recent 
By LAURA MYERS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

U.S. officials pleaded Sunday for Israeli and Palestinian lead­ers to shed their hardline stances and renew face-to-face consultations 
as President 
l:-..-.:;.~p.-';'1! Clinton pre­pared to meet with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
Arafat

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat insists building must stop on an Israeli housing pro­ject in east Jerusalem before longstanding disagreements can be resolved and peace talks can resume. Netanyahu pressed his case Sunday with his closest friend among Arab leaders, King Hussein of Jordan, who was recovering from prostate surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. 
Netanyahu, who met private­ly with the monarch, was wel­comed by a banner declaring "peace" that flew over down­town Rochester. 
The US government. mean­while, urged the two sides to agree to a face-to-face meeting to salvage a shaky Middle East peace process. 
"The United States remains committed to securing a just, lasting and comprehensive peace between Israel and her neighbors," said Bill Richardson, U.S. ambassador to t.he United Nations. "But. in the 
nd. the success of the process depends on the willingness of thn Palestinians and the Israelis to work together as negotiating partners." 
Richardson, addressing the influential American-Israel Public Affairs Committee, said, "We are very concerned at the significant and rapid decline in the confidence that the Palestinians and the Israeli gov­ernment have in each other and, to some extent, in the process itself." 
Vice President AI Gore also was to address AIPAC's annual meeting. 
Netanyahu was scheduled to make an appearance before the 
U.S. Jewish lobby group on Monday after meeting with Clinton, members of Congress and Jews, including a delega­tion of four Conservative and four Reform rabbis. 
The prime minister canceled an appearance Monday before the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. The Israeli Embassy cited scheduling prob­lems for bypassing the confer­ence of Reform Jews, who were angered by last week's initial approval of legislation invali­dating conversions by non­Orthodox rabbis if conducted on Israeli soil. Conversions by Reform and Conservative Jews would still be recognized if per­formed abroad. 
With the peace process stalled since last month amid increasing violence in the Middle East, U.S. officials have suggested it may take another Camp David-like negotiating session to force both sides to resolve their differences in a private setting. 
But first, Clinton, Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and 
U.S. diplomats were meeting with both sides to find possible compromises. Neither the Israelis nor the Palestinians 
Chicken-puke-o 
is 

21!! 
Love, 

Steph & Annemarie 
appeared ready to budge. 
Arafat, who went over the weekend to a meeting of the Non-Aligned Movement of developing nations in New Delhi, India, sent Clinton a let­ter saying any U.S. initiative must include a pledge by Israel to stop construction on disputed land -especially the Jewish Bar Homa project in east Jerusalem, which the Palestinians claim as a future capital. 
But work went on in the set­tlement Sunday and Israeli Cabinet Secretary Danny Naveh told Israel army radio, "I can only state unequivocally that the consttuction in Jerusalem, the building in Har Homa, will continue." 
Still, Clinton is expected to ask Netanyahu to freeze settle­ment building for the duration of peace talks while the United States presses Arafat to take a clear position opposing terror­ism. 
Netanyahu has told his cabi­net the U.S. initiative would be based on his proposal to move up negotiations on a permanent peace agreement, with a goal of wrapping up talks on the most difficult issues of Palestinian statehood, borders and Jerusalem in six to nine months. Arafat sees this as a ruse to get around the current building dispute and the Oslo peace agreement that outlined stages for Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank. 
U.S. officials were keeping quiet on any discussions. "We're going to go into a cone of silence publicly about our deliberations, but we're very active," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said. 
domestic terrorism trials 
By NICHOLAS K. GERANIOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SPOKANE, Wash. 

One juror. 
Twice recently in federal domestic terrorism trials held in Washington state, single jurors held out against 11 vot­ing for conviction on the most serious charges. 
The holdouts have not said why they could not vote with the others. 
But as jury selection proceeds in the trial of Timothy McVeigh for the Oklahoma City bombing, and as the government pre­pares its case against Unabomber suspect Theodore Kaczynski, experts warn that federal prosecutors may face special obstacles in the West, where anti-government senti­ment runs high in the general population. 
In the West, people who chal­lenge authority -from Gordon Call of the anti-tax Posse Comitatus to white-separatist Randy Weaver on Idaho's Ruby Ridge -are often viewed as heroes. 
"People are fed up with the government," said Gary Perlstein, a criminologist at Portland State University in Oregon who specializes in domestic terrorism studies. 
"Many people, including myself at times, see that some of these people have at least some things on their side," Perlstein said. 
The West is such fertile ground for anti-government sentiment, he said, in part because· it contains so much federal land -and cedes so 
[i"QBSERVER-.-.-, 
I• I• 
is now hiring for the following position: 
ILLUSTRATION EDITOR 
I • If interested, please submit a one-page statement I• of interest and a brief (5-10 page) portfolio 
•  to The Observer office,  •  
I  3rd floor LaFortune, by Thursday, April 10.  I  
•  Applications should be addressed to Ed Leader.  •  

L Questions? Call X4428. 
_j

·-·-·-·-·-· 
much federal control. 
No studies yet offer statistical proof that Western juries acquit a disproportionate num­ber of domestic terrorism defendants, but anecdotal evi­dence indicates that is the case, Perlstein said. 
That contention is disputed by Bruce Black, a former feder­al prosecutor now in private law practice in Denver. 
It may be that prosecutors are overreaching by trying to link crimes such as pipe bomb­ing to political ideologies, Black said. 
That can backfire with some jurors. 
"People should be allowed to think what they want to think," Black said. 
Juries in trials involving bombings of family planning clinics sometimes include peo­ple who sympathize with anti­abortion defendants, said Ron Noble, a law professor at New York University. 
"How do you flush someone like that out?" Noble won­dered. 
Jurors may not even be aware they have strong feelings on an issue until they sit on a jury, he said. 
There is little doubt that con­victing domestic terrorists is difficult. 
Federal charges against homegrown terrorists including racketeering, con­spiracy, possession of weapons or explosives, or organizational criminal activity -result in dismissals, acquittals or mistri­als more than 57 percent of the time, according to a study of 1980s cases by Brent Smith, a professor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. 
Federal prosecutors win con­victions in domestic terrorism cases just 35 percent of the time, while an additional 8 per­cent of the cases are resolved with guilty pleas, the study found. 
As a comparison, U.S. attor­neys reported victories in 87 percent of all federal prosecu­tions concluded in 1996. 
Smith also warned against injecting anti-government poli­tics into trials. 
"If federal prosecutors want to win a conviction against accused terrorist Timothy McVeigh, they must keep poli­tics out of the courtroom," he said. 

The Great White Man of Lambarene 
A feature film by Bassek ba Kobhio 
followed by a panel discussion on 
Colonialism Revisited: 
The Colonized View 
featuring: 

Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafia, Economics Dept./IUSB, Moderator Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion Karni Pal Bhati, Ph. D. Candidate, English Dept. Rodney Cohem, Director, Urban Plunge/Outreach Development, CSC Joseph Karanja, Ph. D. Candidate, Andrews University 
FREE ADMISSION 
www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
page 10 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 7, 1997 
GOP says Reno must call Haiti voters turn out in low numbers 

for independent counsel 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL that Reno would be guided by Associated Press Writer the law and not politics, and he noted that both parties WASHINGTON have a lot to answer for in the 
A leading Republican said way they raised money for last Sunday that Attorney General year's elections. Janet Reno will have no choice "I think there's sufficient but to request an independent evidence about abuses of the counsel to investigate allega­finance system by Republicans tions about Democratic fund­and Democrats alike," raising wrongdoing. Kennedy said. 
"I think the case is over­On a related issue, Sen. whelming that she should," Thad Cochran, R-Miss., ques­Sen. Orrin tioned Hatch, R-Utah, 
whether said on NBC's White House "Meet the officials Press." helped 
J a m i e Webster Gorelick, who Hubbell, a left the Justice former associ­Department's ate attorney No. 2 position general, get last week, jobs while declined to say Sen. Edward Kennedy knowing crim­which way Reno ------------­
inal charges is leaning, but could be filed she professed against him. confidence in the careful Hubbell, one of the presi­deliberations on the legal dent's closest confidants, issues involved. resigned from the depart­
"Let the career prosecutors ment's No. 3 job in March who handle these cases day in 1994 amid a billing scandal at and day out handle this one the law firm where he and just as it should be done," Hillary Rodham Clinton had Gorelick said on ABC's "This been partners. Several Clinton Week." aides then tried to help get 
"This is a job for the Justice Hubbell other jobs. Department. It is being han­"You put all these things dled in absolutely the right together ... and it has the way." The career prosecutors makings of a national dis­will recommend to Reno grace," Cochran said on "Fox whether an independent coun­News Sunday." "Everybody sel is needed, she said. knows there is a fine line 
Republicans who have been between right and wrong in demanding an independent politics. But it really appears counsel for weeks have sug­that the administration has gested that Reno is reluctant erased that line." to ask a court to appoint one But Sen. Robert Torricelli, because of a desire to protect D-N.J., said he believes White President Clinton. There have House officials who say they been allegations of improper knew nothing about Hubbell's donations by foreigners, potential legal problems at the among others. time and he noted that 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Hubbell himself said he misled Mass., expressed confidence Clinton. 
pvoject face to face 
By MICHAEL NORTON Associated Press Writer 
PETIONVILLE, Haiti 

Turnout was light and cyni­cism was high Sunday for elections seen as a referen­dum on an economic plan and expected to clear the way for the return of former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. 
Leslie Norvil, 22, was at the polls at Guatemala primary school in Petionville, but not as a voter. 
''I'm here to pick up some cash," he said, explaining that he was hired as a guard. He said he did not see the point in voting. "The country is stuck in the mud, and the people have been cheated." 
At stake Sunday were nine of 27 Senate seats; two in the Chamber of Deputies, includ­ing one for a legislator assas­sinated in a drive-by shooting last year; and thousands of slots on 697 new local coun­cils. 
Still, as few as 10 percent of Haiti's 2 million registered voters were expected to turn out. 
"People don't believe in the electoral process anymore," former Sen. Jean-Robert Martinez said in southcoast Jacmel. "They say it hasn't settled anything ... and that's extremely dangerous for democracy." 
The balloting is between candidates supporting and opposing President Rene Preval's internationally­backed economic policy. 
. International donors keeping Haiti afloat have demanded austerity measures that would cost thousands of jobs in a country where industry employs only 40,000 of the 7.2 million people. 
Most Haitians are already unemployed or surviving on odd jobs. 

Aristide, who left office a year ago when his term limit expired, opposes international backing and has used the prospect of increased econom­ic hardship to build govern­ment opposition. 
Sunday's vote was expected to clear the way for Aristide's probable return to power. His newly formed Lavalas Family Party already controls the Chamber of Deputies, and its candidates were expected sweep local council elections and gain control of the Senate. 
The local councils will help choose a 10-year electoral panel that will oversee the next presidential elections, in 2000. 
Still, this year's voter apathy showed how little Haitians believe their country can ever function as a democracy. 
An hour after polls opened at Petionville High School, not one voter had cast a ballot and none were in sight. 
Ten years ago. though, hun­dreds of people waited to vote here. 
Army-backed goon squads drove past, shooting, and pan­icked voters ran. Hundreds across the country had died in previous months in politically inspired terrorism. 
A few years later, in 1990, nearly everybody turned out to sweep Aristide to power in Haiti's first democratic elec­tion. The army ousted him in September 1991. Military ter­ror ended with the interven­tion of 20,000 U.S. troops in September 1994, and the Haitian people were full of hope. 
But time has not relieved the misery in a nation impover­ished by nearly 200 years of civilian and military dictator­ships. 
Legislative elections in June 1995 drew less than a 50 per­cent turnout. 
The December presidential elections won by Preval were better organized, but turnout was less than 30 percent. 
Radio Cap-Haitien reported that fewer than 10 percent of voters had turned out by mid­day Sunday in the northern city of Cap-Haitien. 

At a polling station at the prime minister's office, only 36 of 6,800 registered voters -less than 1 percent -had cast a ballot. 
Joseph Bigaud, 51, was waiting with five other voters for the cardboard ballot boxes to be folded and put in place at Petionville city hall. 
"We've suffered greatly from unkept promises," he said. "Economic reform laws have been proposed, and some have been passed. We've been sit­ting patiently in the car of progress waiting for it to start. Let's get on with it!" 
He and his friends have not given up the faith. But they are in the minority. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 
·datOPY :. tain's ;M.I!eting 
; . ' ..:\ ~ .. ;\' ' ' 
IGHT 
·is'·a MANDATORY n's)neeting to . -~·i•:•itllt. :upth1ted 1st round 
•. < . . . 
on 

~eeiliq the l~e~ ol ttib~ tt~ib hi 
C\Prl"'il 7-11 

lafol"'tvtV\e ballroom 
fl"'ee admissioV\ 
11-4 7-9 a 


Monday, April 7, 1997 
Questions probe McVeigh jurors 
By STEVEN K. PAULSON 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 

What kind of bumper stick­ers do you have on your car? Read any good books lately? Ever had a disagreement with police? 
Depending on your answers, you might be a good candidate for the Oklahoma City bomb­ing jury. 
Nearly three dozen prospec­tive jurors were asked those questions last week by U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch and lawyers trying to seat a panel to hear the case against Timothy McVeigh. 
The prospects already have filled out two lengthy ques­tionnaires, detailing their knowledge of the case, poten­tial hardships and views on the death penalty. 
The surveys pared the jury pool from nearly 1,000 to 350. 
From the remaining group, both sides hope to find 18 peo­ple who can set aside their biases, ignore peer pressure and vote their consciences after seeing the evidence against McVeigh, accused of the worst terrorist attack on American soil. 
The judge has withheld the questionnaires to help guard the candidates' identities, but details emerged during jury questioning last week as the candidates read their answers in open court. 
It's not a test, say Matsch, prosecutors and attorneys for McVeigh. 
"There are no wrong answers," prosecutor Patrick Ryan told one prospective juror. "Actually, the only wrong answer is an answer that's untruthful." 
"You can tell a lot what a person thinks by the bumper sticker on their car," said Denver lawyer Andrew Cohen, who is following the case. "It's a very quick way to find out about a person's political and social beliefs." 
Cohen said one man, a researcher for the Environmental Protection Agency, disclosed a lot about himself when he reported that he had a bumper sticker read­ing "Mean people suck." 
"It's a social statement, not a political statement. It's the same as bumper stickers that read 'Random acts of kind­ness,'" Cohen said. 
But Cohen said some soul­bearing statements can be misinterpreted, which is why the judge and lawyers are quizzing the jurors about their answers. 
Cohen said prosecutors might like the bumper sticker because it can be read as opposing criminals, while defense attorneys might inter­pret it as someone who favors the underdog. 
McVeigh faces murder, con­spiracy and weapons-related charges in the bombing of the Oklahoma City federal build­ing on April 19, 1995. The explosion killed 168 and injured more than 500. No trial date has been set for co­defendant Terry Nichols. 
The jury candidates have revealed a lot about them­selves during the questioning. 
A businessman disclosed that he frequently used the Internet, had tax trouble, had a mentally retarded sister, played golf and loved Stephen King's books. 
McVeigh attorney Cheryl Ramsey asked if the man's fondness for King's thrillers 
was a reflection of his charac­ter. 
Matsch interjected, referring to King: "He's a good story­teller.'' 
"Sometimes too good," the man replied. 
A former security officer was asked about a movie he had seen recently, "Dead Man Walking," about a death-row inmate. 
"We discussed the theme and decided that was an indi­vidual we hoped had found an inner peace. He was taking final responsibility for his actions," the man said. 
Asked what he thought about the execution in the movie, he replied: "It was jus­tified." 
Other questions have delved into candidates' medications, fights they've had with police and the justice system, mili­tary service, political affilia­tion, and even personal ques­tions about friends, relatives and neighbors. 
Two juror prospects broke down in tears, one while try­ing to explain her answers about two previous nervous breakdowns, and another when he was asked to explain why he was bitter at the jus­tice system after two losing two personal court battles. 
Another lawyer not involved in the trial, Scott Robinson, said he doesn't believe in jury questionnaires. 
"I tell jurors I don't have the foggiest notion of what they're thinking," he said. "I tell them I just want to find out who is biased against my client. 
"The idea of using jury questionnaires to find that out is hocus pocus, voodoo, and witchcraft. Not only is this not a science, it's not even an art." 
Please recycle The Observer 
Attention... 
Students with creative ideas, leadership abilities and organizational skills: 
Programming Assistants needed for 1997-1998 
If you want to improve student life by planning and implementing programs sponsored by student activities, apply now for a paid position as a student programmer 
Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and return it by Monday, April 21st. Interviews will be conducted April 23rd so sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Questions? Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 
Specializing in the following: 
• RADIO-FREQUENCY REMOVAL OF SKIN LESIONS (No Scalpel-No Scar) • Multi-Test Allergy Testing 
•SNORE NO MORE Intra-Nasal Passage Reduction 
No Scalpel No Pain No More Snoring 
• Tattoo & Birthmark Removal 
• 
Hemorrhoid Treatment 

• 
Spider Vein-Varicose Vein 

• 
Carpal Tunnel Injection 

• Skin Diseases 

• 
Female Pattern Baldness 


•Heal Pain 

(219) 243-1172 Appointments Recommended 
53830 Generations Drive (Corner of Douglas & IN 23) 23 Medical Plaza South Bend, IN 46635 
Hours: Mon. thru Sat. 9-5 • Closed Thurs. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................•.Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..................•.......Wendy Klare Sports Editor .......••......................... Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... ]oey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Con<roller ......................•..................... Kyle Corlin Photo Edi~or ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Itdoes not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63I-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 63I-4543 Office Manager 63 I-747I Accenr/Saim Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Near campus roads 
tragedy ready to strike 
Amidst the never ending "Viewpoint" page furor over such issues as campus gender relations, the exact legal status of gay student groups and efforts to reform the structure of student govern­ment, there is one much more immedi­ate and concrete issue that has been continually neglected: the safety of stu-

Chris Kratovil 
dents in the perimeter region of our campus. Obviously this is a much more mundane topic than the usual sort of students versus administration pieces that populate this page, but on another level it is much more critical. It is evi­dent to even the untrained eye that the University and the city of South Bend have a ticking time bomb on their hands on the southeastern edge of this cam­pus, but to date no one. has done any­thing about it. 
I penned a column on this subject last fall, but as my time as both a Notre Dame student and an Observer colum­nist grows short, it seems reasonable to revisit the issues that are most impor­tant here; and there is clearly no more urgent a topic than the physical well­being of one's friends and peers. 
Anyone who has ever taken the walk from the populated parts of campus to an off-campus apartment complex on a weekend night is familiar with the situa­tion under discussion. The entire south­eastern perimeter of our campus (where the tennis courts and practice fields give way to the city) is a sort of no-man's land characterized by narrow, unlit, badly potholed streets with cars parked along both sides and an incredible but thus far latent potential for tragedy. Now these roads-including Vaness, Orange, Willis and others (many of these streets even lack identifying signs or I would list them) ~ are bad enough to traverse during the day, but it is at night that the true danger manifests itself; rather than being just poorly designed and barely maintained backroads in a residential area, these streets are trans­formed into pedestrian thoroughfares crowded with a significant percentage of the Notre Dame student body. This is natural enough; Vaness is the quickest route from campus to Turtle Creek, Campus View, College Park, the Martin's/Osco shopping plaza, Coach's, and several other popular student desti­nations. 
The problem is these roads were sim­ply not built for the purpose they have come to serve; there are no sidewalks, no street lights, the potholes are big enough to swallow a Yugo and there is a surprisingly limited amount of police activity (both Notre Dame Security 
·Police and regular South Bend cops). Additionally, many of the student pedes­trians walking along these aging strips of unrepaired asphalt are, for better or worse, intoxicated. The unfortunate reality of the situation is that, besides there being far too many pedestrians 
·using far too little street, a healthy per­centage of these pedestrians are some­what less than fully alert and are proba­bly not using the best judgment with regard to their own safety; these stum­bling drunks may or may not be aware that they are generally going to lose in a head-on collision with a car. 
Needless to say, there is also the dan­ger of intoxicated drivers coming down these streets on their way back from bars, often in an effort to avoid main roads where an encounter with police is more likely. Drunk driving is widely known to be a very real problem in South Bend and is made all the more dangerous by the conditions on these eastern perimeter roads. 
When factored together with South Bend's atrocious weather -obviously precipitation of any sort makes driving all the more hazardous -the combina­tion of heavy usc, lack of light, poor repair, narrowness, the presence of parked cars and the high potential of inebriation amongst both pPdestrians and drivers makes these roads a tragedy-in-waiting. 
I have tried before to bring attention to the issue, needless to say without result. Hence, I would challenge any University or South Bend official who happens upon this column and doubts the veracity of my concerns to take a lit­tle stroll with me from the stadium to the intersection of Vaness and State Road 23 next weekend in the early a.m. hours -perhaps that would prove more convincing than any written argument. Insofar as the officials that might be able to help rectify this situation never see it because they are safe at home in bed in Granger when the crux of the problem occurs, I am quite serious about the above offer; let's take a walk on a warm weekend night, preferably with a civil engineer along. 
The safety problem along the south­eastern edge of campus really would not be that hard to resolve. By laying down some sidewalks, widening the roads (and perhaps even painting in some line dividers!), putting up a few street lamps, regulating on-street parking, installing an emergency call box or two and increasing the number of police patrols along these roads, a tragedy which cur­rently seems inevitable could easily be averted. This set of repairs and improvements would not even be that costly in the greater scheme of things 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Nohuman creature can 
give orders to love." -George Sand 
and could actually save some lives. 
As with all things bureaucratic, there would naturally be some severe territor­ial wrangling between the University and the city were Notre Dame to attempt to unilaterally improve condi­tions along these city roads. But that is not what is being suggested here; an institution that can afford an utterly superfluous and redundant new multi­million dollar sports recreation facility should easily be able to front the cash­strapped municipality the few hundred thousand dollars necessary to make the campus perimeter safe. And even the most petty and turf-conscious of govern­ment bureaucrats is not going to turn down free money, especially when city residents along these roads would stand to benefit from these improvements too. 
My four years at Notre Dame have seen the deaths of two of my fellow stu­dents in South Bend traffic accidents. Given road conditions in the immediate vicinity of campus, it seems almost miraculous that there have not been more student fatalities and serious injuries. It is hard· to imagine a more collectively traumatic and painful event than the death of a classmate; thus the University administration must make every effort to minimize the possibility of such an event. By cooperating with the city and investing a few thousand of dol­lars in preventative repairs and improvements along the edge of cam­pus, the University could do much to spare future classes the pain of losing one of their own in a senseless accident. 
This is one case in which I sincerely I hope I never have the opportunity to tell the people under the Dome "See, I told you so." 
Chris Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Monday. 



Monday, April 7, 1997 page 13 
Pnoto courtesy of Columbia Pictures Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford) enjoys a casual game of pool with his young Irish houseguest, Rory Devaney (Brad Pitt), in "The Devil's Own." 

Pitt More Joke Than Devil 
THE DEVILS OWN 
Directed by: Alan]. Pakula Starring: Harrison Ford and Brad Pitt 


(Two and a hair out or five shamrocks) 

By JOE KRAUS 
Accent Movie Critic 
W
en I went to see Allan J. Pakula's ew film, "The Devil's Own," I was aced with an interesting problem: I love Harrison Ford, while I do not care for Brad Pitt all that much. I was wondering which of these actors would shape the direc­tion of the film. Unfortunately, that question was answered for me rather quickly, and I was not entirely thrilled by the answer. 
"The Devil's Own" is a story about the con­tinuing Anglo-Irish conflict. Brad Pitt plays Rory Devaney (a.k.a Frankie McGuire). an active member of the IRA who needs to come to the United States in order to escape the heat being placed on him by the British gov­ernment, and also to work out a deal to pur­e h a s e Stinger Missiles to use against the British. Lodging is found for Hory by Peter Fitzsimmons (George Hearn), a New Yod, judge who supports the I R A Fitzsimmons places Rory with Tom O'Meara (Harrison Ford) and his family. Tom is an Irish­American cop who has no connection to the conflict back in the homeland ... or so he believes. 
Rory is welcomed as one of the O'Meara family and is shown an example of the con­flict-free life he could live. lie is torn between permanent escape into this life and his com­mitment to the Irish nationalist cause. A won­derful relationship blooms between Rory and the O'Meara family -until part of Rory's dealings lead to a violent break-in at the 
1
. Liar, Liar 

2. 
The Saint 

3. 
The Devil's Own 

4. 
That Old Feeling 

5. 
Double Team 

6. 
jungle 2 jungle 

7. 
The Sixth Man 

8. 
Selena 

9. 
Return of the ]edi 


10. 
Inventing the Abbots 


Source: Associated Press 
CORRE:CTION: 

For the March· 24, 1997, issue there are two corrections to be made in the Accent section. The movie review by Mark Torma of"Liar, Liar" should receive only 3 and 1/2 stars and the video review by Ryan Lynch of"Shal!ow Grave" was missing approximately 200 words. 
O'Meara house. Tom, while searching the house after the break-in, notices that only Rory's things have been searched. Tom then finds Rory's money for the missiles. Faced with this evidence, the good cop realizes exactly what Rory is and vows not to let his friend promulgate any more violence. Rory is torn once again. Does he give in to his friend, or does he continue his mission? It is this conflict that drives the second half of the film. 
Overall, the movie was slightly above aver­age. I was not all that impressed. Harrison Ford was typical Harrison Ford, and I guess that is what saved this movie from being a complete bust. Will we ever get enough of Ford's rugged charm, dry wit, and the earthly common-man values that he displays in just about all of his films? Probably not. However, for all of Ford's positives, he simply could not save this film from mediocrity. Brad Pitt and some poor directing saw to that. 
Pitt has joined the long line of pretty-boy actors who fail miserably at affecting British or Irish accents (See also: Richard Gere in "First Knight" and Kevin Costner in "Robin Hood"). About the only words Pitt could pro­nounce with some semblance of an Irish acr.ent were "Aye" and "Arse." These terms, 
~----,though 
repeated n n o u g h times, did not really contribute to what could have been mean­ingful dia­logue. Pitt was, in addition, so melodra­matic that it was pathet­
ic. I thought I was watching daytime television. Pitt man­aged to ruin two things for me: a 

Harrison Ford movie and a story about the Anglo-Irish conflict which has always fasci­nated me. 
Oh well. It was not all Pitt's fault. The action scenes were boring and the dialogue was extremely predictable. This movie is rental material. It is definitely not worth the $7 I paid for it. I was starting to respect Brad Pitt after "Seven" and "Twelve Monkeys." Better luck next time, Brad, and at least Harrison Ford has a chance to redeem him­self in another movie this summer. I give this attempt 2 1/2 yawns. 
p10 Video Rentals 
1
. Courage Under Fire 

2. 
The First Wives Club 

3. 
Last Man Standing 

4. 
Space jam 

5. 
Glimmer Man 


6. 
That Thing You Do 

7. 
The Long Kiss Goodnight 

8. 
2 Days In The Valley 

9. 
Bulletproof 

10. 
Phenomenon 



Source: Billboard Online 

l"'n:flllvreJn~lrih~!red 
never spends any time with her. She 
· call that her mother had a stroke. She 
. an ol(lTHend being sick, whereupon 
· hergo',J-J.e bonds with Tony, talking 
the Chuckl~s· most formidable woman 
if anyone can tame him... 
MoJ!fCa so mad at,AJ that she throws him out of the house; when he turns to Keesha, she disses him with a line she learned in Al-Anotl onica tells N never to interfere again, but he tells her he will .what he ple toJason's "m,urderer." Meanwhile, Emily is hl,t ~ ge.tting ·•.... gain an~ ~o,pn~ even notices. 
l3 . .. tells Ke ·..•.•...· about her m~ny troubles, She's not sorry aboi.itf.he.romp in the. yes, but how to broach the subject to Jax... ? Backat the Penthouse, Jack is contemplating taking over ELQ again, and wants to use Justus. Kevin sends Brenda to a professional, away from the dueling Roriteos: When she tells Jax about this idea, he freaks :-nobody leave~!She promis~s that she is not leaving him or 
.goingJqSonny, andh~pronli,sestowait;Sonny and Taggart meet to talkaJ:i()iJtDeke; tum~ ou'tthe manwelove to hate was Baldy's loving mentor>Sonny cart'tl:H:Jlieve It. Everything that Deke did to Sonny, the cop turns around\ asking if HE beat Lily, since Sonny hit his mother. 
Kevin's traveling ... to the same. conference as Bobbie? Why send someone who wonlfb¢ using-the hospital computers? Could his trip h ething to do th Lu<:y's inCJ:Ui~ies, the call from Oxford, or 
inting? ·.·• art:ive$.~ty~x's, and Brenda .at Sonny's, 
remarks s crazy temp~r ... stay tuned. 
comments at 

of Om Lives 
OLLEENaikBERT, and FRANK 
is no longer lactating. , However, it certainly 
demanding to see her 
ew' SEllf-es1:eem since her fre­
to get her "little Elvis" 
other at the mansion and 
the new baby nurse. 
that Roman, who has 
. from and can't be 

Confused with Kristen's 
as "weird'' (the under­
Susan fiasco has got­
>:>Mnuuu. Kristen thinks she 
arrives at the mansion. 
close call for Kristen as 
is the only one in the 
asks why Billie continues 
. Billie's answer is cut 
is moving ln with Billie 
to Franco,. who consoles 
to keep up their ella­
dinner as well. Mickey and 
Lul!~au"' by matching their dance 
realizes he cannot contin­
and he is telling Hope 
out ofthe house to 
·· hut the episode ?! 

·· spends time with Lucas, who . Tony remembers his after all, and decides to 
men .pamper her and reveals the promise ,,.,,,~.~.,.... to get her man. on Katharine, which Katharine a photo album her attitude and encourage 
her that men tend to Bobbie, Lti.Sley's medical has, or forever hold her \M'llllllu~·•uu to their marriage. At the and Alexis catches them. admits nothing, but promis­
(Godq'GQd, tommy's 
her statement. Is it a payingwell for Frisco his 
·-­


page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 7, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Braves take two from Cubs 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Greg Maddux allowed three hits in eight innings, speeding the Atlanta Braves past the Chicago Cubs 4-0 Sunday in just 1 hour, 47 minutes -the fastest major league game in five years. 
Earlier, the Braves beat the Cubs 11-5 in the completion of the game suspended by rain on Saturday night. 
Chicago, which made four errors in the regular game, dropped to 0-6, the Cubs' worst start since they lost their first seven games in 1962. 
Maddux (1-1.), who allowed 10 hits and four runs as he lost his first start of the season, put on a dominating performance against his former team. He didn't allow a hit until the fourth, didn't walk a batter in the game and 14 of h_is outs came on grounders. He threw 91 pitches before Mark Wohlers came on to pitch the ninth. 
It was the fastest nine-inning game in the majors since Houston and Los Angeles played a 1:44 game on Oct. 4, 1992. 
Jeff Blauser, who struggled the past three seasons at shortstop for the Braves, went 3-for-3 and finally is starting to resemble the player who looked like a potential star when he hit .305 with 15 homers and 73 RBis in 1993. 
Blauser doubled in the sec­ond, had a run-scoring single in the fifth and homered down the left-field line in the sixth. He is hitting .421 with four RBis this season. 
The Cubs made two errors in the first, but Terry Mulholland (0-2) worked out of trouble. Mulholland himself made an error in the third, but a double play ended the threat. 
Chicago's fielding woes final­ly cost them in the fifth. A throwing error by shortstop Rey Sanchez allowed Eddie Perez to reach second, and the Atlanta catcher came home on Blauser's RBI single. 
Mulholland went seven in­nings, allowing only three hits with five strikeouts and no walks. 
Nineteen-year-old Andruw Jones had his first RBl of the season on a two-out double in the sixth, then Chipper Jones added a solo homer to right center in the eighth, his second of the year, against reliever Mel Rojas. 
Marlins walk away with win 
Associated Press 

MIAMI 
Pitcher Kevin Brown drove in two runs and the Florida Marlins took advantage of nine walks, including two with the bases loaded, to beat the Cincinnati Reds 3-2 Sunday. 
Florida went ahead when re­liever Scott Service walked Jeff Conine on a 3-2 pitch with two out and the bases loaded in the seventh. Service replaced John Smiley (1-1), who had walked the bases loaded. 
The Marlins, who were ex­pected to be much improved this year, concluded their open­ing homestand with a 5-1 record and sole possession of first place in the NL East. 
The game drew a crowd of 36,146. Attendance averaged 33,154 during the homestand, compared with 26,613 for the first six games last year. 
Brown (2-0), who allowed only one hit in winning the Marlins' opener, limited Cincinnati to six hits and two runs -one earned -in seven innings. Robb Nen pitched a scoreless ninth for his second save. 
Brown had the worst run sup­port in the major leagues last year, and he again received lit­tle offensive help. The right­hander, who had a total of three RBis last season, drove in Florida's first two runs with a bases-loaded walk and a single off the scoreboard. 
The Marlins stranded 11 and had two runners tagged out at the plate, with left fielder Ruben Sierra assisting on both plays. 
Smiley pitched 6 2-3 innings, allowing three runs on eight hits and a career-high eight walks, including three to Gary Sheffield. 
Florida tied the score at 2 with a two-out rally in the sixth. Charles Johnson hit a 41 0-foot double over center fielder Deion Sanders' head, then scored when Brown sin­gled on the next pitch. Brown was easily tagged out at the plate trying to score on Luis Castillo's double. Florida's Edgar Renteria was thrown out at the plate in the first inning. After reaching on a bunt single, he stole second and kept run­ning when catcher Eddie Taubensee's throw bounced into left field. Renteria appeared to beat the throw home, but Taubensee blocked him off the plate and made the tag. 
nes . d Ray had RBI singles d<put hicago ahead 3-0. Tony Pena's sacrifice fly off Doug Brocail (0-1) made it 4­
oin the third~ and Snopek hit his homer inLthe fifth. 
. . . . . .. ·,):::( 
SEATTLE 
When Seattle needed a sitigger late on Sunday after­noon, Paul Sorrento stepped 
'f~i~e. ...·. ..,:..?•• •.•.•, 
:t;ren:to doubled home two 
~ad ·runs agafust Boston in the eighth inning and after the Red Sox rallied to tie the game in the ninth, he added a game-winning single in the 
~Ot!'finping of~ ~~~~aw 8-7 Seattle· victory. ·• ·•·.·· · •\{!(;;;~,Ken Griffey Jr. homered for the third straight day, giving him five home runs in Seattle's five games. Alex Rodriguez homered, had four hits and scored four runs, including the game-winner. ''We needed two big hits from Paul to win this one," Seattle manager Lou Piniella said. "Sometimes you have to outslug a team," Sorrento said; 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Open Early, Late, & Weekends 
Confidential Church Vocation Information available on the web at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html 
Interested in Making Extra $$$? 
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ing for students to make follow up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flexible hours. Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­MENT ·Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum· mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800­276-5407 Ext. C55846 

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM. Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands-on activities. JUNE 2ND TO AUGUST 1ST, 10 hours per week. Fine Arts Major with exp. teaching and/or working with children pre­!erred. (JUNE 23 TO AUG. 1ST, additional Work Study hours-if eligible·with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired, PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. 1st}. CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley, 631-4435, ASAP. 
Cruise Lines Hiring -Earn to $2,000+/mo. plus free world travel (Europe, Caribbean, etc.}. No exp. neces­sary. (919}918-7767, ext.C154. 
Paid Record Label Internship: Red Ant seeks marketing reps in South Bend who love alt./rock music. 1 0­20hrs/wk, working w/record stores, lifestyle stores, colleges, artists. Call Rob Ossorio Toll Free 1-888-RED­ANTS. 
Alaska Employment-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, parks, resorts. Airfare! Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call (919}918-7767, ext. A154. 
FOR RENT 
Near Campus Homes for 97·98 232-2595 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR '88 HONDA ACCORD LX Novena to St. Jude NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 Reliable -$4000 or best offer May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be 
273-1550 adored, glorified, loved & pre­1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR served, now and forever. through-CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES out the world. Sacred Heart of 
TICKETS

272-6306 Jesus pray for us. St Jude, help of 
the hopeless. pray for us. St. Jude, New house close to campus avail. NEED NO GRAD. TIX. $$ worker of miracles, pray for us. for summer sublet $240 a month PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5 Say this prayer 3 times, 3 times a per person 243-9438 PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME. day for 4 days and then publish it. 
No request has ever been known to
...................,. ................ 
be refused.

FOR SALE 
Need Graduation Tickets 
IBM PS/1 486/modem/software $500 or best offer Call 273-9747 
Two ten speed bikes 35 ea 288-7502 
GRAD SALE 84 Red Ford Tempo Runs/looks really good: $800 Boom box w/ two 10" and two 12" speakers: $1 00 19" TV: $30 Call4-1473 ASAP 
Desparately. Please help' ADOPTION: A Loving Choice. Brian-287-4876 Caring family wishes to share love, Thank You laughter. dreams with newborn. 
......,.......****••··············· Please 
call Barbara Do you have an extra GRADUA-1-800-753-7755. TION TICKET{S}? Will pay well!! Please call Paige at X4011 EX NO STAFFER AND SPOUSE 
(RETIRED} WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. 

PERSONAL 
NON-SMOKERS, NON­

DRINKERS, NO PETS, REFER­COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! ENCES. WRITE 135 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! LAKEVIEW. MULBERRY FL 33860 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! OR PHONE (941}425-4404 ANY-
The highest quality color copies TIME. 
..  5754 ILOST & FOUND I Lost: Gold Claddagh Ring Reward! Call Dee at 232-5474. LOST: Brown leather portfolio with my name written in gold on the cover. Extremely important information inside. I really need it! Please call Tara at 4-1291 WANTED SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373  Internet internships in Washington! Association for Interactive Media is where companies like Disney, Dreamworks, CNET, MSNBC, Intel, lnfoseek, and more turn for interac­tive media advice. Marketing, jour­nalism, web design, PR, research, sales positions! Definitely the best internship you'll ever have. Call Ben: 202-408-0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to $2,850/mo + benefits (room & board). Call Alaska Information Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841. National Parks Hiring -Plus Forest, Beach Resorts. Ranches. Rafting Companies. Nationwide openings. Call (919)918-7767, ext.R154.  College Park Sublet for June and July '97. 3-4 People 2BR, 2 Bath, Washer, Dryer in Apt. Call 273·3054 College Park Apartment 2/2 Available June 1 for '97-'98 school year Call 271-5601 Lease our College Park Apt. for the Summer! Call X4620 for info. Thanks! ...College Park Apartment• .. -$175 per person, per month -subletting for June & July -washer, dryer, air cond -call X1266 Must see nice 3 bdr home. 2 blocks/campus. Avail -now or Fall. 273-1566  Oldsmobile Cutlass 4 dr 1981-only 60,000 mi.-new motor-body· in good cond. Call 273-9111 FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the U.S. SASE to : Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 DO YOU NEED HELP SURVIVING THESE NO WINTERS? LLBean down coat for sale· great cond., men's S-this is the warmest coat you can find! will keep you warm on those walks to & from 02, 06, C1­great deal for $125! call Wendy @ 243 9430 FURNITURE-Futon $100 Firm, Chair $50 273-8673 • &~ ~  are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY FREE BECK TICKETS for anyone who can help load-in for BECK from 11 am til 6 pm on Tues. 4/8 at Stepan. call Ashleigh at SUB at 1·7757. HISPANIC STUDENT RETREAT!! Friday, April 11. Join your ND/SMC family in an experiencia religiosa. Open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, sponsored by Campus Ministry. Call Fr. Pat Neary at 631-7712 for more info. Family Needs Graduation Tickets-Please Help! Christian 273-6967 Matt's hugging Betsy ...now they're holding hands!  OPEN ADOPTION continuing contact with your child. visits,photographs,more. Tom & Tammy, South Bend. Hi Court, I hope you are haveing a great day, call you tonight. Call Jenny at 867-5309. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING MAJORS Want the best job on campus? Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund across from the Lafortune Info Desk b/w 11 :30-12:30 M-F or call 4-1188 or 1-6616 for ?'s (Only MALES need apply) Finally, they're done  
...  



----------~--~--~---~-----------------~---~--~---~---­
Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-
• Nfl
• LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIP 
Hingis continues 
til -,..... Cooke collapses, NFL mourns 
By JOSEPH WHITE book about." zens' groups and local govern­Associated Press Writer It was that no-nonsense ments before reaching agree­
dominate, ~eats Seles. 
mindset that helped Cooke ment last year to build a $160 WASHINGTON become one of the most suc­million, 78,600-seat complexBy PETE IACOBELLI Things started turning.in the .. 
Jack Kent Cooke, the crusty cessful American sports own­near Landover, Md. It is to 
Associated Press Wricer $i;ic0nd set. Hingis str~tqh~~; 
entrepreneur whose ers. open this season. 
out rallies and fired precise Washington Redskins won "He was a tough negotiator," Cooke wanted the stadium 
HILTON HEAD, S.C. forehands that continually 
three Super Bowls and whose said D.C. Mayor Marion Barry, finished in time for the 1997 Martina Hingis, the world's cFpp~d 1ft~ sidelines; ~p.~ ~4£:;.r 
personal life was the stuff of who haggled with Cooke for NFL season. For that to hap­No. 1 women's player, showed Yived three break points to go tabloid headlines, died Sunday. several years over a new sta­pen, a Washington beltwayanother dimension to her 2·2, then broke serve twice to He was 84. dium. "He wouldn't have made interchange was built on the growing game in beating eyen thematch. ..•.... ... .. 
The NFL owner collapsed at all his money if he had been a tightest time schedule. Cooke Monica Seles 3-6. 6-3, 7-6 (7· Hingis was up 5-2in the 
his estate in northwest softie.... I regret that didn't even coined a postmark for the 5) Sunday for the Family Circle third and on the verge of win­Washington and was taken to live long enough to see the sta­venue -Raljon -after his 
championship. ning. But Sele.l';. whohas no~ 
George Washington University dium completed. It was one of two sons, John Kent Cooke and A week after destroying beaten Steffi Gpaf or Hingis in Hospital at 11:34 a.m. and died his dreams. In fact, he was the late Ralph Kent Cooke. 
Seles 6-2. 6-1 in 44 minutes to five matches since her return 
35 minutes later. almost obsessed with it." Cooke also bucked two stadi­win the Lipton Championship, to the tour in 1995, fought off "He didn't complain of chest President Clinton said um trends. He refused to Hingis needed more than two three match points in the ninth. 
pain, and he suddenly col­Cooke's "straight-shooting charge personal seat licensinghours for her sixth title this game to stay alive. 
lapsed," said Dr. Robert style and love of the fans fees for season tickets, a prac­year. Her streak of 31 match Suddenly. Hingis'. crispness Shesser, the hospital's chief earned him respect and admi­tice that essentially forces fans victories is tied for sixth best disappeared. The 16-year-old emergency room physician. ration throughout the sports to pay twice for seats. He also all time. but it looked in dan­made 10 straight errors and "When the paramedics arrived world." resisted the temptation to ger when she trailed 5-0 in the Seles led 6-5. 
on the scene, his heart was not Born Oct. 25, 1912, in move his team from the match's flrst 14 minutes. The tiebreaker wasjust as 
beating.... We went through Hamilton, Ontario, Cooke sold Washington area. 
"I was just hoping she didn't tense. Seles led 5-3 when the 
every possible scenario to try encyclopedias during the "These things can be done if do the same score to me as I fever she was bothered with to revive him." Depression before making his you put your will to it," Cooke did to her," Hingis said. "I all week caught up to her. an~ .... 
Cooke, who had a heart fortune in radio and television said. "This was proved when I liked last week a lot better." she missed four straight shots:•; 
attack in 1973, had long been companies, real estate and built the Forum, which theyHingis earned $150,000, "My feet just seemed to stop bothered by angina pain and newspaper publishing. said would take 78 weeks; it boosting her season's winning working," Seles said. "I start· breathing problems. Last Nov. His net worth when he died took us 52 weeks." 
to more than $1.2 million. ed pushing rny shots ahd it 10, he became ill in his RFK was estimated at $825 million, But Cooke's business Since the tournament began. was over very fast." 
Stadium box during a game. earning him the 170th spot on prowess was often overshad­Hingis was caught up in the Hingis will take the next He spent the next five days in the most recent Forbes owed by a personal life that celebration of her rise to No. three weeks off and return to the hospital, where he was Magazine's 400 Richest smacked of scandal. 
1. She posed with a giant No. 1 the tour at Hamburg, 
found to have osteoarthritis, a Americans List. He was married five times,made out of tennis balls when Germany, in three weeks. She degenerative condition found Cooke's box at RFK was a bi­and his first divorce, from the she came to Sea Pines on said she:ll take time to relax in the elderly. partisan mix of Capitol Hill's former Jeannie Carnegie, made Monday, then joked with the and reflect on her hot start For Cooke, image was noth­finest-from presidents to the Guinness Book of World fans, the volunteers and any­this year. Only Graf, Martina ing -success was everything. generals like Colin Powell and Records for the largest settle­one she could find. Navratilova and Chris Evert. 
And during his 23 years as much of the U.S. Senate. ment at that time ($49 million She faced only one seeded have won as many matches to majority owner of the He became majority owner of in 1979). The presiding judgeopponent-No. 14 Brenda begin a year and no one has Redskins, his success could be the Redskins in 1974 and took was Joseph Wapner of People's Schultz-McCarthy in the semi­earned more money. 
measured by his vast financial over daily operation of the Court fame. 
finals -before the champi­Looming when she getS back 
holdings, his NFL champi­team from Edward Bennett were married again in 1995,onship. So she looked unpre­is Graf, the injured former No. 
onships and the parade of Williams in 1980 and began his aCooke's meddle-free philoso­pared and out of sync as the 1 who has played only tW() celebrities that came calling to dogged pursuit toward making phy remained in place with fourth-seeded Seles seized the tournaments and seven match!•! 
his stadium box. the Redskins an NFL power. current coach Norv Turner and 
early lead. es this year. 
"Nobody's going to write a Cooke's first sports venture general manager Charley"In tennis, you can never say "I had all I could do to beat book about me (50 years from came in 1951 when he pur­Casserly. Both recently re­a match is gone," Hingis said. Monica today.'' Hingis ·said; "l now)." Cooke told The chased baseball's Toronto ceived long contract extensions
"I was upset with the way I don't think we should talk 
Associated Press in 1995, Maple Leafs of the despite a four-year absence 
played and started to play about Steffi yet." 
"because nobody's going to International league. That from the playoffs. 
longer points." 
find anything worth writing a paved the way for the city to "That's the way the Redskins land the Blue Jays in 1977. have operated forever," 
Next came Los Angeles, Turner said. "And I think it's where he purchased basket­to our benefit." ball's Lakers and hockey's "I almost invariably agree Kings. In 1967 he built them with them," Cooke said of his the Forum, a showplace arena coaches and executives,
NOTRE DAME FORQM 
favored by Hollywood stars. He "because they know these 
> ·-~~-===·· . 

also owned a horse breeding things better than I do." farm in Lexington, Ky. He also rarely got involved in His relentless effort to build a NFL affairs. He avoided league
ON ACADEMIC LJ·FE 
winning football team was meetings, sending his son John matched by his determination and Beathard or Casserly. to build a new stadium. Cooke did not openly discuss 
Despite offering to pay for his personal life, and such
"Fostering a Community 
the building, he endured nearly questions elicited a standard a decade of rejection by citi-reply.
of Intellectual Engagement" 
"Making Notre Dame of Catholic Intellectual Speakers: 
Wednesday, April 16
Prof. Michael Detlefsen 
7:30p.m. 

(Philosophy) Thursday, April 17 7:30p.m.
Prof. Timothy Scully, CSC 
based on the novel by
Friday, April 18 

(Vice President and Sr. Assoc. Provost) 7:30p.m. John Steinbeck 
adapted by 
Saturday, April 19 
7:30p.m. Frank Galati
Tuesday, April 8, 1997 
Sunday, April 20 directed by 
7!JO p.m. 
2:30p.m. Reginald Bain 
CCE Auditorium 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
Sponsored by· the Faculty Sena 
All are welcome. 
..... 

help SpeCial Olympic swim­mers/ Practices ljre at Rolfs Aquatic Center. oil. MondaYs and Wednesdays from 4:30­
5:30.p.m. '.formore info•. 911n coach Dennis Stark atl­5983. 
RecSpo;t;:_ ~l be hiring two full-time. one part-time, and numerous substitutes to lifeguard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1­5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to ftll out an application. 
Bar Bell Club -A weightlifting dub is coming soon next year for novice or serious lifters. Learn more about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique; Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign-ups and more info. 

ij::m£AGO HAIR & TAN(ij 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian· Ridge Plaza 
277-7946 

·some stale & ralrtljulatwfl:. ,;;ay apply c copynoht 1996 Ch~eago Ha1rcuttmg Co. 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 7, 1997 
• NBA 

Barkley back from injury, leads Rockets 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, 
Charles Barkley's "B game" was too much for the Vancouver Grizzlies. 
Barkley, playing only his third game since missing more than a month with a hip injury, scored 11 of his game-high 28 points in the third quarter, leading the Houston Rockets to a 94-85 victory Sunday. 
"I feel good, I'm getting bet­ter," Barkley said. "My condi­tioning is getting better, I was able to go to the baseline. 
"I need another week or so to get everything together. I still have to get my explosiveness back.... I'm not even close to my 'A game.'" 
The Rockets set a franchise record for road wins, and Barkley's total left him 17th on the NBA career scoring list with 21,609 points. 
Barkley overtook Hal Greer on the list when he picked up his sixth point of the game by hitting one of two free throws with 2:03 left in the first quar­ter. The 13-year veteran is now fewer than 200 points from catching Larry Bird. 
Barkley added 13 rebounds for the Rockets, whose 24-13 road log in 1992-93 season was their previous best. Their 25th road win -they have three games left as visitors -also was their first in three tries this season in Canada. 
The Rockets lost twice north of the border in a two-week span during December. 
The Rockets were happy to have their All-Star power for­ward back in the lineup. 
"That's big. I was very happy to see the way he responded," coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. "I was very happy with his per­formance, we needed it, we had to have it to win this game." 

rookie Shareef Abdur-Rahim, and 23 points from Bryant Reeves, the Grizzlies lost their seventh straight game and 22nd in 23. Vancouver fell to an NBA-worst 12-65. 
Despite the loss, Grizzlies in­terim coach Stu Jackson was pleased with the way his team competed, considering it was minus two starters: shooting guard Anthony Peeler (bursitis left knee); and point guard Greg Anthony (tendinitis left Achillies). 
'.'Defensively, I thought we really battled," Jackson said. "Offensively, I have not seen the ball move like that the en­tire year from most teams, let alone ourselves. 
''I'll make this analogy. Coaching this game today was like hitting a good golf shot ... and I don't hit very many good ones." 
Barkley's third quarter out­put helped the Rockets take a 70-67 lead. 
The Rockets then opened the fourth quarter with an 8-2 run, and Vancouver never got to within four points thereafter. 
Matt Maloney helped seal the win as his 3-pointer with 5:56 left put the Rockets ahead 83­
74. Maloney scored eight of his 12 points in the fourth quarter. 
Houston was forced to play the final 3:48 without Hakeem Olajuwon, who fouled out, fin­ishing the game with 10 points and six rebounds. 
Bulls 110, Magic 94 
ORLANDO 

Orlando's hopes began to fade as soon as Michael Jordan launched his first shot of the second half. 
Jordan hit a 3-pointer a minute into the third quarter, then made his next five shots as Chicago broke open a close game and went on to beat the Magic 110-94 Sunday night. 
The Bulls star scored 37 


African Students: 2lectures: The World Bank in Africa: Time to Reassess its Role (John Miheve, dir. of Inter-Church Coalition on Africa) on Thurs, April 10 at 12:15PM in C103 Hesburgh Center, AND Prospects for Developing Economies: Sub-Saharan Africa on the Brink of the 21st Century (Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafa-IUSB Econ Dept.)on Mon, April 7 at 7:00PM in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. ALSO feature film: LeGrand Blanc do Lambarene, with panel discussion: Colonialism Revisited: the Colonized Vein on Wed, April 9 at 7:00PM in 155 DeBartolo Physical Therapy Club: last meeting-question & answer ses­sion with senior doss about physical therapy schools, the appli­cation process, interviews, etc. Very helpul. Wed, April 9 in room 127 Nieuwland at 7:30PM. Hope to see you there. Terra Club Environmental Career Information Day: Help yourself help the Earth, and learn about jobs that work with the environment. Thurs, April 10 from 12:00-4:30PM in the CSC. Recyclin' Irish: The following dorms are schedulaed for the Adopt-A-Day Program this week: Mon-Alumni; Tues-Badin; Wed-BP; Thurs-Carroll. Contact your dorm's environmental commissioner or call Cristen x4408 or Helga x3486. Earth Week! (clip & save!) contact Karen Cardinal at xl277 with ???s Thurs 4/10 12-4PM. Environmental Career Fair hosted by Terra Club 
3-4:30PM. -Air quality panel discussion at Law School room 121 
Sat 4/12 12-1PM -Campus Spring Cleanup(lrish Outdoors) ·meet at Stonehenge 1-5PM -ShamRock Greenfest (Recyclin' Irish) at Stonehenge (CSC if rain) 5PM -Environmental Mass with Fr. Hesburgh at the Grotto (Cavanaugh 
if rain) hosted by SEA Sun 4/13 12PM-? -Hike through the Indiana Dunes (Irish Outdoors) meet at Library Circle 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club 
Council has to offer you and your organization! 
points to move into fifth place on the NBA's career scoring list and Chicago swept the season series between the teams that met in last year's Eastern Conference finals. 
Jordan scored 24 in the sec­ond half, and moved past Oscar Robertson (26,710) on the career scoring list with 26,726. 
"He took care of our opportu­nity by just coming down and burying a couple of shots real quick," said Orlando coach Richie Adubato, whose team trailed by three at the half and pulled within one before Jordan took over. 
"They're a great third-quar­ter team. They seem to ignite in the third quarter against ev­erybody. You can't give them a 20-point lead and think you're going to take it back." 
Scottie Pippen scored 21 for Chicago, while Penny Hardaway and Rony Seikaly had 23 apiece for Orlando, which saw its lead in the race for the seventh playoff seeding in the East shrink to two games over Washington. 
The loss was the fifth in six games for the Magic, who broke a four-game losing streak Friday night at New York despite playing without Seikaly and two other starters, Horace Grant and Dennis Scott. 
All three returned to the line­up against the Bulls, ·although Grant (back spasms) and Scott (sore knee) were at less than 100 percent. Still, Hardaway didn't buy the argument that the Magic were outmanned by Chicago, which played without Dennis Rodman and Toni Kukoc. 
"What happened was I think Michael and Scottie did what we didn't want them to do. I don't know if you'd call that too much manpower," Hardaway said. 
"We wanted to make every­thing tough for them. I think it was a little easy for those guys. A lot of shots Michael was shooting were basically wide open. Toward the end, guys were getting a hand in his face, but it was too late." 
Orlando had hoped to use Sunday's game as a gauge of where they stand with the play­offs starting in a little less than three weeks. The more press­ing business at hand, though, is holding off Washington and Cleveland (2 1/2 behind Orlando) for the seventh spot. 
The seventh-place team likely will face Miami in the first round of the playoffs. The eighth seed will draw Chicago. 
"We've got two challenging weeks ahead of us," Adubato said. "I have confidence that we're going to pull through." 
The Bulls, meanwhile, clinched homecourt advantage through the Eastern Conference finals and can match last sea­son's record-setting 72 regular­season victories by winning their remaining seven games. 
Chicago led 53-50 at the half, getting 14 points from Pippen and 13 from Jordan. The Magic pulled within one in the open­ing minute of the third quarter before Jordan led the run that put Chicago in command. 
"We came out in the third quarter to make a statement and try to take control of the game and see if we could put them back on their heels, which we did," said Jordan, who made 13 of 22 shots. 
Orlando whittled a 20-point deficit down to 83-71 by the start of the fourth quarter, but couldn't get any closer than eight-91-83 -in the final period. 
The Bulls won all three regu­lar season meetings between the teams and have now beatPn Orlando 10 straight times, in­eluding last year's sweep or th() Magic in the Eastern Conference finals. 

Adler School of ~Psycholn<>u
""" 1 WAYNE~ 
Frankr s H 
m · ennessey, Psy.O. 

1720 Beacon Str t (219) 424-6443 :"ad~e;porty@W,ayne, IN 468054749
s ,ortwayrnunfi.net 

At the Adler School of Professional Psrchology, all of our faculty members are active clinica professionals. So you'll benefit from their practical knowledge. And you'll get to enjoy an academic climate geared toward working professionals: 
• 
Masters and Postgraduate programs, may lead to doctorate 

• 
Most classes on Friday evenings, Saturdays and Sundays 

• 
Small classes 


• 
Variety of programs in Counseling Psychology, Marriage & Family Counseling, Substance Abuse Counseling, Adlerian Psychology 


So whether you already hold a degree or you're an undergraduate, call or e-mail us. We've been helping working professionals reach an advanced 
Adler School of 
degree in psychology 

Professional
for 25 years. 

FORT WAYNE 


1720 Beacon Street • Fort Wayne, IN 46805-4749 
(219) 424-6443 • adlerpsy@fortwayne.infi.net 

Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 


• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
St. Louis off to worst start ever 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

It's not time to panic for the St. Louis Cardinals. But it is fime for them to go home, and they couldn't be happier about that. 
The Cardinals stumbled to the worst start in their 106­year history with a 3-2 loss to Houston on Sunday. 
The defeat dropped the NL Central champions to 0-6, with all of the losses on the road. The Cardinals, who had lost their first five games in four previous seasons, joined the Chicago Cubs as the only win­less teams in the majors. 
"It's going to be real good," Cardinals outfielder Brian Jordan said, "to be home again, that's for sure." 
The Cardinals have a day off to contemplate their historic start before playing host to Montreal on Tuesday. By then, St. Louis manager Tony La Russa hopes his players will have forgotten their dismal start. 
"It's just a week into the sea­son," La Hussa said. "I don't want to send the wrong mes­sage to these guys. We have been competitive in all the games, so what does that tell you? It says we're close to be­ing a good team." 
They were close to a win Sunday, leading 2-1 in the eighth inning. Then pinch-hit­ter Jeff Bagwell. who had not started to get a day of rest, hit a two-out. two-run double. 
Ray Montgomery led off the Houston eighth by reaching on shortstop Royce Clayton's throwing error. Two outs later, John Frascatore (0-1) walked Bill Spiers. 
Bagwell, batting for Tim Bogar, hit a double into the left-field corner for a 3-2 lead. It was the second time in three games that Bagwell had driven home the go-ahead run in the Astros' last at-bat. 
"Frascatore has been our best reliever all spring," La Russa said. "I don't think he did anything today to lose con­fidence in him. He missed a spot with Bagwell but a lot of people have done that before." 
LaRussa was concerned that the Cardinals seemed to be pressing because of their poor start. 
"I think I see guys trying to force things," he said. "It's human nature. You see not normal swings and different things with guys trying to do too much. I hope they do press a little. Otherwise, they don't care." 
Cardinals starter Todd Stottlemyre, who pitched 6 2-3 innings, agreed with La Russa's assessment. 
"I guess that's possible that we're pressing," Stottlernyre said. "But we still believe in ourselves. 
''I'll tell you this. We're not going to run away and hide. One thing we showed last year was this team has character. Right now we're taking it a lit­tle on the chin, but we're going to continue to play hard. We've just been a little outplayed in each game so far," he said. 
The Astros, 5-1 in their initial homestand, aren't counting St. Louis out, either. 
"They're not going to go away," manager Larry Dierker said. "What did the Reds do a couple of years ago, 0-9? When they get everybody back, they're going to be right there. If they get to where they're closing in on the Phillies' 23­garne losing streak, then it would be something. But I don't think that's going to hap­pen. They're still the team to beat in this division." 
The score was 2-2 when 
Stottlernyre singled to start the 
seventh and moved up on 
Roberto Mejia's sacrifice. Ron Gant's double put the Cardinals ahead. 
Houston took a 1-0 lead in the first inning. Pat Listach was hit by a pitch, stole second and scored on Thomas Howard's double. 
St. Louis tied it in the sixth inning when Tom Lampkin's singled horne Brian Jordan with the Cardinals' first run in 12 innings. 
Dodgers 6, Pirates 3 
LOS ANGELES 

It took a timely error by Pittsburgh left fielder AI Martin to help the struggling Los Angeles Dodgers finally put together a big inning. 
Eric Karros got his first two RBis of the season during a three-run sixth as the Dodgers, averaging fewer than three runs in their first five games, rallied to beat the Pirates 6-3 Sunday. 
Pirates starter Jason Schmidt stranded three runners in scoring position over the first four innings before Martin's miscue led to a pair of unearned runs. 
"It is always a little frustrat­ing when you get runners on and can't develop anything, but we finally got something going there," Todd Hollandsworth said. "That was really our first big inning this year. We got some hits back­to-hack and got help from an error. and the next thing you know, we put a three-spot on the board." 
Raul Mondesi drew a leadoff 
walk in the sixth before Martin 
dropped Mike Piazza's shallow 
fly ball. Karras followed with a 
two-run single, took third 
when Hollandsworth doubled 
off Martin's glove, and scored 
when Greg Gagne grounded to 
third and Joe Randa tagged 
out Hollandsworth in a run­
down. 

Yankees 
to not hitting, the two that made·errors are our reliable guys out there." 
ark Acre (2-0) pitched .. e-third of an inning for the tory;j:the second time in ur days he earned a win by ing ust one out. Billy ched the ninth for 
save. Cone, returning to the scene of one of his most memorable 
· performances, struck out nine and allowed just two hits in seven scoreless innings. 
Dave Telgheder was nearly as effective for the Athletics. He allowed six hits and two 
alks in 7 2-3 scoreless c·~..,,,..5 "' and did not allow a 
past second base. c "I'm happy the way he went ~})outhis work today," A's manager Art Howe said. "He 
·.. ad no leeway when you go against a guy like Cone. He ahead ·of just about 
very batter. That's what we've been preaching and preaching/' 
Cone's previous game in 
akland was last Labor Day, 
•·····••· s first. game back after 
·u:rgel'y to • remove an urysm from his pitching He was taken out of that .. after seven innings with 
no~hitter. 
Cone.ppened ~unday's game (,f.;tl')~•~cpt ·:W¥Vilth 3\;1,~3 hitless innings be· Canseco singled softly to 
to break the streak. Cone; who walked three, 
..... ·ru>rrt 

·'struck out two batters·each in the fourth, fifth and sixth in­d allowed only one 
reach third base. 

······.··· ······· ·out of a jam in the help of a ~>M·•··""''""'' fielder .. 
• To Support 
• To Assist 
• To explore common issues of being gay or lesbian at Notre Dame 
MEETING FOR NOTRE. DAME. LESBIAN AND GAY STUDENTS GROUP 
Today!!! Tuesday, April 8 
For time and location of meeting, call 63 1-8041 
NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
MOREAU CENTER / LITTLE THEATRE APRIL 10, 11,12 at 8 p.m. APRIL 13 at 2:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College 

For ticket information, MOREAU call: 219/284-4626 CEIVTE~ 
FOR THE ARTS 
The Cushwa Center 
FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CAPITALISM 
Catholic Intellectual Traditions and 
··­
Contemporary Scholarship 
Professor James Turner 
Department of History 
Tuesday, April 8 4:00p.m. 

Hesburgh Library Lounge 
game two, when the Friars turned the tables and the Irish were staring into the barrel of a 4-0 deficit of their own. 
The wood work of the Irish bat-talion whittled the lead away though, triggering a nine­run, seventh-inning eruption in which the Irish sent 13 batters 
page 18 
and a two-run smash by Amrhein. The Irish never 
-· Shine 
looked back -that is, until 
continued from page 24 
swift-footed Brooks legged out a bunt. 
The double steal was in effect, and shortly after the Irish were up 4-0 on a throwing error by PC catcher Scott Friedholm that scored O'Keefe 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Second baseman Brant Ust and the Notre Dame baseball team swept both Providence and Boston College over the weekend. 
The Observer· SPORTS 

to the plate. Amid the fray, Wagner bashed a two-run shot to centerfield and Amrhein capped the bombardment with a three-run line-drive homer to left field. 
Sunday proved no less fruitful for Notre Dame, which ignited for four runs immediately. Sophomore phenom Alex Shilliday befuddled BC with his fastball, recording nine strike­outs in his first complete game. 
But the day belonged to Brooks, who had struggled all season. On March 10, Brooks' batting average stood at .200; on April 3, it was a moderate .292. But within the four-game span, Brooks has raised his mark some 44 points, to .336. He hit .396 last season. 
"It feels good. I had a real slow start this year, but I'd rather be getting hot at the end of the year than at the begin­ning. I'm just getting used to playing again." 
Indeed, if history repeats itself here, then Brooks is just getting warmed up. Above all, he has shown poise, indicative in the eighth inning of game two. Awaiting a pitch, Brooks quickly turned away, stepped from the batter's box, and wiped the wind-swept dirt from his eyes. He gathered himself, and on the next pitch, he belted a double down the right side. 
"Brooks is a slow starter every year," Mainieri said. "But we know we can count on him being there down the stretch. It makes the team go whenever Wagner and Brooks hit. Now all of a sudden we have a pretty formidable. offense." 
Notre Dame (19-12, 5-3 in the Big East), winners of 11 of its last 12 games, stands within a game and a half of National Division co-leaders Seton Hall and Rutgers. 

The Observer/Rob Finch Despite a Hofstra comeback, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team was able to fight its way to a 1 0-9 victory. 
M.Lax 
continued from page 24 

before intermission. 
Both teams exchanged a goal in the third quarter with the Irish holding a 9-5 advan­tage. Michael Laurano cut the Irish lead to 9-6 early in the fourth quarter and Dusseau scored his third and Notre Dame's final goal before Hofstra rallied, bringing the score to 10-9 with 36 seconds left in the contest. Strong defensive pressure by Dusseau and captain Will DeRiso forced a Hofstra turnover with 19 seconds left to preserve the Irish win. 
"Luckily we came out on top today," said Corrigan. "If we played them 10 times, I think you'd see 10 one-goal games. These are two evenly matched teams." 
Added Keenan, "Everybody's got a lot of confidence. We re­ally believe we can beat any­one in the country. We came out on fire. I don't think Hofstra was ready to play us." 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team returns to action on Wed., April 9 when the Irish host Butler at 4 p.m. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this story. 


Call 1-6902 
r---------... r --------... r ------... 
$4 
$5 
$10.99: 
I~

Deal Deal Deal 
I 


: 14" Large 14" La~e 
H~~~~ 

1 Cheese Call 
Call Call 
I p· 1-6902 ~ingle lopping 
1-6902 1-6902
IUa For Delivery ~~~tl~irl
1 

For Delivery For Delivery 
Coupon E][Jllres 4/18/97 
Coupon Expires 4/18/97 Coupon ExPires 4/18/97
l--l l 

Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
-
• WOMEN's lACROSSE 


The Observer/Brandon 

The Irish women's lacrosse team walked off the field after losing its only game at home. 
Buckeyes taint Irish record 
Women's lacrosse team loses at home 
By FREDDY CHIU and WRANGLER WHITMAN Sports Writers 
Yesterday at the windy con­fines of Moose Krause Stadium, Ohio State blew by the Irish women's lacrosse team in the second half and beat Notre Dame 11-7. 
The Irish were hoping to end their inaugural year with an undefeated record at home, and the prospects of that were looking good at intermission as they led 5-4. 
Ohio State was leading 4-2 with 18 minutes left in the first half, but goalie Beth Murray, along with inspired efforts from the Irish defense, shut down Ohio State for the remainder of the first session. 
The Notre Dame offense started to click as well. Colleen Reilly, Mara Grace, and Eileen Regan all scored a goal a piece as Notre Dame took their only lead of the game at 5-4. 
The second half was a com­pletely different story. The Irish were outhustled and out­played by Ohio State, and for the first time this season, they looked like a first-year varsity team. The complicated Ohio State offense took its toll o't this young team as the Irish allowed many uncontested and free-position shots on goal. 
"There is no history on this team, and that really hurt us when we started losing. We wanted to win, but I do not think this team has yet learned how to win a big game," said Irish co.ach Tracy Coyne. 
Beth Murray was the only player on the Irish to rise to the occasion as she saved 17 shots, which kept the inept Irish offense in.the game. 
One of the many problems in the second half was the inabili­ty of the Irish to clear the ball after making a defensive stand. Three of Ohio State goals directly resulted from Notre Dame failing to give goalie Beth Murray an outlet to clear the ball. 
"When we did not use the quick outlet play, we couldn't get the ball in the offensive end. Ohio State was able to dictate the game in the second half," said Coyne. 
Even though the Buckeyes dominated the second half, the Irish still had their chances. They had 27 shots on goal but were only able to convert on a dismal 26% of those opportuni­ties. 
The game from an offensive perspective was very reminis­cent of the Davidson loss last 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Despite Eileen Regan's goal, the Irish lost to Ohio State 11-7. 
week when Notre Dame took ill-advised shots on goal, fail­ing to make the extra pass. 
Failing to meet their most important goal of this year,which was winning all the games at home, the women's lacrosse team was extremely disappointed with the outcome of the Ohio State game. 
"What we need to do is to 
take a game like today and store it in our memory for next year. We need to learn to step up and perform under pres­sure;" said Coyne. 
Notre Dame will play its final game of the .'97 campaign against St. Joseph's next Sunday in Philadelphia. With a victory, the Irish will end their season with a 6-3 record. 
+ + + + + + 
+ + esc
+ + + 
+ • 
+ + + SOCIAL 
+ + + 
CONCERNS 

+ + 
+ + + + 
+ + 
+ + The Center for Social Concerns .,
+ + + has Student Assistant Positions Available 
+ + + 
+ + 
+ + Positions include some general 
+ + + office work hours, plus a + + + position focusing on one 
+ + 
of the following

+ + 
+ + areas: 
+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + 
+ Clerical Assistant + + + + Urban Plunge 
+ + + Others 
+ + + + 
+ Applications are available at: "the CSC 
+ 
+ + from 4/2 -4/4. + 
+ + 
+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +· + 
Vehicle Upkeep 
Social Action Groups 
Hospitality Senior Transition Programs Cultural Diversity 
Are you looking 
for e~nployment 
for the FaD? 
WeD, look no further••• 
+ + 
+ + + + + + 
+ + + + 
+ + 
+ + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + '1­
+ + + 
+ + + + + 
+ + 
+ + + + + + + + + + + + 
+ + + + + + + + + + + 
+ + 


We Want You... ----­

to Teach Aerobic~! Rec~poriSJ will be holding auditionS~ for S~tep, hiI lo and toning inSJtructorSJ for itS~ '92'0'93 S~taff on ThurSJday, April 24, (iym I, @ the Joyce Center. 
Nere'5 what you need to do: 
I. Pick up an ln~tructor application from Rec~porl~ 
l!etum the completed form and a blank caMelle tape by Thur~ay, ApriiiO. 
2. Check out the video to learn the routine to be performed at audition~ 
3. ~et up an Interview with Jennie Phillip~, fltneM Coordinator 105965. 
page 20 

-Backers 
continued from page 24 
open and we all have the opportunity to play." 
The starting slots look to be secure as in the middle; Friday and Bobby Howard are coming off their sophomore years and have been working out with the first team defense in spring ball. 
"They're improving and working really hard and we've been fairly happy with their play," Mattison observed. 
Ever since Friday stepped on campus, he has had trouble finding a home. He was a stand-out linebacker in high school but was moved to defen­sive end his freshman year. Then last spring he was moved back to his natural backer slot and now feels more at home." 
"''m the type of player that I

·-
didn't care what position I was at, I just wanted to be on the field," Friday said. "But, I feel a lot more comfortable this year. I'm still not close to as good as I want to be or where I should be, but I'm just trying to improve as an athlete." "He's settling in, and he is a very, very conscious and takes great pride in his technique," Mattison remarked. "He has worked very hard at improving his strength and he has really improved a great deal because of wanting to. He's a student of the game and he is a very intel­ligent football player who has a grasp on the position. All of those things add up to his improved standing." The corps will lack experi­ence as Friday and Howard have seen limited action but all have learned from playing with Berry, Cobbins and Tatum. 
"We had the chance to learn from those great players," Friday said. "Also the competi­tion between the linebackers will be great so all of us will improve." 
The rest of that competition is made up of senior Bill Mitoulas, junior Joe Thoms, and sophomores Antwoine Wellington and Ronnie Nicks. Joey Goodspeed, who played linebacker in high school, fin­ished his rookie year on the offensive side of the ball at full­back, and it appears he'll be there again next fall behind Jaimie Spencer. 
"Behind them (Howard and Friday) we're trying to come up with the next best two so we can come up with some depth," Mattison explained. "When you're dealing with linebackers who don't have a lot of experi­ence it's hard for them to play the entire game so you have to work hard on your depth to be able to rotate people in." 
So far in the spring, the 

field  is  still  wide open  as  
no  one  has  stood  out  
on  a  consistent  basis.  

"Usually what happens with inexperienced players is that their consistency is not where you want it to be," Mattison said. "One day one of the play­ers will look really good and the next day it will be someone else. So we're looking for someone to step up and be a more consistent football play­er." 
At the outside linebacker where Berry teamed up with Minor for an explosive and down right scarry combination, Lamont Bryant will fill the shoes of Berry, and Minor will take on more of a leadership role. 
"Kory Minor has tremendous talent and tremendous experi-


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Kory Minor (4) and Kinnon Tatum (2) congratulate each other after a play. 
Transfer Orientation for Fall of 1997 needs Chairperson (s) 
All interested pick up an application in 3 I5 LaFortune. 
Application Deadline: Aprilllth 
.. ' 
4:00pm 
Questions? Call: 
-
Giovana at 243-1451 Matt at 4-345 I 
The Observer· SPORTS 
ence so what he needs to do is constantly make sure that his play is at the best that he can play," Mattison said. "He has to come out of each practice and say that that was the best that I could play. That's really what the 15 practices are all about, how much each individual can improve." 

"Lamont Bryant had kind of taken hold of that position," Mattison said. "He's a young guy who doesn't have a lot of experience but has great effort, great strength, and great talent. Coach (Kirk) Doll is working hard with him and getting his technique down." 
Head coach Bob Davie snared some great linebacking talent from the Class of 2001 who will be given their chance when they arrive in the fall. Grant Irons, a first team USA Today All-American, Kevin Dansby, an honorable mention All­American, and Hugh Holmes arrive with the best opportunity to help fill the void at the posi­tion. 
"The whole ball of them are going to have a shot," Mattison said. "Nowadays with the num­ber of kids that can play due to scholarship limitations, all freshman are going to get an equal shot. It's a big step from high school to the next level. We feel like we've recruited some talented freshman and they're all going to have the opportunity to play." 
Something that has not been a concern for the linebacking corps has been the adjustments to Mattison, who worked with 

Davie at Texas A &  M,  so the  
changes are limited.  
"There  have  been  some  

changes, but it's more of adjust­ment between the players and me," Mattison said. "They have been very successful in the past so we're staying with the same scheme." 
"It's going great," Friday commented about the transition to the new coach. "Coach Davie has done everything in the best interests for the team and it's really been very easy." 

Fran Ferder 
and John Heagle 
nationally 
recognized 
authors and speakers on the topic of sexuality 
and spirituality. 
April 7, 9, 1997 Chapel of the Holy Ct·oss Keenan-Stanford Hall 7-8:30 
Each session will include an experience of prayer, presentation by the speakers and refreshments. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 



Reclaiming 
The Contemporary 
Human 
Christian 

Sexuality 
Challenge 

Monday, April 7 • 7-8:30 pm Making Love: Sexuality and Intimacy 
Contemporary culture tends to reduce sexuality to sex. It misses the shared call to "make love" in more inclu­sive ways through friendship, honesty and generous service. 
Wednesday, April 9 • 7·8:30 pm Giving Life: Sexuality and Generativity 
Every Human being is an imago Dei-an icon of the divine. Thus each of us, whether single or married, young or old, gay or straight, is invited to respond to God's invitation to "increase and multiply" -to give life to humanity and the world. 
-

Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer • BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL page 21 
-~~-------~ 
Top seeding does not always equal automatic success ­
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Spores Editor 
;\ lot of technicalities go into Bookstore Basketball that often get lost in the excitement of the event. 
Two head comm'isioners, two executive commisioners, 17 com­misioners, and one "head com­misioner emeritus" get together almost hours after the previous year's tournament ends to begin the preparation for the next year's tournament. 
or:~i~Tn~~~~gs~he~~l!~a:d BaDkAGf8 IXY,t~~ h:o;:nf~~a~Jh:~~~~i~~ ~t~~~~! 
setting down the rules of the · event, one of the most recog-top 32 comes rom the previous nized and anxiously awaited year's performance and often functions of the commisioners' how many varsity athletes a stafTis the choosing of the top 32 team has. Each team is only seeds. allowed to have three football 
"Seven or eight of the commi-players who have been on either sioners who play basketball a lot the previous fall or current on the campus courts and know spring roster or one senior varsi­the players get together and pick ty basketball player. If a team the top 32 teams," head commi-does have a senior varsity bas­sioner Will Martin said. ketball player, it can only have 
Most of what determines the one football player. 
Although past experience has 
Bookstore tournament, it is not always an automatic ticket to the finals. However, it does play a small part in the decision of the commisioners. 
"Obviously, some of the best athletes in the tournament are varsity athletes," Martin said. "The fact that you have a foot­ball player or a varsity athlete will help, but it's not the only factor in doing well." 
For the most part, however, it is last year's performance that 
determines the seeding. Top-
seeded Corby's is a perfect example of this. 
"The fact that Corby's has the returning M.V.P. [Dan Fannon] and the one of the best guards [Jeff Kloskal makes them the obvious choice for the top seed," Martin added. Corby's also picked up football players Kevin Carretta and Tim Ridder. and Bob Baxter, three players who have also shown impressive per­formances in past . 

"When teams sign up, we ask them if they made the top-32 last year. The returning teams usu­ally will get a seed," Martin said. 
Still, the top-32 seeds do not always indicate of the top-32 teams. That is why the teams are reseeded at the Sweet 16 round. 
"Sometimes you'll get a sur­prise team or a team of fresh­men who are really good. That's why we reseed the teams at 16," Martin said. 
Although being seeded will help, the road to the finals is not always easier. A top-32 team is guaranteed of not playing a seeded team until the 32 round,. but that does not mean it will not run into formidable competition. 
"There are a lot of ranked teams I'd rather play before some of the teams that didn't get a seed," Dan Frigo of fifth-seed­ed SFR 2: We Still Can't Score. "Rankings aren't all they are cracked up to be." 
All will come to fruition when the 26th running of the event starts on Wednesday. 


SK & lOK RUNS 
2 MI~~~ALK 
:b

SATURDAY, APRIL 12, 11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER . ~ 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSI'ORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 
SPONSORED BY 
~~ 
• 

If you're interested in.... 
Visual Basic, OLE, Active X, Visual C++, Custom Control Building, SQUODBC, M, QuakeC Client Server, or Web Programming 
... then we're interested in you. 
At Epic, we build some of the world's largest client server systems for healthcare. 
If you have a BS or better in Computer Science (or related field) with excellent grades, then send your resume to. 
Epic Systems 5301 Tokay Blvd. Madison, WI 53711 jobs@epicsys.com 
Epic has a no-smoking environment and is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
_ .... 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 7, 1997 
-
The Observer/Rob Finch The Notre Dame softball team split two weekend doubleheaders. After losing to Boston College 2-0 and 5-3 on Friday, the Irish rebounded to sweep Providence on Sunday. 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish split conference games 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's softball team encountered a bittersweet homecoming this weekend, dropping a doubleheader on Friday to upstart Boston College and rebounding with two wins against Providence on Sunday. 
The squad continued its offensive explosion, pounding out 16 hits in the first game against the Lady Friars, while cutting game two short via the eight-run rule. 
Swirling South Bend winds wreaked havoc on the defen­sive side of the ball. with the Irish and Lady Friars combin­ing for eight errors in game one of the doubleheader. Notre Dame raised its record to 18-16, 6-2 in the Big East. 
Joy Battersby turned in a stellar performance in the first game, not allowing a single earned run and striking out eight in seven innings of work. 
"Joy pitched an awesome game, and (Kelly) Nichols pitched great in the second game," said left fielder Liz Perkins. 
Perkins dominated the Providence staff, going 3-4 with three runs scored and three RBis in the 11-4 victory. Of her three hits, Perkins blasted two of her team-lead­ing nine doubles. 
Meghan Murray contributed to the cause with three hits of her own, while driving in two more runs. 
Catcher Korrie Allen plated two runs for the Irish, and Katie Marten went 2-4 to raise her team-leading batting aver­age. 
Freshman Tara King also continued her hot streak at the plate, batting .500 on the day. 
Against Boston College, the Irish offense stalled. Despite roughing up the Eagle pitching staff for 16 hits in 14 innings, the team stranded a total of13 runners in the 2-0 and 5-3 losses. 
"We're doing just enough to get by," said Perkins. "We did­n't get the clutch hits needed to win (Friday's games)." 
Kelly Nichols dropped her fourth game of the season, giv­ing up two runs on six hits. 
Perkins led the team at the plate, going 2-3 with a double. 
In game two, the Eagles tagged starter Angela Bessolo with three runs in 2 2/3 in­nings, saddling Bessolo with her seventh loss of the season. 
"Angela (Bessolo) has been struggling, but she is such a good pitcher, that I have all the confidence in the world that she'll pull through," said Perkins. 
Battersby threw the final 4 

COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Quantum Mechanics and the Limits ofScientific Knowledge 
Dr. james Cushing 
Department ofPhysics
-·­
1/3 innings, giving up two runs to account for the final two­run deficit. 
Sophomore catcher Kris McCleary had two hits in the game, and third baseman Kara McMahon drove in two runs in the losing cause. 
The losses to Boston College marked the first-ever Big East doubleheader sweep of the Irish. 
"Losing to B.C. was very dis­appointing," said Perkins, a se­nior. "I had high expectations for the games. Conference losses are tough. We'll have to turn it up in the conference tournament to receive an au­tomatic bid to the NCAAs." 
For the pre-season Big East South Division favorites, the home field advantage didn't prove to be quite the advan­tage they had hoped. 
·<.:::..: 
h have played 

•11... matches against C••••. •:n:cc~· have been ranked'· They completed m!lildthr·ee (.~~ttt~ttll w•ith a record of 6-5: ·· ''Our rnain goal right now ouderbackitemarked, "is t asco finish of our regular se atches ,,,;;;; with a few wins, and then g . way. undefeated in Big East play.'' <Hiin. >;,,,,.., like our.season On another note, William tshell, we getclose to Mary is coached by forme lwi1niiinl!'snme ofthese..matches Notre Dame men's tennis play­butmiss just barely."' ' .... er Brian Kalbas, who grad In other singles action,<i:Luated in 1989. Tiffany Gates narrowly lost to·--"After Brian graduated, he Johanna Sones inNo• 3 singles,L. was an assistant coach for 7-6, 6-2. In the fourth match·· men's team for three or ottlie day,Willia.rn and Mary's myears. So far, his team has Tari Ann Toro escaped with a a pretty successful season. vict(Jry over Ke]ly.Zalinski. 7-5, "The next match should b 7-6. quite a hattie as well," In doubles play, the Trjbe Louderback commented. won all three matches despite "Indiana has always been a strong effort. In the second good, solid team. No rna match, van Rossum and 0 de-where they're ranked. it's. fe~ted Velascp and Zalinski, 8-ways a struggle." 5;''· In the final match of the The Irish take to the 
day, To,ro and Laura Tsaggaris against the Hoosiers at Indian defeated Courtney Haskell and tomorrow at 3 p.m .. 
I 

Please Recycle the Observer 
ALL SENIORS ARE WELCOME 
Firstcor,ne;Firstserved 
Senior Class Retreat 
Aprill9.-20 

Sign-ups: Campus Ministry-103 Hesburgh Library 
Application deadline: Tuesday, April 8 
Any questions? Contact Jim Lies, C.S.C. at 
631-4779

April 8, 1997 
-..
7:30PM 
CiNTER fOR
0\MPUS 
SOCIAL 

MINISTRY CONCERNS
DeBartolo 131 
Cosponsored by Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 
Monday, April 7, 1997 The Observer-• TODAY page 23 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
006S o,.. 
DE~'IH ROW 
IN ORE60H 
WIUet 
FREEO. 
-·NEWS rffM 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 



DILBERT 
::E' 

(J) Q)
WHAT YOU WANT 
CJJ

' 
'+-COME VOICE YOUR OPINIONS AS PART OF THE JUNIOR CLASS COUNCIL CJJ
0 en Pick up app1ication1 For Hall Re.p1 and Commillim'le.rl ouhide. S, 
~

en room 21S LaFortune -this week only !
C\l co
-co
u co 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Francis Ford Coppola, james Gamer, Percy Faith, Billie Holiday 
DEAR EUGENIA: I live with a man who is a Gemini. We get along great. Will he marry me, and when? He was born May 29, 1955. I was born on Aug. 7, 1956, at 2:30p.m. 
Between us, we have five children. I am about to be laid off work in the emergency department of the hospi­tal. Will I find some suitable employ­ment? We are making a premarriage agreement. Will that work out OK? Will my ex-husband send me some child support soon? 
Need to Know 

DEAR NEED TO KNOW: If your Gemini mate is going to commit to you, it should be during the first quarter of next year. You have a pretty decent comparison. As far as living happily ever after, I'm a finn believer that we are all the masters of our own domain and that the prerequisite to happiness is doing the right thing at the right time for yourself. If you are happy, you will have a much better chance of contributing to the happi­ness of those around you. I suggest that you shouldn't wait to be termi­nated at work. Your chart is hot for learning this year and next and the possibility of starting your own small business out of your home should also be considered. With regard to a premarriage agreement, if it makes you feel more comfortable, go for it. When you have children involved, it's probably a good idea. You will have better luck in 1998 concerning 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): You may have difficulties while traveling -or problems dealing with close friends 
or relatives. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Op­portunities to pamper yourself will unfold. Don't turn down offers that include sports activities or children. 
CANCER (june 22-July 22):'You can anger others quite quickly today. You must not overspend on items for your home. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Don't hang out with co-workers if you wish to avoid problems at a later date. You should be considering pleasure trips. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22/: This will not be the day to get involved in risky joint financial ventures. It is best to tuck your money away. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Dishar­mony in your relationship may cause minor illness. You must rid yourself of that which is old and no longer of 
use. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Mi­nor accidents may occur if you don't concentrate on what you're doing. Don't let co-workers get wind of your ideas. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You're stressed out. Things have been moving so quickly that you need to do something physical to release your tension. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Don't let your emotions interfere with your professional integrity. Someone you care about may let you down or criticize your ways. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You may find yourself in the midst of a pretty good deal. Be certain just what it is you're getting. 
-
-
., . 
.. 

----, 
·-.. SPORTS 
page 24 Monday, April 7, 1997 
~~----------·-------­
• MEN's lAcRossE 
Irish outlast Flying Dutchmen in historical win 
By ERIK KUSHTO Sports Writer 
The thirteenth ranked Notre Dame men's lacrosse team jumped to a 7-0 lead before holding off the fourth ranked Hofstra Flying Dutchmen 10-9 Friday at Moose Krause Field. Sophomore attackman Chris Dusseau and junior midfielder Burke Hayes led the Irish with three goals each and junior attackman Ned Webster had four assists in the victory. Also key in the win was junior attackman Jimmy Keenan who chipped in a goal and three assists. 
"It was definitely il big win for us," said Keenan. "It was the first top 10 victory of the season. It is good for us, but it's not something we can stop on. 
-We have a big game on Wednesday, but we can build on this." For the Irish, who improved to 5-1 on the sea­son, Hofstra was the highest ranked team that Notre Dame has defeated in the 16 year history of the program. The previously undefeated Flying Dutchmen fell to 5-1. ''I'm relieved because of the way the end of the game was going," said Irish coach Kevin Corrigan. "We were well-prepared and our kids came out and executed brilliantly in the first 15 to 20 minutes. Then we lost our poise a little bit when they got a couple of goals. But we've been in this situation before. So even though we're young, our kids are learning and getting better." Notre Dame dominated most of the first half, scoring seven unanswered goals. Hofstra began a streak of their own with 4:29 remaining in the half when Paul Judge scored the first of his career high seven goals. Hofstra put three more goals past Irish goaltender Alex Cade, bringing the score to 7-4 with 40 seconds remaining in the half. The Irish were not finished, however, as Ken Yanicky scored with one second remaining The Observer/Rob Finch Freshman midfielder Ken Yanicky and the Irish men's lacrosse team beat fourth-ranked Hofstra 10-9 on Friday. Hofstra was see M.LAX I page 18 the highest ranked opponent the Irish have ever beaten . 

• BASEBALL 
Notre Dame shines through bad weather 
Irish sweep Providence, BC for 4-0 weekend 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sporrs Writer 
Baseball caps disappeared. The infield dirt blinded batters. Leaves and peanut wrappers fluttered in the gray air, and fly balls were misjudged. But the whipping wind did nothing to quell furious Irish bats, which time after time, lashed out at Big East opponents last week­end. 
In the most pivotal turn of events this season, Notre Dame swept Providence off its feet in a double-header on Saturday (10-5 and 14-10), then battered Boston College in Sunday's double feature (11-6 and 16-3). 
"This is huge," said coach Paul Mainieri. "We needed this really bad. To win all four games is a boost for everyone's confidence." 
Indeed, a book on the word "domination" would have to in­clude a chapter on this Irish squad. For instance: 
-Notre Dame scored 51 

• 
runs in four games, including 67 hits in 28 innings. 
-Mike Amrhein and Jeff Wagner combined for five of eight Notre Dame home runs in Saturday's double-header; the 6-foot-3, 220-pound Wagner has homered in seven of the last nine games. 
-The two, three, and four­hitters (Randall Brooks, Mike Amrhein, and Jeff Wagner) combined to go 18-for-23, with 14 RBI in Sunday's double­header. 
-Brooks went 7-for-8 on Sunday and became the first Notre Dame player to get two five-hit games in his career. 
-Darin Schmalz and Alex Shilliday threw complete games. 
Fittingly, a heavy downpour postponed Saturday's action for more than two hours. But if the weekend weather was a player, it donned the blue and gold. After opening the first game with one run, Notre Dame pounded Providence pitching for five runs in the third inning. Senior rightfield­er Pat O'Keefe, whose own per­formance was stellar, led off with a simple single before the 
see SHINE I page 18 
• FOOTBAll 

Minor leads young 'backers 
ByJOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

This April, graduating Irish linebackers Bert Berry, Lyron Cobbins, and Kinnon Tatum will get a glimpse of what their future holds when they sec where NFL Draft Day lands them. 
Also this April Irish coaches are trying to get a glimpse of' who might fill the void left by the triumvirate and assume the responsibility of' punishing opposing running backs and instill­ing fear in signal callers. 
Kory Minor, the lone returning starter, will return for his junior campaign being the only athlete from the linebacking corps that was at the heart of the Irish defense. 
"It's always a tough job because they were such outstanding football players," new defen­sive coordinator and inside linebackers coach Greg Mattison said about replacing the trio. "They had a great deal of experience so that's a big concern for us and something we're working very hard on." 
"It's hard losing so many starters," Jimmy Friday said. "But at the same time it's a part of football and right now everything is wide 
see BACKERS I page20 
Spring: F:ootball Ja. Monday 
1:99!7 

The Observer will be profiling a different position on the Notre Dame football team each day this week.. 
t:f Tuesday0 Wednesday 0 Thursday 0 Friday 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Sophomore Kory Minor will be the lone returning starter at linebacker for the Irish next season. 
•~ Linebackers & Secondary ft., Defensive Line A, Special Teams 8; Wide Receivers 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 


ry 
vs. Chicago State, at Indiana, 
s 
•. Tomorrow, 5 p.m. 
Tomorrow

vf a; 
• Softball splits weekend 
at Michigan, vs. Northwestern,
Vjt 
'fj.· 
April10 w! April 9, 3:45p.m. ~ see page 22 

-< 
AT 
Men's vs. Butler, ., Track and Field, ·-riJ 

• Bookstore Basketball 
;? April 9, 3 p.m. 

at Sea Ray Relays or Miami Invitational 
see page 21 April 11 & 12 
~ 

-



