
Thursday, October 2, 1997• Vol. XXXI No. 29 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Committee tackles bevy of residence life issues 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
The Residence Life Committee reported progress on several fronts ­among them dining times, laundry in men's dorms, parking and social space reclassification -at yesterday's Student Senate meeting. 
Most of the news stemmed from an earlier meeting between Morrissey senator Matt Szabo, Knott senator Matt Tomko, director of food services David Prentkowski and South Dining Hall general manager William Yarbrough. The meeting was in response to a letter the senators sent recommending adjusted dining times for the dining halls. 
"It sounds like he's very open to making some changes," Tomko said. "IIopefully we'll see some changes as early as next semester." 
Keeping lunch open until 2 p.m. and extending breakfast grab-and-go until 11 a.m. were among the senate letter's proposals that Prentkowski told Szabo and Tomko he is willing to seriously examine. 
"The most significant part of the meeting is that [Prentkowski] is really willing to use the senate and come to us for input on this issue," Szabo told the senate. 
Immediate, tangible improvements also resulted from the meeting: Szabo announced to the senate that Food Services agreed to extend Huddle hours one hour further into the morn­ing. 
Beginning Monday, the Huddle will remain open until 2 a.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays and until 3 
a.m. on Thursday through Sunday. 
see SENATE I page 4 


The Observer/Liz Lan 
Professor William Sexton spoke at a luncheon yesterday to various members of the South Bend community. 

Business leaders address values 
By SARAH DYLAG. 
News Writer 

William Sexton, professor of management and vice presi­dent for University relations, addressed more than 300 Michiana area business lead­ers yesterday at Father Edward Malloy's tenth annual corporate luncheon. 
Citing the unique relation­ship between the Michiana community, its corporate leaders. and Notre Dame, Sexton stated that "what hap­pens at Notre Dame is a cul­turalization." 

He went on to explain this culturalization in terms of the University's commitment to 
'Jl is enormously 
~important that there be a place among the best of the best with a set ofvalues such as those at Notre Dame.' 
William Sexton vice president, University Relations 
community service and its role among the corporate leaders of the Michiana area. 
Sexton, noting Notre Dame's place among the top 20 pri­vate national research univer­sities. emphasized that "it is enormously important that there be a place among the best of the best with a set of values such as those at Notre Dame." 
According to Sexton, these values are most clearly dis­played in the University's commitment to community service and its students' involvement in the South Bend and Michiana area. As 
see BUSINESS I page 4 
programmed for television shows and is currently working on a documentary. 
Sohn was born in the Philippines and moved to Berkeley, Calif., when she was three years old. She found it very diffi­cult growing up being a "woman of color" with a disability. 
"This society does not appreciate diversity," Sohn said. "At an early age, I found it hard to articulate how I felt about my situation. At the age of 40, I am now beginning to find my voice." 
Despite the fact that she fits into two 


The Observer/Liz Lang Student Senators Katie Harness of Farley Hall and Heather DeJesus of McGlinn Hall discussed student life issues at yesterday's meeting. 

New savings plan to tackle college funds 
By LIZ NAGLE 
Indiana College 
News Writer 

State treasurer Joyce Brinkman announced last week the initiation of the Indiana Family College Savings Plan, a new state program to help Indiana parents save for their children's post-secondary education. 
"Today, we took the first step to help Hoosier families meet the educa­tional needs of the 21st century," Brinkman said during a press confer­ence in Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
The plan is intended to encourage parents to start saving earlier for 
their children's educa­
taxes are tion. "For an initial made for investment of $50, eligible parents can begin higher edu­participating in cation the plan when expenses," she the child is an said. "At that infant," tax conse­
Brinkman explained. "The earnings on their contributions continue to compound the entire life of the plan. 
"An important advantage to the Indiana Family College Savings Plan is that federal and state income taxes on earnings are deferred until withdrawals quences apply to the student, who has a lower tax rate." 
Brinkman said that eligible expenses will include tuition, books, room and board at any accredited two-year or four­year university. In an age of ever-increasing college expens­es. state savings programs 
see FUND I page 4 

• SMC MU!.TICULTURAl WEEK 

Saint Mary's lectures continue to focus on diversity 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Writer 
Noemi Sohn. a self-described "jack of all trades" and the first Filipino to ever lecture at Saint Mary's College, dis­cussed diversity, gender. race, sexuality. and class at a lecture held last night in Carroll Auditorium. 
Along with conducting workshops, Sohn has also counseled rape and domestic violence victims and people with disabilities. In addition, she has minority categories by being Filipino and having cerebral palsy, she is not partial to any one issue. 
"I do not look in the mirror every morning and say, 'I'll be taking up for women's issues today.' I choose to look at the issues as a whole and not to sin­gle issues out," Sohn explained. 
She realizes that the problems of diversity, gender, race, sexuality, and class are ongoing, and it is important to address them every day. 
"I was listening to a talk radio show 
Savin s Plan 
• 
Parents start saving early 

• 
Initial investment of $50 

• 
Earnings expand over time 

• 
State I fed. 


the other day. The gentleman conduct­ing the interview was commenting on the fact that President Clinton always addresses race issues in the presence of black people. I don't understand why Clinton doesn't address the issue in front of white people," Sohn said. 
One of the issues that Sohn addressed in her lecture was the implementation of diversity into collegiate student bodies. 
"It behooves universities to start tak­ing proactive steps to ensure this," Sohn said. 


Wednesday, October 2, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Just 



wondering ••• 
When you spend six hours in the car with 
yourself, you tend to wonder about things, 
like ... 
Why are there really NOT any songs about 
rainbows? 
If you took away John 
Madden's Telestrator, 
would he shut up? 
Do you think he keeps 
talking even when no one 
is there? 
If Chelsea Clinton came 
to Notre Dame, would her 
Secret Service protection 
be allowed to live in her 
dorm? 
If Albert Belle, Dennis 
Rodman, Deion Sanders and Barry Bonds were 
locked in a room, who would come out alive? 
Better yet, could they all fit into the room 
with their egos? 
Is there anyone else out there who thinks 
that calling an audible on fourth down on the 
road in a noisy stadium might not be the best 
way to win a game? 
Could this finally be the year that an Atlanta 
Brave does not win the Cy Young Award? 
If the voice mail lady paid more attention, 
would she ever have to say, ''I'm sorry, I did 
not get your pass code. Please try again"? 
Could Mark McGwire really be the greatest 
home run hitter since Mickey Mantle? 
Will construction on Route 23 EVER be com­
pleted? 
Is there anyone who can shoot a soccer ball 
harder than Anne Makinen? 
If personal attacks were not allowed, would 
Viewpoint get any letters? 
Doesn't it look now that going to the Copper 
or Independence bowls last December would 
have been a step up for our football program? 
Who else thinks Prince William will become 
one hell of a king? 
Could this year's interhall football champions 
each fmish with more victories than the varsity 
squad? 
Why do they say financial aid is based on 
need when nobody ever gets what he or she 
really needs? 
Why do we take ourselves too seriously? 
Can anyone stop the Orioles? 
Can anyone stop the Buccaneers? 
Who are more arrogant -Michigan fans or 
Ohio State fans? 
Where do you buy the marshmallows with 
the pennies in them? 
How many people really know the signifi­
cance behind the Baltimore Ravens' nick­
name? 
All this talk about E-coli hasn't really stopped 
us from eating hamburgers, has it? 
Would you like fries with that? 
Has South Bend seen a nicer weather day 
than last Friday? 
Do you think the football team would get bet­
ter fan support-even in these rebuilding 
times -if all the fans and alumni had the 
same love and admiration for Notre Dame that 
Regis Philbin does? 
Does anyone else think the Dodge Neon is 
one ugly car? {Sorry, Polly.) 
Where HAVE all the cowboys gone? 
When our generation becomes the old, gray­
haired alumni, will the stereotype be corduroys 
rather than plaid pants? 
Is money really all that important? 
Some people argue homosexuality is a disor­
der, but has anyone considered that homopho­
bia might be a disorder? 
And does anyone know where to get a P.EAL­
LY good pizza around here? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  
Sarah J. Hiltz  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Jon King  
Sports  Production  
Anthony Bianco  Heather MacKenzie  
Viewpoint  Chris Uhart  
Brandon Williams  Lab Tech  
Accent  Joe Stark  
Andrea Jordan  
Kristin Doyle  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The: Observer is a member of 
rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Lovelorn teen kills three, wounds six in rampage 
PEARL, Miss. A teen-ager stabbed his mother to death, then went to school Wednesday with a rille 
Ark. 
under his trench coat and opened fire, killing his former girlfriend and another student and wounding six others, police said. 
Luke Woodham, 16, was distraught over a breakup with his girlfriend, Police Chief 1---...-... Bill Slade said, choking back tears as he talked about the rampage in this town of 22,000 people just outside Jackson. 
"He gave us a statement, and his mani­
La. festo was that he felt he had been wronged," the chief said. 
Woodham was arrested as he drove 
100 mile 
away in his dead mother's car and was 
100 km
charged with murder and aggravated assault. 
The shootings at Pearl High School began about 8:10a.m. as buses arrived. 
Corn-based fuel to get tax break 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate Finance Committee.....--------, agreed Wednesday to extend a tax break for ethanol, the corn-based fuel additive, through 2007, a move strongly criticized by the chief tax-writer in the House. By a voice vote, the panel sup­ported the tax break but moved to grad­ually lower it from 5.4 cents a gallon to 
5.1 cents after 2005. The panel also'----------' voted to extend existing motor fuels taxes, including the 18.3-cent-a-gallon gasoline tax, through Sept. 30, 2005, and approved a new program to allow use of tax-free bonds to construct toll roads. Ethanol, a fuel derived from corn and other agricultural products, enjoys a partial exemption from federal fuel taxes. That fact has made it unpopular with parts of the oil industry, and the ethanol battle has pitted the farm states against the oil states. Ethanol, which totaled less than 1 percent of all trans­portation fuels consumed in 1995, is commonly blended with gasoline to enhance oxygen content or octane level. Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas, who chairs the House Ways and Means Committee and traditionally fights to protect the oil industry, sought to eliminate the subsidy in his version of the $152 billion tax bill enacted this year. But House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., rescued it after farm-state lawmakers complained. 
Screening could help CF patients 
Routine screening of newborns for cystic fibrosis could prevent malnutrition among infants with the disease, a study found. Cystic fibrosis is one of America's most com­mon fatal inherited diseases. It allows mucus to clog the lungs and also affects the pancreas, harming digestion and the absorption of vitamins. Without treatment, most patients die in infancy or childhood from malnutrition or lung infec­tions. Routine screening is offered only in Wisconsin and Colorado now because a 1983 task force appointed by the 
U.S. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation said the screening tests were too unreliable and the benefits of early treatment unclear. However, a study in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine found that a newer screening test allows infants to be diagnosed much earlier and get a head start on nutrition­al therapy and other treatment. In an accompanying editori­al, two cystic fibrosis researchers from the Netherlands called for routine neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis. "The evidence has accumulated that early diagnosis and treat­ment are beneficial and that screening probably saves money and carries no harm of its own," wrote Dr. Jeannette Eankert-Roelse of Free University. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

'!,___/-------"' H L 
Thursday 74 52 Friday 77 57 Satur~ay ~ 80 60 Sunday 
..• 

Chicago 75 44 Green Bay 73 42 New York 62 43
@,~,~qQ,~(f ~ £2 

Columbus 68 37 Houston 87 66 Omaha 88 57
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Dallas 94 68 Los Angeles 81 68 Orlando 87 68
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
[TI] .

H L B fSSl 0 ~ 8 i) eJ. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 78 52 Denver 87 51 Macon 80 52 Boston 62 39 Detroit 65 35 Milwaukee 74 46 
An expressionless Woodham, a sopho­more, entered the large commons area just inside the front door of tl1e imposing school and immediately walked up to his former girlfriend, witnesses said. Police said she was the first to fall, followed by three young men and four young women apparently shot at random. 
"He was shooting anybody he could find. He shot at me and hit the staircase," said Mark Wilkerson, a freshman. "I saw frag­ments going everywhere." 
Students ran screaming into classrooms and dived for cover. 
"People were laying everywhere bleed­ing," said freshman Nathan Henry. "I didn't hear cries. Everybody looked dead." Casey King, a ninth-grader. said AP Woodham talked to at least one of the wounded. "He apologized, said he was 

sorry and was not shooting anybody in particular," King said. 
Teen overdoses after years of taunts 
LONDON 

For three years, Kelly Yeomans endured taunts of "fatty." Her teen-age tormentors threw salt in her school lunch and dumped her clothes in the garbage. Last week, they pelted her house, first with stones and finally with but­ter and eggs, the ingredients for cake. The chubby, sweet­faced 13-year-old told her parents she couldn't stand the abuse anymore. While they slept on Sunday night, she took a fatal overdose of painkillers. Police have arrested four neighborhood boys and one girl, ranging in age from 13 to 17, and say more arrests are possible. However, the arrest­ed youths were not charged with any crime and were released without bail. It was not clear what would happen to them since all are juveniles, authorities said. Even in a country where bullying is commonplace, Kelly's death came as a shock and the media have given wide coverage to the tragedy. "She was a bubbly, charming little angel 
who would do anything for anybody," said Ivan Yeomans, Kelly's father. "We were just an easy target and they are cowards, but I hope they can sleep at night after what has 
, happened." Kelly lived with her parents and 16-year-old sister Sarah in the working-class Allenton neighborhood of Derby, 130 miles northwest of London. She played the tam-· bourine in the local Salvation Army band and visited elder­ly patrons at its Allenton center. But her sister said Kelly was regularly teased about her weight and was abused at school and in her neighborhood. 
Nestle takes chocolate toys off market 
WASHINGTON 

Under pressure from state attorneys general and the Food and Drug Administration, Nestle USA announced Wednesday it will pull off the market chocolate candies with Disney toys like Hercules hidden inside. Nestle insisted the chocolates were safe. And the Consumer Product Safety Commission had certified that the Disney movie figures ­inside a plastic ball covered in Nestle Magic chocolate ­were too big to choke a child. The FDA confirmed Wednesday that it knew of no injuries associated with Nestle Magic, although competing candies selling in Europe that contained smaller toys did cause some deaths. The FDA had not decided whether to force Nestle to pull the chocolates off the market, but as criticism grew, the California candy giant said Wednesday it would voluntarily do so. Nestle did not recall the chocolates. but anyone who wishes to return them to the store where they were pur­chased will be given a refund, said spokeswoman Laurie MacDonald. Critics said the withdrawal was long overdue. "Some of the toys barely, and I mean by a fraction of a little toe, pass the standard choke test," said Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal. 





Thursday, October 2, 1997 The Observer • NEWS 
SMC lecture series explores Stations of the Cross 
By RACHEL TORRES hazard circumstances became to die." burdens." News Writer beloved" in the Stations of the Everybody has circum­The sixth station is taken Cross. stances imposed at birth which indirectly from the Bible, and 
Father Nicholas Ayo lectured The Pascal mystery stations stay with us until death, and portrays Veronica wiping about the tradition and begin with the sentencing of these circumstances are essen­Jesus' face with a cloth. It is restoration of the Stations of Jesus and follow the Gospel tially sentences, he added. compared to modern Christian the Cross in yesterday's instal­account of the passion and Stations two through nine life in that we see suffering lation of the Saint Mary's fall death of Jesus. depict the way of the cross, and spontaneously want to do lecture series. The traditional 14 stations and contain three desolations, something to help it, Ayo said. 
Ayo began by discussing the were put together by John or falls, and three consola­Stations 10 through 14 are, history of the ritual. He noting Pasca, a Belgian, in the 16th tions. "crucifixion in slow motion," that the stations developed century. The second station, in which said Ayo, and are all found in from a desire to visit the place According to Ayo, the sta­Jesus receives his cross, also the Gospel. Jesus is stripped, where Jesus died and rose tions are either taken directly reflects modern Christian life, nailed, crucified, taken down again. from the Gospel or are Ayo said. "We can either carry from the cross, and clothed. 
Not everybody could go to inspired by Biblical events, our cross or drag it," but we Jesus nailed to the cross is Jerusalem to pay homage to and they all have profound rel­all must inevitably bear one, reflected in modern life. the sites in the sequence of the evance to modern Christians. he said. "Everybody is trapped by crucifixion. The Church was For example, the first station The fifth station portrays something," said Ayo. faced with the challenge of is from the Gospel and is Simon helping Jesus to carry Next week the Fall Lecture developing a way in which titled, "Jesus is sentenced to his cross. Ayo paralleled this Series will close with "How everybody could follow the death." Ayo pointed out that, and explained, "This is part of New Can The Old Be?" in way of the cross. in a way, "we are all sen­the human condition. We will Stapleton Lounge at Saint 
Ayo stated that "these hap-tenced to death... We are born be asked to bear each other's Mary's. 


Events highlight Hispanic Heritage Month 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY ences," said John Fernandez, the president school conference on issues facing Latino News Writer of La Alianza. "We have had a lot of people students in South Bend. This will be the who have never attended a general meeting second year for the conference which is 
The celebration of Hispanic Heritage show up for events. We needed to touch on expanding due to high demand over its pro­Month has given members of La Alianza, the other aspects of the Latino community, not gram. Representatives from each of the five Latino student organization on campus, the just the Mexican." area high schools will address topics such as opportunity to provide numerous events in La Alianza also produced the forum making a college decision, starting a minori­their attempt to raise multicultural aware­"Latinos in Business and Media" on ty groups within a school, and community ness. September 25. The night, which featured issues like drugs, violence, and pregnancy. 
Local observance of Hispanic Heritage students from the Hispanic Business Student "The conference is an opportunity for high Month began on September 7 with a La Association and Mexican-American school students and college students to get Alianza sponsored "Welcome Back" picnic Engineering Students, was designed to together and share their experiences," and a general first meeting of La Alianza on spark community interest in the exploration Fernandez said. September 9. of disciplines with a profound effect on soci­"I think that fue people who did the plan­
Other events for the month have included ety. ning this year did an excellent job, " said 
the September 13 concert of Toledo, a Hispanic Heritage Month is being recog­Kevin Huie, Assistant Director of the OMSA. 
Cuban jazz guitarist. a forum on Mexican nized nationally this year from September "Especially this early in the year, it is a diffi­
independence and Latino studies on 12 to October 12. This month, which pays cult thing to plan and pull off." 
September 16, a perspective of "new tribute to accomplishments of Latino cul­Sponsorship of events has also come from 
Latinos" by Irene Fenravia on September ture, has been nationally observed since the the Alumni Association, the Hispanic Alumni 
18, and series of movie nights designed to Lyndon B. Johnson Administration. of Notre Dame, the Mexican-American 
raise awareness on several Latino issues. The month-long series of activities will Engineering Students, and the Hispanic 
"There have been a lot of positive experi-conclude on October 4 with a regional high Business Student Association. 
~riLL SP&e1rtL 
$3 per person per hour (Not Friday or Saturday after 6 o'clock) ..THE BEST TABLES AT THE BEST RATES•• 
402 E.Madison SouthBend 
Open 7 days a week 23-0-S-C-A-R {236-7227) Must be 21 to enter Just a 3 minute walk from downtown 

WE'LL GivE You 10 WEEKS. 

Ten weeks may not seem like much time to prove you're capable of being a leader. But if you're tough, smart and detem1ined, ten weeks and a lot of hard work could make you an Officer of Marines. And Officer Candidates School (OCS) is where you'll get the chance to prove you've got what it takes to lead a life full of excitement, full of chal­lenge, full of honor. Anyone can say they've got what it takes to be a leader, we'll give you ten weeks to prove it. 
SEE YouR MARINE CoRrs OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
For more information call 1-800-878-0241 
MARl N E OFFICER PROGRAMS www.marines.com 
I 

Full Bar • Appetizers • Leagues • Tournaments 

NOWthat
' .
yohentenng 




t EReol World, 
CAREER NIGHT 
Thursday, Sept. 11 
CAREER DAY Friday, Sept. 12 Thursday, Oct. 9 
INFORMATION SESSION Tuesday, Oct. 7 
INTERVIEWS 
Thursday, Nov. 13 Majors: Accounting, Finance, Marketing & Economics. 
0 ~!~r~a~~~~~~cago 
American~ational Bank 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
As the Real World fast ap­proaches, there's no bet­ter time to investigate your options for the fu­ture. With First Chicago NBD, one of the notion's top 10 financial institutions, you will be starting your career with a world-class financial services corporation that is the #1 middle market, corporate and retail bonk in the Midwest. 
We're looking for career-driven individuals to join our Relationship Manager Development Program CRMDP), which provides intensive training in com­mercial bonl~ing. We will be on campus the follow­ing dotes: 
d
tort Your 

oreer 
W.it.h a 
wo([ld-Caloss
ea er 
FIRST CHICAGO NBD 
CORPORATION 
-----------------------------------------~------------­
page 4 

Fund 
continued from page 1 
have become the norm throughout the country. Notre Dame's director of financial aid, Joseph Russo, commented, "Practically every state has ini­tiated a program to help stu­dents save for college." 
Russo stressed the benefit of allowing tax-deferred contribu­tions from income. "That's a major tax incentive for these students," he said. He applaud­ed the Indiana program for encouraging parents to begin saving early, for providing more college options to stu­dents, and for reducing the growing expense of higher edu­cation. 
He cautioned, however, that there are fees involved in set­ting up an account, as well as a penalty of 10 percent of interest accrued for early withdrawal. Although the Indiana program may not be the ideal solution for every family, "We would certainly endorse any program that helps people save for col­lege," Russo concluded. 
According to Connie Koloszar at the office of student accounts, the current cost of tuition at Notre Dame is $19,800 per year and housing costs an additional $5,000. The annual rate of increase in tuition over the past 10 years has remained steady at five to eight percent and is expected to continue at that rate into the 21st century. 
Most students currently meet University expenses through a combination of resources, including parents' savings, stu­dent savings and financial aid. Many families resort to heavy borrowing. 

In the future, as educational costs increase, state programs such as Indiana's will offer a viable option for reducing the need for some of this borrow­ing. Said Brinkman, "The Indiana General Assembly is to be commended most of all for recognizing the need to give Hoosier families a vehicle for saving for their children's future education." 

Business 
continued from page 1 
examples of student service organizations, he focused on the increasing membership of the student chapter of Habitat for Humanity, the success of Christmas in April, and the growing popularity of the Alliance for Catholic Education program. He also pointed out, however, the 45 social agencies of the South Bend community and the benefits reaped when the community and the University join together on these projects. 
"The Homeless Center of South Bend stands as a monu­ment to times when a commu­nity with a basic goodness works with a university with a basic goodness," he said. 
According to Sexton, "We have a two-way street going on here." One half of that street depends on student commit­ment to social projects. The other half lies in the commit­ment of the Michiana commu­nity and its corporate leaders. 
As examples of the first side of this two-way street, Sexton introduced Autry Denson, who spent this past summer work­ing with the National Youth Sports Programs here at Notre Dame. Denson addressed the corporate leaders, explaining how community service pro­grams "eliminate the gap between Notre Dame students and the community." 
Sexton also introduced Karen DuBay, a 1995 alumna and current assistant rectress of McGlinn Hall. DuBay spoke of her experiences with the Northeast Neighborhood pro­ject, but emphasized that "Notre Dame's commitment to service does not end with South Bend." She also explained that, with the support of community leaders, student efforts such as these can continue making important achievements within the community. 
According to Sexton, commit­ted students like Denson and DuBay, when partnered with the commitment of the Michiana community, demon-

Roeflrr McFarlane 
lutenist 

8 p.m., Sunday, October 5 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
$6 General Admisison $3 StudentsISenior Citizens 
Tickets are available at the door, in 
advance at the LaFortune Box Office, 
or charge by phone (219) 631-8218. 
Calll-6201 for more information. 


M~uru~})~ §Jh.©)~ ~~JP&Ulf 
Over 40 years of experience 
Ortho~Specialist 
Fix any type leather Quick Service -Reasonable 
m 
0.
Notre Dame

Open 8~6 Mon.-Fri 0. 
'< 
8.-3 Sat 1025 E. Madison St. 
Mario's ---­
1025 E. Madison St. •
288.-6211 
-7-11 

------------------------------------·------------------------------~--------~----. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 2, 1997 
strate the intrinsic goodness of both Michiana and Notre Dame. He said to the business leaders, "There's a goodness that I see in the faces of those sitting here." 
He went on to explain that, if that goodness can continue to surface in the partnership between the University and the community, "Notre Dame can continue to be a great University and a caring com­munity, and South Bend can continue to be a place of good­ness where things like the Center for the Homeless are possible." 
Sexton, who is actively involved in numerous non-prof­it organizations in South Bend, believes "there is so much goodness in this community that we need to celebrate it." 
According to Father Malloy, yesterday's luncheon was one way to celebrate and thank the members of the corporate com­munity for their involvement. Malloy, in his closing remarks, cited William Sexton as the model of a good citizen and supported Sexton's desire to celebrate the common achieve­ment between the community and the University. 
Malloy urged the corporate leaders to pull together over issues and join the University in its commitment to service. He vowed that "we intend in every way we can as a univer­sity to be good neighbors and citizens and to maximize the potential of our staff and stu­dent body." 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
In addition to offering sug­gestions for improvements, the students asked if anything could be done to alleviate crowding in SOH. Students need to eat at North Dining Hall as often as they can,· especially during lunch, the food service officials said. 
• Laundry in men's dorms emerged as another concern for the Residence Life Committee. Keenan senator Matt Mamak contacted Food Services vending director Dean Winter and reported to the senate that allocating washers and dryers is not a problem. Space and utility hookups in the dorms are the problem, Winter cited. 
"In Dillon, we've seen four whole dorms go up in our backyard. I don't know how the University can't have the resources to put in a water pipe," Dillon senator Pat Coyle said. 
Mamak, as well as senators from Stanford, Alumni and Dillon Halls, noted that adding laundry facilities was a top concern of their constituents. 
"This is really an equity issue as opposed to a conve­nience issue," Szabo added. 
• Director of Student Activities Joe Cassidy updated to the senate on University efforts to upgrade campus social space. A private consul­tant has been researching the issue since last spring, and next week surveys will be mailed out to 20 percent of the student body to elicit feedback on where social space improvements can be made, 
"To my knowledge, it's the first time the University has asked the campus for input before moving towards a deci­sion," Cassidy said. While he emphasized that the pending survey needs a good response for University efforts to be productive, Cassidy was unsure whether the improve­ments would be implemented on an aggressive timetable. 
"It's hard to make a determi­nation when this could hap­pen, but it's safe to say it'll happen within the next 10 years," Cassidy said. 
• Parking was another con­cern the Residence Life Committee researched and reported upon. A shuttle to ferry students from South Quad residence halls to the D2 parking lot is among the spe­cific proposals which were made to Campus Security. 
The key to advancing on the issue, Szabo reported, is stu­dent support. Campus securi­ty, he explained, has to sense students need improvements in campus parking. 
"We just have to do our part to establish support," Szabo enjoined. 
• Near the meeting's end, Erik Nass delivered the senate fun fact for the week. 
"Professor O'Hara watches Party of Five," he reported. 

YOU DEMAND POWER,SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 

Power Macintosh" 6500/275 32/4GB/t2XCD/Multiple Scan t5AV L2/llp Drlve/EthemetMdeo ln/NTSC Out/l<bd Now $2,675 (or $scvmonth)** ll£fllRf REBATE 

$200 
cash back* 
Power8ook·14oocs/133 t6/1GB/8XCD/L2/tt.J" DSTN display Now $2,o85 (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 



$100 
cash back* 

Save another Power Macintosh" 5400/18o t6/t.2GB/8XCD/Built-in display/Kbd 
Sso 
Now St.sso (or $29/month)** BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 
Color StyleWriter" 4100 Now $220.. BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. 8:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 1/JOOcs/133 includes a carrying case. While suppties last! 
*"'~~r expires October to, 1997. No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 9o-day period will be added to the' pnnc•pal ~md will bear interest. which will be included in the repayment schedule. For example, the month of Mays. 1997, had an interest rate of 
~~~0~1::'~!~ :~~~~t~f'$~.~::.::.~~~~:>,:~~~!2~~:m~~;~;~~~~~~~"J,~f:t4f/.~7~ra~J ~~r,!:ci~~~~at~~~~~ t~fe~:~ :~ ~~rie;~~~~a~~~~~ 
the Prime Rate as ~ported on the sth business da"t: of th~ month in The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3.9%. The Apple Computer Loan has an B-year loan tenn With no prepayment penalty and ts subJect to credit approval. Monthly payments may vary depending on actual computer system pnces, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable interest rate. Ct997 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, !he Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh, PowerBook, Power Macin~osh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. OneScanner and QUI~kTake are .tra~~ma~ of Apple Computer, Inc. Apple mall-!n rebate offer valid from July 12, 1997 through October to, 1997, while supplies last and subJect to availability. Vmd where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further rules and details. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to Individuals with disability. To leam more (U.S. only), call Boo·6oo·78o8 or TTY Boo·75S·o6o1. 

-~ 
-----~----­ -------------­ -­ ------------------------­ 
Thursday, October 2, 1997  The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS  

• YUGOSlAVIA 
Police beat peaceful protesters 
Clubs and tear gas used to calm Albanian Serbs 
By KATARINA KRATOVAC 
Associated Press Writer 
PRISTINA 

Serb police used clubs and tear gas in this southern city Wednesday to break up the biggest show of dissent in years by Yugoslavia's increas­ingly fractious ethnic Albanian minority. In Belgrade, a second day of protests also ended in violence. 
The clashes were the second time in as many days that Serbian police have violently put down protests against President Slobodan Milosevic. 
Dozens of people were injured in Pristina as riot police in full gear waded into a peaceful protest by 20,000 people who ignored an order to disperse, demanding the right to an Albanian-language edu­cation at Pristina University. Within minutes. the Pristina suburb of Velanija, the gather­ing point for what was to be a march into the city, was deserted except for hundreds of police with shields and hel­mets. In Pristina itself, hun­
t-lappy Birthday Kelli! 
211 
Love1 
Mom1 DC\d1 TI"C\C}:'J ShC\WV\/ RyC\V\1 el"iV\ 
LECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • MAT 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 10, 1997. CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW. 





Raytheon
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. EXPECT GREAT THINGS 
AP 
dreds of police were deployed. 
The protesters were mostly young ethnic Albanians who attend an underground college because the official university teaches in Serbo-Croatian, rather than Albanian, the lan­guage of the overwhelming majority of Kosovo's popula­tion. 
A number of student leaders were detained and badly beat­en before being released. Later Wednesday, they announced an indefinite halt to their protests, saying this was decid­ed after consultations with Western ambassadors from Belgrade. 
It was the worst clash between Serbs and Albanians since Serbia stripped Kosovo of autonomy in 1989. Then, at least 25 people were killed when the Serbs turned tanks and heavily armed forces on protesting Albanians. 
• 
----~--­
r>.tul~·u)(:IJ she has not been --her sealed, fil­since 1989, she extensive work on cuva.-.cuu and advocacy for injured by chemicals. founded the oniD.~ntal Access Network, which is the research division of Chemical Injury 
th-..ern<afir•n Network. 
rbo, who also is an on member of parlia­in his impoverished West country, was cited for development strate­run counter to the development model imposed on Africa. wth strategies which the people's authentic can only end in schizo­.. the. Hight Livelihood 
lUl,.l<tL.IUU said. 
• 
by the, Nobel -several people intl~re:st in such issues by the founda­
j 
I 
l 
r·~----~--~­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 2, 1997 
Respect Ute sunday ~ Ironwood Road 
N 
Sunday, October 5 2:00pm Meet at Co-sponsored with 
St. Francis [)ay -The and Community · Children Here'' 
Saturday, October 4 11:30 
7:15 p.m)li: 
},/;:;.::;::~:::::::::~.::: ..:. :: ::·:::(:::::.:: 

Sr. Patricia Riley, c.s.c. 
Scripture .Readings 

1st Reading 
2nd Reading:·/}:fn:· · ::·:.::.:,A~~~~&n===-: 

Gospel Mark 10:2-16 
The Mass 
Eucharistic Adoration and Service 
10/2/97 
There is a long-standing tradition at Notre Dame of deep respect for and full partic­
ipation in the Mass. 
Mass with parents and students is the main celebration of Freshman Orientation andJunior Parent's Weekend. Mass with faculty and students is the principal way we mark the beginning of a new academic year, and Mass with faculty, parents and stu­dent always signals the beginning of our Commencement Exercises at the end of the year. 
In between these celebrations of Mass on major occasions, we have the beautiful liturgies on weekdays and Sundays at the Basilica. Hundreds of students take part in the Mass as members of choirs, altar servers, Eucharistic ministers and greeters... a wonderful service they offer with respect and reverence to the Church and to many hundreds more of their fellow students. 
And, of course, of exceptional and singular significance to Notre Dame students as 
well, are the weekday and Sunday liturgies celebrated in each of the residence halls. 
These powerful celebrations of Mass with friends are special moments for all who 
experience them. Most student participants in their residence hall Masses feel clos­
er to God and to each other during these moments than they can ever remember 
feeling before. 
The Mass is our central act of worship as Catholics, as the Catechism of the Catholic 
Church teaches. 
Each time we celebrate the Mass together, whether in an elaborate or a simple set­ting, we participate in the most astonishing and awe-inspiring experience available to any man or woman. Why? Because at the command and invitation ofJesus Christ and through the words and the actions of the priest who acts in the name of the Church and gathered believers, the life-giving effects of the passion, death and res­urrection ofJesus Christ become immediately available to us. And so it will be until the end of human history. 
At Mass we celebrate and acknowledge Jesus Christ as savior, brother and Son of 
God, in a way that is unparalleled in any other act of prayer or devotion available to 
us. 

We believe that at Mass we remember the events that make us one with Jesus Christ 
and with each other as nothing else ever will or can. And in that remembrance, 
what we remember actually becomes present to us. It brings about in our lives, in 
full measure, what the death and resurrection ofJesus Christ brought about for all 
people two millennia ago. 
This is why so many holy men and women of all ages have placed frequent celebra­tion of the Eucharist at the center of their lives: Thomas Aquinas, Claire ofAssisi, Dorothy Day, Mother Teresa, Vincent de Paul-to name but a few among millions. For these men and women, and for us, Mass is the principal way we center the words and the actions of our lives on the words and the actions ofJesus himself. In this way, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the Church as God's people carry out and continue the mission ofJesus Christ in simple ways that take on transcendent meaning and import. 
The Mass is the source and the summit of who we are and ofwho we can become if we but dare imitate the words and the actions ofJesus Christ in our own lives. 
The Mass is the source and the summit of every prayer, devotion and act of service. 
It is why simple acts of service to a brother or sister become human actions offered 
to the person ofJesus Christ himself. 
The Church has promoted Eucharistic Adoration so that we remember and cele­
brate all these things that are at the core ofwho we are as disciples ofJesus. 
The Body and the Blood ofJesus Christ-the Body broken for us and the Blood shed to make us one with God and with each other-become a reality at every Mass. Through our service, whether that assistance is offered at Logan Center, through the Urban Plunge, as a catechist, as an R.A., or as a member of one of our Basilica or residence hall choirs, we tend to the broken bodies of our human family even as 
Jesus did. We help raise minds and hearts to worship and praise our God, and we 
minister to the least among us, who are the most important in the eyes of God, in 
imitation of and in the name ofJesus Christ. 
The Mass enables and empowers us to bring about the effects of the mission ofJesus Christ here and now. 
How privileged we are to be members of a community where Mass is celebrated so 
often and where young people are surrounded by so many other young people 
every time Eucharist is celebrated. 
How privileged we are to be members of a community where Mass is celebrated so 
often and where young people surrounded by scores of other young people each 
and every time we reach out to another. 
Mass and service are intimately related for the Church and for us at Notre Dame. 
The Mass is the central act of all worship, and therefore, of every prayer, act of ser­vice, moment of Eucharistic Adoration, and word of comfort offered to another in the name ofJesus. 
0MPUS 
(Rev.) Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. MINISTRY 


We cordially invite all 
NOTRE DAME SENIORS 
to attend a presentation describing our two-year 
INVESTMENT BANKING FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM 
Monday, October 6, 1997 
7:00-9:00 P.M. Room 21 0, Center for Continuing Education 
Reception to follow the presentation. If you wish to apply to the program, please turn in a resume to Career and Placement on October 13th or 14th 
SMITII BARNEY 
Smith Barney is an Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/DIY. ©1997 Smith Barney Inc. Member SIPC AMnnborofTravderoGrou;'r 
page 7 
Grand jury checks into Hudson Foods 
By CURT ANDERSON Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
A federal grand jury is inves­tigating whether Hudson Foods Inc. tried to hide the extent of potential E. coli bacteria conta­mination in what eventually became the nation's biggest meat recall. 
Tom Monaghan, the U.S. attorney for Nebraska, issued a statement saying the investiga­tion arose from information received last month from the Agriculture Department's inspector general regarding the August recall of 25 million 
Entry level accountant or analyst positions. 
Amway's global operations provide stimulating opportunities for accountants and analysts in a variety ofareas including financial reporting, pricing, global operations analysis, management accounting & analysis, Activity Based Costing, cash management, international accounting and budget performance planning. All members ofAmway's Financial Se1-vices division have the best available technology at their disposal. 
Position Requirements: 
All interested students must be eligible to work on a permanent full-time basis in the U.S., regardless of citizenship status. Grade point average a minimum of3.0 on a 4.0 scale, and you must bring a copy ofyour most recent transcript to your interview. 
Overview of Company: 
,4mway Corporation is one ofthe world's largest direct selling companies with operations in 75 countries and territories, and more than 13,500 employees worldwide. More than two million Amway distributors market Amway products in such fields as home care, hometech, personal care, health & fitness, commercia/line products and catalog shopping. Amway is a privately held company with estimated annual sales in excess of$6.8 billion. 
pounds of hamburger produced 
at the Hudson plant in 
Columbus, Neb. 
Monaghan would provide no 
other details, but Hudson offi­
cials confirmed Wednesday 
that they had received a sub­
poena for documents related to 
the recall and expected some 
employees to be called to testify 
before the grand jury in 
Omaha, Neb. 
"As it has in the past, Hudson 
Foods will continue to cooper­
ate fully and completely with 
the government's investiga­
tion," Hudson, based in Rogers, 
Ark., said in a statement. 
"Hudson Foods is confident 
that a thorough and fair inves­
tigation of the facts will confirm 
that it has violated no law." 
Hudson shut down the 
Columbus plant at Agriculture 
Department insistence after the 
amount of meat recalled due to 
possible E. coli contamination 
rose from 20,000 pounds ini­
tially to 25 million pounds-by 
far the largest meat recall in 
U.S. history. 
Sale of the still-closed plant to meatpacking giant IBP Inc. is nearly complete. Hudson, which lost a big Burger King contract because of the recall is itself in the process of being sold to Arkansas rival Tyson Foods Co. 
WIN Six FREE TICKETS 
Visit us on the web and find aut how to win six free* round-trip tickets anywhere American Aies in the continental U.S. See web page for rules and specifics. 

SPEciAL LOW AIR FARES 
Sign up for College Si:!!Aver FaresSM and Net S'i:!!Aver Fares1M announcing special savings to selected destinations via your e-mail. 

Receive American Airlines/Citibank" Student Travel Savings Certificates when you're approved for a no-annual-fee Citibonk credit card. 

CGLI.ECT b.rwAHTAJJE.• Ml.ES 
Enroll in the Mdvontage travel awards progro,n and also learn about many other ways to travel for less with American. 
AmericanAirlines· 
Americantali 
~--NO PUROIASE OR. BOOKING NECESSAKY. Sweepstakes i:> open only to legal resideniS of the United States of America who are full-time students at a college or university located in the U.S.A., aged 18 or older as of the date of entry. 1. How to Enter: Sign up to receive American's College SAAver Fares e-mail on the Ameriam Airlines we~ site :n http;//www.~.com/collegc and you will be automatically entered in the College SAAver Fares Sweepstakes. You may also enter by writing your name, addres.s and daytime phone number on a 3x5 card and mailing it to College SAAver Fares Sweepstakes, P.O. Box 165447, Irving, TX 75016-5447. Sweepstakes begins at 12:00 a.m., East:em tune on 
~!rn:r~ !~gi~re7~:t~a!~~~.~: ::;r::~d~~:o~ ;~~~~.PA~~:f~~~:~f~~~:r~i~~i1~ =~ :~~~~ ~k~~it~: c?rfu~~~~ri ~~~~!a~ee;~1~;seO:~~m:J-a~~~ =~~~ef~eg(~~rs:'3o~f~ ~~~~R~~r~a~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~=-~~~~6.~· ~~~~==dsO: ~=2a~-~ t~v~~~:~i~~=~i:g~~x;:~%:!~«! 1~hJchas~~~~n~~~;:~~.~~~~~ ~f~~:O:~~a~u~lle~:~~~f~~~~a~~~h~ ~~~na:M:~~~~ 1~ft~trh~~~:~1t~%~h~kre~~~;il~eof~:~~e~~if~~~ :~~;~~~~pa~~~g~~~v~~~~~~~ ~la~~o:~: ~~J~~Yre':n~i~ !~~~~w~~es':~f:::~~~~:~~ 
wherever prohibited by law. 3. The name of the winner will be fX>Sted on the American Airlines web site. You may also olxain the winner's name by sending a self-addressed, sumped envelope, by De<:ember 30. 1997, to: College SAAver Fares Winner, P.O. Box 165447, Irving, TX 75016-5447. American Airlines, American Eagle and AAdvantage are reg~ered trademarks, College SAAver Fares is a service mark, and Net SMver Fares is a trademark, of American Airlines, Inc. American Ea.gle is American's regional airline associate. American Airlines reserves the right to.change AAdvantage program rules, regulations, travel awards and special offers at any time without notice, and to end the AAdvantage program with SIX months notice. Amencan Airlines i.~ not responsible for products or services offered by ()(her participating companies. Schedules subject to change without notice. 01997 American Airlines, fn(. All rights reserved. Pnnted in the U.S.A. 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 2, 1997 

Rich American Girl Gets Ready to Shed Her Skin 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


"For of those to whom much is given, much is required." 
-John F. Kennedy 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Pcoduction Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ............•........... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accem/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• AROUND THE WORLD IN A HUNDRED DAYS ... 
12:56 a.m. Wednesday, Oct. 1. Cochin, India. 
I can't believe that today I'm starting classes. After five weeks of hotel hop­ping and riding on a bouncy bus with the same 27 people, I actually have a room I can call my own. Room 44, Sealord Hotel. 
Cochin is not at all the city I thought it would be. It's nice. We've seen a wide 
Juliana Vodicka 
spectrum of India these last weeks of traveling. From the beauty of the Himalayas, the poverty on the streets, the amazing ride through the tea fields to teach attacks in a tiger reserve, I've seen the best and worst of this country. And loved every minute of it! Yet, for some reason, when I pictured Cochin it was poverty stricken, beggar infested and of course had the same shop that's all over -the one with the pants and the marble elephant. 
You must understand, though, my idea of "nice" is very warped compared to my notions when I left the USA. I think that air conditioning is the world's single best invention to date. It seems though, that my sense of "nice" is directly pro­portional to my fashion concept as well. I got a great pair of orange floral pants the other day; only 100 rupees ($3 U.S.) and I'm ready for the fashion runway. 
With this new perception of good and bad, where a living area is concerned, I was shocked upon arrival in Cochin. Compared to many big cities I've seen in India, Cochin is Beverly Hills; like I said, not at all what I pictured. 
What surprises me even more than my shock that I was going to live in a won­derful city was the way I was set upon the idea that I'd be living in a desolate poverty stricken area. Why was that? It could be that I prepared for the worst in my mind. All my friends and others I told about this semester all seemed to know that I was going to be so uncom­fortable, dirty, come back thin and have a "character building" experience. I guess I got that stuck in my head. Or I just thought that would make me some­how better surviving such an experi­ence; undergoing the troubles of a great part of the world and therefore under­standing their plight (As if I won't always have a clean bed, warm shower, and plenty to eat). 
That was what I was thinking, how sickening it seems to me now. Oh, poor little rich American girl trying to make a difference. 
What I've been saying though is simply the exterior appearance of Cochin. The people are the same here as in the rest of India -beautiful, friendly and strong in culture. It's amazing how connected they are to their family, their country, and their heritage. All connected, no one separate from another; individuals yet a single unit. It's sort of the same in the 
U.S. but so dif!erent. We are so separat­ed from everything; you must be an indi­vidual. We have our freedom. Why does that have to know separation? Take Notre Dame for instance, our own world. I bet I've gone at least a week without picking up a newspaper or watching the news. It's so easy. too easy, to get caught up in that way of life. It's just ignorance, or pure laziness, masquerading as security. 
Here and in many other parts of the world I've seen thus far a college educa­tion means much less than in the U.S. Ninety-nine percent of the waiters in the hotels we've been to, and now in Cochin, have a college education. Biochemistry, literature, accounting, everything under the sun, and what are they doing? Serving me tea and toast morning after morning. How unfair is that? All so they can make enough money for their family 
!9JLD 
ClGAR~TTt.S. 
WI-\ATRt; YOU IN FoR? 
because there are no other jobs avail­able. It makes one grateful for a place like Notre Dame; I may be a waitress later but because I want to. 
Which brings me to school-Sacred Heart College. One building, three floors, overlooking the Arabian Sea and lots of palm trees. That's my school this 
semester. That's the physical now; in 
other aspects it differs even more so 
from ND. First of all boys and girls 
can't even walk up the same 
stairs. Everywhere there 
are signs pointing the 
direction for boys and 
girls to go. Boys have 
to wear pants 
everyday; girls 
must have their 
legs covered, if 
not you are sent 
home. In the 
classroom no 
questions can be 
asked; it seems 
as if you are 
challenging the 
knowledge of the 
professor. All 27 of us are in 
the same classroom. 
The special 
"American" classroom, 
with our own bathroom, 
cushioned seats, catered 
lunch everyday, refreshments, and 
fans! Can you believe it? While the rest of the school has sore butts, dehydrates and sweats, the Americans are served water and given the privilege of air con­dition. 
Don't get me wrong; I like it. That's the problem. I love air conditioning. I like to be comfortable. I need good meals. I crave peanut butter! I'm so American! That's such a difficult real­ization to come to when you're away and you thought so differently about yourself; wished you were different, is a better way to say that. I'm not sad or sorry that I'm here; I just know I'll be so much more grateful when I get back 
____ concept of small. Finally, I found 
home. 
As American as I am, I did do some­thing very "Indian" today. I got my nose pierced. Ouch! It hurt bad. Don't let any­one tell you differently. A good thing is that instead of $60 in the U.S. it cost me $6 (or 200 rupees). I had no idea it would be such a project. First, I went to about a million jewelry stores looking for a stud to my liking. They have no 
one, bought it and waited. Some strange man came out. I think all he does is pierce. He was ready 
for us. Two girls went before me, then my turn. Fifteen min­utes later, three men with their fingers up my 
nose. one flash­light, many pic­tures and tears later I'm brand­ed with my small diamond stud (on my left side repre­
~ senting woman ~ and moon). Like I ~~ said before: Ouch! 
It's sore and tender now, but soon I think I'll actually like it (It's all on video, I can't wait for Bree 
and Judy to see that one. they're going to kill me!). I:just pray I don't get a cold. 
Anyway, that's the lowdown on Cochin. I'm already beginning to fall as in love with this part of India as I did with the rest. My new project here is shedding my thick American skin, stop making predict'o.1s and just live it. 
I guess that's all I can do. 
Juliana Vodicka is a junior English and theology major. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer . 




VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 2, 1997 page 9 
• lET ME CLEAR MY THROAT ... 
Capital Punishment Doesn't Make Sense In Any Situation 
This week marked the beginning of dered, a void is created which is not the federal trial of Terry Nichols for his going to be filled by the state coldly, alleged role in the 1995 Oklahoma City methodically, and relatively painlessly bombing. In the weeks ahead, as the killing another person. Indeed, the emo­trial progresses, it is sure to bring all of tional reaction behind such a policy is the pain and horror of that day two understandable, but the truth of the years ago back into the public eye, just matter is that ending the lives of Tim as the trial of Timothy McVeigh earlier McVeigh and Terry Nichols won't bring this summer did. And like the McVeigh back the 161 people lost in Oklahoma trial, the judgment of Terry Nichols will city. The families of these victims can most likely once again ignite the debate never have adequate compensation. The over the existence of capital punishment people they loved are gone. As tragic as in our society. Nichols 
is currently that is, watching another person die will 
not change that. 

Similarly, one of the most common defenses of the death penalty is that the punishment must fit the crime. But once

Scott 
again, in capital cases, particularly extreme ones like Oklahoma City, fulfill­ing such an obligation becomes impossi­
ble. The more severe a crime is, the less plausible the concept of equal punish­ment becomes. Quite simply, there are limits on what we can do to a convicted charged with eight capital felonies, and criminal. If the laws of nature didn't barring his complete acquittal, it is like­prevent us from blowing up Timothy ly that a jury of 12 individuals will be McVeigh 161 consecutive times with a forced to decide whether he lives or car bomb, the Constitution still would. dies. Once again, our society will be It's an extreme example, but the point is forced to confront this state of affairs. that even when we do put people to As this issue returns to the forefront in death, the punishment is not actually the weeks ahead. I wish to offer the fol­equivalent to the crime. The Constitution lowing thoughts regarding the justifica­outlaws excessively cruel punishment, tion for capital punishment in our soci­thus inmates die as humanely as possi­ety. ble, especially with the increased use of 
Capital punishment rests upon a lethal injection. They do not experience strong foundation of popular support in the violence and extreme pain which this country, due mostly, I believe, to the very often they inflicted on their own fact that it appeals to the human ten­victims. Families of victims who witness 
Cullen 
institutionalizing and practicing capital we're better off not establishing. 
dencies toward justice, fairness. and executions often comment that they punishment, our government under­The anti-capital punishment argumentvengeance. Indeed, when you or some­were not satisfied that the criminal was mines itself. is certainly much more extensive thanone you love is wronged by another, it is made to suffer enough when executed. 
Finally, we must look at capital pun­outlined above, as is the school of a natural reaction to want to see the They wanted to see the perpetrator suf­ishment from the standpoint of human thought in support of it. My point here isaggressor subjected to a degree of suf­fer in much the same way their loved rights. In theory, at least, our govern­to look at the principles and valuesfering equal to if not greater than that ones did. Such a reality is neither possi­ment believes in and promotes human underlying the argument. The fact is which the victim experienced. Such an ble, nor a good idea. Capital punishment rights and argues on behalf of them in that many of the beliefs underlying aemotional reaction is completely under­is rarely equal to the hideous nature of the global arena. That is, we assert that support for capital punishment simplystandable and very human. Similarly, a the crimes it punishes. So we find our­all people, simply by virtue of their do not make sense in the context of an prominent defense of the death penalty selves putting human beings to sleep, humanity, have innate, inalienable extreme capital case such as thepromoted during the McVeigh trial is the trying to get to the nearest approxima­rights to such things as adequate food, Oklahoma City bombing. Moreover, the idea that by the actions of the judicial tion of equal punishment we can in a shelter, and clothing. Apparently, how­institution of capital punishment under­system, the state owes adequate com­given case. 
ever, the simple right to existence is mines the principles of our governmentpensation to those who have been All the while, we are undermining the missing from this list. Such an omission in more ways than one. In general, it is wronged. Finally, one of the most com­integrity of both human life and the is puzzling as one would think that a an issue debated more from the heartmon traditional arguments in support of state. The institution of capital punish­right to exist and not have life taken than from the head. I feel it is time tothe death penalty is the notion inherent ment is an inherently contradictory one. 
away prematurely would be presup­look at the issue more deeply and morein our judicial system that the punish­Yes, it's the standard, tried and true, posed by such other rights as food and rationally. In the weeks ahead, Terry ment must fit the crime. All of these anti-capital punishment argument, but I shelter. Such is not the case however, as Nichols life will be on the line for his positions clearly appeal to human emo­feel it still has merit. Our government our current system of criminal justice alleged involvement in a horrible crime. 
tion and reaction to crime. They are also outlines a set of rules within which implies that by certain actions, an indi­In forming your opinion of what his fate all invalid justifications for the death every individual is expected to live, and vidual can forfeit his or her very right to should be, look beyond your emotional penalty. when someone steps beyond that set of exist. Thus, we arrive upon the key reaction, and think about what valuesFor example, take the proposition that rules they are rightfully punished. One point in the capital punishment debate; and principles we want our society to the judicial system has an obligation to of the most basic of these rules is that it whether or not a person, by taking uphold.
compensate a victim's family for its loss is wrong to take the life of another per­severe, heinous actions against society in the form of an adequate punishment. son. Yet at both the federal and state may alienate his right to existence. Right Scott Cullen is a junior Arts andCertainly, this school of thought appeals levels, every year ( or every couple of now, our laws say yes, and an over­Letters major at Notre Dame. His col­to the human sense of fair play. Yet in days, or so, if you happen to live in whelming majority of the population umn appears11very other Thursday. 
capital cases, making such a proposition Texas) the very same governments that concurs. Yet if we are really willing to The views expressed in this column reality is impossible. The conclusion we outlaw the taking of human life do so concede this point we must be wary, for are those ofthe author and not neces­are left to draw is that by killing Terry under the pretense of capital punish­I fear we set a very dangerous prece­sarily those of The Observer.
Nichols, the state will have compensated ment. The government that makes a dent. If our very right to life is notan individual whose loved one has been rule based upon the integrity of human inalienable, then what it is? If our legalwrongfully killed. This doesn't seem life also enacts a punishment which right to exist can be taken away from usright. The simple truth is that when a completely disregards it. Clearly, such a then what can't? It's a precedent I feel loved one is killed, particularly mur-situation represents a contradiction. By 
• lETTER To THE EmroR 
Time to Stop Being Politically Correct and Tackle Real Issues 

It seems to me that with all the emphasis on homosexual rights in the campus news and in the Notre Dame community at large, we as members of this community have lost sight of the bigger picture. While the debate has raged on about the legitimacy of GLND/SMC and the proposed "non-discrimina­tion clause," other more press­ing and far-reaching issues have been sidelined. 
What I am about to present has been said before, but these words have been consistently brushed aside by a politically motivated charge against the Notre Dame administration by the proponents of GLND/SMC and their attention-seeking allies. the Notre Dame College Democrats. 
As the preeminent Catholic university in this hemisphere, Notre Dame must shoulder the burden of leadership in pro­moting Catholic values and in discouraging any practices that oppose those values. The University must, in keeping with its Catholic identity, con­demn the practice of homosex­uality, while extolling the gospel values of love, compas­sion, and concern for one's fel­low man as Jesus teaches us. I believe firmly that what the Church teaches is correct: that the act of homosexual union is morally unacceptable, both because it is against God's plan for heterosexuality and because it occurs outside the bond of marriage. People who are themselves homosexual do have control of their actions and can avoid the act, thus avoiding the sin. I also believe with equal firmness that we must exhibit compassion and concern for these people, who are our brothers and sisters in Christ as much as anyone. Further, while I agree that the University cannot and should not recognize GLND/SMC as a campus organization and thus provide them with Student Activities funding, I do feel that those people on this campus who are homosexual should be supported as individuals, as they have been by Campus Ministry and lthe administra­tion of Notre Dame. Anyone who feels that the University is uncaring or slow to act on this matter need only look at Campus Ministry's efforts to help homosexual students through counseling and through the "Spirit of Inclusion" statement that the University has just presented. 
My point is this: hate the sin, love the sinner. It is important to realize that the University is constantly working to protect homosexual students as human beings and to help them spiritually, clause or no clause. Human dignity and compassion, not a binding non­discrimination clause, is what those people who consider themselves to be homosexual need. Those of us who are het­erosexual can help them through prayer and genuine concern. 
Meanwhile, all of us here at Notre Dame need to keep in mind that other issues face us here; racism, for example, is a far more pressing issue on our campus, and other issues should be brought into the campus spotlight so that we can begin to deal with them. It is time to redirect ourselves and stop focusing on GLND/SMC and homosexuality simply because it is politically correct. As a campus and as a community we must now turn our attention to issues that extend beyond the political realm and that directly affect all of us and how we live together. 
Jonathan L. French 
Vice President, 
Notre Dame College Republicans 
September 29, 1997 

page 10 
Thursday, October 2, 1997 
-cc-cc-cc

various artists The End of Violence 
( out of five stars) 





adam sandler 

J
udging from the cover of The End of Violence: Songs from the Motion Picture Soundtrack, it is evident that this is no ordinary soundtrack. The seeming allusion to Edward Hopper's famous painting of loneliness and abandonment, "Nighthawks," creates expectations of mood for the album that are similar to those in Hopper's classic. The soundtrack surprisingly meets these expecta­tions with most tracks, but fails miserably with oth­ers. 
German director Wim Wenders is the master of moodiness, from his road films of "Paris. Texas," and "Until the End of the World," to his post-mod­ern analysis of angels, "Wings of Desire." Judging from the soundtrack to his most mcent film, "The End of Violence," he continues this trend. The open­ing track by Hy Cooder, "Deline Violence," whose slide guitar occasionally accompanied the Holling Stones but since then has moved on to becoming a premier film composer, sets the tone for the entire soundtrack, a compilation of original songs written expressly for the film by some very talented artists. The journey into a world of moodiness and eclecti­cism begins with Ry Cooder's pangs and twangs of the electric guitar which draws strong parallels to the work of Neil Young. 
The capriciousness continues with Spain's moody ballad, "Every Time I Try," which reflects the lost feelings associated with love which translates well to the tone of the album. The U2/Sinead O'Conner duet, ''I'm Not Your Baby" is interesting but not as impressive as one would hope for from such talent­ed artists. This song is followed by a very Leonard Cohen-esque song by Tom Waits, "Little Drop of Poison." This concludes the first half of the album, and everything beyond that becomes quite tedious and boring (including a horrifying duet by Michael Stipe and Vic Chesnutt), with a pair of exceptions. The first is Los Lobos' tune, "Me Estas Matando," which screams "Get up and dance!" The other is Roy Orbison's lost gem, "You May Feel Me Crying," which was re-masterPd and produced by Brian Eno following Orbison's death. 
The film stars Bill Pullman. Gabriel Byrne, Traei Lind and Andie MacDowell, and the soundtrack (as seems to be the current trend since the Pulp Fiction soundtrack) features samples of their dialogue. The most memorable is when Traei Lind asks, "Define violence ... you're making a movie about it, shouldn't you know what it is." They may not be able to define violence, but they definitely know what good music is; too bad they couldn't be consis­tent with this knowledge. 
by Joey Crawford 

What,s YOUR Name -cc 
( out of five stars) 


dam Sandler's newest release, What's 
YOUH Name?, the third addition to a collec­
ion of remarkably funny COs, takes a sur­
rising turn for the worse. As opposed to a majority of dialogues and skits like the previous albums, What's YOUH Name? is comprised only of songs. This apparent intent on going for a much more musical album just ends in disaster. To obtain more musical merit, Sandler has sacrificed a lot of the in-your-face, hardcore humor that has become his trademark over the years. 
Attempting to maintain that humor, Sandler brings back several of the characters from the pre­vious CD. Such songs as "The Hespect Chant," "The Goat Song," and a new reggae tune, "Voodoo," end up just like the CD as a whole: as disappointing fol­low-ups. "Bed Hooded Sweatshirt," first performed on Saturday Night Live, is redone on this CD as a much slower, watered-down version. Again, this is due to the fact that Sandler tried to incorporate too much music into it. 
Adam Sandler has recently been trying to push his career into a more musical light lately, reportedly doing covers for Led Zeppelin in concert. This career decision will most likely end up as a disap­pointing change to his present fans, mainly because it does involve a watering-down of the humor. Let's hope that the watered-down effect that music has had on this CD does not have the same effect on his career as a whole; otherwise, don't expect be hear­ing about him too soon. 
That charactoristic of watered-down seems to be a theme throughout What's YOUH Name? which, for most Adam Sandler fans, is a disappointment. Keep in mind that this entire review is from the eyes of one of these Adam Sandler fans, so of course I am going to be a little biased and. as explained. a bit displeased with the change. However, this change opens up Sandler's audience to those that disliked the original harshness. Overall, this album seems to be aimed at those who would like to listen to some (surprisingly) decent music and chuckle every now and then at a humor much more subtle than that which present Sandler fans have grown to love. 
by Dave Levin 

cherry poppin' daddies 

-cc-cc-cc-cc

Zoot Suit Riot ( out of five stars) 
A
ie you down with swing? If you have ever been through freshmen year Social Dance, have tuned in to Brother Pedro's Big Band how (Friday and Sunday evenings on WSND). or are a member of the Notre Dame Marching Band then my guess would be yes. A rapidly growing revival of swing music and its cul­ture in the United States and England as well as the mainstream emergence of the ska scene have paved the road for modern swing bands such as the Squirrel Nut Zippers and the Cherry Poppin' Daddies to gain popularity. 
The Cherry Poppin' Daddies continue to beat and blow their way into the hearts of this nation's hip­swiveling young people in their latest release, Zoot Suit Riot: The Swingin' Hits. They are an eight­piece band that merge a '30s spirit of swing with a '90s punk rock sensibility. This album is the Eugene, Ore., based band's fourth CD and provides a great mix of songs from their first three CDs as well as four previously unreleased tracks. 
Throw in a eup of jazz, a tablespoon of ska, and a pinch of punk and you have the Cherry Poppin' Daddies' first single, "Zoot Suit Hiot," telling a tale of two sailors and their adventures out on the town. 
The rest of the album will have you snapping your fingers to songs such as "Brown Derby Jump" and "Ding Dong Daddy of the D-Car Line." 
Listening to this album leaves you asking: what ever happened to the Big Band Era? The Cherry Poppin' Daddies attempt to bring that sound back with a '90s slant combining a great mix of guitars, saxophones, trombones, trumpets, tubas, and more. 
If swing is your thing, the Cherry Poppin' Daddies will keep you spinning. They are appearing in Chicago this Saturday for an all ages show at the Fireside Bowl as they continue to mix the sounds of the big band era with a dab of '90s ska and punk. And in the immortal words which the Notre Dame Marching Band reminds us of during their halftime shows, "It don't mean a thing if you ain't got that swing!" 
by Nate Rackiewicz 


Accent needs writers, writers, writers. If you want to be a features writer, a music critic or a movie critic, please call Joey or Ash leigh at 1·4540 
-----· 
Thursday, October 2, 1997 
page 11 
emer kenny 
C1J1 C 1· K E N N Y 

Courtesy of Triloka Recordings 
~~7,"rt'r



Emer Kenny 
(out of five stars) 

E 
mer Kenny is a classically trained Irish 
harpist who studied at the College of Music, 
Dublin and Trinity College of Music, London. 
She began to play the harp at the age of nine. Her self-titled album is a mix of tradition Irish music and contemporary. The mixture, however, leaves the listener feeling somewhat lacking. The balance between old and new is not very well defined. The feeling of the album is almost new age with a twist of harp cords thrown in intermittently. While there are occasional bursts of traditional fare, such as on the third track of the album. it is masked by a beat that seems almost Spanish in rhythm. 
One of the most distinctive features of Emer Kenny's music is her voice. Kenny's voice makes every lyric into a deep throaty ethereal sigh. While it is haunting, oddly intimate and lonely at the same time, the ghostly whisper occasionally is difficult to understand. The words become difficult to follow, which is unfortunate since the songs have complex themes and engaging ideas. In addition, five of the album's 11 songs are sung in Gaelic. These songs are in fact the most engaging musically, with a mini­mum of new age sampling; without an understanding or a possibility of understanding of the meaning, the substance of the song is reduced. 
The album was produced by Grammy award-win­ner Jeffery Lesser. Lesser's production credentials include the world famous traditional Irish folk band The Chieftains, Sinead O'Connor, Lou Reed and Barbra Streisand. He is up to his usual par on this album and has drawn out Kenny's personal style. 
While the overall quality of the CD is high, it is unfortunately lacking in a sense of tradition that Kenny attempts to capture. It is lacking a feeling of a blend of two sounds, old and new, and is left with a feeling of one homogenized sound -new age international. 
by Dominic Caruso 


tranquility bass 

Courtesy of Caroline Records, Inc. 
~~


Let Tlze Freak Flag Fly 
(out of five stars) 

C
ombining ambient and '60s influences, 
Tranquility Bass has produced a partly enjoy­
able album, but one, however, which lacks 
anything to make it memorable. Things start off well with "Five Miles High," a relaxed, lush piece which introduces the listener to the easy mood of the album while at the same time presenting an open, almost choral sound. The second track carries on this theme and is the best on the album; sampled Indian women chant in perfect time to an electronic backing without sounding new age in a cheesy kind of way. The production values are solid throughout the album, but stand out here as evidence that much time has been spent at the mixing desk. 
Unfortunately things do not remain at this high level. "Soldier's Sweetheart" is a horrible ballad ill­suited to the rest of the album; sounding as if written for particularly sentimental seven-year-old girls, this fourth track breaks down the coherence of the first half of the album and prepares us for the mediocrity to follow. "We All Want to be Pree" is dull and ridden with cliches; its refrain, "let us be," is uninspired and obviously a product of the Spice Girls School of Songwriting. The title track is also forgettable, a meandering bout of nothingness which complements its immediate predecessor ''I'll Be Here", another song lacking enthusiasm. Everything is wrapped up by the strangely titled "Lichen me to Wyomin'," a song, as the singer announces, about his favorite state. Without meaning to be rude to the masses of Wyoming fans out there, if this were the type of thing being sung about your state then it may be best to move elsewhere or have all its musicians executed; any way to avoid the sheer dreadfulness of dire Hank 
Williams impersonations such as this should be found at all costs. Overall then, an average album with a ­
few bright spots and a larger number of dismal 
moments. Save your money. 
by Julian Elliott 


•aa 
Elliott Hall of Music (West Lafayette) 
Metro (Chicago) 
Riviera Theatre (Chicago) 
Metro (Chicago) 
House of Blues (Chicago) 
Park West (Chicago) 
House of Blues (Chicago) 
State Fair Coliseum (Detroit) 
Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) 
Roberts Stadium (Evansville) 
Metro (Chicago) 



5. Chumbawamba-Tubthumbing 
Counting Crows 
They Might Be Giants 
Grand Funk Railroad 
Teenage Fanclub 
The Radiators 

Steve Winwood 10,000 Maniacs 
Jane's Addiction Ratdog Beach Boys/Chicago Let's Go Bowling/Greenhouse Oct. 18 Oct. 18-19 Oct. 22 Oct. 25 Oct. 25 Oct. 29 Oct. 30 Nov. 4 Nov. 6 Nov. 9 Nov. 11 
1. 
Chisel-t You Free 

2. 
Radiohead-OK Computer 

3. 
Austin Powers-Soundtrack 4. Buck-0-Nine-Twenty-Eight Teeth 


5. 
Candy Machine-Tune International 

6. 
Jon Specer Blues Explosion-Controversial Negro . Catherine Wheel-Adam & Eve 

7. 
Cub-Mauler! . Teenage Fan Club-Songs From Northern Britain 

8. 
Guided By Voices-Mag Earwhig! 8. Oasis-Be Here Now 

9. 
Echo & The Bunnymen-Evergreen . The Sundays-Summertime 

10. 
Charlatans UK-Tellin' Stories 10. Morrissey-Maladjusted 


·---· 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 1997 
• Nfl 



Packers look to stuff Bucs 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 

GREEN BAY. Wis. 
The Green Bay Packers are in an unfamiliar position -look­ing up at the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who play at Lambeau Field on Sunday in the first big showdown in the NFC. 
Some pundits say Tampa's not for real. that ultimately they'll be this year's version of the 1996 Washington Redskins, who started 7-1 but missed the· playoffs. 
Or the 1995 St. Louis Rams, the last to win at Green Bay, who started 4-0 but finished 7­
9. 

After all, the Bucs have never won six straight. 
There are no skeptics in the Packers locker room, where nobody's trash talking Tampa, the only undefeated team in the NFC. 
"I think you have to judge a team on what they've done late­ly," coach Mike Holmgren said. "They have new ownership, new coach, new stadium, new uniforms .... " 
New results. 

And they're the new bully on the block, safety LeRoy Butler said. 
A loss to the Buccaneers (5-0) on Sunday would drop the struggling Packers (3-2) three games back in the NFC Central and force the champions to start thinking about defending their title as a wild card. 
-
"They're 5-0. so they're the best team in the conference to me," defensive tackle Santana Dotson said. 
"Right now, Tampa is the top dog on the block," agreed free safety Eugene Robinson said. "And who would have thunk it?" 
Several of his teammates, actually. 
"Tampa has always been real strong defensively," said Dotson, who used to play there. "This year, they're not turning the ball over and they've got a nice, consistent ground attack and they go deep every so often." 
Fifth-year cornerback Doug Evans said the Bucs have always had the talent. 
"To be honest, my first year here I realized they had good players on that team," he said. "They just weren't doing the things they needed to do to win ball games." 
Under coach Tony Dungy, that's all changed. 
The struggling Packers have a dual goal this week: decipher the Buccaneers and also diag­nose their own ills. They're mired in a month-long slump that has produced two losses and two more scares. 
The Packers are working through adjustment periods on both sides of the ball. The offense is still getting comfort­able with the ]-formation and the defense is adjusting to life without left cornerback Craig Newsome. 
They're out to get back on track Sunday while also knock­ing the upstart Bucs down a peg or two. 
"This will be a great game for us to bounce back," tight end Mark Chmura said. 
The Packers are even calling this a must-win contest, almost unthinkable a month ago that they'd say such a thing so soon in the season, if at all. 
''I've never played a non­must-win game," quarterback Brett Favre said. 
"This is a respect game for them and a status game for us," Butler said. "They're trying to show the world they're for real and we're trying to get our sta­tus back as world champs." 
"Everybody's got to look themselves in the face and decide how they want to approach the rest of the year," center Frank Winters said. "We got a lot of talent on this team. We just need to get some guys back healthy and get going." 
Robinson said maybe some attitudes need tweaking, but not the system. 
"Coach is not going to scrap his game plan. from an offen­sive viewpoint or a defensive viewpoint," he said. "It really comes down to execution." 
There is one big forthcoming change, however. 
Free agent linebacker Seth Joyner, who missed the first five games after undergoing arthro­scopic surgery, is expected to make his Packers debut on Sunday. 
The Packers are hoping Joyner is their miracle tonic. 
"Maybe I can bring some added leadership to the field to give the defense a spark, enthu­siasm, all those things that are kind of contagious," Joyner said. 
"The timing couldn't be bet­ter." 
•WNBA 

League grows with two new franchises 
ByJIM SUHR 
Associated Press Writer 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Detroit and Washington were awarded WNBA franchises on Wednesday, and now the two expansion clubs wait to see which one will probably get star ABL defector Nikki McCray. 
The additions give the WNBA 10 teams, with two other fran­chises to join in 1998. 
"We believe that the events of this summer demonstrate beyond a doubt the tremendous potential that exists for the future of the WN BA," league president Val Ackerman said. 
Nicknames and logos have not yet been chosen for the expan­sion franchises. The teams will be operated by the NBA"s Detroit Pistons and Washington Wizards. 
Detroit and Washington beat out Orlando, Fla. The franchises were granted on the condition they secure pledges for at least 3,000 season tickets before Nov. 10. 
The WNBA drew more than 1 million fans over the summer as the eight teams averaged 9,669 spectators a game. Ackerman said that was more than double the league's preseason projec­tions. 
If the NBA Board of Governors approves the expansion, the WNBA champion Houston Comets would switch to the five­team Western Conference, join­ing Los Angeles, Phoenix, Sacramento and Utah. 
The new teams would become part of the Eastern Conference with New York, Charlotte and Cleveland. 
"We're glad to be jumping on the bandwagon," Wizards presi­dent Susan O'Malley said in Washington. 
Added Pistons counterpart Tom Wilson: "It's a venture we're really excited about." 
Ackerman said it's still unclear how the two teams will be stocked, but an expansion draft is likely. She also said one of the expansion teams probably would get McCray, a 1996 Olympian who was the MVP of the ABL last season with the champion Columbus Quest. 
Detroit was one of the original markets targeted by the WNBA before its inaugural season, but officials with the Palace of Auburn Hills decided to wait and see how the league fared. 
"Things have been very easy for us," said Thompson. the No. 1 pick in the WNBA's first draft. "The city of Detroit should be very excited to have a team because it'll bring a lot of warmness to the city and fans." 
Washington also wanted to have one of the eight original franchises, but the league want­ed to wait until the MCl Arena in downtown Washington -to open Dec. 2 -was ready. Similar arena questions have kept the WNBA from placing franchises in Atlanta and Toronto. 
The ABL begins its second season Oct. 12. The WNBA begins its second season in the spring. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­

Classifieds silieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit ail classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR.  Buying GA"s seasons or individual  •••••• ATIENTION """  ELLEN, AMY, AND MOFFO ..  
NOTICES  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST.  TICKETS  games. Top dollar paid. Confidential service.  GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL-STU­DENTS. FACULTY &STAFF...  DON'T WORRY ITS JUST AIR!  
PHONE &COMPUTER EXPERI- Call 234-5650.  The ORIGINAL Student-Run Group  S. Lynette- 
THE PRIMROSE PATH BED &  ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR, 1-6  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  will hold General Meeting on Thurs.  I have your ten buck. No Worries!  
BREAKFAST-LOCATED 15 MIN­ M-F;  HOME GAMES.272-6551  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  10/2 at 8pm  You're the best.  
UTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS  9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O  FOR SALE  New members welcome.  Love  
OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL  BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND. IN  I have 2 GT GA's  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  Call Info-Line at 236-9661 for  C. Marie  
WEEKENDS. LOVELY HISTORIC  46634.  I want to either trade  EVENING #: 288-2726  details.  
INN. FULL ELEGANT BREAK- for 2 SC GA's or student tix  I did well on my linear test!  
FASTS. 4 GUEST ROOMS. A/C,  "Spring Break..."Take 2'"'  Or sell to best offer  NO TICKETS WANTED  4 days until sparing  wow. wonders never cease.  
CABLE TV. 2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.  Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  Call Pat (612)917-7955  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
$80·$1 00. CALL 616-695·6321  Hot destinations! Free Parties,  EVENING#: 288-2726  PREGNANT? If you are pregnant  SABOR LATINO making changes!  
Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800·426­ Wanted: ND Football Tickets  and considering your options, we  Try Outs for Horns, Vocals. Bass,  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­ FOR SALE  are a loving couple loooking to  Drums.  
LaFortune Student Center  2850  N.D. G.A.'S  adopt. Please call  Call Ed 277·6976 alter 5  
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  FOR RENT  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  271·9412.  1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM (expenses paid).  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  WANTED N D G A'S  who is this don antonio? he may  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  WALK TO CAMPUS  243 5609  TO ALL HOME GAMES  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  soon be no more because she does  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  2·5 BEDROOM HOMES  271 1526  LaFortune Student Center  not respond! what is a love strick·  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  $195/PERSON  Need 7 ND-SC tickets. Call collect  .J High-Speed Copies  en admirer to do? Tonight was the  
Phone 631-COPY  232·2595  after 5pm 219-324-3241  NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK.  ..J Canon Color Laser Copies  last blow: she goes with another  
800-243-9683.  .J Digital Color Printing  this weekend. and to add insult to  
Bed &Breakfast  4 USC GAs  .J Binding & Laminating  injury. i will have to watch the  
SAVE THIS AD  Have rooms for USC & Boston  703·590-937 4 lv msg  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  ..J Public Fax Service 631-FAXI  twirling couple from a lonely dis- 
Rooms left at our b-n-b for the USC  games. 1 mi. N. of campus.  GAMES AND LSU  Phone 631-COPY  lance. woe is me! looks like I wait­ 
..- game. Oct. 18th. Spacious rooms,  2 night min. 272-9260  Married stud tix for sale.  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  ed too long to ask. and now it is too  
less than 5mins. from campus. toll  4-4610 (even.)  melissa, why can't you ever make  late. nothing ventured nothing  
road and airport. Great for family.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  
 Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  up your mind.  gained, no?  
friends &relatives. Call today 277­ FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Wanted: USC GA"s for$$$$!!!  USC game. Call818-790·0094 or  resigning sadly,  
2388.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  Call Krista @ X0735  e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  Happy one-month birthday Sky!!!  don antonio  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  
ILOST & FOUND I  MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  NEED USC TIX REGULAR & STUDENT GAs  I Need 2 USC GA TIX -CALL BILL 4-4912  NO's biggest dance party EVER! This Friday in Stepan. WSND 88.9  Thanks for your wonderful advice, Mr. Business Sense.  
CALL JOHN AT 232·0431  fm's Retro 70's Dance. Free Food.  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  WANTED: 2 BC TJX. WILL TRADE  Free CO's. Free Admission. 8pm  We're looking for a bassist ... Here  
Lost: Diamond Necklace last  Breakfast Inn has space available  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  til Midnight. Be a part of history.  bassist ... Here bassist ... That's a  
Thursday at Jazzman's.  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  JOHN AT  good bassist. Call Jim if interested  
Reward. If found, please call  with private baths, $70-$90.  cash. Phone (318)752·1208 or  (415) 668·1391 BY 10/18.  02 Motorcycle Tool  in playing bass-x0677  
284·4350.  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  (318}747·8820.  *******************  
Toll Road. Exit #107,  WE HAVE USC GA'S FOR SALE  Every night when I come home.  Want some?  
1·800-418-9487.  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  CALL US:  to Siegfried, next to Knott,  
would appreciate anyone who finds  AVAILABLE  SUZY 634·4311  I pray that the Lady on the Dome  I"m gonna get you sucka!  
keys to room 308 to call x1862 If you find the little grit who stole  FOR SALE  CALL 271-7042  OR ELLEN 634-4308  provide a parking spot.  ""TASTE OF NATIONS""  
them, you can also call x1862  2 USC stud tix, $65 each, call  And Lo! Before my weary eyes,  Come sample tons of FREE FOOD  
Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ 44465  need five SC GAs for fam. call Matt  a single space unfurls,  from around the world at the 1997  
die mattress set and frame. New,  634-3313  A beacon under dreary skies,  Multicultural Exec Council's TASTE  
black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken  never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  2 Pitt GA tix: $100  untouched by boys &girls.  OF NATIONS. This Friday from  
at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre  219·862·2082  Call 287-0611  Need 1 USC GA  Bpm til Midnight at \he WSND 70's  
dame security  Prefer Converted Stu Ticket  But as I peer around the bend,  Retro Dance in Stepan. Look  
Clean House near campus!  NOTRE DAME  -call Holly. x2141  1 find to my dismay,  groovy, get free CO's and eat great  
746 Marquette ave $98,500  FOOTBALL TICKETS  A teeny, tiny motor bike  food ... all for FREE because we  
FOUND: Prescription glasses in  1 ,600 sq ft 3 bdrm, FM, 2 bath  BUY · SELL -TRADE  2 usc, 2 BC Tix For Sale.  is standing in my way'  Jove YOU!  
-'  LensCrafters black case. Found in grey CSC van. Turned into Security's lost & found. Call Kristen for more info. 1·8404  2car garage.alc call 287-6868 elec guitar. peavey w/ great case. $120. Call matt 4·2207.  232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC.  Best Offer. 243-5354 PERSONAL  And thus my hopes have vanished. Until the glorious day, When motorbikes are banished  MEC makes Tummies Happy. ""TASTE OF NATIONS"" Thanks for the strip, comic boy!  
BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ 02 Motorcycle Tool: YOU SUCK!!!!  
WANTED  Tl-82 graphing calculator. $40 matt 4-2207  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  I still need a date! crap, only 2 days left.  the panther is on the prowl  Wonderful-We'll be friends one day... Love, H.  

..------------­
Thursday, October 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Garnett re-signs with T'wolves 
ByRON LESKO 
Associared Press Wrirer 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Kevin Garnett agreed to terms Wednesday night on what could be the richest contract in pro­fessional sports history, a six­year deal with the Minnesota Timberwolves reportedly worth as much as $123 million. 
Garnett, the charismatic, sky's-the-limit forward who jumped from high school to the NBA two years ago and helped rescue one of the league's worst franchises, agreed to the con­tract extension just four hours before a midnight deadline. 
Shaquille O'Neal's $120 mil­lion. seven-year deal with the Lakers (a $17 million yearly average) is the most lucrative long-term contract ever. Garnett's almost certainly will far surpass that in terms of yearly average and also could eclipse it in total worth. 
The amount of the extension was shocking, but so was the prospect of the Wolves losing Garnett to free agency after this season. That would have been a real possibility if Garnett failed to sign before Wednesday night's deadline for offering extensions to players picked in the 'first round of the 1995 draft. 
"It lets you know the power KG has," teammate Doug West said. "I never thought the nego­tiations would be this steep, for this much money. But I'm glad something will be done and he'll be around." 
The Wolves have made it clear since early in Garnett's rookie season -they drafted him fifth overall out of Chicago's Farragut Academy -that he was the player around whom they would build their future. 
An agile ?-footer, Garnett 

became a starter midway through the 1995-96 season and developed enough last sea­son to make the All-Star game as an injury fill-in. He helped the young Wolves to a fran­chise-best 40-42 record and their first-ever playoff berth. 
Even though Houston swept the Wolves in three games, they had established themselves as one of the NBA's most promis­ing young teams. Most of that promise fell on Garnett's shoul­ders, although Minnesota's line­up also includes All-Star for­ward Tom Gugliotta and out­standing point guard Stephon Marbury. 
"The expectations are going to be big," West said. "I want to go further than just the playoffs now. I want to go to the next step. And I think (Garnett) real­izes the expectations that will be on him, and I guess he's will­ing to live up to them." 



$3.00 cover with I. D. at the door. 
XtreamZ Nightclub 1150 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend Ave. IN 46615 ***** *** * * ** * **** ***** * ** ***** * 21 9-283-0653****** ********** * ** ************ 
Eddy past LaFayette, right at Mishawaka Ave. Exit, at first light on right side . 
• 
Adrienne 

KeHyVant1v 
zy Penny 4-1467 Leslie Roberts Chris I Iahn 4-3768 
I-IAPPl:' TC1 .~t\NSvVER YOUR 1~BOUT llfE 48-HOUR URB 
IN 54 iCITIES, JANUi\ 
s are available front task fo1ce rnc1nbers rnnt desk and arc) belng,i.1ccepted until 
--l qlJ'..i' 
--I • 



C a II 1-800-878-3872 
www.att.com/college/np.html 
-



AT&T 
It's all within your reach. 
© 1997AT&T 

... 

page 15

Thursday, October 2, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
... 


Life's easier with 10¢ a minute, AT&T Call Organizer® and Student Advantage.,. It's all FREE just for being with AT&T. 
• 
10¢ A MINUTE-AT&T Simple Rates.,-on long distance calls from home to anywhere in the 

U.S. from 7pm-7am weekdays and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. 

• 
FREE AT&T CALL ORGANIZER: no more hassles-use your personalized code before you dial, and we'll tally your phone bill by roommate (up to 12 people per bill). 

• 
FREE STUDENT ADVANTAGE: get special offers and up to SO% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® and Amtrak: 


Al&l S.:nl~)i£' R1te.~ ,, .1\..lJI,lble to AT&T 1"C'ildent1.111ong dt,t.lnce ~ub'ScntJers. 1S subJeCt to IJtlling .lVatl,lllthtv and can't be combtned w1th any other domestiC Sdvtngs options. Thts plan .1bo ofle1 ~ r·.rte~ fo,-other t\'pe~ of C.llls on vour m,J1n-b1Hed .lCcow"II. c.JJI for det.JJb Enroll bv II /30/97. P1,1n 1s available until !2!31 /97 If AT&T S1mple Rates blllmg ISn't a\la1lable 1n \'Our ,11"{'.1. •OulllJe ('nrollt•d 111 thE> AT&T One f.?.,He Pl,ln 
live off campus? Get it all FREE with one easy call. 
C a II 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
-




AT&T

It's all within your reach. 
-----·----------------------------------------------­

~----------------------------------·-------­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 1997 
.. • NATIONAL lEAGUE PLAYOfFS 


Glavine stings 'Killer Bs,' Braves take a 2-0 lead 
National League Playoffs  
Atlanta vs. Houston Atlanta leads series 2 -0 Friday, Oct. 3 Atlanta (Smaltz 15-12) at Houston (Reynolds 9-1 0) Saturday, Oct. 4 Atlanta (Neagle 20-5) at Houston if necessary Sunday, Oct. 5 Atlanta at Houston if necessary San Francisco vs. Florida Florida leads series 2-0 Friday, Oct. 3 Florida (Fernandez 17-12) at San Francisco (Alvarez 4-3) Saturday, Oct. 4 Florida (Saunders 4-6) at San Francisco if necessary Sunday, Oct. 5 Florida at San Francisco if necessary  

C E N T E R 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 

ATLANTA 
This time, it wasn't close. 
In the first blowout between the teams this year, the Atlanta Braves took advantage of eight walks by Mike Hampton and again shut down "The Killer Bs," routing the Houston Astros 13-3 Wednesday to move within a victory of their sixth straight NL championship series. 
Hampton, who had only two walks in 17 innings during his final two starts of the regular 
Marlin win puts team one 
-
game away from first NLCS 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

New hero, same result. 
Moises Alou singled home the winning run with no outs in the ninth inning and the Florida Marlins -helped by a lucky bounce -beat the San Francisco Giants for the second game in a row with their final swing, 7-6 Wednesday. 
Hernandez was the victim again Wednesday, taking the loss. 
Gary Sheffield led off the bottom of the ninth with a single and stole second without a throw. Bobby Bonilla walked, and Alou -0-for-8 previously in the series -lined a single. Center fielder Dante Powell had a play at the plate, but his throw home hit the back side of the mound and bounced high in the air. 
Sheffield scored easily, and jumped into the arms of his jubilant teammates. The Giants scored an unearned run off 

Please Recycle The Observer 
Come Find Out More About the 


VCJ\93ACI't9?~Cl'\GCE 9?~0G~A~­
Informational Meeting 
Sunday, October 5th 
7:00pm 
season, walked four in the first four innings and got worse after getting two outs in the fifth. 
With the score 3-all, he threw 16 balls in an 18-pitch span, resulting in consecutive walks to Chipper Jones, Fred McGriff, Javy Lopez and Andruw Jones, forcing home the go-ahead run. Hampton, who threw only 38 strikes in 87 pitches, was replaced by Mike Magante, who gave up a two­run single to pinch-hitter Greg Colbrunn that made it 6-3. 
Atlanta added five runs in the sixth -four unearned ­
F 0 R 


SOCIAL CONCERNS 
closer Robb Nen to tie it at 6 in the ninth. Nen wound up as the winner. 
The Marlins took a 6-4 lead into the seventh. but three defensive misplays helped the Giants come back. 
San Francisco closed to within a run in the seventh. Jose Vizcaino's routine fly became a double when Sheffield mis­judged the ball, and Barry Bonds fol­lowed with an RBI double. 
Florida first baseman Jeff Conine bob­bled Darryl Hamilton's grounder to start the ninth. Hamilton took second on Stan Javier's single, and following a strike­out, Hamilton came around to score when second baseman Craig Counsell threw wildly to first trying for a game­ending double play on Bonds' slow grounder. 
Estes, making his first postseason start, allowed live runs on live hits and four walks in three innings. He was 9-0 during the regular season following a Giants defeat. 

FoR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CoNTACT RoDNEY T.CoHEN DIRECTOR OF URBAN PROGRAMMING & OUTREACH DEVELOPMENT UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
631-7949 
JAN PILARSKI JusTICE EDUCATIONAL CooRDINATOR SAINT MARY's CoLLEGE 
284-4512 
once again striking with two outs. Fred McGriff had an RBI single and two more scored when first baseman Jeff Bagwell let a high throw deflect off his glove for an error. Danny Bautista followed with a two-run single, though the inning mercifully ended for the Astros when he was thrown out trying to stretch it to a dou­ble. 
Craig Biggio, Derek Bell and Bagwell, the top three hitters in the Astros order, are a com­bined 1-for-25 with no RB!s in the series. 
Glavine, improving his post­season record to 8-9, threw a staggering 117 pitches through six innings, allowing all three runs and five hits. The Braves' bullpen got some work, with Mike Cather throwing two scoreless innings and Mark Wohlers finishing. 
Blauser, hitting .588 in his career against Ilampton, gave the Braves a 3-0 lead in the third with his fourth postsea­son homer. 
After pitcher Tom Glavine singled and Kenny Lofton walked, Blauser hit a 383-foot drive into the left-field seats despite a Wrigley Field-like 





Youeanget 

at our ATM! 
Just need a few bucks? 1st Source Bank has you covered. Check out our Resource Center ATM conve­niently located in the Hesburgh Library basement. 
Grab your funds quickly with no additionalfees ifyou have a1st Source Resource® orResource Plus® card Or you can use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
Other 1st Source locations-Saint Mary's Haggar College Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland, U.S. 23 at Iron­wood-dispense $lOs and $20s, so there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 

Your partners from the firsf"l 
Member FDIC 
wind sweeping across Turner Field. Houston tied it in the fourth, taking advantage of Glavine's wildness. 
Two walks set up Brian Ausmus for a two-run double, the ball sailing just beyond the glove of Ryan Klesko as he dove in the left-field corner. Ausmus scored on Hampton's hit to right. 
Atlanta opened the series by becoming the first team since 1 97 4 to win a postseason game with two hits. The Braves con­tinued to make full use of their hits in Game 2, piling up their 13 runs on 10 hits. 

-' 
---~~ ~------­

Thursday, October 2, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-

• AMERICAN lEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Orioles pound the Big Unit ·as Mariners take loss at Kingdo01e 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE 

The Baltimore Orioles proved their regular-season mastery over Randy Johnson was the real deaL This time. it was a big defeat for the Big Unit 
If they can beat Seattle's ace so easily, as Mike Mussina and his teammates did Wednesday night, the Mariners are serious jeopardy. 
The Orioles, wire-to-wire champions of the AL East, took advantage of Johnson's wild­ness to beat the 20-game win­ner 9-3 Wednesday night in the opener of their division series. 
Johnson lost for only the fifth time this season, three of them to Baltimore. Facing a lineup stacked with righties -Rafael Palmeiro, Roberto Alomar and 
B.J. Surhoff started on the bench -he fell to 3-8 overall against the Orioles. 
A crowd of 59,579. the largest ever to watch baseball at the Kingdome, saw Johnson's playoff flop last 100 pitches. In five innings, he gave up five runs on seven hits and four walks, with only three strikeouts. 
The Mariners have to be won­dering if the Orioles have their number. too. Cal Ripken, who linished the season in a 6-for­36 slump. had three hits as Baltimore improved to 8-4 against Seattle this year. 
Mussina improved his career record against the Mariners to 9-1 by beating Seattle the sec­ond time this season. 

Mussina, a 15-game winner this season, allowed five hits, including home runs by Edgar Martinez and Jay Buhner, in seven innings. He struck out nine and walked none in win­ning his first postseason game. 
Jesse Orosco and Armando Benitez finished the combined seven-hitter. Ken Griffey Jr. went 0-for-4 for Seattle, and Alex Rodriguez homered in the ninth. 
Geronimo Berroa and Chris Hoiles even stole some of Seattle's thunder by hitting home runs. The Mariners broke the Orioles' major league home run record with 264 this year. 
On Thursday, the Mariners will attempt to salvage a split at home. Seattle sends 17-game winner Jamie Moyer against Scott Erickson, who won 16 this season and was 2-0 against Seattle. 
The Orioles, with the best road record in the AL, broke a 1-1 tie with four runs in the fifth, ending Johnson's ill-fated night. 

Johnson began the fifth by walking Jeffrey Hammonds, who stole second and went to third on first baseman Paul Sorrento's throwing error, and Mike Bordick. 
Brady Anderson followed with an RBI single, Jeff Reboulet sacrificed and Eric Davis bounced a single over drawn-in third baseman Mike Blowers for a 4-1 lead. After Davis was eaught stealing, Berroa homered. 
In the sixth, the Orioles turned the game into a rout with four runs oft Mike Timlin, aequired on July 31 frqm Toronto to help Seattle's bullpen. Timlin helped the Orioles instead. 
Hoiles led off with a home run and Palmeiro followed with a double. Bordiek hit an RBI single and Surhoff delivered a pinch-double that scored two more runs. 
Bordick had an RBI double in the third for a 1-0 lead. Martinez tied it with a homer in the fourth. Buhner homered in the seventh. 
POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENT/ YALE UNIVERSITY 
1. Lecture: 
Electoral Competition, Political Violence and Democratization 
• Monday, October 6 • 12:15 pm • Hesburgh Center Auditorium (Peace Studies) • 
2. Lecture: 
Democracy as an Optimal Enforcement Mechanism for Power-Sharing Contracts 
• Monday, October 6 • 7:30pm • Hesburgh Center Auditorium (Peace Studies) • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 

American League Playoffs 

Baltimore vs. Seattle Baltimore leads the series 1 -0 Today Baltimore (Erickson 16-7) at Seattle (Moyer 17-5) Saturday, Oc~~ 4 W"'=:"'"~"~:?•·.·.............. ...~ Seattle .(~as~eroJ 6~9) ·~tBaltimore (Key 16-1 O)Sunday, Oct~. i;;;:::;E:-::·~:,;~;::t;i~~ • .. .·. ~ ~ · Seattle at Baltifil~r~:iftleGessary Monday, Oct. 6.. · " 'd,;;i ,:''>"~~":}\: ... H. Jrtk~idtl seattle.at:s-·· t~:;r~:~~c-ess~0Guif 
,;•' ,,.. :, >· .... r;'re"1v .. ~r.r::~~:~ 0 
TonightJ··'" . .·· .. .•. . :» '1~ Cleveland (Wrighi 8-.....at New}ork (~ettitte 18-7) Saturday, Oct. 4 .iLl'\ :!'~ ~··. '14 , New York (Wells~6:;;~0)at Clevela{lp)Nagy 15-1 0)Sunday, Oct. 5 ··<t::. > ~-:~ >­New York at Cleveland ifrYecessary Monday, Oct. 6 
C' 
New York at Cleveland if necessary 



l....e:ammg abour yourself, dc&linl with problmn. and growin1 witb lbe chan!FI in your life an: U:nponanr p&IU of the NoD"e Dame upent"nce The Professional Start of tha University Counseling Canter (UCC) inviles you lo consider joining a group 
FALL 
Personal Growlh Group!S) 
Tllol "CUJ <,..fiduual, lfOtiP II fOI' NII4CII.tl wllo wUI IO ..p ..... c 
!ben rclallontlllpl wull fellow 11YdCIIII, fncucll &IIIII faa11lic.a: •lllif 
-uld IIU lllc OptOOUIIJ 10 dtKOYCI K• '*IJI Of CDptnl '*ILl> 
d•frocull lnuc• ,.,,. 111c 1uppon of o,.., 11udnu. Group mcaben 
woiloJ&O 1£1111110 C-IIIUIIICIIIC li!Cit IICCdl -IC erfcCIIUIJ. 
MONDAYS. HIO·t U 
TUESDAYS. l JO.. tS 
WEOI'lESDAYS. U0-4 4S 
Alricau-AmcrluD Studtnla Support Group 
Tlltl ..ccklr cDIIfidc..•al I'""P 11 dao1ncd 10 pnJwttk 1 •"Pporun IIIYIIOifntnl ••uc AflltU·AIIICIICU IIMdCIIII CU 415~¥11 !Ofiu 
::::~~::...·::.:;..:.·~:·· .•·~:~:··.,,:ti,""::!a.~~::."·::r.•:::c~~·­
...d 1111;111 UIUCI Mc111bc11 IOIJ bcacfil fro. p...ocopetrDII Ill doc llr>upl bt lliiiiRI ICif·t•ln:HU, ICIIJIIIII lklll l>lllcll Ill 1uppono•c of •••u tDIIUIIt. ud leamrn1 f.-1mup oncoaben 
TUESDAYS, ll0-4 t) 
Trandcr Truultiont Group 
You·.c mMc IIW Bo1 Deer.,,.. M<l dec:<dcol 10 IBIIIfCJ 10 Nouc D...., and no• ...., .... lo..,uiJ 1 plu ~• boc:-1 ruliry Tlooayclf you II k maLo.•n1 new fricadt. Lc.,.,•l oboul ,._ Nurre D11ae •cullurc: ••d nciOUoll~l lie>• 10 ·n, ill" wbole &110 hcpo111 yout oodo ..du.locr. luuo 11111 H.,c,.crllllll wuklr coafidcnuol ouppon lrtrup lo doKuu 
rout 111110•111 CCiftecmt al>oul JOUI llaiiiii>UII wolll ollie,. who •110• 
'*h.. JOUIC IDII>I I~IOUib 
WEDNESDAYS,) )0· SOO 
Gudullt Therapy Group 

Th11 COII/lde.uol II'OIIP II lk11pcd fDI Jndll&la 11...S.1111 -...o -..1111 llh Ia oaplo~ ""'"'loa& .,..duo& pul<,.l.,. ~Pl'C"'I ,...., lo..c1 UMI wllo Willi! to luno 10 IIIO•o olload wulo t<ll-uok..,..do•& 111d 1n:u&r ,,..f14alou II It 1110 fOI' •ndowodYIII '*~0 llln npcnciiUd Rlaliconliol~ dlfrlnhjq 01 Iaiii lnd UC I<>O.IIIJ for lllpp<>n anill IIIIICIICifOI' COP'III IJid pet-al IIOWIIa 
Sludcn(l. upc:rrcnctlll ldJUIImUI 10 llldii"C "hoot UIIICCIIII 111 1110 ~~·~J Ia beaelu rra............, 
MONDAYS, l.J0-4 "' 

1997 
Crowl111 Up Ia Cb1o1 
Tlu.lcoalltlcunalllleropylf"Upb fotlodt•ldualtwbOIIC"'upon 
iloMcl ..... d;r-'<: IIIIICIL mcollf oiiDCII, abUIC. Ul!tlllt ponnt 
liddicu-Of UMI\111 f-tly Clll:UIIUIIIICCI hd I leiiiiYC ompiCI 
Mcabcn will u..., u opponutiiiJ 10 eaplurc bo• thoae dynmuct 
lur-e ..tJccled IMil Mlt..UcciO, n:IIIIIOIIJbopt •rtll DlbCU 111d 
""'"'"' lif• .u....... 
(T.-111 be atnliiJCCI Call ..., UCCI 
Eall111 h1111t1 Tberup7 Group 
Tlua cDIIrllk:allal co.pcnc•u 'II duo&n<d for womca ..~o aloudr arlnoll Iller hwc 1 prublc• ••ll. lllcrr rciiiiODIIIIp 10 fOG<! a...t •&ol 1uppon 
18 clr...c lllerr fubap, auuudct lad bell..•an 10 li•c bappocr, 
lultlucr h•e• 
TUESDAYS. Hl0-2CIIJ 
Cbro•lc: lllau1 Supporl Croup 
Tlrl.a ouppon ln>..P II ID< o1111ka11 .,bD...., dcaloa& wolb oomo •rpc of Cb!Valc UIDCII I.CJr 10 lwput, rhe1o111101d ..l/lntJI, d<lbC:tU Dr OlhCI'""I oarm ...cllcal prololc• Supponr•e co>UD1chn1 hill been found 10 Mlp llutknll tk1l Wttlo the IIICUCI wbo~h IIC OIICD IIIDCI"C~ '*1111 I clln,.IIC IIIIICU uad tloc fuhnp Dl IIObiiOD and (1\1511111\ID ,.hocb IIC COIIIIIIOII II aloo liN beu (D•.aol lhll 1wppor11•C tOUDIChn& onor help l•pnr"' DIICI mcd<ul cundrt.un IOICh u 1ma~un• luacuun ur bclp pn=•eo11 IIICU fr~~& wunuon1 ohe cnc~ocll problem 
Prl11111: Suu•l Orltnl•llon Support Group 
~~~te.~ou.,: ~~~~.';! ".,:;a;~:~··~~~.:~";;'~ht:;"~:;uafro_::n:~:, 0 n 
T"M '"'"' •ill piOYodo o nfc. dlimun1 cnWironmcnL fGf yo~ 10 oiLac:u~• potor l..tl~odual U ...u Ill JOUf uno•CB&I COIICtml on UluU IIICh 11 Nluao...U.opl. r..o~, an~ ~u· u·uau. pono>nol u•lllu>•l 111<111 tupr• 
-a. <kciaoona Mawo c""''"l "~' •·ld ~""I ou1, :~•~~•~ .,f.,hlr UUIIII..... CIC. If IIIICICI!td, COIIIICI Wudy 01 Kl"'a ~I 6JI·1Jl~ 
MONDAYS, ):)0 . t.~) 
FOR INFORMAnON AND HELP IN MAKING DECISIONS ABOUT GROUP PARnCIPAnON, CAU 631·73.36 OR STOP BY MONDAY-FRIDAY, 9:00·S:OO P.M. AT THE UNIVERSrJY COUNSfUNG CENTER CUCC), 3RD FLOOR OF THE UNIVERSfTV HEALTH SERVICES BUILDING. 
The Notre Dame African Students, Association & The Graduate Student Union 
Proudly Present PROFESSOR LEONARD WANTCHEKON 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 2, 1997 
-
• WOMEN's INTERHALL fOOTBALl 
Pasquerillas prepare for 


Walsh, Cavanaugh set to clash 
the East/West showdown 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS the top of women's interhall first half of this season. One Sports Writer football. of the main obstacles that they According to senior co-cap­hope to overcome is the 
One team is undefeated and tain Sara Morrill, by avoiding amount of penalties that they looking to maintain its the number one ranking, the have incurred in their first momentum. The other team is team doesn't have to deal with three games. recovering from a slight added pressure. While they have posted a 1­slump. What happens when "We were ranked number 1-1 record thus far, this these two teams play each one in past years and then week's practice focused on other? The only way to find had a downfall after that. turning things around. out is to watch Walsh battle Now that we aren't highly "We've learned a lot from Cavanaugh at 4 p.m. this ranked we haven't become our last game (loss to Lyons Sunday. overconfident and can just 12-6), and our planning to 
Walsh comes into its fourth focus on the game ahead," play a better game. We were game of the season with a 3-0 said Morrill. hurting ourselves in the other record. Despite its success, Cavanaugh, on the other games," stated junior nanker the team has quietly risen to hand, has struggled in the Megan McNally . 

that they have the utmost respect for each other, there is no denying the fact that these two teams are anxious to fight it out. 
"We have a lot of respect for them, but we're really looking forward to play them especially after losing to them last year 6­0," said PW co-captain junior Liz McKillop. 
While the squads have shared some competition over the past few years, this game is not one to miss. Both teams are coming 

• SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles control, beat North Park 
By MOLLY McVOY "Our intensity was constant commented, "We won yester­Sports Writer and that really helped. day because we came out Everyone worked together as from the start. We were play­
The Belles' luck at home a team and hopefully we can ing Belles volleyball -we continued on Tuesday carry that over to our next came out aggressive, high­against North Park game," noted sophomore spirited, determined, and University. Saint Mary's won Agnes Bill. stole all the momentum." 15-12, 13-15, 15-3, and 15-7 Overall, Bill led in the kill The Belles play Concordia in a fast-paced game. department with 17, while University today and hope to 
The Belles lost a little of freshman Megan Jardina make it three in a row with their intensity in the second helped tremendously with 44 another win. Belles coach game, and North Park assists. Coach Jennie Joyce Jennie Joyce has high expec­stepped up to win. However, said that aggressive serving tations for today's game. Saint Mary's rallied and was one of the keys to victo­"We are continuing to focus soundly defeated North Park ry, and sophomore Jayne on aggressive serving, pass­in the third and fourth Ozbolt held the key, serving ing, and our offensive sys­games. for 14 points with two aces. tems for our game against 
Saint Mary's ability to con­Tuesday's win raised their Concordia," she said. Saint trol the pace of the game record to 7-10 on the season Mary's next home game is on seemed to be critical in their and 3-1 at home. Oct. 6 against Bethel College win. Freshman Victoria Butcko at 7 p.m. 
Sunday, Oct. 12 2:30p.m. •Saint Mary's College ,.;., M.,,., c"""''~ Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium M8{;ff'Jk/ 
llcketsonsaleattheSaintMary'sCollegeBoxOIIicein J (l,~ THE ARTS ()'Laughlin Auditoriwn, open 9a.m.· 5p.m., Monday-Friday. ~ NOTRE DAME, IN 
Credit card orders phone 284-4626. 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS off of impressive shutout victo­Sports Writer ries this past weekend, in which the respective offenses dominat­
This Sunday's 2 p.m. game ed. will pit the top two teams in According to PW's quarter­women's interhall football back Elizabeth Plummer, this against each other. Not only will game is just as important as all the game of PE vs. PW showcase of the other ones. "We're not great offense and defense, but it worrying about the upcoming will also settle which of the~e game. It's a fun rivalry, but neighboring dorms is better. we're going to take it one step at 
While both teams clearly state a time," stated Plummer. 


Women's 
Volleyball 
Friday Oct. 3rd 7:00pm vs. St. Johns 
&

Sunday Oct. 5 2:00pm vs. Connecticut 



Women's Soccer 
Sunday Oct. 5 
2:00pm 



vs. Boston College 

Free admission to all students! 

Thursday, October 2, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Orson Wellc•s, Willie Mays, Rudolph Valentino, Bob Seger 
DEAR EUCENIA: I was born on Feb. 11, 1972, at 11:20 a.m. I need to know what to do with my life. It's sort of passing me by. What would I be good at> I just can't find my niche. More important: Is therl' a chance that I could win a lottery? What are tny lucky numbers? Willi ever be happy> 
Todd 
DEAR TODD: Your chart is in high gear where work, money and professional gains are concerned this year. You would do well in areas that deal with communications, research, radio, television, photography, cine­matography, computers, travel, enter­tainment. As you can see, the prob­lem is that you have too many possi­bilities. I suggest that you pick the one that interests you the most and start focusing. As for happiness, you create your own happiness. You need to start doing, and stop sitting and thinking about it. Life only passes you by if you let it. Your chart indi­cates that you are more likely to make your money through work. However, the possibility of winning a lottery is something one can never rule out. Your lucky numbers are 2, 5, 19, 16, 32 and 41. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Don't jump to conclusions before getting all 
the facts. You should bc• extremely careful while operating equipment. · TAURUS (April 21-May 21): 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
UH-OH. ALL OF TI-lE STUPID 
"THEY'RE. "TAKING TURNS 
Anger will mount if you fc-L'i that you're being takm for grantc•d. Think 

WE DON'T HAVE TO TM.E 
PEOPLE. '<OU\/E. INSULTED 
PUTTING OUR H05£ IN
Tl-115 ABUSE. LE.T'5 SEE ~ 
twice bl'fore taking action. 
GEMINI (May 22-June-21): Social 

HA.VE. FOR.I"\EO A. I'"IOB ANO 
THEIR MOUTHS. l THINK
HOW LONG HE CAN ~ 
events that involve colleagues may be

SURROUNDED OUR I-\OU5L TI-\E'!''R.E TR'{ING TO DRINK 
to your disadvantage. Don't cause

SURVIVE WITHOUT WATER! ~
. 
t..LL OF

1h'tTT----\ OUR Wft..TER.
r----'-'-... \ 

II 


V) 
55 N BAs N1ck Van-­56 Put up 58 Shock 60 BritiSh title 610K 63 List ender 64 Take--of absence 65 Schoolboy 66 Forswear 67 Enthusiastic response 68 Mag. staff 
DOWN 
1 Club, say 
2 Citation's 
jockey 3 Pearly: Var. 4 Sonoma 
neighbor 5 OK 



1 Book before Zephaniah: 
18 Disney head Abbr. 22 Soyuz 6 cosmonaut
aWorks at the ShoninMet 

25 Shakespearean
9 Word w1th iron 

play in two parts or bath 29 "Comprende?" 32 Superstore
example 

34 17-Across, for 11 Tittered example 
12 Dustin's 37 Suffix with pay "Agatha" 38 Little wrigglers co-star 
39 Assumed, with 13 Like "to" propaganda 40 Apport1on 
41 Surveyor's 51 Merges 
aSSIStant 53 Indemnify 44 Cotton or wool 57 Red-pencil 46 O.K 59"--Death" 48 Unnerve (Grieg work) 50 Fill up again. in 62 Point, in 
away law 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75<t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last so years 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
EUGENIA LAST 
-
friction or voice your opinions at 
work. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): Uncertainties regarding your home t.•n virorunen t will cause problctns when dealing with in-laws. Don't overspend on luxury items that aren't necessary. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): Pleasure trips will be surprisingly satisfactory. You will meet new and exciting fric•nds and romance will unfold. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Get busy completing hobbies that have be-en put on the back burner. Your cr<'­ative abilities will be at an all-time high. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You can have fun with your mate if vou plan an action-packed day. Outdtior sports will help you get rid of some of your frustrations and anxieties. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Be sure to get emJUgh rest. If you burn the candle at both ends, minor infec­tions and colds will set in. Catch up on n•ading and phone calls. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Your anger will get you in big trouble today. Minor injuries will occur if you involve yourself in competitive sports or take on too much physical work. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): You will make the wrong decisions emotionally. Carel~-ssnc-ss will lead to 
-
accidents whilt~ working around the house. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): Overexertion and negligence will be your worst enemies. Personal prob­lems may be hanging over your head but this is not the time to confront the situatitm. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Hon­c-sty will be of utmost importance. Do not fool vourself about vour financial position: Put money aside for unex­pected emergencic-s. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Whey-faced 4 Popular snack 
10 Durable transports. for short 
14 Proposal defeated Jn 1982 
15Howsome coffee"is served 16 Administer 
110K 
19 --cava 20 Outcasts 21 Indiana· 
Hoosier:· 
Nevada 23 Inca fortunes 24 Kyrgyz city 26 Most basic 27 61-Across. for 
example 
28 They may be seeded JO More than tubby 31 AutomatiC start 33---East 35 1989 Jack Lemmon film 36 Ep1tome of sharpness 39 Prone 42 Swear by, with "on" 43 Dump 45 Monomaniac, informally 47 McCurry. to Clinton 49 5-Down. for example 52 Office staple 54 London theater Old-­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

6 Stylish 
• 










SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, October 2, 1997 
• fOOTBALL 
Irish look for return of Getherall to speed up offense 
By JOE CAVATO groove. back so fast," Davie said. Assistant Spons Ediror With the continued inabili­"But. that's a positive thing, ty of the offense to put points we've kept an eye on him. 
After bursting onto the on the board or stretch the He's a young guy. and he scene in his first game ever opposing defense, wants to play so bad that he in an Irish uniform, Notre Getherall's 4.23 spend in the may not use good judge­Dame fans could not wait to 40 is something that the ment, but I think he is at see more of Joey Getherall. coaching staff needs to light full speed." Unfortunately, the fans have up the scoreboard. "When I come back I just had to wait as a sprained "He's a big play player want to help the team in any knee has kept the young and what he is is produc­way," Getherall said. 
• 
speedster sidelined for the tive," Davie said. "If you Considering the Irish have past three weeks which has watch him in practice, since not had a play-maker at the disappointed the freshman the first day we were looking wide receiver slot since after earning a start in his forward to watching him Derrick Mayes, Getherall has first collegiate game. play. Something good is been counted on to step up 

"Playing in the first game going to happpen with him for the Irish. But, the fresh­was one of the most memo­in the game." man does not feel any added rable moments in my life," The Irish definitely need pressure with his role. Getherall said. "Having to sit something good to happen in "There's definitely a lot of out has been real tough." the game as they are in the pressure on every single

• 
According to head eoach midst of a three game skid, football player," Getherall Bob Davie, Getherall's suf­the longest since Lou Holtz's said. "But the way I look at it fering is probably over. He lirst season in 1986. is not really pressure it is will likely see time this "Just being forced to just sort of an obligation. It's Saturday when the Irish watch the team play has my job and duty to help the travel to Stanford. been real difl'icult, and it's team however I can. That's 


While the receiving corps made me want to come back why I came here." of Bobby Brown, Malcolm as soon as possible," "I think he'll give us the Johnson and Haki Nelson Getherall said. same thing he did at the have developed into reliable Getherall's enthuasisrn is a start of the season," Davie targets for Hon Powlus, none plus, but Davie has been said. "He gives us a spark." have the pure threat of careful to make surn that he Hopefully for the Irish and speed Gethrall has. That is completely healthy and is Davie, Getherall can provide threat may be used to help not forcing the issue. spark that will start the fire open up the running attack "I was a little concerned to turn aroung their 1-3 which is still trying to lind its because he wanted to come start. 

-
• VOI..LEYBA!.l 

Freshman Boylan sets ND volleyball attack 
By BILL HART Spons Writer 
Last season, Notre Dame's volleyball team was forced to play without a true setter, due to many untimely injuries that forced players to take dual roles. 
When then-junior Carey May was forced to sit out the first 14 games of the season due to a shoulder injury, Jaimie Lee filled in for her at setter. despite having little experience at the position. "We gambled in 1996 by not having two true setters on the team," head coach Debbie Brown said. "We gambled and we lost." 
This year, the Irish have the flexibility of two very capable setters on its 1997 roster, May and freshman Denise Boylan. 
Boylan chose Notre Dame very early on in her career, contacting the coaches in the eighth grade before making an early verbal commitment in the spring of her sopho­more year. 
"I definitely knew that this was the place I wanted to go," Boylan said about her deci­sion, "Notre Dame is close to home. has a wonderful cam­pus and a good volleyball pro­gram. I saw firsthand from my sister what the recruiting process was like, and I want­ed to make sure that I chose early, bypassing all the has­sle." 
The only player on the U.S. Youth National team from 1994-96, she met and played alongside Mary Leffers, cur­rently a sophomore middle on the Irish squad. Last year, while leading her club to a 100-4 record, she was named the Gatorade National player of the year. among many other accolades she has received over the years. 
There has never been a shortage of athleticism in the Boylan family. Denise's father played basketball at Assumption College and in the American Basketball Association with the Kentucky Colonels, while her uncle was a member of Marquette's 1977 NCAA championship basketball team. Her sister Susan is a junior at Marquette and a middle on the Golden Eagles' volleyball squad. 
"My family had an impact on my life when I was growing up," Boylan remarked on that note. "I was always outside, setting the volleyball or shoot­ing the basketball." The two sisters were reunited in a recent volleyball match on Sept. 23, which the Irish won in three sets. 
"Denise has benefited from all her volleyball experi­ences," Brown said of Boylan. 
"It is very rare to have some­one who is 6-1 as your setter -that will bring a different dimension for us at that posi­tion, as well as a boost to our blocking." 
"She definitely Jives up to the expectations that others set for her as well as the ones she sets for herself," junior middle Lindsey Treadwell commented. "I've never played with a setter that tall, but when the sets she gives out are used properly, it's an great offensive weapon." 
Being the first freshman to start as a setter since 1988, Boylan has found running a Division I offense comparable to when she played for a club team, "During my years in high school," she said, "I served as a middle blocker, but I was a setter for my club team, and overall, it is about the same." 
"Running a Division I offense is very challenging," Brown said, "but I'm sure that Denise and Carey will learn from each other while also benefiting from their competi­tion. 
"Denise is a very natural leader, an outgoing person and true competitor who has high expectations of herself. That summarizes the attribut­es of so many of our players, which is why we are so excit­ed for this season." 
The first freshman since 1988 to start as a setter, become a leader for the Irish offense . 

at Stanford, October 4, 2:30 p.m. 
vs. St. John's 
• Women's Interhall Football previews October 3, 7 p.m. 

vs. Boston College, 
see page 18 October 5, I p.m. 
, Volleyball at Concordia, • MLB Playoffs Today, 7 p.m.
&·~. at SMU, 

see pages 16-1 7 \ ::r"" October 3, 7:30 p.m . 
.. 




