
Wednesday, Aprill6, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 126 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMC President Hickey defers 'Alliance' recognition 
Editor's Note: At Hickey and student bofJf!I.T<Ire~;tae'rtl 
following letter has been 
DearJen, 
I have read with interestith~ ~Hide$ ort the "Alliance" that appeared in recent issues of the stu­
dent newspaper, The Obsetv~r;  offi  ·  f  
the organization, "The Alliance o  
Straight and Questioning ~g College," prompted me t(),ga,  
material {including Board (}~  
which would assist me in urtd  
pose, goals, and place of this pewlife ofthis college community ·  
I now have completed,  . .  ..• . .  N  
to indicate that I have· deci  .. ·  .  officia.J.  

nition of the organization atthistime. It iS unpor,~ant to state, however, that I arn in ¢9:tllplete 4:gr~~l:r;@1t with BOG in recognizing the signilldant issu;esraised by the "Alliance" intheir prep~r aterials. .···•' 
In fact, the issues of se~U }attgps,Q:ipsv insight to be gained from. Catholic teachirigs; and a host of related questions led me to ~stabli!)h; a1Jilpst a year ago; a Committee on Rela,tiopshtps. This corn~ mittee was charged with the development of l'm agenda which would define wa · . hie~ ;ple1U}>flrs of the College community coilld ,, er to· operuy··and broadly dialogue about these.issues; 
Taking a nasty spill ... 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
A man walking on South Quad tripped on a small rise in the pavement and fell to the ground yesterday at about 1 :30 p.m. He had minor injuries to his knees, knuckles, chin and lip. Notre Dame's Security Police came quickly to the scene, just a few feet from Knights of Columbus Hall, and gave him on-site treatment. He was taken in an ambulance to St. Joseph's Medical Center for further treatment. 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
President Hickey released a statement yesterday to stu­dent body president Jen Turbiak, indicating his decision to defer official club recognition on The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's 

Hickey 
College. 

This decision came in response to last week's Board of Goverance (BOG) meet­ing which granted club recognition to The Alliance. 
After reviewing all material pertaining to The Alliance, Hickey, in his letter to Turbiak, stated that "I have decided to defer official recognition of the organi­zation at this time. It is important to state, however, that I am in complete agreement with BOG in recognizing the 
significant issues raised by The Alliance in their proposed materials." 
According to the Saint Mary's College Student Han.dbook and Calendar, BOG may recognize or support any group, club, or organization that respects the Catholic tradition, the Mission of Saint Mary's College, and the philosophy of the Division of Student Affairs. The decision by BOG to confer recognition of a group, club, or organization will be made after review of the application material submitted to the Office of Student Activities. 
According to Turbiak, Hickey will make the decision on 
see ALLIANCE I page 4 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 



Council discusses funds, Saferide 
By SEAN SMITH 
News Writer 
Kevin Cannon, director of Student Residences, addressed the newly elected members of Hall Presidents' Council last night to inform them on how to obtain matching funds next year through the Office of Student Residences. 
Cannon's office will match two-thirds of any dorm's funds, but only up to $1000 per dorm. 
Dorms can individually decide how they want to spend the matching funds, but there are some catches. 
Any dorm purchases must go through the Purchasing Department before they are even considered by Student Residences. This allows Notre Dame to purchase merchandise free from taxes and save the dorms money by purchasing orders in bulk. 
To be eligible for matching funds, the dorms must put their money towards permanent objects that will benefit all mem­bers of the dorms for years to come. 
"What will be approved is any­thing in social or study areas that is of a permanent nature," Cannon said. 
In order to avoid the hassles of having all dorms request match­ing funds at the very end of the year, all female dorms will be required to submit orders to the from off-campus locations back Purchasing Department between to dorms. The directors of the Sept. 15 and Oct. 31, and all program is asking dorms to male dorms between Oct. 20 and sponsor the program for one Nov. 28. night during the fall this year. 



In other HPC news: • Schedules of times and 
• Saferide, the Student Union places for all of An Tostal's sponsored designated driver events will be placed under the program, is asking for volun­door of each room in all of the teers to help transport students dorms 

University introduces new identification cards this fall 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
Retooled and expanded student identifi­cation cards will be ready for use upon commencement of the fall 1997 semester, according to yesterday's official University announcement. 
Following a trend set by several states in redesigning driver's licenses, the pho­tographs will be video images, printed directly onto the card, as opposed to !ami­
nation. 

'The signature is also going to be digi­tized, then printed on the card," said Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services. "It'll be much crisper-looking." 
The images will be permanently stored in the databases, Prentkowski explained, making them almost immediately accessi­ble in the event of an emergency. 
"The student will only need to go to a manufacturing station on campus, and a new card can be made quickly and easi­ly," he stated. 
Thus far, the Registrar's Office, Human Resources, and Notre Dame Security are the locations definitely slated to house such terminals. ­
Initially, few real changes affecting the entire student body will be made in the card's day-to-day function. Welsh and McGlinn Halls, opening in fall 1997, oper­ate with a detex system similar to that present in most female dorms, but using the new ID card instead of a separate one. "Other dorms will probably convert to this system in the future," Prentkowski theorized. 
"Campus computer clusters will activate a swipe system, as well, instead of the student giving up his or her card when they want to work," he added. 
During the week of April 28 to May 2, photos of students, faculty, and staff will be taken for the new cards from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m., with locations to be announced closer to the actual date. 


----------------~ ---------~-----------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
• INSIDE CO!.UMN 

Of golf carts 

and nosebleeds 
Some people can dish it out, but they just can't David Freddoso take it. News Copy Ediror 
I have always had a great deal of respect for the traditions of Alumni Hall. I hadn't seen anything quite like the Wake before last year. I think that more dorms should have similar traditions. 
But Alumni Hall had better wake her dead, because the living have gone whiny. 
This year, as usual, the Wake procession made an elongated stop outside of Zahm Hall (a dorm which I despise, just like everyone else). As they blocked the sidewalk outside of the much-maligned dorm, chanting in unison something which cannot be printed here, a lone Zahm hero, Hector of the shining helmet, was returning from work in his golf cart. 
Naturally, when he saw the mob outside of his own dear residence hall, there was only one thing for him to do. Like Moses parting the Red Sea, he drove his golf cart through the midst of the Hounds of Hell. 
The Dawgs attacked him, as he should have expected, hitting him and leaving bruises and cigarette burns on his chin and neck (not all smokers are good people). But our Hector of the shining golf cart passed through from amongst the grim-faced sons of the Achaeans, and went on his merry way. 
Hector, the god-like son of Priam, had planned to let it go as all in good fun. Unfortunately for him, some of these Dawgs began to whimper. 
Don't get me wrong, because I feel bad for the Dawg who was knocked over in a valiant attempt to stop the shining golf cart. But apparently, although he was not hurt, he is taking his case to Student Affairs. 
Maybe we should get the NO Security Police to protect the Wake procession next year. 
Some of the poor Poodles also got nose­bleeds (!) in the incident, and they are press­ing charges against Hector and his shining golf cart. 
I may be wrong, but I'd think nosebleeds would be more likely caused by running around naked in freezing weather with a blood alcohol level higher than Lou Gehrig's lifetime batting average. 
But hey, who am I to judge? 
In any case, it's probably a dumb idea for them to press charges, because they will end up in the pound when Student Affairs asks what the bad Dawgie in the picture in Monday's Observer was doing holding his cigar so close to Hector's face. 
But as Alumni's rector is reported to have said, "Justice will be served!" 
Now, if they had just decided to get him back, even if all that meant was sending him lots of e-mail bombs so that his program would crash, at least the Dawgs could have preserved their manhood. Instead, they are disgracing what is probably the best dorm tradition on campus. 
After all, how can the Dawgs dare make fun of Zahm if they become mama Patty's boys? How can they wreak havoc on campus if they blow the whistle on anyone else who tries? 
By the way, my e-mail address is dfreddos@darwin.helios.nd.edu. Feel free to send complaints, death threats, and small­sized Urdu dictionaries, if you like. 
Or are you going to take me to Student Affairs, too? 
If convicted, Hector will be requested to suggest his own punishment. I advise that he do as Socrates did, and ask to suffer a free meal plan for the remainder of his days at Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Tomw's STAFF 
News Production Matt Loughran John Hutchinson Laura Perelle Matt Loughran Sports Laura Petelle Mike Day Lab Tech Accent 
Michelle Sweet Megan Ferstenfeld Graphics Ashleigh Thompson Melissa Weber 

• WORlD AT AGLANCE 
Investigators bring in "fresh eyes" in search for missing jet 
·· ·=~~l~~\:· ·,.;,·,·;:=·:~,~~-¥fJir!:~' :ltff:-t<> 
Search sites ofthe mlssing'A-10 Thunderbolt Air Force plane WYO. NEB. 
0 NEV. i UTAH Salt Lai<G City :r.n 0 Denver 

Radar and Vall sighting Y.. Aspen 
ontrose~· 
. ' 

l•••i I Eagle
I of' CountyV" I,. WHITE RIVER ," I\ ··,NATIONAL·,


• i ·-.,.,_';0., Avon_;FOAES.T : Vallj
IEcma;~s' 6=~~\~:;,;,,~~~;r,>, ,~-· , 
, ·~ ''"\ l!agle : 

~ Young ./ NM i~·: HOLY cRos~•er i 
{3 ARIZONA , Theodore ' ·t . WILDERNESS ~ '
4

y.. Roosevelt i .-. ; _.· ·· \.. Phoenix"" , ·.. Lake I .• "-:Midflle!.. . . . : .. \ ; 
'-'11 ' . I ' . . l..i
) Superstition 1 .. ·. . 1 Ll ~ • .·· ~ 1·· New York.'./ ( . j

.· ... ·' 3~~:~, , ....,. .. l. ?:::·::·:::::.: ·I· 
Woodland Tra~ ?r road. ·· ··<=J, ..-... •••N-~"• 
• •••••••••'Ooo••;......-.c;._•• ~ 
Reeve wins star on Walk of Fame 
LOS ANGELES 

Christopher Reeve hopes one day to visit the Hollywood Walk of Fame and stand in front of the star unveiled Tuesday in his honor. Reeve, who is nursing a broken arm suffered when two attendants dropped him, appeared with his wife, Dana, and son, Will, at the emotional ceremony attended by about 400 fans. "If we keep giving our 


scientists the funds they need for research, I will take my family by the hand and I will stand here in front of my star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame," Reeve said. ''I'm very thrilled to be here. After what happened to me two years ago, I'm thrilled to be anywhere. My son, Will, is thrilled also. Who knew I'd ever get this close to Big Bird?" Reeve said of his star's proximity to a star for Big Bird from "Sesame Street." A group of fans of Reeve's 1980 lilm "Somewhere in Time," in which he was a lovestuck time-traveler, raised the $7,500 to get Reeve the star after the "Superman" actor was paralyzed in a horse-riding accident. Sponsors who recommend celebrities to get stars must pick up the tab. 
Fish hospital full to the gills 
HOEVELAKEN, Netherlands 

Struggling against the currents of life? Feeling a little green around the gills? Then this is the place for you -if you're a fish. The patients never leave the pool at an unusual "fish hospital" set up by veterinarian Mario BJorn in Hoevelaken, 40 miles southeast of Amsterdam. "We get phone calls and faxes every day, but I only take the most serious cases," BJorn told the daily De Telegraaf. "We're going to dig special pools out in the garden so we can admit more patients." Though Blom takes care of all kinds of pet fish, most of his charges are the expensive and long-lived Japanese koi that many Dutch keep in small garden pools. The medical bill: $13 for the first day and $5 per day thereafter. Blom slaps some with salve, injects others with medicine and even performs microsurgery to repair tattered fins. The conta­gious are confined to the 50 or so aquaria that line the walls of the clinic. And BJorn is as happy as, well, a clam. 



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 16. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather•.rorecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Wednesday ~4\ Thursday
! 

Friday ~ il!fr;t8!111:;32 Saturd~y -(f , , . ,·· '!;:,37 
~....a...a....~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L


suntJ~~Y ~(J''"Sr ~2 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~...5"''-"\x··"'', ..... /..-,.._,r: Via Associ/lied Press 
Helicopter plunges into East River 
NEW YORK 

A corporate helicopter with four people aboard crashed into the East River off midtown Manhattan seconds after takeoff Tuesday, killing one person and critically injuring at least one other. Two pilots and two passengers were on board when the chopper went down just north of the 59th Street Bridge. The pilots escaped on their own, while the passengers were pulled from the water by divers. "It appears the tail rotor came off, for whatever reason," Police Commissioner Howard Safir said. Police did not identify the victims, but said the chopper was owned by the Colgate-Palmolive Co. and was on its way to White Plains after dropping off two passengers from Piscataway, N.J. The helicopter crashed about 30 sec­onds after taking off at 5:35 p.m. and was submerged, said Arthur Berkowitz, spokesman for the 60th Street Heliport. Raymond Sarno was on a walkway at nearby New York Hospital when he saw the crash. He said the helicopter "hovered for a second and then it went over. We heard a loud bang like an explosion." The chopper, a BK 117, is a twin-engine helicopter built by a German­J~panese consortium, MBB-Kawasaki. It is widely used as a corporate and medical transport aircraft. 
Life sentence for lover's sister's killer 
DEDHAM, Mass. 

A man who fatally shot his ex-girlfriend's look-alike sis­ter was convicted of first-degree murder Tuesday and sentenced to life in prison. A jury convicted John Anthony Diaz of killing 25-year-old Dawn Brown on July 10, 1993, at a bridal shower for her sister, his former girlfriend, Kimberlee. Prosecutors said he planned to kill Kimberlee but made a crucial mistake. As he jumped from behind a tree outside her parents' home on July 10, 1993, he acci­dentally shot and killed her sister. Both have blond hair and blue eyes and looked so much alike that people got them confused. ''I'm thinking that justice has been served and that my sister can rest in peace," Kimber lee Brown Goldstein said outside court after the sentencing. When Kimber lee Brown left him, "he didn't know how to deal with it. He blamed her family for the breakup. He hated himself, wanted to be someone else," his attorney, Henry 
F. Owens III, said Gen. Frank Campbell. "We are asking them to take all of the evidence we've seen and ana­lyze it anew." 
Capt. Mike Richmond called the team "a fresh set of eyes" and said plans were to "give them a mountain of evidence and step away." 
Investigators also planned to re-interview local witnesses, and take one witness back to the mountain area where he had reported seeing a glow nearly two weeks ago. 
When asked about conspira­cy theories that Button stole the plane for an attack to coin­cide with the anniversary of the Oklahoma City bombing, 2nd Lt. Keith Shepherd rolled his eyes. 
"Right now the prime focus is finding the plane and the pilot," he said. "Until that point, we're not going to specu­late on any such rumors." 
Viewpoint Tara Churik 

q,~,~p~Q~~u
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 

Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Via AssQciated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta  so  4S  Los Angeles 77  55  New Orleans 70  51  
Boston  so  46  Madison  50  23  New York  55  48  
Casselberry  79  60  Miami  80  S9  Phoenix  88  63  
Chicago  48  28  Mianus  55  48  St. Louis  55  31  
Denver  76  36  Minneapolis  54  24  Woodbine  53  50  


~~-----­
Wednesday, Aprill6, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Saint Mary's smoking survey sparks debate 
!RecYcle The ObserverI ~~~~mes ~,:,:u,~=~~~~~.d~cid~=,~~~r 

By ERIKA WITTORF ~ 
News Writer 
Last night, the Saint Mary's College Board of Governance sponsored a forum to discuss the recent ban on halogen lamps and the addition of two non-smoking floors. 
"I was hoping that we would find a consensus about the current smok­ing policy. What we learned is that most students feel very strongly about this subject and· want to make sure their rights are not infringed upon. I'm not sure our results indi­cate an overwhelming desire to change the current policy," Katherine Rosswurm, housing coor­dinator, expressed in a letter to stu­dents. 
That concern was expressed by the students in attendance last night at the forum. The purpose of the open meeting was to discuss several issues related to smoking: health, social freedom, and safety. 
Last night's forum was called not to formulate a decision but rather to solicit opinions from students on the policies that were recently enacted by the department of Residence Life. The new policies include the addi­tion of two non-smoking floors to campus -the second floors of LeMans and McCandless -and the prohibition of halogen lamps in the residence halls. 
Health issues related to smoking were central to the evening's discus­sion. 
"I take care of people that have suffered health problems from sec­ond hand smoke. For instance, I take care of an old man who has never. smoked a cigarette in his life and he has suffered the effects of an individ­ual who would have smoked," a nursing student stated. 
Social freedom conflicted greatly with the issue of health. 
"We try not to take away the social freedom of our students," stated Suzie Orr, director of Residence Life. 
Last semester, students voiced their opinions in surveys regarding the smoking situation on campus. The surveys were coordinated by a Residence Life committee concerned with the issue. Of those that partici­pated, 13 percent were smokers and 87 percent were non-smokers. 

Reflecting survey results, several students indicated that while some feel the need to exert their social freedom by smoking, they often don't realize that they infringe on others' freedom to live healthy lives. 
"Every time I go down to the base­ment lounge in LeMans and get a Coke or do my laundry, everything smells like smoke," said junior Meg Winkler. 
The safety issue pertaining to halo­gen lamps was also debated. Gretchen Fink quoted a statistic that halogen lamps were the fifth leading cause of domestic fires. She added that smoking was the leading cause of domestic fires. 
Orr responded as to why smoking was not banned, even though it is the leading cause of domestic fires. 
"We felt that we could not prohibit smoking because it would have been more reasonable to prohibit halogen lamps than smoking because smok­ing is a way of life," she stated. 


(May 15-20, 1997) 
Need a place for your family to stay? 
Try Sacred Heart's Parish Center. 
(St. Joseph Hall on campus.) We set a $40.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631 ~ 7512 
THE 

OPY 

LaFortune Student Center 
We're open late so your copy order will 
be completed on time! 
...

Mon. -Thur.: 7:30am to Midnight Fri.: 7:30am to 7:00pm Sat.: Noon to 6:00pm Sun.: Noon to Midnight 
Most orders delivered by 
9:00 a.m. the next weekday 
Call 631-COPY<631-2679) for 
Free Pick-Up & Delivery to University Departments 




HO,P 
Scott Mainwaring, chair and Eugene and Helen Conley pro­fessor of government and inter­national studies at Notre Dame, will become the new director of the University's Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, according to Nathan Hatch, the University's provost. 
The Kellogg Institute, a center of comparative international studies with a special focus on Latin America, has been cited as the foremost Latin American research center in the world. The Institute has helped to shape the policies of political, economic and social liberaliza­tion now at work in the region, and its faculty fellows have included the principal architects 
r-------------------~ 
I Your source for the best in theological I 
I I
and philosophical books­

1 
1

1 we can special order any book you need! 1 
: Spring Reading Sale! : 
I I I I I I I I I I I THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 I I 237 N. Michigan St., downtown South Bend I I (at the corner ofMichigan and LaSalle): I I Open 10-5, Monday-Friday (closed 4/24 & 4125) 1 
~-------------------~ 
brazilian President Fernando "Foremost among the factors Henrique Cardoso, former that distinguish the Kellog Chilean Minister of Finance Institute is the prominence of its Alejandro Foxley, and numer-scholarship in studies ranging ous other scholars and govern-from democratization and eco­ment ministers. nomic liberalization to labor 
. Mainwaring will succeed the issues and the role of the Institute's two founding direc-Catholic Church in Latin tors, who are retiring from America," Hatch said in those roles. Fr. Ernest Bartell, announcing Mainwaring's professor of economics, appointment. "Scott Mainwaring assumed the executive director-reflects these strengths superbly ship of the Institute at its estab-in his own scholarship and is lishment in 1981 and Guillermo ideally suited to lead the O'Donnell, professor of govern-Institute." ment, became the Institute's 



LASALLE BOOKSTORE 

~ ~--------~----~~-­
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
any way we can," said Turbiak.

Faculty discuss alcohol Alliance 
The Alliance strives to provide a safe envi­
and 'problem drinking' 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
In an attempt to spread its message through the campus community, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education sponsored a faculty discussion yesterday about alcoholism. 
"Some people don't even think about it," said Gina Poggione, coordinator of alco­hol and drug education. "But those people who live with it or with someone who is affected by it live with it everyday. If you are dealing with an alco­holic in your life, whoever you are, you are not alone." 
Poggione began by describing the differences between a prob­lem drinker and an alcoholic. 
"With a problem drinker, when they drink, bad things happen. Their actions have consequences that negatively affect them," Poggione said. "The alcoholic has a physiologi­cal dependency and a loss of control." 
She noted that alcoholics might not have problems every time they drink, but that even an occasional feeling of depen­dency can signal a problem. 
Kelly Landry, assistant coor­dinator of alcohol and drug 
· education, said that many peo­ple can mask the signs of alco­holism, but that even those signs can be quite different for everyone. 'There are many people who use and abuse alcohol and many of them are very high functioning," she said. "There is not a typical person who fits the stereotype, but if drinking is getting in the way of things that should be more important, like health, work and relation­ships, then alcohol could be a problem." The pair then discussed the genetic component of alco­holism, saying that "it is the only indicator we can really rely on." They said that genet­ics seems to play a part in alco­holic tendencies in families, especially affecting sons, daughters and same-sex sib­lings of alcoholics. Alcoholism can also skip a generation and could be attributed to environ­mental effects. "If a father is an alcoholic, his son, who might have a gene for alcoholism, might stay away from alcohol because of the effects he saw in his environ-
TEACH ENGLISH in 
EASTERN EUROP 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 
How would you like to <each basic com_lersation:•ll English in Eastern Eurol?e? Our mate~l:Js p~ofile many rewarding teachmg opponumnes wath great benefits. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 

ment. But that man's son, who 
hasn't seen the effects, might 
be more prone to try alcohol 
and become an addict," 
Poggione said. 
The drinker's friends and family are often affected emo­tionally, physically, and socially by alcoholism, according Landry and Poggione, and they must participate in a con­frontation in order to help their loved one. These people must ask themselves if they are unconsciously allowing the drinking to continue though covering up for the drinker's actions. 
"It's a huge systematic approach, [helping someone with a problem]. Drinking does not only affect the drinker. [Loved ones] have to ask, 'What am I doing that allows this to continue?'" Poggione said. 
Landry then discussed ways to confront a person who might have a problem, re-naming the situation a "care-frontation" to focus on its goal of aid. 
"There are specific ways to confront, but people have to remember that we, as a species, don't take criticism well," she said. 
Redbud Fine Art Workshop May 19-31, 1997 3 Credit Courses 
Cost: $850 (Tuition and Room/Board) 
Field Biology --FULL Papermaking Ceramics Sculpture 

SMC Department ofArt Call Now: 284-4655 or 284-4631 
Deadline: Friday~ May 2 

continued from page 1 
this matter by the end of the academic year, 
and will not leave the issue to be settled for the 
incoming president, Marilou Eldred. 
The matter will be presented to the Committee on Relationships of the Board of Trustees at this Friday's meeting, along with the purpose of The Alliance, as stated in the organization's constitution, the research team report, the student handbook guidelines and procedures for recognizing a student club or organization, the articles from The Observer, and the letter from President Hickey. 
"It was and is my desire to have these issues recognized and supported as important ones at the institutional level which led me to my pre­sent decision. 
"The Committee on Relationships has been asked to review The Alliance materials and to advise me as to whether the agenda and fora they envision will, in fact. address the concerns as outlined in The Alliance materials. My final decision on ronment for students dealing with issues regarding sexuality, and aims to grant students a physical space with a welcoming atmosphere to hold discussions on sexuality. 
"The Alliance plans to cooperate fully with President Hickey in assisting him with finding answers to any questions he may have," said Carol Jones, one of the founding members of The Alliance. 
The Alliance first proposed its constitution at the March 3 BOG meeting, and was tabled until the March 19 meeting. At the second meeting, BOG memebers formed an internal research team to seek out unbiased information to edu­cate the members of BOG to ensure an informed decision on the question of official recognition of The Alliance. 
"I applaud the student initiatives that have been taken to produce meaningful conversation on campus about relationships, and I also com­mend the Board for the seriousness with which [they] constantly address very crucial issues," stated Hickey. 
whether a specific student organization in this area would enhance such campus-wide 
Campus View Apartments 
dialogues will be heavily influ­
We are now taking applications for 

-furnished apartments -shuttle bus
enced by their recommenda­
tions," Hickey stated. 
-central air -24 hour laundry
NEXT YEAR!! 

"We stand behind our deci­
sion to recognize The Alliance •Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts  
as an official student organiza­•FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS 
tion, and have made ourselves  
available to President Hickey  Apartments Available for your selection  
and the Committee on Relationships to help them in  For more information, call272-1441  
Summer leases Available  

The Pro2ram in Middle East Studies 
Presents 


Dr. Margot Badran 
Visiting Scholar, Center for Middle East Studies· University of Chicago 
speaking on: 

..Gender1' Culture and ModernitY in Islam.. 




Wednesday, April 16, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 






Hundreds of pilgrims die in fire and stampedes 
Associated Press 
MINA, Saudi Arabia 

Fires driven by high winds tore through a sprawling, over­crowded tent city Tuesday, trapping and killing pilgrims gathered for a sacred Islamic ritual. The official death toll was 217, but witnesses said at least 300 died. 
Saudi Arabia said more than 

1,290 pilgrims were injured in 
the fire, which witnesses 
blamed on exploding canisters 
of cooking gas. 
Most of the dead were 
Indians. Pakistanis and 

Bangladeshis, many of them 
elderly, witnesses told The 
Associated Press. Some were 
trampled to death as pilgrims 
fled the fire on the plain outside 
the holy city of Mecca. 
"Men panicked and ran in 

every direction," said an Indian 
pilgrim who spoke to The 
Associated Press by telephone 
and identified himself only as 
lrfan. 
Helicopters dropped water 
from above while civil defense 
workers used firetruck hoses 
on the names. 
Hundreds of thousands of pil­
grims were stranded after the 
fire destroyed an estimated 
70,000 tents, which the pil­
grims use for shelter in the 
final days of the Hajj. Civil 
defense forces from Mecca and 
nearby Jiddah and Taif rushed 
to the scene, handing out tents 
and supplies. 
Prince Majid bin Abdul Aziz, 
the royal family's representa­
tive in Mecca, ordered that new 
tents be provided to all pilgrims 
affected by the fire. Saudi tele­
vision reported Tuesday. 

ONLY AT AYRES! 
CLINIQUE 8-PC. FREE GIFT. 
WITH ANY CLINIQUE 
PURCHASE OF $15 OR MORE 
YOUR CLINIQUE GIFT INCLUDES: 
1. 
Sun Buffer Upstick in Blushing Buff 

2. 
Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion 

3. 
Clarifying Lotion #2 


4. 
Naturally Glossy Mascara In Jet Black 

5. 
Soft Touch Creamy Blusher in Sweet Cheeks 

6. 
All About Lips 

7. 
Aromatics Elixir Perfume Spray 

8. 
Lucite Lip Brush 



Offer valid now through April 27 while supplies last. One gift per customer, please. 
-

---I
..~==-=·;=(UNIQUE 
urn. 
T h r e e hundred fire engines helped bat­tle the blaze, and heli­
away. 

By Tuesday afternoon, as temperatures soared to 104 degrees, the desert plain was a scene of devastation. 
Pilgrims wandered amid the smoldering remains of tents. Many appeared lost as they searched for relatives or friends, witnesses said. 
Cleanup operations were 
launched quickly, with workers sweeping away the charred remains of hundreds of air con­ditioners, mattresses and burned pages of the Koran, Islam's holy book. Some tents are reinforced with wood and equipped with such amenities as air conditioners and stoves. 
Pakistan's government set up a 24-hour emergency number to field calls from relatives. India planned to send a senior official from New Delhi to make sure Indians received assis­tance, United News of India said. 
Every Muslim who can afford it must perform the pilgrimage once in a lifetime. Every year, the hajj brings together one of the largest groups of people in a single place anywhere in the world. 
Saudi Arabia has spent bil­lions of dollars in upgrading hajj facilities to ensure the comfort and safety of the pil­grims. 
It takes deep pride in its abili­ty to maintain order during the huge gathering and has created a special cabinet portfolio for running hajj affairs. 
But the ritual has often been 
overshadowed by tragedies and 
disturbances stemming from 
political rivalries. 
In 1994, 270 pilgrims, most of 
them Indonesian, wer.e killed in 
a stampede as worshipers 
surged toward a cavern for the 
symbolic ritual of "stoning the 
devil." 
Iranians insist on holding the 
demonstrations every year, 
defying a Saudi ban. Iran said it 
had staged the protest Sunday 
in Mecca. There were no 
reports of violence. 
For a fast, free skin analysts, come and meet the 
CLINIQUE COMPUTER. Allergy teeted. t00% Fragrance Free. 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, Aprill6, 1997 


FBI finds tainted lab results 
By MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN 
Associated Press W rirer 
WASHINGTON Criminal defense lawyers say 
' inaccurate testimony and flawed scientific work by FBI crime lab agents criticized in a Justice Department report could taint thousands of past and pending prosecutions. But Justice Department offi­cials argue the lab's problems have not changed the outcome of any of 13 cases in which defense lawyers already have brought up the errors in court. And officials say a far smaller number of cases still faces eval­uation. On Tuesday after an 18­month investigation, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Bromwich criticized the world-renowned lab's work in some minor and major cases, including the Oklahoma City bombing, New York's World Trade Center bombing and the mail-bomb murder of federal appellate judge Robert Vance. Assisted by five outside scien­tists, Bromwich's investigators studied allegations against three of the lab's 23 units: explosives, materials analysis and chemistry-toxicology. Bromwich said his criticisms "should not be imputed ... to other units." But Judy Clarke, a federal public defender in Spokane, Wash., who is president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, dis­agreed. "The prevailing culture of the lab -examiners not properly performing or documenting tests; preparing inaccurate 

reports, testifying about mat­ters beyond their expertise and much more -suggests that thousands of prosecutions may have been tainted," Clarke said. 
Stephen Kohn, attorney for FBI whistle-blower Frederic Whitehurst, whose allegations triggered the investigation, agreed with Clarke. 
"There are thousands of cases implicated," Kohn said, pointing out that one agent crit­icized for inaccurate testimony worked on 4,000 cases and another faulted for sloppy work was involved in 600 cases. "All those cases have to get looked 
at." 
The deputy general counsel, James Maddock, said, "There are approximately nine individ­uals whose past cases we're reviewing. I expect the number will total several hundred." 
Justice officials said 500 cases already have been reviewed. Attorney General Janet Reno said only 55 of those cases contained problem1 that might tend to exonerate defendants. 
The findings were shipped to federal and state prosecutors who decided that in only 25 of the cases were the problems serious enough to turn them over to defense attorneys, Reno added. 
Maddock said in all 13 cases in which defense attorneys have raised the problems so far, the government either obtained guilty verdicts on at least some of its charges or was able to defeat a motion for a new trial. 
Kohn said this review of past cases must be opened to defense attorneys. 
Clarke's group is waging a court fight here to gain access to Bromwich's draft report and other data from his investiga­tion. 
"What has been ignored, cov­ered up or covered over?" Clarke asked. "How can possi­bly innocent Americans, wrong­ly convicted, identify their par­ticular case from the limited scope of this review?" 
Clarke herself is a defense attorney for Theodore Kaczynski in the Unabomber case, in which Bromwich said lab examiner Terry Rudolph inadequately documented his tests on some bombs. But chief prosecutor Robert Cleary said none of Rudolph's work would be used against Kaczynski at his November trial. 
Bromwich recommended dis­cipline for five agents and transfer of Whitehurst out of the lab but concluded that lab agents did not commit perjury or fabricate evidence. 
"The problems and defi­ciencies that Whitehurst brought to our attention are extremely serious," Bromwich said. 
"That report essentially vali­dates all the major concerns I had," Whitehurst said in an interview. "It's the beginning of the correction process" and outside oversight of the FBI. 
Deputy FBI Director Bill Esposito admitted, "There was a clear and serious failing in not adequately detecting these problems and ... not moving swiftly enough to resolve them." The bureau accepted nearly all Bromwich's recom­mendations. 
Donations by: Rattlehead Concert Sound and Notre Dame General Services 

OFFICE OF ALCOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION 
103.9 WRBR 11The Bearll 

at the corner of Edison & SR 23 
(Edison Plaza-in front of Lula's) 
,nusic by: (219) 273-6216 
The Mushroomhead Experience) George & the Freeks) and Jewel and the Future 




Saturday April 19th 1997 






Wednesday, Aprill6, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Russian women, American men meet their match 
ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 
Marc Hasara, an American bachelor determined to find a wife. is giddy with anticipation. Running on adrenalin, he has barely slept for days, knowing he's about to meet the Russian woman he intends to marry. 
Though he's never set eyes on Tanya, his prospective bride, he's brimming with confidence based on the barrage of letters, photos and phone calls they've exchanged since connecting through an American-Russian matchmaking service. 
"There's a ninety-nine and one-half percent chance this will lead to marriage," Hasara says. 
A handsome, athletic, 42­year-old gas company worker from just outside Los Angeles, he is among 30 American men who flew to Moscow for the chance to mingle with several hundred Russian women equal­ly eager to check them out. 
Russian-American match­making services have flour­ished since the Soviet breakup. Dozens of firms in both coun­tries now link up American women in her files. 


"Some men only want leggy blondes that look like models," Rubasheva says. "We try to convince them to consider other women as well." 
When she launched her com­pany five years ago, it was more of an "emigration ser­vice" for young Russian women desperate to leave. And at that time, many of the women were leggy blondes. 
Now there's a greater cross­section. All the women are well-dressed, most are educat­ed, some speak English. A fair number are divorced and have a child. If they hit it off with an American man, they can go to the United States on a three­month "fiancee visa." but at least 25 percent decide not to marry and return home. 
When Hasara first learned about the matchmaking tours, he was searching for a certain type of woman -Pamela Anderson, the buxom, blond lifeguard on TV's "Baywatch." But when he flipped through the catalog of women provided by Anastasia tours, he locked in on brown-haired Tanya, who's 40, divorced and mother of a 14-year-old daughter. 
He sent Tanya a 13-page, hand-written letter, including a copy of his W-2 form confirm­ing his annual $60,000 salary. 
"She satisfies my first requirement-she's extraordi­narily beautiful," says Hasara, a lifelong bachelor. 
While waiting several days for Tanya to arrive from the Siberian oil town where she lives, Hasara has been unable to sleep in Moscow, rising every morning at 4 a.m. to call her. 
"I can't wait to become part of your life," he told Tanya. She replied, "I think I'll just die when I meet you." 
When Marc Hasara meets Tanya for their first date, they are the only people in the restaurant, but they wouldn't notice if the place was packed. "It was the most exciting night of my life," Hasara says. 
Before they receive the bill, Hasara proposes, and Tanya accepts. Since neither drinks, they celebrate their engage­ment with a cup of tea. They will have five days together, touring snowy Moscow and planning a life together in sunny California. 
Before Basara returns home to await the arrival of Tanya and her daughter, he offers a piece of advice: ''I'd tell all the men who can't get dates in America to come to Russia. There are diamonds here, and I found one." 


MEA1UltEMENT

.·::.·=:'.:.::; \:.:: ;:::::::~:~::::~;~i~!j~@f;· ... 
will be taken~ici~" Caps ap~·.gpij"·~••••········· Tuesda~iJlJll'fS~;;: 
····& 


Wed~~~clgy,~pri1....76 9:00a'!' 
:::-1!0oprrr:;::;:, 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
men, mostly middle-age, pros­perous and lonely, with Russian women, mostly 10 to 20 years younger and struggling finan­cially. 
Asked why they want a for­eign husband, Russian women tick off a long list of shortcom­ings among Russian males, with drunkenness at the top. Tired of insensitive Russian men, the Russian women will bluntly ask an American man they've just met, "How do you kiss?" Correct answer: softly, passionately, and often. 
For their part, the American men invariably cite the striking beauty of the Russian women, their demure femininity and willingness to assume a tradi­tional role of wife and mother. 
The men, who pay around $5,000 for the trip, also express a strident hostility toward American-style feminism. 
Dave Besuden, the head of Anastasia tours, which orga­nized the trip on the American side, says he always tells his clients a good news-bad news joke before they come: "The bad news about Russia is that women's lib is coming. The good news is that it's still 100 years away." 


At the Manhattan Express nightclub, set in the shadow of the Kremlin, the men and women socialize for three days and nights as best they can, considering most don't share a language. It's an odd scene, tinged with desperation and a sense that dreams will be dashed rather than realized. 
In the cavernous club; the Russian women outnumber the American men four-to-one. 
While the men stroll about, most women sit silently along the walls, beneath the leopard­print curtains, waiting to be approached. 
The rock music is deafening. Introductions are awkward, usually requiring an inter­preter. A dinner date afterward automatically becomes a three­some. 
Peter Draper, a 48-year-old fireman from outside San Francisco, is on his third matchmaking trip to Russia, still searching for the right woman. 
He spent all of February in Tver, north of Moscow, dating more than 20 women. He's asked several to come to the United States, but all turned him down. Other women have offered to be his wife, but he declined. Still, he has faith. 
"I think I'm going to find somebody this time," says Draper. "In fact, I know it." 
The odds of a successful match may be long, but the matchmaking firms say they have produced thousands of Russian-American marriages in recent years. 
They help the lonely hearts make contact long-distance through letters, e-mails and videos and then face-to-face at the "socials." 
Nina Rubasheva, who runs Vesta-Fortune, the Russian group organizing this event, says she has married off hun­dreds of clients over the past five years and has 1,000 single 
..··· 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Errol Flynn and Olivia de Havilland in 
Ro&in Hooa1 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE For information, 
call 219/284-4626 

page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 16, 1997 


• ZAIRE 

Malaria strikes Rwandans 
By HRVOJE HRANJSKI 
Associated Press Writer 
KASESE, Zaire 
Comatose with malaria, the emaciated men and women lie on the ground of a makeshift hospital. Hundreds of flies bite their limp bodies while intra­venous drips of nutrition keep them alive. 
In just a few days, the Rwandans in this jungle refugee camp are supposed to start being evacuated to a nearby transit center, where they'll be screened and regis­tered for a long-awaited trip home. 
But aid workers say the repa­triation plan is being frustrated by Zairian rebels, who by Tuesday still had not given the United Nations permission to set up the transit center. That means healthy refugees must wait longer. 
At the same time, rebels want all the refugees out quickly. And that means the thousands of sick may not get well enough to make the trip. Already, many have died. 
"For us, the death toll is not dropping. We've got an average of 10 deaths a day," said Dutch nurse Danny Decamper, 27, already sweating in the jungle's morning heat. "It will take time before we can stabilize these people and prepare them for repatriation." 
'He and other aid workers are running against time, strug­gling to heal thousands of sick refugees while overcoming the bureaucratic tangle of sending as many as 100,000 people back to Rwanda. 
The U.N. refugee agency needs permission from rebel and civil authorities to set up the transit center at Lula. just 15 miles from the camps. From there, 2,000 people a day will be flown aboard three U.N. air­craft to Goma, on the Rwandan border. 
"We're afraid we may be los­ing momentum," said Paul Stromberg, a U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees spokesman. "The refugees are sick, some are dying, and they want to go home. And we're still waiting for permission to carry out the operation." 
He said the first flight, sched­uled for this week, will proba­bly have to be postponed. 
The 100,000 Hutus in the 

Kasese camp · ·······--·-·--................. I n and another Zaire update Washington, n e a r b Y a r e """" Refugees waiting for Rebels presenl but S t a t e 
among the evacuationfrom haven'lsecured Department 
last Rwandan -----~i:a~!!~.."-~----·· .. -·--·..•··•..C:O.~~~----.... spokesmanrefugees in i200miles /' . ,A,~.,.", SUDAN Nicholas c e n t r a I ~~ .---,(Gbadola~" ~~;~~j~'_,~.... Burns said 
! 200 km ...;1 / (l· I ;. •. h
Africa. Aid !-·-r-'·--.J t ·• •saa r/ t e workers esti-! ~--. · ,: . ,Kisangani ,.if R w a n d an mate that \: § :> · t··., f .Jk authorities, a n o t h e r ' ~ Ubundu ', (/-.' fi. citing seeuri­
100,000 are ;\ i <'>.rQ:· ! ty concerns,
r/ ~w ~~ill mi~~~ne~ ~~--'-.-~~~1nsh:::an~~ p~t ~~i?l. ~~~l!nha~~1~~ 
Hundreds of i 1\ \ ..• · ;--', control .\ mission for thousands of l f( ANGOLA {'-• Kamlna r ~ \/ the refugees Hutus fled I ··), 1 Kolwezi : to enter the 
Rwanda in ' . ''-"')',-~, )~_LJbumbashi country. 1994 after ;-1 .. -).:~.; Rwandan 
~h: :~t~ ~o;~ ------~'...-.:~~~~:~.~:~:··~ ~!~i~~ it~~;
sanctioned ...._._____..._ were holding 
AP/Carl Fox
genocide of a L__________.....:...:..:..:..=.::::..:...:.~ up the repa­
half-million Tutsis. 
Many of the Hutus, especially the defeated government troops and Hutu extremist militiamen, had refused to return, fearing retribution from the new Tutsi­run government. 
For nearly three years, the refugees lived in camps near the Rwandan border in eastern Zaire -many of them civilians held hostage by Hutu militias who wanted them as human shields. In October, Zairian rebels raided the camps, dri­ving the refugees west and freeing them of the militias. 
Even so, the refugees were still cornered, by rebels on one hand and lack of food and med­icine on the other. Defeated by the filth and death-stench of the camps, the refugees became the most vociferous in asking to be sent home. 
"If only someone would take me home, even today," said Sosthene Ntirampaga, supervis­ing the Tuesday morning distri­bution of food at the Kasese camp. 
Rebels, fighting to oust President Mobutu Sese Seko, want the refugees out immedi­ately so they won't have time to settle. The camps are just 20 miles from Kisangani, and rebel authorities apparently worry the refugees might bring instability to Zaire's third­largest city. 
The Rwandan authorities have agreed in principle to the refugees' coming home, but insist on screening the refugees to make sure that they do not include former government troops or lntera-hamwe militia. 
triation. 

"There is a wrong assump­tion," said Ephrain Kabaija, the chairman of the Rwandan gov­ernment's repatriation commis­sion. "We want everybody back. There is no single Rwandan who we don't want. ... We have no exception." 
So while governments argue, the refugees wait in the makeshift camps south of Kisingani, clusters of palm-tree huts along the road and rail­road track that cuts through the thick tropical forest. 
Around the camp, dead bod­ies are wrapped head-to-toe in gray blankets. Red Cross work­ers, wearing face masks and rubber gloves, spray the decomposing bodies with chlo­rine before taking them to makeshift burial sites. 
Thanks to food and relief sup­plies, aid workers say, the death rate in the camps has dropped significantly in the past week. Stromberg said there were 55 deaths on Monday, down from 180 10 days ago. 
By.RQJlE~T;.~IJ'~r.§E
Associated Preis Wdter' ·· ·

m SUVA,Fiji 
The islands of the mid­Pacific will have some extra fun cel¢brating the. n.ew n:iil· Ienniuni. 
This region. straddling the 
Jnterna.tionaJ Date Line will the first toring in 2000 ­and the last to ring out 1999. 
The it:~land groups see either of those possibilities as a fine peg fora tourism campaign; ).,>Jn an effort to head off cut· throat marketing tactics, twelvenations have agreed to
.• work together to .promotethe region as the prime vacation destination of the new cen~u­ry.· 
Worries abOut each nation working against th~ other had grown following Kiribati's decision last year to unilater­ally move itS part. of the 1nternat1onal>Date Line east, which would put it first into 2000. 
But now, working through 

.tp:~ Tourism (;<>:uncil of the South Pacific; the islands are negotiating with a U.S. event promoter to use the region as the ancll.or for global televi· sion coverage of 1999 New Year's Eve celebrations, the last of the old millenia. Half the countries are just ·west of the date line and will be the first to welcome the arrival of 2000. Those east of the line will he the fast to bid farewell to 1999. And they could do it all over again a year later. for those sticklers who argue that the millennium doesn't actually start until the dawn of Jan. 1. 2001. The Tourism Council of the South P'acific nations and Pacific airlines have formed the Millennium Consortium to get promotion that the mostly poor, small and increasingly tourism-dependent islands can't afford individually. About 800,000 tourists visit­t:Jd the islands in 1996, the tourism council says. 

Friday, April 18 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, April 19 7:30p.m. 
Sunday, April 20 2:30p.m. 

based on the novel by 
John Steinbeck 
adapted by 
Frank Galati 
directed by 
Reginald Bain 
Playing at Washington Hall Reserved Seats $8, Seniors $7, All Students $6 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-81 28 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 16, 1997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland· 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager..............................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ..................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day, Production Manager .........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrradon ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possibl~. Unsigned edimrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor, News 
Edimr, Viewpoint Edimr, .Sports Edimr, Accent Ediror, Saint Mary's Edimr, Photo Edicor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediwr-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• WHERE I'M CAlliNG fROM 

Arrival ofspring brings thoughts of marriage 
The signs of spring at Notre Dame­block parties, blizzards, behemoth squirrels and a bunch of Ms. Notre Dames becoming Mrs. Notre Dames. In one month's time, I will leave this cam­pus with a car full of debris and a head full of memories, but all too many of my 

Thomas Coyne 
peers will be leaving with more than a 
degree in tow -they will be bringing 
home a fiance. 
And while I want to send my most 
heartfelt congratulatioAs with a card 
and a place setting to all those happy 
couples on their happy day, a somewhat 
different thought also springs to mind: 
What the hell are you doing? We're just 
kids living in a playground called col­
lege. Marriage-what is that? We are 
glorified schoolchildren with no real 
responsibilities, no real pressures, no 
ties to the real world -we live in a little 
utopia, and you want to tell me you 
know what you want for the rest of your 
life? I can't even decide what I want for 
lunch. But maybe your cupboard isn't 
as bare as mine. 
When I came to college, I thought I 

•would have it all figured out when I left -the wife, the job, the glorious future before me waiting with open arms to welcome me in. Those college seniors were so old, they were so big, so mature. They seemed to have a wisdom and maturity I was so far removed from and was so looking forward to acquir­ing. When I was 22 I would be a man. I would know what I want. 
And now I am 22, and the only thing I know is that I don't know. College has felt like a rest stop on the road of life, so to hear about my peers and friends tak­ing the plunge, to watch them speed on by in the fast line as I sit and smile in the breakdown lane, I fear for the both of us. I don't know where I'm going, but if I crash and burn, I sure don't want anyone in the passenger seat. 

It is truly a bizarre phenomenon ­how springtime puts this marital, voca­tional stress on the shoulders of gradu­ating seniors when there is really no need for it. We have our lives to figure it out. But I do sympathize with stu­dents who are as interested in getting their MRS as their BA degree-Notre Dame is a great place to meet THE ONE. We come from similar backgrounds and have similar goals and interests. We are intelligent, Catholic and highly accept­able mates to bring home to Mom and Pop. As boring as our homogeneity is at times, it ensures that a lot of us will leave Notre Dame having found that partner, .that person who is just like our­selves. 
And that is not such a bad thing I sup­pose. The only thing I am more afraid of than the idea of meeting the person I will care for forever (I can't even take care of myselO is the image of me drowning in the predator-infested waters of the singles scene. I can see me now-thirty-something, having lost all sense of style and a good bit of my hair, sucking in the gut I spawned at a mindless desk job, going to loud, smoky bar to hit on loud, smoky women, trying to find that special someone in an alto­gether un-special environment. That's not for me. So there's four weeks left­maybe I should hop on the "Will You" bandwagon. 
But there's always the question of how to do the deed. It's fun to romanticize about it or listen to how it's been done in the past, but actually going out and proposing, actually pulling it off-that is an altogether scarier proposition. My first step would be to go out and pick up a pair of Depends, because when I pop the question, the chances of me wetting myself are high. And if she says no, an altogether different reaction may take place-either way, adult diapers would come in handy. 
I suppose that isn't the most romantic image when thinking of asking for another's hand in marriage, but my time is winding down. I don't have time for romance. All that "Make it meaningful for her, do something special she likes" mumbo jumbo is nice if you have that luxury, but I'm in dire straits. I'm at the cliff of academia, the rocky descent called singledom below me, the hands of rejection on my back, ready to push. I need a YES, and I need it fast. 
There are a number of ways to go about proposing at Notre Dame, none of which particularly send the right mes­sage. The proposal on a high flying ban­ner at a home football game is obviously the pinnacle of exhibitionist romance, but if one could read between the lines in the sky, what the banner really says is, "I am the biggest idiot in this entire stadium of 60,000 people. This is only the beginning of a long life of ridiculous, embarrassing things I will do for you. Will you marry me?" 
And then there is the mainstay of Notre Dame proposals, the Will You by the Grotto. This one also sends some mixed messages -it says I'm sweet, but it also says our life together will be as exciting as plain yogurt. You will have 
3.2 children, you will drive a Mercedes and a Volvo station wagon, send your kids to Catholic school, then to Notre Dame, where you will return twice a year to tailgate out the back of your Volvo and rehash your glory days and cry when you visit the Grotto, the spot where it all began. 
Sounds nice for some, but not for me. Besides, when I ask a woman to spend the rest of her life with me, I don't think doing it with a large likeness of the Blessed Virgin staring down at me is going to set the tone I'll be looking for in a relationship that is supposed to last 50 years. 
And then there is the proposal in The Observer. I don't know if it's been done, but I'm sure it has crossed the minds of a few love-struck and tactless Darners. In the tradition of the ubiquitous birth­day ads in The Observer, some hopeless romantic could squeeze a picture and a "Will You Please" somewhere between an insightful piece of sports commentary explaining how NO needs a good defense to play well defensively and a cryptic SUB ad that no one can decipher. That's up there with doing it by banner, but even worse. Here's a piece of advice that I live by-if you're going to be tactless and obnoxious, don't do it half­way. 
I think my best bet for finding the babe to bear my babies would be to do it in the truest of Notre Dame fashions­sloshed. After a night out at assorted watering holes, I could stumble through the 'Backer, and with the melodic aphrodisiac of "Oh What A Night" blar­ing softly in the background, I could drop to my knees (I might be there any­way) and pop the question to the first girl that buys me a drink, trying to remember to propose to the one in the middle should my sight be a bit blurred. Perhaps it's not the apogee of romance, but after four years at Notre Dame that haven't exactly been a crash course in smoothness with the opposite sex, it's the best I can do. 
I suppose this proposal stuff just isn't my cup of tea. Right now I can't even find the damn tea party. But as much as I am shocked and downright terrified by students on their way to "forever ever" land, I am also in total admiration. Those of you who can make that deci­sion have what a lot of us don't-first, you have the maturity and security to make a commitment to something larger than yourself. Second, and most impor­tantly, you have someone. You have someone to walk through life with, someone to grow old with, someone who makes the future look like just the beginning when, for many of us, it looks too much like the end. Best wishes and God Bless. What you are doing is truly amazing. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. 

• DooNESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• Quon: OF THE DAY 


ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
The Bands are Back 

TASHI STATION 
Only a month young, Tashi Station is a jam-oriented band with a broad range of influ­ences. Composed of Steve Stadler, Brendan Bayliss on gui­tar and vocals, Gregg Andrulis on keyboards, Ryan Stasik on vocals and bass, the foursome has been playing together and writing songs for about a month. 
cod in salsa 

"Cod in salsa. tastes bad, but sounds good," according to member Jim McNamee. The band with perhaps the fewest lyrics, seldom offering more than a quirky, "Hey," Cod in Salsa is the collaboration of McNamee's clarinet, John Scherpereel on guitar, and Jim Kennedy on tuba. This eclectic Morrissey trio has played together for almost two years, and 1997 will mark their second NAZZ appearance. 
JE!§ie9§ IPJrom.i§e 
Although Elsie's Promise has been around since the fall of 1995, this will be the first NAZZ appearance for this band that primarily dwells iri the cover land of the Grateful Dead and the like, although the band does perform original music. Dean Busack plays drums, Kris Crow contributes on keyboard and vocals, Ryan Schwartz supports with rhythm guitar and vocals, Andy Snook plays bass guitar, and Dave Lillis plays lead guitar and vocals. 
Aaron Dunn 
Aaron Dunn has been playing acoustic guitar for nine years and writes songs about life and how to live it. Inspired by Paul Simon, Toad the Wet Sprocket, J ackopierce and R.E.M., the Stanford junior considers his music to be con­templative and is sure to share this feeling with audi­ences as he per­forms at NAZZ. 
SRJiN-D 

and A-LusT Isaac D THE 71 n 
a ne uncan and -C""l.J.\.CifJTE 
Th w, Unique Robert St CT 
e duo fro act to NA.z , anton WilJ ly, have ,b thlTJ Brooklyn zs line-up lrovide deejays o had fo and Detroj o bands 
and hip:hand_ hope to Pur Years of e/ re~Pective-· 0P Into A1 UITJp son-. Penence
UITJni s '"e reg as 
-enior Club. gae, house 
Shooting Cupid 
Shooting Cupid -Greg Szilier and Chad Kalmes on guitar, Mark Marino on vocals, Rick Foster on drums, Matt Loughran on bass, and Greg Lucas on background vocals and acoustic guitar -was formed in the fall of 1996. Their set includes covers of The Rolling Stones, Phish, Hendrix and Pearl Jam, as well as some originals. Today marks their debut NAZZ appearance. 
CHRIS GODDARD 
Chris Goddard, the Morrissey freshman who has enthusiastically jumped into the campus music scene this year, will kick off NAZZ with his unique blend of folk and rock. His song-writing, voice and acoustic gui­tar have been enjoyed by audiences at Acoustic Cafe and Keough Kafe throughout the year. 
The Wheateate~s 
This foursome, a new presence on the campus music scene, will bring punk to Alumni-Senior Club tonight. 


Stomper Bob 
The recent release of their CD Not Just For Breakfast Anymore marks this band's strength and intensity. After forming over a year ago, Stamper Bob will compete in their second NAZZ tonight, and showcase Matt Butte! on bass and vocals, Joel Cummins on keyboard and vocals, Nina McDowell on vocals and percussion, Mike Mirra on drums, and both Matt Scherer and Ricky Zalamea on vocals and guitar. 

The name may be ~t~u~ bz~ Over the past year, the George and the Freeks have trimmed down to five band members: Andy Brenner on piano and vocals, J.P. Hurt on bass, Mark Lang on electric guitar and vocals, Doug McKenna on 12-string guitar and vocals, and Chris Whiffen on drums. The band boasts a cleaner, tighter sound that proves to be more mature than their first album, Join Us 

ACCENT ­
Wednesday, Aprill6, 1997 page 11 
New treats in the campus cookie jar 
Stamper Bob Not Just For Breakfast Anymore 

Matt Curreri 
W
hile there seem to be few sweethearts on the campus music scene this year, or at least few who are deserving of the attention, after listening to Stomper Bob's spanking new CD however, those who have lost faith should run for their rosary. This band oozes talent. 
Not Just For Breakfast Anymore flaunts a vari­ety of influences and instruments. At moments fast-paced and jumpy, at others groovable and smooth, this album mixes moods, dialogues and even a "Dramatic Interlude." 
"Vagabond Blues" starts off the CD with catchy-tune energy. The majority of songs maintain this enthusiasm and intricacy and flaunt Stomper Bob's collective talent. 
Nina McDowell's voice often seems sultry ­especially on songs like "Sin Boy V, " but her male counterparts surely hold their vocal own. The percussion struts through the album like a peacock on parade, as do the keyboards. Tracks like "Driff' show off Cummins' incredible talent. 
The band members responsible for the lyrics deserve to take a bow as well. Lines like "I want to be with you/ but you know I like your sister too. Why can't I have you both. Laura take me home tonight/ your sister just passed out," demonstrate both humor and imagination. 

The band chose to include some random con­versation bites at the end of the CD that, while humorous, remind the listener that Stomper Bob is indeed a campus band. Like any college _.,.. recording, Not Just For Breakfast Anymore has its share of awkward lyrics, and even a few notes that wander like a misguided kite on a windy day. 
Despite these quirks, Stomper Bob produced an upbeat album worth owning. Even if the grooves sometimes run away with themselves, they always seem to return back to a solid, rhythmic home. 
by Ashleigh Thompson 

Cool Record Sound Quality 

M
att Curreri has a unique voice. It 
reminds me of a blend of the guy from 
Drivin' and Cryin', Jeremy Enigk of Sunny Day Real Estate, and a Muppet-i.e. it's high pitched, holding and sliding between notes, and sometimes adapting a bit of a rootsy twang. 
It is this voice that adds an innocent, naive, and heartfelt ambiance to the collection of 16 songs, Cool Record Sound Quality, and ultimate­ly wins you over. It's wonderful to hear a voice that vehemently avoids Vedder-isms and other garbled, "angstful" wails. 
But hey, Curreri can play a guitar, too. In fact, his thick strumming, thumb'n'finger pluck­ing, and fret sliding put him right up there with the Acoustic Cafe All-Stars. Curreri also breaks out of the traditional cho.rd fingerings that bur­den most acoustic rock. 
On the other hand, the tunes that drill in your mind the most on Cool Record Sound Quality are ones in which Curreri adds a second guitar, feedback fuzz ("All True"), whippin' woodwind ("Top Down"), and swirling expansion petal effects ("Walk Back From Tracks" and "Crush"). 
The straight-up solo unplugged numbers, although breezy and poppy, tend to run togeth­­er. 
Curreri is at his best when running his two instruments -six-string and ¥Oice -through electric effects to thicken out the songs a bit. However, the slow, descending plucking of "My Shy Tongue" and Hayden-ish "Dora May" are necessary changes of pace. Curreri even works in a few keyboard ditties between tracks that are sure sparks for future experimentation and fire. 
Curreri is definitely a needed fresh voice on the ND scene, and I'd love to see more record­ings with added production elements. The only downside to Curreri are his unmemorable lyrics, but their simplicity works well with his innocent vocal style. Now he just needs to go make a CD. After all, a "cool record sound quality," although a good album title, makes the tape sound a bit like a fast food drive-through speaker or WVFI. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

Cod in Salsa Ring Bell For Yardman 

W
hen Cod in Salsa's "people" slipped me an advance copy of the group's forth­coming CD, Ring Bell For Yardman today, I was feeling very tired. For the first time in forever it was warm outside, and the lazy sun worked like a muscle relaxant on a body that had seen little sleep over the past two days. On top of all that, I had just carried a heavy box the size of a large-screen TV up a few flights of LaFortune stairs. I melted into a seat like butter on english muffin and popped in the tape. Ahhh ... 
These were the perfect conditions for Cod in Salsa -laid back, relaxing, melodic, and at times a bit rockin'. The rumors that they had gone hardcore were greatly exaggerated. The collect­ed tunes are the jazzy, swingy, marchy, slightly­Eastern-Europeany indie rock chamber soul that has become a trademarked breath of fresh air on the Notre Dame music scene. Cod in Salsa has come a long way over the past year. They have a catalog of a couple of dozen songs, and the tuba­guitar-bass trio has been known to dabble a bit with piano and a shadowy new trombone player. 
John Scherpereel writes the music in little scribbled notes on treble cleff lines just like they used to in the old days. He plays guitar. It's a choppy, staccato type strumming with non-stan­dard barre chords. 
Then Jim Kennedy lays do.wn a thick tuba groove that serves as the "bass" of the group. Finally. Jim McNamee floats some clarinet melodies across the foundation, kinda like the "singer" or "lead guitar." So basically, it's not that much different from rock and roll -really fun, time-changing rock and roll. 
The standout tracks pop and crack and soo1he. "Old William Penn," "@," and "Fetch the Hoosegow" get your feet tapping just like the boys do live. "Regardless" and "Port Bou" relax like 

-
the warm sun that's been slowing me down today, with the occasional disrupting solar flare. Did I already say "Ahhhh?" 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

Wednesday, April 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 12
-
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Turn Back the" Clock Night -The Notre Dame Baseball Team is turning back the clock to the glory days of baseball on Wed., April 23 at ,,,7 p.m. The Irish will be outfitted in 1950's replica uniforms when they host Northwestern at Eck Stadium. Admission is just 50 cents and hot dogs, popcorn and drinks ar1:1 alSI) just $1 each. The first 250 fans will receive a free Collector's Edition Notre Dame Baseball Cap. A free mountain bike will be given away to one lucky fan, and Tony Rice, who quar­terbacked the Irish Football team to the 1988 National Championship, will throw out the first pitch. For more infor­
illation, contact Daniel Thornton in the· Notre Dame Sports Promotions office at (219) 631-8103. 
Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m. Sign-up outside the wall. 
Advanced Scuba ­R1:1cSpot'ts will be sponsoring 

,,, fee is $8 for the class arid is open to students, staff, and faculty. Advance registration with the RecSports office is required. ' '+it> \\li? ;;;;;;;;, ' Special ': ;10lympies , -,­Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic C1:1nter on, ,,Monday~ ,a,nd 'Wednesdays from ,~:3()~5±30 .. p.m. for more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1-5983. RecSports will be hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerous~Jtbstitutes to life­guard at tlie; $t. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill oyt an application, .ee,,,, 
RecSports is now accepting applications for student event supervisors and student issue room supervisors. Please pick up an applic<l:H?n at the. Office of,RecSpotts"on the first floor of the Joyce Center. For more information, call631-6100. 

Bar Bell Club -A weightlift­ing club is <;oming soon next ·year for noyice or s~rious 
Advanced Scuba Classes. All ······lifters. Learn more about the 
participants must be certified divers. For more info. call 1­6100. 
Drop-in Volleyball -RecSports will he offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Casting and Angling Clinic -Clinic includes three ses­sions which meet on April 15 and 17 from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce 

-
Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encour­aged to bring their own. The art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign-

Jlps and more info. ' AnTostalis holding a run around the lakes called HostileTostal on Sunday, April 
20. All participants will get a 

· free t-shirt and there is nosign up fee, they just need J? sign up at therun itself. It starts at 2 p.m. Any questions please call4-2272 or 1-7757. 
Dr. James Moriarty will con­duct a lecture on the;;topic of Creatine Monohydrate in Athletics on Monday, April 14 at 7:30 p.m. The lecture will be in room 102 DeBartolo Hall. 

Football 
continued from page 20 
could have been because we're doing a lot of the same things I did at West Virginia," said Robinson. "Every job has its challenges, and Notre Dame certainly is the ultimate chal­lenge. I'm just trying to learn as I go." 
Prior to being lured away from West Virginia, Robinson spent time at Tulane, Dartmouth, and Connecticut. Having played under Davie, then a graduate assistant, at 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
game at Purdue told a different tale: the trio went a combined 2-for-12, clearing a path for a fresh script. 
Sophomore Greene, who had struggled of late and went 0­for-10 in the Rutgers series, wacked a double down the rightfield line with two outs in the eighth inning, driving in the winning run in a 6-4 Irish victo­ry. 
Notre Dame (24-13, 7-4) has now won for the 15th time in 17 games -reminsicent of a streak they put together at this time last year to eventually claim more than 40 wins. 
Wally Widelski continued the brilliant Irish pitching, scatter­ing six hits over seven innings, despite four walks. Senior Mike Balicki grabbed his first Pittsburgh in 1978, Robinson is familiar with the system and type of work ethic that Davie demands. 
"He is extremely organized and pays close attention to details," said Robinson. "Everything has a purpose with him. He doesn't like just going through the motions." 
Sanford, like Robinson, has built an impressive resume as a top-notch assistant. The 41­year-old comes to Notre Dame after serving as receivers coach and assistant head coach at USC for the last eight years. When John Robinson returned to Southern California in 1993, 
save in two innings of work. 
In its usual method of whit­tling away opponents, the Irish struck early with four runs in the second inning and singled the Boilermakers to death. Freshman second baseman Brant Ust led the barrage with a one-out single to left. Dan Leatherman singled behind him, and freshman first bas­man Jeff Felker punched an RBI single to right-center to draw first blood. 
Paul Turco was next, pulling a single down the leftfield line for a 2-0 Notre Dame lead. Brock then walloped a two-run double into the leftfield corner to ice the flurry. 
"We came out swinging early." said Ust. "It's good to set the game's attitude early and let them know we're going to be hitting." 
But in a pattern that has rid­dled the Irish all season, Notre Dame allowed Purdue to creep Sanford was the only member of the coaching staff to be retained. 

Sanford brings 18 years of experience to Notre Dame, hav­ing previously coached at Purdue, Long Beach State, VMI, and Army. 
"This is a tremenous chal­lenge, but I feel my background has prepared me for it," said Sanford. ''I've always had great respect and admiration for Notre Dame, and I'm glad I've got an opportunity to be part of this." 
Something old and something new. Davie just hopes he's found the winning formula. 
back into this one. The Boilermakers scored three runs in the sixth that included a bases-loaded, one-out shot into rightfield. Pat O'Keefe bobbled the ball, permitting Rob Hamacher to score the game­tying run from first base. 
The switch-hitting Greene, however, quickly turned the tables in the eighth. Purdue replaced Jeremy Buck with left­bander Brian Joros, and the decision was made to pinch-hit Greene for the left-handed Leatherman. Greene pounded the first pitch he saw from Joros, knocking in Amrhein. 
The Irish added an insurance run in the ninth for the 6-4 W. At present, despite the rough day, Amrhein's average stands at .444 while Ust's 2-for-4 day raised his own season mark to .386. 
Notre Dame plays host to Bowling Green today at 5 p.m. 

Please Recycle The Observer 
The Observer accepts claSSifleds every bus mess day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ 5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
NOTICES  MENT · Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all facilities. 225/mo. 232·2794  pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax, Repo's, REO's. Your Area. Toll  SOPHOMORE ACCOUNTING  Novena to St. Jude May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631·COPY  Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­mer in the Land Tour industry! Call Cruise Information Services: 800· 276-5407 Ext. C55846  Paul. ~....-__F_O_R_S_AL__E_ ___.I  Free (1)800·218-9000 f"H-20;;~:;;''  MAJORS Want the best job on campus?  adored, glorified, loved & pre· served, now and forever. through· out the world. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude, help of  
Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  Stop by Morrissey Loan Fund  the hopeless, pray for us. St. Jude  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  NOTRE DAME DEBATE COACH  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER  across from the Lafortune Info  worker of miracles, pray for us. Say  
Wed.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  NEEDED 1997·98 ACADEMIC  Great nbrhd, near ND  Desk b/w 11:30-12:30 M·F or  this prayer 3 times, 3 times a day  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. · Midnight  YEAR.  2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500  Need Graduation Tickets  call Debbie·at 1·6616 for ?'s  for 4 days and then publish it.  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  MINIMUM BACHELORS DEGREE  288 7862  Desparately. Please help!  (Any qualified student please apply)  
Sat.: Noon· 6:00p.m.  CEDAINDT EXPERIENCE  Brian-287·4876  
Sun.: Noon • Midnight  REQUIRED. ABILITY TO TEACH  Sharp cond  Thank You  •NAZZ.NAzz·NAzz·NAzz•  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  COURSE IN DEBATE.  One owner  Family Needs Graduation  Your favorite campus bands­ 
FORWARD RESUME & COVER  '81 Olds Cutlas  Tickets-Please Help!  LIVE-for free, tonight at NAZZ in  
Interested in Making Extra $$$?  LETIER BY APRIL 19:  Only 60,000 miles · brand  Do you have an extra GRADUA·  Christian 273-6967  Senior Bar from 7 til midnight. Stop  
P.O. BOX 89  new motor  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  by and get free T-shirts, soda, and  
Large Phys Therapy Practice look­ NOTRE DAME, IN 46617  Call 273-2241  Please call Paige at X4011  chicken wings! Brought to you by  
ing for students to make follow up  OR CALL 631-7753  SUB.  
phone calls to see how our patients  W/QUESTIONS  Sony Stereo ($1 00):  I need 2 xtra graduation  ADOPTION  
are doing. Filing and computer  CD/2-tape deck!  tix • willing to pay  Happily married couple promises  Anyone wanna bring the SPICE  
entry also available. Flexible hours.  Family seeks loving, responsible,  radio/speakers  Please call Karen x4588  love, warmth & a secure future for  GIRLS to campus?  
Call Gerard or Doug now! 233­ fun person to help care for 2 chil­ CALL BEN X1718  your baby. Respect for you & your  So do I.  
5754  dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  decision. Expenses paid.  Call Tom Moran at 1193.  
thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  MOVING OFF CAMPUS NEXT  I really need grad tickets. Help!?!  Joni & Shep 1·800·528·2344  
- EUROPE $229.  hr. References and own transporta­tion needed.  YEAR? NEED FURNITURE??? For Sale: 2 Full Size Couches,  Diana 271·2947  If you think the basement's bad, just  THE BLOND DEVIL OWES ME  
Within USA $79.·$129.  Sue 233·6657  Nice Kitchen Chairs, Twin Beds,  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  wait until I get a job in the Pacific  YET ANOTHER 6ER AND A  
Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t  Dresser, Entertainment Center,  WILL PAY$$$.  Northwest. And I can't believe you  CORONA TREE ... GOOD LUCK IN  
Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!!  Coffee table and end· tables. Call  ETHAN 4-1659.  said that to your dad!  MIAMI!!!  
http://www.airtich.org AIRTICH 1·800-326-2009  FOR RENT  Kate at 288·9278 for more informa· tion.  STEVE MILLER  I know our time together was short,  FROM THE STUDIOUS ONE  
but never has a member of the  
ILOST & FOUND I  Near Campus Homes for 97·98 232·2595  Bahamas cruise for two, at less than $398 actual cost (+expenses). Call Noman @277·4269.  CENTER STAGE FLOOR SEATS  opposite sex made me so happy. We will be together again.  SORRY TO BE SO AMBIGUOUS PRINT FROM DISK  
FIRST 10 ROWS  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR·  PRINT FROM DISK  
Lost · Gold woman's watch ·  Available  Living off-campus next year?  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  PRINT FROM DISK  
Citizen's Elegance on Thur 4-3 on  Professional Office Space 2 Room  MAKE YOUR OWN BEER!  272-7233  offers On Campus and Off Campus  Very high-quality full·color output is  
campus. Call4-3745 Marti  Suite. Ideal for CPA; Ins.; Attrny.  Fun, easy, cheap ($8/case).  Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  now available at THE COPY SHOP  
Great personal value  Shared services avail; free parking  Buy my used equipment.  Insurance, Tape and Packing  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
LOST: STRING OF PEARLS AND  for staff & clients. 288·341 0  Call Spak 1-41 03. $40 obo  PERSONAL  Materials Included. Call Now to Reserve Your Space at 800 3  Bring in your computer disk to print your files. We support PowerPoint,  
A CROSS ON CAMPUS  College Pk Apt (Summer) 243·  89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good  STORE 9 (800 378·6739).  Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker.  
BETWEEN HESBURGH LIBRARY  9357  Condition.$ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad  FAX IT FAST!!!  and many many more types of files.  
& BASILICA IN LATE MARCH.  277·3254  Sending & Receiving  I'll remember never again to call  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
PLEASE CALL DELORES 1-5729  Apt. for 11 wks. V. close to ND  at  you during wrestling. I see where I  color copy price for the first ten  
OR  (May · Aug), $65 per Wk. Call  Spacious Oakhill condo! 2 bed­ THE COPY SHOP  stand.  files, then just the regular color  
234·7287 AFTER 6PM.  Jihad 277·3254  rooms,2 full baths,loft,fire­ LaFortune Student Center  copy price for over ten files. We  
place;& 71,000.Call Roger  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Happy 22nd Birthday  can print directly onto overhead  
Lost: A Dark Gray JCrew Sportcoat  FOR 97-98-4 Bedrooms/3 sto·  Hibbs, Cressy & Everett,272·8668.  FAX IT FAST!II  Kathryne Michele  transparencies too!  
at the WAKE.  ries-5 min to campus, block to  Love, "Master Do"  PRINT FROM DISK  
REWARD-John 271·3150  Corby's & Sunny Italy-Huge park·  Need Furniture? For Sale-Bed,  PRINT FROM DISK  
ing lot & yard-$125/mo/person- Desk, Couches, Bookcase, etc.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  HEY, SWINGERS!! Come enjoy a  PRINT FROM DISK  
Lost: Nikon Camera -Last seen at  233·9805  Diana 271-2947  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  chill evening of live swing and ooz·  
Campus View apartments.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  ing cool at LOUNGE NIGHT,  Kathleen, I have almost forgotten  
Reward, if found call Mike at 243­ ROOMMATE NEEDED FOR FALL  •FURNITURE· Futon $100 Chair  The highest quality color copies  Thursday, 4/17 at the LaFun  who you were. Where Are you?  
9396.  SEM 97 to live with 5 guys who  $50 273·8673  are now available at  Ballroom from 9 pm til 1 am. Come  
love alcohol-$180/mo. own BR,  THE COPY SHOP  revel and relax for only $1. Brought  DART sucks  
WANTED  nice big house on Sorin/St. Peter­will live w/dog-288-91 02.  Sofa, Dining rm table: good 4 dorm/apt. Mike 243-9224  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631·COPY  to you by the cats of SUB and WSND.  Wanted: Kegerator call x·1305  




page 13 

Wednesday, April 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
-


By JIM ZALET A 
Sports Writer 
After the match began Tuesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, Notre Dame was the last place Michigan wanted to be. 
"This is always a big game for them," said freshman Ryan Sachire concerning the Michigan Wolverines men's tennis team. "They look for­ward to playing us." 
From the opening serve, the 11th-ranked Irish gave the Wolverines a warm welcome to South Bend. The Irish improved to 17-4 on the sea­son with the 6-1 win. 
At No. 1 doubles, junior 
Jakub Pietrowski and sopho­
more Brian Patterson defeated 
Anvid Swan and Brad 
McFarlane. 8-2. It was all 
Irish as the pair continued their steady pace to compete at the NCAA doubles tournament in early May. 
The 18th-ranked duo have been a key part of the double portion for the Irish. The Irish have not lost a doubles point since playing North Carolina in mid-February. 
Freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller came back from a tough loss last Wednesday to defeat Matt Wright and Miki Puszbal at No. 2 singles. The pair fixed their game since last match and were able to win the match, 8-4. Miller and Sachire limited their unforced errors and secured the doubles point for the Irish. 
Senior co-captain Ryan 
Simme and junior Danny 
Rothschild easily defeated 
John Long and Will Farah, 8-3. 
The Michigan pair came out strong, but the Irish pair bat­tled back and captured the third double win for Notre Dame. 
At No. 1 singles, Sachire con­tinued his unstoppable streak. He defeated Wright in two sets. Wright would not give up a set, and it took Sachire seven games to win the first one. The second one was not as close, but Wright hung in there until the end and was defeat­ed, 6-4. Sachire commented that the biggest improvement for the team this year has been their "overall aggressiveness." 
"We have been in better 
shape than many of the teams 
we have played, and this gave 
us the extra advantage we 
sometimes needed," Sachire 
said. 



page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 16, 1997 

• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish sweep match against Rainbows 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team finished its three game home stand yesterday as strong as they started it, defeating the University of Hawaii in a 9-0 shutout win. 
In singles action, all six matches were won by the Irish in straight sets. Sophomore Jennifer Hall won at No. 1 sin­gles, 6-1, 6-0 for her third straight singles win. Kelley Olson also won her third 

,.-straight, defeating the Rainbows' Melissa Mesiona 6­2, 6-0. The closest scare for the Irish was at No. 5 singles, where Darcie Sweet defeated Hawaii's Kim Ann Young, 6-4, 6-2. Other winners included Marisa Velasco, Tiffany Gates, and Sarah Scaringe. In doubles play, the team won all three matches without any significant challenge. The closest match came at No. 3 doubles, where the team of Scaringe and Sweet defeated the Rainbows' Georgiana Sesto and Alicia Lee, 8-5. In the other matches, Gates and Hall won at No. 1 singles, 8-2, while Olson and Courtney Haskell won 8-4. "Everyone on the team played well today," head coach Jay Louderback remarked. "The team needed to play out­side, since the weather forced us to stay indoors for the last 
... 
~hak.esp.ear.e-in­
J.erfnrmanc.e 
English 440 for the fall semester . 
..... 
*Open to all majors* 
Call 631-5069 or 232-001 7 or use the sign-up sheet at 205 Decio. 
Auditions required for Admission 
couple of matches. The Big East championships are played outdoors, so it's important to get in the right mindset for the next few games." 
Five Irish players won both their singles and doubles matches. With the victory, the Irish improved to 14-10 on the season and stretched their win­ning streak to four games. It also is the team's third straight shutout, a mark that has only been achieved by the team twice in the past ten years. 
"A few weeks ago," Louderback said, "we were 10­10 and still had two tough games before the end of the regular season. On the way down to Indianapolis, we dis­cussed how we could win the last few matches and have some momentum going into the conference tournament. The match against Indiana proved to be the turning point of our season." 
Up next for the Irish is the Big East Championships, where the team will attempt to defend their conference title. 
"The Big East tournament is a great contest," Louderback said. "This year, we are the No. 1 seed and get a bye for the first round. In the second round, we'll play the winner of the Boston College/Syracuse match. Our goal right now is to win the Big East Championships and then our region in the NCAA tournament early in May." 

Happy Birthda Maya! 
We missyou! 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 
No. 1 singles Jennifer Hall easily defeated her opponent yesterday, winning by a score of 6-1, 6-0. 
Intensive Italian Summer Language Program June-July, 1997 
Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfils! Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel*Grammar*Culture*Music*Movies*Art 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/16-7/1 ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/2-7/16 ROIT 103, Intermediate Italian 7/17-7/30 Classes meet daily from 9:10-11:20 AM Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 PM  

Contact: Summer School Director at 631-7282 
THE NOTRE DAME AFRICAN STUDENTS' ASSOCIATION 
THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

..........:..-----'-=---::---:-F~o=-R STUDENT GOVERNMENT & THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION S 0 C I A L PROUDLY PRESENT 
CONCERNS 

AFRICA I.ANP or uun a ,~.tlin
Kwassa-Kwassa 
-, I -, , " •., ., , : 

African Rhythms Caribbean Rhythms Latin-American Rhythms European Rhythms Middle-East &Asian Rhythms American Rhythms 
Date: Friday, April 1 8 Venue: Alumni Senior Club (near Business College) Time 1.: 6:30 -8:30 PM: Family Time: Kids all ages & parents Art & Clothing Exhibit-Music-Stories & Games Time 2: 8:3oPM -1:ooAM NON-ALCOHOLIC PARTY OPEN TO ALL 
Free Admission COME CELEBRATE DIVERSITY IN HARMONY!!! 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
page 15

Wednesday, April19, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Saint Mary's College
. 

Student Activities Board 
cordially invites you to experience 
SMC Tostal '97 
/ 1 '--\ I

Thursday, April 17th, as we ' 
BAMDBLAS'r ~®
·.. .,.. (·

''Splash into Spring!'' 
Come listen'to 3bands! 
-~. ~ ....«'__ ,..._.:·.:,.~,=··~. 
/
/'" ,:!"':··=··::.\.,. \

Join us in the fun as ''$le~~·zei' 
Tent orJl:ibrary Green J 
7-8 pfll j ··.· \ f
we welcome \ I / "Chronic ~ Itch" , ~­
spring! 

' 
} Haggar Terrace ~ ./· 
'\ 

.,~ 8:30 -9:30 pm 
J

"'*,-, ­
"Skalkoholics"i \ I ,/r 
:~ ;.·'"~

TeQt ori-Library Green 9·36'·:., I0·30··pm 
" \ 

8011~~) .-· ~ ,/l \ "* 
Socce!f/l=ield 9\,'\, I 0 pm 
-"" ,
Enjoy s'mores ·;over an open ftr~[ 
\ SMC:nic / I '. 
,., 
"::.t; j F/ ' 
-\ I 
''% /'

" " Library Green 4:45 -6 pm ·~ /£3~·rgers; hot dogs, cotton candy, 
~' -p~pcorn; snow cones, and more! Sand Art '#'"'&' , .· 
' 

~ Co-exes available. LeMans Lobby 12,;,30 pr;n -4;}0 pm
,,~, ' 
/ Come mix your favorite colot;·sand in 
d: 
c\~ntaTers ~f various shapes and sizes! \ j

"Twister" Tournament 
Angela 8 -9 Ppl \ ..·~· .. ../'' ,," Get all tied up in 'r<no~::aq(/t:,vin'~ prize! •
"-~aJ!~rr~na~~~ pm "-. ~/:::.. 
. ,,, '" { (,~:') """'· 

Quiz Bowl "''•"·· . ~qn·rl'yiiusiness ~ ~~
¥@•%ftt 
. '\·. 
/~ibrary a~__d LeMans green 3 -7 Pr::rl ~ \.

• LeMans lobby 7fi!_ 8 Pr'l '\ 
·challepge someone toa but;~gee run race, I 

. \ qhaU~nge your friends ana professors to G\;~am,~ of or gladiator joust, or fe~l fr~e toitry your luck
' ,/.:T~ivfaf pursuit!" \ .i ~· 
at the vefcro wa(( bqd ob~t · fe ~ourse!

l, ( ·;'flpners get to keep the boards! \ / 
·"'!~~"*' \ .•:·{Co-sponsored by Student Aca~i .. ,,,,"'"'.Acil·.~,.,,,, l,\' ..··· '"""'' 
Scavenger,.... NI&J't-t..J · • / f '\ St~rt/end in LeMa,P~~l~,bby.,.,4 -5 pm,
/f"
STUDENT 

.· \ f / . "-.\~4~blazi~g i , "-. \ 
f //
ACTIVITIES 
B-0-A-R·D 

' tr;;' / /'p:gt~id~ Angela 4 -5 pm "'"""', SAINT MARV S ~ l --1,~AroUilllcampus (or prizes! _.. COLLEGE
I ·· -/ , \. . / -"1 \. / i \. 1
Great prizes provided by Fitness USA, Fun Tan, coach's, BW-3, Fazoli's, Grains and Grinds, Spiece, Sunny Italy, and more! 

page 16 Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
""'-'---~-~----------~-----------J!L_______ ~----"--The Ooserver~brii"[;.J<m vandura 
Bookstore basketball is beginning to draw more of a crowd with the improved weather recently. 
women stepped on to the court tie better, I thmk our team will wearing t-shirts with the round up, and we'll get a
Bookstore 
names of various "Days" char­chance to play a ranked team acters. that will give us a challenge."
continued from page 20 
They proceeded to imperson­So, while some seeded teams 
Once again, it was a case of a ate their characters while may simply waltz through the seeded team getting an oppor­using various antics, such as first round without breaking a tunity to work on its game spraying the Assassins with sweat, it is the squads that get before facing its fellow seeds. water, to throw their oppo­a chance to face real com­
Although the No. 11 nents off their game. petion early on that may dis­Downtown Assassins were not Assassin Eric Chappell admit­play an edge as the tournament able to really get out and run ted that his squad had a diffi­moves on. in their first game last night, cult time getting going with all First round contests will con­their energetic opponents did of the clowning around but got tinue through Thursday, and all that they could to test the a chance to have fun and wait before long, each of the 1997 Assassins' nerves. Calling for the stronger competition. top 32 teams will have had the themselves Fancy Face, after "We're just playing around opportunity to loosen up and The Observer/Brei Hogan the boat owned by Bo Brady in right now," said Chappell, "but prepare to chase their ultimate 
Ron Powlus, of The Sixth Man, attempts to score in yesterday's action. "Days of Our Lives," the five once the competition gets a lit-goal. 
SUMMER STORAGE 
COLLEGIATE STUDENT STORAGE, INC. 
The Leaders in Professional Storage for College Students 
A Better Option Than Bringing Everything Home 

' 
CALL NOWI SUMMER IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER 
800-3STORE9 
VISA'
(378-6739) 
v'CURBSIDE PICK-UP AND DELIVERY '.' 
_: ~ ',~ STUDENT

v'BOXES AND PACKING MATERIALS 
•• ~: ADVANTAGE• v'INSURED &BONDED FACILITIES , 
A c c E pre o w:tj;IW


v'PROFESSIONAL MOVERS 1 v'BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU MEMBER v'DELIVERY OFF-CAMPUS AVAILABLE 


-----~--------­
------------~~--~----------------------~-------~ --------------------------~­

Queslit~ns Call 7-57 7? 
Wednesday, April 16,1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish take two from Wildcats 
By ALLISON KRILL\ 
Spans Writer 
The sun shone down brightly on the Notre Dame softball team yesterday as they defeat­ed the Wildcats of Northwestern at Ivy Field, 2-1 and 7-6. 
With their second and third wins of the season over the 
University of Notre Dame lf]ternational s'tudy Program in 
MEXICO CITY, 

MEXICO 

Information Meeting With Professor Angela Borelli 
Thursday April 17, 1997 5:00P.M. Room 108 DeBartolo 
Senior Formal Tickets 
Dance at Union Stati 9-lam 
Also, April 21-2 
Senior ~ek 

Wildcats, the Irish improved to 24-18, and find themselves in the midst of a six-game win streak. 
Game one proved to be a pitching duel between Notre Dame's Angela Bessolo and Northwestern's Jaclyn DeBoard. Bessolo's seven strong innings, in which she allowed five hits and one 
• 

e to pick up 11-2 pm 
earned run while fanning four, sealed the victory for the Irish. 
With  the  win,  Bessolo  
improved to  11-8 _on  the sea­ 
son.  

"(Angela) Bessolo pitched well in the first game," said first baseman Kelly Rowe. "And we got the key hits when we needed them." 
DeBoard managed to hold the powerful Notre Dame offense to five hits, but a focused Fighting Irish squad rallied for two runs in the third. Catcher Kris McCleary knocked in the only tallies of the game with a double to cen­ter field, following singles by Meghan Murray and Liz Perkins. 
In game two, Notre Dame overcame a sloppy defensive effort, including four errors, to win the contest in extra innings. The eight inning game marked the third over­time victory for Notre Dame this season. 
Notre Dame jumped out to take a 4-2 lead in the fourth, but the Wildcats answered in the top of the fifth with three runs, capped by rightfielder Mikeal Chambers' RBI to cen­ter field. Northwestern held a 5-4 lead going into the bottom of the seventh, until Murray's RBI double to left-center field plated Perkins and Katie Marten to even the score. 
page 17 


Kelly Rowe's infield single with two outs in the eighth scored Tara King, who had reached base on a fielder's choice, for the winning margin. 
"Northwestern was pretty strong, but we just kept com­ing back," said Rowe. "I think we really came together as a team." 
Marten and Murray led the way for the Irish at the plate, going 3-4 and 2-4, respective­ly, with two RBls apiece. The co-captains lead both the team 
Kairos/4th Day 
invites you to hear 
Fr. Joe Carey 
speal<ing about 
Fait~ in Community 
Chapel of the Holy Cross (between Keenan and Stanford) 
Wednesday, Aprill6 
7:30PM 
and the Big East in batting, with the two-time All­American, Marten, hitting .392 and the·1996 Big East player of the year, Murray, hitting .391. Murray sports a .523 average in conference games, and Marten's .500 places her second in the Big East. 
For the Irish, the homefield advantage proved to be just what they needed to solve the puzzle of the Big Ten confer­ence. 
Happy 20t Birthday Ben! 
From your friend, 
The Gipper 

-
-
-
-
-

---·-~~------~--------------~--------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
-
• JOCK STRIP 

Little incentive is left for players to stay four years 
L
ast week The Observer's sign with. When they leave own Dan Cichalski early, it is like a breach of con­decided to forgo his tract. final year of college to enter The college is entitled to pay the work force. Following in for the athlete's schooling for 
his footsteps, I have declared four years, but the athlete 
myself eligible for the NFL, voids it by not staying. This 
NHL, MLB, NBA, and MLS leaves the school in a bind 
drafts. Although I may not be because it is too late to recruit 
spectacular another prospect to fill the 
at any one of departee's space. Another 
the sports, I reason to stay in school is the 
feel that with whole matter of education. 
so many Pro careers are the main focus 
picks avail­on these athletes' minds. 
able in all It reminds me of Ohio State 
these drafts freshman linebacker Andy 
combined, Katzenmoyer. Each year, Ohio 
one of them State has abeginning football 
will be used banquet to introduce the new 
to select a players to the team. Each 
short kid from Long Island. player is supposed to stand up 
This recent attitude of leav­and announce his name and
-
ing college early or not going his intended major. Andy, who at all has become prevalent can barely read (wonder how throughout the NBA and the he got into Ohio State?), 
NFL over the past few years. stands up in front of his team­Many cynics have stated that mates and says, "My name is 
this is leading to the decline of Andy Katzenmoyer, and I don't college athletics, and in a way have a major because after it is; just look at the NCAA bas­three years, I am going to the ketball tournament and think NFL." 
what it could have been with­This attitude is also seen 
out the departure of certain around many of the college 
key underclassman. basketball players as well. 


es.  era! key underclassman have  he would have been picked last  
These athletes should be  decided to stay that extra year  year.  
more concerned about the  in school to try to improve  John warned on draft day  
education that is being given to  their status or win that elusive  that he was going to make the  
them because they never know  national championship.  teams that didn't select him  
when a career threatening  Two of these returnees,  very upset. For now, John has  
injury can end their career.  Wake Forest's Tim Duncan  shown promise, but when you  
Just look at Brian Bosworth, a  and Tennessee quarterback  are playing behind Larry  
former first round draft pick  Payton Manning were both  Johnson and Charles Oakley,  
whose career was over before  slated to be the number one  one has to expect that he won't  
it started, who is trying to sup­ picks in each of their respec­ play much.  
port himself by making poorly  tive drafts but stayed the extra  Just think of how much bet:  
acted action movies. He is also  year to win the most coveted  ter Ohio State's football pro­ 
quoted in an ESPN chat that  prize in college athletics-a  gram would be without the  
his daughter helps him to read.  national championship.  departure of their top juniors  
Other athletes who have left  For one of those who stayed  each year. or the North  
college early have gone back to  the extra year, his plan back­ Carolina Tar Heels this year  
receive their degrees, such as  fired. John Wallace of the New  with Jerry Stackhouse a"nd  
Emmit Smith, Bo Jackson, and  York Knicks went back to  Rasheed Wallace still on the  
currently Notre Dame's  Syracuse for his senior year to  team.  
Jerome Bettis.  improve his draft status from  Leaving early not only affects  
Look at the schools over the  middle to late first round to a  the player's education but also  
years in which underclassman  lottery pick (the first 13). John  his team. Georgetown faltered  
have left early. You never see  took his team to the national ·  without Iverson, and UMass  
an ND, Duke, and until recent  championship game only to  did the same without Camby.  
years, Georgetown athlete  lose to this year's runner-up  What a great college athletic  
leave early. These schools are  Kentucky, and many experts as  season we could have had.  
known for their education as  well as John believed that his  Now back to my predicament  
well as athletics, and the ath­ stock had risen.  about entering the drafts.  
letes that attend these schools  John sat anxiously as the  With over 2,000 chances of  
devote themselves to four  picks were read off one by one.  being selected this year, I see  
years of an education to get  Finally, he was selected with  my chances of returning to ND  
their degree.  the eighteenth pick overall,  this fall arc slim. Now if only I  
Over the past two years, sev­ probably around the same spot  had athletic ability.  


Wednesday, April 16, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-
-(a ALL ouR Lo'(JJL REAbERS wt:JULb L/1(1: ro AP'oLO(JIZ~ 
I"OR YE SrERb Y'S CO"' rC ••• 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
ANI> z. PROt>!IS€ /11EN Aaovr 
~ WILL NEllER ST'ooP .,-.4141' 
low foR A CJJEAP L.AUr:J/ ,A4.4W. 
MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
DO YOU WANT THE MAD COW BURGER OR THE CHICKEN BONE 5UR.PfU S E. f 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ellen Barkin, Bobby Vinton, CharhL' Chaplin, Kar<•em Abdul-]ab­bar. 
DEAR EUCENIA: I would like to know if I will be very lucky this year. Also, will! have as much trouble with Pluto, where the planet was retro­grade at my time of birth> Thank you for your timl' and consideration. I was born Dec. 4, 1943, at 5:00p.m. 
Nancy 
DEAR NANCY: This is a much better year for you with regards to your own personel attitudes, creativ· ity, travel, learning, relationships, getting out and involved in organi­zations you believe in and so on. Pluto is really not a problem; it is well-aspected in your natal chart and this year in particular it will be well· situated to the transiting planet Sat­urn, giving you additional discipline to accomplish as well as make new friends. If you are looking to win a lottery, I'm not a big fan on playing the odds, but if you must, use these numbers 4, 12, 15, 17, 26, 44. Good Luck. 
ARIES (March 21·April 20): You 
can do very well in speculative 
money matters. Take some time to 
spend with children and don't forget 
to keep in shape. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): 
Home or work will be emotionally 
draining for you. Steer clear of those 
who are likely to upset or confront 
you. 
GEMINI (May 22·June 21): Some­
one you work with may not be totally 
honest with you. Drastic alterations in 
your work environment are likely. 
CANCEl\ (june 22-]uly 22): Don't spend too much on children or ~..•nter­t.llnmt•nt You mav lind that situa­tion~ dl work will gt•l blown out ot 
pnlf."l<lrtum. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): Changes in your li\'lng llllclrters may appear to bt.' alarming at first glance. Give things a chance to settlt.• down. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Stav awav from joint financial extravagan­zas." bpect to have problems with deals that appear to be too easy. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Don't start disputes at work. If you disagree with vour boss, swallow it. Your best efforts will come through family out­ings and pleasure trips. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24·Nov. 22): You can work well with others if you roll up your sleeves and help those who are not in as high a position. Your en­ergy should be directed into meeting vour deadlines. -SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 23·Dec. 21): You should be on the go again. Travel and involvement in large groups will bring added knowledge. lle aware that someone may be out to get re­venge. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 20): Limitations are likelv. Be careful not to overindulge in spiCy foods or stom­ach problems will slow you down. Take care of yourself first today. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): You're ready to snap at anyone who gets in your way You are tired of being everyone's punching bag. New part­nerships can be formulated now that you're in a position to set the rules. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Some­
one you work with may be on the 
rampage. Get to the bo.ttom of the 
problem and don't count on anything 
that ha~n't been put down in writing. 
Born Today: Get ready to give life your best shot. You can have whatever you wam as long as you don't ponder over past nustakes or regrets. Move mto the fast :.me and get into the swing of things th,.; year. You have a lot to offer and much to get back in return. 

POLICIES ON ALL Of YOU. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 "Anatomy of a 59 The Law of Murder": Moses
1 "Stat!" 
Prosecution so Ages 5 Grow dim 
32 Affectedly 

61 Unhinged9Stop--creative 
65 Missouri river t4 "--Barry 33 Stadium since 
66 Players.

Turns 40" (1990 1964 67 "Whoops!"
best seller) 34 --Club (retail 68 Not as brightchain)15 Oak variety 69 MOMA artist 38 --du Diable 16 Begot 10 Risque39 Because17 Mark left by 41 ChanceZarro? 
42 Rebuilder of 
DOWN

18 Ring site 
Rome t9 1954 1 Pitches 
44 PlentyOscar-winning 45 Zhivago's love 2 Animal pouch 
composer 
3A Gardner 20 "Anatomy of a Wind": 4 Swearing falsely Murder": Prosecution 5 Medium of this 
46 "Inherit the 

Defense 
50 Classic work by puzzle's theme 23 Singer with the Montaigne · 6--vera 1991 #1 hit 53 Extra 
7 Presidential 

"Rush. Rush" 
54 "Inherit the candidate who 26 Pupils' spots Wind": Defense campaigned from prison a They've split 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Maintain -:-T-:o-::-r:::-r::-1 1 o Do Its ~:::+::+.::::+.:::1 __ dust 31 Chollas 
48Vane dir. 55 Torture device 
11 -:-:t=t':'-+.:7+:::-1 12 Category 35 "--Day's 49Big--56 Small duck Night" 50 Prevent legally 57 A Kennedy 
":':'i...,.::+.=+:::-1 13 "Golden Boy~ playwright 36 --Island, Fla. 51 Bride, in 
58 Pot starter ~":"t:::-t:::'il•lllll 21 High school subj. 37 Hall-of-Fame 
Brescia 

62"1 see!" Hr.:-1~1"!"'~ 22 Uncle Jose pitcher Warren 52 Pertaining to 
63 Big gobbler 
ecological71-:-17171 23 Once more 40 Computer key stages 64 Short

_.71-:-171 24 Tuesday night 43 At the point in -­fixture on early one's life NBC 45 Word repeated 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
25 Adoring one in a children's 
are available by touch-tone phone: ~17-17-t-=-1 28 Double curve rhyme 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
t=-t=-t-:-t-:-:1 29 Tot 47 Higher in Annual subscriptions are available for the 717171r:l 30 Gent from fuel-to-air best of Sunday crosswords from the last Argentina ratio 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 



IF YOU CHEW TOBACCO AND WANT TO QUIT, ASK US, WE CAN HELP! 
NOW AVAILABLE IN THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION, FREE MINT SNUFF, ALL MINT CHEW. THE HEALTHY ALTERNATIVE TO CHEWING TOBACCO!! CALL 631­7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
-
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, April 16, 1997 
Seeded teams continue to dominate early rounds 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The continuing trend of the top 32 Bookstore teams advancing without fail to the· second round may create the illusion in some people's minds that the first round is unimpor­tant for these heralded favorites. However, for some of the seeds, nothing could be further from the truth. 
As Kevin Poppink of Malicious Prosecution 

-
explained, his team's first round contest was important for the development of their team. 
"We haven't been able to play much together," said Poppink of his third-seeded squad, "because we have a lot of dif­ferent schedules, so it was good to play and have a good game." 
The team of law school stu­dents used a combination of strength and solid shooting to overcome a resilient opponent. The toughness of the opposition allowed Prosecution to play in a competitive game situation, which should certainly be to their benefit later in the tour­·nament. 
As far as those later rounds are concerned, Poppink indi­cated that the team had set goals to prepare themselves for the tougher competition. 
"We set sort of an intermedi­ate goal tonight of keeping our seed or doing better by the time we re-seed for (the round of) 16," Poppink commented. "So that's our next goal, but absolutely, we want to win this." 

Another seeded squad who faced decent competition last night was No. 13 The Sixth Man. The team comprised of Tom Krug, Ron Powlus, Marshaun West, John Cerasani and A'Jani Sanders, originally called Awesome Backer Babies, decided to make a change before their debut. 
The game featured acrobatic dunks by West, power post moves by Cerasani, and a cou­ple of turn-around jump shots from Powlus, but despite the strong play of Sixth Man, their opponents, The Guertler Faction, refused to lie down and accept the blowout. Before the game was over, The Faction had proven that they were worthy Bookstore com­petitors. 
"They were a good group of guys," said Powlus of The Faction squad. "I think we just had a couple more athletic guys. They were a tough team. I think it was unfortunate for them that they played us early because I think they could have won a couple games." 
see BOOKSTORE I page 16 
• BASEBALL 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

A run from Mike Amrhein helped ND win for the 15th time in 17 games. 
Irish nip Purdue 6-4 to extend hot streak 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY 
S orts Writer 

You can neutralize Notre Dame's best bashers, and still, the team will find a way to win. This is unusual. 
-
Notre Dame's Big Noises -Randall Brooks, Mike Amrhein, Jeff Wagner -have carried a heavy burden of late. They can take over an entire game, and they are responsible for over 50 percent of Irish offensive fireworks this season. But yesterday's 
see BASEBALL I page 12 

The Observer/Brandon Candura As has been the case with all seeded teams so far, BW3 (shown above) advanced easily to the next round. No seeded team has lost at this point in the tournament. 
• fOOTBAll 
Davie adds fresh look to staff 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
It is probably the easiest question to answer at this uni­versity. Indeed, by now, every­one and his dog knows that Bob 
Davie is the new head coach of the Notre Dame football team. 
And in light of the impor­

tion that has taken place, most fans have learned that Jim Colletto and Greg Mattison have taken over as offensive and defensive coordinators, respectively. 
However, the rest of the Irish coaching staff may be a mys­tery to some. If nothing else, it certainly poses the question: who else is in charge of instructing the players that Notre· Dame fans will come to live and die by next fall? 
When it was all said and done, Davie decided to go with something old and something new. 
The rookie head coach opted not to keep Joe Moore (offen­sive line) and Earle Mosley (running backs) on his staff in 1997, and former offensive coordinator Dave Roberts fled to the Lone Star State, becom­ing the head coach at Baylor. 
However, Charlie Strong (defensive line). Tom McMahon (secondary). Urban Meyer (receivers), and Kirk Doll (spe­cial teams) were asked to return in 1997. 
"Our status was initially unclear after Coach Holtz decided to step down," said 

McMahon. "But Bob made it known who he wanted to be part of his staff. He's been implementing his ideas and philosophy, so it's good to be part of it." 
In addition to Mattison and Colletto, Davie has added two more new faces to his staff since taking over in December. 
Desmond Robinson is now responsible for instructing Irish running backs, while Mike Sanford has been working with Ron Powlus and company as the new quarterbacks coach. 
Although the transition has been anything but easy, Robinson and Sanford have been able to make the proper adjustments during spring workouts over the last three weeks. 
"It hasn't been as hard as it 
see FOOTBALL I page 12 

D Monday 8~ Running Backs D Tuesday •~ Tight ~ndsJl Wednesday e, Coaches
The Observer will be profiling a different position on the D Thursday e: Quarterbacks Notre Dame football team 
D Friday & Ron Powlus

each day this week. · 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 

o/ 
vs. Bowling Green 
a;

vs. Northwestern
vy 
• Irish softball takes two
Today, 5 p.m. 

~f~ 
...-Today, 3:30p.m. 
~ 
at Big East Championship 

Men's vs. Air Force see page 17
.....
April17-20 

;P 
Thursday, 3 p.m. 
M! 
~ • Women's tennis

"' 
at Big East Championship 
S¢ 
Softball at Goshen College 
Aprill7-20 

Wednesday, 3 p.m. see page 14 
~ 



