I I ' 't I • 
'\. t' ' •.••. 

Wednesday, September, 10, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 13 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
[tt Griffin/Nass
~MPAIGN PLATFORM 
e Work with colleges to increase number of diversity-related courses 
• 
Extend operating hours of the Rock 

• 
Expand LaFortune 24-hour space 

• 
Improve campus computing centers 

• 
Increase student parking and improve transportation 


By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant News Editor 
Last February, Matt Griffin and Erek Nass were elected student government president and vice president, promising 
to  be the "voice" of a  more  
informed student body.  
Now,  three  months  after  

claiming their positions, the Nass/Griffin administration looks to continue progress on its campaign platforms and to overcome the unforeseen obstacles of campus leader­ship. 
"I think we really hit the ground running," Griffin said, commenting on the early progress of his staff. "But one of the biggest challenges we have had to face is that the administrative process is much more slow-moving than we had anticipated." 
With a campaign platform ranging from improving the student parking situation to creating new athletic facilities, the Griffin!Nass administration has tried to create task forces for each issue. However, a set back they did not prepare for was the cumbersome move­
ment  of  the  Notre  Dame  
administration.  
"We all  came from  a  pro­ 

gramming background and are used to seeing results pretty quickly." Griffin stated. 
Nass agreed: "It's really diffi­cult because we don't always see the end results of what we start. The stuff student govern­ment does is a lot more slow 
see GRIFFIN I page 4 

Matt Griffin discusses the work his administration has done in the Student Union since last semester's election with some of his staff members. 


By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate ~ews Editor 
Fatlwr Theodore Ilesburgh, pn~sidnnt Pmeritus of Notre Dame, remembnred Mother Tnresa as an example of some­
onn who built some­thing out of nothing. 
"I think that the most important contribution slw madn is 


that a pPrson Hesburgh that ramP from absolute 'no-where's­villP' startnd a mission that blossomnd into something so gn•at that slw could win n~cog­nition with a :'-JobPI l'rizP." he .-;aid. 
"I rnmPmlwr standing and looking up and down that L-


Hes burgh recalls days with Mother Teresa 
• SECURITY BEAT 

Security arrests wanted man 

The Qbsel"l/er/Jon Klog Lamar Taylor was apprehended yesterday moming in the middle of a. major student walkway. In the map above, 150 Is DeBartolo Hall, 54 is the Snite Museum and 40 is Cushing. 

shaped hallway lin the building that housed Mother Teresa's mission]." Hesburgh added of his visit to Calcutta, more than 40 years ago. "I felt like crying. Never had I seen that kind of selfless dedication. I wish that I could be that close to God. 
"The person that was in the hallway with me then was the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, he cried openly at the sight before handing over the check for $50,000 to help her ministry." 
Ilesburgh, who was president of the University from 1952 to 1988 and has himself received honors from many political leaders for his work in the field of peacn studies, recalled Mother Teresa as an icon for volunteers. 
"She used to say that you can't rPally help the poor 
see HESBURGH I page 4 
Step Right Up... 

Centers focus on women's health 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
"Academically. it is also a Saint Marv"s Assistant News Editor resource center where students can find numerous books, arti­
Health in the 90s has become cles and files concerning topics a very important issue in the from self-defense to sexual lives of women. On the Saint assault awareness." Mary's College campus, two The group is under the super­organizations known as the vision of professors Susan
ular topic to focus on w!1ich
Wellness Center and the Alexander and George Trey.
pertains to women on this cam­
Women's Center strongly sup­who help organize events and
pus and we take it public," said
port and promote the physical provide suggestions to prob­
co-president Jill Embry. "We
and emotional health of the stu­lems the group may encounter. 
meet once a week to decide
dents. "One of my biggest goals for
what issues to emphasize on
With the help of faculty and the program is get more stu­
campus, and then we sponsor
staff, these two organizations dent involvement through pub­
special events, such as lectures
are facilitated by students who licizing the events," said
and videos to educate the stu­
strive to meet the various Alexander. "Many people do
dent body." 
health needs of their peers. The not know the extent of informa­
According to last year's co­
Women's Center, which is tion that has been compiled to
president Karen Murphy, the
located in the basement of benefit students in every aspect 
Women's Center serves many
LeMans Hall, has been in exis­of their college career." 
purposes for the women of
tence for over ten years. Its One misconception that some
Saint Mary's. 
main purpose is to provide stu­students seem to have is that
"The room can be used for a
dents a safe haven to discuss the group is made up of mostly 
quiet night of study, a time to
social and personal issues they feminists.
share a movie with friends or a
encounter in their daily lives. "There is a wide variety of
place for discussion on issues
"We gather as much informa­women who make use of the
such as self-esteem and body
tion on women's issues as we 
image," Murphy said.
can, then we choose one partie-see WELLNESS I page 4 

• fa I I' I 
, , • • 1 • I ' I If I 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 10, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Putting fun 

back into tnusic 

As students walked  Gene Brtalik  
through campus on a  Sports Writer  
brisk Thursday night,  
they could hear the faint  

sound of live music as they neared LaFortune. 
Most assumed the sound was coming from inside, but as they approached the student center they heard music echoing from the Fieldhouse Mall. As they looked out into the dimly lit area, they saw two figures sitting on chairs in the exact same pose as Noel Gallagher does in Wonderwall. The melodious sounds began to draw people toward them rather than their original destination. Who were these two pied pipers who braved the colder conditions rather than find a warmer setting for their act? 
These two were the Dunn brothers of Stanford Hall. 
Due to a double-booking of the Acoustic Cafe that night, Aaron and Justin Dunn took their show outdoors to entertain their peers, who arrived to show support. Born and raised in Topeka, Kan., the Dunns didn't start learning their instruments until they hit their teens. Aaron took up the guitar as a way to relax and also to contribute at weekly Mass. Justin on the other hand, needed a way to complement the voice that had given him many roles in theatrical events. He chose the guitar after watching his brother and seeing the ease with which Aaron played. Justin practiced for a year, entertaining his section mates by playing some of the newest songs. Both brothers had played the Acoustic Cafe numerous times, but after rehearsing together over the summer, they decided to combine their talents. 
Their outside concert drew people who were interested in being soothed after a stressful night. Included in their set were two songs written by Aaron. The crowd was small at first, but by the time the Dunns had strummed their last chord 50 people had gathered to appreciate the euphony. 
You may ask, where's the opinion in this col­umn? 
It's here. Instead of creating a fiasco because of the double-booking, these two decided to just go outside and have fun. Fun is the essential part of music. Most people pick up instruments to relax themselves. At first, the tool doesn't sound the way one might like, but eventually it all comes together to form a harmonious sound. Free concerts should become a part of everyday life. 
Consider this summer in New York. Garth Brooks was scared that no one would show up to listen to him play for nothing. He was off by about half a million. Fans poured in from all the world just to see one of the greatest stars in country music. When it was all over, Garth's smile was from ear to ear; he knew that he entertained all these people just because he enjoys strumming the guitar. The fans' reac­tion to this extravaganza was that there should be more free concerts each year. 
In today's society, where everyone has money on their mind, it would be nice to see some of today's hottest bands and a few of the old favorites just sitting out in an open place one day with little notice and beginning to play as if there were thousands in front of them. Though Aaron and Justin don't have the star power of Garth Brooks, for one night they knew they were able to bring smiles to the faces of those seated around them, as have many of the musicians they look up to. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF  
News  
David Freddoso  Graphics  
Heather Cocks  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Brian Reinthaler  Heather Cocks  
Matt Reynolds  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Michelle Keefe  
Accent  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE 
Serbian group releases aide of war crimes suspect 

BANJA LUKA, Bosnia-Herzegovina 
NATO forces ended a standoff between rival Serb camps today, escorting the top aide to war crimes suspect Hadovan Karadzic from a hotel surrounded by hos­tile police and thousands of angry Serbs. 
Police loyal to Bosnian Serb President Biljana Plavsic blocked access to the Hotel Bosna in the center of Banja Luka early today, cutting telephones, power and water. Momcilo Krajisnik, Karadzic's top aide and the Serb member of Bosnia's joint presidency, and several of his top aides were trapped inside. 
In an effort to defuse an explosive situa­tion, diplomats and oflicials of the NATO­led peace force negotiated with Krajisnik's security men and Plavsic's police to release him and other senior officials. 
Shortly before 3 p.m., peace force troops escorted Krajisnik and several aides through a hostile crowd of thousands 
Jones' lawyers pull out of Clinton suit 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. 
A federal judge today let Paula Corbin Jones' lawyers withdraw from her sexual harassment lawsuit against President Clinton, but directed that the case stay on course for a trial next May. After a conference call, U.S. District Judge Susan Webber Wright let Gilbert Davis and Joseph Cammarata leave Mrs. Jones' legal 
.......~_........__ team and directed that they be paid for their work so far. The lawyers said in papers filed Monday that they had "fundamental differences of opinion" with Jones about how the case should proceed. They promoted a settlement that Jones rejected, her spokeswoman said. Cammarata refused to comment on the judge's decision today. He said only that he and Davis would now see to the "logistical housekeeping" of transferring the case ­informing Mrs. Jones know of upcoming deadlines and outstanding motions. Jones claims Clinton propositioned her at a Little Rock hotel in May 1991 when he was gov­ernor and she was a state employee. Davis and Cammarata said Monday that they still had "full confi­dence" in her claim. The lawyers' request to leave the case came after Jones rejected settlement terms that her spokeswoman said the lawyers had pushed -$700,000 and a vague statement of regret for any damage to Mrs. Jones' reputation. Jon,es' spokeswoman said the pro­posed deal lacked the strong apology that Jones wants and complained that the lawyers were "hell-bent on set­tling." 
NASA spacecraft passes first test 
PASADENA, Calif. 
A NASA spacecraft bound for Mars pressurized its rock­et engine as it neared the Red Planet on Tuesday, success­fully executing the same step that apparently doomed a similar mission in 1993. The Mars Global Surveyor, a planet-mapping spacecraft, is scheduled to begin orbiting Mars on Thursday. "To see this event pass us successfully today is really a great relief," said Glenn Cunningham, project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. He held the same post with the Mars Observer, the spacecraft that vanished without a trace before getting into orbit in August 1993. Cunningham said the nail-biting moments occurred between 7 a.m. and 9:15 a.m., when valves had to be opened that let high-pressure helium flow into tanks of propellant that will be pushed into the rocket engine on Thursday. The pressurization of the fuel lines on Mars Observer is believed to have caused an explosion that sent that spacecraft out of control. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather,. forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H*..··L  
Wedn~sda~,  65 54  
Thursday  ~  63 52  
Friday  ~  67 so  
Saturday  ~.  70 58  
/ 

Sun~ay " (itj 69 56 
0'....·'\t~.,-~ ...,..\./ "l.r; ' 
~ 
@,Q,~~~~(f~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Assoctaled Press Graph~esNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 10. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
""T""""T"" ....._._ ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1997 AccuWeather. Inc. 
chanting "Thieves! Thieves!" and demanding the weapons reportedly found on dozens of Krajisnik security people. 
The episode was one of the most humiliating for top aides to Karadzic since they came to power and started 
1 fomenting the war that erupted in Bosnia 
i 
I 
in 1992, and one of the few times they have been publicly jeered by the people 
they are supposed to lead.
·I Earlier, Jovan Zametica, Krajisnik's chief adviser, called the standoff a hostage crisis and stressed its outcome would have a "profound effect" not only 
AP on local elections scheduled for Sept. 13­14 but on the future of Bosnia. Several thousand angry Plavsic supporters gathered in 
front of the Bosna hotel, chanting "We want the arms," and 
"Go to Pale," the Karadzic and Krajisnik stronghold east of 
Sarajevo. 
7-Up plans to revamp its flavor 
DALLAS 
After more than a decade of losing market share to Sprite, the maker of 7-Up plans to change the soft drink's flavor so it is crisper and not as sweet, a source close to the company confirmed today. Dr Pepper/Seven Up will announce the flavor change next Monday at a meeting of its bottlers in San Antonio, the source said. The Wall Street Journal first reported the potential change in its morning edition. Mike Martin, a spokesman for Dr Pepper/Seven Up in Dallas, said the company would not comment on the Journal's article. The company is owned by Britain's Cadbury/Schweppes PLC. Industry insiders said the new 7 -Up will probably taste more like its chief com­petitor, Sprite, owned by the Coca-Cola Co. 7-Up has been around since 1929, when it debuted as Bib­Label Lithiated Lemon-Lime Soda, according to Beverage Digest, a New York-based industry publica­tion. It was soon renamed 7-Up Lithiated Lemon Soda, which was shortened in 1936 to 7Up. Until the early 1980s, 7 -Up was the unrivaled leader in the lemon-lime beverage market, but was overtaken by Sprite, which is promoted with more youthful adver­tising and new packaging. New packaging graphics that will feature a lemon and a lime, and new adver­tising are also being planned for 7 -Up, the source confirmed. Reformulating soft drinks can be risky: Just ask Coca-Cola. The company changed its recipe for Coke itself in 1985 and just as quickly had to bring back the old flavor under the name Coca-Coca Classic. 
McDonald's pays bizarre fees in China 
BEIJING 
In a city of bureaucrats hungry for revenue, McDonald's isn't just for hamburgers. Its 38 restaurants in Beijing must pay for family planning, flowers for city streets and propaganda telling Chinese to be more gra­cious. A list of 31 such fees-charged on top of taxes­costs each McDonald's thousands of dollars a year, according to an official report made public this month. Mayor Jia Qinglin ordered the report, focusing on McDonald's, to find out why foreign investment in Beijing had stagnated, the Chinese Economic Times newspaper said. The report concludes most of the fees were unauthorized -but were not corruption. Agencies simply are being forced to raise their own revenues in the face of government funding cuts, it says. The report highlights complaints by foreign investors that they fre­quently are targets for fees and taxes imposed without warning or explanation. 
Prflssure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VI• Associated Press 
Atlanta  85  65  Chicago  65  52  Miami  91  75  
Baltimore 76  64  Dallas  97  79  New York  76  65  
Boston  70  59  Denver  78  56  Phoenix  105  84  
Bayonne  79  62  Honolulu  90  75  St. Louis  81  67  
Calgary  7t  41  Las Vegas 101  76  West Windsor  79  66  



Wednesday, September I 0, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 


Architecture students win prize Gettin' hooked up 
By COLLEEN MURPHY Notre Dame's team consist­News Wrirer ed of 1997 graduates Christiane Fashek and 
This summer, the University Malaika Kim and current of Notre Dame's School of fifth-year students Jan Noethe Architecture won on·e of the and Aimee Propes. Advisors five first prizes in a National and sponsors were Professors Design Robert Amico and 1-Kwang Competition Change. c a I I e d "The professors were "Rehousing always helpful, always saying Hollywood." 'do this' or 'try this,"' said 
This brand Propes, new contest The focus of the competition was spon­was a design for high-density, sored by low-rise housing in response Fe d e r a I Amico to the damage and devasta­Emergency tion left behind by the earth­Management Agency and quake that shook Northridge, directed by the American Calif. in 1994. Institute of Architects' "The project was interest­Research. ing, and it dealt with earth-




The Cause and Treatment of Male 



Homosexuality 
"Our society must tolerate homosexuality and respect the right of gay citizens to live their own lives-but we must never be pressured into a position of gay advocac . We must understand the homosexual condition for what it is: a developmental disorder, and not a developmental path which will lead to full maturity." 
-The NARTH credo 

quake housing, which I learned a lot about," said Noethe. 
Propes believed that work­ing with a team was beneficial to all in the group. 
"We all have different styles and opinions, but we man­aged to work out a good design -both structurally and aesthetically -that fit the community," she said. 
This competition marked Notre Dame's first win in any sort of national design compe­tition. Although they were new to the competition, the team went into the contest with great determination. 
"The project was relatively easy to work on because we had a goal we knew we could reach, which was to win," said Noethe. 
Five other schools -The University of California at Berkeley, North Dakota State University, California State Polytechnic University at Pomona, and Oklahoma State University -also qualified in the final round of competition for the award. Their projects had been chosen from 29 sub­missions by groups from schools all over the country. 
Interested in writing for The Observer? 
Call the news 
department at 
1-5323. 

The Strake Foundation presents 

Dr. Joseph N ico·losi, Ph.D. 
Dr. Nicolosi, a Catholic and practicing 
psychologist, is the Executive Director of the 

National Association of Research and Therapy of 
Homosexuality (NARTH), a psychiatric care 
project that helps homosexuals who wish to 
change their sexual orientation. Based on his 

clinical research and experience of treating over 
400 homosexual men, Dr. Nicolosi has been able 
to help many men become free of their compelling 
homosexual attractions, and has helped some to a 
major orientation shift-even to their goal of 

marriage. In a recently completed survey of its 
clients who are in transition from homosexuality, 
NARTH found that respondents recount "very 
significant improvements in self-esteem, self­
understanding, and unwanted homosexual 
behaviors and feelings." Dr. Nicolosi does not 
maintain that reparative therapy is a quick or 
easy process, nor a "cure" that guarantees the· 
erasure of all future homosexual feelings. He 
hopes his lecture will contribute to the campus 

discussion on the pastoral care of homosexuals. 
Thursday, Sept. II Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain 



r~·--. .. 
' 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 10, 1997 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
unless you are ready to suffer the way that they did," he remembered. 
"Never had I seen such a perfect example of practicing what you preach. She started with nothing and ended up raising millions of dollars to help her mission. In the process she became an icon attracting people from all walks of life. 
"She inspired others," Hesburgh added. "Wherever she went all over the world, she went to the poorest place in the city that she was visiting. She asked Air India to make her a part-time stew­ardess so that she could fly to all of the places in the world that she had to go. They told her that anywhere she wanted to go she could fly for free in first class. Her mission spread all over the world with over 20,000 workers working for free. Who knows how many hundreds of thousands of people she hoiped." 

He also recounted the beginning of Mother Teresa's mission. "She started as a poor, young girl from Albania who joined an order and had to learn a whole new language, English," Hesburgh said. "She was sent to a for­eign country, to Calcutta, the poorest city in that country, to teach at a school for girls that weren't even Christian. 
"For years she walked from the con­vent to the school having to step over the poor people that were dead of neglect on the street. She finally said that she couldn't take it anymore and asked to be allowed to do something for the poor. So she walked out of the con­vent wearing only her sari and carrying two rupies. She went to the poorest part 
of town and asked if she could stay there." Hesburgh also described the Hindu area that she used for her mission. 
"It was a place to bring the poor peo­ple from the streets," he recalled. 'The girls that she taught would volunteer to help her bring the people in. And they would literally go out and pick the peo­ple up off the streets. People would be so emaciated that you couldn't tell if they were male or female, they were just a bag of bones. She would bring them in, wash them, put them in clean clothes and feed them. 
"Even though most of the old people in her care did die at first, they did not die in the gutter. They died with a human being holding them. They died with the warmth of food in their stomachs and the warmth of human love in their hearts." 
Hesburgh remembered the last time that he came in contact with Mother Teresa. "A few years ago I was in the Seychelles islands in the Indian Ocean, and I saw members of her order at a church," he said. "I was thrilled to find out that she was there. She caine out and talked to me. I discovered that she was there because the island had decid­ed to build a home for the elderly poor and she was there to help them design it. The next day, she was supposed to be thousands of miles away. That is how frequently she traveled. 
"I had enormous admiration for her," Hesburgh concluded. "She encouraged many young people to become involved with her mission. 
"There are icons, and there are icons. Some are great athletes, some are great scholars. She was an icon. Many people across the world have said this and I want to join them in saying that she is an example for all people everywhere." 

Griffin 
continued from page 1 
moving than we are used to." 
One of the primary goals of the administration was to inform the student body of exactly what student govern­ment is and how it runs. Chief of staff Mary Gillard thinks that this main objective was achieved. 
"The student government office is definitely more invit­ing, but that is a superficial aspect of what we are trying to do. There was an overwhelm­ing response to Activities Night and to the student government open house. We were so happy to see students interested in what is going on up here; I really think we've made things more approachable," she said. 
Student government's new weekly publication, "Campus Hook-Up," was one of the pro­jects born out of Griffin's desire for more communication with the student body. 
"Student groups need an informal forum in which to publicize what they are doing on campus," he said. "This publication is intended to help the students realize there are more things to do than to go to bars or freshman parties." 
Gillard agrees, "We wanted something entertaining and informative for the students to use. This seems to be a good solution to solve some of the communication problem." 
Although the communication issue has seen some tangible results with this administra­tion, some other platforms have been more of a challenge. 
SafeRide, a program started by the Miller/Murray adminis­tration, was originally intended to be a temporary program. But one of the Griffin/Nass administration's goals was to extend the program so it becomes a permanent part of Notre Dame society. 
"We really need cooperation from the student body as well as the administration to make [SafeRide] work," Gillard emphasized. "This is .one of those projects that might take all year to be nailed down. The logistics and paper work just take so long to work out." 
Improvement of the student parking situation is another long-term goal of the adminis­tration. But as Griffin stresses, this is another issue that could stretch past his presidency. 


"We have people talking to the University about some new lots," he said. "It is definitely our job to stay in the face of the University. But these things are not easy goals to reach. There is so much to be worked out that we may not see it's end." 
Still, Griffin, Nass and Gillard arc positive about the way their administration has functioned thus far. 
"We had a lot of input on how the pep rallies arc going to be organized this year," Nass said. 
"It is really great to see stu­dents having a good time and to know that we had something to do with it." 
Although some of the admin­istration's platforms have not yet seen results, Griffin feels that the broader goals of his campaign arc still the same. 
"We've had to shift the goals a little, but our basic platform of communication and interac­tion has remained pretty much in place," he said. 
"There is something new every day," Nass added, refer­ring to the challenges of stu­dent government. "But we are living up to what we said we'd do. That is what makes this job so much fun." 

Wellness 
continued from page 1 
space in the Women's Center, and they are not all feminists or anti-male," added Murphy. "Men are welcome any time and have been included in some of our past events." 
George Trey, who is begin­ning his second year as an advisor to the center, feels that there are certain issues on which he could back the group better than a female. 
"Primarily for me, the major benefit of the organization is helping motivate students on issues that concern the majori­ty of the student body," said Trey. 
Working toward a similar goal is the Wellness Center, located in Holy Cross Hall. The Wellness Center is primarily used as an outlet for women concerning emotional health issues, as well as some aspects of physical health. 

According to Judy Kenney, director of Health Services, the center provides students with information on all types of physical and mental diseases and disorders, and it also offers counseling on any issue students feel they would like to discuss. 
"We want to focus on univer­sal wellness, which nncds to be a balance in students' daily lives," said Kenney. 
The Wellness Center offers various types of relaxation tapes and videos and 15­minute neck massages to relieve stress. 
Next month the center will sponsor a lecture by a nutri­tionist on general eating habits. 
"The Wellness and Women's Centers strive to make women emotionally and physically strong all around," Murphy said. "I feel it is a really great, safe environment to celebrate being a woman." 

TONIGHT 
"America: Who Stole the Dream?" 
by 

SPEAKER DON BARLETT 

Pulitzer Prize-Winning Investigative Reporter for Time, Inc. Co-Author of the No. 1 Bestseller AMERICA: WHAT WENT WRONG? 
20th Annual LLOYD MCBRIDE Memorial Lecture 
University of Notre Dame Hesburgh Library Auditorium September 10,1997 8:00PM 
Campus Information: 631-6213 

Co-Sponsored by the Department of Economics-University of Notre Dame and the United Steelworkers of America 
.-------.-.-.-.-....-.-.---------------.-.-.. ~ -.~.-.-.--;-.-......-...,...........~...............-.-.-.-.-.----'-!.,i 
-.~.~.~..--..----------------~--­
I
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Whitman faces tough re-election race in NelV Jersey 
By THOMAS MARTELLO 
Associated Press Writer 
TRENTON, N.J. 

Gov. Christie Whitman's re­election drive has hit a speed bump: New Jersey's highest-in­the-nation auto insurance rates. 
Whitman rolled back income taxes 30 percent in her first three years in office and became a rising star in the Republican Party. She had hoped to ride her theme of 
"promises made, promises kept" to an easy victory. Instead, she finds herself in a surprisingly tough race. 
Democratic challenger Jim McGreevey, little-known before winning the nomination, has risen in the polls while pound­ing away at the auto insurance issue. Recent polls show him to be anywhere from 12 points behind to neck-and-neck. 
"This is a tough one to figure out when you consider the fact that so many other numbers for Whitman are good," said David Rebovich, political scientist at Rider University. "There are good numbers on the unem­ployment rate, jobs and the economy. Crime is down, the environment is clean. And she's barely leading. She just hasn't been able to appease folks about auto insurance." 

While Whitman gained fame for her income tax cuts, a grow­ing number of residents believe 
College of Engineering 





INDUSTRY DAY 1997 

September 23 & 24 
Reception & Banquet Sept. 23@ 6:30pm Monogram Room in the JACC Business Attire *Deadline for Registration: Sept. 12* 
Career Fair Sept. 24 @ 1 0:00-4:00 pm Fitzpatrick Hall Business Attire *Don't forget to bring resumes!* 
For more information on INDUSTRY DAY visit our website at 
http://www.nd.edu/-jec/industry day 

those cuts have been negated by a rise in property taxes. And McGreevey has been able to cash in on voter discontent over Whitman's failure to reduce auto insurance rates, which average $1,013 per car. 
She put the issue atop her leg­islative agenda but was unable to persuade leaders of her own party to trade cuts of up to 25 percent for limits on lawsuits. She signed a watered-down law and promised to keep fighting. 
McGreevey, 40, a hard-dri­ving, suspender­
wearing state 
Whitman is senator and still the Woodbridge favorite. mayor, wants a "My mother 10 percent rate continues to rollback to be say novenas. paid for by fraud I'm confident prevention she has lit efforts and also every candle proposes public in every avail­hearings on all able church," rate increases. 
Christie Whitman s a i d 
"I represent 
governor ofNew Jersey M c G reeve Y· 
families who an Irish consistently con-Catholic. 
National Convention. 

But the 50~year-old Whitman -the only governor up for re­election this year -knows that even giants of Jersey politics can be vulnerable. After all, she is the one who nearly defeated "unbeatable" Sen. Bill Bradley seven years ago. 
"I always thought this was going to be a close race," Whitman said. "We have a lot of work to do. I don't take any­thing for granted." 
For his part, McGreevey -con­
e e d e s 
front mortgage payments, auto insurance costs, college tuition -the day-to-day financial chal­lenges of middle-class life," said McGreevey, who repeatedly portrays the millionaire Whitman as out of touch with middle-class voters. 
Whitman has responded with an ad campaign charging that McGreevey, as mayor, doesn't even pay car insurance. The city picks up the tab. 
In her short time in office, the governor has been on vice pres­idential short lists, rebutted President Clinton's State of the Union address and served as co-host at the Republican 
McGreevey is working hard to secure the old Democratic coali­tion of labor and urban voters, which broke down four years ago during Democratic Gov. Jim Florio's re-election bid. Since then, New Jersey has twice elected Democratic U.S. sena­tors and given Clinton a land­slide. 
More than half of New Jersey's registered voters list no party affiliation. 
Voters responding to polls have given Whitman low marks on auto insurance and declared it the most important issue. Taxes, Whitman's strength, placed a distant second. 

The College of Business Ad10inistration 
presents: 



areer 
ayl997 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 9:00AM-4:00PM 
ATRIUM oF THE CoLLEGE oF 
BusiNEss ADMINISTRATION 
IST, 2ND, AND 3RD fLOORS 
Choose what is right for YOU! 
Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Complex for a listing of companies, session times, and resume critiques 


page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 10, 1997 
Shelton awaits Senate approval of nomination 
Choice for top military post faces committee 
ByJOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Of all the hills Gen. Henry Shelton has taken in a long com­bat career. Capitol Hill may turn out to be the easiest. 
Shelton, President Clinton's choice to become the nation's highest-ranking officer and his top military adviser, appeared to have no enemies in sight at today's confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
"I have no doubt that this committee and the Senate will quickly confirm your nomina­tion," Sen. John McCain, R­Ariz., said at the hearing. 
McCain, however, sharply questioned Shelton on the U.S. strategy in Bosnia, and particu­larly on U.S. plans to withdraw nearly 10,000 troops by next June. 
Saying that he supports the withdrawal of U.S. forces by mid-1998, Shelton said, "I am not aware of exactly what our exit strategy is." 
"Does that concern you?" McCain said. "Usually we don't go into things without an exit strategy as you know, general." 
Shelton replied that the Clinton administration still has nine or 10 months to plan the withdrawal and that policy mak­ers should focus on civil and economic reforms needed to sustain the peace in Bosnia. 
Shelton also said the situation in Bosnia next year may require a continued NATO presence, but that the composition of that force has not yet been deter­mined. 
Asked whether U.S. troops will be used to arrest indicted war criminals, Shelton said he would recommend against that and opt for either specially trained police or special operations forces. 
The 55-year-old Green Beret, a veteran of jungle battles in Vietnam's Mekong River Delta and of desert wars in the Persian Gulf, has prepared the ground on Capitol Hill assidu­ously, visiting individual sena­tors for lengthy meetings on his military philosophy and leader­ship style. 
The job of giving the president advice in the Oval Office will pose a new challenge to an offi­cer more comfortable with a 6 
a.m. run or with supervising Ranger trainees over an obsta­cle course. 
Shelton also faces the prospect of trying to manage a sharp increase in weapons spending without pushing up the overall defense budget. He will be asked to continue Clinton's opposition to buying more B-2 bombers, a plane with strong backers in Congress, and he will take up the thankless task of pushing for more military base closures. 
What appeared in little doubt today. was that Shelton would have trouble being confirmed by the Senate to his new post. 
"He's first class and first rate and he gets my vote," said Sen. Max Cleland, D-Ga., also an Armed Services Committee member. Cleland, who lost both his legs and his right arm in the Vietnam War, said having a test­ed combat veteran in the top job · is an extra comfort. "When we commit our 19-year-olds to bat­tle, it's nice for me to know and for the country to know that the top guy has been there, and got­ten a couple of holes in his T­shirt." 



Give Us A Minute, We'll Give You A Buck! 
Resource Center ATM Demonstrations* Beginning August 26, 3:00 -6:00 p.m. Hesburgh Library -Lower Level 
.-sou•ce. 
lifiBank 
Your partners from the fi~ 
• Umit one demonstration per person 
WASHINGTON promoter DoifKing iS ""''1""t·inn a new kind of hard-alongside his 
t•·:O...lJ<U.h!iU!;;,<tV''""''~:.and trOphieS, On . way to his trial 
fraud charges this week, King amassed a string of special ards from national civil 
rights groups. .•...• The NAACP gave him one of ••·· ts high~st• honors, the 
resident's Award, in July. Jackson's Rainbow· PUSH . . followed up with its Trailblazer Award a few weeks later. The Southern Christian .•...·.. ader~hip C:onference.and the National Council of Negro Women also have bestowed 
•.. awards~ .,,, <if 
Civil rights leaders say the prizes represent long-overdue recognition for a man who ha? 
•• donated to their causes over 
ars. ....... ..· ..... ·.... i ~!3.NI\A···· CP aw.....a.rd, ·~r think . • . e tifuing ... !) pr ome (in the ciVil rights com~ · 
tations, justbeforeKing aces munity) see me and say to retrial Thp:sda.YAJ1 ~~arges of t~emselves, 'There but for the deifauding <~;n inslJ,r,ance • com-grace ofGod gol;W pany, has raised questions .·But critics say it gives civil 
about whether there is a coor-rights groups a collective black dina,ted elf()rttcto clean'Upthe' ¢ye to praise a man Who has boxing promoter's image as he · l)een repeatedly sued by the 
goes to court. 

King says the .awards weren't solicited or brought about by any special recent donations. His ~ontrih~tions ..tp ...civil rights groups and other'"charities have tallied "in the millions" ove~ the past 20 y~ars but ~ave beenlargely nnkho:WU because "I never looked for any fanfare on this," he says. ; 
Thatmodestymaysound odd coming from a man who wears his hair in spiked fashion and sports a largesilver medallion and pinky ring. 
Speaking of his legal troubles withth~.. governrneJ:lt, 1\ingsaid in an interView after receiving 

OM PAGNA 
presents 
.. UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALL.. 

6 Monday Evenings, 7·9p.m. starting September 15th Jordan 
government, badmouthed by his own boxers and convicted dfmanslaughter. 
"Don King. How's that for a role model? Maybe it'll be Mike Tyson next year,'' Bob Herbert, a columnist for The New York· Times, wrote in a rebuke of 
•''NAACP President Kweisi Mfume for honoring King at the group's annual convention inJuly. 
"Mr. Mfume did not go into Mr. King's long history of unscrupulous business prac­tices, or the time he spent in prison for pistol-whipping and kicking a man to death," Herbert wrote. 
For Students, and Families 

Seminar topics: Offense, Defense, the Kicking Game, Demonstrations & Particpation 
Auditorium, UNO TOM PAGNA 
Former Offensive Backfield Coach  
for Reservations Call  
Sponsored by Home Management Service  219/233-3486 Fee:$60  




Head for the Hills! 
[Ci] 
CENTE.ft P'OR 
Appalachia Seminar
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a one credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation & follow-up classes 

• 
Offers service work through vari.ous sites in Appalachia 

• 
Past participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordmators 

• 
Presents opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, September 9,1997 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 

APPLICATIONS Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September 11, 1997 $40 deposit with application 
FURTHER INFORMATION 
Sean Frey, Student Co-chair, 4-4911 Ryan Murphy, Student Co-chair, 4-1980 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Coordinator, 1-9473 Jay Brandenberger, Faculty Advisor, 1-5293 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• HAITI • THE VATICAN 
Divers seek ferry-wreck survivors Church rejects use of 


capital punishment 
Mourners lose hope as death toll increases 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press Writer 
MONTROUIS 
Thousands of mourners watched from the beach today as divers resumed the search for the bodies of hundreds of Haitians believed trapped when an overcrowded ferry sank just offshore. 
Twenty-two divers drawn from the U.N. peacekeeping force in Haiti were searching the wreck. The first three divers who went down today said they could see about 50 bodies trapped in the triple-deck ship some 25 feet below the surface, 
U.N. spokeswoman Patricia Tome said. 
"Those who were downstairs had no chance of escaping because the boat turned over completely," Tome said. "Those who were on the top decks and were not thrown into the sea now are at the bottom." 
She said 49 bodies were recovered Monday and another two today. Others could have been carried away by the cur­rents. 
Estimates of the numbers of deaths varied wildly. Health Minister Rodolphe Mallebranche said Monday night that the accident "caused the deaths of more than 500 people." 


Earlier, Haiti's coast guard estimated as many as 300 pas­sengers died when the ferry capsized and sank Monday just off Mountrouis, a fishing village 
50  miles  north  of Port-au­ 
Prince.  It  had  come  from  
Gonave Island.  

The coast guard said about 400 people survived by swim­ming to shore. But survivors dis­puted those figures, saying up to 400 died and only about 60 sur­vived. Claude Hamel, the U.N. chief of operations in Haiti, said Monday there were 51 sur­vivors. 
Among mourners was Gonave Island legislator Fritzner Saint­Fleur, who lost two children aboard the ferry. His wife, who had accompanied them, man­aged to save one child, accord­ing to radio reports. 
The victims also included sev­eral members of a Gonave soc­cer team, and their fans, who had been headed to a game at Montrouis. 
Tome said she was told that one of the survivors was the Haitian owner of the ferry. "Apparently, he was on the top deck and lived because he was thrown off the boat," she said. 
Engineers at the site today were working out whether they could push the boat into shal­lower waters to help the divers, whose oxygen tanks were last­ing only 40 minutes, Tome said. 
Blow torches probably would be used to cut through the boat to recover trapped bodies, she added. 
Officials said overcrowding was likely a factor in the disas­ter, the latest in a string of ferry sinkings in Haiti, where seago­ing vessels are often overloaded. 
U.S. Coast Guard Lt. Steve Banks said the ferry was certi­fied to carry only 80 people, while Hamel said it had a 260­passenger capacity. Police said the boat's captain, who was arrested, insisted he was carry­ing 250 people. 
Even as divers searched the wreckage Monday, a sailboat certified to carry 300 people left Montrouis with 450 people aboard. 
Each day, thousands of Haitians crowd onto ferries, a cheap form of transport in the impoverished country. 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press Writer 

VATICAN CITY 
The Roman Catholic Church has all but ruled out the death penalty as an acceptable punish­ment, saying in revisions to its official teaching that justifiable uses are "practically nonexis­tent." 
The changes, released today, narrow the Vatican's position on acceptability of animal experi­
ments, encourage organ dona­tions and change the wording on homosexuali­ty to avoid taking a 

The new version requires the "full ascertainment" of a sus­pect's guilt for the death penalty to be imposed, and says cases where it is justified are "very rare, if not practically nonexis­tent." 
That phrase comes from John Paul II, who has campaigned against the death penalty and appealed for clemency in a half­dozen high profile cases in the United States, most recently that of Joseph O'Dell in Virginia. 

cause. 

The revisions come in the definitive edition of the cate­chism, the compendium of church teachings, issued in Latin, the official church lan­guage. 
They incorporate suggestions, corrections and additions that have emerged since 1992, when the catechism was first pub­lished in modern languages. About 100 paragraphs were altered, including some changes in wording or word order. 
Regarding the death penalty, the 1992 catechism said it was acceptable in cases of "extreme gravity," unless "bloodless means" of protecting society against a criminal were avail­able. 
"It is almost impossible to ful­fill all the (catechism's) criteria" for a death sentence, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger told reporters in presenting the revisions. 
"We don't exclude it in princi­ple, but we insist on these crite­ria," said Ratzinger, who as pre­fect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith is the church's doctrinal chief. 
In other revisions: 
• Homosexuality was termed "objectively disordered," which Ratzinger said was meant to avoid passing judgment on whether sexual orientation was innate or acquired. Unchanged is the call for compassion for homosexuals and the require­ment of chastity. 

Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, TM offers you the remarkable opportunity to be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 10, 1997 
LSU frat boy sues after near-fatal drinking binge 
By LESLIE ZGANJAR Hunt's lawsuit, which seeks unspeci­Hunt argues that Murphy's Bar was defend the suit fully," said LSU attorney 
Associated Press Writer fied damages, alleges that he and other negligent because its employees, one of Shelby McKenzie. pledges were forced by members of the whom was SAE's president, should have A man who answered the phone BATON ROUGE, La. Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity to con­stopped the drinking at the private Tuesday said at the SAE fraternity said 
A Louisiana State University student sume pitchers of drinks, and that the party. "no comment" and hung up without giv­who nearly died after a night of drinking fraternity did not do enough to help The suit targets the university for ing his name. After Wynne's death, that killed a fellow fraternity pledge nearly two dozen drunk pledges. allegedly failing to regulate or discour­signs were posted at all campus frater­filed a negligence suit Tuesday against Paramedics said Hunt was not breath­age bid night, when pledges are formal­nity houses saying reporters were not the school, the fraternity and the bar ing and was near death when they ly accepted into fraternities. welcome. where they drank. arrived at the fraternity house. LSU Chancellor William Jenkins Representatives of the bar owners did 
Donald Hunt, 20, was hospitalized for Authorities said Wynne's blood-alco­referred all calls to the university's not immediately return calls for com­nearly a week after the Aug. 25 binge hol level was 0.588 percent-nearly six attorneys. ment Tuesday. Murphy's Bar has gone that ended with the death of his friend times the minimum required for proof of "While the university regrets any mis­out of business, something its owners and roommate, Benjamin Wynne, also intoxication. Louisiana's legal drinking fortune suffered by any student, the uni­said they had planned to do even before 
20. age is 21. versity has no legal liability and plans to Wynne's death. 


AOL-CompuServe 
VMI suspends female cadet 
460: When asked if the female

deal faces scrutiny 
School claims It is the upperclassmen who cadet was reacting to sexual mete tnit much of the disci­harassment, VMI spokesman acquire 2.6 million subscribers 
student hit a male pline that makes VMI cadets' Mike Strickler said the circum­
Contract would erase 
through the transaction, which 
first year .,a• grueling experi­stances surrounding the inci­AOL's chiefInternet would erase its biggest com­
upperclassman ence, designed to toughen dent were "nothing out of the petitor. AOL now has about 9 
them .up. .. :;: , ordinary."
Ass~~iated Press
service competitor million subscribers and is 
The student' was suspended Strickler said the woman will nation's biggest online service 
fqr tvvo semesters after her be allowed to re-enter VMI 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Va.

company. 
case was heard by the school's next year, but will have to 
Virginia Military Institute
By law the government must e~~.~utive comJ11ittee Monday again go through the "ratWASHINGTON 
suspended a female cadet for a 
evening. The penalty was line," VMI's initiation ritual for review the deal to make sure it
The Justice Department is 
year for allegedly striking an
won't stifle competition or 
approved by VMJ freshmen cadets. 
reviewing America Online's 
upperclassman, the school said 
lead to higher consumer or Superintendent Josiah He was unsure if the cadet
plan to acquire the customers Tuesday.
business prices. Antitrust 
Bunting. would return to VMI.
of its closest competitor, 
The incident occurred after 
t'I hate to lose any of our Strickler said in previous
reviews are divided betweenCompuServe Corp., antitrust 
classes had begun, but school
the Justice Department and 
cadets ... but our system does years, suspension has been the spokeswoman Gina Talamona 
officials would not release any
the Federal Trade 
not tolerate any cadet striking standard penalty for thesaid Tuesday. 
other details about the offense. 
another,'' Bunting said in a offense.
Commission.
Under the three-way deal 
The name of the young woman
For its part, WorldCom statement Tuesday. To date, 32 men and four
announced Monday, 
and the man she was convicted
becomes a giant in its corner For six years, VMI spent mil­women in the freshman classWorldCom Inc., the nation's 
of hitting were not released. 
of the Internet, expanding its lions of dollars to keep women have left VMI since school
fourth-largest long-distance 
VMI enrolled its first coed
business of providing networks out, arguing that accommodat­began on Aug. 18.
phone company, will pay $1.2 
class last month in response to
for online services and busi­ing. women would destroy its First-year students, known
billion for CompuServe and 
the 1996 Supreme Court ruling 
ness customers. 
methods and its mission. After as "rats," live in Spartan bar­sell its online consumer busi­
that the school could not be
Executives involved in the the Supreme Court ruling, the racks under a harsh system of ness to AOL. WorldCom will 
both state-supported and all·
proposed transaction say they school's governing board voted strict discipline designed tokeep CompuServe's 1.200 cor­
male. Thirty women were in
expect it to be cleared by 
to admit women rather than test their physical. mental andporate customers. 
the freshman class of about
antitrust regulators. 
make the school private. emotional limits. 
America Online would 
"on given by 
Procter & G~······· in the consumer products indu vides many dynamic 
business ....'"''~" Jir\<.NlhY and strategic leadership to our Glo· rn·»H>I':ifllllr Advertising, Finance & Accounting, M anag~~.,.,.~~ ..... functions will be on hand 
sS''·~~oecttJr.c..t:arjf!er······opportunities. 
t I 

Refreshments, catered by Macri's, will be available in the Atrium. 

' 0 t t I I I I 0 I •• o • , o I ', ' , 



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September I 0, I 997 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergasr 
Managing Editor Business Manager " 
J:tmie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ......................Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Ediror ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager. . ......... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller... .. .............................Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the Unive!'sity ofNorre Dame du L1C and Saint Mary's College. It does .not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the ad:ninismaion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the mn.joriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr. Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Ediror. Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor, Ac-cent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Comrnent:uies. leners and Inside Columns pr~sent rhe views ofrhe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5.~13 M~maging Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 6.31-6900/8840 News/Phow 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Aeccnr/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Ediror/ProdL;crion 631-5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu Ge;1erallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE COLUMN OF REASON 
See Campus as an Architect 
After studying in the Eternal City for nine months, I was faced with an adjustment two years ago as I returned to campus. I came back to a Notre Dame in the midst of a major building cam­paign, riv;tling that of Constantine. This was quite a changP after living in a city that has been its same magical self for over 400 years. 
As you may have deduced, I am an architecture student. a fifth-year at that. This means I am one of the few rmmiining stu­
dents who have watched our football team play as number om1, in a stadium from which I could still see 
Jeremy
Touchdown .Jesus. This also means that I have seen the opening of DeBartolo and 

Welsh 
the business building, and the construction of four new dorms without a quad as Flanner was remodeled to be the oflice tower it appears be. 
As treasurer of the Notre Dame c~haptPr of tlw American Institute of Archit11cts, I hav11 the privilege of writing thP first or a series of installnwnts known as The Column of Reason. Tlw column will appear 11vcry other Wmlnnsday, and will be written by various students within the School of Architecture. These essays will deal with the built environment of Notre Dame, for.using partir.ularly on the recent additions and changes to our beautiful r.ampus. Through listen­ing to studrmts outsidn of the school. I have come to the realiza­tion that sentimcmts concerning the buildings of campus are shared by many. With this column. wn hope to give articulate and con­strur.tive criticisms on the changes we have been observing in the architecture of this campus. 
As few students know outside of the 170 or so that are part of this school, the School of Architecture is unique in the United States. We are the only school where an architect's education is based upon Western Classical tradition. In the world, we are joined by the Prince of Wales Institute and the Architecture School of St. Petersburg, Russia. We do not focus our design on modern or deconstructionist theories, but rather on ideals outlined by architects such as Vitruvius and Alberti. We emphasize the importance of tra­dition and precedence in our designs, along with the concepts of propriety, sustainability, and beau­ty. These are not just abstract ideals to us, but building blocks to our work and our future prac­tices. An example of sustainability here at Notre Dame would be our own Bond Hall, which was 
rededicated last year. 
awareness concerning the campus's architecture and its numerous transformations, as we walk the paths of this tradition-rich school. 
Jeremy Welsh is a fifth-year architecture stu­dent at Notre Dame. "The Column ofReason" will appear every other Wednesday. He can be reached at Jeremy.M. Welsh.13@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Seventy years ago, before its transition and subsequent remodeling as the home for the architecture school, the structure served as the University's library. After the Hesburgh Library was built, the building under­went a transition, and has since been successful in serving its new purpose. 
It is not ironic that the University of Notre Dame is home to such a school. Notre Dame is known for its foundation in tradition. This legacy began with Father Sarin's building of the Log Chapel. It con­tinued with the construction of such buildings as the Basilica, Walsh, and St. Ed's-made of mud dredged up from the lake, formed out of the yellow brick now known as Notre Dame Brick. These buildings, along with those such as O'Shag, the Rock, and the Law Library, all add to the history of Notre Dame. 
It is the goal of this column to express our views and observa­tions and to promote a sense of 
• LETTERS To THE EO!TOR 

Smells Like Grad Student Spirit 
In response to Steve D'Avria's letter to the editor in the Sept. 8 issue of The Observer, "Grad Student Apathy?," I would like to say, give the graduate students a chance to get accustomed to the traditions and rituals that go with attending a Notre Dame football game. 
For us graduate students who did not attend Notre Dame as undergraduates, not to mention the many students who· did not attend an American undergraduate school. we are not yet familiar with all the arm-waving signals, nor are we familiar with all the chants or when to say them. Unless he grew up in the South Bend community, I doubt if D'Avria arrived on cam­pus knowing all the words to the fight song or alma mater. And in the section where I sat, many of the grad students were cheering, high-fiving, and even doing push-ups. 
Hopefully, D'Avria will realize that graduate students got to be graduate students by prioritizing what's important. 
Jucain Butler 
First-year Graduate Student 
September 9, I 997 

Steve D'Avria's letter on graduate students at the Georgia Tech game deserves a reply. Yes, I'm sure some graduate stu­dents did not live up to his expectations for student fans, but I would like to know just how many graduate students D'Avria actually counted (five, 10, 20, hundreds?). I'm a graduate stu­dent and attended the game with approximately 10 other graduate students. I cheered the entire game (I was quite hoarse by the end) as did my graduate student friends. 
Behind me, however, was an ND undergraduate (yes, I asked him) who was shouting obscenities at the Notre Dame football program, Ron Powlus, Autry Denson, Bob Davie and the "stu­pid cheers." I also witnessed an incident which was TRULY appalling and, I believe, committed by an ND undergraduate (I will call him "Beavis"). While Hannah Storm (NBC sportscast­er) was near our student section, "Beavis" threw chunks of ice at the NBC journalist twice, almost hitting her in the head (that would have been funny on national TV, huh "Beavis?"). A GRADUATE student next to me finally said something and "Beavis" stopped. 
What should I take away from these incidents? Is it that Notre Dame undergraduates might leave ND with a good edu­cation but absolutely no class, or should I assume the students I observed were unfortunately a few sad (un)representatives of an otherwise great "ND Family"? I'm convinced that it's not a good idea to make generalizations, and I hope D'Avria would agree. 
Uwe Stolz 
Fifth-year Graduate Student 
September 9, 1997 

•  000NESBURY  
Pf?iiSI/lfWTKING UHVA NIC£ 5(}R.­ffl5el 7l'Ja'H4T CO I 0«/13 7l-ll3 HONOR SIR?  7H& NA£/l&NC!JU,&I'£FfXJTBAtt. PR06RAM 1¢6NISVliR 8/3IJIII C/{f/Tl3 Tl{fS !fii.IMIS S!NCC3 Ya'l.R &tO!<YPAYS/ NtsP /..IKe YO{f 70 COMe BACK ANP 7AKI3 OV/3RJHl!:Ha..M-' I~? ~  

GARRY TRUDEAU 

/~?AR&Ya'l 
Rlf?. /(/!Al.,51Rr COACH­ING COueGEi 9AU.-HA5 BIZN UK& MY PKeAM FROM 
71-1&-MOM3NTI LEFT7JiffPRIJ5. 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To see some of our 
best-educated boys spending the afternoon knocking each other down, while thousands cheer them on, hardly gives a picture of a peace-loving nation." 
-Lyndon Baines Johnson 

, , , , • , •• , • 0, o t I 1 I I I I • o • • ' , , , , j , o • ' f 1 t f I I I • I I o f 
....-.,....,,,,....,,....,,....,,....,,~--:-.-:-.-:-.':"""':',. . . . . . . . .. . . .. .. . . . 
1 o < , o I I • • I ' I t 
0 0 0 
, o t t • 1 , o t t 9 t o o ' t • f f < ' • • t I t " ~ • ~ ' 
page 10 Wednesday, September 10, 1997



ACCENT 
IliN/J] ill~ill8' ill~U' 


• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
"What •1s your favorite bar?" 

"CJ's, I'm a big fan of the burgers and pitchers." 
Nicole Douillet Sophomore, Pangborn 

"Corby's, because I can stum­ble home from there." 
Norm Beznoska Senior, Off-Campus 

"Anywhere with good music, good beer and good friends." 
Tanya Scapanski Graduate Student, Fischer Graduate Residence 

"Stout, lake-effect, four horse­men, enough said." 
Brian Kelleher Junior, Off-Campus 

"Boat Club, the odd scent of townies." 
Marco Rodriguez Junior, Off-Campus 
Cheers 
Name: Cheers Address: 1 03 S. Dixie Way Phone: 277-8407 Specials/Events: 
Mon: $1 Schnapps Tues: $1 Drafts Wed: $2 Long Island Iced Teas Thurs: Half-off Jagermeister & Aftershock 
Proximity to campus: 
very close Atmosphere: blue-collar, modern rock & roll Mise: 2 dart boards, 2 pool tables, video games 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


..,..........,......,...............,.....,......,...-,.---,--c­
' , •' o o • • o • , I • t f f. f I I f t ' I of o I I 1 > • o • • 0 •' ' •' • 0' 'I I'' 'o o 1 • I I I t r o o r o • 


ACCENT
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 page 11 
_@ Lilr3Wr3ill illr3~ill® ®&QQQ m®@I1® m~Wr3 

~ 
Hoi Polloi 
Name: Hoi Polloi Nightclub Address: 100 N. Center Phone: 258~934 7 Open Fridays at 7:30p.m. Beginning October 4, open Saturdays at 9 p.m. 
Proximity to cam­pus: 10 min. 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 


Xtreemz 
Name: Xtreemz Nightclub Fri: Ladies' Night, no cover, Address: 1150 Mishawaka Ave. free drink tickets Phone: 283-0653 Proximity to campus: a bit of Special/ Events: a drive Man: $3.50 pitchers Atmosphere: 80s sort, night­Tues: $.75 Drafts club, energetic Wed: $2 imports Mise: 1 pool table, 5 dart Thurs: $5 cover, $1 Draft boards, outdoor pool table 




_, 
, , r 

F 
:1 
-!I •I 
l 
>I 
" 
' 
' 
I  I.  I  I  t  I  '1 I  • 1 1 • f • \ 1 • , ,  , 1 , '  I 1 I  • • I  • 'I It I,\  
page 12  The Observer· SPORTS  Wednesday, September 10, 1997  

• CoLlEGE FooTBALL 

OSU mistakes rattle team 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll.. 

Court opts not to charge Whiten with sexual assault 
By NOEL K. WILSON Whiten was freed on $10,000 bond. Associated Press Writer Police had recommended a charge of second-degree sexual assault, which MILWAUKEE carries a maximum penalty of 10 years 
Mark Whiten will not be charged with in prison and a $10,000 tine. sexually assaulting a woman who "What we're talking about is what accused the outfielder of attacking her Mark has acknowledged as a judgment in the New York Yankees' hotel last error," Glynn said. ''lie's glad to have it month. over with and he's viewed this as pre­
Whiten contends the sex was consen­venting him from getting on with his tual, although Gale Shelton, an assistant career." district attorney in Milwaukee County, The Yankees said they would not com­said today the player acknowledges act­ment because Whiten is no longer with ing in a "reprehensible manner." the team. . Shelton said there was not enough evi­Shelton said Whiten admitted to hav­dence to prosecute. ing "sexual intercourse with a woman 
Whiten. who was released by the he had met only minutes before, a
·-
Yankees on Aug. 15, was arrested on woman who was so obviously impaired July 18 while the team was in by alcohoVdrugs that she needed assis­Milwaukee to play the Brewers. The 31-tance to stand up and walk." Glynn said year-old woman accused Whiten of the woman "apparently changed her assaulting at the Pfister Hotel. mind and things stopped and she left." 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
In John Cooper's 1988 debut as Ohio State's head coach, the Buckeyes didn't have a turnover or a penalty in a near­flawless 26-9 victory over Syracuse. 
Fast forward to Aug. 28 and the most recent game of Cooper's 10-year tenure, a 24-10 victory over Wyoming: nine penalties for 80 yards, three fum­bles and enough physical and mental mistakes to embarrass a veteran head coach. 
"That's not like us," Cooper said Tuesday at his weekly news conference. "We're not going to beat ourselves. One thing we pride ourselves on is not mak­ing too many mistakes or having too many penalties." 
Was it a factor of so many young players on the field? Could it be that the players didn't adapt well to the third night game in 
Ohio Stadium history? 
"We can sit here and make a hun­dred reasons" why Ohio State didn't play well, Cooper said. "If you want to find excuses you can. Wyoming sat around all day too. Just because we sat around does not mean you have to hold or jump offside. And there were a lot of mistakes people don't see, mental mis­takes like not blocking the right guys." 
Cooper said he would rather tune up for the Big Ten Conference season by using a variety of weapons rather than keep the ball on the ground and run over underdog opponents. 
"We're trying to get ready for the season," he said. "Sure, we want to win the football game. Against Wyoming, we could have come out and lined up with two tight ends in the !­formation and run off tackle and won the game easily. But would that have made us a better football team? We're not going to be able to do that against Iowa, Penn State or Michigan." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day c!assifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 

RecSports seeks referees and linespeople for the upcoming Wanted: ND Football Tickets WANTED N D G A'S CLASS
NOTICES TICKETS 
Intramural Soccer season. Discreet Buyer· Call 1·800-255· TO ALL HOME GAMES OF Sports/officiating background is pre­2850 271 1526 1998 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 ferred but not required. Call Mark Need 2 GA's or student tix for BC Pick up the OFF CAMPUS DIREC· LaFortune Student Center Heitkamp at 631-6100 for clinic game. Call Christina at 246-0146. NEED TWO TICKETS I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Georgia TORY outside the '98 office door 
Store Hours dates. to Michigan state Tech and/or the Michigan State (213 La Fort.) Limit one per apart­Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND and game!!! r.oent or room. Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Needed: College students parttime HOME GAMES.272-6551 two tickets to Please call Amy Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. job $12.00 +per hour Navy. at 810-355-9140. Sun.: Noon-Midnight Contact us www.ptjob.com Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W. (closed home football Sat.'s) Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259-Please call4·2674 I NEED USC AND BC GA'S NEED A JOB??? -Student 
Phone 631-COPY 1731 or during the day ask for Karen. CALL DAVE @ 634-4905$$ Activities is accepting applications 

FOR RENT 
(201)316-4117. Leave message. tor LaFortune student building man­ACHTUNG, BABY!!! For Sale: Two NO/Purdue tix. 2 stud tix for sale. all home games. agers. Must be willing to work 
WALK TO CAMPUS WANTED-2 GAs FOR USC Best otter. 243-1623. Call4·3313 nights and weekends. Apply in 315 Come to first German Club meeting 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES Family visiting-will pay big bucks LaFortune. Wed. night @ 9:30 $195/PERSON for best seats. Call Jon-634·2028 Need tix to Purdue? I have 4. Call ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­Montgomery Theater, 232-2595 Grant at 287-9027 ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097 Need formal dates for 13th! Call La Fortune Looking for GA's to Any & All Steve or AI at x2090 
QUIET, SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD! ND Games! NEED 2 MICH I need 8 (eight) that's right 8 GA's GERMAN CLUB! PRIVATE 3 ROOM FURNISHED Will Beat Any Offer! TICS to the Mich. St game. I'll take all Drummer looking for bandmates. 
APARIMENT 5 MILES FROM Will Trade Any Home Game for $$ offers and as many tickets as I Call Jim at x0677. SAVE THIS AD CAMPUS. NO SMOKERS OR LSU. Call 634·4872 CALL JOHN C can get· X-3530 Ask for JOE Rooms still available @ b·n-b PETS. UTILITIES PAID BY LAND· 7168481268 Matt -See, I remembered lo write for Mich. St., Navy & W. Virg. LORD. 257-8521 WANTED: Need Michigan State Tickets!! to you ... hopefully sometime this games. Large rooms, 5 min or less 3 MICHIGAN STATE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Call Ryan@ (312)938-8984 week I can show you my secret from campus, airport and toll road. THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL ND ALUM IS IN NEED OF 2 GA'S -The Natural Great for parents, relatives & Breakfast Inn has space available 634-4196, TO USC GUARANTEED TO FOR SALE -Purdue Tlx matt at friends. Call any time 277-2388 for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms LEAVE MESSAGE. BEAT ANY OFFER. CALL ASAP mhorsfie@ bach.helios.nd.edu. Fall G!mr Preview 4Pm Rm 299 
with private baths, $70-$90. 2435887. ASK FOR MIKE. Willing to trade. LeMans ?s Margrette 2845099 Attention Gay, Lesbian, Bi-Sexuals: Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Need a pair of LSU tickets. Have a Students. Faculty, & Staff! Original Toll Road, Exit 11107, pair of USC, Michigan, or Stanford SELLING 2 MSU AND 2 USC GA's. ND Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX! student-run group holds 1st general 1-800-418-9487. tickets to trade. Call 901·755·4273. TAKING BEST OFFER. 243-2168 410·737-6115 CLASS meeting tonight. Call236-9661 for OF
•

location. NICE FURNISHED HOME GOOD NEED TO TRADE: I have 4 W.Va's MARRIED STUDENT TIX 4 SALE Have Mich St; 6 together; will 1998 AREA NORTH OF ND CLOSE and need 4 tor Navy. Call Connie 271-4939 TRADE only for USC or other Buy your chance to win Mich tix 2773097 at 243·2794 game; 813-281-2339 from 2·5 today in the class office NEED 4 MSU GA'S ((213 LaF) ENTIRE HOME FOR FOOTBALL Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to CALL KATE 243-1089 Local Models Needed lor Nail Lose a set of keys to room 407? WEEKENDS 2773097 G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to ask Carlo at x 1862 TRADE tor Mich. St. and USC so Help! Need 7 MSU GA's, have New York! 18 to enter! No cost or bed & breakfast football weekends can bring family with! Call Casey WV/Navy GA's to trade. obligation. Call 679-4745 for details DJ APPLICATION DEADLINE 
LOST: STUDENT TICKET BOOK· near ND 272-5989 289·3349 Call Justin at x1722 by Sept. 20. EXTENDED!!! LET ON GOD QUAD SATURDAY wvli -640 am will be accepting AT 1 PM IN SECTION 30. SIGNED 5 bdrm home, close to campus. I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST. NOTRE DAME disc jockey applications until thurs., ILLEGIBLY. CALL BELINDA ABER Use of all facilities. $200/mo./room. CALL JIM AT 634-3985 FOOTBALL TICKETS WILL TRADE 2ND HAWAII 30 sept. 11th at noon outside of our 
AT 4-2652. Males only. 232-2794 BUY -SELL ·TRADE YARD LINE GA' s FOR 2 USC office on LaFortune's 2nd floor. Have BC & USC or $$ GA;s 2773097 Pick up an app. and get it to us LOST! Silver Bracelet w/ To trade for MSU tickets. 232-0058 ASAP. Don't miss out!!!! 

FOR SALE 
"sisters" charm. Patti x-1363 Call 243-4743, ask for Meaghan. Help me! I need 5 GA's or stud 
CONFIDENTIAL tix for B.C. Call Marisa @4-0833 Go abroad to CHILE!! see the Lost Saturday before game: Contemporary lakelront home for I sell three student ticket TICKET-MART, INC. andes mountains, deserts and glac­Black Fuji SmartDeluxe camera sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre, booklets, $199 for each. I HAVE 2 TICKETS TO ND VS. BC iers. info meeting this thursday at 
Near Portable Toilets in Parking $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1-(You need an ID!) BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­(OCT. 25) AND 2 TO ND VS. NAVY 4:30 in 205 DeBartolo. Don't miss Lot. If found, please call: 888·225-RUTH. Call ASAP 634-4465 VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. (NOV. 1), LOOKING TO TRADE it!! Rachel x1467 
674-7645. EITHER 2. SO AS TO HAVE 4 TO 87 Ply Colt, 136K mi, 1 owner, very USC ALUMNI FAMILY, NEVER ONE GAME. Happy 21st Birthday Jenny dependable, $800 OBO. Call 255-BEEN TO USC V. ND GAME, Buying GA's seasons or individual (315)656-4176, SYR. NY.

WANTED 
1317 for more details. WANTS TO COME BRING A FAMI­games. Top dollar paid. Hey, Swain! I meant what I said, 
LY OF 6. NEEDS FOOTBALL Confidential service. FOR SALE GA.S ALL HOME man! l"m gonna do it, too! I'm Wanted: Energetic, responsible, NEW Women's Wooden Lacrosse TICKETS. PLEASE HELP! Call 234-5650. AND AWAY GAMES FOR crazy! and experienced person for babysit­Stick! $20 213/951-4202. SALE MICHIGAN TIX 272­ting. We have a 4 yr. old, 3 yr. old, Call Lisa 271·8361 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 7233 TILL 9 PM. UNO stinks. -Cavanaugh Kerry and a new baby due at the end of FOR SALE October. We live in Granger (10 Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter DAYTIME#: 232-2378 For sale: min. from ND). Need someone who w/memory. W/xtra cartridge. NEED 4 GA'S TO MICHIGAN EVENING #: 288-2726 2 NO/Purdue tickets 
can be flexible $95.00. 233-4414 STATE! PLEASE CALL call Dawn at 634-0834 HAPPY BIRTHDAY CASSIE! (any day or night of the week) & LAUREN 251-0094. ND TICKETS WANTED provide own transportation. Cannot #############//## DAYTIME II: 232-2378 need michst. tix x1511 ali be lazy for this job! $5.00 plus an FOR SALE: EVENING #: 288-2726 hour. Please, only the serious call 1988 Ford Escort Hardy,

PERSONAL
Eve Petrucelli at 271-8643. white, 2 door, great condition! I need GA's for MSU, BC, and SALE Married student tix 283-0920 If we ever make it back to our 
$850 UMich. Call Nikki @ 634-2367. house on the weekends, the tradi­MODELS/DANCERS WANTED 
call 687-8435 FOR SALE For sale: 2 tickets to Purdue. tion will continue. please call219·271·0633 ################ GAs FOR SALE toMS, Ml, BC, N.D. G.A.'S Call Michelle at x2992. G & Morgs &WV 288-3975 271-9412. 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 



Vancouver's camp opens with surprise 
Lindros negotiations hit snag 
in the last year of his contract. wants to press against station
Philadelphia 
Sources told The Associated WIP. 
Press on Monday night that the A new deal would be a hand­Flyers star seeks 24-year-old captain had all but some reward for a player many secured a new deal. What picked for greatness as antop NHL salary changed the situation was not oversized teenager in Canada. immediately clear. His early stature as the game's By JOHN F. BONFATTI Lindros is the cornerstone of next great player allowed him Associated Press Writer a Flyers revival in which the to dictate conditions of his 
team went from missing the employment. 
PHILADELPHIA playoffs for five straight years First, Lindros forced the 
Erie Lindros has assumed the to the Stanley Cup finals last junior hockey team that had his role of hockey's best player in season. rights to trade them to a city many minds, and he may soon Both Carl Lindros, the play­closer to his home. Then he havn its richest deal -report­er's father-agent, and the forced the Quebec Nordiques, ndly a seven-year, $60 million Flyers' negotiating team of who made him the top pick in contract.Thc Philadelphia president Ed Snider and gener­the 1990 draft,. to trade him FlyPrs, hownver, deny such an al manager Bob Clarke set the when he refused to play there. agreement is imminent. start of training camp as the The Nordiques traded Lindros 
"Unfortunately, the Flyers deadline for a new deal. and to both the Flyers and the New and Eric are not as close to seemingly hashed out all but York Rangers, touching off a agreement as the media has the final details in a five-hour dispute that ended when an speculated," the team said conference that ended Monday. arbitrator ruled in favor of today. Now it appears that the nego­Philadelphia. 
"Since Eric still has another tiations hit a snag. One hangup The Flyers acquired the snason remaining under his -Lindros' desire for legal rights to Lindros for six players, current contract, we anticipate action against a Philadelphia two draft choices and $15 mil­his full participation in training radio station that reported he lion. 
camp and during the season, missed a game last season Winner of the Hart Trophy as and we hope that at some point because of a hangover -the NHL's MVP in 1994-95, in the future. we will be able to apparently has been resolved. Lindros had 32 goals and 47 conclude a long-term exten-Carl Lindros said he and the assists in 52 games last season sion. Flyers would take a common and added 12 goals and 14 
Lindros is to earn $4.2 million approach to the libel suit he assists in 19 playoff games. 
WE'RE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER WITH UNEQUALED OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYMENT. 
Mogilny fails 


to report 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Newcomer Mark Messier arrived, but Alexandre Mogilny was noticably absent and Pavel Bure noticably quiet about his trade demands when the Vancouver Canucks opened training camp Tuesday. 
Messier, who signed a three­year, $21 million deal as a free agent during the off-season after six seasons with the New York Rangers, arrived with a golf bag on one shoulder and clothing draped over the other. 
He proclaimed that the sticky situations involving Bure and Mogilny shouldn't worry the Canucks during camp. 
"As teammates and players, we're just all hopeful it works out," Messier said. "They're both big parts of the team and (we) certainly need them." 

Mogilny, a restricted free agent, is looking for a new con­tract. The right wing did not report for team medicals. 
Bure, coming off two injury­filled seasons, was in camp at the Whistler resort with the rest of the Canucks, but has voiced a desire to be traded. 
The Canucks figure Messier's acknowledged leadership skills will be worth the expenditure for a team that missed the playoffs last spring. 
Vancouver coach Tom Renney has penciled Bure in at right wing alongside Messier and Markus Naslund for early scrimmages. 
"Pavel's a quality hockey player and there's only a hand­ful of guys in this league with his talent," Messier said. "It's pretty exciting to be with one of the most exciting players in the league. 
"Injuries are something you can't control. He's had a tough stretch for two years. There's no questioning his heart or his talent, or what he can do for his team." 
Bure arrived at GM Place with close friend Gino Odjick. He refused to talk about his sudden trade demand made last month. 
"He's one of the greatest players in the game and it would be an honor to play with him," Bure said about Messier before adding, 'Tm here today, I'm going to training camp and we'll go from there." 
Right wing could be a trouble area for the Canucks if Bure leaves and Mogilny remains a holdout after earning about $4 million last season. 
Joining Mogilny on the absentee list was veteran defenseman Bret Hedican. 
He wants a substantial raise from $700,000 earned last sea­son. 
Canucks captain Trevor Linden, entering his 1Oth sea­son in Vancouver at age 27, also noted that holdouts are commonplace this time of year. 
"It's a situation I've been through and there's not much a player can do but to wait for it to get worked out," Linden said. "The logical thing is to wait until they get contracts. 
'The positives of Mark being here, Mattias (Ohlund) being here, with Grant Ledyard and Arturs lrbe coming onboard, outweigh the negatives." 
Not everyone was unhappy with their contracts. Re-signing with the Canucks were for­wards Scott Walker and Donald Brashear after both negotiated their own deals. 
Walker had three goals and 18 points in 64 games last sea­son and was plus-2 for goals scored at even strength. 
Brashear was acquired from the Montreal Canadiens early last season for defenseman Jassen Cullimore. 

If you're majoring in computer science, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law, contact your Placement Director for more information, or write to: Assistant Director, Corporate Human Resources, Three State Farm Plaza-KI. Bloomington, Illinois 61791-0001. 
State Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois • An Equal Opportunity Employer www.starefarm.com 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 10, 1997 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Mets' playoff hopes slip away Expos win in extra 
National League Standings 
•· East Division 
Atlanta Florida New York Montreal Philadelphia 
Central Division 
Houston Pittsburgh St. Louis Cincinnati Chicago 
West Division 
Los Angeles San Francisco Colorado San Diego 

The English Department 
University of Notre Dame 
presents 


The 1997 Joseph M. Duffy, Jr. Lecture 
THE IMAGING OF SOUTH AFRICA: Some reflections on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 8:00P.M. CCE Auditorium 
Njabulo Ndebele is president of the Congress of South African Writers and vice,chancellor of the University of the North in Sovenga, South Africa. Among his· many writings are Fools and Other Stories (Ravan Press, 1983), which won the NOMA award in 1984, and South African Literature and Culture: Rediscovery of the Ordinary (Manchester University Press, 1994), which Nadine Gordimer has called "an essential book." Hailed as "a prophet of the post,apartheid condition," Doctor Ndebele is primarily concerned with the ways in which literary culture functions in such a rapidly changing political and social world as contemporary South Africa. 
Aug. 9, matching his career strikeout high of nine, set against Houston on June 15, 1995. Green allowed five hits and two walks in eight innings before Ricky Bottalico finished with one-hit ninth for his 29th save in 36 chances. 
John Olerud gave him a scare with a leadoff fly to the warning track. 
After Bernard Gilkey singled with two outs, Bottalico got Carlos Baerga on a grounder for the final out. 
Cardinals 5, Giants 3 
Mark McGwire hit his 49th home run and the St. Louis Cardinals rallied past the San Francisco Giants 5-3 Tuesday night. 
McGwire, playing for the first time in the Bay Area since he was traded from Oakland to St. Louis on July 31, homered for the 15th time since joining the Cardinals. He hit a solo shot in the eighth off Julian Tavarez to make it 5-3. 
With his next homer, McGwire will join Babe Ruth as the only players in baseball his­tory to have back-to-hack 50­homer seasons. Ruth achieved the feat twice in 1920-21 and 1927-28. 
Rookie Manny Aybar (2-4) won despite committing two errors and a balk that figured in all three Giants runs. He went six innings, allowing three runs and four hits . 
Terry Mulholland (6-13), starting in place of Mark Gardner, who had a tired arm, took the loss, his fourth straight as a starter. Mulholland, who had a season-high eight strike­outs and retired 14 in a row at one point, lost his last three starts with the Chicago Cubs before being released. He gave up four runs and five hits in six innings. 




innings over Pirates 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL 
Henry Rodriguez hit a two­out RBI single to cap Montreal's two-run lOth inning Tuesday night, giving the Expos a 5-4 win over the slumping Pittsburgh Pirates. 
After the Pirates had taken a 4-3 lead in the top of the inning, Mark Grudzielanek started Montreal's rally with a one-out bloop double -his major league-leading 50th ­off Rich Loiselle (1-4). 
Grudzielanek moved up on a groundout and rookie pinch­hitter Jose Vidro hit an RBI sin­gle. Vidro went to third on David Segui's bloop single to center and Rodriguez followed with his game-winning hit. 
Montreal has won seven of 11 while the Pirates lost for the fifth time in six games. Pittsburgh began the night trailing first-place Houston by 2 1/2 games in the NL Central. 
Ugueth Urbina (5-8}, who gave up Jose Guillen's RBI sin­gle in the top of the lOth, got the win. 
Trailing 3-2, the Expos tied it with an unearned run in the seventh off rookie reliever Jeff Wallace. 
Darrin Fletcher hit an infield single and went to second on rookie second baseman Tony Womack's throwing error. Doug Strange sacrificed and rookie pinch-runner Orlando Cabrera scored when pinch­hitter Hensley Meulens hit a sacrifice fly. 
Jason Kendall hit a run-scor­ing single in the second and Womack had a two-run single in the fourth to give Pittsburgh a 3-0 lead. 
Rodriguez hit an RBI single in the fourth and Lansing pulled the Expos within 3-2 with a run-scoring single in the fifth. 
Lansing's RBI single increased his career-high total to 63, setting an Expos club record for RBis in a season by a se-cond baseman. He sur­passed his own mark of 62 set in 1995. 


Thursday, September 11, 1997 7:30-9:30pm COBA Atrium 
• 
meet with recruiters from 40 companies 

• 
bring your resume 

• 
learn about Summer Internships & permanent jobs 

• 
Sample of companies attending: Bank of America Deloitte & Touche LaSalle National Bank Proctor & Gamble 








SENIORS 
BUY YOUR CHANCE TO WIN 2PAIR OF MICH TIX 
$1 OR 6 FOR $5 
Today 2-Spm 213 LaF. 
W 
89 84 
77 
71 57 
72 
70 
66 
64 60 
81 
79 73 67 
L 
54 58 65 
71 83 
71 74 77 78 84 
63 64 71 
77 
.503 
.486 .462 .451 
.417 
.563 
.552 
.507 
.465 
4 11 17 30 
2 6 7 
12 
1 
8 
14 
By RONALD BLUM Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Rico Brogna sent the New York Mets a little closer toward elimination from postseason contention, hitting an eighth­inning homer against his for­mer team to give the Philadelphia Phillies a 1-0 vic­tory Tuesday night. 
On a sad night for the Phillies following the death of Hall of Farner Richie Ashburn, their longtime broadcaster. Brogna connected off Dave Mlicki (7­
11) for his 19th homer and raised his RBis total to 77, one more than he had for New York in 1995. 
It was just the third hit of the night for Philadelphia, which has won four straight and eight of nine, improving to 28-11 since July 28. The Phillies fin­ished with four hits overall. 
New York began the night seven games behind Florida in the wild-card race and contin­ued to fade. The Mets have just 19 games left to overtake the Marlins, who played a late game at San Diego. 
To make matters worse, catcher Todd Hundley aggra­vated a strained right elbow while striking out in the first inning and came out of the game. He is day-to-day. 
Tyler Green (4-3) won for the first time in five starts since 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Jordan looks to make long-lasting imprint with Nike 
By SKIP WOLLENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Michael Jordan plans to keep a fresh imprint on basketball after his playing days are over by overseeing a line of sneakers and apparel bearing his name for his longtime sponsor Nike Ine. 
The Chicago Bulls superstar has already added millions of dollars to Nike's bottom line as well as his own bank account with sales over the past 13 years of his signature Air Jordan shoes and elothing. 
But with the end of Jordan's career possibly only a few years away, the nation's biggest ath­letic shoe marketer has come up with a way for Jordan to keep his hand in the game and his image on the shoes worn on court. 
Jordan will run a broadened Jordan brand of basketball shoes and clothing that will not only include the Air Jordan line but other models that will be designed especially for other pro players picked by Jordan. 
"I have been involved in the design of everything I have worn from Nike since we began our relationship in 1984," Jordan said Tuesday. "The launch of the Jordan brand is simply an e~tension of that process." 
The first Jordan brand collec­tion debuts in November, and Jordan said introductions will be timed for a Saturday so chil­dren won't miss school to get them. He said shoes in the Jordan line will be priced as low as $90 to make them more affordable. 
The most expensive shoe sold by the new Nike division will be the $150 Air Jordan, which has a 3-D hologram on the heel and quilting on the sides. 
Jordan told a news confer­ence at New York's Niketown store, where some of his new fashions were modeled, that he expects to be heavily involved in designing the shoes and apparel. He said that will be an outlet for his creative ambitions and competitiveness. 
In addition to Jordan, other players wearing the Jordan brand this season will include Eddie Jones of the Los Angeles Lakers, Yin Baker and Ray Allen of the Milwaukee Bucks, Michael Finley of the Dallas Mavericks and Derek Anderson of the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The Jordan brand will also be worn by teams at three colleges -Cincinnati, St. John's and North Carolina A&T. 
The shoes and apparel rang­ing from sweatshirts and shorts to hats will feature the Jumpman logo -a silhouette of Jordan stretched to the max­imum as he drives to dunk a basketball through the hoop. 
The financial terms of the deal with Jordan were not dis­closed but people familiar with it said it includes royalty pay­ments based on sales. 
Jordan is already tops among athletes in endorsement fees. 
The Sports Marketing Letter estimated his endorsement deals -ranging from Wheaties cereal, Ballpark Franks and Gatorade to Hanes underwear, Rayovac batteries and Bijan fragrances -should generate $40 million this year. 
That includes an estimated $1 7 million to $18 million from Nike for the Air Jordan line alone, the newsletter's publish­er Brian Murphy said. 
Golfer Tiger Woods is second with about $25 million in endorsement earnings lined up for this year, according to the newsletter. 

Jordan's endorsement total is in addition to the $33 million he will make playing basketball for the Bulls this year. That makes him the highest-paid athlete in team sports as well. 
Nike is a heavyweight in the shoe business as well. It accounted ior about 58 percent of the $1.3 billion market for basketball shoes last year, according to Diane Daggatt, analyst for the securities firm Dain Bosworth in Seattle. 
She said 1\Tike hopes the broadened Jordan line would help it capture 90 percent of the basketball market by the year 2000. 
"It's good positioning for Nike to feature Jordan separately," she said. 
The Air Jordan line alone generates about $250 million in shoe and apparel sales a year, Nike officials say. 
The University of Notre Dame International Study Program at: 
Notre Dame Australia 
Information Meeting With Professor Mike Etzel 
Wednesday September 10, 1997 L051 COBA 4:45-5:45 PM 
SPRING '98 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCT 1 1998-99 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC 1 



Pacers turn focus to defense 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Indiana Pacers spent much of the off-season trying to improve their offense. Now the defense gets some attention. 
The signing of veteran Mark 
· West, a shot-block specialist, is expected to ease the loss of backup center Erick Dampier, who went to Golden State as part of a trade for scorer Chris Mullin earlier this summer. Before that, the Pacers took All-Big East forward Austin Croshere of Providence on the first round of the NBA draft. "If you take a look, I'm wor­ried about our defense because we've gone offensive," Pacers president Donnie Walsh said. "But I think this team has the ability, if it commits itself, to 
being a good defensive team. 
"I think Mark West fits into that. We want to run with the ball, and to do that, you have to have a guy that can go get it first." 
The Pacers were 39-43 last season and missed the playoffs for the first time since 1989. Getting more scoring support for Reggie Miller and Rik Smits was a top priority, and the team apparently satisfied that need with the acquisition of Mullin. The five-time All-Star and 20-point-per-game career scorer will start at small for­ward. 
West, a second-round pick by Dallas in 1983, played 70 games last season with Cleveland, averaging 3..2 points, 
2.7 rebounds and .78 blocked shots in 13.7 minutes per game. West will back up Smits. 

"I think he's perfect for our team," Walsh said. "We get an experienced backup center, a very strong presence, a guy who's played the role. He fits in with our team, the kind of guy he is, a hard-working guy." 
"I never envisioned playing for Larry Bird," West told The Indianapolis Star. "Obviously, I've played against him and those great teams in Boston. I think it's going to be exciting and very interesting." 
The Pacers also signed 6-10 Mark Pope, their second-round draft pick out of Kentucky in 1996. 
Pope averaged 12.3 points a game for the Pacers in the Atlanta Summer League this year. He played in Turkey last season. 
Are you going back to your high school to visit your friends? Why not do it in style? 
Become a High School Ambassador. 
Help the Admissions Office by returning to your high school and speaking to prospective students about Notre Dame over Fall Break or Christmas Vacation. 
REGISTRATION MEETINGS WILL BE HELD IN THE HAYES-HEALY AUDITORIUM (ROOM 122) TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 AND WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 7:30P.M. ATTENDANCE IS NECESSARY AT ONLY ONE OF THE MEETINGS. 
Everyone is welcome. 

Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 
The committeefor this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is lookingfor a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one ofthe most exdting events ofjunioryear. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
•Applications are now available at the 
LaFortune Information Desk. 
•Applications must be returned to 
31 S LaFortune by September 26. 
lF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL )EFF )ONES AT XI63 I. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September I 0, 1997 
• COLLEGE FODTBt\1.1 



Paterno defends his decision to pull PSU starters 
By MICHAEL RAPHAEL by X number of points so we college students, a lot of whom Associated Press Writer can preserve a place (in the do not get a lot of ink, but get polls) would be irresponsible." the satisfaction of working hard STATE COLLEGE, Pa. No. 1 Penn State remained on all week, and if things go well, 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno top of the Associated Press get an opportunity to play," defended his decision to pull his writers' poll, but its lead over Paterno said. starters in Saturday's 34-17 No. 2 Florida dropped to 30 "I think that's more of my victory over Pittsburgh and the points from 73 points. The responsibility than to go out two touchdowns the backup Nittany Lions also lost one first­there and try to satisfy the players gave up late in the con­place vote. appetite of a lot of people .... I test. Penn State led 34-3 until 3:50 don't have much of respect for 
"What I owe to my team is to remained in the game. their judgment in the sense that make sure everybody plays Pittsburgh then scored two because you win by 25 points works hard and I have an touchdowns in less than three that makes you better than if opportunity to play them," minutes to make the score you win by 15 points. That's so Paterno said Tuesday. "I think more respectable and less rep­unreasonable to me that I just that for me to take some kids resentative of Penn State's don't want to get down to that who really look forward to dominating play. level." playing on a Saturday and not Florida, the defending nation­Paterno said his only regret play them when I think the al champions, beat up on was not being able to play more game is in control because I Central Michigan 82-6. younger players. He also want to make sure that we win "The game is played by kids, defended the performance of 
Purdue's passing game suffers 
By NANCY ARMOUR Starting quarterback Billy Dicken's biggest Associated Press Wrirer problem is inconsistency, not the system. Dicken threw 35 times against Toledo, but completed SOUTH BEND. Ind. just 13 passes for 207 yards. He was intercepted 
One ugly loss isn't enough to make Purdue twice. coach Joe Tiller scrap his air attack. When he's on, Tiller said Dicken has the skills 
The Boilermakers 36-22 loss to Toledo in their to make the offense work. He's athletic, has a opener wasn't even as close as the score indi­good arm and, as a senior, knows how to play in cates. The Rockets scored three touchdowns in tough games. less than seven minutes in the first quarter, and He's also got the right receiver in Brian Alford, had scored 27 straight points by halftime. A who had 10 catches and a school record 209 Purdue touchdown late in the fourth quarter yards against Toledo. kept it from being a total blowout. But the guy that really caught Tiller's eye was 
Only one of Purdue's touchdowns came on a backup quarterback Drew Brees. The true fresh­pass, but that doesn't mean Tiller's air offense man came in late in the game and put together a can't work in the Midwest. solid drive to set up Vinny Sutherland's touch­
"We're going to run the system," the former down run. Then he connected with Ed Watson on Wyoming coach said Tuesday during his weekly the two-point conversion. conference call. "We know it, and it's been very He finished 11-of-21 for 97 yards and no inter­successful and productive against all kinds of ceptions. defenses in the past. ... It's proven and we're Dicken is still the starter, but Brees will see a going to stick with it." lot more playing time. 
the second-and third-teamers, saying many were playing at positions they had not prac­ticed. 
"It's no big deal," Collins said. "We had the game won and we just let the other guys in. Joe says he'II do it every time, he'd never try to run up the score like that." 
In rehashing the victory over longtime rival Pittsburgh, Paterno had high praise for quarterback Mike McQueary, who threw for a school-record 366 yards, and the crop of four receivers. Paterno also threw a bone to kicker Travis Forney, who came in with the tough job of replacing NFL draft pick Brett Conway, and ended up putting four kickoffs in the end zone. 
He wasn't so kind to the offensive linemen and their run blocking. Curtis Enis led Penn State with 80 yards and two touchdowns, but his longest rush was 18 yards and many times he got jammed up at the line. 
"I think they got very tenta­tive," Paterno said. "Pitt did a lot of blitzing and a lot of it was run blitzing -they were out to stop our run. I think a couple of kids got a little bit uncomfort­able, maybe lost their poise a little bit, stopped coming off the football." 

The University of Notre Dame International Study Program at: 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
SPRING 1998 Information Meeting With Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon 
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 11, 1997 4:30PM 205 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 1, 1997 Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 

Wednesday, September 10, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 




Boggs lifts Yanks over BoSox 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associared Press Writer 
BOSTON 
Wade Boggs and Steve Avery reprised their World Series showdown on Tuesday night and Boggs won again, doubling to start a five-run sixth inning as the New York Yankees ral­lied to beat the Red Sox 8-6. 
Avery, just demoted to the bullpen, failed to get an out while squandering a 6-2 lead. Avery. who left Atlanta to sign with Boston during the offsea­son. was making his first relief appearance since Game 4 of last year's Series when he walked Boggs in the 1Oth inning to force in the winning run. 
Boggs went 3-for-4 with an RBI and two runs scored. 
Willie Banks (1-0) earned the victory, striking out two and allowing one hit in 2 1-3 innings. Mariano Rivera pitched the ninth for his 41st save in 49 chances. 
Derek Lowe (2-5) took the loss. relieving Avery and giving up three hits in four batters. 
The loss mathematically elim­inated the Red Sox in the AL East and dropped them into last place. It was the Yankees' sec­ond win in a row after losing six straight to start the month. 
The game started with two former Cy Young Award win­ners on the mound -Boston's Bret Saberhagen, who won the AL honor in 1985 and '89 with Kansas City, and New York's Dwight Gooden, who won the NL prize with the Mets·in '85. But they were both gone by the time the game was decided. 
It was 6-3 when Avery relieved Saberhagen to start the sixth inning and gave up a double to Boggs. Avery walked Paul O'Neill and allowed RBI singles to Bernie Williams and Tino Martinez to make it 6-5. 
Lowe got Mike Stanley to hit into a run-scoring double play, but Derek Jeter singled, stole second and scored on Jorge Posada's double. Posada scored on Rey Sanchez' single, but he was thrown out trying to take second. 
Gooden was chased in the fourth inning, allowing six runs on seven hits and four walks. Nomar Garciaparra's two-run single set a major league record for RB!s by a leadoff hit­ter, giving him 87-two more than Detroit's Harvey Kuenn had in 1956. 
Avery, signed in the offseason to replace the departed Roger Clemens, was sent to the bullpen after allowing 26 runs in 10 2-3 innings over his last four starts. It was only the third regular-season relief appear­ance. 

What/s the rneanlng of this ad? 
Before you ponder the fundamental principle of this logical question, consider this: Fazoli's features 12 menu items priced under S4, including Ravioli. 
Fettuccine Alfredo and Spaghetti. Meaning. in theory, you won't need a student loan to eat here. 

52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bmd 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­oriented professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty amazing feats. 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for individuals in the College of Business with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us: 
September 12th, 9am-4pm University of Notre Dame College Of Business Administation Building 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning 
services, ATM. softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and _~, much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: ~ NOVUS Services, Inc., Human Resources,
, ~NOVUS
,' IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, 
~SERVICES
\ I · Riverwoods, IL 60015, Takmg charge m a changing world. 
Fax: (8471 405-1388
nT 
www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opponwury Employer MIF/VI'V 
page 17 

Griffey leaves KC 



no closer to Maris 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press Writer 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Leave it to a last-place team to cool off baseball's hottest home run hitter. 
Ken Griffey Jr. came to Kansas City with four home runs in his four previous games, leaving him only 11 shy of Roger Maris' major league record of 61. He left town with the same total. 
Griffey failed to gain ground on Maris for the second straight game, but teammate Rob Ducey hit a leadoff homer in the ninth to give Seattle a 4­3 victory over the Royals on Tuesday night. 
Griffey went 0-for-3 with two walks, including an intentional ninth-inning pass from Hipolito Pichardo that drew loud boos from the crowd. 
"I am trying to stay away from a base hit and a home run," said Royals manager Tony Muser, who ordered the walk with two outs and a man on third. "I am just trying to win a ballgame." 
Griffey didn't talk to reporters after the game, pre­ferring to visit with his friend Derrick Thomas of the Kansas City Chiefs. 
But Mariners manager Lou Piniella said he agreed with Muser's decision to walk Griffey. 
"That's the right thing to do," Piniella said. "Basically, the only thing to do. I would have been surprised if he'd done anything but that, quite honestly." 
Griffey went 1-for-5 in the two-game series against a pitching staff with a collective ERA of 4.99, lOth out of 14 teams in the league. But first­place Seattle increased its lead over Anaheim to five games in the AL West with 17 games remaining. 
Unlike the previous night, when he saw only a couple of decent pitches, Griffey got sev­eral good swings in four plate appearances against the Royals' first two pitchers, Tim Belcher and Matt Whisenant. 
His best shot at a homer came in the fourth, when his towering fly to center was caught by Johnny Damon on the edge of tbe warning track. 
Ducey, inserted into left field for defense in the eighth, led off the ninth with a home run off Pichardo {2-5). 
Mike Timlin {5-4), who pitched only two-thirds of inning, got the victory. Heathcliff Slocumb got the final three outs for his 23rd save. 
In the first inning, Griffey shocked everybody by squaring around like he was going to bunt on Belcher's first delivery. He grounded out to first base on the next pitch. 
In the sixth, after fouling off a pitch, he walked on a 3-2 count. He lined out to center in the eighth. 

Happy Birthday Shannan 
We are "ticfdet/" tb 

, at you re finally 21! 
lo'Je, . \ 1ne lew\s Gu s 
HACE Leadership Conference in Chicago-Oct.1997 HACE Career Development Conference in Chicago­
Nov.1997  
Officers:  
Greg Feo  4-4839  
Garza  4-0607  
Asencion Casteneda  4-1373  
Belmarie Gonzalez-Estevez  284-5150 SMC  

l : 
--I 
l 
Wednesday, September 10, 1997page 18 The Observer • SPORTS The final major area of con­
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll.. 
cern, and one that is not new to

Davie 

Davie, is the kicking game. While the first missed field goal
continued from page 20

Rain spoils Williams' parade 
was officially cited as due to a 
I. ; 
I 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
Matt Williams wasn't too bummed out that a ninth­inning downpour helped end his career-high hitting streak at 24 games. 
"It wouldn't have lasted for­ever anyway," said the Cleveland third baseman, who as 0-for-3 with a walk as the Baltimore Orioles beat the Indians 9-3 Tuesday night in a game called after eight innings due to rain. 
Geronimo Berroa led off a six-run sixth with his 25th homer as the Orioles improved their major league-best record to 89-53. The Orioles split the two-game series in Cleveland before the teams meet in Baltimore for back-to-back doubleheaders next Monday and Tuesday. 
"It's going to be an interest­ing homestand," said Roberto Alomar, who was 3-for-3 before leaving his second straight start in the fifth. 
Brady Anderson added to a big lead in the eighth with his 17th homer, a 406-foot blast into the second deck in right 
American League Standings 
Milwaukee Chicago Minnesota Kansas City 
West Division 
Seattle Anaheim Texas Oakland 
·Updated as of Sept 8, 1991 
72 70 69 74 59 83 58 83 
i0 
79 65 75 69 67 77 57 87 
• 
~-­



Tickets 
• -~­Buy•Sell•Trade Seasons and Individuals GA's only•Confidential 
• 
234-5650 
~-
IAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHTS 
SEPTEMBER 11TH FEATURING 

SKALCOHOLIKS 
(7 PCS. SKA & FUNK BAND WITH HORNS) Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $2.00 with College ID -$4.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 

field. Aaron Ledesma was 2­for-2 after replacing Alomar, making the No. 2 spot in the order 5-for-5. 
The Orioles are trying to ease their All-Star second baseman back in to the lineup after he missed more than a month with a strained groin. 
The AL East and Central divi­sion leaders played eight innings through light, steady rain before the skies above Jacobs Field unleashed a furi­ous downpour before the ninth began. 
The Indians had their five­game winning streak snapped and lost for the third time in 12 games. 
Baltimore maintained its eight-game lead over the Yankees in the East. Milwaukee lost to the White Sox, keeping the Indians 5 1/2 games up in the Central. 
Williams was due up third in the bottom of the ninth. In the seventh, he hit a sharp grounder that was bobbled by Cal Ripken at third. Ripken recovered and threw Williams out by a half-step. Williams put both hands on his head as he ran past the bag. 
"I looked disappointed because I didn't get a good jump out of the box," Williams said. "Once I got out of the box . I said. 'You're just as slow as could be. If only you could run.' But he got me. So, oh well." 
When Williams' streak 
reached 15 games, he said he 
only found out about it when he 
did a postgame interview with 
Indians TV broadcasters. When 
it ended, he still wasn't sure 
how long it was. 

"Having the 24 or 23 games 
or whatever it was. it's no big 
deal." he said. "I'm just glad I 
was able to help the team the 
last couple of weeks." 
Corey Bennett questionable, the Irish are left with some "per­sonnel problems," according to Davie. 
"We have got some injuries. But l do think we have some young players that are capa­ble," Davie commented. "I think the second thing that is probably even more critical. though, is that we zero in and we practice what we arc going to play in the game." 
Although the defense stepped up and was able to prevent the game-winning touchdown, it was a slow start for defensive coordinator Greg Mattison's crew, one that it will not be able to afford when it goes up against the likes of higher­ranked opponents. 
bad snap, that connection con­tinues to worry the Irish. 
"We need to improve our deep snapper and our holder in the field goal situations," Davie said. "One, we had a missed field goal opportunity because of a kind of knuckle ball on the snap. The other one we strug­gled with a little bit. So that is critical." 
The main focus for the Irish. overall, is eliminating mistakes on both sides of the ball, espe­cially those caused by missed assignments. In order to do this, it will be necessary for the players to step up and assume pressure roles that they might not be accustomed to, but roles which remain essential in main­taining their flawless record. 
The meeting will be the 25th between these two schools. The Irish have dominated the continued from page 20 Crusaders in the past, holding a series record of 24-0-0. The 
Valpo 

continue to build on these 
last time the teams played was 
improvements during the 
in 1991 with the Irish winning 
course of their 1997 road 
by a score of 5-1. 
schedule. 

Recycle The Observer 

Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 

Sept. 9 Sept. 10 
7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Haggar College DeBartolo Classroom Center, SMC Building 
Room 303 Room 117 
Student panel talks about study abroad at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland Ever one welcome! 
East Division 
Baltimore New York Boston Detroit Toronto 
Central Division 
Cleveland 
w 
88 80 69 69 69 
.76 
l 
53 61 74 74 74 
63 
Pet. 
.624 .567 .483 .483 .483 
.547 .507 .483 .415 .411 
.549 .521 .465 .396 
GB 
-
8 
20 20 20 
-
5 9 18 
19 
-
4 12 22 
URBAN PLUNGE  
C E  N  T  E  R  F  0  R  
SOCIAL CONCERNS  30 Year Anniversary  

Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 
The Urban Plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. 

Wednesday, September I 0, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS

f'" p ""-"'J 
DAY: Connie Sellecca, Miles Davis, Beverly Sills, Ralph Waldo Emerson 

DEAR EUGENIA: l can't decide whether to fight for my marriage or -..-----------­just let it go. He is an Aries. He was born on April 5, 1973, and I was born on Dec. 12, 1970,at 1:25 p.m. Problems 
~~ run deep, and I am so confused. Do the stars hold any insight for me? 1 am truly in a turmoil. Jhave not slept well for some time now. 
Work ... well, it is hard for me to concentrate on anything. Stay or Go 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I'VE DECIDED TO BECOME 
A. CONSULTANT lN THE FIELD OF OBVIOUS 
GENER~LITIE5. 
I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 "King David" star, 1985 
1 You'd better 34 1922 Vincent believe it! 
Lopez hit 5 TV's Hawkeye 35 Actress Singer 
9 Bossy 12 "Dies--" 
36 Silo contents 
13 Bloomsbury 37 Footnote abbr. group writer 38 Fencer's 15 Showed up weapon 16 Religious leader 39 Radiation units 
born in 
40 Inlet Wadowice, 
41 Minutemen's Poland foe 18 Stone with color 43 Justice who flashes replaced19 Roadhouse Brennan 20 Formerly 45Arm part21 Don sackcloth 46 Bamboozles23 Method 47 Warehoused
24Nota-­25 Sundae toppers 
50 Playwright Bogosian
28 "Annie" showstopper 51 Kind of 32 Controversial 
chamber orchard spray 54 New Zealander 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 




ATTENTION: Students who have a desire to quit drinking or need support for on-going sobriety. 
CONFIDENT IRL STUDENT R.R. MEET IN6S 
Where: 2nd floor, Center for Social Concerns When: Every Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. 
DEAR STAY OR GO: You are go­

MIKE PETERS ing through some major transits in the area of your chart that deals with relationships. Although your com­parison wasn't fabulous, it certainly was workable. Whether you decide to stay or go, and l feel that if you 
, were going to leave you would have already done so, your chart will con­tinue to go through some turmoil for the remainder of this year. Next year, things start to clear up for you where relationships, contracts and divorce (if you do decide to leave) and so on are concerned. As for right now, you should be working on self-improve­ment. 
This is a great year to start doing all the things that will make you happy with yourself. Whether it be fitness, cosmetic alterations, quitting bad habits or learning something new that will enrich or enhance your life in some way, that is where your

SCOTT ADAMS energy should be going. As for your husband, he's like a little boy. How­ever, that's why you fell in love with 
0 ~ 
u :E l'LL WORI\ FOR. SM~LL WHOA.! ~RE him in the first place. 
_, 
BUSINES5E5 iHA.T ~RE. ~ 'l'OU SA'l'ING
0.. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Ex­

@! :;;
RUN 5'1' ARTISTS. u WE NEED 
travagance will be your downfall. 

:E ~ 
.. "' "' 
Keep situations in perspectiw and be 

c T\-\E'l''LL iHlNI<. I'M REVENUE TO 
OUC.H! I'VE GOT 
sure to show professionalism . 

.. 
1-0 BRI.LLlto.NTJ Wl-\lCH l ~ MAKE
u 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ex­cessive worry due to problems at work will surely hamper your day. Put in overtime if it will ease your mind. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ro­mantic encounters with colleagues or clients can develop. Be aware of un­derhandedness when it comes to jeal­ous co-workers. 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Don't let your personal obligations interfere with your work responsibilities. An unstable home environment may cost you later. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Physical changes w'.J enhance your appearance. Your competitive nature will give you the winning edge in sports events. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Decep­tion regarding money is evident. Do not overspend on luxury items that you can do without. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Money matters may anger you today. Be pre­pared to pay more than you expected if you want to shop for items that are unique. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Deal­ing with personal matters may not be easy. Listen to your mate's concerns and try to understand his or her posi­tion. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Opportunities for romance will de­velop through pleasure trips and so­cial events. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Situations will get blown out of pro­portion at an emotional level. Be care-­ful how you deal with your mate. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can discuss your objectives with your partner today. Set your standards and stick to them. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Fi­nancial opportunities will unfold. Be prepared to take care of an older fa­mily member's personal paperwork. 
55 Pianist born in Kurilovka, Poland 
58 It popped into Descartes's head 
59 Pool owner's headache 
60 Novelist Paton 
61 Cartridge holder &2Young 'un 63 Motown's Marvin 
DOWN 
1 Big coconut exporter 2The King's middle name 
3 "Call Me Irresponsible" lyricist 
4 Large shoe size 5 Plaques, maybe & No-goodnik 1 Nincompoop &Foreman's 
superior 24 Push kin hero 44 Exceptional 51 Any ofthe 25 Not so ruddy occasion Galapagos
9 Supergarb 
Wanted: Reporters, 
26 Run to Reno? 46 Haunted house 52 "Why not?" 
10 Arab League 27 Gave a fig noise
28 The yoke's on 47 Pass over 
opening time 
11 Whipping 
photographers
them 48 Beach sweeper 
memento 56 Supermodel
49 Novelist Wister 14 Relief pitchers, Carol29 Kind of bomb 
30 Ocher-green 50 On pins and 
so to speak 57 Jokester
31 Heron or egret needles 
and editors. 
15 Astronomer 33 She vanted to 
born in Torun, be alone 
Poland 36 White-bearded Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Join The Observer staff. 
11 Working stiff geezer, are available by touch-tone phone: 22 Roxy Music stereotypically 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). co-founder 42Grand-­Annual subscriptions are available for the 23 Chemist born in Opry best of Sunday crosswords from the last Warsaw, Poland 43 Formal bash 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
... 
... 
.. 
• 
By BETSY BAKER  prove that they deserve to be  coach  Bob  Davie,  the  Irish  ed is putting the frustrating vic­ to improve from a football X  
Associate Sports Editor  taken seriously despite the fact  record is now 1-0 after a 17-13  tory over the Yellow Jackets in  and 0 standpoint in all areas of  
that they are totally under con­ victory  over  Georgia Tech,  the past, building off the game's  the game," Davie said.  "We  
When the Notre Dame foot­ struction.  while Joe Tiller's Boilermakers  positive and negatives and get­ ended up really stopping our­ 
ball team takes the field  at  Both  the  Irish  and  the  fell to 0-1 after a 36-22 loss to  ting back to the business of col­ selves.  So we have got to elimi­ 
Purdue University on Saturday,  Boilermakers are coming off  Toledo.  lege l'ootball.  The first order of  nate mistakes.  We have got to  
it will be a battle of two football  opening games that were  less  The first step for the Irish in  business lies in following the  improve short yardage offense.  
teams, going head-to-head to than par. Fortunately for head c--,r-~~--~-,-.--------~~~----~,,  keeping their record undefeat­ lead of the coaches, who like the players, needed to get one game undnr their lmlt in order  You cannot win at this level having two opportunities. one first-and-goal from the six. The  
to begin working out the kinks  other first-and-goal from the  
or the pre-season planning.  four and getting zero points."  
"I talked to our football team  In addition to improving the  
about trusting us as coaches  Irish offense within the red  
and to honestly trust our evalu­ zone. Davie also hopes to mix  
ation  on  what we  tell them  up the offensive scheme a little  
what we  need to improve on  more than was seen against the  
our football team," Davie said.  Yellow Jackets.  
- "I will be very disappointed if we can't correct some of the  One option eliminated will be throwing to freshman sensation  
mistakes.  The sign of a good  Joey Gcthcrall. due to  a knee  
coach, the sign of a good foot­ injury that will keep him out  
ball team. everyone is going to  two to three weeks.  However.  
make mistakes, but not to make  the  Irish  d;J  have  junior  
those mistakes continually over  Shannon Stephens. sophomore  
and over again."  Haki Nelson. and freshman  
On offense, the major need  Darcy Levy all waiting in the  
for improvement lies in the  wings and all  are  qualified  
Irish goal line performance.  receivers.  
...  Citing specifically a series· of  The defensive performance  
five opportunities in the third  was one of the brighter spots in  
quarter when the Irish had the  the Georgia Tech game; howev­ 
ball on first-and-goal and could  er.  injuries and lack of consis­ 
not convert. Davie expressed  tency continue to plague the  
the immediate need to remedy  Irish.  With linebacker Bobbie  
The Observer/Katie Kroener  situations in which the Irish can  Howard out up  to six weeks  
Things were far from perfect for the Irish on Saturday, leading head coach Bob Davie to impress upon his  and should score points.  with an injured knee and with  
players the importance of learning from their mistakes as they head into West Lafayette this weekend.  "Now, it is our responsibility  see DAVIE I page 18  







SPORTS 
page 20 
• MEN's SoccER 
Squad prepares to face regional rival Valparaiso 
games.
Blue and Gold When asked for an offensive strategy to attack the Crusaders' defense, McKnight said, "Against Valparaiso, we
seek solid play 
are looking to attack from the wing early in the game. This will hopefully open up the middle of their defense for
away from ND 
scoring opportunities." The Irish defense is coming off of a
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDE­
very strong showing against
BAKER 
Providence, posting their second
Sports Writers shutout of the yrmr. Junior eo-captain 
Matt Johnson leads a young defense
The 18th-ranked Notre Dame men's that includes sophomores Alan Woodssoccer team will look to continue its and Matt McNew. 
success when it takes on Valparaiso "Every game the ddnnse wants a
today. Notre Dame recorded its first win 
shutout," Johnson said. "Going intoof the year last Sunday by beating 
Valparaiso. we hope to stay focused andProvidence 3-0 at Alumni Field. 
come out strong to send a message
The non-conference battle will pre­early."
sent the Irish with a chance to fine tune Valparaiso is led by senior forwardtheir skills for future Big East oppo­Tony Dal Santo, who scored 10 goalsnents. 
last year. and junior goalie Aaron
"We still have a long way to go before Hhame, who had a save percentage ofwe get to where we want to be," Coach .827 and a 1.95 goals against avcragnMike Berticelli said. "As long as we stay last year. 
focusrd on getting better week by week Valparaiso returns 10 starters from
and take the season one game at a last year's team which went 6-13-3.
time, we should build on last year's (including a 5-3 league mark) and wonaccomplishments." 
the Mid-Continent Conference. 
One area the Irish have tried to 
It will be the second road game of the improve on this season is the offensive year for the Irish (1-1-l) after tying theend of the field. Notre Dame has Pittsburgh Panthers at Pitt Stadium inworked hard on creating scoring oppor­the season opener. Last year, the teamtunities all season long. The addition of 
was 7-6 away from Alumni Field, a
senior scoring leaders Ryan Turner and great improvement from the '94 and '95Bill Savarino to the line-up, along with seasons when they posted a record of 2­
the play of up-and-coming freshman 
14-1 on the road. Notre Dame hopes toReggie McKnight, gave the team the 
Big East Rookie of the Week Reggie McKnight has already proven to be a spark plug for spark it was looking for in the first two the men's soccer team and will attempt to give the Irish a lift against Valparaiso tonight. 
see V ALPO I page 18 
• fOOTBAll 

Davie, Irish look to clean up act for Boilermakers 


at University of Colorado 
a;

-
vs. Purdue, 
• Paterno pulls starters 
lnvitational,

September 13, 2:30 EST 
~ 
September 12
·~ 
~ 
see page 16 ...... 
riJ •Lindros, Flyers negotiate contract 
.... 
at Pinsburgh, 
vs. Valparaiso,

\~ September 12,7:15 p.m. 
M September I 0, 4 p.m. see page 13 
~ 






