
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 108 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
U.S. News miscalculates law school rankings 
By MICHAEL LEWIS  the basic problem with trying to  According to Elsa Garmire, the dean  
News Writer  rank schools qualitatively. Notre  of Dartmouth's Thayer School, "The  
Dame is not crying sour grapes,  rankings really just let you know  
The Jaw school rankings that U.S.  because the rankings cast the  what schools are very large and  
News and World Report released in its March 10 issue were miscalcu­ school in a positive light. "There is some movement to get  have across-the-board engineer­ing." Garmire said Dartmouth's  The Old  The New  
lated: Notre Dame's standing in  U.S. News to rank only the top 10 or  small size and specialization hurt its  
20th place was changed to 21st.  15 law schools," Dutile said. The  performance in the rankings.  
The error affected 33 of the top 50  rankings significantly hurt the third  This year was the first year in the  
schools in the Jaw school study that  and fourth tier schools, according to  last few that the Thayer School has  
ranks all 179 accredited law schools  Dutile.  not been ranked, and this fact led  
in the United States. The magazine  "We're still in very good compa­ the University of Chicago's student  
corrected its mistake with a letter  ny," he said regarding Notre Dame's  newspaper to print an editorial that  
from the editor and publication of  new standing. He pointed out two  was skeptical of the school's  
the revised rankings in its March 17  major problems with the system of  motives. The article said, "Thayer's  
issue.  quantitative rankings. First, he said,  decision to boycott the question­ 
"The error affected law schools  there are many variables involved  naire is motivated by self-interest  
and occurred because the labels on  in the excellence of a school.  and fears that the school might slip  
two data fields were accidentally  Secondly, he pointed out that,  further down the ranks."  
switched before the calculations  "very few people are in a position to  Dutile said Notre Dame will not  
began. One field showed the num­ tell you about more than five or 10  boycott the rankings, and he said  
ber of unemployed graduates who  schools." He noted that many of the  for one school to unilaterally drop  
were actively seeking work; the  people who are asked to rank  out of the rankings could be detri­ 
other. the number who were not  schools base much of there analysis  mental to its ability to attract stu­ 
now seeking work," wrote James  on reputation.  dents. He also stated he had no  
Fallows in an editor's note.  Dartmouth's engineering graduate  problem with all schools boycotting  
The associate dean of Notre  school has decided to boycott the  the study, because it is not an accu­ 
Dame's Law School. Fernand Dutile,  rankings for several reasons, and  rate indicator of a school's perfor­ The Observer/ Melissa Weber  
said, "It (the rankings error) shows  the mistake was one of them.  mance.  

Panel discusses disabilities 
SMC adds two 01ore 
By BILL IRVINE News Writer 

non-smoking floors 
Representatives of the dis­
By LORI ALLEN where students smoked withabled community participated 
Saint Mary's Editor the doors and transoms open,
in a panel lecture Tuesday 
which is against the housingevening as a part of Disability With room picks quickly code. Our goal is to satisfy the Awareness Week. 

approaching on the Saint majority of the community by
The lecture featured mem­
Mary's campus, students making changes based on the
bers of Notre Dame, Saint 
should bear in mind the policy surveys," said committeeMary's, and South Bend who changes added to the current member Missy Lind. 
related experiences with the 
residence life situation. The decision was made the
physically and mentally 
At the beginning of the fall week before spring break andimpaired. The panel contained semester Housing Coordinator is supported by the Housingmembers of the dyslexic, deaf Katherine Rosswurm initiated Committee, Studentand blind communities as well the Housing Committee com­Government Association, RHA,as friends. family, and co-work­posed of 10 Saint Mary's stu­and the senior officers of the ers of people with disabilities. 
dents to discuss current poli­College. It will take effect inThe theme of the lecture cen­cies and student concerns. the 1997-98 school year. This
tered around a statement by The Housing Committee will provide a non-smoking
Colleen Quinlan, a Notre Dame designed and administered a environment in 30 percent ofstudent. 
smoking policy survey to all the residential rooms.
"One does not grow in wis­Saint Mary's student resi­"1 believe the addition of two dom, tolerance. or love if one dents. Seventy-one percent of more non-smoking floors will
knows only people who arc like oneself," she said. placement unacceptable to con­to inadequate facilities and per­
those who responded did not give health conscious students Tom Mcrluzzi, a psychology form to her functioning needs. sonal relations. 
believe the campus had more choices during the professor at Notre Dame, This segregation had to be con­According to Lori Miller, a 
enough non-smoking floors. upcoming room selection explained some of the difficul­fronted ... a lot of sweat and blind senior at Notre Dame, 
The Housing Committee pro­process. We will now have a ties that his mentally and phys­toil and parental advocacy "my education was littered with 
posed adding more. At the non-smoking floor in each res­ically handicapped daughter made the (new) law come to barriers and detour signs." 
same time, the Resident Hall ident hall," said Rosswurm. Association (RHA) and the stu­The current smoking policy 
initially encountered with the life." The mainstreaming of dis­enforcement of disability laws The panel members related abled persons with society 
dent government were also states that students may and enrollment in local schools. several of the many difficulties formed a major topic of discus­
interested in adding more smoke in their rooms if all "As schooling began. we that a disabled person faced in sion for the panel. Tess Fahey, 
non-smoking floors. roommates agree and musk found that every disability was the ordinary classroom. These a dyslexic South Bend resident, 
"We took into consideration keep doors and transoms 

student remarks concerningcategorized and every disability complaints ranged from prob­had its place. We found this lems in understanding teachers living within an environment see SMOKING/ page 4
see PANEL I page 4 



Volunteers enjoy bowling with Logan Center 
By ALYSSON COOK his game each Friday. He plays 
that I should be thanking some even have children. News Writer against Shannon Crunk, a Saint them." Many of the people from the Mary's volunteer, and All of the people from the Logan Center community work 
Bowling balls careen down brother/sister team from the Logan Center have some d~gree at McDonald's, Burger King, the lanes and the scattering, Center, Tom and Patsy. of mental retardation. Martin's and Fazoli's. hollow shatter of the soldier­This is Disability Awareness However, "They are just like "Not only do they work in the like pins echoes in the building. Week at Notre Dame, but this us," said Caly Nuygen, a Notre South Bend community, but It's 4 p.m. on Friday afternoon scenario is played out every and recreation coordinator at Dame volunteer. "They have they participate in Special at the Beacon Bowl in South Friday afternoon when roughly the Logan Center. jobs and boyfriends and girl­Olympics and volunteer at Saint Bend, and erupting cheers 80 people from the Logan "One of the most incredible friends like we do." Ellen Lowe Augustine's soup kitchen and greet the ears of the people Center team up with volunteers things about the people from and Tommy Deiter are a couple the YMCA centers," said Kristin 
entering the bowling alley. from Saint Mary's and Notre the Logan Center is that they and Paul Foniseur and Mary Michel. 
Strike! Dame for bowling, conversa­thank us again and again for Sue Speybrock have been dat­The Logan Center is always 
Tommy Deiters, a bowler tion, and a lot of fun. going and bowling," said Amy ing for a while, and are sponsoring activities here in from the Logan Center wears "All of these people lead O'Loughlin, a Saint Mary's rep­engaged to be be married. South Bend such as Saturday bowling gloves, has his blond extremely active lives," said resentative. "I always feel that Some of them are married 
hair in a buzz cut, and perfects Kristin Michel, the volunteer I get so much more out of it and and live with supports, and 
see BOWLING I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 19, 1997 

Partisanship as usual 
Anthony Lake faced many challenges when l!e served as national security advisor for four years under President Clinton. But he encoutered a chal­lenge that he could not overcome when, for the past three months, he Matthew Loughran

served as personal 

Assistant News Ediror 
punching bag for the Senate Intelligence Committee during CIA director confirmation hearings which ended in Lake's withdrawal on Monday. 
Lake did not withdraw in fear of his nomi­nation being defeated. He withdrew in protest of a process that he said was "nasty and brutish, without being short." 
The confirmation hearing process is just a symptom of what has gone wrong with the United States government. Democracy indi­cates that differing points of view are repre­sented. These points of view give rise to polit­ical parties. Unfortunately, parties then lend themselves to partisanship. 
Partisanship, the staunch support of ANY­THING as long as it makes the other party look bad, is what is killing the government and eroding the confidence of the people who elected it. 
Bill Clinton was elected president by the people of the United States. Nothing that the Congress does or says will change that fact. True, the people have been wrong before. Richard Nixon came within a hair of being impeached in the 1970s. But he was one of only two presidents in U.S. history to even be threatened with impeachment. 
Congress spent all of its time during Clinton's last term slowly mulling over the Whitewater affair and finding little if anything with which to fault the President. Now they have decided to focus on campaign finance. 
Lake was accused of covering up campaign finance misconduct. Not one witness was brought to testify to that effect. But the com­mittee, chaired by Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama, spent the majority of its time inves­tigating possible connections between Lake and the President's re-election campaign finance efforts. 
Lake, who had the support of prominent Senate Republicans John McCain of Arizona and Richard Lugar of Indiana, might have done a good job as head of the CIA. This organization has suffered in recent years from double agents and scandals in its leadership. Perhaps having a man of some intelligence at the head of the Central Intelligence Agency would be in this country's best interests. 
But regardless of whether or not Lake would make a good CIA director, he did not deserve the treatment he got from the com­mittee. The Senate Intelligence Committee, a body that is supposed to be immune to politi­cal bickering, brought up allegations that Senator Bob Kerry (D-Neb), the vice-chair of the committee, called, "false, and in some cases the senators knew they were false." He even described that some members alleged a criminal case pending against Lake, a case which does not actually exist. 
Maybe there is something to the rumblings of campaign finance misconduct. But until there is an attempt to look into these allega­tions that is not poisoned by one side or the other inventing crimes and blowing things out of proportion, people will continue to turn away from Washington and let the politicians play at their games like spoiled little kids. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Graphics ·' Allison Koenig Melissa Weber Sports Production Karhleen Lopez John Hutchinson Viewpoint Laura Petelle Tara Churik 
Joe Weiler Lab Tech
Accent 

Katie Kroener
Megan Ferstenfeld 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Grape juice flavonoids found to help prevent heart attacks 
purple grape juice in the United States, and all probably work equally well.

Grape juice 
Purple juice appears to be more potent Red grape juice than white. appears to slow the Heart attacks occur when blood clots 
activity of blood 
stick to fatty deposits on the walls of the 
platelets, making them 
heart's arteries, choking off the supply
less likely to clot and 
of blood. Two decades ago, Folts was 
cause heart attacks. 
among the first to show -first in ani­
Eight to 10 ounces of 
mals and later in people -that aspirin
juice is effective. 

is good for the heart because it slows Percentage of maximum platele(.. 
blood clotting. I00 . activity while drinking 5 ml/kg i 
Now, he is looking at the anti-clotting90 ··...of various juices ) 
properties of a large group of natural 80 
substances called flavonoids that are found in many different kinds of foods. 
70 
Experimenting on 17 volunteers ­
60 

himself included -Folts found that 50 
both aspirin and red wine slow the 40 
activity of blood platelets by about 45 percent, while purple grape juice
30 
dampens them by about 75 percent. 
20 
Folts found that when people drink 
10 

purple grape juice once a day, the ben­0 
efits linger. In one experiment, people 
.'~ • 'A~ 
drank the juice for a week. Even after 

. ;::,. ... -!lJ ,' ··~~ . ... ~-.. 
:: ,;::}'-' .-· , ~IV' rs-· 'tl . .·.!lJ tl 
they had stopped for two days, their

~· . cs.~_-",.,_......·· a" .,., · ·· <S' .,., · 
(;() ..·· 'i -~ ..·· c§ ·.::; 
platelets were still sluggish. 


Jackson wins $60,000 in countersuit 
SANTA MARIA, Calif. 
A civil jury Tuesday rejected a wrongful termination lawsuit brought against Michael Jackson by five former Neverland Ranch employees and awarded the pop star $60,000 in a countersuit. A Superior Court jury found that Jackson and five staff mem­bers weren't liable in a lawsuit that claimed workers were forced out for 

reasons including their cooperation in . a child molestation probe. Jackson's successful counter­suit claimed two of the former workers stole sketches, personal notes, hats, toys and candy from the ranch, sell­ing some items to tabloid newspapers . .Jackson's counter­suit claimed that two of the ex-employees, Halph Chacon and Adrian McManus, stole items from the ranch and later sold some of them. The jury ordered H.alph Chacon to pay $25,000 in damages to Jackson and McManus to pay $35,000. Punitive damages of $1 also were awarded because jurors found th<if the two acted with malice. 
Furs hit runway despite protests 
PARIS 
Animal rights activists might be gnashing their teeth, but you can look chic in Paris with Davy Crockett styles or sweeping Marlene Dietrich mink maxi-coats. Winding up a week of fall-winter ready-to-wear shows, the house of Revillon laid on a quiet, tasteful show Tuesday of luxu­ry furs in their Right Bank salon. One of the oldest luxury companies in Paris, Revillon has been around since 1723. It sees real furs as a boon to an elegant woman's wardrobe. Designed by Thomas Maier and Carole Rifflard, a young Frenchwoman, the collection of coats, duffels and sweaters in everything from fabulous golden fox to sumptuous sable looked every bit the part of haute couture. ''I'm afraid the anti-fur lobby is quite active up in Germany," Maier said after his show for Revillon. "But here they consider it a fashion item." 


Food shipment to arrive in Iraq 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
The first shipment of food bought under a U.N. oil-for­food agreement will arrive next week, more than three months after the deal was approved, an official said Tuesday. Thailand will send about 13,000 tons of rice to the southern port of Basra, said Erik Fait, a U.N. spokesman. About six ships are expected to follow in early April, arriving in Basra and the Jordanian port of Aqaba. Under the deal, United Nations permitted Iraq to sell up to $2 billion in oil for an initial six-month period to buy food and medicine. Economic and health condi­tions have deteriorated sharply in Iraq since the United Nations imposed sanctions, including a ban on oil sales, after Baghdad invaded Kuwait in 1990. Iraq resumed limited oil sales under the U.N. plan on Dec. 10, but nei­ther food nor medicine has arrived in the country. The Iraqi government blamed a cumbersome system set up to make sure supplies are not diverted. But Western offi­cials say bureaucratic problems have mounted because Iraq will not ensure that U.N. observers can move around freely. 
Earthquake damages historic town 
CALICO GHOST TOWN, Calif. 
Century-old buildings and a modern overpass were cracked, bottles were tossed off shelves and nerves rat­tled Tuesday by a magnitude-5.4 earthquake, an after­shock of a 1992 trembler. No injuries were reported to officials in the 7:42 a.m. earthquake, which was centered 12 miles east-northeast of Barstow. It was the latest of about 60,000 aftershocks to the Landers quake that mea­sured 7.3 on the Richter scale. The quake was felt throughout San Bernardino County and as far south as downtown Los Angeles, 100 miles away. The Calico Ghost Town, a recreated 1881 mining camp, was shut down for safety inspection after cracks were found in four or five "historic" buildings made of wood and adobe. "It was a quickie but it had some vigor and force to it," an official said. 



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 19.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



Wednesday (} 35 12 =~· 
.·:·· .;: 


Thursday 1t:1 37 20; Friday 1t:1 38 34 Saturday 1t:1 40 32 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
© ~ 997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure
Sunda; i) 42 28 H L a LSl [I}] 0 ' [3] o ~~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
~,.~' ........S'~....-·-''\\.!'" 

Via Assoc,atod Press 
Joe Stark 
Joe Weiler 
9,9-,~888 ~ ~ 6 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries SnoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

except during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of 
Via As§OCiated Press GraphicsNet

rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  68  46  Denver  78  40  New Orleans 67  55  
Baltimore  53  36  Little Silver  52  37  New York  48  35  
Boston  42  30  Los Angeles 85  58  Philadelphia 52  34  
Chicago  47  32  Miami  84  70  Phoenix  94  60  
Dallas  77  42  Minneapolis  46  29  St. Louis  63  42  


Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Clinicians discuss cancers 
By MElANIE GARMAN 
News Writer 
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer diag­nosed in women today. 
Last night, as a part of Women's Month, Becky StumpCutchin and Patty Marquardt, nurse clinicians for Women's Health at the St. Joseph Medical Center, pre­sented a lecture on breast and cervical health at Saint Mary's College. 
According to StumpCutchin, breast cancer is the most feared disease among women. 
"Because of advertising tac­tics, women feel if they lose a breast they are losing part of their self-image," said StumpCutchin. 
According to the American Cancer Society, breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women, follow­ing death related to lung can­cer. A woman is diagnosed with breast cancer every three min­utes, and a woman dies of breast cancer every 12 min­utes. 
As part of the lecture, both women reviewed the ways to best detect a breast lump and what to do if one is found. 
Some of the guidelines for early detection, as cited by the American Cancer Society, are: self-examinations once a month, a thorough clinical exam every three years for women between the ages of 20­40, and a clinical exam every year for women over 40, the first mammogram by age 40, and one every subsequent year. 
Some factors to consider when talking with physicians about the risks of breast cancer are age, family history, diet, hormones, and reproductive history. Each of these con­tribute to the amount of risk each woman faces. 
"If a lump is detected early, a woman could undergo either a minor surgical procedure or radiation treatment," said StumpCutchin. "She would then have her breast and the rest of her life." 
Along with the risk of breast cancer comes the risk of cervi­cal cancer. According to the National Cancer Institute, each year about 15,000 women in the United States learn that they have cancer of the cervix. 
"Today, cervical cancer is classified as a sexually trans­mitted disease caused by a retrovirus," said StumpCutchin. "It is 100 percent curable if detected early, and is a pre­ventable disease if cautious." 
StumpCutchin stated women 
"As You Wish"~-(~-__.,.. Imports~ 
Lots of Bali Rings, Great Jewelry, Bali Dresses!, Wooden Beaded Curtains, Bamboo Jewelry Great Selection of Environmental Jewelry 
Clearance Sale 
Stop by to look, buy or just visit! FREE gift with every purchase! 
Portion of proceeds funds the education of 6 Guatemalan children. ANY coins dropped in ourjar would be greatly appreciated! THEY ADD UP! LaFortune Room 108 (By telephones) March 17th-March 21st 5 days ONLY! 10am-5pm -,.' J.· Early bird gets the worm! ~~ 
This spring, join Tour de Cure­one of the biggest diabetes fundraising events in history. 

Ride and raise money to fight · this deadly disease. 
_\. a cycling event of 

"'.American Diabetes Association 

Sign up today, call 
1-800-TOUR-888 
(1-800-868-78U] or visit us at 
www.diabetes.org/tour




ure. 


The Observer/Kim Michalik 
Visiting nurses at SMC lectured 
on various women's cancers. 

should have pelvic exams and pap tests regularly starting at the age of 18. These proce­dures are critical and necessary for those who are sexually active and must be repeated each year. 
"If a woman is diagnosed and treated for cervical cancer, the treatment does not compromise fertility or carrying a pregnan­cy to full term," said StumpCutchin. 
Ill 
:I: 
1­

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Father Dean Brackely commemorated Archbisop Romero and Father Grande as martyrs in his lecture, "Rutilio and Oscar: Martyrs." 
Brackely to Catholics: 
Follow conscience 
By MICHAEL SPEAKER 
News Writer 
Last night in the Hesburgh Center auditorium, Father Dean Brackely, a professor at the Central American University in El Salvador, offered a provocative lecture on martyrs. This lecture, titled "Rutilio and Oscar: Martyrs," chronicled the lives of Father Rutilio Grande and Archbishop Oscar Romero and their cru­sade for the poor. 
Brackely discussed how both men fought against the Salvadoran regime which oppressed the poor of the country. Archbishop Romero, who was ordained archbishop of San Salvador in 1977, was killed by assassins in 1980. During his three tumultuous years as archbishop, he openly challenged the government and the established Church and championed the poor. Romero stated that, "I do not ask how my actions will affect the Church but how they will affect the poor." 
Grande also challenged the government and, like Archbishop Romero, was killed for his actions. Grande preached against the govern­ment often and with vigor. He said, "Christ is a liberator of every person, and the whole person, body and soul." Grande denounced what he considered an oppressive gov­ernment. He was assassinated in 1977 for his outspoken beliefs. 

Brackely closed his lecture by describing Grande and Romero's role in our society here in the United States. "We are frequently reminded that the Church is not a democracy, and we are left to wonder if it is a tyranny." 
He challenged his audience to remember the works of the two Salvadoran martyrs by doing what they believe is right, not what the establish­ment says is good. He also con­demned the "immoral blockade of Cuba" and said the United States is "bullying the U.N." Brackely used these issues to illustrate that Catholics have the responsibility to follow their conscience, not the gov­ernment or the Church. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS. Wednesday, March 19, 1997 

Photo courtesy of Caly Nuygun 

Saint Mary's College senior Amy O'Loughlin (far right) poses with Logan Center friends during a Friday afternoon bowling excursion. to 

Bowling 
continued from page 1 
Recreation and dances on cer­tain Friday nights of each month. 
"We take trips to the movies, out to dinner, and to the Morris Civic Center to see productions of Broadway plays," said Michel. 
"These people are amazing and they add sunshine to my week by their smiles and the fun that we have together," said Shannon Crunk, Saint Mary's volunteer. 

This Friday, like every Friday, students from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame will be picked up at the LeMans bus stop at 3:30 p.m. and at the cir­cle in front of Siegfried Hall at 
3:45 p.m. to bowl with the Logan Center until 5:30 p.m. 
Melissa DeRosa, a Notre Dame volunteer, said, "I have been doing this for over a year, and I have found that over summer break, I miss my friends from the Logan Center as much as my school friends." 
Tommy Deiter, Tom, Patsy, and the other bowlers will be there and they'll be glad to give pointers. 
for the '97-98 school year are LeMans Hall second floor,

Smoking 

McCandless Hall second floor and as well as the current non­
continued from page 1 

smoking floors of Holy Cross Hall first floor, and Regina Hallclosed. 
north and south second floors. 
"The smoking policy i:s stay­

"The addition of these two
ing the same. We are simply floors directly responds to what

adding more non-smoking the students said in the sur-•

floors," added Rosswurm. 

vey," said Suzie Orr, director of The new non-smoking floors Residence Life. 
The members of the panel also discussed the current situation of people with disabilities. 
Dan Hyan, an administrator at the Logan Center, stated, "Notre Dame makes this a more healthier, diverse community by admitting peo­ple with disabilities." 
"Today everyone is more open about people with disabilities. I don't need to be labeled because it is who l am," said Cynthia Smith, a deaf graduate student with a hearing disability. 
Another Notre Dame student with a hearing disability, Mary Ileppurn added, "When I was 
If you see 
news  is now accepting applications for  
happening,  Cartoonist  
call  Applicants should submit five samples of their  
1-5323.  proposed comic strip, along with a brief statement describing what the strip will be about.  
Applications and questions should be directed to  
Brad Prendergast, 314 LaFortune, 631-4542.  
Deadline is Thursday, March 20  


Go Irish! Beat Wolverines! 
~OBSERVER 
llllljiJIUiijllliji¢1MI.11t\1UI:J11\491¢!8¢1111!111t+1$1W,1~11f1i:'llt$@ii 



There will be an information meeting for all class officer and off-campus candidates 
-

Tonight at 5:30 p.m. 2nd Floor ofLaFortune 

Questions? Calll ,4553 
F.Y.I. -CLASS OFFICE ELECTIONS ARE ON MONDAY MARCH 24! 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
'Mini Med School' continues 
By NEIL PUNSALAN 

• 
Dr. Michael Englert and Dr. 
Defense chief.fired, 
.. 
News Writer 


mercenanes d 
Gerald Meyers gave in-depth lec­tures on sleeping and eating dis­
By GEOFF SPENCER Singirok said he would leave 
orders, respectively, as part of 
Associated Press Writer the job without a fight. In. his 
the "Mini Medical School" lecture 
last official duty, he told a 
series sponsored by the South 
PORT MORESBY parade of 300 soldiers at Port 
Bend Center for Medical 
Papua New Guinea's prime , Moresby's main army base to 
Education last night. Each spe­
minister threatened Tuesday stay calin and obey the 
cialist outlined the major prob­
to arrest the ousted defense nation's constitution. 
lems associated with eating and 
chief who ordered soldiers to Singirok had announced on 
sleeping disorders as well as 
detain 40 or so South African local radio Monday thatthe 
pointing out causes and possible
and British mercenaries. army wouldnotwor~ Withthe cures. 
Confident _that he has mercenaries · by the g()\1• 
Englert is the medical director 
quashed a potential military ernmentto . 9~year•ol<i 
of the Sleep Disorders Clinic at 
revolt, Priine Minister Julius secessionist·. war .. on 
the St. Joseph Medical Center. 
Chan also directed the army Bougainyille, a copper~rich 
He is certified in neurology,
to free the mercenaries, who island about 800 miles north­
resides on the attending staff at 
had been hired to help put east of Port Moresby. 
both St. Joseph's Medical Center 
down a secessionist drive. He said he could not accept The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
and Memorial Hospital, and is on 
Dr. Michael Englert, medical director of the Sleep Disorders Clinic at St.
"The government is in that the government bad 
the consulting staff at St. Joseph 
Joseph's Medical Center, speaks at the "Mini Medical School" series. 
absolute, complete control of signed a $27 million contract 
Hospital in Mishawaka and at St. 
thing is wrong," reported constant exercise, and the self­the situation. The institution with Sandline, a private Mary Hospital. 
Englert. A treatment called con-perception of being fat whenof democracy is alive and well British company that· supplies 
Narcolepsy, obstructive sleep 
tinuous positive airway pressure really too thin. 
in Papua New Guinea,'' Chan mercenaries, when his sol­
apnea, and insomnia were the 
is often used, and more advanced Bulimia is characterized by atold reporters. insisting that diers went without frio~; pay three highlighted sleep disorders. 
surgery is a normally a second "clear loss of control over eating"
he had the support of the and supp~ · 
Englert described narcolepsy as 
army and police. Soldiers ·'{rt~r-option. Everyday treatments said Meyers. Singeing and purg­
excessive daytime sleepiness that 
The government fired Brig. cenaries arrtp · used to battle sleep apnea are ing are the two processes nor­
is prevalent in one out of 3,200 
weight loss, the elimination of mally associated with bulimia.
Gen. Jerry Singirok as near the nort coast town of 
people. The onset of narcolepsy 
suppressants, and the change in Meyers pointed out that purging,Defense Force commander on Wewak, where they had been 
is in puberty and is more com­
sleep positions. which is often thought of as vom-Monday after he ordered sol­teaching Papua New Guinea 
mon in males. Peaks occur 
One-third of all Americans will iting, is any strategy used todiers to detain the foreign troops anti-insurgency tactics. 
between the ages of 15 and 25. 
experience insomnia at once a reduce caloric intake or increasemercenaries and to stop coop­The rebellion on 
Englert also spoke of a condi­
erating with the government. Bougainville began in 1988 as year. This lack of sleep, accord-the burning of calories, including 
tion termed cataplexy in which a 
ing to Englert, is "not a diagnosis, exercise, diet and water pills,Chan said Singirok was an environmental protest over 
narcoleptic experiences brief, 
but a symptom." Chronic insom-drinking water and smoking''guilty of gross insubordina­a copper mine, but escalated 
temporary muscle paralysis
tion bordering on treason" into a guerrilla war to secede nia is a "conditioned anxiety." before meals as appetite sup­
when stimulated by excitement 
Englert detailed how biological pressants, caffeine, and alcohol. 
and could face arrest. from Papua New Guinea. 
or surprise. Effective treatments 
clocks get out of line with regular "They [who suffer bulimia)
which can be applied are the
-·' 

patterns of sleep. Drugs are the base their self-worth on body 
most common treatments with shape and weight," Meyers com­
over $70 million spent annually mented. 
on over-the-counter sleep med-"Eating disorders are not about 
ications. food; they are about fear and 
Meyers has been the medical control," Meyers added. director of Memorial Hospital's The features of obesity are that Healthy Options for Problem there are many causes, it is Eaters (HOPE) program since its chronic, a cure is unfortunately creation in 1985. Meyers is also rare, weight loss is slow, and the physician director for the weight regain is often rapid. Pathway Chemical Dependency Meyers' lecture included the Program at Memorial Hospital. news of five genes which have Obesity, anorexia nervosa, and been singled out as causes of bulimia nervosa were the sub-obesity. Today, one in three peo­jects of the lecture. pie is obese. Exercise combined 
Meyers posed the question, with eating right is the only effec­"Why don't these [diets] work?" tive method of reducing obesity. With an understanding of genet-Their are many medical-com­ics and metabolism, Meyers plications of anorexia, bulimia, answered, "In some people, los-and obesity. Cardiovascular, ing weight is like a little fish try-dermatologic, endocrine, gas­ing to swim upstream. Dieting trointestinal, hematologic. meta­does not work. It is just too hard bolic, musculoskeletal, and neu­in most cases." rological problems can all result 
The warning signs of anorexia from these eating disorders. It is are a deliberate self-starvation. a estimated that 300,000 people a fear of gaining weight, the year die from poor diet or activity refusal to eat, a denial of hunger, patterns. 
** ATTENTION SENIORS** 
STILL INTERESTED IN A SERVICE PROGRAM ?? 
The Archdiocese Of New York Teaching Service Program is still accepting applications for next year. 
If you are interested in teaching in a 
Catholic high school and would love 
the chance to live in community in the 
middle of exciting New York City, call 
Sr. Deanna Sabetta for an application 
at (212) 371~1000 Ext. 2803 

Campus View Apartments  
We are now taking applications for NEXT YEAR!!  -furnished apartments -shuttle bus -central air -24 hour laundry  
•Swimming pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts •FLEXIBLE LEASE PLANS  
Apartments Available for your selection For more information, call272,1441 Summer leases Available  

implementation of stimulants, daytime naps, and support groups. 
Englert likened obstructive sleep apnea to "trying to suck to hard on a straw in a milk shake." Sleep apnea is the repetitive clo­sure of the upper airway. Symptoms of daytime sleepiness, Pxcessive snoring, and restless­ness. This condition is more often found in men and is linked to being overweight. "Patients usually have no idea that some-






Leave the driving to us. 
Call this weekend! Friday and Saturday 10 p.m. 3 a.m. 
• 631-9888 
U"l¥10"" "' N<11o0 II•"' 
huftuor.'""K"'"' 

"---~------------~~­
Wednesday, March 19, 1997
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
• FtNJUilt!At NEWS 
Carriers see big bucks with phone psychics 
By PETE BRUSH 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

The Psychic Friends Network predicted Jennifer Desjardins' future would be full of money and happiness. It didn't foresee the legal trouble she would face after running up $3,000 in charges to the telephone ser­vice. 
Desjardins and two friends made more than a dozen calls to the Psychic Friends Network over a period of several days at a cost of up to $3.99 per minute, or about $240 an hour. 
"They told us we were going to have money and good jobs," said Desjardins, 20, of Torrington, Conn. 
Desjardins and her friends are part of a growing audience for the phone psychics who claim to read mental vibrations through telephone lines. 
"It's a social phenomenon," said Arthur Warwick, a psychi­atrist at the University of Maryland School of Medicine. "People have a tremendous need for certainty, reassurance and spiritual connection. Those things are not found in real life. It's a very eclectic age." 
However, telephone industry analysts say it's money, not spirituality, that is driving the toll-call clairvoyance industry. With an average call bringing in $40, it doesn't take a crystal ball to see that psychic phone services are a big business. 
Mark Plakius, managing director of Strategic Telemedia, a New York-based market research firm, estimates the services are a $300 million-a­year industry. That constitutes one-third of the total "1-900" market, which includes ser­vices ranging from consumer help lines to phone-in polls. 
"Psychic hotlines arc the anchor of the 1-900 industry." Plakius said. 
Moreover, the psychic phone lines have powerful allies. Long distance carriers such as AT&T Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. lend their collection mus­cle by including charges from 1-900 calls in monthly phone bills. The payoff for the long distance companies is millions in yearly revenue, Plakius said. 
AT&T, through its MultiQuest division, is reaping millions from the thousands of callers who want to hear about their futures. Plakius estimated AT&T controls 60 percent of the billion-dollar 1-900 indus­try. MCI controls about 20 per­cent, he said, with smaller companies controlling the rest. 
But long distance companies will not reveal exactly how much money the psychic net­works bring in when compared to other 1-900 services. 
Psychiatrists say the popular­ity of the psychic phone lines is not surprising. 
"If you consider that 25 per­cent of Americans believe in angels, it's a logical conse­quence," said Warwick, of the University of Maryland. "There's no angel hotline and this is the next best thing." 


Qq(Hla won't 'monkey around' 
):\y'KEVlijQ;HANLON to e what .zoo keep-seems,content to sit around ers ca olossus' ''ch"+llenge,''" holding.ot1;~o the big toe of his 
th~y:tri~~.il1tr9.ducipga tutor rightfo~t? 
..... CINCINNATI -Chaka,a•t2:.yaar"o1d west-Colossus' problem, experts 
Birds . B~es do it. But ern lowland gorilla on loan say, is that he was caught Colossus doesn't have a clue. from The Philadelphia Zoo. when he was a baby and grew Despite numerous attempts to Chaka gladly obliged. To up in private zoos with no push the 28-year-old male date, he has fathered six goril· other gorillas. lie spent several gorilla at the Cincinnati Zoo las and is suspected of impreg-years with a lone female in a into an amorous interlude, nating two more. Florida zoo, until he was sent Colossus will not mate. There are less than 50,000 to Ohio in 1993. 
"He just doesn't understand western lowland gorillas in the Zoo keepers say there's noth­

all the etiquette," said world, including about 700 in ing more they can do to get 
the Cincinnati car1tivitv, Wharton said. Colossus in the mood to, well, 450~pound Colossus monkey around. 

Finance Club Run-Off Election 
Voting: When: Wednesday, 3/19 +Thursday, 3/20 11:30 AM-1:45PM 
Where: Stock Exchange Booth in COBA 
Attention: 

Only Finance Club Members May vote! 




Schedule of events: 
Today-5:15p.m. Mass in the Basilica with Father Scully and Father Oli Willian1s. 
Women from the classes of 1973-77 will serve as Eucharistic ministers and lectors, with a reflection by Anne Pettifer '76. 
8 p.m. panel discussion and reception-"Coeducation at Notre Dame: Good and Bad Trends" Featuring Coach Chris Petrucelli, Anne Pettifer '76, Chris Trutan '73, Dean Russell 
FridaY. March 21 -Chicago area jazz band featured at Fieldhouse Mall from 4-7 p.m. (sponsored by SUB) SaturdaY, March 22 -4 p.m. -Join Father Hesburgh as he addresses the student body from the steps of the Administration Building. Rain site is Lafortune Ballroon1. Also featured-Mary Bliley, '72, ND's first fetnale baccalaureate graduate. Reception to follow. 
8 p.m. -George and the Freeks will perform at the 70's mixer in the LaFortune Ballroon1. 
-.~ Questions? Contact Patrick at 1-7668 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • AFRICAN NEWS page 7 
• SOUTH AFRICA 




Tour tackles post-apartheid life Uncertain leadership 
ByTOMCOHEN formed youngsters to name Clinton donated a computer A"ociated Press Writer things inside and outside the and printer, wall maps and an 
fuels spread of anarchy
classroom. atlas to the school. 
SOWETO A crowd of journalists She also put in a plug for her 
Hillary Rodham Clinton spent laughed out loud when the first husband's school uniform cam­By BETH DUFF-BROWN her first day in South Africa on student, a girl, answered, "The paign, when a student asked Associated Press Writer Tuesday talking about two police are outside the class­her if U.S. children wore uni­issues troubling post-apartheid room." forms like the South Africans. KINSHASA society 
Her comment evoked memo­"President Clinton wants With many pro-government violent crime ries of the era when school­more students to follow the legislators absent, Zaire's and the need children took part in anti­example of students here in Parliament voted overwhelm­to improve apartheid protests and often Soweto and wear uniforms," i n g I y Kenya, for a meeting on the insurgency sweeping through eastern Zaire. 
But with President Mobutu Sese Seko lying in a hospital bed in Monaco, Zaire was left rudderless Tuesday. Its two top 
leaders 
education for clashed with police in Soweto. she said. Tuesday to 
were out of blacks. Clinton pushed a favorite Clinton also visited the oust the the country, The first theme -early education for memorial for the first student prime min­its third lady, often children. killed in the notorious Soweto ister. The largest city s m i 1 in g "The earlier we reach chil­student uprising of 1976 and government was in the b r o a d 1y • Clinton dren, the greater opportunity paid tribute to all who helped immediately hands of thrilled chil-those children will have to pur­bring down apartheid. denounced rebels and dren at a school and an sue their education," she said "I came to South Africa the vote as Parliament orphanage in this sprawling after visiting the school. today, on behalf of my husband invalid, say­had no con­black township outside The school is part of a U.S.­and my country, to thank you ing not stitutional Johannesburg, then led a panel funded program to help stu­for the struggle you went enoughlaw­way to discussion on domestic violence dents learn English, one of through and the courage it makers choose a and child abuse to wind up the South Africa's 11 official lan­took," she said at the Hector were pre­successor to second day of her two-week guages. Peterson Memorial. sent. Mobutu. African trip. Under apartheid, the govern­The memorial includes a pic­It re-There was 
People in Soweto cheered ment spent much less educat­ture of the slain Peterson being mained great con­
cern in Kinshasa, the capital, that if Mobutu dies or the army attempts a coup, riots would break out among soldiers and civilians. Riots in 1991 and 1993 killed hundreds of people and destroyed many business­es. 
"As of tonight, it's finished. The decision has been made," Parliament spokesman Kinkela Vi K'ansy, a member of the opposition, said of Kengo's ouster. 
He said 464 members, nearly two-thirds of the 740-seat tran­sitional parliament, took part in the vote Tuesday night. Nine members voted against Kengo's removal and 10 abstained, he said. 
But government spokesman Jean-Claude Biebie Ekalabo said the constitution requires three-quarters of Parliament ­555 lawmakers -for a vote to be valid. 
It wasn't immediately clear if the pro-government lawmakers had intentionally missed the vote. Parliament sessions in Zaire often are sparsely attend­ed. 
The attempt to oust Kengo ­who had been handpicked by Mobutu -came after his gov­ernment's worst setback in the war, the loss of Kisangani, Zaire's third-largest city, over the weekend. 
Mobutu's top military aides have been meeting in private since the fall of Kisangani, sparking rumors they were debating a possible coup. 
Earlier Tuesday, government soldiers looted the main market in Mbuji-Mayi, the center of Zaire's lucrative diamond industry. 
The streets of Kinshasa were rife with rumors that Mobutu was dead and the military was plotting to take over. 
Aid groups have yet to respond to the announcement. 
TEACH ENGLISfiA~lf£RN EUROP 
PRAGUE • BUDAPEST • KRAKOW 

How would you like ro reach basic conversational 
English in Ea.srern Eurol?"? Our materials profile 
many rewarding reaching opportunities with great benetirs. For information call: 
(206) 971-3684 Ext. K55845 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search 
in National Parks, Forests, and Wildl~e 
Preserves. 

Clinton and her daughter, Chelsea, and children sang for them during the pair's visits. 
At the Entandweni Lower Primary School, Mrs. Clinton sat in on a first-grade class and even taught English for a few minutes, encouraging the uni­ing black children than white ones. President Nelson Mandela's government is trying to integrate the education sys­tems and improve black schools, but he needs money and training from foreign donors. 
GIVE YOUR PARENTS ONE MORE REASON To LOVE You. 
Go To SCHOOL THIS SUMMER. 
Everybody knows it's gening harder ro graduate lrnm college in four years. A missed class, a change of major-and all of a sudden, you're on the five­year plan. The extra semester or year in schtx)l can cost your folks a bundle in tuition and delay you fmm getting started with that great new job. 
So, play it smart. Pick up a course this summer at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
UIC is a 4-year research university with world class bculty and is located in the heart of Chicago. Our summer session offers over 400 courses in 55 departments-lots of chances to catch up, get ahead or concentrate on a particularly important course. It's easy to apply, tuition is a great value and the semester is over in just eight short weeks. 
carried in the arms of his older brother. The photographer, Sam Nzima, who carried the camera he used to take the famous picture, also met Clinton. 
The Clintons are scheduled to travel Friday to Zimbabwe. 

unclear late Tuesday whether Leon Kengo wa Dondo, widely blamed for sweeping military losses to rebels in eastern Zaire, remained prime minister. 
The vote came only hours after Kengo left for Nairobi, 

Give us a call or send us an e-mail and we'll send yuu everything you need to get started. Your parents will love you for it-even more than they do already. 
For information about the UlC Summer Session, call800-625-2013 or, inChicagu, (312) 996-9099. Or, send us e-mail at: summer@uic.edu. 




-~'~ 
~ 

UICSUMMER 
SESSION 

Making your summer count. 
June 2 -July 25 
0

.. :~ ..,·. ;,.., : ·.:,_·.~ ··.... : · THE UNIVERSITY OF tt.:l~NOIS AT CHICAGO 

-~-----------~-·----­
-~-------------~-­
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, March 19, 1997 •IsRAEl 
Palestinians protest Har Homa project 
By DAFNA LINZER Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 

Yellow bulldozers began clearing away rocks and earth Tuesday for a Jewish housing project in disputed east Jerusalem, triggering Palestinian protests and warn­ings that Mideast peace was near collapse. 
Hundreds of troops in riot gear, backed by snipers and helicopters, sealed off the pine­covered hill where 6,500 Jewish apartments are to be built on land claimed by the Palestinians as part of a future capital. 
There was scuffling around the site, and scattered protests broke out later. 
In the nearby West Bank town of Bethlehem, the scene was reminiscent of the 1987-93 Palestinian uprising. Teenagers burned tires, blocked roads with garbage dumpsters and whistled at Israeli soldiers, dar­ing them to chase them: 
A combative Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu defended his decision to go ahead with the construction. Both sides have made the project a test of their resolve on Jerusalem, the deal-breaker of the Israel­Palestinian negotiations. 
"We're not going to change our policy because of the threat (of violence)," he said. 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat said he had ordered that there be no violence, but Netanyahu accused him of giv­ing "the green light" to attacks. 
"We have received very hard intelligence that the Palestinian Authority has prepared the ground for violence that they would initiate," Netanyahu said in an interview Tuesday with the Foreign Press Association. 

"I demand from them to reverse these decisions immedi­ately." he said. "The Palestinian side must choose: Do we want terror or do we want peace?" 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns rejected that accusation. saying he had seen no evidence that Arafat had approved violence. In fact, Burns said the United States has assurances from Aral'at that "he stands against vio­lence." 
Later Tuesday, Netanyahu told Channel 2 TV he was also "studying" the possibility of building a new neighborhood for Arabs near the construction site. The TV said those plans call for 1,000 homes for Arabs. 
Surveyors with tripods and measuring instruments spread out Tuesday afternoon around the foot of the hill as the bull­dozers began moving. 
Dozens of Palestinians, including a legislator holding a Palestinian flag above his head, then tried to reach the site. 
A cordon of soldiers pushed them back, and a scuffle ensued. "With our bodies we will protect Jabal Abu Ghneim," the demonstrators chanted, using the Arabic name for the area known in Hebrew as Har 1-loma. 
The official Voice of Palestine radio station reported that "the bulldozers of the occupiers had begun work with the aim of iso­lating and Judaizing Jerusalem.'' 

Jerusalem after 1996 

As a precaution, the Israeli army suspended joint security patrols between Israel and the Palestinians, and barred Israeli civilians from entering Palestinian-controlled West Bank cities. 
Throughout Israel, security forces were on alert for possi­ble attacks. Hundreds of police officers were deployed in Jerusalem and all leaves were canceled, police said. 
Netanyahu's decision to go ahead with construction showed his determination to prove he would not yield con­trol over east Jerusalem, which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 Mideast War and annexed into its capitaL 
Netanyahu insisted the pro­ject did not violate the peace accords with the Palestinians, which defer negotiations on the status of the city until a later stage. 
Arafat's spokesman, Nabil Abourdeneh, said Netanyahu was pushing the peace process into an abyss and "changing the geographic realities on the ground." 
Palestinian protesters pitched six tents Monday near the con­struction site and spent a cold, rainy night there. An Israeli sol­dier kept a machine gun trained on the tents. 
Tuesday morning, a stream of visitors came to the tents, including dozens of Israeli peace activists who raised a poster of the Israeli and Palestinian flags with the slo­gan: "Two peoples, two states, one future." 
Hanan Ashrawi, minister for higher education in Arafat's Cabinet, said Israel would be to blame for any violence pro­voked by the construction. 
"This is a provocative, irre­sponsible and illegal action." she said. "It is a deliberate Israeli step to destroy the peace process." 


"A just social system zs impossible without people being just. 
CENTER FOR 


Justice is first and foremost a virtue, and it inheres zn 
SOCIAL 


individuals and institutions that carry out God's
CONCERNS 


commandment to care for one another-to feed the hungry, heal the sick, and enable the able-bodied to work and contribute to the commonweal." 
-Robert Bellah 

Mary jo Adams james Berlage Sean Frey Ryan Blaney jennifer Glodek Andrew Boyd Thomas Kilroy joseph Cooney 
Thomas Murphy Congratulations and thanks to the over 160 participants in Antonio DeSapio 
Lauren Stein jennifer Dovidio Rachel Tomas Morgan Kathleen Finn Kellie Flanagan Shaunti Althoff Anne Hosinski 
The Appalachia Seminar
Angela Anderson julie Maund Kristin Bree 
Elizabeth McPike Kristina Campbell jaime Murray 

The L'Arche Seminar
Elizabeth Cuevas Sara Nienaber Maria Eidietis Kathleen O'Clair Eric Esquibel Aliceson Robinson 

The Migrant Seminar
Megan Ferstenfeld Scott Schaefer Marty Harris Brett Smith Kathleen Hoitenga Elizabeth Talarico 

The Washington Seminar
Maria joyce Latrecia Wilson 
OmarLucero jill Witkowski Bridget O'Connor Marlon Yander Ryan O'Neill Andrea Sullivan 
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint
Patrick Perri Kristine Puzon Michelle Krok 
Mary's College during Spring Break in service and experiential
Rexphil Rallanka Karen O'Brien Christine Raslavsky jennifer Piccoli 
learning at 15 sites across the nation. 
Andrea Ray john Quintero Clare Ribando Brandon Zabukovic Francisco Santoni Maria Wuebker 
Rupert Aguila Christina Ciaccio jeffrey Fersch jennifer Jablonski jason Leveille Erin Neil Heather Rodriguez Maite Uranga Nicole Amy jennifer Coleman Christopher Fesen Brian )ankowitz Beth Lorenz jenni Nelson Kathleen Scheibel Catherine Village Sarah Archibald Betsy Connolly john Fiorenza Hollis janowak Todd Manegold Cathleen Orban Anna Schmitt Kate Votruba Suzanne Barsotti Michela Costello Christine Gabany Heather j eno Brian McChesney Erik Paulson Laura Schreeg Chris Walker )ada Benn Kathryn Cousino Liz Gallagher Michelle Keefe Molly McCracken Matthew Phelan julie Shotzbarger johanna Ward julie Berrett Frank Cracchiolo Cynthia Ann Garcia Sinead Keegan Shane McGonegle Jennifer Pimenta jessica Smatlak Tara Wegehaupt Shay Boyle john Crisham Shannon Glynn Brigid Keyes Christopher McGowan Erin Potempa Allison Sonneveld jennifer Wejam Andrew Brennan Michael Davis julieGripka Toshimori Kitami Daniel McGrath David Preissler Kristen Spellacy Anne Werring Shawn Broz Sienna DeAgostino Melissa Hanson Mark Koss Tejal Mehta Daniel Prince Ryan Stasik Kimberly Whittaker Brian Burke Colleen Dolan Andrew Hardie Maribeth Krzywicki Christopher Mignanelli Jennifer Ptacin Chris Strother Catriona Wilkie Rachel Cain Meghan Doyle Ann Hatfield Serena Kubiak Gina Morton Julie Puljic Michael Sullivan Kristin Yudt Ryan Caulfield Maureen Durkin Megan Hayes Breann Kutzer Kathy Motyka Colleen Quinlan Molly Syron Megan Zachow EdmundChoi Kyle Elliott Kristin Hespos justin LaReau Tracy Mundy Rona Reodica Catherine Thomas Marina Ziolkowski 
Clare Felton Maureen Hoover Sam Leonardo Sean Murphy john Roach Patricia Ummel 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Presbyterians ban gay ministers 
By DAVID BRIGGS 
Associated Press Writer 
In a major setback to Christian gay-rights activists, the Presbyterian Church in the United States voted to make its ban on ordained homosexuals part of church law. 
The ban got the majority it needed Tuesday with approvals from regional bodies in Miami and Charlotte, N.C. The Book of Order -the church's constitu­tion -will be changed to require chastity of single minis­ters. 
"It says to the country that Presbyterians are committed to reaffirming their biblical center for faith and practice." said the Rev. Jack Haberer, moderator of The Presbyterian Coalition, a group favoring the amendment. 
However, Scott Anderso.n. co­moderator of Presbyterians for Gay and Lesbian Concerns, said the change will force more gay and lesbian Presbyterians out of the 2.7 million-member church. 
"It's one more club that has been used to beat up gay and lesbian people in the Presbyterian church," he said. 
An announcement of the vote is not expect.ed for another week or two as votes are sent to church headquarters in Louisville. 

The United Church of Christ is the only major Protestant denomination to permit the ordination of homosexuals. Opinion polls show a majority of people in the pews oppose having gay and lesbian minis­ters. 
In a decision last May that averted the first heresy trial of an Episcopal bishop since the 1920s, a church court ruled that Episcopal doctrine does not explicitly bar the ordination of practicing gays. It also declared a 1979 resolution against the ordination of non­celibate gays is nonbinding. 
The Presbyterian General Assembly in 1993 affirmed past church policies forbidding the ordination of non-celibate homosexuals. The church's Book of Order, however, has not specifically addressed the issue of gay ordinations. 
. Last year, after a three-year churchwide study of sexuality, the General Assembly sent out a proposed constitutional amendment forbidding the ordination of individuals who fail to live "either in fidelity within the covenant of mar­riage of a man and a woman, or chastity in singleness." 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1998 IPW EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE!-!! 
L 



DON'! MISS ()UI!!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY SPM MARCH 21 
HALLELUJAH NIGHT IV Friday, April 18, 1997 7:00p.m. Stepan Center 
Accepting submissions for 
Poetry' Readings 
Material submitted should be J-5 minutes in length. Four participants will be chosen to read their poetry at this event. 
Submit by March 21, 1997 Hallelujah Night Committee Campus Ministry 112 Badin Hall 
0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

Committee reviews female Citadel admits 
By BRUCE SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
The Citadel should have wait­ed longer after a court battle before admitting four women cadets, two of whom later charged they were harassed and hazed, a school-appointed committee said today. 
The state military college announced last week that one male cadet had been dismissed, three resigned, and 10 others were given lesser punishments for hazing and harassing two female cadets. One male cadet was cleared. 
The Citadel changed its all­male admissions policy last summer, two days after the· 

U.S. Supreme Court ruled a similar all-male policy at Virginia Military Institute was unconstitutional. Just six weeks later, four women were on campus. 
"We believe the college should have waited a year before bringing them in," for­mer Citadel President James Grimsley said today. That would have allowed time to recruit more women and to better judge how the plan would work, he said. 
Grimsley was among a group of community leaders asked in January to review the school's plan for admitting and training women. 
Two of the women, Jeanie Mentavlos and Kim Messer, left school after the first semester, saying they had been hazed and harassed. 
They said their clothes were set on fire while they were wearing them and cleanser was poured on their heads, they were forced to drink alcohol and forced to stand in a closet while being shoved and kicked. 
The  Citadel still has two  
female cadets.  
The  committee  led  by  

Grimsley also said the Citadel's governing board needs to bet­ter state how the school should function as a coeducational col­lege. 
It also called for a review of freshman training and said cadets must be convinced that women are part of the school's future . 
A consultant appointed by 
U.S. District Judge C. Weston Houck is expected to file a sep­arate report later this week. 
On Monday, The Citadel's incoming president said he is confident school officials have punished everyone responsible for the hazing. 
"I don't believe there has been anything that has been covered up or anything that has been missed," John Grinalds said at his first news confer­ence after meeting with cadets Monday. He takes office this summer. 
Grinalds, 59, a retired Marine niajor general, said he has some ideas for bringing in more women but wants to learn more about the school before suggesting any changes. 
Grinalds, a Rhodes Scholar with degrees from Oxford University and Harvard Business School, also is a West Point graduate and headmaster of Woodberry Forest School, an all-male boarding school in Virginia. 
~--------~-------------------------------,
i'-leed a job for the 1997-98 
~1cademic year? 

Student Activities is now acceptir g applications for: 
LaFortune Building Manager~; Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound Tcchnit:i,~m 
Games Room Attendants Building Set Up Crew • 2 4 Hour Lounge Monitors ND Cake Se1 vice 
----~~--~------------------~--------"--------~~~-----------.-----.~~~.---------~--------------~----.... 






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINTMARv'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Maureen Hurley News Editor............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager..........................Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager... ..... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. . ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen 
Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 

The Observer is the-independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir dots not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insrirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate: News Editor. Commc:marics, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the: aurhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor"in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  G3I-53I3  
Managing EdirorNiewpoinr  63 I-4 54 I  Advertising  GJ I-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63 I-5323  Systems  63I-8839  
Sports  63 I -4543  Office Manager  63I-747I  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Editor/Production  63 I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• FR!VOLATA 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 


FRIGHT SIMULATOR 


Popular opinion demands analysis from a critical viewpoint 
"Party ofFive"-Not much ofa party! 
In my first column of the academic year, I lamented the apparent decision to discontinue Aaron Spelling's "Kindred: The Embraced" series.· As I admitted, it had its faults, but it was a decent show; at any rate, worse shows were brought back for another season, and they remain on the air today. "Party of Five" is a perfect example. 
Kirsten Dunne 

Initially, I must confess that I do not watch this show. However, I do watch a great deal of FOX television, and it's fairly easy to keep up with what's going on from the previews. What's more, I sincerely tried to watch this show when it first came on -I just couldn't do it. The characters, especially Neve Campbell's character Julia were a bunch of preachy goody-goodies. Watching these kids cope with banal problems such as getting C's on their papers or caring for the baby's cold just was not my idea of entertainment. 
I don't think I could ever become a regular viewer of this show, but I'd be more likely to watch it occasionally if prissy Julia loosened up a bit. In fact, I even have a couple ideas about how the show's writers might accomplish such a feat: 
Plan #1: Plan a show wherein the characters of "Beverly Hills, 90210" and "Party of Five" interact. Kelly, currently upset about the love triangle involving herself, Brandon, and Tracy, will once more turn to substance abuse. She will meet Bailey at a wild party, and they will start up a platonic conversation. Julia will arrive at the party to confront Bailey, and Kelly will notice something about Julia that seems familiar to her. 
After Julia tells Bailey off, Kelly will talk to Julia in an attempt to figure out where she knows her from. It will turn out that Julia and Kelly share the same father. Shocked by the realization that her mothflr was unfaithful and that her biological fathflr is still alive, Julia will really tic one on. She will do some unspeakable things while she is loaded. For a short time, she will continue to drink and rebel. However, having been "tarnished," she will no longer be able to act so high-and-mighty. 
Plan # 2: Instead of the "90210" char­acters, bring in the "Melrose Place" gang. Julia will walk by as Megan is being accosted by her former pimp and, as usual, will come to the rescue by call­ing the cops and staying nearby to make sure Megan is alright. Megan will express her gratitude by inviting Julia over for dinner. During dinner, the pimp comes back. However, after one look at Julia, he decides that her apple­pie look is just what he needs to increase the diversity of his clientele. He tries to entice her by telling her how rich she could become as a prostitute. While Julia is obviously opposed to pros­titution, she knows how much that money could help her siblings. She becomes a prostitute and gradually loses all her morals. As a result, she quits lecturing everyone else about their problems. 
Chalk one up for Fred "gold-digger" ... er, Goldman. 
Even as staunch an O.J. supporter as myself cannot argue with the civil ver­dict in general -i.e., a verdict favoring the plaintiffs. A reasonable jury, espe­cially one which was allowed to consider inadmissible evidence {e.g., lie detector test results) and denied the opportunity to hear relevant testimony {e.g., the fact that a perjuring racist was signilicantly involved in the investigation of this case), could certainly find O.J. responsi­ble by a preponderance of the evidence. 
What irks me so much is the damages the jury decided to award. I keep asking myself: Were they on drugs, or were they getting a nice-sized kickback? 


•  DOONESBUIW  
~If/HAT !JRIN6S >0U 70 J#!!iC.'t  Ml!iCH!trl H/3 tvAN/73 l/9 7lJ 0/?6AN!Zl3 SfJM/JSOI<T OFP/?0­mqr.t  tv!iU, IF H/3 UH... RJGHT. £W5,/TMUST IT~Al!a/T 86RJR. A JOBS.' to75 600/?CAU£&, OF 'tiM_! RIGHT, \((./7(/C/<Y? I  /aiU,r!N/3 7HEW.' UMONT ANI?M/3 AIN'T/..OCAL., 8UT W/3 60TCONTAC75 /N7H/3 !iHU'llfRL./3!35 COMMUN/7Y H~.' f,(J;'f.L_ W ANYTHIN6 NG CAN 7lJHfU.Pl ~ ~~---//  

Either way, the justice system has failed in this case. 
Of course, whilfl I stew over the mat­tflr, there are many people who couldn't be happier -not least of all, Fred "it's­not-about-the-money" Goldman. The Brown family had the decency to recog­nize that the value of life is immflasur­ablfl in dollars, and therefore not to request eompcnsatory damages. The Browns also were selfless enough to give the entire punitive award to. the kids. I still don't agree with the damage award, but I appreciate the ability of some peo­ple to handle the situation in a dignified manner and to keep in mind that, at bot­tom it's about people who lost their lives. 
By contrast, you'd think Fred Goldman had just won the lottery in the countless clips they showed on the news and iH the papers in the days following the jury's announcement. Here's Fred with a big smile on his face. There he is jumping around like he has a burr stuck up his butt. Oh, look! Here are some clips of Fred right aftr,r he learned of his fortune, tying one on at a bar with a bunch of his pals! Through it all, he kept saying how it was all about Hon, how he'd never recover from the loss of his son, etc. Curious, isn't it, that he'd mourned his son with tears and angry words up until he learned that he'd become rich -and then all of a sudden he discovered a brand new way to deal with his loss-namely, by making merry and getting loaded? 
I hope I never have to live through an experience like the one Hon and Nicole's family and friends had to endure. However, if I do, I guess I'll just have to keep Fred in mind so that I can continu­ally remind myself that mourning can actually be a big party. Of course, he'd say that it's the principlr, of having found O.J. responsible that really mat­ters to him. That's a load of bull. O.J. was acquitted when it really mattered, and Ron and Nicole are still dead. The only difference is that now, Fred's a mil­lionaire. And based on his reaction to the jury's verdict, I guess that's a big difference indeed. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

A5t0NGAS 
ITWt:SN'T 
/N'r'Ot..V/3 
/?0/IIAt.l? 
7RI.IMP. 

On vindictive columnists who are fixat­ed on a single idea ... 
Obviously, I rip on people in my column at times. Howflver, I think I do a fairly good job of saying what I must and then moving on. Other columnists, e.g., .Jay Mariotti of the Chicago Sun-Times, choose people whom they hate -usually for no apparent reason -and make those per­sons the subject of every single one of their columns. The repetitive tirades of such spitflful individuals makes it very tempting to give them what they need: a good, old-fashioned butt-kicking. 
I've mentioned Jay Mariotti in passing before, although not by name. He's the guy who cannot write a single column without trashing Dennis Rodman. And he's getting worse. During Dennis' sus­pension, he wrote a column which, judg­ing from its heading, paid homage to Jay's favorite Bull, Michael .Jordan. "Oh, good," I thought to myself. "He's finally writing something positive, something I can read without shoving my fist through a wall." I didn't get very far before I discovered the misleading nature of the column's head­ing. lie did say positive things about Michael, but made a point of ripping on D(\nnis in the process. For example, he pointed out how Michael could really shine without Dennis around to "spoil the show," expounding on what he considers to be Dennis' faults. Jay also noted that Michael "ached" to prove that the Bulls could succeed without Dennis; as support, he quoted part of a statement Michael made about Dennis' impending return. Of course, he couldn't quote much, because if he did, the readers might pick up on the true gist of what Michael was s~ying ­i.e., that while the Bulls could win without Dennis. it would be difficult, and that Michael and the other members of the team were anxious to have Dennis back. 
Jay is right about one thing. Michael .Jordan is an r,xceptionally talented, car­ing, and appealing individual; he is a true gentleman. My advice to Jay, however, is this: If you emulate MJ so much, per:haps you should try to be more like him!!! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. This is her last column . 
• QuoTE Of THE DAY 
"It is by the goodness of 
God that in our country we have those three unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, and the prudence never to prac­tice either of them." 
-Mark Twain 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A call to address institutionalized homophobia Stereotypes block 
Dear Editor: 
My letter is in response to the claim made by Sean Geary that Notre Dame is not a hotbed of homophobia (The Observer. Mar. 6, 1997.) He equates homophobia on this campus to "other" problems faced at similar academic insti­tutions. As an openly gay male and active member of the local community, I must contest with full force Mr. Geary's assertions. Notre Dame is a seething hotbed of homophobia; perhaps Mr. Geary has simply been lucky enough not to experience its devastating effects. 
Mr. Geary announces with proud voice that he is a member of Patty O'Hara's Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian needs. Personally, I have to wonder why an individual, respective of their own sexuality and the plight of gays and les­bians, would care to be a part of institu­tionalized homophobia. He has chosen to be a part of the very mechanism that represses students' rights to free speech and free expression of sexuality. 
The GLND/SMC debate appears closed for Mr. Geary. Perhaps this is because he was never, to my knowledge, a part of the organization. For the rest of us, the debate is NOT closed. Many of us have "stuck our necks out" to improve the atmosphere for gays and lesbians on this campus. As a result, numerous students have suffered a horrific fate at the hands of Students Affairs. How many more will be martyred? I am personally outraged that someone who sits on a committee under the Golden Dome would dare to belittle the personal pain suffered by oth­ers. To tell someone who has been marred by the sharp sword by Student Affairs to "stop whining" is to ridicule their suffering -to denigrate their very existence. 
"Final Word," a poem which appeared in the Scholastic, and to which Mr. Geary refers, brought me to tears. To whomev­er wrote that poem: you are not alone. Notre Dame is indeed full of hatred for homosexuals -but it is not incited by students or faculty. It is the mode of repression chosen by those who attempt to control our sexuality -our existence. Be strong and do not ever be afraid to express your sexuality. Fight back! Homophobia cannot kill you -but silence ultimately will. 

Mr. Geary's last paragraph calls for the gay community to stop whining and come together to accept what has so generously been placed upon the table by the kind-hearted Patty O'Hara. Mr. Geary", I can not in good conscience accept a proposal which attempts to limit the expression of my sexuality to what is considered "tolerable" by the Catholic Church. I cannot forgive the institution­alized homophobia which killed a young student here. Nor can I ever forget the heart breaking letter his lover sent to me recounting the event. The young man left behind a note saying nothing more than "I love you. I hate my life." To this day his family is unaware of the circum­stances which led to his death. Silence and the concrete shroud of institutional­ized homophobia protect his secret. A young man was martyred; but the untar­nished image of Notre Dame remains. Mr. Geary, I'll promise to stop whining about homophobia at Notre Dame if you promise to step out from under the insti­tutionalized homophobia which protects you. 

JASON M. LYNCH Senior St. Edward's Hall 

the peace process 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Thomas Coyne's article of Feb. 26 entitled "Remember the re­sponsibilities of 'Irishness."' While I would wholeheartedly support his call to become educated on Irish culture and history, Coyne goes on to make several claims that severely weaken this argument. 
For example, after condemning the Notre Dame student body and Americans in general for stereotyping the Irish, he goes right on to stereotype the British. Is it somehow accept­able to stereotype one nation and not anoth­er? I doubt if the peace in Northern Ireland that Coyne purports to want could be achieved if every English politician is indeed an anti-Irish, violent racist. 
By claiming that one side is fully responsi­ble for recent violent attacks, Coyne somehow sanctions the activities of the IRA, a group he labels "freedom fighters." Whatever they may be labeled, the IRA is indeed responsible for countless deaths and acts of violence during Irish history, a fact that Coyne glosses over in his attack of British "racist politics." 
Contradicting himself once again, Coyne writes that "Fenian violence cannot be justi­fied by any means." Yet he manages to find a convenient "means" to justify it through the use of stereotypes and dangerous generaliza­tions about the opposing government: the same tactics undoubtedly used to justify British violence against the Irish. 
I am not here to defend the English in any way; one look at the name at the end of this letter will clearly prove my Irish heritage, and it is one I am very proud of. Nevertheless, I am not proud of the IRA or violence perpetu­ated by either side in this bloody conflict. Coyne is correct in saying that peace is the priority, but how is peace to be achieved in an environment that requires violence? 
Peace can only be achieved through a mutual disregard for stereotypes which justify violence and perpetuate murder on both sides. 
ERIN McMAHON Senior Farley Hall 



Refresh conversation with genuine concern 
Refreshed by a week in this nation's southernmost resort, I find myself strapped for words, my brain left soft after a relentless week-long assault of sun and alcohol. But don't fear -not having anything to say has never stopped me from prattling on before. In fact, making whole conversations out of meaningless, insignificant, and shallow drivel is something I have mastered after four years of college, four years of chit-chat and idle banter that I am all the dumber for having engaged in. 

Thomas Coyne 
Allow me to preface my remarks by explaining that I am not a misanthrope -I am a college student disgruntled by the fact that I came back to snow and 20-degree weather in a bass ackwards Midwestern town after a week in the paradise otherwise known as Key West only to realize how much I was sick of this place while simultaneously shedding a tear because I had barely two months left to spend here. Sorry. I've got issues. So don't be surprised that being asked how my break was by 7 4 people who could care less has sent me on a bit of a tirade. 
Let the record show: MY BREAK WAS GREAT. I feel like marketing that on a t-shirt -every March I could sell them to students disillusioned and dejected by the ubiquitous post break inquiry from people we know are not interested, peo­ple that are asking simply to ask, to be polite. 
I am not in favor of unfriendliness and I recognize the merit in the occasional lighthearted and pointless gab. It is not 'shooting the breeze' (a phrase I am sin­glehandedly trying to bring back into vogue) with friends that I find so disen­chanting -it is the empty conversations we have with that nebulous group of people in our lives; those people on the brink of friendship, that sit on the fence of our affection and waver back and forth-do you know them? Do you not know them? Do you care? 
Such characters occupy the broad cat­egory in your social life of people you had 1.8 classes with, people you see out every Thursday night, people you have had 14 conversations with about how much you hated your Core teacher, peo­ple who will ask the obligatory "How was your break," to which you will respond in nine words or less (perhaps with a 'It was a good time, how was yours' or 'Relaxing, yea. How bout you?') 
They are more than mere acquain­tances, yet not quite friends -unless of course they made the cheerleading squad or the football team, in which case they automatically become your 'really good friend from class.' If I am correct, you all know exactly who I am talking about -people that you talk to out of default, not out of desire. At some point in our lives we learned to value noise over conversation and prefer meaningless chatter over quiet intro­spection. I would rather talk to a Saint Mary's sophomore about the guy from Yale she hooked up with over break (yea right) than sit in silence and be forced to ask myself question like 'Why?' The lat­ter is a much scarier proposition. 
So if there are more of you out there like me (and I know there are -be hon­est enough to admit it) I could make a fortune on these shirts. After a week in Key West, the unofficial capital of scoot­ers, ND seniors on Spdng Break, and t­shirt shops, I am ready to make my niche in the cheesecloth t-shirts for twenty bucks business. If Floridian merchants can make money peddling shirts emblazoned with the logos ''I'm going nucking futs" and "It's not a beer belly, it's a fuel tank for a sex machine" (which I did happen to pick up for a mere $10), I know I can make a mint selling my t-shirts to Domers. 

I could have an entire fashion line of "The answer to your insincere, waste of breath question is on my shirt" t-shirts to fit every season and every student's mood. You could have them custom made -for incoming freshman, the ''I'm from (insert city here) and I think I'm going to major in (insert major you will definitely not have in four years here) but I'm not sure yet" t-shirt; for classes on Monday a "We got completely bombed. I still don't feel very good" shirt with optional food/vomit stains to give that extra special I had a better time this weekend than you touch. 
For the fall line, there is the "My sum­mer was (insert) crappy, I was at home/crappy, I had to work/crappy, I was at summer school/great, I met a girl, crazy for me/great, I met a boy, cute as can be" tee. Don't forget the football Saturday shirt, "I couldn't put a coherent thought together if you paid me so take your questions elsewhere." Finally, the t-shirt necessary for all seniors of the same stock as me, the "I have absolutely no idea what I'm doing next year. I have yet to receive an acceptance letter and/or a job offer and am contemplating joining the circus. But thanks for asking" t-shirt which comes with a complimentary copy of the bestselling book among Arts and Letters Seniors, "Can't Get a Job? How to apply to Law School." 
Don't get me wrong -I love meeting new faces and I'll talk to anyone. I'm a people person, so much so that I want the above meaningless and insincere dialogue to be purged from the mouths of everyone I know. My time here is growing short and I am just now begin­ning to have conversations with a wide range of people about something of more substance than the phenomenon of where the hell everyone goes on Wednesday nights. 
Over the last few weeks I have experi­enced spit-flying debates, enlightening arguments, and cathartic confessions with people of different majors and dif­ferent social circles -it is as if we have all had enough of going out for going out's sake, like we realized we should pay more attention to what is going on in our heads than what is going on in the bars. It is amazing how refreshing genuine, intelligent discussion really is. It is an injustice that it is so rare for most of us at this University and is so overshadowed by congenial but gos­samer gab. 
If I had a dime for every time I asked someone "Howya doing" without listen­ing to nor caring about the response, I would be a rich man (especially if I had a dime for every cliche I used... ) Don't ask me how I'm doing unless you actual­ly care -don't waste your breath and I won't waste mine. If you are interested in me, let's talk of something of sub­stance -ask me why the hell my name is R. Thomas and if I am aware of how pompous that sounds; ask me if I believe in salvation; ask me when was the last time I cried; ask me what makes me happiest in my life -but don't ask me anything just to ask. If one wants to know how I am, they have to know who I am. In case you really care, I'm doing fine. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 

;ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
• ACCENT ASKS 
What are your favorite springtime smells? 

"The sweat of fresh surveyors returning to campus to lay out new sidewalks." 
Colleen Phillips Junior, Howard 


"Fresh cut grass on a base­ball field." 
Mike Bradt Freshman, Dillon 

"Flowers and the smell after a nice rain." 
Kristin Ryan Freshman, Lyons 


"Hotdogs at Jacobs Field in Cleveland." 
Kevin Walsh Junior, Off-Campus 


"The smell of a barbeque." 
Ina Minjaruz Senior, Walsh 


"The smell of sun-burnt squid on the decks of a skiff." 
Tom Williams First Year Seminarian, Moreau 

Or is that the 
By JOSEPH WEILER Assistant Accent Editor 
------·-------­
S
pring officially begins in two days. With Spring comes the smells ol' l'rt•sh cut grass, trees budding with new life and the indelible odor of ethanol wafting onto the fair campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
There are many questions surrounding that interesting fragrance known as ethanol such as, "What exactly is it?" "Where does it come from?" "Why can you smell it some days and not others?" With are produced each year (at New Energy)." 
The ethanol is made by 
breaking down the starch from thr. corn, and this is where the yeasty smell comes Other sources ethanol cane and waste products. 
However, sources are great supply in north­ern Indiana. But, still, wouldn't it be nice to be smelling molasses or orange juice instead of stale beer? 
What about the question of why you can smell the gas on campus some days and not on others? Also, is the gas harmful? After all, how healthy can the the byproduct of a chemi­cal breakdown be? 
These questions have their own rumors. One of the most popular, yet frightening stories is that of the chlorine gas cloud. 
Some people have pro­posed that the ethanol plant releases this toxic gas to cover up the odifcr­ous effects of their work. When Kimpel was asked whether or not his compa­ny used anything to cover up the smell, he replied very firmly, "That is 100% wind factor. We do not use anything to cover up the odor. 

Well, the mystery of that strange odor has been solved. But the questions remains, "Why exactly are they distilling starch from corn top make ethanol?" It certainly is not because 
of the pleasant olfactory 
side effects. 

Kimpel explains, "All of the ethanol produced here goes toward the production of gasoline. About 10% of all gasoline contains ethanol." Kimpel contin­ues, "Ethanol burns more completely than gasoline made from oil products. The result is reduced hydrocarbon emissions and reduced carbon monoxide emissions." 
The advantage which ethanol holds over oil is the that it contains an oxygen atom which burns more quickly than anything else commercially available. Not only that but it burns much cleaner as well. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H50ll "Ethanol is composed of about 35% oxy­each of these questions come rumors. Many students have ventured that the nox­ious smell is stale beer. Some insist that the odor mvst come from a nearby bread company. Still others have admitted that they thought that the smell is emitted from an exotic bush hidden among the plants on campus or a special "Yeast Tree" hidden among the majestic oaks. 
Most chemistry majors will laugh at the notion of a tree sprouting yeasty buds here on campus. So where does this cffervcs­ctmt smell really come from? 
Those upperclassmen who have benn 
around for awhile will tell you that the odor is a carbon based compound emitted from a type of alcohol known as ethyl alcohol-or ethanol -which is produced at the ethanol plant here in South Bend. A little further research will lead you to the New Energy Company of Indiana located at 3201 W Calvert. 
"The odor that you smell is exactly the same thing that comes from produc beer," says production manager Nathan Kimpel of New Energy. But why is that? 
Well, the ethanol produced here in Indiana is a corn derivative. "We can make 2. 7 5 gallons of ethanol from one bushel of corn," says Kimpel. He goes on to add that "roughly 90 million gallons of ethanol 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 




ACCENT

Wednesday, March 19, 1997 page 13 


thanol Plant? 
gen," explains Kimpel. 
There are some beneficial side effects that come from the burning of ethanol, aside from the yummy fragrance. In Minnesota there are certain laws which require so much of the gas to be burned. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) says that the burning 
of ethanol helps to oxygenate deficient areas. 
When Kimpel was asked whether or not his site governed by any s u c h regula-
Scientists say that cars which burn ethyl alcohol instead of regular gasoline pro­duce about half as much levels of C02. Carbon monoxide is a "greenhouse" gas. That is, it is one of the major gases which leads to the depletion of the ozone. 
So, if ethanol is so great, why switch all automobiles currently running on gasoline to energy efficient, ethanol burning cars? This has already been done -in Brazil that is. Geri Smith of Newsweek reported that the Brazilian government implement­ed a program which successfully persuad­ed the automobile industry to sell nine out 
of every ten cars as 
alcohol run. 
So why 
can't the 
U.S. do 

.. ~ 
C:..

c.. 0tions -;I 
~ he res­
ponded, "We do 

not fall under any such laws, but there are some sites in Northern Indiana which do. Lake and Porter counties for instance." 
On top of the marked advantages already illustrated, gasoline made with ethanol has a much higher octane level than gaso­line produced without it. As a result, the burn of the gas is more pure. In other words, you get more bang for your buck. 
One more benefit of ethanol is that cars can be made which run on it alone. 
this? The 
answer is Monse~. m /h~ ~ii 

industry has too firm a hold on the econo­my right now to willingly give up it's claim as a dominant force. On top of that, international oil prices go for about $18 a barrel while a barrel of ethanol is about 
$40. 

Does all of this new-found knowledge make putting up with that yeasty odor any easier? Probably not. However, as the world begins to gear up for the war against pollution, we may find that our favorite fragrence has. extended its reach beyond South Bend and into our homes. What can we do to prevent it? Pray that the U.S. finds a new love for sugarcane and citrus fruit. 


·­
·­

Sure lt's easy to·Jet .a~..;;~uo;:1u.t•u"' and forget that that we don't. In .dtlnend.in~ on us to make decisions .. :we develop S()me sort of ... . . . never he able to make truly WEl C19:hriot go on· glossing over all. of our prob­. !'jX.istence. Rather, it's time we all 
·"'·~1l<>.1Jl <I!. so to speak 
-


r Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
•NBA 

Pacers break two-game skid 

Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Reggie Miller scored 27 points, and Dale Davis had 23 and 13 rebounds as the Indiana Pacers beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 115-97 Tuesday night. 
Rik Smits added 21 points for the Pacers, who shot 57 percent from the tield and outrebounded the Timberwolves 41-26. The 26 rebounds were a season-low for Minnesota. 
James Robinson led the Wolves with 26 points, while Kevin Garnett added 20. 
Smits scored 17 of the Pacers' 38 points in the decisive third quarter, when Indiana went 14­for-19 from the field and 8-for-9 from the foul line. 
The Pacers built a 17-point leading after three quarters, and extended the margin to 22 on Travis Best's 3-pointer with 
7:27 left in the fourth quarter. 
The Timberwolves rallied and pulled within 12 on three straight 3-pointers, one by Stephon Marbury and two Robinson, with three minutes left. 
But that's as close as Minnesota got. 
Indiana snapped a two-game losing streak. The Timberwolves have lost four of their last seven games, slipping under .500 for the first time since Feb. 19. 
Notes: Indiana had allowed 100 points in four of its last five games, all losses. The Pacers have won only five games all season when they give up 100 points. 
Jordan <free throws llft~&:"Bulls toOT win 
ByRICKGANO Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO 
Michael Jordan capped a 32­point, 18-rebound perfor­mance by hitting two free throws with three seconds left in overtime tuesday night. giv­ing the Chicago Bulls an 89-87 victory over the Seattle SuperSonics. 
Seattle's Gary Payton, who finished with 14 points, 12 re­bounds and 14 assists, hit a free throw with 16 seconds left to tie it 87-87 but missed a sec­ond shot from the line that would have given Seattle the lead. 
The Bulls rebounded and Jordan, surrounded by Seattle defenders, put up a wild shot. But he was fouled by Payton and sank both free throws, hls fifth and sixth of overtime. 
Seattle's Hersey Hawkins, who earlier hit two 3-pointers in overtime to give the Sonics an 86-83 lead, missed a shot at the buzzer and the Bulls escaped with their 25th straight home victory in a a playoff-like game between last year's NBA finalists. 
The Sonics forced overtime when Payton hit three free throws after he was fouled on a jumper by Luc Longley with 
20.8 seconds left in regulation. Early Tuesday morning, Payton was accused by a lim­ousine driver of punching him in the face over a fare dispute. 
Chicago's Scottie Pippen and Seattle's Shawn Kemp both missed overtime after fouling out in the closing seconds of regulation. 
Hawkins had 23 points for the Sonics, while Longley added 16 for the Bulls. 
The Bulls, now 32-1 at home, didn't lead until Longley hit a bank shot with 2:28 to go to make it 74-73. 
Jordan, whose 18 rebounds matched a career high, hit a jumper, Kemp missed two of four free throws and then Jordan hit two from the line as Kemp fouled out. That gave the Bulls a 78-75lead. 
Sam Perkins missed a 3­point attempt but Seattle scrambled for the offensive rebound and Payton was fouled by Longley beyond the 3-point line. 
Jordan picked up two fouls in the opening minute of the game and missed 8 of 11 first­half shot attempts, scoring just seven points and committing four turnovers. He shot just 10-of-28 for the game, but was 12-of-13 from the line. 
Notes: Seattle coach George Karl said he didn't think the Payton-limousine driver inci­dent would distract the Sonics. "I think our guys are focused and tough professionals. We all have our speeding tickets and our social situations that at times create a negative day," Karl said.... Chicago's Toni Kukoc missed his ninth straight game with a strained arch in his right foot. 
The Observer accepts classilleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classilleds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CRUISE & LAND TOUR EMPLOY­ NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  I'm driving to Pittsburgh for Easter  Top 15 things overheard in and  To my favorite 2 Londoners- 
NOTICES  MENT-Discover how workers can earn up to $2,000+/mo. on Cruise  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  and ha,ve room for 3. Leaving Wed. or Thurs. 234-9533.  around room 134 of the Costa Real, Cancun:  Top Ten memorable London experi­ences:  
Ships or up to $5,000-$7,000/sum­ 5 BDRMS IN HOME-close to cam­ 1. This place is like Disneyland... for  10. Blue Nun wine  
THE COPY SHOP  mer in the Land Tour industry! Call  pus. Safe neighborhood. Use of all  Now accepting applications for:  drunks.  9. Mr. Wu's (I didn't say best expe­ 
LaFortune Student Center  Cruise Information Services: 800­ utilities & kitchen privileges.  2. That peacock makes a lot of  riences)  
Phone 631-COPY  276-5407 Ext. C55846  $225/mo.  GENERAL MANAGER of the  noise. I suppose I would too if I was  8. CBs b-day (what little we  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  232-2794 -Paul  STUDENT BUSINESS BOARD  trapped out there.  remember of it)  
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  -Oversee and advise operating  3. I suggest a new strategy: Let the  7. Total Eclipse of the Heart/  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  -Fishing Industry. Learn how students can earn up to  FOR SALE  decisions for the student-run busi­nesses on campus (Irish Gardens,  tequila win. 4. You keep dancin' like that, you're  Tainted Love requests 6. Cider, 2-liters of cider­ 
Fri.: 7:30a.m. -7:00p.m.  $2,850/mo + benefits (room &  ND Video & Adworks)  gonna make it rain.  Strong bow Super Cider  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  board). Call Alaska Information  FREE Phone Card. No restrictions,  -Create & review financial  5. My name is John, and I'm here to  5. Late night buses (although not  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Services: 206-971-3514, xA55841.  Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19  Statements  embarass the University of Notre  the scary men on them)  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  min. in the  -Run monthly meetings for the stu­ Dame.  4. Faking British accents  
ND SRS-1 will buy your grad tix  U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card,  dent senate  6. Don't tell me you've come all the  3. Blockbuster Video treks  
HALLELUJAH NIGHT IV  Anne 289-4922  PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN  way from the Land of Hamburgers  2. Avoiding scary dancing men at  
Friday, April18, 1997  46947  Applications can be picked up in  just to eat them?,  the Limelight  
7:00 p.m. Stepan Center  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT- Stud. Act. off. (315 Lafortune)  7. Of course I promise, I paid  1. Digestive Creams/  
Accepting submissions for Poetry Readings  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisherieis, parks, resorts. Airfare!  TICKETS  and are due Mon. 3/24  enough to stay here! 8. I hope you like it --. cuz that's  Homewheats!! Love, me  
Submit by March 21, 1997  Food/Lodging! Get all the options.  Adoption: A very loving, financially  where you're taking it tonight.  
To: Hallelujah Night Committee  Call (919}918-7767, ext. A154.  NCAA FINAL4  secure, well educated young cou­ 9. I've never been to a hotel that  Happy Birthday Dad!! I can't  
Campus Ministry, 112 Badin Hall  2 Tix for Semi's & Finals  ple, long to adopt your newborn.  had parietals before.  believe you are 50  
CRUISE LINES HIRING- in Indy. B/0 Chris 243-9025  Close and caring extended family.  10.HOT--­ 
RESIDENTS OF LAFAYETTE ..  Earn up to $2,000+/mo. plus free  We offer a special life for your child.  11. Sometimes I'm so smart, I out­ 
world travel (Europe, Caribbean,  NEED ND GRADS. TIX.  Expenses paid. Please call Sherri &  smart myself.  $$$$ Reward $$$$  
I lost my class ring somewhere at  etc.). No exp. necessary.  PLEASE CALL 272-3753 AFTER 5  Joe 1-800-378-6680.  12. Por que no me ama, Jenny?  Trek 7000SHX Stolen from  
Lafayette on the 17th...  (919)918-7767, ext. C154.  PM. OR LV. MESSAGE ANYTIME.  13. My -. my -. my -is on  Debartolo tuesday between 2 and  
If ANYONE finds or knows of some­ (Member, Better Business Bureau  Come see  fire ...  3. Call Chris @ x1305 with info.  
one finding a class ring please call  CARE Program.)  Do you have an extra TICKET(s) for  DOUG MCKENNA of  14. Tell me what you are looking  
Eric at x1208.  GRADUATION? (will pay!) Please  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  for... You wanna see my sister?  Wanted: KEGERATOR  
ILOST & FOUND I  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Plus Forest, Beach Resorts, Ranches. Rafting Companies. Up to $12/hour. Nationwide openings.  call Paige @ 4011 PERSONAL  every Wednesday night at C. J.'s PUB .. ###########################  15. Don't you want to buy some­thing for your boyfriend?  For use beginning June 1. If you would like to find a good home for yours please call John, Andy, or Dan at x1305  
Found: Green & Purple Sierra  Call (919}918-7767, ext. R154.  ATTENTION all LESBIAN, GAY,  
Athletic Bag with Reebok light hik­ Electrolysis by Rebecca  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  "'''""CLASS OF '98""'""  I'm Mike D. & I'm back from the  
ing boots and other items. Please call 277-6982 to claim!  FOR RENT  Blend Method 67 4-6933  students, faculty, and staff: That group you know and love is having  SEND LETTERS TO FRIENDS  dead.  
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  a support group meeting TOMOR­ ABROAD. THE LAST CHANCE  Alyson-l'm glad that you are back  
I Lost My ND CLASS RING at  Furnished upstairs apartment avail­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  ROW at 7:30. Call the 0-LINE at  OFTHESEMESTER. DUEBY  on tuesday nights, even if you are  
...  Lafayette on the 17th..  able to sublet for summer. Washer/Dryer, wood floors, and  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! The highest quality color copies  236-9661 for more information. ###########################  TUES. MARCH 26th AT 213 LAFUN.  in the other room.  
If found please call Eric at X1208...  dishwasher. College Park Condos.  are now available at  You never gave me anything cryptic  
Call ASAP x-1291.  THE COPY SHOP  
LOST: Brown leather portfolio with  LaFortune Student Center  Gatta get the right Bone-Thug CD  
my name written in gold on the  Phone 631-COPY  Result of the  
cover. Extremely important infor­ New 5 bedroom home, two bath,  "Soccer Challenge"  cutest boy in the whole world--let's  Anybody come at you yet?  
mation inside. I really need it!  two car garage. Central air, dish­ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  keep working on our glow problem-­ 
Please call Tara at 4-1291  washer, disposal, fridge/icemaker,  219-291-7153  South Bend Soccer Club : 9  superlative girl  The Shocker rides again--Long live  
washer/dryer included.  ND Seniors All-Stars: 4  the shocker  
WANTED  $1500/12 mo. lease. Call 232-4527 or 638-5038.  Class of 1998  I'm still stuck on that Mark DeBoy thing..  No Willie ball for Spicoli--Only  
Dances.  
SUMMER JOBS  Furnished upstairs apartment avail­ Bob Davie addresses the CLASS  
ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  able to subled for summer.  OF 1998 on Mar. 20th at 7:30pm.  IF YOU ARE GOING TO THE  brad--the suspense builds. yeah,  Kate. the Serene Goddess of  
PRESTIGE CHI DR EN'S CAMPS  College Park Condominiums­ Tix at LaF. info desk this Wed.  . BLACKHAWKS  what i've got to tell you isworth the  Wisom, rocks my world ...  
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  washer/dryer/air conditioning/dish  FREE!!!!!!  vs.  wait--abt  or something..  
....  NEAR LAKE PLACID  washer. Call4-0745. GREAT  REDWINGS  
1-800-786-8373  OFFER YOU CAN'T REFUSE!!!  ON SUN. MARCH 24th WITH THE  bottom of the barrel ....  Thank you! Thank you I Caly and  
CLASS OF '98  Melissa_A  
Need ride to Philly for Easter  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  Shooting Cupid wil hit Stonehenge  BUSES LEAVE@ NOON  To Steve Stark & Katie Wheeler:  
Will help pay  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Friday at 4 p.m  FROM STEPAN  So glad you're 21  Come Bowlwith us On Friday. Be  
Bridgette X2580  2773097  Come see what all the talk is about.  not 1Dam like originally planned.  Love, KDOG  There At 3:34._ You'll Love lti_A.  

Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Gillen wary of upset-minded Tennessee-Chattanooga 
By FRANK BAKER 
Associated Press Writer 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 

Providence coach Pete Gillen likes to be the underdog, so even though his Friars arc fa­vored entering a final 16 matchup against Tennessee­Chattanooga, }1e won't admit it. 
lie said Friday's Southeast Regional semifinal is between "two underdogs," and called the 14th seeding for the Mocs (24-1 0) "probably the greatest miscarriage of justice." 
"I don't know what they should be. I'm not going to at­tempt to say because I don't know," Gillen said prior to his team's last practice before heading to Birmingham, Ala. "But they are much better than a 14 seed. I know that." 
To Gillen, every team is dan­gerous. And, despite victories over No.. 7 Marquette and No. 2 Duke. "it's still us against the world" for the Friars (23­11 ). 
Gillen is leery of the burgeoning Providence band­wagon filled with fans who three weeks ago had written off the Friars as an NIT team when they ended the regular season with three straight loss­es. 
He frets that his talented­but-unpredictable .team will get overconfident against Chattanooga and look ahead to a possible game against top­ranked Kansas for Providence's first trip to the Final Four since 1987, when Rick Pitino was coach. 
"Our guys make coffee ner­vous," Gillen said. "They're wonderful kids, I love them, but they are a challenge to coach." 
Gillen, who took Xavier to seven NCAAs in nine seasons before moving .to Providence three years ago, said he has warned his team that they can take nothing for granted against the Mocs. 
"Our players have to realize that we came off a great victo­ry against Duke, but we have to play another great team that doesn't have quite the recogni­tion factor but they've got great players," he said. 
His words appeared to work on guard God Shammgod, who, when asked about Chattanooga, said "I don't think we're the favorites." 
The Mocs, only the second 14 seed to reach a regional 
Rockne J'lv1:emoria.l 
semifinal, started the season 5­7 but have won seven straight, including tournament victories over third-seeded Georgia and No. 6 Illinois. 
They feature forward Johnny Taylor (16.4 points, 7.2 re­bounds) and guard Willie Young (14.2 points). One or the other has led the team in scor­ing for 17 consecutive games. 
Providence forward Austin Ctosherc, who scored a career-high 39 points in the 81-59 victory over Marquette, said the Friars respect Chattanooga. 
"Seeing that they've beaten these teams, we know they're really not a 14 seed," he said. 
Croshere, the team's leading scorer (18) and rebounder 
(7. 7), said the Friars are play­ing their best basketball be­cause, after nearly two season of hearing Gillen stress un­selfishness, "we're really start­ing to believe it." 
Gillen acknowledged he was "stunned" at how well his team played against Marquette. The Friars shot 77 percent and scored 50 points in the first half against one of the nation's best defensive teams, and won 81-59. 
But even after that perfor-

Student daily 9 hole rate $5 A.dd'l 9 $3 . Student Club Rental $5 
' 
Call 63 1-6425 for Tee Times 
SAVE A LIFE FOR FREE! 



How1 

Join the Bone Marrow Donor Registry. 


Friday, March 21, 1997 
8:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 

LaFortune Ballroom (2nd floor of LaFortune) 
Remember: If you have already joined the registry, you do not need to re-register. Your membership is good for life! 


YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! ALL WELCOME 
Sponsored by The Minority Pre-Medical Society (MPMS) 
mance, there was evidence of the team's fragile egos. In the locker room, Gillen had to me­diate a squabble between play-. ers over who was getting the ball. 
All was forgotten against Duke. Derrick Brown scored a career-high 33 points and grabbed 10 points to lead the Friars to a 98-87 victory. 
Still, Gillen is worried. He ac­knowledged that even after 34 games, he can't predict what kind of Friars team will show up on a given night. 
"It's frustrating," he said. "You just don't know." 
Part of the problem is the disparate personalities, and some of that is attributable to varied backgrounds, Gillen said. The roster includes four New Yorkers, a Californian, a 7-footer from Senegal, and a Panamanian. 
"We have all different guys and it's a melting pot. They're very, very talented players, but they are very emotional and sometimes we have problems," he said. 
"It's important, honestly, that we're together. It doesn't mean we'll win, but our chances are a lot better." 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Friar coach Pete Gillen remains humble despite his team's success. 
Attention All CSC Service Seminar Participants: 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL Enjoy your Urban Plunge? Appalachia Seminar? 
CONCERNS 
Washington? 
Interested in Service Learning? Leadership? 
Apply for: 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COuNCIL COORDINATOR 
This position is a creative leadership opportunity made available through the Center for Social Concerns. If you are fnterested in service-learning, enjoy creative work and leadership, and would like a position working to coordinate various seminar efforts facilitated by the Experiential Learn1ng Council, PLEASE APPLY:: 
Applications available in the CSC Applications due by Thursday March 20 
Questions? Call Lauren Stein 271-1699 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
-
-
-
.... 
.. 
!Q 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Wolverine basketball players under investigation 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Drugs and alcohol were pre­sent at a party attended by Michigan basketball players and a recruit last year before a car accident that sparked an NCAA investigation, a newspaper reported Tuesday. 
The Lansing State Journal re­ports that a former Michigan State student who was present at the Feb. 17, 1996, party said the players' Detroit hotel room smelled of marijuana and she saw at least one player drinking alcohol. 
Former Michigan State University student Alexandria Tithof told the newspaper she attended the party with several Michigan basketball players in a 

-Detroit hotel room. The incident initially came to light after a rollover accident when forward Maurice Taylor fell asleep at the wheel of his grandmother's 1996 Ford Explorer while the group was returning to Ann Arbor. Also in the vehicle were recruit Mateen Cleaves -who now plays at Michigan State ­
-
-
-
center Robert Traylor. guard Louis Bullock, forward Willie Mitchell and walk-on Ron Oliver. The report is the latest allega­
. tion raising concerns about the conduct of the Wolverine bas­ketball program. On Monday, the school announced it was naming a Kansas-based law firm to investigate allegations of a booster giving money and gifts to players. 
Keith Molin, senior associate director of athletics at Michigan, said Tuesday that Ms. Tithofs allegations would be also be pursued by the independent counsel, the law firm of Bond, Schoeneck and King located just a half-mile away from NCAA headquarters in Overland Park, Kan.. 
"We as an institution will offer no comment on the young lady's allegations," Molin said. 
The NCAA's David Berst, group executive director for enforcement, said the athletic organization could not comment on inquiries. 
Ms. Tithof told the Journal she and three friends attended the 1996 party with several Michigan basketball players and Cleaves. 
Ms. Tithof said the room smelled of marijuana, she saw at least one Michigan player drinking alcohol, strippers per­forming, and Taylor 11ashing a roll of cash. 
All the basketball players pre­sent were less than 21 years old at the time. 
Three of Ms. Tithofs friends also corroborated the story to the Journal, discussing the de­tails but not allowing the use of their names. 
Ms. Tithof and her friends said they have not been interviewed by Michigan or the NCAA. Molin confirmed that fact, saying on Tuesday the newspaper story was the first he had heard of Ms. Tithof. 
Police said at the time of the accident that alcohol was not considered a factor in the acci­dent. Coach Steve Fisher also said the players told him there was no alcohol involved. 
Ms. Tithof and her friends happened upon the party after attending a college hockey game at Joe Louis Arena. The group went to a bar and decided to get a hotel room instead of driving back home. 
She and her friends smelled marijuana as they ascended the hotel stairs and up to the door of a hotel room they knocked on. Taylor and Traylor answered, and then asked Ms. Tithof and her friends if they were "wired" and asked them to lift up their shirts. 
Ms. Tithof did not recognize the players, but her friends did, and she said Taylor later waved a wad of money at them. 
"He wanted (us) to dance for money," Ms. Tithofsaid. "We said we would. Then he said, 'Naked,' So we said no."' 
After the school's internal in­vestigation, officials said the cost of the room was $69, and $98.66 when phone charges were added. But Ms. Tithof said the room was far more luxuri­ous than her group's $100 room. 

with Chris u Nanni 
Siegfried Lounge 
--·-a....aLenten Mass 
·4 

11' Fr. Michael Baxter preaching on Human Rights an the University's role of social action 

Keenan Chap~l 


ome All 
\_..C~\6 
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition 
rate of just $160 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies.Write or call Holy Cross 
*HOLY

College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well ., CROSS 
as for the 1997 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. b ·~COLLEGE Office of Admissions Session 1-May 19 to june 26 P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
Session II -june 30 to August 7 
e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• Cm.LEGE BASKETBALL 
Pressure from Knight a factor in transfer of Reed 
By JR ROSS 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Indiana guard Neil Reed said Tuesday he won't return for his senior season because coach Bob Knight pressured him to leave. 
"If the choice were mine, I would have returned to Indiana statement. "But the choice was not mine. Coach Knight has made it clear that in making those decisions about my fu­ture, he is accountable to no 
one." 

Knight told Indianapolis tele­vision stations Tuesday that he met with juniors Reed, Andrae Patterson, Richard Mandeville and Robbie Eggers to discuss He said all four players were told what was expected of them next season, and each was given an option to play else­where. 
Knight said Eggers, Mandeville and Patterson indi­cated they wanted to complete their careers at Indiana, which was routed by Colorado 80-62 last week in the first round of 

"What I want is for this to work .out for these kids the best way possible," Knight said. "I've told them in each case what I think, and they've thought it over and have told us what they would like to do, and we'll just take that and go from there." 
Knight criticized Reed, Patterson, Eggers, Mandeville his longstanding tradition of verbal attacks and physical as­saults on his players and his coaches. I have personally been at the forefront of those focused attacks during my time at IU." 
After Indiana's loss to Colorado, which ended a disap­pointing 22-11 season for the Hoosiers, Reed said Knight met 
University," Reed said in a their futures with the program. the NCAA tournament. 
Lool~ for upc info about SENIOR EVENTS 
Ad space for Book is now on Sale! 7-2598 
Quellit~nl Call 1 ·5111 
LEARN TO DO ALL 
· ET GREAT EOPLE 
TRAVEL 

and Charlie Miller for inconsis­with him and two other tent play this season and ques­juniors. tioned their dedication to the "Coach Knight told us, 'I program. But Reed, who start­think you guys should transfer ed 26 of 33 games, said he was because you are not going to singled out for criticism. play here next here,"' said 
"Coach Knight has created a Reed, who hasn't officially different set of rules for me," asked for a transfer yet. said Reed, who averaged 12.9 Reed's departure follows a points and led the Big Ten in rocky season for Indiana. free-throw percentage (85.2) After starting 14-1, including this season. "Leadership re­an 85-69 rout of then-No. 6 quires respect. I have not been Duke in the Preseason NIT, the given any respect for three Hoosiers struggled in the Big years.... Ten. They went 9-9 in the 
"Coach Knight has continued league, tying for sixth place. 
-
-

ENJOY CAMPUS SPORTS UP CLOSE 
Learn more about the Athletic Sport ofCheerleading by coming to the: 
·cHEERI"BADJNG. & Leprecba1m Tryout Informatioaal M:eeting
.·····.. s· 30
. ' .. .. ·... ·. . . . . . .•.. ....... ···. ······· .....· . . ., . ·• ·. .. .. . . . . . · .. ··... ··. 
.. .Mi .·... . . ...·· ~· '. , . . .....·.·. ·....· p ..m. J Center Gym 4 
M ch 19 1997 
tnter ~t Gate 5offu~ Jo)''~ Cemer ana com~ u~ the ~t~~ to Oyrn 4. 
··lE~RECHAu:i .~~~lt~ 04 ~oome 1o thls rrttting. ~roor ~ornlor. 
... 

)'OU ~annot attena tni~ meetin~j out nave ~uestion~, ~lease call o)l-~ Uo 
ma1~r tm'~I.« Mtmitime if)oors\~ oot ~~)~ maiirort. Yoo; ~ ~m1~ or rome !o our fl~t CUNIC (~m~ loc!lron) on M~oc~ 1~ at ):J~ ~.m. ~ ~Ia frmv. M!rtn ~~I lW1 ~~tOO &•Offite raeRoom lloo ~-10\tt Co 
------------~-~~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Bruins confident as they head into Sweet Sixteen 
By BETH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Kris Johnson wakes up in the morning and strolls the UCLA campus with the same belief he had during the Bruins' run to the NCAA championship two years ago. 
"I have that feeling, like we're going to go all the way," he said. "I knew it then, there was no doubt in my mind." 
He says it quietly, calmly. Not in the cocky way that defined UCLA's performances last season or its selfish start to this season. 
Johnson, relegated to sixth man on a team loaded with tal­ent, points to UCLA's 11-game winning streak and the senior leadership of Charles O'Bannon and Cameron Dollar as proof. 
It was the same way in 1995. The Bruins came into the tour­nament having won 13 straight behind the senior trio of Ed O'Bannon, George Zidek and Tyus Edney. Six victories later, they claimed the school's 11th NCAA title. 
"Our confidence level is very similar to '95. It seems as if we can't do wrong," forward Charles O'Bannon said. "We're winning the close games, we're beating people by 20 and 30. We're beating fast teams, we're beating slow teams. We're playing at a high." 
Iowa State (22-8) will try to slow the Bruins (23-7) in their Midwest Regional semifinal Thursday night at San Antonio. 
Part of UCLA's confidence stems from having six players from that championship sea­son. Coach Steve Lavin likes to remind them of their back­ground when the pressure seems to close in. 
"He lets us know that we have game experience that other teams wish they had," O'Bannon said. "We've played in big games and we've won big games. We definitely fall back on that experience during the course of a game." 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
-
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• 
Head to Head Competition 

• 
45 Second Shooting Period 


• Double Elimination 
AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 
"... make the most 

.. gorgeous sound 

you're likely to bear 
«n)'Wbere... " -STEREOPHILE 
Friday, March 21 8:00PM 


O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Tickets: $6/SMC-ND faculty and staff; $5/Students 
on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, 

-9am -5pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
TREATSEATS discount coupons available at area Target stores. 

So if the Cyclones come roar­ing out of the gate, panic will be the last thing the Bruins feel. 
They've been behind plenty this season, including 28 points down against Kansas and 16 points behind Oregon -both times on their home floor. 
"For the simple fact that we're UCLA, teams will come out fired up and will go on an early run," O'Bannon said. "We know that it's a long game and we'll just inch back at their lead." 
Early this season, the Bruins were 3-3 and then lost to Illinois on the road. Players were still concerned about their individual minutes and shots and ignored Lavin's pleas to trust their teammates. 
"In the beginning of the sea­son we just didn't have the hunger that we have now," guard Toby Bailey said. 
Dollar called a players-only meeting after the loss in Chicago, and faith in each other began to take hold. A 64­57 win at St. Louis two days later confirmed it. 
"If one guy steps his game up, it seems like everybody else is just stepping up their game so they won't get left behind or they won't disap­point the other teammates by playing a bad game," Bailey said. "That's what we had in '95. Nobody wanted to disap­point anybody else." 
Their confidence would be tested several more times be­fore getting into the NCAA tournament. There was a school-worst 48-point loss at Stanford, and a 74-71 defeat at Louisville, a game the players thought they should have won. 
"After that we just decided we could either be under­achievers or we could live up to everybody's expectations and our expectations." Bailey said. "That's when it was real­ly changed." 












COJICH BOBDJI 

Speaks to the Notre Dame students about the coming year and ND football. 
Thursdav • 7pm DeBartolo fOf 
From your friends at the 

Now reviewing '97 graduates resumes for 
those interested in pursuing a career in 
trading futures & options on the Chicago 
Board of Trade and the Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. 
If you are: 
•Agg 
ressive •Disciplined 

•Ath 
letic 

•Strong 
Background in Mathematics 


send resumes to: Norm Singer First Options of Chicago 30 South Wacker Dr. Suite 1105 Chicago, IL 60606 
---~-~-----~------~---~~~---------~~----------~-------~---~~--------~-~-­
\\eJnesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl. 


Michigan enters Elite Eight 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Louis Bullock hit six 3-point­ers and scored 28 points as Michigan beat Oklahoma State 75-65 Tuesday night in the second round of the NIT. 
The win moves Michigan (21­
11) into quarterfinal play Thursday at Notre Dame, which beat Texas Christian 82­72 in another second-round game Tuesday. 
Bullock. a sophomore guard who already holds Michigan's career 3-point record, drilled five 3-pointers in the second half. two in a 9-3 run that gave the Wolverines their biggest lead at 69-50 with 8:29 to play. 
Oklahoma State (17 -15), led by 19 points from forward Chianti Roberts, responded with a 10-0 run and cut its deficit to 69-60 on a jumper by Marlon Dorsey with 5:37 remaining. 
But a basket by Robert Traylor and a free throw from Maurice Taylor put Michigan back up by 12, and the Cowboys never seriously threatened again. 
Traylor added 18 points and Taylor 15 for Michigan, which won its fourth straight after a late-season five-game losing streak cost the Wolverines an NCAA tournament bid. 
Guard Adrian Peterson added 17 points for Oklahoma State, which had beaten Tulane in the first round. 
The Cowboys led 24-23 when Peterson hit a jumper with 
6:10 remaining, but a 3-point­er from Travis Conlan trig­gered an 11-0 run that gave Michigan its biggest first-half advantage at 34-24 with 3:20 left. 
Michigan led 40-34 at the half. 
Michigan quickly pushed its lead back into double-digits to start the second half as two baskets from Traylor and a 3­pointer from Bullock made it 54-40 just 3:23 into the period. 
Back-to-hack 3-pointers from guard Brandun Hughes and Bullock pushed Michigan's lead to 60-42 three minutes later. 
The Wolverines soon fol­lowed with the 9-3 run that gave them their biggest lead. 
Behind Bullock's 6-for-9 showing, Michigan hit 8-of-15 3-point tries and shot 59 per­cent overall, including 61 per­cent in the second half. 
That overcame Oklahoma State's 34-38 rebounding ad­vantage as 6-foot-11 center Brett Robish had six rebounds before fouling out. The Cowboys also shot just 46 per­cent. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association proudly presents 
"SANGO MALO: The Village Teacher" 
A FEATURE FILM FROM CAMEROON portraying the struggle between two philosophies ofeducation: the conventional & a more practical one. 
Sango Malo is the story of two schoolteachers and two philosophies of educatio~. The strict 
headmaster insists on a conventional curriculum which does not challenge the v1llage power structure. When an innovative young teacher, Sango Malo, arrives, he introduces a more 
practical education designed to make the peasants the focus of the rural development. Sango 
Malo is eventually arrested; however, the reforms he introduced are carried on without him. 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on WHAT KIND OF EDUCATION FOR AFRICA/INDIA? 
• Prof. Ann Loux, Saint Mary's College• •Prof. Donald Sniegowski, English Department• 
•Carla Mazzeo, Counseling Center• . • Karni Pal Bhati, English Department• •Paul Morgean, Teacher, Mishawaka High School• 
•Joseph Karanja, Andrews University• •Joan Kibet, Indiana University/South Bend• 
Wednesday, March 19 • 7:00 PM • 15 5 DeBartolo 

HOSPITALITY PROGRAM MEMBERS: 
-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·­
Please remember to attend one of the following meetings: 
When: 
Where: Time: 
TONIGHT, Wed., March 19 or TOMORROW, Thurs., March 20 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall 7:oop.m. 
These meetings will be brief. You only need to attend one of them. Please bring your personal calendar. 
If you have questions or concerns, please call one of us: 
Colleen Walton

]ennifer Carrier 
Student Coordinator

Admissions Office 
4~4g86

I ~7505 
page 19 

•NBA 
Hawks make Magic 



yictory disappear 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Most of the fans at the Omni had gotten the booing out of their system and were on their way home. 
Orlando was whooping it up on the bench and sending its reserves into the game to mop up. 
This one was over, or so ev­eryone thought. Then Atlanta began a comeback that had even Lenny Wilkens shaking his head. 
Wilkens might be the win­ningest coach in NBA history, but he's never had a victory like this: Overcoming a 10­point deficit with less than a minute to go, his Hawks went on to beat the Magic 112-107 in overtime Monday night. 
"This just shows you that anything can happen in basket­ball," said Mookie Blaylock, who sparked the Hawks come­back with defense and 3-point shooting. 
"Those people 
the last UU!lUL!O;> 
Orlando led remaining, ~.:~· '<l>:;.Jltll"<><>~h .;"'"'"­still up 94-er Grant hit two free; throws with 
48.9 seconds remaining. Atlanta, which already had a season-high three-gam(llosing streak, seemed destined for another defeat. 
Then, this sequence of events happened: 
-36.9 seconds left, Atlanta's Tyrone Corbin hits a 3-pointer. Magic 94, Hawks87 .. ··· ,,,, 
-32.2 seconds, Laettner 
fouls Scott, who makes one of two free throws. Magic 95, Hawks 87. 
-27.2 seconds, Smith drives for a lay-in. Magic 95, Hawks 89. 
-25.2 seconds, Blaylock fouls Penny Hardaway right after the inbounds pass, and Hardaway hits one of two free throws. Magic 96, Hawks 89. 
-19.3 seconds, Blaylock brings the ball upcourt quickly and hits a 3-pointer. Magic 96, Hawks 92. (Some of the fans who were leaving begin to wander back to their seats.) 
-18.0 seconds, Blaylock fouls Brian Shaw right after the inbounds pass, and Shaw makes one of two free throws. Magic 97, Hawks 92. 
-10.5 seconds, Corbin hits a lay-up as the Magic try to avoid fouling. Magic 97, Hawks 94. 
-7.0 seconds, Darrin Hancock fouls Orlando's Darrell Armstrong, who makes one of two free throws. Magic 98, Hawks 94. 
-5.7 seconds, Atlanta in­hounds at halfcourt after a and Laettner gets loose the basket for yet an­lay~up, Wisely, Laettner dra~s a. delay-of-game for stepping out of guard the inbounds do calls timeout. 
Hawks 96. 
3 seconds, Blaylock 
the halfcourt inbounds 
is inexplicably fouled 
Grant while trying to 
up court for a despera­
shot. Blaylock makes both free throws. Magic 98, Hawks 98. 
Once the game went to over­time, everyone knew Atlanta would fmd a way to come out on top. Blaylock hit another 3­pointer and had another big steal, and the Hawks pulled away at the end. -"In the overtime, we were more aggressive and confi­dent,'' Smith said. "We told each other, 'This game's over."' 

lll STATIONS OF THE CROSS Wed., March 19 at 9:00 p.m. LeMans, Holy Cross and Regina Chapels Pray the path of jesus' passion with your friends and neighbors. 
lll PASSION (PALM) SUNDAY All-Campus Mass-Sun., March 23 at I:30 p.m. Church of Our Lady of Loretto joined together for one celebration, we begin this most holy of weeks. 
ll LENTEN RECONCILIATION SERVICE 
Mon., March 24 at 9:00 p.m., Regina Chapel 
Together, we celebrate the forgiving presence of our God among us. 
liJ MORNING PRAYER AT CHURCH OF LORETTO Mon. through Wed., March 24-26 at 8:00a.m. Thurs. through Sat., March 27-29 at 8:30 a.m . 
• TRI DUUM AT CHURCH OF LORETTO Holy Thursday-March 27 at 5:00 p.m .. Good Friday-March 28 at 3:00 p.m. Easter Vigil-March 29 at 8:00 p.m. Easter Sunday-March 30 at II: 15 a.m. 
Campus Ministry Saint Mary's College 
-
-
_
.. 
-

~---------~-----~-~--------------~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

The crowd shows it's enthusiasm by hoisting the "3" signs in the hopes of hosting another NIT game. 
Game  
continued from page 24  
athletic guy. he's real versatile.  
I don't think they go to him  
enough, to tell you the truth.  
But in the second half, they  
were focused on (getting  
Walker the ball)."  
With under 90 seconds to  
play, the Frogs began to try and  
hop back in, as Malcolm  
Johnson and Prince Fowler  
connected for three treys to  
bring the lead to 78-72 with 9.0  
seconds to play. Pete Miller  
stopped the threat by nailing  
the front end of a one and one,  
and Keith Friel dropped a bomb  
from beyond the arc, his only  
basket of' the game, to close out  
- the contest and TCU's season.  
"We knew TCU would be  
The Observer/Rob Finch  explosive, and they showed in  
Freshman forward David Lalazarian showed potential with his play around the rim in last night's game.  the second half just how explo­sive they could be," MacLeod  

r---------------------------------------------------------------~ said. "Theyhad (23) at trapping defense," Garrity 12 points below their season 
the half' and explained. "There's going to be average was no small feat. then they so many openings and lay-ups. Despite allowing four Frogs to scored 72 I don't know who you'd have on tally double-figures, the Irish 
NIT Basketball Tournament Sweet 16 
(total), so your team who'd want to stop defensive effort limited TCU to that's a big and pull back I think we wnre a .341 (28-82) shooting night, second half happy with the pace. I think we .2% (8-27) from beyond the spurt for really dominated the tempo and arc. 
Texas Christian Nebraska 
Notre Dame Nebraska 
them. We then played at our tempo "I think the factor was the didn't expect tonight." week of practice between to be able to It seems that MacLeod made (tonight) and the Oral Hoberts hold them the right move. Point guard game. Coach (MacLeod) said

Notre Dame 

Nevada 
down forev-Admore White ran the floor like that our defnnse wasn't up to er." a thoroughbred, dishing nine where it was all season," 
-
Miller con­assists to complement nine llickey offered. "Those prac­nected early points and seven rebounds in tices were real tough and real for the Irish, 34 minutes of play. defensive practices and I think hitting two The switch from Matt Gotsch that really paid off." from behind to llickey in the starting rota­The crowd, labeled by Miller

OklahomaSt Connecticut 
the line to tion has paid major dividends as "boisterous," was a factor 
open the for the squad. Gotsch came in cited by the players and game and fin­for 11 minutes to collect six MacLeod as a difference in the ished 5-of-6 boards and a bucket to spell gam!L With the Michigan from the field Hickey, whose aggressive play Wolverines coming to town, the with 16 in the paint impressed his Joyce Center crowd will be points. coach. given another chance to lose

Michi n 

Florida St. 
Arkansas::: Michigan St. 

Hawaii West Virginia 

West Vi~ inia 


UNLV 

N. Carolina St. 
. The Observer/Rob Finch 
~--------~~--------------------------------------------------~ 
lnshcoachJo~nMacleodexpresseshisjoyafterhis~amadvanced~fueEii~EigN. 

"Anytime you hit your first couple, your confidence is going to build and you're going to be looking for your shot a little more aggressively. That's what happened to me tonight," Miller offered. "I might be a little more streaky than average. so any time I start out like that. I'm happy." 
MacLeod defended his desire to run with the Frogs, whose high octane transition game led to a regular season 84 point average. 
"We want to run. We want to open the floor up and take some of the pressure ofT of the half-court game," he said. "They were pressing in the back and going for offensive rebounds, and that opennd up some seams for us to get people behind their defense, and we made some great deliv()rii)S. We knew it was going to be a high octane game and it was." 
"It's hard to slow it down when a team plays a 1-2-1-1 

"lie's a big, strong, physical player... it's encouraging to see what Phil did. lie's a big pup that's getting better, and stronger, and a great deal more eonlident," MacLeod assessed. 
"I just wanted to win this game and get to the final eight, and tlwn next week have a vaeation for a week in New York," Hickey quippnd. "I don't think it's real important that I start. I'm glad that I'm getting the ehance to contribute and help us win." 
Small forward David Lalazarian l'lashed potential around the basket coming off tlH) bnnch. but a cold shooting hand (2-7 from the field, 3-7 at the line) kept him to sevnn points. 
"The encouraging thing for David is that he was at the rim and making the right play. He just struggled !'rom a free throw standpoint," MaeLeod evaluat­ed. 
Holding the volatile Frogs to 
Wednesday, March 19, 1997 

Decision 
continued from page 24 
tcr." The decision was made while the Irish were still on the floor. 
"There is a committee of ath­letic directors, coaches and the directors of the tournament and there is a conference call," Powers said. "We had that call during the game once the at­tendance figures came in." 
Though just 6,927 fans watched the Irish dominate, the decision to keep Notre Dame in South Bend was made. 
'The schools have no control in the decision," Powers said. "The committeee does." 
That group that conducts the NIT, the Metropolitan Intercollegiate Basketball Association, has an official stat­ed policy regarding the site selection process in its media guide. It is summarized by the statement, "(T)he committee endeavors to select the site that will best enchance the future success of the tournament." 
NIT President Frank McLaughlin, a former Notre Dame assistant coach under 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Digger Phelps, and his commit­tee may be looking at the im­mediate future. 
With Notre Dame a sparkling 14-3 at home, the Irish appear to stand a much better chance of getting past a talented UM club and into the Final Four in Madison Square Garden. 
Though it wasn't evidenced in Notre Dame's first round Big East tournament loss to Syracuse, also played in MSG, the Irish traditionally draw very well in New York City. 
Whatever the case may be, the South Bend faithful will get one last chance to show their 
page 21 

support for the surprising Irish. so maybe that was a factor in 
"It's an added bonus to get getting another game. We have the chance to play again at a little streak going here, so we home," senior guard Pete Miller just want to keep it going." said. "We have had a good The NIT people might not crowd all throughout the year mind that either. 
-

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Senior point guard Admore White's leadership and ball handling skills will be essential for the Irish to defeat the Wolverines on Thursday. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special birthday Observer ad. 
Sale ends March 29, 1997. 
STORE HOURS: MON·THURS: 1OAM·9:30PM; FRI·SAT: 1 OAM·1 OPM; SUN: 11 AM·6PM 
Library Auditorium 

Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
Year of Studies 

81·8201.()37 
ne Information Desk: $2 
page LL The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
-
• MEN's lACROSSE 


Irish fall short against Loyola 
Observer Staff Report 
BALTIMORE, Md. 

Notre Dame's 15th-ranked men's lacrosse rallied from an early 5-1 deficit and tied the game at 11-11 before 13th­ranked Loyola scored the game-winning goal with 2:45 left for a 12-11 win over the visiting Irish in front of 2,283 fans at Curley Field. The loss was the first of the season for Notre Dame who fell to 2-1 on the season while Loyola improved to 2-1. 
The Greyhounds jumped out to a 5-1 lead after the first quarter thanks to two goals by Mark Frye. Ned Webster scored two of his team's five second-quarter goals as the Irish tied the game at 6-6 before Frye connected again to give Loyola a 7-6 lead at half­time. 
Loyola opened the third quar­ter with two more goals and a 9-6 lead but Todd Rassas scored with 3:12 left in the third quarter to cut the lead to 9-7 heading into the fourth quarter. 
After the two teams combined for just three goals in the third quarter, Notre Dame and Loyola combined for seven goals in the fourth. 
Chris Dusseau struck quickly for the Irish on an assist from Webster to put Notre Dame within one at 9-8 just 46 sec­onds into the fourth quarter. The Greyhounds then scored twice in a span of 11 seconds to take an 11-8 lead with 12:42 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 


Irish attack Chris Dusseau pulled the squad within one against Loyola. 
left in the game. 
Notre Dame retaliated with two goals by Dusseau and Jimmy Keenan in 57 seconds to trim the lead to 11-10 with 
11:09 left to play. 
The two teams would then battle scoreless for almost seven minutes until Burke Hayes knotted the game at 11­11 with his unassisted goal for the Irish with 4:37 left. Loyola's Tim O'Shea sealed the win with a goal with 2:45 left 
Advanced Scuba -RecSports will be sponsoring an Advanced Scuba Classes. All participants must be certified divers. There will be an important information meeting on Sun., Mar. 23, at 3:30p.m. in Rockne rm. 218. For more info. call1-6100. 
Hoops Shoot Out-RecSports will be sponsoring a Hoop Shoot .Out on Tues., Mar. 25, at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. The Shoot Out will consist of a one-on-one contest, a Three Point contest and a Free Throw contest. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required and the deadline is Mon., Mar. 24. There is no fee for this event. For more info. call1-6100. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament -This tournament will be on April 12 and 13. There will be men's and women's divi­sions with t-shirt being awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will be provided. Also, refresh­ments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by April10, and there is a $8 fee. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run -April 12 is the date for this SK or lOK run and 2 mile walk. All registrants will be awarded a t-shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. Call1-6100 for more information. 
Drop-In Volleyball -);lecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Casting and Angling Clinic -Clinic includes three sessions which meet on April 8, 15 &17 from 6-7:15 p.m. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to students, staff and fac­ulty. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. 
O~f ~l(jNJ 

WlfflfBALL 
TOUR~A~f~T 
fATURDAY, MARCH 22 8:00PM LOFTUf fPORTf CENTER 
JINGLE ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT 
REGIJTER A TEAM IN ADVANCE AT RECJPORTJ 
DEADLINE IJ THURJDAY, MARCH 20 LIMITED TO FIRJT 12 TEAMJ TO ENTER 

to give the Greyhounds their fifth win in five games, all against the Irish. 
Webster finished the game with six points as he scored twice and recorded four assists. Alex Cade made 15 saves in net for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame opens its home season with a 2 p.m. game against Dartmouth on Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. The team is looking to improve on it's 2-1 record. 



Insight 
continued from page 24 
time Notre Dame wants to play. Come to Forth Worth and we'll play you." 
Sure, Billy. Only if you promise to make a theatrical production out of the sideline again. 
Talking about his players, Tubbs mentioned, "Our guys did a good job" and in the same breath, added, "I don't think we played sound basketball this whole game." 
As f()r the first half play of the Irish. what about it, coach Tubbs? 
"In the first half I didn't think Notrr, Dame was playing that good," he added. 
Only good enough to lead by 12 at halftime and force TCU to shoot 23 percent. 
You didn't really deserve that technical foul with 9:19 remain­ing in the game either, did you? 
"I swear to God that I said nothing to the referee," Tubbs 
affirmed.  "That was a cheap  
technical.  I did not deserve that  
technical.  I'm tr,lling you that."  

Highway robbnry. 
Tubbs and crew hit the high­way before he could blame the 1,600 students who showed up for last night's game after only 800 campus inhabitants pur­chased season ticket booklets. 
Basically, Tubbs blamed ev­eryone but the dining halls. If he realized their participation in NITGATE, no one would have eluded his pointy finger. 
As it turns out TCU couldn't overcome good defense, a more fundamentally sound team, and believe it or not, a quicker squad. 

Yesterday's edition of the Detroit Free Press stated, "The Irish aren't a quick team" and told Notre Dame they better look out. 
The only ones caught looking were the Horned Frogs who set­tled for perimeter jumpers instead of pnnetrating and dish­ing, a staple of quick teams. Notre Dame's interior defense prr,vented any such break­downs. 
What did breakdown was the TCU trap. For a team who likes to tell the public about their lack of athleticism, the Irish were not afraid to display it. · 
Pete Miller was quick enough to take a charge against the fastest man on the court -TCU guard Anthony Burks. Admore White was quick enough to lo­cate holes in the press. Tubbs wasn't quick enough to forget the trap when it was clearly backfiring. 
Twenty seven Notre Dame assists reflected the team's abili­ty to find the open man using quick feet and a quick mind. 
The Irish just wanted to run, man. 
"It's great to see them run," head coach John MacLeod said. "We want to run." 
"We like to run," forward Pat Garrity added. 
When the dust settled, the only one doing the running was Tubbs as he bolted from the Joyce Center. 
"I understand why their (TCU) upset," Garrity said. "First, not getting the NCMs and the sec­ond of all not getting the home court with 22 wins. I think we'd be· the same way. But some­times you just have to deal with what's given to you." 
Tubbs, the team, and the school, never did. 
Por favor reciclen El Observer 

Arts and Letters Major Fair TONIGHT-6:30-7:30 p.m. Monogram Room of the JACC 
MAJORS 

ALPP • American Studies • Anthropology • Art • Classical Languages & Literatures • Communication & Theatre • East Asian Languages & Literatures • Economics • English • German & Russian Languages and Literatures • Government & International Studies • History • Medieval Studies • Music • Philosophy • Philosophy!Theology Joint Major • Program of Liberal Studies • Psychology • Romance Languages and Literatures • Sociology • Theology 
Second Majors: African-American Studies • Computer Applications (CAPP) 
CONCENTRATIONS 

Gender Studies • Hesburgh Program in Public Service • Medieval Studies • Peace Studies • PPE: Philosophy, Politics and Economics • STV: Science, Technology and Values 
AREA STUDIES 

African Studies • Asian Studies • European Studies • Irish Studies • Latin American 
Studies • Mediterranean/Middle East Studies • Russian and East European Studies 
Education • Prelaw 

-

Wednesday, March 19, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
ALI.CE, r THrNK I'M DEVELOPING 
A CRU5tl ON 
DILBERT. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
0"' 
u 
.... 
0 
... 
..@I 

IS THAT .."' 50 WRONG!
c 

57 When to celebrate el ano nuevo 
sa--Minor 

59 Genuine Risk, for one 
60 Squelched 
61 Echelon 

62 Prep exam, for 
short 

63 Comic Arnold 
64 Gets on the 
nerves of 
DOWN 
1 Flap 

2 Pirate's punishment 
3 Upfront money 
4 Apres-bain gowns s Composer Berg 6 Nifty, in the 50's 7 Primer girl &German 
composer Carl 9 Straighten, as a brow 10 Belief 
30 Page number 46 Shore bird 51 Small annoyance 11 Be afflicted with 31 Surpass 47 "With--in My 52 "I--man who12 Environs 
13 Prop for Doug Henning 21 Lu stfu I  32 Rim that holds a gem 34 Sharp turns  Heart" 48 Shawn of the So nics  wasn't there" 53 Figure in a Rimsky-Korsakov  
22 Wilderness Campaign  35 Early name of Haile Selassie  49 They may be rolled over  opera 54 Join  
general 25 Parking garage features  37 Suspiciousquality 38 California  so Italy's capital  ss Shaggy oxen  
2&Copycats 27 Kind of pillow  Indian 43 Geller with paranormal  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).  
tragedy  powers  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
29 Valentine's Day  45 February  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
visitor  forecast  50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  



YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
IIAI'I'\ IIIRTIIIMY! I'\ TilE 
\EXT n:.\ R OF YO! I~ I.II·T: h>Cu:-. un '\lrcngthcning_ pro1111...,111~ IlL'\\. alllancL:-... :'\. nnnanttc rcl:tllllll­"hlp v.J!] heat up yDur 'ummcr \\'or~ hard to gl'l a longtJillL' rda­1ion<.;hip hack on its former ca:-.: footing. An uvcr~cas \'acallllll could I"L''\tdt in a second career. Ytnlr abili­
ty to 'ee th1ng' ohjcctiYcl) \1 Ill help YOU handle a ramiJV cri'i' next raJJ Lo\'cd ·one:-. sec yuU in a v. hok nn\ li~h!. An Jn\·cs!mcnt vou make 111 D~ccmher could hring iasting rinan­cial security. For now. curh rrin>lou' purchases. 
CELEBRITIES BOR'II 01\ THIS [)AY: <KtiTSs Glenn Close. saxophonist Ornette Coleman. actrcs~ Ursula Andress. rrontier mar­shal Wyatt Earp. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be sure to keep key people informed ahout your projects. Allo" ing time ror trarfic delays will make you punctual for all meetings. People are suddenly vying for your attention. 
TAURUS rApril ~0-May 201: Temporary upsets call ror calm di­plomacy. Co-workers agree to your agenda and do a good job. Produc­ti,·ity and progress are assured Post­pone signing a contract. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20r The imagination and energy you pour into a team project willmak~ every­one smile. Your sensitivit\ to \Our 10\ed one·s needs will he-al ari old wound. 
CANCER (June 21-Jul' 221 You are at a crossroads now. l)onder­
in!l a new commitment. With vour 
g;od luck and clever strategizing. you can·t miss' A famrly member may need reassurance folio" ing a recent disappointment. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): When shopping around for a health club. bel\ are of long-term contracts. You may decide to get your exercise in 


.-­

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
<llhltllL'I \\:t~. Tat! and p;IIH..:IIt-l' \\Ill 
l1<:lp you \\ i11 ;1 ~a/HL' ,,) n '" '~Jib \111\lL'\IIlL' Jnlluential. 
\II{(;() !Aug 2.1-Sq'l ccr In 1111\ att' c method.., ;tlld h.·dlihlll'~' help ~till Ullllpkll' Clllllplc\ Lt-..J.., .... 1~1 rL-c<>rd time. A prudent apprnach "ill 
pi'L'\t.:tll lll\L'0.,\1llC\ll hl~-..L'" ~~;111" :111~ 
L'\tra ca~IL 

I.IBRA !Sept 2~-lhl 221 ·\ huld mu\·c i~ best a\·oH.Icd 1r \till arc not 'ure what will happen ne~t. I ol­Io\\ the good ad1 icc olkred l11 a partner. Entertain hu,ine" client' at home if seeking a relaxing and pn­\ ate eJwironment. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2l-N"' 211: Play your hunches: they arc right un the marl-.! Shrewd investments "ill make money worries a thmg or the past. f'orcgo a philosophical ap­proach in favor of the practicaL 
SAGITTARIUS INm 22-Dcc 21 ): Break away rrnm restrictions and expand your hori~nns. A whirl­" md or actiYity is centered around _1our business appoinrmcnt.s. Uc 1\ ar-y or anyone looking ror a hand­out. 
CAPRICORN IDee: 22-.lan. 1'11: Career or ramily com pi ications could rorce a temporary separation rrom your mate. Instead ul hcmoan­ing the situation. arrange to ren­de~vous as soon as possible. 
AQL:ARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 181: Fnrget what mhers sav and watch "h;t thev do. A financial dilemma could be· dropped in your lap: ha,·e se,·eral suggestions in mind. Stop <lYcranalyzing a promising ne\\ rehr­tionship and li,·e for the moment. 
PISCES l Feb. 19-March 201 Certain tinancial limitations are lirr­ed. Although a current employer offers you tempting incentives. it may be time to move on. A potential romantic partner may need encour­
agemenL 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Response to a pass? s Green-skinned pear 10 Plug of tobacco 14 Glazier's sheet 15 Master 16--avis 17ltalian wine region 18 Alberta national park 19 Fair 
20 "Skeletons From the Closet" group 
23 Prefix with second 24 Antique car 25 Get into trouble, in away 28 Scant 
ao Watch pocket 33 Food for a ladybug 34 Japanese plane 
ofW.W.II 35 Don Juan 36 Lehar work, with 
"The" 39 Crackerjacks 40 Grays 41 Words to an 
audience 42 Philly-to-Norfolk 
dir. 43--Minor 44 Happy hour 
perch 45--Lanka 46 "That is so 
funny" 48 #1 song of 1973 and 1996 56 1-79 terminus 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION IS LOOKING FOR PEER EDUCATORS FOR THE 1997-98 ACADEMIC YEAR. 
PEER EDUCATORS ARE STUDENTS FROM A WIDE RANGE OF PERSPECTIVES, WHO VOLUNTEER THEIR TIME TO HELP SHAPE POSITIVE NORMS REGARDING ALCOHOUOTHER DRUGS AND RELATED ISSUES. 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE ....PLEASE PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 1 MEZZANINE LEVEL LAFORTUNE OR CALL X7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION 
-







SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, March 19, 1997 
• MEI'Ii'S BASKETBALL 

Irish leap past Horned Frogs, Wolverines up next 
NIT gives Notre Dame yet another home game 
By TIM SHERMAN Senior Sports Writer 
Each time Notre Dame nailed a three-pointer in last night's 82-72 second-round National Invitational Tournament victo­ry over Texas Christian, the en­thusiastic Joyce Center fans would wildly hoist cards bear­ing a large "3" above their heads in recognition of the shot. 
Watching the game on ESPN, NIT officials must have been impressed with the trifecta madness. In fact, they must think the number three is a very good fit for the Irish, as they have awarded Notre Dame with a third consecutive home game in the tournament. 
The Irish will host Michigan Thursday evening at 7:30. 
"I don't have any control over it," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "But I'm glad to see it (playing host)." 
Those in charge of the NIT's offices in New York City do have control. And they're glad to see it to. 
"We check the RPI's (the

-· now-popular computer power rankings) and we look at atten­dance," said NIT Executive Director Jack Powers. "We feel the crowd will be better at Notre Dame." The facts seem to contradict such criteria. Whilr, first-round opponent Oral Roberts and TCU both had better RPI rankings (56 and 41, respectively) than Notre Dame (86), the Irish were given the home game. Michigan, too, boasts the bet­ter rating at 40. In addition, the Wolverines home arena, Crisler Arena, has a capacity of 13,609, compared to the Joyce Center's seating of 11,418. "There was no one reason why the game will be at Notre Dame," Powers explained. "I just feel the crowd will be bet-
see DECISION/ page 21 



Irish beat Frogs at their own game 
By DAVE TREACY Senior Sports Writer 
Despite a comeback attempt late in the game by Texas Christian University, Notre Dame maintained their lead from the 14:20 mark of the first half and sailed to an 82-72 vic­tory in front of a raucous Joyce Center crowd. The Irish contin­ued to register balanced scor­ing as four players tallied dou­ble-figure point totals, and ran with tho fast-paced Horned Frogs, beating them at their own game to reach the Elite Eight of the National Invitation Tournament. 
Pat Garrity paced the squad with 20 points on 9-19 shoot­ing, coming off screens and dri­ving the lane against the small­er Frogs defenders. llis team­mates on the front line also played big, as Derek Manner's fast breaks and Phil Hickey's play in tho post led to a strong all-around performance. The quick ball movement in break­ing the TCU press resulted in easy buckets for Garrity and his cohorts. 
"I think the fact that we have a front line going 6-7, 6-9, and 6-10 ... we're going to be getting rebounds on them and that's going to trigger thn fast break. We like to run espncially when thny're pressing, that creates a lot of transition opportunities for us, too," Garrity said. 
Notre Dame entered the sec­ond period with a 12 point lead, and built the cushion up to as much as 18 with 5:48 remain­ing. When the Frogs could not take control of the pace in the first half, they startnd to bang the ball inside to freshman Damion Walker, who finished with 16 points and eight rebounds. 
"He's a tremendous player," Garrity recalled. "lie's a really 
see GAME I page 20 

• IRISH.INSIGHT 

Tubbs flees the scene of NITGATE 
O
nce upon a time, when TCU head coach Billy Tubbs directed things at Oklahoma, the Sooners played a game on national television when~ Tubbs seemed less than pleased with the ofliciating. 
After the fans in Norman be­gan launch­
ing projec­tiles on the court, Tubbs grabbed the microphone and said something to the effect of, 


"Despite how Joe Villinski 
bad the ref-Senior Sports Writer ereeing is, pi<Htse refrain from throwing things on the court." 
Nobody let Tubbs near a pub­lie address system last night after Notre Dame bounced his Texas Christian club from tho NIT, 82-72. lie didn't even want to be, declining to make an app1~arance in the post­game anteroom. 
Instead, Tubbs uttered a fpw remarks outsidP tho locker room before the llorned Frogs hopped hastily out of South Bend. 
Hon~·s a sample. Just in ease you're having a bad clay, this might brighten it. 
Maintaining th1~ sentiment sparked by TCU athletic direc­tor Frank Windegger, Tubbs, still fuming over the location of the game, said, "I certainly would isstw a challenge any-
see INSIGHT I page 22 

2000 student tickets will be reserved for Thursday night's 7:30 game against Michigan. Tickets are available at the Joyce Center box office and at the dining halls. 
• BASEBALL 


Notre Dame succumbs to Creighton in Classic final 
By BRIAN REINTHALER and bad luck that prevented the Antonio and being named to the another infield single by Shilliday and gave up a two-run Assistant Sporrs Editor Irish from claiming the tour­all-tournament team in the Irish Bichelmnyor and a sacrifice fly double which put the Bl uejays nament title. Classic. by Erik Lauritsen. ahead for good. 
The baseball team experi­Notre Dame grabbed a 4-0 The tough luck began in the Brooks benefited from a walk Tho 5-5 week included splits enced a number of ups and lead in the first inning by putting third as Creighton's John and some nifty baserunning to with Penn State, Creighton, and downs on their trip to San together a pair of hits to set the BichelmeyBr beai out an infield answer for Notre Dame with a Northeastern Illinois, a win over Antonio, Tex., last week and table for Big East Player of the single and then scored on a run in the bottom of the stanza. Southwest Texas and a 1-2 emerged with a record of 8-8 for Week, Mike Amrhein. lie bloop to center field that es­After giving up consecutive dou­series with Texas-Pan Am. the season. tripled deep to right-center field. caped the grasp of Brooks. bles in the top of the fifth, In addition to Amrhein's out­
The week was concluded with Amrhein crossed the plate on Shilliday kBpt the damage to a Shillday was charged with an standing porformanee through­an 8-5 loss to Creighton in the a mishandled ball from the bat minimum for the time being extremely untimely balk, which out the week, the Irish rneeived championship game of the Irish of' freshman Brant Ust, and Ust though, by striking out Kevin tied the game at live. two strong outings from senior Baseball Classic. Sophomore followed him home on a fielder's Frederick after walking the pro­The score held until the top of southpaw Gregg llenebry. righthander Alex Shilliday was choice later in thr, inning. villUS Bluejay hitter. the eighth, when Shilliday was llenebry struck out four and given the loss, despite allowing Amrhein earned conference Hyan Gripp and Andy Vosick chased from the mound after walked just two in sevon four­just five hits over seven plus honors by batting .500, with each received free passes from yielding another walk and a sin­hit, shutout innings against innings. seven HBI and five runs scored, the Irish hurler to open the gle. Senior Mike Balicki walked Northeastern Illinois on Friday 
It was simply lack of control in the last seven games in San inning. The two scored on his first batter after relieving night. 
vs. Michigan at Seton Hall 
~rJt 
March 20 

March 22, 12 p.m. 
..o/ a; •Men's lacrosse suffers close loss 
vs. Alabama 

vs. Purdue 
at NCAA tournament 

~ Today, I p.m. ~ see page 22 
... 
ATA 
March 22 

G 
vs. Dartmouth 
• NIT brackets

;P' ~ 
March 22, 2 p.m. 
Fencing

X 
see page 17
at NCAA championsips 

vs. Indiana
vy
March 20-23 ..~-March 25, 2 p.m . 
~ 







