
Tuesday, Febr:uary 18, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 93 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bedroom fire breaks out in Turtle Creek apartment 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
A bedroom fire in a Turtle Creek townhouse Sunday night left upstairs walls, closets, and clothing covered in soot. 
The South Bend Fire Department cited a halogen lamp as the catalyst for the blaze. 
The lamp burned posters, which in turn set other items on fire. 
Notre Dame senior Edmund Choi was reportedly working on his roommate's computer in the evening when the power abruptly went out. 
"He got up to check things out, looked into the other room, and there was a fire in there," said senior Dan Wolters, Choi's other roommate. 
Choi quickly acquired an extinguisher from a neighbor and put out the fire, but Wolters had already taken action. 
"I freaked," he laughed. "We called 911, and they came up and hosed off the rooms to 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Driver strikes 

pole; alcohol 

maybe cause 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
An allegedly drunk driver struck a utility pole on the edge of campus last night, skidding out of control and severely injuring a passenger. 
The blue two-door Buick sedan was speeding eastbound on Douglas Road near the Notre Dame Credit Union when, at approximately 10 p.m., the swerving vehicle smashed into a signpost for the B 17 lot near the University of Notre Dame Press building. 
The Buick spun down the street toward the Juniper Road intersection, scattering debris as far as 40 yards before com­ing to a halt, according to Capt. Dave Austin, afternoon super-
see ACCIDENT I page 4 make sure all the embers were out." 
He estimated that the fire spread about two feet; among other items, it scorched a small stereo unit, rendering it use­less. 
Wolters also attributed the blaze to their halogen lamp, which was situated underneath papers affixed to the wall. 
"One of the papers caught fire and dropped off the wall, into the garbage can," he stat­ed. "All our posters are singed." 
The top four feet of the walls are currently covered in soot, according to Wolters; the entire upper floor, including the bath­room, was affected, forcing Wolters, Choi, and their other roommate to sleep downstairs until the cleaning process is complete. 
"Management is re-carpeting, and our insurance should cover the damages," Wolters specu­lated. "Unfortunately, I won't get reimbursed for things like my stereo." 
The Fire Department press 
release quoted $300 in building damages; the total value of destroyed contents was esti­mated at $2,000. 
The tenants had three other halogen lamps in the town­house prior to Sunday's fire. 
Though they have no immedi­ate plans to remove the lamps, the Fire Marshal noticed that two of them were directly beneath flammable objects. 
"We will move those," con­firmed Wolters, "but the other one is isolated in a corner, and I doubt it poses any threat." 


• CAMPUS l!FE COUNCIL 




Council passes final du Lac resolution 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus Life Council passed a resolution yesterday that asks the Office of Student Affairs to list student rights in the next revision of du Lac, the University policies and proce­dures booklet. 
"It is really a question of semantics rather than proce­dure," said director of Residence Life Jeff Shoup, who was asked by the CLC to attend the meeting. "In the spring of 1993, we changed the language of the area in question to words that mir­rored the legal language but was readable by the average person." 
Shoup elaborated on the extent of change in du Lac. "There has been no real change in disciplinary hear­ings since I got here in 1989," he explained. "If anything, we have given students more lee­way in the hearings." 
He then documented how students had more alert time before a hearing and greater liberty to have a peer student attend the hearing as counsel. 
This resolution, the last in a series of three Student Senate approved declarations addressing du Lac, asks the University administration to consider changing the wording of du Lac to specifically include a statement of rights. 
"This resolution asks for a general statement of rights, leaving the specifics up to Student Affairs," summarized Ava -Preacher, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice pres­ident of Residence Life, expressed his surprise that this was an important issue by saying, "[The University] will be sued if we deny a student rights or opportunities. I think that there are a lot of miscon­ceptions by students that any­thing has been taken away. They have been misinformed by the campus media on this respect. I would speak specifi­cally to a Scholastic article of a few months ago." 
"It seems that all we may need is a change in wording from 'students can expect the 
see CLC I page 4 
Team rallies 

to win ND College Bowl 
Observer Staff Report 
The 1997 Notre Dame College Bowl champions faced elimination three times before rallying for the title. 
After losing in an early round of the recently completed cam­pus tournament, team captain Sanmit Basu, Patrick Urda, Ragit Basu, Jerry Steinhofer and Luke White found them­selves in the loser's bracket of the double elimination tourna­ment. 
Upon defeating a team cap­tained by Tony Ciampa, Basu's team moved to the champi­onship round and faced a team led by Andy Sebesta, the team that defeated Basu and compa­ny earlier. 
Because Sebesta's team had not lost yet, Basu's team had to win two in a row. 
The first game proved to be a cliffhanger. Basu's team won in sudden death overtime, after Sebesta's team buzzed in early on the first overtime question and answered incor­rectly, costing them five points and handing Basu's team the 

The ObserverfTom Roland Pictured (from left) are Jerry Steinhofer, Luke White, Sanmit Basu, Patrick Urda, and Ragit Basu, the 1997 Notre Dame College Bowl 
champions. 
victory by default. 

The final game proved to be less dramatic. Basu's team took a comfortable lead early en route to the title. 
According to Sanmit Basu, the older brother of Rajit, one of the team's strengths was the ability of all five team mem­bers to answer any question, regardless of category. 
"All of us have a chance to answer every question," Basu said. 
The winning team also pos-


By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 

The student government reform committee met last night to hammer out the final details in the rewritten consti­tution that will set up a new Student Union next year. 
A major portion of the debate centered around a clause in the article relating to the Student Union Senate. The clause documented the process by which any senate resolutions that deal with the Office of Student Affairs must pass through the Campus Life Council before being forward­ed to Student Affairs. 
"Sending resolutions to the CLC is not a bad filter," said Erin Hoffmann, student body treasurer and one of the writ­
The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 

ers of the constitution. "It
Brenda .Perryman, an accomplished poet, kicked off a week-long 
celebration at Saint Mary's highlighting Black History Month. 

gives the senate a good avenue 
See story, page S. 

to build a consensus and pro­sesses a wealth of experience: All of the members are gradu­ates of St. Joseph's High School in South Bend and participated in national Quiz Bowl tourna­ments while they were stu­dents there. 
In the Notre Dame event, Basu and company had to play seven matches to clinch the title. Ironically, the team's for­tunes were exactly opposite from what they were a year ago. In 1996, the team held the 
see BOWL I page 6 

• STUDENT GOVERNMENT REFORM COMMITIEE

Dreaming a dream ••• 


Reform committee rewrites constitution 
vide a stronger resolution to Student Affairs." Brendan Kelly, committee chair, agreed. 
"The social issues of Student Affairs are very complex. more complex than issues that go to the provost or any other office," Kelly said. 
"It is disturbing that we have to put in our own constitution that we can have people who are not students veto us," argued Mark Leen, a student senator and member of the CLC. 
"This process is required by the Board of Trustees," said Hoffmann. "And [assistant vice president of Student Affairs Patricia] O'Hara told us herself that if this clause was not in here, she would scrap the whole thing." 
"We have spent three months putting this together," 
see REFORM I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Silence of the bands 
Shhh. Listen. Do you hear that? No? Probably because it is not there anymore. The music that used to fill the hallways of LaFortune Hall on weekends has been silenced, or at least diminished. 
In this same space just one year ago, this same writer extolled 
the virtues of a much maligned campus 
music scene. This year, any critics are cor­
rect in advancing a less than stellar assess­
ment of campus bands at Notre Dame. 
Two years ago, the scene was rocking. 
Band upon band vied for the position of most 
popular with many concerts at varied loca­
tions. The Roadapples, Emily Lord, True 
North, QED, Sabor Latino, George and the 
Freeks, Elsie's Promise, emiLy, and Stomper 
Bob and the 4x4's all put in great perfor­
mances all over campus. Concerts in the 
"Loft" of LaFortune seemed to occur every 
other weekend. These concerts doubled with 
ones on Fieldhouse Mall in the spring and fall 
months. 
This year, one would be hard pressed to 
name more than three bands on campus. 
The Roadapples are all gone (except Joe, who 
plays bass for the Skalkaholics). True North 
has split, and the two parts have faded away. 
The seemingly omnipresent Freeks are gone 
and the other campus bands have been 
noticeably quiet. 
Acoustic Cafe in the Huddle used to feature 
members of the aforementioned bands gear­
ing up for their weekend concerts and just 
working out songs in a different type of 
sound. Now it has been whittled down to 
only a few hours every week which features 
the same people every time, none of whom 
play any other gigs. 
Who is to blame here? 
Where has SUB been in the planning of 
"Loft" concerts? Now that the winter chill 
has gripped South Bend, outdoor concerts 
are out of the question, but that should fuel 
rather than retard the need for indoor cam­
pus entertainment. Acoustic Cafe needs bet­
ter public relations and a few special guest 
sets from what campus bands do still remain 
on campus. 
Perhaps the bands are to blame. Maybe 
the talent which used to be on campus is not 
there anymore. That does not seem very 
likely. In 10,000 people between two col­
leges, there must be some that have musical 
talent and the drive to play. They simply are 
not playing anywhere. 
Artists can claim that they are playing -in 
bars. Not everyone can get into bars. Not 
everyone can get TO bars. 
Another argument that can be advanced is 
that venues like Dalloway's and Acoustic Cafe 
do not pay their entertainers. Anyone who is 
simply playing music for the money, or will 
only play at paying gigs, should not be play­
ing music. Such a prostitution of talent is 
grounds for execution. 
This column will end as the equivalent col­
umn last year did: The bands are out there. 
Unlike the last column, they must now find 
gigs and find us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
John DeBoy  PererCilella  
Hearher MacKenzie  Production  
Sports  John DeBoy  
Brian Reinrhaler  Chris Uharr  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Karie Kroener  
Accent  
Melanie Warers  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Matthew Loughran 
Assistant News Editor 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Zaire vows to intensify bombing, rules out talks 
KINSHASA, Zaire of Congo-Zaire, which began fighting 
Government forces bombed three Zairian troops in September. Kabila start­rebel-held towns in eastern Zaire on ed the war after Zaire threatened to expel Monday and vowed to intensify the Tutsis who had lived for decades in east­attacks, which witnesses said killed at ern Zaire. least six people. It was the sharpest In Kalemie, 300 miles south of Bukavu, escalation yet in the five-month war. Kabila condemned the attacks as a "ter­
The towns of Bukavu, Walikale and rorist action" and said his army was Shabunda were bombed, said preparing "to bring the war where these Defense Ministry spokesman Leon planes are coming from." Kalima. He gave no casualty figures He said the Zairian planes came from but urged civilians to leave rebel-held Kindu, 200 miles west of Bukavu, one of areas. two airports in eastern Zaire controlled 

"These bombardments will contin­ue and intensify," Kalima said. 
Aid workers said six people were killed and at least 20 wounded in Bukavu. 
"These numbers could grow," said Brenda Barton, a spokeswoman for the U.N. World Food Program, based in Nairobi, Kenya. "There's a panic in the town," and many people are flee­ing, she said. 
There were no immediate casualty reports from Shabunda and Walikale, two other towns under the control of Laurent Kabila 's Alliance of
Democratic Forces for the Liberation 
Spielberg film tracks down survivors 
KIEV, Ukraine 
After decades of silence, Lidia Vitkovskaya and many other Holocaust survivors in the former Soviet Union are speaking publicly for the first time about their experiences for a video archive pro­ject launched by Hollywood director Steven Spielberg. Spielberg's Shoah Visual History Foundation has gathered 24,000 videotaped interviews with 

Holocaust survivors since 1994, part of an ambitious $95 million project that has spanned more than 25 countries. While the bulk of the filming has been in the United States and Canada, the project began shooting recently in the former Soviet republics despite difficulties in tracking down survivors, some of whom are still reluctant to speak. The foundation hopes to record at least 2,000 interviews over the next year in Ukraine, which has an estimated 4,000 Holocaust survivors. The country's Jewish population -about 500,000 out of a total of 52 million -is one of the largest in Europe. It was home to 
2.7 million Jews before the war. 
Biologists cite 'alien' threat 
SEATTLE 
There are aliens among us, and biologists want a gov­ernment commission to investigate the menace. So many crabs, clams, worms, snails and mussels are turning up on America's coasts that in some places, the native inhabi­tants can hardly be found. The invaders, from Asia, Europe and other distant shores, travel in cargo holds, ship ballast tanks and even bait shipments, yet the public is largely unaware and the government is having a hard time stopping the onslaught. The problem is so severe that biologists have asked the White House to do something about it. In a letter that they plan to send to Vice President AI Gore next month, more than 200 scientists are calling for a presidential commission to study the threat. When an exotic invader settles in a new environment, it com­petes for resources with native species, often with unde­sirable consequences. The overall impact of the invasion is unknown. "We really only have a handful of studies," said Edwin Grosholz of the University of New Hampshire. 
• 

Amarillo 46 37 Corpus Christi75 62 Memphis 67 52
~ ~ cf1

~,~,~~~~ 

Atlanta 70 45 Dallas 58 54 Newark 61 39
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Boise 53 40 Green Bay 29 27 Roanoke 68 36
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 

Caribou 34 25 Helena 50 25 San Jose 65 47 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The AccuWeather<ll>forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 18. 
FRONTS: 
..._..,..... ...a.....a... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1997 Accuweather, Inc. 
Pr9ssurs 




HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoclat6d Prass 
Akron 51 41 Chicago 39 36 Juneau 39 34 


by the government. 
Kabila said the government was trying to demoralize the population, telling The Associated Press that there were no spe­cific military targets in the areas that were bombed. 
Since the fighting began, Kabila has routed government troops from the swath of land bordering Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. President Mobutu Sese Seko has rejected international calls for negotia­tions to end the conflict and vowed to press ahead with a counteroffensive launched in January from the eastern city of Kisangani, about 300 miles northwest of Bukavu. 
Catholic activists rally in New York 
NEW YORK 

While the faithful attended services inside Saint Patrick's Cathedral, dissident Roman Catholics were on the front steps stumping for change. Members of the lib­eral group We Are Church passed around petitions in New York and nationwide Sunday, calling on the church to relax its stance on the ordination of women, celibacy for clergy, homosexuality and other issues. 'The majority of American Catholics are moving ahead regardless of what the Pope says," said Margaret Dubbins, of Los Angeles, who signed the group's petition on her way into Mass. "There's a silent majority within the church that is doing this anyway." Leaders of the Fairfax, Va.-based We Are Church hope to get a million American Catholics to sign their referendum for change, said Sister Maureen Fiedler, the group's national coordinator. "Jesus was open to dialogue with anyone, including people with whom he vehemently disagreed," said Sister Fiedler. "If our faith community is going to be true to that kind of church that Jesus left us, we have to be open to dialogue as well." Organizers in Austria and Germany have gath­ered about 2.3 million signatures. 
Men allegedly used underwear to spy 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Egypt accused two men of spying for Israel on Monday, saying one gave women's underwear soaked in invisible ink to the other as a way to send secret messages to Israel. Azam Azam, an Israeli engineer, and Emad Abdel-Hamid Ismail, an Egyptian, were formally charged with espi­onage. Both are under arrest in Egypt, though no trial date has been set. General Prosecutor Ragaa el-Araby said two female Israeli agents also will be tried in absentia for recruiting the Egyptian. Ismail reportedly told police that between March and October the two women gave him $650 for information on Egypt, and promised him $1,000 a month for future information. The indictment said Azam confessed to taking underwear soaked in invisible ink from the Israeli women and giving it to Ismail, who in turn was instructed to use the ink to write invisible messages about Egypt. It was not clear how this was to be accomplished. The indictment said the women slept with Ismail after meeting him at an Israeli nightclub. 
r-----~­
Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 





Kellogg Institute awards grants 
Speci;l to The Observer $3,000. identity, relations, and oppor­
Two of the projects involved tunities within the family and 
A program of research research in Ecuador -both of society." grants for Notre Dame under­which dealt with women's Vanderbeck's project will graduate students is in its issues in that country -and also be her senior honors the­third year of operation by the the other two involved work in sis at Notre Dame, and her Kellogg Institute for Eastern Europe. findings will be sent to a num­International Studies. The The first of the two ber of organizations in deadline for this year's grant Ecuadorian grants went to Ecuador that requested a copy applications is March 26. Catherine Vanderbeck, a of her research. 
There will be an informa­senior government major from The research of senior tional meeting for those who North Kingston, R.I. Jolene Smith focused on the want to pick up applications or Vanderbeck's topic was the indigenous women's move­ask questions tomorrow at experience of women street ment in Ecuador within the 
4:30 p.m. in 118 DeBartolo. vendors in Ecuador. context of the country's Last year four Notre Dame She described her general changing ethnic and gender 
Photo courtesy of Michael Francis 

Notre Dame undergraduates (from left) Catherine Vanderbeck, David Buckley, Eva Rzepniewski, and Jolene Smith spent time ~broad last year, thanks to research grants awarded by the Kellogg lnst1tute. 
ek 

Brought to you by Hall Presidents Counct1 
All week lone··· 





E..-ery weeknight
lllillllllil 


only per
STORM 
ffttmtdLalfrGcrMts 

per§on 
students were given the opportunity to do summer field work in another country, supported by grants of up to objective as the identification of "the ways in which expo­sure to petty commerce reshapes women's roles and 
WomensDay full day $12 before 1 
p.m. + $8 rentals 

politics. 
Smith, who spent last year in Ecuador, conducted interviews with numerous leaders of the indigenous women's move­ment and carried out legisla­tive and historical research. 
History and government major David Buckley did his work on the historical evolu­tion of the concept of Polish national identity with a special concern for the borderlands of the former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, which includes Lithuania, Belarus, and the Ukraine. 
In the Vilnius region of Lithuania, Buckley conducted numerous interviews with leaders of the Polish communi­ty, including parliamentary representatives and prominent newspaper editors. 
The fourth undergraduate grant recipient was Eva Rzepniewski, a physics major from Carmel, Ind. Rzepniewski investigated the links between research groups at education­al institutions and Polish industrial firms and private businesses. 
The summer grant program is administered for the Kellogg Institute by Professor Michael Francis of the government department. Contact him for further information. 

Announcing the First ~~~rn-~ 


Annual Awards ofthe Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the first annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pur­sue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbina, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
l) 
an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 

2) 
a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 

3) 
a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 

4) 
a budget indicating the costs involved 

5) 
the names of two references 



Application Deadline: Friday, March 7th, 1997 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 


~---~--~ --~-----------~---~ ~-----~---~----------­
Tuesday, February 18, i 997
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Seth Miller from Patricia have a list of rights that sion fluid and large wooden splinters O'Hara, vice president for we came up with in sen­from the utility pole. Police cars



CLC Accident

Student Affairs, docu­ate if it comes down to blocked off the road while the debris menting how the CLC may specifics, but that is not was pushed to the shoulder; the glass
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

address proposals to our purpose." shards and wood piles were still situat­following' to 'students revise du Lac. "According The resolution passed visor for Notre Dame Security/Police. ed there as of 11:15 p.m. have the right to the fol­to O'Hara's letter, we are because current parlia­Austin confirmed that a female pas­Ronald Burkhart, a 22 year-old lowing' in the area to make general recom­mentary rules allow Seth senger was taken to the hospital with South Bend resident, was arrested by labeled as 'Expectations' mendations as to what Miller, the chairman of wounds sustained during the accident. Notre Dame Security and charged with [in d u Lac]." said Mark should be changed in du the CLC, to vote when his "There were definitely puncture driving while intoxicated. He and a Leen, student senator.. Lac," said Ryan vote would make the dif­wounds on the body," he said, "but it male passenger escaped unharmed. 
The council found the Mcinerney, judicial coor­ference between passing was hard to tell exactly how bad the Burkhart's bond was set at $100; as 
resolution to be congruent dinator. "This does not or failing. The vote was injuries were." of 11:30 p.m., he had not been with a letter addressed to discuss specifics because 11 to 5 with one absten­Broken glass littered Douglas Road, released from the St. Joseph County student body president that is not our place. We tion. accompanied by patches of transmis-jail. 
Reform 
continued from page 1 
said Mark Harris, another writer. "We do not want Patty O'Hara to scrap it now over 
something  we  cannot  
change."  
In  reference  to  another  

clause which denies anyone holding office the right to hold another office at the same time, the responses were most­ly positive. 
"It will get more people involved in the process," said 
A.J. Boyd, the club coordination council academic commissioner. 
Other objections involved spe­cific wording and mislabeling of titles in the document. The committee also addressed whether the new document was a new constitution or just an amended version of the old one. 
"We are simply amending the old one for now since that is the only structure that exists," said Kelly. "But we are effectively dissolving the old one and replacing it with the new one. The bylaws of the old constitution will still be in effect until new laws are passed." 
The committee will present the constitution to the Hall Presidents' Council at tomor­row's meeting. If passed, the constitution will go on to the Student Senate to be approved. 
ND Volunteer Program in 

Applications Due at the CSC by Feb. 21 Interviews Are on March 1, 2, 3 
Questions? E-Mail MPenny@msn.com 


The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
PROUDLY PRESENTS A film by 
Professor Ann Loux 
Saint Mary's College 

"ENCOUNTER WITH AFRICN' 





IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVERAT 1-5323 
''...TAKES THE IDEA OF 'AUDIENCE ~~ ... ROCK STAR FRENZY IS ''...THOSE STUDENT PROGRAMMERS PARTICIPATION' TO ITS OUTER TRIGGERED BY DELUCA' ARE so GOOD LOOKING...WHY, IT LIMITS" -Variety -People Magazine ALMOST HURTS" -Anonymous 
Come see the Campus Entertainer of the Year.•• 
Tom DeLuca 
America's most talented, not to mention best looking, hypnotist!!! 
Tuesday, Feb. 18 and Wednesday, Feb. 19th at 8:00p.m. 
Library Auditorium Tickets on sale for $3 at the Lafortune Info Desk and at the door 
Brought to you by Student Activities 


GW SEMESTER IN WASHINGTON 
The George Washington University Graduate School of Political Management 
~vi~ ~t'Ylev-, Rt'ld =f~~ ~$$lOw'\~ 


An Intensive Program in Political Management for Qualified Undergraduates 
* 
Learn from Washington, DC's political pv-o{e$?io~$­

* 
Woduce TV & Radio ads, construct opinion polls, stage media events, conduct field research, and more 

* 
Make co.,()ectior"'$-to launch your career * 





is looking for volunteers! 


Driver training sessions will be offered this week 
Wednesday, February 19 7-9:30 p.m. in the basement of the Security building Training is mandatory for volunteers! Questions? Call 1-45 52 
----....~----. 

Tuesday, February 18, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Production features dance talent 
Special to The Observer 
This past weekend, Saint Mary's was greeted with a dif­ferent kind of communication. 
"Body Talk," the College's spring dance production, took center stage Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. 
The production featured three works by guest artist Patrick Connolly of the Connolly Dance Company in Madison, Wis. 
Connolly served a residency 
~ttention sop omore 6usiness majors! 

Applications are now being accepted for Assistant Student Body Treasurer for 1997--98 
• Gain valuable practical experience in a business oriented leadership role! 
• handle over $400,000 a year! 

Pick up applications in the Treasurer's Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune 

Applications are due this Friday by 5 p.m. 

at Saint Mary's this fall, during which he worked with eight Saint Mary's dancers to create a new piece, "Fleeting Friends." 
In addition to that piece, Connolly also performed a solo, "Momentum," and a duet with his wife titled "Flight of the Loon." 
The audience was also treat­ed to "Shining" and "Ia revolu­tion tranquille," both of which were performed by Indi Dieckgrafe, chair of the com­munication, dance, and theater department at Saint Mary's. 
The other two premieres were "Survivors," performed by adjunct faculty member Donald Stikeleather. and a work by Saint Mary's alumna Marguerite Blue. 
"Compromises," a repertory favorite choreographed by for­mer dancer and Saint Mary's dance composition student Laura Greeman, was also per­formed. "We Are," a popular duet from the concert, "Two Women, Dancing Lives and Stories," was performed by seniors Caroline Quinlan and Natale Waitkus. Quinlan also performed the solo, "Power," while another student, Tina Potthoff, danced "Held Within." 
The contemporary ballet piece. "Synapses," choreo­graphed by adjunct faculty member Jill Tulchinsky to the music of Leonard Bernstein, rounded out the program. 
Poet Perryman begins Black history celebration 
By MELANIE GARMAN News Writer 
Relationships, dreams, edu­cation and violence were only a few of the topics discussed by Brenda Perryman in a poetry reading yesterday that kicked off a week-long celebration honoring Black History Month at Saint Mary's. 
Perryman, a poet, actress, and teacher. opened the series of lectures by reading selected poems and discussing some of the issues Americans face today. 
"I want to discuss poetry and thoughts not only from black history, but our own lives: who we are, not whether we are black or white," she said. 
Perryman currently teaches drama, and besides being an actress herself, she has also directed some off-Broadway productions in New York City. 

Happy 21st Jen 01 Are you winkin' at me? 
Love, Stef and 1/3 ofthe 3-headed beast 


This multi-talented woman is an accomplished writer as well; her poem, "Sick and Tired," which was inspired by the trag­ic death of Ennis Cosby, will be published by the Chrysler Corporation later this week. 
"Americans need to be aware of the violence that surrounds us every day and we need to teach the values of non-vio­lence," said Perryman after reciting the poem. 
Perryman read appi;oximate­ly twenty poems from her book, "Moods For You." Each of her poems dealt with current issues Americans are confronted with in their daily lives. 
At one point Perryman pulled out a tape measure from behind the podium and recited "Baby Boomer Bulge." This poem was directed to the baby boomers in the audience who have found themselves trying to lose the stubborn pounds that can creep onto the 'waistline with time. 
Most of the topics Perryman addressed seemed lighthearted, but she also showed a darker side by discussing alcoholism, a serious disease that touches many lives. 
The poem "Unenchanting Wine" makes the issue person­al as Perryman quotes a line her mother always used: "A drunk man speaks a sober man's mind." ·· 
As part of her tribute to Black History Month, Perryman recit­ed "Dream Me A Dream," a poem dedicated to Martin Luther King, Jr. "l'tried tQ cap­ture what he wanted for peo­ple, especially my people," she said. 


SafeRide starts this Friday! Watch for more details! 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
Starr 01akes plans to step down fro01 Whitewater probe 
By PETE YOST 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Clinton loyalists see the impending departure of Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr as a favorable but other lawyers familiar with the investiga­tion say the big decision is still to come on whether to 
take legal 
Clinton 
action against the president and first lady. 
In a surprising development, Pepperdine University family to Los Angeles, but the precise timing has yet to be determined," Starr said late Monday when he arrived at the airport in Little Rock, Ark. 

He said the investigation would be unaffected. 
"What we're trying to do is conclude this as promptly as possible, but consistent with a very comprehensive and thor­ough investigation," Starr said. 
The Clintons' Whitewater lawyer, David Kendall, did not comment. 
But there was quick reaction from lawyers who have watched the three-year crimi­nal investigation, some of them Clinton partisans and others associates of Starr -none of whom agreed to let their names be used. 
"If Starr were going to do anything to the president or first lady, he'd have to be here to see it through, he wouldn't be taking a full-time job else­where," said one lawyer. "I see this as great news (for the Clintons)." 
Another lawyer cautioned against reading too much into it. 
"Will the probe end soon or will a new Whitewater prosecu­tor take over? I don't think we know enough to say based on the limited facts out there," said the lawyer. 
"My assumption from talking with Ken in the interview process is that the investigation will go forward," the Pepperdine president said in an interview. 

"I think he feels confident that there is a good team of people in place who are work­ing on it and he has several more months to be part of the investigation before he reports for duty out here." 
Davenport said he also assumed from his conversation with Starr that "there will be some combination of Ken com­pleting a chapter of his work and turning that over to some associates in whom I know he has a lot of confidence." 
The White House had no offi­cial comment on Starr's deci­sion, though aides privately speculated that the prosecutor must not intend to indict President Clinton and his wife, Hillary. 
Said a former presidential aide: "Is Starr going to indict the first lady and then leave for the West Coast? I don't think so." 
Starr's prosecutors have been compiling a memo several hun­dred pages in length -most of it pertaining to the first lady ­that lays out the evidence gath­ered in the investigation. 
The memo will provide a basis for Starr to make a deci­sion on whether to seek indict­ments against the first lady or the president. 
President David Davenport said Monday that Starr will step down from the probe to take a full-time job Aug. 1 as dean of the law school and school of public policy. 
Left unanswered was what would happen to the Whitewater probe, and precise­ly what Starr's plans were with regard to it. 
"I think it is inconsistent with the orderly conduct of this investigation for me to continue indefinitely as independent counsel once I have moved my 

Bowl 
continued from page 1 
advantage going into the championship round, only to lose twice and be eliminated. 
Because of its Notre Dame title, the team qualified for the regional tournament at Rose­Hulman Institute of Technology in Terre Haute, Ind., last weekend. But sched­uling conflicts involving four of the members prevented the team from attending the meet. 


Upcoming Events: 
Lecture 
"Democracy and the Challenge of Globalization" "Democracy and Prospects for Humane Governance" Wednesday, February 19, 1997 at 4:15 p.m. Thursday, February 20, 1997 at 10:15 a.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium University ofNotre Dame 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 

INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 
University of Notre Dame 
Telephone: (219) 631-6970 
LEGAL SECRETARY WANTED: 



Sutntner Grants for 
fast-growing law firm in 


Undergraduate Research
University Park Mall area requires receptionist/office assistant familiar with 
on International Issues 
WordPerfect 6.1 for Windows. full or part time. 
Send resume to: P.O. Box 511 

Informational Meeting 
Notre Dame, IN 46556. 

for Interested Students Wednesday, February 19
Trinity College DeBartolo Rm 118, 4:30PM
University College Dublin 


Grant competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH Dr. Claudia Kselman, Associate Director and Professor Patrick Murphy 

Travel and expenses up to $3, ooo 
Wednesday February 19, 1997 
Further information available from Prof. Michael Francis at the Hesburgh Center Room 3 12 
4:45P.M. 

126 Debartolo 

r-----------~------~-------------------------------------~~----~--------~--------------­








VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, February 18, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Accent Editor ........................... ]oey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
Business Manager Matt Casey 

Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily rd1ecr rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Photo Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-53I3  
631-454I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
63I-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
63I-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewppint.1@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• THE MIGHTY OAK 
'Trials of Life' not just a Time/Life video series 
As I came over the sodden ridges, my step springy where rock lay beneath a thin veneer of turf but perilous where the solid ran deep, what I saw was unexpected and disturbing, although in retrospect probably not uncommon. Nonetheless, it gripped my thoughts for some time and touched me with the stark reality of life and death. 

Sean O'Connor 
I was climbing an Irish hill on the Iveragh Peninsula, in that mountain country of bog and moor in Ireland's west where the wind is wet and relent­less. Within sight of the water with the stinging mist in my face, I went steadily upward until I crossed the spine of one of the mountain's twisting buttresses. And then the distant grey sea dropped out of view and the wind was cut, for I had entered a wet dell. Winding my way through the bog, stepping where rock was exposed near at hand to lessen my chance of breaking through, I wandered about for a while in the lee of the ridge. A few ravens drifted high above, utter­ing their unlovely call on occasion as I walked among the heathers festooned with tufts of sheep's wool. 
I had no particular purpose in being at that particular place at that time. We were on vacation and staying in the little town at the mountain's seaward foot. Restlessness had taken hold of me and I had simply started walking up, following no particular trail other than the one natural to the lay of the land. And an hour's steep walk had brought me to this bowl and given me respite from the wind, so I lingered there. 
A low course of rock ran down the middle of the little glen, dividing the quagmire into two watery troughs of peat. I skirted the firmer ground on the slopes of the sides of the glen, probably for 45 minutes, glancing about at noth­ing in particular, warming to the still air with no company but for the high-cir­cling ravens. I passed the same spots over and again, but always from the same angle, as I discovered I had fallen into a circular pattern of movement, fit­ting order to my randomness. 
I paused where I judged entry had been gained to the confusing little valley and looked for something different that I had not yet seen. Across the trough, a pair of toothy crags of limestone rose out of the dividing ridge, demarcating a narrow cutting between them. Winding my way through the valley-floor bog, I reached the solidity of the rock and the cutting. This path was frequented by sheep, if scat and a trampled rut can speak to their passing. 
Now these western mountains are salted with the white, sturdy frames of semi-feral sheep. They crop the turf low, unfenced and wise to the mountain, insulated from the constant wet by dirty wool. Amid all the somber tones of the mountains, their marking spots, garish brands of red and blue paint on the rump or side, stand out in almost comi­cal contrast. They are wary to the pass­ing walker, affording him little time to approach before they shy off out of reach. But I had seen none of their kind in my walk, only birds. 
Coming through the cutting, I.turned a hairpin and looked out over the other trough, through which I had passed already on the far bank. A raven alit suddenly from the glen floor with a strangled croak, startled and startling, and flapped up past me until he caught the wind and jetted a short track across the dell to a rock outcrop on the far bank. There he perched, shifting his feet restlessly and with a cocked head, gave me a fierce glare as if I had stolen his dinner. And in a way, I had. 
I was unnerved at his closeness; all of the other ravens had seemed very shy of me but this one purposely lingered on the edge of the dell, not a hundred yards distant. He wanted something and I was his adversary. My eyes left him and scanned down the length of the trough. 

As they processed the scene, adjusting to detail and composing a whole, my unease slowly grew. In the midst of the dell, something had broken the bog sur­face. A large pool of fetid brown water had overtopped the sphagnum and welled out from the heart of the distur­bance, but in the middle, something stood out, a contorted something. Recognition crept over me, and with it came horror. In the middle of the pool, though the semblance was whittled away, was a twisted ewe. 
The hapless thing had foundered and become mired in the bog. I made my way down to the edge of the squelching mat, as close as I could without joining that ewe, the ground shuddering under my approach. And there I stood trans­fixed by the horrid thing for a long while. 
Her frame was spindly and wracked with starvation. Only the head and neck and the gaunt, knobby ridge of the back rose above the water. All strength had fled out of the neck and the head hung over to the right side at a weird, pathet­ic angle that spoke of almost total defeat. The face was drawn and matted with mucus and dried blood. Ravens had torn asunder the skyward-craning eye, leaving its drying entrails strung out of the socket and crusted into the hair of the cheek. 
Her breath came shallow but in loud rasps that resonated impending death. Indeed, she was beyond repair and maybe as close to death as possible. Nonetheless, she sensed my approach and gave a few feeble shudders, the last movement left in her, before once again going slack. Her case was hopeless. 
I crouched for awhile in the still air beside the pool. The valley walls dead­ened the lashing wind, leaving only the rasp of the ewe, the sound of my own breath, and the occasional harsh caw of the patient raven. I wondered what had befallen this ewe, if she had forgotten the treachery of the mountain pools, been deceived by the flowering heathers into believing the ruse of solid ground, broke tradition and strayed from the well-worn path I had seen in the cutting. 
She had made a mistake in her harsh life where there was no room for one and was suffering the slow death. I could do nothing for her; she could not be wrenched free, even if freedom could have saved her. A stone hurled across the pool might crush her skull and end it, but that was a gamble that might bring her more pain. Regardless, I could not bring myself to do this. So I did noth­ing and watched her die for a few min­utes; I fancied her breath got shorter while I waited. 
The sun was beginning to fire the western clouds and I had an hour's walk to town, so I rose from that pool and its sheep. A coldness passed over me as I thought of the times I must have walked through that trough while I traced the circle, not noticing its secret, all the while the raven watching me from a hid­den perch and waiting to dart back in for a morsel. The raven was still wait­ing, eyeing me quizzically, as if in won­der that I did not either eat the dying beast or pass it by without a thought. The ewe belonged now to the raven and the mountain and the paint spot under the peat meant nothing. 
I left that still place of death and start­ed down at a brisk rate, perhaps hoping to walk the uneasiness out of my blood, reaching the pub in town at dusk. I told the lady behind the counter of my find, in case some farmer would like to know, but also to pass the responsibility for the dying ewe to someone else. And then I sat down and ate a hamburger for din­ner, and thought of the raven and the mountain. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GtmTE OF THE DAY 





ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, Febru.uy 18, 1997 


VDONet's VDOLive in a major push to make streaming video on the Web as popul
• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
streaming audio. Progressive Networks' chairman Rob Glaser says there are over 10m· users of RealAudio, and he sees them as the core audience for the new video offering. 
In conjunction with the RealVideo debut, Progressive Networks announced that Warner, ABC, C-SPAN, and others plan to use RealVideo to send news clips, music vi and live sports events across the Internet. Meanwhile, companies including CBS N
Get 'Real': 
MTV, PBS, and Preview Media are now using VDOLive video streaming software VDONet (www.vdo.net). Asaf Mohr, VDONet's chairman, says there are over 5 mi VDOLive clients to date. VDOLive works with 28.8-Kbps modems as a minimum re ment, but the technology works best with higher-bandwidth connections. Meanwl Microsoft's NetShow (www.microsoft.com/netshow/backgrd.htm) streaming video : ware, which uses a VDONet codec, is also a major player. NetShow is targeted primari
Videos on the Web 
corporate intranets and is shipping with many new computers. 
Business Video By JASON HUGGINS Because streaming video on the Web has been deployed mostly for entertainment-a1 World Wide Web Correspondent cations such as "multicasting" concerts and sports events, most people don't associatf 
technology with business applications. However, Microsoft is an investor in VDONet,i most one year ago, Web Site of the Week reviewed Internet audio software called both companies are very focused on the corporate intranet market for streaming \ RealAudio from Progressive Networks (www.prognet.com). This week Web Site will applications. 
e profiling Progressive Networks' newest creation-RealVideo. RealVideo software Among the intranet deployment scenarios that Microsoft cites for NetShow are o. is designed for video streaming over the Web, and Progressive Networks has announced training videos, event and briefing videos, and guided tours of products and workpl. that a pre-release version is available for free download . According to VDONet's Mohr, future products will likely combine VDONet's and Micro! 
RealVideo, which is designed to bypass the need for high-bandwidth Internet connections, streaming video technologies. is aimed squarely at owners of 28.8-Kbps modems. It joins Microsoft's NetShow and 

Haggar College Center harbors rich history and current concerns 
By AMY SHEPHERD Accent Writer 
F
rank Lloyd Wright once said, "The only art which endures is that which carries universal meaning." On June 1, 1941, ground for the Alumnae Centennial Library was broken at Saint Mary's College, and the Sisters of the Holy Cross realized the synthesis of alOO years worth of effort. They were about to solidify the pioneering spirit that had carried them from LeMans, France, to Indiana a century before, where they had nourished an academy of four into a college of well over 400. 
The new library-now Haggar College Center-was a gift from the Holy Cross Alumnae Association in commemoration of the College's centennial. It would also be a gift to ourselves, encom­passing the past and present as the essence of what is most vibrant about Saint Mary's. 
Arguably the most beautiful structure on campus, Haggar is the epitome of femininity and style. Designed in the French Provincial manner and reminiscent of the 17th-century French chateau, it punctuates the north bank of Lake Marion. Sister M. Madeleva, credited with the conception and planning of the new addition, enlisted architect Frederick Larson of Dartmouth to draft plans. Upon seeing the blueprints for the first time, Sister Madeleva said, "The building is just what I have dreamed of." 
Attesting to its birth in the midst of World War II, the structure itself went up in only a year. It officially opened in the summer of 1942, rivaling in sophistication its neighbor, LeMans Hall, and 
providing a rest-.---------------......,..-....,..,.,.,....,,....,.._ ___,,.........~.....,...--...,..,...--------, ing place for the alumnae book col­lection. The books had previously been moved five times and were stored in LeMans prior to the advent of Alumnae Centennial. 
By 1976, Alumnae Centennial Library was bursting at the seams and the school adminis­tration voted to build an entirely new library. The inclination of the founding Sisters 
were echoed in -...J.:.I!!.i..i..____...,______ 
this statement The Observer/Kim Michalik 
offered in Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's College remains a campus landmark, but students response to the are beginning to question its effective use as a student center. 
suggestion that Saint Mary's utilize Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library: "To suggest that we use Notre Dame's library because ours is inadequate is like telling one's wife to go next door to do her cooking because her own kitchen is inadequate." The administration, like its pre­decessors, meant to mold a new library in its own likeness. 
Haggar became Haggar in 1982, when the construction of Cushwa-Leighton Library was underway. Renovations to Alumnae Centennial were funded largely by the Haggar Foundation of Dallas, Texas. The basement bookstore in LeMans was transported to the new student center and dubbed the Shaheen Bookstore after the Eli J. Shaheen family, and a terrace was added to the back of the building. 
At the dedication dinner in September of 1983 current College President John Duggan addressed the student body: "Do what you must do, but beyond a wholesome discipline be gentle with yourselves. We now have a building named a College Center. Using it with care and creativity will make it worthy of that name." 
"This is all very well and good," says one of the franker mem­bers of Haggar College Center's community, Amy Hedley, "and Haggar does have a lot of potential and was obviously created to meet the students' needs. But a student union conducive to socializing is much needed on this campus. Perhaps if we cre­atively expanded the snack bar we could make Haggar more than just an errand area." 
This question of whether or not Haggar effectively meets stu­dent needs proves interesting, especially after a perusal of some of the documents preceding the renovation of Haggar in March of 1982. The College Center Committee Board issued Original Facilities and Services lists for the renovated library which include plans for such facilities as a 21 Club, coffee house, post office, music shop, typing rooms and overnight guest rooms. Today "we have a game room with no games and infamous class ring vendors who harass you if you even come close," says Hedley, who suggests the introduction of pool tables, a juke box, and a video store to Haggar. 
Junior Meaghan King would like to see "the post office moved there -it would be much more convenient" than its current location in Holy Cross Hall. Some students feel that Haggar is less a student center than a continued first floor of LeMans, an 
ty to bring us into the climate of the past. The Snack Bar was once a periodical room; that ketchup and plastic fork stand could have been where priceless issues of magazines and papers from the late 1800's were stacked. Berezny Game Room might have housed our famed Dante collection. 
The building's claustrophobic staircase once pounded daily with ghosts of us -hands palming books, fingers tracing the same walls, the same wood. Haggar endures as art because it has been continually molded and reinvented into the evolving likeness of Saint Mary's College. It carries universal meaning in that it has and should continue to solidify our pioneering spirit. our ability to change, and our willingness to make the buildings of our campus significant. 
"extension of the adminis­tration and offices," says Molly O'Rourke, also a junior. 
While some students complain about the unused space in Haggar, others are quick to point out it accessi­ble qualities. "The tunnel is great," praises sophomore Kate Strasburger. Dana Larvick, also a sophomore, says that "it's always nice to tan or read out on the bal­cony, and I like the fact that the travel agency and bank are in there." 
In addition to these services, Haggar also hous­es offices for The Observer and The Blue Mantle­Saint Mary's yearbook-on its third floor, as well as a darkroom and the student activities offices. 
But perhaps the most 

pervasive and accessible 
quality of Haggar is its 
sense of history, its capaci­
Just in time for 
~re 



andoth 
By MELANIE WATERS Assistant Accent Editor 
say that The Rules has very litt 
ng that Hitler wasn't all that nic 
massive understatement. I will w ceed, you should have a large barf bag gender. 
Men, it's fair to say that authors Ellen have envisioned such a hell on Earth ~ would be scared. A world in which rules govern the behavior of all wo whose sole goal in life is to get you 
to marry them, whether it be through honest love or a whole, big mess of sneaky, slimy tricks. Guess which way this book suggests? 
Before you make a call to arms and attack me for the views expressed in this piece of malevolent crap, let me assure you that there's a big differenc between treating your date to dinner Macri's and falling prey to the brai washing embraced by Fein a Schneider. Consider this review a pu service announcement, so that in ca. "Rules Girl" should ever cross your you can run. Quickly. Very far away. 

It starts off innocently enough, preyi one of the most virtuous of feminine jealousy. Apparently someone forgot ward me a copy in my youth, or I wou realized that because of my name, I tined to be an annoying, man-grubbing queen. 
"We think [The Rules) began circa Melanie's grandmother," they write, r a female friend, who "had a way o around men that put prom queens to s hasn't met a Melanie? Haven't w women who seemed to be expe men? ... Melanics simply feel good about they can take or leave men -which rna to have them ...Melanies always get theii Great. So millions of women are no tie name, all because of some fruitcak be an "elusive butterfly" around men. were not interested in having girlfrien 1 read on for more of the authors' stun Before we even get to Rule #1, we will help you catch and keep a man. fashionable, sexy clothes in bright co Remember that you're dressing for me 
I examined my closet, which was and jeans. Apparently the authors fail "Rules Girls" who live in Arctic tempe borrow their boyfriends' favorite clot miserable existence some other way. without wearing makeup. Put lipstic ging!" Considering the massive effort exercise, I doubt Estee Lauder could h 
And get this: to get the man of your tainly are encouraged to fix up that d nose, get a nose job; ... grow your hai something to play with and caress." "Don't tell sarcastic jokes. Don't be a cally funny girl." Snorting would mo was disheartened. 
With "wear black sheer pantyhose 

ACCENT

T uesJ.ty, february 18, 1997 page 9 

ate Week ... 
king 'The 1\y{es' er re{ationship reac{s 
entice the opposite sex!" as a lead-in, we are introduced to the actual Rules. First and foremost, they write, is to "Be a 'Creature Unlike Any Other,"' which means that "On a date, you never show 
literary merit is like say­that getting married is foremost on your mind." . We're talking big, huge, Rule #1 also includes this handy guide to hair-tossing: "When you that before we pro­your hair falls in front of your face, you tilt your head back and nearby, regardless of your comb back your hair with your hand from the top of your head in a slow, sweeping motion." Your date will either be sexually swept off his feet, or will think you have head lice. Rule #3: "Don't Stare at Men or Talk Too "­Much." "On the date itself, be quiet and reserved. He'll wonder what you're thinking, if you like him, and if he's making a good impres­sion," or will think you were dropped on your head as a baby and are a few bricks shy of a wall. Rule#4 will just thrill all my male readers: "Don't Meet Him Halfway or Go Dutch on a Date." "Men love a challenge -that's why they play sports, fight wars, and raid cor­porations.. The worst thing you can do is make it easy," write the authors. But don't worry, guys. They happily explain that "love is easy when the man pursues the woman and pays for the woman most of the time. He feels that the money he spends ...is the price of being with you and it's worth every penny." Here's another winner: Rule #5 commands women: "Don't Call Him and Rarely Return His Calls." Ah, 
e 
yes, nothing like being an inconsid­" erate brat to make him fall head hb,,tflrYlt'9J ~ver hee!.s. Other laughable rules 
1

tar, ,y}~ .....•at mclude Always End Phone Calls 
.. tYJ _~-j~f First" (use a timer for 10 min­
f 
(_.l 'V.. utes) and "Don't Accept at 
0 1 Saturday Night Date After Wednesday," in which case most of the world would never go out, ever. There are 35 such gems as these, and if you can believe 
it, they get more disgusting as they go. Fein and Schneider instruct man." women how to parrot their words in order to present a "perfect"trained to hate my poor lit­facade to attract men, even if it means changing who you are. whose grandma told her to "Don't overwhelm him with your career triumphs," they warn. "Try
Last time I checked, men to let him shine." who resembled insects, yet But the irony is that most of their "advice" is part of a grandioseinsight. ploy to manipulate and trick men into saying the mother of all told, "Self-improvement phrases: "I love you." "Remember...it's just for the first few Men like women who wear months ... until he says he's in love with you," they write. "In gener­rs. Why not please them? al...when a man loves you he just wants to give you things." I think , not other women." Hallmark just dumped that holiday on us, didn't they? Money can't 1ursting with comfy flannels buy you love, and The Rules can't force it upon an unsuspecting ~d to consider their would-be 
man. ratures or who would rather The Rules are ridiculous, but they're not alone. Check out these es. Maybe I could save my other "expert" guides to dating:read, "Don't leave the house The Code, by Nate Penn and Lawrence LaRose. A man 's-eye-view : on even when you go jog­of The Rules, and how to get around them while only using love in need just to get motivated to the context offood and professional sports. 
p. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Dating, by Dr. Judy Kuriansky, host ·earns, ladies, you most cer­of the popular (and bizarre) radio show "Love Phones," $16.95. ·n face! "If you have a bad MTV's "Singled Out" Guide to Dating, by J.D. Heiman and Lynn ong. Men prefer long hair, Harris. Yes, the bimb ... er, I mean hostess Jenny McCarthy is pic­And my personal favorite, tured. A lot. Ladies, get out those barfbags, $15. oud, knee-slapping, hysteri-And if all else fails, Exorcising Your Ex, by Elizabeth Kuster. Not 
likely be frowned upon. I literally. But you can always hope, $11.00 
and hike up your skirt to 
r as RealVideo vs. VDOLive llion VDONet has consistently staked out the high-end ground in streaming video. For example, 
U.S. Robotics is working with VDONet to create video streaming sites based on U.S. ime Robotics' proprietary 56-Kbps modem technology. VDONet chairman Mohr says his compa­eos, ny's focus on high-bandwidth connections differentiates VDOLive from Progressive 
ews, Networks' RealVideo. "Progressive Networks is doing video streaming for low bit rates and rom specifically dial-up rates," says VDONet's Mohr. "With higher bandwidth pipes, you won't Ilion benefit in terms of picture quality from the Progressive Networks' offering, while our f1ire-streaming video solution is bandwidth independent. Thus, the video content is not low-qual­1ile, ity and prone to eventual obsolescence. Producers of video content care about that." 
oft­Still, Progressive Networks' RealVideo offering has attracted attention for using buffering 
y at technology to work smoothly with a core audience of lower-bandwidth 8.8-Kbps connec­tions. The company expects the low-bandwidth requirements and large installed base of Rea!Audio users to give streaming video on the Web a boost. VDONet's Mohr disagrees with the low-bandwidth emphasis. Explains Mohr, "It means producers have to produce content 
pli­three times instead of once for a bandwidth-independent solution." 
the Even though opportunities to avoid doing real work are bountiful on the Internet, compa­and nies like Progressive Networks, VDO, and Microsoft are doing everything in their power to ~eo melt together the time-sucking abilities of both the television and the Internet with the goal 
of creating even greater opportunities. Have fun, but make sure you do your homework ine first. ,:es. ft's Jason Huggins is a junior Management Information Systems major from Thousand Oaks, CA. 


ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Earn up EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS Must sell. 1988 Mercury Tracer. ADOPTION: Sarah Mclachlan turns me on. to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries, Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo, 5-speed. $850.00 or best offer. Corporate Executive & homemaker 
NOTICES 

parks, resorts. Airfare! etc. teaching simple conversational Looks good! 257-7872. can offer newborn a wonderful life JPW: Now I know where Shannon 
Food/Lodging! Get all the options. English. No languages/teaching filled with warmth, security, endless Dunne gets her good looks. SPRING BREAK Call exp. required. GENESIS w/ 2 6-button ctrlrs, 9 love, education & a bright future. PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA (919)918·7767, ext.A154. (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. top games. $150. 1-4639. Confidential. Mark Jenifer-SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH & Candace 1-888-811-1141 Good to know you kept your shirt RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR FEMALE AND MALE CAMP EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP­on.

TICKETS
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT COUNSELORS needed for out­MENT CENTER BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE standing Maine camps! CAMP The Early Childhood Development STEPAN CENTER FROM Bandeja-TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR Center at Notre Dame (18680 Bulla 6:00-8:00PM. WE WILL BE 1'11 keep it clean since your Mom's in BIGGEST PARTY. for boys. Each located on magnifi­Road) is currently accepting appli­Need two GAs for Men's BB Game REVIEWING THE DANCES WE town. FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 cent lakefront setting with excep­cations for an Assistant Teacher to Saturday, Feb 22 vs. Providence. HAVE LEARNED THE PAST 4 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM tional facilities. Over 100 positions work with 3 to 6 year old children. Call Shirley@ 631-7471 before WEEKS. ALL ARE WELCOME! Joules-
at each camp for heads and assis­The hours for this position are 3PM or 272-3753 after 4. $3 FOR NON-MEMBERS. Why didn't you TELL me you were THE COPY SHOP tants in tennis, basketball, baseball, 11 :OOa.m.-6:00p.m (or possibly in Cooperstown? That puts you in LaFortune Student Center volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf, 1 :15·6:00p.m.), Monday through Top 10 Memories from Cleveland the same class as Seaver,

PERSONAL
Phone 631-COPY field hockey, roller hockey, swim­Friday from February 24 through 10. Tom's Wall of Thongs DiMaggio, Cobb, and Gehrig, Mon.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba, May 16, 1997 with a possiblity of 9. Who puked? among others. Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight water-skiing, archery, weight train­extending beyond May 16. If you JAZZERCISE 8. "We'll have the room fumigated." Wed.: 7:30 a.m. • Midnight ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho· are interested in applying for this Very close to campus 7. Trudy Mia-Thur.: 7:30a.m. ·Midnight tography, ceramics, crafts, drama, poisiton , please call Terri Kosik or 277-0111 6. I think that was a gay bar lt's not the same as a column, but Fri.: 7:30a.m. • 7:00 p.m. dance Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 for 5. Did you pinch me last night? I'll let everyone know right here that 
Sat.: Noon -6:00 p.m. (jazz, tap, ballet), nature study, more information and an applica· 4. No Moleste WE ARE NOT DATING! Even Sun.: Noon -Midnight backpacking, horseback riding, tion. Electrolysis by Rebecca 3. I'm not wearing the wig tonight though tt so often appears that way. Open Early, Late, & Weekends ropes course, trip leaders, mountain Blend Method 674-6933 2. What a great city! 
biking, riflery, general (w/youngest SPRING OUTDOOR EDUCATION 1. Public Gardens?! Isn't that in 
campers). Also looking for secre­INSTRUCTORS NEEDED BEGIN­FAX IT FAST!!! Milwaukee? Heather, MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp NING MARCH 17th. $145 PER Sending & Receiving Ladies, see you in Milwaukee! The clam chowder is good. You OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL dates approx. June 21·Aug 21. Top WEEK INCLUDING ROOM AND at should try it. GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL. salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­BOARD. CALL 616 244 5125 THE COPY SHOP I must add that that was a different CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO. ing, and travel allowance. MEN· LaFortune Student Center Cleveland trip than the one I went 
CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 onI! Has anyone ever noticed the toliet 

FOR RENT

Beacon Street, Brookling, MA FAX IT FAST!!! paper differential? I mean-the toli­
•••ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO 02146, ccedarme@aol.com, 1-888· ND ski team-congrats on Phat et paper in Debartolo, where only CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET 844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA, Homes for Rent tor 97-98 Is your band ready? Rent a full­wekend. We are not just there to students go, I sucks. If you hold it up FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332, ADT Security 232-2595 production studio at $100 a day. I'll ski, its all about Disco and cheese to the light, you can actually see 
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, jobs@campvega.com, http://cam· Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 curls! B-cup is still ours through it even though it feels like CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE P.S. Where's the breadstick lady? sandpaper. Now, go to the bath­DA. 1·800·838-8203 WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME 
AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM room in the Dome or on the third CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR Is your band ready? Rent a full­Man, she just don't know! floor of LaFortune and feel and see LaFortune Student Center, Dooley CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES I'll
production studio at $100 a day. the difference ..... Ah, the comfort of Free Newsletter: "What would Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO 272-6551 Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736 ••••••••••wANTED••••..••.. having an office near the Student JESUS do?" available from Lonnie APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.
-
Friends, relatives, acquaintances, Activities office ..... Nord, 2233 Adams, Lorain, Ohio BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
lovers (current or ex),babysitters of 
44052 Campus Manager: $1 ,500-$5K pit 219-291-7153 FAX 1185 You play Irish Music? Sesuns at the following people: JAMES Dear Secret Admirers, fit Student Advantages seeks indi­Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka. ARABASZ-LAURA DINARDO­
Thanks for the valentine!! vidual to develop local area. POTATO HOUSE· 8-BDRM-FOR 256-9041. Musicians welcome. JANESSA FITZGERALD-MIKE
ILOST & FOUND I 
Sales/mktg a plus. For more info go NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097. HAARLANDER-KRISTINE 
Dear Derek, to our web site at 
ATTN SENIORS!! HOWARD-BILL MCNAMARA­Hope you had a happy VD. Don't If anyone found a blue Notre Dame www.studentadvantage.com 
ROB SUDDUTH-ANNALOU say I never gave you anything .... book bag outside of 305 DeBartolo or call 800-333-2920 NICE FURNISHED HOMES FOR TICKETS ARE NOW ON SALE @ 
TIROL-to come and watch them Hall between 12:30 and 1 :30 NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF 
LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR make grand fools of themselves in Monday afternoon, please contact MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS! ND 2773097 THE BLACKHAWKS V. STARS the ridiculously sexy 
FOUR MORE ISSUES UNTIL I Joe at x2088. ColorWorks is currently recruiting 
HOCKEY GAME. "LIE, CHEAT AND GENUFLECT' HAVE MY LIFE BACK!!!!!! on campus for a limited number of Need a townhouse this summer? FEB. 25TH TICKETS ARE $20 feb. 20-22 7:30pm wash. hall WANTED summer '97 management positions. We need to sublet ours! Call us at GAME STARTS@ 7:30PM •complete strangers & domestic Then you can put all the stupid Gain hands on experience in man­273-9829! 
SPOTS ARE LIMITED!! animals welcome• fillers in Spanish you want .... but aging a business in your hometown. 
don't test me. Before spring break Opportunities available in SOUTH 
Adoption: A very loving, financially and I'll move back in. I swear. SUMMER JOBS BEND, ELKHART, FOR SALE 
Farley Hall Players Presents secure, well educated young cou­ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and 
ANTIGONE ple, long to adopt your newborn. Wuz up foolios. Cnote was kickin it PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS other areas. Summer earnings $7-Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­Wed Feb. 19, Thur Feb 20 
Close and caring extended family. fresh style but now he has someADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS $9,000. To speak to a campus rep­um mattress set. Never used still in 8 pm LaFortune Ballroom We offer a special life for your child. mad issues because he's running NEAR LAKE PLACID resentative call package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. 
Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & out of things to say. Happy late 1-800· 786-8373 1·800-477-1001. 
(219) 674-2352 Soup is good for you .... Joe 1-800-378-6680. Bday SpeciaiK. I'm Outtie five. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SMC BASKETBAlL 
Banko shining star for Belles 
By SARAH CORKREAN Sports Writer  very inspirational in every as­pect of her life at Saint Mary's.  "He definitely will be an asset to the team in the future as he  

 Seeing what a driven and calm  develops the Saint Mary's pro­ 
Balancing academics with  person she is makes us younger  gram," Banko noted.  
athletics is a hurdle all student  players set the same goals and  Banko had not thought that  
athletes must clear.  Factor in  live by the ideals Marianne  the transition from high school  
athletic council meetings, se­nior captain, creating campus­ does." Leading the Belles' team in  in New Jersey to a Division III league would be as difficult as  
wide news letters, and a rigor­ous elementary education ma­ pep talks before games and practices, Banko has lived by  it has been. "College is a  melting pot of  
jor curriculum, and you have a  her words.  This has helped to  high school stars and you have  
schedule that few student ath­ reach goals like breaking the  to work twice  as hard," said  
letes could juggle. For Saint Mary's senior Marianne Banko, this is just a list of her daily events. One has to wonder how she keeps her­ Saint Mary's team record for most points in one game with 37. As a first year starter this season, Banko has averaged 16 points per game and is the  Banko. The Belles' star even finds a driving force to improve her performance in the laughter she sometimes receives from  
self organized and motivated. Serving the Belles' basketball  team scoring leader. "With a new coach this sea­ the crowds at being announced before games as a 5'6" starting  
squad this year as the team captain, Banko finds that her  son, my goal was to start every game," said Banko. "The team  center. "Whatever role I'm asked to  
-­ greatest challenge is being a good communicator both on  depends on my offense, but I want to be more consistent with  play, I just get in there and try to get it done," she said.  
and off the floor.  This includes  my defense as the season pro­ As a senior, Banko has been  
communication with both her  gresses."  especially encouraged by the  
teammates  and the  Belles'  Perhaps the biggest challenge  increased attendance at Saint  
coaching staff. Banko often finds herself as­ for the Belles' squad has been adjusting to new head coach  Mary's home games. As president of the Saint  
sisting younger players not only  David Roeder.  Roeder replaced  Mary's Athletic Council, Banko  
with pointers about basketball,  long-time coach Marvin Woods,  reports directly to Student Body  
but also with suggestions con­ who retired after last season.  President Jen Turbiak about  
cerning academic course work  Banko appreciated the new  what needs to be done to im­ 
and study habits.  For any  life Roeder brought to the team.  prove awareness and student  
aspiring young member on the  According  to  the  captain,  attendance at the games.  This  
Belles' squad, Banko is the per­ Roeder shows a great desire to  year Banko and her teammates  
fect role model.  intermingle with the athletes  have been successful in pro­ 
"You couldn't find  a better­ off the court and in the dining  moting the Belles by hanging  
disciplined leader on this squad  hall.  Banko believes that this  team photos and schedules  
than  Marianne," said sopho­ has produced a good coach­ around campus and in the com­ 
more Megan Schiller.  "She is  player relationship.  munity.  

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Tuesday, February 18, 1997 

~Tuesda~y, 1997 Obs~erver·~PAID~ADVE~RT~ISEM.:..::..:::::..ENT~-----------'p:........=:.___age -...-.
Febr~uary18~,__~T~he 11 

The Hammes 







NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus " Open Monday-Saturday 9am-5 pm 
... 
-! 

~---··--~-~ -----­
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
Following today's final weigh­Kmetz, Mike Debiasi, Brian 
in, the boxer can spend the Rans, Lucas Mollina and Fred
Bouts 
continued from page 16 

far, there hasn't been anything out of the ordinary this year." 
Shedding the "water" weight is one of the many benefits the boxers attain from their final workouts before stepping on the scales. 
"Some people wear sweats and try to take the weight off that way," said officer Mike Mantey. "Guys will go to the bathroom, run on the treadmill or just about anything right up until they step on the scale." 
next five days altering his weight in any way or direction he feels best. Some will wish to maintain what they tipped the scale at, while others may opt to "bulk up" in the time leading up to their first fight. 
"We recommend that people take it easy the last few days before their fight," said Mantey. "After Wednesday, they should avoid any serious bag work or sparring. It's more of a time to think and take care of the men­tal part of boxing." 
Christoforetti and Mantey along with fellow officers John Kelly are instrumental in de­termining the weight classes. They give insight and make rec­ommendations to coaches Tom Suddes, Terry Johnson, Pat Farrell and Charles Rice, who have the final say. 

"The coaches and a couple of us (the officers) will sit down and rank the boxers according to experience and how they've sparred," said Christoforetti. "We design it so that we can avoid mismatches. The top two or four boxers will not fight each other until the finals or semifinals." 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Opening night of the 67th annual Bengal Bouts will take place on Sunday night at the Joyce Center. 
Attention Juniors 
Preparing to t!lpply for £aw School 

Tuesday, February 18 
6:00 p.m. -120 Law School 
Presented by Dean Dnk 
Notre Dame Law School 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society 
• 
This ad was designed and submitted by Tara Thomas of St. Mary's College. 
..Come in from the side and..... 
Panini is Italian for Sandwiches... 
these unique Pressed sandwiches are served hot and l!rilled with Your favorite inl!redients. 
Where did Panini Ori~inate? 
In ItalY. Panini have been afavorite in EuroPean restaurants. delis and coffee shoPs. 
Do i Have to FlY to Italy to TrY One? 
No! You maY have one ril!ht here at Your favorite Martin's Store! 
~----------­


The Observer • SPORTS 




Pirates 
continued from page 16 
percent from and the field and beyond the arc and 77 percent from the charity stripe. 
The Irish beat Seton Hall last time with four players in dou­ble-digits and will need to find a scoring balance that at times has been inconsistent. While Garrity continues to sparkle, Matt Gotsch and White must continue their inspired play if the Irish are to bounce back and not experience deja vu twice. 
INJURY UPDATE: Forward Gary Bell will not dress for tonight's game after injuring his left ACL last time out. Bell will be evaluated when the team returns to school. Once thought to be a season-ending injury, Bell's left knee may now not require surgery. 
"Initially they said ACL, but I'm not so sure it's as serious as perceived when he went down," MacLeod said. "He doesn't have the swelling that usually is associated with that type of injury." 


Large Hand· Tossed Cheese Pizzas 
Tc::»ppin~g~ -lu~t $1.00 Eca.c::h 
CALL



oble,.
omms 277-5300 
DINE-IN, CARRY-OUT, DELIVERY

THE BffiER PIZZA PEOPLE.. 
A Crust That•s Crisp On The Outside, But Soft On The Inside With That Great Made From Scratch Flavor! 
Return To Your Favorite! 

The OriginalHand-Tossed Pizza 

-

----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
-• TRACK AND FlEW 
Improvement apparent at Big East championships 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
Both of Notre Dame's indoor track teams improved over last year's performances at the Big East championships, with the men placing second and the women in sixth. 
The men's team took the meet by storm, barely losing out to Connecticut by the score of 128-124. Both teams jostled for the crown on Sunday, the final day of the competition, with the Huskies taking control after the high jump event. 
The women placed sixth over­all, a stark improvement over last year's 13th place finish. 
"I thought that they per­formed real well," said wom­en's coach Tim Connelly. "Last year we were 13th, and this year we were six. It was a great improvement. It was good that we scored in different areas -jumps, sprints, field events. The kids stepped it up real well." 
Jeff Hojnacki repeated as Big East champion in the 1,000 meters. His time of 2:26.6 was a half-second improvement over last year's time and the ninth-best in Notre Dame his­tory. 
On Sunday, the meet became very interesting after the Irish swept the first two positions in the pole vault. Dave Gerrity and Mike Brown each posted jumps of 16-2 3/4, and gave the Irish a five point edge in the overall standings. 
The final two events of the meet proved to be Notre Dame's Achilles' heel. The Huskies took an insurmount­able lead after posting first and third-place finishes in the high jump. Notre Dame's third place finish in the 4x400 meter relay was not enough to erase Connecticut's nine-point advan­tage that it had going into the relay. The Huskies finished the event in eighth place. 
Aiding the Irish cause, was a collection of old and new faces. Junior Errol Williams had a fourth place finish in the 200­meter dash and fifth-place in the 55-meter hurdles. 
The newest name on the track was cornerback Allen Rossum. Rossum, who had not competed for the Irish track team in two years, matched his career best in the 55 meters with a time of 6.23. His time was good enough for only sec­ond place as he was edged out by .03 seconds. 
For the women, freshman Dominque Calloway received her first taste of Big East com­petition It was a bitter taste. 
Calloway was edged out in the 55-meter hurdles by .03 second, by Yolanda McCray from Miami. Calloway posted a time of 7.75 seconds. She also competed in the 200-meter dash, finishing in third place. 
Classmate Jennifer Engelhardt and sophomore Kelle Saxon finished two and three in the high jump, each clearing 5-8. 
"I don't want to speak for Coach (Scott) Winsor Uumps 

•NHl 

Richter, Brodeur stand out in 2-2 tie 
Associated Press Brian Noonan tied it 2-2 at 4:29, converting a Gretzky pass NEW YORK for his eighth goal. 
New Jersey goaltender Martin After Noonan's goal, both Brodeur made 30 saves in a 2-2 goaltenders made game-savingtie with the New York Rangers stops. Monday, extending his unbeat­en streak to 12 games and the Devils' unbeaten streak to 11 games, the longest in team his­tory. 
Wayne Gretzky's goal-scoring drought reached 20 games, the longest of his career, but he assisted on both Rangers goals. 
Brodeur's record over the past 12 games is 8-0-4, while the Devils' record in their last 
1 

11 is 6-0-5. 
The Rangers' Mike Richter also was superb in goal, making 38 saves. 
New Jersey took a 2-1 lead at 
2:45 of the third period when Valeri Zelepukin's screened shot from the left faceoff circle beat Richter for his ninth goal of the season. 
coach), but Jenny's a really tal­ented kid," said Connelly of the high jumper who has quietly had a good season. "The key for her is to become consis­tent." 
The usual suspects continued to generate points for the women. Senior Alison Howard finished in seventh place in the 55-meters and took third in the 400-meters. Sophomore Nadia Schmiedt placed sixth the 500­meters. Freshman Emily Bienko placed fourth in the shot put. Her throw of 43-2 1/2 was her season high. 
The weekend, however, be­longed to the men. Junior Mike Conway finished third in the mile run, while sophomores Bobby Brown and Chris Cochran posted fifth and sixth place finishes, respectively, in the 400-meters. Jason Rexing and Derek Seiling placed sec­ond and fifth in the 3,000 me­ters. 

Coming off a strong perfor­mance at the Big East champi­onships, the Irish will host the Alex Wilson Invitational this weekend at Loftus. 
ATTENTION PRE-PROFESSIONAL SOCIETY MEMBERS!!! 

FEB. 18TH, 6:30-8:00 pm in 127 NSH Join us for adiscussion concerning 
Med-Schoollife followed by a brief question and answer session with several 2nd year Medical Students 
Elections for the 1997-1998 
officers will also be held!!! 
SEE YOU ALL THERE! 
It•s Ga•••e Ti...e ... 

Go Irish! 

Notre Dame .......,;;/!··· v s •'}>;.;......__ 
Villanova 
'·'"~t~@wr 

7:00p.m. 

Joyce Center 
(Students FREE with ID) 
----·­

Tuesday, February 18, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Rushes (along) 5Amassed 
10 They cover 
Highland heads 14 Neglect 15 Mes numero 
uno 1& "In a cowslip's bell-": "The Tempest" 17 One nourished by daydreams? 19 Rotten to the 
20 One of "Them!" things 21 Author O'Brien 22 Ready for framing 24 Genealogical chart 25 New Rochelle college 
SCOTT ADAMS 

r---~~~~=--.0~~~~~~~~ 
2 > 
§ BUT I Cf>.N'T PRY ~ ~ M'1'5ELf AWA.'< FROt'\ ~ 11-\15 t'\05T ~ EXCELLENT BUT\­
,_ 
8 WAR.MlNG OEYICL. 
u  
"'  
52 Dallas school,  
for short  
55 Strip of wood  
56 One fond of  
dining on  
tongue?  
59 Florence's river  
60 Destroy  
61 Motion  
supporters  
62 High schooler's  
test, briefly  
63 Went out with  
64 Key letter  
DOWN  
1 "J'accuse"  
author  
2 Springsteen's  
"--Fire"  
3 English P.M.  
called "The  
Great  
Commoner"  
4 Alphabet trio  
s Carolina river  
6 More ridiculous  
7 "I--Song Go  
Out of My Heart" 8 Before, to a poet 9 Member of  26 Not at all 27 Heavens: Prefix 28 Tableware 29 --cuisine  43 Boiling mad 44 "Tao Te Ching" author 45Quieted  51 Layer 52 Hebrides island 53 Make the  
Alice's tea party 10 Popular breath  30 Presbyter 31 Deli loaves  aPart of an envelope  acquaintance of 54 Twinkling bear  
mint  32 Election  4!1Auricles  57 Man-mouse link  
11 Loads  numbers: Abbr.  seLab burner  58 Taxi 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3&Sucked up 13 Burpee's bit 37 Statutes 38 Its eye is nee~.ed Ar1Swers to any three clues in this puzzle Bosnians tn a Macbeth are available by touch-tone phone: rec1pe 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). Lindbergh 40 Slight Annual subscriptions are available for the advantage best of Sunday crosswords from the last 25 Clothes presser 41 Sophia's Carlo 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 



Men's IH Lacrosse 
26 One who counts calories? 32 Perspiration 
perforations 33 Alternative to a watering can 
34 Khan married to Rita Hayworth 35 Detective Charlie 
36 Dress style 38 Classic art subject 

39 Elephant's weight, maybe 40 Israeli Abba 41 "For--sake!" 42 One with a high-iron diet? 46 Hollywood giants? 47 Jemima. for one 48 Farm trough 51--.45 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Working at a deliberate pace will produce top-quality results. Resist the impulse to flit from one project to another. Your personal happiness is linked to greater give-and-take in a romantic relationship. By midsum­mer, economic trends will work to your advantage. One good job could lead to an even better position. Friends share valuable ideas. Re­spond immediately to an urgent message from someone who lives or works abroad. Travel is favored. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: basketball great Michael Jordan, contralto Marian Anderson, actor Lou Diamond Phillips, mystery author Margaret Truman. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): When creative thoughts flash through your mind, jot them down for future reference. Your charisma and popularity are at an all-time high. Short business trips can be very profitable. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You continue to be in an analytical frame· of mind. If the unexpected occurs, rise to the occasion. An investment suggestion has real merit. Confirm a hunch by consult­ing financial experts. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Discuss your original concepts with 
people in high places. Your gift for 
self-expression receives new atten­
tion. Play your cards close to your 
vest to avoid alerting your rivals. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Private talks prove more effective 
than public pronouncements. 
Behind-the-scenes allies provide 
you with interesting bits of news. 
Buy a loved one a token of your 
affection. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An ideal 
day to institute minor reforms. A sympathetic approach will help you get your way. Refuse to be talked into a risky financial venture. Your romantic feelings will be reciprocat­ed before long. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Set­tle back and let friends call you for a change. If you are not in the mood to socialize, stay home. Reading a book triggers a money-making idea. Favorable financial developments are a certainty. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may feel like splurging now. Curb a tendency to buy things on impulse. A conservative wait-and-see ap­proach will help stabilize an em­ployment situation. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A shared interest in religion, meta­physics or ESP draws you and a newcomer together. Realize that not all of your loved ones will approve of this alliance. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A period of self-analysis will prompt you to make overdue changes. Set a limit on certain indul­gences. Refuse to admit defeat until you have exhausted all your options. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): A clash of wills could arise at 
work or home. Avoid being overly 
generous with your cash or time. 
The emphasis now is on completing 
projects already in progress. Tie up 
any loose ends. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Your optimistic outlook and quick re­
action time will delight those in high 
places. You know just what to say to 
important people. An attractive new 
acquaintance could motivate you to 
expand your social horirons. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Making practical decisions and han­
dling everyday tasks is your forte. 
Hold private talks with people who 
can help you do your job better. A 
brilliant marketing strategy pays off. 


-.. 
.< 
-..C.. 
----~------­

SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, February 18, 1997 
• BENGAL BOUTS 
Weigh-ins mark official opening of Bengal Bouts 

By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Spans Editor 
The last time the Notre Dame men's basketball team dropped a close game, the next game wasn't so close. 
After losing in the final seconds at West Virginia three weeks ago, the Irish suffered their worst defeat of the season the next night in a 24 point blowout to Pittsburgh. 
Now. the Irish find themselves in a similar situ­ation after taking Villanova down to the wire Sunday before losing 75-70. Guarding against a letdown will be a major factor in tonight's con­test with Big East cellar dweller Seton Hall. 
The Irish (12-10, 6-8) will also have to elevate their guarding ability to be victorious. Against Villanova, Notre Dame had several opportunities to pull ahead of the Wildcats but were unable to make any crucial defensive stops. 
In their previous meeting, the Irish were able to stop the Seton Hall frontcourt as part of an 86­72 victory. The Pirate starting three of Bayonne Taty, Duane Jordan, and Kelland Payton resem­bled the Three Stooges, scoring only 14 points between them. 
Keeping frontcourt scoring to a minimum will be important mainly because of Seton Hall's two other starters. 
The Irish defense will be tested against the speedy backcourt duo of Shaheen Holloway and Levell Sanders. Holloway is currently averaging 
17.6 points per game and managed a double­double last time against Notre Dame. Sanders ranks second on the team in scoring with 15.2 per contest.. 
With that in mind. Admore White and Pete Miller must be ready for the speed problem Holloway and Sanders pose. Heserve guard Antoni Wyche might also see more time due to his quickness and solid play off the bench. 
Seton Hall dropped to 3-11 in the conference after a 7 4-57 loss to Boston College on Sunday. The Pirates shot a tepid 35 percent from the field during the rout. 
Playing the worst team in the Big East provides the perfect opportunity for the Irish to begin another winning streak. With only four games remaining, Notre Dame must win at least two of those to be considered for the NIT. 
Considering the final three are against Big East leaders Providence, Miami, and Boston College, the game becomes paramount for increasing the number in the win column. 
"This definitely is a must win," head coach John MacLeod said. "We've looked at the games left and this is one we want." 
The Irish can display that desire by continuing to shoot the lights out. Last game, Notre Dame set season highs in three categories, shooting 54 
see PIRATES I page 13 
Boxers face final week ofpre-fight preparations 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Spans Editor 
After six weeks or more of rigorous workouts, endless conditioning and extensive training, the moment of truth has finally arrived. 
No, the 67th annual Bengal Bouts do not kickoff until this Sunday. However, the moment that many of Notre Dame's boxers had been looking for­ward to began Monday and extends through today. 
It is weigh-in time for this year's bouters, and for most, it is time to see whether after all their painstaking work, they have reached the weight they have long been aiming at. 
For some, meeting that de­sired weight means losing those last few pounds of flab and replacing it with muscle. For others, it is a matter of los­ing enough or gaining enough to avoid being in the same weight class as one of the favorites. 

No matter what the reason, weigh-in is a critical moment in the life of every boxer who has ever tied on a pair of gloves or thrown a left jab. 
"Everyone wants to be at a weight they'll be comfortable at and can perform their best at," said senior officer John Christoforetti. 'The guys work so hard, that by the time of weigh-in, they're pretty much in their optimal shape." 
Prior to stepping on the scales, boxers will try just about anything imaginable in an attempt to cut those last few pounds. Avoiding one last meal at the dining hall or working out in a couple of lay­ers of clothing are some of the last-resort measures taken by the athletes. 
"I've seen some pretty crazy things over the years," said Christoforetti. "We tell people not to do anything crazy. So 
see BOUTS I page 12 


Women's Tennis 
at Seton Hall 

a; •Tracksters impress at conference meet 
vs. Indiana
Tonight, 7:30p.m. 

Today, 4 p.m. 
TCI Cable 
see page 14
......

• --= 
... 
vs. Villanova 

vs. Western Michigan • Women's tennis rolls to victory
~ 
February 19, 7 p.m. 

\_ February 21, 7 p.m. 
see page 13 
~ 









