
Friday, May 16, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 136 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND to graduate 2,030 
By HEATHER COCKS Administration, and 200 law News Editor students will be awarded degrees for their years of 
They graduated from enor­work. mous lecture classes to tiny ''I'm a little nervous," discussion groups; from sec­admitted senior Benjamin tion 3 5 in the end zone to Baltrano. "It's a combination section 29 at mid-field; from of nostalgia about the last Bridget's to the Linebacker four years, and excitement and Coach's; from dorms to for the future." 
I ­
off-campus apartments. Agreed Megan Shepherd, 
Now, over 2,030 seniors ''I'm overwhelmed. I've done will graduate from the a lot of thinking about my University of Notre Dame at time here and the special the 152nd Commencement people I've met, and I'm exercises on Sunday, scared to be saying goodbye exchanging the Golden Dome to them." for life in the real world. The majority of seniors had 
In addition, 260 master's positive things to say about and doctoral students in the their four years at Notre 
The Observer/Dan Cichalski 

Graduate School, 219 mas­Dame and the lessons
The graduating seniors will bid farewell to the familiar campus 

sights of the Golden Dome, LeMans Hall, and the Basilica. ter's degree students in the College of Business see ND GRAD I page 6 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
SMC graduates 365 in I 50th commencement 
By LORI ALLEN ered that, because of the Linebacker, 8 years when I first drove in the front Kentucky congresswoman Anne Saint Mary's Editor a.m. classes are not such a good idea, gates of Saint Mary's," said senior Aimee Meagher Northup will be leaving the and have argued relentlessly with their Heimann. "As I leave now it is bitter­graduates with parting words as the On a warm August morning the mem­professors. sweet, I will take away with me memo­1997 commencement speaker for the bers of the class of 1997 turned onto the After countless hours of studying it all ries and friends that will last a lifetime." 150th graduation ceremony on tree-lined lane that leads to Saint Mary's comes down to one piece of paper. This Of the 365 degree candidates, 213 will Saturday, May 17. A 1970 alumna of 
,i
College. Four years ago, they thought weekend, in the 150th Commencement receive a bachelor of arts degree, 66 will Saint Mary's, Northup became the first that 8 a.m. classes were a good idea, exercises, 365 women will graduate graduate with a bachelor of science, 54 Kentucky woman elected to the U.S. that their professors were always right, from Saint Mary's College and receive with a bachelor of business administra­House of Representatives in more than and that the Linebacker was just a this piece of paper. tion, six with a bachelor of fine arts, and 60 years and the first Republican to rep­defensive player on the football team. "I never could have imagined what the remaining four with a bachelor of resent Kentucky's Third Congressional 
Four years later, the seniors discov-would take place over the next four music. 
see SMC GRAD/ page 14 


• SMC VALEDICTORIAN
chedule 

Friday, May 16

Koritnik handles 



Urda follows in
Nurses' Pinning Ceremony
A 6 L Honora COftVODitlon 
Notre D1me Chorale Concan
busy balancing 


family tradition 
7:30p.m. Liturgical CHoir Concert 8-10 p.m. Breduate School Reatptlan
act with success 
8p.m. · Concert 
with top honor
9 p.m. -1 a.m. Graduation Denat By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Saturday, May 17 By LORI ALLEN News Writer 
8:30 -11 a.m. 
Saint Mary's Editor 
9:30a.m. It's not easy being perfect. It's even harder to 
11:30 a.m. 
Twenty-four years ago, Kathleen McGuire-Urda was
Noon
be perfect for four consecutive years. 
Noon-2 p.m. selected to represent the Saint Mary's College class of But Anjanette Koritnik pulled it off somehow. 
2-3:30 p.m. 1973 as the valedictorian. Now, almost a quarter of a "''m far from perfect," laughed Koritnik, a 4:10p.m. century later, she will relive that moment as herchemistry major from Livonia, Mich. Maybe 4:30p.m. daughter graduates with the same honor.
she's right, but she was still good enough to 
5-6:30 p.m. "It is absolutely wonderful, a genuine thrill to watchmaintain a cumulative GPA of 4.0 over her four 6:45-8 p.m. 
Kathleen receive this honor. I feel very fortunate and years at Notre Dame. Her hard work has proud," said McGuire-Urda. 
made her the valedictiorian of the University of Kathleen Urda, an English major with a minor inNotre Dame's 1997 graduating class. 
history, will represent the Saint Mary's class of 1997 Koritnik, who was selected from among the as the valedictorian, carrying on a family tradition. 
University's top-ranked seniors, had not even 
Urda's maternal grandmother, Grace Sullivan
seriously considered going to Notre Dame until 
1:30 p.m. McGuire, was one of the first lay women to teach at 
2-4 p.m. see KORITNIK I page 14 see URDA/ page 14 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, May 16, 1997 
-~ ' 
• INSIIJE COLUMN 


No regrets 
This is not my manifesto. This is not my laundry list of everything that is wrong with Notre Dame nor a megalomanic diatribe on how the world should be. For reading se­lections of this nature, see the fmal paragraph. 
As with any institution, 
Notre Dame is a reflection of society, including its tendencies toward greed, selfishness and self­preservation. Institutions are made up of individu­als, and no individual is immune from an occasion­

al lapse of compassion. Liz Foran 
people who make up 
this school are some of 
the most talented, caring and dedicated indi­
viduals in the country. In any institution, a 
small number of members can give a bad 
name to the rest. Notre Dame is lucky to have 
a much smaller than average percentage of 
"bad apples." 
But it is the small number of individuals at 
the other extreme that make up the Notre 
Dame experience that everyone speaks of col­
lectively but experiences individually. 
Occasionally a professor is genuinely excited 
about teaching undergraduates -he gets per­
sonal satisfaction from seeing the broadening 
of minds that his effort can create. This is the 
professor who becomes more than an educa­
tor and dares to befriend his students. 
The people who take the time to nurture and 
guide, to educate rather than inform and are 
not here just to research are such a large part 
of the positive experiences of a graduating 
senior. For every time I have been looked at as 
if I were a small rodent while roaming Decio 
Hall there has been a professor ready to help 
at a moment's notice, with a smile and a 
handshake or even a hug. 
This school is not perfect, but no institution 
is. Notre Dame is rich in history and tradition, 
most notably Catholic traditions. But any time 
you have a heap of power concentrated in the 
hands of a few, decisions will not always be 
made in the common student's best interests. 
The insular administrative system that han­
dles everything from monetary decisions to 
student justice must balance the public image 
and interests of the University with the indi­
vidual needs of the students. At times results 
have to be biased in favor of one or the other. 
Prominent students in whom the University 
has vested interest may at times get away with 
murder, or a similarly serious crime. 
Yet despite its faults, or perhaps because of 
them, Notre Dame has prepared me and oth­
ers well for the future. I leave with no regrets, 
except that I am leaving so many friends 
behind, and not all of them students. 
• This month's reading selections include student government's spring report to the Board of Trustees, which is all about how Notre Dame needs to be more Catholic. 
According to Seth Miller, student body presi­dent emeritus, "This report is vastly different from any other we have seen. It does not rely on a strong base of student opinion or conven­tional wisdom on campus." This is the work of a "highly educated focus group of Notre Dame students" who really know what the student body wants and needs, while acknowledging that most students will not agree with them. 
I guess when you are on your way out, you no longer have to appeal to your constituency when reporting to the powerful groups capa­ble of implementing change. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Viewpoint Heather Cocks Dan Cichalski Michelle Krupa Graphics 
Sports Jon King Joe Cavato Production Mike Day Almost the Entire Staff Brian Reimhaler Lab Tech 
Accent Kevin Dalum Dan Cichalski Joey Crawford 
Joe Weiler 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• NOTRE DAME AT A GLANCE 
University gives O'Malley Award posthumously to Houck 
Special to The Observer "Professor Houck could 
put morality in the coldest 
The University of Notre of souls simply through Dame's Frank O'Malley his teaching," wrote one Award, given annually by student in nominating student government and Houck for the award. the Notre Dame Alumni "When he died, the Association, has been biggest heart on campus awarded posthumously to left with him." John Houck, professor of A native of Beloit, Wis., management and co­Houck was graduated 
director of Notre Dame's from the University in Center for Ethics and 1953 and received a J.D. Religious Values in degree from the Notre Business until his death in Dame Law School in December at age 65. 1955. He also held an 
The role of religious MBA degree from the belief and ethical values University of North in business was the prin­Carolina at Chapel Hill cipal subject of Houck's and a masters of law teaching and research. degree from Harvard. A 
• NAMES FROM THE CLASS OF 1991 
Special to The Observer 
Every graduating class around the nation has certain members with unique histories, and the Notre Dame class of 1997 is no exception. 
• 
Kristina Ervin has academic, artistic, and acade­mic talents, but will pursue none of those fields after commencement. Instead, like approximately 10 percent of her classmates, Ervin will devote one year of her post­graduate life to volunteer service. Working with t~e AmeriCorps program La Casa de Esperanza, she will care for abused, neglected, and HIV-positive children at one of 8 homes in the Houston area. Ervin was a mem­ber of the Dean's List as a studio art major with a con­centration in sculpture and education; in addition, she served in the adult education program at the Center for the Homeless and earned four monograms and two Rockne Student Athlete awards as a member of Notre Dame's nationally ranked women's volleyball team. 

• 
Eugenio Fernandez is one of Notre Dame's two Rhodes Scholars. He majored in philosophy and theology as well as joining the Congregation of the Holy Cross as a seminarian. He will study philosophy at Oxford University for two years before returning to Moreau Seminary to continue on the path to ordination. His goals include the attainment of master's and doctoral degrees, ultimately hoping to teach at the university level. 

• 
Terry Jones became a small-time crack dealer in the West End of Cincinnati, serving time in a reformatory for assaulting another teenager. A prison guard drove Jones to reform and join the mentoring program of the Cincinnati Youth Collaborative and, thanks to his own mentor, he turned his life around. He will graduate from the University of Notre Dame with a management degree, having attended Notre Dame for all four under­graduate years. 

• 
Lori Miller lost her sight at age 2 due to cancer of the retina, but took part in a vast array of activities at Notre Dame, most notably the creation of the Students with Disabilities Office. An American Studies major, she also served on the Multicultural awareness council, the task force for Disabilities Awareness Week, and the cam­pus branch of the South Bend chapter of the American Cancer Society. A member of the Notre Dame rock climb­ing club, she is an ardent skier who is proficient on the flute and piccolo; she also served as an alternate on the 


U.S. goal ball teams in the 1992 and 1996 Paralympics. 
former Ford and Danforth fellow, he had been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957. 
The O'Malley Award is named for Francis "Frank" O'Malley, who died in 1974 after 42 years as a member of Notre Dame's English department. 
He was famed for his explorations of the rela­tionship between religious belief and literary imagi­nation. 
His "Modern Catholic Writers" course, which included the works of Gerard Manley Hopkins, Paul Claudel, Leon Bloy, 

ND loses LaCugna, Booker 
Catherine Mowry LaCugna, the Nancy R. Dreux pro­fessor of theology, died of cancer on May 3, at Saint Joseph's Medical Center. 
LaCugna, a member of the University of Notre Dame faculty since 1981, won the Frank O'Malley undergraduate teaching award in 1993 and the Rev. Charles 
E. Sheedy C.S.C. Award for excellence in teaching in 1996. 
She primarily studied and taught the practical applications of the doc­trine of the Trinity for the life of the Church. She lectured in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia. LaCugna 


LaCugna wrote numerous articles and reviews in popular journals on spirituality, ethics and feminist issues in Catholic theology and liturgy. She also authored three books including, "God For Us: The Trinity and Christian Life," which won the first place award from the Catholic Press Association. 
A 1974 graduate of Seattle University, LaCugna also received her master's degree from Fordham University in 1974. She received her doctorate degree from Fordham in 1979. 
Retired Notre Dame law professor Frank Booker died on May 6, after suffering a stroke. He was 67 years old. 
Booker, a member of the law faculty since 1970, practiced in Missouri and Florida and taught at Stetson College of Law. He specialized in evidence and torts. 
In addition to teaching, Booker held several administrative positions in the Law School, including director of the Notre Dame London Law Centre from 1972 to 1975, chair of the admissions system from 1975 to 1978 and director of Clinical Legal Booker Education from 1981 to 1984. 


Professionally, Booker served as a consultant to the Legal Services Corporation in Washington, D.C., and on an American Bar Association committee on federal rules of evidence for the Australian Law Reform Committee. 
Chiefs of Staff, will deliver the 

Georges Bernanos, and Graham Greene, was the most popular undergrad­uate elective at Notre Dame for more than three decades. 


• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, May 16.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/.r..: ...... 
~ 
...__ ,..,.. . 
I 



Frida)l-Saturday Sundily 
Mondjiy 
~'filiw•n:, 

Pressure 
HIGH LOW 
Via AssocJa/Bd Press 

Tue~~!;""/~ 
'~ 45 H L 
Anchorage 57 Atlanta 76 Baltimore 64
' ,,, ~,,,.. r{?\ ~.'· rf'\ ~ ~·· ~ r-11
.....,...
·.·::·: ......,,.,:.·:·· .. ~~~ 

Boston 49
~#A' ,,,, '\ . . .:·.:.·.;:..:..:. -----­
''''' ..... 

Chicago 57
Showers T-storms Rain Fl,;r;ies Siww Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

~ ~ ~ 

GJ~[TIJ 0fZ38"¥ ~~ 
SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
44  Cincinnati  53  42  Los Angeles  81  62  
46  Denver  72  45  Memphis  72  50  
47  Honolulu  84  68  New Orleans  84  66  
44  Indianapolis  52  39  New York City 60  62  
40  Kansas City  67  42  Sacramento  90  54  

Hickey, after delivering his inaugural address and officially assuming the presidency of Saint Mary's College on Sept. 7, 1986. 

Hickey presents a gift to the Pope in honor of the College's sesquicentennial. 
page 3 



The end of an era 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's Editor 
A
s the class of 1997 prepare themselves to be presented as the 150th graduating class of Saint Mary's College, President William Hickey prepares himself to preside over the Commencement exercises for the last time. With graduation hours away, 
and with Marilou Eldred waiting in the wings to assume the Saint Mary's College presidency, College officials reflect just how much the College has grown in Hickey's tenure as president. 
A chapter in the history of Saint Mary's College was brought to a closure with the announcement of Hickey's resig­nation last April, marking the end of a 35-year career in high­er education exclusive to Saint Mary's College. 
When Hickey assumed the presidency in 1986, he viewed the sesquicentennial as the ideal time to turn the College over to a new administration. 

"That seemed to be the perfect Hickey as vice president and dean moment of transition in leader-of faculty, 1975· ship which would allow a new president to set the agenda for and launch the next 150 years," Hickey said. 
However, the $30 million sesquicentennial fundraising campaign, coupled with the North Central reaccreditation review, set back those plans. 
As he officially leaves office on June 1st, Hickey will leave behind a long history at Saint Mary's College, having held positions in vir­tually every level of leadership within the College, beginning as a biology instructor in 1960. He served as biology department chair, vice-president for academic affairs, vice-president and dean of fac­ulty, and acting president twice, before assuming the role as the ninth president of Saint Mary's College. 
In Hickey's second year in office, the College gained national prestige as it made its debut in the U.S. News and World Report's top ten midwest liberal arts colleges. For the following three years, the College has ranked number one in its class -a feat only one other college in the nation has met. 
In addition to the accolades and awards, Hickey stresses 
development efforts such as establishing the Center for Academic Innovation, and the creation of the Presidential Merit Scholarship program as his greatest contributions to the College. 
Carrying the college through what is known as one of the most challenging times in higher education, Sister Rachel Callahan, chair of the Board of Trustees, said, "It is no accident that Saint Mary's is the number one Catholic women's college, and a good part of why that is so, is because of the kind of icon this president has been for the college," she said. 
Mary Lou Gorno, Chair of the College's Board of Trustees, agreed. "In the history of Saint Mary's College, the chapter on Dr. Hickey will be a long one," she said. 
Students as well seemed to support Hickey's decision, as student body president Jen Turbiak stated last year following Hickey's res­ignation, "We thank President Hickey for all of his dedication. We respect him, and I believe the way in which he presented his resig­nation shows his class and his pride for the college, Turbiak said. 
Reflecting on his term as the ninth president of Saint Mary's College, Hickey said, "I wouldn't hesitate to say that the Saint Mary's I assumed the presidency of in 1986 is a stronger, more sta­ble, and more intellectually exciting institution in 1996." 






The Hicke Years 
1960 1970 1980 1990 
1 9 6 0: 1 9 7 0: 1 9 7 1 : 1 9 7 2 : 1 9 7 4: 197 5: 1 9 8 5: 1 9 8 6 : 1 9 9 4 : 1 9 9 4: 19 9 6: 1 9 9 7:J o i n s G a ins Named Appointed Serves as Named Serves as Inaugurated Launches Completes Announ-Steps down the Saint professor biology as VP for acting VP and acting President of the College's the corpo-ces hi~ as SMC
Mary's 
status depart-academic President Dean of President Saint Mary's Sesquicentennial rate reor-resigna-President,faculty as m e n t affairs of the Faculty of the College Celebation, ganization tion leaving the
a biology chair College College along with a 
of the helm to
instructor major fundrais-College Marilou ing campaign Eldred 
fOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 
page 4 Friday, May 16, 1997 


Administration bans GLND/SMC, denies recognition 
After GLND/SMC was prohibited from meeting on campus in January, protests were organized and councils passed reso­lutions calling for official recognition of the group. However, recognition was never granted. Later in the year, the administration created a committee to address gay and lesbian issues. 
GLND/SMC, in addition to other campus organizations, are currently awaiting a revision of the University's non-discrimi­nation clause to include sexual orienta­
The Office of Student Affairs promised in the spring of 1996 to consider amending the clause, but no decision has been reached to date. 

2 
Mara Fox dies in SMC appoints
Jury clears Rita 
4 Hickey's successor
weekend crash 
3 of Fox's death 


After an exhaustive freshman, was killed 
Mara Fox, a Lyons After nine hours 

one year search, the early Saturday 
~OBSERVER
of deliberations, a 
Board of Trustees at morning when she 
jury acquitted Notre Saint Mary's College Dame Law School 
'A new era' 
appointed Marilou

suelr!JSitW.'i: pn-Mtut !l~t· C'..ii!t·:;,<~ :.:-fitM li.;-amlt.•
was struck by a car graduate John Rita 

lti}' pn<J.'idf:nt l~llhf rommtmi(>' 
Eldred as the new Fox was walking 
along Douglas Road. 

of causing the death 
College president. back to campus 
of Mara Fox on Nov. 
The first female from Macri's Deli 
13, 1993, while dri­
layperson to hold the with three other 
ving drunk. 
job, Eldred comes from a job as acade­Rita faces a retrial 

this summer on a their older brothers. 
freshmen and one of 

mic dean of the A Notre Dame law 
second charge of 
College of St. Catherine in St. Paul,leaving the scene of 

an accident. questioned about 
alumnus was being Minn. William Hickey served as presidentthe incident. 
for 10 years. 

Nov.9, 1994 
April 14, 1997Nov. 15, 1993 


6 
7 

Chaves on leave after harassment 
Authorities clear
Committee calls for 
Kinder and Farmer
5 gay student group 
charge 
After a year of 


Following an alle­research, the Ad Hoc 
Sophomore run­
gation of sexual Committee on Gay 
ning backs Randy 
harassment, associ­and Lesbian Student 
Kinder and Hobert 
ate professor of soci­Needs called for an 
Farmer were 
ology Mark Chaves officially recognized 
cleared of any 
took official leave of gay and lesbian stu­
wrongdoing in con­
his teaching duties. dent group. 
nection with an 
Chaves, a tenured Vice president of 
alleged assault inci­
professor, was Student Affairs 
dent following the 
Notre Dame football 
accused of making Patricia O'Hara 
team's loss to 
sexual suggestions to responded by estab­
a female undergrad­lishing a "University 
Brigham Young that 
uate research assis­group for gay stu­
fall. 
Both men will 
tant. dents." 
graduate from Notre Dame on Sunday. 
Jan.25,1996

Feb.1,1995
March 1, 1996 


9 
Kwiat dies in TWA crash,
Hickey defers 

ND will expand 
Gottlieb faces charge of 
10

Alliance decision 
stadium seating 
credit card fraud 
The $50 million

Notre Dame senior 
President Hickey 
expansion of Notre

~OBSERVER
Patty Kwiat was en
~OBSERVER announced his defer­
Dame Stadium,

route to France
ral of official recogni­
announced in May

when TWA Flight
tion of The Alliance 
1994, left alumni

800 crashed and
for Lesbian, Bisexual, 
excited at the

claimed her life.
Straight, and 
prospect of more

On the same day,
Questioning Women. 
tickets, but dismayed 

former Notre Dame
The Board of 
at the projected

point guard Doug
Governance had 
change in the stadi­

Gottlieb was official­
approved recognition 
um's historic facade. 

ly revealed as a sus­
a week earlier, set­
22,000 seats have

pect in credit card
ting what seemed to 
been added in an

fraud and theft from 
be a precedent, espe­
upper tier, and will

fellow students. 
cially in regard to 
open in time for the
Notre Dame's refusal 
Georgia Tech game
to acknowledge 
on Sept. 6, 1997.
GLND/SMC. 

Aug.28,1996
April 16, 1997 
Aug.19,1995 


Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • YEAR IN REVIEW page 5 
Year provides roller coaster of emotions 

By HEATHER COCKS Gay and lesbian students at Notre despite their qualms. boasted by the two high-rise dorms. News Editor Dame faced an uphill struggle as well. The Faculty Senate, over the course of "It seems to me the new dorms were Vice-president of Student Affaits Patricia three meetings in the fall 1996 semester, designed by people who assumed they 
1996-97 was a bittersweet year for the O'Hara promised last year to raise the overwhelmingly approved a resolution knew what the students wanted but Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communi­issue of adding sexual orientation to the stating, "Be it further resolved that a didn't .really ask the students how they ty, tempered by frustrations while cele­University's non-discrimination clause; president who makes such decisions would want them," stated junior Tom brating the beginning of new eras on one year later, the revision had not been seriously erodes the confidence that a Daignault. both campuses. publicly addressed and no decision was faculty ought to have in a president." Despite concerns about the smaller 
A disappointing loss to Ohio State and announced. The College Democrats, Senate members also raised questions capacity of South Dining Hall, others an unexpected defeat at the hands of Air joined by GLND/SMC and their support­as to the level of collaboration that exists were optimistic about O'Neill and Force left students and media alike spec­ers, spoke out in frustration about the between University administrators and Keough's location. ulating wildly about Lou Holtz's future lack of administrative action, holding a hiring committees. "It's nice being close to DeBartolo and with the Notre Dame football team. On rally on the steps of the Main Building "[The hiring] undermines the well­COBA," allowed junior Steve McMullen Tuesday, November 19, Holtz opened his on April 24. established and beneficial model of of Keough. "It almost seems like a whole w e e k I y "Every person who rational collaboration between ... faculty different University since we're on the press con-is touched by this and the University's administration," exact opposite side of campus." f e r e n c e University is suffering states the resolution. Mike Wassmer, who moved into with a because non-discrim-The Silver Anniversary O'Neill, concurred that the location has prepared .my ination is not consid-The University of Notre Dame admit­its advantages. "There always seems to statement h I t.-1 · · ered an issue by the ted its first women in 1972, and 25 years be more people hanging out on South officially except t at 1ee lt IS administration," said later, students and faculty reflected on Quad," he said. announc-the right thing to do.' J.P. Cooney, co-presi-both co-education and co-residentiality. The two women's dorms, McGlinn and ing his Lou Holtz dent of the College "Men are better when women are Welsh Halls, are currently being erected resign a---------------------Democrats. around. There's no doubt that they bring and will be filled with Knott and tion but failing to explain it in concrete Stated Molly O'Shaughnessy, "Two something to our campus," said Father Siegfried residents in August 1997. terms. words can change a lot. We don't Theodore Hesburgh, considered 
"I cannot honestly give you a reason deserve to live in an atmosphere of hate. the integral figure in Notre for my resignation, except to say I feel it No one does." Dame's journey toward co-educa­is the right thing to do," Holtz said. He Faculty members joined the students tion. dispelled rumors that another job offer in protest, but the demonstration may "It's wonderful that we're cele­fueled his decision, but gave strength to have missed its main target, as O'Hara brating 25 years of co-education, the popular claim that this departure was out of the office when the student but we still have a long way to came more from coercion than restless-congregation turned the mike over to the go," said senior Katie Hazard, ness. speakers. noting that Notre Dame is firmly 
"It is difficult to leave Notre Dame at "What kind of Catholic family would rooted in Catholicism, something this time, for many reasons," he_said. "I allow the discrimination of its mem­that many consider a male-orient­will miss the students; and I would have hers?" queried Matt Szabo as he waved ed tradition. loved to have had the opportunity to a copy oftl!e Catechism. In a speech concluding the coach in the new stadium, which I The College Democrats submitted a week's festivities, Hesburgh observed from its original conception to petition signed by over 2,000 students to recalled someone posing the ques­its completion. O'Hara, along with what Cooney deemed tion, "How do you feel the Church 
"But the main reason I regret leaving a "cordial" letter asking that officials use ought to treat women?" is because I will leave a talented group the summer to further reflect upon the "I have a simple, uncomplicated of young men who I respect and love," issue. answer -the same way they Holtz added. No word has been received from treat men," Hesburgh stated. 
Oflfensive coordinator Bob Davie, who O'Hara regarding the status of clause Switching frequencies developed standouts Kory Minor, Melvin revision. Close to two years of planning Dansby, and Renaldo Wynn during his Achieving Reform finally cane to fruition for the three-year tenure, had unofficially The Student Senate voted in favor of a WVFI-AM radio station, as the secured the coveted position by the time new constitution that reorganizes stu-Office of Student Affairs approved the Irish took the field that Saturday dent government into a Student Union their proposal to move to the FM against Rutgers. designed to be more accessible to stu-band. 
"When I think of all the great coaches dents and more efficient. "We've been doing this for so who have been involved with this pro­''I'm proud that the student body has long ... It's all we've been doing gram, I feel a tremendous obligation to finally decided to get together and for the last two years," station do everything I can to maintain and change the system for the better," said manager Mike Flood said. "It's the build on this tradition," Davie said. former chief of staff Brendan Kelly, who biggest deal the station has ever 
A New Era created the reform committee in seen." 
The Board of Trustees selected November 1996. Currently, the station has been Marilou Eldred to succeed President The restructured Student Union is led restricted by its AM frequency, William Hickey as the leader of Saint by the student body president and vice only audible from certain loca­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Mary's College. Eldred, the first female president; the first to take office under tions in a smattering of Notre Supporters of an amendment to the non-discrimina­layperson to assume the position, vacat­the new system were Matt Griffin and Dame dormitories. The new 100­tion clause rallied on the steps of the Main Buildinged a job as academic dean and vice Erek Nass. Just below that office on the watt broadcasting system will on April 24. The College Democrats, who led the president of the College of St. Catherine hierarchy are the Executive Cabinet and increase that range to four miles, 
peaceful rally, submitted a petition to Professor in St. Paul, Minn. the Student Senate, led by Nass. Hall encompassing Saint Mary's O'Hara signed by 2,000 students, and asking for "Women's colleges are critical because Presidents' Council, Student Union College and even parts of the further deliberation during the summer. women need to be able to identify them­Board, Club Coordination Council, and South Bend area. selves and assume a role in society," class officers are accountable to the Prior to the approval, Flood Planner Hall residents are also saying.· Eldred said at the April 14 announce­Executive Cabinet. Those organizations announced a new music policy designed their good-byes and electing new dorm ment to College students. "I have long approved the constitution before the to attract more listeners and play what team names in preparation for their admired and respected Saint Mary's as a senate's deciding vote on March 5. demographics claim are the favorite transfer into Knott and Siegfried. leader for women's colleges in the One of the hot topics debated prior to artists of college students. Notre Dame Stadium, which ceased to United States." the vote was the role the Campus Life "We will still play lesser-known exist in its previous form during the Mary Lou Gorno, chair of the Board of Council plays as sole conduit to the bands," Flood stated. "But our rotations summer of 1996, nears completion and Trustees, led a search process shrouded Office of Student Affairs. Led by Griffin, will contain a lot more 'popular' music." will open to the public when the Irish in silence and one year in duration. the CLC is not a member of the Union Out with the old, in with the new play Georgia Tech on Sept. 6. Before presenting Eldred to the commu­due to the fact that faculty members Over 1,000 men from Grace Hall were In addition to the over 20,000 extra nity, she praised her as the right choice. participate. relocated -somewhat unwillingly -to seats encasing the original red brick "Marilou Denbo Eldred's goals are One senator felt that the CLC might the new West Quad dorms, the first of facade of Notre Dame Stadium, NBC articulated in Saint Mary's own mission unintentionally impede communication which to crop up were Keough Hall and purchased lights to be permanently statement," Gorno said. "[Eldred] between Student Affairs and the senate, O'Neill Family Hall. Reactions to the affixed to the building. Officials assert believes passionately in the value of a resulting in lack of response from that structures were mixed, with Grace devo-that no night games are scheduled, but 
liberal arts education as the critical office to senate concerns and letters. tees lamenting the long hallways that that the lights are an investment in a foundation for any undergraduate Concerns ultimately did not affect the differ radically from the square sections "quality television picture." major." 
new constitution; it passed r---------------------------"They [NBC] just know Working for rights and recognition 14-2 without any friendly from experience that late in Eldred may inherit a touchy and some­amendments or resolutions the year it starts getting what controversial situation from her from the senate. dark early in the day in predecessor, as the fate of The Alliance Controversial hiring northern Indiana," for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Led by department explained Mike Smith, 
Questioning Women currently hangs in chairman Professor director of Facilities the balance. Lawrence Cunningham, Engineering. 
The Board of Governance at Saint several theology professors Vacating the Dome Mary's deliberated for one month, con­expressed strong dissatis-Extensive interior reno­sidering the group's submitted proposal faction with a hiring deci-vation of the Main Building, and mission statement before approving sion made by University expected to last one year, official recognition of the student group president Father Edward will displace the offices on AprilS. Malloy. currently operating from 
"The students know that this is for The professor, currently that locale. University everyone, and I'm excited to see where a member of the Notre President Father Edward it's going to go," said Carol Jones, one of Dame faculty, visited cam-Malloy will transfer his The Alliance's founding members. pus in April 1996, after desk to Hayes-Healy, as 
Enthusiasm and euphoria were short­which time the theology will Student Affairs, Public lived, however, as official recognition department's hiring com-Relations, and others. was deferred by Hickey eight days later. mittee informed Malloy Grace Hall will serve as a llis self-imposed deadline for a final that it disapproved of the permanent location for the 
· J h · · M Jl The Observer/Kevin Dalum d
decision about The Alliance is May 31, potentia Inng. a oy As Flanner Hall vacates next semester, personnel from the Main Building remain er of the personnelthe end of his tenure at Saint Mary's. 
later hired the candidate will fill the new offices in the now-empty Grace Hall. who will move. 
page 6 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 16, 1997 
great one." Political analyst Mark

SMC bestows honors at ceremony ND Grad 
Shields, a 1959 alumnus, 

By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor On Sunday, May 3, Saint Mary's annual Honors Convocation con­ Ten awards were announced in the business administration and economics department. Becky Rodarte was honored with both the Academic Achievement Award  humanistic studies department announced Abby Johnson, Janet Kelley, and Ashley Ratcliffe as the winners of the Thomas More Award.  continued from page 1 learned. "Academics have defi­nitely expanded my mind  will give the principal address and is slated to receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. Mexican­American theologian Hev.  
vened in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The newly-hooded class of 1997, the faculty and administration were in full attendance of the cer­emony. College president William Hickey presented the first award, the valedictorian's medal. to senior Kathleen Urda. Hickey then pre­sented the Saint Catherine Medal to junior Genevieve Morrill. College-wide awards were the next to be recognized. Four stu­dents received accolades in the Sister Franzita Kane Writing Awards: Kathleen Urda, Sharon Zielmanski, Sara Wolfert and Emilie De Angelis. Three students were recognized by the Dorothy Manier Writing Awards; Angela Little received the fall award, while Laura Carroll and Chengdong Liu retained spring honors. Jill Moore took home the freshman/sophomore award while Janet Kelley received the junior/senior recognition for the Helen Carroll Award in Religious Studies. Sarah Northway won the Sister Annice Donovan Prize for Philosophical Writing. Individual department awards were then announced. Tara Grewe received the Sister Edna Service Award for the art department. Four biology students received departmental awards; Courtney O'Rourke won the Mother M. Rose Elizabeth Award in Biology, Genifer Tarkowski won the George and Juanda Bick Nature Award, and Jennifer Bertucci and Kara Masucci shared the Sister M.  and the Ernst and Young Award. Emily Ruffner was also a dual winner of the Wall Street Journal Award and the Marketing Award. Mary Ann Livovich won the Frank A. Yeandel Service Award, Sandra Staton received the Accounting Award, Nicole Nielsen won the Economics Award, Ann Caroline Uhl won the Finance Award, Brittany Anthone received the International Business Award and Maggie Ryan received the Management Award. The chemistry department announced the winners of two awards; Heidi Simmons received the American Institute of Chemists Award, while Amy Brinkhoff and Michelle Trzop received the Mother M. Rose Elizabeth Award. The communication, dance, and theater department also declared the winners of its two awards. Brandee Carlson won the Communication Award, while Caroline Quinlan and Natale Waitkus took the Terpsichorean Award for Excellence in Dance. Marianne Banko received the sole education honor: the Mary A. McDermott Award. The English department announced Kathleen Urda as the recipient of the Elisabeth A. Noel English Prize, and Margaret Lenczewski and Bernadette Pampuch as the win­ners of the Laurie A. Lesniewski Creative Writing Award. The history department named Mary Pat Buckenmeyer and Leslie Seymour as the recipients of the Martha Montgomery Schurz Memorial Award. Kathleen  Margaret Ehlers was declared the winner of the Milko Jeglic Award, the single honor bestowed by the mathematics department. In the modern languages, Amy Brabeck and Amy Cox won the French Prize, while Candy Alvarado and Anna Hafaj won the Spanish Prize. Lindsey Friend won the Music Department's sole award. The nursing department named Nicole Schmidt as the recipient of the Evelyn McGuiness Award for Excellence in Nursing, and Michelle Hooper as the winner of the Humanitarian Award. The political science department named Leecia Anderson as the Juliette Noone Lester Award win­ner, and Jessica Zigmond as the winner of the department's Achievement Award. Psychology studen.ts Rebecca Shelby and Ashely Ratcliffe took home the Outstanding Scholarship Award and the Outstanding Achievement Award respectively. Emily Ilaire won the sociology, anthropology, and social work Outstanding Scholarship Award, while Amberly Hershberger received the Outstanding Achievement Award. Kristina Campbell was awarded the Women's Studies Prize by that department. The final awards of the day were presented to two faculty members. President Hickey awarded biology professor Richard Jensen the Maria Pieta Award, and presented business administration and economics  and my perspective on the world," stated Alison Howard, who immersed herself in both running track and maintaining a double major. Shepherd in particular felt Notre Dame's inf1uence on her academic choices. "I came here wanting to do pre-med and physics. Now I'm pre-med and theology, and will leave here to do work in the theological field." A number of Notre Dame's lessons, according to the seniors, come not from scholastic endeavors but from the ample extracurricualr opporutni­ties. "The out-of-classroom moments taught me the most," said Banks. "I learned a lot from my friends and the other spe­cial people I met here." Said Baltramo, "Notre Dame fosters a selflessness and caring for others that a lot of other schools don't, especially while keeping a competitive atmosphere like the one we have here. "Some things aren't per­fect here, but I still had a great experience," he con­cluded. "The key to Notre Dame is knowing you are meant to be here, and taking advantage of everything available," senior Megan  Virgil Elizondo is this year's Laetare Medal recipient, and will also address the seniors. Other honorary degree recipients are: David Billington, professor of civil engineering and oper­ations research at Princeton University; Sister Rosemary Connelly, execu­tive director of Misericordia/Heart of Mercy Center in Chigaco; Rita Dove. Pulitzer Prize­winning poet and professor of English at the University of Virginia; Roman Herzog, president of Germany; Loon Lederman, Nobel Prize-winning physicist and director emeritus of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory; Cardinal Adam Maida, archbishop of Detroit; Arthur Martinez, chairman and chief executive officer of Soars, Roebuck and Co.; Barry Munitz, chancellor of the California State University System; Ara Parseghian, founder of Ara Parseghian Medical Hesearch Foundation and formnr Notre Dame head football coach; Antonin Scalia, associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court; and Ann Claire Williams, 1975 Notre Dame Law School graduate, University trustee and fed­eral judge of the U.S.  
Rosaleen Dunleavy Allied· Medical Award.  Maxbauer was honored with the Blecka-Zatko Essay Award. The  professor Jerome McElroy with the Spes Unica Award.  Pater said. "The people make ND special, and they made my experience a  District Court for Northern District Illinois.  the of  

The Observ9r salUtes its graduating seniors ··:·:\:·:: ·:\:\!ljOOi, Michael Anderson MiRe Gavigan Amanda Pontarelli Dylan Barmmer Vivian Gembara Chris Regan Belle Bautista Ethan Hayward Mike Ruma Brian Blank Margee Husemann Ellen Ryan Caroline Blum T. Ryan Kennedy Tom Schlidt Stacy Carel Wendy Klare Amy Schmidt Patti Carson Chris Kratovil Tim Sherman Matt Casey Ed Leader Meaghan Smith Angela Cataldo Brian Meyer Brian Tierney Kate Coughlin Tom Moran Mark Torma Thomas Coyne Jackie Moser Dave Treacy John DeBoy Chris Mullins Joe Villinski Brent DiCrescenzo Jason Newcomer Carmen Walker Leslie Field Gwen Norgle Stacy Ward Todd Fitzpatrick Sean O'Connor Melanie Waters Liz Foran Sarah O'Hea Jennifer Weber Suzy Fry Sue O'Kain Tyler Weber Sean Gallavan Jillian Pagliocca Russ Williams Brant Gauthier Bernadette Parnpuch  
1  Thanks for all your help over the years.  


----------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------·---­
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
African-Americans celebrate 50 years at ND 
Graduating Seniors Are Invited... 
to take advantage of these outstanding services from NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION to help with your expenses after graduation. 
MASTERCARD/VISA -14.92°/o APR FIXED on purchases for both cards, with No ANNUAL FEE and a 25-DAY GRACE PERIOD. 
AuTO LOANS -Finance your next auto purchase of $5,000 or more with us and we'll give you $100 once your loan is disbursed. USED or NEW, rates are as low as 8.49°/o APR FIXED. Payments on your auto loan may be deferred until September, 1997. That's right-buy a car and take home a "Ben." Used or New, the rate's the same. 
No-FEE CHECKING-No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE, No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIREMENT and No PER-CHECK CHARGES. And, the first 50 checks are free! Interest is calculated daily and paid monthly O!'l all balances of $2,500 or more. Convenient overdraft protection from Savings or a Line-of-Credit is also available. 
Feel free to call us if you need money to "get started:' Your Credit Union is the best place to begin when building your credit rating. A letter of employment is necessary when you apply for your loan(s). Applicants with good credit or no credit may qualify. No co-signer is required. Offer ends June 30, 1997. 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE 


NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 

Main Office: 239-6611 or 1-800-522-6611 www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net Other Locations: Edison Lakes -254-4400 • Ireland Road -299-2220 • Mishawaka -256-2361 Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 • Saint Mary's College-284-4614 
NCUA 

Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Tardy, assistant director of wasn't trying to prove a Assistant News Editor the office of admissions and point." the treasurer of Black Alumni After he graduated, This year marks the 25th of Notre Dame. Thompson worked for the U.S. 
anniversary of Notre ___________________......,.......,.......,.......,....,.. Postal Service until 
Dame  admitting  1955, when he moved  
women.  But 50 years  on to the International  
ago, Frazier Thomp- Resistance Company,  
son.  a track star and  where he worked until  
pre-med  major,  1974.  
became  the  first  Black Alumni of Notre  
African-American  Dame,  a  subgroup of  
student to graduate  the Alumni Association,  
from Notre Dame.  plans to honor the occa- 
He  was  offered  a  sion  of  Thompson's  
track scholarship in 1945,  Thompson,  who  died  in  graduation by naming 50 dis- 
after attending Notre Dame in  1991, was quoted in 1990 in  tinguished African-American  
1944 through  a  Navy pro­ "Ebony Side of the Dome,"  alumni at its tri-annual, all- 
gram.  Black Alumni of Notre Dame's  classes reunion this summer.  
"Back then a lot of African- newsletter,  as  saying,  "I  "We plan on honoring alum- 
Americans went on to college  wasn't trying to prove any­ ni who contributed a  lot as  
when they got funding from  thing, I just wanted to be me.  Notre Dame students," Tardy  
the military," said Melvin  I just wanted an education. I  said.  "They  also  have  

achieved in their professional and personal lives after grad­uation. The main question was to see if they exemplify what our alumni are doing. 
"Most people do not know about the more distinguished African-Americans that have graduated from this University, outside of the sports players," he continued. 
"For example, Gary Cooper, who was the ambassador to Jamaica, and his brother Jay, the former mayor of Pritchard, Ala., both graduat­ed from Notre Dame. 
"We have many alumni who have received recognition for service and professional achievements, but people need to know about them." 
The group also plans for 
Thompson's surviving family to represent him at this cere­mony. In addition, they will establish a scholarship in Thompson's name to benefit all students. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame from 1952 to 1987, unofficially organized the Black Alumni of Notre Dame in 1985. 
"He brought 20 alumni back to campus that year to deter­mine why so few African­American alumni were returning to campus," Tardy said. 
"We planned an all-classes reunion in 1989, then we offi­cially formed Black Alumni of Notre Dame to assist the University with this," Tardy said. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, May 16, 1997 
West Quad dorms prompt 18-hole golf course construction 
Juday Creek health draws local concern 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Progress in the construction of Notre Dame's new golf course north of Douglas Road is at a standstill as adminis­trators and community mem­bers consider its repercus­sions for a dying creek and await the approval of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources' {IDNR) to begin work. 
Underwritten by William Warren. Jr.. a 1956 alumnus, the $7 million course is planned to be constructed on a 260-acre property between Juniper and Ironwood Roads. But the area is also home to Juday Creek, which has felt detrimental effects of con­struction in the past. With tl1is new project, environmen­talists do not want history to repeat itself. 
"The stream has deteriorat­ed over that last 20 years due to development upstream from campus and on Grape Road," said Ron Hellenthal, director of Notre Dame's environmental research cen­ter. 
Hellenthal, who was hired to advise University officials about the creek's history, has been conducting studies for the past two decades regard­ing the state of the stream, which he says is poor. 
"During the mid to late '80s, almost all of the organisms in the creek disappeared, he said. "Many of the steps the University is taking may help improve the stream and bring it back." 
Those steps include digging a number of bends in the creek, adding more gravel to its bed to provide a cleansing effect, planting trees to increase the stream's canopy and installing a filtration sys­tem to screen pollutants from Ironwood Road. 
According to Dennis Brown, 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Juday Creek, which runs through the proposed land for the Warren Golf Course, is drawing controversy from environmentalists. 
associate director of Public Relations, these alterations should be sufficient for the University to attain the per­mits necessary to begin the project and sidestep Indiana's new anti-degradation provi­sions to the Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative. 
"According to IDNR, we cannot do anything to harm the creek. We have demon­strated that with the present plans we are actually trying to help it. We fully anticipate having things approved," Brown said. If permission is granted as anticipated, the course will be built by August 1998 and ready for play in spring 1999. 
Hellenthal believes that planners, including designers Coore & Crenshaw Inc., are keeping the health of the stream in mind. 
"The University is doing an incredibly responsible job. I think it has gone out of its way to respond to all the con­cerns it's received," Hellenthal said. 
Some of those concerns have come from neighbors like J .C. Sporleder of the Izaak Walton League, a national conservation organi­zation, who is not completely confident in the University's plans for the creek. 

"We are not against the Notre Dame golf course; we are against possible impacts to the creek," Sporleder said. 
The organization, whose local nature center lies down­stream from the proposed course, is most concerned with loss of noodways that could cause flooding to near­by properties during heavy rainfall as well as with a plan to pump ground water into Juday Creek, which eould change the chemieal makeup of the natural stream. 
Members have requested a public hearing to voice their opinions in front of the Army Corps of Engineers, which dictates the wetland statutes of the .federal Clean Water Act. The meeting has yet to be approved. 
"The course plan includes many things that lzaak Walton likes. We just want to investigate all the conse­quences because it should be possible to have a high quality golf course and a healthy creek," Sporleder said. 
Land on old course holds new dorms, construction proceeds on schedule 
The construction of McGlinn and Robert and Kathleen Welsh Family residence halls is continuing one month ahead of schedule and will b.e completed in four to six weeks, according to Mike Smith, director of facilities engineering. 
"They're coming along great," Smith sa:ld. "AU that's left is painting, carpeting, moving in the furniture and putting a mint on the pillow." 
With structure completion set for mid-July, the dorms, which each have a $20 million price tag, are pro· gressing more quickly and efficiently than their counterparts, Keough and O'Neill Family Halls, which were completed just days before the open•' ing of' the fall 1996 semester. 
According to Tim Ackerson, on-site project manager for Casteel Construction, an earlier scheduled starting date helped the project move along. · 
"We are now one full month ahead of schedule cotripared to O'Neill and Keough. Mike Smith saw that we'd have an easier time if we laid the foundation for McGlinn and Welsh earlier," Ackerson said. "Then, because the foundation was set, we had more grace period as far as whenwe could start different aspects ofthe project, and now we're ahead. 
"They have to put down carpet and mstall a few doors and things," he continued about the work of the 40­member crew, "but when they're done, it takes the owner, which is University of Notre Dame, about a month to move in." 
According to Paula Carlaccini, pro­ject manager for facilities engineer­ing, the process of moving in will begin directly after construction completion. . 
Bed units and student room furni­ture is schnduled to be delivered on June 15, and all general furniture, including that for lounge, study room and social space, should be in plaee by July 7. 
"Really, by the end of July, we will be ready to move everybody in. The rectors should be in around that time, and then it will be all ready for school," Carlaccini said. 
Additionally, ehapel furniture will be provided by University artisans and ready for the dorms' openings in the falL 
"We construct all the altar furnish­ings in our carpentry shops, and that is in the works. Some of it is already done," Carlaccini added. 



~----_____.........-­
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
ND kicks off $767 million fund-raising campaign 

Academic ProgramEnhancement --..... Physical Facilities $116.3 mil 
$167m] 

University _ Libraries $37.7 mil 
Faculty Development $153 mil 


"We need to keep up our effort to recruit minority stu­dents, and competition to recruit the best minority stu­dents is driven by the amount we can offer them," Malloy said. 
"What is just loans and work-study for several stu­dents right now will ideally become solid scholarship money," Moore added. "Endowments are a nice way of ensuring we have constant funds to back up that aid." 
Concluded Hatch, "Our goal is to have full need met." 
In addition to financial aid, the campaign will also focus heavily on raising funds for the construction of physical facilities. A science teaching facility and new bookstore are in the planning as goals of the $167 million-facet of the pro­ject. 
"The science building will be totally devoted to undergradu­ate education. It will address the question, 'What will sci­ence teaching be like in 10-15 years?"' Hatch said. 
Faculty development is also strongly represented in the plan, with $153 million allot­ted for its strengthening. Much money donated will be used to create more endowed profes­sorships, but continuing edu­cation for current professors will also be targeted. 
"We want to enhance the people we have now, but we feel the faculty should grow. We also would like to draw more professors to keep a good faculty/student ratio without increasing .tuition," Moore said. 
Malloy and Hatch explained that the advantage of addition­al endowments is that tuition then pays for a smaller per­centage of faculty salaries; thus, an increase in endowed professorships has no effect on tuition costs because those donations are not included in the University's annual opera­tional budget. 
This is especially pertinent as the University has changed its distribution of faculty teaching, research and service time commitments, allowing 
professors less time in the classroom. 
"That translates to either larger classes, or more profes­sors. We'd prefer the latter," Malloy said. "Teachers can maximize their vast potential and live up to our high expec­tations." 
Another $116.3 million will cover the enhancement of var­ious University programs, both on campus and abroad, and $37.7 million will be used to augment ·campus libraries. 
The final $25 million will be added to funds for current operations, including grounds up-keep and building renova­tions. 
As it stands, Notre Dame has made history with the funds already amassed en route to the $767 million goal, although the final stage of the campaign is about to kick into high gear. Malloy explained that soliciting the final 39 per­cent will require a concerted effort from University officials. 
"If we don't raise another dime, this still goes on record as the largest amount raised by any Catholic university," he said. "But we still need to engage the interest and sup­port of a broad range of peo­ple. It's daunting, but do­able." 
Colloquy 2000 provides basis for largest drive in ND history 
By HEATHER COCKS News Editor and MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
In an unprecedented fund­raising effort, the University has pledged its intent to raise $767 million by the year 2000 in "Generations: A Campaign for the Notre Dame Student." 
Aiming to augment scholar­ship funds, faculty positions, campus libraries and con­struction plans, the campaign is the largest of its kind ever undertaken in Catholic higher education and the ninth­largest capital campaign now in progress in American acad­emia. 
"The total [dollar amount] is intended to suggest a realistic appraisal of what is both pos­sible and necessary," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "In the same vein, if we had a hope and dream list, this is what would be on it." 
The wish list was created in conjunction with the Colloquy for the Year 2000, a campus­wide study to determine the needs and priorities of faculty, students and staff, and which also serves as part of the University's accreditation report. Once defined, adminis­trators determined the amount of money necessary to accom­modate each request as thor­oughly as possible. 

Over 60 percent of the total monetary goal has been attained thus far, with some of the $4 70 million already being invested in projects like the Main Building renovation and construction of the dorms on West Quad. The stadium pro­ject is not part of the cam­paign. 
"Most money, especially that for construction, is given for a specific project. What people give will hopefully correspond to what our goals are," University provost Nathan Hatch said. 
"We're completing what we call the 'quiet phase' during which we talk to the people most likely to donate the largest amount," said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations. "Now we're heading into the last, most time-inten­sive stage directed at a larger group of people." 
The fundraising proposal outlines the allotment of $268 million for direct student needs, including undergradu­ate, graduate and law scholar­ships. Malloy explained that endowments given for finan­cial aid, which pay annual div­idends on donated gifts, pro­vide Notre Dame with a lasting source of funds. 
"Endowments are like con­stant dollars. If we just spend that money, it's more decisive and immediate, but the more internal resources we have, the more control we have over the mix of our student body," Malloy said. 
He clarified that once invest­ed, five percent of the endow­ment is available annually; thus, it is a guaranteed source of financial assistance that cannot be spent all at one time. 
Presently, the University provides consistent assistance to students who earn status as Notre Dame or Holy Cross Scholars, with the latter intended for minority stu­dents. Malloy asserted his desire to continue the expan­sion of those programs, with special interests in increasing the percentage of minority 
CONGRATULATIONS GRADUATES! FROM YOUR FRIENDS AT bur-3! 
r----------------, 
1 FREE BUFFALO CHIPS 11 w/ purchase of 
1 I :;i~~i!>sl ~ 12 pc. Wing I 
: (~r! order : 
I \UW•3/ Valid only with coupon. I 
J.\0 ~ ~<-"'-Not valid with other specials II ••-1~--, Expires 6/1/97 
L----------------~ 
r----------------, 
I 5 FREE WINGS I 
I  w/ purchase of  I  
:  ;~~~~  12 pc. Wing  :  
1 ~\.~)Q.  Order  1  
I  \UW•3'  Valid only with coupon.  I  
I  '.\•l?eal'il''<-o,  Not valid with other specials  1  

L----------~~~~--~ 
Phone: 
(219) 232-2293 
Downtown South Bend 123 W. Washington St.

bw-3 
1/2 Block West of Football Hall of Fame Open 7 Days aWeek

Grill & Pub® 


(Inscription in St.Paul's Cathedral) Notre Dame Public Relations and Information salutes our graduating tour guides, who looked around a little while they were here. 
Ben Beltramo 
Bong Miquiabas 
Nick Honkamp 
Patrick Perri 
Mary Hyder 
Amy Pines 
Edward McCaul 

------·-­
Friday, May 16, 1997

page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Office of Residence Life and the Office of Student Affairs wish to thank the 1996-97 Residence Hall Assistants for their hard work and dedication this year. 
Congratulations and Good Luck! 
Mary J o Adams  David Delgado  Roger Koelsch  
J. Damon Affinito  Stephen Dirnberger  Kelly Koski  Jason Pope  
Matthew Althoff  Brian Dominic  Daniel Koth  Jason Potampa  
Brian Anderson  Moira Donahoe  Robert Kuehn  Paola Ramirez  
Robert Auffant  Rebecca Downey  Jeanne LaFleur  Mark Rengel  
Angela Auth  John Draus  Jackie LaMear  James Kevin Richter  
Ryan Aylward  Gwenne Eberle  Margaret Lennon  Richard Rittenhouse  
Virginia Babst  Bridget Elliott  Michele Lictenberger  Andrew Romanek  
Beth Ballegeer  John Eriksen  Adam Lips  Meagen Ryan  
Jeremy Baltz  Michael Fesenmeier  Elizabeth Loftus  Robert Ryan  
Deborah Barclay  Patricia Foglesong  Mai Ly  Mary Sacksteder  
James Barret  Sarah Forquer  Sarah Lynch  Rachel Saletel  
Sarah Bassler  Vincent Friedewald  Phillip Mages  Anthony Schaefer  
Femabelle Bautista  Suzanne Fry  Lisa Maggio  Amy Schmidt  
Ben Beltramo  Ryan Furmick  Stephen Mahoney  Stacey Segan  
William Bennett  Mark Gage  Elizabeth Majors  Andrew Sgro  
Brian Berry  Brett Galley  Amanda Martin  Anthony Siefring  
Andrea Bieberich  Jennifer Anne Giova  Bryan Mason  Michael Signorelli  
Matthem Boever  Francesca Go  Kathleen McCann  Bryan Silletti  
MaryAnne Boley  Antonio Granado  Elizabeth McCarthy  Armando Sobalvarro-Rosales  
Luigino Bonacci  Gail Gray  Megan McDermott  Matthew Stecher  
Kathleen Brannock  Amy Green  Brian McDonagh  Marisa Tamayo  
Patrick Brennan  Kyle Green  Sarah McGreevy  Lina Tantash  
Corey Brown  John Gunningle  Dan McKillop  Kristen Tate  
Steven Buckley  Jeannine Haener  Katherine McNally  Mark Tate  
Matthew Bundick  Christian Hanson  Michele Medianka  Lisa Tiongson  
Matthew Busam  Nathan Hatch  Colleen Moore  Darcie Tutin  
Edward Caron  Laura Hayden  Tom Mullarkey  Heidi Urben  
Macaire Carroll  Matthew Hoefling  Derek Mullen  Michelle Venci  
Patricia Caulfield  Paul Horn  Andrew Nachman  Gunalan Vijayaratnam  
Bryan Cavanaugh  Jason Hurd  Keira O'Connor  Matthew Wallace  
Charles Cavanaugh  Kevin Hutchinson  Nestor Ojeda  Stephen Walter  
Anthony Ciampa  Ben Jagodzinski  Robert O'Keefe  Susan Wangenstein  
Katherine Conlon  Jean-Paul Jaillet  Chrisana Olson  Darryl Wells  
Regan Connell  Brendon Johnson  Mary O'Shaughnessy  Gregory' Wilson  
Johanna Corbin  Michael Kalkstein  Adrienne Passeri  Theresa Wittenauer  
Shannon Crombie  Matt Karr  Megan Eileen Pater  Brandon Zabukovic  
Colleen Crowley  Kathleen Kenney  Joseph Phillips  Brian Zelizo  
Maria Culcasi  Timothy Kerr  Margaret Pierman  Beth Zumbach  
Bridget Davin  Esher Maria Keyes  Anthony Pohlen  
Mike DeBiasi  Mark Kocovski  ohn Polk  

We also wish to thank and congratulate the following Assistant Rectors as they move on to new opportunities: 

Amy Cavender  Jennifer Girard  Deidre Meehan  
Anthony Coury  Kathleen Gleason  Stuart Healy  
Matthew Doring  Michael Gleason  Patricia Solomon  
Christopher Duda  Tamara Herdener  R. Lindsay Wilson  
Lindsey Esbensen  Pamela Hunt  Allison Wisk  
Ellen Feeney  Jonathan Lienhard  
Jonathan Fligg  Robert Mallon  

Our deepest gratitude to the following Rectors as they leave their current positions. Best wishes to each of you! 
Sr. Joanne Bauer. CSC Sr. Sally Duffy, SC Rev. Thomas King. CSC Rev. Joseph Carey, CSC Sr. M.J. Griffin, OSF Rev.Joseph Ross, CSC 


------~ --~------~ 

-------~--....-----~~-~-~ 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer· THE CLASS OF 1997: MARA FOX AND PATTY KWIAT page 11 
'"TATith Patty, you could be sitting '" 71 /1ara was one ofthe J1 J1 around doing absolutely noth­1Jll best people I ever ing and having the time ofyour life.' knew.'
Not forgotten 
From hurt, fond memories ofKwiat emerge 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Editor-in-Chief 
Outside the main door of Farley Hall, a newly-planted tree over­sees ,a plaque honoring the memo­ry of Patty Kwiat. 
Kwiat, who died aboard TWA Flight 800 last July, would have graduated this Sunday with her fellow members of the class of 1997. It has been a year of emo­tional highs and lows for Kwiat's friends in Farley Hall, pierced at times by the shocking pain of such a tragic loss. 
But as her friends go through the final days of Senior Week ­sharing times that should have included Kwiat-the somber tone that characterized the first few months of school has been replaced with a simple gratitude for the chance to have known the woman whose infectious smile "touched so many people." 
"With Patty, you could be sitting around doing absolutely nothing and having the time of your life," said Suzy Fry, a Farley Hall resi­dent assistant and one of Kwiat's closest friends. 
The University will award a posthumous degree to Kwiat at commencement this weekend. 
According to friends, the reflec­tions on Kwiat come at times when they are hanging out together and a sense persists that something ­
The 
At the base of this tree outside 
Farley Hall lies a plaque honoring 
Patty Kwiat. 
someone -seems to be missing. It is a sense that has been especially felt this week. 
"Notre Dame reminds me so much of Patty that it's hard leav­ing now. Graduation means mov­ing away from where we knew Patty," said Katie Yeend. 

"We used to go rollerblading around campus, and now when I go running around campus, I think of her," Yeend continued. "When we're doing some­thing fun, I think of how much she would have enjoyed it." 
The reflections are common to all Kwiat's friends, but more often than not, they're personal and left unspoken. 
"We're all thinking about her, but no one really wants to bring the party down" by talking about her death, said Katie Flynn. "It's somber, but it makes me happy, because I know that I had that time with her. It makes me think, 'Wow, what an amazing person." 
Besides rollerblading, Kwiat was also known for her love of movies, Bob Marley, and especially children. She babysat for a Notre Dame professor, Jim Langford, and spent time at his farm for disadvantaged children locat­ed south of South Bend. 
Her love of children has prompted Flynn to create a fund in her name in which the proceeds will be donated to a different children's foundation each year on her birthday, May 30. The funds, collected from friends, will be given this year to Langford's camp pro­gram, "There Are Children Here." 
"She just loved children, just adored them," Flynn said. "We thought she would want nothing more than for the money to go to children." 
The dorm has also established a scholarship fund in Kwiat's name, which recently benefited from funds raised from a charity concert given by George and the Freeks last month. 
"All of her friends were there," Fry said. "It was so emotional that I wasn't prepared for it. She touched so many people beyond our own experiences with her. It was so nice to see her world come to life again." 
At the end of the school year, Farley Hall held a senior farewell Mass at the Grotto, in which each senior lit one of the candles. A candle was also lit for Kwiat. 
"We carry her memory in our hearts," said Sister Carrine Etheridge, Farley Hall's rector. "She's missed here." 
But for all the great memories, some pain still persists. · 
"It's been a rough year," Fry said. "Try imagining having one of your best friends here and then having her gone so suddenly. Your heart just aches." 
Jeannine Augustine Belle Bautista Stephanie Bickel Lacey Canavesi Stacy Carel Layne Carson Patty Caulfield Amy Chaput Maria Culcasi Sara Dolezal Sarah Forquer Suxy Kelly Erin Kennedy Esther Keyes Eve Lubbers Susan McGovern Katie McNally 

Best Wisbes in all Your Endea~ors­tl.e ~olDen of Breen-PLillips Hall 
Foxs death brought class of 1997 together 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Editor-in-Chief 
Inextricably linked with the euphoria that came with the thrilling victory of the Florida State weekend in November 1993 will always be the shocking hurt that resulted from the death of Mara Fox. 
Fox, then a freshman in Lyons Hall, was walk­ing back to campus from Macri's Deli along Douglas Road when she was struck and killed by a car driven by John Rita, then a Notre Dame law student. 

More than three years later, as her classmates graduate this weekend, Fox is not forgotten. Her memory was honored during last Sunday's Mass at Lyons Hall, and a slide show paid tribute to her time, however Jfz_~ &'j!brief, at Notre Dame. 
Mara's friends // · · ~Yo.v described her as some-./1/tt:l/'i'Z one in love with every-.AGo~ :1.9.9.1 thing in life. "[She] was L.T_h_!is~-=a~rt=i~st-'s...::..::;,:____r_e_n-de-ri_n_Jg one of the best people I appeared on the cover of the ever knew," said program for Mara Fox's memo­Jennifer Ramirez, one of rial Mass in November 1993. 

Fox's roommates. 

Fox was known for her vibrant enthusiasm for helping others, especially through donating her time to ASAP, a dorm service project that coordinated babysitting for the children of teen mothers so that they could attend parent­ing classes. 
The impact of her death upon Lyons Hall was immediate. 
"Her death really brought her class together quickly," said Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall. "It just made me realize how fragile life is and how important it is to make the best of the time we have." 
In response to Fox's death, the dorm organized a Fun Run that has since become an annual tradition. Held on the anniversary of her death, the run raises money for a sopho­more who has decided to study for a semester in Spain. Fox had planned on going to Spain her sophomore year. 
A plaque and likeness of Fox also adorns the main hall­way of Lyons Hall. For Ramirez, thoughts of Fox still occur whenever she goes out with friends. "When we go out ... it feels like someone was left behind," Ramirez said. "Dances too; she loved to dance." 
"She had a great sense of humor," Beatty said. "Every once in a while, I'll see a freshman that makes me think of her." 
The University will award Fox a posthumous degree this weekend, but her family members will not be coming from her home in Oakton, Va., for the graduation ceremony. Even more than three years after the fact, the legal ques­tions surrounding Rita's actions on the night of Fox's death have not yet been resolved. 
Teresita Mercado Christy Molino Jacqueline Moser Jill Myers Erin Orga Katie Pille Amy Pines Erin Purtell Taryn Reiner Maghan Shannon Anne Smith Jeanine Sobczak Gretchen Stevens Rebecca Trantowski Kate Wildasin Katie Yaeger 

--~ -----~-~-~------~~~---~-----~-----------~ 

Jl0"tM ~unw. o-UP Ao-~p_ !Y~P. MPO-.np aAd~ae. f?/JPO-~ ~n ~~. 
~~ ~ ~o&aAd$~. 
~~, j_ HliLntf& ~~ ~. 
~o&k/b ~ 4 /fu;w, AAdo-aP ka,~~~P. f?/J_pa~ ~. J/0"~ ~unw. A/idOUP ~£aP~~~P, $ooe ~. Jl0"tM ~anw. 

Photos by 
Kevin Dalum 
and 

Dan Cichalski 

Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
Hesburgh receives his I 35th honorary degree 

By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Last week in New York, two different institutions honored Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeritus of Notre Dame. 
The College of Saint Rose in Albany, N.Y., awarded Hesburgh an honorary law degree. 
It is his 135th honorary degree, which, according to the Guinness Book of World 
Records is the most bestowed on any one person, living or dead. The late Herbert Hoover, former president of the United States, holds the second most degrees with 89. 
"I only get one or two a year," Hesburgh said. "But I have one from each of the Ivy Leagues and a couple from overseas. I am running out of those kind of schools though." 
In receiving the degree, Ilesburgh attended the gradu­ation at the College of Saint 
Rose and addressed the grad­uating class. 
"I go and talk to the kids,'.' he said. "I tell them what they have to expect and what they have to look forward to." 
Also last week, the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations (NECO) awarded Hesburgh the Ellis Island Medal of Honor at a ceremony in the recently refurbished Great Hall on Ellis Island. 
"A few years ago, the island was in an absolute state of ruin," he said. "It was so bad that they even offered to sell Notre Dame a plot of land on the island. But they thought that they should fix it up instead. And to keep interest in the program, they created this medal of honor. · 
"The group 

gives it out to people who they consider to have worked toward advancements in morals and civil rights in the country," he continued. "The last four presi­dents have received it, as have many other civic leaders. Every one has to give a speech at the ceremony, and I was also asked to give the closing benedic­tion." 
President of 
the University from 1952 to former President Carter's 1987, Hesburgh has held 15 Select Commission on presidential appointments, Immigration and Refugee including the chairmanship of Policy. 
The Observer News Department congratulates its seniors: 
Good Luck! 
Claddagh's, Belleek, Complete line of Irish Goods 


1-888-243-.140 I 
1643 Edison Rd. South Bend 243-1400 
Krisanne 
BBA '97 

Summa Cum Laude 

/ ··~~~ 
\-<·· 
·. 
\ ·, 

Dream to t()uth the Stars ' \' · Live to touch your Dreams 

Father Theodore Hesburgh was awarded his 135th honorary degree this month from the College of Saint Rose in New York. He has received more honorary degrees than anyone in history. 
John DeBoy Liz Foran Ethan Hayward Tom Moran 
Jillian Pagliocca Amy Schmidt Russ Williams 
their biology." tutored Notre Dame freshmen Northup will be one of five dis­She has already engaged in and student-athletes in chem­tinguished honorary degree
Koritnik SMC Grad 
independent organic synthesis istry and physics. She also was a recipients selected for signifi­

continued from page 1 
she visited the place five years ago. 
"When I came and visited the campus, I just fell in love with the place," she said. 
"My mom was the one who suggested Notre Dame. I didn't mention it, because I thought that it would be too expensive. But my mom said, 'What about Notre Dame?' and I went along." 
And today, as she is about to graduate, Koritnik has no regrets about her decision to attend Notre Dame. 
"They always say that college is the best four years of your life, and I can't say that Notre Dame has done me bad in that way," she said. "I really think that this is the best place you can come for an undergraduate career. The faculty at Notre Dame is clearly here for the undergradu­ates." 
Koritnik is planning a career in academia, beginning with graduate school in chemistry at Stanford University next month. And then what? 
"Actually, I'd like to come back some day and teach at Notre Dame," she said. 
At Stanford, Koritnik plans to study biologically active com­pounds. "I am interested in organic synthesis on an inter­face with biology -studying molecules to learn more about 
Urda 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's College. She was hired by Sister Madeleva to teach speech and drama before enter­ing the education department, where she helped coordinate the student teaching program in the South Bend area. 
"There was no family pressure to go to Saint Mary's. I have always had a connection to Saint Mary's. Once I got here though I realized that it could be my own experience, apart from my moth­er's and grandmother's. It's a different Saint Mary's now," said Urda. 
Originally from South Bend, Urda will be attending the University of Chicago in the fall to pursue a master's degree in liter­ature. 
''I'm thinking specifically 18th or 19th century British literature, and would love to continue at the University of Chicago to obtain a Ph.D. degree as well," said Urda. 
research under Marvin Miller, Clark professor of chemistry and biochemistry at Notre Dame. 
Koritnik has accumulated many academic honors during her time at Notre Dame. She was the recipient of a presti­gious Goldwater Scholarship for the current academic _year ­one of 264 undergraduates selected from a field of 1,200 candidates. 
In 1995, she was a summer research intern at the Schering­Plough Research Institute in New Jersey, where she was assigned to an organic synthesis project in the allergy and immunology division. 
A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Koritnik received this year's Notre Dame Outstanding Chemist award and was an hon­orable mention member of USA Today's 1997 All-USA Academic Team. She completed her undergraduate studies in January. 
But as her roommate, Doreen Supon, was quick to point out, Koritnik has done much more than just compile a stellar acad­emic record in her four years at Notre Dame. 
"She actually has a life outside the lab," said Supon. "She isn't just a geek who spends all her time studying." 
And Koritnik participated in many extra-curricular activities during her college career. Beginning as a sophomore, she 
Having served as ihe treasurer of the English club for the past two years, and as a student member of the North Central Reaccreditation Steering Committee on Academic Standards, Urda was nominated into both Who's Who Among American Colleges and Universities, and Kappa Gamma Pi, the national Catholic college graduate honor society. 
In addition to receiving the valedictorian's medal at the annual Honors Convocation, Urda was also presented with the Sister Franzita Kane Writing Award and the English Department's Elizabeth A. Noel English Prize. 
"I have a love for English and would really like to teach litera­ture on the college level. Whatever I do, I hope I'm happy," Urda said. 
She will present the valedictory speech at graduation, stressing the importance of a liberal arts education. 
"The most important things that I will be taking away from 
-_
-
ns
. 

Franchises available For more information call 800-262-7267 
Notre Dame Representative to the 1996 National Bioengineering Career Symposium. A resident of Farley Hall until her senior year, Koritnik volunteered in a num­ber of hall social service activi­ties. 
She was a member of the var­sity track and cross-country teams during her freshman and sophomore years. 
When she was forced by injury to stop running, she decided on the advice of a friend to try out for the Notre Dame Band. 
"Going our for the band was the best thing I did at Notre Dame," she said. "It just made the whole Notre Dame experi­ence that much more complete." 
This Sunday at the Commencement exercises, when Koritnik gives her valedictory address, she plans to talk about the uniqueness of the students at Notre Dame. 
''I'm going to talk about my ideal-how I think Notre Dame students are, and how we go after our dreams," she said. "It will be motivational." 
Is perfection going to her head? She doesn't have time to worry about that. She has two other people in mind, Tony and Shirley Koritnik. 
"The thing that makes me the most excited is my parents. They sacrificed a lot so that I could come here, and I just want them to have the joy, too." 
Saint Mary's are the friends that I have made here, the memories, and the idea that we should always look for opportunities to serve one another," Urda stressed. She will also graduate close to perfection with a 3.99 grade point average. 
"I think that a Saint Mary's woman is very identifiable out in the world today. Everyone, from my friends to my professors, especially my English professors, have made my experience here all the more wonderful; we are a close-knit family," said Urda. 
continued from page 1 

District in almost 30 years when elected to Congress in 1996. 
Northup began her political involvement more than 30 years ago as a state officer for Kentucky Youth for Goldwater. She made her first bid for politi­cal office in 1987 as the Republican candidate in a spe­cial election to fill a vacancy in the 32nd legislative district of the Kentucky House of Representatives. She won that race and went on to be reelected four more times. 
The mother of six , ...ldren, one of whom -Katherine McCrystal Northup -is a 1995 alumna, Northup will be pre­sented with an honorary doctor­ate of laws. 
cant contributions in the areas of medicine, public office, edu­cation and the church. 
The honorees in-clude Dr. Audrey Evans of Philadelphia, the pediatric oncologist who founded the Ronald McDonald House Charities; Sister Kathleen Feeley, former president of College of Notre Dame of Maryland; the Honorable Maria Josephine Kasindi Kamm, a member of Parliament in Tanzania, East Africa, and a 1960 alumna of Saint Mary's College; and the Most Reverend John Joseph Leibrecht, bishop of Springfield-Cape Girardeau. 
English major Kathleen Urda, achieving a 3. 99 grade point average after seven semesters at Saint Mary's, will deliver the valedictory address. 

CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF '97 
From Campbell Ford Lincoln-Mercury 
You wif[ a[wa 
Erin Bridget MeNassar Ellen McSweeney 
The class of'9 7fondly remembers Patty Kwiat. May she intercedefor us. 
.----------------------------------------------------------· 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 15 
.. 
Law student Streitz will receive posthumous degree 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Doug Streitz died last summer in a small plane crash just weeks after finishing his second year of law studies at Notre Dame. 
A Double Domer, Streitz will be awarded a posthumous law degree from the University at commencement exercises this weekend. He received his undergraduate degree from Notre Dame in 1994, majoring in history and economics in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Friends, professors, and class­mates echo each other in point­ing out the love Streitz had for Notre Dame. Those who knew Doug mourn losing the energy and exuberance that his life had characterized. 
"He was just vivacious, he was always on," friend and class­mate Katie Elias recalled last fall. "Doug kept us laughing and realizing that there was a world outside oflaw school." 
An infectiously carefree dispo­sition endeared Doug to his friends, who remember him both for his ready sense of humor and for his straightfor­ward honesty. 
"You always knew where you stood with Doug and that kind of openness was particularly helpful in a law school environ­ment," Jonathan Lienhard, one of Streitz's classmates, said. 
"He very much loved Notre Dame, he loved this place immensely. He loved law school more than most students do, and he certainly loved his friends and classmates," Father John Pearson, one. of Streitz's law professors recalled. Pearson also represented the University at Streitz's funeral Mass last summer. 
In his spare time, Streitz was an avid tennis player and had been on Notre Dame's crew team. His interests included law, and friends report that his family, especially his older sis­ter, Kimberly, were very impor­tant to him. 
Streitz was with two others on June 13, 1996, when shortly after takeoff the trio's single engine plane plummeted nose­first to the ground. 


Call now about Summer Memberships for students!' 
PINNACLE athletic clubt: 205 West Edison 1·· :s: Mishawaka, INr( 46545 'v Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.924 7 
Your Total 
Wellness Complex 


In memoriam... 

T
hird-year law student Joseph Ciraolo (cen­ter), troubled by heart problems throughout his life, unexpectedly suffered a fatal cardiac arrest April 23. 
Students, friends, and pro­fessors were affected by the loss, praising Ciraolo's tough spirit and dedication. 
"Joe really fit the spirit of this place," said David Link, dean of the Law School. "He was at some disadvantages, but he never let things get in his way." 
A campus memorial ser­vice was held on May 6 so friends could join Ciraolo's parents both in grief and in celebration of his life. Russell Ciraolo will accept a law degree in his brother's place at Commencement exercis­es. 
"He fought for that degree. He wanted it, and fought to pursue it," Link said. "You have to admire that; what a wonderful spirit." 
Math program among nation's best 
latter number will increase in the future. 
"We now offer a new degree," Hahn said. "It's a master's degree in applied mathematics, with an interdis­ciplinary focus." 
He added that six students have already enrolled in that program and will begin study­ing in the 1997-98 academic year. 
Hahn emphasized the prowess of students and facul­ty in the program as being crucial to the program's high assessment by the NRC. 
"We have seven or eight research groups that have achieved national or interna­tional distinction," he said. "They cover a variety of areas." 
Though the NRC's findings were published in 1995, the University was made aware during the year and released the information in the last days of April; Hahn is opti­mistic about the effect the program's declared status will have on enrollment. 
"The American Mathematical Society takes its rankings from the NRC," Hahn said. "Our place in the survey has already proven influen­tial." 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 

The University of Notre Dame joined prestigious com­pany when its graduate pro­gram in mathematics was named one of the 23 best in the nation. 
Princeton, Harvard, MIT and Cornell are among those cited with Notre Dame by the National Research Council (NRC). who formulated these rankings from assessment scores. 
"The NRC gets 100 percent of its membership from the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineers, and the Institute of Medicine," explained Alex Hahn, chairperson of the mathematics department. "These organizations are major policy formation organi­zations in our government; they're top-ranked." 
The graduate program con­sists of 40 professors and approximately 30 students, but Hahn anticipates that the 
r , , 

CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG-DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 Call or write for free informational packet 
Intensive Italian Summer Language Program June-July, 1997 
Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfills Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel*Grammar*Culture*Music*Movies*Art 
Congratulations and Best Wishes to the Class of 
1997!!! 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/16-7/1 · ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/2-7/16 ROIT 103, Intermediate Italian 7/17-7/30 
Classes meet daily from 9:10-11:20 AM Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 PM 

Contact: Summer School Director at 631-7282 
Black Alumni of Notre Dame (BAofND) ND Alumni Association-Minority 
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, May 16, 1997 
• 








Arthur Andersen 
Welcomes the Followingl997 Graduates of the University of Notre Dame 

David Allred 
Washington, DC 
Heidi Altman 
Denver 
Brett Barlag 
Washington, DC 
Brian Blank 
Seattle 
Cara Buchanan 
Washington, DC 
David Bucolo 
Chicago 
Michael Buhrfiend 
Chicago 
Matthew Campbell 
Denver 
Virginia Carnesale 
San Francisco 
Leigh Anne Carroll 
Chicago 
Dominick Corso 
Chicago 
Christopher Dominello 
Philadelphia 
Anthony Dragone 
New York 
Jonathan Edwards 
Pittsburgh 
Christopher Eldridge 
San Francisco 
Timothy Foley 
Boston 
Julie Gahm 
Boston 
Christopher Gerosa 
New York 
Christina Giel 
Chicago 
J. Patrick Gorman 
Chicago 
Jennifer Green 
Detroit 
Ryan Guillen 
Chicago 

and St. Mary's College to Our Firm 
Kevin Haggard 
New York 
Martin Hellmer 

Phoenix-Tucson 
Lesley Herring 
Chicago 
Melissa Kearney 
Chicago 
Elizabeth Killian 

Washington, DC 
Daniel Koth 
Milwaukee 
John LaBarca 
New York 
Peter Lenardos 
Milwaukee 
Mark Loring 
Boston 
, Ben Magnano 
San Francisco 
Curtis Miller 
Pittsburgh 
Mark Moskowitz 
San Francisco 
Andrew Murray 
Chicago 

Christopher Neidlinger 
Indianapolis 
Nicole Nielsen 
Chicago 
John O'Brien 

Washington, DC 
Mark O'Carroll 
Chicago 

Michael O'Connor 
Washington, DC 
Megan O'Neill 
Milwaukee 
Rebecca Pinkley 
Seattle 
Jason Prescott 
Minneapolis 

Katherine Purcell 
Chicago 
Dawn Rice 
Chicago 
Amy Rubie 
Chicago 
Nicole Ruttura 
New York 
Michael Ryan 
New York 
Rosann Schultz 
Kansas City 
Michael Schwartz 
Atlanta 
Stacey Segan 
Chicago 
Jonathan Shank 
Denver 
Meghan Shannon 
Chicago 
Meredith Siegfried 
Houston 
Thomas Skattum 
Chicago 
Carrie Stewart 
Chicago 
Darren Strotman 
Chicago 
Christine Tonry 
New York 
Beth Townsend 
Chicago 
Allyson Troupe 
Boston 
Henry True 
Portland 
Shannon Virtue 
Chicago 
Tyler Weber 
Minneapolis 
Jennifer Yale 
Chicago 
Eigen Yanagi 
San Francisco 





Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 17 
Mother, daughter study together at SMC 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Not only is graduation a time for reflection with friends, but for Saint Mary's senior Stacy Curtis and her mother, Linda Tafelski, they have spent senior week reflecting together as mother-daughter graduates, in anticipation of when they both receive degrees on Saturday. 
Both Curtis and Tafelski will receive degrees from the English department, Curtis in English literature and her mother in English writing. 
Because the mother-daughter are in similar majors, they have taken classes together and noted that sharing classroom experiences helped their rela­tionship grow in a number of ways. 
"The feelings generated from being in the classroom with my mother are full of emotions," said Curtis. "We did a project together in a Southern Black Women's Writers class and researched the genealogy of our family. It was a great bonding experience as my mother, grandmother, and myself researched our family's history while creating stronger bonds between the three of us." 
Curtis and Tafelski are not the only members of their fami­ly to graduate from Saint Mary's. Sheila Curtis, a sister earned her degree from Saint Mary's last year. 
"As a mother and graduate, I am a huge fan of women's edu­cation; especially Saint Mary's," said Tafelski. "I have seen my daughters develop into articu-
Want to begin your career with immediate exposure to advanced technology? There is no better place to 
look than Northrop Grumman right now. From our work on the E2C Airborne Early Warning System to 
the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) to the Vehicular Intercommunications 
System (VIS), Northrop Grumman's Electronics Systems Division continues to prove that the impossible is 
indeed possible. 
At our Electronics Systems Division facility in suburban Chicago you'll find one of the world's most 
capable and experienced designers and manufacturers of highly specialized electronic systems. Our 
product technologies include Radio Frequency (RF) electronic systems and electro-optic/Infrared systems. 
These products have continuing near and long-term business opportunity. In fact, at Northrop Grumman 
our strategic thrust into defense electronics is estimated to exceed $10 billion by the year 2000. Current 
areas of opportunity include: 
SIC 
Northrop Grumman Electronics Systems continues to be an industry leader in the development and use of monolithic microwave integrated circuit and analog and digital application-specific integrated circuit technology. Through this technology, complex circuits have been dramatically simplified, resulting in 70% fewer parts, a I0: I reduction in weight and volume, and increased performance and reliability, compared to conventional implementations. A dramatic example of maximizing miniaturization can be found in the microwave power module, the smallest power transmitter ever designed and constructed. 
Here is where the leading edge of today's electronic countermeasures technology is created. The Advanced Technology section provides engineers with an applied research environment to simulate state-of-the-art advances in analog, digital, RF, microwave, electro-optic/Infrared, and electron tube technologies along with the attendant computer aided modeling and simulation techniques. 
R 
ES-RM infrared jamming systems provide military aircraft with protection against a vast array of heat seeker missile threats and are compatible with virtually all modern military and commercial aircraft and armaments. All electro-optical/Infrared countermeasures systems provide stand-alone protection against surface-to-air, air-to-air and ai~-to-ground missiles providing the flexibility to program specific countermeasure technology against varying threats. These high-powered efficient jammers are capable of protection against multiple infrared homing missiles. 
re 
Northrop Grumman is at the leading-edge of mission planning and system sofrware development, with expertise gained from working on Attack Missile Mission Planning Sofrware (MPS), as well as state-of-the­art next generation "smart" weapons system sofrware. A joint government/industry team, using the maturity scales has rated Northrop Grumman among the top high technology sofrware development companies in the industry. 
JOIN US ! 

At our Electronics Systems Division you'll find exposure to advanced technology and tremendous career opportunity. In addition, our location offers high quality housing, education facilities and the excitement of Chicago's sports, entertainment and cultural activities. To find out more, send your resume as ASCII text to resumes@eiws.esid.northgrum.com. Or you can mail or fax your resume to: Attn: Professional Employment, Advanced Technology, Northrop Grumman, 600 Hicks Road, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008. Fax: 847/590-3I89. An equal opportunity employer M/F/0/Y. 
NORTHROP GRUMMAN 

late, educated women who know the issues going on in the world today." 
As a mother with a career, Tafelski has posed as a good example for her two daughters of not only how to balance a career and family, but also an education at the same time. 
When Tafelski graduated from high school, she won a scholarship and immediately entered a local college. Shortly after, Tafelski thought marriage and starting a family at the time was more important, and dropped out of school to raise a family. 
In 1982, Tafelski accepted a job at Saint Mary's, and in the Spring of '83 began taking classes at Saint Mary's while raising two daughters at the same time. 
"For myself, this has been a lifelong culmination full of feel­ings of joy and pride not only for myself. but especially for my daughter," said Tafelski. "It has been a project that has taken many years, and for that I am especially proud of this accomplishment." 
Over the past few weeks, the women have taken time to reflect and show their appreci­ation for one another as moth­er/daughter and as classmates. 
"Sometimes I just send little gifts to my mom to let her know how proud I am of her and how much I appreciate her support as a mother and friend," said Curtis. 
Although the two women agree that graduating from Saint Mary's at the same time is unique and special, the two women are not in total agree­ment of who graduation is more significant for. 
"I do not think a college degree is as big a deal for me as for my mom," said Curtis. "It is just normal anymore to earn a college degree at my age and then start a career and family. But for my mom, because she got her degree later in life and worked a long time toward a degree, the deg~.ee is more significant for her. 

BOG awards 
White for leadership 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
Associate dean of faculty Patrick White received the third annual Leadership Award at the Celebrating Leadership Luncheon on April 28. The award is given to an outstanding Saint Mary's faculty or staff mem­ber who exemplifies leader­ship in the College communi­ty. The executive student gov­erning body, the Board of Governance, chooses the recipient of the award each year. 
"The leadership award is important because it comes from students. We have a voice," said Beth Ann Miller, student vice-president emeri­
tus. · 
"Saint Mary's cultivates a leadership community. The award is the least we can do to thank those who inspire us," she added. 
"I was especially flattered to receive the award because [director of student activities Georgeanna Roudebush] was the first to receive the award. I admire her, and all that she's brought to leadership," White said. 
"It is also flattering to receive this award from the student leaders on the Board of Governance, who are some of the greatest in either com­munity. They have accom­plished a lot," he added. 
White has aided in pioneer­ing several leadership func­tions since his 1988 arrival at Saint Mary's. White has been involved with programs such as the FIPSE grants and COLT teams, the annual Play of the Mind weekend, the Leadership Development Committee, and the Center for Academic Innovation Grants Committee. 


Home foo Notre Dame li1t ple on NBC S five years, and will continue century. 
Executive v!te p}:esi{i~nt Father E, · · · WilHam Beauchamp arin9uric(:ltl that the Unlversity has extended 
its  .  NBC  
through th~ ·  l  
season ,....., .the  
second  thrie  
the ag:r·eernel:ltt  
has  been  
renewed since  
its inception  
in 1991.  
"This guar·  
antees  that  
the six·•  

games wtLLJ:~eL:;;~·~.::W•• 
national ·· · · · 
tel e vis dealis great. <It's been lent study-day weather." every year;~ a big improvement for ······we· "We'd like to thank Mr. Eck for 
said John ....... ··· ... l).Q making it possible for the Alumni 
Heisler, diret• Notre Dame football.' phins ·.···.· to Association to have a new tor of sports ·.reinstate. the home," said Rod West, president 
-information. 
•gse of :night~ 
of the alumni board of directors . "Our alumni In addition to housing the asso­come to rely games," he ciation and visitors' center in one on that;'' 20,000 sq. ft. building. the Eck Prior to 1984; the NCAA from the newly· Center will allow space for a new handled teJetasts of theif hiked contractwillbe direct• 70.000 sq. ft. bookstore behind sporting. events;. after t:bat .¢d to aid for all students, not the Morris Inn to replace the date. schools like .the"' for strictly athletic scholar• existing Hammes Bookstore. 
University of Oklahoma broke away and formed the College Football.. Association, which sold its rights to the ABC network. 
"ABC always leaned toward broadcasting games regionally,'i Heisler explained, "but that was not well received by our alumni. who are all across the col.tn· try:" . . 
NBC and Notre Dame had a previous affiliationinvolv~ ing men's basketball games. According to Heisler. this catalyzed their Jriterest in securing home football Saturdays. 
"Nf)t only does this guaran· tee that fans ean see the home games, hut there's a ships. ..• ·. . . > ....• According to Malloy, the location 
"The prinCipal bfmeficia· on Notre Dame Avenue will pro­ries [of the NBC. deal] have· vide a greeting place for Notre heen the more ..than 200 Dame visitors. Notre Dame students whose "It will serve as a grand wel­scholarship aid hasbeen th(;l coming spot for the people who direct result of tM agree· eome to the University," Malloyment/' Beauchamp said in a said. "We see in front of us what press·release. we think is going to be one of the . Though no official sched· most attractive parts of this cam­ules have been release{i, pus. It will weleome back those 
Notre I) arne. is slated to pl<iY who have known Notre Dame home games against Florida first-hand." State, Tennessee, and Augmenting his history of gen· 
Nebraska through the 2005 season. 

erous donations  
to the  
University, Eck,  
a 1944 alum­ 
nus, decided to  
underwrite con·  
struction of the  
project for $10  
million as an  
expression of  
his strong com­ 
mitment to  
Notre Dame.  
"It's truly a  
wonder to do  
something good  
while you're still  
here and alive  
to do it," Eck  
said, concluding  
an anecdote  
about a baseball  
fan's miscon­ 
ception that he,  
the benefactor  
of FrankStadium, was  The Observer/Kevin Datum  
dead.  Father Edw~rd Malloy and benefactor Frank Eck  
''I'm glad I'm  "break ground" for the new Eck Center.  
alive because  
I've found that  

gratitude. comes back to you 1 0-fold to "We all know that Frank has whatever you do for this school 
100-fold!" he said. been generous to Notre Dame. 
Malloy presented to Eck an He rose to the occasion. Thanks artist's rendering of the complet­for allowing Notre Dame to ed building and expressed his 
dream big dreams," Malloy said. 



SHAUN 


GRADUATION!! ENJOY! LOVE, MOM (!1 NICK 
"For fans and alums who want tickets and can't get them, this deal is great. It's 

SIEGFRIED H~LL SENIORS­
been a big improvement for Notre Dame··· football," 
WE'RE SO S~D YOU'RE LE~VING. 
Heisler said, ·· 




Katie Archibald jennifer Herbe ]en Roe 
Alyssa Bailly Lesley Herring jennifer Rubow 
Holly Barker Kate Hillman Gina Rucazado 
Elizabeth Barr Erin Hoffman Karen Rusche 
Bridget Bradburn Erin Ippolito Ellen Ryan 
Kathy Brannock Stacie jonas Carla Sawyer 
Cara Buchanan Maria joyce Patricia Schafnitz 
Amy Burns Denise Kirkowski Andrea Smith 
Victoria Cavazos Molly Lauinger Carrie Strobel 
Margaret Chance jen Laurie Mary Sykora 
Tiana Collins Elizabeth Leahey Kate Telesca 
Carrie Cook Michele Lichtenberger jen Toland 
Liz Cuevas Amy Majka Beth Townsend 
jennifer Davignon Liz Majors Amy Tryner 
Marcy Dinius Alex Matthews Amy Van Laeke 
Amanda DiGirolamo Kate McCann janine Van Lancker 
Becca Downey Sarah McDonald Clare Walker 
Christine Duffy Kate McShane Stacy Ward 
Nicole Emer Tejal Mehta jennifer Weber 
Colleen Fallon Lori Miller Arianne Westby 
Rachel Farrell Cheryl Natale Rebecca White 
Kirsten Firla Nicole Niemann Amy Williams 
jessica Fiscus Dawn Novak jeanine Wynton 
Marie Foresmam janice O'Connell Eugenia Zawadzki 
Maria Freiburger jocelyn Pagana Katryna Gaither Shellie Parkhill 
Sue Gallo Mary Pelzer jennifer Gardner Alyssa Peterson Liz Geddes Maria "Fernando" Katie Goodwin Pinto Gail Gray Michelle Ramos Rebecca Graybill jenny Reibenspies Sara Guertin jennifer Rice joelle Halac Kathleen Ridenour Allison Hanlan Hilda Rodriguez Christina Harley Roxanne Rodriguez 


_j 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, May 16, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• WHEN PIGS FlY ••• 

Looking back on four years 
What exactly did I learn? 
The people I met during orientation week freshman year weren't necessar­ily my best friends for life. I occasion­ally see my freshman-year roommates 

Bernadette Pampuch 
on campus, and sometimes we still say "IIi." I don't remember a single person I met during the Graffiti Dance, but I still have the shirt. I learned how to put up a loft. I learned how to take down a loft. I learned how to forge room condition reports at the begin­ning and the end of the year. 
I will forever be known as "that girl hugging the tree in the Dogbook," and was asked to a toga party and six SYRs because of it. 
I never did learn the Pythagorean Theorem. I only slept through final exams three times. I have cried in front of professors twice, both of whom were freshman biology instruc­tors. I have bickered about liberation theology, Dante, Toni Morrison's per­ception of mythology, photosynthesis, and the Spanish department's blatant ignoring of Latin America. I once wrote an 18-page paper detailing a four-page short story for an English class and summed up the entire New Testament of the Bible in a single paragraph. I kept the Honor Code. 
I studied abroad for a semester, widened my vision of the wor'ld, and learned that all Americans wear white socks and white sneakers. 
My student loan is just about equal to the amount of money I owe my par­ents for four years worth of long-dis­
tance telephone bills. Papa John's 
received two pizza orders a month 
from me for nine months a year for 
four years, bringing the amount of 
money I paid to Papa to about $500. I 
could have purchased 700 acres of 
Costa Rican rain forest for the amount 
of money I paid to the bookstore. I 
held two jobs at once for over a year, 
entered a beauty pageant and used the 
money I won to pay tuition, and never 
once had to sell blood. 
La Casa de Amistad, the Homeless 
Shelter, the Center for Social 
Concerns: Volunteer work made me 
realize I can't change the world but I 
can help a little bit. I hate CSC vans 
with a passion and learned the hard 
way why they tell you not to back up in 
one. 
College parties aren't what I thought 
they would be, but I still managed to 
develop a taste for warm beer. There 
was a time when I thought "Otter's 
Room" was the pinnacle of coolness. I 
remember when drinking Zima was 
hip, and a dance club called "Basix" 
was the best place to groove. The 
bouncers at Bridget's have a special 
place in my heart for allowing me in 
when I was still17. And 18. And 19. 
And 20. 
Thursday nights are forever Senior 
Bar nights. For the rest of my life, 
every time I hear the song "Oh What a 
Night," I will have flashbacks to a ·dark, dirty dance floor at The 
Linebacker. I have heard that it is not 
advisable to make phone calls at three 
in the morning when drunk, and that 
the scariest think about the Beer 
Goggle Effect is that it is capable of 
making even disheveled Observer staff 
members look good after a certain 
point. 
I never drove drunk, and went to 
great lengths to make sure no one else 
did. I am rumored to have hidden 
some Brazilian girl's car keys in an 
oven once. 
I have had my car searched for alco­
hol by overzealous Notre Dame securi­ty guards on Tuesday afternoons. I have been told that I was lying when I insisted that I was part of the Spanish Choir and needed to get to Crowley Music Hall to practice (three years in Coro Primavera, thank you) and that just because my friend had four suit­cases in my car didn't entitle him to being dropped off at his dorm when it was raining. I got on campus more than once by telling the guard on duty that I had to pick donuts up from the architecture building. 

I kept a long-distance relationship alive for six months. I have broken up with boyfriends and other strangers 

over e-mail, over an answering machine, and over seven cups of coffee at Steak 'N Shake. 
Sneaking into the dining hall was pretty easy, especially when I entered through the kitchen. Finding a friend who liked poetry as much as I did was pretty rare. I developed an odd love for the Internet and stopped hating squirrels. I ate candy skulls and cele­brated "Day of the Dead" thanks to Alianza, saw more African films than most Midwesterners get a chance to see, and learned how to dance Panamanian reggae. 
I had to go to the emergency room after a linebacker stepped on my foot at a Stanford Hall formal. I went to the emergency room when one of my friends fell in a hole rollerblading. I went to the hospital when Tracy had her baby, when Danny had a collapsed lung, and when the Infirmary misdiag­nosed me with a cough and I ended up with bronchitis. 
I learned a lot from hospitals. I learned that friends don't laugh when you accidentally fall backwards off your bed and hit your head on the radiator; good friends are the people who will accompany you to the emer­gency room, and that really good friends are the ones who will stay with you until the CAT scan is finished. 
Classmates came and went, but friends always stayed, sent postcards even when they were in Italy, bought me Mr. Mistys at the Dairy Queen when I most needed one, shared pints of Ben and Jerry's in the Martin's parking lot at three in the morning, cried on my shoulder, shared their apartment, invited me home for Thanksgiving, and drove me around Houston looking for the perfect night­club. It wasn't all books and cramming for exams, just mostly. Sometimes it was all that and more. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame were worth more than I ever could have imagined. I can pay my parents back for the tuition, but never for the opportunity to pray at the Grotto on lonely autumn nights, for the first flower my SYR date brought me, or for the last four years of college. 
Thank you. I've learned a lot. 
Bernadette Pampuch will graduate from Saint Mary's College with a degree in English writing May 17. She will be continuing her column next year from Mexico City, and is looking forward to graduate school. 
page 19 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"}have but one lamp by 
which my feet are guid­
ed, and that is the lamp of 
experience. I know no way 
of judging of the future but 
by the past." 
-Patrick Henry 



VIEWPOINT 
page 20 Friday, May 16, 1997 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A response from the president 
Dear Editor: 
For about one month, I have publicly remained silent about the vast amount of criticism towards the senior class officers that has been printed. It began with an allegation by Steve Myers in his Gipper column, followed with a letter to the editor by Francis Cloran, and culminated with another letter to the editor concerning Senior Week. In addition to these public accusations, I have received several personal letters and phone calls. 
I have not written before now because I did not realize the widespread belief of these rumors and accusations. Furthermore, I felt that those who know me understood the facts concerning the events called into question. I did make an effort to contact each critic and discuss the issues at hand. I write now because of a letter I received that urged, "We want to hear from you, and until we do, what other choice do we have but to listen to rumors?" 
I would first like to address the charges that appeared in the Gipper. The only truth in the col­
umn was that a pub crawl took place, that I went on it, and that I did get left in Chicago. The event 
was not an official Class of '97 event. Money from the Senior Class Account was not used to fund it. 
It was organized by a pub owner in Chicago so that seniors moving to Chicago next year might 
become familiar with and frequent his bar. Some seniors who knew the owner sold tickets for him 
to cover the buses. It did not sell out. 
The next issue revolves around the Senior Class Formal. The reason the event was not publi­cized more profusely, was that there was an unexpected holdup in the approval process which must precede advertising. The Office of Student Affairs was concerned with the food options that were going to be available at Union Station. The contract we had established called for cold finger foods, and Student Affairs thought we should add heated food. We did not have the funds to supply this option, so Student Affairs finally decided to pay part of the bill for us. In the end, through lim­ited advertising and word of mouth, the event sold out and was a success. 
Finally, the most recent complaints have been about Senior Week. When this letter goes to print, the week will be over and I hope that it lived up to everyone's expectations. The class was allocat­ed $5,000 for the week, and through fundraising this number was significantly increased. It is very difficult to program a week of activities for a class of over 2,000 with this limited budget. I did peti­tion the Budget Committee for a $3,500 increase, but was denied this request. We based our ticket purchases on our budget, last year's Senior Week, and response to this year's Welcome Back Week activities. The trip to Cedar Point and the Cubs game both sold out. We hoped and expected that both of these events would sell out, and we encouraged those who were unable to get tickets to go on their own and meet the class. Neither of these activities is difficult to acquire tickets for. The class could not purchase additional tickets because of the corequisite (Student Affairs} that bus transportation also be provided. The budget was already overextended, and additional expen­ditures could not be made. These were only two of 14 events that the class planned. I hope that the negative reaction concerning these ticket shortages did not discourage attendance at the other events. 
I apologize for any miscommunication surrounding class events in the last semester. It has been my privilege to serve you as a class officer for the past two years. I thank you for giving me this opportunity, and I look forward to continuing to serve you until new officers are elected at our five-year reunion. Best wishes in all that you do after graduating this weekend. 
BILL HAMMONDS President, Class of 1997 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Notre Dame's real charm comes from its people 

I have been using these pages to hurl molotov cocktails at Notre Dame's admin­istration for almost four years now. In that time this column has criticized the University for everything from such minor issues as its myopic parking policies and 

Chris Kratovil 
dining hall inefficiency all the way on up the line to attacking the local institution of single-sex dormitories and the heavy handed, often thugish, practices at the University's Office of Student Affairs. But despite its assorted institutional short­comings, I can honestly say that looking back now over my four years at Notre Dame I do not regret even a day that I spent here. 
I stand by my assertion that the University policies I have critiqued in this column -most notably gender segrega­tion, the lack of resources directed towards the almost quarter of the student body that lives off-campus, the misplaced emphasis on athletics, and the patroniz­ing way in which undergraduates are often treated by the local bureaucracy ­are deeply flawed and represent a disser­vice to the Notre Dame community. But in the greater scheme of things these are only small complaints. Notre Dame is an exceptional place at which I have had a wonderful experience. 
In examining the root causes of Notre Dame's exceptionality, I am forced to reject most of the factors that those very pretty "This is Notre Dame" -type glossy brochures identify. Yes, the education I have received here is very good -cer­tainly among the best available. But it would be naive to believe that there are not anywhere from a dozen to 20 other universities in this country where an equivalent or even better education is available. What's more, at a few of Notre Dame's peer institutions such as Berkeley, Virginia and Michigan, that equal-or-bet­ter education can be obtained at around one-third of NO's asking price. So even as I leave South Bend a contented education­al costumer, the quality of my schooling is not the primary source of satisfaction with Notre Dame. 
Those omnipresent NO promotional pamphlets also tend to emphasize Notre Dame's religious affiliation, or to use the local jargon, the University's "Catholic character." True, every dorm has its own chapel and mass schedule; and, yes, by almost anyone's standards the Grotto must be considered among the most serene and spiritually alive of places. But as in any other environment, religion at Notre Dame is what you make of it; the days of compulsory mass attendance have been over for decades and the two mandatory theology classes that every student must take need not even pertain to Catholicism per se (to illustrate, my first theology class was taught by a protestant minister}. Notre Dame deserves credit for emphasizing the spiri­tual side of the human experience and presenting students with the opportunity to weave a religious thread into the broader fabric of everyday life, but that is as far as it really goes; that oft invoked image of the football team going to the Basilica en masse before games is a great photo opportunity but simply not modern NO's reality. So while I appreciate the fact that religion at Notre Dame is, in the words of one University officer "there if you want it," I cannot conclude that my experience here owes its exceptionality to the presence of a crucifix in every class­room. 
Nor can I ascribe the fulfilling nature of my collegiate years to the existence of vol­umes of football-related lore on this cam­pus or the presence of one of the top foot­ball programs in the country here -no matter how pretty those pictures of the old stadium on gameday looked in those color brochures. This school's innumer­able traditions and achievements in ath­letics certainly contribute very greatly to the national visibility of Notre Dame, but have little impact on the day-to-day lives of individual students. The fact that on six Saturdays each fall tens of thousands of plaid-pants wearing alums and "friends of Notre Dame" descend on the campus cer­tainly provides an interesting and unique backdrop for one's college years, but this phenomenon can hardly be said to be the source of Notre Dame's greatness. The madness of a football Saturday is a by-product of, or perhaps a tribute to, Notre Dame's exceptionality, not its cause. 

So in the end I must look beyond the full-color University-printed propaganda in my search to identify why I love this place. The answer is, of course, that Notre Dame is populated by a truly amazing group of people, faculty, students and staff alike. How a small school located squarely where the "Rust Belt" and the "Corn Belt" intersect and characterized by abominable weather has managed to assemble the human resources that it has is a testament to the fact that, as much as it pains me to admit this, our administra­tion is doing something very right. You could strip this place of the Dome, the Basilica, the Grotto, the Stadium, all the new high-dollar buildings, the national championships, the NBC contract and all its traditions; but if you left the faculty, staff and student body intact you would still have one of the world's great univer­sities. Notre Dame is fortunate enough to have a dedicated staff and an extremely competent and accessible faculty who are, for the most part, here to actually teach rather than merely compose obscure arti­cles. I utterly reject the often vocalized notions that Notre Dame is marked by a "lack of diversity" (whatever that means}, an apathetic student body and a lack of intellectual vigor. Where but Notre Dame can one make -as I have actually done -friends and acquaintances who hail from literally all 50 states? I would tend characterize that as "diversity." At what other university is it easier to forge friend­ships with persons of divergent interests; I've never had a theater class or an engi­neering class, yet because of the unique social climate here I count several "the­ater people" and engineers amongst my best friends. The "mood" on the Notre Dame campus is genuinely different than at any other university I have ever set foot on, a spirit-of cooperation, friendship and community really does permeate this place-at least-the glossy brochures get that much right. 
The only possible way to end a column giving my final impressions of my time as an undergraduate is by thanking the peo­ple who made these last four years possi­ble and worthwhile. Needless to say, my Mom and Dad head that list -I would never have made it through here without their constant love and support. Surviving in the ridiculous human zoo that was poor, doomed Flanner Hall freshman year is an experience that will stay with me for the for the rest of my life -thanks for that lOB boys. My semester in London was easily the zenith of my Notre Dame years -sincere thanks to everyone who was over there with me. Most of the pro­fessors I encountered here made a gen­uine contribution to my intellectual and human development, particularly Professors Jim Langford and John Roos. I am deeply grateful to the people I have worked with here at The Observer for giv­ing me the opportunity to ramble in print on a biweekly basis, with special thanks to the various Viewpoint editors I've worked under, and Liz Foran-a good friend and fine journalist. And finally I would be remiss ifI failed to express my heartfelt gratitude to Heather for all that we've shared over the last year and a half. 
It has been a very great privilege to reg­ularly share my thoughts with you all. Thanks for reading and, on occasion, tak­ing the time to respond. God bless you all. 
Chris Kratovil will attend law school at the University ofTexas at Austin in the fall. 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, May 16, 1997 page 21 
• lETTER TO THE EmTOR 
Separation of church and state taken too far 
Dear Editor, Supreme Court case of 1986-87. He also had Supreme Court nominee Robert Bork, in his book appealed the infamous "Slouching Towards Gomorrah," says the radical Roberts decision in rejection of Western values in the sixties on the col­1992 but lost. He said lege campuses is a main reason why our country is my case had much morally decaying. Indeed, one month before I began merit and believed we my freshman year at Notre Dame a former neighbor had a chance of win­(a good friend of my sister who was a student at ning in the Supreme Saint Mary's) and two of her friends blew up the Court. Congress had Army Research building in Madison, Wis., in protest passed the Religious to the Vietnam War. Madison's ROTC building was Freedom Restoration burned down bv other students. Act, and I was protect­
I lived near Madison and that summer there was ed under that law plus much excitement among my friends and relatives under the First about a real revolution. The overwhelming feeling Amendment. was that our government was so completely corrupt Unfortunately in that we must change it. Fortunately for me I was January of this year the able to rediscover my identity in Jesus Christ and Supreme Court turned thus find God's will amidst a people rejecting its down his appeal on my Judea-Christian heritage. behalf. 
After I graduated from ND I tried to work within Particularly interested the system to help change it. For several years I was in this decision were a social worker but became disenchanted with our some of the 8,000 pris­welfare system. I went back to school to get a mas­oners who go through ter's in theology. I began ministering God's Word our county jail each many hours a week in the juvenile centers and the year. For several years ---. St. Joseph County jail. I supported myself by substi­I was the persm1' chosen tute teaching. Substitute teaching also provided me by our county govern­time to prepare myself for the jail ministry by read­ment to be the person ing God's Word during silent work periods. authorized to pass out 
Although I kept myself strictly within the guide­Bibles and Christian lines of the so-called separation of church and state books to the prisoners. doctrine, the students recognized I was a Christian. I In addition I was one of lived in their neighborhood, rode the city bus with three persons allowed tfiem to school. played basketball with them, and to come into the jail preached the gospel to them after school. My stu­anytime of day to dents did not have many teachers that did what the preach the gospel. Indiana Constitution requires of them: "to encourage During my 10 years of by all suitable means moral improvement." jail ministry the govern­
I found out the hard way why my fellow teachers ment never censored were afraid to obey the constitution and the Indiana the content of my statute called "Morals Instructions," which stated: preaching or Christian "Every teacher shall present his instruction with literature in my efforts special emphasis on morality." The teachers knew of reforming the prison-~!!!l!!!!~~~~~.i..!~.i...~..~ they risked incurring the wrath of our Federal ers. Judiciary if they were loyal to the oath they all made Yet this government said I violated the separation judiciary. to uphold the Indiana Constitution. They knew if of church and state when I silently read the Bible in The Federal judges know full well that Dr. they encouraged the morality required by the the classroom in the presence of students. Many of Benjamin Rush, a signer of the Declaration of authors of our state constitution, written in 1851, these students were relatives of the 8,000 yearly Independence wrote, "If we ever take the Bible and they risked losing their job. prisoners I routinely visited. It was not a secret that God's principles out of our schools we will have a 
This is precisely what happened to me. In the fall some of the prisoners' deepest desires were to have crime explosion on our hands." They also know that of '92 some students asked me to be the sponsor of a their children believe the Bible so they would not Fisher Ames helped pen the First Amendment. Ames Bible Club they wanted to start. I sent a note to the end up in deep sin like they themselves. wrote that the Bible needs to be the main textbook principal asking about this possibility. Suddenly I The U.S. Supreme Court let stand the ruling of the in schools if we intended on preserving our nation as was fired from his school. Without a single witness I EEOC, the Federal District and the Seventh Circuit a true Federal Republic. The Federal judiciary, com­had been accused of passing out Christian literature Courts. My silent reading of the Bible could somehow prised almost exclusively of lawyers, ordered the in my class·. Tcontinued to substitute in other schools contaminate the children. My lawyer, Wendell Bird, destruction of the morals of our youth when they until November of '93 when I was accused of bring­wrote the Supreme Court: "The Corporation's act of ordered out all religious influences from government ing a Bible into the classroom and affirming stu­firing Mr. Helland, and the Seventh Circuit's schools. They did this using the names of our dent's belief in Creationism. I was permanently approval, are nothing short of extraordinary given Founding Fathers as their authority. Their motives banned from teaching in all South Bend public that broad latitude courts have given schools to were evil. schools for doing so. advocate and even endorse activity as outrageous as The word "lawyer" in Greek can trace its meaning 
For six months the School Corporation refused to sexually explicit, profane, and lewd language and to "society devourer," and in the Latin dictionary grant me a hearing. Under law my only avenue of activity during school time on school grounds. Brown "lawyer" can mean "shyster." Combine this with appeal was to the Equal Employment Opportunity v. Hot, Sexy and Safer Productions, 68 F. 3d 525 (1st membership in the FreeMason secret society and we Commission (EEOC), It took the EEOC 18 months to Cir 1995). It is an odd world when condom distribu­are dealing with dangerous and crooked "Federal'" get to my complaint. I entertained little hope of a tion in public schools is not thought to encourage judges. Jesus knew what he was talking about when fair ruling because during this time the EEOC had promiscuous activity, but when student mention of he said in Luke 11:52, "Woe to you lawyers, because just passed rules restricting anyone in the workplace religion in public schools is thought to risk perma­you have taken away the key to knowledge. You from proselytizing. That meant placing a Bible on nent contamination of all hearers." yourselves have not entered, and you have hindered one's desk or wearing a cross .around your neck Someone other than Robert Bork who has mas­those who were entering." The Federal Judiciary could subject one to a lawsuit. Fortunately the U.S. tered the thinking of the Federal Courts is Paul will suffer greatly for disobeying our Lord's com­
Senate intervened and stopped the EEOC from suc­Fisher. Mr. Fisher is a classmate and friend of my mand written three times in the gospels: "Let the lit­cessfully passing such regulations. dad, Class of '43. He was president of his 50-year tle children come to me, and do not hinder them, for 
The EEOC decision stated I violated the Roberts Notre Dame Alumni reunion in '93. He was counter the kingdom of God belongs to such as these." decision of 1990 made in the lOth Circuit Court of intelligence in both WWII and Korean War. He wrote Because of evil Supreme Court decisions there is Colorado. The EEOC claimed that because of the a 350-page book entitled: "Behind the Lodge Door: an increasing need for bigger government and more Roberts decision teachers are forbidden to silently Church State and Freemasonry in America" and an lawyers to handle all the crimes now being commit­read a Bible in the presence of students. Such acts SO-page book entitled "Their God is the Devil: A ted. Because the Supreme Court has kicked God out violate the First Amendment, the separation of Study Of Papal Encyclicals Regarding Freemasonry of school statistics reveal that 65 percent of all crime 
church and state, they said. The EEOC also claimed And Allied Secret Societies." These books document is committed by school age children. Tragically, this the sehoul fired me because my performance was that the Supreme Court from 1941 to 1971 was dom­country has many people willing to take our tax dol­substandard although the record showed that I inated by FreeMasons. They also document that the lars as wages in exchange for prostituting them­received 99 positive teacher evaluations to every Catholic Church since 1739 has repeatedly declared selves by working to help further the evil designs of negative one! that the FreeMasons are subversively anti-Christian a corrupt government, a government operating in 
I then filed a lawsuit in the Federal District Court and anti-free government. open rebellion to its creators, the framers and rati­in South Bend requesting my constitutional right to a Fisher's explanation helps us understand why the fiers of the Federal Constitution. trial by jury. Supreme Court so boldly distorts the meaning of the My friends in the 60s wisely discovered that our 
After I exhausted my savings on lawyers I then had words of our Constitution. Almost every Founding government had become very corrupt. However, to proceed pro se and put my case together myself. Father wrote or agreed that the Bible ought to be most failed to discover that an even greater corrup­
The federal judge, Robert Miller, a 33rd degree the main textbook in our schools! Thomas Jefferson, tion lay in their own hearts. Only faith like that of FreeMason, illegally dismissed the case without a a deist and the alleged creator of the separation of our Founding Fathers in the Blood of Jesus can cure hearing. A Notre Dame law professor told me I church and state doctrine, was president of the the corruption in the heart. Jesus said, "First clean would have easiLy won in a jury trial. Washington, D.C. school board. He used two books the inside of the cup and dish, and then the outside 
Notre Dame law school then helped me appeal the as the primary reading material in his government also will be clean." case to the Seventh Circuit Court in Chicago. A Notre · schools, the Bible and Watts Hymnal! St. Peter said, "Save yourself from this corrupt 
Dame law student argued my case. Again, the Robert Bork wrote, "There seems no possibility of gene,-ation." St. Paul told us how to do it: "Believe in Seventh Circuit agreed with the EEOC and the retrieving democratic government from the grasp of the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved." Federal District Court. · the Supreme Court, which now governs us in the 
I prayed for a lawyer who was an expert in the name of the Constitution in ways not remotely con­PETER S. HELLAND First Amendment. Through a Notre Dame friend I templated by the framers and ratifiers of that Local resident secured a lawyer out of Atlanta who won one of the Constitution." Bork later added that a constitutional largest 25 verdicts in history, and argued the lead amendment might deliver us from the tyranny of the 
;ACCENT
page 22 Friday, May 16, 1997 
..... 

/~~:(9 ()) Ir(QIJD
~ liiiD(9 

• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What will vou remember most about vour vears at 
Notre Dame? 

Mike Flintosh Off-campus 
"Florida State victory during freshman year. " 

Jennifer Sutton Pasquerilla East 
"My roommates coming home from AnTostal covered with war­paint and fruit roll-ups. " 



Jake Rademacher Off-campus 
"Walking away Sunday evening after the last night of 'Grapes of Wrath.' " 

Dave Mullen 
Alumni 
"Going to Ireland." 



Matt Mendlik Zahm 
"Waking up each moo ling and knowing I was at Notre Dame. " 

By JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
K 
guess what they say is true -You always remember the good times. That's good news for this week's graduating seniors, because remembering is not something that they will take lightly in the next few months, years. and even decades. 
As they don their caps and gowns a small tingle may run down their spines. Yes-it will be a tingle of joy. It will be in anticipation of standing in front of parents. friends and family and realizing that they they've made it ­they've succeeded and are finally done with college. But more than that it will be the tingle if memo­ries. 't will set in that they are finally finished and from hence forth their lives as student sat Notre Dame will lay behind them. 
As the tingle fades they will look in the mirror to make sure that their hair is perfect and their gown is straight and their caps are tilted just so. And perhaps they may see some­thing else in that mirror. Instead of a mature, college grad who is ready to face the world, they may see a young freshman wearing not a cap and gown but blue jeans and an ND sweatshirt. 
a came within one kick of a still others will remember the "House that Rockne built vated. Of those who tried to and were discouraged by a chalk that up as a great 
They i:nay remember walking nto campus for the first time asostudent looking up at the Golden Dome and thinking "My God, this is all mine for the next four years." Or maybe they'll remember meandering around at the graffiti dance with a marker in hand and wearing a clean white T -shirt. They might see themselves running around campus for their first North Quad/South Quad snowball fight. They'll remember their first football game in the student section and singing the alma mater at its close. Not only that, but they'll remember a great year, Class o oing 11-1 overall.gOf those twelve games, two will stand out -Florida State and Boston College. Some may see themselves rushing the field after the Florida State game and others will remember frolicking in Stonehenge after­night talk. They'll rememb ward. dining hall table and Just as memorable will be the last field goal of the friends or skipping class to Boston College game, when our cherished football team tiful spring day.  
• AND THAT'S ONE TO GROW ON KIIPIMG IM TOUCH By JASON HUGGINS World Wide Web Correspondent any students complain about the music scene here at Notre Dame, but sel­dom do anything about it. Even though they support campus bands and other musical groups, they often don't know when or where their favorites are performing, let alone know where to find this information. One brave Domer, however, decided to take action this semester and give our beloved music scene a boost by creating OpenMic-Notre Dame's first, only, and best Web-based campus music forum. Andy Brenner, a senior electrical engineering major living in Keough Hall, is OpenMic's creator and curator. Brenner is also the pianist for George and the Freeks (www.nd.edu/-egoldsch/), a member of the Folk Choir, and one of the founders of the Keough Kafe, a venue for campus musicians held weekly in Keough's first floor social lounge. "If I had one goal for my senior year, it would be to get this campus excited about music again," says Brenner on why he created OpenMic. OpenMic (www.nd.edu/-openmicl) will help Brenner achieve his goal in two key ways. First, it is a place where people can go to find campus band homepages and other music-related organizations, such as wvfi 640 AM (www.nd.edu/-wvfi/), and SUB , (www.nd.edu/-sub/l. Second, with its monthly "Events" calendar, OpenMic is a clear­inghouse for information on where and when bands are next performing. When visitors enter OpenMic's main page, they are offered four options: "Links," "Events," "News," and "Feedback." The "News" section complements the "Events" cal­endar with brief summaries of newsworthy campus band accomplishments. For exam­ple, the first bullet point congratulates the winners of the NAZZ Battle of the Bands: Cod in Salsa, the Florida Evan's Show Band and Revue, and the Skalcoholiks. The "Feedback" section invites visitors to send comments or questions, and discuss any- 


The young men and mirror and watch them 

Friday, May 16, 1997 page 23
ACCENT 



() 
• ACCENT ASKS •••
JtnceJtnoJrn. e s 

championship. And Some will recall meeting their future husband or wife the very last game in and some will remember making decisions that have it is completely reno-affected th• rest of their lives. For some, the best memo­the field after that game ries come away from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's.of pepper gas, most will Summers in Washington, semesters in London, Australia, 
• 

France and Austria or a year in Italy, Spain, or Ireland 
...and more memor1es
stand in front of that A great number of them will remember some of their grow up. They will see best times in serving others. Hundreds will remember themselves sitting working for poor communities in Appalachia or spending 
around at the morning fixing houses with Christmas in April and oth­ers spent much of their time tutoring impoverished chil­dren. 
Some of these moments may bring a tear to the eyes of our graduating seniors as they watch themselves progress through four years. But many more 
Amy Schmidt, Kathryn Sutliff, 
memories will make them laugh like four guys in a car singing Wilson Phillips' "Hold Stacy Raczka, and Megan On" at the top of their lungs. Others will 
O'Neill 
reminisce about toga parties or SYR 

Badin
dates that kept falling asleep. And the parties -oh the parties. They will remember fantastic par­
"Friendship."
ties and having wonderful times. But they will also recall terrible nights they can't remember and even worse mornings they wish they would forget. Who can for­get the jello pits of AnTostal or the utter insanity of PigTostal. Saint 

Patty's Days were unbelievable and Spring breaks were even bet­
Erin Gowen ter. 
Lyons
Pictures of Morrissey men running 
through the campus in February in nothing but boxers or groups of men 

"Chicken strips at the Dining 
streaking through the library wearing 
Hall."

nothing at all will come into focus. Promises of bringing the Grateful Dead to campus will occasionally bring a chuckle to 
their lips Roadtrips with buddies will glimmer into view as 
a few drunken men go on a random search for a large body of water, or the quest to get to New York city. Some will remember trying to go rockclimbing while in a drunk­
3:00a.m. en stupor or just hungover and others will remember late to participate in a late night trips into Chicago. 
Alan Smith 
lr cramming 12 people at a Yes, the seniors will look in the mirror and watch them­ling the evening with good selves grow up. They came here like so many before them Flanner 1out on the quad for a beau-thinking perhaps that they knew everything. They leave 


having learned so very much. 
ITH CAJAPUt TU 


thing music-related. 
"I would like OpenMic to be a resource for every student; a place where people can go to on a regular basis," says Brenner. In the future, he would like to see the "Feedback" section expanded to include many forum discussion areas. Also, Brenner would like to feature all music groups at Notre Dame, including choirs and members of 
the music department. 
Brenner is graduating this weekend, but OpenMic will continue to grow. In the fall, Andy Herman, a freshman business major from Stanford Hall, will be taking over the administrative duties of OpenMic. Herman is excited about his new responsibilities. About the future of OpenMic, Herman says, "[OpenMic] will give new bands a great opportunity to get some free publicity." 
Even though it has only been around for about a month, OpenMic has received almost 700 visits. But with a small personal budget, publicity is difficult. To remedy this, Brenner has displayed posters near the entrances of all campus computer clus­ters. Brenner has also relied on word-of-mouth from the campus bands. Concerning the response to OpenMic, Brenner says, "I would like to thank the bands. They have been very supportive about everything I'm doing." 
Next fall, Brenner will be working for GE in their Medical Systems division. Even though he is leaving next month, Brenner has already left his mark at Notre Dame. Brenner's enthusiasm and love for music will live on as long there is an OpenMic. 
Jason Huggins is a junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks, CA. When Jason isn't busy taking down his loft in Keenan Hall, he enjoys playing his Ovation acoustic gui­tar. To find out more about the music scene at Notre Dame, visit his homepage at http://www. nd. edul-jhuggin 11 
"Getting trapped in the Architecture Building's elevator for two hours in the middle of the night." 

Duane Cobenais Carroll 
"Lou Holtz finally leaving. " 
Brian Welch Carroll 
"No parietals at Carroll Hall. " 



• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What is your favorite memory of Saint Mary's College? 
By NORA MEANY Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
"I will remember you .... 
Will you remember me? 
Don't let your life pass you by... 
Weep not for the memories." 
--Sarah McLachlan 

S
pring is here again. South Bend is thawing out, the flowers are beginning to bloom and Saint Mary's College is graduating another class of mature young women. Although the challenges of school have been met and dealt with accordingly, the class of 1997 are facing the next struggle of graduating ­packing and moving out. Deciding what to take with as one embarks upon the real world can be a quandary. 
Along with the knickknacks, furniture and unreturnable books that have been amassed in the last four (or five, sometimes six) years, the graduates will be taking their memories of college in their hearts. Untangible and priceless, these touching moments are the stuff that teary-eyed reunions are made of. However, along with the monumental events are the everyday occurrences that one tends to forget off­hand. 
"It's the little things that I'll miss the most." says Amberly Herschberger, a gradu­ating social work major. "Popping in on somebody at 2 a.m. to say hello. Things like that." 
When asked what their favorite memory is, the standard reply from many was that there was "too much" to recall. Although scrapbook-fillers such as certain SYRs, spring breaks and wild nights of bar-hopping were easy contenders for a favorite, it seemed that the warmest thoughts are made up of a million little things put together. 
"I think that I will miss meeting with friends in the dining hall for breakfast and talking about the night before." Says Corrie Hanrahan, a double business and the­atre major. 
When taking a stroll down memory lane, here is a list of a few understated memo­ries that should jog the brain, but usually get lost in the shuffie of thought. 
10) Roaming the floors of a Domer dorm trying to find a party. 
9) Ordering pizza and watching a movie with people from your floor. 
8) Your first buzz. 
7) Countless all-nighters to finish assignments. 
6) Midnight Meijer runs. 
5) Waiting for the last shuttle at the Grotto on a Saturday night. 
4) Going off campus for dinner freshman year. 
3) Panicked trips to University Park mall for last-minute shopping. 
2) The guy that never called back. 
1) Seeing bands play anywhere from the Joyce Center to Bridget's. 
Although the applause will fade with the end of Saturday's commencement cere­mony, the memories will stay vivid and sharp in the minds of the Class of 1997. And hey, if connections to Saint Mary's College dwindle, it's only a few years until the "big ten" reunion. So clear your calenders for the first weekend of June in 2007, and most of all, "weep not for the memories .... " 
Courtney O'Rourke Mishawaka, Indiana Biology 
"Laughing my way through four years here. " 



Jennifer Ligda Evergreen Park, Illinois Communications 
"Going to Nick's at 8 a.m. on Saint Patrick's Day and having beer for breakfast. " 

Gay/a Spenney Marshall, Missouri English/Communications 
"Playing freeze tag with shower shoes in the rain." 




Corrie Hanrahan Wheaton, Illinois Business/Theatre 
"Meeting with friends at the dining hall and talking about the night before. " 

Meghan Maloney Applevalley, California Biology/Nursing 
"Having dancefests in my room with my roommates during final weeks." 


:;:i..&M:.......t......~..-I t C' tj;/ F F)Jl ( 
•!JdfiC lllf'&I;JI~#I'ot·(~--diJU J 
~.MIIIIile__,*....,.. ..........._~za.--.t----...............-~. 
fl... , •.-..............I!...~'""' 
lt!ittlttfK~--.tlttfK-.tA. --d·~
......_"_,_~-~~"""" 
Alfllltli<(...,...J.t~~illll..e-.t t!llfll1e :JI-Ite~ ...............""*'­
..,,. -~~.a.c:...-.c~--~.J:p""*' 
..:,;£~~.J.-4jfldll.#~dll.~
~--~MJ.-tf.e.-tf.edit~-.. , ,,,.. 

... 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
EUROPE $229. 
Within USA $79.-$129. 
Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t 
Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!! 
http://www.airtich.org AIRTICH 1-800-326·2009 
FREE to a good home:2 cats. Must give them up due to owner's illness.254-9175 
Caribbean/Mexico $250 RT Europe $199 OW & Domestic Destinations Cheap! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE! Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@ aerotech.com http://campus.net/aerotech 
EXPERIENCED CREW NEEDED 
FOR SAILBOAT RACING ON 
LAKE MICHIGAN THIS SUMMER. 
C&C41: HOLLAND, MI. 
Call 289-3517 or 237-6533 
ATTENTION: All seniors with higher class ranks than the Chief must report to Grace Hall at 10:00am to be executed in honor of his vale· dictiorian status. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: silver lacrosse stick bracelet If found please call Colleen @ 273-1130 
FOUND: One wooden cross with Guadalupe medal. Call to identify Beth 4951 
LOST: PEARLS BETWEEN BASIL­ICA AND HESBURGH LIBRARY. CALL 1-5729. 
PLEASE HELP ME! 
I CAN'T SEE .... I 
LOST MY GLASSES! 
WHERE AM I? 
Brown Case: Brooks Brothers 
REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE CALL KELLY .... 243-9403 
WANTED 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH PAID 2773097 
Family seeks loving, responsible, fun person to help care for 2 chil­dren while we move. Approx. 5/15 thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per hr. References and own transporta­tion needed. Sue 233-6657. 
SELLING A BIKE FOR $30? 
I WANT IT 
you forgot to put your number 
in the ad. Call me 
Beth 4951 
Summer babysitter needed: 1-2 days a week, 2-6pm 2 children ages 7 & 9 Must have own transportation Please call 277-5786 
WANTED: 
SUMMER WORK 
$10.25 to start 
Full and part time openings. No 
experience necesary. All majors. 
Scholarships and internships avail­
abe. Flexible hours. Call office 
nearest your summer location for 
information and details. 
SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357 
FORTWAYNE 219-471-6113 
NORTH INDY 317-578-0432 
SOUTH INDY 317-783·3575 
MUNCIE 765-289-7251 
KOKOMO 765-454-8921 
LAFAYETTE 765-474-3612 
MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352 
KALAMAZOO 616-323-7800 
ST, JOE MI. 616-983-5129 
FOR RENT 
Near Campus Homes for 97-98 232-2595 
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
SUMMER RENTALS 
AVAILABLE HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS • WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU· DENTS­LOW SUMMER RATES­UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ERS/DRYERS, 
ALARM SYSTEMS AVAILABLE JUNE 1 OR SOONER. CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER, DOMUS PROPERTIES 

3·4 BDRM HOUSE. 
AVAIL AUG. 2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN. ATTACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­STREET PARKING. 
683-6591. 
FURNISHED ROOM NEAR CAM­PUS, AIR, KITCHEN, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, UTILITIES PAID. 
272-0615. 
EFFICIENCY APARTMENT, SEMI­FURNISHED, QUIET LOCATION NEAR NOTRE DAME. $325/MONTH INCLUDING UTILI­TIES EXCEPT ELECTRIC. PHONE 
(219)631-6072/273-1751. 
COLLEGE PARK APT. $750/MONTH -JUN/JUL AVAIL. MAY 20-JULY 31 CALL ERIC, SEAN, OR MIKE 243-9003 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 2 & 3 Brdrm units. Just Blks from Campus. Ken 273-4555.b 
BED & BREAKFAST: Football week-ends. Private horne 2 miles from stadium. Private baths. 272-9471. 
BULLA RD. 3 BDRM. 4 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. 97/98 YEAR.272·6306 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. SUMMER OR 97/98 YEAR. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306 
FOR SALE 
COMPUTERS 486DX 33 $400., 486DX 66 $500., Pentium 120Mhz, 16 EDO, 1.08 GB, BX COD, 33.6 Modem $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also build to order, trade. 
Cable T.V. descrambler. Descrambles all premium channels including "Pay-Per View". Works in South Bend. Call: 277-3899 
Men's Trek mountain bike. 
Excellent condition. $200 or best offer. Call Kevin @ 257-0653. 
88 Honda CRX Si. 
V. good condition inside & out. Must sell. $3,000 offer. 
27 inch T.V. Cheap. 
Furniture For Sale. 
Call: 277-3899 
NEAR ND CAMPUS: 
FOLLOW YOUR DREAMS OF CONDO OWNERSHIP. DESIGNED & BUILT FOR 
"RUDY." SPECIAL FEATURES HERE FOR THE NO BUFF!! TWO BEDROOMS, POSSIBLE THREE, TWO FULL BATHS, FINISHED LL WALKOUT, SIDE DECK & PATIO. RE/MAX 100 REALTY, DONNA ROMAN, 
255-5959 OR 235-3087. 
TICKETS 
Need Graduation Tickets Desparately. Please help! Brian-287-4876 Thank You 
Do you have an extra GRADUA­TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!! Please call Paige at X4011 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. ETHAN 4·1659. 
Need Grad. tix. for family. Call Janine 243-1382 I need 1 graduation ticket. Call Sean x2088 
I need one graduation ticket!! $$ WILL PAY$$ Please contact Joe at 288-1567 
!#$$%&M•&•(•&(&•)(•)•(($%"#$@$ "$%&&"%.&"%&(&·o·wuo· I NEED GRAD TICKETS-IF I DO NOT GET ANOTHER TICKET YOU ALL WILL BE ATTENDING MY FUNERAL CUZ' MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME! $$ CALL ELLEN 273­2580!@ %$&. & .)(')(')&"(&%$"$"% @"%"%"%"'&&"(..(.((&(.&)))&"' 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! The highest quality color copies 
are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
Family Needs Graduation Tickets-Please Help! Christian 273-6967 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center SUMMER STORE HOURS 
Mon.-Fri.: 8:30am-5:30pm Sat. & Sun.: Closed Phone 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center SUMMER STORE HOURS 
Mon.-Fri.: 8:30 am -5:30 pm Sat. & Sun.: Closed Phone 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center SUMMER STORE HOURS 
Mon.-Fri.: 8:30am-5:30pm Sat. & Sun.: Closed Phone 631-COPY 
UPS ON CAMPUS LOWEST RATES 
COUNTRY HARVESTER M·F 10-5 SAT 12-3 We are not a temporary service, 
check us out! 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS! CALL JENNY AT 243-9282 
Want to get better use out of your mountain bike? Join NIMBA, the Northern Indiana Mountain Bike Association. Meet other cool moun­tain bikers, get bike shop discounts, learn of the many local trails, help open new trails, go on group rides and camping excursions-even go to local races. Se an area bike shop for an application & sign up today. Questions? E-mail ndquak­er@aol.com or stolz.4@nd.edu. 
Congratulations Stephanie Love KL 
To the Notre Dame Bands­Thanks for every1hing. You are the best in the world. Love, Tootie 
Top 10 Reasons 88, Dungs, Draus, Scraps, Petes, & Plum are still freshmen: 
10. BB's still dumb. 
9. Maybe not as much, but Dungs still ralphs. 
8. R.A. or no R.A., Draus is still haunted by the piso mojado. 
7. You can call yourself Chris all you want, but you're still Scraps to us. 
6. Petes just THINKS he's all grown up. 
5. Plum still doesn't know what he's majoring in. 
4. As far as we're concerned, we're still seniors and juniors (Duffy's both). 
3. Red-bellies and late night shav­ing cream raids are still viable options. 
2. They still can't drink or play caps or play pitch. 
1. The memories. Congrats, guys! We still think about you all the time! Cam, Lamps, Brems, Duffy, Weeder, & Hazel 

..LAST OLIGARCHY EDICT.. Attention campus: The Oligarchy requests you to honor the only REAL leader on the campus: THE CHIEF! His superb musical taste and rapidly changing facial hair style have brought new meaning to the words ORDER AND RESPECT. Thank you Chief for being such a superb ruler. -Johnny Gunz General Secretary of the Oligarchy 
E.M.F. Congratulations ME on a job well done! Us! 
D.A.T. and E.M.F. -A couple of great journalists. Thanks for all the entertaining personals. 
J.M.R.T and F.A.X.T. 
SABOR LATINO 
Saturday May 17 9 pm -midnight LaFortune Ballroom 
Come party and dance, and bid farewell to I an, Juan and Adam 
All are welcome, Seniors and parents alike. Free admission. 
SABOR LATINO 
she dyes it black black black black No.1 

ooh ... supahfund! 
A. Faerie 

---ain't--but-and-­
--on deez-and -the­
lut dut duh 

and the wheels keep rolling ... and another milepost gone ­oh baby can't you hear me calling? just like a sad whale song? Just like a sad whale song. Sad whale, baby. 
THE FINAL OLIGARCHY EDICT I would just like to extend all my gratitude and love to those who have stood with me over the past year and helped me to rule this campus so effectively. I couldn't have done it without you -you were the wind beneath my goatee. Extra special thanks to my two right hand men -Johnny Gunz and More-Man. Without you the Oligarchy would be nothing. 
Forever yours in domination, -the Chief 
Continuing an Observer tradition: There were ghosts in the eyes of all the boys you sent away They haunt this dusty beach road in the skeleton frames of burned-out Chevrolets They scream your name at night in the streets Your graduation gown lies in rags at their feet And in the lonely cool before dawn You hear their engines roaring on But when you get to the porch they're gone on the wind So Mary climb in It's a town full of losers and I'm pulling out of here to win 
John, 

If you won't have me then no man will. I'm shaving my head and joining the PLO. 
-You-know-who 
91.666% ... Just call me pureman 
Gunzz,Chief, Flavuh, McScary, Hostess, and Oderus-thanks for an awesome year. I'm gonna miss all of you a wicked lot. 
The Sexecutioner would like to con­gratulate the Class of 1997 and welcome you all into the world (maggot). 
glit. 

PB CF SF JG PL TM BP JR SW Thanks for being the best friends I've ever had. -Mike 
If there's one person that I'd like to thank for the last four years, it would have to be ... John Shaft. 
My favorite Beatie? Why, John Tesh, of course. 
ATTENTION CHIEF: We love you!!!!! Please never shave. Love, The Tricks & Biddies 
ATTN: Tom Seck Thanks for putting up with me for 3 years. -John Gunnigle 
Mike Perrone Tom Moran Scott Falvey 
First the campus, now the rest of 
the world! 
-John 
MICHELLE MCGARRY Thanks for being such a good friend during these 4 years. -John Gunnigle 
Hostess with the Mostess 
Resident Raptorician 
Minister of Waste Appreciation 
Franco Destructo 
We would like to recognize Karen franc! as the officer with the most nicknames. icknames. 
They're all terms of endear­ment. Thanks for putting up with us. 
Congrats to all of Total Coma .... you've made life under the dome bearable. I'll always remem­ber the fun we've had (Snoopy snow-cone. James Bond, Star Wars, 70's flashback, and the many others). You've been the best of friends and certainly the most fun. Good luck with everything. 
-Felix 
######################### Congratulations to all the LESBIAN, GAY, and BISEXUAL graduates of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. You've given so much to our organization. 
Please don't forget to contact GALA-ND/SMC, Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, after your gradua­tion. They can be reached at galandsmc@aol.com or http://galandsmc.org. They'll help you to continue to support our activ­ities as an alumn. 
Again, thanks for everything and 
good luck in every1hing you do. 
######################### 
Congratulations Christine. You 
deserve that 4.0 and all the luck in 
the world. Keep in touch. 
-Sean 
To all the wonderful Cavanaugh 
RAs-
Good luck and Congratulations! 
Love, 
Kavanaugh Kerry 
To all the Air Force Seniors-
Thanks for being great leaders! 
Good luck! 
Love, 
Kerry 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK Very high-quality full-color output is now available at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center. Bring in your computer disk to print your files. We support PowerPoint, Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker, and many many more types of files. It only costs a $1 plus the regular color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color copy price for over ten files. We can print directly onto overhead transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
PRINT FROM DISK 
TO DEAREST DADDY FRANKY WILLIAM CORRIGAN CONGRATULATIONS ON YOUR GRADUATION FROM COL· LEGE! MAYBE NOW YOU CAN BE AN EVEN BIGGER LOSER THAN YOU ARE ALREADY. HEY GOOD LUCK DADDY WITH LOVE FROM YOUR SON WHO YOU DESERTED FOUR YEARS AGO CORRIGAN, JR. BRENTWOOD, TN 
To all the Siegfried Girls: Cheers to all, we made it. You guys ROCK! Thanks for every laugh, love, drunk SYR moment, road trip, caps game, dining hall name, football game, pishagosha, bookstore games (fancy face lives). Whap nights, Cubs game, spring break, goat talk, just sittin and chat­ten. I will love you guys forever, we will always be together! Kudos to you. And Joelle-thanks for writing me that e-mail freshman year-I'm glad I stayed! LoVE Ellen. 
DMV and CHV (man, those initials are scary) One simple word: Congratulations. 
'Nuff said. 
BP and TW 
Chrissa, I heard this was your best academic semester. Amazing. Brad 
Macking on the ______ _ 
Big Chief says congratulations 
Congrats to Yorky, Fitzty, UGO, Freemeau, Paz, and that phone beating easy cheeze loving kid 
Kel and Corrine-Welcome back! Next year will be 
awesome. 
-JandA 
See TONY ROSSMILLER at Senior Bar on Saturday night... 
Nothing like a good triumvirate ... 
can I go home yet??? 
SEATTLE (AP)-Lou Pinella 
presided over a wedding ceremony 
at home plate Monday between his 
prize shortstop and a female mem­
ber of the team's management. 
Sources close to the ceremony said that the New York Yankess' frist baseman was close to signing a long-term deal, but the player denied the allegation. "I am a free man," he cried. "Why would I want ot give that up?" 
The Mariners' shortstop had an answer for that. "You don't know any1hing until you've experienced the feelings I've experienced." 
HELP ME-i'm stranded in South 
Bend! 
Don't worry, Kim. I'll carry on the 
Backer tradition ... I'll make you 
proud! 
Memories like these, sitting on com­puters, talking and drinking beer ... 
Tenille, you're not too shabby ... BP 
Doug THANK YOU THANK YOU 
THANK YOU for waiting. Dinner's 
on me. Love, H 
It's got the smoky texture of pork, 
with the bite of beef ... Por-Eef! 
Which tastes more like meat-· this 
dark cola, or Por-Eef? 
Well done, Gary .... let's go into Roll 
Mode!! 
Volvo. They're Boxy, but Good. 
Hey Reinthaler, I don't recall you 
giving yourself a nickname... 
Jamie, Dan, Lori, Brian... this sum­
mer we ARE doing something on 
the East Coast. That is, if anyone 
ever hires me. Bif If, I think, at this 
point. Love, H 
Michelle you are SO glad you left when you did. Just for that, I I'm giv­ing myself your paycheck. 
Mark DeBoy is just the cutest thing Production has ever produced. (deja vu, Mark, are you uncomfort­able yet?????) 
So our deadline was WHEN? I'm 
going to Denny's. 
Three months of stayiing up until 4 
a.m. because i want to and not because some newspaper dictates it. Yippee! 
Hey 0-Rock hope your week went as well as mine, but always remem­ber to open the door very slowly. 
So, Paz did you get Timmy in your 
little hook-up circle. 
Hey guess what. Seck's graduating 
Now go get your shine box 


page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May, 16, 1997 
-
-::-­
.­
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish surprise in inaugural season 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Spotts Editor 
Even though the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team finished its season a mere game above .500, its record makes more of a statement than one might give it credit. The five wins and four losses symbolize the begin­ning of a new branch of the Notre Dame athletic tradition. 
After gaining varsity status last year, the team entered this year with a lot of pressure fac­ing it and even more expecta­tions from both its players and those who made it a varsity sport. 
"I think our most important game for us this season was our first," senior Cara Buchanan said. "We were real­ly nervous because we knew a lot of people were watching us, both fans and those who chose it as a varsity sport, and there 
Davie 
continued from page 44 
student body. We will continue to be a football team that plays with great toughness, great desire, and great enthusiasm, but above all, with class." 
Though his words sound like something straight out of a Holtz script, Davie vowed to be his own man. 
But it is his familiarity with the Irish program that was one of his main selling points in getting the job. 
"Bob Davie emerged as the unanimous choice of our selec­tion committee because of his intensity and his conviction about the standards and values of Notre Dame and its football program," stated Wadsworth. 
That selection committee con­sisted of Wadsworth, University executive vice-president Father William Beauchamp, and assis­tant athletic director George Kelly. 
"We feel very fortunate to have had a candidate of the caliber of Bob Davie already on our staff," Beauchamp said. "Bob's person­
! N_O_ • SMC • N • SM • N 
7{;t Bed 'N Breakfast 1JP Registry 
-The Premier Registry S:nce 1983 ­
Try the Option! A "Home Away from Home".. 
Perfect for. .. 
FB e Gr3d. • Fr. Dr. • JPW 
..IL. •••The Irish BNB '111'11' Symbol ofApproval 
219-291-7153 
Fax 219-291-1185 

were also a lot of people who were expecting us to fail." 
The team disappointed those who expected to fail because it definitely did not. In fact, the team only loss one game in its first six, a 20-13 setback to Vanderbilt. 
More important than its record, however, is what emerged from the season. Of course, obvious adjustments had to be made, such as adjust­ing to a coach versus an advi­sor as a club has, but the team worked through the adjustment period and came out on top. 
"I think the hardest part was adjusting to our coach and hav­ing her get used to us and how things are done," Buchanan commented. 
Now that the foundation has been laid for the women's lacrosse team, it can go for­ward and continue to establish itself in the Irish tradition. 
One of the major factors that 
a! and professional strengths, his knowledge of the University and the program, and his apprecia­tion of all that it means to be the head football coach at Notre Dame made him the clear-cut choice to succeed Lou Holtz. We look forward with great anticipa­tion to the Bob Davie era at Notre Dame." 
That era will likely be charac­terized by the hallmark of Davie's defenses -aggressive­ness. 
Such aggressiveness very much could have meant that Davie would no longer be at Notre Dame had Holtz not stepped down. 
Coveted last year by schools to 


llgr Ji)at· 

.:po9 ·'b\~<;Ji
·,__.:·· 


S~anfo:OO and, our.·/~) 
fa rit o · .Ed~r. 
·. __,.:..-'~;·-·.;. '· _/...:. ''<lJ<~. .. ../;. ""'"~)-:·~ 

Notre Da111e Liturgical Choir 
Commencement Concert 
music of Stanford, Palestrina and Britten 
Friday, May 16, 1997 7:30P.M. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
-
(ZMPUSMINISTRY 

works against the team is the location of the University in relation to the popularity of lacrosse. Lacrosse is relatively unknown in the Midwest, and that hurts the opportunity to pick up any recruits from this area. 
"Most of the girls around here play soccer because lacrosse doesn't exist," Buchanan said. "It will be nec­essary to get the girls playing in high school and also to get recruits from the East Coast where lacrosse is big." 
Still, even though Buchanan is graduating, she is confident in the new-found tradition she has helped to create. 
"I think it will stay strong. It will be necessary for the team to stay enthusiastic with the sport, but I think the future of the program is bright. 
"I think the school made the right decision going varsity with it." 
be a head coach, Davie admitted that had the Irish not come call­ing, he might have moved on. 
"Right now, I feel like the luck­iest man alive," Davie said. "Words can't describe how proud and honored I am to be the next head football coach at Notre Dame." 
"I've waited a long, long time for this moment," Davie said. "I can tell you, standing here, that it's been well worth the wait." 
"I promise to the Notre Dame family that I'm going to do every­thing in my power so that hope­fully one day people will look back on this as a great decision for Notre Dame football." 
Notre Dame fans hope so too. 
• TRACK AND FIELD 

Tracksters end solid season on sour note 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame's men's track and field team finished second at the Big East outdoor cham­pionships at Villanova University on May 3-4, falling to Georgetown, 166-137. 
The Notre Dame's women's team, 13th a year ago, fin­ished in sixth place with 58.50 points, while Villanova won the women's title with 135 points. 
The outdoor finishes mirror the 1997 Big East indoor championship results for the Irish. 
The men's team was second to Connecticut by just four points in the indoor, and the women were sixth behind Villanova. 
The Irish finished the first two days of the outdoor championships down 60-50 to Georgetown. Derek Seiling won the steeplechase crown for the Irish, while Mike Fleisch placed second in the shot put. Dan Frigo placed fifth in the high jump, and Marshaun West added an eighth-place finish in the long jump. 
The Irish narrowed the mar­gin to four points going into the second day of competition after the Irish placed fifth in the 4x100 relay, but Georgetown extended up the lead to 78-58 after the 1500 meters. The Irish could not catch the Hoyas, losing 78-69. 
Mike Brown and Dave 
Congratulations to the Greatest Grad of 1997! 
Or Any Other Year For That Matter! HAPPY GRADUATION! Love, Mom, Dad, Carol, Kathy, Greg, Bob, Katie, Eddie, Sarah, and Jack! 

Gerrity led the Irish on day two as they placed first and third in the pole vault. 
Chris Smith took third in the javelin, and Jay Hafner's fourth-place finish in the ham­mer throw rounded out the day's field events for the Irish. 
Errol Williams ran in a pair of finals and placed third in the 200 meters and fourth in the 110-meter hurdles. 
Bobby Brown was fourth in the 400 meters and Jeff Hojnacki was second in the 800 meters. 
Troy Langevine was seventh in the 400-meter hurdles, and Derek Seiling was seventh in the 1500-meters. 
Jason Rexing, who won the 10,000 meters for the second consecutive year, came up short in his attempt to repeat as the 5,000 meters winner. Rexing finished second with a time of 14:22.01, just 0.76 out of first place. 
Alison Howard was Notre Dame's only winner in the women's meet, breaking her own school record to win the 400 meters in 53.81. Howard also placed third in the 200 meters in 24.01. 
Outstanding freshman Dominique Calloway was a spark for the Irish. She fin­ished second in the 100-meter hurdles and the 200 meters. She also finished fifth in the 100 meters. Nadia Schmiedt took second in the 400-meter hurdles for the second consec­utive season. 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ  al championship.  were both named first  
Assistant Sports Editor  Earlier in the season,  team All-Americand, while  
the Irish defeated North  freshman Jen Grubb and  
In a season filled with a  Carolina, 2-1. Freshman  junior Kate Sobrero were  
majority of ups, the Irish  Jenny Streiffer played a  named to the second team.  
were forced to endure one  major role in the victory,  Streiffer and junior Holly  
major down. Despite being  scoring both of the goals to  Manthei were named to  
ranked No. 1 for much of  ensure a win. The game­ the third team.  
the season, the women's  winning goal came in the  Several milestones were  
soccer team fell short of its  first overtime, earning her  reached in this season as  
goal to repeat as national  MVP of the Duke-Adidas  well. Daws gained the title  
champions.  Women's Soccer Classic.  of career points leader.  
Before the largest crowd  Throughout the season,  Manthei broke the record  
ever assembled for a  the team was bestowed  for assists in the NCAA  
women's soccer final, the  with numerous honors.  tournament in the semifi­ 
Irish were forced to take  Not only was Notre Dame  nal game against Portland.  
on their rival, North  the Big East regular season  Next year, Irish fans will  
Carolina. In a tight match,  champions, but the Irish  get a glimpse of the Class  
Notre Dame fell short.  were also the Big East  of 2001. The class boasts  
With 9:04 left in the second  tournament champions.  some talented players,  
overtime. Tar Heel forward  Head coach Chris  including Meotis Erickson,  
Debbie Keller drilled in a  Petrucelli was named Big  who is considered one of  
header off of forward  East Coach of the Year,  the top players in the  
Rake! Karvelsson's assist  and Streiffer was named  nation. Petrucelli also  
to score the only goal of  Big East Rookie of the  signed Monica Gonzalez,  
the 120-minute battle.  Year.  who led her club team to  
Keller's goal lifted UNC 1-0 over ND and to the nation- Senior captains Jen Renola and Cindy Daws  the national champi­onships in 1995.  The Observer/Mike Ruma Senior goalie Jen Renola received All-American honors following the 1996 season .  

Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Tar Heels prevent Irish repeat 
• VOLlEYBAll 
Notre Da01e struggles to overco01e injuries, schedule 

By JOE CAVATO as head coach Debbie Brown Assistant Sports Editor had all of her six starters returning from a 27-7 team Heading into the 1996 volley­that advanced to the NCAA 
ball season, hopes were high Pacific Regional. 
r----------------­
* * *Save This Ad * * * 
:ctt•J!!=tt3 =19 ,n,·I•LJi!ilfl -~ 1 
COME TO NEW JERSEY'S
I I 
I Largest Career Fair 
I 7 5 Fortune 500Companies will be 
I HIRING for positions in the Tri-state Area. 
I Tuesday May 20th I 10:00 am -4:00 pm Held al Mayfair Farms in West Orange, NJ.I Bring plenty of resumeslll Admission $3.00. 
I Positions Available Include: 
I Sales, Advertising, Human Resources, Market1ng, Management, Management Training, Technical & Computer, Graphic, Retail Management, Stock Broker Trainees, Banking, Customer Service. 
A Professional Edge  Duke & Company Inc.  Nordstrom  Smith Barney  
ADP  Dean Witter Reynolds  MCS Canon  ~~~~· Manhattan  
Abra Ciildabra  §lecrtonic Office  Prudential Securities  
Allen Thomas Associ~tes AOE Ricoh ~ell Atlontic Nynexob1le  yatema Enterprise Rent A Car Fedders Corporation ~~g~~l~nial  Mature Mutual of New York Mutual Of Omaha New York life  ~~h,",;;unlcatlons Inc. SPL World Group Sprint Yellow Pages ~~J'~~t~r~he Office  
~ell Atlantic Yellow  Hoffman Floon~  ~~?~hweatern Mutual  
ages  8tate Farm Insurance  
Bloomingdale's Budget Rent A Car CVS Corporation  ~f~:n~~rs~~ices Kelly Servicea r~~G?Jr.: f~c~nical  ~~~~k~lr':o\~~t Pagenot. NJ Principal Financial  ompany ~ummll Financial 810UfC81 TeleCheck Services  
~~~d~~~~g~ The Chubb Institute 8omputr\ln Sys tem• orporattons  ~t~1ft~9olaelle United Merrill lynch McDon.ald's Corp.  Tho Prudential ~r~~~~~r~:~r~~.·d Quality Photocopy  TSR Paging Inc. WaWalnc. Xerox & Many Morelli  

Dlntctiona: 4. Fro"' ftout• 7111 b•t· 78 \'\lest to Garden 
1. Frotn ..:out• 80 W••t· Tak.t! Rt 80 Easf to ex 1t SUrf~ Pkwy North Pkwy NorJh to ell:1l 1-45. AI 280 47 Rt 260 East 280 East to Ex•f 88 (Prospect \,/'l.lcS\10 exit 88 (Prosped Ave) Conftnue as 1n No 1 .t...e l Proceed Nonh on Prosoect to 2f"ld l•Qhl At 5. From ftout• 80 b•t· 80 \'\lest to Garden State hght \urn teh o, Eaoh~ Rock Ave Mavta•r Farms 1n Pkwy South Pl(wy South to e•ut 145 Rt 280 ~st 
';4 mt!~ dQoNn on lhtl IUJh! 280 ~SilO e.x• 88 {Prospect Ave) Proceed Nortt"l on 
2. NJ Turnp4k-T~,~npol<e to e•~ t5W At 280 ""'"""''' Prospect Contlr-.....e as,., No 1 2'60 1/liestto e•ll BB {Prusped Avl! JContnue as ,., No 1 6. Oan:t•n Stat• ~arh.w.y-Par1o(way to exn 145. 
l. Frotn ~ut• 7111 W•••-78 East to end c1 At 280 V\lest Cont•nue to exn 88 (Prospect Avf!l 1 exoressw;av and S•QilS let Rt 22 East Proceed on 22 Prosped Ave North to 2nd traffiC hght Tum ten at t•ght E;nt to GRI"Ot"n State Pl<w) N0<1h Pl<wy North to exn (Eagle Roc* Ave) Mayfa•r Farms IS 1/4 m1te dO'Nf"l on , 4S Rt 280 I,"Joest Rt 280 ......-....est to eoII BB (Prospect the nght 
._ __________________..
*Superior Job Fairs * 
1 If you cannot attend fu your resume for free career placement to: 201-966-6539 or caii201-966-696J 1 
However, the Irish suffered plagued the squad all season Brown still sees the positives in their worst record (22-12) in long. Despite the disappoint­their season. Brown's six-year tenure under ing season which saw the Irish "We lost more games than I the Dome as injuries and the fall out of the top 25 from their have before, but it was still the inability to finish matches preseason ranking of sixth, most fun I've had. It was real­


Congratulations and best wishes to Maggie Long and Alyson FriGk. I am proud of their achievements here at Notre Dame. I wish them the very best in their future endeavors. We are family. 
Congratulations Maggie and Alyson! 
Monk Malloy 
CONGRATULATIONS SHAUN WE ARE SO PROUD OF YOU! LOVE, MOM ~ NICK 
ly a great team. They worked really hard, and I think they will come away from this sea­son with great memories." 
Even before the first match, Coach Brown and company 
... 

were faced with a daunting challenge after junior setter Carey May suffered a dislocat­ed shoulder that would sideline her for nearly half the season. 
Junior Jaimie Lee slid over from her outside hitter slot and filled in at setter in May's absence. Lee's play earned her Big East Player of the Year honors. 
Despite the efforts of Lee, the Irish were never able to get into the groove. Their starting lineup was not on the floor for more than a handful of match­es with senior Jen Rouse and junior Angie Harris ending the year on the shelf. 
The remarkable senior class provided the glue to hold the team together, and some young players showcased their talents on their way to remain­ing perfect in Big East play while making their fifth straight NCAA tournament appearance. 
"It would have been nice to see us healthy, so we could have gotten really comfort­able," Brown said. "We had great depth, and if we wouldn't 
-

have had that depth, we would have had a horrendous sea­son." 
The graduating class of Jenny Birkner, Jen Briggs, Kristina Ervin, and Jen Rouse helped Brown build the pro­gram into a national power. They have set an example for talented players such as sophomore Lindsay Treadwell and freshman Mary Leffers. 
The leader of the seniors was two-time captain Birkner, who is one of just two players in Notre Dame history to be on the top 10 list of hitting per­., centage, kills, digs, assists, blocks, and aces. 
"They have given a ton to the program," Brown said of her graduating seniors. "They are all very good students and have been terrific examples for our young players. It was a really special class." 
--------------------------------------------------~~--------------~  
page 28  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, May 16, 1997  
• fOOTBAll  

Irish seniors bid farewell after frustrating season 

By MIKE DAY Things did start out well for Spans Editor the Irish last fall. When Jim Sanson's kick sailed through the 
Any other school would have uprights to defeat Texas, 27-24, been satisfied. If nothing else, Notre Dame fans confidently the 1996 football season could pointed to a national champi­be characterized as a solid one, onship. certainly nothing to scoff at or However, Ohio State took the feel bad about. However, Notre dagger and viciously drove it Dame is not any other school. through the heart of Irish fans, 
For the third straight year, the prematurely ending any talks of Irish did not contend for the a title with a 29-16 victory at national championship. Put sim­Notre Dame Stadium. Fans, ply, an 8-3 season in which the players, and coaches were dev­Irish failed to land a major bowl astated following the defeat. bid is considered a disappoint­"The national championship is ment in this neck of the woods. done," a red-eyed Powlus said 
"It's kind of frustrating the way outside the locker room. "It's we ended and not going to a over." bowl," said senior tailback After thrashing the No. 20 Randy Kinder. "But all things ranked Washington Huskies, 54­considered, it was probably the 20, two weeks later, Notre Dame best decision for the program." suffered what seems to have 
become an annual tradition: losing at home to an inferior opponent. 
Following in the line of Boston College, BYU, and Northwestern, overmatched Air Force surprised the Irish, 20-17. It was a loss that Notre Dame seniors have come to know all too well in their four years at the University. 
After the set­back, the Irish recovered and

... 
proceeded to reel off four con-The Observer/Mike Ruma SeCUtive ViC tO-Nose guard Renaldo Wynn saved his best for last. ries over Navy, 

Doug Allison Dylan Barrnmer D. J. Belock Ben Beltramo Greg Bergman James Bozer Jeff Burks Greg Clark Dom Corso Pat Doheny Mike Eberly Jonathan Edwards Chris Fahey Scott Falvey Jeff Faragher Mike Fleisch 
Brian Ford Rich Fowler 

Boston College, Rutgers, and Pittsburgh. With a major bowl bid on the line, the stage was set for Notre Dame's visit to USC for the season finale. 
Leading most of the way against the Trojans, the Irish moved ahead 20-12 and needed just one successful PAT off the leg of Sanson to put the game away. However, God was not on the Irish side on that day, and when Sanson's kick sailed wide, Notre Dame's 13-year unbeaten streak over the Trojans was just a memory. 
"This is probably as tough a loss as I've ever had," said head coach Lou Holtz following the game. "I feel bad for the seniors and the players that made mis­takes. I know how they feel." 
The Irish will say farewell to a much traveled group of seniors who experienced more than their share of highs and lows in four years. From the incredible win over Florida State in the Game of the Century to the dev­astating Northwestern upset and the USC disappointment, it has certainly been a roller coaster ride. 
Five defensive starters, includ­ing Renaldo Wynn, Alton 


Maiden, Kinnon Tatum, Lyron Cobbins, and Bert Berry, have seen their time at Notre Dame come to an end. On the offensive side, Jeremy Akers, Marc Edwards, Pete Chryplewicz, Randy Kinder, and Robert Farmer will move on to life after Irish football. 
"As a group, we've been through a lot during our four years together," said Akers. "It's going to be hard to move on." 
Good and bad, they gave Irish fans something to remember. 
~orin (D)llrgr 
Of The 

tiniorrsity of JRotrr. 3Bamr Fu 1Cac 
Salutes its Graduating Seniors, The Cla·ss of t997 
~i·~"rJ~.  .  
-~­ 
.  .;~  .~·  <.  
'"Mike Gaffud 'cliris Gehrlein  TomMcManus, _ 'Mark Menzie: ,  ,,  MikeRuma MikeRyan  
Gregg Hatch  Dan Morrisey 1 '  John Rzeszut  
Brett Hawkes  Joe Mulligan  ,  Alex Saksen  
Matt Heady  Kevin Muncy  ~  Kevin Sharp  
::. Paul Helle); ·,. :r Dan Jaramillo ·.  ··  'Ri~h Mt!rphy H Abdul Muzikir  ·'·  .  '~'  Kevin Shay ,Mike Signorelli  
Warren Jun.ium; III /Dan Kdth . , ·  ·  Chris Neidlinger · Nate Ptt :~Ji  ' ~· Sean Sircher ·~'_ Mlke Sweeney  
Mike Kurinsky  Mike Perrone~~  Kinnon Tatum, II  
Phil Lee  ·.~  Chris Podstawskt ·  Tim Vail  
Josh LePain  Jason Pope ·r~;  Wally Widelski  
Tris Mackprang  JeffRacz  Steve Wojcikiewicz  
Frank Martinez  Tim Ray  Greg Zarzaur  
Dave Mason  Jim Regovich  Jason Zawodny  
Brian McCarthy  Chris Ritz  Ben Ziegler  
Clem McDonald  Ben Rost  
Pat McGinley  Seth Roy  

~.:..:..:..-.:..:..:.~,;._.;.,;..;.;. ___ ~-­
~~---.............-..._ ..... .._.f/lt_4.~-4 .,.,.-...,~-·---*-toa-lA..,..._ ..... ..,._"6....tl a • • • • 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Women's squad makes history in March Madness 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
When the class of 1997 stepped on to campus as freshmen, the women's bas­ketball program was a mediocre team in a mediocre conference. 
Four years later as the seniors are prepared to gradu­ate, the women's program has also graduated to a new level, becoming a national power. 
"We just finished the most outstanding run in the history of Notre Dame basketball," head coach Muffet McGraw said after their 80-66 semifi­nal loss to eventual champion Tennessee. 
"I couldn't be prouder of these two people beside me. I think they are both All­Americans. They had tremen­dous seasons and NCAA tour­naments. I can't say enough good things about the way they have taken our program from nowhere to the Final Four." 
McGraw was referring to the top two leading point scorers in Notre Dame history, Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither. 
The first players to have worn the Blue and Gold and eclipse the 2,000 point mark carried the Irish to the Final Four in Cincinnati as well as into the national spotlight. 
The Irish finished ranked in the top five in the nation and shattered the program's previ­ous record of 23 wins with their mark of 31-7. 
In the pre-season WNIT, McGraw's squad made some noise, knocking off two top 10 squads before losing to Tennessee. The Irish were off to their best start in years, cracking the top 10 for the first time in the history of the program. 
However, the squad hit sev­eral speed bumps, including losing freshman guard Niele Ivey for the year. The team had already lost two scholar­ship players before Ivey went down with a torn ACL. 
Big Ten foes Wisconsin and Purdue upset the Irish in the same week, and the Irish saw their national ranking fall. Over Christmas break, they made their national television debut on CBS, but an unranked Ohio State team bested the Irish. 
That loss would mark their last loss until they came up against top-ranked and then undefeated Connecticut. After they had fallen out of the top 20, the senior class took over and helped the team recover. 
Complementing the supers­tars Morgan and Gaither were 
point  guard  Jeannine  
Augustine  and  forward  
Rosanne Bohman.  Augustine  

and Bohman saved their best for last and played up to their potential in their final year. 
The Irish cruised through Big East play, winning 22 of their final 24 games with their two losses coming at the hands of their old nemesis, the UConn Huskies. With a couple of weeks remaining in the reg­ular season, McGraw lost the versatility of Kari Hutchinson to a broken hand. Hutchinson would return for postseason play, but the team was down to just six healthy scholarship players. 
After the Big East tourna­ment, the Irish were slighted with a six seed in the East Region, but they lost walk-on Adreinne Jordan to an injury. 

University of Notre Dame 
ST. EDWARD'S HALL 
Past & Present 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Senior sharpshooter Beth Morgan led ND to its best record ever. 
The depletion of the bench upset of the Texas Longhorns forced McGraw to dress volley-in front of the burnt orange ball player Kristina Ervin and crowd. team manager Christy Grady. In South Carolina, the sec­The team's leadership refused ond-seeded Alabama Crimson to allow injuries to affect its Tide stood in the way of the play. Irish and the Elite Eight. But 
"I could not be prouder of the sharpshooting of Morgan my team," McGraw said. "I and Sheila McMillen turned a don't think there was any nine-point deficit into an 87­other team in the country that 71 win, combining for five has been through what we've three-pointers in a matter of been through, and to win 31 minutes to ignite a 22-0 run. games is an outstanding In a contest with tickets to accomplishment." Cincinnati on the line, Gaither 
In the march through the was too much for George NCAA tournament, McGraw's Washington, proving to be a squad learned all about force inside with 25 points and March Madness, putting 16 rebounds in a 62-52 win. together an unforgettable run. Although their first trip to 
After a 93-62 shellacking of the Final Four did not go as Memphis in the first round, planned, the Irish enjoyed Morgan and Gaither poured in their opportunity at the Big 29 apiece in a thrilling 86-83 Dance. 
"It was a great experience," Morgan said. "The Final Four is a great accomplishment for
SUMMER HElP WANTED 
our team and our program.
Job Coach 

Going out and playing as poor­ly as we did is disappointing,
Maryville Academy-City of Youth, 
but a lot of players go through
Illinois' largest private Residential 
a program and don't get the 
Child-Care facility has part-time 
chance that we did. I think 
positions available. We are seek­
looking back we're very proud 
of that."ing mature, energetic, individuals 
During their run that canwho have or want experience work­only be described as remark­able, the mix of youth and experience and of superstars 
ing with troubled children. 
In this role, you will function as a 
and role players created a
mentor and counselor for the chil­
feeling that someone would
dren throughout the summer in 
step up and knock down the
both work and recreational activi­
big shot or snag the rebound.
ties, supervising children in their 
That chemistry and mix was

job settings. Afternoon hours, 20­
something unique to the Irish 
25 hours per week. Interns and 
squad which was pivotal in the 
college students welcome to apply. 
most successful season in the 
Interested candidates must be at 
history of the program. 
As the seniors leave campus this May, they will leave behind more than just another four years in the history of the 
a valid drivers license. 
For further information, call 
program. They will leave
Monday-Friday, 9am -9pm: 
behind a legacy.
MARYVIllE ACADEMY CITY OF YOUTH 
1150 N. River Road 
The entire 
Des Plaines, IL 60016 Ph: (847)294-1978 
Observer
Equal Opportunity Employer m/f/d/v 
Production Staff would like to 'congratulate the graduating class of 1997. 


James Bicego John Blood Luigino Bonacci Antohony Bouchard Patrick Burger Michael Caruso Robert Clements Grand Dwyer Daniel Eisenbacker Lawrence Fernandez Matthew Glen Filiberto Guijarro Kenneth Hsu Ben Jagodzinski Patrick Kenney Brendon Johnson Christopher LaPietra Sean Lasalle Jason Lynch Lucas Johnson Andrew Nachman Colin O'Neil Brian Pecson Craig Pinza Joseph Quast Paul Rogers Jeffery Sodl Mark Torma John Verich Bill Wade Matthew Weber Scott Wilson Brian Zelizo Andy Murray Ian Palmer Matthew Audette Thomas Threadgold Brad Simmons Michael Shveima John Delchant Jorge Vela Matthew Reintjes Adam Hicks Ben Magnano Brian Farmer Will Martin David Allred David Valenti Christopher Sellars Richard Rittenhouse Mike Pinherio Terrence Ernst Edmond Haughey Roger Kisby Peter Wernau Burke Hansen Chip Hithsmith Louie Gentine Ryan Levy Gregg Wilmes Isaac Duncan III 

Congratulations and God Bless You! 

page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 16, 1997 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Making strides to the next level 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Midfielder Tony Capasso helped lead the Irish to the Sweet Sixteen. 
been there before. falling victim to the 49ers in 
"We (seniors) do not want to another 1-0 game. lose in the first round like we "I just told our guys how did our first two years (1993 proud I am of them," said and 1994)," said Capasso. "We Berticelli. "People counted us want to leave a mark on this out, and we continued to battle. program." We finished the season by play-
And that they did. ing four nationally ranked teams 
Notre Dame faced No. 2 UNC-and won three -and could Greensboro on the road, and have very well won the fourth." junior Ryan Turner scored an In 1996, not only did the Irish unassisted goal early in the sec-silence their critics and demon­and half to give the Irish a 1-0 strate their heart, they put upset and a trip to Charlotte, Notre Dame men's soccer on the N.C., and the Sweet 16. map. Due to the efforts of this 
Following the first round year's senior class, which game, midfielder Matt Johnson includes Capasso, Koloskov, said, "The atmosphere around Brian Engesser, Peter Cansler the field (before the game) was and Chris Mathis, and the beautiful. You could just tell underclassmen who made up something good was going to the supporting cast, Notre happen." Dame, with its dominant 
The Irish took on UNC-women's squad, may now be Charlotte and were not able to considered one of the premier extend their season any further, soccer schools in the country. 
.... 
Save time and 1noney \Vith our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty" fifty dollars::: to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account \Vith us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY St::RVICE CHARGE 


~ G~-\Vith Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club ·with these additional benefits, and more . 
• 
FREE GOLDEN SI--IA_MROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS {1/4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
NOTRE.DAME A Better Choice to Make
FEDERAL CREDIT UNIOf~ 
Independent of the University 

By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Over the course of the last four years, the Notre Dame soc­cer programs have come of age. 
Everyone is aware of the ac­complishments of the women's squad, which in 1995, became the first team, other than North Carolina, to win a national championship in over a decade. After years and years of virtu­ally unchallenged titles for the Tar Heels, the Irish became pio­neers of the path toward parity in collegiate women's soccer. 
Although the Notre Dame women have been well-re­spected for a number of years now, the men have just recently made their mark on the national scene. After an extremely dis­appointing 1995 season in which the team finished 9-10 overall, including a 4-7 Big East debut, the Irish came out in 1996 with something to prove. 
They wasted no time in doing so. The team, which had not claimed a single road victory in its first Big East season, traveled to Providence for its regular season opener and emerged with a solid 1-0 victory. 
The next test for Notre Dame would be at home, as sixth­ranked, Big East favorite St. John's invaded South Bend. The Irish and Red Storm re­mained deadlocked throughout regulation and were forced to play overtime to decide the con­test. 
The Irish struck first to open the first of two 10-minute over­time halves, but St. John's responded with a goal of its own to tie the score with about five minutes left in the period. Notre Dame closed the period with a second goal to take a 2-1 lead in the second half of overtime. 
The Irish proceeded to shut down the Red Storm for 9:49 but could not hold their lead, as St. John's scored on a fluke goal with 11 seconds remaining. Although on the surface, it ap­peared like a blown opportunity to advance in the polls, the tie actually proved to be the first sign that the Irish were for real. St. John's would eventually tear through the NCAA tournament to claim the school's first nation­al championship. 
Notre Dame slid in and out of the top 25 for the rest of the season, compiling an impressive record of 10-6-2, despite drop­ping four of its last five contests. Due to the slow finish, there were many who doubted the postseason potential of the Irish. But once again, Notre Dame responded to the challenge. 
The Irish opened the Big East tournament by defeating Georgetown in a difficult game, which took place during an early November snow storm. From there, the Irish journeyed back to the east coast for the fifth time in two and a half months and back to Piscataway, N.J., for the second time in less than a month. 

Their first trip there had re­sulted in a difficult loss at the hands of No. 6 Rutgers, but the Irish would not have to face the Scarlet Knights until the finals of the tournament, as they drew a rematch with Connecticut, who had forged a tie at Notre Dame earlier in the season. 
On the strength of two first half goals by freshman Andrew Aris and sophomore Ben Bocklage and sensational goal­tending from Greg Velho, the Irish jumped out to an in­surmountable lead and ad­vanced to the Big East champi­onship game against Rutgers. 
Senior Konstantin Koloskov recorded the only goal of the game, and the Irish won their first Big East title in just their second year in the conference. The victory guaranteed Notre Dame a berth in the NCAA tournament for the third time in four years, but the Irish were not satisfied yet. 
Senior co-captain Tony Capasso, the heart of the Irish squad and the team's leading scorer, explained that they had 

*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Hoi'J Cro~ College. SSO will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 · nonths of its opening, can require repayment of the SSO. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 
Friday, May 16, 1997 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Lou Holtz will be remembered as one of the finest coaches in Irish history, amassing 100 wins in 11 years. 

The Flyin' Irish Cadre & Staff salute the Air Force's newest officers! 
Congratulations and Aim High! 
··:y:
Ducks, 
Holtz 
continued from page 44 

and their eighth national cham­
pionship the followipg season. 
He also did something else. 
He became a Notre Dame leg­end, whether he wanted to or not. 
"When I was hired, I said I didn't come here to be a leg­end, but to merely serve Notre Dame, Holtz said in his pre­pared resignation on Nov. 19. "It is up to others to ascertain whether I accomplished this or not." 
Holtz's love for Notre Dame is well documented. Holtz grew up in a Catholic home sur­rounded by relatives who loved and respected Notre Dame, and his earliest encounters involved the University and its storied history. 
"I went to St. Aloysius grade school, and we were taught by the Sisters of Notre Dame," 
. said Holtz when asked to recount his early exposure to Notre Dame. "At lunch, at recess, and at dismissal, we marched out to the Notre Dame Victory March. The impres­sions I formed about Notre Dame came about because the people I respected so much ­my mother, my father, my 
we guarantee an apartment for you THIS FALL! we provide: 
• 
Washer & dryer in your home 

•Gas 
heat INCLUDED 

•Mini 
blinds on all windows 

•Fitness 
center, pools, & club­house 

•Central 
air conditioning 

•12 
Month lease 

•Cats 
allowed 


• 
JUST 4 MILES FROM NOTRE DAME 


One, 1\vo, & Three Bedroom Apartments & Townhomes from $415 to $700 
INDIAN SPRING 
272-5011~.:--...~~.....,.-.· 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesJrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


Come visit us at $~:;,«.,. 
North Shore Club ~~,~; 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Dai(y 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 

grandparents, my other rela­tives -held Notre Dame in such high esteem." 
And there can be no doubt that Holtz did, too. In his resig­nation, he talked about how hard it would be to leave "the best job in the world, the most rewarding," and insisted in his prepared statement that "I am sure there will be many coach­es in the future here at Notre Dame, but I feel confident when I say none will be any prouder than I was to repre­sent this University or more loyal to its beliefs or more grateful for the opportunity." 
When all is said and done, Lou Holtz will be remembered as a true Notre Dame man, which is exactly what he would desire. 
"I will always cherish the fact that I had the opportunity to be a representative of Our Lady's school, both on and off the field. To a Catholic such as myself, no man could ask for a more important role in life." 
But there is one additional role which Lou Holtz has played, and will continue to play, whether it is important to him or not. 
Legend. 
Lou Holtz will always be con­sidered a legend, regardless of whether he views himself as one or not. His accomplish­ments are simply too great, his personality too strong to cate­gorize him as anything less. 
"I don't think there's any question that Lou Holtz will be right at the very top of the leg­endary coaches who have been at Notre Dame, along with Knute Rockne and Ara Parseghian," said athletic director Michael Wadsworth following Holtz's announce­... ment. 
"He has just represented the University in every way in which we could possibly hope, and as a result I think that will be recognized well into the future and will qualify him as one of the great legends of the University." 
True legends never do die, and Holtz is one of those leg­ends. 
His memory will live on at Notre Dame long after he him­self has left. 
' 


----------~------­
FOUR YEARS IN REVIEW 

Game of the
2 
Century 

One of the most anticipated show­downs in recent his­tory lived up to all the expectations, as second-ranked Notre Dame upset favorite and top­ranked Florida State, 31-24. Shawn VVooden broke up Charlie VVard's last­second attempt to secure the monu­mental win for the Irish. 
Nov. 15, 1993 

Davie takes the helm 

Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie accepted the head coaching job less than one week after Lou Holtz announced his resig­nation. 
Davie is only the second head coach to be hired from within the ranks of the Irish staff. 
Nov.25,1996 

Eagles dash Irish dreams 

Boston College sacked Notre Dame's hopes of a national championship when David Gordon kicked the longest field goal of his career (41 yards) to erase a thrilling Irish come­back and to give Boston College a 41­39 victory in the final game of the 1993 season. 
Nov. 22, 1993 
# 




~OBSERVER 
----..--~~~"l(("~~{II'$$)£ :e::s:. '*'~~-~ 
L1' 

Holtz resigns 
.:_:,~ -~

il'' •
., 
c.. ¥ 
11\ 

November 20, 1996 
4



·····------····~········ ... 
-~,----· -"· SP6RTS 
:;:,,:........:··........~-----~---···· 


Women's hoops
6 
7

reach Final Four 
Led by seniors Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither, the Irish women's bas­ketball team defeat­


f.J>n-~>4.4 "''i:A tm tl~l~rwwp 
tion to defeat Penn 
Vfl.MI~.¥1~

ed favored George State and secure theVVashington in the first Notre DameNCAA regional finals 
national champi­to advance to the 

onship in any sport

team's first Final 
since 1988.

Four. 
March 23, 1994March 25, 1997 

Friday, May 16, 1997 

Holtz leaves Notre Dame 
After 11 years as head football coach at Notre Dame, Lou Holtz offi­cially announced his resignation. His 100 career wins are second only to the legendary Knute Rockne's 105 vic­tories. 
Despite consistent success over the course of the 132 games he coached at Notre Dame, Holtz's only national championship came in 1988 with team leaders TQny Rice and Tony Brooks. 
Holtz did not indicate any specific reasons for his departure, and gave no sign that another coaching offer was imminent. 
Irish join Big East 
Athletic director 
Dick Rosenthal 
announced during 
the summer of 1994 
that Notre Dame 
would join the Big 
East Conference for 
most sports. 
The move was seen 
as especially helpful 
to John MacLeod and 
the struggling men's 
basketball program. 
Aug.30,1994 

Fencers claim national title 
The Notre Dame fencing team came from behind in the final day of competi­

Rosenthal steps 
Irish snap 
10
9 
down as AD

Carolina streak 

Chris Petrucelli's women's soccer 

Athletic director team tied North 
Dick Rosenthal Carolina 0-0 to snap 
announced that he the Tar Heels' 92­
would step down, game winning 
effective as of streak. It was the 
August 1, 1995. third time that a 
Mike VVadsworth historic streak was 
was named as his snapped by an Irish 
successor. team. 
Oct. 3, 1994 
Aug.30,1994 
Friday, May 16, 1997 

~ r....··'·.. r_
.YO 
<:f~' Ei5trish point 
· ';Doug Gottlieb 
of credit card *•o:~'itftol 


Worrien's soccer wins Big East ..h • .:~~~ ........i"'"" 
Bob Davie SUICC:et~~CI Lou Holtz as football 
John Christoforetti claims third ,.,..-·.. , ...... Bengal Bouts .. · 
Women's lacrosse plays first official game as a varsity sport 
Fencing team 2nd behind Penn at NCAA cnamiPie•ns: 
Women's tennis captures Big East championship :1.: 
Lou Holtii~~~i!J)t-~;{1is PfSi· 
tion as head to~~~!~ II .·· ·.. coach after 1t se.sons 
Men's soccer advances to Sweet 16 of NCAAs fo;Ftirst tir~1,e 


. --·--·--·-·-----------------~­
page 34 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 16, 1997 
• SWIMMING 
Women rise to top of conference in second season 
By BRIAN REINTHALER and automatically qualified her enced certain degrees of suc­Invitational in December. Matt Rose and junior Ron Assistant Sports Editor for the NCAA championships. cess. Brooks repeated as an The season included a high­Royer, set personal bests in two Suddarth also did some All-American with her eighth­light win over rival Boston separate events. Rose placed 
The Notre Dame women's record-breaking at the champi­place finish in the 200-meter College by the score of 234-66, fifth in the 200-meter breast­swimming and diving team had onship meet, surpassing Notre backstroke. Suddarth broke as well as a pair of disappoint­stroke with a time of 2:05. 45 a solid regular season, followed Dame marks in both the 100 her own school record in the ing losses to Big East foes and took lOth in the 200-meter by an outstanding post-season, and 200-meter breaststroke 200-meter breaststroke twice Connecticut and Pittsburgh and individual medley in 1 :53.1 0. which saw,.------, with times of 1:03.70 and more at the NCAA meet. She close calls versus St. Royer swam the 100-meter the squad 2:16.76, respectively. Both swam 2:16.31 in the prelimi­Bonaventure and Western freestyle in 46.19 to grab 11th claim the Big swims qualified Suddarth for naries and then finished 13th in Kentucky. overall and finished 1Oth in the East champi­consideration in the NCAA the finals with a record-shatter­In their second season in the 50-meter freestyle with a mark onship in just championship meet. ing swim of 2:15.41. Finally, Big East conference, the Irish of 21.04. The highest finish for its second Other key swimmers were Newell also broke her own went 1-2 and finished in the the Irish in the meet was ac­year in the freshmen Liz Barger, Allison Notre Dame record by swim­familiar position of seventh at complished by Steele Whowell, conference. Hollis, and Alison Newell. ming a time of 2:00.53 to take the championship meet. The who touched the wall second in 
The team Barger took first in the 100-me­13th in the 200-meter butterfly. positive side of the postseason the 100-meter breaststroke in went 7-5 Brooks ter butterfly and third in the The seniors who will be championships for Notre Dame 57.25. overall but 200. Hollis finished third in the missed when next year rolls was the fact that the Irish The team bids farewell to se­dominated in Big East com­200-meter backstroke and fifth around in.clude Brooks, Amy recorded season team bests in niors Rose, Ryan Beville, Ron petition to attain a 3-0 mark in the 100. Newell won the Bostick, Karen Daylor, Karen 14 different events at the meet. Lambert, Rich Murphy, and within the conference in the 200-meter butterfly and Foley, and Alyssa Peterson. Two Irish swimmers, senior Josh Saylor. regular season. When it carne claimed second, behind Barger, The Irish men's swimming to the conference champi­in the 100 despite qualifying and diving team concluded its onships, though, the Irish truly first in the preliminaries with a regular season with a record of Campus Media Services began to shine. school record time of 55.86. 7-5, which included a first­
Alyssa J. Bailly
They started somewhat slow­The Irish sent three swim­place finish at the Notre Dame 
Amy Burns

ly in the first two days and mers to the NCAA champi­Relays in October and a second­trailed Miami by 103 points onships, and all three experi-place finish at the Notre Dame Kristin Hargrove after one event on the third day Paul Heller of competition. However, the Jenn Herbe Irish, who had the experience 
Kevin Muncy
of finishing third at the champi­
Jill Nowak

onships just a year earlier, 
Brian Welch
knew what it would take to 
make a run at the title. And 
DeBartolo Media Services
that is exactly what they pro­ceeded to do. When all was Frank Barry said and done, Notre Dame had Jessica Bradford prevailed over the Hurricanes 
Sally Koenig
by a score of 661-547.5. Two of the key swimmers for DeBartolo Student Manager the Irish were senior Erin 
Jennifer Carlson
Brooks and freshman Shannon 
Suddarth. Brooks registered 
Media Resource Center 
repeat victories in both the 100 and 200-meter backstroke. She Maria Alexa Guevara cz;;· ./. /1 "· 
R (:JO/UZ/1£~rt/{(UfC'/I.J
P · records in both events. Brooks' Maria Rivera J JZJ 1 J'7;f/. /200-meter backstroke perfor­tt/ltt ,J.Je.J . 'PPt.Jhe.J 
broke the pool and meet a1ge eeves -y-
Maria Thieneman 
mance set the school record 
The College of Business Administration 
offers heartfelt congratulations and 
best wishes to our 
.. 

Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 35 

VARSITY SHOP 

''Specializing In Auth~ntic ~~~~~~ Notre Dame Sportswear" ~~~~~~ 

Joyce Fieldhouse (near Gate 3) 
& Second Floor Joyce Center 
r-------~-----~~~~~~-~-~-4[1;1f1f.~~~~~~ 
~ 
~ to-: ·g· I . d :
~or• 1nah prd1~e .~ 
~ :... mere an 1se...: 
(Can't be used in conjunction with any other coupons or discount offer) 
~-------------------------------------------------~ 
Re ular Uarsit Shop Hours: M-Sat 11 am-5pm, Sunda 1-4p 
l 
I I I I I 
-I
' 

-----~--­
page 36 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 16, 1997 
• 9ENGAL Bouts 
Few surprises as favorites dominate Bengal Bouts 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor The fans who attended the fi­nals of the 1997 Bengal Bouts got their money's worth as they saw two major upsets, five re­peat champions, and eight other  pound class. Like Mantey, Kelly had walked through his first two bouts, but Pagano was able to wear down Kelly and clinch the split decision. In the 165-pound class, John Christoforetti won his third con­secutive Bengal Bouts title with  Gaffney's victory provided the best punch of the finals as he was able to throw the senior captain off balance early and knock him down four times before the match was stopped 35 seconds into the second  After four years in the pro­gram, Damon Affinito was fi­nally able to clinch his class with a split decision over Pete Titterton, and in the 160-pound class, two-time finalist Chip Farrell won the title with a vic- Rich Molloy. The Farreli-Molloy fight was one of the best matchups of the finals. Both fighters possessed fundamental­ly sound fighting styles backed up with serious strength, but Farrell walked away with a  
great boxing matches.  a unanimous decision over fel­ 
The highlight of the 67th an­ low captain Ryan Rans.  From  
nual event came on a contro­ freshman year to his senior  
versial decision in the 190­ year in which he was the club's  
pound weight class in which  president, Christoforetti epito­ 
- Todd Carcelli defeated reigning  mized the Bengal Bouts experi­ 
...  champion Mike Mantey .  ence and the final title bout was  
As proven by his first match  a fitting farewell for him.  
which was stopped 1:14 into the  "There has only been one  
first round after he put oppo­ other moment that comes close  
nent Craig Prins on his back,  to this, and that was when I re­ 
Mantey's  overwhelming  ceived  my  black  belt,"  
strength was a force to be reck­ Christoforetti said after the  
oned with for Carcelli.  Carcelli  match.  "But that moment could  
knew  he  could  not  match  not really equal this.  It was  
Mantey's strength, so he basi­ everything that made this the  
cally outran him and conserved  best.  All  the  people,  the  
his energy until he could take  turnout, and the publicity.  The  
advantage of Mantey's frustra­ outcome of the fight didn't mat­ 
tion and unload a few good punches. Carcelli won on a split  ter. it...  It just felt great going into  
decision that brought mixed  Joining Christoforctti as de­ 
reactions to the crowd and even  fending  champions  were  
surprised himself.  Tommy Will in the 135-pound  
"I was very happy with the  class with a split decision over  
fight I fought, but I didn't think I  Lucas Molina, Doug Pollina in  
had won," Carcelli said.  "What  the 150-pound class with a  
I kept thinking about was the  stopped contest over J.R. Mellin,  
overall experience and the  Chris Sikora in the 157-pound  
uncanny amount of good, solid  also with a split decision over  
people I've met through the pro­ John Kmetz, Brian Gaffney in  
gram."  the 180-pound class with  a  
In another major upset, senior  stopped  contest  over  Mike  
Ted Pagano defeated defending  Debiasi, and Troy Phillips in the  
champion Fred Kelly in the 145­ 190-pound class with a unani­mous decision over Dave Butz.  The Observer/Mike Ruma Sophomore Brian Gaffney had little trouble defending his title against Mike Debiasi in the 185-pound class.  


• 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll 
Dos Geses surprise the pack 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Overcoming obstacles com­prised the main theme of the 1997 Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
When the 597 teams took to the courts on April 9. the first barrier the field had to surpass was the construction that elimi­nated half of the courts at Stepan Center. Add in nearly two weeks of cold weather and frequent rain, and the level of basketball was significantly hin­dered. 
Dos Geses overcame one of the greatest obstacles in the 26th edition of the tournament with its championship run after being basically overlooked as a major contender for the coveted Bookstore crown. 
After last year's champion Dos Kloskas regrouped from the loss of three of its key players, the big question of the tourna­ment was whether Jeff Kloska and Dan Fannon could carry their team to a repeat victory. However, by picking up the top player from the team it beat in the '96 finals (Bob Baxter), a 6­foot-7 football player with the softest hands of any big guy in the tournament (Tim Ridder). and another tall football player with good hoops ability (Kevin Carretta). it looked as though that question wouldn't be too hard to answer. 
With a new team and a new name, Corby's, the team entered the tournament seeded No. 1 and basically walked through it until the Final Four when it met Swoosh III. 
Swoosh III returned for its final shot at the title with a No. 4 seed and surprised many by upsetting the top-seeded Corby's, 21-18 in the semifinal round. 
But the story of the tourna­ment was the dark horse Dos Geses, who slipped through the view of Bookstore observers rel­atively unnoticed until the final weekend. With Chris Clevenger at center, Alex and Bill Gese in combination with Ryan Healy spreading the perimeter, and tournament MVP Mike Denvir as the go-to-man, the team had the potential to claim the tournament as its own, and that is exactly what it did. 
After knocking off the No. 3 seed Muddy Waters in the Elite Eight and then beating a streaking Primetime in the Final Four, Dos Geses finally received some much deserved recognition as a team to be taken seriously. They answered any doubt about their ability in the finals as they bat­tled to a 22-20 victory over Swoosh III on a rainy Stepan court. 

Dos Geses battled through the contest, fighting off the outside shooting of Swoosh's Matt Busam, and even entered the half down one. Denvir high­lighted Dos Geses performance, ending the game with two clutch free throws after the teams were tied at 20. 
"We liked being the under­dog," Denvir commented. "We used it as momentum. We knew we were a good team, but we liked having to scrap for every win." 
The MVP Denvir joined oppo­nent Jason Newcomer, the 1997 Mr. Bookstore, as the top award winners. Alex and Bill Gese also gained accolades for them­selves, being named first team and second team All-Bookstore respectively, as did Busam of Swoosh III. 
Prlmetime (7) 
Muddy Waters (3) 

The Observer/Jon K1ng 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Kevin Caretta and Corby's were shocked by fourth-seeded Swoosh Ill. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

The sidelines were packed at the 26th Bookstore Basketball finals. 

-------------~------------------------------------------·----------------------------­
--~~ 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 37 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 
MacLeod, Garrity bring program bac-k from dead 
By MIKE DAY MacLeod took home coach of the often times abysmal program to Spans Editor year honors. a solid, respectable one with a However, the biggest shock bright future ahead of it. 
Lock the doors, bolt down the came in the postseason. Unsure "This season, we accomplished shutters. and put the children to they would even be selected to a lot, and it really boosted the bod. participate in the NIT, the Irish program," said senior center 
Believo it or not. Notre Dame advanced to the quarterfinals, Matt Gotsch. "I feel the program basketball is back on the map. knocking off Oral Roberts and is moving in the right direction, 
Picked by many to occupy the TCU along the way. and the seniors here had some­collar of the Big East conference, In one of the most thrilling thing to do with that." the Irish surprised everyone, contests in years, Notre Dame While Garrity was the heart compiling a 16-14 record, tussled with its old nemesis and soul of the Irish, he was cer­including a respectable 8-10 Michigan for the right to move tainly not the sole reason for the mark in league play. on to the semifinals. Displaying team's success. Senior point 
To reward Notre Dame for its their trademark hustle, determi­guard Admore White took rise from league doormat to nation, and resiliency, the Irish advantage of increased playing bona fide contender, the confer­gave the eventual NIT champi­time to become the team leader ence named Pat Garrity Big East ons everything they could han­at both ends of the court. Player of the Year, while John dle. "Admore had a great year for 
In the end, the us," said MacLeod. "He really Wolverines sur­stepped up his play for us, and it vived by the skin showed. Without him, we could of their teeth, not have come close to having slipping past the the kind of season we did." Irish with a 67-66 Senior guard Pete Miller and victory. Gotsch also played key roles in 
"J told them (his the Irish surge, picking up the players) they had slack when teams collapsed their a great year," defense on Garrity. Senior said MacLeod fol­Marcus Young even got into the lowing the act, delighting the crowd with his Michigan game. underhanded, "granny" style 
"They came free throws. from nowhere, "It's going to be tough next they had great year losing four seniors," said character and Garrity following the Michigan heart, and game. "You can't really put a accomplished a finger on what they bring to the great deal more floor. You can't just look at the than anyone statistics and say it will be easy thought they pos­to replace them because they sibly could. And bring something totally intangi­thank goodness ble to our team. they didn't listen "But they leave on a positive to what the peo­note. I think everyone on the ple said. It really team realizes that we can be a Senior Marcus Young provided a spark off the bench for the Irish.
is a great group." big-time program now, and 
­
The one-point hopefully they'll bring that atti­To make things worse, promis­by injuries to this point, will loss to Michigan tude next year." ing freshman David Lalazarian, undergo surgery on his left illustrates just Unfortunately for Notre Dame, a friend and high school team­shoulder this summer. Bell is how far the Irish the season was not without its mate of Gottlieb, announced he not expected to be ready in time had come. In the share of lows. Point guard Doug was leaving Notre Dame follow­for the start of next season and span of five Gottlieb, one of the team's top ing the school year. could be out longer. months, Notre performers in 1996-96, left the "There were a lot of factors, a Despite the bad news, Dame trans­University prior to the season lot of details (in the decision to MacLeod and the Irish are opti­formed itself from after his well-publicized credit transfer)," said Lalazarian. "It mistic about the future of Notre a floundering, card scandal. has nothing to do with Doug Dame basketball. 
leaving Notre Dame. I just ''I'm pleased with what we've decided that this is the best thing accomplished and am confident for me to do at this time. that we are moving in the right There's nothing more to it." direction," said MacLeod. 
Small forward Gary Bell, Back on the map -it's been a
CONGRATULATIONS 

whose career has been marred long time coming. 
esc 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
TO 

SOCIAL 
...

CONCERNS THE CLASS OF I 997 
for your commitment to service and justice and peace 
May it continue to enrich your lives and, through you, your community. 
With appreciation, The Staff of the Center for Social Concerns 
These four years just flew by! We 
can still see that teary-eyed 17 year 
We invite all to join us at the Volunteer Send Off 
old as we drove offleaving you there. 
Saturday, May 17 at 10:00 AM 
ou have grown into such a beautiful, --·ut young woman. May God bless you and
at Washington Hall 
keep you always in His care.
Reception to follow at the Center for Social 
On to B.C. -Upward and Onward..:.Bonzai 
Concerns 

l
, Mama, Dad, Nanni, Grandpa and Princess
I 
1 
. 1 I I 
I 
I 
~ 
_ ___j 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

The Irish enjoyed their March Madness experience this spring. 
Kristina Campbell 
-
page 38 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 
leers look to rise to next level 
Program still building after frustrating year 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Despite a frustrating 1996-97 season, the future of the Notre Dame hockey team is looking up. 
After finishing the season 9­25-1 overall (6-20-1 in CCHA play) and with 10 of their loss­es coming in the last 11 games, it would be easy to write off the Irish, at least for a couple of years. 
But with seven of the team's top eight scorers returning and seven new recrmts coming in, head coach Dave Poulin and his team are optimistic. 
"Overall, we've added a lot of depth, skill and high power," Poulin commented. "We have a great group of returnees and seven talented newcomers who are all very eager for next sea­son." 
To not forget those who will not return for next season, the Irish will lose key players to graduation such as forwards Terry Lorenz and Tim Harberts and defensemen Ben Nelsen and Brian McCarthy. 
The class of '97 endured a difficult rebuilding period for the Irish program but will not have the opportunity to reap its benefits. 
Despite the ugly record, the
-1996-97 season did have its bright spots and exhibited the team's potential. "We made large strides this year." Poulin explained after the final game of the season, a 3-2 loss to Michigan State. "But they're not quantified in wins. We lost 12 one-goal games this year. If we had got­ten four goals at one time or 
another in those games, our season would have been com­pletely different." 
Still, the second youngest team in Division I hockey is looking to fill the holes created by graduation and seems to have the right artillery to do so. 
"We're definitely moving for­ward," said sophomore Brian Urick, last year's team rookie of the year. "Last year, there were games that we weren't even in. I remember being blown out by Michigan by a score of 13-1. But this year we were in every game." 
Leading the way for the class of 2001 will be defensemen Ryan Cla'rk from Littleton, Colo., and Mark Eaton from Wilmington, Del. Clark led the Lincoln Stars to the United State Hockey League's Clark Cup championship, and at 6­foot-4, 215-pounds, will add some bulk to the Irish lineup. 
Eaton was named second 

team All-USHL and was also awarded the Curt Hammer Award for being the most gen­tlemanly player who best reflects the goals of the USHL. The two lefthanders will be a welcome addition to the defense that ranked fourth in the CCHA for penalty killing efficiency. 
Overall, as the talent-laden Irish team matures, so will its potential for gaining itself a notable presence in the CCHA and the nation as a whole. What remains imperative now is that the team continues to train and improve, and that is Poulin's intention as the team began training this spring, and it will continue to be in the summer. 
"This is a huge time for us," he said. "We need to get to a new level." 
With the addition of new recruits and the leadership of coach Poulin. the Irish look to be close to that new level. 
The 01bserver Staff ho]p>es ym.11 have a haJP>JP>Y anJ safe summer. 

Reduce your risk factors 
.!'" 
I I I 
I 
i 
I I I I I I I I I I 

Association.M 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 

~ , . ;·: 
. ~ . 

,.con'Jatylateus sya~uatiO!! sef9•ors: 
~ 
ilL~*-. ·JJ;

Teresa Abderle ....., Joan Bannon I 
¥Rachel Bradford1m Kira Carter CindY Da\ds1t:· 
Karyn Deutsch Lauiidietisl Heat · Fischer Je ;lava¥ Mara Grace ArnSt Green WendY Grzywacz 
1
Rosemary Guillette 
..., Peggy Hermida tt~~ Patricia Her~ltY SandY Koehler 
., carQJ,Yn Lon'gj 
~· Lis~nabat 
~ ~~=~~~:;::so 
1 1 B~th ~cCarth 
Friday, May 16, 1997 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Senior Terry Lorenz and the Irish struggled through a difficult year. 
PEACE CORPS 
NEEDS YOUR SKILLS 
We are recruiting students who will graduate in 1997 and 1998 for volunteer positions in Education, Environment, Agriculture, Business, Health, Youth Development. and other areas. 
Call today to discuss your qualifications. 
FOR MORE 


INFORMATION CALL 1-800-424-8580 
Visit Peace Corps' WEB site: http://www.peacecorps.gov 
Online application available at 
<!''···· ..: I .I 
¥ ~ 
1lw <·~ 't
Maura·McEihenn MiChelle McGarry I ~ichelle McQuistan 

Nikki Memmott  
Colleen M~qre 
1Beth Mori!an  
E~a Muniz/  
rSJ  Bri  MurraY  
Mel!  .,Mu"rray  
.Nicholf' Murr  
·" Sar.ah O'Hea  
.~,...  Jill Oser  
Michelle Paduch  
v  Jennifer Perry'B  
LindseY Phi~J;ps  
~ison PoU~fJ'lPa  
Victoria Pratte  
'"  I  Krillen Quinn  
v~~~;~:,ez  
S~&ah RaPP  
I  

e·asels! 


·· elo'te 'ou. 

~ 
. Jeft Renola ,_, KarYn Rodrigues I ., Domenica Romao 
Eva RzePniewski Melanie Schroeder '*Megan Scull:~ 
"i Me~=:::P~;d'" ~~~r:t:~~~ck 

Yi Katie Smith Megan Taylor 
Nicole Till v Darcie Tutin :J Carmen Walker Joslin Warren 

A~~~~~~~ 
'liJ Jctj{ Wrcw Beth"qfmbac 

r 
~ 
Friday, May 16, 1997 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Men's team bounces back 
Younger squad regains top 25 form in 1997 
By JOE CAVATO Assistanr Spans Editor 
Although the '95 and '96 seasons for the men's tennis teams were different in com­position and success, the years ended in too similar of fashion for head coach Bobby Bayliss. 
For the second consecutive season, the Minnesota Golden Gophers put an end to the team's season. Last Saturday at Illinois, Minnesota ousted Notre Dame from the NCAA Hegion IV championships. The Irish were the top-seed in the region but suffered a 4-2 loss to the fifth-seeded Gophers. 
Bayliss' team went into post­season play ranked 13th in the nation and ended the year with a 19-6 mark. Notre Dame rebounded from a some­what disappointing 1996 sea­son in which the Irish finished ranked 36th in the nation. 
Last year's squad was senior laden with three of the six sin­gles players in their final year under the Dome. This season, the top player was a freshman (Ryan Sachire), and there was only one senior who saw sig­nificant action. 
This year, a younger team jumped out of the gates with a six-match winning streak that was one of the best starts for the program in recent years. The Irish also closed the regu­lar season on a high, finishing the year with a 10-match win­ning streak that ended in the finals of the Big East confer­ence championships against Miami. 
Highlighting the season was Ryan Sachire, who had an out­standing rookie year as he filled the No. 1 singles slot and had a mark of 17-3 in match play to earn the Midwest Regional Intercollegiate Tennis Association Rookie of the Year. 
In the middle of the lineup, experienced players Jakup Pietrowski and Ryan Simme provided Bayliss with solid play. Brian Patterson picked up where he left off his fresh­man campaign, going 13-6 at the No. 4 singles slot. 
Near the bot­tom of the line­up was junior Eric Enloe, who gave Bayliss a lift, posting a 

10-2 mark  in  
dual  match  
play.  

Sachire was not the only member of the Irish team to receive person­a! accolades. Second year assistant coach Andy Zurcher was named the Regional

Assistant Coach The Observer/Brandon Candura of the Year. Freshman Ryan Sachire made his presence felt in the world of college tennis this year. 
Zurcher gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1993 and was an All-American by his senior year after coming in 
as a walk-on. 

netters 
Bayliss will have plenty to work with next season after making strides in getting to his 
adversity
goal of getting the program back to the status of where it .:ranked William & Mary 
was in 1992 and '93 when it squad. The young squad was 
finished in the top 10 in the 722~'iW .tl1en able to salvage ilie sea­
nation. son and compile an 18-11 
record on the way to a sec­
ond straight Big East confer­
ence ~hampionship. 
Sophomores Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco carried the load in the top two sin­gles slots .. In Hall's freshman campaign; she earned All­American honors and' fin· ished the year ranked ninth in the nation. 
"' Aftfjt the injury to Gowen, Tiffany Gates was the lone senipr. She posted a 12..:10 record while the third sin-
the world is getting smaller the pleasant sur­smell better. 
"""''"'t''"'.the Irish was fresh­. Zalinski, who fln­Jof"'~'·('isb.ed' h(~r rookie year with a k in dual match 

Louderback 

•n···•u.,•a· to a tnore experi­qUad to help them 
the top 10 playthey ""'."""u a year ago. 
Love. Morn. Dad. why not Megan. now? Kd4Tberine. 
Frd~er 
and Jiffie 


urly Boy, Mom and the future Mrs. Cunniffe, 
To the memories... Martin, Baby Stats, the , Hip-Hop Dan, Valentine's Day, Ofelia meals, 13 iles in the Wicklow Mountain Chen's roommates and all the pints. 
for the laughter. We'll miss you! Slainte, Katie and Kathy 

page 40 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 16, 1997 
• fENCING 
Fencers flirt with second championship of decade 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Winning a national cham­pionship has become a standard by .which one Notre Dame teams trains, and it's not the football team. 
However, like the football team, the Irish fencing team set a precedent for itself when it won a national championship three years ago and since then has dealt with consolation prizes. 
For two years in a row now, the Irish have placed second to Penn State at the NCAA championships, but unlike the Irish football team, second place is not a travesty. Although the goal of the team lies in recaptur­ing the national champi­onship, a second place fin­ish remains a testament to the relentless effort of the Irish fencers. 
"I am very proud of this team. They gave it their all," head coach Yves Auriol commented. "It is just tough to come close and not reach our goal." 
Fencing creates an equal mix of both team and indi­vidual achievement, and the individuals on the Irish fencing team have shone. 
Magdol Krol is the latest of the Irish fencers to make a name for herself. The freshman from Vancouver, British Columbia, took first place in the women's epee championship. After defeat­ing 1996 champion Nicole Dygart of St. John's 15-14, Krol finished her first sea­son with a 20-5 record. 
Last year's star, sopho­more Sara Walsh, placed second in the women's foil competition for the second year in a row and was also named first team All­American for the second consecutive year. Walsh's overall record mirrored Krol's at 20-5. 
Following Walsh in the foil competition for the Irish was Myriah Brown, who placed fifth and earned a spot on the All-American second team for the second year in a row. 
The Irish finished the regular season with only one loss to, yes, Penn State back in January. The team remained undefeated through February and March up until it once again met the Nitanny Lions at the 


The Observer/Jake Peters 

national championships. The Irish hopes of another national championship were foiled by their rivals, the Nittany Lions of Penn State. 

'  "  t  ••  '  ..  '  f  ;  ~  ~  CONGRATULATIONS LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS in the Class of '97 ~ • f •  

,~. 
~ ~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 41 
• MEN's lACROSSE 
Historic win highlights Irish year 


led by Ned Webster, who cashed in on two scoring opportunities in the game at Towson, Md. The remainder the offense was accounted for by Stedman Oakey, Adam Sargent, and Brad Owen, who each scored. 
Loyola had already beaten the Irish on their home field this sea­son. The first matchup proved to be the closer of the two as Loyola pulled away for a 12-7 win on March 15. The only other team to beat Notre Dame this season was Massachusetts, which also had the advantage of playing on its home turf. The Irish battled it out in that contest but fell by the heartbreaking score of 6-5. 
The season highlight was a home victory over Hofstra on April 4. The fourth-ranked Flying Dutchmen became the highest ranked team that the Irish have ever defeated. The win for Notre Dame officially placed them on the map. 
Said junior attackman Jimmy Keenan, following the historic tri­umph, "It was definitely a big win for us. Everybody's got a lot of confidence. We really believe we can beat anyone in the country." 
Although Loyola proved to be the team that Notre Dame just could not beat, the positives of the Hofstra win and the season­long performance of the Irish certainly have a balancing effect on the disappointment of the year's finale. 
Leading the team in goals through 10 games in 1997 were sophomore Chris Dusseau (29, junior Burke Hayes(23). and attackman Will DeRiso (18). 
The graduating seniors include co-captains DeRiso and Steve Cashen as well as defenseman Bryan Welch. 
to 

Cleveland State Invitat:ional marked the final event for the Irish se­Dieme:t~ Donohoe, and 
women's golf team out its season in style as .. squad grabbed second the Illinois Spring 
irrOtampaign, Ill. 

TracyMelby led the for the Irish, achieving her medalist finish ever at the . Melby shot a five-in the<second round to first round score of finished one stroke Illinois' Loretta Lyttle. Anne. Il/.1,11 played two 
rounds in her last tournament, as the scored 78 and 81 to e eighth place out of 73 gO < s, This -vvas the highest finish in her .career at Notre 
Dame; · Junior Katie King and fresh­manBeth Cooper tied for 13th forthe Irish, while freshman Ariarea Klee tied for 18th. In addition to Hall, there are three other seniors who have now played in their final tour­. na:tpe!lt at Notre Dame. They il.t¢tBrigette Beaudoin, Lacey C~avesi, and Kassio Shea. 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite a disappointing finish, the men's lacrosse team once again proved that it belongs among the top teams in the coun­try. The Irish ended the year with a 9-3 record, with two of the losses coming at the hands of the same opponent. 
Loyola (Md.) had Notre Dame's number in 1997 and was re­sponsible for bringing its season to an end last weekend, dominat­ing the Irish in the first round of the NCAA tournament, 21-5. 
The ninth-ranked Irish were 
Graduating Seniors of Zahm, 
~ 
ERE we are at another Notre Dame Graduation. Many have gone before you, often they have been 
your friends, some may have been your parents or relatives, and some you may never have known at all save for the bonding spirit that we call Notre Dame. However, this graduation is set apart from the others. It is set apart because this time you will be graduating. This is especially true for those of us who stay behind at Zahm after you go. Each one of you has made your imprint on this university. Whether it be through classes, through extra-curricular activities or through relationships--each of you has left your name indeli­bly written upon the history of Notre Dame. However, what we here at Zahm know is that you have also left your name, your words, your smiles and your hearts within Zahm Hall, and upon all of us who live there. 

E could talk about the parties, the SYR's, the tail­gaters, the girls or even the tests. However, on this occasion it seems appropriate to speak of something else, something that includes much of the above and adds to them a laugh, a tear, a hug and a love that few in this world ever have the opportunity to experience. It is the Zahm family, a spirit that permeates the halls of our dorm 
and is tangible only to the hearts of its residents. Each of yo is, and forever will be a part of that family. It is manifest in late night conversations, Decade Dances, dorm masses, mas­sive Christmas displays, shouting contests with every male dorm on campus, countless other things left unmentioned for propriety's sake or lack of space, and also in the memories of all of us with whom you have shared this life and this spirit. 
OW you go into the "real world", where people say 

things are not like Notre Dame. They surely are 
not like Zahm. However, you are and forever will be a Domer and a Zahmbie and we who know and love you are confident that this world will come a little closer to the love we know just because you are in it. 

E will never forget you and though you leave the blessed confines of Zahm Hall you never really leave Zahm or the hearts of your fellow Zahmbies. May the Lord bless and keep you always. 
With Love, 
The Men of Zahm 
P.S. Always remember: 
,, 

WE ARE ... ZAHM HALL! 

page 42 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, May 16, 1997 
• BASEBAll 
_..,.,....,_Notre Dame has sights set on Big East crown 

By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Despite a Tuesday loss to Villanova in the first round of the double elimination Big East conference tournament, the Irish have remained in con­tention for the post-season title. 
The Wildcats jumped out to an early lead, but fell behind 2­1 when the Irish struck in the bottom of the second inning. Villanova continued to pour it on though, adding one in the third, three in the fourth, and two each in the sixth and sev­enth frames to extend to a 9-2 advantage. The margin was too much for Notre Dame to over­come, and the Irish were within one game of being bounced from the tournament. 
The squad rallied on Wednesday, however, to stave off elimination, as sophomore right-hander Alex Shilliday fired 
• SOFTBAll 
Blue Demons end Irish swingers season in doubleheader sweep 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
For the first time in four years, the Notre Dame women's softball team will not go to the NCAA championships. 
The Irish ended their season last Saturday when they were swept by DePaul in a double­header, 4-0, 10-4. The Irish finished the season 35-25 with the fewest wins since 1992. 
"I think the whole team's pretty disappointed," senior Meghan Murray said. "I don't want to say that we assumed we'd go on, but we kind of expected it because we had in the past. 
"Overall, we had a lot of ups and downs this season." 
However, everything that came out of the season was not negative. Many of the Irish players have been recognized for their performances during the season and during their careers at Notre Dame. 
Four seniors were elected to the GTE/CoSIDA Academic All­District V softball team. Joy Battersby, Katie Marten, Kara McMahon, and Murray were elected to the all-district team and now have the opportunity to be announced to the Academic All-American team. 
Battersby, a pitcher who fin­ished her career with a 45-34 mark, has been selected twice as Academic All-American as has Marten. Both players were selected as second team in 1996 and third-team in '95. Marten also was a NFCA All­American third team selection for both the '95 and '96 seasons and has the opportunity to become the first Irish player to be selected All-American three times. 
She was also selected to the coaches' first team all-region and will now be considered for All-American selection. 
Murray left the Irish as the only player in Irish softball his­tory to hit over .400 in a sea­son, accomplishing that in both her junior and senior seasons. Murray finished the '96 cam­paign with .404 average and was named Big East Player of the Year. She holds the record for highest career batting aver­age at .380. 
For McMahon, it is the first time she has been named acad­emic all-district. She also is a two-time All-Big East selection. 

Murray and sophomore pitch­er Angela Bessolo were named coaches' second team all­region. Bessolo led the team with a 1.46 ERA and confer­ence play with a 0.85 ERA. 
"All four seniors have won awards this year, and maybe we didn't play as well as we had hoped the last weekend, but I think we can all walk away and feel good about it," Murray commented. "We all leave wishing we could come back and play more, but we can't hang our heads because we've had a great four years." 

Sam and Jackie Bertucci 
5 daughters, 40 move-ins and move-outs, 640 credits, 29,250 miles, $12,382 in books, $6423 worth of phone calls and care pack­ages and 15 years of love, support and encouragment ... Thank you for making Saint Mary's College our family tradition. We love you! 
Amy '86 


Maria '87 
Susan '89 
Lara '91 
Jen'97 

a complete game to beat Seton Hall, 4-3. Shilliday fanned six Pirates and allowed just three walks on the day. 
Shilliday's performance only slightly overshadowed senior catcher Mike Amrhein's second­inning home run, which tied him for the Notre Dame record for most career homers with 37. 
The win guaranteed a ninth consecutive 40-win season for the Blue and Gold. 
Yesterday, in a do or die game for both teams involved, Notre Dame ousted West Virginia from the tournament by a score of 8-1. Sophomore Chris McKeown was spectacular on the mound for the Irish. The left-bander struck out six bat­ters en route to a four-hitter and his first complete game of the year. 
Today, Notre Dame will play a rematch against Villanova. The winner will advance to chal­lenge St. John's for the Big East crown. The conference champi­on earn an automatic berth in the NCAA championships. 
Notre Dame's record now stands at 41-18. Even some of the Irish players must be slight­ly surprised by their current mark. The team started 1997 by going 9-11 in its first 20 games. Since then the Irish have won 32 of 39 and captured the Big East National Division title. 
The 1997 campaign has also been highlighted by the efforts of three Notre Dame players who were honored by the con­ference. 
Shortstop Brant Ust followed in the footsteps of sophomore Jeff Wagner by earning the Big East Rookie of the Year award. Ust also joined Wagner and senior right-hander Darin Schmalz as members of the 1997 All-Big East first team. 

ConAratulations 
18 on your 

Graduation! 
Evlalio Aguilan Randy Snyder Amy Zulich Elizawati Mohammad Grant Dwyer Nicole Glasseling 
TlaeHuddJe 


Congratulations Seniors: 
Lisa Ackert  Lisa Maggio  
Liliana Amador  Sylvia Maspons  
Jennifer Balthrop  Tzipora McCarthy  
Tracey Banks  Stephanie Nichols  
Deborah Barclay  Erica Niena ltowski  
Molly McCoy  Kara O'Connell  
Joylene Battersby  Maureen O'Connor  
MaryAnne Boley  Joan O'Sullivan  
Emily Buser  Rebecca Perri  
Rebecca Cannata  Elizabeth Rankin  
Marie Chen  Katherine Rosenbach  
Angela Coppola  Cynthia Ryan  
Suzanne DeCoursey  Rachel Saletel  
Dawn Feher  Catherine Schriner  
Katherine Finucci  Michelle Siqueira  
Julie Gahm  Nisha Siqueira  
Karen Galioto  Stacy Smith  
Nicole Gasseling  Kelly Sopko  
Carrie Grafton  Robin Straughan  
Jennifer Green  Beth Swiney  
Betsy Hodgson  Arika Van Dam  
Susan Hoffman  Colleen Walton  
Kelly Koski  Susan Wangenstein  
Karen LeMire  Marah Wich  
Elizabeth Mackenzie  

You'll alwavs be Knott Angels!! Love, the women of Knott Hall 
-_, 
Friday, May 16, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 43 
DILBERT 
TH15 NEW POLICY OF 1\E.f.PlNG OUR \<..E.'YBOARDS ON THE FLOOR IS RIDICULOU.S! 
CROSSWORD YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
...­


CEl.lBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ton Spl•lling. D~bra Wlllp,L'r, J.lnl'tl,,l·l...~m. Cabril'l.1 Sabatini 
Dl:i\R EUCENIA. I would l1k'" somt' m!ormatio"n ilhout pl'Opk who ilfl' born till Ft.-h. 24. I elm Olll' of tlwm, born un thJt d.1y in 1904, at ·Q:.1~ p.m 01 alllhL' Ll'ap Year B.1bies I (...mnv or IM\'L' ml'l, then• Sl'l'I11~ tn be a rl'llMrk­tlbll'~imiiMity 
DEAR PISCES: I've never done any research regarding Leap Year Ba­bies until this point when you tweaked my interest. You'll have to give me a little time to study this more. 
I can tell you about yourself. You are a strong Pisces, having the plan­ets Mercury and Mars placed in close proximity to your natal Sun. The rest of your planets and Moon fall in the signs Aries, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and Aquarius. Your chart indicates that you have unusual talent and that you should be able to get ahead next year in areas that deal with creativity. You will also do well where travel, leam­ing, dealing with children or having one are concerned in 1998. As for this year, you should be concentrating on your home, work, investments, and your health. You would do best working for yourself at some point in your life and you may want to consider looking into starting your own business this year. 
ARIES (March 21-April 191: You can accomplish a lot if you enlist thl' aid of co-workers. Your ability to ge< your work finished ,,.ill bring recog­

SCOTT ADAMS nition cmd rewards. TAURUS (April 20-May 201: G<'t prepared to present your idea~ tooth­
~========~0~======~--·
> 

z ers. Usc your patience and ability to
TI-\E. ONLY P05~IBLE. WAlT A. t"\INUTE... 
work with detail in order to get your

EXPLA.NA.TION lS TO i THA.T I5 THE ONLY own way 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): Op·

MAI\E US ALL STOOPED EXPLANATWN. 
Born Today: You won't have • lot nf patJe<K<' this year so don't put yourselfOVE.R SO IT'S EA~IER in a position where you ha\'e to depend on individuals wl)o are incompetent. The mnre you can do by yourselt, tlw higher the rewards vou receive will be.
FOR MANAGEf'\ENT TO 1<-ICK OUR BEHINDS! 
HA H~l! 



55 "Argonautica" character 
56 Cupbearer, for one 
57 Squeeze 
58 Booms 
DOWN 
1 Dispose of, informally 2 Letter for Cynewulf 3Lay­(exaggerate) 4 Puts blades to blades? 5Wipesout &Shelled 7 Butchers' measures a "The Lord of the Rings" creature 
9 Postal rtes. 10 Ballyhoo 11 Twisthand 
.:;.:+=+:;...+;::""' 12 River at Orsk 13 Cartoonist Lazarus 141mplore -=+=+':+.:':+::~ 20 They can be •-==-+-=+=+=+=--• grand 1--:-il-:"-t~""'" 22 Cheers 
23 Cleaving tools 
"!'P~:+.~:+:;+:+=-'!"!'!-=+:-:+~::+:~ 24 Shell backs B:=:+:,:..+:o:-1 25 Running wild =+~=+::::-! 26 Ada of "Bleak House" "'-'---'--'--' 27 Bombshells 

-

y(())\ill & n_J y(())\ill Jr§ & 
haJI»JI»Y ~ 
Me]ffi]}_(())Jrial JDay Flag JDay F aiher9§ JDay Canacdla JDay linJeJI»encdlence JDay
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~,.....,,......,."" ~~::'+:~ 
44 Extinguish 50 River to Donegal Bay 
&
45Pip 51 J.F.K. sights
46 Central point 
48 " ... --can't 53 Trail get up!" 

Ba§fille JDayo
54 1994-95 name in 49 Stationery order the news 
En](())r r (()) u r 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
§ \lJl]ffi]}_Jrn}_eJr H (())l i Jay§ ~ 
50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
29 Certain stocks 30 Estuary feature 31 Gives the 
doubleO 33 One two of 
two-and-two 350uck­38 Mrs. Marcos et 
al. 39 Jamboree 
structure 41 Accustomed 43 Must 

J-'X'rtunillt~ for advaiKL'Il'll'nl look po~­itin•. You should makt.• chan~es rt•­garding your n_'Sidl'IKL' 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Op· f-1<lrtumties will !'.urlaCL· throu~h prt"S+ t1~:;iou~ mdiv1du.1ls you met.•t .1t dub mel•tin~~ or org<lnizahons you ht.'lonM to. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 221: DlfficultJt'> with females you liVl' or work with will cetuse t.•motional stres:-.. Don't on•rspl•nd on luxury iterw,:-, tor your homl'. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Takl• time to help elders in your family. Visit friends who have been confin£'d or ill. Deal with government agenc1es or lar~t· corporations. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: Get in· \'olved in organizations that will help you meet prominent indi\·iduals. Your warm and generous naturt.' will attract the most sensuous lovers. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: You can ask important individuals for favor.,. Your best efforts will unfold thnmgh communication and travel. Romantic opportunities will develop through group functions. 
SAGITTARIUS I Nov. 22-Dec. 211: Problems will arisL if you get in­\'Ol\'L'ti mtimatelv wiU1 a co-worker or employer. You rl1.ust avoid being the topic for discussion and refrain from getting im·olved in gossip. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 191: Sudden changes rt•garding your be· liefs and attitudes will surface due to interaction and discussions with close 
-

friends or relatives. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Dis­

appointments in partnerships will set 
vou off. You should spend time tak· 
ing care of lega1 matters and con­
tracts. Put your energy into work 
rather than your personal life. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Minor 

accidents '''ill cause limitations. Trip5 
will cost more than you can really af­
ford. Relatives will cause friction. You 
must be precise in your statements. 
ACROSS 1 Academic 
division 10 Chubby 15 Unruly 1& Harder to find 17 Temporary 
winter havens 18 Silver Springs 
neighbor 19 Having feelings 20 Rotten 21 Business 
owner's concern 24 Room freshener 28 Mendelssohn's 
"Elijah," e.g. 32 Guthrie and others 33 Backfire 
34 "South Pacific" lass 
35 Discloses 
36 Rub out 
37 Part of Pedro's diet 39 Martinique erupter of 1902 
40Howsome "Melrose Place" stories proceed 
41 German sausages 42 Where to buy a suit 44 Writer Barthelme 47 Giant star in Scorpius 52 "There was-­woman ... " 
53 Audience 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and · events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensable link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ 
-

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name---------------------­
Address ______________________________________ City--------------State ____Zip___________ 
..... 
]SPORTS
0 

page 44 Friday, May 16, 1997 
Holtz resigns as head coach 
0 0 0 



Pat Garrity elevated his game last season to become Big East Player of the Year. 
Garrity boosts program 
By BRIAN REINTHALER rose to the occasion. Assistant Sports Editor His efforts were the driving force behind Notre Dame's 16-14 record 
Although he is only a junior, Pat and its ability to play competitively Garrity has made an immeasurable with the teams in the Big East. Due impact since arriving on campus back to his high level of intensity and con­in August 1994. sistent statistical production, Garrity 
The Monument, Colo., native start­beat out such players as Providence's ed in every game as a freshman and Austin Croshere, Boston College's averaged 13.4 points and 5.1 re­Danya Abrams and Georgetown's bounds. In his sophomore season, Victor Page to become the 1997 Big Garrity stepped up and scored 17.2 East Player of the Year. points and 7.1 rebounds. What's more, he is the first player 
This year, when it seemed that he to win this award and also earn first could not get any better, Garrity reg­team GTE Academic All-America istered 21.1 points and 7.4 rebounds. honors from the College Sports On a team full of seniors, Garrity was Information Directors of America. an on-the-court leader like no other. Most recently, Garrity was invited, When he was being double and triple­with just 65 others, to the trials for teamed, he found the open man, and the United States 22 and Under when no one else was on, Garrity National Team. 
• 
Cindy Daws' stoic career ended being honored as the best player in the land. 
Daws caps stellar career 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Simply the best. 
That is what senior midfielder Cindy Daws is considered by every­one in the world of women's college soccer. 
In her final season wearing the Blue and Gold, the native of Northridge, Calif., garnered practical­ly every individual award in exis­tence, leading the Irish to their third straight national championship game. 
Daws swept post-season player of the year honors winning both the Missouri Athletic Club Player of the Year as well as the Herman Trophy. 
Over her four years under the Dome, Daws was named All­American three times, while the 
Notre Dame program established itself as one of the top three pro­grams in the nation. 
Her name can be found all over the Irish record books after amassing 61 goals and 67 assists to become Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer with 189 points, eclipsing Michelle McCarthy. 
Daws and her classmates estab­lished Chris Petrucelli's program, compiling an 87-8-3 record, making four NCAA tournament apperances, and three trips to the championship game, and winning the national title in 1995. 
Daws will leave Notre Dame this weekend, remembered as the best player to come through one of the best programs in the country, one which she helped to build. 

By DYLAN BARMMER Senior Sports Writer 
When Lou Holtz stepped foot on the Notre Dame campus as the University's 27th head football coach back in November 1985, he brought something very important with him. 
A winning attitude. 
''I'm intense," said Holtz when asked to describe his attitude several years ago. "I think if you are going to do something, you ought to try and do it as well as you can. I don't take losses very well -I admit that. I really and truly don't." 
It was contagious. And it was exactly what Notre Dame football needed. 
Holtz, who had previously resurrect­ed programs at N.C. State, Arkansas, and Minnesota, was hired with the intention of returning Notre Dame to the pantheon of great college football programs, an elite group which the Irish had been denied membership to over the previous five years under the lovable, yet incompetent Gerry Faust, who compiled just a 30-26 record in his five seasons under the Golden Dome. 
Holtz did just that, needing only two full years to put the Irish back into a major bowl game for the first time in seven seasons, and achieving the ulti­mate accolade in college football when he led the Irish to a 12-0 record 
see HOLTZ I page 31 

0 0 0 
Davie set to fill Lou's shoes 
By TIM SHERMAN Senior Sports Writer 
Throughout his career, Bob Davie has been in the shadow of big-name head coaches-Jackie Sherrill, R.C. Slocum, and, of course, Lou Holtz. 
In the past several months, that long shadow has changed to a bright spot­light -a very bright spotlight. 
On Nov. 24, athletic director Mike Wadsworth announced that the defen­sive coordinator would succeed Holtz as the 28th head coach at Notre Dame. 
Even though he has had no coaching experience except for a brief stint dur­ing Holtz's 1995 absence due to a neck injury, Davie already has a clear mis­sion statement. 
"My goals for this program are sim­ple. They coincide with the mission of this university," the Sewickley, Pa., native said. "Number one, be the best at everything we do, but do it with integri­ty and do it with balance in our lives, we as coaches and we as players." 
"Number two, continue to be the model program in this country for developing student athletes. Not only graduate them, but develop them as a total person. I want our players to know we care about them, and their self­worth is not judged solely on wins and losses." 
"Third, I want to put a team on the field that represents the very best of Notre Dame and the very best of our 
see DAVIE I page 26 

• See pages 32-33 for the Top 10 Stories from 1993-97 and the 1996-97 Year in Sports. 



