
Monday, January 27, 1997• Vol. XXX No. 77 NDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARYS 
Women's college reps probe schools' missions 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 

Tacked on the wall of the Regina North Lounge this weekend were 23 sheets of paper. Each outlined the mis­sion of the colleges participat­ing in this year's Play of the Mind Conference, held this past weekend at Saint Mary's College. 
While each of the colleges varied in characteristics such as size and location, they shared a common bond: a commitment to the education of women. 
Building upon that bond, stu­dents and faculty members of the 23 colleges in attendance from as far off as California and Georgia spent the weekend discussing exactly what it means to be a part of a women's college. 
Describing the weekend as an intellectual discourse between "sister colleges," Patric'k White, associate dean of faculty who, with director of student activities Georgeanna Rosenbush co-chaired the event, said the Play of the Mind "illustrates Saint Mary's com­mitment to a vision of the intel­lectual life that is creative, playful, stimulating and chal­lenging to members of the com­munity." 
The conference is part of the 
Women's coll\es: 
P~~!Y!t~~ 
llllllllllll!lllll!lllliUIMW!JtMJ.MWW~~::r~~-;::::::rMWf:":::··=·=· 

•g 
out of 10 women's college graduates givetheir colleges high marks for fostering ancf developihg self-confidence in woJnen studentsi,.

•so% 
of all women's 


college presidents .are women, compared to approximately12% at co­ed institutions. 

•The 
faculty at most women's corteges is equally divided between male and female, as is the senior administration and boards of trustees. 

•Graduates 
of women's colleges are more than twice as likely as graduates of co~ed colleges to rece1ve doctorate degrees. 



College's three-year, $214,000 Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE} grant awarded last 
see SMC I page 6 

The cheese stands alone... 
A
s "Cheeseheads" and Patriots fans looked on, the Green Bay Packers took on the New England Patriots in Super Bowl XXXI. The Packers went on to win the title by the score of 35-21. 

See story on 

page 13. 

• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 





Week honors Asian culture 
is co-sponsored by several other student minority groups, including the Vietnamese Student Organization (VSA}, the Filipino-American Student Organization (FASO), and the Korean Student Organization (KSA}. 
Organizers hope that the 
see WEEK I page 6 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Today marks the beginning of Asian Heritage Week at Notre Dame. Several Asian stu­dent organizations have sched­uled a wide variety of events and speakers in celebration of Asian culture. 
Asian Heritage Week is an event coordinated by several student groups especially for the University. An annual event for tbe past five years, this cultural series has in the past been solely coordinated by the Asian-American Association (AAA). This year, however, Asian Heritage Week 

EIDpty 

Altars 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 
Vail, Colo., is a town with 10 Catholic churches-and three priests. 
More and more the situation in Vail is becoming the norm as the shortage of priests becomes more acute. The causes behind the situation arc complex, as are the solutions, and the issues involved are among the most divisive in the Catholic Church today. 
This includes one question that chal­lenges hundreds of years of Catholic tra­dition: Should priests be allowed to marry? 
The shortage has its roots in the years leading up to the Second Vatican Council, but Vatican II accelerated the problem, according to Scott Appleby, director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
The focus of Vatican II was on the laity; it did not address the changing role of the priesthood in nearly as much detail as it addressed the increasing role of the laity, according to Appleby. 
Some Catholics feel that the priesthood itself is a thing of the past, though this is not the prevalent opinion, according to several Catholic scholars. The difficulty in redefining the role of the laity drove some priests and seminarians away from the priesthood, according to Appleby. 
As lay Catholics entered professions and 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
The Church has recently struggled to reconcile the role of the traditional priesthood with the 
modern demands for equality of the sexes and desire for family life. became a larger part of the middle and The positive side of this is that priests upper-middle classes in the years follow-were expected to be especially competent ing World War II, Appleby said, they -like professionals -and it led to a began to look at the priesthood more as a 
profession and less as a vocation. see PRIESTS 1page 4 
Vatican argues against women in priesthood 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Marshaling its arguments to quash a debate that won't go away, the Vatican on Friday presented its most compre­
hensive  case  yet  against  
women  becoming  Roman  
Catholic priests.  

The Vatican called out its chief guardian of orthodoxy, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, and other officials for a news conference to present a book that stitches together recent major papal pronouncements on the issue, along with essays by theologians and scholars. 
The church's long-standing argument, essentially, is that Christ was male and wanted his priests to be male, and the church can't overrule that. 
"The Church does not have the power to modify the prac­tice, uninterrupted for 2000 years, of calling only men" to the priesthood, Bishop Angelo Scola told reporters. 
"This was wanted directly by Jesus," said the bishop, who heads the Vatican's pres­tigious Lateran University. He cited traditional arguments that Jesus decided to choose only men for the 12 apostles and that the priesthood is "objectively linked to the male sex of Jesus." 

.-~-----.-------~------------­
Monday, January 27, 1997
page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INS!!lE COl.UMN 

The people 
you can count on 
They influence us. 
They make us happy. Lori Allen 
Sometimes, they can Sainr Mary's News Editor 
even piss us off. We 
all have them. Well, I hope we all have 
them. They're our friends. They are the 
ones who can make or break our day. They 
are the ones who can make you laugh when 
nothing is funny and the stress factor is so 
high that you are on the brink of insanity. 
Think about it. How many times have you 
walked into the dining hall growling about 
an evil professor or a killer test? What 
made you smile? Was it the tuna noodle 
casserole or your friend's casual reminder 
that "it's all good"? 
Today marks a landmark in my life. I 
rank this day right up there with my high 
school graduation. Things will never be the 
same for me. Today is my 21st birthday. 
My collegiate life is about to take a turn, a 
walk on the Wild Side if you will. I am 
about to partake in a rite of passage many 
college students anticipate for so long. 
I've been good-I haven't gone to the 
"real bars" yet. I have narrowed my bar­
going to CJ's, Bridget's, and Jazzman's (not 
entirely by choice though.) These three 
have provided me with a firm foundation to 
advance to Go, collect my Senior Bar card, 
and move on to the 'Backer. 
The most important ingredient in today's 
recipe for a fun-filled evening is not alcohol 
(although it does have some bearing), it's 
the friends. What I will recall from this 
evening (if I'm lucky), will be a time well 
spent with good buddies constantly profess­
ing how wonderful our friendship is. Of 
course, they're not getting my Bud Light, 
they're buying it for me tonight. 
Do you remember your 5th birthday? You 
had your Strawberry Shortcake paper 
plates with matching cups and napkins, and 
you were cool. What made that party so 
much fun, though, were your friends. You 
giggled, you ate cake, you played pin-the­
tail-on-the-donkey. It didn't get any better. 
A surplus of friends at your party was a 
sure sign of your popularity. 
Sixteen years later, while you may no 
longer play pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey 
(although pin-the-tail-on-the-Domer could 
quickly catch on) the friend factor has 
remained the same, yet changed in value. 
It is no longer important how many friends 
you have, but how many good friends you 
can count on to join in on the celebration. 
What would any birthday be without your 
significant best friend? (Somebody has to 
help you walk back into the hall.) 
As I'm out tonight I'll be counting my 
blessings along as well as my shots. This 
evening marks my transition into adulthood 
(I can finally sit at the "grown-up" table on 
holidays.) 
As excited as I am, I am also terrified. 
What's next on the anticipated list? My 
graduation? My Wedding? Wait, red light, 
time to get a grip. I should not be thinking 
about these things, I have much more 
important concerns... such as tomorrow 
morning. Does anybody have any extra 
Advil to spare? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tor.uw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
John DeBoy  Sue O'Kain  
Laura Petelle  Production  
Sports  Heather Cocks  
Betsy Baker  Jamie Heisler  
Viewpoint  John DeBoy  
Jenny Metzger  Brad Prendergast  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Nate Wills  Joe Stark  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associarc:d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Cyclone kills at least 6 people in Madagascar 

ANTANANARIVO, Madagascar 
A cyclone that tore through this Indian Ocean island nation killed at least six people, the government said Sunday. Another 100 are miss­ing and 30,000 are homeless. 
State radio earlier said the death toll was 15 and initial reports said it was as high as 118. Communications with the affected areas was poor, complicating efforts to get accurate casualty figures. 
Cyclone Gretelle struck the impov­erished island of 13 million people from the southeast Saturday morn­ing, about 310 miles from the capital of Antananarivo, officials said. 
It churned winds of up to 124 mph and created severe flooding that destroyed several cities and dam­aged many others, state radio said. 
Emergency services were having 
Pope invites girl to speak at window 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II, who is adamantly opposed to women priests but deter­mined to inspire lay people to do more, invited a girl to join him Sunday in addressing thousands from his window overlooking St. Peter's Square. "Perhaps it's the first time that a little lady has spoken from this window," where the pope appears on Sundays, 

John Paul joked to the crowd. The girl was identified only by her first name, Gioia, and no age was given. She and a young boy, who didn't speak, flanked the pope. Each let loose a dove, and the girl, who appeared about 11, read a speech urging young people to push for world peace. The children were from a Rome parish. John Paul has said many times that lay Catholics should take a more visible role in the church. However, he steadfastly has resisted calls to let women become priests. The pope appeared in a good mood Sunday. Besides good-natured­ly teasing the girl, he joked that this time the doves flew away while on other occasions they have darted back to the window, at least once perching on him. John Paul also struck a serious note in his speech to the crowd, mainly young people. In apparent reference to a rash of stone-throwings from highway overpasses in Italy, John Paul denounced the "unsettling absence of values." 
Bolivians celebrate God of Plenty 
LA PAZ, Bolivia 
Suddenly, thousands of stalls have sprouted in the streets of La Paz. They sell everything from canned food to cars, from marriage licenses to plane tickets -all in miniature. Following an ancient Aymara Indian tradi­tion, Bolivians buy the replicas and have them blessed in the hope that they will turn into the real thing -the same year they buy it. It is part of the three-week festi­val of the God of Plenty. The god himself -a short, fat man with a cigarette in his mouth who is known as the Ekkeko and represents wealth and abundance -is ever­present. Plaster replicas of him adorn almost every stall in the 15-block festival area. Sellers of the miniatures are joined by food vendors selling everything from rabbit stew to the hot corn brew called api. Bolivians rich and poor celebrate the festival, and tens of thousands poured into the streets Friday to buy miniature goods on the first day of the fair, which begins every year on Jan. 24. People believe that worshiping the Ekkeko will help them realize their dreams, whether those include earn­ing more money, buying a house or making a trip to Miami. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r,______/,.: 
............. 
Monda~ Tuesda~ Wednestlay ~ 
.· t' 
Thursday ~ ,·ls Friday; .~-/;>2o 
)...5'-"'t'"'..... ,;"''~,~ .. 

4,Q,44.QQ 
i) 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~rries S~o-~ Ice Sunny Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
·--··:-w 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 27. 
•
_,·• 
FRONTS: 
.............................. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
difficulty reaching the hardest-hit areas of the island, located 250 miles off the southeast coast of Africa, Radio France Internationale reported in Paris. 
The government and international aid groups have formed an emergency committee to help the affected areas, the Interior Ministry said. 
Many of Madagascar's most populat­ed rural regions are difficult to reach even in normal conditions. 
The storm appeared to be headed into the Mozambique Channel and had been downgraded to a tropical storm, state radio said. 
One of the world's poorest countries, Madagascar is the world's fourth largest island and is slightly bigger than Texas. 
It has 18 ethnic or tribal groups in a society that mixes Asian heritage with French colonial influence. 
China outlaws 'paid news' 
BEIJING 
Hoping to halt the widespread practice of "paid news," Chinese journalists have been forbidden from taking money or freebies in exchange for conducting inter­views, editing or publishing news stories. The rules, announced Friday in the state-run press, are part of a campaign to impose stricter ethical standards on China's media in a national "spiritual civilization" campaign by the ruling Communist Party. The report said hot lines would be set up to enable the public to inform on jour­nalists who break the rules. "Journalists are not to ask the interviewees for payments, nor are they allowed to accept money, gifts, gratuities or other items such as credit cards," the Xinhua News Agency reported. It said journalists were not allowed to test-drive motor vehicles or borrow housing. The rules also outlawed moonlight­ing -a common practice among poorly paid Chinese writers and editors. Friday's announcement was a reit­eration of earlier decrees. China often issues old rules as if they were new when enforcement of the existing regu­lations fails. Unauthorized reporting trips, special living allowances, threatening exposes and lavish dining at public expense also are out, the reports said. News orga­nizations will be fined or penalized in some other way for failing to enforce the regulations, the reports said. Possible penalties include dismissal, punishment by the Communist Party, or prosecution. 
Flooding in Brazil leaves 6 dead 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil 
Three days of torrential rain Jlooded towns and planta­tions in southern Brazil, killing at least six people and driving more than 11,000 from their homes, civil defense workers said Friday. Besides the confirmed dead, 12 people swept from a bridge into the Ribeira River on Thursday are still missing, police said in Registro, about 120 miles southwest of Sao Paulo. Flooding hit 11 cities and towns in the Ribeira River valley in southern Sao Paulo state, police Capt. Ricardo Jaco said. Two deaths were confirmed there and more than 8,000 people forced to leave their homes. In Parana state south of Sao Paulo, four people drowned and some 3,500 were evacu­ated, officials said. Among the worst hit was Eldorado, a town of 13,000 in Sao Paulo's banana belt. Water cov­ered streets and fields, with only red tile roofs and an occasional satellite dish poking out of the muddy water. "There's no point of reference there. There's no noth­ing," Nilson Lara of the civil defense in Registro said. Fishermen in boats helped stranded families to shelters in schools and public buildings. The rain stopped Friday. 
Baltimore 44 32 Honolulu 78 68 New York 44 29
~ u 
Boston 44 23 Los Angeles 69 51 Philadelphia 45 33 Chicago 18 8 Miami 79 70 Phoenix 72 48 Denver 52 15 Minneapolis 14 -10 St. Louis 26 17 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Pressure ~ 
H L BE:Siall 0~8~ L..J.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Asaoc/Bflld PrfiP 
Atlanta 61 50 Fairbanks -25 -35 New Orleans59 55 
Monday, January 27, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

New technology lowers Indiana snow removal budget 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
Snow removal in the state of Indiana has gone high-tech. 
From satellites to new ice­preventative treatments, these new weapons aid the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) in decreasing the effects of dangerous snow and ice. Their implementation should come at ~ savings to the Indiana taxpayer. 
"INDOT is adding new tech­nology. expanding on the tech­nology and procedures that work, and trying new ideas which will help the department do its job better at less cost," commented INDOT Commissioner Stan Smith. 
These new procedures met their first true test in last week's blizzard, with promising results. 
The new Data Transmission Network (DTN) performed very well in the initial test of its first winter of service. The network provides accurate, real-time weather reports at both local and regional levels via satellite. 
"The satellite system will keep guessing down," explained Rick Fetter of INDOT. "We know when to keep peo.ple, and when to let them go." 
Instead of relyipg on televi­sion news reports of incoming weather and paying snow removal crews overtime to await the mere possibility of snow, the satellite allows crews to be called in and dispatched concurrently with the arrival of the storm. 
"We try to minimize [the crew's) downtime," said Fetter, who hopes to save on needless overtime wages. 
INDOT estimates that its weather tracking system will save $34,000 this year and $25,000 for each of the next two to five years. 
Another recent technology that will hit the streets in greater quantities this season is the truck-mounted pavement sensor. These infrared sensors detect road surface tempera­ture and determine whether the conditions warrant the applica­tion of sand or salt. 
"We can get to the roads before they freeze up," said Fetter, who added that materi­als and money can be saved by eliminating the use of salt on wet roads whose conditions do not require any treatment. 
According to Darlene Bauman of INDOT, the road sensors did not play a big role in last week's snow removal. 
Bauman said that "the pave­ment sensors didn't work well in temperatures below zero," thus limiting their use during extremely severe winter weath­er. 
INDOT predicts that the sen­sors will pay for themselves within one year because of the money saved through a reduc­tion in wasted sand and salt. 
A final improvement to INDOT's snow removal services is now being implemented. Storage tanks full of magne­sium chloride have just arrived, Fetter said. The substance will 
Reggae extravaganza 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe 
The reggae band ATOLL performed during Friday night's Jamaican Jam in LaFortune. The event was sponsored by the Student Union Board. 
Participate in the Wednesday Lunchfast. 
B
y giving up just one lunch every week, you can make a significant contri, bution to the world hunger relief efforts. 
S
ign up in North and South Dining Halls during your lunch or dinner on Monday or Tuesday. 


Photo courtesy of Indiana Department of Transportation 
Snow plows, along with new technology, will help keep Indiana roads safe throughout the winter. 
be sprayed on bridges and prevent accidents." overpasses, which are more The magnesium chloride is no susceptible to freezing. more corrosive to cars than 
"[Magnesium chloride] has water, which comes as wel­kept roads in Colorado clear for come news to area residents up to ten days after a treat­whose cars have been damaged ment," Fetter explained. "It by the constant application of should work real well, and help salt. 

Progress possible in Peruvian negotiations 
By JAMES ANDERSON 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 
A mediator in Peru's hostage crisis said there is a "small light on the horizon," hinting at progress toward talks to end the takeover of the Japanese ambassador's residence. 
As the crisis entered its sixth week Sunday, Roman Catholic Archbishop Juan Luis Cipriani said he hoped for movement in freeing the 72 hostages being held by Tupac Amaru rebels. The rebels have held the hostages since raiding a gala cocktail party Dec. 17. 
"There is a small light on the horizon that we must take care of," Cipriani said. "God willing, these conversations could start soon." 
Early Sunday, the rebels released police Gen. Jose Rivas Rodriguez, who was wheeled out on a stretcher from the compound accompanied by Cipriani and Red Cross offi­cials. 
Rivas, the deputy commander of the president's police securi­ty, was taken to a-police hospi­tal for tests. The rebels freed another police commander on Jan. 17 for medical reasons. 
The two police officers are the only hostages the rebels have freed since Jan. 1, when they released seven. 
Cipriani is a member of a mediation panel that includes a Red Cross representative and Canadian Ambassador Anthony Vincent. • 
Actual negotiations are likely to be conducted by Education Minister Domingo Palermo and Nestor Cerpa, the head of the estimated 20 rebels holding the hostages. 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association 

a Feature Film 
from SenegaI 

by 
Moussa Sene Absa 

<;a Tuiste aPoponguine (Rocking Poponguine) 
Wednesday, january 29, 1997 at 7 p.m. 155 DeBartolo Hall 
Rocking Poponguine is a charming, f~st-paced coming_ 9f ag~ story,, an African equivalent of George Lucas Amencan Graffiti, Sp1ke Lee s Crooklyn, or Beach Blanket Bingo; a fonc:J.evocation of the 7960's. The film celebrates young ;:-.fncan_s' ab1ilty to blenc:J. French and American popular culture w1th the1r own local trad1t10ns and con­cerns to create a unique, post-modern, multi-cultural melange. 
Film will be followed by discussions. ADMISSION IS FREE. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 27, 1997 
istry is probably the most trou­and he feels that the issue "will serve as clergy. conflicts with his duties as a bling aspect of the shortage, be very much discussed in the Roman Catholicism, in fact, pastor. I don't think it's had


Priests 
according to Appleby . There days ahead." does allow clerical converts for the family. Almost every­are fewer priests available to The Vatican held a news con­who are already married to body in our church has kids or
continued from page 1 
say Mass, anoint the sick, hear ference on Friday to reaffirm become priests with a special had kids. higher level of Church leader­confessions, and consecrate its opposition to women in the dispensation from Rome, "Obviously you're going to ship in general, Appleby said. the Eucharist. The priests that priesthood and to attempt to though there are no married have family stress in your life, 
The negative side is that peo­remain tend to be "over­close the controversy that still priests in the Archdiocese of and if you're looking to your ple began to see the priesthood worked, overextended, and rages over the issue, despite Fort Wayne-South Bend. church for understanding and as just like any other job -exhausted," Appleby said. Celibacy is and will always the pastor hasn't had any eight hours a day and that's it. While priests do draw be an Important commitment experience in family life, I Some priests began to think of salaries, it is far below what a to God, according to Appleby. don't see how he could relate
'Avocation means a 
themselves as "hyphenated" professional would make, "[It] should be required for very well. In some ways it's an
calling, but a
priests: priest-psychologists, Appleby added. religious communities such as advantage." priest-sociologists, or priest­Celibacy also has economic calling has to be Holy Cross or the Jesuits, but The Vatican is not likely to urban-reformers. advantages..Full-time lay min­for the diocesan clergy, celiba­change its position any time
answered ... Maybe
Another reason for the short­isters require compensation at cy should be optional," he said. soon, but, as Hesburgh said, age of priests has to do with a level that supports their fam­God isn't calling, or Hesburgh agreed that "it is "The Vatican is not on an changing cultural mores, ilies as well as themselves. more important that the Word island, and they will have to
maybe people aren't
Appleby added. The aging priesthood also and Grace of God be brought cope with the situation with 
In the 1930s, a young• becomes a greater economic answering.' to the people than that all the advice and counsel of the American boy wanting to enter drain as more and more priests be celibate." bishops and the laity." the priesthood could expect the priests reach retirement age. Tim Zadigian, an Appleby said that he feels
Father Theodore Hesburgh 
support of his family and On the positive side, the Episcopalian and a student at that "the laity will continue to parish priest. The priesthood shortage of priests has caused the University of Illinois, said emerge and the face of was seen as a special calling a flourishing of lay ministry. an apostolic letter of 1994 that that he feels that his priest, Catholic ministry will trans­for the chosen and as a mark There are more openings and was drafted after the Anglican who is married, "has a better form." He said that one possi­of distinction for the young responsibilities involved in lay Church admitted women understanding of our genera­bility is a ministry involving man and his family. ministry than ever before. priests. In the letter Pope tion because he has children of celibate priests, married cler­
But in the 1990s, a boy who "The shortage of priests has John Paul II called for an end his own." gy, and lay ministers, further wants to be a priest is likely to helped lay people to remember to the debate. Some Catholics feel that opening the variety of min­find less support. This is in that "this is your Church too," Married priests may be less priests would have difficulty istries that succeeded Vatican part because children are less Hesburgh said. . controversial -the tradition balancing Church and family, II. likely to grow up in wholly Appleby said that· "\'·he of celibate priests is only about but Joanna Boerner, a While the shortage of priests Catholic communities, and also increased lay ministry helps 1,000 years old, and was man­Presbyterian who is a student will have many unforeseen in part due to increasing secu­"break down the barriers dated by the Church when the at Lawrence University, said consequences for the Church larization, Appleby said. between the Church and the sons of priests would inherit the dual role of such priests as it enters the 21st century, 
"A vocation means a calling, world." Church lands. But the topic is can be advantageous. Ilesburgh said that he thinks but a calling has to be How can the Church cope still highly volatile. "Our pastor uses his family "we'll sort out these things. I answered," University with this shortage? One Orthodox Christianity, experiences to relate to people know the Holy Spirit will lead President Emeritus Father method is already in use: Judaism, and most Protestant in the church," Boerner said. the Church as He did in Theodore Hesburgh said. He increasing the responsibilities sects allow married men to "I don't think there are any Vatican II." allowed that "maybe God isn't of the lay ministry. Other solu­
calling, or maybe people aren't tions may include ordaining answering." women and married individu­
Christ's call of "come, follow als, which tend to be very con­me" can be a difficult call to troversial steps. answer, Hesburgh said. A Women are recognized as young man may feel called to clergy in many other religions, 
the priesthood, then try out the including Reform Judaism, the seminary and find out that it's Anglican Church, and other not for him. Protestant denominations. 
Hesburgh noted that the Amy Garber, a Jewish stu­number of calls and the num­dent at Washington University ber of responses cannot be in St. Louis, notes that having known, as priests are called by a rabbi who is a woman makes God. her feel that her religion is 
Some of the consequences of "open to everybody and any­the shortage are many, both body ... it gives another per­positive and negative. spective." 
Negative consequences But Catholicism has a long­include a diminished visible standing tradition of not presence of the Church, a ordaining women. diminishment of ministry, and Hesburgh notes that various economic problems although "the Holy Father has related to the shortage. said women can not be priests, 
The diminishment in min-some theologians disagree," 
DO ~OU LOifl140\tUI! J4UIIC! WBITIMG! 
The Observer wants YOU. 
Accent is looking for a few good people from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College for these positions 
• 
Music Critics 

• 
Film Critics 

• 
Soap Opera Correspondents 

• 
Copy Editors 

• 
Assistant Editors and Writers in general 


Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions, please contactjoey at 631-4540 
i•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•i
¥ DELUXE SUITES ¥
¥ AVAILABLE FOR JPW! ¥ 
~~ Varsity Clubs of America Suites Hotel has a ~ ~ limited number of deluxe one and two bedroom ~ ~ suites available for J PW February 14-16. ~ ~ • Reasonable Rates ~ ~ • Kitchenettes -Whirlpool Tubs ~ ~ • Restaurant and Lounge ~ ~ • Only 3 miles from Campus .~ ~ For more information and reservations, call ~ ~ (219) 277-0500 or (800) 946-4822 ~ 
~ Varsity Clubs of America ~ ~ at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka ~ 
~ ~ ~.~ 
~·:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•:I•~ 




Spring Break Setninars 
March 9-15, 1997 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region 
-An ND tradition of service-learning 

L' ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Education in America 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities 

All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Applications Due: Jan. 29, 1997 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~---­
Monday, January 27, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• SWEDEN 


Gov't investigates Nazi gold 
By JIM HEINTZ 
Associated Press Writer 
STOCKHOLM 
Sweden will form a commis­sion to investigate whether gold stolen by the Nazis is still in Swedish hands, the Foreign Ministry announced Friday, a day after a leading family said it would open old bank archives to the search. 
The Wallenberg family ­industrialists and diplomats often referred to as "Sweden's Rockefellers" -reflects a con­flicting image of Sweden's behavior as a neutral country in World War II. 
The family's most famous member, Raoul, is lionized for saving about 20,000 Hungarian Jews from probable death in Nazi camps. But U.S. intelli­gence documents indicate the family's bank madesubstantial loans to Nazi Germany and helped cloak German invest­ments in the United States. 
The question of Wallenberg involvement with Nazi Germany is part of Sweden's newly energetic effort to deter­mine if property of Nazi victims remains in the country. 
The central bank is investigating whether any of the gold that Germany paid to Sweden for exports had been looted and whether any of it remains ln the bank's vaults. 
The Foreign Ministry also formed a "working group" this month to investigate other sorts of -victims' property, including bank accounts. 
The chairman of the founda­tion that oversees the Wallenberg archives said it would make available the archives of the Wallenbergs' Stockholms Enskilda Banken, which later merged with another institution to become S-E-Banken. 
"The foundation's board has discussed the matter and con­cluded that if the government, or any other officially sanc­tioned body, creates such a commission, then naturally the archives are open for such a commission," Johan Staalhand said Thursday. 
Foreign Minister Lena Hjelm­Wallen announced Friday that the government would form such a commission, raising the investigation to a higher level than the working group. 
MONDAY:  TUESDAY:  
Unbelievable  Karaoke  
Prices!!!  Night  

CHECK IT OUT 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M-F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 
"This will be seen as proof that the government sees the seriousness of this question and will get to the bottom of it," ministry spokesman Staffan Bjoerck said. 
On Friday, the foreign min­istry's head of legal affairs, Lars Magnusson, said the working group had no immedi­ate plans to seek access to other family archives. It cannot examine private archives with­out a court order, he said. 
It was not immediately clear if the full government commis­sion would need such an order. 
Another foreign ministry offi­cial, Bertil Ahnborg, said the working group had turned up a document showing about assets that would be worth about $2.4 million today in unclaimed foreign accounts in Swedish banks in 1963, but it was not clear if any of the accounts were those of Nazi victims. 
Sweden, like Switzerland, has been under increasing pressure for a full accounting of Nazi victims' assets. 
A report earlier this week said newly examined docu­ments showed Sweden received about 38 tons of gold from wartime Germany. The Riksbank returned about 14 tons after tho war and had said last year that it believed no looted gold remained in its vaults. 
In Bonn, Germany, on Friday, an organization for Nazi victims demanded that Germany pay more compensa­tion to Holocaust survivors in the former Soviet bloc. 
Most of the $61 billion that Germany has paid to Holocaust survivors since 1955 has gone to victims in the West, said Lothar Evers, head of the Federal Association for Information and Advice to Nazi Victims. 
Don't let the 
winter blues get 
you down... 
Sign up for the 


LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leadership course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utilizing University resources.· 
Applications are available from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 27, 1997 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
year, which focuses on develop­ing a model for collaborative leadership between all con­stituents of the College, "con­necting Saint Mary's in a net­work for leadership to other colleges," according to the grant proposal. 
In light of those aims, the sev­enth annual conference not only reflected on the character of a women's college, but also gave students a chance to dis­cuss issues facing their own schools, and work together to find solutions. 
"Not many people attend women's colleges -and many people at co-ed schools wonder why a student would want to attend a women's college," said Audra Acey. "It's been a good experience to talk with other women in the same situation, and get ideas on how to improve Saint Mary's." 
That weekend-long conversa­tion reminding students of the benefits of and the need for women's colleges in today's society was particularly perti­nent, as the number of women's colleges dwindles. 
Currently, the number of women's colleges stands at 84 nationwide, according to the Women's College Coalition. However. the surviving colleges are succeeding-and at an higher rate than many of their co-ed counterparts. 
In the U.S. News and World Report's annual survey, America's Best Colleges, 20 percent of the national liberal arts colleges receiving top rat­ings were women's colleges, even though they represent only four percent of all four­year colleges and universities. In that same survey, Saint Mary's College ranked number one in its category. 
The key to that success, according to educators, is the leadership skills and confidence the colleges instill in women. 
Dorothy Feigl, dean of facul­ty, said, "This is a celebration of intellectual life that is rich, varied, invigorating and enjoy­able. Women's colleges have from the beginning, took the view that women can succeed -now." 
Focusing on the promise of women's colleges as being models for innovative leader­ship in higher education, the conference's keynote speaker, Gloria Nemerowicz, president of Pine Hidge College in Chesnut Hull, Mass. said, "Women's colleges are taking the lead in what is a new type of leadership. No where is this explored with more truth and honesty than at a women's col­lege." 
And, with that foundation of truth and honesty, the confer­ence explored those models of leadership under the theme "The Women's College Promise." 
Stressing the need for stu­
dents to reflect on their experi­ences in the present, Kristen Moore, of the College of Saint Benedict in St. Joseph, Minn., said, "It provided a outlook on what women's colleges are doing, and where they are going. It's important that we realize, in the midst of our years in college, what we are really gaining from the experi­ence." 
Students from around the nation attending this year's Play of the Mind echo that same sentiment. 
"Being aroun"d students from other women's colleges affirmed that this is a place where women ean excel. At a women's college, there are no barriers to learning, and achieving leadership," said Teresa Viscuso, of Mount Mary College in Milwaukee. 
Along with extensive discus­sion, the Community Leadership Teams (COLT) born in last year's Play of the Mind conference, presented the progress of their work over the past year. The four teams, made up of students, faculty, administrators and alumnae, and are funded by FIPSE pro­ject, are: "Integration of well­ness concepts and behaviors within the Saint Mary's College community;" "The establish­ment of a program of intercul­tural studies;" "A model for spiritual leadership develop­ment;" and "Teaching and learning technology." 
Students from both Saint Mary's and the 22 guest col­leges say they gained a height­ened sense of awareness of exactly what it means to go to a women's college, along with ideas to improve their own col­leges. 
"It was an interesting learn­ing experience," said Lis Sonnevelcl. "It reminded me why I chose Saint Mary's, and it made me even happier with that decision, now that I realize all the benefits of attending a women's college." 
Week 
continued from page 1 
involvement of a diversity of student groups will generate enthusiasm from a wide range of Notre Dame students. "A lot of people have worked hard for this week," said Vu Nguyen, a representative from the AAA. "These events are not just for Asian groups -hopefully the whole campus will take advan­tage of the week's festivities." 
Asian Heritage Week, subti­tled "Common Ground: the Asian Presence at Notre Dame," will incorporate numerous speakers and cover a large range of topics. 
Darren Mooko kicks off the festivities tonight with a lecture entitled "Decoding the Politics of Affirmative Action." Sponsored by the AAA, the talk will begin at 7:30 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. Mooko is visiting Notre Dame from Ball State University, where he 
j\sian Heritage Week 
":IJI!~-~,!Iing the Politics of Affirmative Action" Monday, January 27, 1997 Thi~;lecture by Daren Mooko, will begin at 7:30 p.m. in thelaFortune Ballroom. 
.. '~ 8u1ogual Education: The State of Affairs" Tue~day, January 28, 1997 Da~~ Pham begins his lecture at 7:30p.m. in the Library Au1!11torium. 
''L.tiiJLSI! i n -The New Ra c e Politics'' WeQ.nesday, January 29, 1997 EmJIGuillermo speaks at 7:30p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
"Isi a n A m e r i c a n A c t i v i s m " Thyr~day,"January 30, 1997 Copf'tney Pugh lectures on the struggle for garment workers at 7 .m. in the Librar Auditorium. 
serves as the assistant director of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
A lecture sponsored by the VSA will be presented by Dang Pham from the United States Department of Education Tuesday night. The lecture, entitled "Bilingual Education: The Current State of Affairs," will commence at 7:30 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Wednesday's event is spon­sored by the FASO. Emil Guillermo, an author and entitled "Asian American columnist, will speak on "Asian Activism and the Struggle for Spin -The New Race Politics: Garment Workers." An Asian Not Just Black and White" at political and community 
7:30 p.m. in LaFortune activist, Pugh will speak at 7 Ballroom. p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Thursday night Courtney The KSA will sponsor the Pugh will present a lecture event. 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
GMATandGRE REVIEW COURSES 
• 
Strategies for attacking individual questions and the test as a whole 

• 
Official diagnostic and practice exams with actual test questions 

• 
Homework modules to reinforce what you learn in class 

• 
Vital emphasis on analytical, logical and critical reasoning skills 

• 
On exam day, you'll be more confident and less prone to test anxiety 


GMAT Review 
PLEASE NOTE: 
For March 15 exam The GRE features a signifi­
Saturdays, Feb. 8-March 8, 8a.m. -noon at !USB. $295. 
cant number of questions requiring analytical and logical reasoning. By taking
GRE Review 
a review course, you'll learn For April 12 exam the most effective strategies 
Thursdays, 6-10 p.m. and Saturday, April 5, 12:30-4:30 p.m. 
for attacking such questions. at IUSB. $349. To register, or more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 


There will be an informational meeting for those interested in running for 
Student Body President and Vice-President on Monday, January 27 6:30P.M. in the Student Governntent Office 2nd Floor of LaFortune 


All potential candidates must attend. 
Questions? Call Jen Dovidio at 1-4553 






VIEWPOINT 
Monday, January 27, 1997 page 7 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lc does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrirucion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saine Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries. leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
• IMPliCATIONS 
Death, dying, and the pursuit of Dignity 

• DooNESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"rime crumbles things; 
everything grows old 
under the power of time and 
is forgotten through the 
lapse of time." 
-Aristotle 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 
News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor .................. Ethan Hayward Sports Editor .................... Timothy Sherman Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor ............... Michael Ruma 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EdirorNiewpoim Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Dav Ediror/Production Ge;1eral Information 
Many unkind words have been unleashed in the debate over physician­assisted suicide these days. When the United States Supreme Court recently considered the issue, the two principal sides to this debate raised their voices to decry the consequences of a "wrong" decision. As both sides would agree, the stakes are high. 
Bong Miquiabas 
The legal issue turns on whether physi­cians should be allowed in certain cases to assist in the commission of suicide. The larger issue, however, speaks to a more daunting challenge: what is our vision of human dignity and how are we to honor that vision? Each side of the debate presents something compelling to consider. 
Picture a loved one whose medical ill­ness places him on a journey where his physical and mental condition degener­ate and the pain of his deteriorating health becomes more acute. Proponents of the 'compassionate-thing-to-do' argu­ment contend that allowing a medical doctor to administer a means toward death or. at least, to hasten the dying process enables a suffering individual to die with dignity. It is argued that if the request to die comes from the patient himself and his family, then what injus­tice is done? 
The other side of this debate argues instead that 'the responsible thing to do' is to never allow physicians to act as 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  63!-5313  
63!-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
63!-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  63!-8839  
63!-5323  Office Manager  63!-7471  
631-4540  Fax  63!-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
63!-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
arbiters in the act of death. Often with moral certainty, the proponents of this argument insist that nobody should be allowed to 'play God,' not even for a moment. If medical doctors have the power to decide, say proponents, then how and where is the line drawn? Would severely retarded babies stand a greater risk of death under such ulti­mately arbitrary standards? Who decides people's fate and future? 
To make matters even murkier, the points enumerated above make the easy case for each side. The circumstances surrounding death and dying vary. For instance, what relevant distinctions can be drawn between the elderly patient whose condition is clearly degenerating and a woman who has been in a persis­tently vegetative state for ten years? How can we know when the pain that accompanies the dying process is too excruciating to bear? Can that pain every be 'sufficiently excruciating' such that physician-assisted suicide should enter the realm of dreaded possibilities? 
Like many Americans, I am deeply torn by the dozens of issues underlying this debate. It seems as if every attempt at inquiry results in more stupefying questions. Accordingly, I begin my per­sonal deliberations by articulating a few points which strike me as true and note­worthy. 
The reality of death is that it is a process, a slow and uneasy movement, not an event. As any terminally ill per­son could tell you, one dies a million times in the mind before he actually dies. And for many people and their loved ones, death is not specific in its arrivaL While some people appear to fight and 'cheat' death, there are others who seem poised to invite it. 
I also know that nobody can ever fully know another person's pain. Therefore, 
~~R~ 
httpo// macnelly.com 
I wonder about the presumption that only the suffering individual and his family can make the decision. Is my voice to be automatically ruled out of consideration merely because I do not know the pain in this particular case, try as I might to be guided by compassion and reason? 
Finally, I know that I have grown weary of the polarization that accompa­nies this debate. A significant amount of energy -some vitriolic, some sanctimo­nious -has been expended because the issue represents something vital. I am reminded especially of a keen observa­tion written in 1846 by Robert Rantoul, Jr., a Massachusetts legislator: "After every instance in which the law violates the sanctity of human life, that life is held less sacred by the community among whom the outrage is perpetrat­ed." 
Just as the United States Supreme Court must proceed carefully in its deliberations, so too must we. Whatever the outcome of our personal delibera­tions, our conclusions on this debate will embody our vision of human dignity. 
"It is the burden known too intimately by suffering families who grieve their loved one's predicament. For them, like us, the challenge consists of anguishing over a loved one's intentions, assuaging one's sense of duty, and comporting with what is right." 
Bong Miquiabas is currently a law stu­dent at the University of Notre Dame Law School. 
-------------.. 
page 8 Monday, January 27, 1997 
-----~~---:--:~-----~------------~-

Flynt: The Man You Love to Hate 
THE PEOPLE VS. 
LARRY FLYNT Directed by: Milos Forman Starring: Woody Harrelson and Courtney Love 

(Four out or five shamrocks) 
By MIKE McMORROW 
Accent Movie Critic 
L
arry Flynt inhabits the type of per­
sona which, I think, most people 
would immediately judge to be completely repulsive. In the prime of his career, he was not merely a pornogra­pher, but also a blatant abuser and extreme exploiter of women. What kind of reasonable person would be so bold as to think that his character is NOT so simple? 
Well, in Milos Forman's new film, "The People vs. Larry Flynt," that is just what has been done. This film is neither an indictment of Flynt nor a clean-cut advocation of Larry, but rather, a thought-provoking and often pummel­ingly funny portrait of the notorious scumbag. Produced by (surprise!) Oliver Stone, this movie begins with a brief dramatization of Flynt's childhood, in which he apparently had to take care of himself in a beaten-up old shack in the woods, along with his parents (if that is the proper term). Forman's point here, of course, is to show that this guy was not handed his eventual fate. 
The film then cuts to Flynt, the begin­ning pornographer, who is running a struggling strip joint and where he also eventually meets his wife-to-be, Althea Leasure (played with panache by Courtney Love). Slowly, Flynt begins to adopt the attitude that simple porn is not enough, and he starts the infamous empire of "IIustlcr" magazine. It is "Hustler's" empire which provides the substance for the heart of the movie: Flynt's battles with the courts, himself, his brief flirtation with religion, and of course, finally, with the Heverend Jerry Falwell all the way to the Supreme Court. 
Many of the pleasures of the movie consist of not knowing what is to come, so therefore, I will not spoil the surpris­es. What I mean by "surprises" is not the assassination attempt on Flynt or the death of his wife (for most people would probably already know those sor­did stories), but the more detailed events, in and out of the courtroom. And the final Supreme Court scene is a real treat: a triumph of moral, message, and convincing staging. 
The lead performances are superb. Woody Harrelson does an effective job of portraying this man as disgusting yet lovable. Courtney Love has surprised the critical world with her virtuoso perfor­mance of the amoral Althea, whom we feel for because she has apparently lost all reason to care. It would be unfair to simplify her character as a drug-addict­ed, good-for-nothing proponent of the exploitation of her own sex. Although on the crust, this description may seem accurate, Love's surprisingly touching scenes with Harrelson (especially through Althea's struggle with AIDS) do not allow us to underapprcciate her character; we see an almost altruistic side in which she and Harrelson feed on each other. This aspect could, in a way, be compared to Nicolas Cage and Elisabeth Slate's platonic relationship in "Leaving Las Vegas" ... high praise indeed. Edward Norton ("Primal Fear") 
is PITnetivc in portraying a smart and precocious, yet young and somowhat naive, lawyer with whom we really iden­tify throughout the movie. (This is some­thing Matthew McConaughey's lawyer in this summer's dreadful "A Time to Kill" failed eompletely to do.) I lc inhabits the same dilemma that the audinncc does: support Flynt or detest him. Norton sev­eral times directly or indirectly express­es his reservations about the case, not because of its substance, but because of his client's embarrassing behavior. It has been quite the debut year for this talented young actor. 
There are two main flaws in the movie. The portrayal of Falwell, and the entire opposition to Flynt, are single­dimensional and small-minded. Especially in regards to Falwell's char­acter, little to no depth is provided. Falwell is consistently shown as a self­righteous solicitor of his so-called cause. This would have been a much more powerful film if the filmmakers would only have given us a reason to listen to the other sidn, rathnr than a reason to ignore it. 
The second problnm has more to do with pacing. The scenes of Flynt's child­hood come out of nowhere, and there­fore, the audience is understandably temporarily baf'f'lnd. It is only when Althea comes on the screen that the nec­essary jolt of energy is created, and maybe this is a tribute to the chemistry and urgency of Harrelson and Love's depicted relationship. 
Milos Forman has recently been awarded the Golden Globe for Best Director, despite much feminist condem­nation of this film. Courtney Lovf~ has been universally acclaimed for her por­trayalof Althea, n~ceiving the New York Film Critics Circln Best Supporting Actress Award. Ncwertheless, there are questions to be raised. The ramifications of this movie am numerous and possibly cwen frightening: did you know that Flynt profited from it, played a judge in it, and was present at the Goldnn Globes? Still, I am an optimist, and per­haps Forman's suggestion that Flynt's character is more complex than meets the eye is a strong enough claim to justi­fy the action. If you want my finalized opinion, go see it and love the movie itself. Please remember that by seeing this movie, you are not promoting pornography, but the film itself, which is a worthy deed. 


Cinematic Brilliance u Shines" Through 
SHINE Directed by: Scott Hicks Starring: Geoffrey Rush and Armin Mueller-Stahl 

(Five out or five shamrocks) 
By JOE KRAUS 
Accent Movie Critic 
H
icks has created a masterpiece. There really is not much more to say about "Shine." This is the first tilm in a long time that made me forget I went to see it with two other people. From the moment the reels started rolling, I was tuned in to nothing else. When the film was over, not one person in the theater left until 
the credits were finished, that says it all. 
"Shine" is the life story of David Helfgott, an Australian pianist played in three parts by Alex Rafalowicz, Noah Taylor, and Geoffrey Rush. David was a boy who was reared, almost from birth, to be a star pianist by his loving, yet domineering and sometimes violent father, Peter (Armin Mueller-Stahl). The central conflict of the film revolves around David trying to cope with the omni-present ruling hand of the father whose fear of the family splintering stifles his son's creative genius and personality. 
Along the way, David's talent is discovered and nurtured by Ben Hosen (Nicholas Bell) and Katharine Susannah Prichard (Googie Withers). These characters serve as foils for Peter, in the sense that they support David's budding talent and self-explo­ration. As David grows older, he is awarded a scholarship to the Hoyal College of Music in London. He and his friends fervently wish to take advantage of the oppor­tunity, but his father refuses, once again stressing the importance of holding the family together. 
At the encouragement of Prichard, David defies his father, goes to London, and is exiled from his family in the process. In London, David studies under the tutelage of Cecil Parkes, a legendary musician who immediately recognizes the young man's brilliance. Together, they undertake the task of performing the "Rach 3," widely considered the most difficult piano piece in the world. Although he is successful in this endeavor, the iron fist of his father, which kept David from maturing, left him ill-prepared to deal with life on his own. David suffers a breakdown after a concert and is forced to return home to Australia, where he spends many years in and out of mental institutions. 
Eventually, David is "rediscovered" and released under the care of a woman. He is given a piano, but annoys his new caretaker and has the piano locked away. Desperately needing to play, David wanders out in the rain and stumbles into a tav­ern, owned by Sylvia (Sonia Todd). Sylvia hears David play and offers him a penna­nent job at her tavern. 
By chance, David is introduced to Sylvia's friend, Gillian (Lynn Hcdgrave), an astrologer who takes an instant liking to the fallen musician. They surprisingly fall in love and are married. Gillian helps David return to concert performing and assists him also in dealing with the issues that rendered him insane years before. 
This film is brilliant in all respects. Casting, lighting, camera work, and sound all blend together into a wonderful myriad of images that bring David's struggln and brilliance to life on the screen. 
David's awkwardness is displayed by excellent use of the hand-held camera. Ilis jumbled confusion after his breakdown are brought to life by the intensity and speed of Geoffrey Rush's voice, and the pieces he chooses to play on the piano. 

• Photo courtesy of Ronin Films 
Real-life Austrialian pianist, David Helfgott, is depicted playing the symphony, "Rach 3." 
Mueller-Stahl docs an outstanding job of expressing the love/anger that keeps David attached to the family life that has been smothering him. Googic Withers is tremen­dous at playing the role of the nurturing mother-figure that David lacked at home. All in all, the entire cast is splendid. 
As Peter told David, repeatedly, "You must win!" Scott Hicks, his cast, and crew did just that. "Shine" is a winner from screenplay to its soundtrack. It is well worth seeing. I hope everyone sees this film because it is not everyday that a movie this brillant is produced. 

Monday, January 27, 1997 page 9 

Video Pick of the Week 
By JOSHUA BECK 
Accent Movie Critic 
W 
en my assistant editor assigned me the ask of reviewing a video instead of a 
urrent film this week, I almost did a double take. After all, this was my chance to actually review a film of my own selection! So, instead of telling you about a trendy new film that might be out in the theaters now, I will instead regale you with a description of a movie that has always been one of my favorites. Every movie lover has a favorite film; it is one that can be viewed anytime, and no matter how many times it has been watched, the viewer never gets tired of it. After having seen many movies in my lifetime, I have come up with a list of my top five favorites of all time. Whenever I have the oppor­tunity I will write a review of one of these clas­sics ( solely based on my opinion). This week I'll start with number five, "The Man From Snowy River". 
At first glance, this movie, which is not too ancient. yet not too recent, might seem like the typical American western...that is, until you find out that it's set in Australia. Now you might be thinking to yourself that it is nothing more than a foreign film which you will have to follow closely, as it might be a little different. But then, if you are familiar with famous actors, you spot the name Kirk Douglas in the opening credits and think: "Wow, this is the king of American film! This can't be foreign!" The point is that the movie is Australian, and while that may be a for­eign country to some, the movie in no way tries to confuse its viewers with some obscure dialect. This film was made for an American audience. Lovers of the classic western (no, not the Clint Eastwood spaghetti versions) will fall in love with this film instantly. Even viewers who have no idea of what a western is will be intrigued from the start. "The Man From Snowy River" does not try to hide anything; its' purposes are clearly stated and the storyline is quite easy to follow. 
The movie is set in Australia during the year 1888. About this time the frontier was being slowly renovated because of the advancing tech­nology of railroads and other methods of trans­portation. There is already a clearcut definition between mountain people and the others. The mountain people, who live in the high country, arc the rugged ones who make their living off what the mountains provide for them. The other type of people are those of the lowlands: the businessmen and farmers trying to earn money to survive. Jim Craig (Tom Burlinson) and his father, Henry, are two of the mountain people trying to make a go of it. However, to stay in the high country, they need money, badly ... money which they can only get from working in the val­ley. However, they come up with a plan to cap­ture a band of wild, renegade horses, known as the Brumbies, for breeding. When Jim's father dies due to an accident caused by the very same horses, he is forced to get a job in the lowlands. He finds work with a man named Harrison (Kirk Douglas) on a cattle ranch. While there, he also meets the cattleman's daughter, Jessica( Sigrid Thornton). From this point on, many things hap­pen to lead to the story that underlies the entire movie ... although you'll swear you never saw it until then. This long story intertwines the lives of all the primary characters, including a man named Spur (also played by Kirk Douglas), who was Henry Craig's partner before he died. The gem of the movie is hidden in a character named Clancy (Jack Thompson), who is a legend of the country as a horseman and is a symbol of what the frontier used to be and sadly, is no more. 
This movie is graced with the acting of what are ironically some little-known actors. Except for the dominant appearance of Douglas, whose movie credits are longer than my arm, the movie does not scream of big names, which is why it is soo good. Newcomer, Tom Burlinson has only had one other movie of notability called "Phar Lap," in which he again is around horses. 
Sigrid Thornton has had more credits to her resume, although they have been movies and television shows which were largely unac­claimed. The real enjoyment comes from watch­ing Kirk Douglas perform his magic. On one side, he is the very grim and domineering Harrison, and on the other, the eccentric gold miner Spur. One of the best camera shots of the film comes in a split screen shot of both characters talking to each other. Even though the movie lacks in the box office draw department, one gets the feeling that this cast of characters was exceptionally picked; that these actors were made for these parts. For actors such as Burlinson and Thornton who are rarely heard from these days, this movie was their chance to shine, and they did so remarkably. 
The timeless story of the frontier and the leg­ends who roamed it can never suffer in the retelling of this epic time. This point is why the character of Clancy is so mysterious and instant­ly likeable; like Wyatt Earp and Wild Bill Hickock, he is a frontier hero, not because of how many men he killed or the law he kept, but because of his ability to ride the range. This is my opinion of what a legend should truly be remembered for, especially in a time when riding horses and driving cattle was a way of life. Watching the character of Jim Craig grow with the film is wonderful to watch as well, as he goes through many hardships and has many new experiences that make him into a legendary man. 
So, for those of you who are fans of the good, old western, you will take a liking to this film automatically. But the true beauty of the film is that it appeals to everyone. So instead of ventur­ing out to see a new, showy, and perhaps over­rated film, stay home and watch "The Man From Snowy River." You'll be glad you did. 
Hon1e and Theater Blockbusters 
10 Video Rentals 
10 at the Box Office 
1
. Phenomenon 


1. (tie) Beverly Hills Ninja 
2. 
The Rock 

1. (tie) Jerry Maguire 
3. 
Kingpen 

1. (tie) In Love And War 
4. 
Frighteners 

4. Metro 
5. 
Escape from L.A. 

5. Evita 
6. 
Eddie 

6. Scream 
7. 
Fled 

7. The Relic 
8. 
Alaska 

8. Fierce Creatures 
9. 
Mighty Ducks 3 

9. Michael 
10. 
Chain Reaction 

10. Zeus and Roxanne 
(Ratings are for the week ending 1/26/97
~--c:s and are courtesy of Video Watch, 
Reuters/VarietyMishawaka) 


Do you love writing? 
The Observer wants YOU. Accent is looking for a few good people from ND and SMC for these positions: 
•Music 
Critics 

•Film 
Critics 


•And Writers in General IIyou are interested in any of these posi­tions, please contact Joey at 631-4540 today! 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 27, 1997 
• COllEGE BASKETBALl 


Tar Heels topple No. 2 Tigers 
By DAVID DROSCHAK and JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Second-ranked Clemson came to town with its highest ranking ever but left with the same frustrating result -its 43rd straight loss in Chapel Hill as No. 19 North Carolina got 22 points from Antawn Jamison in a 61-48 win Sunday. 
The Tar Heels (12-5, 3-4 Atlantic Coast Conference), trying to rebound from their worst league start ever, played their best defense of the sea­son, confusing the Tigers by switching between man-to­man and zone during most of the game. North Carolina also shot 63.2 percent in the sec­ond half. 
Clemson (16-3, 5-2) started 1-for-12 from 3-point range and never got zeroed in from long range, finishing a miser­able 3-for-24 from beyond the arc. 
The loss dropped the Tigers, who started the week atop the ACC standings, into third place behind No. 4 Wake Forest and No. 7 Maryland. Greg Buckner led Clemson with 19 points. 
North Carolina extended its seven-point halftime lead to 14 with 12:12 left as Jamison, coming off a season-low i'1 points in a Wednesday night loss to Florida State, scored nine of his points, including a pair of three-point plays dur­ing a 13-4 run. 
Shammond Williams' 3­pointer from the left corner gave the Tar Heels a 15-point cushion with 8:40 left. 
Clemson rallied however, narrowing the score to 52-45 with 1:32 left as the Tar Heels turned the ball over on four of five possessions, missed the front end of two one-and-one free-throw opportunities and looked rattled. 
But an intentional foul by Terrell Mcintyre on a break­away layup gave Williams a pair of free throws -which he made -and North Carolina the ball. Jamison scored on a layup 17 seconds later to push the lead back to 11 and North Carolina made 5-of-6 free throws in the final 45.9 sec­onds to seal the win. 
The Tigers were held to a season-low 16 points in the first half as North Carolina, last in the ACC in field goal percentage defense, played solid defense. 
Midway through the first half, an intentional foul was called on Clemson's 6-10, 250­pound center Tom Wideman as he rammed Williams into the goal support on a break­away layup attempt. 
Words were exchanged between the two players in a series that has featured harsh words between coaches and players the past two seasons. 
DUKE 70 MARYLAND 74 
COLLEGE PARK, Md 
Laron Profit and Sarunas Jasikevicius combined on two alley-oop plays in the final 
4:07 and No. 7 Maryland made its free throws down the stretch for a 7 4-70 victory over No. 10 Duke on Sunday. 
Profit's dunks off the lob passes from Jasikevicius tied the game 66-66 with 4:07 left and gave the Terrapins {17-2, 6-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) the lead for good at 68-66 54 seconds later. 
Terrell Stokes, a 59 percent free throw shooter, made two foul shots with 1:03 left to give Maryland a 72-67 lead. Jeff Capel made a 3-pointer nine seconds later to bring the Blue Devils (15-5, 4-3) within two points. 
Jasikevicius had a layup blocked with 21 seconds left to give Duke a chance at a buzzer-beating victory like it had at Cole Field House last season. 
But Steve Wojciechowski was called for charging with 2.2 seconds left and Profit, a 55 percent free throw shooter, made two foul shots with . 9 seconds left. 
Profit finished with 16 points and Keith Booth had 15 points, nine rebounds and six assists, while Jasikevicius had 15 points. 
Roshown McLeod led the Blue Devils with 22 points and 11 rebounds and Capel had 11 points. 
Maryland has won six of seven and the last time it was 6-1 in the ACC was the 1979­80 season. The Terrapins didn't win their 17th game last season until March 8. 
The Blue Devils, who had a four-game winning streak snapped, had won 10 of the last games they played at Maryland and had won 23 of 27 overall in the series. 
Maryland led 33-29 at half­time as Duke was 2-for-12 from 3-point range. Heserve forward Hodney Elliott of the Terrapins had seven of his 11 points in the first half. 
Maryland took the game's biggest lead at 53-45 with 9:58 to play, but the Blue Devils suddenly found the mark from beyond the 3-point arc. 
Carmen Wallace, McLeod and Capel each hit a 3 in an 11-3 run that tied the game 56-56 with 7:52 left. The biggest lead the rest of the way was after Stokes' free throws gave the Terrapins a 72-67 lead. 
Duke finished 8-for-20 from 3-point range. 
coac:h·· Steve''4appas·sa~d ... ''I thhtk it was a little different thantt'.s been in arty Qtber game this year;''•··.···· .. · 
It. was the 11th consecutive loss againsta··ra11ked oppo­nent for .the·Ea.gles (13·4, 7· 21, who had a,,,six~ganie leag11e winning streak snapped. 
"We felt we could come in and playwith them;''said Boston College. guard·Scoonie Penn, who was jUst 3~for-18 from the field...... 
''Before the season started 
· ne pl,tt them on a 
L They w('}re com,~f)g 
·· tong~ \i:~g.~s ...• fro~ 
the 
va ad a~ many 3­pointers (six) as the Eagles had field goals. ..•.•.... 
Iu the second half, the Wildcats kept up their de-fen~ sive effort and took a 62-31 lead on Lawson's breakaway jam with just over 10 minutes to play• The Wildcats opened the second half by outscoring Boston College 28-13. 
The Eagles made a late run, closing to 68-55 with 4 112 minutes .left, before Villanova used a quick 5-0 run to seal the contest. 
It was the Wildcats' seventh straight win against Boston .College. 
"You are who you are," Eagles coach Jim O'Brien said. "You can't make us something that we're not.'' 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

NOTICES 
CANCU N-PADRE-MAZA TLAN SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST' 1-800-328-7513 FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY SPECIAL!/! Up to $200 Discount Coupons on our Website www.studentadvtrav.com 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 springbreaktravel.com 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav· el.com 1-800-678-6386 
SPRING BREAK 
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA 
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH ·RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR 
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT 
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE 
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE 
BIGGEST PARTY. 
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM 
#1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On campus, convenient. Call Margrette 284-5261 
Texts -25% Off! 24 Hour Service. Buy/SellfTrade. Open 7 Days per week ND at Howard Street 233-2342 Pandora's Books Sgt. Tim McCarthy says ... "Be a follower not a leader." Simon Says Game at LNO 1/31/97 Joyce Center 1-6100. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
HELP!! Lost my class ring between Sorin, SDH. and D6. Great sentimental value. If found, please call John at X2213 or drop by 319. $$REWARD$$ 

WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT Minnesota coed children's camp seeks enthusiastic cabin counselors and instructors for over 30 activities including: Archery, Art, Biking, Boardsailing, Canoeing, Diving, Fishing, Lifeguards, Riflery, Sailing, Shop, Trip Leaders, Waterskiing. Rep on St. Mary and UND campus­es 1/28. Camp Foley HCR 77 Box 172 Pine River MN 56474 218­5430-6161 or sbfhouse@uslink.net 
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­National Parks hire forestry work­ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­guards, +volunteer and govern­ment positions. Excellent benefits + bonus potential. Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. Find out how to succeed in this field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55844 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) & earn an excellent income in the Cruise & Land-Tour Industry. For details, call 1-206­971-3550 ext.C55845 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season. Benefits often include Transportation and/or Room & Board. For details: (206)971-351 0 ext. A55849 
NOW HIRING: University Sales and Marketing is hiring. Marketing, Sales and Promotions positions available. Work on campus, Flexible Hours, Great pay. Call 800­562-8524. 
Babysitter Wanted. Afternoons. Must have own car. $5/hour. Katy 277-5207 
A few good people needed. Camp Birchwood, a small Minnesota chil­dren's camp, seeks applicants with qualifications to teach land sports, waterskiing, windsurfing, sailing or horseback riding. Lifeguards, and wilderness trip leaders also needed. For an application and additional information call 1-800-451-5270. 
Volunteers needed to help autistic children at local school learn play skills at recess, 10-11 and 12-1, M­F; other times possible to assist in classroom. Training provided. Close to ND, but car needed. Call 288-7026 for info. 
Driver: To transport child every Tuesday at 3:40 pm. Female preferred. Call 631-8298 (day) or 277-1859 (evenings) or email: bennett@ nd.edu. 

FOR RENT 
Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595 
2 bdrms, near campus. Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Paul 232-2794 
BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER MONTH! near campus • move in ASAP. call Julie @ 288 7284 
NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097 
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 

FOR SALE .
I 
L..'92_H_O_N-DA_A_C_C_OR_D_L_X_.----l 
BEAUTIFUL. $8,500 OR B/0. 233-5537. 
USED MAGS AND PRINTER FOR SALE Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac Plus system: HD, software, key­board, and mouse $150. Mac SE system: HD, software, keyboard, and mouse $175. Great systems for word processing! Used Mac hardware also for sale: key­boards, mice. external floppy dri· ves. Arts and Letters Computing Office, 216 O'Shag. x17021 
4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947 
Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­um mattress set. Never used still in package • cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 67 4-2352 
WOODBRIDGE I-BEDROOM CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 TA'MARA 273-5166 
BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/ BEST OFFER. 289-1347-ERIK 
Dell 486: 8Mb RAM, 850Mb HD/50 MHz, 14.4 Modem, Windows 95, Microsoft Office, 16 Mb Ram avail­able, book holder+ 15" TV. All for only $800 Stal: 232-5846 

TICKETS 
I need one JPW ticket for one or all of the events. Please call Shannon atX1833. Thanks. 
I PERSONAL 
. 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great 
Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386 
Phelan: Maybe selling all those raffle tickets will get you in with the PTB... 
CLASS OF 1998 Send letters to your friends abroad. Drop in envelope outside class office at 213 LaFun by Jan 29th. LONG SLEEVE t-shirts are in. $15 in the class office or from your dorm rep. 
Face of Brad Pitt Body of Arnold Schwarenegger Eyes of Paul Newman Voice of SGT. TIM McCARTHY LNO-1/31/97-Joyce Center 
Simon Says... "See Sgt. Tim McCarthy at LNO • 1/31/97." 
lt's A SCREAM!! Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown tonight at Cushing at 7 :30 pm. $2 gets you the movie and FREE TOYS!! 
JAZZERCISE Very close to campus 277-0111 
ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS $10.00 CALL MIKE at 288-0116 
What HAS Nell Carter been up to lately? 
Mohammed scored a home-run. 
Little do they know, but there is communication. Oh, how they'd be disappointed. 
Being a good quarterback all comes to having three-knuckled feet. 
"They can print those pictures in GQ?" 
There's even a movie about Dante. 
Monday, January 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
W.Hoops 
continued from page1 
Hoyas fall to 12-5 and 5-5. 
After a 14-0 run in the sec­ond half which spanned over five minutes, the Irish found themselves down by five with 
7:31 remaining. McGraw then put Morgan back on the floor looking for ther to make some­thing happen. 
Morgan responded when asked if she felt added pressure when she returned. "I don't think so, we we're pretty resilient tonight. They got a lot of easy baskets and they were beating us down the floor. But, I think we responded well." 
That response came in the form of a seven point run of their own in under two min­utes. The run was capped by a Sheila McMillen three that gave the Irish a one point lead and made the crowd of nearly five thousand erupt. 
However, the game was far from over as the Hoyas refused to quit and were determined to stop Notre Dame's leading scorer Katryna Gaither. who was also in foul trouble. The Irish kept going to the Morgan well which never ran dry as she scored 13 in the final seven minutes to pave the way to vic­tory. 
"Late in the game when we needed to score Beth pretty much took over," McGraw said. "She got to the free throwline and hit a big three for us that was key." 
Morgan's three came with just 1:42 on the clock and scoreboard reading 61-59 bad guys. 
After a turnover and a foul by Georgetown Morgan stepped to line again and was automatic like she was all afternoon on her two attempts to push the lead to three with just 45 ticks remaining. The Hoyas could not find the basket again until Sylita Thomas sank two free throws with one second left on the clock. 
"I think every team needs someone who can step up and Beth is definately that kind of player," senior guard Jeannine Augustin remarked. "We look to her to win those close games for us and it takes some pres­sure of the rest of us knowing that she's going to be there every game for us." 
Throughout most of the con­test the Irish held a double did­get lead that was pushed to 15 at one point as the Darners defense and the post play of senior forward Rosanne Bohman were dominant early on. 
"I thought we played a very good defensive game lead by Jeannine," McGraw remarked. "She did an outstanding job on defense." 
Augustin was essential in slowing the quickness of the Georgetown guards as she had seven steals to go along with her six assists on the after­noon. 
"You just have to anticipate 

Club Coordination Council: The CCC needs you! join the Club Coordination Council and be a part of the most exciting, interesting, and unique organiza­tions on campus. Call 1-4078 for more information. Club Coordmation Council: Attention all club officers! Club registration packets for the 1997-1998 school year are now available in the Student Activities office, Room 315 LaFortune. Questions? Call Student Activities at 1-7308 or the Club Coordination Council at 1-4078. Campus Fellowship: Come strengthen and enrich your faith by sharing it with other Christians in prayer and conversation. join us as we celebrate our faith this Friday, the 31st, at 7:30pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. call Mark@ 634-2195 or Maile@ 634-3897. NDMIS: ND MIS Club meeting Wednesdayjan. 29 at 7:30pm Room LOS1 COEA. Anyone interested in joining and all current mem­bers are encouraged to attend. College Democrats: Important general meeting Tuesday, jan. 28 at 7 pm at the Center for Social Concerns (coffee house). New members wel­come. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
in the passing lanes and some­times it works well for you and sometimes it doesn't and today it worked," Augustin explained. 
With most of the lloya front­court focusing their attention on Gaither, who saw her streak of 76 straight games scoring in double figures snapped with just seven on two for nine shooting,. Bohman took advan­tage with 12 first half points. Bohman finished with 16 and eight rebounds as she lead the Irish on their way to 20 second chance points. 
"They were double teaming Katryna a lot so I had a couple of wide open looks," Bohman said. 
"I thought she did a great job and played very well in the post," McGraw praised. 
The Hoyas fought their way back behind the strong play of Thomas who registered 18 points on 7-11 shooting. 
"Sylita played outstanding," McGraw said. "We couldn't stop her from getting the ball and when she got it she would drive by us or shoot over us." 
After winning their last six contests by an average of over 21 points the team can find some positives in coming out on top of a nail biter. 
"It's really good for us," McGraw said. "We haven't rally been challenged at the end of the game recently so it was a good opportunity for us to see how we were going to handle the pressure. I thought we responded very well and did what we had to do." 

Augustin echoed her senti­will definately help us." ments. "Coming into tourna­The Irish will see how this ment time and for any game contest helped them as they this is good for us. We haven't will hit the road again with had that many close games and games at Miami this to be composed and to run our Wednesday and at St. John's offense in that type of situation this Sunday. 
Now ilvoiloble Fot• JPW! 
Due to an unexpected cancellation, the Upper Decl< is available Saturday, February 15th 

For Information call: 
Coveleski Regional Stadium 501 West South Street 
235-9985 
Downtown South Bend 
The Women's Resource 
Center, Gender Relations Task Force and Gender Studies Department are proud to welcome 










Myra Shapiro 
New York City poet 
Monday, January 27 6-7:30 P.M. Hesburgh Library Lounge Meet the poet after the reading 
"... He threw me in the bay and I refused to rise. A friend convinced him children swim by nature. 
So would I ... " 
("On Being Pushed When I Was Seven," 
from I'll See You Thursday) 
.. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 


Tragedy strikes Superdome 
Monday, January 27, 1997 

By MARY FOSTER 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
The police investigation into 

the death of a former circus 
aerialist went on Saturday 
despite frantic, last-minute 
preparations for the Super 
Bowl. 
Laura "Dinky" Patterson, 43, was killed Thursday night while rehearsing at the Superdome for a bungee jump that was part of the halftime show. 
"It's a very complete investi­gation," said Lt. Marlon Defillo, a city police spokesman. "We have _a lot of interviews and examination of equipment to do, but the crowds, the use of the Dome -none of that is delaying our investigation." 
Patterson died instantly of a skull fracture and other head trauma when she plunged 100 feet from the Superdome roof -to its floor. 
The 43-year-old resident of Sarasota, Fla., was part of a 16-member team that includ­ed her husband and sister, who were supposed to jump during the climax of the half­time show. 
Patterson had completed a second practice jump Thursday when her cord snapped her back toward the Superdome's ceiling. She bounced a second time and was to have been lowered to the floor on the third, when the cord unwound suddenly . and she fell, an unidentified police investigator told The Times-Picayune. 
"They're looking into whether the guy fed her down too fast or there was a prob­!em with the hoist, or a little bit of both," the investigator said. 
Defillo refused to comment about the report, saying it was too early to discuss a possible cause. 
Meanwhile, both the Green Bay Packers and New England 
workouts Saturday in the Superdome. 
Workers stocked conces­sions and a crew was sched­uled to clean the building before Sunday's game. 
There was also to be a par­tial rehearsal for the halftime show Saturday night. 
"It's going to be mostly the technical crew, the lighting people, that sort of thing," said Superdome spokesman Bill Curl. 
The bungee jumping was deleted from the halftime show after Patterson's death, and a brief memorial for her was added. 
Select Productions International, which is han­dling the halftime show, had white ribbons made up on Saturday for every person working on the show to wear, spokesman Bill Long said. 
Frito-Lay Inc. pulled a com­mercial featuring a bungee jump from the Super Bowl telecast. The ad, which has already run repeatedly on other TV programs, shows comedian Chris Elliott making a bungee leap from a blimp to dip a tortilla chip into a jar of salsa in the middle of a foot­ball field. 
Patterson, a professional aerialist who once performed with the Hingling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey's circus, had never bungee-jumped before the Super Bowl job. 
Some 750 people were 
Patriots went through final· rehearsing in the Superdome 
when the accident occurred shortly after 10 p.m. Thursday. 
Few realized there had been an accident because of the loud music and low lights accompanying the act. 
Super Bowl XXXIMVP 
Total returns-yards 10-244 Touchdowns 1 
AP 

Complete Packages From $399 Free Covers, Free Day Parties, Discounts at shops and side excursions  CANCUN Book now and Sunbreaks will ihrow in 15 Free meals!!! Make your reservation today. Space is limited!!!  
****Spring Break 97 Concert Festival Call for Info****  



I for info calll-800-446-8355 price 
1
L~t~:~!:~u.:,e~~:=·~~s!n!r!a!_ __ .f!..U.!!;r2;.~e!.d!.!. :._ .J 



[?~@~~1( tjj'@~
TANNING SAL 0 N www.planet-tan.com 
Within walking distance ofND Campus! 12 beds, rw appointment ever needed! 

r $s]o~ffo;-l"";eci(7r;;;' , 1 month ___2_7_7_-_1_1_6_6_
1 $39 
1with purchase of one monthl 
or more 1 2 months $59L---------.J 3months $79

r---------,
1 $5.00 off or 2 free tans 1 4 months $99 I 'with any sessions package I 10 tans $39
L--------.;...J 20tans $49 
Must present coupon. Offer expires 2-11-97 
Monday, January 27, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
The road to Super Bowl XXXI 
NATIONAL FOOTBALL CONFERENCE AMERICAN FOOTBALL CONFERENCE 


Wild-card round Divisional Conference playoffs Championship 
San Francisco San Francisco 
Sunday, January 26, 6:18p.m.
(14-0) 

Green Ba
Philadelphia 
Superdome, New Orleans 
(35·14)

Green Ba Green Bay New England Carolina 
(30-13) (20-6) 
Minnesota 
Green Bay

Carolina (26-17) (35-21)I
Dallas 
All times-Eastern 

Conference Divisional Wild-card round Championship playoffs 
Jacksonville 


New England  
New En land  Indianapolis  
(28-3)  Pittsburgh  
(42-14)  Pittsburgh  

AP 

• SUPER Bowt XXXI 



Trophy returns to Lambeau Field 
Associated Press  things I try to instill in my team  for an NFC team and kept Bill  Only Holmgren tried to. hold  
NEW ORLEANS There wasn't much of a Lombardi aura to this Green Bay team, after all. Not when three of the four touchdowns in Sunday's 35-21  -high character people work­ing very hard for a a common goal." But rarely were Lombardi's games shootouts, as this was from the start. Brett Favre hit Rison with a  Parcells, who had two of those 13 with the Giants in 1986 and 1990, from becoming the first coach to win a Super Bowl with two different franchises. I'm disappointed, because I do think we had a chance there  down the exuberance. Until two weeks ago,· when his team won the NFC title, he referred to the Super Bowl as "that game" rather than talk too much about something he desperately wanted.  
Super Bowl win over the New England Patriots covered 99, 81 and 54 yards. Not when Andre Rison duck­walks into the end zone after catching a touchdown pass from Brett Favre on Green Say's second offensive play. Not when Desmond Howard, the game's MVP, strikes his modified Heisman pose after the kickoff return that ended the Pats' comeback hopes. Not when Antonio Freeman, Craig Newsome and the rest of Green Bay's MTV generation strutted and posed after rou­tine, good plays. At times, they looked almost as arrogant as the Dallas Cowboys. Green Bay's first NFL title in 29 years was the work of a team that was Lombardiesque in purpose and conviction. All other similarites ended there. "Vince Lombardi had a won­derful legacy for the rest of us," coach Mike Holmgren said."Now we're just trying to do our part, and we hope we can do it for a long time to  54-yard touchdown pass on Green Bay's second offensive play for a 7-0 lead. Doug Evans' interception, one of four the Packers got off Drew Bledsoe, set up Chris Jacke's 31-yard field goal and it was 10-0. The Patriots got two quick touch­downs -on TO passes of 1 yard to Keith Byars and 4 yards to Ben Coates to take a 14-10 lead at the end of the first quarter. Green Bay got 17 points in the second quarter to take a 27-14 lead. Favre hit Freeman for an 81-yard score, the longest play from scrimmage in Super Bowl history, and then bootlegged in 1:11 before inter­mission. But Curtis Martin's 18-yard TO run at the end of a 53-yard · drive cut it to 27-21 and the Patriots seemed to have momentum. Howard struck, as he had so often this season on punt returns, scoring three times in the regular season and again against San Francisco in the playoffs. He took the kick­ for a moment," said Parcells, rumored to be leaving the Patriots. "We played hard, we just cracked a little bit under pressure." There was, of course, time for sentiment. The team that wanted to win one for Reggie White did it and he contributed -getting two straight sacks of Bledsoe after Howard's return, and a third late in the game. The three sacks were the most in a Super Bowl since sacks became an official statistic in 1982. White, who was playing in the first Super Bowl of his 12-year career, also summarized what the Packers felt about a year that could only be fulfilled with a Super Bowl victory. "This week was just a testa­ment to us hanging together and caring about one another after working hard for seven months," White said. "We said in the beginning of the year that we wanted to be here." Howard, the first special teams player ever to win MVP,  Favre, who audibled on both of his touchdown passes, fin­ished 14 of 27 for 246 yards. Bledsoe was 25 of 48 for 253 yards as New England dropped the run from its attack for long periods. At one point in first period, the Patriots passed on 11 straight plays, a testimony to White and 350-pound nose tackle Gilbert Brown. "We knew from the start we weren't going to mash the ball down the field on them," Bledsoe said. "We wanted to mix it up." Otherwise, it was punch and counterpunch. The Packers got in the first blow, when Rison turned around· Otis Smith and took Favre's perfect pass over the middle for a 54-yard score. He duckwalked into the end zone, one reason why Holmgren first said when when he heard of Rison's availability: "He may not be our type of player." "I said this week I might start on fire and I did," said Favre, the two-time NFL MVP who has  
come. "It's a different time," Holmgren added. "We're work­ing under a different set of rules. We have more players to deal with. But I know we believe in some of the same things. Commitment. Discipline. Great work ethic. Those are·  off, went straight up the mid­dle, broke into the clear and simply outran everyone. "It was a six-point game and we had the momentum," Bledsoe said. "All of a sudden, he breaks that play and it's back to a 14-point game." The win was the 13th straight  finished with a record 244 return yards, the most impor­tant the kickoff return. At the start, it looked like the Packers would fulfill the predic­tions and their own expecta­tions. They were preseason favorites to win the title and 14-point favorites in this game.  started 1-for-11 in his last two NFC title games. "I think we were really too psyched up," White said, "and the heat in here was getting to us a little bit. Some of us, our legs didn't feel to good. But we came back in the second half and did what we wanted to do."  


WOLFF BEDS 

tmiCA~OU:'& TAN~ 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 

page 14 The Observer • SPOR-=-T=--=-S_______________M_o_n_da....:.y_,J:_a_n_ua_r.:y__2_7_,_19_9_7 
Noble, who banged home the searching for the best angle, give up," Garrity said. "A lot of goal to tie the game. and finally fired a wrist shot times on the road last year, we'd

Hockey M.Hoops
Sophomore center Neal over Eisler's shoulder for a 1-0 get down by 12 and give up." 
Johnson notched his first career lluskie lead. Three minutes 
continued from page 1 An 18-5 run helped Notrecontinued from page 1 
goal later in the period on a into the second period, sopho­
Dame get back in the game as nifty breakaway. He decked more Jason Goulet (distant glass, a eouplo of feet behind the Miller's layup put the Irish up
But it was Eisler who stole 
goaltender Tim Lideen and put cousin of Bob) received a pass arc. one with 13:15 left. The Irishthe show. 
a forehand shot into net for a 2-in the slot and one-timed a shot "He hit some huge shots," Pat then lost the lead until MillerHe allowed one goal just two 
minutes into the game -1 lead, which the Irish carried into the net for a 2-0 lead. Garrity said who lead Irish scor-gave it baek to them again in the
a one­

into intermission. Despite these goals, Eisler ers with 22 points. "He really waning seconds. 
timer from Huskie sophomore 
Just thirty-five seconds into turned in another strong night. helped us out." "We slowed it down in the sec-Jason Goulet. "I didn't make 
the ensuing period, freshman lie made 20 saves, and lowered The game's conclusion was ond half," Garrity said. "We alsoany adjustments after that first winger Joe Dusbabek circled his season goals-against aver­even harder fi>r the Irish to swal-played good defense and hadgoal," stated the netminder. "I around the lluskie net and sent age to 3.27 -the third-best in low due to the eontroversial guys hitting some big shots." 
just tried to shake it off. I skat­
a pass in front of the net where Irish history and the best since nature of Manner's foul. After Irish guard Admore White con­
ed to the corner and tried to 
clear my head." senior captain Terry Lorenz 1971. Owen's drove the length-of-the-tinued to have the hot hand, tal­easily beat Lideen for his eighth "It was another terrific effort court, Manner lying 15 points
This tactic cleared matters up 
goal of the season and a 3-1 by Eisler," quipped Poulin. "He
so well for Eisler that he pro­trapped him 'What we can take including a
lead. helped us hold a quality team to along the base-crucial bail-outceeded to make 37 consecutive 
The Boys closed the door on 4 goals in two games." line. Before away from this jumper with
saves, including 12 on Huskie power-play opportunities. His the Huskies early in the third Simon continued his rampage Owens could get game is that we didn't six minutes left 
period, with goals by junior since his return from the World 
most dramatic save occurred a shot on·, he fell give up ... a lot of times that cut the 
center Lyle Andrusiak and Championships, scoring a out of bounds. Mountaineer
with 7:20 left in the second period when he wandered out senior winger Tim Harbertts power-play goal late in the sec­Whether he on the road last year, lead back to 
that produced a 5-1 lead. ond period on a vicious slap­
of the net to clear a puck but St. was tripped or we'd get down by 12 one. llickey Cloud's Matt Bailey intercepted "We're clicking, we're rolling, shot from the left circle tC> cut not is the ques-. then tied the 
we're having fun," observed the lead to 2-1. Minutes later, tion.
the clearing attempt and quick­and give up.' game at 59 on ly sent a shot towards the mid­Simon. "We worked on the however, Simon was slapped Nevertheless, Pat Garrity a three-point dle of the empty net. Eisler basics in practice, such as pass­with a five-minute major penal­the Irish lost an --------,------play before an ing and stick-handling, and it ty for checking from behind and opportunity to Irish turnover
stunningly completed a full­extension dive before tipping 
has paid off." was forced to miss the remain­make a jump in the Big East put them back in the hole, 64-59. 
the shot away with the blade of "It's refreshing to play a non­der of the game due to the cor­standings. Garrity's two charity shots and his stick. conference game," added responding game misconduct "It looked to me like he a layup closed the gap to one "The funny thing is," added Poulin. "Because we don't penalty. (Owens) stepped on Derek's again, setting the stage for 
Eisler, "is that it was my mis­know too much about St. Cloud, The Irish scoring surge, foot," Garrity added. "Derek Miller. 
take I had to cover for. If I it forces us to focus on our­which had netted 15 goals in didn't really body him. It just In the first half, the Irish were hadn't messed up in the first selves, and that's what we need the past three games came to a looked like he lost his footing being eharitable, turning it over place, it never would have hap­to do, especially since we're a screeching halt, as they mus­and fell down, but you can't do 14 times, allowing West Virginia pened." young team. We did a lot of tered only one goal on 18 shots anything about it." to score 19 points on· those mis­"Matt was huge for us things well tonight." (their lowest shot total since Garrity was proud that the cues. West Virginia also led byOn Saturday night, St. Cloud Nov. 8 against Boston College). Irish did do something about raJ-12 in the opening hall' and
tonight," stated head coach Dave Poulin. "In not letting 
avenged their defeat with a 2-1 "We just have to capitalize on lying from the hefty deficit. The reached halftime ahead 32-25. that first goal get to him, he's 
victory over the Irish, but it was our chances," stated Poulin. efl'ort gave Garrity a glimpse of a "They were making steals and maturing. He played extremely a quality, hard-fought game "But I liked a lot of things we type of resiliency on this year's getting points oil' turnovers and well at critical times." that Poulin could be proud of. did-we didn't give up any squad. "What we can take away that's really what was getting 
Later in the first period, trail­"It was a terrific effort," he breakaways, and St. Cloud is a from this game is that we didn't us," Garrity said. said. "It shows us that we can team that generates a lot of
ing 1-0, Notre Dame went on 
play. played a good
the power play following a You can talk about win­breakaways, we 
ning and working hard, but at transition game, and we wereholding penalty to the Huskies. 
some point, the players need to focused."
Freshman Ben Simon, who has sec something. I think we saw In CCIIA action around thean eight-game scoring streak, 
some of that this weekend." Ohio downed
won a faceoff in the Huskie league, St. 
The Huskies again jumped on Michigan to pull themselveszone and charged around their 
the board early, when fresh­into a tie for ninth place withnet. He then sent a centering man winger Mike Rucinski cir­Alaska-Fairbanks. Both teams
pass to junior captain Steve 
cled in front of the Irish net, trail the eighth-place Irish by 
. ...,.f.s
. . 
#-.~ -~~ 

~..,. .• ,-. "'-. . 
~ 
) ~ 
Chinese -American Restaurant
The New Race Politics: 
and Cocktail Lounge 

Not ·ust BLACK and WHITE 
A humorous social and political commentary with special emphasis on 
:.. ·;=·.=.=:·.·., :"-"·.' 

race and Asian Pacific Americans. 
... . 

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
Presented by: 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 

~:~.. :.:if<':)l,iltnil~-~l~ltm o 
Banquet rooms available up to 200
Distinguished author and columnist 
Sponsored by The Filiptno American StudclLI ?rgamzatnm. Co-sponsored by The Manin Luther King Jr Hoh~a~ Celd11 a\Lllll Planning Commtuee, African Amencan Student .\lhan~.:c ·\nm~"'' 



REAT \VALL 
International. Campus ~1imst~. Cemer for Soc1al Com:cLil!-1 Ollu.:L' ol 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
\1ulticultural Student \lfa1rs. Student :\trair~. and "itudcm (imt.:Lnm~·:1' 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend next to Howard 


---------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, January 27, 1997 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
page 15

The Observer • TODAY 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
CATBE.RT: EVIL 1-\.R. DI~E.cTO~ 
:,; 
0 0 
.... 
0 

WE'VE DE.CIDED TO 
@ 
"' 
"':,;

LOWEP--YOUR BASE 
"'0

SALARY 1 WALLY. 
) 
1­1­0 0 
"' 
"' 


Do you have a disciplinary hearing with Residence Life? 
Student c:\ove,.,..nment has t,.,..ained and e;xpe,.,..ienced staff membel"'s to assist yov. with yov.,.,.. hea,.,..ing with the 
Office of Residence Life.  We a,.,..e he,.,..e to help yov. befol"'e1  dv.,.,..ing and a~el"' yov.l"' disciplinal"'y pl"'oceedings.  
IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE CALL 631-4553 OR 631-7668  
Ryan Mcinerney  jennifer Dovidio  
judicial Council President  judicial Council Vice President  
UNIVERSITY  OF  NOTRE  DAME  All information is strictly confidential  
STUOF.NT  l.OVFANMFNT  

BUT 
30 Tropical fever 
31 Lofty 32 Foreign-made 
General Motors cars 33 Deserving the booby prize 35 Stallion's mate 36 Federal agents, 
informally 38 Noodlehead 39 New York city 
44 Reagan's predecessor 45 Speed demon's cry 

ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A partnership will become increasing­ly important to you. Your nesting instincts tell you that it is time to settle down. An investment will pay handsome dividends before long. If you vacation in late summer. stay fairly close to home. Family and friends will pull togeth,er in an emer­gency. Think big when negotiating an employment contract next Octo­ber. Wedding bells could ring out at Christmas time. You enter a period of great happiness. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: football player Cris Collinsworth, actress Mimi Rogers, composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, actress Bridget Fonda.
MIKE PETERS 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Give loved ones the benefit of the doubt. You need to hear the whole story before passing judgment. Han­dle financial transactions with greater care. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A brainstonning session could lead to greater productivity. A heart-to-heart talk with your mate yields surprising infonnation. Revise a budget if you are short on cash. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Iso­lating yourself now would be a mis­take. Let your friends know if you are interested in changing jobs. Moving into a field related to your current employment could boost your earning power. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): View difficult work as a challenge to

SCOTT ADAMS 
your ingenuity. You will soon be cooperating closely with your col­leagues. A new partnership or liai­

WHI\T DID HE. 
son makes life more exciting. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need to conserve your resources. 

SA.Y WAS THE 
REASON? Take care of an important insurance matter. A child's school petfonnance is better than anticipated. Reward loved one's efforts in a meaningful
"BECAUSE. 
way. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your creativity is struggling to sur­face. Heed your finer instincts. Seeking advance approval for your actions would be an error. A travel opportunity may come through a close friend. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put less energy into accumulating wealth and more time into enjoying what you already have. A careless remark could cause problems. Leave investment funds where they are. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Clear up a misunderstanding with a close friend or neighbor. A brilliant idea revitalizes your business or career. Be careful not to forget an important occasion. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Playing it safe in romance may 
not work. Be willing to take a few 
risks. Investments suggested by 
experts will help you build a solid 
financial base. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
I9): There is new emphasis on keep­
ing financial records up to date. You 
can expect to have more contact 
with your relatives in the future. 
Your creativity is unquestioned. 
Keep a clever idea to yourself for 
now. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Some well-chosen words help you 
break the ice with member of the 
opposite sex. Completing a compli­
cated assignment at home will speed 
progress. Meeting deadlines is vital 
if you want a reputation for depend­
ability. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 
casual relationship could develop 
into the real thing. Joining a special 
group or organization will broaden 
your horizons. Travel to another 
country is possible. Renew your 
passport and get your wardrobe in 
shape. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 One-named supermodel 5 Ready and willing's partner 9 One praised in Mecca 14 Attorney General Janet 15 Paris's Rue de la­1& French valley 17 Tiny tunnelers 
18 Ingrid's "Casablanca" role 
19 Not evenly padded, as a mattress 
20 Like an animal 
23 Historical period 24 Use a crowbar 

46 Precious --51 Frolic 47 Parson's home 52 October gem 48 Accident on 
53 "See you," in ice 
Sorrento 
54 1996 running 

editors.
49 "The Right 
mate 55 Nile viper 
Stuff" org. 

50 U.S. Pacific territory 56 Maui garland 

Join The Observer 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

staff. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
I CAN.'' 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
25 Cream puff, for one 29 Miles per hour, e.g. 
31 At the present 34ln the future 
35 0. Henry's "The Gift of the--· 
3&--Gigio (frequent Ed Sullivan guest) 
37 ... vegetable . -. 40 Pulled to pieces 41 Ontario tribe 42 Blabs 43 Muddy home 44 The former Mrs. 
Bono 45 Better than better 46 Texas patriot 
Houston 47 Buddy 48 ... or mineral 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZL£ 

55 Assign, as a portion 57 Polly, to Tom Sawyer 
58 "The Andy Griffith Show" role 59 River by the Louvre 60 Manuscript encl. &1 What a cowboy calls a lady 62 Flute player 63 New World 
abbr. 64 Alka-Seltzer sound 
DOWN 

1 Mideast hot spot 2 Bill of fare 3 The "A" of ABM 4 Pinocchio's 
giveaway 5 Bee colony &Light wood 
7 One of "The Simpsons" a Test 
9 Magnetism 10 Stinky 11 7-Up ingredient 
12 Dadaist Hans 13 "Yo!" 21--cotta 22 Of the eye 25 Treaties 2& "The game is 
--":Holmes 27 Tale 28 Prefix with 
photo or phone 29 Indy entrant 
• 

--------~. ~-~ -~~--------------­




SPORTS 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
Derek Manner and Admore White (12) show their discontent over a call in the controversial ending to their game against West Virginia last night The loss broke the Irish winning streak in the Big East 
Mountaineers top Irish, 67-66 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 
Let's just call it a foul ending. 

With two seconds left Saturday night and the Irish clinging to a one point lead, Irish forward Derek Manner was whistled for a blocking foul, allowing West Virginia's Damian Owens to win the game. 
That's exactly what Owens did. The Mountaineer forward, who finished with a game-high 25 
Aaron Taylor definitely has something to smile about as the Green Bay Packers knocked off the New England Patriots, 35-21. 
See story on page 13 

.. 
at Pittsburgh January 29 
• at Miami January 29 
vs. Michigan State January 28, 7 p.m. 
points, calmly stepped to the line and drained the foul shots, giving West Virginia a 67-66 victory in front of 12,621 at Morgantown, W.Va. 
The Irish ( 9-8, 3-6) had a last­ditch attempt to salvage victory when Phil Hickey's in-bounds pass went in one end and out the other. With 0.1 showing on the clock, Owens batted away a des­peration tip-in attempt under the Notre Dame basket. 
Owens' clutch free throw 
Photo courtesy of Green Bay Packers 

shooting spoiled a Notre Dame comeback effort as the Irish trailed by as much as 12 in the second half. Pete Miller provided the biggest boost, hitting for 15 points, including an incredible three-pointer that gave the Irish their temporary lead with 6.9 seconds remaining. 
Coming off a Hickey screen, Miller called bank and canned the turnaround bomb off the 
see M.HOOPS I page 14 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Morgan rises to the occasion 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team came into the Joyce Centr,r flying high on the wings of a six game winning streak and an undefeated Big East record of 8-0. The Georgetown lloyas refused to be bullied by the 19th ranked Irish and forced Mu!Tet McGraw's squad to step up their game. Senior Beth Morgan was up to the challenge as she stepped up, particu­larly to the charity stripe. 
"They're a very athletic team and there weren't that many good looks," Morgan said whose 27 points place hBr just fivB 
plateau. "So I thought I could try to go to the bucket and draw the foul because they were trying to block everything." 
The All-American candidate canned 15 of 16 from the free throw line and two of three from beyond the arc to lead the way to a 6 7-63 triumph pushing their season mark to 17-4 and 9-0 in the Big East while the 
see W.HOOPS I page 11 
Monday, January 27, 1997 
• HOCKEY 


Upset-minded 
Notre Dame splits series with No. 8 St. Cloud State 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The eighth-ranked St. Cloud 
State hockey team trotted into 
the Joyce Center Friday night 
for a pair of non-Central 
Collegiate Hockey Association 
games and probably expected 
to push around the Irish hock­
ey squad, ranked #8 in the 
C:CIIA. 
The Huskies were in for a 
• 

big surprise, though, as the Boys of Winter turned in two tremendous efforts -a 5-2 drubbing of the Huskies on Friday night and a 2-1 defeat on Saturday night. 
On Friday evening, junior goaltender Matt Eisler's stellar play complemented a bal­anced scoring attack that inundated the Huskies. Notre Dame (8-15-1) used goals from five different players and points from Irish skaters to post its first back-to-hack wins of the season, having beat Alaska-Fairbanks, 6-2, on Jan. 18. 
see HOCKEY I page 14 

Women's Tennis vs. Illinois January 30, 4 p.m. 

• Villanova rebounds from 'Cuse loss 
see page 10 
• Clemson falls to North Carolina 
Men's and Women's Track see page 10
Meyo Invitational January 31, February I 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Junior Lyle Andrusiak netted a goal in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over St. Cloud State on Friday. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Beth Morgan led the Irish over a tenacious Georgetown team to extend their winning streak to seven . 






