
Thursday, January 23, 1997• VoL XXX No. 75 
I 
DEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DM1E AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate awaits feedback on student trustee 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Discussion of placing a member of the student body on the University's Board of Trustees dominated much of yesterday afternoon's Student Senate meeting. Final action was postponed until next week, allowing members time to obtain feed­back from their constituen­cies. 
"This is an issue we brought up earlier in the year, and I think now is the time to reach a conclusion on it," judicial council president Ryan Mcinerney said. 
The Senate must move quickly, because vice presi­dent of student affairs Patricia O'Hara technically has to first approve commu­nication with the board, whose next meeting will be Feb. 6-8 in Florida. 
Currently, the Student 
Senate's only input to the Board of Trustees is the semiannual report they are allowed to present. Some senate members feel that communication should he expanded because the board is the University's most pow­erful decision-making body. 
"They aren't ever approached by students directly," Mcinerney noted. 
"I think they'd be receptive [to any proposal we would make]." senator Shane Bigelow offered. "They'd at least have to consider it." 
Included in the dialogue were issues of the procedure for approaching the board, including whether one single student or one student of each gender should be pro­posed, and whether means of selecting the proposed repre­sentatives should be offered. 
Occasionally, comparisons 
see SENATEl page 6 
Committee sets C---amp---• a.z·g--n,..._,......--.,­
-.. ·. . . . . , ••,,i 
election dates 
$y DEREKI{£TCHER Assistant News Ediror 
The timetable for the 1997 student body elections was released at ye~terday~s Stude,nt Senate Meeting. Following last year's schedule, the presi­dent/vice-president campaign will precede Junior Parents Weekend in :mid-February. 
Active campaigning com· mences Fri., Jan. 31, and will end a week later. The primary election will be Feb. 7, and the final run·offwill take place Wed., Feb. 12. Student Senate and class officer elections will occur later, on March 6. 


LeMans Hall holds rich tradition 
By ANN KEARNS 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
You can go there to sleep, to type, to tan, or even to the meet the president. 
It's the most identifiable landmark on Saint Mary's campus. 
LeMans Hall not only serves as a resi­dence hall and a student center, but is also home to the administrative offices. The building is named for LeMans, France where the Sisters of the Holy Cross, who founded the College, hailed from. 
In the early 1920s, J. Maurice Carroll was hired to design a multi-purpose build­ing which would hold, among other things, the administrative offices, library, post office, classrooms, students, and small din­ing rooms for private entertainment. 
Carroll was a 1919 Notre Dame architec­ture graduate. LeMans was one of his first assignments after graduation. Since then, he has designed over 100 schools, church­es. and hospitals, in addition to the Rockne Memorial on Notre Dame's campus. 
LeMans was dedicated on June 12, 1924. During the ceremony, John Cavanaugh said, "The placing of this newly blessed ceremonial stone [the building's corner­stone) is Saint Mary's renewed vow, that as in the past the cornerstone of her foun­dation will be Christ." 
Christ as the foundation was reinforced by the presence of the Chapel of the Holy Ghost. The chapel was consecrated on April 24, 1926 with a Mass celebrated at each of the three altars: the main altar, the Blessed Virgin altar, and St. Joseph's altar. 
According to the Saint Mary's archives, "Each altar was blessed with a mixture of ashes, holy water, salt, and wine. This wa~ followed by the burning of incense, the depositing of holy relics in the altar stone, and the anointing of the altar with oil." 
The Chapel of the Holy Ghost became an object of controversy in the mid 1980s. The school began to discuss possible plans to renovate the chapel. Ann McDowell Weaver. a Saint Mary's graduate, felt that renovating the chapel would take away part of the meaning it had for students. In a letter to former Courier-Magazine editor Carol Schaal on May 5, 1986, Weaver wrote, "[The chapel's) architectural and interior beauty are perfect; one cannot even imagine tampering with it, removing stations, altar railings, pews, and statues." 

The Observer/Kimm Michalik 

Towering over the Saint Mary's College campus, LeMans Hall serves as a residence hall, student center and administration building. 
The Blessed Virgin statue, which stands over the main entrance, adds to the spirituality of LeMans. The statue was constructed by Lee Laurie for only $1,500. 
Some of Laurie's other accomplishments include consulting in sculptures to the architect of the United States Capitol, as well as designing sculptures for such buildings as West Point Military Academy and the Nebraska State Capitol. . 
Students have added to the history and culture of LeMans. From the late 1930s to the mid 1950s, art students created stained glass windows and window panels to place in various LeMans rooms and hall­ways. Two of the most notable were Catherine of Alexandria designed by Joan Manix and Basil Anthony Mary Moreau created by Gretchen O'Brien. 
see LEMANS I page 4 

Stuoent repre$~ntatioh was a keying last nigbt, as members dlscus;se(l tn1e resentative on the Board of Trustees this year's student government elections. 
''The sch()dtlles [this year's ad(.{ed that th~ dates released and last year's] are very simi-are only "likely" dates and lar, almost identical in fact," hold some degree of flexibility. said Election Committee Chairperson Jen Dovidio. She see ELECTIONS I page 4 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Reform committee discusses direction 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Questions of method, purpose, and direction dominated last night's meeting of the student government reform committee. Amidst occasional raised voices and confusion, members of the recently-formed group set about to define and clarify their goal of making student gov­ernment 'Student organizations should be more effi. 
serving students and should be 
cient and 
effective. serving their needs. The goal of this "What we committee is to find the best way to 
decided is 
do that.'

that student organizations Brendan Kelly 
should be serving students and should be serving their needs," chairman Brendan Kelly said. "The goal of this committee is to find the best way to do that." 
In just its second meeting, the group focused more on defining itself than moving towards its mission. The six sub-committees 
see REFORM I page 4 

University ranks 18th in fund-raising efforts 
BY HEATHER MACKENZIE News Writer 
Developmental efforts for voluntary financial support at Notre Dame rank among the highest of private institutions, according to a survey released in December. 
Notre Dame raised $70.2 million during the 1995 fiscal year. This amount places the University at the rank of 18 in total amount of voluntary sup­port received out of the 73 pri­vate research and doctoral universities evaluated Harvard University generated $323 million to rank first. 
The survey, conducted by the National Association of 
Independent Schools, the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, and the Council for Aid to Education, evaluated universi­ties on their efforts to gener­ate funds from several cate· gories. Several types of volun­tary giving were evaluated, including corporate sponsor­ship, alurpni donation, and family giving. 

Notre Dame saw the most success in its corporate matching gifts programs. An unprecedented 2.7 million dol­lars was raised by the University, placing Notre Dame second in this category. 
see FUND I page 6 page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, January 23, 1997 







The force is 
• 
Eight days. 
In a mere eight days, one of the greatest events in cinematic history will be repeat­ed. In eight days, the world will once again witness the epic struggle of good and evil -the film that created a phenomenon and 
to which all movie- 
lovers must bow their  Nate Willis  
head in reverence.  Production Assistant  
Prepare for Star Wars...  
on the big screen.  

The opening of "Star Wars special edi­tion" on January 31st and the subsequent openings of The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi in the coming months has Star Wars enthusiasts world-wide eagerly counting down the days. What is it that has brought a cult following to this movie? What is it about this movie, created twenty years ago this year, that has gained die-hard fans across several generations and will soon have people packing theaters again? 
The allure of the trilogy is deeply rooted in the essence of Star Wars. The struggle for justice, the search for meaning in life, and the quest for knowledge of the divine are certainly not challenges limited to a galaxy far, far away. There has always been a part of me that wants galactic har­mony, adventure in a far away place, and a light saber. 
Perhaps the reason for its success is linked to the uniqueness of Star Wars. If you consider the Star Wars trilogy in terms of today's action blockbusters, it makes lit­tle sense why it is so successful. There is no blood, no gore, no swearing, and the extent of its sexual content is a few passionate kisses. Yet, if you are looking for pure heart-pounding action and a quality plot, you need look no further than George Lucas' epic tale. The effects are stunning, John William's award-winning soundtrack is spectacular, and the combination of these elements is nothing short of magical. 
"So what's with the 'special edition' stuff?" you may ask. Make no mistake, this is not the "same old Star Wars." Though the suggestion that somehow this cinematic classic could possibly become tiresome seems absurd, I realize that everyone may not share my zeal for watching it endlessly. Even so, you've never seen Star Wars like this before. The folks at Lucasfilm have really outdone themselves in making the special edition. It has new and touched-up computer generated special effects, includes over four minutes of never before seen footage, and it's all in digital sound to boot. 
Metaphorically speaking, if Star Wars was a souped-up '77 Camero at its release, it's now a '97 Ferrari 550 Maranello with 
5.5 liter V12 engine that will throw Tie fighters and X-Wings in your face faster than you can say Millennium Falcon. Or, if you prefer, Star Wars special edition is the classic trilogy with a face lift, a tummy tuck, an Armani wardrobe, and an attitude. 
Eight days. 
Just eight days until movie-goers will once again have their chance to experience Star Wars in its true environment-the theater. So no matter what your opinion of Star Wars was, be prepared to feel the drama, the action, the emotion, and the Force like you've never felt them before. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Macchew Loughran  Production  
David Freddoso  Maureen Hurley  
SportS  Mark DeBoy  
Betsy Baker  Graphics  
Viewpoint  Brian Blank  
Brandon Williams  Lab Tech  
Accent  Brandon Candura  
Joey Crawford  
Brent Dicrescenzo  
Thursd*y 26 Friday I I 4 31 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlO AT A GlANCE 
One dead, 25 injured in refinery explosion 
MARTINEZ, Calif. 

An oil refinery burned sporadi­cally today after an explosion that lit up the night sky and shook nearby homes. One of the plant workers was killed, while 25 oth­ers were injured. 
The fire in the Avon Refinery was expected to burn itself out, according to James Simmons, the spokesman for Tosco Refining Co. The explosion happened· at about 8 p.m. Tuesday in a unit that pro­duces gasoline. 
"We don't have any idea what the cause is," Simmons said. The extent of damage was not yet known at the time. 
Thick smoke from the fire was not considered to be dangerous to residents near the plant, which is only about twenty miles to the northeast of San Francisco. Authorities had originally asked residents downwind to take care to stay indoors, but then they finally lifted that advisory early Wednesday morning. 
Briana Cantrell, a nearby resident, said that she was 
VP, First Lady defend abortion rights 
WASHINGTON 
The 24th anniversary of the Supreme Court's landmark decision legalizing abortion was marked Wednesday by protest, a bomb scare and condemna­tion of anti-abortion terrorism by Vice President Al Gore. "To those who com­mitted the horrible deeds of Tulsa and Atlanta, I say this ... the American peo­ple will not tolerate your cowardly cru­

sade," Gore said of recent abortion-clin­ic bombings in those cities. As he and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke to the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League, tens of thousands of abortion opponents rallied near the White House, then marched to Capitol Hill to protest the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision. The marchers included many schoolchildren, seminarians wearing long black robes bearing religious icons and busloads of members of the Kn(ghts of Columbus, a Catholic men's group. Randall Terry, leader of the anti-abortion Operation Rescue group, told marchers their job was to "carry the banner of resis­tance and replace evil politicians." 
Iran approves 'national defense' fund 
TEHRAN, Iran 
Iran's parliament approved $8.3 million Wednesday to foil "U.S. government plots against Iran" during the next year, state-run Iran Television said. The 270 members of parliament, or Majlis, voiced their agree­ment by standing up and shouting, "Death to America!" The United States has persistently applied pressure on Iran, hoping to limit its inl1uence in the region and to punish it for allegedly attempting to acquire nuclear weapons and support international terrorism. Last year, President Clinton signed legisla­tion that would impose sanctions on foreign countries that invest $40 million or more a year in Iran's oil or gas industries. The $8.3 million will go to "uncovering and foiling U.S. government plots against Iran and interference in the country's affairs," the television said. It is unclear exactly what the money will go to fund. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
i~i?~:~···:····:·:··. 
\""-----~./-·-/-~~Lft'±·· ',' L 
I 

Saturda~ ~ 22
·.;.· .;: 

Sunday) 23 Monq~y ,c£2-Il 31 
S;"·"\S'·'"''-,!,' \.,_ :..: 

~Q~udu {)
..·..<,', .. '·'' ......... ·=·.::=·.::=· -=...-=...-::.. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
21 17 11 14 21 

~ u 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 23. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
-r-T" ............_ ......-..­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 

in her living room with her family at the time when the explosion occurred. 
"It sounded like somebody had just like walked right up and shook the door itself," Cantrell said. 
"When we walked outside the whole sky was lit up and all our neighbors were outside." 
At the time of the explosion, as many as 500 people were at the plant engaged in maintenance pro­jects, according to Simmons. Normally, only about one tenth of that number would be there at that hour. 
It was the plant's first explosion since 1983, when a blast killed one worker. 
Since that time, two other employ-

in accidents which did not involve either explosions or fires, Simmons reported. 
None of the injured workers was hurt too seriously and only 12 needed to be taken to local hospitals, Simmons added. Their injuries were various, ranging from cuts, to a sprained ankle, to ringing in the ears. 
DeBartolo cited in post-game brawl 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

San Francisco 49ers owner Edward DeBartolo Jr. was charged today with battery for a post-game scufl1e in which a heckling fan was punched and another head­butted. DeBartolo, a companion and two Green Bay Packers fans were issued city citations, Police Chief James Lewis said. Witnesses, including an off-duty sher­iff's deputy, told police DeBartolo punched a Packers fan, who then fell backward over a garbage can. The deputy said another man head-butted another fan. Edward W. Muransky, 37, of Atherton, Calif., also was charged with battery, while the fans, Dale G. Nault and William A. Scharlas, both of Wattkesha, were cited for disorderly conduct, Lewis said. "These charges are ordinance viola­tions and will be sent to Green Bay Municipal Court," Lewis said. The incident outside a Lambeau Field gate occurred after Green Bay's 35-14 win over the 49ers on Jan. 4. Outagamie County Sheriffs Sgt. Michael Heenan witnessed the exchange as he was leaving the stadium at a gated area near the 49ers buses. He said DeBartolo punched the fan and DeBartolo's companion head··butted another. "Everybody was yelling '40-whiners' and things like that," Scharlas said. 
Snowstorms kill 34 in China 
BEIJING 

More snow has hindered efforts to rescue people and livestock trapped by earlier storms that have killed 34 people and seriously injured 18 in northwestern China. No new casualties have been reported in the latest snow­storms, which began on Sunday in Xinjiang province, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported. Traffic, rescue work and communications have all been disrupted in Altay, IIi and Bortala states in the northwest of China, the agency said. The latest snowfall has amounted to at least 2 feet in some places, and temperatures have dropped to 22 degrees below zero. Four people are still missing because of the first snowstorms, and nearly 100,000 live­stock have died. according to the latest government reports. Soldiers and local people were trying together to clear roads.to bring enough food for the animals, Xinhua said. Most of the people in the area are farmers and herdsmen, and stand to lose everything in the storm.• 
Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 43 38 Las Vegas 54 41 Washington 48 37 

Pressure 




HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta  64  50  Cincinatti  55  47  Miami Beach 77  65  
Barbados  82  70  Detroit  42  37  New York  48  30  
Baton Rouge 70  57  Green Bay  35  34  Santiago  90  55  
Boston  47  32  Indianapolis  47  38  St. Louis  53  51  

~-----------------------~----------~-------.-----~---------------~ 
Thursday, January 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Taking a fall Gumbleton preaches tolerance 
By TARA CHURIK  despair that my church thinks  youngest brother revealed his  
News Writer  that she's anything else."  homosexuality to his family.  
Gumbleton explained his com­ Initially, Gumbleton was scared.  
"I wish that I could lead a  passion for that mother, and  "I was afraid what that would  
happy and normal life," read  told of similar experiences with  do to me," he said. But when  
the suicide note of Simon  other parishioners  questioned by his mother,  
Harvey, a gay man.  Drawing on the insight of  Gumbleton affirmed his broth­ 
Thomas Gumbleton, auxiliary  these experiences, Gumbleton  er's goodness in the eyes of  
bishop of Detroit, offered this  analyzed how exactly individu­ God, based upon his under­ 
and other stories of the need for  als like Simon Harvey arrive at  standing that God does not cre­ 
Christian compassion to be  such extreme personal crises.  ate individuals who are evil in  
shown toward homosexuals.  In his opinion, prevention of  their very being.  
Gumbleton gave a personal  such crises is essential.  Acting on that belief,  
Christian perspective on "homo­ "I don't do this readily or easi­ Gumbleton raised the need to  
phobia" in modern society yes­ ly," he said, "but I find it helpful  improve understanding of  
terday evening in Debartolo  to share my experiences with  homosexuality through reading  
Hall. Throughout the evening,  others to bring about under­ and discussing the experiences  
Gumbleton used personal  standing." Gumbleton noted  of homosexuals.  
accounts and shared others'  that issues of homosexuality  Gumbleton also felt that the  
experiences to encourage others  receive inadequate attention in  beauty of God's influence tran­ 
in the church to strive toward a  seminary instruction and that  scends gender, proposing that  
better understanding of homo­ seminary life in general does  the Church expand its role in a  
sexuality.  not openly discuss issues relat­ pastoral and compassionate  
In his lecture, "Homophobia:  ed to homosexuality. As a  way. He cited the letter cur­ 
a Christian perspective," he also  result of this limited exposure to  rently being drafted by the  
described the experiences of a  gay and lesbian issues,  National Conference of Catholic  
widow whose daughter had  Gumbleton expressed sorrow  Bishops for homosexuals and  
kept her lesbian lifestyle a  for the people that he had failed  their families as a current step  
secret for thirty years. In  to help when beginning service  toward those ends.  
defense of her daughter.  as an inexperienced priest.  "These are people who are  
The Observer/Adam Andres  Gumbleton revealed that the  In a poignant revelation,  truly gifted and can bring spiri­ 
Fisher Hall's trademark "F" hung by a thread yesterday, as strong winter winds whipped through South Bend.  mother eventually decided, "My daughter is an honorable and  Gumbleton admitted that the issue of homosexuality adopted  tual gifts to the Church if we accept them fully," he said.  
loving person. I am filled with  a personal aspect when his  In response to several pointed  

AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 


en?embl~ .~~lil~i 
tbe passron m ancmnt mus1c 
" ... they play with energy, splendid ensemble, good humor and imagination." 
-The Washington Post 
Sunday, February 2 2:30PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $12/Adults; $10/ Seniors; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 am -5pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 


R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend to Howard Johnso 
red on· .. 

Aef,!? oef 1°01' 
l\pe.. s search, 
audience inquiries, Gumbleton addressed his hope that the University will eventually recog­nize a homosexual student group, but understands the complexities and the difficulties of the situation. In addition, Gumbleton emphasized the importance of upholding one's consciousness in matters of homosexual behavior. 
Gumbleton has worked for many years counseling homo­sexuals in Michigan, where he is responsible for a parish. Throughout his life, Gumbleton has been involved with several social justice issues such as the Civil Rights Movement, poverty, welfare, and counseling political prisoners during the Vietnam War. 
•TicRe purehas Lafortune 

t', ~~~mprov ""· i Brought to you by: ;liif> ' StudentACtivities Student Programmers 
Thursday, January 23, 1997
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Elections 
continued from page 1 
Specifically, the schedule was set to accommodate JPW, to allow defeated presidential tickets time to compete in the March 6 elections, and to ease the transition from Miller and Murray's administration to the next one. 
"We don't want the campus cluttered with campaign posters while parents are here, and we don't want to have to fit both sets of elections between JPW and spring break," Dovidio explained. 
Despite the planning, past participants have noted that the length of the campaign drains candidates and bar­rages the campus. Also, it has been argued that the early election date undermines the outgoing administration, plac­ing them in a lengthy lame duck situation. 
"The reform committee may request that the judicial coun­cil postpone the election based on recommended changes," reform committee chairman Brendan Kelly said, noting that the election process may be more difficult than it need be. 
"It does seem like a long process, but it has to be," Dovidio observed, citing debates and campus media· interviews as events that take time during the campaign. "But if there's a structured and logical way to condense this, I'll hear it," she added. 


Reform 
continued from page 1 
formed at last semester's meeting were among the issues reexamined. Individually, they will examine student senate reform, a SUB/student govern­ment/student activities link, spending review, club empow­erment, organizational conti­nuity, and review of the office of student body president. 
While specific issues and foci were developed, larger issues of how the individual subcom­mittees would pool their find­ings were heavily debated. Central to the dialogue was the size of student government. 
"HPC has no idea what stu­dent government is doing, HPC has no idea what SUB is doing, and I think that's a shame," Cavanaugh president Clare Deckelman said. 
Plans to create a comprehen­sive outline of student govern­ment and to set aside an entire retreat day for addressing the issue were set in motion. 
"We're talking about chang­ing ourselves," chairman Brendan Kelly said. "I hope we can make major structural changes." 

LeMans 
continued from page 1 
However, many of these were removed and returned to the students. 
LeMans Hall remains a favorite to Saint Mary's stu­dents and graduates. Home to over 500 students and an many faculty and administra­tion offices, LeMans is one building Saint Mary's students cannot avoid. 
LeMans Hall also symbolizes the beginning and end for the journey as Saint Mary's stu­dents. Students first enter the building as high school seniors for their interviews at admis­sions, and last visit the hall for graduation ceremonies which are held on the its south courtyard each year. 

THURSDAY, JANUARY 23 • 2 BAND NIGHT 
upper level  lower level  
GOODENOUGH  StOMPER BOB  
featuring  featuring  
johnny Gunz • guitar & vocals  joel Cummins • keyboard & vocals  
Brett Hawkes • drums  Matt Butte/ • bass & vocals  
Roger Leech • bass & vocals Dave Stocker • lead guitar  Nina McDowell • percussion & vocals Matt Scherer • guitar & vocals Mike Mirro • drums & vocals  
jennifer Hogan • singer  Ricky Za/amea • lead guitar & vocals  

PLUS MUSIC FOR REGGAE, BLUES, & HIP-HOP LOVERS BETWEEN BAND BREAKS 
coming Saturday, January 25 Skalcoholiks • 7 piece ska band 
MUST BE 21 & OVER· DOORS OPEN 8:00PM 
CATCH 
Lars & Kat f\'t. 
from MTV's 



REAL 

WORLD London 
cast 
LAFORTUNE BAllROOM 
Friday, January 24 at 6:30 p.m. 
PLUS DJ Lars f\'t. 
from MTV's 



REAL 

SPlNNlNG 
HOUSE MUSlC!! 
AT AlUMNI-SENIO:R ClUB 
ORL 

Friday, January 24 9:OOPM to 12:OOAM $3 COVER -ALL AGES S1-1 0 W ! ! 
• sponsored by sub 




The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
• 


1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 24, 1997. For additional information about the position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
1997 

' 

arn $$$ for Spring Break 
February 14, 15, 16 
Sign ups are: Sat 1/25 9:30 a.m. -5:00p.m. Sun 1/26 11:00 a.m.-5:00p.m.
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 
·~~---··-----------~--------~· 
Thursday, January 23, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

SMC offers accelerated degree 
Special to The Observer tions in the heath care indus­materials must be submitted 
Visiting tl,ffluent Cfiieago suburbs in his firstjwst· inaugural trip, President Clinton challenged sc s'to··.· do better in teaching ath and science yesterday. 
"Changej$ out there. Ata time like this, it is ~J.'itical .. that we not only kn-oyv qet.r. taln things, but be al;ll¢ to Jearn for a lifetime;" .Clmton told some :');QO() pei[)Pl>e .vvho packed.the High School field 
rhe school district partici­pated in last year's third 
College graduates can earn a bachelor of science degree 
· with a major in nursing at Saint Mary's College through the accelerated program in nursing. Any qualified female college graduate who holds a.bac­calaureate degree in any area other than nursing is eligible to apply. Graduates of the accelerated program are eligible to take the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN) to become registered nurses. Graduates of the program have been successful in obtaining professional posi­

try. 
Saint Mary's originated its accelerated program in nurs­ing in 1993 as a response to the needs of alumnae and the local community. 
Currently, this is the only program of its kind in the region. 
Applicants must have com­pleted all prerequisite science courses prior to begjnning the nursing program. 
Applicants holding baccalau­reate degrees from Saint Mary's College or other insti­tutions are eligible.. 
The 13-month program begins May 27 and ends in July of 1998. Application 
Complete Packages CANCUN From $399 Book now and Sunbreaks will Free Covers, Free Day Parties, throw in 15 Free meals!!! Discounts at shops and side Make your reservation today. excursions Space is limited!!! ****Spring Break97 Concert Festival Call for Info****  

I for info calll-800-446-8355 pnce 
1

I Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak guaranteed!!! .J 
L------------~~---------­
Performing Folk songs and dances of Eastern Europe 
appearing 
Sunday January 26th at 2:00 p.m~ ~-.· O'Laughlin Auditorium • Saint Mary's College··.,_··. ·· · · ~, Tickets: $15 & $10-To order tickets call: · ··· 
(219) 284-4626 
Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Slovakia, The Balkans, Russia, Ukraine, Greece & others. 
January 25-JJ:OO AM Deadline -Janua'\-y 23 February I -10:00 AM Deadline -January 30 February J -2:00 PM Deadline -January 30 
Clinic held at Notre Dame Golf Course Register in Advance at RecSports $5.00 Charge Wear Layered Clothing and Warm Gloves 

Equipment Rental Available -$J.OO Charge 
R~~ 
February 1st, Saturday University of Notre Dame 



'COURSE NA¥~S ai-e~ed trad<!inarks of iheir fi>Silel;ljve owners 


Bring afriend and Win a prize 

Company of40 Vivid Costumes 



TAMBURfTZANS 
1 


by Feb. 10. 
In addition to the accelerat­ed program in nursing, Saint Mary's has a strong under­graduate nursing program. Both are committed to innova­tive and progressive education in the field of nursing. 
For more information, con­tact the Saint Mary's College admission office at 284­4587. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

-----~~ ------~ 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 23, 1997 
Fund 
continued from page I 
Only Harvard, with $3.8 mil­lion, outranked Notre Dame's corporate fundraising efforts. 
George Duke, the director of 
corporate relations at Notre Dame, said that N o t r e Dame's rela­tionships with the cor­porations to 

its fundrais-Malloy ing prowess. "The key to our success is related to the approach of developing long-term mutual­ly beneficial relationships with companies that develop into win-win partnerships," he said. 
Duke went on to explain that even though corporate giving programs in general have barely kept up with inflation rates, Notre Dame 
has witnessed a marked upward growth in fundraising over the past three years. "Companies are encouraged to contribute to Notre Dame because we offer recruitment possibilities and research con­nections for the future," Duke said. 
Outstanding alumni and parental contributions also helped place Notre Dame high in the survey. With 49 per­cent of alumni contributing, Notre Dame generated a total of $32.5 million dollars from both parents and alumni to seat the University's develop­mental efforts among the most successful in education. 
In all giving categories, Notre Dame was ranked the leading Catholic University. 
According to Father Edward Malloy, president of Notre Dame, "The strong and steadfast support of our alum­ni, parents, and friends has had an enormous cumulative effect on the University and on its stature among the nation's leading universities." 

~OBSERVER 

is now hiring a 
WEB 

had been forwarded to and passed by the Campus Life

Senate 

Council. A response from Student Affairs was anticipat­continued from page I 
ed within the next week. Mike Tobin, HPC co-chair,to Saint Mary's College sur­
briefly raised the issue of
faced, which were significant cooperation between the Hallbecause that institution does 
Presidents Council and the
have a student on their gov­
· Student Senate. The Senate
e r n i n g 
=""'""~=co~.,--, agreed to exchange schedules
Board of and ideas with the HPC

Regents. 

towards that end.
The senate 

Improving communication
meeting 

with the Provost's Office was
began by 

also addressed. That office is
addressing 

the primary outlet for studentold business. 
input concerning Notre Dame's
Chairman 

academic climate, and the
Seth Miller Miller recent creation of a Student

reported 

Academic Council Committeethat last meeting's resolutions 
was noted, but the Senate
regarding student involvement wanted to feel secure with thein the du Lac revision process strength of their line of com­munication with the Office. 
"There's a lot of new blood in the Provost's Office," Miller said. "We need to know which direction to channel informa­tion there." 
Senior class president Bill Hammonds proposed drafting a letter to the Provost's Office regarding classes that were held during last week's bliz­zard. 
Hammonds and Mcinerney specifically questioned the University's expectation that students living off-campus would attend classes during unsafe driving conditions. 
The Senate agreed that a let­ter would be composed and supportive members could sign it at the next meeting. 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 




[f~@GJ~-17 tU~GJ 
TAN N IN G SAL 0 N www.planet-tan.com 
Within walking distance ofND Campus! 12 beds, no appointment ever needed! 
r $s]'o~f~;''i";e"d{Tr;;, 1 month $39 
:with purchase of one month: 
L. or more ..J 2 months $59 r =========, 3 months $79 
$5.00 off or 2 free tans 1 4 months $99
I 

I with any sessions package I 10 tans $39
L. _________ ..J 20tans $49 
Must present coupon. Offer expires 2-1J-97 
277-1166 
t IMartin's I N 



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 23, 1997 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, rN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independenr newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­cion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Accenc Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Damc/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
63I-4542  Business Office  631-53I3  
63!-454I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  .  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  63I-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
63I-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  



Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Sainr Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
•LETTER To THE Eomm 
Affirmative action only treats symptoms of racism 
Dear Editor: 
Affirmative action represents a mini­mal (and anemic) policy response to the persistent and totalizing racism (and sexism) of American society. So-called affirmative action policies were devel­oped as a token response to the pres­sures of the African American liberation struggles of 1945-1973. Over time, the affirmative action umbrella was expand­ed to included Latinos, Asian Americans, Native Americans, and women. 
Affirmative action policies typically include the following: 1) programs to broaden _s~arJ;h pro<e_edures during hir­ing imd admission; 2) programs to broaden the criteria of hiring, admis­siol'l, promotion, training, etc.; 3) pro­grams to broaden objectives for hiring, admission, promotion, etc.; and, 4) pro­grams to promote racial, ethnic, or gen­der diversity in the workplace or acade­mic environment. Institutions with a uniquely grievous history of discrimina­tion may be forced to comply with judi­cially mandated quotas or set asides. 
For jobs which require a college degree, i.e., where the most intense dis­crimination exists and where the resis­tance to affirmative action has been most vehement, informal referral mech­anisms and interpersonal job networks are even more important in the hiring process. Broadening search procedures may increase the pool of women and raciaVethnic minority candidates. 
Similarly, "traditional" hiring or a.dmissions criteria may discriminate against some groups more than others. And seldom is there one uni-dimension­al criterion which provides an umissail­able measure of either ability or future productivity. For example, my own research has shown that standardized test scores do not measure ability equal­ly well across racial groups and, for a given score, do not predict equally well across racial groups. The scores may measure "ability" or "achievement" equally well among individuals within a particular social group, but they mea­sure African American and Latino ability less accurately than they measure the ability of whites. So, broadening hiring and admissions criteria to include to a greater set of attributes which are posi­tively associated with academic success or workplace productivity may increase the hiring and promotion of individuals from traditionally excluded groups. 
Of course, the very definition of "suc­cess" can also influence the extent of raciaVethnic and gender exclusivity of jobs and universities. For example, an all male, all white, all Catholic Notre Dame could (and in the past did) pro­duce high quality graduates. However, a coed, multi-raciaVmulti-ethnic, Catholic­dominate Notre Dame student body and faculty can (and has) produce research and graduates of equally high quality who are also able to fill a more varied set of leadership positions in American society. 
Finally, diversity may be valuable·for its own sake. America is a multi-lingual, !flUiti-racial, multi-religious, and multi­cultural country. In truth, this has always been the case. Albeit, many today wish to return to the ignominious past when the multi-dimensionality of American society was virulently sup­pressed. At any rate, some organizations have found that greater diversity has increased their competitive edge. 
There are plenty of myths associated with affirmative action. Myth 1: Affirmative action lowers hiring/admis­sion "standards" and thereby redu_ces the average level of productivity/student quality. Professional economics journals have published a large collection of studies on affirmative action. A primary conclusion of these studies is that affir­mative action does not lower productivi­ty. 
Myth 2: Affirmative action represents reverse discrimination. I am unaware of a single published study in any of the most reputable economics journals which provides even the slightest hint that reverse discrimination is a relevant empirical issue. Indeed, match-paired audit studies of housing, credit, and labor markets consistently find discrimi­nation against African Americans and Latinos. No reported match-paired audit study has ever found discrimination against whites. Given the absence of any empirical justification, it would seem that today's charges of reverse discrimi­nation are little different from the com­mon cry of the mid-1960s, "Negroes are moving too fast." 

Myth 3: Affirmative action bestows undeserved gains on racial/ethnic minorities and women and thereby undermines the credibility of raciaVeth­nic minorities and women. This myths posits that individual African Americans (for example) in high profile positions (such as a professor at a prestigious uni­versity) cannot take pride in their indi­vidual accomplishments because she/he will always wonder if she/he achieved the job based on merit or the existence of an affirmative action program which lowered traditional standards in order to hire an African American. Moreover, the arguments goes, whites will not respect such an African American because they also know that she/he did not accomplish her/his position based on merit. Unfortunately for proponents of this argument, affirmative action does not mandate hiring anyone. And, as I have pointed out in myth 1, there are no studies showing a negative relationship between productivity and affirmative action. However, I am compelled to point out that if undeserved privilege lowers self esteem then both racism and sexism -which tends to shower unde­served privilege upon individual mem­bers of a dominant group -would have collapsed centuries ago under the force of their own weight. 
Myth 4: Affirmative action is unneces­sary. Left to its own devices, a competi­tive market will eliminate discrimination in economic life; raciaVgender discrimi­nation will remain only in non-market social relations or market activity where competitive forces have not been given their full power. Both economic history and useful economic theory have been very unkind to this myth. First, there is no theory of discrimination based on a recognizably capitalist economy which sustains the notion that competitive forces are sufficient to eliminate dis­criminatory behavior. Second, 132 years of post-slavery economic history of the actually existing American economy has made it very clear that even if slowly evolving market forces can eliminate discrimination, such forces cannot do so within the lifetime of the average per­son. Laissez-faire market solutions to ma_ssive racial/ethnic and gender inequities equal justice delayed and denied. 
Certainly, there are many other myths regarding affirmative action. And, undoubtedly, opponents of affirmative action who have bought into either the myths discussed here or other myths which remain undiscussed are unlikely to alter their opinions based on the arguments presented. At any rate, even though I favor affirmative action l also view it as a marginal response to prob­lems which are deeply rooted in the American socioeconomic system. Affirmative action is okay. But let's be honest, it's a baby step in the long march required to achieve social justice. 
I, like Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., view "racism, economic exploitation, and militarism" as the "triple evils" of American capitalism. For in our eco­nomic system "profit motives and prop­erty rights are considered more impor­tant than people" and social justice. Reverend King explained, "A nation that will keep people in slavery for 244 years will 'thingify' them, make them things. Therefore they will exploit them, and poor people generally, economically. And a nation that will exploit economi­cally will have to have foreign invest­ments... will have to use its military might to protect them." 
Like King, "For years I labored with the idea of reforming the existing insti­tutions of the society, a little change here, a little change there. Now I feel quite differently. I think you've got to have a reconstruction of the entire soci­ety." Further, "Something is wrong with capitalism as it now stands in the United States. We are not interested in being integrated into this value structure... a radical redistribution of power must take place." In his (and my own) politi­cal economic analysis, Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. stood foursquare with another great religious leader, El Hajj Malik El Shabazz (Malcolm X). Alas, that is the discussion for another day. 
PATRICK MASON 
Associate Professor 
Economics, African American Studies 

• DOOI\IESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The illusion that times 
that were are better 
than those that are, has 
probably pervaded all ages." 
-Horace Greeley 
~---~--~~-­

page 8 
Thursday, January 23, 1997 
byashleigh


concert review thompson 



A
s the pulsing body writhed in the dark­ness of the stage at Chicago's Metro last Saturday night, hypnotic waves of music pierced the air. Tricky in concert seemed anything but earthly-or sober. 
Tricky pushed his listeners towards some kind of psychedelic mind trip, and those who couldn't tap into it simply got lost. Tricky's energy focused not on the audience, but on the music itself, apparent by his refusal to even face the crowd as he sang. Even the haunting green spotlights avoided the artist, as he sank 
into the blackness of Uw stage. 
But whatever Tricky denied the eye was 
surely directed to the ear, as more than two 
hours of intense sound filled the small theater. 
Although he may be regarded more for his 
conceptual artistry than for his vocals since 
emerging on the musical scene in the early 
'90s, Tricky has lfmrned how to succnssfully 
combine the best of both. 

The musical effort surprisingly included a 
band, as well as someone on stage at the 
mixer, and pleased any fans who might have 
expected to sec a taped show. But despite 
worthy efforts from these eontributors or the 
intnresting mixing, the night belonged to the 
voealists. 

Martina, Trieky's female vocal counter­
part, opened the con~:ert, devouring both ciga­
rettes and her microphone. She soothed and 
seduced with her incredible voice, and estab­
lished the perfect calm for the throaty, raging 
Tricky to destroy. The mood ranged from one 
of anger to one of sedation, and the changes 
reflected their unique style. The intenso sound 
is virtually undefinabln, p01·haps nearer to the 
coined phrase "trip-hop" than anything else, at times approaching rap, at others, industrial. 
The 32 year old Englishman, who hails from the same Bristol as acts like Portishead and Massive Attack, included tracks from past albums as well as his most recent effort, Pre­Millennium Tension. With such songs as "Tricky Kid" and "Makes Me Wanna Die," Tricky and Martina delivered a fabulous perfor­mance that invaded the mind. And with album lyrics like "gone insane/ hijack a plane/ don't push me 'cause I'm close to the edge/try hard to Jose my head/can't hardly breathe," it's not hard to sec how they did it. The team took turns at eentl~r stage, or joined forces for some' of the evening's highlights. Interspersed in the program were several long improvisational jams, demonstrating how well the band played off of the pre-recorded samples. 
As the show came to an end, it was met with lukewarm screams and applause by an audi­ence whose majority had been mentally left behind, only to be revived several minutes later by the unexpected appearance of the dynamic Flavor Flav, Public Enemy's spark plug. He reinvigorated the tired crowd, and despite the fact that it was past 2 a.m., stumbled around the stage praising his friend and rapping some energized lyrics of his own, with Tricky himself at tlie mixer. After that, the stage was Tricky's own, and he and Martina sang some final tunes to fully satisfy any restless soul. 
The explosion of concentration and intensity by the artists made the night at the Metro truly worthwhile, and while the artists seemed to be out of their minds, they carried the listeners with them. While Tricky's surreal sound seems to be more conducive to a recording studio, he pulled ofT the unlikely transition with near perfeetion. 

FUTURE SOUND OF LONDON Dead Cities t'cttttt'c 
(out of five) 


W
hen the FSOL appeared on the scene title, "ller Faec Forms in Summertime," and four years ago they were hailed as enjoying what is a superb, meandering tune. the leaders of a new style of electronic edgy and provocative, "We !lave Explosive," music; mixing ambiance with teehno draws in the listener and unsettles the atmos­in ways previously unsenn. Their debut single, phere creatnd by the smoothness of the precedinK "Papua New Guinea," was a mastnrpiece. Five traek. The highlight of the album, however, is years later, their fourth album contains equal "Antique Toy," a relaxed and catchy number amounts of originality, but just fails to reach the which reminds us of the FSOL at their very best; high standard set by Ufeforms two years ago. slow and minimal, the track minstates the domi­Dead Cities is more menaeing.than any of their nant mood of the album almost seemlessly while other collections, and this sullen tone and aggres­simultaneously echoing more somber moments siveness of presentation is laudable in that it rep­elsewhere. All in all this is a good album from a resents the band's refusal to stick to tried and great band in an area characterized by much that tested routines. On the other hand, whether this is substandard-for fans it will serve as a valid style is that at whieh they are undoubtedly best is addition to the collection, while for those vet to open to question. sample the offerings of ambient music, it m;ty act 
We start off with the pleasantly titled, "Herd as a useful introduction. Kiliing," a brief staccato introduction of no out­standing merit. Following quickly on from this is, by Julian Elliot "Dead Cities," itself, a wonderfully dark piece of varying intensity and subtle nuance. Then, after considering the somewhat obscure meaning of the 


A
mericans have short attention spans. ride!" and a synthesized string section whines Hair styles, pant fashions, Gatorade fla­away. But without a hook the song flies in vors, and music artists come and go one ear and out the other like a sidewinder faster than coffee filters or sitcoms on the missile. UPN. The "band of the moment" is often The Offspring are wise enough to stick to squeezing lemonade at Hot Dog on a Stick their guns, churning out the two minute hit­two years after their hit single and cover and-run pop-punker, "All I Want" (****). spotlight on "Spin." Remember Deep Blue The barb-laden, radio-friendly ditty is sure to Something? Dada? The Spin Doctors? If be sung aloud by skateboaders and people in not, go check the local area used CD bins. Jeeps. The music biz is a shark infested industry. "The Perfect Drug" by Nine in Nails (**) is 
This season offers the return of a handful of a regression for Trent Reznor. After The hugely successful artists from the early Downward Spiral, this song offers nothing nineties. The airwaves will be in fisticuffs as new. Commercial music has already grown the heavy hitters vie for teenage eardrums so used to Macintosh rock like Gravity Kills, and dorm party mix tapes. First up, the Stabbing Westward, and Marilyn Manson. pups from silverchair wallow in heavy metal Trent's shot himself in the foot popularizing pretension and acne-encrusted angst with the new bands that rip him off. His laughably quasi-masochistic anthem "Abuse Me" (**). gothic lyrics like "You are the perfect drug... Fortunately silvcrchair are still minors, or You make me hard when I'm all soft inside" else misdemeanor larceny charges could be don't help much either. filed for the riff stolen from Alice in Chains' Depeche Mode should have known when to "No Excuses." quit. Apparently some of them did, as mem­
Live's "Lakini's Juice" (*) is the musical bership is now down to three. "Barrel of a equivalent of Twister and Daylight. The pro­Gun" (**) brings to mind Playstation sound­ducers pump in a high-budget, bells and tracks and Mark Hammil CDRoms and Dave whistles, and truckloads of special effects to Gahan does his best Underworld imperson­distract audiences froin the fact that they ation. contain the artistic depth and eharacter 1997 is an open market for new bands. development of a Mad Libs. A poser Tool­esque riff beats a dead horse unmercifully as by Brent DiCrescenzo Ed Kowalczyk belts out slogans like "Let me 
. -. ----------­

-------~---­
Thursday, January 23, 1997 page 9 

MATCHBOX20 
Yourselfor Someone Like You 
flflflflfl 
(out of five) 

I 
t's me, yeah I can't get myself to go 
away," exclaims Rob Thomas 
behind the microphone singing the 
band's first hit single, "Long Day," 
which has begun getting air play on radio stations across the country. Matchbox 20's debut album, Yourself or Someone Like You, provides a remarkable mix of energy and emotion while maintaining a contemporary modern rock slant. 
Rob Thomas grew up fronting for a variety of bands in the southeast during his high school years. "Writing songs is almost medicinal for me; it's the best therapy I can think of," said Thomas. He and the other four members of Matchbox 20 paired up with Collective Soul's producer, Matt Serletic, and Lava/Atlantic Records to assemble their first album at record­ing studios in Atlanta, Georgia. 
An upbeat, emotional sound pervades the album and connects with the listener on the same level as bands such as Better than Ezra, Live, and Dog's Eye View. Beyond their phe­nomenal single, "Long Day," are the rustic sounds of, "Back 2 Good," and the guitar driven 
upcom 
Jamiroquai Porno for Pyros Metallica 
Village People/K.C. and the Sunshine Band 
Bob Mould 
Pavement 
Silverchair 
Reverend Horton Heat 
Sebadoh 
Counting Crows 
Sheryl Crow 
Cardigans 
Sweep the Leg Johnny (ND Alumni) 
rock of, "Argue." Other songs such as, "Girl Like That" and "Real World," provide hooks that will run through your head incessantly as you struggle to stay awake during morning classes. The band would also like you to know that their shoe sizes (in no particular order) are 9 1/2, 11 1/2, 8, 9 1/2 and 13. 
Rob Thomas always wanted to tell stories but never had the patience to write. He put them to music, instead, on a great album that is bound to gain him an audien~e much larger than any buok he could write. Check out Matchbox 20 on CD or on the net at http://www.matchbox20.com to listen for yourself. 
by Nate Rackiewicz 
1/29 Riviera 2/3 Riviera 2/3 Riviera 2/15 Rosemont Theater 2/15 Vic 2/16 Lounge Ax 2/16 Vic 2/22 Metro 2/22 Vic 3/10 Aragon 3/13 Riviera 3/14 Metro 1/25 222 N. St. Louis St. 


1. Space -Spiders 2. U2 -Discoteque 
3. Luscious Jackson­
Fever in, Fever Out 

4. Kula Shaker -K 
5. Jamiroquai-Traveling without Moving 
6. BT-Ima 7.ChuckD­
Autobiography of 
Mistachuck 

8. Joan Osborne 
Early Recordings 

9. 
Bjork-Telegram 

10. 
Tricky -Pre-Millinium Tension 


11.Morphine-Sampilation 
12. MC Lyte-Bad as I WannaBe 
13. Tanya Donnelly­
Sliding & Driving 
14. Less Than Jake­
Loosing Streak 
15. 
Mazzy Star -Amoung My Swan 

16. 
Live -Lakints Juice 

17. 
Sneaker Pimps -


Tesko Suicide 
18. Vanessa Daou-Slow to Burn 
19. Smashing Pumpkins­
aeroplane flies high 
20. Wilco-being there 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 23, I 997 
• SUPER BowL XXXI 


Favre prepares to celebrate 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
Maybe it was the, timing, just a few days before the Super Bowl in a city known for revelry. After all, this is the place where the most famous thor­oughfare is named after a whiskey. 
Whatever the case, the NFL sounded none too pleased when Brett Favre's agent revealed the Green Bay Packers quarterback has been given the go-ahead by the league to resume drinking alcohol. 
The agent, James "Bus" Cook, stressed that the two-time MVP doesn't plan to spend the days leading up to Sunday's game against the New England Patriots partying away the nights on Bourbon Street. 
"He's got one thing on his mind and that's to win the Super Bowl," Cook said Wednesday from his office in Hattiesburg, Miss. "Brett's not expressed to me that he wants to go out and drink. It's not a matter of-drinking; it's a matter of choice." 
Favre admitted being addicted to a pain-killing drug, and he spent 46 days in a Kansas treat­ment facility last summer. But he protested when the league also banned him from drinking alco­hol for two years and subjected him to random testing. 
Cook said Favre told him last week that league officials agreed to change the ·quarterback's sta­tus in its substance-abuse program and that he'll no longer face random testing for alcohol use. 
Favre could not be reached for comment until early today, when he said, simply: "I can't drink until the season's over. I don't want to get into trouble now because we've got a game this week." 
Packers coach Mike Holmgren said he under­stands the NFL is not planning to address the issue further until after the Super Bowl. 
The NFL wouldn't comment because of the confidentiality of its substance abuse policy. It was clear, however, that the league wanted all parties to keep their silence on the matter, at least until after the season was over. 


Classifieds 

"We don't plan to make any further comment this week nor at the time the final report is deliv­ered," league spokesman Greg Aiello said. "Due to the policy's confidentiality provisions, we would hope that the Packers and Brett's agent would take the same position." 
Earlier, Favre talked about his maturity over the past year. 
''I'm married, for one," said the quarterback, who now takes non-narcotic medicine to deal with his aches and pains. "I enjoy playing foot­ball, but I treat it a bit differently because I know it won't be there forever. So every game that I play, every practice that I go through, I treat it as though it may be my last and try to do the best I possibly can." 
Bill Parcells might be coaching his last game for the Patriots, but he maintained a vow of silence Tuesday on his future. During the media gathering, however, his demeanor was more upbeat than a day earlier, when he reacted testi­ly to a report that he plans to leave the team after Sunday's game. 
Parcells leaned casually on the podium, his head cocked confidently, his remarks accompa­nied by toothy grins as he discussed his suppos­edly rocky relationship with Patriots owner Robert Kraft. 
"When we see each other, we talk," Parcells insisted. "You guys (the media) are thinking we are from some foreign countries or something. It's ridiculous. It's funny." 
Parcells, who guided the New York Giants to a pair of Super Bowl titles, hopes to turn on jhe conference that once fed him. The powerful Packers, eager to reclaim the legacy of the Lombardi era, are a two-touchdown favorite to give the NFC its 13th consecutive victory. 
"I think we're the underdog," Parcells said. "We're going to have to play well to beat them. 
While the NFC team is favored to win again, at least there arc two new teams in the Super Bowl. This is the first time since 1986 that a group of four perennial powers -San Francisco, Dallas, Denver and Buffalo-won't be represented. 
"I think people want to see different teams in the Super Bowl," Green Bay's Reggie White said. "It's a changing of the guard." 
Ptlli 1c:mamg seats 1 and 2 in 
• row 18 of the was just the of Gerrie and Frank Moirl;.rno good fortune, 
The couple decided to auc­tion their tickets to raise money for their son-in-law, Raphael Wolkenfeld, who was paralyzed and brain-damaged by a mystery seizure just tpree months after his wed­ding. 
By the time bidding was over, the Morlinos took in more than $11,000 for Wolkenfeld, along with sur­prise offers of new wheel­chairs and free medical ser­vices ..;,..,. and a second set of Super Bowl tickets to which a bidder attached one condition: thatthe Morlinos use them. 
. "lt',s been amazing," Frank Morlino said Tuesday, a day leaving for New .•.•v.,...... where he had expect• his Patriots from a ked infront of a evision. ''I didn't 
like this to 
e lives 
ie Morlino have no idea What caused They only know it wasn't ari aneurysm and it wasn't .a:•.· tumor, He was a perfectly he;..~lthy young man." · 
The Morlinos had hoped the ticket auction would raise enough money to fix Raphael's teeth, which chipped when he pitched Jor­wa~d in the tub as his wife bathed him. Cosmetics aren't the problem. The family wor­ries the jagged edges could cut Raphael's lips and tongue and impair his already slow speech for which hH is under­going therapy. 
Raphael -"Raphy" for short -has re-learned about a dozen words since his seizure. No one knows how much .the further he will progress. 
The Morlinos' Super Bowl tickets drew a high bid of $5,600 from Bill Comer of Rockland, Mass . 
"People are Nancy Wolkenfeld 
That'sU11:6~lievable. 


Texts -25%0ff! pus January 23 and 24 to recruit 1 to 4:30 p.m. Discuss summer free Q&A session, then LARS will 24 Hour Service. top-notch students to sell yellow Scratched COs? We fix 'em! call opportunities; bring copies of your DJ an all ages show at Senior Bar 
NOTICES 

Buy/Sell/Trade. page advertising for the Notre 284 4022 today! resume. at 9pm, $3. FUN for ALL!! 
Open 7 Days per week Dame directory. Gain valuable CANCUN-PADRE-MAZA TLAN ND at Howard Street experience in advertising, sales and '92 HONDA ACCORD t:X. BEAUT!-. SECOND ANNUAL SPRING BREAK'S HOTTEST! 233-2342 public relations. Management and FUL. $8,500 OR B/0. SUMMER JOB FAIR-GCE, Lower CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP 1·800-328-7513 Pandora's Books travel opportunities available. For 233-5537. Level-Thursday, January 23 from $45/ticket includes transpo, FREE FOOD. DRINK & PARTY information on scheduling an inter-1 to 4:30 p.m. Discuss summer rentals, lift tickets, and hotel. SPECIAL!/! view call Murray Dameron at 1-800-USED MACS AND PRINTER opportunities; bring copies of your Jan 25-26 @ Cascade Mtn. and Up to $200 Discount Coupons on ILOST & FOUND I 7 43-5556 Ext. 156. FOR SALE resume. hotel in Madison. WI our Website Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac Get your ticket @ LaF info desk www.studentadvtrav .com HELP!! NOW HIRING: University Sales and Plus system: HD, software, key-SUMMER JOB FAIR-GCE, Lower ''SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!" 
Lost my class ring between Marketing is hiring. Marketing, board, and mouse $150. Level-Thursday, January 23 from Spring Break Bahamas Party Sarin, SDH. and 06. Great Sales and Promotions positions Mac SE system: HD, software, 1to 4:30 p.m. Discuss summer Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All sentimental value. If found, available. Work on campus, keyboard, and mouse $175. Great opportunities; bring copies of your Hey Terry-Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great please call John at X2213 or Flexible Hours, Great pay. Call 800-systems for word processing! Used resume. How are those wings? Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From drop by 319. 562-8524. Mac hardware also for sale: key-Wanna play Army? 
..................._. ......................

Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800·678-6386 $$REWARD$$ boards, mice, external floppy dri­springbreaktravel.com Babysitter Wanted. Afternoons. vas. Arts and Letters Computing CLASS OF 1998 ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS A ND class ring lost at Coach'son Must have own car. $5/hour. Office, 216 O'Shag. x17021 Send letters to your friends abroad. $10.00 Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Monday. Katy 277-5207 Drop in envelope outside class CALL MIKE at 288·0116 
Room With Kitchen Near Bars Call Jack at 243-9396 if found. office at 213 LaFun by Jan 29th. $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! SMC student seeks Fe. roommate 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys· hey amanda d. and betsy-Hot Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa for spring,cute duplex,garage,own tern, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime LONG SLEEVE t-shirts are in. $15 Pants says hello and Shiva the pro-

WANTED

Beach Hilton $169! springbreaklrav-room, 5min from campus.271-9843 location, 109 N. St. Peter in the class office or from your dorm tector says special on eisle 9! 
el.com 233-9947 rep.
.........................................

1-800-678-6386 NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT-Babysitter wanted, pref. with own Free Couch! 
National Parks hire forestry work-transport., for toddler in our home. Bahamas vacation package Pull out bed in good condition. #1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On ers, park rangers, firefighters, life-Hours flexible 277-1037 for two, at less than $398 actual Extremely funny, great sounding, Owner moving-must be picked up campus, convenient. Call guards, + volunteer and govern-cost. call Noman @277-4269 Indiana State Trooper ISO ND/SMC before Monday. Must provide own Margrette 284-5261 ment positions. Excellent benefits + We need a couch I If you have an students to play Simon Says at trasportalion. 
bonus potential. extra one and want to get rid of it Dell 486: 8 Mb RAM, 850 Mb HD/50 LNO 1-31-97. 1·6100 Call Dennis at 674-0651 for more Sgt. Tim McCarthy says ... "Be a Call: 1·206-971·3620 ext. N55841 give us a call at 273-2580! MHz, 14.4 Modem, Windows 95, information. 
t:•  follower not a leader." Simon Says Game at LNO 1/31/97 Joyce Center 1-61 00. SPRING BREAK PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT TUB. SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE BIGGEST PARTY. FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MON­ EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by teaching basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Board + other potential benefits. Find out how to succeed in this field. Call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55844 CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT, Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean) & earn an excellent income in the Cruise & Land-Tour Industry. For details, call 1-206,  FOR RENT Homes for Rent for 97-98 ADT Security 232-2595 2 bdrms, near campus. Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Paul 232·2794 BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER MONTH! near campus -move in ASAP. call Julie @ 288 7284  Microsoft Office, 16Mb Ram avail­able, book holder+ 15" TV. All for only $800 Sial: 232-5846 TICKETS I need one JPW ticket for one or all of the events. Please call Shannon at X1833. Thanks. PERSONAL Spring Break Bahamas Party  Simon Says ... "See Sgt. Tim McCarthy at LNO-1/31/97." ########################### There will be a General meeting TONIGHT at 7:30 for all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL and QUESTION­lNG students, faculty, and staff. For more information, call the Q­LINE at 236·9661. ########################### WINTERFEST WINTERFEST MASSAGE WORKSHOP!!!!  I deparately need a statistics book from last semester (CAPP/SOC 303) because I can't afford to pay $66 bucks at the bookstore. I don't care if it's in rags-l'm too cheap to buy one. Call Liz at 1·4542 if you can possi­bly part with it for the semester. I'll even rent it from you if you really want it back. I know what great sen­timenal value they have. Yep. That SHORE is a nice picture. ain't it, Amy? Tom?  
TANA Come have the best summer of your life. St. Mary's Lodge & Resort, Glacier Park's finest now ­hiring for the 1997 summer season. Call (800)368-3689 or e-mail name  971-3550 ext.C55845 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Fishing Industry. Many earn up to $4,000+/mo. during peak season.  FOR SALE Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi- Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1·800-678·6386 springbreaktravel.com  Come and learn the seductive art of massage... LaFun Ballroom, 7pm-9pm Bring a pillow and best of all its FREE from SUB!  Zanne-two weeks from now you'll be thanking me. Hello all my dear friends who I have missed so much over the last  
- and address of glcjobs@magiclink.com for an application. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime.  Benefits often include Transportation and/or Room & Board. For details: (206)971-3510 ext. A55849  urn mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 674-2352  Florida Spring Break! Panama City! Room With Kitchen Near Bars $1191 Daytona-Best Location $139!  WI~TERFEST WINTERFEST Phelan:  semester abroad. I hope we all get together soon and catch up on everything that I've missed  
.....,...,..............  WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav- Maybe selling all those raffle tickets will get you in with the PTB ...  Hello Fig!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
X-Ray Roger Jimmy We're Back Fri. 1/24 @ Bridget's  SUMMER SALES/ADVERTISING POSITIONS University Directories, the nation's  TA'MARA 273-5166 BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT  el.com 1-800-678-6386  KAT and LARS are coming!!!! The stars from MTV's Real World  Hey Shermie. Day, Dave, Kathleen, Joe--it's great to be back!!!!!  
Sat. 1/25 @ Corby's  largest publisher of campus tele·  TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, Lower  London will be at the LaFun  Hi.  
phone directories, will be on cam- BEST OFFER. 289-1347-ERIK  Level-Thursday, January 23 from  Ballroom this Friday at 6:30 for a  

..___.--.-·-----..--------._.-~---~ 

Thursday, January 23, I997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page II 

GABRIEL'S TRUMPET 

It was a couple of summers ago, as I recall. There was this little known haven with a big band orchestra, and on sultry summer nights the townspeople would show up, and cut the rug, moving in slow circles around the dance floor with their spouses of many years. 
Some young kid-a trumpet player-had just lined up a gig in this orchestra. He was just out of high school, just "busting his chops" as they say in band lingo. And one night, he took along one of his best buddies to play along side him in the band. The trumpeter intro­duced his buddy to the section leader, a man many years his senior...he was proud of this friend of his. This young trumpet player gravitated toward people of real talent, and his friend was no exception, for he was a standout drummer. 
Watching this drummer was notjust an opportunity to listen to a great musician. It was a chance to watch someone get caught up in the rapture of music, the sheerjoy of creat­ing great sounds. Maybe you know someone like this: an athlete, or a musician, or someone who uses their hands in a specialized craft. Sometimes you meet people who are good at what they do simply because what they are doing brings them, and the beholder, incredible joy. 
So, there they were, at the dance. The kid trumpet player stepped up to his senior section leader, and asked if his drummer friend couldjoin in a couple of pieces. It was no big deal-they were all standards. But the answer returned was something not counted on. 
'We don't let their kind play with us." 

The kid trumpeter blinked, as if someone hadjust spoken a foreign language. And in fact it was a foreign language, in that domain of music where issues such as these should be left at the door. For the drummer was an African American. 
When this young tmmpeter told me the story, I listened intently. My mind was rac­ing ahead, asking a myriad of questions. 'Who instigated this racist remark?" I wondered. "Did the orchestra director condone such a thing?" "What was your response to this section leader?" 
But as I was preparing my first question, the trumpeter came forward with another detail which made the context all the more striking. For the musical selections which were about to be played were composed by one of "their kind." The composer was Duke Ellington. 
It was a delicate moment, this standoff between the kid trumpeter and the seasoned pro. The kid was new to the scene, and crossed lines of respect could mean the difference between a paycheck and a rusty trumpet. But as I soon found out, the young trumpeter stood his ground. He took his case to the orchestra director. He threatened to call the musician's union. In faj:t, he did what any good prophet would do: he challenged the status quo. He was striving for justice. 
We stand in the midst of a month when we celebrate all the many gifts which our African American brothers and sisters have offered the world community. Some of these accomplishments have been highly publicized: everything from a bus ride by a Montgomery resident to a swinging jazz piece, composed by a genius in the trade. But these are only the tip of a huge wellspring ofaccomplishments, great and small, offered by our African American brothers and sisters. And it is only half of the equation. 
The other half of the equation, beyond>our recognition ofwhat African Americans have brought to the collective experience of our nation, is our own advocacy of those experi­ences. And that is why I tell the story of the trumpet player. Sometimes it is not fair enough to simply admire an African American composer, or a speech, or a poem, or a deed. Sometimes, the great mandala oflife swings our way. And we must take a stand.. of decency, daring, and advocacy. 
Two thousand years ago, a young Messiah wandered into the murky waters ofadult life, and let himself by baptized by the hands ofanother prophet. And his Maker looked down from above, and said that he was proud of his son. Part of why I write this article this week is because the trumpet player was my son ... and he also was baptized into the waters of adulthood by standing his ground. In his own way, a way to which we all are called ... he was prophetic. And I, like my Maker, am pleased with the work of the son. 
Steven C. Warner Campus Ministry 
0MPUS. MINISTRY 


r ----.........._-.
------~---~---~­
, 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday,January 23, 1997 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Quarterback Ron Powlus and Center Rick Kaczenski will have one more season together to perfect the technique of the snap. 
you don't ~av~ to be Sfl:rnninQ-or sophisticated to work in the 


AD DESIGN 
department of ~OBSERVER. 
Only yuur ads have tn be. 

Ifyou have any desktop publishing skills, a flair for the creative and are interested in joining The Observer staff, call Jed at 634-1167 . 
./ Used, rare and
'97-98 
out-of-print books 
4-8 Bedrooms, 
Initial cost of $2.00 Fully furnished Nationally -circulated ad Security Systems Success rate of 50'/o Time required: 2 months
Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
ADVERTISEMENT 
V•VARSITY C•CLUB I•INTRAMURAL 

college level. for us next year." "As an offensive lineman, it's Dansby will also have the
Football 

best to stay all four years in opportunity to compete with continued from page 16 college," said Doughty. his younger brother, Kevin, "I need one more year of who orally committed to Notre 
experience and hopefully I'll Dame earlier this week.
that finished a controversial 
improve my stock in the NFL "I was sort of like Gimminey
No. 2 to Florida State. 
draft." Cricket (from Pinnocchio) sit­
Therefore, the trio will have 
Like Powlus, Dansby was ting on his shoulder, trying to

the opportunity to return as 
forced to sit out an entire sea­convince him to do what was
fifth year seniors and protect son with an injury. During right and come to Notre
Powlus for a fourth straight 
spring drills in 1995, the 6-Dame," said the elder Dansby.
season. 

foot-4, 270 pound defensive "I've never played with my
''I'm looking forward to the end suffered a neck injury that brother before, so I'm really
chance to play with Ron and 
kept him out of football for an looking forward to the chance."
the other guys one more time," entire year. Dansby returned -The group has petitioned thesaid Kaczenski. "We kind of for a strong 1996 season and faculty board for permission tofelt like we have some unfin­should be better than ever next return next fall, and given theished business here, and that is fall. ­
circumstances, the five stu­

something we'll use as motiva­"Melvin Dansby has a lot of dent-athletes should have notion for next season." 
experience and gives us a lot of problem receiving approval strength up front," said Davie. from the board.
All five players would have 
"With Renaldo (Wynn) and The players were not sure
gotten a look from the NFL, but Alton (Maiden) leaving, Melvin when the final decision wouldeach hopes to benefit from one will play an even bigger role be made.
more year of seasoning at the 
Want to tnake a difference in the Life of a child this Sutnmer? 
Come for a job interview to work at: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
Interviews Friday, January 24th from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Library Foyer 
LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW tHE TIME AND LOCATION OF'YOUR EVENTS FOR NEXT MONTH. REACH HER AT COLLEEN.HENSHAW@NIKE.COM 

24 MEN'S HOCKEYN VS. ST. CLOUD STATE AT JACC 7:00PM  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL/V VS. GEORGETOWN AT JACC 1:00PM  25  WOMEN'S TRACK/V VS. INDIANA AT LOFTUS SPORTS CENTER  26 MEN'S & WOMEN'S BASKETBALL/I INTERHALL GAMES JACC 1:00-4:00 PM  
MEN'S  CO-RECIWALLEYBALL/1 
HOCKEYN  RACQUETBALL COURTS  
VS. ST. CLOUD STATE  7:00PM  
AT JACC  
7:00PM  

THE GOAL OF SPORTSWEEKEND IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS NI~E DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSfl'l', INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS SCHEDULE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 
page 13 

Gotsch 

Late Nigbt Olympics -Late Night OlympicsXl isscheduled for Jan531 p.m, at the Joyce Ge~ _________ am entries·· are due by J~J"!; _ r more information call 37~ •... ;"' ... 
Shorin, _J{ar&te·-··· Studl;lnts inst6.tcted according tQ.Ok.inawant¢ch~ niques,T.Ms.s~JV.ester•19p,g 
cours¢ m¢ets i!l Rockne Rm. ­219 and 
semester Sundays ftQJn: 
Rockne Rm. 301; You 
register advance 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543 





The Observer 
Saint Mary's Editor is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's News Editor 

Please call Caroline at 631-4540 for information. 
'l{eenan Hall's Finest" 
Happy 21ST Scott! 

Love, 
~euutz>ad 
continued from page 16 
from the outside where they were only 6-for-21 from behind the three-point arc (29 per­cent). Seton Hall's front court of Bayonne Taty, Duane Jordan, and Kelland Payton combined for just 14 points. 
"He was effective," Irish head coach John MacLeod added. 
Enough said. 
"Our whole team was playing great defense," Gotsch added. "We played physical with them. We matched them man for man. We kept them off the glass. We kept them out of what they wanted to do in their offense. And it worked." 
Another thing working last night was Admore White's jumper. White poured in 14 second half points, including two electrifying three-point bombs that helped the Irish pull away midway through the latter half. 
"Early in the year he (White) couldn't make anything," MacLeod said. "He was shoot­ing it flat. 2 
But to his credit he kept working at it and he seems to be relaxing. He had some great looks tonight and he drilled them." 
Along with Pete Miller's 13 points, the Notre Dame guard tandem elevated their game as leading scorer Pat Garrity had a quiet night with 13 points, all coming in the second half. Antoni Wyche also came off the bench to add 10 points, while Jimmy Dillon had eight. 
It was the type of balanced effort that the Irish have been anticipating all season. 
-_,.1(_ __ 
"We depend on Pat all the time," White added. "It was nice to see other guys step up tonight." 



New England Patriots 
vs. 
Green Bay Packers 




LAFORTUNE BALL.ROOM 
doors open at 5:30PM ... kickoff's at 6:17PM 
FREE FOOD! DOOR PRIZES! COOL COMMERCIALS! catch all the action on the largest screen on campus! 
brought to you by Student Acthtities 

. .., 
-

r 
page 14 

")-.·· 
Grune 
continued from page 1 
tandem, Phil Hickey and Marcus Young, kept Seton Hall off-balance in the post while putting up solid offensive num­bers. The trio combined for 15 points, 20 rebounds against a physical Pirate team. 
"Matt played thirty minutes, and he was effective," MacLeod mentioned. "He was a factor with those long arms. He was a factor against Syracuse, and he was a factor here (against Seton Hall)." 
Notre Dame's lift came at the guard positions as well. Admore White, primed for his showdown with sensational rookie Shaheen Holloway, more than held his own, tacking on a terrific offensive performance with 16 points and six assists as his shooting, a struggle at the start the season, tossed the Pirates overboard. 
"When you play against a top guard like Shaheen Holloway, one of the top guards in the country,.. I think it;s more of a challenge to guard a guy like Holloway. He is bullet-quick," MacLeod said. 
"White had a terrific game," Blaney evaluated. "He made three huge shots for them that were critical. We tried to go to a zone on two possessions in a row and they made two threes on us, and that was a big part of the game." 
Holloway could not rescue his teammates from the water despite a 17 point, 10 assist, and 8 rebound performance. He took a shot in the stomach 

~~----· -~­
The Observer • SPORTS 
early in the first half, and never seemed to fully recover, getting winded by the fast-break oppor­tunities Notre Dame used in the second half to keep the run going. His pretty passes and quick step drew admiration from the opposition, but were not enough to salvage a victory. 
Holloway's counterpart in the back-court, Levell Sanders, never found his shooting touch, much to the credit of Pete Miller and Antoni Wyche, who tallied 13 and 10 points, respectively, to provide much-needed scoring punch from the outside. Freshman guard Jimmy Dillon performed well in relieving White at the point, tossing in eight points and playing heads­up ball against the speedy Holloway. 
"This was a good game for Antoni off the bench, and Pete Miller gave us a big boost early with the threes," MacLeod said. 

"Tone stepped up, particularly in the second half. Two back-up guards (Wyche and Dillon) real­ly stepped up tonight." 
Seton Hall found itself on the losing end of a 23-5 scoring run that encompassed six and a half minutes of clock time early in the second half. The Hall had led 33-29 entering the second period of play, but with 10:07 remaining, found themselves in trouble as the Irish led 59-4 7. White, who had a hot hand from the perimeter, buried a trey from the right side, taking Holloway off the dribble. The Irish got also got a triple from Miller early in the run that put them in the lead for good. 
<Seton Hall's quickness gave the Irish fits in the first half as their tenacious defense and speedy guards kept them ahead for most of the half. Notre Dame could never get its offense to roll without Garrity in 
DO ~OV LOYI 140 Ill! lt\VIIC! W8ITIMG! 
The Observer wants YOU. 
Accent is looking for a few good people from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College for these positions 
• 
Music Critics 

• 
Film Critics 

• 
Soap Opera Correspondents 

• 
Copy Editors 

• 
Assistant Editors and Writers in general 



Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions, please contact Joey at 631-4540 
--. 
Thursday,January 23, 1997 

the game, but managed to con­vert opportunities to stay in the game throughout. The Hall built up a seven point lead early in the second half, but began to crumble once the Irish found their stride. 
"They're a very quick team-a much quicker team than what I thought," MacLeod said. 
Donnell Williams scored 18 points off the bench to lead the Pirates on 6-15 shooting from the field. 
"It was a big game, a must win," Gotsch offered. "Our 
team in the first half was a little down, a little non-emotional. think when we play with emo­tion and have some fun out there we play our best games, so that's what I was trying to do, get my team fired up." 
As Gotsch batted away the final shot of the night (although it was ruled a goaltend) the grin on his face was very indicative of the good feelings the game should give the Irish. With a tough game expected against West Virginia on Saturday, a wee bit of confidence can't hurt. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Now ilvoiloble Fot• JPW! 
Due lo an unexpected cancellation, the Upper Deck is available Saturday, February 15th 

For Information 
call: 

Coveleski l~egional Stadium 501 West South Street 
235-9985 
Downtown South Bend 

The Observer needs Typists 
Type letters and notices during the day for the next days issue. ' Please call Brian Tierney at 631-5303 to apply or ask questions. 
Please call before Friday. 





DOWN HILL 
~~a iT~arP 

FRIDAY, JANUARY 24 

SWISS VALLEY 

BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00PM 
COST:  $27.00  INCLUDES LIFT TICKET, RENTAL  
AND TRANSPORT  
$18.00  LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY  

RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT Z?.e?~~ DEADLINE: JANUARY 23 




Thursday, January 23, l 997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE will work; deal with them as they NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: arise. Quiet pastimes appeal tonight. Spreading your wings professionally VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): will bring new financial rewards. Be Your financial wheeling-and-dealing conscientious about putting work progresses nicely. Romance could before pleasure. You could end up take you by surprise. Go slow if you on Easy Street if you are willing to are on the rebound. The friction work longer hours. Real estate in­between you and offspring is tempo­vestments enjoy favorable influ­rary; give them time. ences. Consult experts before mak­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pro­ing a large-scale business move. Do tect your public image by exercising not be afraid to ask employers or greater discretion. Your excellent clients for fair compensation. A joy­negotiating skills help you work out ous announcement will make the an agreement that will make every­winter holidays even more special. one fee11ike~a winner. The family circle grows larger. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON spending spree may sound like fun THIS DAY: dancer Chita Rivera, but it could put you behind the eight actor Rutger Hauer, football player ball financially. You command your 
MIKE PETERS Pat Haden, singer Anita Pointer. friends' respect by showing self­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A restraint. fast-paced day lies ahead, with SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. many people getting in each other's 21 ): The future looks bright, espe­way. Small crises pop up, keeping cially where your career and everyone on the go. Your productivi­finances are concerned. Positive ty will rise if you can find a quieter feedback from an authority figure work environmc;nt. gives you new hope for a project. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Move swiftly; the timing is right. Help someone you may have CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. neglected recently. A forgive-and­19): Money will come from an forget attitude will strengthen your unexpected source. Show apprecia­relationships. Share the limelight tion. Your popularity continues to with the truly deserving. rise. Be choosy in romance. You 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): may decide to turn down a young Your reservations about a member suitor in favor of someone older and of the opposite sex deserve further wiser. thought. Is it possible that this per­AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): son is shy instead of arrogant? Work Forget any recent disappointments conditions will soon improve. and face the future with confidence. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your compassion and generosity Spending time alone gives you a will be repaid tenfold. An on-again,DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS chance to recharge your batteries. off-again romance may not be worth 
Influential people enter your life. the stress. The choice is yours.
~ r:::============::::::-1 


Socializing could lead to exciting PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be
A.S FA.P.. A.5 I CAN TE.LL,

DON'T MENTION ANY E 
THE.'T' MIGHT iRY iO 

opportunities. Follow up on a recent on time to appointments. A business 
meeting. presentation should be delayed until
PROBLEMS WHEN YOU 8 
E.VE.R.Y LA."(ER Of f"\ANAGE.­
SOLVE 11-\E. PP..O~LE.f"\5 
... 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Quick you have the latest facts and figures. 
.!

00 YOUR PRESENTATION i 
ME.NT E~I5T5 FOR THE. thinking helps you advance your Conservative money management
DURING lt\E MEETING. 
~ 
. 

career. Take care of home repairs practices will help you achieve the
SOLE. PURPOSE Of WARNING

TO 5ENrOf\ f'\A.NAGEMENT, ~ 
;;
THA.i WOU\..0 BE A 

before they become major. Sweep­greatest gains. Practice small daily ing family problems under the rug economies. 
AR.£ YOU 5/I..YlNG 
THE"( 
HAVE A 
PURPO~E.r 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Ricochet 10 Partner for "so 36 Publicize near"
1 Recording 37 Shows curiosity 71 Inveigle •
session need 39 Gosh-darn 72 Strangers may
6 Direct 41 Freshly getthem "~ 12 Task 73 Skipped, as in44 General-turned­14 Feminist Smeal printingpolitician
and others 46 Passover feast
16 U.P.S. 
48 "Die 

customer DOWN
Meistersinger"11 Classical heroine 1 Most vaguelanguage 49"--Tune" 2Trap·18 Got ready to (50's TV theme 3 Englishdrive, with "up" song) 

composer19 Dress up 52 Redirected Thomas21 Boy preceder 

54 Reprint 4 Row 22 Rob of "About necessity: Abbr. 

5 From S.F. toLast Night ..." 55 Apollo vehicle, Wyo.

24 Flemish for short 6 Thomas 
composer-­
57 Lots 
Jefferson'sPres 58 Ergo Declaration role 

26 Part of H.M.S. 
so Copy 7 Alliance 27 Engrossed 62 Heart and soul headquartered 31 Idolize 66 Brush up again in D.C. 33 Vitamin stat. 68 Stop, as a flow 8 Durante's "-­Dinka Doo" 9 Yankee ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1o More banal ,..,...,.-,--,-.., 11 Uncompre­hending 

35 Intimate term of 53 Neglected, as 64--exec. 
response address beds w 



Wanted: .Reporters, 
65 Something to fill 38 Schuss 56 Southwestern in 40 Beach party desert feature 
67--Sabha 
game 
59 Mediocre 
(Indian 


photographers
42 Christmas -­
61 Sentence part: legislature) 43 Walletful 
Abbr. 
69 Addr. book 
45 Sushi order 
63 Plenty: Var. entry 47 Down Under 

and editors. 
critter, 
informally 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
49 Contestant's 
are available by touch-tone phone:application 

Join The Observer
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 50 Cobble again 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 51 Font best of Sunday crosswords from the last 32 By way of . embellishments 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


staff. 











SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, January 23, 1997 
• MENS BASKETBAll 

Irish get their kicks, 86-72 

By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
As time expired on Seton Hall last night, Notre Dame center Matt Gotsch cleared away one last Pirate attempt, clearing the way for the first ever consecutive Irish wins in the Big East. 
Consecutive victories may be big news, but there's more. Four Notre Dame players entered the elusive double­digit realm, keying an explo­sive 57 point second half. 
Hold on there. Not done yet. Gotsch's final swat, although waved off, typified a four-block performance as he and his teammates played rock solid 
defense, effectively shutting down Seton Hall's quicker lineup. 
Everything came together on a night where most Joyce Center patrons found no rea­son to exit early. 
"It was a big game," Gotsch said. "It was a must win. In the first half we were a little down and we play better when we're fired up. And that's what I was trying to do. I was out there trying to get my team pumped up." 
If not with an emphatic rejection, then with 13 rebounds and eight points. Gotsch's presence in the lane also forced the Pirates to shoot 
see GOTSCH I page 13 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
The dawn of a new day is ris­ing. As the sun breaks through the clouds, a rainbow appears to blanket the sky. From the heavens, angels sing in exulta­tion. The hand of God... 
Well, maybe that's a bit too dramatic, but some truly momentous things occurred last night in the Joyce Center for Notre Dame's men's basket­ball team, especially in the sec­ond half. 


First and foremost, the Irish took a hard-fought contest from the Seton Hall Pirates, 86­72, giving them their second­straight Big East victory and their third on the season, and bringing their overall record to 9-8, 3-5 in conference stand­ings. Despite terrific Pi"rate defense in the first half, Notre Dame was able to enter the locker room at half time with just four points to make up, and they did that and more. 
"In the second half, we began to dig in and really go to work from a defensive standpoint," Irish coach John MacLeod recalled. "As a result we were able to break out and get some fast break baskets. Later on, we were able to begin to oper­ate the offense and get some great looks at it." 
Pat Garrity, Notre Dame's leading scorer, shocked every­one as he did not connect in the first half for any points, getting in foul trouble early on. Garrity came on in the second to score 13 points in, the half, hitting 5-7 and both attempts from three-point land once he played enough to finally break a sweat. 
"In the second half, (Garrity) came off a couple of screens really well and did some dam­age," Seton Hall coach George Blaney offered. "He's a very good player. He's one of those guys who has made himself into a terrific Division I player that will go on to the next level, and I don't think that anybody thought that was going to hap­pen when he came (to Notre Dame)." 
"I think that's the best we've run our offense all year, that stretch in the second half," Garrity said. 
To help alleviate matters, a sleeping giant awoke inside, adding eight points, 13 rebounds, and four blocks to the cause. Matt Gotsch and the other two thirds of the center 
see GAME I page 14 
• fOOTBAU. 
Looking for five to revive 
Four others join Pow/us in return for fifth year 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
Things continue to look up for new Irish head coach Bob Davie. 
Although Notre Dame will lose several key players from the. 1996 season to graduation, it could have been a lot worse. 
According to reports, four 
seniors off last season's squad, including defensive lineman Melvin Dansby and offensive linemen Rick Kaczenski, Mike Doughty, and Chris Clevenger, will join quarterback Ron Powlus in returning for a fifth year, pending University approval. 
With the Feb. 5 signing day approaching, the luxury of hav­ing five experienced seniors back will take some of the pres­sure off Davie's first recruiting class. The first year coach also avoided a potential problem area on the offensive line, with three starters returning to anchor coordinator Jim Colletto'snew offense. 

"I look forward to the chance to play under Coach Davie and Coach Colletto," said Doughty. "The opportunity to play in the new stadium was also a big fac­tor (in deciding to return)." 
"Most importantly, I would like to help the team to get to the ultimate goal of winning a national championship." 
As freshmen, Doughty, Clevenger, and Kaczenski did not see time on the 1993 squad 
see FOOTBALL I page 12 

The Observer/Rob Finch Melvin Dansby (51) is one of five players who have elected to return for a fifth seaon with the Irish, pending University approval. 






