
Friday, January 24, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 76 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students find inspiration at march 

Theologians examine homosexuality, doctrine 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Ediror 
Four members of Notre Dame's theology department explored homosexuality, church doctrine, and campus gay and lesbian issues in a roundtable discussion yester­day evening. 
Emphasizing Christian ideals of compassion and under­standing, the panel concluded that there is little ecclesiasti­cal or moral support for homophobia or gay discrimi­nation. 
"Homophobia is at least as large an ethical problem for the Church as is homosexuali­ty," said Father Richard McBrien, professor of theolo­gy. 
Among the specific observa­tions that surfaced was the questionable validity of theo­logical justification against allowing a Notre Dame gay and lesbian student group. 
Examining homosexuality in the bible and other Christian texts, associate professor of theology Mary Rose D'Angelo was the panel's first speaker. She argued that certain writ­ings have been taken out of context and largely misinter­preted to support homophobia 
As an example, D'Angelo pointed out that Bible sections condemning homosexuality also ban mules and fabric blends. She offered that criti­cism of homosexuality in the 
see THEOLOGY I page 4 

By KAT¥ MURPHY a bomb scare Wednesday News Writer morning caused distress and confusion in the city. A man 
Students returned from the running from the Mayflower March for Life in Washington hotel carried a suitcase which D.C., yesterday morning, feel­exploded outside of the Planned ing rejuvenated and inspired Parenthood office. He fled the about their cause, according to scene and is now in custody. 
students who ------------Updates 
attended  the  
march.  
"I  was  im­ 

pressed by the number of peo­ple there -the whole attitude of singing and praying. There was such a sense of peace you just felt that you were doing the right thing," 
'Abortion is like the 
Holocaust of little children, but by going to the protest, this is our way of stopping the Holocaust in our own society.' 
were given throughout the day concerning the nature of the bomb, though as of now there are no details. A flashbomb, or fake explosion, is a possibility since the bomb carrier was 
Erin Donnelly apparently not 

junior Bonny ------------hurt at all. Young said. Wilkie 
People of many different reli-explained, however, that the gions and ages took part in the scare had a surprisingly mini-March. mal impact on the March. 
"J think the more vocal part "We were in a very support-of the movement is the radical ive and joyous environment. It Christian right, but I think that seemed very far removed from there's support from all parts where we were," she said. "I of the political spectrum. The don't think it has anything media will portray (it) as the specifically to do with the pro­radical right, but if you look at life movement." the people and the groups Many students said their there, there was representation strong anti-abortion sentiments from all types," said sophomore were further strengthened by Catriona Wilkie, the vice presi-their experiences in dent of the Notre Dame-Saint Washington. Mary's Right to Life group. "I think that's one of the 
"It was a good mix of political greatest tragedies in American support and spiritual reinforce-society. I compare it to slavery ment," Wilkie said. 
Although no one was harmed, see MARCH I page 4 
Friday Feature 

A gathering of minds 
By TATUM MENGYAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 

Since 1991, the Play of the Mind Conference has been a developing tradition at Saint Mary's, exploring both intellectual life and leadership at women's colleges across the nation. · 
Last evening, students, .faculty, administra­tors, and student development professionals from 23 women's colleges gathered together in O'Laughlin Auditorium to kick off the open­ing of this year's Play of the Mind Conference. 
"The purpose of such a conference can be tound primarily in its name. The Play of the 
. Mind is always a combination of interaction, creative thinking, fun, and intellectual engagement," said Patrick White, associate dean of faculty and director of the Center for Academic Innovation at Saint Mary's College. "The primary goal, to remind us all, both faculty, students, and student development professionals alike, that intellectual life can present itself in a variety of shapes, colors, and experiences that we may not necessarily regard as intellectual; from conversations among students in a residence hall to those between faculty and students in and out of the classroom. Intellectual life can be, and often times is, creative and playful," he added. This year's Play of the Mind brings together the largest number And largest variety of women's colleges in the six year history of the program. "This year's conference could easily be called a national conference under the realm of leadership experienc," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Student' Activities at Saint Mary's College. 

The theme of this year's conference, "Play of the Mind: The Women's College Promise," will attempt to explore the dialogue that binds all participants together while embrac­ing those qualities that make them diverse, both as individuals and institutions. Participants will also work to model collabo­rative forms of leadership, those existing on 
see MIND I page 6 

...--------------~--~--~-~­
page 2 
n INSIDE COLUMN 
Consutner: Be an1used, but be a-ware 
Time is money like never before. 
Thirty seconds is going for 1.2 million dol­lars these days-that is, if we're talking in Super Bowl seconds. 
This year the Super Bowl is expected to attract nearly 140 million viewers, or so says Newsweek magazine. And the audience is com­posed of men, women, and children-rich and poor alike. It's the adver­tiser's dream audience. One hundred forty mil­lion Americans gathered Patti Carson around the television Managing Editor spending the "Super -------­Bowl American Holiday" doing exactly what this sports fanatic quasi-holiday entails-just sitting there and watching the tube-the game and the advertisements (which are as enter­taining as the main event). 

Those companies which can afford to adver­tise-like Anheuser-Busch, Pepsi, Honda, and Paramount-are certainly willing to pay their 
1.2 mil per spot. If you had the cash, wouldn't you buy a spot? After all, we remember the commercials possibly in more detail than we do the actual game. Who could forget the Baked Lays commercial with all of the super models "eating like one of the guys." Or those Tostitos commercials or the whole Bud Bowl thing? 
We certainly expect to see more great com­mercials this year. 
So I got to thinking-what if I had the cash that these big companies do? What if I bought a thirty second spot? What would I say? 
What statement could I make? What mar­keting schemes work? And then it came to me. My thirty second spot: 
Hi. I hope you're enjoying the game. I bet you're having a great time-! bet you have a lot of food in front of you, and drinks, too. It's probably too much for you to eat, even with all of your friends to help you. 
But hey, here's an idea. Do you know any college students? Do you have friends who have friends or siblings who are college stu­dents? Then maybe you can help. 
While you have an abundance of food in front of you, somewhere there is a college stu­dent who is hungry (for homemade food). Somewhere there is a college student who is "thirsty." It may even be a student you know. Somewhere there is a college student who is lacking funds for a shopping spree to Meijer. 
But you can help. Send care-packages. Cookies, hot choco­late, warm socks, whatever. 
Or send money. Whatever you can spare. A roll of quarters, a ten or a twenty would be ideal. (Right now five dollars can buy a pitch­er which would serve three thirsty college stu­dents.) 
I'll let you get back to your show. Enjoy it. And have fun eating your homemade dips and stuff. But remember-there is a college stu­dent who would love yo1,1r laftovers. 
(Maybe you would say something different with your thirty seconds. To be honest, I probably would, too. But if this campaign would work even to a tenth of the extent that a lot of the other ads we see on TV do, then we'd be set. I guess what I'm trying to say is that I hope you enjoy the award-winning advertisements you'll see this Sunday-and every day, for that matter. But be a careful consumer. Because so much of it is about the advertising.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint Mike Lewis Ayana Fahkir Sean Smith 
Accent Michelle Krupa Dan Cichalski Sports 
Graphics Joe Cavato 
Jon KingProduction 
Lab Tech Michelle Krupa 
Joe Stark Heather Cocks 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Friday, January 24, 1997 
• WORW AT A GlANCE 
Likud, labor forage census between forces on Gaza strip 
JERUSALEM 
They called them the Tuesday meetings. 

A dozen Israeli parliament members ­half from the ruling Likud Party. half from the opposition Labor Party -gathered weekly at a villa in an upscale Jerusalem neighborhood. They sat around a wooden table and tackled the seemingly impossi­ble task of forging a consensus between Israel's left and right on the future~ of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
The document emerging after 13 weeks is vague, non-binding, and already slammed by critics as a futile intellectual exereise. 
Nevertheless, these five pages could guide Israel in final peace talks with the Palestinians. 
The authors declare that Israel will agree to the establishment of a Palestinian entity in part of the West Bank and Gaza and will seek to annex most Jewish settle­ments. 
Palestinian civil control with Israeli security D Total israeli control 

~Janin

J5km 
< ­

Tulka~m­
-
. 

Qalqilya....,. ....,._ N<ihlus Mediterrmtemq West StQ Y Bank Jc~icho 
Ramallah~ 
i; 

,jerusalem ---~ 
-Bethlehem __J;¥ 
1-
Hchron .:,__._;f 
Gaza ISRAEL 


Strip 
Gingrich refuses to comment on fine 
After days out of the public eye, House Speaker Newt Gingrich re­emerged Thursday but declined to answer questions about his ethics case or plans for making a $:~00,000 pay­ment ordered by the House. Gingrich said he would give a speech on the case at an unspecified date and answer questions at that time. Beyond that, he 

told reporters, "I have no comment on it." Flanked by other GOP House leaders, the Georgia Republican appeared at a news conference called to rally public sup­port for passage of a balanced budget amendment. The House is scheduled to vote Feb. 26, and Gingrich and others said it would be difficult to get the necessary two­thirds majority. Gingrich was reprimanded by the I louse on Tuesday for admitted ethics violations and ordered to pay the $300,000 penalty. His lawyer, J. Handolph Evans, said in a recent interview that the speaker was considering tapping several s.ources for the payment, including personal funds, campaign contributions and a legal defense fund. Gingrich told reporters that lawyers were discussing the issue, and however it is decided, "It will be legal and ethical." 
Get on-line for life 
SAN FHANCISCO 
A new company began offering lifetime Internet use on Thursday for a one-time fee of $60. The catch: You'll have to deal with advertisements across the bottom of your screen. (at)bigger.net offered San Francisco-area customers unlimited use of the Net, with the fee also covering a year of e-mail. After the first year, e-mail will cost $10 annually. The ads will appear in a 2 1/2-by­1/2-inch space. Jeff Fortin, chief executive of the San Jose company, said he hopes to land customers who can't afford the usual Internet subscription fees of $240 to $360 a year. The idea isn't new. Since 1991, several companies have experimented with free e-mail and Internet use, paid for, like (at)bigger.net, with ad rev­enue instead of subscriber fees. One company, Cybermedia, even pays users to look at ads. Analyst Emily Green with Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., isn't convinced the plan will work, since it is cur­rently available only in the San Francisco area. 
Friday 33
~ 


Saturday 22
~ 


Sunday 23
~ 

Monday ~ 39 


Thes~"'~'M 30 
They dodge the key issue of

Current status 
-Total Palesti~ian control 
Palestinian statehood. And they insist on a united Jerusalem under Israeli control, an unthinkable concept to the Palestinians, who want east Jerusalem as their capital. 
But for the Likud, the document marks a clear departure fi·om its pre­vious policy of trying to preserve Israeli control over the West Bank and Gaza -and its departure marginal­izes right-wing ideologues who refuse to change with the times. 
"The reality changed. and we have to move on," said Michael Eitan. who led th() Likud lawmak()rs in the discus­sions. 
lie and the other authors say they expect their document -to be pub­lished in full on Sunday -to guide Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in talks with the Palestinians on a final 
peace agrnement, set to begin in March. 
Coke settles dispute over trademark 
CHICAGO 
Coke is going ahead with its Surge for the Super BowL Coca-Cola settled a trademark dispute Thursday with a company that uses the name Surge for a cow-milking machine, clearing tho way for a Super Bowl ad blitz for a new high-calorie, high-caffeine soda with the same name. Surge, a green-colored drink, is Coca-Cola's answer to Pepsi's Mountain Dew, which has become one of the nation's hottest-selling soft drinks. Babson Bros. said it didn't want Surge, the name for its automatic milking machine and green-colored industrial cleaning products, to be confused with a "caffeinated, artificially colored, fully loaded soda pop." Babson claimed it has held the trademark on the Surge name since 1925. The company, based in suburban Chicago, had asked a fed­eral judge to block Coca-Cola's launch of its $50 million ad campaign, but the hearing was postponed while the two sides negotiated. Coca-Cola spokeswoman Polly Hawes said there would be no changes to its ads on Sunday, but she wouldn't elaborate on the deal. Legal analysts had suggested Coke probably would have to pay Babson to use the name rather than risk a judge block­ing the ads. Babson chief executive Nick Babson said the agreement affirms Babson has no business affiliation with Coca-Cola and that the new soft drink is not affiliat­ed with Babson's Surge products. 
Pastor urges freedom for arsonist 
ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. 
A pastor whose church was set afire during a night of 
race rioting practiced the forgiveness he preaches, urg­
ing a judge to keep the young arsonist out of prison. 
"Here was a 17-year-old who was caught up in the 
moment," the Rev. Joseph Teague said in court 
Wednesday. Prosecutors want to sentence Emory 
Everett Carter next month as an adult on an arson 
charge and send him to prison for up to 3 1/2 years. 
Teague, of the Trinity United Methodist Church, asked 
that Carter make restitution by working at the church 
and attending mental health counseling and drug reha­
bilitation. Carter, who is black, sometimes attended 
Bible study sessions at the small church, which has 
members of both races. The church was about to cele­
brate its 70th anniversary when a white police officer 
shot and killed a young black man during a traffic stop 
Oct. 24. setting ofT a night of rioting. The church was set 
on fire that night, sustaining only minor damage. 

n SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 24. 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 



20 
5 
20 27 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
tC 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L m E..'Sl [Til 0 . ~ 8 {) !:J. u
12 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRI€8 SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIS ASSOCI&ted Press 
Atlanta 54 50 Foxboro 44 34 Miami 79 69 
Boston 46 32 Green Bay 20 15 New Orleans 68 50 Chicago 24 19 Houston 71 50 New York 47 33
q,Q,~A.Q-8 (f ~ d 
Denver 47 15 Kennebunk 42 26 StLouis 30 24
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 29 28 Las Vegas 62 43 San Francisco 57 52
Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
.. ..
,~..,.,

...... ""·-••••""· -.,·a·A··············~a.·a,._, 
Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Thefts·continue on campus 
Student group offers financial aid service 
By MICHELLE KRUPA discuss alternate sources of Assistant News Editor aid. "A lot of students have had 
Student government will difficulty with the financial provide a new service to stu-aid office, and we just want dents seeking information to be another resource stu­regarding financial aid begin-dents can use to get the ning next week. resources they need to sue-
The group's new Financial ceed," said Mark Higgins, Aid Department will include executive coordinator of the counselors and a newsletter department. 
offering infor------------"We want 
mation about to do what scholarship 'We want to help we can to opportunities students gradu-make the 
and University financial aid funding. ate from Notre Dame department "We want to and give good, simple, more student 
help students friendly," 
graduate from timely, accurate, infor-Seth Miller, Notre Dame mation about financial student body and give good, president, simple, timely, aid.' said. 
accurate infor-In coming mation about J h R weeks, a 
financial aid," osep usso newsletter Joseph Russo, director of will be distributed to all financial aid, told counselors undergraduates with infor­in a training session yester-mation regarding scholar­day evening. ships and FAFSA financial aid 
Counselors will be available forms. Web pages are also at the Student Government available from the Notre office to answer questions Dame home page with useful about financial aid forms. links to other resources. Those affiliated with the Students interested in this University are due on Feb. free service can call 631­28; the counselors will also 6283. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Want to tnake a difference in the Life of a child this Sutntner? 
Come for a job interview to work at: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
Interviews Friday, January 24th from 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. in the Library Foyer 
Camp Sweeney is an Equal Opportunity Employer 

DO ~OU LOVI140VIII1 14UIIC1 WltiTIMG1 
The Observer wants YOU. 
Accent is looking for a few good people from Notre 
. Dame and Saint Mary's College for these positions 
• 
Music Critics 

• 
Film Critics 

• 
Soap Opera Correspondents 

• 
Copy Editors 

• 
Assistant Editors and Writers in general 


Ifyou are interested in any ofthese positions, please contact Joey at 631-4540 
you don't ~av~ to be SfnnninG-or sophtsttcated to work in the 
~--~


AD DESIGN 
/~ 
·'1 

department of ~OBSERVER. 
Only your ads havti; to bti;. 
Ifyou have any desktop publishing skills, a flair for the creative and are interested in joining The Observer staff, call Jed at 634-1167. 
Participate in the Wednesday 
Lunchfast. 
B
y giving up just one lunch every week, you can make a significant contri, bution to the world hunger relief efforts. 

S
ign up in North and South Dining Halls during your lunch or dinner on Monday or Tuesday. 
More than 300 classes 


INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
• 
Professional Development 

• 
Certificate Programs 




SournBEND 
• 
Personal Interest 

• 
Languages and Culture 



CONTINUING EDUCATION 
• 
Tour Programs 

• 
)'outh Classes 



Spring 1997 
Complete listings online http:/ /www.iusb.edur ctedl 


Semester 
Or call237-4261 for a free catalog 

By LIZ FORAN 
· Editor-in-Chief 
Two laptop computers were reported stolen from an unlocked dorm room Wednesday, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The room, on the fourth floor of Planner Hall, was left unat­tended while its two residents were down the hall watching television with friends, Hurley said. 
One of the residents reported he returned to the room and found a man sitting at one of the desks. The man asked for "Chris." 
''I'm Chris," the student responded. 
The man then replied that he meant he was looking for his roommate. 
The names of both occupants were posted outside the door, Hurley said. 
The student went down the hall to get his roommate and returned to find the two com­puters missing. An unspecified amount of cash was also miss­ing from a wallet left on a desk. 
The suspect was described as a Latino male, approximately 20 years old, 5'9", 165 lbs. with very short, dark hair, Hurley said. He was also wearing a bright red jacket and was car­rying a dark blue bookbag that the victim believed was embroi­dered with an "NO" logo. 
Hurley added that this type of theft could be prevented if stu­dents locked their doors when­ever they left their rooms. 
"Our students are very trust­ing," Hurley said. 
"They don't think anyone is going to take advantage of them. They won't lock their doors if they're in the shower or down the hall visiting friends." 
"One hundred percent of these cases could be prevented if students would lock their doors," he stressed. "We don't have dorm rooms broken into." 
-------~----------------------------------------~------------------------------------~---, 
page4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 24, 1997 



March 
continued from page 1 
because common sense should tell us that this type of issue is wrong," freshman Josh Guerra said. 
"Eighteen years ago my mom chose to put me up for adoption instead of aborting me. If I had been aborted, I affect enough people that it would have changed the course of history for those people," freshman Heather Sabow said. 
"Abortion is like the Holocaust of little children, but by going to protest, this is our way of stopping the Holocaust in our own society," stated freshman Erin Donnelly. 
A handful of pro-choice sup­porters were present during the rally. According to sopho­more Tom Seck, ."I saw about eight people holding signs, not 
·saying anything. If I hadn't been looking for them I wouldn't have known they were there." 



Have somethin2 to sav? 
Use Observer classifieds. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
~ Used books bought and sold 
• 
25 categories of Books · 

• 
25,000 Ha~dback & Paperback 

books in stock •Out-of-P,;nt Searclt Sen~ce:$2.00 

•
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six TuesdaY' through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Theology 
continued from page 1 
Bible stems not from serious moral grounds but from secu­lar issues of gender relations. Traditional roles of male dom­inance were threatened by homosexuality, and D'Angelo explained that homophobia arose as a protection of patri­archal rule. 
Father Hichard McBrien, professor of theology, spoke 
about  the  complex  link  
between  ecclesiology  and  
homosexuality.  

He noted that the impor­tance of the theological per­spective on homosexuality is often over-emphasized. 
"The Vatican has no canoni­cal right to dictate what the University may and may not allow," he said. 
Furthermore, McBrien said that recognizing GLND/SMC as an official student group "is not clearly and unambiguously against Catholic teachings." 

He listed DePaul, Loyola in Chicago, Loyola in New Orleans, Catholic University of America, St. Louis University, University of San Diego, and Seattle University as Catholic universities that recognize gay student groups. 
lie added the Boston College and Georgetown University are Notre Dame contempo-· raries that have gay student groups which enjoy full rights and funding, although without official recognition. 
"I frankly do not understand why there is so much fear and loathing of homosexuality, especially within the church," he said. 
He later added "I am not a homosexual, but I claim no moral superiority over those who are." 
Jean Porter, professor of theology, continued the discus­sion by placing homophobia in a historical context. 
"Tense, ambiguous, threat­ened, and confused," is how she described social and his­torical impacts on changing 
WED., JAN. 23 

1:43 p.m. An olf·campus student reported theft of her wallet from an unlocked nthe 8th floor of th!1 Hesburgh Herwallet was found, but the 
taken. J'\·umv~"""v employee reported whlie parked at the 
sexual ideologies. 
Lamenting scientific evalua­tions and classifications of sex, Porter pointed out what she saw as a crisis in Catholic sex­ual ethics. 
"If love and sexuality are good in and of themselves, why should the homosexual <\void them?" she questioned. 
Visiting professor Father Hichard McCormick consid­ered church adaptability. lie showed that mixed definitions of what constitutes "normal" clouded the entire issue of homosexuality. 
"We're dealing with a dys­functional situation within the community, within the church at large," he said. 
McCormick shared his expe­riences from teaching at Georgetown University in 1981, when that school was addressing the r:ormation of a gay student group. He noted that their situation was resolved with "pacific accep­tance" in which the student group was eventually allowed to meet. 
"IIow do we adapt to others' particular needs?" he asked. "It's almost impossible to find a pastoral solution." 
Several notable perspectives surfaced during the question and answer session which fol­lowed the four theologian's remarks. 
During the dialogue it was noted that issues of the church and homosexuality should not be confused with the conflict 
between  tho  Notre Dame  
administration  and  
GLND/SMC.  

McBrien warned against giv­ing too much erodibility to reactionary views exchanged via campus media. 
"Notre Dame isn't just another Catholic university, it's a cultural ieon," he said. "That's why thn meanness is so intense, because the stakes are higher." 
"Homosexuality and Homophobia: Catholic Theologians Speak" was co­sponsored by the gender stud­ies program and the depart­ment of theology. 

The Observer needs Typists 
Type letters and notices during the day for the next days issue. Please call Brian Tierney at 631-5303 to apply or ask questions. 
Please call before Friday. 


Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 





Police find bomb materials 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Both bombs that exploded out­side an Atlanta abortion clinic last week were made of dyna­mite, which is regulated and not often found in amateur bombs,' federal law enforcement officials said Thursday. 
Each bomb may have con­tained 10 to 20 sticks of dyna­mite, these officials said on con­dition of anonymity. Legal buy­ers of dynamite are required to get a federal permit to transport it between states. 
Investigators said several fac­tors had added weight to the theory that the second bomb was designed to harm law offi­cers and rescue workers and may even have been the primary purpose of the attack. 
They said this view was rein­forced by the fact that the sec­ond bomb was packed with nails to produce shrapnel and by their conclusion that two autos which absorbed most of the second blast coincidentally were parked in that location not long before the second bomb exploded. 
The presence of "high-grade, commercial dynamite" was reported by CBS News Wednesday, citing unidentified sources. 
Bobby Browning, spokesman for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms in 
Congress questions funding of Ebonies 
Atlanta, said investigators have determined what type of explo­sive was used in the bombs, but he would not identify it. 
He said agents are trying to determine where the explosives were obtained. 
The first bomb on Jan. 16 blew a hole in a wall at the Atlanta Northside Family Planning Services clinic. As police officers and emergency medical personnel flooded the area, a second explosive went off in an adjoining parking lot near a large trash bin, injuring seven people. 
The second bomb was packed in a metal military-style box that also held concrete nails designed to become shrapnel. 

By ROBERT GREENE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

School officials who touched off a national controversy by recog­nizing a distinct form of black English said Thursday they were only trying to help children learn in the common tongue. 
Facing a Senate panel with control over federal aid to schools, the Oakland officials said the debate over Ebonies overshadowed the real issue: what to do about the failure of urban schools to close the gap between white and black achievement on standard tests. 
National debate has been touched off: The Oakland school system has been accused of embracing bad grammar to make black children feel good while learning less and raising the issue to snag more of the $10 billion in federal aid to schools. 
"The central issue is the underachievement of African American and other minority children, and what we are doing to address this dismal record," Carolyn M. Getridge, school superintendent said. 





The Observer 
is accepting applications for: 
1997-1998 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Liz Foran by 5:00p.m., Friday,january 24, 1991. For additional information about !he position or application process, contact Liz Foran at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
Help wanted... 
THE • 
Big Wool 
• Vintage Levi's 

STILE •~rSbila"n•er-beatiled 
co.~ we. 
We Buy 
Used 
Levi's 
Company of40 Vivid Costumes 



TAMBURfffANS 

Performing Folk songs and dances of Eastern Europe 
appearing 

Sunday January 26th at 2:00 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium • Saint Mary's College Tickets: $15 & $10-To order tickets call 
(219) 284-4626 
Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Slovakia, The Balkans, Russia, Ukraine, Greece & others. 
page 6 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 24, 1997 

Mind 
continued from page 1 
their home campuses as well as 
those formed through the use 
of their imaginations. 
Finally, the conference will 

focus on the double meaning of 
the word "promise," both as a 
pledge of commitment to 
women's education, and a sign 
of hope and faith that great 
days are ahead for women's 
colleges. 
"In regard to this year's theme, we wanted something that would both look to the past, the rich traditions and histories of women's colleges around the nation, and also recognize that women's col­leges have so much to offer young women today," White said. 
The Play of the Mind brings together, on an equal level, stu­dents, faculty, and student development professionals to learn about what is happening on one another's campuses, and to share visions of hope and possibility for the future. 
"This whole experience, the idea of bringing so many young women together to discuss the idea and .role of leadership in our lives and on campuses is amazing," said Wendeline Donahue of Spellman College in Atlanta, Ga. What is truly won­derful, though, is that by being here, interacting, getting to know one another, conversing, we are demonstrating this quality of leadership that we are here to discuss." 
Faculty, leadership profes­sionals, and administrators are placed in groups with students, where they together sketch out problems and concerns. Throughout workshop sessions on both Friday and Saturday, these Play of the Mind partici­pants will explore those differ­ences and similarities of expe­rience that bind them as groups, communities of learn­ing, and most importantly, women. 
"I have faith that the prob­lems, issues, concerns, and visions discussed," Rosenbush said, "will allow all involved to disseminate what they are doing here, and in turn bring the message of leadership and commonalty found among us 
'This whole experi­

ence, the idea of bringing so many young women together to discuss the idea and role of leadership in our lives and on cam­puses is amazing.' 
Wendeline Donahue 

all to their home campuses." 
White continued, "The whole process is extremely interac­tive, extremely powerful." 
The Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) has awarded Saint Mary's College a three­year $214,000 grant to support a project titled "The Collaborative Challenge: Forging A Community Commitment to Leadership Development." 
This grant, initially written by White, started the Play of the Mind. Its conception came out of work that faculty mem­bers and student development professionals had done on cam­pus culture. 
Shortly thereafter, the 
Leadership Development 
Committee, chaired by 
Rosenbush, took control of this 
subdivision of the grant. As 
part of this initial project, 
Community Leadership Teams 
(COLTs) were formed, made up 
of students, faculty, student 
development professionals, and 
alumnae. 
Together, these people have joined in projects to address real problems and issues on campus, forged working part­nerships, and modeled a new conception of leadership. The COLTs selected this year are teams focusing on: wellness, technology in teaching and learning, intercultural studies, and spiritual leadership. 

COLT members arc sent to other women's colleges to_ observe the initiatives they have taken in leadership devel­opment, and other pertaining areas of interest. The Play of the Mind builds upon these ini­tial threads that go through these projects. 
"For me, as an alumna, lead­ership is doing that one thing that you were always afraid to do, to take the risk," said Gretchen Scherer, '91. 
For the past four years, the Student Government of Saint Mary's College has participated and supported the Play of the Mind. 
"Students, faculty, and administration have designed and developed the Play of the Mind. They have kept it alive," White said. 
"But the student's insistence that it keep going has allowed it to continue and flourish." 
Dr. Gloria Nemerowicz, President of Pine Manor College gave this year's keynote address. Nemerowicz is an accomplished sociologist, published in the areas of gen­der, volunteerism, the sociolo­gy of work, and leadership. 
Before coming to Pine Manor, she was the Executive Director and CEO of the Women's Leadership Institute of Wells College. 
Her speech titled, "Learning from Children and Artists: Education for Leadership and Social Responsibility," dealt with the concepts of creativity and leadership as observed by fourth and fifth grade students and a select group of 24 prac­ticing artists. 
Both of these groups, accord-ing to Nemerowicz, represent a distinctive, fresh, and unen­cumbered vie~ of reality, cre­ativity, and leadership. She also stressed that leadership and creativity can be engen­dered in every human being. 


Her keynote address was preceded by Vice President and Dean of Faculty, Dorothy Feigl's welcoming of this week­end's visiting guests. 
"This weekend's events are an exploration of leadership in all of its various modes. Leadership not talked about, but acted. We are not saying you can be leader's, but be leaders," Feigl said. 


New England Patriots 
vs. 

Green Bay Packers 


LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
doors open at 5:30PM ... kickoff's at 6:17PM 
FREE FOOD! DOOR PWZES! COOL COMMERCIALS! 
catch all the action on the largest screen on campus! brought to you by Student Acthtities 

Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Test may not aid women under 50 Annan, Clinton trade 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD report, National Cancer But the NCI in 1993 said Associated Press Writer Institute ~irecto~ Richard th~re was inst_Iffic~ent scientific 
promI• ses to reform 
Klausner said he will take the evidence to JUStify mammo-
BETHESDA, Md. debate to a presidentially 
Cancer experts who were appointed cancer panel next supposed to settle a furious month. controversy over whether "It is a difficult problem," women should start having Klausner said. But "my own mammograms at age 40 or age view is that ... there is a bene­50 decided Thursday to leave fit in terms of mortality." the decision up to patients. Everybody agrees that mam-
But in an unprecedented mograms starting at age 50 move, the government's top are vital, cutting breast cancer cancer official disagreed with deaths by about 30 percent. his own advisers, saying he The controversy is whether believes mammograms in the women need testing any earli­40s can cut breast cancer er. The American Cancer deaths. Society says yes, recommend-
Expressing surprise at ing mammograms every year Thursday's mammogram or two starting at age 40. 

THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS THE 8TH ANNUAL 
N 0 T R E DAME 
STUDENT 






FESTIVAL 
•oK ... here's my idea, therE's tHis Nun right?, ana
... see 
she'S sffiOkin 'a cigarette, oK. " 
grams that young. 
Thousands of women have been caught in the impasse, getting conflicting opinions from doctors and struggling to get 'insurance payments for earlier testing. 
The NCI convened 13 cancer experts to weigh the issue again, in light of new mam­mography research including a 1>tudy of women in Gothenburg, Sweden, that found women who had mam­mograms in their 40s cut breast cancer deaths by 44 percent. 

America's long-tardy dues. 
"We cannot expect to lead through the United Nations unless we are prepared to pay our own way and to pay what we owe," Clinton said. 
Annan also found a warm reception in some parts of the Capitol, where support for the world body has not been as strong as at the White House. 
Congress' most outspoken 

U.N. critic. Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., said he was open to discussion of the issue and would look for a final answer after his Senate Foreign Relations Committee holds hearings. 
"The answer for me at this time is 'no,"' Helms said out­side the White House after wit­nessing the swearing-in of Madeleine Albright as secre­tary of state. 
But he added, "I want to talk about it. I Want to see what's 
By DAVID BRISCOE Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The new U.N. secretary-gen­eral, Kofi Annan, told President Clinton Thursday he would push for "a reformed 
United Nations" and won a promise in return that Clinton would work with Congress to p a y 


fair to the American people. I don't think what is going on . now is fair." 
Annan, of Ghana, said at the 
White House just before meet­
ing Clinton, "I don't think I 
should be seen as a beggar." 
And no one in the administra­
tion, which had vetoed Boutros 
Boutros-Ghali's re-election at 
the U.N., was treating him like 
one. 
But Annan, at every stop, said he needs help from the . United States and other coun­tries who are not meeting their 
U.N. financial obligations. 
The United States supplies 
about 25 percent of U.N. fund­
ing but is about $1 billion in 
arrears on its dues, which have 
been withheld by Congress. 
"As long as the United 
Nations does its part, we 
should simply be prepared to 
pay our debts and pay our 
dues," Clinton said at a brief 
joint appearance after the 
meeting. 
He said Annan needs to elim­
inate waste, streamline U.N. 
staff and wipe out "overlap 
and abuse." 
"The secretary-general and I 
agree that the U.N. must pur­
sue this course of reform. It's 
clear to me that he is prepared 
and determined to get the job 
done," Clinton said. 
"In the weeks ahead," he said, "I will be working with Congress to reach an agree­ment through which America can pay our arrears to the U.N., meet our obligations, and continue to spur real progress. 
'?tn tk· We4t Ut ~aHd ~ C4ft flat a& 
COSIMO 
Shapes & L i n e s 
277-1875 
Conveniently located near campus on State Road 23
lt~s il Birthday 
Men's cut and style ........ $15 
Women's cut and style .... $25

Bosh! 
Now ilvailable For J'PW!
Happy Birthday 
Due to an unexpected cancellation, the Upper Deck is available Saturday, February 15th

Badin 

For Information call: 
Covelesbi Regional Stadium 501 West South Street 

Come to Badin's Centennial 
235-9985 
Downtown South Bend 



celebration. GOOD LUCK NADIA 

in your first home meet. You've come 
a long way. Can't 
wait to see the new 
first place ribbons. 
._, Your favorite Walshites and Canadian Coaches 
------~-­~-----­ 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 24, 1997  


PepsiCo Inc. readies for restaurant spinoff 
By SKIP WOLLENBERG 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
PepsiCo Inc. is getting out of the fast food business two decades after taking its first bite, spinning off the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell chains into the world's second-biggest restaurant company. 
The move frees PepsiCo to concentrate on its faster-grow­ing Pepsi and Frito-Lay busi­nesses, while creating a new company with $20 billion in combined sales -trailing only McDonald's Corp. In terms of units, it will be the world's biggest, with 29,000 restau­rants. 
The plan to give shares in the new company to PepsiCo shareholders marks the bold­est step taken by Roger Enrico since becoming chief executive last April. Pepsico bought Pizza Hut in 1977 and added the others later. 
PepsiCo also said it was exploring the possibility of selling its food distribution unit which ships more than $3 billion worth of restaurant equipment and supplies every year. 
"Our goal in taking these steps is to dramatically sharp­en PepsiCo's focus," Enrico said in a statement. 
While PepsiCo feels the future for its restaurant busi­ness is bright, the business can do better if separated from PepsiCo's beverage and snack foods operation, he said. 
Even though the announce­
ment  came  after  markets  
closed  Thursday,  PepsiCo  
shares  countered  a  broad  

stock downturn and shot up almost 11 percent on reports the spinoff was being consid­ered. As the most active issue on the New York Stock Exchange, PepsiCo rose $3.50 to close at $35.50 a share. 
The spinoff will leave the Purchase, N.Y.-based PepsiCo as a beverage company that ranks second after Coca-Cola Co. in the U.S. soft-drink mar­ket, and a world leader in snack foods. 
Enrico succeeded Wayne Calloway after building a repu­tation as an aggressive mar­keter and cost-cutter in earlier stints as head of the Pepsi-Cola and Frito-Lay businesses. He was vice chairman and was responsible for overseeing the restaurant operations before taking the CEO's job in April. 

Some investors have pushed for a spinoff of the restaurant business since its profits have been ·disappointing. The restaurant industry overall has suffered due to intense compe­tition and higher food costs. 
In 1995, the restaurant busi­ness accounted for 37 percent of PepsiCo's total revenue, while soft drinks contributed 35 percent and snack foods accounted for 28 percent. 
But in terms of operating profits, the restaurants con­tributed only 14 percent of the total, while snack foods accounted for 45 percent and beverages 41 percent. 
Emanuel Goldman, who fol­lows PepsiCo for the invest­ment firm PaineWebber, said running restaurants requires different sets of skills than running packaged goods busi­nesses like soft drinks and snack foods. 



Democrats focus on budget 
ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Several Democratic freshmen who supported the balanced­budget constitutional amend­ment during their campaigns are considering alternatives that could siphon enough Senate votes from the Republican version to kill it. 
Democratic Sens. Max Cleland of Georgia, Tim Johnson of South Dakota, Mary Landrieu of Louisiana and Robert Torricelli of New Jersey are all among the 68 votes that supporters claim for the GOP amendment, with 67 needed for passage. Torricelli and Johnson voted for an identical measure in the House in 1995, while Cleland and Landrieu both voiced sup­port for a balanced-budget amendment during their cam­paigns last fall. 
But Thursday, all four said they haven't decided what they will do and may support other alternatives, including versions that shield Social Security from budget-balancing cuts. So far, only Torricelli seems likely to also vote for the Republican measure, the only one with a chance of congressional approval. Senate procedures will allow lawmakers to vote for more than one alternative. 
"If we lose two of them, it's over," Sen. Orrin Hatch, R­Utah, conceded Thursday, referring to previously support­ive Senate Democrats. 
The House approved the pro­posal by 10 votes in 1995, but the Senate rejected it by a sin­gle vote in 1995 and by three votes last year. 
The battle over the amend­ment, considered too close to call in the House and Senate, will probably be the first major showdown of the new Congress. It would require a balanced budget by 2002, unless lawmak­ers vote by three-fifths majori­ties to waive that requirement. 
Republicans have made the amendment a top priority, say­ing it will test President Clinton's professed desire to reach across party lines. Clinton and many Democrats oppose the measure, arguing it is unneeded and would hinder the government from using extra spending to ease recessions. 
"This is going to be a very close vote," House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., predicted Thursday. 
The House plans to vote on the measure on Feb. 26, around the same time as the Senate. 
Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Education in America 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
Service and political awareness opportunities 
All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) 
Applications Available Now at the CSC 

CENTER FOR

Applications Due: Jan. 29, 1997 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Constitutional amendments need two-thirds majorities in Congress -290 votes in the House and 6 7 in the Senate if all members vote -followed by approval by three-fourths of the states. Clinton's signature is not needed. 
In the newest wrinkle, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said she was working on an alterna­tive amendment with Torricelli, Landrieu, Cleland and others that would make three changes in the GOP version. 
It would shield Social Security from deficit-reducing cuts until the budget is balanced, let Congress decide in the future to exempt infrastructure projects from further cuts, and allow Congress to sidestep the amend­ment's strictures during eco­nomic emergencies. 

Republicans argue that sup­porters of alternatives are merely trying to scuttle the entire balanced-budget amend­ment process because the GOP version is the only one that can possibly be approved. • 
Hatch said his amendment would eventually pass. Democrats considering alterna­tives "either aren't thinking straight or were against the bal­anced-budget amendment to begin with," he said. 



Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• RUSSIA• YuGOSLAVIA 

Serbian police attack Yeltsin takes covert trip 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY will stall approval of the 1997 "Not convincing." 

protesters at blockade 
Associated Press Writer budget by refusing to participate Debate over whether Yeltsin is in a fmal vote on Friday. healthy enough to govern was atBy ALISON SMALE ed to block key roads in protests MOSCOW They are the largest faction in the center of Wednesday's rau­Associated Press Writer all over the country. 
Boris Yeltsin was in seclusion the Duma, or lower house of cous parliament session. A reso­Thursday, after making a myste­parliament, and the budget is lution to oust Yeltsin because of
KRAGUJEVAC 


rious trip to the Kremlin that unlikely to pass without them. his poor health failed to winRiot police clubbed protesters failed to squelch opposition calls Yeltsin was busy Thursday enough support, butwho tried to blockade this cen­
for his ouster 
with paperwork at his country Communists promised to rein­tral Serbian city and opposition or mounting home, where he is recuperating troduce the measure nextactivists attempted to block key questions from pneumonia, his spokesman month.
roads throughout Yugoslavia on 
over his said. Even if approved, it would
Thursday in a sign that President 
health. The president has not been have no legal clout since the
Slobodan Milosevic and his oppo­
A day after seen in public or on television Russian constitution does not nents were headed for a show­
lawmakers since Jan. 6. Aides said he met give parliament the right todown. 
turned down Prime Minister Viktor declare a president too ill to
Opposition leaders warned of 
a resolution to Chernomyrdin at the Kremlin on govern.
spiraling violence. 
oust Yeltsin, Yeltsin Wednesday, but no photos of the Despite the resolution's defeat, "Kragujevac is boiling and I the presi­session were released. Yeltsin's opponents managed todon't know what could be the dent's Communist foes The daily Segodnya issued its fuel concern about his political,solution," said Borivoje Radic, announced a new strategy: They verdict on the trip in two words: and physical well-being. 
the new head of city government. Protesters who parked their 
Hundreds of policemen barri­cars on the main road between caded themselves inside the Kragujevac and Belgrade were radio and TV station to prevent beaten by police wielding batons. 
its takeover by new city officials Two people were clubbed to the in Kragujevac, an industrial city ground and at least one opposi­about 90 miles south of tion leader was detained. Belgrade. Police hit an Associated Press 
Thousands of Milosevic's oppo-Television crewman in the stom­
• nents surrounded them and ach as he was videotaping the were threatening to use force to blockade. He and another crew­enter. Someone posted a sign on man were detained briefly and the building: "This is a police their footage was confiscated. station, not a radio station." Kragujevac's new mayor, 
Police prevented an angry Veroljub Stevanovic, said resi­crowd of several thousand dents were furious because local demonstrators from surging into policemen had beaten up their 
j
a police station in the center of own people. 
Kragujevac. "They are like robots: When 
Altogether, at least 16 people they get an order they fulfill it," were injured in clashes with he said. "It doesn't matter if the police in the city. person out there is their brother 
"Tensions are extremely or not." 
l
high," Radic S!lid. "The television Kragujevac is one of 14 com­has done us a lot of harm, and munities won by opposition can­now it can lead us to open clash­didates in Nov. 17 elections. PS with the police." Protests, now in their 10th 
Police detained at least eight week, erupted when the govern­opposition activists who attempt-ment annulled the vote results. 

r-------------------------------------------, 
. 





Domino's GREEN BAY 
Edison & 23 Edison Plaza 
Pizza BLOWOUT 



271-0300 $7.99. 
THIN or.

OPEN: llAM 'till2AM SUN. thru THUR. LARGE /1 TOPPER & 
ORIGINAL 

llAM 'till 4AM FRI & SAT ~~~ ~ CHEESEY BREAD 
---
0 y ~~ ~~ NOT VALID WITH OTHER OFFERS. LIMITED TIME ONLY --------'\)~ \-0 CJ~ --------------------­
~i>i>\5~~~~ i ~i> ~<\>~ 
i~ ,<?-~
NEW ?'Jt()1tZJA1f
ENGLAND EXP-LOSION 






+MADNESS 
1 LARGE Ct\EESE $4.99
THINor 
e ORIGINAL
$10 99 
$1/ TOPPING
THIN or 


ORIGINAL

2 LARGE 1 TOPPERS 
CAMPUS DELIVERY ONLY. VALID ONLY ON MONDAYS. NOT VALID NOT VALID WITH OTHER OFFERS. LIMITED TIME ONLY WITH ANY OTHER OFFER. OFFER VALID FOR ALIMITED TIME ONLY.L----------------------------_ __.....v.iililiW''Iillli'-WF'IIIolliW'~~IIi{iiiii,;" .... '~· .;_--.J'· 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, January 24, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.........._ ....... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editot, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Maty's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
63!-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 


• lETTER To THE EmmR 
Societal shame proves effective weapon of both left and right 
Dear Editor: 
According to Marx, Communism was the specter haunting 19th century Europe. Marx believed that the leading powers of his day entered into an "unholy alliance" to suppress the specter of the revolt of the masses. For good or ill, this specter has vanished. However, some would claim that a new specter has reap­peared over a new continent. 
According to our own Matthew Apple (The rising specter of societal shame in America), shame is the specter haunting 20th Century America. Apple believes that "the remnants and loyal descendants of the 1950s main­stream" have marshaled both shame and fami­ly values in their attempt to win "the real struggle of modern American society." (I leave it to the reader to decide how this struggle dif­fers from Pat Buchanan's much decried "Cultural War.") 
While it is never clear to me what Apple takes these loyalists of an old mainstream to be struggling for, he makes it quite clear that their weapon of shame is unacceptable. First, shame is a function of popularity. What is popular has nothing to do with what is right (e.g., Nazi Germany, 1950s Louisiana). Second, shame is entirely negative. Shame tells one what not to do, but does not tell one what to do. 
While this depiction of contemporary America and shame is as emotionally provoca­tive as any piece of rhetoric, is the depiction true? 
Is shame solely the domain of right-wingers? The left and the right want to shame racists and nazis. Some feminists and the Christian Coalition want to shame pornographers. In the 80s, the homosexual activist group ACT-UP, chanted "Shame" towards FDA officials and Republican administrators. 
To turn towards a different time and place, in Sophocles' Ajax, Ajax kills himself out of an overwhelming sense of shame. So it seems as though shame is not strictly the province of right-wingers. It may even be the case that shame transcends the rather narrow bickering of our day. 
Does shame only tell us what not to do? Let us consider the common experience of shame. Usually, to feel ashamed is to feel that one's character and/or behavior is inadequate. This sense of inadequacy is essentially related to an understood adequacy. 
In other words, you cannot feel that your character or behavior is inadequate unless you have some understanding of what constitutes proper character and proper behavior. Since the common experience of shame can only exist as a falling away from a standard, of char­acter and behavior, it is impossible to shame something (what not to do) without also advo­cating standards of character and behavior (what to do). 
Is shame a function of popularity? The social effectiveness of shame might be a function of popularity. In a situation like Nazi Germany, if only one person believes killing millions of innocent people is wrong, then that one person is probably not going to be too effective in causing other people to view this killing as something shameful. 
However, the morality of the standards of this lone individual has nothing to do with pop­ularity. While his standards of behavior might be extremely unpopular, these standards (at least in this respect) are morally correct. While it is more difficult to act upon these standards and feeling of shame when these standards are unpopular, it is not always impossible. 
So rather than trying to exorcise the specter of shame or to limit it to the province of one faction or another, we should acknowledge shame's dependence upon standards. I am not suggesting, however, that shame cannot be excessive or deficient, only that the root cause of this excess or deficiency rests upon stan­dards of character and behavior. Rather than attacking shame, we should turn our attention to the truth of the presupposed standards of character and behavior. 
PAUL GOMEZ Graduate Student, Philosophy 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 




VIEWPOINT
Friday, January 24, 1997 page 11 

Notre Dame could learn from Pres. Clinton 
Nothing in Washington is more impressive than the inauguration of a 
U.S. president. It matters not if the new president's party affiliation or philoso­phies coincide with the spectators on January 20. The motorcade, cere­monies and tributes can send a shiver through anyone's spine. 

Gary Caruso 

President Clinton is a true consensus builder, despite his critics' efforts to paint him as flip-flopping on issues. The Republican control of Congress probably made him a better president. He does not have to yield to old Democrats in Congress who pushed pet programs too far on the left. Rather, he is battling Republicans who are push­ing far right policies. Clinton is placed squarely in the center of both parties and is thus popular with the majority of Americans. 
Clinton's inaugural speech was one of inspiration, teaching the American public to be better citizens while he maintained a high presidential pres­ence. Americans should be more toler­ant, more helpful, more civil to each other. No government or public official can be a great influence without setting an example. By winning nationwide, Clinton's campaign of inclusion...regardless of Republican claims that they are the "big tent" party of everyone ... proved that his message was one of consensus. 
Notre Dame prides itself on being a premier Catholic institution. It empha­sizes community service and faith in God. Because of its efforts to teach the golden rule, it is incumbent" upon its graduates to lead by example in every walk of life to prove the University's success. Consequently, the Notre Dame campus should be a training vehicle of tolerance, openness and respect. 
Just how tolerant1 open or manner­minded the campus is can sometimes be a matter of debate. It is ironic that a university that prides itself on being the most Catholic of all American universi­ties routinely shuns those who disagree with Church doctrine rather than attempt to reach out to them. That poli­cy creates an atmosphere that encour­ages religious, racial and ethnic segre­gation from the dorms to the class­rooms to the dining halls. 
This week I received an e-mail from a foreign student who asked me about the inaugural events. This student said, "I think Clinton is the coolest -I think he could lead the world into a future we can now only dream of, but I have to keep my thoughts to myself. Nearly everyone here is a bible carrying, gun slinging Republican. As a guest in this country, I have been taught not to con­tradict one's host." · 
This student went on to say, "My English spelling is terrible. I live with my nose in the dictionary. Thank heav­en for 'spell check'. On one of my papers the teacher corrected it out loud in the class and made the whole class laugh. I think that was nasty of him." 
'Notre Dame prides itself 
on being a premier Catholic institution. It emphasizes community ser­vice and faith in God. Because of its efforts to teach the golden rule, it is incum­bent upon its graduates to lead by example in every walk of life to prove the University's successes ... Notre Dame should be a training vehicle of tolerance, openness and respect.' 
Each of us at one time or another speaks without thinking and embar­rasses someone else or ourselves. However, we all should on occasion reevaluate our encounters with others, especially with those who hold differing beliefs or come from different back­grounds. I can recall trying to persuade a European from liking Ronald Reagan. I couldn't, but I sought to understand what molded that foreign visitor's admiration of Reagan rather than attempt to silence him. Maybe it was the same type of consensus building that elected Reagan president on a nationwide basis while the American public elected Democrats from the vari­ous Congressional regions. 
Occasionally we all need that little "reality check." If we stand proud on the Notre Dame foundation of charac­ter and values each of us experienced while at school, and if we combined that with the lofty ideals of President Clinton's inaugural speech, we would naturally be more tolerant. We certain­ly would be more helpful and civil to others. Most importantly, we would be living everything Notre Dame tries to embody in its family, but sometimes blunders in its public relations efforts. 
One living example is worth a thou­sand slogans. Notre Dame has tens of thousands of wonderful examples already among us. It's almost an oblig­ation of Notre Dame students and alumni to influence future generations and their neighbors. Much is given to those who walk the Notre Dame path, and it is time to heed the call of inclu­sion, openness, respect and tolerance. After all, those words are just other ways of describing love. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (!UE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com. 
• THE DISCOURSE 


Setting standards for modern-day Christians 
During my two years in graduate school at Georgia Tech, I attended Sacred Heart Church, which is the sec­ond oldest church in the Archdiocese of Atlanta. During the summer of 1995, Mother Theresa made a one-day visit to the archdiocese. It was announced that she would attend Mass that day, not at 

Sean Seymore 
the cathedral, not at the oldest church in the diocese, and not at one of the large suburban churches, but at old Sacred Heart which is located in the heart of downtown Atlanta.. 
The parishioners were told that a large portion of the seats would be reserved for "special persons," and that parish­ioners would have to stand in line with the masses and hope to obtain a seat. For that reason, I originally decided not to go, because I did not want to fight the crowds. 
However, on the day of the visit, I changed my mind. I left school early, took the rapid rail downtown, and stood for nearly six hours praying that I could obtain a seat. I guess that my prayers paid off. There were thousands of per­sons fighting to get in, and I was the next to last person allowed inside. Since that time I have given much thought about Mother Theresa, the Mass, and other implications. 
The event reminded me a little of Masses held during Easter and Christmas. Persons that one would not expect to find downtown suddenly show 
----------'-----l 
up at the portals of the church. I am not referring to lapsed Catholics, but those who abandoned the urban parishes long ago in order to move to the suburbs. During ordinary time, these persons 
'The sad thing about 
Mother Theresa is that SO many Christians applaud her efforts, but they do not 
know who she rea1ly is. As I see it, Mother Theresa is a true disciple of Christ. Unlike most Christians, she adheres 
to the Gospel.' 

would not even consider attending a Mass in the inner city, but when a spe­cia! event takes place, it is suddenly "safe" to venture downtown. 
I have observed the same behavior time and time again at the cathedral in my hometown. A few years ago, there were so many mink coats being worn at Midnight Mass that I had a mild asthma attack. I am sure that if Mother Theresa's visit would have occurred during the winter, there would have been plenty of mink coats in old Sacred Heart that day as well. I am sure that both Mother Theresa and Jesus Christ would be pleased if the minks were sold and the money used for a more note­worthy cause, like feeding thousands of hungry children. 
The sad thing about Mother Theresa is that so many Christians applaud her efforts, but they do not know who she really is. As I see it, Mother Theresa is a true disciple of Christ. Unlike most Christians, she adheres to the Gospel. 
l...s....d'----...~''-.Jr·-~( .~:...:..:........ L,&J'. 
The same persons who attended Mass that day are the very same persons that turn their noses when they see a poor person. These are the same per­sons that teach their children that paver­ty is a choice. These are the same persons who teach their children that people on one side of the railroad tracks are better 
than those on the other side. These are the same per­sons who have abandoned the inner city not be­cause of violence or 
for a "need to have 
more space," but because the inner city 
has become too racially and ethnically 
diverse. All of these actions blatantly 
violate the Great Commandment set 
forth by Christ, which is to "Love your 
neighbor as yourself." Yes, there were 
quite a few hypocrites in old Sacred 
Heart that day; however, this is not sur­
prising, because there are plenty of hyp­
ocrites in Christian churches every 
Sunday. The most troubling aspect of 
this issue is that the Christian Church 
perpetuates this behavior: it often goes 
without reproach. 
I have asked myself, "Why do so many Christians hold Mother Theresa in such high regard?" I am sure that Mother Theresa would say that she is not spe­cia!; she is just obeyiQg Jesus Christ. Whenever her name is mentioned, the phrases "great Catholic woman" and 
""""'~·-· ....:L __:.,:f.:::;:; ~J..N /c~-u \ 

"living saint" are often mentioned. However, the mention of her name should also trigger a sense of guilt and shame in the hearts of many Christians, because their behavior has proven that they do not know her or Jesus Christ. 
Even though so many Christians conve­niently forget about it, Jesus Christ has promised a Day of Judgment. Undoubtedly, when Mother Theresa stands before the throne, she will be told, "Well done my good and faithful servant." Then, on the other side, there will be other Christians, who will feel just like our First Parents after they dis­obeyed God: naked and embarrassed. 
Sean Seymore is a doctoral student in chemistry. 


'::·.:...._ 
--~ ---------~--~ -~­



ACCENT
page 12 Friday, January 24, 1997 
It's Super Sunday 
1t~ t4utu~ee t¥ ~ ~ ~ etAe M 4 ~~ M A~~~~ Ue~ t¥ tk ~Ut-eutJe a& fld ~~ltitetat: .t4e Se¢e't 8fUfd. A~~~~ 9fdde 
ta ~~ 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accent Editor 
C
hips? Check. Dips? Check. Pizza? Check. Hoagies/Subs/Grinders? (Depending on what part of the country you come from.) Check. Beverages? Check. Remote control? Check. Comfortable chair for the next four hours? Check. 
The only other thing a prepared Super Bowl viewer needs is knowledge of useless facts that will have no significance once the big game is com­pleted. Accent is here to provide that information, and maybe h e l p y 0 u win a few side bets. 
Stuff like this 
institutions that alters its mass schedule for the S u p e r Bowl. 
0 v e r 
h e years the NFL cham­pionship game has mutat­ed into an immense event. The only sporting event watched by more people, according to the Nintendo ver­sion of "Jeopardy!", is the Indianapolis 500. Now, not only do sports fans tune in for the game itself but also for the commercials. When people think of the Super Bowl, "Bud Bowl," "Pepsi" and "Nike" come to mind as readily as "NFC domination." Maybe this year we'll get a game worth watching for the game and not the marketing. 
This year's commercial blitz will be centered around a game in the New Orleans Superdome. At 6:21 p.m. Eastern time, 72,000 fans will watch the kickoff in the Superdome's third Super Bowl. In 1990 the San Francisco 49ers plastered the Denver Broncos 55-10. In 1986 the Chicago Bears slapped around the New England Patriots 46-10. 
ta ~ ~ ~­
Anyone who has stepped out­side or turned on a television in the last two weeks might be aware that the Green Bay Packers will face the Patriots in Super Bowl XXXI (31 for those ready to enter the 21st Century) on Sunday. As any Boston College student can tell you, the Packers are 
huge favorites, by like 18 touchdowns. 
One of the most important decisions you will need to make is choosing a team to root for, unless you are already a Cheesehead or Yankee by birth. It is okay to watch the game without taking sides, but your fellow viewers might not accept that opinion. 
The Packers have the advan­tage over the Patriots in former Notre Dame players on their roster: four to none. Punter and kickoff specialist Craig Hentrich, guards Aaron Taylor and Lindsay Knapp, and rookie wide receiver Derrick Mayes will be wearing the green and gold. 
This is the first Super Bowl 

tJd tk ~ tUd ol tk ~, tk ~ 
for the Packers in 29 years. Don Shula accomplished the They won Super Bowls I and II feat with the Baltimore Colts under the legendary coach and the Miami Dolphins. If he Vince Lombardi in 1967 and wins, Parcells will be the first 1968. The Patriots' only Super coach to win the NFL champi­Bowl appearance came 11 onship with two different years ago when they were teams. 
kicked around by Ironically, 
Holmgren was t h e offered the job as Packers' Bears. That game began the coach after Parcells turned NFC's winning streak which them down. now stands at 12 Super Bowls. Green Bay has two players on In that span, the National its roster with Super Bowl ex­Football Conference has perience. Backup quarterback outscored the American Jim McMahon led the Bears to Football Conference 455-198, the title in 1986. Wide receiver or an average of 38-16.5 per Don Beebe had to endure four game. second-place finished with the 
Mike Holmgren, the Packers' Buffalo Bills. Patriots' guard coach, has two Super Bowl William Roberts and running rings from his days as an assis­back/return specialist Dave tant coach for the 49ers. Meggett followed Parcells to Patriots' coach Bill Parcells has Super Bowl XXV with the two Super Bowl rings from his Giants. Wide receiver Shawn head-coaching tenure with the Jefferson lost Super Bowl New York (New Jersey) Giants. Twenty Nine with the San Parcells is the second coach to Diego Chargers. take two different teams to the In the regular season, the Super Bowl. Recently retired Packers have the edge over 
eued tk ~­
New England based on their records. The Pack went 13-3 while the Pats finished 11-5. But the Packers didn't have to face the Jets twice. 
The Patriots scored 418 points during the 1996 season, second in the NFL to the Packers' 456. Giving up only 210 points, the least in the NFL, Green Bay became the first team to lead the league in both categories since Shula's Dolphins of 1972. They the 
year. 
In the 
postsea­
s o n 
G r e e n 
B a y • s 
offense 
walked over 
the Carolina 
Panthers (30­
13) and the 49ers (35­14). New England's defense failed to al­
low a touch­
down to either 
the Jackson­
ville Jaguars 
(20-6) or 
Pittsburgh 
Steelers (28­
3). Overall in 
the playoffs. the 
Packers have won 19 
and lost 8. The Patriots' 
record is 6-7. 
Super Bowl 10+10+10+1 will be the sixth meeting between these two teams. New England won the last contest in 1994 by one point. 17-16. After a 45-yard drive in the final 74 seconds, Matt Bahr kicked a 33-yard field goal to win the game.. The Patriots lead the series 3-2. Parcells is 4-1 against Green Bay while Holmgren lost that one game against New England. 
That should be enough use­less information to get most casual fans though the specta­cle of Super Bowl XXXI. Anyone who needs more details to survive should seek profes­sional help. Whether you are taking in the game at a private party or one of the local water­ing holes, facts such as these will prove invaluable in daz­zling your fellow viewers with stuff over which they really weren't losing sleep. 
• STUFF To Do 

'THE REAL WORLD' COMES TO NOTRE DAME 
N
otre Dame students can get a look at the real ballroom at 6:30 p.m. and admission is free. Then, Syracuse, Boston College, Arkansas, Rhode Island. and world tonight in LaFortune Ballroom and the from 9-12 p.m. Lars will show his versatility and spin Dayton) are able to select' any cast members from the Alumni/Senior Club. Lars and Cat, cast mem­the tunes at "Senior Bar." The Lars Dance Party is list to create a personalized reunion for each campus. bers from MTV's hit show "The Real World" (London open to all ages and admission is $3. Cat and Lars will discuss orientation issues, diversity version), are appearing in a mini-reunion on campus Worldwide Talent Group is promoting the "Real issues, conflict resolution, relationships and answer this evening. World" reunion tour on college campuses across any personal questions or inquiries about the show 
A question and answer session will take place in the America. Participating schools (which include put to them by the audience. 

z.sua 
• 

-



ACCENT
Friday, January 24, 1997 page 13 
N.D. Stu~ent film festival reco~nizes local ~reatness 
Jon Lessans stars as Ricky, the juvenile delin­quent who plays pranks on his UFO-spotting neighbor in "Mrs. Malaco," directed by JoeyCrawford and Anthony Hovorka. 
Film scenes courtesy Notre Dame COTH Department 

Jeanine Wynton stars in the subtle film "Midweek," directed by Matt Pollack and Julieta Aguilera. 
Festival puts directors' finals on display 
By TIMOTHY BOWERS 
Accent Writer 
A
lthough theatre majors may not always get the due attention that they deserve here at the University of Notre Dame, the Department of Communication and Theatre is certainly alive and well on campus. This weekend, the department proves its pres-~~,......,-~ ence with a won­
. derful display of its students' achievements. Tonight and tomorrow night, the Department of Communication and Theatre pre­sents the Eighth Notre Dame Student Film Festival. The event will take place in the Snitc Museum's An.nenberg Auditorium. There will be two screenings on both Friday and Saturday night begin­ning at 7:30 and then again at 9:45. The cost of admission is $2. The festival is coordinated by Ted Mandell and Jill Godmilow, the two pro­duction staff instructors in the depart­ment. Mandell began the festival at Notre Dame in 1990, returning to his alma mater in the fall of 1988 after graduating with a Masters Degree in Film from the University of Iowa. When asked what was unique about the university's program in film produc­tion. Mandell was quick to point out the positives. "First of all, we teach the production courses as if they were grad­uate level courses," he said. "We also have a relatively small department numbers-wise." To present an idea of just how small and personal this concentration really is, there are roughly eight graduating seniors this year. In fact, Godmilow and Mandell arc the only two individuals who teach production in the depart­ment. There is heavy instructor par­ticipation in the writing and editing of 1ilms. The instructors meet frequently with students for critiques of the films in 
By MARK TORMA 
Accent Film Critic 
S
ee if this sounds familiar: It's the erid of the semes­ter. Your term paper on the Dietary Habits of Erasmus (or on Mo.ldavian Diabetes, it doesn't matter) is finished-­and you hope no one ever has to see it again. Of course, other than your professor, no one will. Aren't you happy? 
Well, quite a few students here at Notre Dame WANT their final class projects to be on display in front of millions of people (well, maybe not that many). 
The students in the Department of Communication and Theatre spend their semesters with an eye toward slightly more intriguing and entertaining final projects: films they themselves create with their own inspiration and much more perspiration. When it's all said and done, all they need is an audience to confirm their success. But where to find it? 
According to Ted Mandell, Associate Professional Specialist in the Film Department here on campus, providing that audience was the original motive for the cre­ation of the Student Film Festival seven years ago, and it continues to be the purpose of the event. 
Mandell, who attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate and returned as a· faculty member in 1988. remembers how in 1990 some students really wanted to present their films to the campus community at large, so they gave showing in the CCE basement. The show ran far too long--the stu­dents screened jus about every film the had--so the next year, Mandell decided to choose "only the best" out of all the studen films for the year and show those at the Festival, and that's the policy since (three hours was a bit much). 
Now in its eighth year, the Festival has beoom part of the Cinema the Snite Series of 
events held in the Mike Coleman is the negligent father held hostage by roadblocks and the Annenberg Auditorium his vengeful son (Alan Smith) in "Love, Dad," directed huge tension that can 
at the Snite Museum, by seniors Mike Kurinsky and Scott Baker. 
and has become quite an event on campus. Mandell is thrilled that the Festival has acquired a certain popularity, because not only does it bring the Film Department some of the recognition that it deserves, it also gives the other students on campus a chance to see the fine work that their classmates are production. 
Senior Matt Pollack shares Mandell's sentiments on the strengths of such a tight-knit department. According to Pollack, such small numbers allow the concentration to be "extremely collabo­rative." 
"The opportunity to get a hands on experience at Notre Dame is like nowhere else. I'm a senior and I've 
already made two short films," he said . 
Such under­graduate production like that found at Notre Dame is extremely rare. Senior Tony Hovorka offered, "Notre D a m e Production is unique in that the classes are so small... there is not much individual work at other institu­tions." Thus, 
when students leave the university for graduate school in production, their first year is often simply a review of what they were introduced to while at Notre Dame. 
The films compiled at the festival are those of students, most of whom strive to achieve degrees in the media arts and some who even have ambitions for careers in film and television. The works presented are very ambitious and oftentimes professional film and video work. 
Undergraduate film production at Notre Dame is a tedious process. Due to the extraordinary amount of time that it consumes, film production courses are six-credit courses, The short films con­tained in this weekend's display average six to seven minutes in length. However, this seemingly short length of finished product is indeed deceiving. Each film contains of 25 to 30 shots. It takes students from 45 minutes to one hour to complete only one shot. Through simple extrapolation, one con­cludes that it is not unreasonable for a festival film to take as long as 30 hours of shooting time. 
doing. That these films can now be appreciated, instead of sitting on a closet shelf, un­watched and unenjoyed, is the best part of the students' film­making experience--one which, as any film major can tell you, is not a walk in the 
park (unless you're filming in a park, that is). 
The 16 films to be presented at the show this weekend were all produced for the students' film classes over the last two semesters. Most were the final project of the class--many shorter films are shot in the earlier weeks of the semester, 
Nonetheless, 30 hours is a deceiving number as well. Time taken to brain­storm ideas and secure shooting loca­tions is omitted from this rough for­mula. Put in simple terms, what one watches on the screens of the Snite this weekend took a long time to produce and much hard work. 
However, do not feel too concerned about the sanity of these hard-working, student producers. Despite the fact that they have a stressful time restraint of about two months to present their fin­ished work to Mandell and Godmilow, Pollack summed it all up candidly: "It's the most fun I've ever had getting six credits. The film festival is our time to sit back, relax, and enjoy the semester's worth of work that we've put into our films." 
Pollack co-produced two films making appearances tonight and tomorrow night. He teamed up with Julieta Aguilera in "Midweek," a fantastical love story without words. In addition, "Leather Coat" by Lydia Antonini and Pollack was the product of an Advanced Filmaking Course. This short film, one of approxi­mately 14 showing at the festival, con­tains a theme of altruism set to the­music of the Notre Dame Concert Band. 
"The films are all pretty unique," Hovorka said. Hovorka and Joey Crawford eo-direct­ed the film "Mrs. Malacca" that will w.:...-~'---_. be presented this weekend. On his film, Hovorka offered, "It is a comedy making fun of people who are tabloid-junkies." 
"Mrs. Malacca" stars local South Bend middle-schooler Jon Lessans. Lessans plays the role of "Ricky," who attempts to torture his neighbor, Mrs. Malacca. Ricky attempts to convince Mrs. Malacca, who happens to be a tabloid­junkie, into believing that a space ship has landed in her front yard and waits to take his neighbor to a better place. 
Lessans delivers a hilarious perfor­mance that is sure to entertain the large audience expected for the event. 
Perhaps a more provocative film fea­tured in this year's festival is entitled "Full Frontal" and it offers just that. Co-produced by seniors Jen Crescenzo and Jim McNamee, "Full Frontal" push­es the envelope and examines nude modeling from a female's point of view. Males need not get excited, however, as the nude model is indeed male. 
Crescenzo offered perspective on her work. "I work as an artist model myself. I was trying to speculate about nudity and the body, and how it is per­ceived," she said. Snite audiences have never seen anything like this before. 
Other titles expected to make an impact include "Eat Mate Die," "Sarah and the Machine," and "Tango." All said, each program this weekend will run approximately 90 minutes with a special Video Prologue introduction 
build up towards the 
end of the semester, a really good finished product finds it way into the hands of Mr. Mandell, leaving him to decide which films are film festival material. This year, the films on display represent about one-third of all the pro­duction work done in film classes (about 130-150 films total), for a program that will 
as the students develop the 
skills they will use to create 
their masterpieces Mandell says that, indeed, much of the work that the film students do here is actually graduate level quality--and, oh, what a lot of work that can 
be. The actors, usually volunteers from the community and our campuses, may not realize how time-in­tensive the process is ("It's going to take HOW long?"), and even though most business­es and organizations are very generous with the donation of their facilities for student films, some corpora­tions can be a little ret­icent to allow student film crews on their sites. 
Often, despite these given by Ted Mandell of the COTH department. After the 7:30p.m. screen­ing Friday, audience members will be invited to a party in the Film Loft of O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Come out to the Snite tonight and tomorrow night in support of communi­cations and theatre here at Notre Dame. The talent presented is sure to be mes­merizing and the experience certainly rewarding. 
be about one hour and 45 min­utes long. 
With the lineup of films on hand, Mr. Mandell and the stu­dent filmmakers are sure to have a hit show on their hands, which is exactly what Mandell hopes will happen. "The students really want their movies to be seen, so we try to get the word out about the fes­tival." Mandell says. And they do, airing radio announce­ments and putting up posters which, this year, are so eye­catching that many have been stolen as soon as they appeared on the walls. 
Even so, that's a good sign that the festival is gaining in popularity; Mandell remarks that, after all, a film is meant to be shown to an audience, and with the amount of time that not just one, but many students and volunteers have spent on their films, they deserve the largest audience possible. They'll get it, too. Hundreds of students will be going t the Student Film Festival this weekend--and will be enjoying it immensely. It will be the "wet and wonder­ful, entertaining and educ-a­tional good time" that their web site promises, guaranteed. 
Which is more than you can say about that last paper you wrote. 


~--~--~-­
--~-~--------~--~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 24, 1997 
-
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Demon Deacons tame Tigers 
By PETE IACOBELLI Buckner scored Clemson's beat Temple 68-64 in overtime and JOSEPH WHITE next nine points, part of a 15-5 on Sunday. Associated Press Writers run that made it 55-53. George Washington (8-7, 3­
It was back and forth after 3), which began the season in CLEMSON, S.C. that until the final seconds. the Top 25, has lost six of nine Fourth-ranked Wake Forest Terrell Mcintyre's 3-pointer and missed a chance to win stopped Clemson's 12-game brought Clemson as close as it back-to-back games for the 
winning streak, beating the No. 2 Tigers 65-62 Thursday night behind 16 points, 15 rebounds and five blocks from  would come. Duncan twice went to the free-throw line in the final 12 seconds and made one shot.  first time since early December. Guards Lenny Brown and Gary Lumpkin led Xavier with  
Tim Duncan.  The game had the aura of an  12 points apiece; Johnson fin­ 
The Demon Deacons (14-1, 5-1 Atlantic Coast Conference), coming off a loss to No. 7 Maryland at home last week, withstood a second-half surge by Clemson, which closed a 12-point deficit to 63-62 with 15.1 second left.  ACC championship with scalpers asking a $100 a seat and fans tailgating outside­Littlejohn Coliseum. Clemson kept things raucous early as Buckner's 3-pointer gave the Tigers an 18-14 lead. However, the Demon Deacons  ished with 10. Alexander Koul scored 20 to lead GW, but was exhausted over the final minutes despite sitting out most of the first half with foul trouble. Yegor Mescheriakov and Shawnta Rogers had 13 each.  
The Tigers (16-2, 5-1) lost their chance to go ahead when Andrius Jurkunas was called  scored the next 12 points and put the Tigers in a hole they had rarely seen this season.  With George Washington leading 61-60 with less than two minutes left, the Colonials  
for charging. After Duncan made a free throw, Jurkunas missed a 30­footer at the buzzer. Greg Buckner had 14 of his 19 points in the second half for Clemson. Tony Rutland finished with 15 points for Wake, including a 3-pointer with 1:02 left that gave the Deacons a 62-57 lead. It was also Rutland who stepped in front Jurkunas to draw the foul. Duncan's effort had Wake Forest in control. He scored three points at the start of the half, blocked four shots and opened the outside for Wake's shooters. Trapped deep in the corner by two defenders, Duncan loft­ed a pass to Joseph Ammonet, who's 3-pointer gave Wake a 50-38 lead.  Clemson scored just four points over a nine-minute span and trailed 35-27 at the break. XAVIER 62 GEORGE WASHINGTON 61 In a battle for first place, the highest scoring team in the country relied on some clutch defense down the stretch to pull off the victory. Torraye Braggs made a key block, and T.J. Johnson made a steal and batted away a pass in the final 90 seconds as No. 16 Xavier defeated George Washington 62-61 Thursday night to remain atop the West Division of the Atlantic 10. The Musketeers (13-2, 4-1) came in averaging 88.4 points per game, but won their sec­ond straight despite scoring less than 70 both times. They  milked the shot clock as they had virtually the entire game. But with the 35 second-dock running out, Johnson picked off Mescheriakov's attempt to feed Koul underneath. James Posey put in an offensive rebound on a fast break at the other end with 1:24 left for the final basket of the game. George Washington had three chances to win, but Rogers was called for a charge with 55.4 seconds to play, Braggs blocked J.J. Brade's inside shot with 1.5 seconds left, and Johnson tapped away an inbounds pass to Koul as time expired. GW's slow-down game forced Xavier into 20 turnovers, but the Musketeers shot 55 percent from the field. The Colonials committed 15 turnovers and shot 43 percent.  w way, btitthis will sister<'~ Tnunn a like a man the donation,; __ S·year·old fot:,, 2 1/2 hours talk/ general Itlanager Thomas for as much a · logical boost as an •-•'--""'-'-'--"'""-session. telling him I'm the one who is the ne, at least publicly · I went to see him, I empty and he gave boost I needed," said ' whose younger Keffln is expected to 1:'•·•·:\e.,;,_,_,,_;,;_.,_.;,;;•.;_;·  'We'il stand behind what­ver deCision he makes,'' thomas said. ''I know this is bot an easy time for him or .his family.'' Because Rogers has to still meet with doctors in Detroit and will hold off a timetable until he has more facts, the team hasn't asked for exten­sive medical advice. "Our doctors say now it's possible (for Rogers .to play) but if he were.to take a shot, it would put him at risk," Thomas said. That's _a scenario Rogers dismisses. "People are trying to scare me, calling me and telling me my career is over.'' he said. "I don't believe that. I'm healthy, I'll still have one kid· ney. "I'll probably just have to go.to the bathroom more."  
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame ilflice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2  
cents per character per day. including all spaces.  .  

NOW HIRING: University Sales and WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM Florida Spring Break! Panama City! For a gift that is unique, send a
NOTICES ILOST & FOUND I 
Marketing is hiring. Marketing, CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900 Room With Kitchen Near Bars BELL YGRAM to your SHEIK! 
Sales and Promotions positions TA'MARA 273-5166 $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! 234-3355 CANCUN-PADRE-MAZATLAN HELP!! Lost my class ring between available. Work on campus, Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa SPRING BREAK'S HOTIEST! Sarin, SDH, and 06. Great Flexible Hours, Great pay. Call 800-BEUSCHER ARISTOCRAT Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­SECOND ANNUAL 1-800-328-7513 sentimental value. If found, 562-8524. TENOR SAX AND CASE$600/ el.com CLASS OF '97 SKI TRIP FREE FOOD, DRINK & PARTY please call John at X2213 or BEST OFFER. 289-1347-ERIK 1-800-678-6386 $45/ticket includes transpo, SPECIAL!/! drop by 319. $$REWARD$$ Babysitter Wanted. Afternoons. rentals, lift tickets, and hotel. Up to $200 Discount Coupons on Must have own car. $5/hour. Scratched COs? We fix 'em! call Jan 25-26@ Cascade Mtn. and our Website Katy 277-5207 284 4022 today! CLASS OF 1998 hotel in Madison, WI www.studentadvtrav.com WANTED Send letters to your friends abroad. Get your ticket @ LaF info desk 
A few good people needed. Camp '92 HONDA ACCORD LX. Drop in envelope outside class "SPOTS ARE LIMITED!!" Spring Break Bahamas Party NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­Birchwood, a small Minnesota chil­BEAUTIFUL. office at 213 LaFun by Jan 29th. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All National Parks hire forestry work­dren's camp, seeks applicants with $8,500 OR B/0. LONG SLEEVE t-shirts are in. $15 Hey Terry-Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­qualifications to teach land sports, 233-5537. in the class office or from your dorm How are those wings? Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From guards, + volunteer and govern­waterskiing, windsurfing, sailing or rep. Wanna play Army? Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 ment positions. Excellent benefits + horseback riding. Lifeguards, and USED MAGS AND PRINTER springbreaktravel.com bonus potential. wilderness trip leaders also needed. FOR SALE ND SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS 
Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841 For an application and additional Laserwriter Plus printer $150. Mac Face of Brad Pitt $10.00 Florida Spring Break! Panama City! information call1-800-451-5270. Plus system: HD, software, key­Body of Arnold Schwarenegger CALL MIKE at 288-0116 Room With Kitchen Near Bars EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­board, and mouse $150. Eyes of Paul Newman $119! Daytona-Best Location $139! MENT -Travel Eastern Europe by SMC student seeks Fe. roommate Mac SE system: HD, software, Voice of SGT. TIM McCARTHY Forget sobriety, I support irrational Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa teaching basic conversational for spring,cute duplex,garage,own keyboard, and mouse $175. Great LNO-1/31/97-Joyce Center thinking! Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­English in Prague, Budapest, or room, 5min from campus.271-9843 systems for word processing! Used el.com Krakow. Inexpensive Room & Mac hardware also for sale: key­Phelan: Meg, good luck this weekend, I'll 1-800-678-6386 Board + other potential benefits. Babysitter wanted, pre!. with own boards, mice, external floppy dri­Maybe selling all those raffle tickets meet you there! 
Find out how to succeed in this transport., for toddler in our home. ves. Arts and Letters Computing will get you in with the PTB... #1 Mary Kay Cosmetics. On field. Call: (206}971-3680 ext. Hours flexible 277-1 037 Office, 216 O'Shag. x17021 What about that duck? He's kind of campus, convenient. Call K55844 KAT and LARS are coming!!!! The a BABE! Margrette 284-5261 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­stars from MTV's Real World 
FOR RENT 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime London will be at the LaFun Sgt. Tim McCarthy says ... "Be a Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico, location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947 Ballroom this Friday at 6:30 for a Happy Birthday, Corbie! How many follower not a leader." Simon Says Caribbean) & earn an excellent Homes for Rent for 97-98 free Q&A session, then LARS will should you have ...... 19!! 
Game at LNO ~1/31/97 income in the Cruise & Land-Tour ADT Security 232-2595 Bahamas vacation package DJ an all ages show at Senior Bar Joyce Center 1-6100. Industry. For details, call1-206-for two, at less than $398 actual at 9pm, $3. FUN for ALL!! LAPTOP 4 Sale 971-3550 ext.C55845 2 bdrms, near campus. cost. call Noman @277-4269 Compaq Contura Aero 4/25 
SPRING BREAK Use of all utilities. 275/mo. Safe. Are you looking for additional 25 MHz Intel 4865x Processor PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Paul 232-2794 Dell 486: 8 Mb RAM, 850 Mb HD/50 income while pursuing your college Call Ken @ 4-2089 SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH Industry. Many earn up to MHz, 14.4 Modem, Windows 95, career? Are you interested in help­RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR $4,000+/mo. during peak season. BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high Microsoft Office, 16Mb Ram avail­ing people help AB --How reek was that story? Let's POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT Benefits often include ceilings, etc. ONLY $21 0 PER able, book holder+ 15" TV. All for themselves? Are you interested in pick up some red socks this week­
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE Transportation MONTH! near campus-move in only $800 good nutrition? You are a phone end, I hear they're real popular. TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE and/or Room & Board. For details: ASAP. call Julie @ 288 7284 Stal: 232-5846 ,. call away from changing your There's a special on them, one pair BIGGEST PARTY. (206)971-3510 ext. A55849 .-------------. entire future! 800-927-2527 for a dozen eggs. Love, H 
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828 NICE FOR NEXT
HOMES ext.1051. WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM SUMMER SALES/ADVERTISING SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND TICKETS 
Bing bing bing ... Ricochet Rabbit! POSITIONS IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS Are you atheistic and looking to University Directories, the nation's 2773097 I need one JPW ticket for one or all increase your endurance, energy My l,.eft Foot of Fury. Starts Friday 
X-Ray Roger Jimmy largest publisher of campus tele­of the events. Please call Shannon and mental focus? Are you interest­at a dormitory near you.We're Back phone directories, will be on cam­POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM at X1833. Thanks. ed in good nutrition? You are a Fri. 1/24@ Bridget's pus January 23 and 24 to recruit FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR phone call away from changing Let there be soup.Sat. 1/25 @ Corby's top-notch students to sell yellow 2773097 your life! 800-927-2527 ext.1 051 page advertising for the Notre I PERSONAL 
Hey D --yellow blue bus. (ask me Texts -25% Off! 
Dame directory. Gain valuable Tired of the caffeine high? Are your later.) Love, HC Babe. 24 Hour Service. experience in advertising, sales and FOR SALE I Spring Break Bahamas Party 
studies draining you? Want to Buy/SellfTrade. public relations. Management and ....____________....~ CrUise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
increase your mental clarity, focus Tuesday was such a traumatic Open 7 Days per week travel opportunities available. For Bed-Queensize orthopedic premi-Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great and endurance? You are a phone experience. I don't think I will ever ND at Howard Street information on scheduling an inter­urn mattress set. Never used still in Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From call away from changing your life! be the same --who DOES that with 233-2342 view call Murray Dameron at 1-800-package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 800-927-2527 ext 1051 a champagne bottle, anyway? And Pandora's Books 743-5556 Ext. 156. (219) 674-2352 ~pringbreaktravel.com why stare? 
---------------,_.....~-----------------------~-. ----------~-~--~-­
Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SUPER BowL XXXI •NFl 

Despite hardships, young Pats prevail Rumors fly 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 

Terry Glenn was 13, sitting in his aunt's house in Columbus, Ohio, when the phone call came. The beaten body of his mother. missing for several days, had been found. 
Curtis Martin was a 10-year­old Pittsburgh kid out walking his dog when he heard the news from a neighbor. His grandmoth­er had been stabbed to death. 
The young stars of the New England Patriots, now two days away from the biggest game of their lives, already have met their toughest challenges. 
"We haven't talked much about it," Martin says. "It's like something that we just know within each other. We can just look at each other and say, 'Yeah, you all right today?' It's like a vibe that we can feel be­tween one another." 
Martin led the AFC in rushing as a rookie last season. This sea­son, Glenn set an NFL rookie record for receptions. 
Without them, the Patriots probably wouldn't be playing in Sunday's Super Bowl against the Green Bay Packers. And without their tragedies, Martin and Glenn probably wouldn't be as good as they are. 
"They're such strong-willed people that you really have to admire what they stand for," Patriots assistant Charlie Weis said Thursday. 
Glenn says his mother's death made him a tougher player. Martin, who became deeply re­ligious three years ago, said he developed courage after teenage years filled with fights, fears and firearms. 
They had no football padding 
to protect them from the pain of 
their losses. The emotional scars remain, especially for Glenn. He talks of his own father. "I don't never met his father and doesn't have anything to say to him and I want to. don't think he has anything to 
"It's tough now, just being here say to me." where I am," he said. "It's tough A man charged with his moth­not knowing that you have your er's death is in prison. mother or your father behind Martin helped identify his you the whole way." grandmother's killer, pointing to 
'It's tough now, just being here 
where I am... not knowing that you have your mother and father behind you the whole way.' 

Terry Glenn 
'Ishouldn't have had to go out­side and worry about whether I was going to come back.' 
Curtis Mart in 

After his mother died, Glenn said, "I started to use my own judgment, and that carried me, and that's what I've been doing ever since. It was so devastating at the time I didn't really want to go on, but I knew God blessed me. He had a plan for me." 
When his mother died, he de­voted himself to his sister Dorothy, who was 7 at the time. That's one reason he didn't go bad. 
"I don't want to be locked up and not be able to take care of my little sister. She's the main thing that was on my mind," said Glenn, now 22. 
Now he has an 8-month-old son, Terry Jr., whom he saw at Christmas. Once the season ends, he'll return to Columbus to spend more time with the infant. 
Glenn wants his son to know his father. "No, never met the man," Glenn says, his voice flat as he 
a photograph of a man he had seen playing basketball in his neighborhood. He was arrested two years later, Martin said. 
"For two years, my mother and I lived in fear because we knew that if he knew my grand­mother that he knew us," said Martin, now 23. "So if one of us went upstairs to the bathroom, the other one went. If one of us was downstairs watching TV, the other one was downstairs." 
Then the man was caught, but Martin still was surrounded by danger -getting into fights at the slimmest provocation, con­stantly worrying about survival. He began turning his life around when it occurred to him that he no longer cared ifhe lived. 
One day, he was fleeing pur­suers when he jumped onto a pole that cut his leg, sending him to a hospital for stitches. 
"I was just laying there, think­ing this can't keep going on. It's 
The Women's Resource Center, Gender Relations Task Force and Gender Studies Department are proud to welcome 
Myra Shapiro 
New York City poet 
Monday, January 27 6-7:30 P.M. Hesburgh Library Lounge Meet the poet after the reading 
u ... 

He threw me in the bay and I refused to rise. A friend convinced him 
children swim by nature. 
So would I ... " 
l"On Being Pushed When I Was Seven," 
from I'll See You Thursday) 
not right that I have to go outside and worry about living every day. I should be worrying about making good grades and all that," he said. 
"I shouldn't have to go outside and worry {lbout whether I'm going to come back or see that look on my mother's face every time I go outside. And every day she says, 'be careful.' It shouldn't be like that." 
At age 20, he turned to God. Today, he is unfailingly humble, sincere and polite. 
"As good-hearted a person as people see me now, I was just as bad. I have a long way to go yet," Martin said. 
Glenn is one of his big admir­ers. 
"Curtis is a great individual," Glenn said. "I would love to be like Curtis." 
"That's very touching," Martin said. "I don't believe he's saying he would like to perform like me on the field. I believe it's a result of the example that he's seen me set off the field." 
There's nothing phony about Martin's faith. Weis coached him as a rookie, then shifted to wide receivers coach this season, when he guided Glenn. 
During breaks in team meet­ings, Martin reads the-Bible. 
''I'm not kidding," Weis said. "He's not studying the game plan. He's reading the Bible. That's pretty fascinating." 
While Martin turned toward religion, Glenn's tragic youth imbued him with a burning de­sire to succeed in a me-against­the world sense, Weis said. 
Glenn remembers his mother as a woman who looked out for his best interests, encouraged his schooling and didn't push him into sports. 
"I did it on my own. I stuck with it for years," he said, "and I wound up in the Super Bowl." 
about Pats' head coach 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 
The New England Patriots denied a broadcast report yes­terday that former New York Jets coach Pete Carroll has been chosen to succeed Bill Parcells as New England coach. 
Sports Fan Radio Network, citing unidentified sources, said that the deal for Carroll is "100 percent done." Patriots spokesman Don Lowery denied the report. 
Neither Carroll, who is now the San Francisco 49ers defensive coordinator, nor agent Leonard Armato could be reached for comment. 
Parcells will be on the side­line with the Patriots in Sunday's Super Bowl against the Green Bay Packers. But his contract expires at the end of the month, and his relation­ship with New England owner Bob Kraft has grown increas­ingly frosty. 
Parcells is believed to seek control over personnel deci­sions. Kraft has said he wants Parcells back, but only as coach. 
Several reports have said that Parcells has already decided he will not be back for a fifth year with the Patriots. Some reports have said that he will coach the Jets next year. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 


~....................................................................................................................................~ 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~­
~  DELUXE SUITES  ~  
~  AVAILABLE FOR JPW!  - 
~  Varsity Clubs of America Suites Hotel has a  ~  
~  limited number of deluxe one and two bedroom  ~  
~  suites available for JPW February 14-16.  ~  
~  •  Reasonable Rates  ~  
~  •  Kitchenettes -Whirlpool Tubs  ~  
~  •  Restaurant and lounge  ~  
~  •  Only 3 miles from Campus  ~  
~  For more information and reservations, call  ~  
~  (219) 277-0500 or (800) 946-4822  ~  
~  Varsity Clubs of America  ~  
~  at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka  ~  
~  ~  .,~  

-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~~~~~~·~~.~~~·~~~~~~········T~~ 
page 16 
.NBA 


Minnesota to 
lowa battle for the Big Ten 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Sam Jacobson scored a ca­reer-high 29 points and No. 8 Minnesota used another out­standing defensive effort to beat Iowa 66-51 in a matchup of Big Ten conference co­leaders. 
The Golden· Gophers held Iowa without a basket over a 
10:38 stretch of the first half, then blew the game open by holding the Hawkeyes to just one hoop in a 6:05 span of the second half. 
Jacobson, whose previous career high was 26 points. was 5-for-6 from 3-point range and gave Minnesota {17-2. 6-1) the lead for good with an exhilarating dunk midway through the .first half. 
Guards Eric Harris qnd Bobby Jackson teamed to hold Iowa's Andre Woolridge, the Big Ten's leading scorer at 22 points a game, to 12 points on 3-for-14 shooting. 
Daryl Moore added 11 points for the Hawkeyes ( 14­5, 5-2), and Guy Rucker had 10. 
Jackson had 15 points and nine rebounds for ·the Gophers. 
Minnesota, trying to win its first Big Ten title since 1982, is 8-0 at Williams Arena this season. The Gophers harassed Iowa into 24 turnovers and made 14 steals while holding the Hawkeyes to a ·s~ason•low 38.5 percent shqoting;. . .. 
Iowa's•·· 51 points were its fewest of the season, and Minnesota's 66 were the most the Hawkeyes have allowed in seven Big Ten games. ·· 
While Woolridge went with­out a. basket in the first half. Jacobson, a homegrown fa· vorite, scored 15 points on 6­of· 7 shooting ......;. the rest of the team was 5-for-25 -as the Gophers took a 25-21 lead. 
A basket by Daryl Moore with 14:11 left in the half broke. .a 1 0·1 0 tie and Woolridge foiiOWiild. with two free throws to make it 14-10. But Woolridge's free throw six minutes later was the Hawkeyes' only point until Moore made a layup with 
3:33 left in the half. · Jacobson scored nine points in that 11"1 run, including his soaring dunk on a drive down the middle of the lane that gave the Gophers a 17-15 lead. 
lowa rallied briefly in the second half after Minnesota opened a 40-28 lead on a dunk by QuincfLewis with 
11:52 to play. A 3-pointer by Kent McCausland and baskets by Ryan Bowen and Rucker pulled Iowa to 40-35. 
But Jacobson hit a 3-point­er and then passed to John Thomas for a layup to push the margin back to double figures. and Iowa got no clos· er. 

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 24, 1997 
• SuPER BowL XXXI 
Pack's TE rotation does the job 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 
When the season began, some wondered whether Green Bay's decision to rotate two Pro Bowl tight ends might cause more problems for the Packers than for their opponents. 
"I understood how Mark Chmura was and I know that part of it would work and how he would accept this," tight ends coach Andy Heid said Thursday. "I wasn't sure of the other half. 
"But Keith Jackson is really a good person, an understanding person. lie realizes that he's up in age, but yet for a certain number of plays he can still play very effectively," Heid added. 
Each has his strengths, which helped the Packers reach Sunday's Super Bowl against the New England Patriots. 
The 27-year-old Chmura, whose teammatc~s call him Chewy, is among the league's best run-blockers. It is no eo­incidence that the Packnrs' ground game took off last month after his return from a three-week arch injury. 
At 31, Jackson is still a threat down the middle of' the field and is Brett Favre's favorite target inside the 20. lie led Grenn Bay with 1 0 TD catches and earned his sixth trip to the Pro Bowl. 
"They're two great tight ends," New England safety Willie Clay said. 
"Actually, we're like one," Chmura said. "Keith's a great receiver, avcragn blocker. I'm 
a good blocker. average re­ceiver. "It's like we're one big mon­ster." 
A two-headed beast that's been one big headache for defenses all year. 
"It's a tough combination, es­pecially when we're playing half the game," Chmura said. "We're fresh when it comes to the fourth quarter." 
Being a part-time big-timer suits Jackson just fine. 
''I'm usually only playing half the game, and not only that, I'm taking half the reps at practice," Jackson said. "If I had to do all that at my age, I'd probably have to retire halfway through the season like Ken Huettgers because my knees would be so beat up." 
Still, it hasn't been easy shar­ing snaps. 
"It's tough on both or us," Chmura said. "I want to pl<.ty the full game and Keith wants to play the full game. But we realized thfl best way we wnre going to get to thn Supnr Bowl was filr us to split timn. 
"I'm not saying I want to do this my whole career," Chmura added. "But for right now, wn want that ring." 
Jackson said thn tandem's frinndship and desire to win havn madn dividing duties morn palatable. 
"Wn realized that wn 'both had talents at dcilng dif'feront things and that if we combined those talents, we could keep tnams uf'f balanen as well as beat guys consistnntly," Jackson said. 
Jackson, who held out for three months after he was 
traded to Green Bay from Miami in 1995, spurned the chance to be the main attrac­tion somewhere else when he re-upped with the Packers last winter. 
"I could have gone to some other teams and been featured as a receiver, but I said it's more important to win as a team," said Jackson, who signed a two-year deal worth $3.2 million with incentives shortly after Chmura re-signnd for three years and $4.5 mil­lion. 
'"I think Brett Favre, when he gets around the goal line. starts looking for me," said Jackson, who had 40 recep­tions. 
Chmura went to the Pro Bowl last ynar after setting career highs with 54 catches and seven TDs. This season, he had. just 28 receptions and no touchdowns, figures that Heid called deceptive. 
"Keith had a greater number of touchdowns and obviously Chewy missed those couple of games tlwre," Reid said. "But Mark. as an overall tight end, had a better year this year than last." 
But Chmura was overshad­ownd by Jackson all year. 
''I'm Kato and he's the Grenn llornnt," Chmura said, recall­ing tlw 1960s martial arts TV show. ''I'm the sidekick. I'll get you down to the 1-yard linn and them Keith's going to catch the touchdown. 
"13ut that's fine with me," Chmura said. "If we win Sunday. wn'll each get our own ring." 
And thorn's no sharing that. 


r-----------.......----~-,-"''F ,.,.,.._~------------------.~-~~--•~-----.-.---~---.--~---~-..._._,_w_...,l
_____..____________ 
Friday, January 24, 1997 
SiiDon 
continued from page 1 
High S~hool (Ohio), when his 5­8 frame caused people to doubt his ability to continue at the collegiate level. 
"People said I had skill but was too small," reflected Simon. "But my junior year I had a growth spurt and ended up being 6 feet tall. I started thinking my chances were.good to play more hockey." 
However, he had to convince the rest of the hockey world that this was true. He had his opportunity at the under-17 national select camp in Lake Placid, N.Y. 
"I coached the team that Ben and Joe [Dusbabek, another stellar Irish freshman1 played on," explained assistant coach Tom Carroll, "so I had a great opportunity to watch them play. We had been tracking Joe, so we knew about him, but Ben's skills kind of jumped out at me. He clearly was as skilled and talented as anyone at the camp. I was very impressed with him." 
The skills Carroll spoke so highly of are his skating, his speed, and his stick-handling. "He really handles the puck well," stated Carroll. "And his 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Fencing 
continued from page 1 
State squad that defeated them fairly handily. This fact has not been lost on the team. 
"I think there is a little bit of vengeance involved. Penn State really killed us last year (in the championships). but we're a much improved team this year. I think we have an 
""'attitude of a combination of confidence and determina­tion," says senior foil captain Jeremy Siek. The team knows each match will count, but the key will be how well the second and third members of each event per­form. "What we really need is for our secondary fencers to step up, people like (sophomore foilist) Stephane Auriol and (freshman foilist) Chas Hayes," says the elder Auriol. ''I'm confident that our top fencers like (sophomore foilist) Sara Walsh, Jeremy Siek, and (sophomore sabreist) Luke LaValle will be consistent, but the difference will be how well those who aren't normally counted on step up. But I think after competing in a few matches this year, they are ready," says senior sabre captain Bill Lester. Lester will also be trying to break assistant coach Mike Sullivan's record for victories this weekend. But the feel­ings between the two have not diminished because of the in­evitable falling of the record. "We keep it competitive in a fun way. I still have tremen­dous respect for him in a teacher and student kind of way," says Lester. And while Sullivan's competitive side finds it hard 
page 17 
to see his name erased from the record book, he still keeps perspective on the situation. 
"Everyone knows I've been aware of the record since I've held it for about 20 years, but it softens the blow that I've been helping him along as a coach," says Sullivan. 
A wild card the team hopes will come through is the addi­tion of sophomore epeeist C.J. Jackson. He will be making his debut following a one year sabbatical. After bursting onto the scene his freshman by earning second team All­American honors and finish­ing sixth at the NCAA champi­onships, Jackson could be the difference. 
"C.J. should be a big help in the epee. He did well as a freshman, and we hope he can come in and make a·solid contribution," says Auriol. 
"C.J. helps a lot because he's been in the NCAAs and knows about the pressure. He's a great emotional fencer, and should provide leadership simply because of his experi­ence," says Lester. 
After such a long layoff. the rust factor may have some ef­fect, but Jackson is confident he will perform well. 
"I haven't really considered handling nerves from the long layoff, but everything seems to be coming into place," says Jackson. 
The team will find his 
contribution useful, especially 
when looking at the opposi­
tion's vast talent. 
"Penn State is a solid team 
from top to bottom, and 
they'll be ready for us. All we 
can do is put in our best 
effort," says Auriol. 
So though the competition will be stiff, the fencing team hopes to prove its resolve and come away with the biggest victory of the regular season. 


The Observer/Mike Ruma . 
Simon has received rave reviews from his coaches since joining the Irish. 
breakaway speed is always a threat." 
"He's definitely a quick skater," explained senior cen­ter and captain, Terry Lorenz. "He's also not afraid to mix it up along the boards. He plays with a kind of reckless abandon -he's not afraid of anything. I definitely think that that's one of his assets." · 
Despite this wealth of talent, Simon's scoring career began slowly, failing to tally a goal in the first fourteen games of the season. 
"I wanted to prove that I was ready for college hockey," quipped Simon, "but my points weren't coming and we were losing close games. It was frus­
trating for me and for the team." 
Simon described his lack of productivity as a "slump", but Carroll disagrees. 
That's definitely a self-im­posed term," Carroll stated, re­ferring to the use of "slump." "He was an impact player from day one. We were not disap­pointed at..all. We were pleased with his effort and thought that he responded well. At Bowling Green [a 7-5 comeback Irish victory]. for example, he recorded three assists and was the best player on the ice." 
Simon is as scintillating off the ice as he is on it. 
"He's really a character," said Lorenz. "He always keeps everyone on their toes. Poulin [Notre Dame head coach] said 
early in the season that he did­
n't want robots, that he wanted 
guys to have character and
~~·:v. 
personality as well. Ben has definitely accomplished that." 
The Passionist Lay Missioners ~· ~ "He's a real popular kid,"invite you to ~ added Carroll. "He likes to a General Information Session! ·.I have a good time. But there's a 
big difference between him in the locker room and him on theMonday, January 27 
ice. Once the whistle blows 7:30pm he's a very intense guy. He's a tremendous competitor on the
Center for Social Concerns 
ice." 


Work in the inner-city • Live a simple, 
Celebrate your friend's birthday with a
communal life • Engage in social analysis • Grow spiritually and 
special Observer ad.
personally • Reflect on the ~ contemporary Passion of Jesus 
.' t I 

PASSIONIST LAY MISSIONERS 
..

5700 N. Harlem Avenue Chicago, ll 60631 ' 773-631-6336 
f 

n.~~·-11 t;;t c\ 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool qualify, these merit-based L.EADERSHIP year the scholarship is in scholarships can help you ~ effect. Find out today if paytuitionandeducational 
you qualify. 
ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

.,... 

-----·~ ~----~ ~ -~-­
• 
Friday, January 24, 1997 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 

His Airness up to same old tricks against Cavs 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 

CLEVELAND 
Michael Jordan followed up his 51-point game with 32, icing the game with two demoralizing dunks in the fourth quarter as the Chicago Bulls beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 87-71 Thursday night. 
Jordan, who has had more of his 50-point games against Cleveland than any other team, was relatively quiet until finally taking to the air early in the fourth. 
He sailed along the baseline for a one-handed Jordanesque stuff that extended Chicago's lead to 64-58 with 10:41 left. Three minutes later, Jordan got the ball on the left Wing, glided toward the lane and threw down another one that made it 68-58. Jordan hung on the rim and glared at Bob Sura, who was sliding on his backside. 
That was it for Cleveland, 
which had led by as many as 11 
in the first quarter and survived 
a 15-0 Chicago run in the sec­
ond quarter. 

After his highlight reel dunks, 
Jordan sank five of six foul shots 
and tossed a shot in otT the glass 
as the shot clock expired during 
a 17-4 run that gave the Bulls a 
79-62 lead. 

Even without the suspended 
Dennis Hodman, Chicago out­
rebounded Cleveland 49-28. 
Interestingly, it's the offense 
that is struggling without 
Rodman. It was Chicago's third 
straight game in the 80s. 

Scottie Pippen had 13 points and 12 rebounds, and Toni Kukoc added 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
Terrell Brandon led Cleveland with 21, and Chris Mills had 20. The Cavaliers lost for the eighth time in nine games and their fourth straight at home. 
The Bulls, on the other hand, appear to be on yet another winning streak. It was Chicago's second straight win since Sunday's 102-86 loss at Houston. Chicago beat New York 88-87 at home on Tuesday, with Jordan scoring a season­high 51. 
The Bulls did not take their 
first lead until four minutes into 
the second. Bill Wennington 
dunked and sank a free throw 
for a three-point play that made 
it 28-27. 

It was part of a 15-0 run that 
included six straight points by 
Pippen. Jordan hit a 3-pointer, 

then made a steal that led to a 
putback by Kukoc that made it 
33-27 Chicago with 6:20 left be­
fore halftime. 

Brandon sparked an 8-2 
Cleveland run at the start of the 
third and sank a jumper with 
1.3 seconds remaining to cut Chicago's lead to 60-55. 
MILWAUKEE 92 ORLANDO 96 

With the game on the line, 
Derek Strong couldn't miss. 

The Orlando forward, subbing 
for the injured Horace Grant, hit 
a go-ahead layup with just over 
three minutes to go, then made 
six free throws in the final 1:18 
to help the Magic beat the 
r------------------------,
: Spring Break 97 : 

1
I for info calll-800-446-8355 pnce 
1
L~t~:~w!':,u.!:,e~~::·~~s.!!~r!a! __ gu,;:~r:!_e;_d!.l, :._ ..1 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in, our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authori~ 
• A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
~OBSERVER is now hiring a  
WEB ADMINISTRATOR ·.'"t<iw.""" .· .........., •  
. > ";:~<'A. c'­;<%.> c:uw Interest in designing ""?·iii rlf~ating web­sites is helpful but·riot'r:quired. The WEB ADMINISTRATORQ'4,: .. +····. ni·· is resp~~sibltf for ~r ing the daily publication ()f•11Jle Observer on the internet. Interested? Contact Liz Foran at 631-4542 for more information.  

"'· 
Milwaukee Bucks 96-92 last early in the game, and (the free the Magic, who won for the sixth night. "It was pretty easy for me throws) made up for it." time in seven games since at the line," Strong said. "I Penny Hardaway and Hony Hardaway and Nick Anderson 
missed some wide open shots Seikaly each had 23 points for returned from the injured list. 

*  *  .Don't let the  
winter blues * get you down•••  
*  

Sign up for the LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 
The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leader­ship course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utiliz­ing University resources. 
Applications will be available FRIDAY, JANUARY 24, 1997 from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309. 

There will be an informational meeting 
for those interested in running for Student Body President and· Vice-President on Monday, January 27 
6:30 P.M. in the Student 
Government Office 2nd Floor of LaFortune 
All potential candidates must attend. Questions? Call Jen Dovidio at 1-4553 
Friday, January 24, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 


,..
p 1997 
arn $$$ for Spring Break 
February 14, 15, 16 
Sign ups are: Sat 1/25 9:30a.m.-5:00p.m. Sun 1/26 11:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 



page 20 The Observer • SPORTS 
·­
• WOMEN'S BASI<ETBALl 

Irish try to keep clean slate 

By JOE CAVATO 
Spons Writer 
Perfection. 

That is what one sees when they look at the Notre Dame women's basketball record against conference foes. In fact, the Irish (16-4, 8-0) have been close to perfect for the past month or so, winning . nine out of their last ten and six straight. 
"I think that we're improv­ing," head coach Muffet McGraw pointed out. "I think our offense is coming together better and I've been really pleased with the way we've been playing." 
"We are starting to play much better together," agreed senior forward Rosanne Bohman. 
McGraw's squad will look to continue keep that doughnut hole in the loss column when Georgetown will challenge ND this Saturday at the Joy<;e Center at 1 p.m. 
Last year the Irish got the best of the Hoyas in both their meetings. The performances were marked by the Domers' All-American candidates, Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither, who both scored over tw1inty points on both occasions. 
The Hoyas return all but one of their starters which includes a member of last season's Big East third team squad, Ebiho Ahonkhai. 
Ahonkhai is turning in another strong season as she ranks tenth in the league in scoring with 16.4 points per contest. 
Georgetown also boasts two players who made the all­rookie Big East team last year. 
Sylata Thomas and Kim Smith, last year's Big East Rookie of the year, have enjoyed an improved sopho­more season as the Lady 
I Hoyas find themselves at the 
I top of the Big· East 7 division 
I with an overall mark of 12-4. 
I "They're basically the same 
r team that played very well at 
r 
times last year, but now they are all a year older," McGraw f commented. "We're expect­
~-ing a really good game." 
1 After mainly riding on the shoulders of Gaither and Morgan who both rank in the top ten in scoring in the con­ference the Irish have been receiving solid contributions from others, especially their back court. 
.... 
Guards Mollie Peirick and Jeannine Augustin have turned in terrific games in the past several contests running the potent Irish running game. 
"The last several games I think one of the big differ­ences has been the play of Mollie Peirick," McGraw praised. "She and Jeannine Augustin have been doing just a great job of taking care of the ball and running the offense." 
Bohman has provided great play in the paint while sopho­more guard Sheila McMillen has provided a spark off the bench. 
The transition game has been essential in tpe past two triumphs. When the offense turns stagnant, the Irish team looks to the defense to push the ball, in addition to getting quick and easy looks before the defense can set up. 
"I always try to push the ball, I think we can run after a steal, rebound or if the make a basket," Peirick com­mented. "I have always been a believer in trying to run, and I think Jeannine thinks like that too." 
The Hoyas definitely have 
the athleticism and quickness 
to give the Irish zone defense 
fits. McGraw hopes their 
scout team of some males and 
assistant coaches can prepare 
the defense. 
"They're a very good team 
and have tremendous quick­
ness," McGraw expressed. 
"Our zone will get a work out 
on Saturday but we have a 
great .scout team we play with 
and they are very athletic so I 
think that can really prepare 
us." 
"I remember from last year 
that they were very athletic 
and we just couldn't put them 
away," Peirick remarked. 
"So, I think it's going to be a 
great game come Saturday. 
The focus of the Irish will 
again be in two fundamental 
areas, as McGraw explains. 
"Taking care of the ball and 
rebounding are two areas 
we're trying to emphasize." 
The home team may have 
an advantage cleaning the 
glass as in last year's cam­
paigns ND out rebounded 
Georgetown by 19 and 13, but 
the Irish have been inconsis­
tent this year when it comes 
to that category. 

"Rebounding is something 
that coach always concentrat-ed on, but on some nights they come our way and some nights they don't," observed Bohman. 


After this weekend's action Gaither and Morgan and Co. will take their show on the road to Miami and St. John's as their showdown with the nationally top-ranked Connecticut Huskies quickly approaches. 
"We're trying not to look ahead but it is hard knowing that we have No. 1 UConn coming up," Bohman com­mented. "But, I think we've been doing a good job of not looking past teams so far this year." 
All those at the Joyce Center this Saturday at 1 p.m. will see if the Irish can keep their streak of perfection intact. 
Guard Sheila McMillen has provided stellar play coming off the bench and will be looked to against Georgetown. 
WANTED·. 
Dedicated, Interested, Enthusiastic Leader for 
Student Body President 
for the 1997-1993 School Year. 
If you are interested in running for 
Saint Mary's Student Body President or Vice-President 
you must attend one of the following informational meetings: 
Monday, January 27 or Tuesday, January 28 at 7:00p.m. in Haggar Game Room. 
. 
Elections will be Tuesday~ February 4. Please call Elections Commissioner Emily Miller with questions at 284-5226. 

A Strong Offer 


·:::::\. for Notre Dame 
·:::. 

··:· Studentg 
')> 


;.; 
Does na irclude $1 0rew stli:Jent member iMialion fee. 
WORLD GYM· 
FITNESS CENTER 
Shorin~Ryu Karate-Students are instructed according to Okinawan tecb­niques. This semester-long course meets in Rockne Hm. 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from: 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 30. You must register in . adv11nce . at 
RecSports and thefee is $18. Call 1-8237 forrnoreinforma• tion. 
Tae Kwon Do -Students are instructed in accordance with World Tae Kwon Do Federation techniques. This semester -long course meets Sundays from 3-4 p.m. in Rockne Rm. 301. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $20. 
Ballet -RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. The Beginner classes are for dancers with 0-4 years expe­rience and the Advanced class is for dancers with 5 or more years experience. Both class­es arc. semester long classes with a fee of $35. The Beginner class meets on Saturdays from 10:15-11:45 
a.m. and Mondays from 7:30­
8:30 p.m. The Advanced class meets on Sundays from 
RAD -RecSports in conjunction with Notre Dame Security/Police will be sponsoring a RAD class for women onlyftom Jan. 21­
30. The class will meet on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6:30·9:30 Rockne. Rm. 301,12 and ...... , ••,...,t~Jt); 
to 

The progra is taught by HAD certified instructors who are university police officers at Notre Dame. Regis~er in advance at RecSports begin­ning today. Class size is limit­ed. There will not be a fee for this class. 
Cross Country Ski Clipics -RecSports will be sponsoring three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Jan. 25 at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Feb. 1 at 10 
a.m. and at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $3 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross country clinics. .. 
Y & Tai Chi'-'fhe sign­... ! Jan..2 7:45 a.m. 
;. ... .. 
--------------------~-~~ 


The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Netters set lofty aspirations 
By JIM ZALETA Sports Writer 
The men's tennis team has opened the season with back to back wins at Ohio State and Wisconsin. The fifteenth ranked Irish beat the Badgers· 5-2 in Madison. Notre Dame won the singles matches 4-2 and gained the doubles point in a tic-break. 
In the No. 1 singles match ju­nior Jakub Pietrowski defeated Wisconsi-n's Mike Goldstein, 6­2, 6-4. He is coming off of an elbow injury, which left him on the sidelines for the end of last season. Pietrowski has the abil­ity to play at an All-American level, his coaches say. Pietrowski is working on mak­ing it into both the individual and team NCAA tournaments. 
Pietrowski, teamed up with doubles partner Brian Patterson, to defeat their No. 1 doubles pairing 8-5. Patterson, a sophomore, is using his ath­letic talent more aggressively than he did in his freshman campaign to put more pressure· on his opponents. 
Last season he held a 17-9 record in overall doubles play. He and Pietrowski, No. 2 dou­bles partners last season were ranked No. 75 in March of last season. Patterson also won his No. 4 singles match in two sets of 6-4. 
Freshmen Trent Miller and Ryan Sachire won the tie break doubles match , 7-6, to give Notre Dame the extra point in the doubles slot. The Irish came back from a 6-5 deficit and won the match and 


domingo 26, de enero 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, esc 
Todos Estan Invitados 
(tMPUSMINISTRY 


the point for the team. Sachire won his No. 2 sin­gles match with impres­sive 6-2, 6-1 sets. However, Miller was di!feated in his No. 6 sin­gles match. 
"We must begin anew the process that got us to top 10 finishes in both 1992 and '93," head coach Bobby Bayliss commented 
before  the  
season.  Last  
season  the  
I  r  i  s  h  

advanced to the NCAA tournament for the sixth year in a row and finished the S e aS 0 n Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information ranked in the The No. 1 singles player, junior Jakup Pietrowski, has 36th slot in recovered from the off-season to get off to a quick start. 
the nation. Last season's 18-11 success expected. record was not enough to put Teams like Texas, Duke, the Irish in the top ten like Kentucky, and Miami stand in Bayliss had hoped. the way of the Irish, but Bayliss 
"This, however makes me and Pietrowski feel the team even more determined that we has a good of chance as any­will rebound this season and body to get in the NCAA final. have an excellent year," Bayliss The nationally ranked Irish projected. will continue play Saturday 
Pietrowski added, that the when they face DePaul and team needs to "support one an-Miami (Ohio). The Big East other and put in a conscience season begins Feb. 1 at Miami, effort," in order to reach the Florida. 
~ 
The Observer· SPORTS 
r 
t I 
! 
r --· 
I 
!­
1 
I I I • 
I 
i 
1 ... 
I 
i i 
Bi 


League Games League Games All Games 
w Lw L 

7 1 
Miami 6 5 
Providence 3 12 5
5 3 4 
4 5 11 6 3 11 5 
3 4 9 9 4 4 i'1o 5 Rutgers 3 5 7 
4 

Syracuse 2 5 11 7 
2 6 7 10

3 5 9 7 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Pat Garrity will clash with WVU as they aim for three in a row. 'lilt 
the spread-out scoring will con­tinue as well. Forward Pat
Hoops 
Garrity, held scoreless in the first half against the Hall, found 
continued from page 1 
other people to take up the slack in his absence as three
opportunities with rebounds 
other Irish players put up dou­

and steals. "We weren't really digging in ble-figure numbers. They will 
need to keep scoring up to staydefensively until the second 
competitive with the

half, but once we started going 
we really took charge," Mountaineers and take pres­MacLeod recalled. "What we 
sure oft' of their defense. In last season's meeting be­

really need to do is concentrate 
tween the two teams in the

on converting our fast break opportunities and be more con­
Joyce, the Mountaineers took charge in a 69-59 victory.

sistent on our free throw shoot­ing. If we can do that, we'll be 
Notre Dame needs this win to Late Night 0\~mpi~&in good shape." 
keep the upward movement The Irish rotation will likely 
going and gain some real mo­

Team £vent&
mentum. So now it's time to

stay the same against the 

head for the mountains. 

Mountaineers, and hopefully 
U>-tz..e.c. Vo\\e1ba\\ Ha\f U>urt '3 on '3 ~a&~etba\\ (MM'I) Nerf football U>-tz..e.c. Water 'Po\o Wiff\e ~a\\ Indoor 1>oGGer (M~
Beverly Hills Ninja PG13 
--12:45 3:00 5:15 7:30 9:40 

Target 6ro\f
Michael PG 2:30 5:00 7:30 10:00 
RBULENCE (R)12:55, 3:15, 5:30, 7:45, 10:10 

U\timate tz..e.c.~port& Cha\\enge
EPREACHERS WIFE (PG)1:30, 4:10, 7:20, 10:00 Scream R 2:00 4:45 7:45 10:10 
Table Top 'Pentat\1\on 
FIRST STRIKE (PG-13)12:40, 2:40,4:40,7:25,9:45 
One Fine Day PG 

~roombal\ (MM'I)
1:30 4:1.5 6:45 9:1.5
IN LOVE AND WAR (PG-13) 2:00,4:50, 7:40, 10:30 

Kic.~bal\ 
MOTHER (PG-13)1:40, 4:20, 7:05, 9:30 

\Z.ac.quetba\1 (M~) 
HE ENGLISH PATIENT (R)too, 4:30, 8:00 

Ka1a~ing 
HINE (PG-13) 1:10, 3:35, 5:50, 8:10, 10:25 

EGHOSTS OF MISSISSIPPI (PG) 12:50, 3:45, 7:00, 9:50 
People Versus Larry Flynt R 
1:15* 4:00 7:00 10:00
TAR TREK FIRST CONTACT (PG-13) 7:10,9:55 
The Relic R 

Fric\.a~, :f.anu.ar~ 31, 1qcn • l:OO ?M -4:oo 1\M • :fo~c,e Center • (p31-(plOD
EAVIS AND BUTTHEAD (PG-13)1:05, 3:00, 5:oo 
1:45* 4:30 7:15 9:50 

-~-~--~~---~ . 
All LNO fv1tdals Wm:. Oonattd by tht Notrt Oamt Alumni Association 
• Saturday & Sunday only 

All T-Shirts Wm Oonattd by(£~
Times valid through next Thursday 



Friday, January 24, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
I POT 'YOU IN 'FOR 
A. COf"\PLIMENT, 


"The Christmas 49lt's used for trim 
Song" 52 "The Wizard of 29 Opener, of sorts Oz" prop 33 Farm females 56 Direction at sea 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~-:::'-+-'-';oil ,;_'+-'-+'-t-'-1 10 "As you--" •*::-t.:::-1 11 Thatcher's need """"~~~ 12 Jr. et al. ~7+.=-wllilliiill 15 Feigns -:-f:,.:.p~~ 16 Singer of the "High Noon" theme 
stage role
II!!--~!!2l~··· 20 Glenn Close 
,..,_...,_.,.,1-:::-i.,..,.-~ 23 Diving duck 
:; 
0 
lT'5 NOT 1\UTOM~TlC. 
...
" 
0 
TliE ~?PLICATION 1'\UST 
@>" 

:;"' BE 1\PPROVE.D C>Y THE. 
c 

" E.~ECUTIVE. REVIEW 
59 Game, to Guglielmo 60 Paint additives 61 Gumbo dishes 
62Temple University athlete 
63 Reduced-fare program? 64 Drill targets 
DOWN 

1 Pretended 2 "Bye!" 301d song 
"Abdul Abulbul 
4 Survivors 5 Corrida cynosure 6 Contents of 
some sleeves 7 Dada figure a Make muddy 9 Group once 
directed by Lee Strasberg 
~ 
~ 
! 
"'. 


28 "The Chronicles of Narnia" author 30 Bruit (about) 31 Power-­32 It's a long story 37 Unnamed person 38 Object of devotion 41 Ran smoothly 43Simian 46Tap 49 Animal stomach 50 Catapult 

ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your career will move in a more rewarding direction. Devoted to your work, you arc sometimes obli­vious to what is happening around you. Stay alert. Ignoring a competi­tor's machinations would be a mis­take. A summer wedding will enjoy special blessings. Look forward to a business boom in September. A rift between parent and child requires careful handling. Seek counseling if unsure what to do next. A secret ad­mirer finds you very glamorous. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: gymnast Mary Lou Retton, ballet innovator Maria Tall­chief, singer Neil Diamond, novelist 
MIKE PETERS 
Edith Wharton. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your personal;ty is a big plus at social events. Do not let jealousy become an issue with a co-worker or romantic partner. Share the spotlight with those who have helped you do great things. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be content to stay behind the scenes at work. An employer has high expec­tations. A raise or promotion is pos­sible when the bottom line improves. Developing your commu­nication skills is vital; study the technical side of writing. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Experience is the big difference between you and a competitor. Showcase your special talents to best advantage. An unexpected invi­
SCOTT ADAMS 
tation gives you a thrill. CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Follow your intuition in both busi­ness and private matters. Do not depend on vague offers of assis­
EXECUTIVE RE.VIE.W COr-\!'\lTIE.E. 
WE DON'T WANT 
tance. This weekend, let business take a back seat to friends and fami-
TI-\EM 10 THIN\<. 
1y. Pamper those you love most1 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do not let someone's arguments persuade 
you to change your plans. Team­work is the key to improving joint finances. Emphasize your interest in community ser.vice. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A close associate is especially sensi­tive now. Be more attentive than in the recent past. Amicable solutions can be reached later today. Be hon­est. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): When moving in circles frequented by peo­ple of means, wear conservative attire and be on your best behavior. Speak briefiy and pleasantly to as many people as possible. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Give a career change or unusual financial deal serious consideration. Using your social connections is fine if you repay favors. Fulfilling friendships are based on give-and­take. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): A friend may become a col­
league now. Be certain not to show 
favoritism if this person works 
under your supervision. Stick to a 
healthy diet no matter how tempting 
party food looks. Exercise regularly. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Physical activity makes you 
feel and look better. Romance blos­
soms. Refuse to be rushed into mak­
ing a permanent commitment. A 
friend's comments prove inspiring. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
A recently-formed partnership is 
already producing desirable results. 
Make the most of a special financial 
opportunity. Spending the evening 
with a small group of friends lets 
you unwind. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20J: 
Develop an idea further before rush­
ing into action. A high level of ener­
gy helps you accomplish a tremen­
dous amount of work. Deal with 
criticism objectively; do not let it 
erode your self-esteem. 

-..._ 
-· 
ALICE.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Glower 
6 Yuri's love 10 Crooked 13 "Hill Street 
Blues" star 14 Athletic supporter? 17 With lance in hand 18 W.W. II fighter planes 19lndiana city or 
college 21 Sent into orbit 22Pen name 25 Soak flax 26 Composer of 
34--culpa 35 Constitutional 3&Seam 37 Holes over 
which timber is cut 39 1969 Super Bowl 4001ympus support 42 Post-op destination 43 Barker of filmdom 44 Undertake 45 "Best of luck!" 47 Court matter 48 Petty criticism 

51 "Dear mother 55 Bite Ida, harken -­
56 Vietnam's Le die" (Tennyson 
Due-­refrain) 
57 Past-due 53 Like some beliefs amount? 
54 It may look on a 58 Presidential king inits. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
_, 
#6~ 
~ 
I.­
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 
• HOCKEY 

Freshman phenom 
exhibits flair both 
on and of the ice 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
When Team USA captured a silver medal at the World Junior Hockey Championships held in Switzerland over Winter Break, only three play­ers from the talent-rich Central Collegiate Hockey Association, the highest esteemed hockey conference in the country, had medals dangling around their necks, and only one was a freshman. 
This fabulous freshman was none other than Notre Dame freshman left­wing Ben Simon, who at five months shy of his 19th birthday is the youngest player on the Notre Dame hockey team. 
Simon skated on the U.S. third line alongside Boston College's Jeff Farkas and Lake Superior's Jason Sessa and helped the team to its best finish in the tournament's 21-year history. Along the way, the~team trounced Germany, Switzerland, and the Czech Republic and tied Canada (4-4), snapping the Canadians 16­game winning streak in the tourna­ment, before eventually losing to the Canadians in the gold medal game. 
Simon's climb to success in the hockey arena has not been an easy one. lie recalls his days as a high school sophomore at Shaker Heights 
see SIMON/ page 17 



The Observer/Rob Finch 

Epeeist Anne Hoos reflects on her team's strategy as they face the challenge of dueling with last year's NCAA finalists. 
... 
Squad aims to foil defending champs 
By DAVID FRICK Spores Writer 

Teams often reach a crossroads during the course of a season. For .. the fencing squad, this weekend's 
meet at Penn State marks that point. 
With the competition fielding last year's national champion Penn State and second runner-up St. John's, the team has its work cut out for them. 
"This coming weekend will be a big test of how good we are. Everyone has there focus on Penn State, but St. 
John's will also be strong. However, I think we'll measure up pretty well against the best," says head coach Yves Auriol. 
The team will be facing a Penn 
see FENCING I page 17 
Friday, January 24, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
Marcus Young (42) and Admore White will have their hands full with a potent WVU attack 
Irish must slow Mountaineers to maintain streak 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
After jaunting through consecutive Big East wins in their last two games, the Irish take their road show to West Virginia to face the Mountaineers for the first time this season. West Virginia, coming in with a 10-5 overall record, 4-4 in the Big East, have had their own problems as of late, but are a team that has shown good scoring capabilities, most recently beating Rutgers on the road by an 81-65 margin. 

The Irish defense, Notre. Dame's most con­sistent facet of play, will have their hands full. Four players on the Mountaineers' squad are averaging double figures in points. Forward Damian Owens leads his team in the scoring category with 15 points per game. 
"West Virginia is the best offensive team in the Big East right now," Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod evaluated. "They arc as deep and talented as any team we will face this year. They have Damian Owens and Seldon Jefferson, two outstanding scorers, and will put pressure on our defense to stay with them." 
In the Seton Hall game on Wednesday evening, Notre Dame's defense never really responded to the challenge offered them in the half. When they came to play in the sec­ond period, they were able to effectively pre­vent post scoring and contain the quicker Pirate ball club while creating fast break 
see HOOPS/ page 3 

at West Virginia Indoor Track vs. Indiana Saturday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday 

• Men's tennis preview 
vs. Georgetown

• • 
see page 21Saturday, 1 p.m. 

Men's Tennis vs. DePaul Saturday
at Penn State meet This weekend 
• Women's Hoops host Hoyas

•
vs. St. Cloud State Swimming vs. DePauw see page 20 

Jan. 24-25, 7:30 p.m. January 30 
sc 






