
Wednesday, April30, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 135 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Campus feels effects of Shirt losses 

By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
"So what's the policy? "Can I smoke in my room or not?" 
According to du Lac, smoking is admissible in dorm rooms and graduate housing at Notre Dame pending the prior con­sent of all roommates. 
Technically, Notre Dame does not qualify as a smoke-free campus, but student residents have found that the smoking policy outlined in du Lac and the smoking policies they encounter in their individual dorms do not always coincide. 
Du Lac dedicates two pages to the smoking policy, but in the wake of information regarding the various health risks of smoking and second-hand smoke, where do the rights of Notre Dame smokers end and the rights of non-smokers begin? 
In most dorms. individual rec­tors have disregarded du Lac and created their own smoking policies; inside all but three Notre Dame dorms, smoking is not allowed. 
"Remaining smoke-free with­in the building is taken very seriously here," said Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall. "It is not fair to the non-smokers in the dorm to let people light up in the rooms around them." 
Fisher Hall, Knott Hall and Morrissey Hall are the only three dorms that adhere to the du Lac policy. In all other dorms on campus, rectors have decided to remain smoke-free based on various health and safety issues. 
"The walls in the dorm rooms and the ventilation systems are not adequate to totally separate the smokers from the non­smokers," commented Sister Patricia Riley, rector of Breen­Phillips Hall. "We changed the policy after we had some prob­lems with allergies." 
However, even though the vast majority of dorms on cam­pus are strictly smoke-free, du Lac's policy still states that 
see SMOKING/ page 6 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Annual profits from The Shirt affect every Notre Dame student. When The Shirt sells poorly, campus organizations lose their claims to its profits, and each student feels the trickled-down repercussions. 
After last year's sharp decline in sales and last week's announcement of Student Union's 1997-98 budget alloca­tions, numerous campus organi­zations are realizing the trade­off. 
This year only $77,000 was earmarked for Student Union by The Shirt committee -a full $43,000 less than last year, and groups, including the senior class, whose budget allocation decreased $2,680 from last year's, have to deal with that fact. 
"If every student knew that the money from The Shirt went indi­rectly to them, they might be more inclined to buy one," said senior class president Beth 
. Nolan. In fact, half of all revenues from The Shirt-up to $100,000 -goes directly into a joint account and combines with approximately $400,000 annual­
• STUDENT SENATE 
ly received from the Student Activities Fund, which draws its stock from tuition fees. 
Since all funds beyond the Student Activities budget come from Shirt revenues, Student Union relies on those dividends to determine each of its sub­sidiaries' budgets. 
According to student body president Matt Griffm, using The Shirt's profits rather than only relying on Student Activities' $400,000 helps overall, but is not an optimal policy. "I think its wrong for student organizations to rely on The Shirt, hut I'm glad they're questioning its impact on their groups this year," Griffin said. 
During the 1996-1997 school year, The Shirt brought the full allocation of $100,000 to Student Union as well as factoring in an additional one-time $20,000 donation from the pool set aside for charity donations to help aug­ment student service projects, according to Gayle Spencer, Student Activities director. This year, that figure was $43,000 less . 
"Shirt sales had been increas­ing until this year," Spencer said. "I would attribute this year's decline to two factors: It was never really nice in the fall; and we didn't have a stellar season. I think it was a one time thing, but Student Union did get the 50 per­cent of all profits that we promised them." 


Bill Walsh, the 1996 Shirt's executive coordinator, com-
see SHIRT I page 6 
Senate joins revision movement 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
Student Senate passed its first resolution in yesterday's meeting. By forwarding their official endorsement of non-discrimina­tion clause revision to the University's officers, the fledgling senate finalized its position on a key item of business. 
In discussion preceding the senate's vote, supporters of the resolution made sure to separate their measure from wide advoca­cy of homosexual issues. 
"We were very careful to assert that Catholic teachings be does, in fact, allow for discrimi­nation. Fairness is all we're ask­ing for," said senator Matt Szabo, the resolution's sponsor. 
"This is all we recommend," Szabo reemphasized. "We should not ask, nor are we ask­ing, that the University compro­mise the Catholic nature of this place." 
Central to the senate's debate 
I 

was a questioning of how their 1 action could effect change. Senators expressed hopes that 

TheObserver/KatySoby their res~lutio_n would add a 
1 
Father David Garrick spoke to consequential vmce to the much­Student Senate yesterday. publicized movement for clause 
l

revision. But others shared senti­
I 
I

emphasized. That includes adamant disapproval of homosexual acts," explained Zahm senator Brandon Williams, also a member of the Ad Hoc Committee on Non-discrimination. 
"The committee finds that the current policy ments that University administrators -in their apparently secretive workings -had many other variables to consider. 
"Professor O'Hara has repeatedly said that no 
see SENATE I page 4 
SMC organizations succeed in campus unification 
By ALLISON KOENIG I'm amazed at how much was 
according to Nikki Milos, RHA t-shirts that promoted Saint Saint Mary's News Editor accomplished in just this past president. Mary's ranking as number one year," SAB member Jen Ligda "Bringing comedian Wendi [in midwest liberal arts colleges] 
Monday's celebration of lead­commented. Fox to campus [for Alcohol was a highlight of the year for ership at Saint Mary's College Student body vice-president Awareness Week] and having SGA." offered much time for reflection Beth Ann Miller formulated a that event well-attended [was a "Voting to approve the on the previous year's student first-ever mission statement for triumph]." she said. "I also think government events. SGA, which was passed through that the sale of the 'excellence' 
see SMC/ page 4
The student government BOG. 
In addition to creating the
members, among other things, The statement offers, among 
mission statement, SGA made
succeeded in unification during other things, to "provide oppor­
public their intentions to collec­
the 1996-97 year. The individual tunities for student involve­
tively sponsor events on cam­
branches of the Residence Hall ment... to provide an objective 
pus. The branches would each
Association (RHA). Student forum... to encourage student 
contribute funds, time and
Activities Board {SAB), Student leadership... and to represent 
efforts to get the job done. 
Academic Council (SAC) and the diverse needs of the campus 
"Sponsorship happened in dif­
Board of Governance {BOG) col­community." 
ferent ways; it is not yet clearly 
laborated on several projects "The mission statement indi­
defined," Miller commented. 
under the name of Student cates that we are all committing 
The newly formed SGA shared
Government Association (SGA). to the community, just in differ­
several successes in their first
"I've been involved in student ent ways," Miller said. "It places 
year as an official group,
government for three years, and the boards on equal ground." 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 30, 1997 

• INSIDE CoLUMN 
A little consistency, please 
As the year draws to a close, it is essential for Maureen Hurley students and College offi-Assistant Managing Editor 
cials to reflect on the 
things they have stood for and, more notably, 
look at the ideas of which they have stood in the 
way. 
Earlier this month, Pat Schroeder visited Saint Mary's College. Noted for her strong role in bringing family issues and feminism to Congress -along with her national promi­nence -it was an honor to have her address the campus. 
Or was it? 
Schroeder delivered a flawless lecture focus­ing on issues surrounding the family. However, she skirted around the abortion issue, which she is nationally notorious for advocating. 
As the nation's premiere Catholic women's college, should we have allowed Schroeder to speak on campus? 
By having her provoke dialogue on campus regarding family issues, we indirectly condone abortion by association. And abortion goes against the Catholic Church teachings. 
Any academic would deem that argument ridiculous. In college, students must be exposed to a wide range of issues and viewpoints, and engage in discourse to affirm their own beliefs. To develop "keen self-knowledge ... to make socially responsible choices about the future," the Saint Mary's College mission states. 
We did not discredit the Church by allowing her on campus. Saint Mary's character was not diminished. In fact, we benefited from the dis­cussion her lecture created. 
We looked past one part of the issue to see the greater good in the whole message. 
Just days before Schroeder's visit, President William Hickey deferred recognition of The Alliance, a sexuality group on campus, despite a 13-4 vote by the student Board of Governance (BOG) approving the group's petition for official recognition. 
By exercising his right to defer and possibly decide the fate of the organization, Hickey stat­ed that we need to have a faculty committee double check on the research of our student governing board, and its decision to recognize The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College. 
As the nation's premiere Catholic women's college, should we allow the Alliance on cam­pus? By having The Alliance provoke dialogue on campus regarding issues of sexuality, do we indirectly condone homosexuality by associa­tion -which goes against traditional Catholic Church teachings? 
One would fmd it ridiculous to stop Schroeder from speaking on campus because of her con­nection to the abortion issue; it is inconsistent not to give the Alliance that same treatment. 
The College community is being deprived of an organization that has been endorsed by both BOG and the Faculty Assembly. Apparently, these two representative organizations believe that, as an academic community, students must engage in discourse to affirm their own stance on issues. By their endorsement, they believe the organization will promote "keen self-knowl­edge ... to make socially responsible choices about the future," as the College mission states. 
We don't discredit the Church by recognizing the organization. Saint Mary's character will not be diminished. In fact, Saint Mary's will benefit from the discussion The Alliance will create. The College officials who worked to bring Pat Schroeder on campus -particularly Hickey, who lauded Schroeder while introduc­ing her and sat behind her as she addressed the Saint Mary's community-would have to agree. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Graphics  
Heather MacKenzie  Sue O'Kain  
Michelle Krupa  Production  
(not from Knott for long)  Mark DeBoy  
Sports  Peter Rijks  
Mike Day  Heather MacKenzie  
Viewpoint  Michelle Krupa  
Tara Churik  Lab Tech  


• WoRLD AT A GLANCE 
Man slays two, then self at Fort Wayne counseling center 


FORT WAYNE, Ind. 
Police searched the home and pad­locked garage Tuesday of a man who killed two people at a counseling cen­ter before committing suicide. Investigators searched for clues that might explain the rampage. 
Gary Wright, ordered to undergo counseling as part of a sex offense plea bargain, shot his counselor, Steven Tielker, and probation officer Donald R. "Charles" Knepple on Monday. 
Wright usually met with only Tielker and may have asked Knepple to attend the session so that Wright could kill them both, said Sgt. Bill Walsh, a spokesman for the Fort Wayne Police Department. 
"We're looking for notes as to why Wright set up the appointment," 
Sinatra receives congressional medal 
WASHINGTON 

"Ol' Blue Eyes" is headed for gold. Frank Sinatra, the recipient of numer­ous awards for an entertainment career that spans six decades, will add the Congressional Gold Medal to the collection under a bill that won final passage Tuesday in the House. It is Congress' most prestigious civilian honor. "Frank Sinatra is perhaps the 


greatest singer of popular American music of this centu­ry," said Rep. Michael Castle, R-Del. Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., the sponsor, said he was introduced to Sinatra's music and the English language when his father returned home to Puerto Rico after World War II with a set of the balladeer's albums. "I immediately fell in love with both," added Serrano, who owns hundreds of Sinatra's recordings and tapes of more than two dozen films. "His music to me is no different than his music to so many other people," he added. "It serves this incur­able romantic with the ability to listen to the best music the world has ever heard." The House approved the bill, which advances to President Clinton, by voice vote. The Senate passed a similar version in February. The bill also authorizes up to $30,000 to pay for the medal. 
Hubble telescope regains some focus 
WASHINGTON 

A $105 million infrared camera on the Hubble Space Telescope has recovered some of its focus, raising hopes that it may yet prove fully functional, NASA said Tuesday. The instrument, one of three highly sensitive infrared detectors, was installed by spacewalking astro­nauts in February as part of an upgrade mission. The other two, installed at the same time, are fully function­al. The Near-Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer, or Nicmos, is stored next to a 225-pound block of nitrogen ice to keep the detectors operating at minus-355 degrees. Scientists believed the ice expanded more than predicted, bumping camera No. 3 out of focus. But in its report Tuesday, NASA said that since March "the focus has moved back about a third of the required distance." It added, however, that "it is not known whether the rebound will sufficiently restore full utilization of camera 3." Scientists worried that if the trouble persisted, the lifetime of Nicmos could be cut in half, to 2 1/4 years. 
AP/Carl Fox 

Walsh said. 
Karen Richards, an Allen County deputy prosecutor, said, "It's a heck of a price to pay for wanting to help peo­ple." 
Family members and those who knew Knepple and Tielker described them as compassionate, dedicated and self-sacrificing. 
"Charley would have laid down his life for anyone," said the Rev. Sandy Knepple, Charley Knepple's sister-in­law. 
Judge John Surbeck, who worked with Knepple as both an attorney and judge, said the probation officer was conscientious. 
"Charley was a good guy who cared about his probationers on one hand and the rules on the other hand," Surbeck said. 
Nobel winner jailed for child abuse 
FREDERICK, Md. 
Nobel Prize-winning scientist Daniel Gajdusek was ordered to serve 1 1/2 years in jail Tuesday for sexually abusing a 15-year-old boy he brought back from a research trip to Micronesia. Prior to sentencing, the judge asked Gajdusek if he had anything to say. "It's not my desire to say nothing. I will say something in jail," the 73-year-old scientist said, looking directly at the judge. Gajdusek pleaded guilty to two counts of child abuse in February. He began serving his sentence imme­diately Tuesday in the Frederick County Detention Center. Under a plea agreement, the judge suspended all but 18 months of a 30-year sentence. Gajdusek won the 1976 Nobel Prize in medicine for his work on so-called slow viruses that lie dormant before attacking the body. The infectious agents include one implicated in mad cow disease. He retired in February from the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, where he had been chief of the Laboratory for Central Nervous System Studies. Prosecutors said Gajdusek brought home 56 boys from research trips to the Pacific islands beginning in the 1960s. He has said he brought the children home to educate them, and they lived with him in his home in Middletown. Prosecutors alleged Gajdusek molested four other boys, but no charges were filed. 
More bones found on Indiana farm 
WESTFIELD, Ind. 
Investigators have found more bones on the property where skeletal remains of at least seven people were unearthed. Fifteen bones, none larger than a finger, were discovered Monday on the estate formerly owned by Herbert Baumeister, who committed suicide last July. The bones were unearthed by forensic anthropologist Stephen Nawrocki, his students at the University of Indianapolis and officers from the Hamilton County Sheriffs Department. Four sets of remains have been identified. Nawrocki and the students were looking for clues to help determine the identities of the others, police said. Police have said that three of the men were male prostitutes working the gay bars in Indianapolis, but authorities say they do not know the causes of death. Police have said that Baumeister, who operated Indianapolis thrift shops, led a double life as a husband of 25 years and as a man who frequented gay bars in Indianapolis. Baumeister fatally shot himself last July. Investigators have begun searching the property. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 30. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associaled Press 
Kevin Dalum
Accent 

Joe Weiler The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
~,~,~@~~ (f ~ ~ 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Alpharetta  102  ·3  Crested Butte 68  53  Kingwood  80  61  
Arlington Hgts. 75  63  Eliria  64  31  Little Silver  72  51  
Aurora, Co.  66  6  Fort Wayne  65  48  Newport News  71  61  
Casselberry  82  77  Genesco  69  69  Winterset  65  48  
Cliffside Park  68  53  Kennebunk  64  56  314 LaFun  ·92.3  


~ -~-----­

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Council makes Freshman 0 plans 

We're Cheap. And Easy. 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on-cam­pus shipping when BoxesPius doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
B'XESPLUS 
You can also buy your boxes &shipping materials at BoxesPius 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 277-5555 
IBM Internet ConnectionT"' for Education an alternative to busy signals for modem users 
Connect quickly and easily. IBM uses an exclusive switching technology that makes it one of the most reliable online services available. And it's offered at a special rate to Notre Dame students, faculty, and staff. 
It's reliable -worldwide. The IBM Internet Connection for Education is built on the IBM Global Network with extensive worldwide coverage -which means better Internet modem connections for you, even when you travel. You can count on its reliability, too, because it comes from a company that has been a key Internet player for as long as anyone. 
You're automatically pre-approved. As a student, faculty, or staff member, you are automatically pre-approved for the online subscriber option you elect. Pay as little as $4.95 per month for limited service, $12.95 for 50 hours per month, or take advantage of IBM's terrific unlimited Internet access offer for $17.95 per month. 
Contact the IRC for your Internet access kit. 
Information Resource Center (IRC) 111 Computing Center/Math Bldg University of Notre Dame (219) 631-8111 
For more information, visit the following Web page: http://www.nd.edu/-ircenter/ibm.html 

By SEAN SMITH 
News Writer 
This year's Freshman Orientation is going to be geared to acquaint freshman not only with the Notre Dame campus, but also the city of South Bend. 
Andrea Selak of the Student Union Social Concerns Committee spoke before Hall Presidents' Council last night and addressed its members on the new Student Union's Neighborhood Roots Program. 
"This program is going to give freshman a chance to get to know the city of South Bend," Selak said. 
The program is designed to not only acquaint freshman with service opportunities throughout the South Bend area, but also the city's recreational facilities. 
"A lot of freshman just don't know what's in the community," Selak continued. 
The program will take place during Freshman Orientation and will an include an extensive tour of South Bend. Freshman will visit the Century Center, Covaleski Stadium, and have dinner at St. Edward's Church, where mayors from South Bend and surrounding cities will speak about their respective towns. 
In other HPC news: 
• 
The schedule for dorm con­cession stands during home football weekends in the fall has been finalized. ­

• 
As a result of budget cut­backs that HPC will be forced to endure throughout next year, the council's budget committee is requiring that all dorm bud­get proposals for special events, such as Mr. Stanford and the Keenan Revue, be submitted to the committee by September 15. This will ensure that HPC will be able to more fairly distribute its funds to the dorms. 


From 'Star Wars' to '.com'... • 
Hamill to feature ND program on new show 
Special to The Observer 

The University of Notre Dame's award-winning dis­tance learning program will be featured at 3 p.m. on Sunday, May 4, on ".com," a new television series ou the CNBC cable network hosted by Mark Hamill. 
Developed in 1995 by the Executive MBA Program, the distance learning program at Notre Dame is the first of its kind in higher education and was recognized last year as the best in the nation by the 
U.S. Distance Learning Association. It provides grad­uate business education through live videoconferenc­ing to students in Chicago and Toledo, Ohio. 
"Videoconferencing technol­ogy has opened up a new era 
What will you do after graduation? 
Why not help us change lives? 
We care for young children who are abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
P.O. Box 66581 Houston, 1X 77266-6581 Voice (713)529-0639

casa Fax (713)529-9179 
de esperanza 

Applications accepted year 'round. Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 
page 3 
ocrats etition 
y;,, 
(jgpney of the letter. "We wanther:to know that we feel sum­mertime should be used for continued contemplation of the issue." 
Cooney explained that the group's initial plan was to sub­witthe letter to O'Hara by Fri., April 18, with an expected answer by April23. 
decided to keep it in cir­
on through last Thursday's rally," he said, adding that the large turnout ll,:Q<l high number of additional si!Watures gives strength to the 
~ 
; 
1 
in higher education," said Ron Go.?frey.,;executive producer of .com. 
"Every person who wants to advance his or her education needs to know what options are now available through this technology." 
The Executive MBA distance learning program, which plans to continue expansion, features two fully equipped classrooms on campus that include an array of tracking cameras, video monitors, push-to-talk and wireless tracking microphones, docu­ment cameras, VCRs and per­sonal computers networked to the Internet and World Wide Web. 
".com'' is a magazine format 
program  produced  by  TV  
Interactive  in  Fort  
Lauderdale.  

r-------------~--------~----~--~.---------------------------------~--------------~---------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
Student Senate urges the equality. earlier meetings where the treasurer. Yesterday marked Officers of the University to "[The current clause] pro­new senators concentrated on the third straight meeting
Senate 
protect the students, faculty hibits responsible mature educating themselves and where senators have spent continued from page 1 and staff of the Notre Dame adults from acting as role mod­slowly growing into their rep­time debating the issue. 
community against the above­els," Garrick said. Listing dis­resentative roles. Contrasting The committee interpreted matter what, there will be no mentioned discrimination by orders such as alcohol and that buoyancy, a second ongo­Hambright's dual involvement recognition of GLND/SMC. So, including sexual orientation in drug abuse that can result ing senate constitutional inter­as an unconstitutional conflict the question is how she can the University's nondiscrimina­from forced secrecy, Garrick pretation issue remains unre­of interests, but the senate accept this and not do that," tion clause." reported that according to a solved for the summer. could not resolve whether it offered Stanford senator Jake Before the senate approved study released by the Reagan Prolonging a past bottleneck, was in the committee's place to Cooper. the resolution, Father David administration, 30 percent of the senate ethics committee interpret the constitution. 
Once the resolution was Garrick of the department of all suicides are homosexual­recommended that student "We're just concerned that voted on and passed, it was communication and theater related. government assistant con­this could set a harmful prece­noted that University policy is spoke to the group, exposing Garrick cited official church troller Lee Hambright be asked dent," Lewis senator Angie to have all campus communi­several points for their consid­catechisms to legitimize his to resign either his student Sowar said. cation to the officers passed eration. Senators listened as points with the senate. government post or his position A frustrated faction tabled through the Office of Student Garrick examined the historical "[Homosexuals] must be as Hall Presidents' Council the discussion until next fall. 


Affairs. Student body president background to homophobia, accepted with respect, compas­Matt Griffin then agreed to sign the current Catholic stance on sion, and sensitivity. Every sign the resolution and pass it to homosexual orientation and of unjust discrimination in through the specified channels. justification for amending the their regard should be avoid­
'Til meet with Patty O'Hara non-discrimination clause. ed," 1994 catechism reads. and ask that she deliver this to "It's an emergency situation," That portion and a following the officers. I'm sure that, out Garrick said. line -"Homosexual persons of respect for the senate, she "Why is it that it has taken are called to chastity" -was will," Griffin said. 2000 years for this issue of central to the introductory 
The most consequential homosexual equality to arise?" wording in the senate's actual clause of the senate's resolu­Garrick asked, comparing the resolution. tion reads: issue to past difficult struggles In its fourth meeting, the 
"Be it resolved that the such as slavery and gender action marked progress from 
SAC's mam development was upcommg year, arc already lor­the publishing of the board's mulating plans for SGA. On the
SMC 
newsletter, which made impor­forefront of their plans is the tant departmental information issue of the Alliance. 
continued from page I 
available to all students. "No matter what happened Alliance [of gay, bisexual, Milos described RHA's activi­this year, this is not the end. All straight, and questioning stu­ties of the past year, especially of the hard work will not be dents] was a huge occurrence," the first ever all-campus formal, wasted, no matter what," 
Lori McKeough, the year's SAB with satisfaction. McKeough stated. 
coordinator, stated. "The month­"RHA has nowhere to go but ly calendars under residence hall up," she said. "Even in the heat doors that informed students of of contrast and debate, things events were also a good addi­are born." 
tion." "I think that [SAB's] main suc­"The distribution of calendars cess included bringing helped draw everything togeth­Mohammad Bileal to campus, er," Milos agreed. "The advertis­and increasing overall event ing of the SGA acronym was suc­attendance," said McKeough. cessful." "And, despite a bomb threat and While functioning as a single bad weather, SMC Tostal was a 
force for many occurrences on huge success." 
campus, the individual branches Milos and McKeough, elected also achieved many separate to student president and vice­goals. president respectively for the 
Kairos (4th Day) PICNIC 
Thursday, May 1 
12:o·o noon-3:00p.m. 
Holy Cross Field 
(lMPUS 
-


AND SKALCOHOLICS 7 piece campus Ska band with horns 
lower level Present a 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30TH LAST DAY OF CLASS PARTY 
Upper Level RAVE/TECHNO ·PARTY Area's top DJs playing the best in house music 
21 AND OVER WITH ID's 
A MULl-LEVEL LAST DAY OF CLASS PARTY 
To 'CJ.eeL.s'! 
Happ~ 
191L! 
Lo~e, 
Colleen and Daniela 


Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Expen'ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesJrom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


North0Sh~;~aclub (~,)
''Sllll'­

Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open 

Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 


"GAIN A W 0 R L D 0 F EXPERIENCE" 
University Directories is seeking top-notch students to sell yellow page advertising for the University of Notre Dame campus telephone directory during the summer of 1997. 

This is a full-time summer job, open to freshmen, sophomores, juniors, seniors and graduate students who are not in summer school. 
All interns will be flown to Chapel Hill, NC to attend a week-long training seminar on the campus of The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Transportation and accommodations will be provided during training . 


All interested students should contact Jung Yun at 1-800-743-5556 Ext. 157 for more information. Don't miss this unique opportunity to gain ·~·t":~ 
t' 

valuable sales and marketing experience required \' 
..; 

by many of today's top employers. Call today! 
UNIVERSITY DIRECTORIES 
88 McClamroch Circle • 
Hill, NC 27514 • 1-800-743-5556 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
News Writer By JOE STARK "Overall dorm unity [in News Writer Planner] probably isn't as 


great as in some halls, but 
As the semester wears down, section unity is very strong." most are thinking of finals, Seetch went on to say that summer endeavors, or selling this individual section pride that "almost new" couch with creates a kind of overall no "noticeable" stains or holes, dorm unity. but on North Quad, students Resident assistant Brett are honoring Planner Tower's Galley sums up this feeling of finest hour. Planner, saying, "Contrary to 
After opening in 1969 along­the stereotypical belief that side Grace Hall, the Tower of big dorms are loosely jointed, the 'Cocks and Graceland I feel that strong section unity turned North Quad into what carries over to a larger dorm residents call the envy of the community spirit." campus. According to residents, this 
Last year was the final year close sense of family in the of the Lightning, with Grace sections and throughout the residents moving to Keough dorm is reinforced by some­and O'Neill, and after this thing no resident would, or year, Flannerites are moving could, explain. into Siegfried and Knott. Another part of Planner's appeal is its modern style. 
Planner has never been a very well understood dorm. "I personally believe the amenities in Planner set it People can comprehend 200 Dawgs painting their faces, apart from the other dorms," said senior Brian singing their requiem, and passing out flowers. It is not Fitzpatrick, "I lived in Stanford freshmen year and in difficult to come to expect 10 "Naughty by Nature" signs comparison, you could say Planner is a hotel." hanging outside Cavanaugh. Even though all of Planner's comforts will not be 
But it is difficult for most students to see any dorm transferred to the new living quarters, residents have unity at all at Planner. been assured of the swift installation of necessities ­
"At the beginning of the year I was disappointed in the including urinals. lack of dorm chanting, marching, etc." says freshmen Planner residents will also miss Planner Mass, the Chris Myers. "But then I discovered that Planner is the most crowded Mass on North Quad Sunday nights. best dorm on campus, hands down." Planner sophomore Jim Precobb says, "Planner Mass 
According to Planner men. it's what's on the inside adds to the community atmosphere of the dorm; it's very that counts. casual and makes you feel comfortable." 
Too Keller. a resident of Planner for four years and After 28 years, and with 530 residents this year alone, now an assistant rector, has expe-r-:;;;::::smW::::sr:i~mil .-----:-::--:--::--::::::c=::::-1 myriad 'Cocks have gone through rienced five years as a 'Cock. the Planner experience and into When asked what makes Planner the real world. special, he talked about section With the Planner 'Cocks moving unity. out and Knott Beavers and 
"The way the building is set up Siegfried Shockers moving in, makes your section your own little North Quad awaits a year of new fraternity," he said. The building beginnings and traditions. is divided into 20 sections, each Junior Sean Frey says it elo­with about 27 members. Thf) iso­quently. lation of each section causes a· "The closing of Planner is a trav­close knit family atmosphere. esty. Planner will surely be missed 
Father Bill Seetch, the rector of .....____..._______ """----------' by all her loving residents. Long Flanner, said of dorm unity, Knott Hall Siegfried Hall live the 'Cocks." 

Aside from the five Notre Dame students who won Fulbright Grants this year, four students were awarded the Fulbright Teaching Assis­tantship. 
The assistantship is awarded annually to stu­dents who have a proficiency in a foreign lan­guage and would like to teach English as a second language to students all over the world. 
The three Notre Dame students, Renee Daffron, Dustin DeGrande and Michael Irvine, applied independently and won assistantships to teach high school students in Austria. 
DeGrande believes that his time abroad will allow him to completely experience Austrian life. "When you work somewhere it really allows you to get into the culture," he said. 
Dominique Schott applied through the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and will be teaching English conversation to French high school students next year. She applied due to her "basic passion for French language, culture, and literature," and hopes to use her international experience to augment American education. 
"My overall goal in life is to integrate better lan­guages in the United States," Schott said. 
To begin the application process, the prospec­tive teaching assistants are interviewed on cam­pus. The interviewer then writes up a letter of recommendation and rates the student's suitabili­ty for the position. This information is sent to New York for evaluation, then to the offices abroad where the final decision is made. 
Fulbright teaching assistantship positions are also available in Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Hungary, Korea, Taiwan and Turkey. 
Also this year, Michael Lazarra won a Fulbright research grant to Chile, and David Buckley and Paige Reeves are waiting to hear if they have been approved to study in Poland and Spain. Ryan Beville and Michael Shveima have been chosen as alternates to study in Japan and Sweden, respec­tively. 
@le ~tre cname Student Senate 
•

Supports the inclusion of student rights Ill 
•

disciplinary proceedings to be published Ill the next edition of du Lac. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
real good idea of what The Shirt will alter the group's plans. Arrien thinks that groups will across campus to make up for does -its primary goal is to pro­"This is probably going to have to put forth additional effort such deficiencies as those.
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
mended the efforts of his com­mittee, who sold the last of the 1996 Shirts at last Saturday's Blue-Gold game. He also noted that despite bad weather and not having a specified Shirt game, everyone kept the true charitable goal of The Shirt in mind. 
"They all kept trying until the end. I feel bad that [campus organizations] got shorted, but I think that student government is on the right track. They have a 
Smoking 
continued from page 1 
smoking is allowed in rooms with consent of all roommates. 
"In this case, the preference of the rector or rectress comes before du Lac," said Lori Maurer, the assistant director of residence life. "If the rector doesn't feel that the student is complying to his policy, they may refer the student to our office. Students can also appeal deci­sions made by rectors to us, but we haven't had many complaints on the [smoking] issue." 
In 1991, a task force headed by biology department chair John Duman reviewed the issue of smoking on campus. This committee, composed of faculty, students, and staff members ­some of whom were smokers themselves -studied the poli­cies and experiences at other campuses and local businesses and solicited the opinions of many in the college community. 
"We basically thought the poli­cy needed to be changed to take the needs of non-smokers into consideration," Duman said. "What we came up with was accepted and is more or less the policy the University now adheres to." 
The new policy greatly reduces the amount of smoking allowed on campus by banning smoking "in all buildings, stadiums, and vehicles owned or operated by the University" with dorms and established smoking lounges being the notable exceptions. 
vide for charity," Walsh said. 
But now that The Shirt's 1996 season is closing, campus organi­zations must deal with its less­than-expected fmancial contribu­tions. Many groups received a much smaller budget than they requested, and some will have to work with less money in 1997-98 than they had last year. 
For example, Student Union Board received an allocation of $143,100-$32,000 less than last year's, and $53,000 less than they requested. According to SUB controller Ryan Stecz, this 
Smoking in these areas is required to be contained so as not to penetrate the air outside the location; the department of risk management and safety is responsible for establishing lounges and investigating any complaints. 
Some administrators and fac­ulty members, however, consider the idea that smoke can be absolutely contained in a single, separate environment unrealis­tic. 
"We constructed the faculty smoking lounges so that they would self-contain smoke as suf­ficiently as possible," said Michael McCauslin, assistant director of risk management and safety. "But others are affected by the smoke. Air is not confin­able; everyone has to share." 
Despite a widespread national decrease in smoking over the past decade, smoking on college campuses has barely declined; according to the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, it has gone down only 1.6 percent since 1981. 
Notre Dame's revised policy in 1991 did however follow a nationwide trend to make public environments more smoke-free; still, the policy does not fully pre­vent second-hand smoke from infiltrating the living space of non-smoking students and facul­ty. 
"The girls down the hall from me smoke, and a lot of times the entire hallway smells like smoke," said Katie English, Knott Hall resident. 
"I understand that they have a right to smoke, but when it spreads down the hall it shows a 
~~Jl..fay 114ove Out ~97,, 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
lOam-Spm Stepan Basketball Courts Monday, May 5th-Saturday, May lOth Wednesday, May 14th-Saturday, May 17th Monday, May 19th Lyons Basketball Courts Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May lOth 
In The Lobby Of Le Man.IIJ Hall Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May lOth Friday, May 16th 

$1.00 Off Shipping PER BOX 
FREE PICKUP 
Picku.p is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 10am-6pm 

277-6245 
mean increasing the prices for some events and cutting some events altogether. I'm hoping we can really look at what we're spending and do a better job negotiating contracts. We'll have to deal with it," Stecz said. 
Griffin noted that the adminis­tration's perception of student government could suffer due to the lowered budget. 
"I think it's going to hurt stu­dent government's chances of being taken seriously by the administration," Griffin said. 
Student Union treasurer Nerea 
lack of respect for other resi­dents. I'm terribly sensitive to smoke; it just really bugs me." 
Maurer agrees that non-smok­ers are still affected by the smok­ing members of the Notre Dame community. 
"The smoking lounge in the women's rest room [of the Main Building] is separated from the rest of the restroom by a parti­tion, but it doesn't keep the smoke out. It's like I'm smoking a pack right along with them," Maurer said. 
Just last year, students at Saint Mary's College lobbied to make their dining hall smoke-free. Previously, there had been a smoking section near the entrance, and dining hall employees were allowed to smoke. 
Amber Frasier, who organized the group and subsequent smoke-free recommendations to the senior officers of the College, emphasized that the rights of non-smokers to a pleasant eating environment were at the root of her actions. 
"The smoking section was sup­posedly separated from the rest of the dining hall, but students had to walk through it to get their food. And all of the dining hall workers had to be constantly exposed to the smoke. It was really unpleasant," Frasier said. 
After a fire caused by an improperly extinguished ciga­rette butt at Holy Cross Hall, Saint Mary's students activated 
Personalized, 
this year to make up for The Shirt's shortcomings. 
"Everyone, especially the class councils, will have to make the most of fundraising opportuni­ties," Arrien said. "It's tight everywhere and there's nothing we can do about that." 
Nolan reiterated that things will change, and that many typi­cally free events offered during Welcome Back Week might solic­it a participation fee. 
She feels that with the strong financial stock of the University, resources should be redistributed 
forums to re-evaluate the smok­ing policy on their entire cam­pus. The smoking policy is now similar to du Lac's, with provi­sions for smoking lounges next to vending areas in each dorm. 
According to Suzy Orr, director of residence life at Saint Mary's, no action can be taken without a formal recommendation and approval by the senior officers of the College. 
"We haven't had anything offi­cial turned in yet, but it looks like there is definite concern on this campus concerning the smoking issue. I wouldn't be surprised if something was officially dis­cussed soon," she said. 
Notre Dame's policy was reviewed in 1994, two years after 
Highly trained, 
expert teachers who
computerized study 
know the tests
plans, tailored to your 
inside and out.
individual needs. 
"I think that with the billions of dollars in endowments that this University has, it's sad that they can't step in to defray The Shirt's losses," she said. 
Griffin feels that the Student Activities Fund also needs to be redistributed in order to ensure for a substantial annual budget. 
"There might need to be an increase of the Student Activities Fund. They might need to take more from tuition. It hasn't been changed in many years, and infla­tion and addition fees haven't been taken into account," he said. 
its implementation, but no amendments to the smoking poli­cy were deemed necessary at the time. 
Saint Mary's College has addressed various health and safety issues surrounding smok­ing; Notre Dame has yet to address the issues of second­hand smoke and lire safety, and this summer's revision of du Lac points toward no amendment of the smoking policy. 
"We are taking a complete look at duLac," Maurer said. "We will analyze the wording of [the poli­cyI and how the dorm policies mesh with those of du Lac. But the bottom line is that the policy hasn't changed, and I don't expect it to anytime soon." 

JDARJE 
To be intlamed with passion by the soulful music of: 
Sibelius Beethoven 
Pa~anini 

PERFORMED BY: JEANINE WYNTON, VIOLIN AYAKO TODA, PIANO 
WHEN:  f-RIDAY, MAY 2 AT 2:00PM  
WHERE:  ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM  
SNITE MUSEUM  


Enroll before April 30th and save $100. Summer MCAT classes forming now! 
the leader in test prep 
KAPLAN. 
1·800-KAP·TEST 

.com 
Proven methods, guaranteed to raise your score. 

Students looking for a part-time summer job WANTED 
5 -I 0 PAID STUDENT CALLERS
that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni 

on behalf of the NO EXPERIENCE Notre Dame Annual Fund 
NECESSARY 
Stop by the 
REWARD: 

Development Phone Center 
TRAINING, EVENING HOURS, $5.95/H 

(northeast corner of Brownson Hall, next to Lewis Hall) 
Thurs 2-4PM Fri 2-4PM 

Questions? Give us a call: Steve Camilleri 63 1-7241 Gregg Massa 631-7938 


Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Petersen: Fantasies do no har01 
By LAURA PETELLE them," Petersen explained. But, News Writer she continued, no duty-based or 
rights-based system of ethics 
Sexual fantasy is the activity of puts individuals under obligation voluntarily and intentionally to at all times do good for other dwelling on images and ideas for people. the purpose of sexual enjoyment, "We're not under obligation to according to Patricia Petersen, a [be a moral saint]," she said. Ph.D. student from the University While too much self-nurturing of Queensland in Australia. 
But is it ethical? 
That was the question Petersen proposed to answer in her lec­ture titled "Sexual Fantasy: What's Wrong with Doing It?" A self-proclaimed "Australian con­sequentialist," Petersen spoke to a crowd largely composed of professors and T As. 
"The tone of the talk is at odds with what you feel about your sexuality," Petersen warned as Patricia Petersen she opened. 

She proposed to address the four points that philosophers can lead to neglecting one's most often raise against sexual obligations, Petersen said, "you fantasizing in declaring it unethi­can say that about just about cal: it's bad to fantasize about anything you enjoy doing." good things; idle fantasizing is "Idle" fantasies, according to bad; fantasizing can encourage a Petersen, are fantasies wherein person to do bad things; and the "content is not a substitute maleficent fantasies cause peo­for anything in the real world." ple to act in harmful ways. The problem with idle fantasies, 
"Some philosophers say it's according to opponents of ethical bad to fantasize about good sexual fantasy, is that they can things because if you're fantasiz­lead to the fragmentation of the ing about them you're not doing self through the divorce of 

desires and wants from fan­tasies. 
But "falling in love can cause the fragmentation of the self," Petersen said. Things that we think of as "good" or "moral" can also cause the fragmentation of the self, so the fragmentation doesn't make it bad. 
As for the claim that fantasiz­ing can cause a person to do bad things, Petersen said, "I deny that this is true." She continued that the "underlying desires and wants cause the actions." 
In other words, "All fantasies are idle in that they can't affect our behaviors and actions," Petersen claimed. Rather, the thoughts and desires that cause the behaviors also cause the fan­tasies. 
In response the claim that maleficent fantasies cause peo­ple to act in harmful ways, Petersen asked the audience to consider the argument that, "A causes B, B is immoral, therefore A is immoral." 
"Logic at last!" interjected on audience member. 
This argument, she said, is an invalid argument. If a married man spends time with an attrac­tive female colleague, that in itself is not immoral. If he has an affair with her, that is immoral. But the time spent together that led to the affair is not immoral in and of itself. 
Petersen then opened the floor for questions from the audience, which mainly centered on the difference between intentional­ism and consequentialism; that is, is an action immoral because of its intent or does it only become immoral when acted out? 
The bottom line, according to Petersen, is that fantasizing is not action, and that as humans we have the free will to decide to act or not to act. 
Gloss Free with Cut 
Appointment necessary for tanning, relaxers, perms and styles 
page 7 
Mon.-Fri. Expires May 18, 1997 9 am-8pm 
9 "~~-pm (219)271•7674
11am-4pm 

I 
I.'· I ~ J • 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
SMC profs explore themes in writing 
By RACHEL TORRES 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College professors have been busy lately. Not only do they take time to teach classes, grade assignments, and make themselves available for indi­vidual student inquiries, some also pub­lish their own works. 
Professors from the departments of his­tory, philosophy, political science, English, music, religious studies, and humanistic studies have all published works conducive to their own academic specialties. 
Some professors, like Philip Hicks of the humanistic studies department and Rosalind Clark of the English department, found themselves well on their way to completing books upon beginning the dis­sertations for their doctorates. 
Hicks' book, "Neoclassical History and English Culture," focuses on how English history was written centuries ago, and how political messages were conveyed through historical accounts. 
"There was a great competition in England in the 17th and 18th centuries of who would be the person to write the that time responded to the history that was eventually developed by David f-lume. 
Clark also wrote her book, "The Great Queens," with information she drew from her dissertation study. 
However, her inspiration for the topic came from a children's fantasy book she read as a girl of 16, called "The Woman of Gomreth." 
"I really wanted to focus on the story of the Old Irish goddess of war named Morrigan in "The Great Queens," Clark reflected. 
In addition to the story of Morrigan, "The Great Queens" tells stories of other Irish sovereign goddesses as well as Irish pagan goddesses. 
Keith Egan in the religious studies department eo-authored "Christian Spirituality" with Lawrence Cunningham from Notre Dame. 
"We were asked by publishers to write the book after we team-taught a class on Christian spirituality," Egan stated. 
While the book can be used as a text­book for other classes, it also addresses more general themes of "living Christian life." 
Egan is working on another book due 
books as a way to help him improve his 
teaching ability. 
"If I write often and well, I teach better. 
and can think, explore, and communicate 
more clearly with students." 
Kevin McDonnell of the philosophy 
department co-authored "Tough 
Decisions" to be used in conjunction with 
his class on medical ethics. While work­
ing in the pediatric neurology department 
at John's Hopkins, McDonnell made a col­
laborative effort to bring together real 
case studies of various medical ethical )ssues. 
The thirteen eases in the book deal with 
ethical theory, and "some ask students 
questions about what they would do in a 
'choose your own adventure' format," 
McDonnell said. 
One of the more interesting topics for 
McDonnell is the issue of discontinuing 
medical support for severely handicapped 
babies. 
The question of who has the power to 
decide what should happen to the child 
comes into play. 
"There is no magic decision maker," in 
that situation, according to McDonnell, 
and he stresses that the book remains 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 
Popular news columnist dies 
By MARIO FOX 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

Mike Royko, the Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper columnist whose biting sarcasm and empathy for the common man cap­tured the 
/ gritty essence of Chicago for more than t h r e e decades, died Tuesday. He L...-.-.--.L-''""--"' was 64. Royko 
T h e Chicago Tribune announced Royko's death on its World Wide Web site. 
Royko, whose Chicago Tribune column was syndicated to more than 200 newspapers nationwide, underwent surgery last week for an aneurysm, a rupture or weakening of a blood vessel. 
lie had suffered a stroke in early April while vacationing in Florida and had been hospital­ized there. 
Royko's column was a corner­stone of the daily newspaper for generations of Chicago readers, first in the now­defunct Chicago Daily News, later with the Chicago Sun­Times and since 1984 with the Tribune. For most of his career he wrote five days a week. 
"I think Mike Royko brought a great deal to his readers, both in humor and in skepticism and in spotting phonies," said long­time Chicago columnist Irv Kupcinet of the Sun-Times. "He expressed his mind without fear and did so no matter who he crossed and who he hurt." 
lie gained stature as a critic of the late Mayor Richard J. 
Daley at a time when most prominent Chicagoans treated Daley with cautious respect. Royko's 1971 biography, "Boss: Richard J. Daley of Chicago," portrayed Daley as a shrewd, autocratic politician who toler­ated racism and corruption. 
In typical tongue-in-cheek fashion, Royko suggested the city's motto of "Urbs In Horto" -city in a garden -should be changed to "Ubi Est Mea" ­where's mine? 
The book so infuriated the Daley family that the mayor's wife persuaded a grocery-store chain to remove the book from its stores. 
On Tuesday, Mayor Richard 
M. Daley, Richard J. Daley's son, said: "Through the years my family filled many of his columns, some critical and some supportive, but whether you agreed with him or not, you had to respect his honesty and his love for the city." 
Royko tempered his political commentary with wry observa­tions on news, social trends, his beloved Chicago Cubs and the foibles of everyday life. Many were presented in imagined conversations with Slats Grobnik, Royko's fictitious blue­collar alter ego from the Polish neighborhood where Royko grew up. 
Known for his gruff, often sarcastic tone, Royko's scorn could be withering. 
In 1992, a woman called him to complain. She had found a 2,000-year-old Roman coin on the floor in her bank and returned it. To her dismay, she was not offered a reward. 
"If you don't at least try to return it, you're a thief," Royko wrote. "So should we hold parades for people because they aren't thieves?" 
He had no use for yuppies, as a column on buying practical gifts for spouses made clear: 
"Many men love tools. Even those who don't know how to use them. I know one yuppie male who was thrilled when he got a set of screwdrivers. He said: 'Oh, these will be perfect for prying open shellfish."' 
When Tampa, Fla., tried to lure the White Sox away from Chicago in 1988, he urged city baseball fans to send their dirty socks to Florida officials. In return, Royko received citrus seeds from Florida fans. 
But others didn't take the jibes so lightly, and in later years some readers wondered whether Royko was going too far. Where once his venom was reserved for politicians, he had begun to write more about eth­nic minorities and gays, to the pleasure of neither. 
Twice in March 1996, Hispanic protesters gathered at the Tribune Tower to demand an apology for remarks in his columns. Royko had written that tequila is the best thing Mexico has offered this century. Another column took a jaun­diced view of anti-Castro Cubans. The protesters said Royko perpetuated stereotypes. 
In 1995, Royko pleaded guilty to drunken driving and resist­ing arrest after a traffic acci­dent near his Winnetka home. According to court testimony, Royko had begun treatment for alcoholism a month before the accident and had enrolled in an after-care addiction program. 
Royko joined the Daily News in 1959 and won the Pulitzer for commentary in 1972. He moved to the Sun-Times in 1978 when the Daily News fold­ed then jumped to the rival Tribune in 1984. 

Moving to New England? 
If so, the following UND Clubs invite you to contact them to find out about their activities, including Young Alumni events targeted to you. We need your ideas, and we welcome your participation in our clubs! 
ND Club of MAINE Mamie Ney, '78 MBA, President 207-985-3546 
ND Club of GREATER BOSTON Susan Burke, '87 MBA, Co-President Jim Ciapciak, '88 Law, Co-President Club Phone: 617-328-7431 e-mail: ndc_bost@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
ND Club ofTHE PIONEER VALLEY (Western Mass.) Bill Grojean, '85, President 413-567-7252 
ND Club ofWORCESTER COUNTY (Central Mass.) Jon Lawrence, '81, President 508-798-2545 
ND Club of NEW HAMPSHIRE Bill Biser, '62, President 603-472-3399 
ND Club of RHODE ISLAND and SOUTHEASTERN MASS. Ken Douglas, '90, President 508-761-9686 
ND Club ofVERMONT Phil Holloway, Jr., '92, '94 MBA, President 802-658-0637 e-mail: PHOLLOWAY@VNET.IBM.COM 
Regional Director Kevin Kearney, '72, '76 M. Th. 508-791-0808 (Worcester, MA) e-mail: kkearney@hologic.com 
--~ ----~----------­
.... ....---------------------------~-~---·--~ --· 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 10 
Armored carriers advance in fear of 'another Waco' 
By EDUARDO MONTES from Tyler, 520 miles across battles in court. Associated Press Writer the state. They were borrowed "If McLaren has a dif­
FORT DAVIS, Texas 

Two armored personnel car­riers rolled into place Tuesday in the siege of the Texas seces­sionists as their leader's lawyer warned of "another Waco" if officers move in for an arrest. 
"There's the potential for a lot of killing and that's what we want to stop," said Terry O'Rourke, the lawyer for Richard McLaren, the self-pro­claimed ambassador of the Republic of Texas. 
McLaren and his followers have been holed up in the mountain community since Sunday, when they took two neighbors hostage in retalia­tion for the arrest of two fol­lowers. They released both hostages Monday in exchange for one of the jailed comrades, who had been arrested on weapons charges. 
By Tuesday, nearly 100 state and federal officers were sta­tioned within two miles of the trailer the group calls its "embassy" in the rugged Davis Mountains, 175 miles south­east of El Paso. 
Officers negotiated with the group by telephone. 
"We're very positive, very optimistic," said Mike Cox, spokesman for the state Department of Public Safety. 
Cox said 13 people -all adults -were holed up. The group has demanded the release of the other jailed fol­lower, a woman arrested on contempt charges. McLaren has also demanded a statewide referendum on independence for Texas. 
Six of the holed-up Republic of Texas members are wanted on kidnapping charges or other offenses related to the hostage­taking. 
Two armored personnel car­riers arrived around midday from the Smith County Sheriff's ferent agenda, if he department, which obtained wants to be a martyr, he them free as surplus from the can do that real easy," Army. DeGuerin said. "Have a 
"We have ample manpower standoff, start shooting out here and we have aug­and the government will mented that some, as you've accommodate him and seen today. And (McLaren) is probably win. I'd hate to aware of that. ... He is aware see it come to that." that we have slowly moved in DeGuerin called the his direction," Cox said. arrival of the armored 
The Texas Ranger in charge carriers "provocative." of the negotiations "has been Authorities also set up a steadfast in saying we have roadblock closing at least some felony arrest warrants 11 miles of the only high­here and they're going to get way into the community. served," Cox said. Republic members con­
O'Rourke said of McLaren: tend that Texas, which "Clearly there are people up. was briefly an indepen­there with weapons and hun­dent republic, was illegal­dreds of guns pointed at him. If ly annexed as a state in they attempt to execute those 1845 and that they are its warrants, he will likely be legitimate government. killed.... Nobody wants anoth­They also have filed er Waco." 
millions of dollars in 
Government agents were bogus liens against '--~~---~------­locked in a 51-day standoff Texans and public offi­with the Branch Davidians cult cials, clogging up the 
violent terrorism," Texas 
near Waco before launching an courts. The group, founded in Attorney General Dan Morales
assault that ended in a fire in 1995, has split into at least said. "This is no longer a situa­1993. Cult leader David Koresh three factions, two of which tion where misdemeanor civiland about 80 followers died. now disavow McLaren. 
violations are involved. Now,O'Rourke said that McLaren "We have seen this paper you have first-degree criminalis "not David Koresh" and terrorism transform itself into 
felonies. It doesn't get any"does not have a death wish," a more conventional type of 
more serious than that."

but that it is clear McLaren 
and his wife are willing to die for their beliefs. 
On his Internet Web site, McLaren warned that a "decla­ration of war" will be issued if state and federal agents threaten the Republic of Texas' "sovereignty." He warned that the clash could "set off the lib­eration of America from New World Order tyranny." 
O'Rourke contacted fellow Houston lawyer Dick DeGuerin, who was Koresh's attorney, to become co-counsel. But DeGuerin suggested Tuesday that the best way to end the standoff would be for O'Rourke to convince McLaren that he must surrender and fight his 
Complete your language requirements by earning up to 9 credits in German and 5 credits in Russian. Low tuition rates; so% tuition reduction for recent ND graduates. 

101 Beginning German I 6/17-7!1 102 Beginning German II 7/2-7/16 103 Beginning German III 7/17-7/29 
(MTWHF 10:20 a.m. -12:30 p.m. tutoriall:30 p.m.) Conversational German 6/17-7/29 (TH 6:00 p.m. -8:30 p.m.) 
500 German Graduate Reading 6/17 -7/29 (MTWHF 11:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.) RU 101 First Year Russian 6/17-7/29 (MTWH 6:30p.m. -8:30p.m.) 
Contact: Summer School Director at 631-7282 

••oh, why can't I be 
21? ltLL my FRI 
are legal!!!" 
Eileen -ND '96-' 

Cheer up., Eileen! May 24th is coming! Happy 21st Birthday! 
Lwe. 

~ & Vad, V<Wid & ?T~~<fea. •• ~eteH&S~ 
Separatist group digs in after hostage trade 
Law enforcers are continuing to treat the standoff with the Republic of Texas as a hostage situation because between 90 and 150 residents of the resort area are unable to leave their homes. 
OIF 

The group contends that the annexation of Texas as a state in 1845 was illegal, that Texas should be an independent nation and that the group's leaders constitute the legitimate government of Texas. Texas was an independent republic from 1836 to 1845. 
APNVm. J. Castello 
Most of the roughly 100 resi­dents of the area had left because of the siege. "I want them (police) to go in and I want Mr. McLaren and all of his followers taken out for good," Suzanne Parchman said. 
the world is getting smaller smell better. 
..G) 
ca
..
·­
·-E 
.... 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page II 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions wants to thank all the members of the 

as well as the extra volunteers frotn the ROTC units who, throughout the academic year and particularly in April, generously hosted high school seniors. Because of your enthusiasm, we hosted over 6oo prospective students during the academic year, 260 of them in April alone. It is your spirit that makes this program possible. Great job! 
Government to pay off debt 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

For only the second time in 16 years, the government plans to pay off a tiny sliver of the national debt this quarter. 
That won't last, of course. The government will return to iis borrowing ways in the sum­mer. 
But the temporary $65 bil­lion reduction in the $5.21 tril­lion debt accumulated since the founding of the republic underscores that the annual budget deficit is likely to shrink for the fifth year in a row. 
And that could make life eas­ier for administration and con­gressional negotiators strug­gling to cut a deal this week to balance the budget by 2002. It means less debt will accumu­lated and over the next few years, there'll be less interest 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
T Jbce Di~JtltlH(}) n d AutJb(()) rity
A division of John M. Marshall's Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright 1997 hy .John l\1. Marshnll 
for taxpayers to shoulder. "The economy has been robust, tax revenue has been strong, spending has been rel­atively contained," said econo­mist Bruce Steinberg of Merrill Lynch in New York. 
"The 1997 deficit will be $80 billion, maybe even less. That's remarkable.'' 
The deficit in 1996 was $107 billion and as recently as January both the Clinton administration and the Congressional Budget Office projected a 1997 deficit of around $125 billion. 
They and nearly every other economic forecaster didn't count on the strong 3.8 per­cent economic growth in the October-December quarter, the first of the fiscal year, picking up steam in the January-March period. That's produced millions of new jobs and windfall of tax payments. 
"Virtually all of the decrease in our cash needs is explained by an unexpectedly large surge in tax receipts," said Paul Malvey, the associate director of Treasury's Office of Market Finance. 
Through March, the govern­ment's revenue was running $50 billion, or 8 percent, ahead of the same period of fiscal 1996 while spending was up only 4.3 percent. And that doesn't include April, the month when most Americans settle their tax bills for the previous year. Malvey, outlin­ing Treasury borrowing plans Tuesday to an advisory panel of Wall Street executives, said it now looks as if April tax col­lections from individuals, over and above withholding, will total $125 billion. He said the government expected a record $80 billion of cash on hand at month's end on Wednesday, nearly quadruple the balance ofjust two weeks earlier. 
Powell, Clinton praise volunteers at summit 
By DONNA ABU-NASR Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA 
With marching orders from Gen. Colin Powell and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, Gary St. Peter and thousands of oth­ers left the volunteer summit Tuesday with plans to stop talking and start doing. 
"The hard work begins t o m o r r o w Powell morning," said St. Peter, 47, an attorney from Providence, R.I., who plans to set up safe havens for children to spend their after­school hours. 

With Independence Hall as a backdrop, Mrs. Clinton, former President Bush and Powell, general chairman of the Presidents' Summit for America's Future, lauded the delegates in a sun-drenched sen doff. 
"You are the real troops," said Powell. "It was the work that you did yesterday and this morn­ing that is giving life, that is giv­ing a pulse to this effort of ours that will make it successful." 
Powell assured the skeptics that "we're going to glue this together and make reality" out of the hundreds of pledges that have been made to improve the lives of 2 million of the nation's 15 million disadvantaged chil­dren by 2000. 
Mrs. Clinton told the delegates that government leaders will do what they can to encourage and motivate but everyone must do the real work. . 

"This summit, these commit­ments, they are about the habits of the heart that make us Americans. Let us go show the world and our children that we are prepared to live up to them," she said. 
Bush, the only president to stay for all three days, said the star-studded summit was "fine, a lot of glitz ... but what matters is what you all do." 
Even though their plans need refining, some delegates were ready to begin work and others were planning local versions of the national summit. 
"One of the challenges is tak­ing this back to our community . . . and making it as exciting as everything that they saw from here," said Vanessa Smith of Syracuse, N.Y. 
Doug Walters of Charleston, 
W. Va., said the sessions he had with delegates from other states gave him the opportunity to exchange ideas with people dealing with the same problems. 
Robert Smith, of Waterloo, Iowa, said three days of meet­ings have wiped away the suspi­cion he had before coming to Philadelphia that the summit was all about politics. 
"I believe the politicians believe volunteering is impor­tant," said Smith. "But I guess I'll have to wait and see when the elections come up (whether) they will start using it as a leverage to gain political sup­port. If that happens it's a slap in the face of the American peo­ple." 

page 12 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 30, 1997 

THE DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AND 
THE NoTRE DAME ALuMNI AssociATION 
INVITE ALL STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF TO VIEW 
GENERATIONS A CELEBRATION OF NOTRE DAME 
A SPECIAL TELEVISION PROGRAM 8 P.M. E.S.T. SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1997 CENTER FOR CoNTINUING EDUCATION 
Note: "GENERATIONS: A Celebration ofNotre Dame" can also be seen on Channel 54 on campus and on TCJ's local access Channel3. 
I I 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
• ENGLAND 
Labor leader reshapes conservative image 
By ROBERT BARR 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

The Labor Party was a mass movement born in the mines, mills and dockyards of Britain, but the Labor Party in its cur­rent form is largely associated with one man: Tony Blair. 
In three years as party leader, Blair has changed the party's creed, branded it "new Labor," and put it in position to win an election Thursday for the first time in 23 years. 
Suppressing the ideological battles that preoccupied the 
party a decade ago, and embracing many of the policies of the governing Conservative party, Blair has led Labor on a single-minded quest for power. 
If he succeeds in this week's national elections -and the polls indicate he will -Blair will be Britain's youngest prime minister since Lord Liverpool, who was 42 when he assumed office in 1812. 
"What Tony Blair has particularly done is to admire and, in a sense, imitate Margaret Thatcher's techniques at the height of her powers," says Roy Hattersley, deputy leader of the Labor Party in the last election. 
Critics inside and outside the party charge that there's little 
substance behind the catchy slogans and the high-wattage grin of the leader. The common accusation is that charismatic Blair has traded principles for popularity. 
"Isn't the real truth that you are a politically hungry chameleon?" a talk-show caller demanded of Blair on Tuesday.
Not so, Blair responded: "I refuse to believe that the Labor Party should either face a choice of being eIectable and unprincipled or principled but unelectable." 
Blair says voters face two fundamental questions in the 
elections: Do the Conservatives deserve a fifth term? Is new Labor those larger questions, but Blair seeks to reassure his followers really different from the party that lost the last four elections? that the party still leans left. 


British national election 
John Major put off the election as long as possible, hoping that an improving economy would boost his party's low ratings in opinion polls. 

Current seats held in the House of Commons of a total of 651 seats 
Conservative 
323 On May 1 Britons will elect 
Labor 

274 659 members of Parliament. Liberal Democrats 26 Here is how the seats will be reapportioned, by region: 
Referendum Party 1 Scottish National Party 4 current seats new parliament PlaidCymru 4 524 England 529 Ulster Unionists 9 72 Scotland 72 
38 Wales 40

Social Democratic and Labor Party 4 17 N.lreland 18
Democratic Unionist Party 3 U.K. Unionist 1 2 seats are vacant 
Labor 

Party's standings according to a recent poll*: 
Conservative 31% Labor 
48% Liberal Democrats 14% 
•AP average of last week's polls 
Specific issues of government and policy take second place to 

Huang had access to secrets 


previo · ments showc The Cdml1lerce Department 
has identifi~d 109 meetings 
995 attend at whi<;h 

.. . .. ation "'might 
have heen· discussed,'' 
.according io information 
released Tuesday. 

Previously, the department 
disClosed 37 intelligenc(l 
~I'iefing~ FJ:~ang had attend;­
ed while· a deputy assistant 
secretary, ···· 

Investigators for House 
Rules Committee Chairman 
Gerald Solmnon say they also 
have track:ed other dates in 
which . ng received 
''secret cuments, then 
called the Los Angeles office 
of his former employer, the 

lndonesian·based Lippo 
Group. 

Solomon; R-N.Y., has been investigating. whether Huang, who later became a vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee, passed any secrets to Chinese gov­ernment and business inter­ests or to Uppo, a financial conglomerate with substan­tial interestsin China. 
In addition, the Justice Department is investigating whether the Chinese govern­ment plotted to influence U.S. elections last year by funnel­ing illegal contributions to candidates and parties. 
Huang,. who had a top­secret security clearance while at the Commerce Department, has broadly denied wrqngdoing. But he has refused to • cooperate with congr~ssional· investigators, citing his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimina­tion. His lawyers did not immediately return calls to their offie(}s Tuesday. 
Oneweekin May 1995 has stood oufto investigators looking at Huang's activities at Commerce. 
According to a summary prepared by Solomon's office, Huang received a document classified ''secret" at 10 a.m. on May 4, 1995. Four hours later, Hl1ang had a 10· minute can with Lippo's office in Los Angeles. 
On May 9, 1995, Huang had a Jl1eeting scheduled ~ith bth:~~ ~enior Commerce· officials on. the ''statusof Dragongate/' a multibillion­dollar Taiwanese power plant project. That afternoon, he made two short calls to 
iLi ··· Taiwan was one area 'of ~&?Huang. 
J{t day, Huang ·received. additional secret 
document$ and made two 
short calls to Lippo's office in 
Los Angeles, His calendar 
also listed a meeting that 
night with China's ambas­
sador, thesummary says. 
And on May 12, 1995, 
Huang listed a briefing with 
the Commerce Department 
intelligence officer on his cal­
endar. That afternoon, he 
called Lippo in Los Angeles 
again, the summary says. 
~---~--­

page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
' ~ 
' 
' 
f 
' 
' ~ 
'• • ' MEMORIAL MASS 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
FOR 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
JOSEPH CIRAOLO 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' ' ' 
TUESDAY, MAY 6, 1997 5:05P.M. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Will preside and preach 
-------------·~~ 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Despite chemical ban, world still sees terrorists risks 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

A global ban on chemical weapons took effect Tuesday with several key nations absent from the list of more than 80 that have ratified it -notably Russia and Iraq, the only two besides the United States to admit having chemical arms. 
The ban. hailed by arms-con­trol advocates as a step toward a safer world, does not eliminate the threat posed by poison gas and other chemical agents. Indeed, some fear these will increasingly be a weapon of r:hoice for terrorists. 
In a well-publicized drill that underscored this concern, a spe­cially assembled Marine Corps unit demonstrated in Washington on Tuesday how it would respond to a chemical or biological weapon attack by ter­rorists on a city. 
It is the threat of terrorist attack -not a deliberate chemi­cal assault by the forces of a for­eign government -that most concerns the Clinton administra­tion. The treaty, known as the Chemical Weapons Convention, outlaws the development, pro­duction, possession, transfer or use of chemical weapons. 
Russia has signed the treaty but its parliament has not rati­fied it. A Pentagon report three months ago said Russian pesti­cide processing plants offer "easy potential" for secret pro­duction of a new generation of 

The University of Notre Dame's SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY will again offer 
SUMMER STORAGE 

Storage Policies 
• Storage begins April 21, 1997, with drop off at the Laundry 
Distribution Center located on campus. 
• 
Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from their laundry contract, however, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE. 

• 
All garments and linens MUST be laundered or dry cleaned (no leather/suede or pillows) by Saint Michael's at the time of storage and a 


$7 per order storage fee will be added to your invoice (does not include the cleaning fee). 
• All items must be retrieved from the bundle distribution center no later than September 5, 1997, or an additional fee of 25% of the total invoice will be imposed. 
Saint Michael's Bundle Distribution Center 
Hours: 8 A.M.-4:30P.M. M-F 631-7565 

AN ARMY SCHOLARSHIP COULD HELP YOU THROUGH MEDICAL SCHOOL 
The U.S. Army Health Professions 
Scholarship Program offers a unique 
opportunity for financial support to med-­
ical or osteopathy students. Financial 
support includes a monthly stipened plus 
tuition, books, and other course related 
expenses. 
For information concerning eligibil-­ity, pay, service obligation and application procedure, contact your local Army Health Care Recruiter: 

ARMY MEDICINE. BE ALL YOU CAN BE: 
www.goarmy.com 
(317) 638--9502 
chemical weapons. 

The United States and Russia both have pledged to destroy their entire stocks of chemical weapons, but that task is prov­ing more difficult and costly than either had anticipated. The United States expects to spend at least $12.4 billion to get rid of its chemical weapons by the end of 2004. 
The Senate ratified the treaty last Thursday, more than four years after former President Bush signed it, but doubts remain that Russia will follow suit. All NATO countries, plus Japan and China, have ratified the treaty, but several countries perceived as hostile to the United States have not even signed it. 
These include Iraq, Syria, Libya and North Korea, which has large numbers of chemical weapons stored near the Demilitarized Zone that divides it from South Korea. 
In all, more than 160 coun­tries have signed the treaty and more than 80 have ratified it. 
The latest to act was Kuwait, whose parliament ratified it Tuesday. Kuwait sees itself as especially vulnerable. Iraq, which invaded Kuwait in 1990, had a large clandestine chemi­cal weapons program, and it remains unclear whether the Iraqis actually used some of those weapons during the Persian Gulf War in 1991. 
If it had not ratified the treaty before it took effect Tuesday, the United States would not have been allowed to participate directly in verifying compliance. Treaty opponents argued that the ban is unenforceable and that it would create the impres­sion that there no longer is a chemical arms threat. 
Michael Moodie, president of the Chemical and Biological Arms Control Institute, a private group in Washington, said the treaty provides new tools to try to limit the spread of chemical weapons but does not eliminate the problem. 
"""'-~------~--·------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 16 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assiuanc Momaging Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Editor.. .......................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager .......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Contro!ler ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . ............... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the: majoriry ofthe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observ~r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and w all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63 I -4542  Business Office  63I-53I3  
Managing EditorNiewpoim  631-4 54 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Man•ger  63I-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  63I-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


An Qpen letter 
to 
M',,:.~,.······· ...··1 · ··E··a.ri ou .. 
Welcome to Saint Mary's College, Marilou Eldred. 
A highly confidential, selective and secretive presidential search committee representing the College selected you to succeed current President William Hickey. 
And now, an inctedible amount of trust and confidence has been placed in you, as you are the h!;lirto U~S. News and World It rt.:~> number oneregional liberal arts college. : .• ..•• )• . . ....•...·.. ··•· ·• ....•..•.. ·• .·. . . .. ·.·•·· .• .... > 
. You are the next in alon~Iegaty or memora . . ... that have shaped Sah1t Mary's to he the nation'~p~emier Catholic wome ... .. ...•.... ¢ge. As a graduate of It women's college, with e~perience in administrati?qin women's .colleges; you have earned our confidence in the trustees' deCision to band you the presidency. 
But we're sure you've been told all that. . . · .· . . . 
The entire College community awaits June 1, whim you officially begin your . term as the first lay wmnan president of Saint Mary's College. A term that is sure to be laced with memories ranging from yo:ur .first walk down the tree-lined avenue to your first · 
You will be eletnl:!nts that . ·· It's a. tich, 1 Consistently, homogeneity of 
With the cost of must continue, as we lower classes. 
Along with· the trauttJon. President Hickey, in(<lU>dinlg to The Alliance o Bis1eXt1aL 
Mary's ulJ>U!:!J<t.: 
You will mathofthe exists 
Will you lives of Saint the women of the 
You have been uuJ'"'"'" tury.n Will your threats? Will you In light of the ty? "With the turn ready. willing confident woman According to the seart:hcommittee, we will thatw.oman in you. If anything, the studentvoice has spoken this semester, and the students have voiced their concerns. Are you listening, Marilou Eldred? What will you do, MarUou? 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 

• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 

Senior Week festivities tampered by inefficiency 
Dear Editor: 

One of the Notre Dame traditions that seniors anxiously look forward to after four years of hard work and effm:1 is a final week of festivity and cama­raderie that immediately precedes graduation known as "Senior Week." 
Some of the past activities have included class trips to area amusem<mt parks, cruises of Lake Michigan, and outings to Chicago. This year similar outings and activities were arranged including a Cedar Point trip, a day at Wrigley Field, and an evening cruise of Lake Michigan. Unfortunately. this year a great majority of seniors will completely miss the opportunity to par­ticipate and enjoy this one "last hurrah" with their fellow classmates. 
Of the three major senior class sponsored events, only 19.5 percent of the class may attend ,the Lake Michigan cruise, only 15 percent may go to Cedar Point, and less than 5.5 percent will have the opportunity to spend the day at Wrigley Field in Chicago. Under the assumption each senior would purchase any one ticket to one of these major events, over 60 percent of the senior class would be excluded form attending any activity at all. 
At the root of this problem is poor planning and inefficient use of funds by senior class officials. When questioned in regards to the lack of tickets made available for sale, senior class president Bill Hammonds' immediate response was that the "administration had given me only $5000 to work with," which he deemed insufficient enough funds in justifying an additional ticket allot­ment. As president of the senior class, one of Bill Hammonds' primary responsibilities is to maintain an open channel of communication between the senior class and the administration. In this regard he has failed. At no point did Mr. Hammonds ever petition the class for support or aid in negotiating a reasonable solution to this problem. However, even with the limited number of tickets available, Bill Hammonds and his fellow officers apparently had no problem at all purchasing their own personal tickets for the senior class events. 
If Bill Hammonds and his fellow officers were the leaders they claimed to be, this letter would not have been necessary. Fortunately other students have stepped up and proposed more equitable solutions to this problem. Students like Mike Flood, station manager of WVFI, have taken the initiative to deal with the shortage of tickets. We applaud the efforts of students like Mike Flood, because they display the leadership skills and sentiments that truly represent the class. 
Let this situation serve as a warning for those who follow us of the potential problems associated with a lack of communication and proper planning in organizing an event of such a scale. It is a shame that for a week supposedly devoted for all seniors to enjoy, only a scant minority will actually be able to participate. 
THOMAS McCARTHY CHRISTOPHER SIMONE PAUL LEE Class of'97 
• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE IJAY 

~--~-----~~~--------~------~~~~--------~----------------~----~~~----~------~-----­
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 page 17 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Apple's column lacks reason 
Dear Editor: 
After reading Matthew Apple's philippics for the last two years it is hard to 
know where to start one's criticisms. So, let me comment on his April 22 col­
umn. 
First, Mr. Apple enlightens us with his definitions of dogma. After reading 
through them I wonder whether he has any normative baselines for any concept 
of reasonable discussion. If you want to constantly attack the Church, the 
administration, Professor Rice, etc., it would be helpful if you articulated some 
principles upon which your arguments rest. Instead you pursue scorched earth 
tirades against policies you don't like. Emotivism, not logic governs your writ­
ing. 
Second, when you write that "procreation, not love, is the foundation of the 
universe" for the Church you are either ignorant of Church teaching or lying for 
a rhetorical purpose. To state that "if you do not add little soldiers to the blind 
Army of God ... you cannot be saved," is simply absurd. I could respect your 
work if you met disagreements head on and not in such a manipulative manner. 
Finally, your attack on Professor Rice's column on homosexuality demon­
strates how illogically you are acting. To take from the professor's argument 
that he conceivably could view Judaism as an intrinsic evil or black people as 
intellectually inferior distorts the issue being argued and does not follow in any 
way. It is remarkable logical acrobatics that allows you to accuse someone who 
believes certain sexual activities immoral of also viewing another religion as an 
intrinsic evil or a race as inferior. 
I can't decide which is more appropriate-an apology from you to Professor 
Rice for your commentary or an explanation from you describing why it is you 
believe what you do and what contribution your column actually makes to rea­
sonable debate on this campus. 
JONATHAN LIENHARD 
Asst. Rector, Sorin Hall 
Third Year Law Student 
• WHERE I'M CALLING FROM 
Sr. M.J.'s devotion guided by care 
Dear Editor: 
When a relative, a current undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame, mentioned that there was an article in Scholastic about Sister Mary Jane (M.J.) Griffin, rector of Howard Hall, I assumed that it was a tribute to a woman who has so selflessly devoted herself for 13 years to hundreds of Notre Dame undergraduate women. Then, when he read me the article, I was disappointed that it was actually a mockery of her strict disci­plinary style. I can only assume that those at Scholastic have not had the pleasure, nor the blessing, of knowing Sister M.J. as well as I have known her, as a four-year resident of Howard Hall, a one-and-a-half-year resident assistant, and a graduate. 
Throughout the nearly eight years that I have known her, M.J. consistently has demonstrated an uncommon strength, energy, and tenacity -not to mention empathy -while guiding her residents through undergraduate school and beyond. On a daily basis, she counsels those dealing with major life problems, including eating disorders, relationships, alcoholism, academics, career choices, parental divorce, death of loved ones, and terminal illness, just to name a few. Although her responsibilities are difficult and heart wrenching at times, she executes them without complaint and with great moral conviction and integrity. I also know that she has made great personal sacrifices (and lost a lot of sleep!) for the well-being of her residents. 
I am honored to know M.J., and am grateful for her unyielding support, enthusiastic encouragement and perceptive guidance. Even today -four years after my graduation -she continues to be a resource and a counselor for me. In fact, after learning recently that I was going through a particularly painful and devastating experience, she called me from across the country to offer words of wisdom and care. 
Sister M.J. is more than a rector. She is more than a disciplinarian. She is a true friend, and I believe, the embodiment of "the Notre Dame Family." I can only hope that I can begin to emulate her character, conviction and faith. 
And, although I regret that M.J. is departing Notre Dame, and future Howard Hall residents will not benefit from her spirit, fortitude, and knowledge, I am certain that she will continue to impact everyone she works with in a very special and significant way. 
ANN ELIZABETH LEAHY Former Howard Hall Resident Class of 1993 
Nostalgia of graduation inspires parting words 
It is with great sadness that I step down from my bi-weekly soap box, "Where I'm Calling From." As I sit here and try to patch together a final column to end this year and close my college 
Thomas Coyne 

days, I realize that I am a very lucky man. For eight months, I was given a space in a public medium to rant and rave about whatever was on my mind­uncensored, unaltered, and unmolested by editors. It has been a fantastic opportunity and one I probably didn't deserve. 
So here we are -at the end. The end of a year for all of us, the end of our col­lege lives for all too many of us. I am not a campus standout, I am not a stu­dent politician, I am by no means a stu­dent leader, and save the ND diploma, the only award I will be getting at grad­uation is a hug from some relatives and a "Most Expensive Child Ever" award from my father as we discuss my plans for graduate school. 
With that in mind, I am going to take advantage of this final opportunity to preach and prattle. I won't be speaking from any podium on May 18th; I won't be asked to make any acceptance speeches; but here, in my column, I can get in my final word, my final reflec­tions on life here under the Dome and the ominous proposition of leaving. So with a good bit of nostalgia and a touch of sadness, I hereby endeavor to get some closure on the best four year of my life. 
Looking back, I have no real regrets. Sure, I set a few lofty goals that I didn't accomplish-I never scaled the Admin., I never violated particular duLacian policies on the 50-yard line of the stadium, and I leave without a national championship banner to hang in my office. But these are things I can live with. The first two probably would have gotten me kicked out, and the last is a pipe dream -as if anyone would ever give an Arts and Letters major an office. 
There are things I could have done, things we all will look back and say we should have or we could have. I could have read more, could have gone to more theater, gone to more readings, worked harder, learned more, pushed my mind further, experienced a life larger than the one I have right now. Yet doing any of these would have meant two things -less beer and less Sega. And as lame and un-scholarly as that sounds, my first four years have been about people and friendships, about learning how to live life on my own, not how to chew up books and spit out facts. I'll be doing enough of that next year. 
If I have any advice for underclass­man (all the while aware that I am in no position to be giving anyone advice), I would say spend more time listening to yourself and your friends. My two favorite cliches of academia are "College is the best four years of your life," and "You learn about life outside of the classroom." They are as true as they are trite. 
My memories are not of classes or text books. I can't remember a damn thing from my intro to philosophy class or my pre-med Calc class (R. Thomas Coyne, 
M.D. -now there's a laugh), but I can vividly remember sitting in my boxer shorts freshman year and watching "Caddyshack" three consecutive times on a Friday afternoon, sipping Leininkugel's and laughing with my roommate until we were sick. I doubt the world is any better off for my having spent the afternoon drunk and in my underwear, and I know at that moment I was contributing very little to the over­all well-being of my self or my future, but that is exactly the point -it was fun, it was peaceful, and it was memo­rable. 
Too many of us have our eyes so focused on the big picture or on our ambition that we forget what the stuff of life is. We are all looking for that bal­ance between work and fun, between our happiness now and our ambition for the future. I think most of us could use a little more time on our couches and in our underwear, laughing with our friends, finding out who they are and who we are. The books will always be there for me to go back and read, but in two weeks, I say goodbye to my best friends in the world. It is not the class­rooms that I am going to miss. 
So I really have no regrets. They are worthless. And as much as I have enjoyed taking shots at this University and its administration in my column this year, I have no real complaints either. This is truly a special place, and we are all undeserving of the lives we lead. To think how many of us sit back and com­plain, how many of us whine about liv­ing in South Bend or cry about or work­loads. We are all spoiled brats. We are the 8,000 luckiest kids in the world, and while it is fair to criticize this place in the hope that we can make it even bet­ter, we should look around once in a while at how screwed up the world is, what a hard, cruel place it is for so many people, and realize how good we have it. 
I'll stop there at the risk of sounding too much like a piece of University pro­paganda. That last paragraph is proof that I am on the verge of alumnihood as I romanticize and wax nostalgic about my glory days. While I am itching to take my last chance to quote 

Springsteen in a column, I'll refrain long enough to mention some people that have shaped my own and my class's four years under the Dome. 
We can't think about our time here without wanting to thank our friends and roommates -they are the people that make college what it is. I want to give all my best to the four guys who put up with my penchant for spending afternoons in my underwear, my phobia of the dishwasher, and my lack of respect for foodstuffs without my name on them. When I left high school, I swore I would keep in touch with all my friends, that we would be tight forever. We all made those promises, and we all know how hard they were to keep. But there is something about living with people, particularly at Notre Dame, that makes you know that you have made friends for life. If there is anything I am certain I will be taking away from this campus in two weeks, it will be a hand­ful of friends that I know I will be able to count on for anything for the rest of my life. 
And with the Hallmark stuff out of the way, I would like to share my apprecia­tion for the women of Notre Dame that have made my college life, well, the word "safe" comes to mind. When I was a kid, I though college would be like "Animal House"-and to some extent, it was (minus one key ingredi­ent.) So thanks to you Ms. Notre Dame's out there. I came to this cam­pus thinking I was a stud. I leave a humble man. 
And those of you who made the effort to send me e-mail or respond to The Observer with reactions to my columns are held in my highest esteem. All of you who stood up and took a side, who took the time to respond and engage in discourse -you have restored my faith in a campus that I previously thought didn't care about anything. Special kudos to all of you at last week's anti­discrimination rally and the editors of Intersection. The exciting truth is that people on this campus are concerned about more than themselves and are not afraid to put something on the line to fight for it. 
And what would a thank-you tirade be without a thank you for dear old Mom and Dad. Our parents have made a supreme sacrifice to send us here -we all know that. But do we really? Do we understand what sacrifice means, that it isn't something they have to do because it is in their parental contract? haven't, and I have never shown the proper appreciation for what they have given me, accepting it, in a sense, as something I deserve for working hard and being their offspring. And it isn't something I deserve -it is something I have been blessed with. So thanks Mom and Dad. You are the strongest, most amazing individuals I will ever know. If I could be half the person that either of you are, I would consider myself a great success. 
So there you have it, a few final thoughts. Sorry if I sacrificed entertain­ment for sappy nostalgia, but that is what this whole graduation thing is about. You can't get a handle on it without a fair share of sentimentality and maybe even a few tears (for you softies). So goodbye and best of luck. 
This has been where I'm calling from. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. This is his final column. 
Q-._..

2P 
---..-----------------~~----~..~--~------------~--~----~----~--..~~r~---••-----~----------~----~ 
VIEWPOINT
page 18 Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
• THE DISCOURSE 
Poor religious formation invites disunity 
Just before moving to Notre Dame last summer, I attended a Confirmation Mass in Atlanta. The archbishop, the principal celebrant, began his homily with a star-
Sean Seymore 


tling statistic: "According to a recent 
national poll, most Catholics do not 
believe in Transubstantiation." 
Around the same time, Cardinal Bernardin was trying to draw support for his "Common Ground" project. The star­tling statistic and the need for "Common Ground" indicate the lack of unity in the contemporary Roman Catholic Church. 
The church underwent profound changes after the Second Vatican CounciL Even though some argue that its rudi­mentary aspects have remained intact for the past millennium, certain changes are unquestionable. The old church needed renewal; through the power of the Holy Spirit, Pope John XXIII began the process. However, one unfortunate, unintended, and surely unexpected result of Vatican II is disunity, due in part to the poor reli­gious formation of the faithful over the past three decades. 
A major consequence of improper or inadequate catechesis is a lack of under­standing of the sacraments. When I con­sider my religious formation during child­hood, I cannot use the word "catechesis," because a catechism was never used. In my First Holy Communion class, I was given a book that had a pretty picture of a 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
SMC students 
deserve solidarity 
Dear Editor: 
Because of my unusual position here at Saint Mary's as both alumna and faculty, I feel compelled to write regarding Dr. Hickey's choice to defer the Alliance deci­sion until May 31. 
Speaking as an alumna (and as some­one who has gone to great lengths to make herself informed about this issue), I am deeply saddened by the administra­tion's handling of the BOG vote about the Alliance. Here at this college, I was taught to believe I had a right to my own voice, whatever that voice might be, and that I had a right to my own decisions. I was taught to think and act with intelli­gence and independence, especially in areas of justice, and to demand that other people treat me and my ideas with respect. 
In this case, I do not feel that this administration has shown the students of Saint Mary's (both present and past) that respect. The administration's responses on this issue have not been timely or forthright. Instead, they have been couched in double-speak that undermines student agency, equivocates and, quite simply, seems designed to buy time. I am dismayed by this, and I take it personally. 
As faculty, I feel compelled to speak on behalf of my students. Several of the members of BOG and the Alliance are in my classes. I have seen firsthand how hard they have worked on this issue, and their efforts illustrate what can happen when people approach difficult issues courageously and honestly. They deserve the same from this college. The students deserve a courageous and honest response before they leave this campus on May 9. To do otherwise robs them of all their hard work and it disempowers them. It may also leave them with a bit­ter taste in their mouths about Saint Mary's. 
GRETCHEN M. SCHERER Class of 1991 loaf of unleavened whole-wheat bread on the front cover. I am sure that Transubstantiation was mentioned at some point, but I had to develop an understanding of the concept individually. 
I attended Confirmation class at another parish hoping for a better experience; however, a catechism was not used. Instead of formal instruction, we played games in a workbook. I did not develop an understanding of the sacrament until college. Since my childhood parishes failed at catechesis, I had to complete the process individually. 
Many persons underestimate the role of the liturgy in proper religious formation. Quite simply, the liturgy reinforces or weakens what is taught in catechesis. This is one reason why I cringe whenever I hear someone refer to a consecrated Host simply as "bread," and to the Precious Blood as "wine." The use of such language sends a mixed message and can confuse a child or another impressionable person who does not know or understand the truth; e.g., a cat­echumen. The Baltimore Catechism refers to the Eucharist as "The Body and Blood of Christ under the appearance of bread and wine." 
A proper catechesis includes thorough instruction on Jesus Christ and the Blessed Mother. However, in so many churches, proper reverence to Jesus Christ and the Blessed Mother is quickly diminishing. For example, I wonder how many young Catholics know that the rubrics instruct the faithful to bow at the names of Jesus, Mary, and when the Incarnation is mentioned; e.g., at the words, "And by the power of the Holy Spirit, He was born of the Virgin Mary, and became man" in the Profession of Faith. 
Furthermore, some persons are inad­
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
vertently removing Jesus Christ from cer­tain parts of the liturgy. For example, when the following responses are uttered: "It is right to give !lim thanks and praise," and "May the Lord accept the sacrifice at your hands, for the praise and glory of His name, for our good, and the good of all His church," some persons replace !lim and His with God's. Even a cursory review of a missal indicates that Him and Ilis refer specifically to Jesus Christ, who is the Head of the Church. When I have invited non-Catholics to Mass, several persons being potential converts, they 

es, proper reverence to Jesus Christ and the Blessed Mother is quickly diminish­ing. 
have asked, "Why do some persons say or do one thing and others say or do some­thing else?" 
Even though some persons are making noble efforts to find "common ground," I wonder if the vast difference in American Catholic churches are amenable to recon­ciliation. For example, I consider two parishes located in the town where I attended college. The first parish can be appropriately deemed "plain." There is/are no stature, bells, crucifixes, incense, kneelers, pews, organ, confessionals, side altars, baptistry, Stations of the Cross, processions, Rosaries, Exposition and Benediction of the Most Blessed Sacrament or kneeling; and there is very little genuflection. The church simply has an altar, a cross and chairs. The second parish has everything the first parish lacks plus a Communion rail that is still used. 
I have made this comparison not to pass judgement, but religious formation and the entire Mass experience in the two parishes are vastly different. When I compare both the children and adults from the two parishes, the sacramentals have clearly made a profound effect on religious formation in the latter case. Undoubtedly, lack of devotion to the Blessed Mother and the Most Blessed sacrament is widespread in the American church. For persons who have been reared in parishes like the first mentioned above, the development of devotion is severely hampered by the lack of sacra­mentals. 
Though many persons speak of the old church as insensitive, oppressive and overbearing, religious formation was not a problem. One could be sure that the children from one parish and a parish across town were catechized similarly. Now, two randomly-selected Catholics can hardly agree on which aspects of the faith are most important. 
Undoubtedly, poor religious formation has contributed to disunity. If Catholics arc to find common ground, the wide­spread implementation of rudimentary catechesis is a necessary prerequisite. As some would say, "You cannot play a fair game if everyone doesn't come to the table with a full deck of cards." 
Sean Seymore is a doctoral student in chemistry. He can be reached at sey­more.l @nd. edu . 
Remember the true Christian spirit 
Dear Editor: 

Over the Easter Triduum, I was fortu­nate enough to attend the Masses at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. I was awestruck by the powerful and prophetic homilies and somewhat distracted by the veritable jungle of heavenly flowers and spread thickly across the altar. For a variety of reasons, I was curious to learn the total cost of the floral arrangements and called the Basilica to find out. $4700. Those flowers cost $4700. 
How much of that money was truly spent for Christ? How much of that money was spent in excess? I believe it is my responsibility as one who is learning to be Christian to point out what I believe to be an excess. 
As a Catholic institution, the University of Notre Dame has a responsibility and a duty to support and exemplify the call of the Catholic Church to a "preferential option for the poor." The Catholic Church as a body of Christ should espouse and be committed to giving "a voice to the voice­less," to the "voiceless" of our community in South Bend, our community within the United States, and our greater global community. We are responsible for our actions. Our actions speak louder than any written or spoken message. 
I believe it is important to celebrate vig-
Enact heartfelt beliefs 
Dear Editor: 

In the great abortion debate, there appears to be a number of people who are pro-apathy, that is, they are "personally opposed to abortion, but still believe a woman hasaright tocl:mqse" and thustake. no action either way. This letter is specifically addressed to that group ofpeople. 
That they personally oppose aborti()n suggests that in their heart, they know abortion is wrong. So then, if it is wrong, why would they still support others' participation in that wrong? . 
Do they personally oppose drugs but feel that a person has a right to use 
.them?•.. •··.··· .· . · it". if>) ...•. 

·· · Do they personally oppose harassment but do·nothing to stop it when it occurs in their midst? ·.. Do they personally oppose stealing, but if they saw a crime being committed, would they do nothing because they did not want to get involved in the issue? What al:wut murder? [)t)they oppose murder, but if the person to be murdered is an unwa,nted burden. i~>lttheil OK?;. . . . .····· · For those of you who are Christi~ns but believe that abortion is OK: We are 
called to he Christ-like and follow Jesus' example of how to live in this world. Ask yourself the question: Would Jesus think that abortion is OK? Would he per­sonally oppose it but do n?thing to stop it? 
ANN HEILMAN Graduate Student Dept. ofPhysics 
..__________
.........;.........;.........;___.........;"--'"-----.-.......--------------........l 
orously and vibrantly the Triduum services and in this way to set them apart form the rest of the liturgical year. The question is, how are we setting these days apart? Just how comfortable would a homeless man, woman or child have felt at the Basilica at the Triduum services? What right do we have to worship in such extravagance when there are human beings starving in our world? How much of our lives are we willing to give to Christ? I believe these are important questions we must ask our­selves. 
Through our lives we can answer these questions if we strive to live the Gospel and live in solidarity with the poor as Jesus did. As Archbishop Oscar Romero stated, it is our responsibility to provide "a voice to the voiceless." We must speak out. The opposite of love is not hatred, but indifference. Our indifference and our silence has the potential to be sinful. 
We have $4700 worth of beautiful flowers. Many of our sisters and brothers live in substandard housing and are malnour­ished. Certainly a turnover of $4700 to these people would not solve any of these issues, but it would be a start-perhaps a commencement to conversion of our own hearts and lives. This issue may be insignificant to others in comparison but, we must be awake to and aware of all injustices. 
As I read in a book written by Joan Chittister, O.S.B., a quote which answers more questions than the few I pose in this let­ter: "Yes, there is a link between meaningless lives on one continent and meaningless deaths on the other." We must not forget or be indifferent to our universal Catholic Christian connectedness with our socioeconomically suffering brothers and sisters. We can not afford to. 
MICHELE LICTENBERGER Senior Siegfried Hall 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-
ACClSNT 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 page 19 

WELL, WE'VE FINALLY REACHED THE END OF· THE YEAR. As YOU FILL YOUR HEAD WITH GOBS OF INFORMATION WHEN YOU STUDY FOR FINALS, TAKE A BREAK ON ACCENT AND SET YOUR MIND TO SOME USELESS, IDLE TASKS FOR A FEW MOMENTS. 
Can you ­find six 
differences between these two pictures? 
(answers at the bottom) 

-

FIND THESE THIRTY HIDDEN WORDS. 
~t%~~1? ~@(%@ WO~@)cfx., 
THEN, CIRCLE ALL 
hd ebar-tol obnpavj e ro-t .s k o o be a a 1 e ao <t9ll'l"'reiaePtooYfc. 
bLI \ .se~r re-t9+LiooK asal'rlfYI r i -tyne-th I LI.S sync:{ersob_gnool rn i r9osohan-tYrJala I anrrareerd9-trna1 i m1 i rgh I akes~Kd' c.+nal ePrec.haunYn ani dnabar'>'lec.a loda Si doej stacli ummen Yato!a..fo r-rwneune es.PatherheSbur9h 
Xi"YeM~der-tonear.s 
LEFTOVER LETTERS. USE THOSE LETTERS TO DISCOVER A SECRET MESSAGE 
WORD LIST 
ALUMNI LAKES BAND LEPRECHAUN BASILICA LIBRARY BEER LOU HOLTZ BOOKSTORE MONK MALLOY DEBARTOLO NOTRE DAME DINING HALL OUR LADY DOMERS PATTY 0 HARA DULAC QUADS FATHER HE~BURGH SAl NT MARY'S GRAB-N-GO SHENANIGANS GROTTO SORIN IRISH STADIUM JOCK STEPAN LAFORTUNE STONEHENGE 
Mad Lib .. NO 

I was at this dorm party last night It was All that I did was 
(ADJECTIVE) 
~~--and -~,.,..­
(VERB) (VERB) Around (TIME OF DAY) 1 (FRIEND'S NAME) and I ran We ran
to (BUILDING ON CAMPUS) and stripped down to our (BODY PART) through the halls screaming 
until we bumped into (FAVORITE
(EXCLAMATION) 
N.D. FIGUREHEAD) • , who gave us a firm (PUNISHMENT) , as well as a few pages of du Lac with which to cover our bare -,.,..,.,.,.,.,..,~=-­
(BODY PART) Thus, clothed, we headed to (FAVORITE CAMPUS BAR) where we heard -.,..(F"""'AV""'O"""R""IT...-E­was playing. While we were dancing, a townie spilled ------=-­
CAMPUS BAND) (LEAST 
on me, so I ran into the bathroom. While there, I wrote on the
FAVORITE BEER) 
wall, "For a good time call -===:=-at -.,..,,....,...,..­
(BEST FRIEND) (PHONE#) 
Later on, as we rode home in the Saferide van, we noticed -.,..,.,....,.,._ passed out 
(NAME) 

in the seat behind us cried -"That's the kid
(EXCLAMA liON ) 1 (FIRST FRIEND'S NAME) I during freshman orientation. They wrote their name on
(ACTION VERB, PAST TENSE) my (ARTICLE OF CLOTHING) at the Graffiti Dance! Let's get out of here!" 
So, at the first red light, we jumped out of the van and (ACTION VERB, PAST TENSE) all the way back to . After such an eventful night, we decided there 
(DoRM) 

was nothing left to do, so we ordered (A NUMBER) pizzas from Papa John's. Realizing we didn't have enough money to pay, we sold all of our 
(NOUN, PLURAL) to an unsuspecting freshman coming home from the library. 
'lUoJaii!P S! pue4 l4fi!J U! 4SnJQIU!Bd 'jUoJoii!P S! IU!Bd jO olloiBd 'fieq WOJj fiU!SS!W S! 1/:lUod '100!1191 UO 90BI90~S SS91 SUO 'jOOII~fi!J UO DU!SS!W S! !BolO SUO 'DU!SS!W S! pee~-S9:JUoJoll!0 peel\ !XoU nol\ ees ·awea oJION 'Jewwns IBoJfl e eAeH-JoMsue e1zznd pJOM 
.. 
r~~ 
I I I I 
-lI I I page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-Classifieds 
NOTICES  Family seeks loving, responsible, fun person to help care for 2 chil­ Staying in S.B. for the summer?  '84 Chrysler LeBaron 82,000 miles and in good shape.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  Maria and Paul ANYTIME, tollfree at 1-800-749-2229.  
dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  RENT OUR COLLEGE PARK  $1000 obo #243-9118  The highest quality color copies  Legal and Confidential.  
EUROPE $229.  thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  APT!! Call 284-4347 for details.  are now available at  
Within USA $79.-$129.  hr. References and own transporta­ 1985 Mazda 626  THE COPY SHOP  hey devil tiff- 
Caribb./Mexico $229.r/l  tion needed.  Efficiency apartment, semi-fur­ Good Condition 80,000 miles  LaFortune Student Center  it's been a hell of a year; CJ's,  
Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!!  Sue 233-6657.  nished, quiet location near Notre  $2100 Must Sell  Phone 631-COPY  Parrothead parties, hot tubs in hotel  
http://www.airtich.org  Dame. $325/month including utili­ Call Geoff 232-9944  rooms, coughing, and kung-fu fight­ 
AIRTICH 1-800-326-2009  ADVERTISING SALES POSI­ ties except electric. Phone  Need some info but don't know  ing on the dance floor ... may next  
TIONS  (219)631-6072/273-1751.  Dependable 1987 Buick Century.  where to turn?  year be even more crazy and may I  
J U N 0 R S !  University Directories is seeking  $1000 OBO. Kathy @  Call COUNSELINE Mon-Thurs  learn what to do with my straw!  
students to sell yellow page adver­ Working in CHICAGO this summer?  1-5437 or 287-6604.  from 4pm-12am at 1-7793 to hear  -the girl who trips over her­ 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  tising for the University of Notre  Need a place to live? Need one  professionally audiotaped materials.  self...aka indian princess  
OF RESUME AND DISK  Dame campus telephone directory  female roommate for townhouse in  FOR SALE! 5SPD 86 HONDA  See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone­ p.s. you are loud .... hehehe!  
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ during the summer of 1997. Weekly  Lincoln Park.  ACCORD. $2000 W/NEW BATT. 2  book for a list of tapes.  
MENT SERVICES FOR  pay + bonus structure. Training pro­ Call Kelly @ X4633  NEW TIRES+ A CRACKED WIND­ Sponsored by the UCC and  hey white boy- 
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  gram. Excellent advertising sales,  SHIELD. CALL JOHN  Psychology club.  too bad you couldn't get 9 more  
marketing, PR experience. Call  LARGE 2 BR HOME.  AT 273-5475.  Let Counse\ine help you!  points... then you could use those  
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  Jung Yun at 1-800-743-5556 Ext.  10 MIN FROM ND.  dice any way you wanted ... and  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  157.  FRIG., STOVE, GARAGE, BASE­ FISH TANK 10 gal w/ filter $10  you'd have clean laundry!  
R  MENT, DECK, FENCED YARD,  273-5110  Family Needs Graduation  -tan girl  
SELLING A BIKE FOR $30?  LAUNDRY.  Tickets--Please Help!  p.s. what about 02?  
s  \WANT IT  1312 S. 30TH ST. S.B.  HAMSTER CAGE $10  Christian 273-6967  
you forgot to put your number  LEASE. $550.00/MO. + DEPOSIT.  273-5110  jodi, kelle, and becca­ 
IT"S BACK!  in the ad. Call me  AVAILABLE IN AUGUST  Thanks for the nights crashing, the  
The Keenan Hall Charity Golf Scramble  Beth 4951  233-5462  SEIZED CARS from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  •••••••••••••••••••••••............Tons  movies, "instructional" videos, and performances at Nick's... you all are  
Thursday, May 1st; 8:00am.  A BIKE FOR $30? I WANT IT  BED & BREAKFAST:  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  of Furniture!  the best ever! -Drunk  
Shotgun start. 4 person team-$10  you forgot to put your # in the ad  Football week-ends. Private  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  ... Really, Really Cheap  #@"&  
per player  Beth 4951  home 2 miles from stadium.  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013  
PRIZES  Private baths. 272-9471.  Couches...Chairs...Dressers.. .  Evil Indian ­ 
1st. 2nd, 3rd; Longest drive. closest  Summer babysitter needed:  Entertainment Center for sale.  Tables...Beds... Bookcases.. .  Try to stay off the carpet (in more  
to pin  1-2 days a week, 2-6pm  BULLA RD. 3 BDRM. 4 BLOCKS  $50 OBO. Good condition.  Lamps ... Kitchen Stuff ...and  ways than one). By the way, what's  
2 children ages 7 & 9  FROM CAMPUS.  Call Katie 243-9172  some! We can even deliver!  that in your hand?  
Caribbean/Mexico $250 RT  Must have own transportation  97/98 YEAR.272-6306  Calf 287-4876  
Europe $199 OW  Please call 277-5786  1987 TOYOTA Corolla  
& Domestic Destinations Cheap!  1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  80,000 miles, in good condition  You are an above-average, super­ 
IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE  SUMMER WORK  CAMPUS. SUMMER OR 97/98  $2000 obo. #272-5702  THE COPY SHOP  extraordinary person. Water Sprite  
PRICES START YOUR OWN  $10.25 to start  YEAR. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ LaFortune Student Center  knows this, even if you don't.  
DAMN AIRLINE!  Full and part time openings. No  WE HAVE AN ENTERTAINMENT  EXTENDED FINALS HOURS  
Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@ aerotech.com  experience necesary. All majors. Scholarships and internships avail­ 163()6 FOR SALE  UNIT, TWO CHAIRS AND A WELL LOVED COUCH FOR SALE!  Thur. 5/1: 7:30 am-Midnight Fri. 5/2: 7:30 am-Midnight  Tony--Happy Birthday, from your SHOCKING roommates!!!  
http://campus.net/aerotech  abe. Flexible hours. Call office  CHEAP! CALL 273-2580!  Sat. 5/3: 9:00 am-Midnight  Where should I touch myself?  
nearest your summer location for  BEAUTIFUL 2 BDRM CONDO ON  Sun. 5/4: 9:00 am-Midnight  
EXPERIENCED CREW NEEDED  information and details.  THE WATER,5 MIN FROM N.D.  Almost new twin bed for sale $100  Mon. 5/5: 7:30am-Midnight  Karen,  
FOR SAILBOAT RACING ON  GARAGE,APPLIANCES,POOL,CL  orBO.  Tue. 5/6: 7:30 am-Midnight  You're purdy even when your sad.  
LAKE MICHIGAN THIS SUMMER.  SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357  UBHOUSE.BRAND NEW.$92,900.  call Chrissa 243-9364  Wed. 5/7: 7:30 am-Midnight  -John  
C&C41: HOLLAND, MI.  FORTWAYNE 219-471-6113  235-3259.  Thur. 5/8: 7:30 am-Midnight  
Call 289-3517 or 237-6533  NORTH INDY 317-578-0432 SOUTH INDY 317-783-3575  SEIZED CARS from $175.  TICKETS  Fri. 5/9: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat. 5/10: Summer Store Hours  Jomo\, "A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle."  
Caribbean/Mexico $250 RT Europe  MUNCIE 765-289-7251  Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  U2 ROCKS and so do YOU!!!  
$199 OW and Domestic  KOKOMO 765-454-8921  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  Need Graduation Tickets  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ Have a GREAT Summer!  
Destinations Cheap!!!  LAFAYETTE 765-474-3612  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  Desparately. Please help!  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  :)  
IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE  MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013  Brian--287-4876  offers On Campus and Off Campus  
PRICES START YOUR OWN AIR­ KALAMAZOO 616-323-7800  for current listings.  Thank You  Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  A special thanks to The Observer  
LINE! Air-Tech Ltd. 2121219-7000 info@aerotech.com  IT JO~~R ~;;;29  FOR SALE: NEW 27" TV, 2 ENTERTAINMENT  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ Insurance, Tape and Packing Materials Included. Call Now to Reserve Your Space at BOO 3  for a low GPA, endless nights and great memories. I would do it all over again.  
http://campus.net/aerotech  UNITS, 4 COUCHES! CALL  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  STORE 9 (BOO 378-6739).  
Near Campus  CARLA AT 243-9282!  Please call Paige at X4011  Good luck next year,  
Looking for a room mate for the  Homes for 97-98  START PACKING NOW!  Tom Schlidt  
summer at an OC apartment.  232-2595  '81 OLDS CUTLASS,  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  
Close to campus. Call Josh @ 4­ 4-DR, 1-0WNER, NEW MOTOR.  WILL PAY$$$.  UPS UPS UPS UPS UPS  P.S. For those who need their  
3923.ILOST & FOUND I  4 BDRM EXECUTIVE TYPE HOME CLOSE TO CAMPUS.SUITABLE FOR GRAD  CALL 273-2241. !@#@$%%"%'&%&"$%#$@#  ETHAN 4-1659. I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!  LOWEST RATES ON CAMPUS  recruiting fix ­www.nd.edu/-tschlidl/recruiting.htm I  
STUDENTS,PROFS,ETC.2  WILL PAY BIG $$!1 X2369  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  
LOST:  CAR,APPLIANCES,FIN.  APARTMENT SALE  M-F 10-5 SAT 12-3  Summer job on campus! Retreats  
silver lacrosse stick bracelet  BSMNT.QU\ET CUL-DE­ Need Grad. tix. for family. Call  International looking for part time  
If found please call Colleen @  SAC.AVAILABLE JUNE 1. $1300.  CALL JULIE @ 273-4486  Janina 243-1382  $100 FREE INSURANCE ON  responsible person from June 28 to  
273-1130  235-3259.  EACH PARCEL SHIPPED  July 25. Licensed driver. Call 1­ 
!@$%#$%&"'&$#$@$#@&%$  I need 2 x-tra grad tix!!!  5320.  
LOST: KEYS in the area  5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  Will pay, call Karen x4588  
between Stepan center and  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  PRINT FROM DISK  
North Quad. Please call  all facilities. 225/mo. 232-2794  ! @ $%#$"&% *"%$"#$@ $%"  CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  PRINT FROM DISK  
X3097. Thanks!  Paul.  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  PRINT FROM DISK  
APARTMENT SALE  WILL PAY GOOD$$$$$$$$$$!  J U N 0 R S!!!  Very high-quality full-color output is  
FOUND: One wooden cross with  Two ND grads ('95) are looking for  PLEASE CALL BEN: 277-3055  now available at THE COPY SHOP  
Guadalupe medal. Call to identify  one or two others (M or F) to share  CALL SARAH OR KERIN @  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
Beth 4951  a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for  243-9034  OF RESUME AND DISK  Bring in your computer disk to print  
the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for  I really need graduation tickets so  N TO CAREER & PLACE­ your files. We support PowerPoint,  
LOST: PEARLS BETWEEN BASIL­ info.  ! @$%#% '&"$%#$@ %$%"&%  my family can be in attendance. Will  MENT SERVICES FOR  Photoshop, Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
ICA AND HESBURGH LIBRARY.  pay $. If you think you can help,  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  and many many more types of files.  
CALL 1-5729.  NEED TO SUBLET AN APART­ COMPUTERS  and you aren't a scalping-minded  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
MENT THIS SUMMER? WE HAVE  486DX 33 $400., 486DX 66 $500.,  profiteer, please call Ethan, 4-1659.  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  color copy price for the first ten  
PLEASE HELP ME!  A TOWNHOUSE AT TURTLE  Pentium 120Mhz, 16 EDO, 1.08  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  files, then just the regular color  
CREEK! CALL 273-9829  GB, BX COD, 33.6 Modem  R  copy price for over ten files. We  
I CAN'T SEE .... I  $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also  NEED 2 GRADUATION TIXS  can print directly onto overhead  
3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST.  build to order, trade.  for my Irish relatives!!  s  transparencies too!  
LOST MY GLASSES!  LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL  Call KATHRYN at 273-4486  PRINT FROM DISK  
'97. CALL 234-1440.  Cable T.V. descrambler.  SOUND TECHS NEEDED!!!!  PRINT FROM DISK  
WHERE AM I?  Descrambles all premium  Student Activities is accepting  PRINT FROM DISK  
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  channels including  I need 1 graduation ticket.  applications for Sound Techs  
Brown Case: Brooks Brothers  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  "Pay-Per View". Works in South  Call Sean x2088  for 97-98 academic year.  BERGMAN:  
REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  Bend. Call: 277-3899  I need one graduation ticket!!  Applications available in 315 LaFortune.  once a shannaboy, always a shannaboy. they will miss you next  
I  CALL KELLY .... 243-9403  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  Men's Trek mountain bike. Excellent condition.  $$ WILL PAY$$ Please contact Joe at 288-1567  FRESHMEN!!  year. -sammy  
r  LOST: A gold necklace & heart charm with a sapphire stone and  SUMMER RENTALS  $200 or best offer. Call Kevin @ 257-0653.  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  JOIN THE 1998 SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL COMMIT­ TO ALL YOU CRAZY SAW PEO­PLE---------------EVEN CY BABA  
small diamond; lost 4/15 on  AVAILABLE  WILL PAY VERY WELL!!!  TEE! Meet fellow sophomores(to  WILL BE THERE FRIDAY. I HOPE  
campus. Reward for return.  HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ Need Furniture? For sale­ Please contact Ron at  be), bring world famous poets to  TO SEE ALL OF YOU THERE.  
WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­ bed,couches, lamp, etc. Diana 271­ 287-5344.  campus, and have a blast doing it!  BEN IS BRINGING HIS GUITAR­ 
DENTS­ 2947  Applications available now and next  VA CAN'T MISS IT!  
LOW SUMMER RATES­ I have xtra graduation tix. Call  week at the SUB office, 201 LaFun.  

 UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ 88 Honda CRX Si.  Carianne x2526  Encourage your friends to apply!  ...****'38'S TOP 12**•••••••  
Family seeks loving, responsible,  ERS/DRYERS,  V. good condition inside & out.  THE FINAL SENIOR YEAR  
fun person to help care for 2 chil­ ALARM SYSTEMS  Must sell. $3,000 offer.  !#$$%&""'&*(*&(&*)(*)*(($%"#$@$  12. "WHAT?!?" You better turn that  
dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  AVAILABLE JUNE 1  "$%&&"%'&"%&(&·o-wuo­ 4/26/97, 4pm: a Farley Hall RA  damn music down. THAT'S what!  
thru 6/1 0; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per hr. References and own transporta­tion needed. Sue 233-6657 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH PAID 2773097  OR SOONER. CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER, DOMUS PROPERTIES 3-4 BDRM HOUSE. AVAIL AUG. 2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN. ATTACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­STREET PARKING. 683-6591.  27 inch T.V. Cheap. Furniture For Sale. Call: 277-3899 Four Cubs tickets, 6th row!! For the May 15th game Call Sarah or Karin at 243-9034  1 NEED GRAD TICKETS-IF I DO NOT GET ANOTHER TICKET YOU ALL WILL BE ATTENDING MY FUNERAL CUZ' MY PARENTS WILL KILL ME! $$ CALL ELLEN 273­2580!@ %$& * & *)(*)(*)&"(&%$"$"% @1\'JfoA"foA<',fo"*&&A(**(*((&("&)))&A*  was transported to St. Joseph's Medical Center for an ankle injury caused by mounting another Farley RA at Xmas in April. To the Notre Dame Bands­Thanks for everything. You are the best in the world. Love, Tootie  11. Biff, Scotch and'... \ don't want some dirty Joe 10. "... \wannabe wearing his glasses with us both havin' nothing but his bett•on. "..uuuh, Big G .... \ think you're cool and all man. but I can't see man, and, man, hey Big G, I really don't know about this man.  
Available -Part-time Retail Sales  SALE! Beds, Couches, chairs, and  9. 1000 Shamus-isms: "..how bout I  
..  Clerk Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just off of Notre Dame Ave. Ca\1233-2342 10AM-5Pm Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls. Nice house. Nice neighborhood. 273-3010.  FURNISHED ROOM NEAR CAM­PUS. AIR, KITCHEN, PRIVATE ENTRANCE, UTILITIES PAID. 272-0615. TURTLE CREEK TOWNHOUSE looking to sublet from 6-1 to 8­20. Willing to negotiate price. CALL 634-0547  more. Calf 243-9390. Moving off? Single bed, desk with shelves for sale. Cheap! Brian@ 243-9405 FURNITURE-FUTON $80, RECLINER $25, 273-8673  Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXl FAX IT FAST!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!/!  ADOPTION A BRAVE CHOICE Your baby needs a home and our home needs a baby! Loving couple married 5 years and best friends want to give your baby compassion, encouragement and a life filled with love and opportunity. Together we can help each other! Please call  brush your teeth with my fist.." 8. "Look. There's a white guy, and he's cheering for the ------!" (we love soccer hooligans) 7. Where's O'M? Dunno...but his hair's upstairs. • see CLASS, page 24  


________...,_______
~~-~--~-~---~---~----~~---~--~~­
-~----~----.......,..----~ 
' 
• 
• 

page 21 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 •I • 
•I 

•MLB I 
I 

-I 
I 
I 
I

Mariners' Griffey relishes record-setting month I 
• 

By BEN WALKER admirers, smiling after another "When you're done with most everyone he plays with. 3, you've got to stay consistent Associated Pres Writer loud round. this," the three-time Super Last weekend in Toronto, he the whole season." No, it just seems like he's Bowl coach says, "you want to got a visit from Superman him­Griffey hit 49 last year despite NEW YORK swinging something illegal come over and be the nickel self -TV actor Dean Cain -missing 20 games because of a 
Batting practice was about to these days. back for us?" and then hit three homers in a broken wrist. He's healed now, begin at Yankee Stadium for Going into this week, his Griffey laughs. Cap back­game at SkyDome. but may not continue to see the Seattle Mariners and, as shiny, black Louisville Slugger wards, diamond stud earrings Griffey has already set a good pitches, even though he's usual, a crowd movPd closer to had hit 13 home runs -equal in both ears, he's having too major league record for home surrounded by good hitters on a the cage to watch the Ken or more than five major league much fun playing baseball to runs in April and, at only 27, first-place team. Griffey Show. teams -and produced 30 get beat up doing a Deion imi­holds the Mariners' career ''I'm the one guy they don't 
Whack! RB!s, more than Albert Belle tation in football. record of 251 homers. A seven­want to get beat by," he said. A low liner inside the foul and Frank Thomas combined. Besides, Griffey is busy in the time All-Star center fielder, his "I've got to do it early or in a 
pole in left. Not to mention a .362 batting offseason with another sport. fluid swing is the envy of all of blowout. If it's close, I'm usual­Whack! average. He spends a good part of his baseball. ly the one that gets walked." A high drive over the fence in On this night, though, Bill winter playing golf with his new But, all who watch him won­No matter that the likes of 
center. Parcells is watching Griffey and buddy, Tiger Woods. The two der, can he do it? Can he break Edgar Martinez and Jay Buhner Whack! thinking about another kind of stars live in the same complex Roger Maris' mark of 61 home bat behind him, or that AL MVP A rocket into the third deck in hitting. The New York Jets near Orlando and, Griffey runs? runnerup Alex Rodriguez hits 
right. coach, a friend of Mariners claims, he sometimes out-drives "No. 1, you've got to stay ahead of him. Griffey is the "Aluminum bats, guys," manager Lou Piniella, calls over Woods on the course. healthy," Griffey said. "No. 2, name that people know, no Griffey said to his assorted Griffey. Then again, Griffey out-hits you've got to be pitched to. No. matter how people say it. 
Graduating Seniors Are Invited... 
to take advantage of these outstanding services from NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION to help with your expenses after graduation. 
MASTERCARD/VISA-14.92°/o APR FIXED on purchases for both cards, with No ANNUAL FEE and a 25-DAY GRACE PERIOD. 
AuTo LOANS -Finance your next auto purchase of $5,000 or more with us and we'll give you $100 once your loan is disbursed. USED or NEW, rates are as low as 8.49°/o APR FIXED. Payments on your auto,,loan may be deferred until September, 1997. That's right-buy a car and take home a "Ben." Used or New, the rate's the same. 
No-FEE CHECKING-No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE, No MINIMUM BALANCE REQUIREMENT and No PER-CHECK CHARGES. And, the first 50 checks are free! Interest is calculated daily and paid monthly O!'l all balances of $2,500 or more. Convenient overdraft protection from Savings or a Line-of-Credit is also available. 
Feel free to call us if you need money to "get started:' Your Credit Union is the best place to begin when building your credit rating. A letter of employment is necessary when you apply for your loan(s). Applicants with good credit or no credit may qualify. No co-signer is required. Offer ends June 30, 1997. 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE 


NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 
Main Office: 239-6611 or 1-800-522-6611 www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net Other Locations: Edison Lakes -254-4400 • Ireland Road -299-2220 • Mishawaka -256-2361 Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 • Saint Mary's College-284-4614 
NCUA 

Not valid with any other offer. Rates subject to change. 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
-

Cubscontinuetorebound 
,.:,,·::·· , H 

Donne ,Wall, .wh impressed an#otte '( . ' . 
major league start of the sea­son, pitched well enough to win in the Astros' 3-l victory over Colorado on Tuesday1,, 
"He's not going to 'Win any Cy Young Awards or b~ any" body's No. 1 starter," Hotiston manager Larry Dierker said. "But he doesn't make a lot of mistakes, and if you play good defense behind him, he'll give you seven innings and. give you a chance to win." 
Wall, caHed up from Triple­A New Orleans last week, combined with Russ Springer, Tom Martin arid John Hudek to limit the Rockies to seven hits, one more than their sea­son-low. 
Sean Berry and Jeff Bagwell homered for the Astros; who ended a three-game losing streak. 
"Donne is a good pitcher," Berry said. "He doesn't over­power anybody, and if he gets the ball up he gets hurt, but he's got good control, and when he keeps the ball down, he's effective. He did a great job against one of the better offenses inbaseball." 
Wall (1-0)WaS sailing along with a 2-1 lead in the seventh, when he had to leave the game because of groin tight­ness after allowing five hits and strikii( out four hn Hudek pitc . the ni ... for his fourth. ve in asT ny opportunities. 
"It was tight, so we didn't want to risk getting hurt worse,'' vyall)>aid.• ~·J~~ow what I can do andJ wanttobe 
"Their ours,'' Rockies manager Don Baylor said. "Tney're not oveq)ti'Yering, .• e)' have good f{.oqtrol wt dbreak­ing balls~ Their .. ...... had our hitters out on their front foot a lot. 
"You have to give credit to him, He pitchEJd a good game)> 
"You've got to tip your hat to Donne,'' Bailey said. "He kept us off balance. He had a good slider and he did the job. The tiines will be few and far between when you hold ou.r offense down." 
The Rockies were hurt by an error by Eric Young on a potential double-play ball in the second that led to the Astr.os' first l'uri. lt was Young's third error in three days. 
"He's definitely thinking about his defense now," Ba · ..said. ;•rhe:tt)'s.no way h uld have made those 
Happy 21st Birthday John 
Looks like 
little has changed 
except... 
NowTou"re Legal! 
L<We, ~, Z'ad&eu.t 
Any one who is interested in applying for these positions should stop by the RecSports office and fill out an applica­tion. Office hours are 8:00-5:00. 631-51 00. 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

In a span of five weeks, Brooks Kieschnick has had two days he'll never forget. 
The first came March 26, when he was stunned and sad­dened to learn he was going to the minor leagues. The second arrived Tuesday, when the rookie showed why he felt he should have been with the Cubs all along. 
Kieschnick drove in six runs with two homers and a single as Chicago continued to rebound from its 0-14 start by beating the Montreal Expos 14­8. 
"This was definitely fun," said Kieschnick, who is batting .317 with three home runs and 10 RBis as the starting left fielder since being recalled April 11. "I don't know if it's redemption ... but it feels good to know I can play up here." 
Kieschnick, once considered the Cubs' prized prospect, was batting .362 in exhibition games when he was cut in spring training. He thought he had made the team, but man­ager Jim Riggleman instead chose Brant Brown, more of a speedy singles hitter. 
"That was a crusher," Kieschnick said. ''I've had some downs in my career and that might have been the biggest. But they were just doing what they thought they had to do and it didn't work out. And now I'm here ... and that's all that counts." 
Brown, like the rest of the team, struggled when pitted against some of the best pitch­ing in baseball. Kieschnick, meanwhile, has been part of the club's renaissance. 
The Cubs are 6-4 since set­ting NL records for season­starting futility. And they have 
-~%~­
SAINT 
Y'S 

COLLEGE 
NOTRF DAME, IN 

CALL SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS MINISTRY AT 284·5391 
been especially good in going 4­1 since Friday. In those five games, they have scored 37 runs compared to 53 in their first 19 games. 
'The Braves and Marlins are putting a lot of hitters in slumps," Brian McRae said, referring to the pitching-rich teams Chicago faced in its first 10 games. "We've said all along that we're going to score some runs, and now we're doing it." 
Aided by winds gusting up to 26 mph, the Expos got two home runs from Henry Rodriguez and one each from Darrin Fletcher, Mike Lansing and Shane Andrews. Nevertheless, they lost their third straight game. 
"We tried to outslug them but didn't do it," Fletcher said. "The most important thing was to set a tone in the first inning, and we couldn't keep the lead." 
Fletcher's three-run homer and Rodriguez's solo shot on consecutive pitches by Steve Trachsel (1-3) put the Expos up 5-0 in the first. 
But the Cubs came right back with three runs, the last two on Kieschnick's homer. And when Kieschnick followed with a three-run shot in the third, the score was 6-6. 
Both homers cleared the right-field bleachers and land­ed on the street outside Wrigley Field. 
Trachsel, who got his first victory despite allowing seven runs in five innings, helped himself by doubling home the tying run in the fourth and then scoring on Shawon Dunston's double as Chicago took an 8-7 lead. 
The Cubs broke open the game with a six-run sixth that included Kieschnick's RBI sin­gle and Dave Clark's two-run pinch double. 
"The ballpark has been here for years and the wind has been blowing for years," Montreal manager Felipe Alou said. 
"I can't use the wind as an excuse. Everytime we scored, they scored. We just couldn't shut them down." 

(May 15-20, 1997) Need a place for your family to stay? 
Try Sacred Heart's Parish Center. 
(St. Joseph Hall on campus.) We set a $40.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631 ~ 7512 
2ND ANNUAL SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 18-19, 1997 LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Strengthen your understanding, skills and 
commitment as a spiritual leader. Workshops 
include: 

• 
becoming a peer minister 

• 
promoting Christian service 

• 
encouraging vibrant liturgies 

• 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies and retreats 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, 
faculty, administrators and staff. 
Register by May 9, 1997! 
---------~ --~----~ 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

Resort Living Year-round at Castle Point Apartments 
A resident of Castle Point can lead an active life or a quiet life where one's home is truly a castle. Located on the corner of Cleveland and Ironwood, Castle Point in near University Park Mall, downtown South Bend, Michigan, the Toll Road and many other major roadways. 
Apartments are spacious, fully carpeted and available in a variety of sizes and styles including 


some with round bedrooms and lofts. Fully-equipped kitchens offer a convenience of easy care living enabling more free time to enjoy the Health and Racquet Club ... another amenity at Castle Point. A swimming pool, indoor and outdoor tennis courts, racquetball courts, saunas, whirlpool, exercise room plus indoor and outdoor basketball and sand volleyball courts are also available to residents of Castle Point. 
"Why rent somewhere else and pay for health club activities when one can live (here) and enjoy the same health club privileges," said Jack Goens, General Manager at Castle Point. "(We) have virtually everything that a health club has!" 
..-.
Comparing the cost of health clubs against the cost ofliving at Castle Point with full health and racquet club privileges, Goens said several hundred dollars can be saved. 
Added Goens, there is the King's Hall where parties can be scheduled. A full-time activities director also organizes regular events for Castle Point residents who may wish to aerobic dance ... or simply have a private party scheduled at the clubhouse. 
Office hours at Castle Point Apartments are 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday and on Saturday from 10 a.m. until6 p.m., Sunday noon to 6 
p.m. For more information regarding living "the regal life" call Castle Point at (219) 272-8110. 

Castlc1'oiot 
Apartments 


•NBA 
Hunter lifts Pistons over Hawks, 99-91 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 

Lindsey Hunter scored 26 points and again kept Mookie Blaylock out of the flow as the Detroit Pistons defeated the Atlanta Hawks 99-91 Tuesday night to take a 2-1 lead in their best-of-5 series. 
Game 4 in the series will be played Friday night at The Palace. The fifth game, if need­ed, would be Sunday at Atlanta. 
This game came down to Atlanta's towering frontcourt against Detroit's perimeter shooting. And while the Hawks had a 41-21 edge in rebound­ing, the Pistons shot 53 percent from the field and 8-of-14 from 3-point range. Atlanta, by com­parison, was 5-for-23 on 3­pointers. 
Grant Hill scored 24 for Detroit with eight assists and four rebounds. Hunter shot 11­of-17, including 4-for-5 on 3­
Classifieds 
continued from page 20 
6. "...you gotta wear cowboy boots so you can stick their hind legs into the boots so they can't run; then just grab a handful of fur and .... " 
5. Oh.. Pavis is coming out for the weekend again .... on Wednesday. 
4. Look. There's a tuttooni walking to cam­_.._ pus -there MUST be a game on. 
3. The Glasgow lassies {how were those Big-•• ••••••, Z?) 
2. BUT .... we live SO close to campus. 
1. The real-live Striptease: Angelique (woooohoooo!!) Props to el Gran Chincon . ...Peace to The Creek 38...... O'Malley, Big G, the Z, and T. Honorable Mention: Pavissimo and the C----. Peace. Love. Out. The Trini. 
I never touched the ball before! 
Tami, the hill was a blast! SB 
Flanner Boys, Thank you for the great weekend! Love, Merideth Smith 
It's been a long time since I've been on a three hour tour, ... a three hour tour. -The Skipper 
Ba, Chana, Drew, You are finally corrupted! Love, the Bar Queen 
Get your hand off my thigh! 
Erek-I put your name in the paper a zillion times. Where's the gratitude? 
Love, H. 

338 McGlinn Hall will be the party room next year. How else could you get us to clean? 
People who blink in excess should seek professional help. Or just/eave the rest of us alone. 
I love tulips. Especially the ones in front of the admin. building. Who wants to pick me some? 
Where's the Papa John's chair? Hmm? 
---I'll see you one day. I promise. 
Novena to St. Jude May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved & preserved, now and for­ever, throughout the world. Sacred Heart of Jesus pray for us. St Jude, help of the hopeless, pray for us. St. Jude, worker of miracles, pray for us. Say this prayer 3 times, 3 times a day for 4 days and then publish it. No request has been known to be refused. 
Finklemier-­Here's your classified, eat it up baby! Thanks for all the memories, stay cool! -L 
Bad Jeans, Three down, one to go. I don't know where I'd be without all of your orange-seamed humor, I luv ya! -L 
A 20 oz. bottle of Sprite ... it's got sugar! 
pointers, Terry Mills had 17 points and Otis Thorpe 16. 
Dikembe Mutombo had 15 points and a playoff career-high 21 boards, Christian Laettner scored 25 points and Steve Smith 21 for the Hawks. 
Blaylock, who averaged 17.4 points during the regular sea­son, finished with 16 points, but nine came in the fourth quarter when the Hawks were trying to play catchup. 
The Pistons, aided by 10 Atlanta turnovers and the hot hand of Hunter, led 56-40 at halftime. But the Hawks, behind 10 points from Laettner, closed to 72-66 by the end of the third quarter. 
Blaylock's four-point play-a 3-pointer and a free-throw ­closed the gap to 76-7 5 with 
8:25 left in the fourth quarter. 
But Hunter and Mills each hit 3-pointers and Thorpe had a three-point play to give Detroit an 85-79 edge with 5:51 remaining. 

Eastern Conference Western Conference 
First Round Semifinals Finals Finals Semifinals First Round Best-of-5 Best-of-7 Best-of-7 Best-of-7 Best-of-7 Best-of-5 

Opt~~: Monday tbru Fridt1y: 9:00t~m -1:00pm, ' St1turdt1y: ·Sunday: 11:tJOam.., S:OOpm 
GRADUATION GIFTS AND MORE!
' 

1Chi o Chicago leads 
2·0 

5Detroit 2Miami Miami leads Utah

NBAFinals Best-of-7 
LA leads 
2·0 


page 25 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


' 
' 
' 
' 
' j l 
I 
j j 
l 
l
j 
4 
j 
I I I 
' 
' 

Arthur Andersen 



' ' 
Welcomes the Following 1997 Graduates of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College 
I
to Our Firm ' 
'I 
I I
David Allred Kevin Haggard Dawn Rice I Washington, DC New York Chicago l• Heidi Altman Martin Hellmer Amy Rubie I I 
Denver Phoenix-Tucson Chicago I' 
Brett Barlag Lesley Herring Nicole Ruttura I I 
Washington, DC Chicago New York j I 
I
Brian Blank Melissa Kearney Michael Ryan I 
Seattle Chicago New York 
' 
I 
Cara Buchanan Elizabeth Killian Rosann Schultz I 
Washington, DC Washington, DC Kansas City I 
I' 
David Bucolo Daniel Koth Michael Schwartz I 
Chicago Milwaukee Atlanta I I 
Michael Buhrfiend John LaBarca Stacey Segan I I 
Chicago New York Chicago I 
I 
Matthew Campbell Peter Lenardos Jonathan Shank 
Denver Milwaukee Denver 
Virginia Carnesale Mark Loring Meghan Shannon 
San Francisco Boston Chicago 
Leigh Anne Carroll Ben Magnano Meredith Siegfried 
Chicago San Francisco Houston 
Dominick Corso Curtis Miller Thomas Skattum 
Chicago Pittsburgh Chicago 
Christopher Dominello Mark Moskowitz Carrie Stewart 
Philadelphia San Francisco Chicago 
Anthony Dragone Andrew Murray Darren Stratman 
New York Chicago Chicago 
Jonathan Edwards Christopher Neidlinger Christine Tonry 
Pittsburgh Indianapolis New York 
Christopher Eldridge Nicole Nielsen Beth Townsend 
San Francisco Chicago Chicago 
Timothy Foley John O'Brien Allyson Troupe 
Boston Washin~ton, DC Boston 
Julie Gahm Mark O'Carroll Henry True 
Boston Chicago Portland 
Christopher Gerosa Michael O'Connor Shannon Virtue 
New York Washington, DC Chicago 
Christina Giel Megan O'Neill Tyler Weber 
Chicago MiJwaukee Minneapolis 
J. Patrick Gorman Rebecca Pinkley Jennifer Yale 
Chicago Seattle Chicago 
Jennifer Green Jason Prescott Eigen Yanagi 
Detroit Minneapolis San Francisco 
Ryan Guillen Katherine Purcell 
Chicago Chicago 





..._ 
...._ 
·­
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
•NBA • WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Hardaway Petrucelli adds· Makinen to replace Daws 
lifts Magic over Heat 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press Writer 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Just when it looked like the Orlando Magic were going to be blown out in a third straight game and swept out of the play­offs for a fourth straight year, Penny Hardaway imposed his will. 
Hardaway scored a career postseason-high 42 points and Orlando rallied from a 20-point first half deficit for an 88-75 vic­tory over the Miami Heat on Tuesday night to cut the Magic's deficit to 2-1 in the best-of-5 series. 
"I knew I had to take responsi­bility for this team. I knew I had to score for us to win," said Hardaway, who was 16-for-30 from the field and grabbed eight rebounds in 4 7 minutes. 
"The more shots I hit, the more confidence I had, and that got us back into the game." 
Darrell Armstrong, Orlando's No. 3 point guard, was an unlikely catalyst for the come­back and had a career-high 21 points with eight assists and four steals. 
The injury-riddled Magic played without forward Horace Grant and lost center Rony Seikaly to a foot sprain in the second quarter. 
Dennis Scott, a starter during the regular season, played only nine minutes because of sore knees. 
Miami, which won Game 1 by 35 and Game 2 by 17,led 35-15 before stumbling. The Heat fin­ished with 20 turnovers after having only 21 combined in the first two games. 
"The playoffs will humble you," Miami coach Pat Riley said. "If you are really not focus­ing on staying in the game, and you're thinking that it's over, a team will come back and get you. We'll just have to come back more disciplined." 
The Magic finally shook the stigma of never having won a game after losing the opener of a series. Game 4 is Thursday night with Orlando needing a victory to send the series back to Miami for a decisive fifth game on Sunday. 
"I think it's a series again. I think the pressure's back on them, the way we played tonight," Hardaway said. "He definitely gives us a lot of confi­dence to come into Game ·4 and try to win that one." 
The winner of the series will face New York in the Eastern Conference semifinals. The Heat denied they were looking ahead
-• 
to the Knicks after getting off to the fast start. 
"We didn't look past them. We came out with the intention to blow them out like we did the previous two games," Alonzo Mourning said. "No team is per­fect. But I'm not worried. We 
-
know what it's going to take to win the next game and we are going to do it." 
Mourning, who sat out much of the second quarter in foul trouble, led Miami with 17 points and 17 rebounds. Voshon Lenard had 14 points and Tim Hardaway scored 12 but shot only 4-of-16 for the Heat. 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli has announced that Finnish national 
team mem­ber Anne Makinen will attend Notre Dame next fall. 
A native of Helsinki, 

F i n I a n d . Petrucelli Makinen has played six years of internation­al soccer with the Finnish national team. 
Makinen is expected to com­pete for the center midfielder spot left by 1996 Hermann tro­phy winner Cindy Daws, who graduates in May and leaves as Notre Dame's all-time lead­ing scorer. 
"Anne is exactly what we need in a dominant central midfielder who can come in· and replace Cindy Daws," said Petrucelli. "She is one of the most talented incoming play­ers that I have seen in a long time. 
"She will team with Holly Manthei, Shannon Boxx, and Kara Brown and allow us to maintain the quality midfield that we have had the past few years. With Anne, our midfield should be as strong as ever." 
"She will be a big addition to our team," Brown said. "She may bring in some diversity and a different style of play that may make us more deadly to our opponents." 
When Makinen was 15­years-old, the United European Football Association did not allow her to participate on the Finnish national team, stating that she was too young. She was finally cleared to play at the age of 16 and was named Finnish player of the year at 
17. She has played in 40 international games with Finland and scored 1 0 goals in those contests. 
All that experience makes Makinen a veteran even though she will be labeled a freshman. 
"Coming in as a 21-year-old, she will bring experience and maturation," Brown observed. "She has been commited to the Finland national team, and she has matured by playing with ·older players." 
Makinen JOillS Kristin Danielson, Meotis Erikson, Monica Gonzalez, Kelly Lindsey, and Stacey Tullock as members of Notre Dame's class of 2001. 
Notre Dame is coming off a 24-2 record in 1996, the most wins in school history. The Irish advanced to their third straight NCAA finals appear­ance, the longest current streak in the nation, finishing the regular season as the top­ranked team in the country for the second time in three years. 


~ 

'-t'Take atuiiV lniBractlve road triP with the new Ford Escon ZX2 on www.lord.com The new 1998 ford Escort ~ 
While there mav be lots or good deals out there lor sman the exciting new Ford Escon ZX2. a terrific wav to grab life bV people, this one is available onlY to college seniors and grad the wheel. Big run. For more College Graduate Purchase Program students. Get $400 cash back* toward the purchase or $650 Into. caii1-B00-321-1536 or visit the web at www.lord.com cash back* toward the Red camet Lease cor Red camel Option) "To be eligible. you must graduate w1th an assoc1ate"s or bachelor"s degree between 10/1!1l5 and 1r.l/98 
or be currently enrolled in graduate school. You must purchase or lease your new veh1cle between 1/4!1l7of anv eligible Ford or Mercurv. Sman going. And that includes and 1/3/98. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restnctlons apply See your dealer tor details. 

College Graduate Purchase Program Mercury i' 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
balanced Irish attack. and looks to dominate hitters asSoftball "A key for us will be to keep she did in 1996, when she gar­the offense going," said Nichols. nered Big East Rookie of the continued from page 36 "We have to start early and Year honors. While Kellykeep (the offense) going the Nichols' tendinitis has been a doubles. must also continue to whole game." recent concern for Notre Dame, swing a hot bat for Notre Dame. On the mound, Angela her tenacity has been unwaver­Kara McMahon's clutch hitting Bessolo carries a team-leading ing. Nichols has compiled an will be a necessity for a well-13 wins into the post-season, 11-4 record, and has not 

Ill 
"' 
li
-=::a 
1­
iii! 
;!
a: 
0 
a. 
E 
Due to computer probt,ms, if you had ycJur imag~ captur.S}I in LeW~s Hall before 4:00PM on Aptil28th, you mus~have y..r imag~re-capt~red. 
~ • ~ ~ I ' I
If you miss "e ima~e captu~ stati~~s in Y'1fr residtrce hal!;this week, they will be available in Hesbdrgh Libltry anc:(!l~aFort4~e at the following daylj~and tirfj>s: I 
I 
Saturday(!'r May,1;3rd, 1!0:0011v--stpOPM~~ 
ww ~esbu.rgh l.,!brart ~~ ~ May 5th-8th, 10:00AM-f-5:00pM I Hesbu~gh Library pr Lafortuge I 
Seniors! Start your Commencent Weekend surrounded by your friends.... 
Last Visit to Sacred Heart Basilica and the Grotto 
A Notre Dame tradition, this service celebrates four years offriendship in song, poetry and prayer. 

Thursday, May 15, 1997 9:00pm beginning in Sacred Heart Basilica 
Presentation of the Senior Class Fellow Award Sacred Music of the ND Folk Choir 
and Glee Club 0MPU5 Candlelight procession to the Grotto MINISTRY Charge to the Senior Class 
dropped a decision since April endured a season of ups and 
4. Senior Joy Battersby must downs, the Big East conference ­
continue her mastery over Big tournament poses a dauntingEast opponents, against whom task. 
she has a 5-1 record. 
"Our goal will be to stay ahead in the count, and let (the opposition) hit the pitches we want them to hit," Nichols said. 
For an Irish team that has 
The Notre Dame Fighting Irish will be in for a dog fight this weekend, especially with the Connecticut Huskies hoping to repeat as conference cham­pions. 
Twenty years later, the frosting is still the first to go. Happy 21st Birthday Paul 


·­
Viewpoint 
Needs columnists for the 1997-98 school year. Interested writers should submit an 800-900 word sample column to the Viewpoint Editor in 314 LaFortune by 5:00 pm Wednesday, April 30 
.... 
Call Dan at 1 -4541 with questions. 

----~~-~-----~­
page 28 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 

Jennifer Hall and the Irish hope to equal last year's NCAA success. seven-game winning streak, which 

-
TheObserver/BrandonCandura 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish prepare for NCAA 
By BIU HART Sports Writer 
For most students, the school year ends next week. But for the Notre Dame's women's tennis team, as finals end, the real competition begins. 
On May 9, the No. 19 Irish begin their second straight tournament run in the NCAA regionals at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
This year, the Irish are seeded sec­ond in the Midwest Region. In the first round, the team plays Illinois, the low­est ranked team in the region. 
"We played the Illini on our first match of the season," head coach Jay Louderback commented. "We beat them 6-3, but we lost co-captain Erin Gowen for the entire season. She took a sizable lead but was forced to forfeit the match. 
"Illinois is a tough team to go up against, but once you get into the regionals, every team's fired up and ready to play." 
The top seed in the Midwest, South Carolina, also has faced the Irish in recent years. 
"Last year, we defeated them 6-2 in the middle of the season. They're ranked 16th in the country, and they've been very successful this year. They're not a team to be taken lightly." 
The Irish enter the regionals on a 

began on April 8 against Indiana. Six of their last seven wins have been shutouts. However, while the team does have the momentum, it has been difficult to find time to prepare. 
"After the Big East championships, we were able to practice for a couple of days," Louderback remarked. "But the finals next week forced us to rearrange the training schedules. It's difficult to get the whole team together at one time, and we don't get a chance for our doubles teams to practice as often as we'd like." 
Last year, Notre Dame was ranked No. 10 in the nation at the end of the year and got an automatic bid to the Sweet 16. There, the Irish went 1-1 in the tournament, defeating BYU 5-0 in the first round before losing to No. 2 Stanford 8-1 in the quarterfinals. 
"Our biggest advantage is that we'll be playing on our home court," fresh­man Sarah Scaringe commented. "We've been able to play on the outside courts a lot these past few weeks, and we're very accustomed to it by now." 
"I think we're definitely ready to compete right now," sophomore Jennifer Hall said. "It'll be a little dif­ferent from last year because we aren't automatically in the Sweet 16. but that doesn't change our goals. It's just a matter of getting fired up and keeping our momentum.' 
-· 
~·· 
Save time and 1noney \Vith our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty"·· fiity dollars::: to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account \Vith us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY St:.::RVICE CHARGE 


~ {1Ji-\Vith Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club \vith these additional benefits, and more. 
• 
FREE GOLDEN St-IAMROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS (1 /4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@ skyenet.net 
NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make
FEDERAL CREDIT UNIOf~ 
Independent of the University 
*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and HoiJ Cross College. $50 will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 'nonths of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 


------------~----------------------------------------------~-----------­
page 29 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-

~'Assoc. 

.....#-~~-0 
<C ,. = 
NOTRE DAME 
SATURDAY, MAY 3RD 
Come to the 
ALL-CLASS PICNIC 
You'll have a chance to network with Alumni Representatives from across the country. 
No matter what you're doing in the future-­grad school, volunteer or military service, full-time employment, or a summer internship-­Find out how you can get involved in the Alumni Club of your destination city/state/area. 
Lool( for signs of your state of residence at the 
JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
NOON-2 P.M. Enter through Gate 3 
Clubs East of the Mississippi will be located near Gate 2 Clubs West of the Mississippi will be located near Gate 5 
Entertainment by The Celtic Folk, with Danny O'Flaherty, from New Orleans. 


SPONSORED BY :  
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION,  No CHARGE FOR  
SARG,  STUDENT UNION BOARD,  NON-MEAL CARD HOLDERS.  
& UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES  .JUST BRING YOUR STUDENT 10.  
·--­ 
....  
·­ 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish attempt to bounce back 
r 
I I I I I 
' 
' ­
..... 
·-­

Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's men's track and field and cross country head coach Joe Piane has announced the signing of five high school seniors to national letters of intent. 
"We are very excited that they have decided to attend Notre Dame," said Piane. "They will fill specific holes for us and will make definite improvements to the team next year." 
Jermaine Brown comes to Notre Dame from Brooklyn Park, Minn. 
He was the state champion in the 100 meters, which he has run in 10.77. Brown will run mainly as a sprinter for the Irish. 
A native of Illinois, Robert Dewey will contribute in the throwing events for Notre Dame. He has thrown the shot put 53 feet and has hurled the discus 173 feet. 
Ted Higgins finished third in the Illinois state cross country meet. A native of Naperville, Ill., Higgins also ran 9:18 indoors in the 3,000 meters. 
Ryan Shay will come to Notre Dame as a four-time cross country champion in Michigan. Shay won the cross country championship all four years. 
Anthony Alt is another cross country runner who will run for the Irish next year. The Waverly, Neb., native also won a cross country state champi­onship. 
By JIM ZALETA 
Sports Writer 
After suffering a disappoint­ing upset loss to the University of Miami in the Big East tour­nament finals on April 20, the Irish men's tennis team is looking to the sweep the NCAA Midwest regionals and advance to the NCAA finals in Los Angeles. 
The Irish have their work cut out for them at the region­als. Two of their toughest opponents during the season will be there: Northwestern and Illinois. 
Illinois defeated Northwestern in the champi­onship game of the Big Ten tournament last week. The Irish defeated both teams ear­lier in the season. They won 5-2 against the Illini back in January. 
"We are excited that we are playing well early in the sea­son," said head coach Bobby Bayliss. "We are competing better than in the past couple of years." 
The team was off to a 5-0 start at the time. Little did Bayliss know that the Irish would keep up this pace and remain in the top 25 for the entire season. The Illinois win was monumental for the Irish. proving that they would be contenders throughout the season. It gave them momen­tum that would lead them on for the entire season. 
If the Irish face No. 18 
Illinois in the tournament, they have to watch out for freshman Cary Franklin. Franklin received the Big Ten freshman of the year award and defeated conference play­er of the year Alex Witt of Northwestern at No. 1 singles in the Big Ten championship match. 
Witt also fell victim this year to Notre Dame freshman Ryan Sachire, who defeated him earlier his season in two quick sets. 
The Irish have had much success against ranked oppo­nents this season. Notre Dame's strong middle and lower parts of the lineup have been consistent throughout the season. Junior Eric Enloe and fifth-year senior Marco Magnano had secured the No. 6 spot for the Irish. 
Bayliss commented earlier in the season how the lower part of the lineup has won many matches for the team. 
"Where most teams drop off after No. 3 singles, we stay strong," Bayliss said. 
"Overall aggressiveness has kept us strong all year," Sachire said. "We have to keep our 'blue collar' attitude to stay strong." 
"We have to keep playing hard," Magnano said. "We can beat any team on any given day as long as we stay focused on our game plan." 
The winner of the Midwest regional will join the winners of the other seven regions along with the eight other top teams in the nation to compete in the NCAA finals in Los Angeles on May 17-25. Some team members, such as Sachire and the doubles pair of junior Jakub Pietrowski and sophomore Brian Patterson, may compete as individuals in the tournament. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Climbing Wall Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Ro(::kne Memor~al every Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at 6 p.m.xSign-up outside the wall. · 
Drop-tn Volleyball-RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday's from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Spe~hd Olympics _;_ Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swimmers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30·5:30 p.m. For more info. call coach Dennis Stark at 1~5983. 
RecSports will he hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerotis substitutes to lifeguard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. ··Please contact Greg at 1-5100 or come to RecSports office atthe Joyce Center to fill out an application. 
FREE EXTRAS 

• Parmesan Cheese Crust • Garlic Butter Crust 
• Extra Pizza Sauce 
• Side of Banana Peppers -Just Ask-

LARG 
CHE 
(Orig 
Now Open 

2:00am Week Nights & 3:00am Fri. & Sat. 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS No Coupon Necessary Not Valid WHh Any Other Offer Delivery Extra It Not On campus 
Offer Expires 
5/10/97 

_.. 
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 31 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAll 
Belles capture home finale 
By MEGAN OSWALD 
Assistant Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's softball team ended its home season with a 5­3 win against Adrian College on Tuesday. 
The game remained scoreless until Adrian batted in a run in the fourth inning. The Belles quickly answered back in the bottom of the fourth with a scor-
Celebrate a a special Ob 
ing run by Sara Martin. Third baseman Andrea Arena com­pleted the hitting streak with two more runs for the Belles. 
Adrian tied the score in the fifth. In the sixth, Arena, with her second hit, scored senior Katie Maxbauer to give Saint Mary's the advantage. Arena then scored on a base hit by Julie Duba, making the score 5­3. 
"We've really picked it up a notch in this game," replied Arena. "A couple of weeks ago, it would have slipped away. In this game we were intense until the end." 
Pitcher Liz Shevik only allowed one base hit during the seventh, making it impossible for Adrian to come back and win. 
"The bats were working great for us today," said Shevik. "We really pulled it off in the last inning." 
The Belles' final game is this Saturday against the University of Chicago. 
0 0 0 [1 IIIJU[\ 
u n n u 
!I 0 0 u ll !1 0 0 n,·, 
.. fl l1 .11JJJ 

STUDENT ACCOUNTS 
The Office of Student Accounts will be closed on Monday, May 5, 1997. 
We will be moving to 636 Grace Hall. 
Our last day in the Main Building will be Friday, May 2. 
Jvta<~..u. the finished in inall of their tourna­spririg. They fin­a team stroke aver­303.64, which factors out ··.·...•... a 75.91 stroke avetage for 
each individual. Not one mem­helr ofthe team had a stroke ~verage higher than 78 for the year. 
.· The Irish now have the sum­.mer off to work on their game 
un~ next fall when they defend their back-to-hack Big East championships. 

BACK YOUR 
AND JOIN THE NOTRE DAME CYCLING CLUB!! 
• 
ORGANIZED RIDESANDTRIPS 


• 
COLLEGIATE MOUNTAIN AND ROAD BikE RACING OPPORTUNITIES 


• CHECk OUT ACTIVITIES N19!iTt•ND THE CLUB COLUMN IN THE FALL .,§: ·~:~:::::~~ 
QUESTIONS? CALLT.f (243-9394) OR TRACI (X4999) 

Are you looking for cluster computers late at night, but your favorite cluster is closed? Don't forget that the OIT has computers available 24 hours daily in the following 
locations:  
*CCMB 210 CCMB G015 DeBartolo 133 *Fitzpatrick 177  25 Mac, 10 Sun 15 Mac 53 Mac, 26 Windows 99 Sun, 12 Mac  

* Nieuwland 203 52 Sun *Riley 211 15 Mac 
*You might need to enter a door code to enter these clusters. If you need to know a door code, bring your valid NO, SMC, or Holy Cross 10 to any staffed cluster and ask the cluster consultant for the code. 
I 

_.l 4 • 
I 

• I• I I 
4 
j 
l 
I 
4 

•
I I I 
4 
I 
4 
•
l 

• 
I• 1 
l 
4 
I 
I• I 
4 
I l f f l I 

•l I 
l 
-~ 
-
-


-----~ -----------~--­
page 32 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
• JOCK STRIP 
There's no such thing as a loyal sports fan any01ore 
understand why we would lose Yankees. about Phil now. He claims to be his state's teams is playing, he''A!!right, Dos Geses won 
Bookstore this year," to certain teams or why players Hockey is the worst of the a die-hard Miami Heat fan (he is claims that it is his team. 
o exclaimed my that were good were traded for major sports to split your affilia­from Florida), but after the Such was the case three years friend Phil C. the other day. so-called no-name minor lea­tion. No one is an Islanders and recent acquisition of Jamal ago in the Super Bowl when Quickly I-----­
guers. Rangers fan; just sit through one Mashburn, Phil had very little Earl's 49ers took on Earl's reminded Throughout Little League, we hockey game when they play clue about what had gone down, Chargers. What separates Earl him that he would mimic our favorite players each other and you will find out. just that Miami now has a big from Phil is that he realizes that was the same and hope to get our favorite The fans take these four games name player. he is not a sports fan and will not person that team's colors for our jerseys. more serious than the players, Phil always asks how the Heat brag about the team's success. rooted for Today, most of us have gotten with fights breaking out in the did the night before and then Frontrunners exist on every Primetime past that stage. We realize that stands after goals, penalties, or rubs it in one's face when they campus in almost every sport. until they lost our team won't win the champi­any other stoppage of play. win. Another Phil story took At Notre Dame, there are and Hot Carl onship every year, and we know Although none of the teams I place about a week ago during approximately 1,200 bandwagon and the """"""c'"-e--'-n-e_B_rt.....al.....ik...... that maybe trading a marquee support have won a champi­Bookstore. Phil confronted the basketball fans. "What?" you Steamers superstar and picking up lesser onship since 1990, I still find out captain of Judas, Pontius Pilate, say, "that can't be true." Well, it 
Sports Writer 

players will help our team in the the score of each game and Mike Wadsworth, and Two Other is. The ticket office sold 800 sea­before that. 
With the NBA and NHL play­years to come. cheer them on whenever I can. Traitors and told him that his son basketball tickets at the offs upon us, now it is time for We sit through the seasons There are the opposites to this team had no chance against the beginning of the year, and then the true fans to come out and filled with disaster and continue kind of fandom. Many people bigger, stronger Sixth Man. when the team made its NIT run, support their team throughout to cheer. This is what makes a refer to these people as frontrun­The captain, knowing that Phil new fans sprouted up. the playoffs. true fan. One who is loyal to his ners, bandwagon jumpers, or talks a lot, took this into consid­The new fans waited in lines 
But what makes a true fan? team through thick and thin. according to the band Bootie eration going into the game. right after the games and caused And what draws people to cer­Coming from New York with and the Blowfish, fairweather During the game, the captain the season ticket holders to sit in tain teams? Usually we all almost three teams to root for in johnsons. These people are sort constantly heard someone seats they had never sat in become fans at very young ages, every sport makes it hard to of like my friend Phil. They yelling "AHHHII" every time before. It is real fun sitting next rooting for the teams that origi­sway one's loyalty to one side, choose a team to root for, and A'Jani Sanders touched the ball. to people who have no clue who nate in our home states, or sur­but it is done by everyone in the then when their team loses, they The captain looked up, and is on the team and then won't let rounding areas. We sat there state. Just to clear up some pre­choose another to root for. who did he see, but Phil scream­you squeeze a friend in the row. rooting on the team not knowing monitions about New York fans, Their team always wins the ing and cheering for his team. The problem arises when peo­the names of the players but it is not possible to root for all championship in every sport. Phil is a rare breed of frontrun­ple try to be fans. They attend knowing that our team was win­three teams in the same sport. It What makes these fans even ners, and many of them cannot games because it is the cool ning or losing and that the team is unheard of. Believe me, I've worse is that they know very lit­be found, but these types of fron­thing to do, or they root for a needed us to cheer them on. tried. tle about the team that they now trunners will always state that team because of its colors. 
As we grew up, we began to Take the World Series last call their own. A little side note. this has always been their team. Being a true fan comes from take in more about the game, year, the New York Yankees Here's a quick way to test their Many other types of frontrun­within. A true fan sticks with his learning the players' names and were one win away from win­loyalty: see if they can answer ners that exist are not as bad as team through the losing years even watching all-star games to ning the championship, and my questions about the team, such Phil. It brings me to Earl. Earl and never supports the team's learn about the players on other New York Mets affiliation would as the players, coaches, and is a native Californian who main rival. All it takes is a little teams. Yet, we still couldn't have me side with the Braves (a home arena. knows very little about the teams dedication and loyalty to one's 
division rival) before the Let me tell you a few stories from his state. Whenever one of team. 

-
Save time and 1nonev..., \Vith our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty" fifty dollars~:: to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account \Vith us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


~ QJ,J-\Vith Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club vvith these add-itional benefits, and more. 
FREE GOLDEN Si ~AMROCK CLUB CHECKS
• 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS {1 /4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 
NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 
*This offer is extended exclusively to .~ualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. $50 will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the $50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 


--~~~-----------~­

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 

Defender Todd Rassas and Notre Dame have lost just twice this year. 
Ye Ye <Su~Y~ ~<1va <1 Pepa l'-J<1Y <M<1Y~) 
L-eva, 
~-Fu~~ &. -tha 

~tflliitt! 
Black Catholic 
Eucharistic Celebration 
Sixth Sunday ofEaster Final Mass and Senior Send-Off 

Sunday, May 4 4:00p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Celebrant: 
Fr. D. Reginald Whitt, OP Law School 
~tjfitt! Choir 
--~---~----.-­
The Observer· SPORTS 
M. Lax 
continued from page 36 
however, the Irish must face the Buckeyes of Ohio State. While a loss to the Buckeyes would not necessarily exclude the Irish from the tournament, a win would guarantee them a bid. 
"Ohio State is our last con­ference game," said Cade, "and it is a game we can't afford to lose." 
The 1997 season has been a breakout year for the Irish squad, who hold an 8-2 record and are the No. 9 ranked team in the country. Their victory over then No. 4 Hofstra was the biggest win in Notre Dame lacrosse history. However, despite the successes that the Irish have enjoyed, they are still unsatisfied with their play. 

"We are not real pleased with how we've played," said Cad e. 
"To the casual observer, having only two losses seems great. But in our wips. we never played the way we wanted to play. We played really bad in our losses." 
Added Owen, "We are not 
page 33 

playing to our potential. A lot of our close games should not have been so close. Against Hofstra, we had a 7-0 lead and only won 11-10. It was the same way against Butler. We need to find that killer instinct." 
The Irish may have found their killer instinct after their 13-5 sacking of Harvard last Sunday. And as it turns out, they could not have found it at a better time. 
"We are a team with a tremendous sense of competi­tion," said Cade. "We have the spirit that it takes to win." 
..... 
-
The Obse!Ver/Brandon Candura 

With only two losses on the season, the Irish lacrosse team has its sights set on a national championship. 

•
(Z\MPU5MINISTRY 
\ 
... ------------------1
• * * *Save This Ad * * *
:ct{•J! ! §(Cj =19\1!, •IlL\i=fi 1-1-1: 
COME TO NEW JERSEY'S I 
I 

I I Largest Career Fair : 
I

1 7 5 Fortune 500Companies wtll be 
1 HIRING for positions tn the Tri-state Area. 
I Tuesday May 20th I 10:00 arn -4:00 pm Held at Mayfair Farms in West Orange. NJ.
I Bring plenty of resumes!ll AdmiSSIOn $3.00. 
Positions Available Include: 

Sales. AdvertiSing, Human Resources. Market1ng, Management. Management Training. Technical & Computer, GraphiC, Retail Management. Stock Broker Trainees. Banking. Customer Serv1ce 
A Professional Ed~t Duke & Company Inc. 
AOP Dun Witter Reynolds 
Abr' Cadabra ~locrtonlc Office 
ystemsAllen Thomn 
Anoci.Jtll Enterprise Rent A Car AOE Ricoh Ftdde" Corporation 
~•'I ,Atlantic Nynu u~~g~~l~nlol
oblle 
9•11 Atlantic Yollow Hoffmon Floo" 
•gn 
Bloomingdale's ~~nh•nn~!rs~~lcn Budgot Rent A Cor Kelly Sorvlcn CVS Corporation 
l-~~fi?Jr.~r;~_"'c•l 
~~~d~~~~~~~ ~t~1fi~golaelle United The Chubb lnUitute 
Morrill Lynch
~omputqm Syatemt
orporattons McOon1ld'l Corp. 
Dire<: tiona: 
1. Fro~ "out• t\0 W••t-T•ke Rt 80 E•st to exit 41 Rt 2ft0 Eut :'~0 Eut to Exll 88 (Prosped ""'~ 1 Proceed No·•h on ProsoeC1 to 2nd"'"'"' At "9"~ turn len on E.o-;rlt! ROO. Ave M•Vf•lr F•m• 1n 1'" n·111e 11ov.n o., tn• "Oht 
2. NJ TYrT'I,Mk-T~ke 10 e,.• 15W Rl 260 'V'.Iesl 
2~ ~st to e•~ 88 (F"ru~~ Ave ~C~nue •s n No I ]. From l'tou1• 711 'l'i'••t· 78 E•st to end ell f'•t:"I!'U-•V ancl s•ons for Rt 4.2 East Proceed 00'1 22 (1'11 to G11rUe11 St•t~ PVw 1 Nor1h Plo.wy North toed , 4~ ~~ 280 -..·~11 Rt 280 V\lf!st to e•~ BB (Prosped 

Nordstrom Smith Barney 
MCS Canon ~~~~·Manhattan Prudonllal Socurltlos Metlllo ~~~"~unlcatlon• Inc. Mutual of Ntw York SPL World Group 
Mutual Of Omoho Sprint Yellow Pogn New York Lifo 
~~·t~~t~r~ho Office ~~9~hwntorn Mutual ~tate Farm Insurance 
ompany

~~~~k~lr~\o1~t 
~ummlt Flf"'anclal
uourc11

Pagtnel · NJ 
TeleChtck Services

Principal Financial The Prudonllol 
TSR Poglng Inc. WaWalnc. ~r~~~c1~r~~~r~;r.•d Xtrox 
Quality Photocopy & M.any Morelli -· 
""-Frow. "•-.ute 78 ~•t-78 'v"Jffst lo G•rden St•te Pkwy ~~orth P.._""Y North to t111l\ 145 Rl 280 v.Jettlo e.tl ~B (Protped Ave 1 Cont.,_.. •• In No 
I 

5. F"t""c..n Plnut• 1KJ b•t-80 IN!tsl to GIW'd~ State 
Pk""Y Sou1h Pk\flfy SOo.Jit'l to e•ll 145 Rt 21!10 ~~~ 280 'v\1!1'11 to ••• 81!1 !Prot~ Ave 1ProoeeQ Nor1t'l on Pros~ Contln.Je •s In No 1 
e. O•rd•n at•t• ...f'"tc_..y-P•~w•v lo e~rll 145 F!,t 280 'V'.Iest Cont•nue to e•ot 88 (Prospect Ave I 
-
Prospect Ave North to 2nd lr•l'r<: "Vt"l ltn"l k<tf'l. •• IIQI>t ( E •gle Rod<: Av• ) M•yf•lr F arm• 11 11• mile down on the right 
*Superior Job Fairs * 
I rr you cannot attend ru your rnum• for fret carnr placement to: 201-966-6539 or call 201-966..&963 1 
~------------------~ 
~---~-~---­

page 34 The Observer • SPORTS 

The Observer/John Daily 

Notre Dame continues its home stand on Thursday when it hosts Chicago State at Eck Stadium. 
Baseball 
continued from page 36 
Allen Greene's sacrifice fly plat­ed Brooks. Felker struck again with a clutch two-out double to score Amrhein. 
J .J. Brock reached after being hit by a pitch in the fourth. After a wild pitch, Amrhein sin­gled off the glove of Crusader shortstop Kyle Musser to extend the lead to 5-1. 
Notre Dame broke the game open further with a four-run
-
fifth. Felker started the rally with a walk, stole second, and advanced to third on an errant throw that found its way into 
The Observer news department needs readers. 
-· 
centerfield. Todd Frye walked and Brock singled through the hole on the left side of the infield to score Felker. 
Perconte followed with a sin­gle, allowing Frye to score. Armhein's RBI single capped the rally, giving the Irish a very comfortable lead. 
The crusade for Valpariaso was not over quite yet, howev­er, as they got to Widelski in the sixth for three runs before knocking senior righthander Mike Balicki for one in the sev­enth, closing the gap, 9-5. 
Notre Dame's Larry Mohs came in to close the game and pitched the last two innings, giving up one run on one hit and two free passes. 
This weekend, the Irish will play host to Georgetown for three games, battling the Hoyas in a doubleheader on Saturday before the finale on Sunday. 
May 1 May3 May4 May 10 May 11 

Copies available at Notre Dame's Hammes Bookstore, Barnes & Noble, and at the Hesburgh reading! 
.... 
Before You Hit The Bo ks... 
-
-
Wednesday, April 30, 1997 
II Schedule 
Omaha, NE 

The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
Tl1e Winner of tl,e Weel< is pid,ecl from the weel,s' Ca11271-0125 now, to become the next winncr.71u1 \\'l'inncr oftfw 1\'l'eck receit•es $8 towards tfw nwa/ /,is or fwr 
Wednesday, A:pril 30 
····· 7;3o p~m. 

!larnes & Noble Grape Road, Mishawaka 
Mayl 

,.,..,.,.,.,•._.., ofNotre Dame 
l-l.oc:;nil·n•n'h Library 

> Auditdrium 
Winner ofthe 199 7 Ernest Sandeen Poetry Prize and the Alice Fay Di Castagnola Award from the Poetry Society ofAmerica 
Chicago State Home (6 pm) GeorgetQyvn (DH)Home (Noon) 
.•:-: ,.,..:;~-~: ~-===·>.:::·•. 
::':~?¢ 

GeorgetoWn Home (Noon) 
,:::YW!:k,.;:;·:=:t=·: ·:·:=····#f.\·. 
C1n.~'6 of Chicago Home (Noon) Indiana Tech Home (Noon) Norwich, CT 

Wednesday, April 30, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 35 
-




MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Black-and-white snack
1 Bar fare 30 Golden Fleece
6 ''Merry old" king craft
of rhyme . 32 Horse opera
10 Drivel 13 Shiraz native 
34Jamboree locale

14 Moundsman Hershiser 36Hwy. 15 Make a pitch 37 Obese author's admission?
16 Trattoria staple 17 Noodges 
42 E.R. devices 18 Atahualpa was 43 More exquisite one «Lawn game 19When an 
47 Terrarium plant actress can see 
48 China setting

forever? 49A "Road"
22 "Gunsmoke" appeared on it 
destination 

25 Original sinner so Columbus initials
26 Kickoff aid 52 Candle count
27 Suffix with labyrinth 54 Strive 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
DAN SULLIVAN 

55 Masochistic trumpeter's prediction? 
59 Fine-edged &OPeek--­61 Disconcerted 65 Messes up 66 Oversupply &7 Hopping mad 68 Compass pt. &9 Antitoxins 70 Himalayan 
kingdom 
DOWN 
1 Sample, as wine 2Coach Parseghian 3 Vegas opening 4 Opposed 5 "Cheers" character 6 Orchestral offering 
7 Spoken 23 Source of fiber 44 Part of a 'oad 56 Election BSmoothly, to 24 Highway hauler test winners Solti 29 Kind of nerve 45 Edmonton 57 Part of B.Y.O.B. 9 Old comic 58 Make out
31 Crystal-lined icemen actress-­46 Stick together &2 Skip, as
rock Janis 33 Dog from Japan 
47 Gridiron mishap commercials 
10 Learned one 35 Delivery 51 Bucks 63 Hellenic vowel person?
11 Secret 53 Puckish 64 Singer Shannon 
36 Emotional pang

12 Cast member 
38 Circus Hall of 

15 Get a move on 
Fame site 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
20 Profits 39 Main point 
are available by touch-tone phone 21 Gu back into 400newho 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). business 
succeeds Annual subscriptions are available for the 22 C ..oesar's 41 Busboy's best of Sunday crosswords from th·~ last sidekick pickup 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
LELU!IUIIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cloris Leachman, Willie Nelson, Jill Clayburgh, Burt Young 
DEAR EUGENIA: 1 was born on 
March 2, 1962, at 1:lMJ a.m. How does 
my Jove life look this year? I am not 
looking for a casual or sex-only rela­
tionship. 1 am looking into settling 
down and meeting my soul mate. 
Will I be blessed with this wish7 Also 
will my business be sucn>ssful? 

Banffbears 
DEAR BANFFBEARS: You were one of those kids born during the dawning of the Age of Aquarius, and guess what? The Age of Aquar­ius is upon us. You happen to have four planets in that sign, even though you were born under the sign Pisces. You're chart indicates that the biggest drawback is relying on others to help you and trusting those you shouldn't. As far as being in business for yourself, this is the year for you to excel. You will be in a much better position where love, marriage, commitment are con­cerned next year. You match up well to the signs Aries, Leo and libra. As for now, push your hardest and do your best and you should make headway professionally. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): This is not the best da \' to lend monev or belongings to frieitds or relahws. 'You must avoid extravagance at all costs. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): You may want to make career changes. Think things through Gtrefully. Don't leave in order to get away from some­one you don't like working with. 
GEMINI (May 22-}une 21): You will attract potential lovers with your 
Born Today: C. 't ready to gi\'e life your best shot. Yot· can have whatever you want as long :os vou don't ponder O\'er past mistakes vr regrets. Move into the fast lane and ~et into the swing of things this war. y... , have a lot to offer and much to get b.ick in retum. 
-
-
-
-

innate ability tu charm them w1th 
your quick wit and versatile mind. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): Don't be so eager to give of yourself. You are ready to make changes regardin); your can.-er and personal life. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 23): This is,, perfect time to get down to busine" regarding your personal life. Talk about your intentions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You can do your best work today if you concentrate on detail and working b1· yourself. Don't try to enlist the help ol others. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Make plans to go ahead with that change that you'1•e been considering. You will have the discipline to stop those bad habits. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Someone vou Jove may be trying to make you feel guilty. You must look out for your own best interests. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You can't be everything for everyont'. A friend may ask vou to do unreason­able things. You n1ust Jearn to say no rather than overload your plate. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 20): This is not a good ;.:by to lend .1 friend moncv. You will find that losses will occur~if you are (.ardt-'SS with your be­longings. Don't t"kt' senseless chance'S today. 
AQUARIUS <Jan. 21-Feb. 181: Acceptance wil: he the key to happi­ness. You must let go of the past that haunts you. New friends, new lovers and new adventures can all be yours if you'll take the first step. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Some­one may be trying to undermine you. Keep your thoughts to yourself for the time-being. You can come into financial gains through rebates, inher­itance or \\'innings. 



~-­



-
-
! I 
r 
I 
t 
I ! I 
ISPORTS
page 36 Wednesday, April30, 1997 
• BASEBAll 
Irish topple 
Notre Dame explodes at the plate in 10-6 win 
ByJOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team did not get to visit the friendly confines of Eck Stadium until March 20, 17 games into the season. 
But since then the Irish have taken advantage, improving their home mark to 19-2 last night with a 10-6 triumph 
over  the  Crusaders  of  
Valparaiso.  
The  now  33-17 Irish are  

currently batting .335 as a team, which would break the previous record set in 1989 and '93 of .334. The team is also flexing its muscles at the plate. Freshman first base­man Jeff Felker's solo shot gives the squad 56 on the year, which ranks as the fifth most in team history, eight short of the team record set in 1993. 
After the Crusaders (18-24) put one on the board in the first off Irish starter Scott Cavey, Notre Dame responded by scoring in every inning from the second through the 
• MEN's lAcRossE • SOFTBALl 
Lax squad aims at ultimate goal Notre Da01e atte01pts 
fifth to bounce back and take a commanding 9-1 lead. 
Leading the way for the offense was catcher Mike Amrhein, who gave the Crusader pitching staff a case of whiplash, going 3-for-4 with three RBis and a run scored. 
In the leadoff slot, right fielder Jeff Perconte also had a good day at the plate. He set the table for the Irish, going 2-for-3 and scoring three runs. Perconte reached base four times on the evening, including two walks. 
Felker got the team going when he homered in the third to give his team the lead. Felker went 2-for-4, scoring two runs and driving in two. 
With starter Scott Cavey lasting just one inning, Wally Widelski pitched five innings, giving up three runs on four hits to pick up the win and improve his record to 3-0. 
After Felker's fourth dinger of the season in the second, the Irish began to take contol in the bottom of the third. Perconte and Randall Brooks drew walks to lead off the inning before Amrhein went to work. His double down the right field line brought home Perconte before sophomore 
. • . . The Observer/John Daily 
see BASEBALL 1page 34 First baseman Jeff Felker helped spark the lnsh with solid defense and his fourth home run of the year. 
vs. Georgetown, May3 
vs. Western Michigan, Today 
Men's Lacrosse at Ohio State May 3, 2 p.m. 

to harness Broncos 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 

While the Broncos of Western Michigan invade Ivy Field tomorrow for an afternoon double­header, the Irish have their sights set on the Big East conference champi­onships this weekend in Storrs, Conn. 
"As a team, we're excited going into the Big East tourna­ment," said pitcher Kelly Nichols. "I think our (team) meeting on Monday (to discuss the Big East championships) was good to get us fired up." 
After finishing the Big East regular season with a 16-4 con­ference mark, it's do-or-die time for Notre Dame, with a chance for revenge against the Connecticut Huskies well within reach. In 1996, the Irish fell to the Huskies, 1-0, in the final game of the conference cham­pionships. Notre Dame had beaten Connecticut in both reg-

Track at 

Big East Championships, 
• Women's tennis prepares for regionals May 3-4 see page 28 
Track at DePauw May 3, II a.m. 

• Men's tennis team hopes to rebound 
Softball at Chicago see page 30 May 3, 12 p.m. 
ular season games last season, before the disappointing loss in the championships. 
This year, the squad has shown signs of vulnerability, suffering four times as many losses in conference play as last season. Notre Dame dropped two games to Boston College, and one apiece to Connecticut and Hutgers. To claim~the con­ference title, the Irish will havo to face all three teams that have given them problems this spring. 
"Every team in the tourna­ment has beaten us, and we're out to prove that we're number one," said Nichols. 
Keys for the Irish run at the Big East title include a return to mid-season form for the offense and solid innings from a weary pitching staff. 
Co-captains Katie Marten and Meghan Murray must lead the offensive charge, as they have all season long. Both Marten and Murray have led the team and the Big East in batting average, and must continue to produce if the Irish are to find post-season success. Liz Perkins, with a team-leading 14 
see SOFTBALL I page 27 
By ERIK KUSHTO Sports Writer 
Long after the rest of Notre Dame students travel back home, relieved of the pres­sures of finals and college life, the men's lacrosse team will still be practicing and prepar­ing for its biggest test of the year: a shot at a national championship. 
It is a goal that the team set at the beginning of the year. It is a dream that Irish coach Kevin Corrigan thinks the team can achieve. It is a dream that may very well come true. 
"At the beginning of the year. Coach Corrigan said that this is the team that could go all the way," explained sopho­more midfielder Brad Owen. "I think that our chances (of winning the national champi­onship) are really good." 
Junior All-American goal­tender Alex Cade agrees. 
"I feel great about our chances," said Cade. "Our two losses this year were both by one goal. Right now, we are playing with confidence. We just need to put it all together for the tournament." 
Before the tournament, 
seeM. LAX I page 33 

, 
.-­
-



