
Friday, January 31, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 81 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


ISO Festival links groups in harmony 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH News Writer 
Now in its tenth year, the annual International Student Organization's ISO Festival is one alternative for students and community members looking for something differ­ent to do this Saturday night. 
"It's a chance for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents to experience different cultures through different music and dance," said Hilda Rodriguez, co-president with Paula Lopez of the ISO. 
Performances this year are just as varied as in the past, providing nearly two hours of music and dance. 
Acts scheduled to appear include Troop ND, the South Bend-based Hellenic Dance Troupe, and members of the African Student Association. Musical group Soledad will perform romantic ballads in 
Speaking on the oppression of 
By MICHAEL LEWIS These individuals worked for 
women in Kenyan society,
News Writer Lucky Sewing Co., a subcon­
Kagwiria Mbogori, a student in
tractor for McClintock, Inc., 
the Center for Civil and Human
Student activism has and now they speak about 
Rights at the Notre Dame Law
reduced la,bor abuses in the their experiences in an effort 
School, explained the demoral­
garment industry, according to increase public awareness 
izing treatment to which
to Courtni Sunjoo Pugh, who of what goes on in the gar­
Kenyan women are subjected
addressed the issue from the ment industry. Pugh said that 
every day. 

position of Asian Americans. Esprit, JCPenney, Limited, Liz 
"Women do not have access
"You [students] still lead us Claiborne, Ralph Lauren, and 
to justice," said Mbogori. "The
into tomorrow, but don't Wal-Mart use sweatshop labor 
problem is so big -it involves
_downplay the contributions in production of their clothing. 
the whole society." 

you make today," Pugh said. UNITE, a leading garment 
As a member of the Coalition
Pugh, assistant to the execu­labor union, issued a report in 
on Violence Against Women in
tive director of the Chinese­1993 saying that the number 
Kenya and a founder of its
American Service League and of sweatshops in the U.S. has 
Federation of Women Lawyers,
an Asian political and commu­increased while the number of 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Mbogori's gender issues back­
nity activist, complemented workers in the industry has According to Kagwiria Mbogori, Kenyan women are victims of their
ground has been in law.
students for supporting immi­dropped. These changes are society and traditions, which denies them basic rights. 
One of the key legal battles
gration, affirmative action, important, according to Pugh, 
that the coalition is currently the most important conflict in that inherent in the idea of
and other issues. since this is an industry that 
fighting concerns property the Kenyan women's move-these customs are rituals like
She went on to describe the regularly violates labor stan­
rights. In Kenyan society, ment. male domination of women,
1992 nationwide support dards. 
women are not expected to be According to Mbogori, there female genital mutilation and
against Jessica McClintDck, Asians and Latinos consti­
successful, let alone own prop­has been a resurgence in the domestic violence. In addition,
Inc., a clothing firm specializ­tute the bulk of the work force 
erty. While a male enjoys sole importance of "African tradi-she says, cases of incest have
ing in women's formal apparel in this industry, she said, 
ownership of his purchases, tiona! customs and practices" been on the rise. 
and using sweatshop labor. making this an issue of partic­
female-owned assets are con­in recent years. While she Mbogori's interest in
McClintock, Inc. did not pay ular importance to the lec­
sidered joint property. clearly expressed her pride in women's rights began as a
12 Chinese workers back ture's sponsors. Pugh also said 
Citing the male-oriented her African heritage, she also young child, when she first wit­
wages, and in 1996, after con­that few workers, regardless 
African proverb, "What is ours said that this idea scared her nessed the double standard to
siderable community action, of race, have job security, 
is ours, but what is mine is more than any other. which she w.as held in contrast
the company settled with the 
mine," she hit upon perhaps The reason for her fears is
laborers. see LABOR I page 6 see WOMEN I page 6 
Spanish, and campus band Sabor Latino will take to the stage to lend a decidedly trop­ical sound to the evening. 
Chilean music and French singers are also on the agen­da, as are a variety of dance performances. Mexican fold dancing troupe Ballet Folkl6rico will perform a polka and a medley of songs from the Jalisco region, while the Filipino American Student Organization and Hellenic Dance Troupe round out other dances in the first and second acts. 
"It's a good show that show-
see ISO I page 6 


page 2 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 
We must save this nation from ourselves 
"In Washington's day, the task of the people was to create and weld together a nation. In Lincoln's day, the task of the people was to preserve that nation from disruption from 

within.  In this day, the  Brandon Williams  
task of the people is to save that nation and its institutions from disrup­ Assistant Viewpoint Editor  
tion from without."  

Those words were spoken in the third inau­
gural address of Franklin D. Roosevelt, a man 
who helped to define the "American century" 
President Clinton has just recently delivered 
the last inaugural address of this millennium. 
Although I find little in common between 
myself and our current president, I do not 
think he was wholly unsuccessful in identify­
ing the tasks that face us in preparation for 
the next century. 
One might contend that the Roosevelt address of 1941 was prophetic. Since the bloody battle against tyranny in World War II, America has been contending against "dis­ruption from without." The Cold War demanded much of our time, energy and national identity. Even since the fall of Communism our nation has been involved in skirmishes around the globe-from the deserts of Iraq to the ravaged cities of Bosnia. I contend that the people of America now face a challenge not from without. We must save this nation from disruption from ourselves. 
While concentrating on the world outside our borders we have been ravaged within. Materialist assaults have eroded our humani­ty while subjectivity has chipped away at our dignity. The God-shaped vacuum that Pascal saw in the human heart is being penetrated by apathy, self-gratification and unbelief. Personal security and slogans like "It's the economy, stupid" are stubbornly threatening to edge their way in where love of neighbor should prevail. Welfare is rightfully under assault, but one wonders what is intended to take its place. The cancerous plague of racism still refuses to die, despite its intellec­tual impotency. These are the challenges that this nation must now face, lest we go down the wayward and self-destructive path of empires past. 
Engraved in stone above the east door of the Basilica are the oft-quoted words, "God, Country. Notre Dame." These words should also be engraved on our hearts. We here at Notre Dame are called to aid this country by the God referred to in that stone. This is not to say that everyone needs to forget about a job and do nothing but charity for the rest of their lives. Instead, we must use our God­given gifts for others, whatever path we choose. 
It is up to the people of this nation to renew America, and, as a professor I highly respect pointed out, the one institution that exists in every part of this nation is the Catholic Church. So, what institution better than Notre Dame to study and learn the best ways to solve these problems that face us? If we apply and utilize our resources who knows what could be accomplished? What citizens will be better prepared than this student body to make a difference in America? We stand at a crossroads of opportunity and decline, embracing an ideal. The "American Century" is coming to a close. What we, and this insti­tution, do with the gifts given us may deter­mine how another president refers to the cen­tury next. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Michelle Krupa  Graphics  
Sean Smirh  Jon King  
Sports  Tom Roland  
Joe Cavaro  Production  
Viewpoint  Michelle Krupa  
Erhanaror  Cocksinaror  
Ayana Fakhir  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Dan Cichalski  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepc during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of che Associaced Press. All reproduccion righcs are reserved. 
----~---~---~----.--------------------------~-----------------·-----------,­
Friday, January 31, 1997The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Pakistan president: Heed Supreme Court rulin~ 
ISLAMABAD, Supreme Court to Pakistan Benazir Bhutto reinstate her, but it The Supreme Court refused Wednesday.
A look at the career of Pakistan's ousted prime minister. ruling that upheld the "It was the first dismissal of Benazir 411 April1986: Ms. Bhutto returns triumphantly to Pakistan time that the Bhutto's government after four years of self-imposed exile. She had sought 
Supreme Court has
refuge after years of harassment and detention by the should be a warning military regime that ousted and hanged her father, Prime held that large-scale to any Iawm akers Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. One million people throng the corruption in govern­contemplating graft, streets of the Punjab provincial capital to meet her. ment can also be the 
the Pakistani presi-411 October 1988: She is elected prime minister in Pakistan's basis for dissolution," dent said in an inter-first free elections after 11 years of military rule. Leghari told The 
view Thursday. 411 June 2, 1989: In her first major international appearance as prime minister, Ms. Associated Press in 
President Farooq Bhutto tells a joint session of the U.S. Congress that Pakistan does not have his first interview Leghari called the nuclear weapons. One year later, Washington suspends aid to Pakistan because since the judgment.ruling a "landmark of suspicions it possesses a nuclear weapon. 
Leghari won anoth­judgment." • August 1990: President Ghulam lshaq Khan abruptly dismisses her government, er legal battle Leghari dismissed charging unchecked corruption and political incompetence. 
Thursday when two Ms. Bhutto on Nov. 5, e November 1990: Pakistan People's Party loses elections that sweep Nawaz Sharif provincial high courts two years before her to power with a two-thirds majority. Bhutto charges vote-rigging and refuses to 
upheld the dismissal term expired, accus-accept the outcome of the polls. of both the Punjab ing her of corruption, economic mismanagement and and Northwest Frontier legislatures on charges of cor­sanctioning police hit-squads. Ms. Bhutto asked the ruption. 
Pope to visit Sarajevo in April Flu outbreaks wane after fast start 
VATICAN CITY ATLANTA 
Pope John Paul II will linally make a Arter a fast start, the worst maybe over for a flu strain Bosnian trip long delayed by that tl.at quickly spread fever, hacking coughs and death nation's war, paying a one-day visit to across the country. The Centers for Disease Control and Sarajevo this spring to promote peace Prevention said Thursday that the number of states among the faiths there. The Vatican reporting widC6pread cases has started to drop. "We confirmed Thursday that John Paul saw activity begin earlier than usual and occur through­would visit Sarajevo on April 13. The out the country within a relatively short time," said pope planned to visit Sarajevo in :'-Janey Arden, a CDC medical epidemiologist. "Some flu September 1994, during the 3 1/2-year epidemics spread slowly. But within a relatively short war, but canceled his trip fearing attacks on the crowds amount of time, we saw outbreaks all over the country." sure to turn out. By realizing his "deeply held desire" to Wuhan, a flu strain that can kill the elderly hut affects go there, the Vatican said, "the pope above all intends to all age groups, was the culprit in 97 percent of th~ virus­encourage the Catholic community in every part of es sent to government labs. The CDC has not deter­Bosnia and Herzegovina and to promote comprehension mined the total number of deaths from the flu, but Ms. and cooperation with the faithful of all religious confes­Arden said the percentage of people dying each week sions." The pope will talk with members of the Bosnian has outpaced CDC predictions through the middle of this presidency, church officials and followers, and other month. The flu usually kills about 20,000 people a year. Bosnians. Most of Sarajevo's 300,000 people are but Wuhan-like strains can kill more than 40,000, Ms. Muslims. Of the city's 70,000-strong pre-war Catholic Arden said. The first cases were reported to the CDC in community, about 30,000 remained in Sarajevo. After October, and a few weeks later, states had noticed wide­curtailing his travel for a time because or health prob­spread cases. By the end of November, the flu took lems, the pope also plans trips this year to the Czech Colorado and Pennsylvania by full force. Most of the Republic, Poland, France and Brazil. A visit to Lebanon outbreaks were reported in nursing homes. But the flu in May is under consideration. also hit hundreds at a job training center in Indianapolis. 
Instructors investigated for abuse Father confesses to slaying family 
FORT LEONARD WOOD, Mo. DEFUNIAK SPRINGS, Fla. 
The number of pending investigations into alleged A truck driver who feared the loss of disability pay­trainee abuse at Fort Leonard Wood has more than dou­ments left a videotaped confession for police. detailing in bled since mid-December. Twenty-eight men were a calm whisper the problems that drove him to kill his under investigation as of today for allegations of miscon­wife, baby and himself. Billy Ray Grimes, 50, called 911 duct with recruits, Lt. Col. Steve Rego said. That's in early Wednesday and told dispatchers to "send the coro­addition to two who have pleaded guilty and four await­ner and the police," said sheriffs Maj. Bill Chapman. ing court-martial. In December, the number of investi­Grimes called back a minute later and said two people gations totaled 12. Rego wouldn't say whether any of the were dead and the video would be in his mailbox. Police 12 men under investigation last month had been cleared, found the bodies of Grimes, his wife, Brenda Lee, 38, only that the total had gone to 28. "It's fluid. and their 8-month-old daughter, Crystal, as well as the Investigations are added and taken away on a weekly hour-long tape. "lie talked about medical problems he basis," Hego said. Several of the soldiers under investi­was having, he talked about financial problems and fam­gation had been suspended, but Rego said he did not ily problems he was having," Chapman said. "lie said know how many. Most were instructors. While all of the that he had enough and he was going to take his wife investigations involve alleged abuse of female trainees, and daughter out and then himself." Police say Grimes none includes rape or sodomy, Master Sgt. Dan Hassett used two shotguns to kill his wife and child before turn­said. Two instructors pleaded guilty in November to ing the second gun on himself. The video stopped taping charges of abusing trainees. They were sentenced to eight minutes before he called police. "He was whisper­prison and discharged. Last month, another instructor, ing," Chapman said. "He was calm, cool and collected. Sgt. George Blackley, Jr., was found innocent by a mili­He didn't raise his voice. lie talks in a very rational man­tary judge of trainee abuse, disrespect to a noncommis­ner about irrational things like killing his wife and sioned officer, and indecent assault. baby." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeatherl!!lforecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 31.
AccuWeathcr"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature' 
Lines separate h1gh temperature zones for the day. 
H L 

'· r/-­
Friday ~ 39 34 Saturday ~ 43 30 SundayJ ~ 37 25 
FRONTS: 
"'T""T" .............._ ~

Monday ~ 35 24 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pr6ssure 


H LTuesday ~ 29 17 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~ _sv,f"''............../¥"\..._,.. 

)•  Vts Associared Prflss  
Anchorage  26  23  Dallas  67  73  Miami  78  56  

 Atlanta  65  39  Denver  63  32  New York  47  35  
Q,~,~P.~Q (f.~ u  Baltimore  49  33  Helena  50  31  Phoenix  80  55  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Boston  44  33  Honolulu  82  72  St. Louis  52  34  
Via Assocrated Press GraphicsNet  Chicago  38  25  Kennebunk  39  . 28  San Francisco  59  50  

.r-------------------------.----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------­
friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Poet visits SMC for inspiration Vayrynen: Aid comes 
By TATUM MENGYAN 
Assistant Saint Mary's News Editor 
A dainty flowered pocket notebook and a fine point pilot pen. In his opinion, these materials have much to do with the acclaim that poet, critic, and essayist Richard Tillinghast has received. 
Tillinghast's visits to Saint Mary's College have become quite reliable. Last evening's poetry reading, given in Carroll Auditorium of Madeleva Hall, marked Tillinghast's fifth visit to Saint Mary's. 
"He has become a sort of comet, lighting up our local skies," said Max Westler, associate professor of English at Saint Mary's and friend of Tillinghast. 
Tillinghast opened last evening's reading with a poem entitled "Table," an exert from "The Stonecutter's Hand," as well as a translation from the near-contemporary Turkish poet, Edip Cansever. 
"I always begin my readings with the same poem. I find that it helps, when standing up to give a reading, to know exactly where I am starting," Tillinghast said. 


Tillinghast, along with his wife, three sons and daughter, spent 1990-91 on a grant in a small Irish fishing village in County Galway. 
Much of last evening's read­
' He [Tillinghast] has become a sort of comet, lighting up our local skies.' 
Max Westler 
ing, found primarily in "The Stonecutter's Hand," reflected on and extolled his time spent abroad. 
Tillinghast's second selec­tion, titled "Afternoon at Griffin's," is what he referred to as, "an unambiguous poem relating the atmosphere of an old Irish pub in the afternoon." 
Tillinghast offered a brief yet informative explanations of his poetry. 
"One can over-explain a poem in a setting such as a poetry reading. When the 
Joey is finally 21! May the 
force be Ulith you 
11lUJ11ys. 
University of Notre Dame 
poem finally arrives, you feel you already know everything there is to know about it. So, I'll try leave it to you," Tillinghast said. 
Tillinghast concluded his performance with a promise to the Saint Mary's Community, "One of these days I'm going to write a poem about the nun's cemetery. I'm working on it." 
It  was  Westler who  first  
came  in  contact  with  
Tillinghast.  

In 1980, Tillinghast, visiting the area, sent out letters to local universities and colleges inquiring about their interest in a reading of his work. 
Westler, at this time unfamil­iar with Tillinghast's poetry, took a trip to the library. What he found there was, "fresh and exhilarating; someone like myself who had survived the sixties with good humor and hopefulness." 
Tillinghast is the author of five books of poetry, including: "Sleep Watch" (1969), "The Knife and Other Poems" (1980), "Our Flag Was Still There" (1984), "Sewanee in Ruins," and his most recent, "The Stone Cutter's Hand" (1995). 
Since 1983 Tillinghast has been a member of the faculty of the University of Michigan, where he both teaches in the Master of Fine Arts Program and is a professor of English. 
Tillinghast, educated at Sewanee and Harvard, began writing poetry at an early age. 
"I believe I was 14 or so, newly in love," Tillinghast said. 
Tillinghast wrote much of his early work in rhyme and meter. Then in the 60s, follow­ing the tradition of the time, he began writing in free verse. Today Tillinghast incorporates both forms in his writing. 


through social change 
By ELENA MILLNER 
News Writer 
Humanitarian emergencies rock the stability of many regions of the world, according to Raimo Vayrynen, director of the Kroc Institute. 
Vayrynen spoke on, "The Politics of Humanitarian Crisis," a lecture held at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies yesterday afternoon. 
"The research is looking to find the root causes of these emergencies through economic, social, and political dimen­sions," Vayrynen said. 
A humanitarian emergency, as defined by Vayrynen, is "a profound social crisis in which a large number of people die and suffer from war, disease, hunger, and displacement owing to man-made and natural disasters, while some others may benefit from it." 
While the number of natural disasters has not increased sig­nificantly since the 1950s, the number of emergencies has doubled. 
A minor natural disaster can trigger extensive human disas­ters caused by such factors as political upheaval and environ­mental decay. 
There tend to be four to five regions of the world where emergencies are prevalent. Vayrynen stated that one can­not study just one country with­out looking at the entire region. 
Research has found that countries experiencing humani­tarian emergencies are agricul­tural societies and are poorly integrated into the world mar­ket. 
Environmental conditions and mismanagement of agricultural policy by the government lend limited opportunities to peas­ants who.se well-being is sus­tained by a non-industrial econ­omy. Their markets are local­ized and controlled by local power groups. 
"Without an effective central government," Vayrynen said, "there is no infrastructure, which makes it nearly impossi­ble for a traditional national economy to develop." 
The international community has played a role through allo­cation of food and other basic supplies. However, in a politi­cal conflict, these aids are many times used as ammunition to starve opponents and feed, allies, Vayrynen said. 
This creates a new political structure, which can sometimes prolong the crisis, instead of helping, Vayrynen continued. The international community has learned that new approach­es are needed to address such a multi-faceted problem. 
Before joining the Kroc Institute in 1993, Vayrynen was a professor in international relations at the University of Helsinki. He has published many books and articles con­cerning humanitarian issues. His most recent publication is "The Age of Humanitarian Emergencies." 
•SECURITY MON., JAN •. 27 treatment of a sports injury.. 



CO~GEDUCATION 

GMATandGRE REVIEW COURSES 
• 
Strategies for attacking individual questions and the test as a whole 

• 
Official diagnostic and practice exams with actual test questions 

• 
Homework modules to reinforce what you learn in class 

• 
Vital emphasis on analytical, logical and critical reasoning skills 

• 
On exam day, you'll be more confident and less prone to test anxiety 


GMATReview For March 15 exam Saturdays, Feb. 8-March 8, 8 a.m. -noon at IUSB. $295. 
GRE Review For April 12 exam Thursdays, 6-10 p.m. and Saturday, AprilS, 12:30-4:30 p.m. 
at IUSB. $349. 
PLEASE NOTE: 
The GRE features a signifi­cant number of questions requiring analytical and logical reasoning. By taking a review course, you'll learn the most effective strategies for attacking such questions. 
This event is brought to you in celebration of the Dr. Martin L. King Jr. Holiday in conjunction with the Black History Month Celebration. Co-sponsored by Student Government, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns, Office o Multicultural Affairs, Amnesty International, Filipino American Student Organization and Student Affairs. 
To register, or more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 

------~~~-----...------~· --­
page 4 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, January 31. 1997 

Savings,
in tile.~ 
10 uannine sessions for $20
Sun Stylists availllble for dances and special o~~asions

• 
**** Beachfront Hotel  
CANCUN PLAZA  
$599  
Ouad Occ. From Chicago  
s #1  Other Hotels Available:  
Hotel in Cancun!! Best Beach,  Oasis, Calinda Beach, Cancun  
Most Students, Best VALUE!!  Palace, Hyatt Regency  

ALL PACKAGES INCLUDE: 





~---1 -uto~
TANNING SAL 0 N www.planet_tan.com 
Within walking distance ofND Campus! 12 beds, no appointment ever needed! 277-ll66 
3great coupon specials! One time offer for Spring Break! 
r----,r----,r----,$5.00 off or l $5 OO ff Unlimited
2
1 . week free 1 1 fre.e ta~s :th 1 1 tanning until 1 wtth purchase of I I · I I 5-15-97 I
any sesswns
I any monthiy I $75 L _p;;,k~e-.J L _P:.:::e_ .J L ----.J 
Must present coupon. 2-15-97. One customer. 

ooru tJ~JliJ amm 
t 
N 

http://www.takeabreak.com 1·890'-·95-BAEAK
-
~ . --­
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL ~ ~lf ~-rc Unam. Samu arJ Ma:arhn mvia AV .~d.mac .!Jm,.
0. 1labA W Sa.m T:ml .~ 

Complete t>ackages l"t·om $399 I<'ree Covers, Free Day Parties, Discounts at shops and side excursions 
Cancun from $379 Nassaufrom $37H Ixtapafrom $379 
3 nhthl ho«-ltllus air from fhlc:llgo 
DISCOUNTED AIR TO: *Fort Lauterdale * *Daytona* *Orlando* 
EUROPE GETAWAYS *London* *Paris* 
·rnkto m:lPIIl>lnUf oflow. spt'il!iJ~<•'i'l·~"" lhf<'l/ 1 
located next to Notre Dame on South Bend Ave. 

271-4880 
G travelmore CarlsonWagonlit :·~'1" i 
Sunbreak Student Vacations lowest for info calll-800-446·8355 pnce Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak guaranteed!!! 


Friday, January 31, 1997 


Housing 
continued from page 1 
Those factors could account for approximately O!le to 1. 5 percent of the total increase, but overall, more students, especial­ly upperclassmen, have chosen to move out into South Bend and the surrounding communities for a variety of other reasons. 
" An 18-year-old today has lived a much more full life, has had more experiences, than an 18-year-old five years ago. It is a 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

trend in society that the stage of maturity that some students feel they need University has not kept up with. to go through," Kirk said. Students want more amenities Senior Meredith Mueller, a resident of Lafayette Square Townhomes, feels that relationships
.-social and physical, and the 
University environment stifles between men and women are less strained living maturity," senior Ryan off-campus. Mcinerney, who lives in a house "Gender relations are a lot better.. Living here off-campus, said. really helps alleviate some of the problems and 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­pressures of living in the dorms. Guys can just pop dent of residence life, said that in and say 'hi' like girls used to when I lived in the the students' personal prefer­dorms," Mueller said. 
ences, not restrictions on free­Senior Tim Reidy, a resident of Turtle Creek dom on-campus, are what moti-Apartments, feels that dorm life has its advan­vates the move out of dorm life. tages, but only to a certain level of maturity. 
"It has a whole lot less to do "The dorms are really good when you are a with any housing problem as it freshman and a sophomore and you need some has to do with a stage of life, a social guidance, when you are trying to break 
away from your parents, but you hit a point where 


they need to reduce that parental guidance and kind of let.you grow up, and in the dorms, they really don't do that," Reidy said. 
Claire Myers, a manager at Campus View Apartments, where approximately 90 to 95 per­cent of renters are Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, or Holy Cross College students, said that students who come in to rent want more responsi­bility than is afforded them living in dorms. 
"It's a growing experience for students, being responsible for their own lives. It's a general atti­tude that students like the freedom of having their own apartments, but they don't abuse that privi­lege," Myers said. 
Heather Losee-Carrell, manager at University Park Apartments, agrees that the students who live at her facility are intent on studies and responsibil­ity. 
"They have a lot of visitors, a lot of traffic, and it keeps us busy; but overall, if a student was looking for a party atmosphere, it would not be here. Students want somewhere where they can study and show a little commitment and ability to take on some responsibility," Losee-Carrell said. 
According to Paul Neuner, a senior living in an off-campus house, the responsibility definitely exists but is worth the added freedom he feels from living out of the dorms. 
"You have to actually worry about your own hygiene as far as the quality of life; you have to clean and do dishes and do laundry and stuff. But it's all worth the freedom you get. You don't have to worry about being in a security bubble and you can come and go whenever you want," Neuner said. 
Although University housing is available to most 
~--~-­
page 5 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Many students choose to move into apartments like this one at Campus View for amenities like kitchens. 
students, Father William Seetch, rector at Planner Hall, feels that the living situations are often atypi­cal and understands that students move off-cam­pus for more freedom. 
"The rules we have are for running an unnatural situation. You don't always have hundreds of men and hundreds of women living in the same single-· sex building like this. After a while it gets old to fol­low [the rules], but the atmosphere here is healthi­er than at most universities and the dorm spirit is more than all other universities," Seetch said. 
And for these reasons as well as convenience, many students, like Farley Hall senior Karen Kerney, choose to remain in residential dorms throughout their undergraduate careers. 
"I like the dorm life and it's pretty convenient. The rules stink, but it's bearable. It's just easier to live on than off," Kerney said. 
Stanford Hall senior Harry Howisen agrees. 
"It's just convenient. I'm right across from the dining hall and having to clean off my car everyday would be a pain," Howisen said. "It's· also more fun. You get to meet more people, to interact with the freshmen, and you are not just in little cliques with your friends." 


page 6 


Labor 
continued from page I 
workers compensation, or ben­

f 
i efits, but that most find abuses 
I on the work. 
~ "They (the sweatshop labor­ers) are subject to verbal, physical. mental, and some­times sexual abuse," she said. "All of this eats away at the immigrant's sense of pride and self esteem." 
Eighty-five percent of work­ers are women of color. and they are usually paid by piece rate, where a wage is deter­mined by the number of gar­ments they produce but often does not reach minimum wage. 
Pugh said their work days average 12 hours, and their lack of English language profi­ciency and knowledge of their rights prevents them from seeking fair employment. 
"Immigrants start out at a clear disadvantage because of the language barrier," Pugh said. 
Pugh offered another exam­ple of sweatshop conditions in relating the plight of 72 Thai workers in California. The workers were confined to an area surrounded by barbed wire and required to buy goods from the company's stores. 
They worked 84 hour weeks and slept on seven by four foot sections of the floor. They made $1.60 an hour and had 
-~---~----­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
to pay up to $9 for a bar of soap. When the workers were freed, investigators found products with some of the nation's most popular brand names on them. 
"These companies have the money to pay athletes like Michael Jordan millions of dol­lars, but they do not even pay their workers minimum wage," Pugh said. 
She also said that Levis, Nike, Kathie Lee, and Disney's Pocahontas line use sweatshop labor, and that in order to dis­sipate the problem, we must chose wisely and informatively when shopping. 
"We need to continue to make socially conscious pur­chases," she said. 
In closing, Pugh encouraged the audience to defend immi­gration and to fight the anti­immigration sentiments at the Congressional level. 
"We must seek to empower or brothers and sisters as we seek to empower ourselves," she said. 
Pugh is originally from South Bend, and she graduated from Ball State University, getting a BA with a major in Political Science. She co-founded the first Asian-American group at the school, and she currently works as an assistant to Congressman Danny Davis (D­Ill.). 
"Asian American Activism and the Struggle for Garment Workers," was delivered last night in the Hesburgp Library Auditorium. 

-~----~·-----~~ 
Friday, January 3I, I997 
way of uniting the audience. 
While the group Soledad will be performing songs like "Perfidia" and "Ella" in Spanish, Granado says that "what makes the ISO so spe­cial is that it is so broad­based, and that the music itself is so beautiful that it pretty much crosses all lan­guage barriers." 
ISO treasurer Adam Salgado says that the ISO itself. as well as the festival, is "an opportu­nity for international students to get together to know each other," and mentioned that the organization holds fundraisers like the Taste of Nations and various picnics throughout the year to pay for the festival. 
One of the biggest contribu­tors this year has been Notre Dame's Alumni Association, along with help from 360 Communications, Damon's, and Anthony Travel. 
The ISO Festival will take place in Washington Hall on Saturday at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at LaFortune and at the door for $4. 


• 
Two 5-week sessions 

• 
More thon 75 qualityeducation courses 

• 
French Immersion 3-week Program 

• 
College Preview High School Program 

• 
Pont-Aven Art Program 


For information: The American University of Paris Summer Programs, Box S-4 60 East 42nd St., Suite 1463 New York, New York 1 0 165 Tel. (212)983-1414 Fax (2121 983-0444 
Web site -http://www.aup.fr Email -Summer@aup.fr 


1997 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break 
·n Available February 14, 15, 16 

Shifts stl Sign ups are: Sat 2/110:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Mon-Fri 10:00 a.m. -4:00 p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 
"!"he Observer/Michele Sweet 
Dancers in Troop ND practice for Saturday's ISO Festival in Washington Hall. The show will display may different ethnic musical and dance numbers. 
Folkl6rico. "It's a way of let­ting everybody learn about my
ISO 
beautiful culture." continued from page I Other performers in the ISO 
festival bring the world togeth­cases all of the talents of the er. Antonio Granado of world," said senior Richard Soledad stresses that the per­
Pimentel, dancer with Ballet formances themselves have a 


we want to know what questions would YOU ask Notre Dame grads from th~ past 2S years? 

Be a part of the alumni survey and co-ed celebration! We want your ideas and input 

Women 
continued from page I 
to her older brothers. Eventually, she came to realize that, "This is a man's world." 
"Not many people like changes. If you are going to affect changes, some women are going to resent it and, of course, men will resent it more," she said. "Women have learned to resent what men do." 
Despite some recent exam­ples of small improvements, Mbogori conceded that, "We have not even begun to shake the foundation of this iceberg." 
Mbogori will also be featured in the panel discussion on "Women's Inheritance Rights in Traditional and Modern Africa" following the film "Neria" in 155 DeBartolo Hall on Wednesday. 
Yesterday's presentation was the first Gender Studies Forum of the second semester. 
UNtVf.JISITY OF NOTJIF. D.HH 
StUIHNt GnvfiHO.UNt 

Contact Patrick Belton at the Student Government office as we trace 25 years of women at Notre Dame 
Call the Gender Relations Department at 1-4556 


Friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•PERU 

Police look for group aiding hostage-takers 
By JAMES ANDERSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LIMA 

Police hunted Thursday for a small band of leftist rebels thought to be acting as a liai­son between guerrillas holding 72 hostages in Lima and their comrades in the remote jun­gle. 
The search comes as President Alberto Fujimori and Japanese Prime Minister Rytitaro Hashimoto prepare for a weekend summit that 
~OBSERVER 
is now hiring a 


Interest in de~igning ing web­sites is helpfUl IJ~"'f:h~J: quired. The 

WEB .1\PMIMl. l'iQATOR
A Yf!· {>· .... . ...• .. • 

is resp(.lb$d)le for ..!lJP:Jl ng the daily publication o~t;;ib~:Observer on the internet. Interested? Contact Liz Foran at 631-4542 for more information. 
rs}ii-rDgBre~97,
1

1 $'lS CouPon Cancun. Mexico 
1 Complete Packages From $399 1 RT airfare, 7 Nights Hotel, Free Covers & Parties Plus 
I 
Discounts on Side Trips and Excursions. Some Restrictions apply.

I 
Prices for March 8th Chicago Departures only call now!!! 

Sunbreak Student Vacations lowestI for info calll-800-446-8355 Price I 
._. _______ _
I Http://www.uresource.com/sunbreak guaranteed!!! .J 
Formerly Asia House Restaurant 






THAI 
RES TAU RANT 
Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisine Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food Dine in or Carry Out 

(219) 257-4875 20o/o Discount when you bring in this ad! 


Our Business Hours Tues -Thurs: 11AM-9PM Fri-Sat: 11AM-10PM Sun: 11AM-8PM 
508 W. McKinle , Mishawaka, IN 
could renew negotiations to free the hostages held by the Tupac Amaru rebels. 
Police say the five or six rebels they are seeking may include Hugo Avellaneda Valdez, the highest-ranking Tupac Amaru leader after Nestor Cerpa. 
Cerpa led the Dec. 17 raid on the Japanese ambassador's compound in which the guer­rillas initially took more than 500 hostages. 
The rest of the movement's leaders are in prison. 
• AlGERIA 
Mourners bury top union leader 
By RACHID KHIARl 
Associated Press Writer 
ALGIERS 
With a sea of flowers and a minute of silence nationwide, Algeria's top union leader was buried Thursday after assas­sins cut short his political ambitions. 
The slaying of Abdelhak Benhamouda was yet another high-profile killing in a 5-year­old Muslim insurgency that the military-backed government has promised -but so far failed -to halt. 
The violence continued with the killing Thursday of a 
.• COLOMBIA 


Explosion in Medellin kills four 

By PAUL HAVEN 
Associated Press Writer 
BOGOTA 
A bomb ripped apart the offices of a community associa­tion in downtown Medellin on Wednesday, killing at least four peopl~ and hurling debris down onto passers-by in the street below. 
The 11 0-pound time bomb exploded beneath a second­floor stairwell just outside offices of The Association of Neighborhood Groups, said the deputy national police chief, Gen. Luis Ernesto Gilibert. 
It blew off the building's con­crete facade on its first two floors, ripping open metal grat­ing and throwing rubble into the street. Many of the 18 peo­retired general, Habib Khalil. Algerian state radio announced the slaying by unknown assailants but did not elabo­rate. A witness, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Khalil was ambushed not far from his home near Oran, a western port city. 
President Liamine Zeroual was among the mourners at Benhamouda's burial in the "martyrs' quarter" of the El Alia cemetery in eastern Algiers, where major Algerian figures are buried. 
Benhamouda, who supported Zeroual in the 1995 elections, was gunned down Tuesday in 
pie injured were passers-by. 
Three men and a woman were killed, police said, adding that it was not imme­diately clear if they worked at the community group. Gilibert said he had no infor­mation on a possible motive. 
However, the association comprises various non­governmental groups in Medellin's poorer neighbor­hoods, where paramilitary groups, youth gangs, and left-wing urban guerrillas vie for control. 
The explosion shattered windows and damaged near­by buildings. Several blocks were cordoned off while res­cue workers attended to the victims and police searched the scene. 
front of his union's headquar­ters. There was no claim of responsibility but suspicion fell on Muslim militants waging an insurgency that has left at least 60,000 people dead since 1992. 
Benhamouda had been preparing to form a centrist party ahead of legislative elec­tions expected by mid-year, and was seen by some as hav­ing a good chance at becoming prime minister. 
The assassination came dur­ing a spate of murderous attacks that has killed 270 peo­ple and wounded 600 since the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on Jan. 10. 


ebr11ary 
1:30 p.m. STANFORD-KEENAN CHAPEL domingo 2, Padre Richard v: Warner, esc domingo 9, Padre Bob Pelton, esc 

domingo 16, Padre Tim Scully, esc domingo 23, Padre David Scheidler, esc 
Todos Estan Invitados 

(2\MPUSMIN15TRY 


Dr. David Ho 
Scientific Director and Chief Financial Officer, Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center 
Voted Time Magazine's Man of the Year 1996, Dr. Ho is paving the way in the treat­ment and research of AIDS. He and his team of researchers have created a "triple cocktail" of drugs that can transform the deadly disease into a treatable chronic con­dition. Their findings suggest that, given this three-ring therapy, the lives of patients can be substantially extended and improved-perhaps indefinitely. 


Gary Locke 
Governor, Washington State 
On November 5, 1996, Gary Locke was elected governor of Washington, a state where only 4% of the population is Asian. A second-generation Chinese American, he grew up in housing projects to later become a pioneer in politics. He serves as a model for all aspiring Asian-American politicians and is a living testament that .the American dream is possible. 

Amy Tan 
Novelist 
For her first book, "The Joy Luck Club," nbvelist Amy Tan won the National Book Award and the L.A. Times' Book Award in 1989. Her work has been translated into 22 languages and has been adapted to the big screen. Her writing illustrates the major cultural conflicts facing Chinese­American women. 


Jerry Yang 
Entrepreneur, CEO Yahoo! Inc. This 28-year-old entrepreneur, along with his partner David Fila, has managed to carve a niche in today's hottest indus­try with the creation of the Internet search directory Yahoo! Their invention has made them the poster boys of the Internet revolution and overnight mil­lionaires. 



Michael Chang 
Top-ranked tennis player 
In 1989, at age 17, Michael Chang became the youngest player ever to win the French Open and Grand Slam Championship, and the first American to win since 1955. He is admired for his speed and tenacity and is currently ranked #2 in the world. 
Special thanks to A. Magazine December 1996/]anuary 1997 for biographical information 
.... 

Friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• JORDAN • RUSSIA 


Hussein's heir risks paralysis Yeltsin visits Kremlin 
By JAMAL HALABY 
Associated Press Writer 
AMMAN 

Saddam Hussein's oldest son risks total paralysis if he opts for surgery to remove bullets lodged in his pelvis and near his spine since an assassination attempt, sources said Thursday. 
Odai. widely considered Saddam's heir apparent, has been partially paralyzed since being shot Dec. 12 during an attack in an upscale Baghdad suburb, they said. 
Odai, 32, was thought to have suffered some paralysis based on appearances on Iraqi televi­sion in which he was shown not . 
moving his legs. But the sources Thursday gave the most detailed description yet of Odai's condi­tion. 
The latest on his condition fol­lowed rumors of turmoil in Saddam's inner circle and coin­cided with reports by dissident groups that 6,000 Iraqi troops have been sent near the border with Kuwait, site of the 1990-91 Persian GulfWar. 
Speaking from Jordan's capi­tal, Amman, the dissidents said at least two brigades of special forces were sent to the southern city of Basra over the past few days and were deployed in palm tree groves just outside the city. 
The groves' landlords, work-



Finance Club 

Meetin 


uesday, February 4th, 1997 
·00PM 
oom 2038-COBA (f,Miidi~IIWif!lii.YA,.,.,.wu&Wiiii.......,................J'I' e will discuss: 
Finance Forum Elections 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 



FRIDAY, JAN 31 SATURDAY, FEB 1 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. $2 
http://www.nd:edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
ers and their families have been asked to leave the area along the strategic Shat Al-Arab waterway in the northern tip of the Persian Gulf. 
Opposition groups in London said the deployment could be linked to a recent surge in rebel attacks against government and security officials in Basra, 300 miles south of Baghdad. 
The United States said this weekthatSaddamhadlaunched extensive military exercises that again could threaten Kuwait. 
Iraq denied the charges Thursday, describing them, together with reports of unrest within Saddam's inner circle, as lies. 
Quoting an Iraqi opposition group, the sources speaking in Amman about Odai's condition said two French physicians who arrived in Baghdad last month to check on him returned home this week. 
"They did what they can, but Odai's condition is very com­plex," said one of the sources, whose government was well­informed on the physicians' experiences in Baghdad. 

second time this week 
By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin appeared briefly on television Thursday working in the Kremlin, his second such appearance this week and an apparent indication his health is improving. 
Yeltsin, who turns 66 on Saturday, hunched slightly but appeared to be moving easily as he walked to his chair. 
l,'he five seconds of pictures broadcast by Russia's indepen­dent NTV network also showed Yeltsin smiling broadly as he greeted the chairman of Russia's Constitutional Court. 
"He's gaining. It's obvious from his mood and activity," presidential press secretary Sergei Yastrzhembsky told the ITAR-Tass news agency. 

The trip to the Kremlin was Yeltsin's second this week but only his third appearance since he dropped out of public view on Jan. 6. Two days later, he was was hospitalized with pneumonia. 
His office appearances may ease the clamor over his extended absence and dampen speculation his health has worsened. Yeltsin underwent quintuple heart bypass surgery in November. 
Yeltsin met for slightly more than a half-hour with court chairman Vladimir Tumanov, who said he found Yeltsin look­ing healthier in person than in recent TV broadcasts. 
"He has lost weight. But I think he's looking good," Tumanov told NTV. 
The presidential press ser­vice said Yeltsin discussed a successor for Tumanov, who is retiring. 
How does room, board, academic credit, tuition credit, and a rewarding summer sound? 
llllfi••••••l , ...•••••I• liltttrfN 1•r•••1r11111 
is hiring for its summer sports camp 
Pick up applications at the CSC. Call 1-6614 for more information and to schedule an interview. 
cordially invites you to a 


Eucharistic Celebration 



Candlemas 
Feast of the Presentation of Our Lord 


Sunday, February 2 5:30p.m. Badin Hall Chapel 
Celebrant:· Rev. D. Reginald Whitt, OP 
~tjfict! witlt us as we open Black History Montlt 
• 

VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Friday, January 31, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME 0HICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casc:y Tom Roland 

News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Adv~rtising Manager..... . ....Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ........................... ... ) ed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager .............. Heather Cocks Accent Ediror ........................... ]oey Crawford Systems Manager ..................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller ........................................ .Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does noc necessarily reAccr the policies of the administra­tion of either insrirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objenively as possible. Umigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and noc necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Ediror/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• EDITORIAL 
Observer Phone Lines 
63I-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
631-4541  Advmising  63 I -6900/8840  
63 I -4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  63I -8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  63I-747I  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
63I-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

All we ask is a little salt and sand 
While the snow is falling and temperatures are plummet­ing below zero, the ground crews of Notre Dame arc hard at work clearing the streets and sidewalks ofthe campus. or at least the ones around the Dome and administrative offices. 
Thisyear, as in otheryears; the sidewalks leading to and from the classroom buildings are treacherofis<,...,c. no salt. or sand in sight to provide traction or, God-forbid; melt the ice. 
So far this year one student broke her fall with her spine after slipping on the icysteps of LaFortune, usually one of the better buildings for keeping the area safe. Others have fallen on slippery sidewalks walking to class or the dorms. It's a wonder no one has been seriously injured so far, although an incident of that nature wouhl not typically make the presses. 
Snow plows pay very little attention to the parking lots surrounding the school, especially, it seems, the student lots. Almost every security beat lists an accident in one of the D2 lots. The snow plows barely remove the top layer of snow and leave the rest to be packed into ice -and why is there no salt or sand in these lots? 
In theinterest oft~me and convenience h.e)Jniversity uses different •contt~ptituis: t9< clear th ... walks. .One piece ofmountedmachiMry, ·designed to :tnake the·· side·· walks "safer," looks a. steel wool roller brush. Commonly· referred to as a ''traction remover" by the . student popula~ tion, it is designed to scour the sidewalks, removing any remaining snow, so that only ice remains. 
Notre Dame is a residential campus and will remain so for quite some time (at least until South Bend acquires a raging nigh~life}, but the University must acknowledge the lncreas~ ing tr{lnd for students to move off campus. Notjust seniors, but more and more undergraduate students are leaving the safety and sel{urity of the dorms to try their hand at living on theirown. 
The University, of course, prefers to have the students on campus. At the same time, they punish professors with hav­ing t() drive to campus to. teach their classes. although the rest of the University bas the day off as well as the rest of South Bend. 
The University staff works hard to clear the .streets and sidewalks in below freezing temperatures, and their efforts are. appreciated. The University must make a greater effort, though, to protect its students by maybe throwing down a handful of salt or sand behind the "traction remover." If the University expects its students to attend classes although the •. entire city of South Bend.may be shut down. they must at least make it safe for them to do so. 

• 000NESBURY 
NEU, THai, WHJ I'U­MAXJ,(J&U. M~ /A::J YOU THINK PIP B8T IT MYLA/3~81<.' SCN!? IN lH/3 .AP­H&~At/4AY~llil.t/Ak3 Pt!CATION, 9W!£T-NACJ M& IMHeA/?alRR 
HeART? _.YAX! A /..05CI< CO/..L.Ea3... 
\ "" I 
• LETTERS To THE EDITOR 
View life outside the bubble 
Dear Editor: 
I am lucky. Very Lucky. 
I am also not what you think I am. Looks can be very deceiving. I look like most other Notre Dame students. I have brown hair, brown eyes and light skin. I even wear corduroys, flannels, and white hats all the time. I fit right in. 
What you will never guess is that I am, in fact, very different from most of you. You sec, I am 100% Cuban. Both of my parents immigrated to this country. The first words I spoke were in Spanish, the meals served at my home are Cuban, and my worst enemy is Fidel Castro. 
Not once in my entire life, though, has anyone ever correctly guessed my cthnicity. It seems to be the best kept secret in the world, and I don't even try to hide it. You see, I have been prejudged my whole life. 
I was born in Queens, NYC, and have lived there my entire life. I attended Chaminadc High School, an all-boys Marianist school, in an affluent section of Long Island, a school as undiverse as Notre Dame. But still I fit right in. I was one of 17 other Chaminade alumni who came to Notre Dame last year. Now, I am here, at the University of Notre Dame, where once again, I fit right in. 
Back in high school, while most other students returned home via a bus company, I had to take two public buses to get home. Home to arroz con polio and my family speaking Spanish. It is only right to say that I have and am spending part of my life in a bubble. A bubble of uniformity, comfort, safety, and ease. lt is also a bubble that conforms, denies, and spoonfeeds. It is a bubble we all Jive under here at Notre Dame. 
Fortunately, I have Jived part of my life outside the bubble. I have seen both sides of the bubble, and the difference is outstanding. What is wrong with this bubble? It might seem perfect to most of us. In light of James Friday's excellent speech, among others, at the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hally this past Monday night, I decided to share with you some of my experiences inside and outside this bubble. James Friday was correct in saying not to settle for what you see around you and that there is quite a bit of progress needed at Notre Dame and throughout. Looks can be very deceiving. Things might look acceptable from where we arc standing, but take another look, from outside the bubble, and they won't seem as perfect as they first appeared. 
Because of my own appearance, people have 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
M4X I~ ~>t fJiff H/9 513N~& CF HUMOR. 19 TOTAUY /AM/3, GOf? KNOW9 a/HATH& PUT OV lH& APPL.JCATION
I &"55AY,., 
always prejudged me. I have often been offended by comments and jokes, and it is only after the per­son sees that I am not laughing or in the slightest bit amused, that the idea dawns upon them that they might have said something wrong. The im­mediate response to my revelation of my ethnicity is one of apology followed by an obvious eva­siveness. 
I am lucky, not because I look like everyone else, but rather because, unlike others, I am not forced to feel the prejudice, and hatred they arc subject to everyday. I am not forced to see the contemptuous looks, nor tolerate prejudice thoughts and actions. I pray that God will grant strength to these people. But that is not to say that such prPjudices and insults do not hurt me just as much. They probably sting even more because I am not used to feeling them. I often feel betrayed by a person who accepts me at first, but, after learning I am different, seorns me. I asked James Friday if he ever built up an immunity or indifference to acts and comments of prejudice. lie told me, "I get very depressed. It makes me sad. [Their comment or act! does not reflect upon me, it only reflects upon them and their ignorance. I just take it to memory and keep on going." 
People oftP.n, not realizing my ethnicity, say com­ments they would otherwise not say. Albeit, that is not the important point. The crucial principle is that all people should not change what they say based on those around them, but rather always speak, act, and think in a way which respects all people, and above all, believe that everyone deserves, at least, the best of human eommon cour­tesy and respect. So long as we only repress such words and attitudes when we are around t.hosc they offend, we do nothing to really ehange our­selves or the world. 
I am lucky. Very lucky. Lucky to know both sides of the bubble. I know that both sides can nourish goodness, comfort, safety, and love, but both sides can also brood fear, hatred, pmjudiee, and anger. I also know that there is much work to be done here, inside tl1c bubble, at Notre Dame. I no Ionge; want the discovery of my cthnicity to burst other peoples bubbles. Instead, I dream of a world in which the bubbles no longer exist. 
DANIEL PRINCE Freshman Morrissey Manor 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Minds are like para­
chutes. They only 
function when they are 
open." 
-Sir James Dewar 
VIEWPOINT

Friday, January 31, 1997 page 11 
• OFTEN WRONG, Bur NEVER IN DomH 
The ins and outs of vehicular access to campus 
I'd like to address a brief note to Notre Dame Security. Not the officers at the gates or even the ones patrolling the campus. This is not even for the guys who write all my parking tickets. This one is for the People In Charge. 
Every six months, the geographical axis of the earth shifts. The shift is cycli-

Christopher 
Regan 
cal and very, very predictable. At the extreme of each shift is what is techni· cally known as a "solstice." There are also two "equinoxes," one for each direction in which the axis might shift. 
Right now, the axis is shifted away from the sun, such that the energy of the sun is distributed over a large area of the earth's surface. The most obvious impact of this celestial event is not felt inside the security building. As long as you stay inside that building, you will not notice how spread out the sun's energy is. 
However, if you go outside, you will notice that it is really, really cold. And windy too. You can always tell how windy it is because they never, ever close schooL The streets could have 22 inches of packed powder on an eighty inch base and classes would go as scheduled. 
That's why none of the students were happy to find out that you were plan­ning on "cracking down" on vehicular access to campus' this semester. They are only students, but they know you don't mean that Father Malloy will just have to hike from D2 this semester. They know that your own reserved spots will not lie vacant, filled with (cold) white snow as you keep your vehicles off the campus for the w.eater good. They know you mean them. 
I have received your letter, "... park­ing on a University campus is a complex problem..." I believe you. Still, students often ask to drive onto the campus to pick up a friend, or drop one off or just to run a quick errand and receive incredulous looks for their audacity. These are the paying customers we're talking about. 
Maybe this should all go in that "Frivolata" column, but common cour­tesy just isn't that common, and it is sometimes the little things that make the biggest difference. If this sounds like the typical student whine, do me one last favor. Forget something at home the next time you come to work. When you go back to get it, park 600 yards from your house and walk. Then do this every day for the rest of the winter. Remember that you will not have to suf­fer the indignity of asking if you can go to your house and being told, "no." So you will still not know how we feel. 
The mistrust of students by their own police, on their own campus is truly unfortunate. It is not a reflection on the guards at the gate. They are told not to let the students unless there are unusu­al circumstances. So the students make up lots of circumstances. So the guards don't believe them. Fair enough. 
We can do better than this. To The People In Charge: tell the guards to believe the students when they have ordinary reasons to get on campus and the students wo11't lie (much). We live on a campus where lost twenty dollar bills are turned into Security. Can't we all just get along? 
As evidence of my sincerity, I will now list the excuses I have been using to get on campus the past two years. Every single one of these has worked more than once. I may never get on campus again, but I'm making the sacrifice because I care. 
''I'm going to pick up band equip-' ment." (This alternates between my rock band, which plays at Senior Bar every Monday and has a lead singer who lives in Cavanaugh, and the Notre Dame Band -I play the bass drum and practice diligently year-round.) 
"I have to deliver something for The Observer." 
"''m going to take the flooded carpet out of my friend's room -it got ruined over break." (This one killed me. Where am I going with that carpet?) 
''I'm in ROTC, and I have to go pick up the flags." 
"''m picking up my parents at Columba Hall." (Anyone who mentions Columba Hall gets on campus.) 
''I'm returning dorm football equip­ment to the ACC." (Good through February) 
"I have to go get (pick a famous injured varsity athlete besides Ron Powlus -nobody believes you know Ron) and take him to the airport." 
And the all-time favorite: 
"I have to move a piece of furniture, like a refrigerator or a chair." (Never mind which, I haven't decided.) 
For the sake of freshmen who may get cars in the future, here are a few excus­es that don't work: 
"I can't carry a keg all the way to Stanford." 
"I want to change my oiVchange a belt/remix the coolant." (No one believes you can do this, and DuLac for­bids it specifically.) 
"My formal date is totally smashed and can neither see nor walk." (Do NOT show your date to the officer to convince him or her of this.) 
"There's a bomb in my car! Duck!" 
"Don't you know I pay your salary?" 
Notes and Asides: 
-Two additions to my learned col­league Gary Caruso's article about what Notre Dame could learn from President Clinton: Everyone who gets away with something comes back to get away with a little bit more and a consensus builder is the guy who represents your point of view. 
-Next week: the implications of President Clinton's statement that "way over 90 percent" of his money was raised through "perfectly lawful means." We've heard the stories, but now he's got to be joking. 
-In a landmark game, Carroll defeated Stanford 37-35. Define the moment, or the moment defines you. Or, make more than half your free throws, if that's easier. True to form, they returned with a win just a few days later. That's called character. 
-To the people running SafeRide: Do you want to defend the lawsuit from the guy who rides without a waiver form or the guy who becomes a quadriplegic driving drunk after you wouldn't take him because he didn't sign the form? Just curious. 
-Good for the students who attended the right to life march in D.C. last week. History may judge our time harshly ­the time when abortion replaced slavery as the worst cause for which anyone has ever fought. 
-Gender relations at Notre Dame are perfectly fine. There are no prob­lems in this area whatsoever. What is all the fuss about? 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 

• R!GHT OR WRONG? 
' ••• so that weak bodies may be nourished' 
Why should Notre Dame students buy a ticket to the Bengal Bouts? On February 23rd, and February 26th and March 1st, more than 100 students will step into the ring-each alone and with no substitutions, time-outs or excuses ­to raise money for some of the most needy people in the world. Knute Rockne began an informal boxing pro-

Charles Rice 
gram at Notre Dame in the 1920's. The Bengal Bouts built on that and were begun in 1931 by Dominick (Nappy) Napolitano, the legendary director of non-varsity athletics at Notre Dame. All net proceeds go to the Holy Cross Bengal missions fn Bangladesh. The 1996 con­tribution was $13,000, an enormous sum in terms of the needs of the people there. 
The Bouts this year will honor Father Edmund Goedert, who died last Nov. 3. Goedert served in the Bangladesh mis­sions from 1945 to 1983 during turbu­lent times, including that country's war of independence from Pakistan. Upon his return to Notre Dame in 1984, · Goedert acted as a chaplain for the Bengal Bouts, celebrated Mass for the boxers and encouraged them in their support of the missions. He would talk with them, at the practices and at Mass, about the impact of the contributions from the Bouts in relieving the poverty of the people among whom he had worked. "For over a hundred years" he wrote, "Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters have been working in Bengal, the country which is now Bangladesh. Since most of them have been alumni of Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's it is fitting that we at Notre Dame should help them in their work. For more than six decades, proceeds from the Bouts have assisted the missionaries in of maintaining schools, dispensaries, and feeding the hungry in the poorest country of the world." Father Bill Seetch, rector of Planner Hall, succeeded Goedert as chaplain of the Boxing Club and fre­quently ("not as often as I would like, he admits) works out with the boxers. He · describes the opportunity to serve the 
Club as "a great privilege." 
So why should you attend the Bengal 
Bout this year? For three reasons. First, 
your ticket money would support that 
important cause Second, you would 
probably enjoy the Bouts. Third, your 
presence would lend support and 
encouragement to what I believe, year 
to year, is the finest group of students 
on the campus. 
The Boxing Club, of which I am privi­
leged to be the faculty advisor, conducts 
the Bengal Bouts. Through the efforts of 
the Club officers, John Christoforetti, 
President, Mike DeBiasi, Mike Mantey, 
Lucas Molina, Ryan Rans, John Kmetz 
and Fred Kelly, this year's program is as 
well organized as any we have had. The 
officers themselves run the program, 
with help from student managers Emily 
Schmidt and Molly and Kari O'Rourke. 
"It's a great experience," said Schmidt, 
"to know the importance of helping the 
missions and to see how hard the boxers 
work to support that cause." Rich 
O'Leary and the Recreational Sports 
office, provide all that could be desired 
in support and safety equipment. All the 
coaches are volunteers. Columbus, Ohio, 
developer, Tom Suddes, and Chicago 
lawyer Terry Johnson, who are Bengal 
champs from 1971 and 1974, are the 
head coaches. In January and February, 
Tom spends four days a week here and 
Terry travels four afternoons a week 
from Chicago for the pr(\ctices. They 
provide the boxers a level of instruction 
as good as any in the country, with the primary emphasis on safety. 
The Bengal Bouts, of course are light years removed from the world of profes­sional boxing. Stockholm's Karolinska Institute, which awards the Nobel Prize in medicine, reported in 1988 on the most extensive neurological study ever conducted on amateur boxers. The four­year study found that amateur boxing presented no more risk than heading a soccer ball. Notre Dame's program is far more protective than even the scrupu­lous program in Sweden, so much so that there has never been a serious injury in the 67-year history of the Bengal Bouts. The objective is not to injure but to score points by technique. The preoccupation with safety pervades the program. paramedics are present at every practice involving contact. University physician, James Moriarty, M.D., oversees every aspect of the pro­gram relating to safety. In the competi­tion, a fight will be interrupted for med­ical inspection of the participants if any blood appears and the physicians at ringside have full authority to stop any contest. 
The Boxing Club, incidentally, main­tains a living link to Nappy and Knute Rockne in 84 year-old coach Jack Mooney. Assisted by former South Bend amateur boxer, Jack Zimmerman, Mooney works every day with the box­ers, with his main concern their safety and their personal development during and after the program. 
On a minor historical note, Dan (Rudy) Ruettiger was a vice-president of the Boxing Club in 1975-76. "As far as I'm concerned," Nappy said, "Rudy has been one of the greatest motivators in a dozen years." 
If you attend the Bouts, you will see a unique combination in the three coaches working in the corners between rounds. Roland Chamblee, a four-time Bengal Champ, is Judge of the Superior Court in South Bend. Sweet C. Robinson, a Notre Dame employee and former police offi­cer, was a professional kick-boxing champion. And Pat Farrell, a three-time Bengal champ and retired Naval aviator with the rank of Commander, is the University of Notre Dame pilot. He works with the boxers every day when he is not flying Malloy and other University personnel to various places. 
As Coach Farrell epitomized the pro­gram, "The vast majority of our boxers have never before been in the ring. They learn about themselves, their strengths, their weaknesses. They learn to deal with adversity under pressure. You are on your own in the ring." "The pro­gram," in the words of Club officer Fred Kelly, "is true charity through tough­ness. And we hope that spirit will carry over into the work we all do later on." 
If would be fitting to achieve this year a record level of support for the Bengal Missions, in honor of Fr. Goedert and 
·the Holy Cross priest, brothers and sis­ters who have given their lives for Christ to the poor in Bangladesh. Pre-med John Christoforetti, Club president, said: "This year we are working hard toward the goal of sending $20,000 to Bangladesh, which we can accomplish only with the support of the student body." Then he added, facetiously of course, "When you think about how freely Notre Dame students support local bars, this goal would be easy to reach." 
Archbishop Lawrence Graner, of Dacca, East Bengal•. summarized the bottom line reason for the Notre Dame community to support the Bengal Bouts: "I wish I could conduct you and the whole student body on a complete tour of the Bengal missions. I believe your enthusiasm for the Bouts and for the Bengal missionaries of Holy Cross would know a blessed closeness and intensity never before felt." 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
ACCENT

page 12 Friday, January 31, 1997 

• ACCENT ASKS 
What was your favorite 15tar Wars' moment? 

"Everything with Jabba the Hutt!' 
Dan Nisbit Sophomore, Carroll 
"I prefer 'Empire Strikes Back' because the bad guys win." 
Hoa Vu Junior, Off Campus 


''The fat guy blowing up the X-wing Fighter on the Death Star:' 
Justin Young Sophomore, Carroll 
"The battle scene with Luke and Darth Vader at Cloud City." 
L. D. Blakley Sophomore, Morrissey 


"When the tree trunks smash the At-At Walker." 
Erin Rose Murphy Sophomore, Farley 
:----------....... 

,_;~®rJt.!J L?W 
Creating a 
Myth 
By MIKE MCMORROW Accent Film Critic 
I 
t would be a cliche to begin a short biography of George Lucas by saying something like, "George 
Lucas is an important filmmaker who was one of the 
.originators of 'special effllcts extravaganzas.'" 
But it is an appropriate statement because it is for effects that he is probably best known. Aside from the whole "Star Wars" thing (not to take anything away from "Star Wars"), there are many interesting points to be made about a successful, but also uneven career. 
Lucas has actually only directed three films-the first of which, "TIIX 1138," won him a prize at the National Student Film Festival. Later, Francis Ford Coppola funded the wide release of an updated and extended version of his first film, but it failed to do business at the box office. Still, it has its qualities. Film critic David Thompson has said that "its imagery is more distinctive than anything in the later films." 
Lucas went on to make "Amr~riean Graffiti" for a mere $750,000. llad it not been for his friendship with Coppola, thn film probably would have been boxed up. Not having notable stars at the time and with the lack of special effects or adventure, "American Graffiti" looked worthless from Universal Studios' point of view. But Coppola steppnd in and the film eventually grossed over $100 million at the box office, making it the biggest hit of 1973. This "showing up" of Universal gave Lucas a tremendous deal of power in the business. So Lucas took on what would be his final directing effort~-no prizes for the person who can guess what this might be. 
The massive box-office success of "Star Wars" set Lucas' reputation at the time as one of the premier forces in Hollywood. Even today, $300 million in domes­tic gross is almost unheard of, and this was 1977. "Star Wars" changed the history of movies, establishing the appropriately shameless epic feel of action pictures to come in the next 20 years. Like "Psycho" and "Bonnie and Clyde," it is a landmark film in almost every respect. But the "Star Wars" experience taught Lucas something about himself: Directing was not his cup of tea. llis producing credits over the last 20 years have been vast, but he has not directed since "Star Wars." But to get it just right, Lucas' greatest obsession is the script. "I think it's the part of movie-making that George enjoys more than anything," Jeffrey Boam, screenwriter for "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade," has said. "I think he sees production as just a huge chore." 
After "Star Wars," Lucas went through a couple fias­coes. He had scripted "Apocalypse Now," but this was in 1976 and he was not willing to put off "Star Wars" to pursue the project. Coppola went off on his own and took the "Apocalypse Now" project into his own hands. Coppola also altered the script somewhat, turning what had been a documentary approach into an epic. This created a bit of bad blood between the previous men­tor/student relationship that the two had previously thrived on. 
The second fiasco dealt with "More American Graffiti." Lucas was set on creating a more realistic and less glamorous (but, nevertheless, more optimistic) view of the era. But Lucas, seeing his directing days over and 


his writing days just beginning, worked on a script which he eventually gave to Bill Norton. Although the collaborative vision may have stayed intact. the eventual result was less than satisfy­ing to the mass audience and to the critical body. "More American Graffiti" may in some minds be simply an attempt to cash in on the original, but Lucas had his heart in it. It simply did not res­onate with America. 
A trend in Lucas' career seems to bn his obsession with making sequels darker and "more real­istic" visions, with supposedly more substance than the original lighthearted feeling. This can be seen with 'The Empire Strikes Back," which is slightly darker than its predecessor. This melan­choly nature is especially apparent with the second Indiana Jones picture, "Temple of Doom," and with the second "American Graffiti." But this so-called trend has not proven to be beneficial. Despite massive success of "Raiders of the Lost Ark," which parallels "Star Wars" with its adven­ture/humor tones, "Temple" went a different way. Co-writer Williard Huyck has noted, "George wanted it to be really scary. Steven [Spielberg] was leery at first, but then he got into it." In retro­spect, Spielberg was not happy with the results. "There's not an ounce of my personal feeling in 'Temple of Doom,' "Spielberg has said. 
The third film in the series, however, is a return to the light feeling of the original. But a year before the release of "Temple of Doom," Lucas made a valiant attempt at big-budget fantasy (which can be read as a response to the lack of the genre in the movie business at the time. "Willow," however, turned out to be counterproductive for Lucas. With a critical tailspin and a less-than-welcoming mass audience, Lucas' arresting vision of this fantasy world failed. This set­back in Lucas' career is notable because it was truly one of his goals. Not to say that. other films weren't goals of his, but Lucas appeared to have put a lot of himself in the film. The result was humbling. 
Lucas tried out television in 1991 with "Young Indiana Jones," possibly the most ambitious TV series ever produced. But the rating initially proved to be less than stellar, and they went down from there. Thus, the show was canceled. Nevertheless, Lucas was awarded the Thalberg Award at the 1991 Academy Awards, representing his impact on American cinema in both a visceral aspect and a thematic one. Who else could have pulled off such a feat? 
-----------~----~~----------­
;ACCENT

Friday, January 31, 1997 
------~-~--~----~-~­
page 13 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
My life as a 15tar Wars' 
iunkie 
ByJOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Editor 
A
s a. kid I lived in a "Star Wars" world. I played with ''Star Wars" toys. I had them all. My par­ents s_hould have taken out stock in Kenner, I had so many. I slept in "Star Wars" sheets and I woke up to a ''Star Wars" breakfast. I went to school in "Star Wars" clothes and carried a "Star Wars" lunch box~ I wrote in "Star Wars" notebooks .with "Star Wars" pens and pencils which I carried in yes, you guessed it, a "Star Wars" pencil case . 
My friends and I played "Star Wars" at recess while we munched on ''Star Wars" snacks. When I got home from school I watched . the "Star Wars" trilogy over and over again while siting in a "Star Wars" chair. Eventually I would go back to bed in my "Star Wars" pajamas to my "Star Wars" sheets and return to my "Star Wars" slum­ber. Then the whole vicious "Star Wars" cycle would start all over again. I was so obsessed with the "Star Wars" phenomenon that I even had a Yoda hat with the recognizable )foda ears. I admit it \-Vas a pretty pathetic existence, but the "Star Wars" movies captivated my mind as wt':\11 as the minds of hordes of other children. 
1:983 flew by atan amazing rate and it represented the final installment of the "Star Wars" saga...at least for a little while ahyway. Years new by and no "Star Wars" movies. I thought my interest would wane, but the obsession continued and evolved. I suddenly found new interest in the scenes dealing with Jabba's palace in "Return of the Jedi." All I have to say is: Princess Lei a in metal undt':lrweat, Madonna thought she was vogue, but she was nothing compared to Carrie Fisher. My room continued to be covered with the posters and then came the "Star Wars" video games. I even went as far as to write my college entrance essay about how the films influenced my life. 
"Star Wars'' is an experience unlike any other. Hundred ofscience fiction movies have attempted to cap­ture whatGeorge Lucas did, but they ~tllfafled miserably; i:nost cameoffJoo~ingtacky andgatidy CStar Trek")._lt was not until years later that 1 realized the root of the fascination; George Lucas created films of such purity and of such ingenuity that they will be remembered, for decades to come. 
The films donot belong in an art house theatre but that by no means takes away from yalue of the films. Besides_ the plire _entertainment and escapist value of the films they off~,re9:.a testamenttq hurpanity: Many films in recent past paint a very negative picture of the human race. Many ff)ar that the mechanization of society will crush the humanity out of people. 
"Star Wars,'' however, offers us hope. George Lucas created a whole new universe out of virtually nothing. He completely changed the face of the entertainment industry with the films and the innovations that were developed around the films. in addition to this, the films have served as i:nodels for aspiring writers • and film mak­ers . (like J:nyseJtl ~.round the world..•J'IM them the films represent perfey.tion and masterpiece. They hope that one day they cartsee their dreams come alive on such a grand scale as .Lucas experienced. 
There have been m.any rumors. circUlating around the original trilogy and the prequels for years. Recently Lucas announced the re-release Qf the originals and, 

•more exciting, he announced 
that h~'Was inthe pre-pro­.ductio~stag~ ~e p~equels. Thete ..are many questions surroundin _ t}i(')se. fllnis, I gu.ess we will just have to. wait until'9 .-._ ) .--•• ­
Today; the ~y;tle b¢gins again, Millions of people can rejoin the adventure with Luke, Han, Leia, Chewbacca and the droids with some added effeCts and scenes. For many this will be the trrst time they cari see the films on 
.the big screen~ /for others like myself (my parents sup­posedly took the to see the original Jtr~t a few moths after mY birth).it · ·· a throwb~ck to happy memories. So 
. let tM n _< _4sentimentality begin and let visions of "Star War ..ce in your h~:md. 

Collecting Dreams 
By MARK TORMA Accent Film Critic 
T
he evening of May 19, 1977. Where were you? Playing in your playpen? Bugging your older sib­lings? Some of us weren't even born yet). I know that that night, I was visiting my mother in the hos­pital, where earlier that morning she had given birth to my brother David. If I only had known-! was missing the premiere of "Star Wars." 
How many of us, though, actually went to see it on its first run? That is, of course, the central marketing ploy of the current campaign-that none of us have ever seen it on the big screen. Even if we saw it in re-release, we were deprived of the full "STAR WARS" experience. We missed the media hype; we couldn't read the press releases; we were too young to comprehend the newfound, yet leg­endary stature of Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader-and of the men and women who brought the film to life. 
First and foremost is George Lucas, the creator of the rebel worlds and mercenary aliens that have passed into legend. "American Graffiti" was his first big success. For his next project, Lucas negotiated with several studios to film a science-fiction fantasy like the "Flash Gordon" and 
. "Buck Rogers" serials he had watched in his youth. But he quickly ran into some roadblocks. First of all, no studio wanted it, until Alan Ladd, Jr., head of Twentieth Century Fox, commandeered it for his studio. Then, when Lucas started watching those movie serials again as an adult, with an eye to just expanding them to the big screen, he realized "how really awful they were." So what did he do? lie decided he would have to write his own modern myth. After two years of writing, voila-there was "Star Wars." What exactly was the "Star Wars" myth? Nowadays, everybody knows. But during the filming, everybody involved had their own idea. When Harrison Ford was asked on a lunch break what the movie was about, he dis­covered that he had absolutely no idea. Characters were fleshed out in wildly different ways from what Lucas had imagined; for example, Carrie Fisher read the part of Princess Leia and decided that it was all wrong. "I was not a damsel in distress. I was a distressing damsel," Fisher has said. So she made her princess "impossibly ironic." And where the script said she was "staggeringly beauti­ful," she crossed it out and just left "staggering." The casting of this masterpiece-in-progress is a legend in its own right. The filmmakers were seriously doubting that they would find anyone really capable of convincingly delivering Obi-Wan Kenobi's lines until they found a will­ing Alec Guinness. Fisher and Mark Hamill considered themselves to be unusual choices for their parts, but per­haps the most improbable choice of all was Ford for Han Solo, fighter pilot and friend to Wookies. It wasn't that Ford wasn't daring or dashing enough; Lucas had decid­ed that he wasn't going to use anybody from his earlier movie (Ford was in "American Graffiti"), so Ford was stuck with doing carpentry on the set. Only after Christopher Walken and Nick Nolte, among others, had been turned down for the part, and Brian DePalma had claimed John Travolta for his new movie, "Carrie," did Ford get the nod for Han Solo, and the world was left to wonder how Travolta would look encased in carbonite. What did the Hollywood establishment have to say about this ambitious mishmash of young unknowns and revolu­tionary cinematography? Most insiders loved it, but some abhorred the implications of its existence. The previous twenty years had already seen a revolution in cinema, a 

departure from overly formulaic film genres and techniques. However, after witnessing the success of "Star Wars," many Hollywood veterans would complain that the film had undone all the advances and achievements of the experimental filmmakers of the sixties and seventies. It essentially revived the storyline of the old Western and sent it into outer space. Tom Pollack, George Lucas' attorney at the time, admits that those involved with "Star Wars" knew it would have an enormous impact on movies: "When we saw 'Star Wars,' I don't think we said, 'Oh, my God, this movie is going to do $300 million.' I think the first reaction was, 'Movies will never be the same."' 
If George Lucas' dream was a dramatic departure from the conventional wisdom of the Hollywood community at the time, it was so primarily in its use of its famous effects that would help "Star Wars" radically change the way movies are made and marketed. Whereas today's films contain only about 50 to 150 special effects shots, "Star Wars" ended up with 360 special effects shots-and Lucas had originally planned to do no less than 800! He would not pare down the final battle scene, however, even though the studio was pushing to end the movie at the rescue of the princess. To do the battle scene right, the perfection-driven Lucas developed the technology that would eventually grow into his special effects company, Industrial Light and Magic. When "Star Wars" grossed $322 million and spe­cial effects became mandatory during the summer season, Industrial Light and Magic became an extremely lucrative venture, and Lucas and his team found themselves working on projects that have included "Terminator 2" and "Jurassic Park." 
Ironically, Lucas considers "Star Wars" to be a mediocre movie. Consequently, he is extremely thrilled that he has been able to rework his "Star Wars" trilogy and change it to how he originally wanted it. Soon, Lucas will start work on the "first" three films in the sequence (remember, "Star Wars" was chapter IV); the first is due out in theaters in 1999. Lucas is probably already tearing his hair out over the technical headaches, and new casting tales will undoubtedly crop up. It's rumored that Kenneth Branagh could play the young Obi-Wan. 
With that kind of star cachet, will personality be the hallmark of the new "Star Wars" films? Don't worry, the stars of the screen will still be the screaming TIE fighters and the mind-boggling life-forms that only George Lucas could dream up. And even if he thinks they rate "only a 60 out of 100," we know better. 
__, 
ACC~NT 

page 14 Friday, January 31, 1997 
Improving a masterpiece 

By DAN JUKIC shot in 35mm were badly degraded and some reels scene originally shot 20 years ago that depicts a meet­Accent Film Critic had negatives that were even scratched and pitted. ing of Han Solo and Jabba that takes place in Mos These damaged negatives had to be carefully cleaned, Eisley. This scene required no new dialogue or shoot­
"A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away... " both by hand and with special chemical baths, and ing, but it did entail creating Jabba entirely from CG. then matched with other available negatives. The The final special effects revision was the expansion 
That line began one of the most influential and pop-master YCM (yellow-cyan-magenta) prints were used of the climactic final Battle of Yavin, where the Rebel ular movies of all-time. "Star Wars" premiered 20 to cut new negatives which were combined with the fighters fought their way through space to reach the years ago this year-in a measly 32 thPaters-and restored 35mm stock. Finally, the footage was sent to Death Star. In the original, only a few of the ships soon became one of the most r--=-----------------------,the Industrial Light and were in evidence at once, because of limits in the tech­
successful movies ever made. . . Magic (ILM) labs where it was nology of the time. In the new version, CG X-wing "Star Wars" transcended digitally scanned and fighters will be seen-all 30 that were supposed to be mere cinema; it became a matched with the new involved in the attack. The overall sweep and specta­phenomenon of communal footage added especially for cle of the dogfight that ensues is also enhanced in experience for the country-the Special Editions. "Star Wars: Special Edition." and eventually the world. The The third element of popularity of the film so pene-change brought to the trilogy "The Empire Strikes Back" trated the American psyche in the Special Editions is also that in the mid-1980s the most radical, and possibly Both "Empire" and "Return of the Jedi" have sub­President Reagan dubbed his the most controversial. Lu~;as stantially fewer changes. There arc still two major Strategic Defense Initiative has introduced whole new ones in the second installment of the trilogy, however. "Star Wars"-and everyone special effects elements to the The first concerns the icc planet of Hoth and the sec­knew what he was talking films, and in "Star Wars," a ond Lando Calrissian's Cloud City. about. new scene was added from On Hoth, the ILM team added scenes making the 
To celebrate the 20th an-20-year-old outtakes. All Wampa snow-creature that captures Luke in the film's niversary of the release of these additions were created opening minutes more vicious and disgusting. This "Star Wars," creator George by ILM computer-graphics was done primarily to increase the suspense in Luke's Lucas' Lucasfilm Ltd., along (CG), the same graphics that plight and eventual escape. CG were used on a larger with Twentieth Century Fox, brought dinosaurs to life in scale to blend the different elements of the awesome is releasing the "Star Wars "Jurassic Park" and created land battle on Both's icy planes into a more cohesive Trilogy: Special Edition" to the killer tornadoes of and spectacular whole. the big screen. This is no 
"Twister." Cloud City is made more realistic-looking through ordinary re-release, however. the use of three-dimensional CG that replace the matte All the films in the trilogy "Star Wars" paintings of the original. The City is also fleshed out have been completely in greater detail through use of the computer-graph­restored and renewed. The first movie of the trilogy had the smallest budget ics. Interior shots are altered as well, as windows are 
Three major areas in particular have been improved and thus was presumably the least polished. Now it digitally created to allow an airier, expansive feel for the re-release. The famous soundtrack has been contains the most additions, presumably for the same more befitting a true cloud city. digitally re-mixed and augmented, the original nega­reason. tives have been cleaned to create a new negative with The majority of the special effects changes in "Star "Return of the Jedi" extraordinary color and clarity, and finally-the most Wars" occur on Luke Skywalker's home planet of exciting and controversial aspect of the new trilogy­Tatooine. The Stormtroopers sent to retrieve R2-D2 The final episode of the trilogy is the least changed. new scenes and special effects were added. and C-3PO have been inereased in number and tlw Tlw major addition in this film is the significant 
The first improved aspect of the Special Editions is previously inanimate desert creatures callml r!Pwh<H'ks PXJ1ansion of a danec number that takes place in the sound quality. Very few pieces of music elicit the that used to just sit in the back-Iabba the llutt's instant recognition that the "Star Wars" soundtrack ground arc now animated and palaeo. As with does. and the new work done on the soundtrack does ridden by Stormtroopers. Along the Ilan/Jabba true justice to that legacy. The sound effects have also the same ereature lines, a new scene in "Star been juiced up. Low frequencies have been added to beast named Ronto is introduced Wars," this scene pump up the explosions and put true rumble into the as the beast of burden of those was originally passing of the spaceships. The new mix has added wandering robed midgets, the shot and material to increase the spatial effects, making ships Jawa. The previously sedate scrapped because sound as if they are passing right overhead and burg of Mos Eisley where Luke the production putting explosions all around you. The sound restora­and Obi-Wan (Ben) Kenobi first ran out of time. tion was digitally re-mastered from the original mix, meet Han Solo is eompletely Given a second creating the highest sound quality available. transformed into the teeming, o p port unity, 
Visually, the excellent color and picture quality of dangerous, seedy spaceport that <. Lucas expanded the Special Editions came from painstaking restoration Lucas had always envisioned it ')· /·.. the song and of various negatives of "Star Wars" from 1977. Prints to be. One of the most obvious J, danee routine, 
effect failures of "Star Wars" ' and even uses will also be corrected using digi-""-"--X.-~_J.____ one of the samfl tal technology. Luke's Landspneder, which previously dancers from 14 yflars ago! Again, how this addition moved along on an obviously fake cushion of air. will will play to the fancy of long-time fans remains to be now be made-to look as if it is aetually floating. seen. 
Two major changes are sure to provoke debate Another unexpected alteration is tho scope of the among "Star Wars" purists. The first is a change in celebration of the Empire's final defeat at thn very end the scene in the Cantina in Mos Eisley where the boun-of "Return." Where previously only the Ewok celebra­ty-hunter Greedo confronts llan about the price put on tion on Endor was shown, now eclcbrations on his head by the galactie criminal Jabba the Ilutt. In Tatooine, Cloud City, and the Imperial headquarters the original, Han shoots Greedo when it appears that city of Coruscant will be seen. This ehange provides Greedo is going to choose the former in the saying tho galactic seope of the reaction to the Alliance victo­"bring him back dead or alive." In Special Edition, ry that the original was missing. Greedo is shown to shoot at Ilan first and Han fires Ilow the changes of "Star Wars Trilogy: Special back in response, thus killing him in self-defense and Edition" will go over with fans remains to be seen. not in cold blood. The original version makes it seem One thing is certain: George Lucas pulled no punches as though Han struck first in response to Greedo's with this re-relcase. Love or hate the minor revisions, veiled threat, whereas in the new version he actually there can be no denying that this "Star Wars Trilogy" waits for Greedo to make a move. Audiences will have will be the loudest, sharpest, most colorful, clear and to decide on which action is more characteristic of spectacular "Star Wars" of all-time. Han's character. Don't miss it for anything in this galaxy. Or even in 
The other major change is the re-installmcnt of a one far, far away... 

~· 
Photos courtesy of Twentieth Century Fox and Lucasfilm Ltd. 
The streets of Mos Eisley are now populated with new digitally-created creatures in the "Star Wars Special Edition." 


I 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre I Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. I Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 I cents per character per day, including all spaces. I I 
Classifieds 
Simon Says ... "Come to LNO on EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­For a gift that is unique, send aNOTICES 1/31/97 -Joyce Center and see MENT-Travel Eastern Europe by __ __~II~__ BELLYGRAM to your SHEIK! l
~-F_o_R_REN_T P_E_R_so_N__A_L~ 

Sgt. Tim McCarthy." teaching basic conversational 234-3355 Spring Break Bahamas Party English in Prague, Budapest, or Homes for Rent for 97-98 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Krakow. Inexpensive Room & ADT Security 232-2595 Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All JAZZERCISE Meals, Parites, & Taxes! Great ILOST & FOUND IBoard + other potential benefits. Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great Very close to campus l I Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Find out how to succeed in this 4 Bedrm. furnished house, sec. sys­Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From 277-0111 Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 HELP!! field. Call: {206)971-3680 ext. tem, wash/dry, beach v-ball, prime Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386 -~l 
springbreaktravel.com  Lost my class ring between  K55844  location, 109 N. St. Peter 233-9947  springbreaktravel.com  Electrolysis by Rebecca Blend  
Sorin, SDH, and D6. Great  Method 674-6933  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  sentimental value. If found,  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ BEAUTIFUL house apartment-high  Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars  please call John at X2213 or  Travel the world (Hawaii, Mexico,  ceilings, etc. ONLY $210 PER  Room With Kitchen Near Bars  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  drop by 319.  Caribbean) & earn an excellent  MONTH! near campus-female  $119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  $$REWARD$$  income in the Cruise & Land-Tour  -non-smoker-move in ASAP.  Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!!  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav- Industry. For details, call 1-206­ call Julie @ 288 7284  Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ The highest quality color copies  
eLcom 1-800-678-6386  LOST: Blue winter coat at  971-3550 ext.C55845  eLcom  are now available at  
Jazzmans on Saturday night  NICE HOMES FOR NEXT  1-800-678-6386  THE COPY SHOP  
Sgt. Tim McCarthy says ___ "Be a  If you accidentally took the wrong  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -Fishing  SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND  LaFortune Student Center  
follower not a leader." Simon Says  coat please calL Todd X1569  Industry. Many earn up to  IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS  Extremely funny, great sounding,  Phone 631-COPY  
Game at LNO 1/31/97  $4,000+/mo. during peak season.  2773097  Indiana State Trooper ISO ND/SMC  
Joyce Center 1-6100.  LOST DOG  Benefits often include  students to play Simon Says at  Hot sun, sandy beaches, fine  
Pembroke Welsh Corgi DUSTIN  Transportation  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  LNO 1-31-97. 1-6100  dining, beautiful men, & 168  
SPRING BREAK  near ND Ave. Small, Tan and  and/or Room & Board. For details:  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  happy hours ... Join us for the  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  White. Pink and Purple Collar.  {206)971-351 0 ext. A55849  2773097  Are you looking for additional  "Cancun experience!" Looking for 2  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  REWARD Call Pete at 287-4876.  income while pursuing your college  more fun girls to share the cost of  
RESORT 3 POOLS. 1 INDOOR POOL. HUGE BEAOH61DE HOT  Lost: Sterling silver ring with black  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  FOR SALE  career? Are you interested in help­ing people help  an ocean-front hotel room in Cancun. call Jessica ASAP for  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  writing on one side and an  parks, resorts. Airfare!  themselves? Are you interested in  details. x4655  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  engraved flower on the other side.  Food/Lodging\ Get all the options.  Bed -Oueensize orthopedic premi­ good nutrition? You are a phone  
BIGGEST PARTY.  If found, please call Katy at x1490.  Call  um mattress set Never used still in  call away from changing your  You can stop counting down the  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  -REWARD­ (919)918-7767, ext.A 154.  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175:  entire future! 800-927-2527  days now, Jane-it's finally here!  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  {219) 674-2352  ext.1051.  Happy Birthday! Love -Emma  
Lost:  EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  
BEST HOTELS & LOWEST  Brown Leather Wallet  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo,  WOODBRIDGE 1-BEDROOM  Are you atheletic and looking to  
PRICES for SPRING-BREAK  Sun. Night  etc. teaching simple conversational  CONDO W-CARPORT $54,900  increase your endurance, energy  Phelan­ 
BEACH destinations. Florida.  Reward If Found  English. No languages/teaching  TA'MARA 273-5166  and mental focus? Are you interest­ llove you ...  
Cancun. Jamaica. etc. CALL NOW  Brad or Rob x4784  exp. required.  ed in good nutrition? You are a  The PTB  
for rooms or SIGN-UP as INTER­CAMPUS REPR. 800-327-6013 http://www.icpt.com  WANTED  (919)918-7767, Ext. W154. VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  '92 HONDA ACCORD LX. BEAUTIFUL. $8,500 OR B/0. 233-5537.  phone call away from changing your life! 800-927-2527 ext.1051  Court, How was class yesterday.  _ .•.  
The Early Childhood Devlopment  Tired of the caffeine high? Are your  Don't kill me .... l'll make one sooner  
THE COPY SHOP  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­ Center with programs at Saint  94 2 dr Jeep Cherokee Sport air  studies draining you? Want to  or later.  
LaFortune Student Center  National Parks hire forestry work­ Mary's College and the University  cruise 2 yr. ext warranty. Must sell,  increase your mental clarity, focus  Hope you have a great day.  
Phone 631-COPY  ers, park rangers, firefighters, life­ of Notre Dame is looking for volun­ returning to schooL Good condition,  and endurance? You are a phone  Isn't being friends fun ____ _  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  guards, +volunteer and govern­ teers who enjoy young children. If  $12,500/or best offer. 233-1020  call away from changing your life!  lov ya  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ment positions. Excellent benefits +  you would be interested in spending  800-927-2527 ext 1 051  P.S. Won't you be my Valentine  
Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  bonus potentiaL Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55841  2 hours a week reading childrens' books, building with blocks and  TICKETS  MARDI GRAS!  "Marshall?" .... "No, it's me,  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  singing songs with children, please  2 people need ride. will help w/  Franco!!" ...... "OK, I go now." ....  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  paying $20 to borrow  call Cindy Hestad 284-4693 (SMC)  I need one JPW ticket for one or all  driving, gas $, etc. call Karen  Love the way he leaps out of bushes.  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  student id 233-1529.  or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344  of the events. Please call Shannon  X4420  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  (ND). Please join our fun filled days.  at X1833. Thanks.  Um___ The End.  

~----~~,..........-----~~--~---~ --~--~~------__,_..._____,______________~-----,.._-----, 
Friday, January 31, 1997 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

D
espite drawing much attention from Big East foes, Notre Dame junior forward Pat Garrity is still battling with Victor Page for the Big East scoring title. 
Current Big East Scoring leaders 
## Player-Team Games Pts Avg/G 1 PAGE, Victor-GU 19 438 23.1 2 GARRITY, Pat-NO 18 373 20.7 3 HOLLOWAY, Shaheen-SHU 19 353 19.1 4 BROWN, DerricK-PC 18 325 18.6 5 CROSHERE, Austin -PC 20 352 17.6 6 THOMAS, Tim-VU 18 300 16.7 7 ABRANS, Danya -BC 18 296 16.4 8 JAMES, Tim-UM 17 273 16.1 9 LOPEZ, Felipe-SJU 18 276 15.3 10 CUMMINGS, Vonteego-PITT 20 304 15.2 
-Squad opens with big  
victory, loses captain  
By JOE CAVATO  
Sports Writer  
The eleventh ranked Notre Dame women's ten­ 
nis team got the season off on the right foot in the  
win/loss column, but not in other areas as their  
captain suffered a knee injury.  
Thus the squad had a bit of a bittersweet opener  
as they defeated Illinois by a mark of 6-3. But,in  
the first set of the No. 4 singles match senior cap­ 
tain Erin Gowen went down with a knee injury  
and is still being evaluated. This is the second  
time Gowen has been injured in her career as she  
missed much of her freshman, also with a knee  
injury.  
"It was a solid win for us but it was tough to lose  
Erin," sophomore Marisa Velasco commented.  
"She was such an asset to the team but everybody  
will have to kick it up a notch."  
The host Iri&h picked up the doubles point as the  
Nos. 1 and 2 teams got the best of the Illini. The  
top tandem of Scaringe and Hall defeated the best  
Illinois could offer by a mark of 8-5. The Domers'  
second doubles team of Velasco and Tiffany Gates  
won in dramatic fashion as they fought off five  
match points to win in a tie-breaker 9-8.  Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information  
"Our doubles match was a bit streaky," Velasco  
remarked. "But, I think it was good for me and  
Tiffany to get a win under our belts."  Jessica Klapper was the benefactor of Gowen's  
That win was crucial to the team's success yes­ injury as Gowen was forced to retire with Klapper  
terday as that win clinched the doubles point as  trailing 2-5. Head coach Jay Lauderback received  
the Illinois team of Lindsay Bruce and Laura  solid play from the lower part of his lineup as Kelly  
Rydberg took the match in the third doubles slot  Zalinski and junior Kelley Olson both cruised to  
over Notre Dame's Kelley Olson and Kelly Zalinski  straight set victories.  
by a mark of 8-5.  Lauderback's squad will next head to Oklahoma  
In singles play, the Irish won all the matches  City where they will battle the Sooners and a top  
they finished as sophomores Jennifer Hall and  twenty foe, Brigham Young.  
Velasco lead the way. Hall, the forty-sixth ranked  In addition, they will likely have to battle without  
player in the country was taken the distance by  the services of Gowen. To compensate for the loss  
Stacy Schapiro before as Hall won the point with a  of their captain, the Irish will look to take advan­ 
6-1, 3-6, 6-3 final.  tage of their doubles play.  
In the number two slot Velasco was challenged  "I think we're a tough team and will be able to  
but prevailed to come away with a straight set, 6­ bounce back," Velasco predicted. "I think our dou­ 
3, 6-4 win over Susanne Lord.  bles will be a determining factor for us this week­ 
"I played pretty well in my singles match but my  end."  
opponent was a pretty good player so I had to step  So the squad that finished sixth in the nation last  
it up," Velasco observed.  year has been presented with an early challenge,  
In the third singles position Gates, a senior made  but it appears that they will be prepared to meet  
her Irish debut in fine fashion as she surrendered  that challenge and look to pick up where they left  
only three games to Illinois" Kara Loffelmacher in  off last season.  
a 6-1, 6-2 victory.  

page 15
The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Bittersweet start for Irish 
I 

------~~--~·---------·~--~-·-------~·-. _,. ------~ ---~-~---·-----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 31, 1997 
• fENClNG 

Fencing squad heads to Cleveland State meet 
By DAVID FRICK SportS Writer 
After being defeated last week by the toughest teams in the nation, the fencing squad looks to regain the confidence of a champion by competing well at the Cleveland State Meet this weekend. The setback dealt by Penn State last weekend is far from being a deathblow to the resilient squad. 
"Last weekend does not really affect the big picture. The most important thing in the regular season is to get the necessary ten fencers to qualify for the NCAA championship," said head coach Yves Auriol. 
The ten fencers Auriol dis­cusses are necessary in order to have the best chance at the title. The qualification format is stipu­lated by 40% of the regular sea­son won/loss record and 60% of how the individual performs at Midwest Regional qualifications. The NCAA format of two fencers per event could prove crucial for the Irish. 
"I don't consider last weekend as a setback because they have a little more depth than we do. The NCAA format will be dif­ferent, and I think that favors us," sophomore sabreist Luke LaValle said. 
"We have reliability in our top fencers, but the key people will be the number two fencers, whether they can step up and reach the NCAAs," said Auriol. 
With the overall record being a significant part of qualifying, this weekend will be an impor­tant segment of the season. Though the competition is not of the same rank of skill as Penn State, the concentration level must be high if the team has 

I 
I hopes of competing well in the post-season. "This weekend will allow us to I build up our confidence. LastI 
weekend was a setback, but in

I 
no way does it eliminate us from

I 
the hunt," says foil captain Rose

I 
Saari.

I 
"The key focus of the team is

I 
I to win enough bouts so that they 
I can qualify," says Auriol. 
I One individual who has little 
I worry of qualifying for the NCAA 
! championships is senior sabre captain Bill Lester. Though
!,_ Lester fell short last weekend of assistant coach Mike Sullivan'sI 19-year old win record, he is 
I 
certain to break it this weekend. 
If you see sPorts haPPenins. call The Observer at 1-4543. 
"After the difficulty last week­end, I came to appreciate each bout that I won. Wins don't come easily," Lester said. 
One individual who recognizes the difficulty of attaining a record of such stature is fellow top sabreist LaValle. 
"The record is something which can be held pretty high because it has gone so long without being broken," LaValle commented. 
The two represent the strongest fencers 111 the Midwest. LaValle finished fourth in the NCMs, with Lester coming right behind him at sixth. With such talent on one team, a competition between two is obvious, but good­natured. 
"We like to keep it competitive between the two of us to see who ranks one and two. I see Luke as my toughest opponent in the Midwest," Lester ob­served. 
"We like to have a friendly competition between the two of us, but Bill has been the heart of the sabre squad for four years," LaValle remarked. 
An addition to women's squad was also crucial for a solid run for tlie national title. Sophomore foilist Sara Walsh returned to action last weekend with an undefeated performance at 18-0 after suffering through injuries for the first part of the season. Walsh has earned such accolades to her credit as first team All-America, runner-up in the foil at the 1996 champi­onships, and first alternate to the United States Olympic foil team. Counting last weeks 
(ffmt:;AGO HAIR & TAN@ 
5804 Crape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 277-7946 
PEACE CORPS 
"THE TOUGHEST .JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE" 
Peace Corps Representatives will be on campus 
February 3-5 
Information Table: 
February 3 -4, Hesburgh Library Lobby 
Information Seminars: 

February 3 ·'­
St. Joseph County Public Library-7:00 pm 


competition, Walsh's combined collegiate record is an astound­ing 98-2. To add such a stand­out to the team adds a potent attack to an already skilled foil squad. 
"Adding Sara to our lineup is an absolute help. With her out there, you can count on a victory almost all of the time," Saari said. 
This weekend represents a new start to the rest of the sea­son for the fencing team. Though the competition will not be as great as at Penn State, each event has great importance in their own right. To make a good run in the NCMs, a strong showing this weekend is a must. 
"The rest of the season will not be like last weekend. We'll have to be more focused when we get to the NCAAs. It'll be a tough battle, but we can do it," I-Ioos predicted. 
Ducks, RabbitsJfprechauns 
Experience the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $84,990 

• 
Waterfront views • Exterior maintenance provided 


Come visit us at $~:;,'<-. 
North Shore Club ~~,~) 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002. 800-404-4275 

LATE NIGHT 
OLYM1'1L~ 
Enter the Slam-Dunk Competition at Late Night Olympics-January 31. 



Friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Please join with students in your brother/sister halls who will be fac· ing a discussion on ... 
1 

Siegfried/Keough Morrissey/Lyons 


, 

0\MPUS 
~NISTRY 
page 18 
Hockey 
continued from page 1 
The Lakers are in the midst of the defense of their 1996 CCHA title and currently are tied for second place with Michigan State. The Irish succumbed to them 4-3 on November 26, in the teams' only meeting this season. 
In a tumultuous off-season, the Lakers lost their coach and sev­eral key players from that cham­pionship team but did return 19 letter-winners, including 5 who scored 20 or more points last season. Though not a particular­ly potent offensive team, the Lakers are known for their tena­cious defense. 
"They like to get the lead early and then hang on to it by playing tough, defensive hockey," Borega stated. 
The Boys of Winter didn't have too much time to prepare for the 

.-L" Lakers. In an aberration from their orthodox schedule, the Irish had a weekday game on Tuesday evening against the Michigan State Spartans (a 3-0 loss), which consequently cut their time in half. 
"We basically had a short week of practice because of Tuesday's game," explained Lorenz. "Last week was a work week." 
"Last week we concentrated on discipline and worked on certain areas of the game, like the power play," added Borega. "But this week we just had game-day practices, which just get the legs moving." 
The Irish would like at least 

I. I 
I ~ 
one win this weekend. They need it not only to fend off the pesky teams chasing them but also to move up in the standings. 
"We are feeling pressure from behind us," stated Lorenz. "But there is defmitely time to make a jump." 
The keys to Irish success this weekend are relatively simply. First, they need strong goaltend­ing from junior Matt Eisler, who has been playing extremely well and is on the verge of turning in one of the finest seasons by an Irish goalie in 25 years. 
Second, they need to play con­sistently at a high level. This is easy to say but hard to do, and it has plagued the Irish much of the season. The leers did make progress last weekend however, turning in two solid back-to-hack efforts against St. Cloud State. 
Third, they need to convert their chances. In four games this season the Irish have outshot their opponents but lost the game. On Tuesday night, the Irish had many quality chances to score but just couldn't convert. The presence of freshman center Ben Simon, who did not play on Tuesday, in the lineup tonight should help accomplish this goal. 
What is the ambiance of the Blue and Gold as they head into a critical weekend? 
"We're more upbeat, we've got more jump in us than .before," observed Borega. "We're play­ing better as a team and we're clicking." 
Lorenz agreed. "We're going to keep it on and stay positive," and then added, "because game from here in is going to be a fight for the playoffs." 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 


john Huston's 
Moby Dick 
starring Gregory Peck and Orson Welles 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE

f • 
~--~·----~--­
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 31, 1997 

The Observer/Jed Donahue 
The leers will face-off against Lake Superior State in hopes of improving their playoff chances. 
24th Annual Summer Programs ND-SMC Students Meeting February lOth Carroll Hall, SMC 6:30p.m. London Rome 
May 21-June 20 June 15-July 14 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 
Pizza! 
Past students and Faculty will be p;esent. For information call Prof. Black at 284~4460 or 272~3726 
Monday, February 3 
8 P.M. 
Cushing Auditorium Sponsored by the Judicial Council Questions? call council headquarters at 1-4553 

page
The Observer • 
THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES Friday, January 31 
7:00PM-4:00AM
FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 
Joyce Center 
TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by
AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. the Notre Dame Alumni Association Lr\1£ I' IC: r11 All T-Shirts Were Donated by <I:~ C L 't ~/ 1: IC~= Be a Real-Champion -Support Special Olympics!!!-$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 


Stanford I LeMans I Pasquerilla East Zahm I Farley 

\'uiiL·yb~JII Team A 7:15 Tablt: Top Pent. Team A 10:011 Volleyball Te:~mA 7:~11 T:.1hlc Top Pent. Te:un r\ N/A 
Tc: . .un B 8:15 Team H 10:411 Tc:.tm B N/A '1\·am B -N/A \len's Haskcth:lll Team A 8:011 Men's Broomball 9:00 Men's Basketball Team A 8:40 Men's Broomlmll 8:011 Team ll N/A Women's llroomball H:30 Team B H:OO Women's Broom hall N/A Women's Huskctball Team A 8:00 Kicklmll Team A 9:20 Women's Basketlmll Team A N/A Kickball Te:un 1\ X:40 Team B 8:30 Team n 11:211 Te:.1m ll N/A Team B N/A !'h·rf Fuothall Team A 8:30 \\'ifllchall Tl·:unA 7:411 Nl·a·rFouth:lll Te~1m A 12:45 \Virnehall Tc:unA N/A Team B 8:00 Teum U N/A Te:ml U 7:()(1 Team ll N/A 
T;,1r~L·t Coif Team A 8:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Team U 8:15 Men's Soccer Tc.:.~mA 11:00 Team B N/A Men's Soc..·ccr Tc:1m A 10:30 
\\'onn·n·~ Sut'l'cr Team A 9:30 Tc:uu B 8:311 \Vumcn's Sm:nr Te:un A '1:011 Te:un B N/A Team B 8:00 lnnertube W:1tcr Polo Team A 9:30 Team B N/A lnnertuhe Watl·r Polo Te01mA N/A Team A 11:00 Tcmn B N/A LNO Ohst:u:ll' Course Team A N/A Team B N/A Tc:1m B 12:00 Kll)'~lking 111:311 Team U. N/A K~1)':1king N/A 
\IL·n·., l<:•rquctl1411i CALL 1-(>11111 Women's R:~nJUl'lhall N/A Men's lbl'CjUl'thall CALL 1-1>100 \Vumen'.<i R:H'((tll'lhall 'IIA 
Lyons I 1\;lorrissey Howard I Alumni 
Team A 7:15 T01hle Top Pent. Team A 9:20 Volleyball Team A N/A "l':..ible Top Pent. Team,\ N/,.\ Team ll 9:15 TL·amB 10:110 Team U N/A Team B Nt,\ 

\h·n'!l Baskcthall Team r\ H:20 Men's Hroomlmll 9:00 1\ll·n's lluskctball Team A 8:20 Men's Uruombull H:llll Team lJ 9:110 \\'omen's llroomhall 8:011 Team B N/A Women's Uroomb:.dl \\'omen's Uaskcthall Team A N/A Kickball 12:20 Team A Kickball "'"
Team A Women's H:.tsketb<lll N/A Teo1mr\ 9:110 Team U N/A Team ll 8:00 Team ll N/A Team ll 11:00 '\crf Football Team A 7:30 1\'iflleball Te:.1mA 7:40 Nerf Foothall Team A N/A Wifllchall Tc:.1111A 7:011 Team B H:15 Team U 7:20 Team H N/A Te~m1 B N/A 
Team A 9:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:1111 Team A N/A Monster DmJ~dmll N/A Tc:1m IJ 8:30 Men's Snl·ccr Team A 8:110 Team U N/A !\fen's Soccer Team A 12:30 Team/\ 12:311 Team ll 111:1111 \VtJJIH•n's Socnr Team A N/A Tc:un B 7:]0 Team H N/A lnncrtuhc Water Pulu Team A N/A Tcmn B N/A lnnertuhc Watl'r Polo Tc;.~mA 8,30 

LNO Ohstadc Course. Team A 12:30 Team U N/A LNO Ob~tacle Course Team A N/A Team B N/,\ Team U 12:15 Ka)aking N/A Team 8 N/A Kayaking 9:30 \len's Racquetball CALL 1-61011 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball N/A Women's Racquetball N/A 
Keough I Pasquerilla West I Keenan 
Tc:1111 A '9: IS T:.1hle Tup Pent. Tc:un I\ 9:211 T~1rgct Golf Team A 9:15 Munster Dud!-:chull 12:00 Team B 7:45 Te:w1 B 11:00 TL•am B N/A 1\ll•n'.\ SnlTl'r Tl·am A 7:]11 

\ll'n'., Ba'i~l'lhall Team A 9:2tl r\ll·n's Bruumlmll 9:30 \\'unll'll'.<iSnc:nr Team A 7:30 Tl·am B 10:311 ·h·am B N/.\ \\uml·n's Bruumhall 9:311 Tl·:.tm B N/A lnncrtuiH• \Vall·r Pulu '[\·:1111" 1!1:30 Team A M: 15 Kick hall Team A II :411 LNO Oh...tadl' Cuurs-e Team A 10:45 Tl·:~m B 8:00 Team B N/A 'lhun B 8:20 Team U II :45 K:1yakin~ <J: IS Tc:un ,\ X:311 1\'iflld>all Tl·:1mA 9:211 i\h•n's lbc:qm·th:tll CALL 1-6100 \\'umen'.<i lbntuclhall N/A Tl·am B 7:_,11 Team B 11:1111 
Flanner I Knott I McCandless Dillon I Badin I Regina 

\ollnhall '1\·am A 7:-t~ Tahll· Top Pl·nl. '1\·am A 11:011 \'••lll·ylwll Tl':IIH A ' 7:4!' Tahll' Top Pl·nt. '1\·:1111 ,\ N/,\ Tl·am B H:-tS Tl·:•m B IU:411 Te:uu B 7:-15 Tl·a111 H • N/,.\ Tl·am A H:OII ,\len's Bruumhall 12:45 \ ll•n's Baskl·thull Tc~1m A 8:110 Men's Broom hall 9:30 
rc:lm u 9:40 \\.tHHl·n's Bruun1h:.JII 9:30 Te:.1m B 9:011 Wornl·n's Broomh:dl 9:1111 Tl':Jm,\ 8:1111 . Kicl..h:dl Tc:1m:\ 10:411 Woml'n's B:t'ikl·th:JII Tl':llll A X:IIO Kickh:111 Tl·am ..\ X:411 Tl·am B N/A '1\·:uu B 9:40 'lbuu B. X:45 Tl·:un B 111:00 

'\l·rf Fouth:lil fcam,\ 7:15 -ll'il11rball Team A 7:211 Nl·rf Foulhall Te:uuA H:OO \Viflldwll Tl'amA 9:00 Team B 10:4S 'fl•am B 9:211 Tl·am B N/A '(\·am B II :20 Team A M:-15 .\lun...tcr Dudgeh:1ll 12:1111 T:1rgcl Golf Team A S:IIO 1\lonster Dndgd,HII 12:1111 Team B 8:30 !\len's Sol·n·r Team:\ 12:00 Te:1m B N/A Men's Soccer Tl·:•m ,\ 9:011 
\\'omen·.., Soccer Team A 8:30 Team B II :00 \Vomen's Sm·1.·er Team A 10:1111 Tl·am B 9:.111 Team B 10:30 lnm·rtuhl' \\'~1ter Polo Team A 9:00 TeamB 9:30 lnnertubc Water Polu Te:.1m :\ 9:UU 
I.NO Obstacle Course Team A 11:30 Team 8 9:30 LNO Obstacle Course Team A 12:15 Te:.~m B N/A' 
Team B 10:45 Ka)·akin~ 10:00 Team II 11:15 Kayaking N/A \len's Racquetlmll CALL 1-6100 Won.l·n's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 I\len's Racquetball CALL 1-61011 Women's R:.IC<JUClh:lll N/A 
Siegfried I St. Ed's I Holy Cross Walsh I Sorin 

\'olleyhall Team A 7:15 T~1hlc Tnp Pl·nt. Team A N/A Vollcyh~lll Te:1mA 8:15 Tahlc Top Pen(. Tc:un !\ II :20 Team B H:IS Te:1mH N/A Team B 7: IS Tc:u11 H 10:211 \fen'\ B:.~skclhall Tc:.ml ,\ 8:411 Men's Urnomlmll 8:311 I\ len's Baskl•lhall 'Jl·am A 9:1111 Men'.o;: Bronmlmll 8:]0 Team U 9:20 W01nc11's llroumhall 12:1S Temn U 8:211 Women's Uruomh:.1l 9:1111 \\'omen's Ba... kethall Team 1\ 8:15 Kickball Team A 8:20 Women's Basketb:.dl Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 111:011 
Team U N/A Team 8 10:20 Team ll . 8:30 Te~m1 n 9:110 ~err Football Team A 7:00 Wiffieball Team A 7:15 Ncr[ Football Team A 7:~5 Wifflcball l'eamA 7:00 Team ll 10:30 Team B 8:15 Te:m1 ll 111:15 Team B 9:411 
Tar~l'l Golf Team A N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:011 Tar~ct Golf Te:1mA 111:110 Monster Dodgeball 12:1111 TeumH N/A Men's Sol'ccr Team A 9:311 Ter.m B 8:110 Men's Soccer Tco.~m A X:Jil Women's Soccer Team A 9:00 Team ll N/A Women's Soccer Team A 7:30 Team 8 II :30 
Team ll 8:30 lnncrtubc Water Polo TeamA N/A Team B 10:00 lnnertube Water Polo Team A 8:30 L!\'0 Ohsl:1ck Course Team A N/A Team B N/A LNO Obstacle Course Team A 11:4S Tenm B N/A Team B N/A Ka)'aking N/A Team B '11:30 Kayaking 9:110 
\len's Racqul·thall N/A Women's J{acquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Rac<1uctlmll CALL 1-6100 
Breen-Phillips I Carroll I Lewis Pangborn I Fisher 

Volleyball Team A 9:45 Table Top Pent. Team A 9:40 Volleyball Team A 8:45 Table Top Pl•nl. Tl·nmA 9:110 Team ll 7:15 Team 8 11:20 Team ll 7:45 Team B 10:20 \len's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's llroombull 12:15 Men's Uasketball TeumA 9:40 Men's Uroomball N/A 
Team B 10:00 \\'omen's Broomhall 8:00 Team ll 8:110 Women's Broomh:1ll N/A \\'umen's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 9:40 Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Teamr\ 9:20 Team ll 8:15 Tenm ll 12:00 Team B 8:30 Team B N/A 'lcr[ Football Team A 8:15 Wifficball Team A 9:00 Ncr[ Foolball Team A 7:15 Wiffleball Team A 9:411 Team 8 7:45 Team ll N/A Team B 8:45 Team ll N/A Target Golf Team A 8:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:oo Target Golf Team A N/A Monster Dodgeball Nlr\ Team B 9:00 Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 Team 8 N/A Men's Soccer Team A N/A \\'omen's Soccer Team A 11:30 Team ll N/A Women's Soccer Team A 9:30 Team ll N/A
.. 

Team B 10:30 lnncrluhe W:~tcr Polo Team A N/A Team II N/A lnncrtube W:.1ter Pulo Team A 10:110 l.NO Obstacle Course Team A 11:00 Team B N/A LNO Ohst:1de Course Team/\ 11:15 Team B N/A Team B 12:00 Kayaking 10:15 Team U 12:45 Kayaking N/A \1cn's Racquetball N/A Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball N/A 
Cavanaugh I O'Neill 

Vullcyhall Team A 7:15 Table Top Pent Team A 9:40 Team U 8:15 Team B 9:00 Te~1nt A 9:011 Monster Dodgl•h;11l 12:00 \ll-n's Basket hall Team A 8:20 Men's Hroomh:1l1 12:1S Te:un H N/A Men's Soccer Tc:un:\ X:OO Team II 111:1111 Wonn·n's Hruumball 8:30 Women's Soccer Te:~mA N/A Teoun ll 9:110 
\\uml·n's Basl..ethall Team A 8:45 Kickball Team A 10:20 Team ll N/A lnnertuhl· W:Her Polo Teo1m r\ 9:011 Team B 8:~5 Team B H:OII LNO Obstade Cuur,<c Team A 11:45 Team B 8:tlll Team A 8:45 Wirncball Team/\ N/A Team II 11:45 Kayaking 9:-lS Tl·<~m B IU:OO Teum B N/A 1\·len's l.tolcqul'lhall CALL 1-61011 \\'ornt•n's Runpll·th:lll 'Ill 

__,__ 
--------~----------­

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 31, 1997 
AJOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES EVENT 
ensemble ~a111ei 
· tbe passion in ancient music 
" ... they play with energy, splendid ensemble, good humor and imagination." 
-The Wa~hington Post 
Sunday, February 2 2:30PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $12/Adults; $10/ Seniors; $5/Students on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9 am -5pm Mon. -Fri. Credit card orders at 284-4626. 
TREATSEATS discounts 

fledged wide receiver. He is known for running precise routes and having good hands. He was named team captain at Bishop Amat, the same high school that present Irish line­backer Kory Minor attended. 
This season Getherall caught 48 passes for 1,162 yards and 12 TO's. His 24.2 yards per re­ception was the highest in California and as a rusher, re­ceiver and kick returner Getherall scored a touchdown every six times he touched the ball. 
"He's little as football players go," Alan Wallace of SuperPrep commented. "But he can flat out run." 
Ron Israel: Ron Israel {6-0, 175, 4.5) of Hadden Heights, NJ caught the recruiting world by surprise when he committed to the Irish. Israel is con­sidered the eighth best defen­sive back in the country by SuperPrep and was an Honorable Mention selection by USA Today. He will play cor­nerback for the Irish. 
There was one catch to Israel's commitment, he called it a "soft commitment." He still wanted to visit other schools, but Notre Dame was, at the moment, his first choice. In mid-January during a in-home visit by Davie, Israel canceled his other visits and made his commitment to Notre Dame "firm." 
"This guy is really good," Wallace said. "Actually, he is absolutely excellent. He just plays the game, flat-out. He is aggressi~e and can play bump and run. 
The dead period: Until January 17 when the Irish would host their third group of recruits, there was little activ­ity. For recruiting fanatics it became panic time. Many schools like Michigan and Penn State had commitment num­bers in the double digits, the Irish had seven including Jordan. 
In the midst of this panic, a family tie provided the Irish with their eighth commitment. No, Kevin Dansby did not com­mit to the Irish, Andrew Wisne did. 
Andrew Wisne: After looking closer to home with Oklahoma and Oklahoma State, Andrew Wisne {6-4, 255, 4.9) decided to follow in the footsteps of his brother, present starting of­fensive lineman Jerry, and his father and play for the Irish. 
Andrew didn't start playing football seriously until his sophomore year and shows 
some of the same strength and ability as Jerry. Andrew could play along the interior of the line on defense or offense. He had 97 tackles and 6 sacks last season. 
"He's a rangy defensive end who could play either tackle or end for the Irish," recruiting analyst Bill Kurelic said. "[Wisne] believes he will play inside for the Irish." 
With only eight commitments in the bag, many began to fear that the departure of former offensive coordinator Dave Roberts had doomed this year's recruiting efforts. Little did they know that Davie was just starting to make his move, and new defensive coordinator Greg Mattison would play a key role. 
The Greg Mattison factor: Just as Roberts was considered the king of the Southeast, Mattison was one of the best recruiters in Texas and the Southwest. The past two years Notre Dame's linebackers coach Kurt Doll and then Michigan defensive coordinator Mattison had dueled over the same top recruits in Texas. The majority of the battles were won by Mattison. · 
With Mattison and Doll work­ing together, Notre Dame would become one of the domi­nate recruiters in Texas. Players that were considered unlikely for the Irish, now be­came strong possibilities. 
A pair all-Americans from Texas, running back Hodges Mitchell and linebacker Grant Irons, would visit the Irish on January 17, and one would commit on the spot. 
See Monday's Observer for part four of Notre Dame foot­ball recruiting. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
• MEN's TENNIS 

Undefeated netters off to strong season start 
Special to The ObseJVer 
The Notre Dame's men's ten­nis team improved to 5-0 on the season with a 5-2 win over Illinois at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The 5-0 start is the best for the Irish since the 1992 team, which ended the season No. 2 in the country, started 6-0. Head coach Bobby Bayliss and the Irish look to match the 1992 team when the travel to William & Mary for a contest against the Tribe this Saturday. 
Against Illinois, the Irish start­ed the match by claiming the doubles point as the freshman duo of Trent Miller and Ryan Sachire and the pair of Jakup Pietrowski and Brian Patterson won both of their matches to clinch the doubles point for the Irish. 

Ryan Simme gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Brady Blain and Patterson make it a 3-0 as he beat Oliver Greelove 6-3, 6-4. Pietrowski then clinched the win for the Irish with his 7-6, 6-3 win over Jerry Turek. Eric Enloe's come­from-behind 6-7, 6-4, 6-4 win over Jeff Laski gave Notre Dame its fifth point. Illinois won a pair of three set matches as Gavin Sontaag and Jakup Tiley each handily beat their opponents. 
I ­
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I ~ 
r-
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
visits to January. 
Thus when the time came, Notre Dame hosted only 12 re­cruits during the football ban­quet compared to last year's 18. 
December 6-7: The first group to visit the Irish con­sisted of two prior commit­ments to the Irish in quarter­back Zak Kustok and offensive lineman Casey Robin. Another notable name among the group was Kevin Dansby, the brother of defensive lineman Melvin Dansby. 
Factoring in the family advantage, Kevin was consid­ered an early lock for the Irish. Because of a five year differ­ence between the two brothers, they never got the chance to play together on the same team, and Melvin would later promise to come back for a 5th year to get that chance. 
The month of December passed by and Kevin never an­
. nounced a commitment to the Irish. He would later set up a visit to Florida in January. Yet, the Irish did receive one small bit of good news during the weekend. Offensive line­man John Jordan (6-0, 250) committed to the Irish. Jordan is an unknown as a player, but Notre Dame business students sit in his family's auditorium everyday. Damien Anderson, David Martin, Evan Perroni and Erik Strange were the only other recruits from this weekend to give the Irish an answer in December. Perroni committed to Texas A&M and the others were no longer considering Notre Dame. The second recruiting week­end for the Ir'ish, December 13­14, was more productive. Notre Dame was considered the front runner for each recruit after their visits, and two had com­mitted to the Irish before leav­ing. Joey Getherall: There is only one way to describe Joey Getherall {.5-8, 165, 4.23) speed, speed and more speed. Nicknamed "2 Quick," Getherall can flat-out fly. He ran a 4.23 second 40 yard dash during the Reebok combine in California and is considered one of the fastest players in the nation. Yet, unlike some speedsters in Notre Dame's past, Getherall is not a running back, but a full 
Beverly Hills Ninja PG13 12:45 3:00 5:15 7:30 9:40 
MetroR 
1:45 4:30 7:15 9:50 
Michael PG 2:30 5:00 7:30 10:00 jerry Maguire R 1 :30 4:45 8:00 
People Versus Larry Flynt R 
1:15. 4:00 7:00 1 0:00 
The Relic R 
1:45. 4:30 7:15 9:50 
·Saturday & Sunday only 

*STAR WARS: ANEW HOPE (PG) IN DTS 11:30, 2:15, 5:00, 7:45, 10:30 
IN LOVE AND WAR (PG-13) 2:00,4:50,7:40,10:30 * MOTHER (PG-13) 1:40, 4:20, 7:05, 9:30 HE ENGLISH PATIENT (R) 1:00,4:30, 8:00 
HE PREACHERS WIFE (PG) 1:30,4:10, 7:20, 10:00 STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT (PG-13) 3:4S, 9:55 HE GHOSTS OF MISSISSIPPI (PG-13) 12:50, 7:00 
*No Passes 


Panini is Italian for Sandwiches... 
these unique Pressed sandwiches are served hot and grilled with Your favorite ingredients. 
Where did Panini Originate? 
In ItalY. Panini have been afavorite in EuroPean restaurants. delis and coffee shoPs. 
Do IHave to fly to Italy to TrY One? 
No! You maY have one rii!ht here at your favorite Martin's Store! 
"Come in from the side and"••• 


Friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
Morgan 
continued from page 24 
sweetest shooting strokes in the college game. 
"I think growing up and through college I've taken a lot of pride in it," remarked the Hoosier. "I've just really worked hard on my own and I try to imitate the form of people that I think have been great shooters." 
Morgan's perimeter play pro­vides head coach Muffet McGraw with an inside-outside game that opposing coaches fear. 
Morgan and 6-3 center Katryna Gaither feed off each other's games to dominate op­ponents as they can not afford to double one as the other would wreak havoc. 
"She is in a position where she can see a double team and take a three or take advantage of another open player in the post." Gaither remarked. "She keys the offense and can get things going on the perimeter and she can also drive, so she brings a lot to the team. She is also intelligent'enough to know what's going on in the paint to make the correct decisions." 


That intelligence is an essen­tial aspect of Morgan's game as she has developed into one of 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Morgan's outside range and ability to take the ball to the hoop instills fear into opposing defenders. · 

APPALACHIA SPRING 
BREAK 
March 9-14, 1997 

SEMINAR 
' Did you miss the deadline??? 
A LIMITED NUl\lBER OF SPOTS ARE STILL AVAILABLE!!!! 
APPLICATION DEADLINE E.."XTE.L"\IDED TO: 
APPUC\TIONS: 
For further iniormation: 
TIJESDAY FEB. -1, 1997 
.-\vailable at the Center ior Social Concerns FINAL DEADLINE: TIJES. FEB.-!, 1997@ 3PM 
M.J. Adams. 63+3880 or lauren Stein, 63+3690 Rac..f)el Tomas :V!organ, :?.32-2.::!09 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
page 21 
in the last seven minutes to put another mark in the win col­umn. 
"She's definitely a clutch player and she's proven that in the past that she can make the big shot," Peirick said. 
"She can take the pressure in the clutch situations," Gaither concurred. "She is the key op­tion and she knows what to do with the ball with time running down which makes her a very valuable player. She is defi­nitely a go-to player, she's ag­gressive and a person who real­ly wants to take charge." 
Next year, Morgan hopes that she is still taking charge on the court as two professional worn­en's basketball leagues have been formed. 
'Td definitely like to play next year. I think it's a great oppor­tunity and that's something I'm definitely looking to do next year, and after the season is over, I'll investigate what my options are." 
Also when this season is over, Morgan's name will be found written all over Notre Dame's record books but that has not seemed to really enter the mind of the superstar. 
"From a personal standpoint, I thought that the offensive end has always been my strength and I just came here and I feel like I've done my job. That's what I can contribute to the team so I guess I haven't thought too much about being the all-time leading scorer and scoring 2,000 points. 
''I'm sure down the road it will mean a lot more, but at this point, I feel like day in and day out I just go out and do what's best for the team." 
What's best for the team now 
is that the Irish can continue on 
their eight game win streak and 
improve on their season mark 
of 18-4 and 10-0 in the confer­
ence. 
In order accomplish that they will have to weather the Red Storm at St. John's which the Irish breezed through last sea­son as they swept the Storm in their two contests. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
~ Used books bought and sold 
• 25,000 Hardbacl< & Paperback books in stock 
• Out-of-P,~nt Search Sen~ce:$2.00 
•Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
the floor leaders. 
"She knows the game really well and what to do in certain situations," guard Mollie Peirick remarked. "When she's out on the floor you feel that things are under control." 
"She definitely brings a sense of leadership," Gaither com­mented. "When we come to­gether in huddle she is the one who says what we need to be doing and she just takes charge, and that is what being a leader is all about." 
"After my freshman and sophomore years I was known more for my scoring and I just wanted to develop into a com­plete player," Morgan said. ''I've worked hard on my de­fense and rebounding and I've also developed more into a leadership role being a captain so I take that as one of my main responsibilities." . 
Another one of Morgan's re­sponsibilities comes in crunch time. The All-American candi­date has developed a knack for last minute heroics, and at times, carrying the scoring load for the team. Some of the team's most recent games epit­omizes that knack to win. 
Against Rutgers Morgan put the team on her back scoring 20 in the first half, and when the Irish were in danger of los­ing to Georgetown, she came through again scoring 13 points 


SINCE A4·YEAR DEGREE REALLY TAKES 5YEARS, YOU MIGHT NEED TO SAVE SOME MONEY. 
12 fast Italian favorites priced under $4. 

Real Italian. Real Fast. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 

Friday, January 31, 1997 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
• TRACK AND fiELD 

Irish look to maintain pace after terrific start 
I' 
I . 
• 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Wrirer 
The gun has sounded and Notre Dame's track team has blasted out of the blocks with two strong performances in its first two indoor meets. This weekend the Irish will host the Meyo Invitational. one of the biggest track events of the sea­son to be held at Loftus. 
Five teams are competing this weekend along with the host Irish; Purdue, Michigan, Ohio State. Alabama and Missouri. Michigan and Ohio State seem to pose the toughest competition for the Irish. Michigan barely beat Indiana University, who was swept by both men and women's track teams last week­end, and Ohio State split with the Hoosiers, the men winning and the Buckeye women falling to Indiana. 
The Irish, however, does not have any common opponents with its visitors from the south, Alabama and Missouri. 
"I am very excited about this weekend's meet," exclaimed coach Joe Piane. "We have a pretty nice track team and we are progressing quite well." 
The team has thus far used a blend of estab­lished veterans and dynamic freshman to serve in the role as favorite entering this weekend's meet. 
Leading the charge for the veterans has been junior Errol Williams and senior Jeff Hojnacki. Williams won the 60-meter hur­dles against Indiana last weekend. and fin­ished in second place in the 55-meter hurdles, tying a career best time, the week before at Michigan. 
Hojnacki had excelled 
in the longer distance 
events. He won the 
600-meters at the 
Michigan Invitational 
and against Indiana, and the 800-mater against the Hoosiers. 
"Jeff did exactly what I asked him to against Indiana," said Piane. "He won the 600 almost effortlessly and then turned around and won the 800." 
The headline grabber on the women's side has been fresh­man sprinter Dominque Calloway. Her time in the 60­meter hurdles, 8.28 seconds, has already qualified her for the NCAA championships. She has dominated most of the short dis­tance events she has raced in. 
Fellow freshmen Joanna Deeter and Marshaun West have also grabbed some lime­light for themselves. Deeter won two of the long-distance events she has raced in against the Hoosiers including the 3,000 meters. 
West has given the men's team something to talk about in the long jump. lie won both long-jump events of the season and hopes to continue his win­ning ways at the Joyce Center. 

Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in, our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
The Diamond Authori~ 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
'?n t4e tate4t m ~cued~ caLt fJdL at 
COSIMOS 
Shapes & Lines 
277-1875 
Conveniently located near campus on State Road 23 
Men's cut and style........$15 
Women's cut and style....$25 

"The freshmen are doing real­Marshaun. Also, Phil Mishka have posted strong perfor­ly well," raved Piane. plaeed last weekend and Tom mances. This wenkend's meet "Dominquo is running excep­Dietrich did well. Chris Cochran should only be an avenue to tionally well. .Joanna is also has also done a great job." extend the successes of the doing well along with So far this season, the Irish team. 

Don't let the winter blues get you down... 
Sign up for the 
LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE 

The Leadership Institute is a non-credit, nine-week leadership course, for freshmen and sophomores. The course will explore such topics as improving communication skills, team building, delegating, improving leadership styles, and utilizing University resources. 
Applications are available from the Student Activities Office in 315 LaFortune. For more details, please call 631-7309 


GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 

qualify, these merit-based  ~~~­ year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  


ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, VlSit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 


Friday, January 31, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
This weekend sub will give you the BLUES • 


BROTHERS that is, showr1 with AMI AL • 
Thurs. 10:30pm Fri. & Sat. 8:00 and 10:30pm Cushing $2 
II 
Don't miss this John BELUSHI FEST because of ROMEO & JULIET when you can
4• 
see the Shakespeare Classic 
VALENTINE'S DAY WEEKEND 

(courtesy of SUB) CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
~TS NSS~A Coor..,PAMP, PARK P'ACe ~ SC.66P, 

DILBERT 
A.SOK THE INTERN 
I INSTALLE.D CALENDAR 

SOFTWII<.P-.E. ON OUR 
Nt.TWORK .• 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 29---ran 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ED LEADER 
NOT JUST ANYBODY CAN GET INTO NOTHE. DAME! ONLY sTUDENfS WITH 
THE HI(,HE5T ACADEMIC CREDENTIALS hND 
MORAL STI\NDARDS ARE 
ADMITTED.~-' 

SCOTT ADAMS 
NOW '<OU CAN SEE I 5AY WE GRAB 1-\Ifv\ 
EVEIWONt.'S SCHEDULE A.NO fr..~I'LY SOME CUBICLE. 
AND EASILY SET UP JUSTICE.. 
1"\E.ETINGS. 
GOOD IDE~ I BUT 
I'M IN MEETINGS 
UNTIL THE YEAR 
3006. 
) 
61 Gilbert of "Roseanne" 64 John Lennon hit 65 End of the quote 68 Where the buffalo roam 69 Town in Nevada 10 Otherwise 71 Single-masted vessel 72 Audition for a part 73 Textile worker 
DOWN 
1 Narrow margin of victory 2 Carrier 3 "Get real!" 4 Former defense collective 5 Bird of prey 6 Ivories and others 
Puzzle by Michael W. Perry 
1 Get carried away? 
30 Spinnaker or jib 48 Not a saver 58 Sat (for) 31 Satellite's path 49 Auction bids 60 Proof word
aOne born on April1 33 Bring up 50 Daybreak 62 Provoke 
9 Debate side 35 Actress Cannon direction 63 "Lonely Boy" 
37 Gov. Wilson singer 40 Bacchanalian 66 Slangy 
10 Chooses 52 New Zealander 
11 Echo 56 "Politicallyevent affirmative
lncorrect".host
12 Exalted 
41 Money in 
Bill 67 The Eternal
13 "Lone Star" 
Johannesburgdirector John 
42Advent 18 Singer Horne 
43 He's on 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
19 Colorless 
"Tonight" are available by touch-tone phone: 24 Designer tonight 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Cassini 46 Irregularity Annual subscriptions are available for the 47 Lethargic best of Sunday crosswords from the last "Tootsie" role feeling 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


MIKE PETERS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your social connections can be a springboard to new professional and financial success. Joining forces with an older person will help you juggle multiple responsibilities. Reach for the brass ring in March. Follow up a casual business sugges­tion; it could be a big winner. A lost love will reappear before long. Buy a condo or house as soon as you can afford it. A family member whose actions have worried you, suddenly turns over a new leaf. 
CELEBRITIES 'BORN ON THIS DAY: Hall of Fame shortstop Ernie B3nks. author Norman Mailer. actress Suzanne Pleshette, balle1ina Ann,~ Pnvlnva. 
ARIE:'O (March 21-April 19): Be more tactful with your colleagues. T1ckline a complicate"d task will teach you something about yourself and teamwork. Be honest about your hopes. . 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Evaluate confidential information before deciding whether or not to usc it. Seck a second opinion if still unsure. A romantic partner could persuade you to change your lifestyle. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Combining business with pleasure is easier now. Take along a favorite companion if you travel. A former lover may invite you to the wedding. Accept only if you do not harbor :i:elings ofjealousy or guilt. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A fun-filled weekend lies ahead. Your unpredictable love life shows improvement. Refrain from sharing your romantic hopes with family members until you and your partner bave made a commitment. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get tour financial hou<e in order. A real estate deal requires immediate atten­
• OF INTEREST 


HaU Contrac~s !<>rthe1997-1998 atade• · :been s(mt to t;he residence halls, . In 
61: .. . .· .· gible for bou~~ng in the fall, students must return the contract to the Office of Student Residences prior to 5 p.m., Feb. 12, 1997. 
Summer residence hall staff applications are now 
avai1abl6 itt the Office of Student Residences, 311 Buliding,from 8 a;lD.. ,m.,, Mon. through Fri. ieved prior 28 will redevepri· 
.... :::' .·=~·:::: 
Audi . r Wrtliam lnge's play, "Picnic," directed by.assistant professor of theatre Mike Morris, will be held at Saint Mary's College on Mon., Feb. 3 and T'(Ies., Feb. 4 at 7 P:I1l: in the Regina Hall Rehearsal Studio, room 016;h Four male roles are available, audition appointments are necessary,
on;ca:n 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer. 
tion. High expectations are fine so long as they are realistic. Your loved one encourages you to make over­due changes. Be open-minded. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a creative approach to fundraising; friends and associates will respond generously. Do some­thing special for a parent who has always been there for you. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stand up for your rights at both work and home. The days of repression and doubt are over. Two hearts beat as one. Take a chance on ~11. ~xciting new love relationship. Make a com­mitment. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Romance looks promising. A flirta­tion could develop into a ~erious relationship. You are reaciy to make some tough fina~ciaJ g,s,c;j.~ions,. Boost your energy lev'£l"'b)''exercis­ing regularly and getting more sleep. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your hard work and persistence begin to pay off. Fresh financial rewards are featured. Joinin!! a fra­ternal or civic organization _;ill give you a whole new circle of friends. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 1 9): Your self-confidence grows when others compliment ;0;,.: busi­ness acumen. Sign a long-term financial agreement. Success is assured. Romance enjoys favorable influences. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 2C Feb. 18): Stop worrying about what others think: rely on your own common sense. Examine collectibles careful­ly before discarding; they could be more valuable than you realize. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tact helps resolve a difficult situa­tion. Do not let a difference of opin­ion cause a serious rift. Show more initiative when handling business matters. You need to take steps to protect your financial interests. 
.. 

1 Bankrolls 5Gumbo vegetable 
9 Military group 14 Take on 15 "Gallipoli" 
director 16 Mozart offering 17 Start of a quote 
by 39-Across 2001d schoolhouse item 21 Nostradamus, e.g. 22 Where the worm turns 23 Geisha's 
garment 25 Droop 27 Function 28 Record 
producer Brian 
32 Noble's partner 34 Tear asunder 36 Tombstone 
lawman 38 Comedian Foxx 39 See 17-Across 42 Open a bit 44 Rock music's 
Ford 45 Trans World Dome team 49 Like a harvest 
moon 51 Popular race 53 The pause that 
refreshes? 54 Fish cookout 55 Sweet potato 57 Radio antenna 59 Folder's locale 



SPORTS Weekend 

page 24 Friday, January 31, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 

Beth Morgan eclipses 2, 000 point plateau 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
In the midst of one of the best seasons ever for the Notre Dame women's basketball pro­gram, one of the best players in the school's history reached an unprecedented plateau. 
Wednesday night in Miami, Fla., senior Beth Morgan's 21 points in a win over the Hurricanes permanently etched her name into the Notre Dame record books as the first player to eclipse the 2,000 point mark. 
Before Morgan's arrival on campus, the women's Notre Dame basketball program was a solid team in a solid confer­ence. Four years and 2,016 points later she finds herself and her team in the national spotlight. The six foot guard/forward has been an in­tegral part of the progression of the basketball program. 
"I came here with the goal of improving the program to help get it to the national level and as one of the top teams in the nation. And, I think we've done 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
that," Morgan said. 
Senior Beth Morgan's shooting touch has placed her in the record 
During her time under the
books as it has also improved the status of the program. 
Dome, the Bloomington, Ind. native has seen the program make strides in becoming a perennial power. Along with last year's National Champions, Connecticut, the Irish dominate a very competitive Big East conference and they have ac­cumulated a 18-4 record on the season to earn a top 20 ranking. 
As Morgan reached her mile­stones, the program has also reached milestones. Last year Notre Dame won its first NCAA Tournament contest, and ear­lier this year, they cracked the top 10 for the first time in school's history. 
Morgan has been an impact paign she turned in another stellar year, scoring 18 a game while becoming the first Irish performer to score 1,000 points in two seasons. She is coming off her best season yet as last year she lead the team in scoring again, averaging over 20 points a game and scored a school record 626 points for a single season. Morgan has continued her fine play this year as she is second on the squad with points (16) and rebounds (6). 

Morgan has a shooting form that when analyzed is impecca­ble as she has one of the 
see MORGAN 1page 21 
player since .------------------~
-
she first stepped on the court of the Joyce Center. In her rookie year she was named the Midwestern Collegiate Conference newcomer of the year as she became only the third fresh­man to lead the Blue and Gold in scoring with just under 18 per contest. 
In her sopho­more cam-
Irish Career Scoring Leaders

: ~-~"(-----------· 
:Beth Morgan latr'Aa Gaith~ 
Karen Qobinson 
Trena ~ys 
Sandy Botham 
Shari Nfatvey
Mary Beth Schueth Marga.fet Nowlin
==n 
1993-Present 2016 1993-Prese~\ 1801 1987-91 1590'\t982-86 l589 
1984-88  1460  
19\g-83  ~ 373  
1981-85  1298  

1988\92/ 1233
:;?a: :~~~ 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
With their season winding down and playoff aspirations hanging delicately in the bal­ance, the Notre Dame hockey team travels to Michigan for a pair of Central Collegiate Hockey Association games against Lake Superior State. 
Notre Dame (5-12-1) current­ly sits in eighth place in the ten-team league, with Alaska­Fairbanks and Ohio State trail­

.. 
• HOCKEY • 
leers watching backs as they surge forward 
fOOTBAll 
•These athletes have made official recruiting visits to Notre Dame on the specified dates and may commit to the class of 2001. 
ing the Irish by only one point. The top eight teams make the CCHA playoffs, which are held at Joe Louis Arena in Detroit from March 7-15. 
"Lake's a great team," observed freshman defender Nathan Burega. "And they're even better at home." 
Senior captain Terry Lorenz concurred. "Their arena is a tough place to play in. We've just got to stay focused." 
see HOCKEY I page 18 
The Observer/Jed Donahue 
DeG. DAMIEN ANDERSON BEN BROWN BRIAN CARSWELL KEVIN DANSBY JABARI HOLLOWAY HUGH HOLMES ZAK KUSTOK ANTHONY JORDAN JOHN JORDAN DAVID MARTIN DEWAYNE PATMON EVAN PERRON! CASEY ROBIN ERIK STRANGE DARRYL BRIGHT ANTHONY DENMAN JOEY GETHERALL RON ISRAEL AUSTIN KEMP JASON MURRAY JUSTIN SMITH KEYNON COLEMAN TONY DRIVER ERIN HUIZINGH 
GRANT IRONS 
DARCEY LEVY 
HODGES MITCHELL 
IFE 0HALETE 
REESE EDMUND STANSBURY
Notre Dame will look for Matt Eisler to continue his outstanding play between the pipes as push to make the playoffs. 

.. 
vs. St. John's February 4 
at St. John's 
February 2 
at Lake Superior Tonight 
at Cleveland St. Saturday 




RB Ol DB LB TE LB OB LB OL WR CB Dl Ol Ol Dl RB WR DB LB RB DB Ol ATH Dl 
.. LB ATH ATH S RB OB 
Tho Observer/Tom Roland 
Men's Tennis vs. Miami Saturday 

O
ne of the most important aspects of recruiting is the official visit. This is the process where the university may host a recruit on their campus for a 48 hour period. Activities during this period include meeting present football players, talk­ing to the coaches, meeting academic counselors, and just hanging out. Reeruits are only allowed five such 
official visits. For Notre Dame, 
December has tra­
ditionally been the 
main recruiting 
month. The foot­
ball banquet is held 
on the first week­

end in December, '-----.--.:
..........__ 
and in the past the Thomas Schlidt Irish have tried to 
Recruiting
invite the majority 
Correspondent

of their recruits to ----'----­visit then. 
Last year, nine of Notre Dame's 24 commitments, Jason Ching, B.J Scott, Honnie Nicks, Lee Lafayette, Lewis Dawson, Jay Vickers, Dan O'Leary, Leon llires and John Morandi, made their official visit to Notre Dame for the football banquet. 
This year would be different. With new head coach Bob Davie just begin­ning to form his coaching staff, recruiting coordinator Bob Chmiel ad­vised Davie to reschedule many of the 
see RECRUITS I page 20 
• Women's tennis opens with win 
Women's Tennis at Okla. This weekend see page 22 
Basketball at Madonna 
• Fencers look to rebound 
Saturday see page 16
Swimming vs. Indianapolis Saturday 









