
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 104 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE PREVIEW 
Senate to vote on new Student Union constitution 
By DEREK BETCHER Those involved with the 
communication with vice presi­Assistant News Editor reform process see today's dent of Student Affairs Patricia meeting as the final step in the O'Hara. The current proposal 
Today, in its most important first half of a significant would limit the Student Senate meeting of the year, Student restructuring. Hall Presidents' from directly contacting O'Hara Senate will vote on the new Council, Student Union Board, or her office. student government constitu­and other affected organiza­"I just want to raise the issue tion. tions have already accepted the and debate the issue," Leen 
The proposed document document. Only the Student added. ''I'm not going to stand would realign all of student Senate's approval separates in the way of progress." government into a more effi­the revisions from final imple­Friendly amendments will be cient Student Union. The com­mentation. allowed before the senate votes position of the senate will While support for the reforms on the constitution. Friendly change to include one repre­seems to be solid, some con­amendments are changes in 
sentative from each residence cerns remain to be addressed details which do not affect the hall. before the final approval. spirit of the document, accord­
"Absolutely. This is the most "We feel positive about it, but ing to Kelly. important meeting of the year," we're not counting our chick­''I'm optimistic, and the rea­senate chairman Seth Miller ens before they're hatched," son I'm optimistic is because said. "We're talking about the said reform committee head the reform committee worked strategic direction of the stu­Brendan Kelly. very hard and was set up very dent body and their voice on One issue expected to reach well," Miller said. this campus." the senate's agenda today is II which tries to define the CLC senate to decide for itself. That He was alluding to the fact 
Miller encourages any inter­the relationship between the as the Student Senate's sole shouldn't be dictated [by a con­that members from all branch­ested members of the student new senate and both the conduit to the Office of Student stitution]." student senator es of student government were body to attend this afternoon's Campus Life Council and Affairs. Mark Leen said. included in the reform commit­meeting, which will be held at Student Affairs. Specifically, at "I think how the senate uses As a whole, the issue exam­tee, which drafted the proposed 
4:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Notre least one senator has reserva­the CLC should be up to the ines the student body's line of constitution. Members unani­


Dame Room . tions about Article II of Section 
• FACULTY SENATE 

Members pass three resolutions 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN the bylaws later, but that Assistant News Editor should not stop us from approving this committee 
The Faculty Senate passed tonight." three resolutions with minimal The second resolution asked debate at its meeting last that the ex-officio members of night. The resolutions were the senate be required to introduced by the administra­attend at least one of the tion committee chairman Clive standing committees. This res­Neal, on behalf of his commit­olution also passed unanimous­tee. ly and without debate. 
The first resolution, which The final resolution added a passed unanimously, created a question about Catholic char­nominating committee for the acter to the survey about election of a new chair of the deans. senate. It also asked that the The Faculty Senate meets nominating committee report only two more times this year, to the full senate as well as the on April 2 and 29. 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne

executive committee. Under The senate discussed but did 
Father Richard McBrien presided

current rules, it would only not decide on the possibility of 
over the Faculty Senate's delib­

report to the executive com­inviting a member of the
erations last night. 

mittee who would then create human resources department 
the slates for the coming elec­should put something in place of Notre Dame to speak to the 
tion. for now," said Jean Porter, senate as a whole about health 
"While this is in violation of associate professor of theology. insurance during one of the the bylaws, I think that we "We can go back and change last two meetings. 
mously agreed on the changes. 


Wo01en's Choir hits the road for break 
By ALYSSON COOK Saint Mary's Assistant News Editor 
Every other year the Saint Mary's Women's Choir goes on tour. This year, it will give performances from Cleveland New York. 


to New York City. 
''I'm extremely excited for
The Women's Choir will 
this upcoming trip," said Lisaleave Saturday on its spring Gutilla, a junior and membertour and will return to South of the choir. "This is my first
Bend after 11 concerts, in 
year with the Women's Choirthree cities and three towns in and the music is beautiful and Ohio, Pennsylvania and New this experience will be incred­York. While most of the stu­ible."
dents at Saint Mary's and 
The Women's Choir, direct­Notre Dame will go home or ed by Nancy Menk, chair of
or to sunnier locales next 
the music department, willweek, the 40 members of the arrive in Cleveland, Ohio onWomen's Choir will be singing 
Saturday and give its first
to audiences in and experi­concert at the historic Saint
encing the cultures of Cleveland, Pittsburgh and see FEATURE I page 4 



Notre Dame graduate schools advance in rankings 
By MICHAEL LEWIS lation," Nichols said. "We have to change perceptions," he News Writer From a student's perspective, having said, citing Notre Dame's need to sell better standing among recruiters is the program better. 
Notre Dame's Law and Business more important, Nichols said, adding In terms of graduate's income, Graduate Schools' improvements have that they are the ones who buy the Nichols said, "I think we're having a led to higher placement in U.S. News product. very good year as far as average and World Report's 1997 Best 
salaries are concerned." He said for Graduate Schools rankings. the first time, Notre Dame MBAs are 
Two years ago, the MBA program getting signing bonuses. was rated 47th in the nation; last year "The people that come to Notre it leapt to number 41, and this year it Dame are blue chip firms," he said. rose to 38. The Law School moved up According to Nichols, there are sev­five places from number 25 to 20. eral aspects of the Notre Dame pro­
"It [the MBA ranking] is going up, gram that the rankings do not cover. but not as fast as I'd like," associate "Undisclosed in this are our efforts 

Employed 3 month 
dean Bill Nichols said. to only accept students into the MBA
Bill Nichols 
after graduation 
Although its overall rank was 38th, program who have two or more years the Business Graduate School was of business experience," he said. In rated 25th by recruiters and 53rd by Concerning the academic ranking, the fall of 1996, the average student 

lt&\ti%1 24. Purdue academics. Nichols said this indicates he said, "We are a heck of a lot better had three and a half years of experi­that the program is moving in the than that ranking." He compared ence. 
D 38. Florida
Average '96 
right direction. NoIre Dame's 53rd rated faculty to Carolyn Woo, the new business 
GMAT score 
-38. Notre Dame 
"For some reason, if the program is Casl' \\'nstPrn's 29th ranked teachers dean, until two years ago was the 
moving forward, the business popula­and pos1)d till) question: Would anyone director of Professional MS Programs 

The Observer/ Melissa Weber tion recognizes that improvement in their right mind think Case's faculty more quickly than the a{;ademic popu-is better than Notre Dame's? 
see RANKINGS I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


1984? 
Recently, one of my 

professors proclaimed, Angela Cataldo 
"I love technology! It's Saint Mary's Assistant 
great, don't you agree?" News Editor 
So, I thought about it 
and I realized -I didn't. 
Sure, some of the most recent technological 

advancements have been beneficial to 
humankind. I understand that without many 
of the developments, our abilities to commu­
nicate and live would be affected greatly. But 
isn't there a point at which we have taken it 
too far? 
Somewhere along the technological time­

line, between the telegraph and the Internet, 
we have become slaves to the most minuscule 
items -wires, microchips, and fiberoptic 
cables. We say the world is "smaller" and 
that we are connected, interconnected, and 
intraconnected. Language has been paired 
down to "chatting" and physical touch is no 
longer necessary. 
We can be "found," "searched,': and "fin­

gered." Whether at the office, at home, or at 
play, there is the potential for interruption. 
We may be lonely, but we are never alone. 
Some marketers even dare to call the inter­
net, "utopia." 
What prompted my professor to praise 

technology is the advent of "push" technolo­
gy. Unlike "pull" technology, which requires 
each individual to search out the information 
desired (the web), pull technology brings the 
information to you. In effect, hundreds of 
unsolicited messages, which your personal 
computer "thinks" will interest you, are 
beamed to your screen everyday. 
Even better is "agent" technology. With 

this, you define what topic you want and it 
then collects all the information it can with­
out you doing the work actively. 
So, even when you aren't working, you are. 
What has happened to leisure time? Have 

people lost the ability to appreciate anonymi­
ty and personal time? Is there a point at 
which we will burn out and need to revert to 
the basics? 
Perhaps that time is coming soon. 
With the ability to clone mammals, who 

knows what will happen? It seems as if we 
are allowing our advancements to speed 
ahead of us and that we are losing control. 
wonder who really has the power? We need 
to make sure we are grasping tightly to the 
reigns of progression. 
Maybe George Orwell only had the year 

wrong. 
I understand progress built this country. It 

was founded by individuals willing to go fur­
ther and work harder than most. But they 
were also individuals who valued their fami­
lies and friends. Family and friends were the 
reason they worked hard and were success­
ful. 
I believe this is where we are lacking. 

Without those people who are important in 
our lives, we really aren't anything-no 
matter how sophisticated of a system we 
have. Even Bill Gates has a family. 
At some point we have to recognize that 

something has to go, or something has to be 
turned off. Relaxation can't be looked at as 
unproductive downtime; instead it should be 
viewed as necessary unwinding time. 
We really can't abolish all recent forms of 

technology. Without it, this column wouldn't 
have been possible, and could you imagine 
using a typewriter to create a cover letter 
and resume? But, do you want to direct your 
life, or would you rather let pieces of glass, 
plastic, and metal have control? 
The choice is up to you. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Matt Loughran Melissa Weber Laura Petelle Production 
Sports Jamie Heisler Betsy Baker John Hutchinson Viewpoint Laura Perelle 
Tara Churik Lab Tech Accent 
Katie Kroener Megan Ferstenfeld 
Michelle Sweet Joe Weiler 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
• 
Flooding devastates Kentucky and surrounding states 

Reagans celebrate 45 years 
LOS ANGELES 

It's been 45 years since Ronald Reagan and Nancy Davis got married at the Little Brown Church in the San Fernando Valley. On Tuesday, the Reagans celebrated their 45th wedding anniversary with plans for a private dinner at their Bel-Air home. "It doesn't seem like 45 years, 45 minutes maybe, but not 45 years," Mrs. Reagan 


said. "I can't imagine life without him, or before him. It's been everything I've ever dreamed marriage would be." The former president spent the morning at his Century City office. The couple met while they were both actors for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios. They exchanged wed­ding vows on March 4, 1952 at the Little Brown c.h~rch in suburban Studio City, attended by actor Wilham Holden as best man and his wife, Ardis, as matron of honor. On Wednesday, the former first lady will sign copies of her autobiography "My Turn" in Simi Valley at the Reagan Presidential Library, where visitors will be invited to sign a giant anniversary card for the Reagans. 
Russia, NATO discuss future 
LONDON 

Russia will sign a pact with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, despite its opposition to the Western mili­tary alliance's expansion, NATO Secretary General Javier Solana predicted Tuesday. The 16-nation alliance intends to expand its membership over the next few years and will include at least some of Moscow's former allies. NATO is expected to invite a few countries to join at a NATO summit in July. Solana said talks were about to begin on the text of an agreement with Russia. 'The atmosphere is constructive. I do not want to minimize the difficulties. But I believe ... we will conclude the pact," Solana said, but he gave no timetable for an agreement. Moscow opposes NATO's expansion, believ­ing it would threaten Russia and redivide Europe. Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov said last week that Moscow wants a legally binding agreement with NATO and wants assurance that NATO's military infrastructure -airfields, pipelines and communications facilities -is not deployed near its borders. In a speech to the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Solana said "the form (of the pact) is not so important -it is the content that counts." Solana said the pact with NATO was "not a consolation prize" for Russia. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl.. WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 5.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
. 
\ 
FRONTS: 
...a....&..
"T"T"" ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealhe(, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L a E;sJ ~ 0 . GS1 ~ 1) ~ G 
HIGH lOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJa~lltdPress 

Atlanta 61 48 Fairbanks 15 ·5 New Orleans 62 52 Baltimore 53 43 Honolulu 82 71 New York 50 42 Boston 49 38 Los Angeles 77 52 Philadelphia 54 40 Chicago 41 24 Miami 84 71 Phoenix 82 52 Denver 58 27 Minneapolis 32 15 St. Louis 52 49 
Aldridge appointment draws fire 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

A state lawmaker who once insisted that rape victims can't get pregnant because "the juices don't flow" has been appointed co-chairman of a committee on abortion and other social issues. Rep. Henry Aldridge's appoint­ment to the leadership post on the House Committee on Human Resources sends a "disturbing message," said Chris Fitzsimon, executive director of the liberal Common Sense Foundation. The 73-year-old Republican, appointed by GOP House Speaker Harold Brubaker, caused an uproar in 1995 when he said state funds for abortions on rape victims are unnecessary. "The facts show that people who are raped, who are truly raped, the juices don't flow, the body functions don't work, and they don't get pregnant," Aldridge said. He later said his comments were "stupid." The committee deals with such matters as abortion funding, day care and services for the poor. Fitzsimon said Aldridge's appointment "speaks loudly to what the speaker thinks of women's issues and basic understanding of health care issues that face the state." John Baldwin, Brubaker's chief of staff, said Aldridge's rape comment is an old issue. 
Black man to play Jesus Christ 
NEWARK, N.J. 

Desi Arnaz Giles says he's starring in the role of his life, but the black actor's portrayal of Jesus Christ comes at the expense of ticket cancellations and death threats. "I have led a very complete life," Giles said Tuesday. "Should somebody clip me during a performance, don't cry for me, just rejoice because I'm ready to go home." The controversy began Sunday following his first perfor­mance in the Park Theater Performing Arts Center's annual production of the "Passion Play," a story that focuses on the last days of Jesus' life. The popular play attracts bus groups from the region, and word spread quickly that a black man was sharing the role with a white actor at the Union City theater. "The first call that I got, the woman asked me, 'When is the white actor playing because I don't want to see the black thing,"' said artistic director Eric Hafen, who cast Giles in the role. "I was expecting calls but not that kind of blatant racism," Hafen said. Officials have not taken the death threats seriously, but are troubled the casting has evoked such a response. At least two groups have can­celed and another rescheduled for a day Giles is not working. Hafen cast Giles as Herod last year and made him the understudy for the Jesus role. 

Wednesday, March 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALl PRESIDENTS' COUNCil 
Council approves new guidelines for hall elections ~ 
By SEAN SMITH academic year is quickly News Writer approaching, Hall Presidents' Council will soon undergo a vast As spring break is only three change in its membership. 
days away and the end of the Most dorm elections are tenta­
~~OBSERVER 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
1···1 
~ 
I ·1 
r-: 1 
I·, 

·I 1·. I 
~ if you are good with people and are looking ~ for valuable business experience, ~ please call Jed Peters at 631-6900. 
~~~~~~~~~-'-·._:_ "--~· =··cc ~ ­

Gonzaga-in-FlorenceItaly 
Tours of Italy and Course Work 
Renaissance Summer Program May 13-June 27, 1997 -and-Junior Academic Year Abroad Progam 
Open to college students, professionals, seniors and other adults. 
Apply by April 1 
STUDIES ABROAD 
GONZAGA UNIVERSITY 
Spokane, WA 99258 509-328-4220, Ext. 3549 or 800-440-5391 reynold1@gu.gonzaga.edu 



Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding. if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Umo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For infonnaUon and schedule eggsu~ your travel agent or call 
800-833"·5555 

I J~IITI=n 11,\A()
v & ~~ ~ i,.i,.J' i.~i i ~~ 

Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day.•• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leaw Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach· Tennlnals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later)4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 6:00a.m. 
8:10a.m. 8:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 
10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. !tOO a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 
11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 
2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m.
1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m.
2:1lO p.m. 4:10p.m. 

3:55p.m.
4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m.6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
tively scheduled for the two weeks following spring break and will be highlighted by the elections of hall presidents and student senators. 
In its pursuit to make student elections more uniform through­out the campus, HPC has pro­posed a set of guidelines outlin­ing when election-related events in the dorms should be sched­uled. 
Candidates for various posi­tions should announce their intent to run by the Tuesday fol­lowing break and elections should be held on Mon., March 
24. Any possible run-offs should 



Ill 
:z: 
1­

Free Fo d Night 
7pm 

A/S Club Also, lool~ f Senior Weel~ 
Que1lit~n1 Call 7-57 7? 
then be held on Wed., March 26. 
These dates were put forth by HPC, however, to be used only as a guideline for scheduling elec­tions, as the final election dates will be determined by the indi­vidual residence halls. 
HPC will hold a meeting for all old outgoing presidents and all new HPC members on April 1 in order to introduce the new presi­dents to HPC policies and help smooth the transition between the HPC memberships. 
As next year's student senators are restricted to holding only one elected student government posi­tion, some concern has arisen from various dorms as to when hall president and Student Senate elections should be held. In the past, many candidates have chosen to run for both posi­tions. As this will not be possible this year, the student govern­ment judicial committee suggests that the elections for both posi­tions be held on the same day as opposed to different weeks, although this determination will be made by each individual hall. 

HPC will accept nominations for the new HPC co-presidents on March 18, and will hold elec­tions for those positions the fol­lowing Tuesday, March 25. 


page 4 


Feature 
continued from page 4 
Peter's Church. 
The women will perform a piece written especially for them by the renowned 20th century composer, William Hawley. Hawley will be at the perfor­mance for the premiere of his "Ave Maria," and he will also accompany them on their tour of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
"I am honored to be able to sing the piece," said Mary Cihak, a freshman. "It's always an inspirational experience to sing with the composer present at the performance." 
After Cleveland, the Women's Choir will go to Pittsburgh. On the way there, the choir mem­bers will stop and give a perfor­mance in Lakewood, Ohio. After arriving in Pennsylvania, they will attend a dinner party with Saint Mary's alumnae. 
On Tuesday, the Women's Choir will arrive in Huntingdon, Pa., where they will give a con­cert at Huntingdon High School. Huntingdon is the hometown of Saint Mary's senior and Women's Choir member Michele Jarosick. 
"I can't wait to get home," said Jarosick. "It will be great to see my family and we get to perform at my high school." 
The next stop on the tour is Lewisburg, Pa. The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, before giving a performance at the RooKe Chapel, will have dinner at the home of Saint Mary's junior, Eillen Nieli, a member of the Women's Choir. 
The final destination: New York City. 
"I am really excited to finally see New York," said Cihak. "I've never been been there, and I'm looking forward to singing in 

~-----------------------­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
Rankings 
continued from page 4 
in the Drannert Graduate 
School of Management at 
Purdue. 
"We're adding someone who two years ago was associated with a program that is now number 24," Nichols said. 
The two year program has 106 first year students and 90 second year students. The three semester program has 57 students for a school total of 253. 
"We will only increase the size il' we can keep up the quality." Nichols said. 
"We're 38th. We're not at all comfortable being 38th. Keep your eyes on us for the next couple of years," he 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

Saint Patrick's Cathedral." 
The women will have a good deal of free time to sight-see, shop and experience Now York. They will have the chance to see a Broadway play' and they will perform with the New York Treble Singers on Friday, March 
14. The highlight for many of the choir members will be the Mass the following day; they will give a concert in Saint Patrick's Cathedral. 
"This is a dream come true," said Gutilla. "I have never even had formal training, and since this is my first tour, the experi­ence in the cathedral will be something I never thought I would get to do." 
The Women's Choir will return home to South Bend on March 16, giving a Honwcoming Concert that Wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Little Theatre in Moreau. 
"This will be a unique trip even though I've already seen these cities,"said Jarosiek. "It's always so neat to see the faces of the people who haven't been to these places, and I'm excited. It will be a great trip." 
added. 

The Law School saw improvement as well, moving up to 20th in the nation. 
"These polls aren't infalli­ble," said Fernand Dutile, a professor in the Law School, "but if they're going to do them, we might as well do well." 
Dutile said many of the things the rankings measure are important to the faculty of the Law School. 
"However, they're not whol­ly consistent with us." he noted. 
l-Ie did acknowledge that the 
REST ASSURED, YOUR PET WILL ,
r 

I I I I 1 at the newly opened -d-. 1 
I ~ ~11.,_~~ I
! ~~~~9 '· BITTERSWEET ~--~~~:::,. : 
~~... ~,~¥ ,. -: 
L.o~ --PET RESORT & STABLES--------l 
0 Full service modern animal boarding
facility 0 Playtime available 0Luxuries of home-air conditioning, heating, piped in music & a soft blanket 0 Professional grooming service 0 Pickup & Drop off service available 0 Horse boarding, riding lessons & training 
2100 Weaver Road • Niles, Ml • 616-684-7361 
Easily accessible (Only a few miles from Indiana State Line off US 12) 
BRING IN THIS AD AND GET 10% OFF 
poll means a great deal to prospective students. citing it as a well-promulgated study. 
More than 97 percent of Notre Dame Law School grad­uates who take the bar exam in Illinois pass it. This was the best percentage in the nation, but Dutile explained that since graduates take the exam in different states, no conclu­sions can be extrapolated from that statistic. 
"That's a wonderful num­ber," Dutile said. 
"We're very pleased to be in the company that we're in in that poll," he added. 

Wednesday, March 5, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Group hopes to initiate annual El Salvador pilgri01age 
By MELANIE GARMAN 
News Writer 
With spring break less than a week away, many are look­ing forward to their long­awaited trips to the beach or the freedom to relax in the comfort of their homes. But a few members of the Saint Mary's College community will be neither basking in the sun nor lounging on their sofas: they will be embarking on a spiritual and prayerful pi!­
grimage to El Salvador. 
The members of the Saint Mary's community on the pil­grimage, sponsored by the Center for Spirituality, will journey throughout El Salvador to deepen their faith and understanding of the Catholic identity, and to allow them to experience the culture and political struggles of a third-world country. 
Keith Egan, religious studies professor and director of the Center for Spirituality, pro­

APPALACHIA  SPRING  
BREAK  
SEMINAR  March 9-14, 1997  
Did you miss the deadline???  

A LIMITED NUMBER OF SPOTS ARE STILL AVAILABLE!!!! 
APPLICATION DEADUNE EXTEi'lDED TO: 
APPLICATIONS: 
For further i.niormation: 
TUESDAY FEB. 4, 1997. 

.-'.vailable at the Center tor Social Concerns FINAL DEADLINE: TUES. FEB. -l, 1997@ 3PM 
M.J. Adams, 63+3880 or lauren Stein, 63+3690 Rac..f.tel Tomas :V!organ, 2S2-2209 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-3293 
posed the trip after talking with Father Hinde, an acquaintance who suggested that this visit could help the community become more aware of the problems facing Latin and Central America. 
Also joining Egan will be George Trey, assistant profes­sor of philosophy, Sister Betty Smoyer of Campus Ministry and student Sarah Gillen. 
"We will be making a prayerful journey to the sacred sites where people have given their lives for their faith," said Egan. 
The group will be guided by Christians for Peace in El Salvador(CRISPAZ). a U.S. based non-profit organization, which has been leading tours and seminars to· El Salvador since 1985. 
As part of the pilgrimage, the group will visit sites com­memorating the death of Archbishop Oscar Romero, the seven slain Jesuits who taught at Catholic University in San Salvador, and the four North American volunteers who were raped and murdered. 
"We hope to visit these sacred places and be changed by those events," said Egan. "We are going prayerfully and thoughtfully which will lead us to service." 
Along with their own experi­ences, th.e members of the journey hope to establish a tradition of pilgrimages and mission trips for the women of Saint Mary's, as well as to set up methods of correspondence and service among the Saint Mary's women and the women of El Salvador. 
"I hope to make a connec­tion between Saint Mary's and the country of El Salvador, while paying special attention to the plight of women," said Egan. 
"It's my dream for this to become an annual pilgrimage in which students and alumni 
Diamond Price Quotations™ 
219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 



The Diamond Authority® 
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc . Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright © 1997 by John M. Marshall 

will travel together." 
"After returning from this journey, I plan to do every­thing I can to see to it that these trips continue," said Gillen, a junior. 
" I want to share my experi­ence with fellow students in hopes of motivating their interest." 
Support has been given to this program from numerous organizations on campus, including the Board of Governance, class offices and residence halls. 
A variety of crafts from El Salvador have also been on sale in the Center for Spirituality this semester to fund the trip. 
"I am very excited and over­whelmed with the support from the Saint Mary's commu­nity," said Gillen. 
The group departs Friday, following a ceremony in the Regina Chapel at 12 p.m. to bless the pilgrims. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, 
CALL THE 


OBSERVER 

AT 1-5323. 

-·---~-~----­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
Of course we've got the new U2. 

We've also got everything else. 

STORE HOURS: MON-THURS: 1OAM-9:30PM; FRI-SAT: 1 OAM-1 OPM; SUN: 11 AM-6PM 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
81-8164-037 


------------~------------------~-·-· 
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 The Observer • ISRAELI NEWS page 7 
Netanyahu, Palestinians argue pullout timetable 
By DAN PERRY 
Associared Press Writer 
TEL AVIV, Israel With Israel's next West Bank troop pullout due by the week­
end, Palestinian and Israeli expectations diverged widely Tuesday on how much territory it will involve. 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said 


[!]-[!] 
~  otre  ~  
~  arne  ~  
~  ncounter  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~ rffi  ~~~~~~~~PERIENCE GUIDED BY  ~ rnJ  
~~ @ ~ ~II  RETREAT DATES'  ~n~~P~~~;~·.:.,!:~~~!-~..~oT!~ your understanding of yourself, your values, your relalionohlp wllh Chrlsl, your uperlence of Chrlsllan communlly and oervlce. APRIL 11 -13, 1997  rnJ ~ rn,!rffi I ~  
~  ~  
rffi  FORMS AVAILABLE  MARCH 3-7, 1997  rnJ  
~  ~ 
:  
~~ ~  DEADLINE' QUESTIONS,  Before 4:00 p.m. •MARCH 7 ~~~~~~~~:·~b;>:~'  ~ I  
~  ~ 
COST,  ::::"  •  

:~: 
esc 
CENTER F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Interested in Service Learning? Leadership? 
Apply for: 

EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCil COORDINATOR 
This position is a creative leadership opportunity made available through the Center for Social Concerns. Ifyou are interested in service-learning, enjoy creative work and leadership, and would like a position working to coordinate various seminar efforts facilitated by the Experiential Learning Council, PLEASE APPLY!! 
Applications available in me CSC Applications due by Thursday March 20 
Questions? Call Lauren Stein 271-1699 Dr. Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
Attention All CSC Service Seminar Participants: 
Enjoy your Urban Plunge? Appalachia Seminar? Washington? 
Tuesday the Palestinians should give up their dream of getting 90 percent of the West Bank by 1999. 
The Cabinet will meet Thursday to decide the extent of the weekend withdrawal, said Netanyahu's policy adviser David Bar-Illan. Media reports, however, said he plans to hand over only 10 percent of the West Bank. 
The Palestinians expect at least 20 percent in the pullout, the first of three "further rede­ployments" Israel is to com­plete by mid-1998. 
Netanyahu told Israel radio that the pullout, which is sup­posed to take place by Friday, would start immediately after the Cabinet decision. Bar-lllan 
is looking for a 




CONT ~~LLER PURCHASI ANAGER. 
Calll~5313 with questions. Interested? Submit resume to 314 LaFortune. 
These are paid positions. 
*Candidates for Controller must be a sophomore or junior accounting major 

Nomination forms are available in the Student Government office for the Student Government 



)J~:o~~~ng~~~~~~nt~~~~~
community 

and the Frank 0 'Malley Undergraduate Teaching Award 


For more information about the awards and nomination deadlines call 1-7668 

u .. ,.. u'''' o• "'"'•• o~ .. , 
SnHIUTiitoYio"'"'N' 
said the Jewish Sabbath ­from sundown Friday to sun­down Saturday-could delay it until Sunday. 
There had been speculation the pullout would be delayed longer, increasing the tension over Israel's decision to build a new Jewish neighborhood in disputed east Jerusalem. 
Israel has withdrawn from most of Gaza and the major Palestinian cities in the West Bank, retaining only a small part of Hebron. It also granted partial autonomy to about 28 percent of the West Bank ­bringing most Palestinians under Arafat's rule. 
The three pullouts are part of an interim phase before a final Israeli-Palestinian settlement is reached in talks to start next month and be completed by 1999. The Palestinians expect the pullouts to connect isolated areas, like the autonomous enclaves around the towns of Jenin and Nablus. 
The Palestinians have insist­ed the final settlement grant them a state, and have assumed that areas that are autonomous in the interim phase would become part of such a state. 
Israel's previous Labor Party government appeared prepared to agree to a Palestinian state in most of the West Bank and Gaza, retaining only a few bor­der areas where most of the 140,000 Jewish settlers live. 
Netanyahu, who as opposition 
leader opposed the peace 
process, has moderated his 
stand since winning last May's 
election: he now speaks of a 
Palestinian entity with limited 
sovereignty, and officials sug­
gest it might encompass about 
half the West Bank. 
But Palestinian expectations are too high, Netanyahu said Tuesday. 
Netanyahu did not say how much of the West Bank he eventually would hand over. But Bar-IIlan said he was "quite sure the size of the areas evacuated will be much smaller than speculated." 
Palestinian Cabinet minister 
Saeb Erekat said Palestinians 
expected more than 20 percent 
in the first pullout. 
Netanyahu is facing pressure from hard-liners in his govern­ing coalition who have threat­ened to bring down the govern­ment if he makes too many ter­ritorial concessions. 
Israeli media have reported that Netanyahu promised Arafat a larger-than-planned West Bank pullout in exchange for the Palestinians' mild reac­tion to Israel's decision to build the 6,500-home Har Homa project in east Jerusalem. Netanyahu denied this. 


r-­
r 

I I VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 
News Edimr ........................ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Spons Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Accent Ediror ........................... Joey Crawford 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 

Business Manager Man Casey 
Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Production Manager ...................... Heather Cocks Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
.Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the U niversiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accem Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewp~int space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EdirorNiewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• AWAKENINGS 
Observer Phone Lines 

63I-4542 Business Office 63I-5313 63 I -4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 63I-7471 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Cloning technology demands regulatory measures 
When embryologist Dr. Ian Wilmut announced two weeks ago that he had successfully cloned the DNA of a ewe to make an adult lamb, a three-alarm fire went off among ethicists throughout the world -as well it should have. Literature on this subject exists primari­ly in the form of science-fiction. such as Michael Crichton's "Jurassic Park." The story-line in all of this literature is much the same: Man makes groundbreaking discovery, man pursues experimentation without considering the moral implica-

J.P. Cooney 
tions of the work, man comes close to destroying human existence. There is an important lesson to be learned from this fictional scenario. 
Let's examine a brief case study. Mankind has benefited greatly from the discovery of atomic energy. When prop­erly harnessed, nuclear energy is cost and quality-efficient, environmentally safe and its supply seemingly infinite. However, it also poses the single great­est threat to human existence. The problem is that it took the loss of mil­lions of innocent lives at the end of World War II and coming within min­utes of a global nuclear catastrophe dur­ing the 1963 Cuban Missile Crisis for us to realize that. 
Nuclear weapon proliferation increased exponentially during the Cold War for one reason: Fear. Since Hiroshima, nuclear weapons have never been used and few countries would ever seriously consider utilizing them. In fact, most governments maintain a policy of retaliation only, meaning they will only use nuclear weapons if used upon them first. However, nearly every government in the world feels the need to possess these weapons of mass-destruction as a means of deterring nuclear attacks against them. The result is an arms race that, while moderately regulated today, 

• has run nearly out of control. The world is on the verge of another arms race of sorts -the race to see who will be the first to develop the tech­nology of cloning. Nearly everyone agrees that cloning, while offering potential benefits in agriculture and medicine, poses some serious threats to the natural order of things. Governments could construct Herculean armies; the Chicago Cubs and Boston Red Sox could finally win a World Series by compiling a team of Ruths, Mantles, Gehrigs, and DiMaggios; and the Walt Disney company would no longer have to go south for cheap labor -they could just enslave a thousand cloned 13-year­old laborers instead. It is exactly these frightening possibili­ties that will drive governments and businesses to pursue this technology rather than abhor it. We often like to think that all governments and business are inherently evil; we too often believe that all governments aspire to a global hegemony and all businesses to infinite profit. Certainly there are people in gov­ernment and business who do aspire to those goals. Maybe I am a bit idealistic in my world view, but I believe there are far fewer government and business leaders like that than there are who would just as soon see cloning squashed or at least intensely regulated. The problem is that everyone fears what the other guy is doing. Nobody wants to be left empty-handed when the rest of the world decides to utilize cloning. As a result, it is my guess that Dr. Wilmut was inundated with phone calls from national government officials and large businesses the day after the results of his experiment went public. Few of the inquirers probably have any vision at all for what they may want or be able to do with cloning technology ­but they all fear what their competitors might do. 
Luckily, Dr. Wilmut's discovery, while substantial, is still in its elementary stages. It will be years before we will be able to comprehend the significance of his discovery. It will probably be many years more after that that such technol­ogy will be used to even attempt to clone humans, and then another substantial period of time before governments and businesses are able to reap the benefits of it. This fact opens a window of oppor­tunity for the global community that we cannot afford to have slam in our face. 
Nancy Murphy, an associate professor of Christian philosophy at the Fuller 
'Before we press ahead, 
our governments must take steps to see to it that, as a global community, we come to a consensus on how this power can and should be used ... .' 
Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., was quoted in Saturday's New York Times as saying that, rather than condemn cloning, ethicists should "con­centrate their efforts on saying what we should do with this, rather than saying it shouldn't be done, because people have rightly said it can't be prevented." It is imperative that our global political and business leaders, not just ethicists, do the same. 
Rather than wait until the technology is developed before beginning to regu­late it, like was done with nuclear tech­nology, global leaders should convene a conference under United Nations aus­pices to address the issue of cloning and genetic engineering (a similar experi­mental science with comparable moral ramifications). Parameters for its use on plants, animals and humans should be set in place before a government or business ever gets the opportunity to use it in the first place. This will prevent its misuse, but also prevent intense and costly competition between countries and businesses -it will prevent Cold War II. 
Being a leading Catholic university, Notre Dame has an interest and obliga­tion to be actively engaged in discus­sions over this issue as well. Notre Dame is one of the elite theological research universities in the world, and is home to one of the globe's foremost Christian ethicists, Fr. Richard McCormick. Notre Dame would be an ideal host to a num­ber of conferences on the issue of cloning among ethicists and academics, but also among leaders in government and business. 
If I could have things my way, I would probably do away with cloning technolo­gy altogether. The fact of the matter is, though, cloning will potentially benefit society in a positive fashion, and its development is unavoidable. But this is an example of mankind gaining power that we do not yet fully comprehend. Before we press ahead, our govern­ments must take steps to see to it that, as a global community, we come to a consensus on how this power can and should be used, and they must provide suitable mechanisms to enforce whatev­er decisions they make. Furthermore, universities like Notre Dame can and should lend a hand in making these decisions. 
Unless we want to end up like the characters in a science-fiction novel about cloning or genetic engineering, the global community must seriously confront this issue before the technology gets in the wrong hands to serve the wrong purposes. We ca"nnot afford to wait until we have a Hiroshima or Cuban Missile Crisis of cloning to take action. The state of the world as we know it -perhaps even human exis­tence -depends on it. 
J. P. Cooney is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBUIW 


• fi!JOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood." -Marie Curie 








ACCENT 
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 page 9 

By JOSEPH WEILER time? 
Assistant Accent Editor The media seems to think 
that producing shows about 
entertainment is the solution. 
tertainment. That's the Every year millions of people 

name of the game. Food, sit at home, glued to their tele­
lathing and housing are vision sets as they desperately no longer the only essentials await the news of which movie for survival. We can add a 
will be declared the "Best of computer, a TV and a VCR to the Year." food, clothing and shelter on The same holds true for the the list of human necessities. Grammys and the Golden 
Anything less would be charac­Globes. If there is a way that teristic of a caveman. And even 
the entertainment business can he would be surfing the exploit what they have and Internet. 
make a few extra bucks in Americans spend millions of the process, then you can dollars a year in attempt to get bet they'll do it. away from the helter-skelter But the Grammys and the drama of daily life. True, eight Oscars have been around hours a day are dedicated to for years. If it has been a hard work in order to make dull year at the box that immortal buck, but there offices, than these much are at least eight other hours revered events suffer. 
So what does all of this ·every day in to spend it. 
Unfortunately, entertainment mean? It means that is no longer as entertaining as now more than ever, some would like it. Going to folks are staying home for the movies is no longer as exit­their entertainment pur­ing as it was several decades poses. Fewer and fewer 
ago. people are going out and 
Instead of an usher dressed spending a lot of money to find in livery showing him to his some excitement. seat, the average theater-goer The best reason for this is today puts up most likely 
with a little because people kid in back have less 
of him time to kicking dedicate his seat. t 0 
(Not to 1 
r!!!!!!!!~!!!~UJi~~ spend ­
ol ing a Y'~\W'W\tlf>.~A.J c o u p I e 
m e n ­
t i o n 
that at hours to t h e s i t same through time he a movie. m u s t Time is try to modern s e e man's around greatest t h e c o m ­woman modity, 
in front a n d of him r~"'r~.-~ commit­w h 0 t-~-t::::::;::;;.,... ment is 
decided of to wear i s her hair greatest "up on fears. this particu-It has got-Jar occasion). ten to the point 
So, what is the courtesyofStarWave that an hour of 
answer to reviving the lost rit-bowling is just too ual of sitting back and letting hard to fit into a tight sched­other people show you a good ule, no matter what time of week it is, much less spending Net are two to three hours sitting in 
t h e the theater. 
news The commitment factor is 
sites, even in effect at home. Sitting 
which down for two solid hours to 
a 11 ow watch the latest video from 
browsers Blockbuster is usually not even to find worth the hassle of the drive to exactly rent the movie. what they But technology, as usual, has want to come up with an answer. The k n o w great panacea of the '90s is the without Internet. Industry analysts having to agree that in North w a d e America, the home through 
market is the fastest--~M~r~.~S~h~o~w~b~izt(w~w;w~MPhSh~~~=::::-:-_:______j the nightly 
growing segment of the the Internet · • rShowbiz co ) news on PC industry and that news, movi~ '~e~~~of the be:st link; to :,te~ ~ew site on TV. c o n s u m e r s, and Trnseltown . arnment 
A I s o demand for available interactive movie are movie 
techno!­market is able to combine two and music . 0 g y of the greatest sources of reviews which contain clips prod­entertainment. and soundbytes to give the ucts and ser­"Mr. Showbiz" is the PC ver­browser the best possible vices is at an sion of "Entertainment advice before they commit to all time high. Tonight." It brings you all of buying a CD or shelling out the 
T h i s the top news in Hollywood, far $7 to see a flick. Their motto: means that beyond that which you could "We sit through the turkeys so more peo­ever ho.pe to glean from a you don't have to." ple are tabloid. Not only do they preview and straying Nowadays, the Oscars are far review movies but they offer from the to long to watch in their entire­extensive coverage of the cur­
typical, ty. But entertainment sites like rent network lineup. 
movie­"Mr. Showbiz" provide an easy And for all of you who have going alternative, om~ring previews ever had a stupid trivia ques­experi­and picks. tion keeping you up at night, e n c e Posted are the predictions of like "Which actor once ate a 
a n d likely winners by such showbiz live cockroach on camera?" insiders as New York Post Mr. Showbiz offers an on-line "Page Six" editor Richard detective agency that is a trivia Johnson and Variety columnist buffs paradise. Michael Fleming Okay, this may sound like a 
Users can also post their own big ad aimed at those people predictions of whom will win who sit up all night long fool­America's favorite Golden Guy. ing around on the web, and And if you're right you can win then forget to go to work the cool prizes. next day, but entertainment There are also fun links sites do offer a lot to a wide 
such as the "Fashion range of people. Face-Off" which deter­You may not be a huge movie mines the best and buff, and TV trivia may not be worst dressed women in your forte, but no matter what 
Oscar history as well the your passion is, there is some­"Nominee Plastic Surgery thing for you and the Internet Lab" which allows the browser is the best way to get it. In a sticking to to redesign the faces of their society where time is on every­the commitment-free on-line favorite Hollywood actors. body's mind, and there never experience. Clearly, entertainment sites seems to be enough of it to get But don't count Hollywood like "Mr. Showbiz" go far everything done, take just a out just yet. Tinseltown is mak­beyond the Oscars in their few minutes and hop on-line­ing the Internet work for it too. quest to bring America useless You may just find something
With web sites like "Mr. information. you like. Showbiz"(www.Mr As far as other sites are con­Showbiz.com) on its side, the cerned, some of the best on the 
gossrp. 

Here is your chance to 
vote for the Academy 
Awards 
Send your picks via cam­
pus mail to: 
Accent Editor The Observer 314 Lafortune 
or via regular mail to: Accent Editor The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame IN, 46556 
Best Picture Best Actor 
0 Tom Cruise; "Jerry Maguire" 0 "The English Patient" 0 Ralph Fiennes; "The English Patient" 0 Woody Harrelson; "The People vs Larry Flynt" 0 Geoffry Rush; "Shine" 
0 
"Fargo" 0 Billy Bob Thornton; "Sling Blade" 

Best Supporting Actor 
0 
"Jerry Maguire" 0 Cuba Gooding Jr.; "Jerry Maguire" 0 William H. Macy; "Fargo" 

0 "Secrets and Lies" 0 Armin Muller-Stahl; "Shine" 0 Edward Norton; "Primal Fear" 0 James Woods; "Ghosts of Mississippi" 
0 "Shine" 

Best Actress 
0 Brenda Blethyn; "Secrets and Lies" 
0 Diane Keaton; "Marvin's Room" 
0 Frances McDormand; "Fargo" 
0 Kristin S. Thomas; "The English Patient" 
0 Emily Watson; "Breaking the Waves" 
Best Supporting Actress 
0 Joan Allen; "The Crucible" 
0 Lauren Becall; " Mirror Has Two Faces" 
0 Juliette Binoche; "The English Patient" 
0 Barbara Hershy; "Portrait of a Lady" 
0 Marrianne Jean-Baptiste; "Secrets and Lies" 
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
(8) Syracuse (18-11, 9-9) 
11:00 am 
,,;·'
ESPN 

Madison Square Garden
(9) Notre Dame 
Noon (14-12, 8-10) 
espn2 
(1) Villanova (21-8, 12-6) 
(4) Providence (19-10, 10-8) 

7:00pm ESPN 
1:00pm ESPN 
(13) Rutgers (11-15, 5-13) 
2:00pm
(5) West Virginia ESPN (18-8, 11-7) 
3:30pm ESPN 


8:00pm (10-17, 5-13) 
(12) Seton Hall 

ESPN 
(2) Georgetown (19-8, 11-7) 
(7) Miami (15-11, 9-9) 
7:00pm 
7:30pm espn2  ESPN  
(1 0) St. John's (13-13, 8-1 0)  
(6) Pittsburgh  9:00pm ESPN  

(16-13, 10-8) 
9:30pm espn2 
9:00pm (14-13, 7-11) 
(11) Connecticut 
ESPN 
(3) Boston College (18-8, 12-6) 
First Round Quarterfinals Wednesday, March 5 Thursday, March 6 

Semifinals  Championship  
Friday, March 7  Saturday, March 8  
The Observer/ Melissa Weber  

The Observer/Rob Finch 
The Irish will look to Big East Player of the Year, Pat Garrity, to lead them into today's tournament game against Syracuse. 
Honors 
continued from page 16 
happy and I'm glad to see it because he works really hard, and I don't know if a lot of people understand just how hard he works." 
''I'm just glad he got some appreciation for it." 
MacLeod is in his sixth season with the Irish and had compiled a 153-149 record in the first five. This year, especially the award, should serve to secure his future with the Irish, at least for the time being. 
The awards will not only give Garrity and MacLeod added confi­dence, but the team as a whole, going into today's game. 
The team's performance in the tournament will be essential to whether or not it receives a bid to the NIT tournament, thus heading into post-season play for the first time since 1992. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m; at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
CRUISE & LAND-TOUR EMPLY­
ILOST & FOUND I 
MENT-Industry offers Travel 
(Hawaii, Mexico, Caribbean), Lost backpack. Reward $100. imcomparable benefits, & good pay. Lost black MONTBELL backpack at Find out how to start the application bookstore on process now! Cruise Employment Feb 26 bet. 4-4:30pm. Services provides the answers. Call Dissertation disk & irreplacable 800-276-4948 Ext. C55846 (We are photos inside. a research & publishing company) Pis call Yukiko@ 1-4861 
NEED RIDE to Kansas City -Spring Break-call Jen X1485
WANTED 

Elementary Ed. Major to tutor 5th SUMMER JOBS grade giri,11.After School &/or ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS Weekends. 52136 Lilac Rd(N of PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS Cleveland and S of Auten on St Joe ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS River),$15/hr,call 277-7403 before NEAR LAKE PLACID 9PM 1-800-786-8373 
NANNY/MOTHER'S HELPER POSITION near Vail, Colorado ******************************** beginning mid-May. Room and 
board, salary. Must have car, insur-Wanted: ance. Call Rick or Deb Travers (H) KEGERATOR 970-328-7203 or (W) 970-476-7646 or send letter/resume to P.O Box 
If you have a kegerator that you 127, Eagle, C081631. 
want to sell for use beginning June 1 , Please call 634-1305. The Early Childhood Development Canter at Saint Mary's College has 
Ask for John, Andy, or Dan. employment opportunities over Spring Break 
************** * * ****** * * * * * * * **** (March 1 0-14) for individUals who enjoy young children. If you are 
available to work either 7:30-1:15 or Need ride to NY city for spring 12:00-6:00 (Monday through break, help with gas and tolls. Friday) and are interested in spend-Call Jake at 243-8412. ing time reading children's books, 
building with blocks, and singing Babysitter Wanted for 1yr old in our songs with children, contact Cindy home 50 hrs/wk, Castle Pt Hestad at 284-4693 as soon as 243-0785 eves possible! Have fun and get paid tool 616-683-3140 days ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing Industry. Details on how to find a high-paying job with excellent benefits (transportation + room & board). For information: 800-276­0654 ExtA55841 (We are a research & publishing company.) 
NO SRS-1 will buy your grad tix Anne 289-4922 
FOR RENT 

AFFORDABLE 1,2, & 3 BDRM HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
Staying on campus for the sum­mer? Rent our College Park Condo. Clean, close to campus, air-conditioned. Call 273-5833 
FOR SALE 

Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­urn mattress set. Never used still in package -cost 550 sacrifice 175. (219) 67 4-2352 
NAVY ROTC Seniors-Ex. Nuc L T has plenty of good uniforms and other mise items for sale size 42/XL. $199 for all. 287-4609 
FREE Phone Card. No restrictions, Nothing to join, Nothing to lose, .19 min. in the 
U.S. SASE to: Free Phone Card, PO Box 1041, Logansport, IN 46947 Adoption: A very loving, financially 
PERSONAL 

secure, well educated young cou­pie, long to adopt your newborn. Electrolysis by Rebecca Close and caring extended family. Blend Method 674-6933 We offer a special life for your child. 
Expenses paid. Please call Sherri & COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! Joe 1-800-378-6680. COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!!! GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
The highest quality color copies are now available at Come see THE COPY SHOP DOUG MCKENNA of LaFortune Student Center GEORGE AND THE FREEKS Phone 631-COPY every Wednesday night 
at C. J.'s PUB ... Anyone heading back to S.B. on Sat,15 or Sun,16 from the ATIN: SRS./FB FANS 
D.C. area (or within a few hours B'NBREGISTRY-FINE HOMES-of it)? Will help with gas, driving, GRAD/FR ORIFB wknds. & tolls. Please call Steve @ 291-7153 232-7324 or Scott@ 243-9430. 
########################### 
Celebrate the end of midterms ATIENTION all LESBIAN, GAY, with Fat Rader & the Bad Guys I BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING Finnigan's: Thursday, March 6 students, faculty, and staff: That 
group you know and love is having ************************************ a general meeting followed by a Class of 1998 social TOMORROW at 7:30. Call the Q-LINE at 236-9661 for more Bob Davie addresses the CLASS information. OF 1998 on Mar. 20th at 7:30pm. ########################### 
Tix at LaF. info desk this Wed. FREE!!!!!! Megan, Will you have the pox in padre? *****************"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'"'*"'"'"'"'"'"'"' Crash 
JUNIORS Hey, Megan C: 
Come listen to the Nanni Here's your personal! Brothers as they give their words of --LP wisdom about service work tonite at 
7:30 in the NO Room of LaF. Mark DeBoy is the cutest thing on 
two legs. NEED RIDE to Kansas City -Spring Break-call Jen X1485 it was a Dairy Queen noise, ok? 
SO, ITS A NO SOCK DAY, HUH? GIVE MY REGARDS TO KEN ... 
Congratulations 0-DOG on a great fight. 
Should have stayed at the Casa Lorna 
******** **** ***'\* ************* ** Wanted: KEGERATOR If you have a kegerator that you 
want to sell for use beginning June 
1, Please call 634-1305. 
Ask for John, Andy, or Dan. 
*"' ****'******************* ****"'*** 
Sorry about your new car. 
LVB Number 1 

Take me to dinner, Puppet Boy. 
GEAR 

Better build up your stamina Buster 
Kathleen-I miss you, but Betsy does a good job. She can sub for you and I wont be mad. 
Bad Jeans, I think we need an 
orange-seamed reunion. Bring on 
the jeans! Ciao, L 

Caro Amore, Tu sei il mio cristoforo eli amo!! Due Buci M.J. 
--~ ------­
page 11

Wednesday, March 5, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
1 
RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
John Christoforetti, an off-campus senior, is a native of Pittsburgh, PA. John is a science/pre-professional major who hopes to attend medical school in the future. Christoforetti is a four year member of the Notre Dame Boxing Club and is currently serving as president. John, a three time Bengal Bouts champion, boasts a 9-1 record and was named Freshman Boxer of the Year in 1994 and Boxer of the Year in 1996. Christoforetti has also been instrumental in develop­ing and instructing the Knockout Workout fitness class, as well as the Women's Boxing Instructional Program. When John is not busy studying or boxing, he volunteers at the Center for the Homeless. 

merchandise from the 
VARSITY SHOP 

, 
I
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
~ -:< 't,:~ \. ,-. -· 

ct.._.._...., .-..... ..........·-~...:.·-·:-: ··-".... :_:-:::~~~ __,.J_......_.""' ......... " :.JJ.J..J...A~~_.:.. <"' -~-• .a:.,-(Joyce Center) 

aazs. 
VARSITY SHOP 

'I'I' 

''Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
merchandise courtesy of <J:L...L~~..:.~~ and the 
vARsiTYsHoP located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
~n,-n 

11'I' 


aazs. .
ljzir' is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 



page 12 
The Observer • SPORTS 
up." 

Hill played big in the second half of the last meeting between the teams, and is averaging over 15 points and six rebounds per game. It will be center Matt Gotsch's job to cover Hill in the post, and hopefully avoid the foul trouble that has been a monkey on his back for the past month of play. 
Pete Miller and Antoni Wyche will split time at the two spot, covering Cipolla. The SU off­guard has been dropping in 14 points a game, shooting .390 from beyond the arc. 
Perhaps Notre Dame's less than stellar road record might add a bit of doubt to the situa­tion. The Irish, while dominat­ing at home, have lost eight of 10 away from the Joyce Center. One of their victories did come against this Syracuse ball club. 
"I don't look at the tourna­ment as being on the road," Garrity said. "Because the crowd is pretty neutral, it doesn't get that loud in there; at least it didn't last year. People are jqst there to watch basket­ball." 
MacLeod would like to employ the same philosophy used in the last two contests: running the floor. 
"We've run the last two times we've played them, and they'll be attempting to shut us down. We know they're going to zone us, so we need to be ready for that, too," MacLeod predicted. 
Overall, the look in the eyes of the players is encouraging. Confidence. Composure. Fire. With a potential NIT bid hang­ing in the balance, this is ex.­actly what Notre Dame fans want to see. 
"This is what I've looked for­ward to all year; it's crunch time, time to play big, try to make it to the Big Dance," White offered. "This is it." 
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 

Preview 

continued from page 16 
ter/forward Otis Hill, and guard Jason Cipolla, the squad has three of their five starters from last year's NCAA Final Four. 
Burgan will compete against Pat Garrity for the first time this year in the game's marquee match-up. Garrity, the Big East Player of the Year, is contribut­ing 21.7 points and picking up 
7.6 caroms per game. 
"It's definitely going to be hard (to beat SU three times in a season), but beating a team twice was hard and we did it," the forward said. "They can go back in the film and see what really hurt them and make ad­justments, but we're going to have to make adjustments to the things they did to hurt us. It's going to be hard, but I think we're going to come out fired 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Sophomore Antoni Wyche will split time with senior Pete Miller in today's contest against Syracuse. 
• 

............. ....." ..'.i.'.. ,,... •••••·••
.. .·:· . ... 

..... ······-'!"~······ ..... 

J,;,~---§&714 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 5 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Kirk Douglas and Anthony Quinn star in 


J!u.Jl 
J!ije~ 
$1 Students 
LITTLE THEATRE For information, call219/284-4626 
The Sky's No Limit for these Notre Dame Students 





They're tal<ing off to Air Force pilot training after graduation in May. Flying opportunities are on the rise. If you're a freshman, reach for the sl<y and consider Air Force ROTC. It might be one of the best choices you've ever made. For more info, call 1-4676. 
---~-~ ~-------~ -~ -~ --~--~ --~-----­
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
The Obse!Ver/Mike Ruma Team manager Christy Grady unexpectedly saw her time in the spot­light as she filled in for injured Irish players in the last two games. 
The Observer· SPORTS 

Women 
continued from page 16 
hard." 
Late in the contest, the cumu­lative effort of playing three straight days and the lack of depth was very apparent. 
Trailing 82-61 with just 5:31 to play, it looked like the Irish would just be playing to keep the Husky juggernaut under 100 points. 
They did a little bit better than that. 
Working hard on the offensive glass, the hard-nosed Irish cut the lead to 11 with 45 seconds to play, but the energy just wasn't there to complete the comeback. 
Neither was point guard Jeanine Augustin. 
The Irish floor leader had fouled out of the game with 6:18 left. 
"That was critical," said McGraw. "She's our best de­fender, and she's our quickest player. Plus, we missed her leadership." 
But even with Augustin, Connecticut was just too tough. Inside, 6-foot-7 Kara Wolters dominated the contest. 
"I can't wait for her to gradu­ate," joked McGraw. "We gave her a highlight film." 
Wolters took control at a piv­otal point -the start of the sec-


GIVE YOUR PARENTS REASON 

To LOVE You. 
Go To SCHOOL THIS SUMMER. 
Everybody knows it's getting harder to graduate from college in four years. A missed class, a change of major-and all of a sudden, you're on the five­year plan. The extra semester or year in school can cost your folks a bundle in tuition and delay you from getting started with that great new job. 
So, play it smart. Pick up a course this summer at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
UIC is a 4-year research university with world class faculty and is located in the heart of Chicago. 
night's loss to Connecticut. 
ond half. 

Before ESPN2 could get their first commercial time-out, the Big East Player of the Year had dropped nine points on the Irish, as the Huskies extended their lead to 17. 
She was perhaps more domi­nating defensively, limiting Notre Dame leading scorer Katryna Gaither to just 12 points (seven below her average) on 6 of 19 shooting. 
"Our game plan was not to throw the ball to Katryna on the block. We wanted to get it to her on the move," McGraw said. "But we weren't used to that. We forced ·her to take some 

Give us a call or send us an e-mail and we'll send you everything you need to get started. Your parents will love you for it-even more than they do already. 
For information about the UIC Summer Session, call800~625~2013 or, in Chicago, (312) 996~9099. Or, send us e-mail at: summer@uic.edu. 
~IV

----_..,.,..,. 
~ 
tough ·shots." 
The Irish tracked down many of their own misses (25 offensive rebounds). but it was Connecticut's 22-14 edge on sec­ond-chance points that made a difference. 
"We really struggled at the defensive end to rebound," McGraw said. 
In addition to Wolters, Husky freshman phenom Shea Ralph was quick to the offensive glass. 
"She really was a spark for them," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame had two sparks of their own -Rosanne Bohman in the first half and Morgan in the second. 
Early, the aggressive Bohman went right at the bigger Huskies. 
Her lay-up at the 13:00 mark of the first half tied the game at 15 and was her sixth point. She finished with 11. 
Morgan saved her best for the second half. 
"I knew they were right up on me," said Morgan. "So I just went hard to the basket and gave a few shot fakes. Fortunately, a few dropped." 
Her 30-point effort was ac­knowledged with a standing ovation from the partisan sell­out crowd at Connecticut's Gampel Pavilion. 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame was quite satisfied. 
"We played extremely hard," said Gaither. "It would have been so easy for this team to fold, but we're too strong men­tally," said McGraw. 
The close nature of the contest should help the Irish in seeding in their next goal. 
"We're looking at the NCAA's," said Gaither. "We have a great opportunity ahead of us." 

• 
tfl1r.H EJIIlLISH in · 1 ' • ' • \ ~"i:' --·• -EAST-ERN E-u 'E­
PRAGUE • BUDAPESf • KRAKOW How would you like to teach basic conversational English in Eastern Europe? Our 
materials profile many rewarding teaching opportunities with great benefits. For 
informdicn, c•ll: (206) 971-3680 
w~u~•l"ttR•!Ch.t.publilhU.~ Ext. K55845 
EMPLOYMENT IN AMERICA'S 

NATIONAL PARKS 
Find out how to begin your job search in National Parks. Forests, and Wildlife 
Preserves.

Our summer session offers over 400 courses in 55 Learn from the #1 Source that
UICSUMMER uncover$ hundreds of employment 
opportunities in the great outdoors.

departme~ts-lots of chances to catch up, get SESSION 
• Seasonal &Year-Round

ahead or concentrate on a particularly important • Excellent Benefits
Making your summer count 
course. It's easy to apply, tuition is a great value and the semester is over in just eight short weeks. June 2-July 25 
THE UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO 
T 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
• TRACK AI\ID fiELD 





Irish send seven to NCAA track championships 
Observer Staff Report 800 meters. Ohio) compose the rest of the 1995, returns to the NCAA in­Calloway, a semifinalist in the He will also run the 800-me­relay team. Seiling will run the door championships in the 55 1 00-meter hurdles at the 1996INDIANAPOLIS, Ind 
ters leg of Notre Dame's dis­1200-meters leg, Payton the meters in 1997 after finishing Olympic Trials, will run the 55­Notre Dame's track and field 
tance medley relay team which 400 meters and Rexing the seventh in that event as a fresh­meter hurdles in her first NCAA teams have qualified for the has run the second fastest time 1600 meters. These four are man in 1995. championship appearance. Her
1997 NCAA indoor track and in the NCAA this year with a the first distance medley relay A pair of freshmen, 7.63 in that event this season is
field championships to held school record time of 9:39.39. team from Notre Dame to par­Dominique Calloway (Aurora, the sixth-fastest in the NCAAFriday, March 7 and Saturday, Senior Derek Seiling (Allison ticipate in the NCAA indoor Colo.) and Jennifer Engelhardt championship field. EngelhardtMarch 8, at the RCA Dome in Park, Pa.) and juniors Danny championships. (Grand Rapids, Mich.), will rep­has jumped 5-foot-10, 3/4 inch­Indianapolis. The Irish will Payton (Las Vegas, Nev.) and Junior Allen Rossum (Dallas, resent Notre Dame's women's es to just make the field of 16 
send five runners from its Jason Rexing (Pickerington, Texas), an All-American in track and field team. participants.men's team and two from the women's team to the champi­onships, the most participants ever in the NCAA indoor cham­pionships from Notre Dame. 
Senior Jeff Hojnacki (Solon, Ohio) becomes the first track 



Medjugorje
athlete from Notre Dame to participate in more than one event at the championships. Hojnacki has qualified for the second consecutive year in the 

February 25, 1997 Message Our Lady, Queen of Peace 
"Dear Children! I invite you in a special way to open your­selves to God the Creator and to become active. I invite you, little children, to see at this time who needs your spiritual or material help. By your example, little childr~n, ~ou wil~ be the extended hands of God, which mankmd 1s seekmg. Only in this way will you understand, that you are called to witness and to become joyful carriers of God's word and of His love. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
For more information about Marian apparitions and devotions, see: http://www.nd.edu:80/-maryI Sponsored by Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556, (219)288-8777 



IREJ.ANIJ 
§>tudy lli$h Poli1ie~. bit{lra~ mxi Cultur{l 
Th.e-Internships~w ill-inelude.: Eight to ten weeks' internship 
.. 
Round trip airfare Room and Board Stipend 
All Notre Dame undergraduate students with a demonstrated interest in these areas are encouraged to apply. 
If interested, please pick up an application from 
Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Vice President and 
Senior Associate Provost, 202 Main Building. 
The applications are due by Wednesday, March 
26, 1997. 


hi1h ~VfllOp~Wnt Projflet 
IREl.ANIJ 
'iflW. wm~r. lntflrnzhip Opportunity 
The-Internships~w ill-inelude.: 
Ten to Twelve weeks' internship Round trip airfare Room and Board Stipend 
All current advanced business undergraduates and MBA students are encouraged to apply.. 
If interested please pick up an application from Rev. Timothy R. Scully, C.S.C., Vice President and Senior Associate Provost, 202 Main Building. 
The applications are due by Wednesday, March 
26, 1997. 



------~~---­
Wednesday, March 5, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 15 .. 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Make the most of an unexpected business or social opportunity. There arc big profits to be made if you have special services to sell. August could bring a sudden move or trans­fer. You have good luck where a contest or scholarship is concerned. An older colleague acts as your mentor. opening your eyes to previ­ously overlooked opportunities. Be nice to the people you encounter as you climb the career ladder. Their support is vi tall 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: magician Penn Jillette, comedian Marsha Warfield, football player Rocky Bleier. reggae singer
mw..E PETERS
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM Eddy Grant. A::!IES (March 21-April 19): News from people at a distance gives you fresh hope. Travel proves profitable. Feel free to express your enthusiasm for your work when meeting with authority tigures. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Professional matters will dominate the morning hours. A timely busi­ness transaction can add a substan­tial amount to your savings. Be pre­pared to make small concessions if necessary. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pass up a social invitation if com­munication between you and your mate is strained. You need to play by the rules, especially when dealing 

DILBERT 

one 16 Toothpullers'  40 Japanese soup 41 Endorsement  &5 Factors in conjugation  
grp.  43 More rational  66 Underworld  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

with conservative types. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do
SCOTT ADAMS 
not let baseless suspicions affect your relations with your co-workers. Team effort is needed to boost the
IN PH~5E. TWO I HOPE
0 

bottom line. Be attentive to a loved .... 
u ,. TI-\E. FOUR BOXES g 
one you may have neglected re­
TO TURN THIS MI\IRU
0 A.RE "501"\E.THING.•. ~ 
cently.

.. <i 
INTO CONCENTRIC 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Steer
,. @ SOtJ\E.THING ... SOf"o\E ;. 
.. "' "' 
clear of get-rich-quick propositions.
CIRCLES WITHOTHER THING ~ND
0 

You are asking for trouble if you
.. ~ ~ 
accept a ride on a tlight of fantasy.
~
1­

L~e£.LS AND
1-WI-\~ IE.VE.R. '' ..
0 

0 ... 
ARI\OW5.
"' .!! 
·;: 
::> 
....
~ 
"' 
"' 
Q 
56 Vaudevillian fond of coffee with milk? 
&1 Actress Scala 
&2 Patron 
63 Lacey on 
"Cagney& Lacey" 64 Telesthesia 


river 
DOWN 
1 Stephen King thriller 

Wanted: 
2 Take-(rest) 3 Take--(rest) 4 Schedule abbr. 5 Moral principles 


Reporters,
& 1971 courtroom drama 7 Chuckle sound a--Dhabi (Mideast 


photographers
capital) 

Keep your work situation free ol personal matters. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22J Excellent results stem from your fol­lowing a friend's advice. Resolve to repay the favor at the earliest oppor­tunity. Good news from afar will improve your finances. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A day of accomplishment lies ahead. You are able to deal successfully with a number of business people. Put romance on the back burner while you nurture your other relationships. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J: Be on the lookout for important opportunities. Socializing will help both business and romance. A new alliance is in the offing. Let this relationship develop at its own pace. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You can accomplish a ncar-mir­acle now 1 A stroke of inspiration helps you break down barriers. Be wary of Internet romance. It is prob­ably smarter and saf"cr to let a good friend play Cupid. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): A small contract mav not be worth the time and effort.-Concen­trate on routine matters until some­thing truly exciting comes along Return phone calls and answer cor­respondence promptly. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181 You make real headway when deal­ing with your relatives and co-work­ers today. Spending money on a whim will lead to regrets. Steer clear of risky investments. Too much su­cializing could leave you exhausted Stay home. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201. 
Your finances dominate you1 
thoughts today. You may have t" 
seek new employment if unable I<> 
land a better paying position at you1 
present place of business. 

... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Theme of this puzzle 5 Odorless gas 11 Finger-paint 14 Body of troops 15 The general Pelopidas, for 
28 Granny Smiths 31 1953 A.L. 
M.V.P.AI 32 Boors 33 Like "Aida" 37 Aldrich Ames, 
for one 38 Subsided 

17 Coffee-loving "Star Wars" character? 
19Singing syllables 
20 Unlock, in poetry 21 First-­
22 Muslim leaders 
24Actorwho demands frothy coffee on the set? 
44 Parry 
45 Football ploy 
4650's comedienne with a taste for flavored coffee? 
SO Imposing residence 51 Small dog, for short 52 Veteran 55 Graffiti, to some 


• 
I < 
I
! ~ 
I 

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, March 5, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Garrity, MacLeod receive Big East accolades 
1HE 
I 
Coach 


of the 

Year 
1995-96: 9-18 overal 4-14 Big E 
1996-97: 14-12 overall 8-1 0 Big East 

John M 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Huskies baffle Irish again 

make three a charm 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Spores Editor 

It appears that Notre Dame has finally encountered some luck; the luck of the draw, so to speak. The Irish face Syracuse today in the first round of the Big East tournament, the only team they defeated twice in the regular season, both victories by wide margins. But appear­ances can be deceiving. 
The Orangemen missed the services of star Todd Burgan during a seven-game suspen­sion early in the season. The 
· .scoreboard evidenced this as well: Irish caught SU at both the 
.....v ..... ,~··••v_,,.. 86, Notre Dame 77. 
beginning and the end of the
er-than-expected contest was 
span, cashing in a 69-52 victory ~u'"'"'"••vu• s 30th consecutive win and marked at the Joyce Center and a 73-58their third straight Big East championship. 
win in the Carrier Dome. 
But With just seven scholarship players 
"Having Todd back makes ahealthy,Muffet McGraw's 13th-ranked Irish gave 
big difference," Irish head
a valiant effort. 
coach John MacLeod acknowl­'Tam tremendously proud of this team," said edged. "He brings 16.5 pointsMc(;~a~.. "To have justseven players and battle per game; we beat them by 17
~:.....,.,;.&-J~---""-'-'--'-'-----"'--'-'-~-=~=----::7"""::--'"""" like w~ did was great. ·They worked and tried so 
once, and once by 15. They're 
Player of the Year and Coach of the Year awards boost Irish confidence 
By BETSY BAKER Assistant Spons Editor 
Not many people believed in the Notre Dame men's basket­ball team this year. 
The conference picked them to finish last in the Big East 6 Division. But why not? They finished last year 4-14 in the conference, losing in the first round of the tournament by 21 to Syracuse. 
Not too many people believed in John MacLeod either. As the Irish started off the season 3-8 in the conference as of the beginning of February, many started to speculate about MacLeod's future at Notre Dame. 
All that has changed as proven by the election of Pat Garrity as Big East Player of the Year and MacLeod as Big East Coach of the Year yester­day. 
Garrity, who finished the reg­ular season second in the Big East in scoring with 20.1 points per game, was looked at as the probable candidate for the award, but yesterday's announcement set it in stone. 
"This is definitely the high­light of my career," Garrity commented. Even though he actually knew about the award on Sunday, he was still sur­prised with the news. 
d 
"I knew about it on Sunday, 
but when I found out I was really shocked." Garrity has led the Irish 
throughout the season, scoring 25 or more points on 11 occa-
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 

vs. Syracuse at Big East tournament Wednesday, 11 a.m. on ESPN2 
.,Men's Lacrosse at Delaware March 11, 3 p.m . 
a different team since he re­joined them." 
., 
., 
., 
Baseball at SW Texas State Friday, 3 p.m. 
Softball at Oklahoma tour­nament, March 7-9 
Women's Tennis vs. Michigan Friday, 7:30p.m. 
sions, but especially in the sec­ond half as the team rebounded to go 5-3 from the beginning of February through the begin­ning of March. 
The Irish performance in the second half of the season is one of the major reasons upon which they can argue their worth for an NIT bid, an announcement that will come this Sunday. 
The award has no doubt hon­ored Garrity, but will now allow him to fully concentrate on today's first-round tournament game against Syracuse. 
''I'm glad it's finally over," he commented. "It takes a lot of wondering out of the thing." 
''I'm especially honored because of all the guys who have won it in the past." 
Garrity remained brief in his acceptance speech, thanking those who made the award pos­sible for him. 
"I said thanks to the coaches who voted for me and congrat­ulations to the other award winners," Garrity said. "And finally, I thanked Coach MacLeod." 
MacLeod deserves all of the credit he is receiving as he turned last year's performance into a 8-10 conference record, 14-12 overall, this year. 
Garrity commented on MacLeod's reaction to the award. 
"It seems like Coach has been on top of the world all day," Garrity said. "He's really 
see HONORS I page 10 

Notre Dame looks to 
aJ 
'Q
...... 
riJ 
~ 

Player




of the 
Year 
21.7 ppg 
7.6 rebounds per game 
2nd in Big East scoring 
.492 
field goal
oro 

Pat 

•Irish track to send seven to Indy 
see page 14 
•Big East tournament bracket 
see page 10 
Notre Dame recognizes that, despite success against the Orangemen this season, the tournament is a whole new ball game. 
"This is the play-offs, the tournament, crunch time," guard Admore White raved. "They're going to come out ready. They've got Burgan who brings in scoring and more rebounds, but we're going to be ready to play. Seeing that we've beat them twice we do have a little confidence (head­ing into today's game), but we're not going to take them lightly." 
Although Syracuse (18-11, 9­
9) is coming off of a 65-63 loss to Pittsburgh to close out the regular season, the team has improved since the last contest between the two teams, notch­ing recent victories over Providence and Villanova, two of the strongest teams in the conference. With Burgan, cen­
see PREVIEW I page 12 











