
• Fired up after defeating 
'The Cause &Treatment ofHomosexuality'
~ Planning aroadtrip? 
No. 3 Portland, NO's second­
ranked women's soccer team
Check out Accent's guide to West Lafayette, 
• Dr. Joseph Nicolosi spoke last night about his belief 
prepares for Big East road trip. 
including which roads will be closed this 
that homosexuality is a curable "disorder." p.3
weekend. p. 12 
p.24 



Friday, September 12, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 15 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne The Linebacker Inn, located on S.R. 23 and Edison Road. is quiet by day but comes alive after 1 a.m. 
One of South Bend's most popular late-night clubs turns 35 
By JAMIE HEISLER Managing Editor 
It's the kind of place that turns people into regulars. Whether it's students looking to continue the fun for the night or South Bend residents on their way home from work, the Linebacker Lounge has earned its place as an area landmark over the past 35 years. 
Affectionately dubbed the 'Backer, the bar has grown in popularity among Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students over the past 10 years under the ownership of AI Delinski. Delinski has worked at the bar since 1978. taking over co­ownership in 1984. 
"It [the bar] really became popular with students in ·88 just after I bought out my part­ners. It hit in just one year," said Delinski, who credits her husband Greg with the increased popularity among students. ''I'm not sure, but I think he had something to do with it." 
Greg Delinski, currently a captain with the St. Joseph County Police, then worked for Notre Dame Security/Police. When he encountered students he knew that were 21 or older, he would tell them about his wife's business. 
"After that it became popu­lar with some of the football players, but it was mainly the 
see BACKER/ page 4 

• OUTSIDE ND 
' ;c "' 

he group's focus is "''· to enlighten others, to educate on the rights of human persons.' 
Father Richard Friday, regarding Catholic University's gay/lesbian student gmup 

NO's 'inclusion' not unusual at Catholic schools 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Associate News Editor 
With the Aug. 27 publication of the "Spirit of Inclusion" letter, University officials took a step toward officially recognizing "the uniqueness of all persons" in the Notre Dame community, including. gays and les­bians. 
But this recent step at Notre Dame is one that other Catholic universities took long ago, and many have gone so far as to pro­tect the rights of homosexual students in their non-discrimination policies, which Notre Dame has chosen not to do. 
Some also recognize gay and lesbian stu­dent groups, providing them all rights granted to other student groups, a right the University has denied to GLND/SMC. 
Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., has a non-discrimination policy including a clause that specifically protects the rights of students with regard to sexual orientation. 
Gay and lesbian groups are also recog­nized as sanctioned student groups and can hold meetings and events on campus, according to Matthew Umhofer, assistant director of public relations at Georgetown. 
"We feel that it's consistent with our her­itage as a Catholic university," Umhofer said. "The university demonstrates concern for the dignity and respect of all people ­students. faculty and staff. That, of course, includes the gay and lesbian members of 
see GROUPS/ page 8 

WNDU power outage leads to outdoor broadcast 
By DAN CICHALSKI A<Sisranr Managing Editor 
;\ blown fuse caused a power outago at the WNDU studios last night. dPlaying broadcast of the 5 p.m. nnws and forcing the sta­tion outside for the evening llPWS. 
The problem was not fixed bn!'ore the 10 p.m. newscast, keeping tho crew outside for the latnrwws. 
"The station is dead," Director of Audience Development and TPlevision Programming Lou Pierce said during the first broadcast. "We're on life support right now. This is a no-thrills broadcast into the live truck." 
Mark Kolley and the rest of the newsteam broadcast live from a new gaznbo on the grass bntween the station's parking lot and Dorr Road. The finished gazebo is part of an outdoor stu­dio that is still under construc­tion. 
Broadcasters and technicians treated the situation like a live remote newscast. A tripod­mounted camera and two moni­tors were set up on the grass and connected by cables to two trucks 100 feet away in the parking lot. 
"This has happened before," Pierce said. "The timing was just bad. Everyone was a wreck, but they were having a great time. They love challenges." 
Pierce added that the last time a power loss happened. the news was broadcast from the parking lot. But the gazebo provided a 
see WNDU/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 12, 1997 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Tillle \Veil 
spent with your friends 
It's been three Lori Allen weeks that we've been Sarah Corkrean back. and as upper­
Saint Mary's Editors 
classmen are settling 
down into the regular 
mode of getting their work done in order to go 
out to the late night drink specials, freshmen 
are starting to see the light at the end of the 
tunnel getting over different stages of horne­
sickness. 
Homesickness. To we veteran students. the 
word conjures up memories of seeing morn 
and dad crying as they drove back to their 
regular routines of trying to make a living and 
providing for you. But now they have to bud­
get their expenses religiously as a good chunk 
of it is sent to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
each month. 
Aside from the reality of having to pay bills 
for the rest of our lives, right now those 
thoughts are very far away. What's important 
is the next test: scheduling when. you can 
afford to skip class, parties, and spending 
time with friends and roommates. 
Perhaps most important, and what will be 
most memorable in 20 years (isn't college all 
about making memories} is time spent in the 
company of those we care most about. 
Over here at Saint Mary's, we have a very 
pronounced bond. Maybe it is just because we 
are all women and spend countless hours 
together in the classroom, studying, and 
socializing, but there seems to be little, or no 
competition among us. 
If after a night of wild parties a friend does 
not come horne. it is only natural for a Saint 
Mary's student to expect to be scolded the 
next morning for not calling, even if she sat at 
Steak 'n Shake after the bars closed. 
Maybe it is our motherly instinct, but check­
ing on friends and their plans for the evening 
is a daily ritual to let one another know that 
you care about them. 
For both of us beginning our senior year 
here, we have grown to appreciate and 
respect our friends and roommates as enter­
prising women and life long friends. 
We've always wondered what it is that 
makes individuals who get acquainted with 
one another their freshman or sophomore 
year stick together the rest of their college 
career, and stay in touch years after college. 
Maybe it is because everyone brings a dif­
ferent personality into a pool of women, and 
you each find your own niche and role to play 
in the group. 
Without you, the group would be incom­
plete. Whether your'e the rational one, the 
prankster, the emotional roller coaster, or the 
nurturer, without you, the puzzle isn't com­
plete. 
The word "friend" is a word with many 
meanings. But the meaning is clarified and 
defined when you can look one another in the 
eye and cry for the pain they are dealing with, 
whether it be personal or academic problems. 
You leave bouquets of flowers in their room 
when they return from a funeral of a loved 
one; you sit with them in a hospital emer­
gency room for eight hours; and you are will­
ing to go to Meijer's at any dark hour of the 
night just because they want to check out the 
specials they have to offer. 
But most of all, when you laugh so hard 
with one another, and at one another. that 
you end up crying, you know that those 
friends won't stray very far from you in the 
game of life. · 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
• Ton;w's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Heather Cocks  Tom Roland  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  Laura Petelle  
Allison Krilla  Heather Cocks  
Viewpoint  Sarah Hiltz  
Tara Churik  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Joe Wieler  

The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
CDC says AIDS death rate is decreasing 
ATLANTA first time since the epidemic began in AIDS has lost its place as the No.1 AIDS deaths 1981. 
killer of the nation's young and mid-"It's reassuring," said Dr. John dle-age adults, bolstering the govern-Death from AIDS per Ward, the CDC's chief of AIDS sur­
ment's optimism that the deadly epi-1OO,OOO people between . veillance. "You like to have multiple demic is slowing down. ages 25 and 44 since 1990: studies saying the same thing before 
The disease is now the second lead-you begin to consider what you're ing cause of death for people between seeing is indeed the truth."
36 7 36 9 

25 and 44, driven by a 26 percent 32.9 · The AIDS death rate in 1996 fell to drop overall in the rate of AIDS 23.3 26.5 .. 27.2 ,, 11.6 ~eaths per 100,000 peop~e. deaths between 1995 and 1996, the II ~ ;,# .Tdown 26 pocoont fcom ~ caW ?' lo.6 
911

Centers for Disease Control and iW 'fir . d ··Ail .Alb the prevtous year. the CDC satd. For Prevention said Thursday. x'< :;~; ~; .• ,; ·:; ::~:: 1;!'~; ~dults, be!ween 25. and 44, the rate Accidents, such as falls and car !II+ +"' ur ~'~ ow i''v 11\f'' fell to 27.2 deaths !rom a rate of 36.9 
1 29. 1
crashes, are the leading cause of' ,,,,,, in 1995. 
1990 91 92 93 94 95 96
death for the group that accounts for '----------------____j In 1994, when AIDS took over the more than half the nation's work-top spot, the rate was 36.7 in that force. Cancer is No. 3, the CDC said. age group. 
The drop, included in the CDC's 1996 report on births Ward ternpernd the news by noting that thousands of and deaths, adds to encouraging earlier reports. Last people are still living with AIDS and taking drugs that take year, the actual number of AIDS deaths dedined for the a huge toll on the body. 
Clinton acts to protect rivers 
WASHINGTON 
Dedaring rivers "the lifeblood of our 
,.,..,....,..---,,.,=----. nations," President Clinton launched an effort Thursday to designate 10 water­ways as American Heritage rivers that will get extra federal attention. A desig­nation under the program will allow communities, through a liaison called a "river navigator," to tap existing federal resources and expertise in protecting '--'--~-_...__LA.., and restoring the waterway. The first designations were expected to be made early next year. Although local com­munities would have to seek the designation for specific rivers, some Western lawmakers oppose the program, fearing it will lead to the government having greater say in use of private land. But Clinton said the American Heritage Rivers Initiative, created by executive order, is "a big deal to millions of people" who care about great cities built on riverbanks. He said when he leaves oflice, he wants to work with a project to "restore and enhance" development along the Arkansas River in Little Rock. "Rivers have always been the lifeblood of our nations," Clinton said. "They nourish our cities, they feed our soils, they allow us to expand our territory in commerce. They permit us, mil­lions upon millions of us, to fish .... This is a big part of what we are." 
Feds apologize for raid 
LEE, Mass. 
A federal drug agent publidy apologized Thursday for raid­ing the home of a local building inspector on the mistaken suspicion he was a marijuana trafiicker. A spokesman li>r the couple said, however, they were awaiting a personal apology and intended to press forward with complaints. "This is the all-American family. If it could happen to them, it could hap­pen to anybody," said state Rep. Chris llodgkins, a relative who acted as their spokesman Thursday. "They are law­abiding citizens. and I'm very, very sorry this happened," said George Festa. the agent in charge of the federal Drug Enforcement Administration's operations in New England. Daniel Keenan, who serves as building inspector in Lee and neighboring Stockbridge, said he was reading the newspaper in his front yard on Sept. 5, with his son playing nearby, when six state and federal ollicers drove up in separate cars. The agents told him they had reason to believe that 300 pounds of marijuana had been in his garage. Kernan said the agents didn't have a search warrant, but he signed a consent form allowing the hous11 and garage to be searched. They were told that if they refused, they would be put in handcull's and a search warrant would be issued. The agrmt-; elaimed to have video showing a drug delivery to the house. 
Photos 'too gruesome' for exhibit 
NEW YORK 
The National Park Service has rejected photos for the Ellis Island museum showing decapitated heads and other carnage, saying they are "too gruesome" for visitors. Armenians, charging censorship, say it's part of their histo­ry at the hands of Ottoman Turks. They say the photos are testimony to this century's lirst genocide. At issue are 15 photographs_, vintage 1915, showing people being hanged and Turkish soldiers holding up severed heads of executed oflicials. "These are just facts," said Margaret Tellalian Kyrkostas, a Queens College professor who mounted the exhibit on Armenian immigration. "We're simply trying to tell the story of the Armenians, and that is a part of it." Armenians say about 1.5 million people were massacred between 1915 and 1923 as part of the Turkish govern­ment's attempt to deport the country's large Armenian pop­ulation en masse. The tragedy created a global diaspora of Armenians, and Armenian-Americans now number about 1 million. Larry Steeler, deputy superintendent of the Ellis Island Immigration Museum, reportedly d11enwd the pic­tures too graphic for Ellis Island tourists. Kyrkostas said the decision was additionally puzzling because 'the same exhibit had been displayed at Queens College, the Park Service knew its content weeks in advance, and one of the photos already appears in a permanent display at Ellis Island, which draws more than 1 million visitors a year. 
Foundation honors unsung war heroes 
WA"llliNGTON 
Margot Webb, a retired professor living in North Miami Beach, has spent the last two years poring over military records. scanning census data and looking through soldier names on a hunch U1at her great-grandfather served in a blaek troop during the Civil War. She hcL'i whittled down her options to six "Isaac Smiths" but still doesn't know which one is her ancestor. ''I'm having a hard time getting to the right one," said Webb, 87, a genealogist. "If I just had an idea of what company he was in." The African-American Civil War Memorial Foundation estimates at least 7 million blacks are descended !'rom Ovil War servicemen. For some, like Webb, tracing root<> can prove dillkult. But a new memorial and heritage center in the nation's capital aims to shed light on history's f(Jrgotten troops. Tho African-American Civil War Mernmial Fow1dation broke ground Thursday on a $2 million project to salute black servicemen. "We've come lwre to start the procnss of setting the record straight," said memorial chairman Frank Smith Jr.. a District of Columbia councilman. The 9-foot high, 2-ton bronze sculpture, called the Spirit of Freedom, depict<> a group of soldiers in service. Two stone walls around the statue will bear the names of an estimated 209,000 soldiers who served in thH United States Colored Troops. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 12. 
AccuWeather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r·,·-<'"" ..................................... H L 
j 

Friday 
74 54 Saturday 76 58 Sunday 78 59 Monday ~f 79 58 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 

C1 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure

Tuesd~y ~ 78 57
.A 

H L EJ' LSJ [D] 0 ' [2] 8 1:) eJ cCJ. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PrCLOUDY CLOUDY
\5'~"~j .. ·····., :' 
Vsa AssoCialed Press 

Baltimore 84 61 Houston 95 73 Pittsburgh 76 53 
' 
·····' 

Boston 76 64 Memphis 86 61 Reno 82 44 Chicago 76 53 Milwaukee 74 54 St. Louis 82 61
4.Q,~4Q.Q(f~ce:J. 
Cincinnati 77 52 New York 77 66 Seattle 
68 52 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu·r;ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 74 57 Omaha 82 62 Tampa 84 63 
V1a Assoc1ated Press Graoh1csNet 


-----~---~---------------~....., 
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

would not rid his client of his homosexual inclination, but "he may have the feelings, but they happen less frequently and less 
The Observer/Monica Garza 
intensely. It becomes, in the 

Badin Hall residents flip burgers at a picnic honoring the dorm's 
words of one client, "a distrae.­

1OOth birthday 
tion that I can easily dismiss." 
• SECURITY BEAT

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 
MONDAY, SEPT. 8 

Get involved in 1997-98 JPW 

5:45 p.m. A Sarin Hall resident was transported by Security to St.
17Ie committeefor this year's juniorParent's 
Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

Weekend is lookingfor a Sophomore Chairperson. 
9:30 p.m. An Off-campus student reported the theft of his bike from outside Gate 2 of the Joyce Center. 

I11is is your chance to get"involved in one ofthe 
most exciting events ofjunioryear. Don't let this 
His bike was tacked with a cable lock at the time of the theft. 

opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
TUESDAY,SEPT.9 

INFORMATION MEETING 
•Applications are now available at the 
12:10 p.m. A McGlinn Hall resi­

WITH 
dent reported receiving harassing

LaFortune Information Desk. 
telephone calls. 

PROFESSOR OLIVIA R. CONSTABLE
•Applications must be returned to 
7:30 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from an

31 5 LaFortune by September 26. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997 
Alumni Hall bike rack. His bike was 
locked with a cable lock at the time of the theft. 

4:45PM 
118 DEBARTOLO
JF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL 
9:45 p.m. Security transported an Alumni Hail resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a 

]EFF ]ONES AT XI63I. 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
sports injury. 



Nicolosi: Homosexuals can be cured 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
A'sistanr News Editor 
llomosexual orientation is a disorder which can be trnatod by psychological tlwrapy, ae'cording to Dr. JosPph Nicolosi. 
Nicolosi. a psychiatrist, spoke on his own eonelusions based on his nxperienCI) dealing with over 400 homosexual men who came to him desiring to rid themselves of homosexual t<mdnneies. 
lin began by distinguishing between tlw tnrms "gay" and "homosexual." 
"The two arn not the same," lw said. "llornosexuality is a gendm·-rnlatnd idm1tity disorder. Cay, on thn othnr hand, is a social. political identity." 
As an example. he mentioned tlw case of an oldnr boy who is unsure as to his sexual orinnta­tion. "The culture teaches this boy that that makes you gay. But just becausn a boy has a sexual attmction to a (male) penr. does not nwan that ho is gay," Nicolosi said. 
Whiln lw aeknowledgod that tlwn• may lw complex gom)tic fac­tors involvPd in predisposing mon to homosexuality. Nicolosi attrib­utns it largnly to developmental and environmental factors. 
"What's behind male homo­sexuality are two basic needs: identity needs, and emotional needs," he said. 
lie said that the "identity dis­order" which he claims is relat­od to homosexuality begins in e.hildhood, affected by interac­ticms within the family. 
"From infancy," he said. "the boy is identified with his mother. but he has the additional identity development of disconnecting from his mother and identifying with his father." 
While at the age of two and a half to three years old, he said. e.hildren do not yet see a distinc­tion between male and female. 
"Then boys go through an 'androgynous phase,' in which they see that the world is male and female, but they think that they don't have to choose." 
At this point. Nicolosi said, that the boy will either learn to iden­tify with his father or not. 
"Jip wants to fulfill his mascu­linn potential," he said. "If the father is warm and accepting. and the mother allows for the transfer of idpntification, the boy will disconnect from his mother and identify himself with his father.· The role of the father is to help the boy see that mas­culinity is important. 
"Homosexuality," he said, "is a continual search for maleness." 
This condition, he claimed, is often followed later in life by adult homosexuality. "There is a 75 percent correlation," he said, "between childhood effeminacy and adult homosexuality." Nicolosi added that a similar state of mind could result from a relationship of fear and hostility with an older brother. 
The other nend which Nicolosi claimed is behind male homo­sexuality is emotional need. 
"My clients agree," he said, "that when the emotional needs are satisfied, their homosexual attraction diminishes." 
Satisfying friendships with male friends, he said, are often difficult. Referring to the Bell and Weinberg survey of 1979, he stated that "we see characteristi­cally poor peer relationships among homosexuals, as studies by gay advocates confirm." 
"Men bond through activities," he went on. "There is a physical nature to heterosexual develop­ment. We encourage our guys to go to the gym, for example." 
Nicolosi said that the "cure" 

Mmm, two all-beef patties... 
Notre Dame-Michigan Game Ticket Lottery Two ID 's per person One Ticket per ID onday the 15th @ 4:0 pm Drawing starts at 6:40pm 



PIZZA, SODA, FREE ND STUFF!!! 
11:30 p.m. A Keough Hall resi­dent was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medica! Center for treat­ment of a shoulder injury. 
WEDNESDAY,SEPT.10 
6:20 a.m. Security responded to a two-car accident in the Support Services parking lot. There were no injuries reported. 
2:34 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resi· dent reported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
7:55 p.m. An off-campus student was transported to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an illness. 
9:20 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the North Dining Hall. His bike was unlocked at the time of the theft. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Usa:l. b:Joks ln.x:Jht arrl sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


b:Joks in stock • ilit-of-Print Se3rch ServiCE: $2.00 
• 1\J;p:"aisals large arrl srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 
--~~~--­

Friday, September 12, 1997
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
'Backer 
continued from page 1 
hockey players who really start­ed to hang out there," Mrs. Dolinski said. 
Her husband still remains popular with the students, she said. and likes to visit the bar on weekends-a possible explana­tion for the famed carding ten­dencies which keep the bar crowd over-21 at all times. 
The other draw for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, according to Al Delinski, is the ability of OJ DrPw LPaeh, who has worked at the bar for nine y11ars. Leach used to be a U93 DJ who worked Notre Dame and Saint Mary's func­tions on the side before moving to the Linebacker. 
"I enjoy playing music for the students." he said. "It used to be a different crowd, and I couldn't play certain kinds of music. Since the students have started to come, I can really play the music I enjoy." 
"He has the best selection of music anyone could ask for ­he can really hold the crowds," said Delinski. "lie gets asked to play a lot of weddings for alumni around the country. A couple came in the other day and want­ed his number for their wedding nPXt .July." 
Alumni are often quick to return to the Linebacker on foot­ball weekends for a flashback to their college days. 
"It's definitely more hectic on football weekends. It was packed on Thursday, Friday and Saturday of last weekend, even during the day," Deljnski said. "A lot of people who ·can't get tickets look for a place to watch the game, and we're close to campus." 
The LinebackPr has remained at the corner of S. R. 23 and Edison Road its entire 35 years, ever since its original owners replaced the thAn-existing Eve's Restaurant with the lounge. 
Myron Patios and Stan Piezak had originally envisioned build­ing a hotel and bar in the area but settled with the currAnt location in 1962. Patios, a for­mer linebacker for Notre Dame, continued his co-ownPrship of the bar during his time with the Pittsburgh Steelers but allowed himself to be bought out when he moved to the L.A. Rams around 1969. 
Piezak. a local resident, con­tinued to own his share of the bar until 197 4 when he sold the bar to Mike Lind, another for­mer Notre Dame football player who wound up playing with the Rams. The bar traded hands yet again in the late '70s when Lind sold the bar to Pat Zappia, an area resident who owned the bar until 1984. 
The bar has survived relative­ly unchanged through multiple owners, a fire in 1980 and a threat of road expansion in the early '90s which would have forced the Linebacker tD relo­cate. 
The fire occurred in 1980 under Zappia's ownership but was contained with relatively lit­tle damage thanks to the timely arrival of Zappia. 
"Luckily Pat was going in early that day," Delinski said. "lie saw the fire and prevented the bar from burning down. The bar didn't even have to close, there was just damage to the external foyer area." 
The bar was also faced with the possibility that the expan-




Got News? 

1-5323 or Observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
402 E.Madison South Bend 

23-0-S-C-A-R (236-7227) 
We're not playing Georgia Tech 
in our Season Opener. We're playing Gershwin... ...and Rachmaninov and Shostakovich 
This Sunday, September 14 at 3P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
sion of South Bend Avenue audience," he said. would force the bar to relocate. The major dill"erencc for view­
WNDU
Fortunately for Delinski, the city (~rs at home was the absence of 
compromised, allowing the graphics on the screen. Pre­
continued from page 1 
Linebacker to remain in its cur­recorded segments could still be rent location. stage this time. aired from tho truck, but the 
"The state in mediation "The gazebo is my baby," sports and weather portions of agreed to close down Ivy Hoad Pierce said with a smile, indicat­the newscast did not have the which will give me additional ing the outdoor studio was at luxury of charts or maps. parking. Thai's why we moved least partly his idea. "Them's very little 1can do (in the door ovnr to that side; the For some memb11rs or the. a situation like this)," weather­road will come too close to the WNDU staff, tlw situation did man Mike lloll'man said. "We're building on thn Edison side," she not provide too much or a chal­so dependent on computers to said. lnngn. do the weather. I really just 
In addition to moving the loca­"I was basically linishml (with have to talk. It's hard trying to tion of the main door, Delinski my preparation)," sportseastPr explain things without showing has also enacted multiple .Jell' .JolTers said. "We just had to tlwm. like I normally do." improvements to the intorior of mlit the pieces in the truck. We For the late-night broadcast, the bar, the majority of whieh do it on location all the timn, so HolTman drew up the weather have taken place since St. this was almost easier for graphics on placards. lie even Patrick's Day of last year. The sports. It's not easy but it went drew pictures for tho five-day changes include renovatod very, vpry well." lim~ast, induding a smiley-faced walls, stone tiling to replace the As the anchor, Kellny spends sun, that drnw laughter from the carpeting, the addition of a the most time on the sernen and crew. storeroom, an expanded was affected thp most by the WNDU broadcast a test pat­kitchen, a renovated pool room, chango. tern or a black screen until 5:30 the addition of multiple teiPvi­"You can't expect the p.m., when the "NBC Nightly sions, and a completely renovat­TelnPrompter to do all the News" airml through the trans­Pd bar. work." he said after the broad­mitter, rather than tlH' studio, 
"Tho old bar was completely east had ended to the applause Pierce said. redone. First we extended it of the crew. WNDU's radio station, U-93, then retiled it with granite and "You have to have some sense was also all"ected by the outage. ceramic to be more indPstruc­of the stories so you don't havP Listeners turning their dials to tible," said Delinski. "Because to rely on the script and can the 92.9 frequency heard static the bar really takes a beating." keep some eye contact with the at times last night. 
WhilP running the bar has had its challenges, Dolinski still finds the job enjoyable. 
"I like it, but it was kind of tough in the beginning," she said. "It's always hard until you get settled in with all of your people in place. For the last five or six years I havpn't had that problem. There are ups and downs but more ups than downs." 
• CLARIFICATION 
In the Sept. 3 issue of The Asian-American students on Observer, Kevin lluie's position campus. Iris Outlaw will con­at the 011ice of Multicultural tinue to serve as director and Student Affairs was not fully liason between the office and explained. As assistant direc­the African-American stu­tor, Huie will be responsible for dents. OMSA is still interview­relations between the OMSA ing applicants !'or Jose and the Native-American and Gonzalez' old position. 

presents 

.. UNDERSTANDING FOOTBALL.. 
6 Monday 
Seminar topics:Evenings, 7·9p.m. Offense, Defense, starting the Kicking Game, September 15th Demonstrations Jordan & Particpation Auditorium, UND TOM PAGNA Former Offensive Backfield Coach 
for Reservations Call Sponsored 219/233-3486
by Home 
Fee:$60

Management Service 
PURDUE'S BREAKFAST CLUB BASH 
Hey ND Fans can you hang with us??? 
1 OUR PREGAME PARTY STARTS AT 7:00AM 1 No COVER! GAMES, CONTEST, PRIZES! 1 POST GAME FOOD SPECIALS, PLUS DANCE 
AND PARTY 'TIL 3:00AM. 
* Come ·oin us for this friend/ bash. * 
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
SMC opens rooiDs to Holy Cross Scotland votes for 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT the directors of Residence Life the Le Mans Computer Lab, the Saim Mary's Associate News Editor and Housing at both colleges Library, and Moreau activities 
own parliament
devised one-year plan for the are included. 
Due to several vacancies in Hegina llall, Saint Mary's has agreed to offer those rooms to lloly Cross students. 
Holy Cross College, located about one-half' mile south of Saint Mary's campus, this year has begun a housing program originally intended for students from outside the South Bend area. 
However, both male and fomale students eagerly accepted the chance to live in James Hall on Holy Cross campus, even stu­dents who live in the area. 
Due to thn large numbers of students requesting residence life on Holy Cross' campus. there were npt enough rooms for each student. 
Regina I fall at Saint Mary's has a vacant floor, and last spring, 
Your road to convenience begins on the Information Highway with our FREE "Dorm" Banking service. Via the Internet, you can access your account and perform many of the same trans­actions that were once only available through Touch-Tone Teller. 
All you need to access your account is an Internet Connection. Questions? Call for details. 
schools to work together. 
Currently, James !!all, which is Holy Cross' newest dorm has three floors; two male and one female. Next year, the plan will be to have all Holy Cross students who request living arrange­ments, to live on campus. Then, James and Basil Halls will be sin­gle sex, and resident advisors will monitor their assigned floors. 
"Our priority is given to the non-local students," stated Chris Ruhe, director of lloly Cross College's Residence Life, "but we are more than happy to house all students." 
Living on Saint Mary's campus requires all students to cover the living fees that give students access to health services and stu­dent activities. Entry to facilities such as Angela Athletic Center, 

Transportation to Holy Cross and from Saint Mary's is provid­ed to Holy Cross students by rid­ing the Linkage Shuttle Van throughout the day. 
"When I ride the bus, there is usually plenty of room for every­one," stated Catherine Pierce, a Holy Cross student. 
Anne Petersen, also a Holy Cross student said, "I enjoy living in Regina Hall because the atmosphere is quiet, but I would definitely prefer living at Holy Cross because of the location fac­tor." 
Despite the fact that they are residents of Regina Hall, they are a separate community. Their res­ident advisors are either Holy Cross Students or alumnae who presently attend Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. 

WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 
P~ NOTRE DAME A Better Choice to Make ~FEDERAL CR~!?.!e!e~al!~~ 
LOCATIONS: Douglas Rood -239-6611 or 800-522-6611 Ireland Rood -299-2220 • Edison lakes-254-4400 • Mill Street -256-2361 
Saint Mary's Campus-284-4614 • Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 


24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 • E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 
By MAUREEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press Writer 
EDINBURGH, Scotland 

Scots gave a thumping endorsement to creating their own Scottish Parliament after 290 years of union with England, in partial returns from Thursday's referendum. 
The results also showed sup­port, though less enthusiasm, for giving the regional legislature limited authority over taxes. 
"I am absolutely delighted that the Scottish people have backed our plans," said Prime Minister Tony Blair, whose Labor Party had campaigned on creating the separate legislature before win­ning power in May. 
"I said that we would deliver what..we promised -and we have. 
The creation of a Scottish Parliament, which would be opened by 2000, would be the most significant change within the United Kingdom since Ireland won its independence in 1922. 
It will keep Scotland within the country with Queen Elizabeth II as its monarch, but have it assume responsibility for legisla­tion on domestic affairs. The separate tax authority would allow the legislature to increase, or decrease, existing taxes by 3 percentage points. 
With 18 of 32 districts counted Friday morning, the vote for the parliament was running more than 70 percent "yes," with about 60 percent support for tax powers. 
The vote was "yes" even in East Renfrewshire, a prosperous commuter area near Glasgow. Until the general election in May, it was one of the last strongholds of the Conservative Party, which strongly opposed the parliament. 
"We sure did carry the clay today," said Scottish Secretary Donald Dewar, who led the gov­ernment's campaign. "We have outp(~rformed the polls ... even the most devoted believer in the Tory opposition cannot question our right to proceed." 
The "yes" votes rolled in Friday morning from the Western Islands to the Highlands and Borders. Among the first 12 districts to declare, two voted against tax powers though they also support the parliament. 

SPOXSORED B\': Ol\ISA, LAALIMZA, StB, S1'1.1DE~T AFFAIRS, &ST. l\IARY'S omcE OF l\RJLUClJLnlRALAFFAIRS 
Turnout was about 66 per­eent, the British Broadcasting Corp. said. 
Scotland "is in for a very excit­ing journey," said Alex Salmond, leader of the Scottish National Party, which campaigned for a "yes" vote as a big stride toward its goal of independence. 
The Nationalists get about a quarter of the vote in Scotland. Among the rest, many have turned to Labor. 
Labor also campaigned for a "yes" vote but for a different reason: The government hopes the parliament will help ensure Scotland will remain part of the United Kingdom. 
Donald Finlay, a leader of the "no" campaign, said "The first result is very disappointing from our point of view." 
Opinion polls had indicated strong support for the parlia­ment, but a much closer fight on tax authority. 
Voters in Wales will decide on Sept. 18 on a proposal for their own assembly, which would have fewer powers than the Scottish Parliament. 
While the 129-member Parliament would not be able to rule on matters of foreign policy or defense, it would control most domestic affairs. 
The two regional legislatures were key pledges of the Labor platform. 
Scotland -whose 5.1 million people represent 8.8 percent of the United Kingdom but occupy 
31.9 percent of the land -has been joined to England since the Act of Union in 1707. 
Speedboats were hired to rush ballot boxes to counting centers from the scattered islands of the Outer Hebrides, Orkney and Shetlancls. 
Underlining national pride, Scots voted on the 700th anniversary of William Wallace's defeat of the English army. A statue of the hero depicted in the movie "Braveheart" was unveiled on the site, 35 miles west of here Thursday. 
The Conservatives, who inad­vertently fueled demand for a separate parliament through an 18-year hold on power delivernd on English votes, warned the parliament would stir English­Scots animosity and shatter the United Kingdom. 
Scottish newspapers, mostly pro-Labor, almost uniformly urged a yes vote. 
"If the vote is lost today, devolution is dead ... and independence will become the last counsel of despair," the Edinburgh-based Scotsman newspaper said in a front-page commentary. 

l 
1 
l 
. I 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 12, 1997 

As fall heralds in another year at the University of Notre Dame, Ernst & Young would like to welcome everyone back, especially: 
joseph Burkhart Kelley Burns Charles Crawford 
Dana D'Amelio Cheryl Davies 
Kelly Dillon Amanda Disch Brian Dubay joseph Egender joel Elsesser 
j. Patrick Foley Matthew Fuchs Roy Gallagher Trisha Garces Benjamin Hammond Brett Hartmann Christine Hourican Thomas Johannesen jason Kreig Denise Krotzer Kristen Langan Amy McGann Mark Mennel jeannie Merna Marny Murphy Andrew Nelson justin Obletz Anne O'Neill Katherine Phelps Kevin Reher juan Robalino Laura Salzwedel Darlene Santoli Thomas Searson Sean Sharpe 
Andrew Simon jaime Sutton Todd Tarpley Karen Thompson Alicia Wyckoff Susie Yang 


As summer interns, these students were integral to the success of our world-class organization. As instrumental members of our global team, they enabled us to deliver new strategies, cutting-edge technologies and exceptional management process skills to some of the most influential companies in the world.• 
As the fastest growing Big Six firm, we always seek fresh, innovative people to deliver exceptional solutions that add value and produce visible results for our clients. Our strategists are constantly challenged and encouraged to break boundaries. To excel and move forward, you've got to be creative and knowledgeable. And to be creative and knowledgeable, you've got to have a thought provoking, stimulating environment. That's today's Ernst & Young. 
As your academic year moves on, and you consider your career options ahead, consider the diversity and challenges of Ernst & Young. Here, learning is not an event, but an ongoing, indispensable part of our culture. Most importantly, we are revolution­izing the way our professionals work. 
You already know the challenges and pres­tige that come with choosing one of the top schools in the country. Now, you have the opportunity to continue that tradition -by choosing the pre-eminent professional services firm in the world-Ernst & Young. 
Please visit our web site at: http://www.ey.com. 
THERE IsN'TA BusiNEss WE CAN'T IMPRovE™ 
illERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Russia passes strict religion bill Albright urges Israel 
By MAURA REYNOLDS on Thursday, actually would be Thursday on a compromise ver­

Associated Press Writer tougher than the parliament's sion, combining Yeltsin's draft original proposal in some with their earlier text. The com­
to stop movement 
MOSCOW respects. mittee is expected to send its 
Hussia's parliament on So-called foreign religions that proposed bill to the floor next By BARRY SCHWEID followed Albright's appeal to Thursday released a new ver­had not been formally registered week. AP Diplomatic Writer Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin sion of a religion bill, drafted by with the government for 15 The legislation also is expect­Netanyahu on Wednesday to President Boris Yeltsin, that may yea-rs would be forbidden to ed to enjoy support in parlia­JERUSALEM turn over to the Palestinian be twen more 
hold services, distribute reli­ment's upper chamber, which Secretary of State Madeleine Authority $67 million in taxes restrictive gious literature, or invite for­comes back into session later Albright urged Israel on withheld from Palestinian than the one eigners to preach. this month. Thursday to suspend expansion workers and ease restrictions denounced by Such congregations could not Many Russians, fearful of the of Jewish settlements after placed on Palestinians' travel the Vatican form educational establishments influx of foreign religions and extracting a after a series of suicide bomb­and the U.S. and their clergy would not be cults that flooded their country pledgB from ings. Congress as exempt from military service. after the collapse of the Soviet Palestinian While Albright and her aides reprnssive. Although Yeltsin's version Union, welcome the religion bill. leader Vasser have insisted Arafat should not 
Y e Its i n appears to grant standing to In Moscow on Thursday, sev­Arafat to expect a tradeoff for acting
vetoed the Boris Yeltsin 
Christian faiths other than eral dozen Cossacks from south­confront the against terrorists on the West original legis-Russian Orthodoxy, it will pre­ern Russia demonstrated out­terrorist Bank and in Gaza, her demands lation in July after an upwelling vent most of them from conduct­side the U.S. Embassy, waving "enemies of on Israel was part of the give­of opposition from abroad, but ing any public religious activi­Orthodox banners and demand­peace." and-take Albright said peace­sent a revised version to a par­ties. including charity work. ing that the U.S. Congress stay She said "a making required. liamentary committee last week. "It gives with one hand and out of Russia's religion debate. timeout from Har Homa, the controversial 
TIHl legislation would enshrine takes away with the other," said "You shouldn't interfere in these kinds of unilateral housing development for Jews the Bussian Orthodox Church as Lawrence Uzzell of the indepen­someone else's house," said actions" directed at being built on disputed land on Bussia's preeminent faith. It dent, England-based Keston Nikolai Kozitsyn, a Cossack Palestinians, including seizing the outskirts of Jerusalem, is also plodges respect for a num­Institute, which monitors reli­leader from Rostov. Arab lands and demolishing the sort of construction Albright ber of "traditional" faiths. gious freedom in the former For his part, Yeltsin is eager to Arab homes, would help create had in mind, said a State including Islam. Buddhism and Soviet bloc. mend relations with the power­a climate to restart Mideast Department official. speaking .Judaism. The religion bill enjoys broad ful Russian Orthodox Church, peace negotiations . on condition of anonymity. 
Yeltsin's version lengthens the support in the State Duma, the which was publicly irked by his Albright, in a speech at a high David Bar-Ulan, a spokesman list of traditional religions to add hard-line lower house of parlia­veto of the earlier version. school in Jerusalem for Jewish for Netanyahu, said: "We can­Christianity, a move welcomed ment, which has aligned itself On Thursday, Yeltsin made a and Arab students, said the not freeze settlements just as by the Vatican and many with the leadership of the gesture toward the church's Palestinians considered what one cannot freeze life." Protostant denominations. Russian Orthodox Church. patriarch, Alexy II, bestowing on Israel was doing as provocative He told reporters that 
But tlw president's version, The parliament's religion him a medal "for services to the and "Israel should refrain." Albright had not really made public by the committee committee began work fatherland." The unexpected U.S. demand demanded a halt to settlements, 


Which Big Six firm advised on 8 of. the 10 largest LBOs in history? 
Our national Deloitte & Touche partners will be conducting interviews for students attend­ing the University of Notre Dame on October 6 and 7. Please visit the.University of Notre Dame Center for Career Services to schedule a time to interview with us! 
• 
Deloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, veteran's status, sexual orientation, marital status, or disabilities. 



• Deloitte&
the answer 1 s .• ~· .%" Touche 0 
@1997 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 

but only that Israel not take "provocative measures." 
Albright and Arafat conferred for more than two hours Thursday. "I say enough vio­lence," he said afterward. "This is time for peace." 
At a joint news conference with Arafat, Albright said she still had not found a way to restart Mideast peace talks. 
"We have a long way to go" to reopen negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, Albright said, standing along­side Arafat in front of U.S. and Palestinian flags in the Palestinian Authority's legisla­tive council room in Ramallah on the West Bank. 
Albright said she and Arafat "have an agreement that ter­rorists are terrible." But she reserved judgment on his ability to counter terrorism over the long term. "For us, we will have to see how this is carried out over a sustained period." 
Albright plans further talks Friday with Arafat in Ramallah and with Netanyahu in Jerusalem. 
There have been dozens of arrests of terrorist suspects in the past few days. But Netanyahu, after seeing Albright later Thursday in Jerusalem, said "it is too early to judge whether there has been movement on the Palestinian side." 
He said Israel was in "a state of danger" and "we have con­crete intelligence there will be more terrorist attacks." 
Arafat blamed Isr·aei for the impasse in the peace talks and said Palestinians were still com­mitted to the 4-year-old peace process. 
"I want to reiterate that the Palestinian Authority will meet all its responsibilities, and I hope the Israeli government will do the same," he said. 
Albright, wearing a necklace of doves and a black shawl with Palestinian embroidery, arrived in Ramallah by helicopter. She flew over the checkpoints seal­ing off Israel from West Bank towns and villages. 
Albright was confronting a difficult task on her first trip to the Middle East as secretary of state. 
Besides demanding that Arafat dismantle the operations of Hamas and other militant groups on the West Bank and in Gaza, she is urging Netanyahu to make some gestures to tho Palestinians. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 12, 1997 
Vancouver quickly moving north 


Groups
· h

Land moves etg t 
•
inCheS a year, research Says 
ByPAULRECER AP Science Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The chilled coasts of British Columbia and Alaska were once part of the balmy South. 
New evidence supports the theo­ry that millions of years ago Vancouver Island had the sunny climate of Mexico but was carried by continental creep on a 2,000­mile cruise north. 
Researchers say an ancient mag­netism locked into rock specimens collected from the Canadian coast, along with the fossils of extinct sea creatures, prove that parts of southern Alaska and the British Columbia coast were in a large land mass that was once far to the south. 
"This big land mass was down around where Baja is now ... near the end of the Cretaceous period, about 80 million years ago or so," said Jose M. Hurtado of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Over millions of years, it moved north, clipping along at a speed of eight inches a year, he said. 
At the time, there were dinosaurs roaming the Earth and some of those lizards may have been along for the ride, said Hurtado, one of four authors of a study to be pub­IL'ihed Friday in the journal Science. 
Hurtado said the creeping land, 
called Rangalia, is thought to have been part of a Pacific crustal for­mation that moved east with the spread of the Earth's continental plates until it smashed into North 
America about 90 million years ago. The Pacific plate was forced under the North American plate and disappeared, leaving behind crumbs of land on the margin of the continent. 
"The position of this docking happened at the latitude of the pre­sent Baja," Hurtado said. 
By geologic terms, Rangalia's trip north was a fast one. 
The land moved about 2,000 miles in 15 million years, suggest­ing a slippage of about eight inches a year, said the lead researcher, Peter Ward of the University of Washington, Seattle. 
That's very speedy when com­pared with the 1.5 inches a year of California's San Andreas fault, but not it's not unusual when com­pared with some Asian faults, said Ward. 
Other researchers have suggest­ed the movement of Rangalia, but the theory has been controversial because it was based on the tlirec­tion of the magnetic field in rock specimens. 
When rock formations arc melt­ed and cooled, they adopt a mag­netic alignment based on their location on Earth. The alignment is vertical at the poles and horizontal at the equator. Between the two extremes, the fields are tilted. By measuring the tilt, scientists can calculate where the rock was when it was melted. The tilt for rocks 
IRA stall~negod,ittions 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK Associated Press Wrirer 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 

The Irish Republican Army said Thursday it will not surrender weapons or endorse nonviolence, complicating efforts by its Sinn Fein party allies to get into negoti­ations with pro-British Protestant leaders on Northern Ireland's future. 
The IRA's refusal to lay down arms, published in the joint Sein Fein-IRA weekly newspaper Republican News, reiterates its longtime stance -but at a critical time. 
Protestant leaders are sched-Ulster Unionists, will decide what to do Saturday. , ... 

While not criticizing Sinn Fein, .;;<U) IRA spokesman was quoted as . saying the group. "would have 
problems" with the party's affir­matnion of nonviolence and reserved the right to resume bombing and shooting unless Sinn Fein makes substantial gains in negotiations. 
The IRA statement appeared to undermine the position ·o Protestant politicians who have been trying to sell their harder­:line members On direct talks with Sinn Fein as the best way to rein in the IRA \• 
~ut the IRA. erni>basized.Jn 
uled to meet with Sinn Fein on ······Thursday's publishefl. interview Monday for the first time in history that Sinn Fein was iri no position as part of wider talks on Northern to tell it what to do and reaffinned Ireland's future. Two Protestant ..... it!? ~.rfusal to disarm dJir~11~ ~}).e parties have already withdrawn >tQurse of.uegotiatiol'ls ;. ~·a key and the main Protestant party. the Protestant demand. Xii!WE 
,,;:;:::::·:::::<:·:.:.:·· .. 


Holy Cross Mission in Coachella, California 

January 2-9, 1998 

0MPUS MINISTRY 
* 
Experience small Christian Communities 

* 
Dynamic Latino church leadership ... Including special programs involving youth and the poor 

* 
Daily group prayer and reflection 

* 
Immersion into the Latino community and Holy Cross Parish 


Informational Meetings Tuesday, September 16, 7:30p.m. Thursday, September 18, 7:30p.m. 
Where? Coffee House -Center for Social Concerns 
*Some knowledge ofSpanish or experience of Latino culture required 
Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry 


Creeping Vancouver 
continued from page 1 
New evidence supports the theory that 
our community."
millions of years ago Vancouver 

Catholic University, also in
Island had the sunny climate of Mexico 
D.C., docs not offer specific
but was carried by continental creep on a 2,000-mile cruise north. 
legal protection of the rights of students of homosexual orien­tation. The school has not added such a clause because
\,,
\\ 
The land \ 
traveled at a · 

those rights are already pro­
speed of \ 

tected by civil law, according to 
about eight .·! 

Father Robert Friday, vice 
Inches a year f! CANADA 
president of Student Life. 
over 15 •, 
million years \ 

"Our [non-discrimination) policy as it is stated doesn't speeifically protect those rights, 
~Vancouver 
'ii!i:(j[~ r~\ Island 

but we're in the District of Colombia, so the civil law does bind us on issue," Friday said. "As for the wording of our poli­cy, no one has ever challenged us on that." 
Notre Dame students' rights are not protected under such a legislation since the ·St. Joseph County Code makes no mention of specific protection with regard to sexual orientation. 
Catholic University also has had a recognized gay and les­bian student group since 1988. Friday noted that the group "is educational, not recreational," and therefore does not conflict 
Source· Science magazine AP/C Tovar 
with thn institutio11's basic 
Catholic foundation. 

"The group's focus is to say 
that it is not right to discrimi­
nate against persons on the. 
basis of sexual orientation or 
race or religion or for any rea­
son," he said. "It is to enlighten 
others, to educate on the rights 
of human persons." 

Missouri's St. Louis University also has a recog­nized, chartered Rainbow Coalition organization that has "been in effect for several years," according to Jeff Konkel of SLU's news bureau. 
The university's handbook policy protects the rights of stu­dents of any group to meet peacefully and to accept mem­bers regardless of race, sex, color, religion or sexual orien­tation. 
According to Konkel, the Catholic character of the uni­versity demands the accep­tance of all people. 
"There are always voices of dissent in issue like this," he said. "But I think there's a lot of support for the rights of those groups to meet." 
Research by Brad Prendergast contributed to this report. 
gathered near Vancouver Island 

Do you lili.e to write?
suggested that they cooled near the latitude ofBaja. However, the magnetic indicator 
TJh~IID ~ llll.Jkce y®nn.~
is not always reliable because it is reset if the rocks arc reheated to more than 1,200 degrees 
Give the news department a call at 
Fahrenheit. 

1-5323. 




Diamond Price Quotations 
246-1939 1-888-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Dian1ond Authority®
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
College of Engineering 





INDUSTRY DAY 1997 
September 23 & 24 
Reception & Banquet Sept. 23@ 6:30 pm Monogram Room in the JACC Business Attire *Deadline for Registration: Sept. 12* 
Career Fair Sept. 24 @ 1 0:00-4:00 pm Fitzpatrick Hall Busine.ss Attire *Don't forget to bring resumes!* 
For more information on INDUSTRY DAY visit our website at 
http://www.nd.edu/ -jec/industry day 

i 
I ­
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 






In MeiDoriuiD 
A Memorial Mass will be offered for 
MOTHER TERESA ~f CAJLCUTTA 
at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
TODAY, 
Friday, September 12 at 5:15PM 


VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, September 12, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFfiCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Da!nc, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2 I 9) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Hei~ler Tom Robnd Assistant Managing Edi[Or 
Dan Cichalski News Editor... . ... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ............................ Jed Perers Viewpoint Editor.. . ....... Kdlv Brooks Ad Design Manager ...................Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager.... . .... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. . ......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... L..ori Allen Controller. ............................. Kyle Carlin Photo Edi.tor .......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhc independem newspaper publi!>hed by the students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du L1c and Sainr l\.1ary's College. It does not necessarily reAecr rhe policies of rhe administration of either insrimrion. The news i~ reporred as accurately and obfecrively as possible. Unsigned edirorial.s represent rhe opinion of rhe maforiry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, Ne~s 
Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Sports Editor, Accenr Editor, Sainr Mary's Editor, Photo Editor. and Assocl<\te News Editor. Commenrarie!->, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of rhe amhors, and not neces­sarilv rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's con;municy and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-454I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  63I-88.'l9  
Sports  63I-4543  Office Manager  63I-7471  
Accem/Saim l\.hrv's  63I-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/ViewPoint  63I-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• OiGHESS!ONS, DISTORT!ONS AND GENERAl RAMBUNGS 
The Lowdown on the Battle of the Barbecues 
The Great Lenexa Barbecue Battle ... where barbecuing badboys armed with smoking pits and packing fully-loaded ribs, roasts and rubs gather to fire lies at each other and duke it out for the Kansas State Barbecuing Title. With apprarances made by such legends as Bite My Butt BarBQ. The Baron and His Pitmasters. Wizard of Hogs, Creek's Crispy Critters and 1\oad Kill's Meat of the Street, you can bet me this is some 

Kathy Scheibel 
serious barbecuing. In fact, this is down­and-dirty, take-no-prisoners, smoke-till­you-choke barbecuing. 
And somehow I found myself in the middle of it all! Now, believe me-1 don't plan these situations. I don't plot out opportunities to showcase my igno­rance and amuse the general public at my own expense ... it just happens. CON­STANTLY! 
And, actually, had I stuck with my original (and entirely innocent) plan of mixing, mingling and munching, I prob­ably would have had an outstandingly enjoyable afternoon. But, of course, I did not just mix, mingle and munch. (That 
-would have been much too easy.) Instead, I wandered over to the judging tent, where Earl the Judging General was giving his pre-mission briefing to an encircled group of uniformed Judging Table Captains. And I just couldn't help myself-I joined the ranks. "Now listen up, captains," bellowed Earl. "This is how it's gonna work. At the beginning of each judging round, you will go to the head table and receive 10 samples from 10 competitors, which you will bring back to your 20 respective 
tables and distribute among your eight judges, who will then arrange the 10 samples exactly two inches apart in a clockwise fashion on their plates, unless they are left handed-in which case they should arrange them in a counter­clockwise fashion. Of course, if they arn ambidextrous-they should place tho samples in a straight line, unless it is a Tuesday and the wind is blowing in a southwesterly direction -in which ease they should consult the .Judges Chair. 
"Precise arrangement and organiza­tion of tasting samples is absolutely crit­ical to accurate scorekeeping, and it is your MOST IMPORTANT responsibility as a Table Captain!!! Your credibility hinges on your ability to oversee the successful completion of this task." 
"After arranging and organizing, your judges will begin tasting each sample ONE AT A TIME and WITIIOUT BEER! -and then entnr scores ranging from one to six on their scorecards. A six indicates, 'This sumptuous, heart-stop­ping, taste bud-tingling piece of meat is the work of a barbecuing god!' A one indicates, 'Bleb!' 
"Now, captains, I would be remiss if I did not remind you about our strict poli­cy regarding garnishes. Green lettuce and parsley arc the only permissible garnishes in this competition; all others are strictly prohibited! Meat and greens, captains. It's all about meat and greens. We absolutely will not tolerate illegal garnishes!!!" 
Throughout Earl's entire profound speech, I was taking mental notes until my brain cramped, hanging on every word, paying attention to every detail so that I might become the best Table Captain in the history of Table Captains ... forgetting the mildly important detail that I was not a Table Captain. 
As I was reviewing what I had learned, I suddenly realized that I couldn't remember that "most important responsibility" that Earl had so urgently stressed at the beginning of his speech. How could I possibly forget that?! I pan­icked! I didn't want to let my nonexis­tent group ofjudges down with my incompetnnce! 

So, when I heard Earl ask, "Are there any questions?;' I flailed my arms madly and shouted, "Yes! I have a question!" The entire group of official, uniformed Table Captains turned to look at me, a clueless. rather amatnurish-looking girl with a befuddled look on her face. I stumbled. "Urn, that... uh ... that most important thing -... urn ... what ... urn ... what was it'?" 
That's when I witnessed the Wrath of Earl. Earl began to "self-barbecue," as I call it. Much as one might smoke a slab of ribs or a chicken, Earl began to smoke himself. Flames shot from his nostrils; smoke rose from his ears, and his forelwad displayed a very nice mar­bling of throbbing veins as he began to sizzle with rage. 
Come to think of it, he never did answer me! Or maybe Ijust didn't hear his answer amid the commotion of sev­era! security guards descending upon me. It seems as though they suspected that p11rhaps I was an infiltrator and didn't belong there. Nnedl1~ss to say, I was thrown out of the Great Lenexa Barbecue Battle! And almost as soon as they began, my dreams of becoming an esteemed Table Captain were erushcd t 

But, part of me just won't let go. Part of me is still trying dnsperately to redeem myself: I quite frequently sit down to dinner, promptly arrange my food in a clockwise fashion and ask for complete silence as I record scon~s on my napkin. And I never eat tossml sal­ads anymore ... illegal garnishes! 
Kathy Scheibel is a senior Arts and Letters major. ller column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and are not nec­essarily those of The Obsen•er. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• Uuon: OF THE 0AV 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, September 12, 1997 page 11 
• lETTER TO THE tDITOR 
Multicultural Sensitivity Needed for Travelling 
Bernadette Pampuch's article entitled "Just Don't TPII Them You're American" (in the Sept. 11 issue of The Observer) presented truths and valuable informa­tion to the inexperienced traveler based upon her own personal experience. llowever, she was probably not aware of the feelings of those "on the other side"­particularly, the Mexicans and Brazilians. 
When dealing with other countries, one must have tact enough to bring out truths without offending peo­ple. Let me explain. Americans are notorious world­wide for their show business, their love to extrapolate upon isolated incidents to create monstrous generali­ties which repeatedly offend and instill animosity among the peoples of other nations. This is mainly due to the fact that Americans form a tunnel-visioned nation morP concerned with the form than the content. SPe? That really didn't sound too good, did it? True. That was downright offensive. Much more tactful way of stating this would have been: "Although it may be funny to generalize and make a joke out of an incident occurring in another country while presenting a noble message, one must be careful not to offend others, especially those of that country, in the process." This is tact. And this must be used when dealing with people from other nations if one wants to get a point across. ()("fended people don't listen very well, nor are they willing to process the information you present. The key to successful international relations is about not being offensive, evnn if to you it may seem like a joke. This is probably why the Polish don't like Polish jokes. 
Okay, so the newspaper article was not intended for Mexican readers. But there are Mexicans in our midst. There are approximately 700 international students Pnrolled in the undergraduate program here at Notre Dame, and if you throw a dart at the map, somebody's bound to get hit and make it known publicly. Tact. Does good. In today's world what you don't need are more enemies. 
It's frustrating for me who has lived both in Latin and Anglo-Saxon Americas to see both acting as little children sometimes. Both are naturally different, but despite their irregularities, both enormously enjoy bPing tlwms11lves and thus each rightly considers itself as "normal." One day they get into an argument and both make the mistake of considering itself "The Norm." One calls the other a name, the other name­calls back. and the two run away from each other telling all their fellow countrymen how bad the other is. And people like me who go from one to the other making an honest attempt to try to show the good in both are generally not well accepted in either. 

One small step to reducing prejudice is allowing your­self to get to know people from other countries, get­ting to know their mentali­ties, their standards, their views on life etc. All you need is an open mind when the opportunity comes along. First of all, realize that certain areas are sensi­tive to others; second, try to refrain from making state­ments which may be poten­tially offensive (even when it is very tempting); and third, make sure to have patience when perhaps an offensive comment slips out of anoth­er other person's mouth­remember, you're both on the same boat discovering new gi:ound. we're all humans, and we're bound to make mistakes. Represent these values well, and you will be representing the good your country is capa­ble of, thus making a posi­tive impression. 
Following the article in yesterday's newspaper was nately, in the 1990s people are still treated badly in the following Quote of the Day: "I was born an foreign countries, and the U.S. is no exception. I'm a American; I will live an American; I shall die an foreigner myself, and I've had my own experiences, American"-Daniel Webster. This is good and but I won't fill up a whole page with those. Not this healthy, as long as one realizes that there are other time. On the contrary, I'll simply try to present a solu­human beings out there no more right and no more tion: Treat your brother with the same respect as you wrong than you are with every right to proudly fill up yourself would like to be treated with while keeping their chests and say, "I was born a Mexican; I will live your wits about you. That usually works. 
a Mexican; I shall die a Mexican." It's all part of accepting others for who they are and living with them. We have no choice but to do just that as the world moves towards global integration. Nonetheless, whether we live happily together is a different story, and that is something each of us can change in some way. Yes, the article had some truth in it-unfortu­
• RiGHT OR WRONG? 
If you live in Oregon you should get an absentee ballot. Oregon voters will decide in November whether to repeal tlwir 1994 law that allows assisted sui­ride. 
This year. in Washington v. Glw~ksberg, the Supreme Court held that there is no constitutional "right to din" that would require the states to 
Charles Rice 

allow assisted suicide. Thn Washington law forbidding assisted suicide was therefore upheld. The Court, however, deferred decision on a law such as Oregon's which allows assisted suicide. 
In assisted suicide, tlw physician. by prescribing or administering a lethal drug or treatment, intentionally and actively helps the patient kill himself. The assistc~d suicide issue. however, is a sideshow. This is so because the Supreme Court already permits the states to allow the starvation and dehy­dration of a patient. even an incompe­tcmt. where such is clearly done with the intlmt to kill the patient. 
In Vacco v. Quill, the second of the I 997 "right to die" cases, the lower eourt held unconstitutional New York's prohibition of assisted suicide because terminal patients "on life-support sys­tems are allowed to hasten their deaths by directing the removal of such sys­tems; but those [not on] life-sustaining equipment, are not allowed to hasten death by self-administering prescribed drugs." But the Supreme Court upheld the prohibition on the ground that "the distinction between assisting suicide and 

A Matter of Life or Death 
withdrawing life-sustaining treatment ... is certainly rational." 
The Court in Vacco relied on its 1990 Cruzan decision to support "the distinc­tion between letting a patient die and making that patient die." In Cruzan the Court held that Missouri could require "clear and convincing" evidence of Nancy Cruzan's intent not to be sus­tained on a feeding tube before it would permit removal of that tube. On rehear­ing, such evidence was found, the tube was withdrawFJ, and Nancy died. But Cruzan does not forbid the states to allow withdrawal of food and water on a lesser showing of the patient's intent or on the basis that withdrawal is in the best interest of an incompetent patient even without a showing of his intent. 
The law should not require that exces­sive treatment be given to impede the act of dying. There comes a time when nature should take its course. the prop­er judgments of physicians and family should be respected, and the patient should be allowed to die a natural and dignified death. But the patient in the Cruzan-type case is not dying. Nancy Cruzan had a life expectancy of 30 years. Her feeding by tube was not painful. It sustained her life, even though it would not correct her underly­ing condition. Contrary to the Supreme Court's view, the removal of the tube causes death by starvation and dehydra­tion and not by the "underlying fatal dis­ease or pathology." The removal of her food and water was intended not to relieve pain, but to allow Nancy to . starve and dehydrate to death. When the tube was removed. she did that. The purpose was to relieve her of a life con­sidered burdensome or useless, but the intent was to achieve that purpose by means of intentionally killing her. The Missouri Supreme Court had it right in Cruzan when it said, "this is not a case in which we are asked to let someone die, ... This is a case in which we are asked to allow the medical profession to make Nancy die by starvation and dehy­dration." 
The state is morally obliged to forbid the intentional killing of the innocent. "[C]ivillaw must ensure that all mem­bers of society enjoy respect for certain fundamental rights ... which every posi­tive law must recognize and guarantee. [P]ublic authority ... can never ... legit­imize as a right of individuals ... an offense against other persons caused by the disregard of so fundamental a right as the right to life." Evangelium Vitae, No. 71. 
When a state protects innocent, non­aggressor persons in general by forbid­ding them to be intentionally killed, it should be held to deny equal protection of the laws for the state to exclude from that protection some such persons because they are terminally ill or because they have asked to be killed. 
In a case like Cruzan, where food and water are withdrawn from a patient who is not dying, who is not in signifi­cant distress and who has been kept alive by the feeding tube, a court can readily find that the withdrawal was intended to kill. However, in Vacco the Court upheld New York's distinction between assisted suicide, which New York forbade, and "terminal sedation," which it allowed. Dr. Timothy Quill, the physician who brought the Vacco case,. stated in April1997, that "Physician­assisted suicide is a bad option ... [T]he practice of sedating a dying patient to the point they either stop breathing or die of dehydration ... is a better option." It is very difficult, if not impossible, for the law to distinguish cases in which pain-relieving palliatives and sedation are used for proper medical reasons from cases where they are used with intent to kill. The Supreme Court allows the states to decline even to try to make that distinction. 
We are not on a slippery slope towards euthanasia. We are there. The Court has invited the states to turn a 
T onio Buonassisi Class of2001. Notre Dame Citizen of the World September II, 1997 

blind eye to euthanasia committed under the guise of legitimate palliative care, sedation or withdrawal of treat­ment. Nor will such euthanasia be limit­ed to consenting patients. Rising costs will induce families and physicians to opt for termination of life of the incom­petent, the aged and the disabled. This is especially so in light of the aging of the population of the United States. In 1900 there were 10 times as many chil­dren below 18 as there were adults over 
65. By 2030, there will be slightly more people over 65 than under 18. "The American Hospital Association says that about 70 percent of the deaths in hospi­tals happen after a decision has been made to withhold treatment. Other patients die when the medication they are taking to ease their pain depresses, then stops, their breathing...'It's called passive euthanasia,' said Dr. Norman Frost ... 'You can ask ... is it really con­sensual, but ... these are planned deaths." N.Y. Times, June 28, 1997, p.l. 
The Supreme Court should have drawn the line in Cruzan to affirm that the state may not constitutionally allow the intentional killing of the innocent. And the states should forbid assisted suicide. But the technological privatiza­tion of euthanasia has moved the prob­lem beyond the effective reach of the law. The solution is to restore the con­viction that "God ... is the sole Lord of this life; man cannot do with it as he wills." Evangelium Vitae, No. 39. 
So if you live in Oregon, you should vote to repeal the assisted suicide law. But wherever you live, tell your grand­mother to be careful when she chooses a doctor. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and are not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 


ACCE-NT

page 12 Friday, September 12, 1997 


• 

aIn • • • 

WARNING! 

Due to construction on State Road 25 North and U.S. 52, motorists are advised to avoid these areas. Large backlogs of traffic will occur during home football games. Motorists are encouraged to use U.S. 231 North from 1-65 to Montmorenci and then onto U.S. 52 West to West Lafayette. 
U: Budget Inn of America -Interstate 65 and State Rd. 26 East Lafayette. (765) 447-7566; $60 tc Dollar Inn -4301 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette. (765) 447-5551; $42.95 (check in person for vacancies by 1 p.m. on Friday) tc Fairfield Inns -4000 St. Rd. 26 East, Lafayette 
(765) 449-0083; no rooms as of 9/11 
U: 
Holiday Inn -Interstate 65 North and State Rd. 43 Exit 178, West Lafayette. (765) 567-2131; no rooms as of 9/11 ~"c Knights Inn -4110 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette. (765) 447-5611; $80 

U: 
Ramada Inn-4221 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette. (800) 228 -2828; $99 -~ Radison-4343 State Rd. 26 East at Interstate 65, Lafayette. (800) 333-3333; no rooms as of 9/11 


*If you can find the Chauncey Hill Mall (a strip mall) that's the place to be! It's in the vil­lage area. (Although the staff at Purdue's paper does warn us that there is not a lot to do in Lafayette, unlike our own metropolis of South Bend). 
U: 
Look for Utopia. It's a '50s diner with inter­esting omelets, burgers, shakes, and a big juke box. 

U: 
Garcia's Pizza by the Pan is also in the mall and has great pizza and breadsticks. 

U: 
Sorento's is another good choice. It's at 601 Sagamore Parkway. 

U: 
Try The Pub at 407 Union or Checkerboard at 1521 Kossuth 

U: 
Cw Dandy's is at 406 Sagamore Parkway South. 




;ACCENT
Friday, September 12, 1997 page 13 
-~~-----------­
-----------------------~~-.-------------------­
-~ 









By KELLY H. COONEY themselves.;, This weekend Simmons will surely Accent Writer inspire the women of South Bend with his energetic aerobic workout at Memorial Hospital's .Celebration of 
T
his weekend, more than 25,000 people will flock Your Well-Being, presented this Saturday at the to the Century Center in South Bend for what is Memorial Health Pavilion Stage. expected to be the best WSBT-TV Women's The workout will be followed by a self-protection Show to take place in eight years. The event kicks off workshop conducted by the South Bend Police Friday evening with Working Women's Night present­Department and a special guest, martial arts expert ed by SUNNY 101.5 FM. Eight of South Bend's leading Lawrence Bishop. businesswomen will be honored for their success, On Sunday, the one and only Doug Davidson of the hard work and community efforts in a program enti­Emmy award-winning daytime drama "The Young tled "Outstanding Women, Outstanding Times," pre­and the Restless" will participate in a question and sented by NBD Bank. answer interview moderated by a WSBT news per­
The highlight of the evening, however, will be a sonality on the Sears Fashion Stage. powerful presentation by Marci Shimoff, co-author Members of the audience will be able to ask of "Chicken Soup For the Woman's Soul." Her real­Davidson about his role as "Paul Williams" which he life stories reveal simple truths and profound mes­created in 1980, and has since earned him over 100 sages that have changed many women's lives for national daytime magazine and newspaper covers as 
the better. well as appearances on national talk and television 
This inspirational magazine shows. Davidson will also sign autographs and motivational immediately following the question and answer peri­seminar is intend­od. ed to show women There will also be many other attractions offered how to live their throughout the weekend including the Martin's Food dreams, raise Pavilion, where people can sample tasty foods and their self-esteem, pick up valuable coupons, and the Healthy Choice balance their Celebrity Kitchen, where celebrity chefs and local lives, and experi­restaurant chefs will display their talents. ence greater hap­Representatives from Basney Honda will also be piness. there to answer questions about buying and leasing 
The evening will cars. In addition, fashion shows, beauty make-overs, come to a ·close book-signings, and presentations on personal and ."a fll!Shion ,::.-professional growth will be offered daily . show and c:areer Doug Davidson, "Paul Williams" makeovers per­of the Em my award-winning formed by Sears' 'The Young and the Restless." beauty experts. SHOW l!OUHS: 
The celebration of Friday: 1 p.m. -<)p.m. Outstanding Wonwn. Outstanding TinH'S: 5 p.m.-<J p.m. women will continue the following day with a Women and Money Financial Workshop, which will Saturday: 10 a.m. -()p.m. \Yonwn and Mo1wy Financial Workshop: 12:1 S p.m. offer women the opportunity to speak with a panel A CelPbration of Your WPII-Being with Richard Simmons; I p.m. of financial experts to help make their financial SPlf Prot!-Wtion \Vorkshop: :i30 p.m. goals easier to reach. 
The day promises more with a performance by fit­Sunday: 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Doug Dal'idson ofTlw Young and tlw RPstlPss: 1 p.m. ness guru Richard Simmons, who's current "Farewell to Fat" exercise program and recent low-impact TICKET PHICES: General Admission: $S workout video "Disco Sweat" have inspired countless With Discount Coupon: $4 Americans to take charge of their health. Simmons ChildrPn UndPr 8 Are FrPP attests, "I am continually finding ways to motivate people to eat better, exercise and feel good about Viscount r:oupons are arailahle at .\/arlin's Supermarket locations in South Bend and SliiTOllllding areas. 


By JOSEPH WEILER Assistant Accent Editor 

-
A 
the summer touring season reaches a crescendo, Widespread Panic .ontinues to create widespread pleasure during the last phase of its Midwest leg, which includes South Bend. 
Known primarily for its blistering stage show, which has entertained crowds across the country, its latest album, "Bombs and Butterflies," has won critical, if not enthusiastic, public acclaim as being an up-and-com­ing "studio force" while-maintaining its status as one of today's best jam bands around. 
"Bombs and Butterflies" helps the music of Widespread Panic live up to its self-proclaimed name. The scintillating music ranges from the hard rock, heavy metal music reminiscent of the '80s to jazzy tunes and riffs with bluesy undertones and nuances of gospel music. 
Among the album's original material, the opening cut "Radio Child" and side-of-the-road adventure "Tall Boy" perfectly reflect the group's high flying instrumental interplay, whereas songs such as "Gradle" and "You Got Yours" show Widespread Panic's ability to let the music breathe deeply as well -creating a compelling balance throughout "Bombs and Butterflies." 
Widespread Panic is one of the many bands vying for a spot left by the impromptu exit of the Grateful Dead. They are, in several ways, the most deserving of this position because of the largely diversified fan base due to the mix of jazzy tunes and rhythmic styles offered by the band. However, none of its last four albums have achieved either the critical acclaim or popular success associated with a truly great band. 
Widespread Panic brings its rollicking act to South Bend on Sept. 19 at the Morris Civic Center. More ticket information will be available later. 
-------~ ~------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
•MlB 

Yankees, Mets triumph easily 
Slow-footed 
Olerud hits for 

cycle in Met win 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associared Press 
BALTIMORE 
Derek Jeter and Paul O'Neill had three RBis apiece in a nine-run sixth inning and the New York Yankees handed the Baltimore Orioles the.ir most lopsided loss of the season Thursday night, 14-2. 
The victory cut the Orioles' lead over New York in the AL East to 7 1/2 games and kept Baltimore's magic number to clinch the division title at 12. 
New York was 0-7 against Baltimore this season before winning at home 10-3 Sunday. For an encore, the Yankees hammered the Orioles in a game that was reminiscent of last season, when New York won 10 of 13 against Baltimore. 
Jeter had a three-run double and O'Neill hit a three-run homer in the sixth, the Yankees' biggest inning of the year. New York got six hits and four walks off three Baltimore pitchers. 
Andy Pettitte (17 -7) allowed one unearned run and five hits in seven innings, walking one and striking out one. He gave up a leadoff single to Brady Anderson and a walk to Aaron Ledesma in the first, then 

-
retired 17 in a row before Ledesma hit a two-out single in the sixth. 
In Pettitte's previous start, at Yankee Stadium against the Orioles, he left after getting hit by a line drive in the first inning. This time, Baltimore rarely hit the ball hard against the lanky left-hander. 


The Orioles had homered in 17 straight games. tying a fran­chise record. But Pettitte ended that string and extended his streak of starts without allow­ing a homer to eight. 
Jimmy Key (15-9). who pitched for New York last year, allowed six hits and flight runs (six earned) in 5 1-3 innings. He's 0-7 in his last nine starts at home since May 7. 
Up 3-0, the Yankees ended all doubt in the sixth. Tino Martinez, Chad Curtis and Jorge Posada hit RBI singles before Jeter's bases-loaded double made it 9-0. O'Neill's 20th homer, a 434-shot, capped the uprising. 
The Orioles got an unearned run in their half and Rey Sanchez hit an RBI single in the New York seventh. Bernie Williams hit a sacrifice fly in the eighth and Dave Dellucci singled in a run in the bottom of the inning. 
The Yankees took a 2-0 lead in the third, scoring two un­earned runs courtesy of Cal Ripken's 20th error of the sea­son at third base. Sanchez hit a sacrifice fly for a 3-0 lead in the fifth. 
Mets 9, Expos 5 
Slow-footed John Olerud doesn't hit many triples, but he got a timely one in his last at­bat against the Montreal Expos. 
Olerud hit for the cycle and drove in five runs as the New York Mets beat the Expos 9-5 Thursday night. 
Olerud hit an RBI double in the lirst, a single in the third, a solo homer in the seventh and a bases-loaded triple in the eighth. 
It was his first triple since 1994 and only the sevflnth of his career. 
''I'm not the fastest guy," Olerud said. "It's got to be a sure thing for me to go for a triple. I don't push it." 
Olerud's towering drive to right center almost was an out. Center fielder Vladmir Guerrero got his glove on the ball, but it popped out as he ran into thfl wall. 
"When I hit the ball, 1 knew I got a good part of it and I thought it might go out," Olerud said. "But I wasn't sure, so I ran hard just in case some­thing happened." 
Expos manager Felipe Alou said Guerrero might have got­ten to .the ball faster and made the catch if not for a left quadricep strain that forced him to leave Tuesday night's game against the Pirates. 
"I put in Guerrero and it turned out he was not ready to play," Alou said. 
Olerud is the seventh Met to hit for the cycle, and the first to do it at Shea Stadium since Tommie Agee on July 6, 1970. Alex Ochoa hit for the cycle at Philadelphia on July 3, 1996. 
"He hit the ball hard all night long. There were no cheapies there," Alou said. 
Edgardo Alfonzo had three hits and three RB!s for New York, which moved to within 5 1/2 games of idle Florida in the NL. 
Alfonzo's two-run homer in the seventh off Rick Dehart madfl it 5-1. Olerud followed with his 19th homer of the sea­son. 



lead over Anaheim 
ByJIM COUR Assu.chtted l'rt;Ss 

SEATTLE 
Rookie Brian Moehler al­lowed three hits in seven innings and held Ken Griffey Jr; homerless as the Detroit Tigers beat the Seattle Mariners 3·1 Thursday night. 
Griffey went 1-for-3, but failed to hit his 51st homer for the fourth game in a row. lie is 2-for-16 since slugging his 50th homer in Minnesota on Sunday. 
Despite the loss, the Mariners maintained their 5 1/2-game lead over Anaheim in the AL West. The Angels lost to Kansas City 4-2. 
Moehler improved to 11-10, the most victories by a Detroit rookie since Dave Rozema won 15 and the AL rookie of the year award in 1977. 
Moehler didn't walk a bat­ter and had two strikeouts in outdueling Jeff Fassero (15­9}, who went 7 2-3 innings. Doug Brocail pitched the eighth inning and Todd Jones the ninth for his 20th con­secutive save and 28th of the season. 
Jones struck out Edgar Martinez with runners on first· and third to end the game. 
Detroit's Phil Nevin ended a 3-for-33 slump with a homer in the second inning that tied it 1-1. It was his seventh of the season and first since Aug. 13. 
The Tigers went ahead to stay in the third on a single by Brian Hunter and a line-drive double by Damion Easley that went over Griffey's head in center. Detroit made it 3-1 in the fourth on a double by Travis Fryman. Nevin's flyout and Bubba Trammell's sacri­fice fly. 
Griffey drove in Seattle's only run in the first with a sacrifice fly to increase his major league-leading RBl to­tal to 135. Joey Cora opened the game with a double and moved to third on Rob Ducey's infield out. 
Passero gave up five hits, four of them for extra bases. He walked two and had six strikeouts. 
Royals 4, Angels 2 
Roderick Myers and Dean Palmer homered as the Kansas City Royals beat Anaheim 4-2 Thursday night, further damaging the Angels' wild-card hopes. 
The Angels, who grounded into two double plays with ~he bases loaded, lost for the 13th time in 19 games. They failed to capitalize on Seattle's 3-1 loss to Detroit and remained 5 112 games behind the Mariners in the AL West. 
Anaheim has 16 games re­maining, while Seattle has 15. They play each other two more times. 
Kevin Appier {9-12) won for only the third time in his last 14 starts, allowing a run and nine hits in 6 1-3 innings. The right-hander struck out seven and walked none. 


The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classi!ieds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
;,. - NOTICES 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Lafortune Student Center Store Hours Mon.·Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m. Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s) Phone 631-COPY SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast Home Rooms Available 10 Miles from Stadium 888-226-5545 SEASONS INN Motorhomes/Campers Large Sites Available 10 Miles from ND Reserve Now  FOR RENTI I WALK TO CAMPUS 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418·9487. NEWLY RENOVATED 2 BDRM HOUSE W/ STOVE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 741 SO. AVE. $550 233-7402 FOR SALE  WANTED: 3 MICHIGAN STATE GA'S FOR FAMILY. PLEASE CALL 634-4196, LEAVE MESSAGE. Desperate Dad has 2 tickets to G.Tech/ BC/ Navy/ W.V. Wants to TRADE for Mich. St. and USC so can bring family with! Call Casey 289-3349 I NEED GA's TO MICH. ST. CALL JIM AT 634·3985 ****"'***************** NEED 4 GA'S TO MICHIGAN STATE! PLEASE CALL LAUREN 251-0094. .. ,. .................... I need GA's for USC. Call Nikki @ 634-2367. GAs FOR SALE to MS, Ml, BC, &WV 288-3975  MARRIED STUDENT TIX 4 SALE 271-4939 NEED 4 MSU GA'S CALL KATE 243-1089 Help! Need 7 MSU GA's, have WV/Navy GA's to trade. Call Justin at x1722 NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's call 284-5198 will pay$$$ I need 5 USC tix for family Will pay $$ X3872 I Need 1 Michigan State Ticket for my girlfriend, GA or Student. Please call Michael @4-0790 Married Student TIX For Sale 273-3844  WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Michigan State gamel!! Please call Amy at 810-355·9140. I need 8 (eight) that's right 8 GA's to the Mich. St game. I'll take all offers and as many tickets as I can get­X-3530 Ask for JOE Need Michigan State Tickets!! Call Ryan@ (312)938·8984 SALE Married student tix 283-0920 ND Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX! 410-737-6115 Have Mich St; 6 together; will TRADE only for USC or other game; 813-281-2339  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Lafortune Student Center ~ High-Speed Copies ~ Canon Color Laser Copies ..J Digital Color Printing ~ Binding & Laminating ~Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY 500 may be obsessed, but 1000 is freaking crazy. Feel the burn babyr I'll tell you what obsessed is, it's that freaking medicine ball. there is iron in there somewhere. but it must be cleansed by the fires of pain and hard work. Somewhere out there is someone who is hungry and cold. we hope that we can help them. this is why we are here. oh yadic, why don't you visit me? the tack is coming. you have been warned.  

888-226-5545  Contemporary lakefront home for  Local Models Needed for Natl  My eat's breath smells like cat food.  
sale on Lake Michigan, 1/2 acre,  NOTRE DAME  Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to  
SKYDIVEII  $795,000. Call Chuck Ruth at 1·  Wanted: NO Football Tickets  FOOTBALL TICKETS  New York! 18 to enter! No cost or  Comma Queen:  
The Ultimate RUSH  888-225-RUTH.  Discreet Buyer-Call 1-800-255­ BUY -SELL -TRADE  obligation. Call 679-4745 for details  What happened to dinner? Slacker.  
Training students for over  2850  232-0058  by Sept. 20.  hope you're feeling better.  
30 years  87 Ply Colt, 136K mi, 1 owner, very  CONFIDENTIAL  Love, Kelly's AVE  
1 hour North of South Bend  dependable, $800 OBO. Call 255­ TICKET-MART, INC.  WILL TRADE 2 NO HAWAII 30  
Call for class times  1317 for more details.  NEED TWO TICKETS  YARD LINE GA' s FOR 2 USC  It was so hot, I was sweating like a  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  to Michigan state  GA;s 2773097  Spice Girl on Jeopardy.  
1-800·351-6617  Elec. Smith Corona Typewriter  and  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ 
1-616·628·4892  w/memory. W/xtra cartridge.  two tickets to  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  Help me! I need 5 GA's or stud  For sale: Parachute. Only used  
ILOST & FOUND I Lose a set of keys to room 407?  $95.00. 233-4414 TICKETS  Navy. Please call 4-2674 ask for Karen. For Sale: Two NO/Purdue tix.  674·7645. Buying GA's seasons or individual games. Top dollar paid.  tix for B.C. Call Marisa ©4·0833 PERSONAL  once, never opened, small stain. I tried sniffing Coke once, but the ice cubes got stuck in my nose.  
ask Carlo at x1862  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  Best offer. 243-1623.  Confidential service.  Krilla is the queen of cool.  
HOME GAMES.272-6551_ ·  Call 234-5650.  NEED A JOB???-Student  
LOST: STUDENT TICKET BOOK­ NEED 2 MICH  Activities is accepting applications  Life is good, girls. Blues, beer, and  
LET ON GOD QUAD SATURDAY  Looking for USC, BC, Navy, or W.  TICS  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  for LaFortune student building man- boys.  What more could you ask  
.•  AT 1 PM IN SECTION 30. SIGNED ILLEGIBLY. CALL BELINDA ABER  Virginia tickets. Call at (609)259­1731 or during the day  $$ CALL JOHN C  FOR SALE DAYTIME#: 232-2378  agers. Must be willing to work nights and weekends. Apply in 315  for?  
AT 4-2652.  (201 )316-4117. Leave message.  716 848 1268  EVENING #: 288·2726  LaFortune.  Who is that? Oh, it's Shaun  
Alexander's brother's girl.  
LOST! Silver Bracelet w/  HAVE TIX ALL GAMES-TRADE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NO TICKETS WANTED  
"sisters" charm. Patti x-1363  OR SALE  NO ALUM IS IN NEED OF 2 GA'S  DAYTIME #: 232·2378  Drummer looking for bandmates.  Ali: ''I'm sorry. I just think it's funny  
MIKE 612-937-2247  TO USC. GUARANTEED TO  EVENING #: 288-2726  Call Jim at x0677.  when people fall."  
BEAT ANY OFFER. CALL ASAP  
Lost Saturday before game:  Looking for GA's to Any & All  2435887. ASK FOR MIKE.  Jesse: "That's a lake? I thought  
Black Fuji SmartDeluxe camera  NO Games!  FOR  SALE  that was Indiana."  
Near Portable Toilets in Parking  Will Beat Any Offer!  N.D. G.A.'S  Fall Glmr Preview 4Pm Rm 299  
Lot.  If found, please call:  Will Trade Any Home Game for  SELLING 2 MSU AND 2 USC GA's.  271-9412.  LeMans ?s Margrette 2845099  I've seen it all, I've seen too much.  
Rachel x1467  LSU. Call 634-4872  TAKING BEST OFFER. 243-2168  

--~~~--~~------~~~--~----~~~ 
I 

I IFriday, Seprember I2, I 997 The Observer • SPORTS page I 5 I I 
• Cm..LEGE ATHLFf!CS

• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Colorado, Michigan renew rivalry OSU administrators 
By HARRY ATKINS Neuheisel admits he can't take any credit for 
the sehedule. lie wasn't around whfm it was put
Associated Press 


-misinterpret rules
together. Still, he believes this is what college ANN ARBOR. Mich. football should be about. 
By RUSTY MILLER terpreted what comprised
The play is callnd "Rocket Jet" and it is still in "When you look at it from a pure college foot­
Associated Press those 77 degree hours. 
tlw Colorado play bonk. Coach Rick Neulwisel ball experience, this is a great experience, to go 
They believed that classes 
hopns thn Buffalos don't nned it. Michigan coach into a stadium like this," Neuheisel said. "To COLUMBUS, Ohio taken by the athletes while they l.loyd Carr kind of hopes they play a major college football game against the 
Twenty athletes at Ohio State were exploring other majorsteam that has the most wins in Division 1-A isdn. 
were declared ineligible -and during their first two years
Michigan and Colorado have something. 
the eligibility of another 37 was would be counted toward the 
played each other three times. The bad news is that no more games are 
questioned -because athletic 77-hour requin~ment.
Yet it alrnady has b11come one sclwduled between these two heavyweights. 
administrators incorrectly According to Big Ten ruins,
of college football's most sto­Some might think that Carr, under pressure interpreted a Big Ten rule. they were not. 
ried rivalries because r~ach of after successive four-loss seasons, might wel­None of the 57 athletes will "It's very confusing," said tlw last two games wr.re decicl­come a lighter schedule. But he feels the same 
be penalized because of the .Jodi McCurdy, Ohio State's 
ml on tlw final play. way Neuheisel does. 
error. director of athletic aid and eli­"I think the Colorado-Michigan series proves
The rivalry resumes "We simply missed on a gibility. "It's muddy. That's the 
Saturday wlwn the No. 14 what we're going to miss with the alliance," Carr reading of an interpretation," crux of the whole thing. It's not WolvPrinns open their season by hosting No. 8 said. "In two games, it's developed into what Ohi~ State Athletics Director clear from the communications Colorado {1-0) in Michigan Stadium. Michigan people love about college football. Both games Andy Geiger said Thursday. "I we have." 
holds a 2-1 edge. went right down to the wire. Everywhere I went am convinced within our orga­• Geiger said that athletic The Wolverirws won the inaugural meeting 31-this summer, that's the game people wanted to nization there was no effort to administrators and people in 
0 in I 1J74. Tlw snrir.s resumed 20 years later and talk about." defraud. They just were looking the registrar's office had mis­­Colorado forged a 27-26 win when Michael It was all s·et in motion Sept. 24, 1994, by 
at it one way and that is the understood the rule. 
Wnstbrook caught Kordcll Stewart's touchdown "1\ocket Jet," quite possibly college football's 
problem." "It was missed by a bunch of' pass as time expired. Last year, Michigan pre­play of the decade. 
The conference has restored people," he said. 
sPrvr.d a 20-1:1 victory in Boulder by knocking The Buffalos trailed Michigan 26-21 with six eligibility to all fall athletns and NCAA requirements are less down a pass in thn end zone on the final play. seconds remaining. As time expired, Stewart is expected to do the same for stringent than the Big Ten's. 
It also has bnnn a series that plays a prominent threw tho ball over 70 yards downfield in the 
the others. Ohio State met all NCAA rules. 
role nationally. l.ast year's loss to Michigan direction of a quartet of Colorado receivers: 
The 20 current fourth-year When the error was discov­
proved vnry costly for tlw Buffalos, who finished Wostbrook, Blake Anderson, 1\ae Carruth and 
athletes were declared inel­ered in August, Ohio State 
I 0-2. James Kidd. 
igible based on incorrect certi­immediately declared the 20 Colorado's only other loss was to Nebraska. Anderson was supposed to deflect the ball to fication in their third year. athletes in question ineligibleYet the Buff'alos missed out on a New Year's Day orw of the others. The improbable play rarley Credits were incorrectly count­and then petitioned the Big Ten bowl. settling for a date with Washington in the even worked in practice. But this day it worked ed in the athletes' major. to have the eligibility restored. 
lloliday Bowl. in the game. Anderson tipped the ball to Big Ten Conference rules The Big Ten's Committee on Still. Neuheisel has no desire to back ofT from Wostbrook. who landed in the end zone with 
specify that athletes entering Compliance, chaired by
playing tough nonconfPrence foes early in the 0:00 on the clock. 
their third year must pass 77 Michigan faculty representative 
season. So. how does Neuheisel prepare for Saturday's degree hours toward the specif­Percy Bates, restored the eligi­
"It is a gn•at experience," Neuheisel said. game? 
ic major they have just bility of the athletes participat­"This is why we do it. We don't schedule tl~ams "I keep watching the catch," he said. "Just to 
declared. ing in fall sports due to imme­
that W!' ran·lwat 1\2-(J." know that it is possible." 
Ohio State officials misin-diacy and is reviewing the cases of the others. The committee will still decide whethe~ Ohio State will
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE "The Best Tan I be penalized. "Now we have to answer to
DAME Under the Sun" 1 
the Big Ten as to how did we
.......................................... 

I 
INTERNATIONAL miss this," Geiger said. "We have to go through that level of
STUDY PROGRAM IN 
a process as an institution. But the youngsters did nothing 
• 
Beds1 Booths & Euros wrong. They fulfilled the advice 

• 
Open 7 Days AWeek they were given, so penalizing 


the youngsters would be silly." 
MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
• Convenient Honrs 


INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR ANGELA BORELLI 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1997 4:30PM 205 DEBARTOLO 
The eligibility of the first
• Student Discounts 

group of those submitted to the 
Gtlllrant«d S4lis{tUtion! Big Ten was restored on Aug. 27, the day before Ohio State opened its 1997 football sea­

256-9656 

son.
GkU'£ kMc.Koon Nu.11K·Mm Ohio State petitioned the Big Ten on behalf of the remaining 37 athletes, asking for a waiver of the 77 -degree hour rule. That petition was approved for all 37. 
Head football coach John
SPRIN.G 1998 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCT 1 
Cooper said it was his un­
1998-99 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC 1 
derstanding that the matter
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 







THE GAM 
HETOU NAMEN 

...OTR···)r ..•••£·
lfWl -~ ',5 ·---~ ,.·· 
flGRTII CJUIOI.IM4 
First 300 NO and SMC studen admitted free e::rmllil--........--. day of the tournament. To e ure yourself a seat, however you may purchase ~~!!UA.r.r:::~>ekend pass for $10 (half off the regular price). 
Faculty and Staff can pure 
e tickets for (20°/ooff the regular price) a the Notre Dame Ticket Office. But hurry, supplies are very limite 

KeyBank 

By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
AP Sports Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO 

It's enough to make the of­fensive-minded San Francisco 49ers cringe. 
Heading into Sunday's home opener against the New Orleans Saints (0-2), the 49crs (1-ll find themselves ranked last in the league in passing and total offense after being at or near the top the past 15 years. 
"That's really not indicative of the 49ers and that will change in time, but I hope it changes in time, not this week," said Saints coach Mike Ditka, whose 27th-ranked offense has had problems of its own, especially with turnovers. 
"We're not a juggernaut by any means, but we're going to try to keep them off-balance by changing it up with the run and throw." 
There are some telling rea­sons for the 49ers' offensive slide. They lost Jerry Rice for the season due to a knee injury and last week went with rookie quarterback Jim Druckenmiller in place of injured Steve Young, who sat out a 15-12 win at St. Louis with a concussion. Young back on the fourth play (of the opener), losing Jerry Rice; in this situation. there's a lot more to the numbers than just the numbers." 
San Francisco coach Steve Mariucci, hired largely because of his expertise in the 49ers' offensive system, is hoping Young's return will boost the effectiveness of the attack. 
"We need to get out of the cellar," Mariucci said. "Ilopefully, he'll give us some added juice. We need to be more productive on offense all the way around." 
The Saints, tied with Atlanta for most wins (four) against the 49ers in the '90s, are Ioo'king for their first win under Ditka, who returned to coaching after a four-year stint as a TV ana­lyst. He also spent 11 years coaching the. Chicago Bears, leading them to a Super Bowl title in 1985. 
Ditka said he got back into coaching for the challenge, and so far, turning around the Saints is challenging. And he's taking some lumps. 
Last week, he watched the 
quarterback he let go -Jim 
Everett -come back to lead 
his new San Diego Chargers 
downs and fivE~ intnrn~ptions in his first two games for the Saints. 
New Orleans fans already are calling for rookie Danny Wuerffel to take over for Shuler, whose 28. I nffir.ieney rating is the lowest in the league among starters. 
Ditka is unwilling to make a change at this point. 
"When I brought llnath in, I brought him in with the idea that I was going to givn him a shot," Ditka said. "I told him when I brought him in, I wasn't going to jerk him around every time he did something wrong. I've done that in the past, too. I'm going to give him a chance. Two games don't make a sea­son." 
Shuler said he appreciated the vote of confidence and was working to cut down on mis­takes that have bogged the Saints offense down. 
Shuler said San Francisco's defense has helped make up for the lack of offensive production with its tough play. 
"They're playing extremely well and that's the biggest key to every team's success, is how well their defense is playing," Shuler said. "From our stand­


Friday, September 12, 1997

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• Nfl 



Niners uncomfortable with league-worst offense 
reads and catch the ball and hopefully get some yardage after the catch." 
San Francisco defensive tack­le Dana Stubblefield said in some ways the Saints and 49ers offenses arc going through sim­ilar pains, seeking the best pos­sible combination of playnrs. 
"They're wholly new per­sonnel," Stubblefield said. "They've got a new coach com­ing in and until you find that right mix, you don't know what you have. You know you've got some good players. You've got to find out which players work well together." 

was due back for the Saints team to a 20-6 victory over the point, we can't afford to turn game. 
Saints. Meanwhile, the quarter­the ball over. We've got to 
AUDITIONS
San Francisco's offensive line back Ditka brought to New establish our running game, also has had trouble protecting Orleans, Heath ShulEn. has anrl whPn we do throw the ball, the quarterback, giving up nine struggled. The former Redskins we're going to have to make 
Opera Workshop
sacks in the first two games. quarterback has no touch-reali'y good decisions, good "It's a terrible feeling," said 
Wed, Sept 17 4:00-6:00 pm
49ers tight end Brent Jones, 
whose five catches for 59 yards 


Washington Hall 
leads the teaiJ.l. "Usually, I panic when we're out of the top 

Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music 
five. But losing your quarter-

for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. 
Roles open for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester Opera Workshop Production. 
Call 631-6201 for more information. 
AU D I T;l 0 N S 





AUTHENTIC BAVARIAN 
Sponsored By 
Hosted By 
September 13, 1997 
4:00 p.m. to midnight 
• 
Bavarian Show Band 

• 
German Food 

• 
Festival Queen 


At 

Mishawaka Brewing Co111pany 
3703 N. Main Street, Mishawaka, IN (3 1/2 miles east of the University of Notre Dame) 





. -~-------~----------~~­
page 17

Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS 
•MlB Pickett finds buyer
1\s rally in ninth, down Jays 
"I knew he (Escobar) had Sandy Alderson, putting a big
By ANNE M. PETERSON 
for New York Isles 
control of his split," he said. smile on the rookie's face. "So I was just trying to see the ''I'm having fun," he said. "I OAKLAND, Calif. ball and hit it." feel confident right now." Associated Press charges in Dallas. 
Associated Press 
In a news release, the
For the second straight day, T.J. Mathews (6-2) pitched a UNIONDALE, N.Y. Islanders said that the letter ofthe Oakland Athletics beat the scoreless ninth for the win. White Sox 7, Indians 5 John 0. Pickett, foiled earlier intent with New York SportsToronto Blue Jays in the bot­Santiago hit a solo home run in his attempt to sell the New Ventures "calls for definitive 
tom of the ninth. in the seventh that gave the Robin Ventura hit a tiebreak­Blue Jays a 7-6 lead against ing, two-run single in the sev­York Islanders in the John sale documents to be complet­
Hookie Be'n Grieve singled 
Spano fiasco, announced ed by early October with a clos­Buddy Groom. enth inning as the Chicagohome the winning run with one Thursday night th.at he has ing to take place around yearWhite Sox beat the Clevelandout Thursday, giving the A's an Toronto starter Pat Hentgen, 
found another buyer for his end."
8-7 victory. The hit capped a last season's AL Cy Young win­Indians 7-5 Thursday night. 
team. Gluckstern currently is co­
two-run rally against reliever ner, gave up two runs in the The Indians, who swept three Pickett, majority owner of the owner of the Phoenix Coyotes.
Kelvim Escobar (2-1). first, then settled down until from the White Sox last week­On Wednesday night. the sixth, when he allowed end in Cleveland, still lead sec­Islanders, said he has entered The Islanders said that, subject 
into a letter of intent to sell his to completion of the Islanders'Tejada's tying, three-run ond-place Milwaukee by 5 1/2Oakland beat Toronto 3-2 on interest in the team to New purchase, Gluckstern will sell
games in the AL Central.

Brian Lesher's pinch-hit _RBI homer. Hentgen allowed six 
York Sports Ventures, a newly­his 50 per cent interest in theChicago trails Cleveland by 6
single in the bottom of the runs and eight hits in six 
formed company controlled by Coyotes to his current partner.
ninth. innings. 1/2 but is nine games back in Steven M. Gluckstern and Richard Burke. 
Oakland's Jason McDonald "I just got two outs in the the loss column. . 
Howard P. Milstein. Conclusion of both thesixth and didn't make my With one out in the seventh,said he's not surprised by the Pickett has long expressed a Islanders and Coyotes transac­
Frank Thomas walked and

nnver-say-die attitude because pitch," Hentgen said. "There's lot of young players on the not a whole lot to explain, other Albert Belle -hitless in his desire to sell the team to a tions are subject to approval by ­
group that would keep it on the NHL aned NHL board ofthan I didn't do my job." previous 13 at-bats against histeam are battling for spots on Long Island. governors, the Islanders said.
next season's squad. Jason Giambi and Scott former team -lined a double 
He thought he had a deal The letter of intent also con­
"I think that's what you're Spiezio hit consecutive RBI sin­that finished Charles Nagy (14­
with Spano, but that fell apart tained an agreement by Firstgoing to see from our team gles to put Oakland ahead 2-0 10). 
when the Dallas businessman Long Island Investors and
Alvin Morman relieved Nagy,

from now on," McDonald said. in the first. 
with New York ties was unable Walsh Greenwood & Co.,
Toronto went ahead 4-2 in and Ventura hit his first pitch
"We're going to fight and 
to meet his payments. The 33-minority partners in thethe second on Shawn Green's for a two-run single to put thescratch any way we can to get a year-old Spano eventually Islanders, to sell their team.
win." two-run single, Tomas Perez's Sox ahead 6-4. 
faced criminal charges for "We are pleased with the
After an intentional walk to

With one out. Miguel Tejada RBI groundout and Shannon 
fraud. prospect of Steven and his
reached on third baseman Tom Stewart's run-scoring double, Mike Cameron, Jorge Fabregas whieh chased starter Andrew followed with a run-scoring sin­Spano was accused of mak­partners owning and running
Evans' error. McDonald fol­
ing fraudulent claims to obtain the Islanders franchise on Long
lowed with a single that sent Lorraine. gle. 
the $80 million loan from Fleet Island," Pickett said in a state­Tejada to third, and McDonald Lorraine allowed four runs Jim Thome hit his 38th Bank that he used to buy the ment. "Steven's exprience asand six hits in 1 1-3 innings, homer off Keith Foulke (2-0) intook second on the throw. 
NHL team in April and of an NHL franchise owner
A passed ball by Benito lasting just 30 pitches. the eighth to make it 7-5. Foulke pitched two-plus in­spending several hundred speaks for itself. We believe the 
Santiago made it 7-all, and Mariano Duncan hit an RBI 
thousand dollars of the team's Islander fans should be just as
Dave Magadan walked. Grieve, double in the fourth, and nings, allowing one run on 
money after fraudulently pleased."
who is 14-for-40 (.350) since Santiago's single in the fifth three hits. 
assuming ownership. Gluckstern is a member of
the A's promoted him to the made it 6-2. After Foulke allowed two He is currently free on his the corporate executive boardmajors. then hit a roller toward Oakland tied the score in the one-out singles in the ninth, 
third base that scored sixth on Tejada's homer and Matt Karchner got the final two own recognizance after posting of The Zurich, a major Swiss 
a $3 million bond on wire bank. He maintains offices in .....
McDonald. Mark Bellhorn's RBI single. outs for his 14th save. 
fraud and bank. fraud charges Zurich and New York. 
McDonald said he wasn't try­Tejada, who was called up Chicago scored two in the handed up by a Long Island, Milstein is co-chairman offrom Double-A Huntsville on third on Dave Martinez's RBI
ing for heroics with his hit, 
N.Y., federal grand jury. Spano Emigrant Savings Bank, among
which set up Grieve's game­Aug. 27, was congratulated single and Belle's fielder's also faces unrelated fraud other things.
winner. after the game by A's manager choice grounder. 
INCLUDEITHEIT IMAIH'I'llBEMIIIINGYDU' 

I£ATURINGIAITHEVANI&II2AND'£AN'TNDBDDYHOLDMEOOWN' PLUI THE NEW HIT 'IT'I All ABOUT THE BENJAMINI ' . (l[(UfiVEPROOUCRCHRIITOPHER'THENOTORIOUIBI.G"WAllA(( 
BUILDING AMYSTERY and SWEET SURRENDER 
$13.99/CD puff daddy & family no way out $13.99/CD sarah mclachlan surfacing $13.99/CD mary j. blige share my world $13.99/CD verve pipe villains 




~·

phone: 631..-6316 
store hours 
Monday-Friday: 9am-7pm Saturday: 9 am-5 pm
Sunday: 11 am -5 pm 
~
!I i·
ll 
l1 
I I I I, I 
I I I' 
rl I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I• 
I, I II 
I' ­
II I 
II II I I I 
-
• BOXING 


Ali's boxing memorabilia on the blbck. 
page 18 

NEW YORK This auction should be "The Greatest." 
More than 3,000 items from Muhammad Ali's his­toric boxing career ­from his 1957 Golden Gloves trophy to the cus· tom-made robe he sported for his 1974 ''Rumble in the Jungle" with George Foreman-hit the auction block next month. cw 
Ali-Frazier I, Ali-Frazier II, Ali-Frazier Ilh'Ali­Norton, Ali-Spinks -all Ali's spectacular fights across his 21-year profes­sional career are repre­sented. So are some of the lesser wars; fights against Charley Powell, Doug Jones, Jurgen Blin, 
The items up for sale in­clude key chains (a. tiny boxing glove inscribed ''The Thrilla iii Manila''); rare fight posters (Leroy Neiman's drawing for the 1971 fight in Madison Square Garden); and big­ticket items (a 1966 Ali let­ter to his draft board, expected to sell for $100,000). 
"Given Ali's importance, it is virtually impossible to overstate the sigriif1sance of (this) collection · the largest and most compre­hensive collection of Muhammad Ali memora­bilia ever assembled," Ali's biographer, Thomas Hauser, wrote in the auc­tion catalogue. 
The iiems belong to. Ronnie Paloger, who was 15 when Ali the heavyweigh~.....,.~·~q.~~.r~ Sonny Liston 1964, and has many years accumulating his boxing trove. Among the memorabilia available from the 1964 brawl: both fighters' applications for Florida boxing licenses. 
Folks looking to avoid a big financial blow can bid on everything from an Ali baby picture ($800) to a cigarette signed in 1961 by Cassius Clay {$1,.200) to an Ali check from the first Frazier fight ($3,000; it's endorsed by Ali and made out for $248,535.67). 
The items are on view between Saturday and Thursday at Christh(s auc­tion house ,,, on ' Park Avenue. TheYwill be auc­tioned at Christie's in Los 
---~--~----~­
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 12, 1997 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Crimson Tide rolls over Commodores 
By TERESA M. WALKER 
ASsociated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. A new coach for Vanderbilt, same old result for Alabama. 
The 15th-ranked Crimson Tide beat Vanderbilt 20-0 Thursday night, extending its winning streak to 13 straight at the expense of Woody Widenhofer, the Commodores' third coach this decade. Alabama is 36-2 against Vandy since 1960. 
Alabama (2-0 overall, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) ruined Widenhofer's chance of becoming just the second Vandy coach since World War II to win his first two games despite an offense that gained only 120 yards through three quarters. 
Warren Foust blocked Joe Webb's punt in the first quarter and Steve Harris recovered at· the 22. 
That set up Freddie Kitchens' 17 -yard touchdown pass to Ed Scissum with 53.6 seconds left in the first quarter, all the points the Crimson Tide would need. 
Vanderbilt (1-1, 0-1) stayed close with a defense that allowed Alabama 94 yard~ through the first two quarters and only 26 in the third quar­ter, intercepting two passes off Kitchens. 

The Commodores were hurt repeatedly by penalties and dropped passes as Alabama got its first shutout in the series since a 41-0 victory at Tuscaloosa in 1980. 
Vandy got across midfield four times but wound up going backward and settling for punts. 
The Crimson Tide had its longest drive of the night in the fourth quarter when Kitchens hit Quincy Jackson with a 45­yard pass to the Vandy 14, nearly doubling his passing yardage. 
Shaun Alexander capped the 97 -yard drive with a 1-yard run with 8:30 left and Alabama led 17-0. 
Kitchens was 1 0-of-18 for 124 yards. Brian Cunningham also kicked lield goals of 48 and 45 yards for Alabama. 
Alabama struggled on offense during the first half, looking a lot like last year's Vanderbilt team that ranked dead last among major colleges. The Tide punted six times and had a pass intercepted in the first half. 
The Crimson Tide, alternating Kitchens and Lance Tucker at quarterback, got only three first downs and 94 yards. Vanderbilt didn't look much better as re­ceivers dropped at least live of Damian Allen's passes. 

•MLB 
Kent's homer leads Giants past Phillies 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI Trailing 3-0 after six innings, the Giants and manager Terry Francona looked at the Associated Press scored one in the seventh and two in the hand, Schilling continued to pitch but was eighth to tie the game. lifted for a pinch-hitter in the seventh. lie PHILADELPHIA Stan Javier's two-out single up the mid­gave up six hits and a run while walking 
Jeff Kent's two-run homer in the ninth dle scored Jose Vizcaino with the tying run three. inning gave San Francisco a 5-3 victory in the eighth after Damon Berryhill's RBI Since July 26, Schilling has four wins and over Philadelphia on Thursday night, mov­single earlier in the inning brought the five no-decisions. ing the Giants into a first-place tie in the Giants to within one. Wilson Alvarez allowed only one hit in NL West. The Giants got their first run in the sev­the first three innings, but ran into trouble 
The Giants are tied with the Los Angeles enth. After a leadoff single, Berryhill ad­after striking out Mickey Morandini to lead Dodgers with 16 games left. The Dodgers vanced to second on a wild pitch, W(~nt to off the fourth. didn't play Thursday. third on a grounder and scored on Javier's Scott Holen singled and, after Mike 
After Barry Bonds singled to open the sacrilicn fly. Liebnrthal ll!)W out, Rex Hudler homered to ninth, Kent hit his 27th homer of the sea­Phillies starter Curt Schilling struck out left, putting the Phillies up 2-0. son off Jerry Spradlin (3-7). The win went six, leaving him four short of 300. In his Philadelphia increased the lead to 3-0 in to Roberto Hernandez (3-1 ), who got one next scheduled start Tuesday, Schilling the fifth when Kevin Stocker walked, was out in the eighth. Rod Beck pitched the could become only the 13th pitcher to sacrilicPd to second by Schilling and scored ninth for his 36th save. strike out 300 in a season. on Midre Cummings' single. 
The Giants have won five of their last six Schilling tried to stop a hard-hit grounder San Francisco made it 3-2 in the eighth and 10 of 16. Kent's homer broke the team by .J.T. Snow in the sixth with his pitching on Berryhill's RBI single. record for home runs in a season by a sec­hand, but instead def1ected it to seeond for Alvarez allowed live hits and three runs ond baseman, topping the mark set by what turned into a 1-4-3 out. in six innings, striking out live and walking Rogers Hornsby in 1927. After assistant trainer Mark Andersnn three. 

~---~---------­
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


(tMPUS1\111N15TRY 
Opening of the ~chool "fear ~ass 
Feast of the 

oty Qross 
Sunday, September 14, 1997 Joyce Center 
12:30 PM 
Music provided by the Notre Dame Brass Ensemble and the combined choirs of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
All Basilica Masses and most Dorm Masses will be cancelled on this Sunday only. 
Masses will be held Sunday Evening in the Fischer, O'Hara-Grace Chapel at 9 PM, Farley Hall Chapel at 10 PM and Fisher Hall Chapel at 10:30 PM. 
j 
, j 
~ 
I 
j 
1 
--l 
l 
l j 
I I 
l 
I 
l l l I 
I I I I I I I 
I 
--II 
I I 
l 
I 
l 
j 
I I I 
I 
I I I 
I 
. I 
< I 
I 
I 
l l 
l 
I 
I 
I -
II I I I I I I I I 
• l 
I I I I I I I I 
I I I I I .. I I 
' 

_.. .. 
-
--:. • MlB 
-~ ------~­

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 12, 1997 
Baseball officials in no hurry to reinstate Rose 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associared Press 
NEW YORK 

Even if Pete Rose applies for reinstatement, baseball officials said Thursday they are in no hurry to consider lifting his life­time ban. 
Rose's lawyer, Gary Spicer, met with Robert DuPuy, the lawyer for acting commissioner Bud Selig. and discussed the process baseball's career hits leader would need to follow if he wishes to lift the permanent suspension Rose agreed to in August 1989. That penalty is preventing Rose from appear­ing on the Hall of Fame ballot. 
"It was more exploratory than preliminary," DuPuy said. "He said, essentially, 'What's the deal?' " 
DuPuy said he told Spicer that if Rose had anything he wanted baseball's ruling ex­ecutive council to consider, he should have Spicer give it to DuPuy, who would forward it to the council members. 
A. Bartlett Giamatti sought the ban on Rose after an in­vestigation revealed involve­ment with sports betting. Giamatti, the baseball com­missioner at time, concluded Rose bet on baseball, although no official finding was made in the agreement between Rose and the sport. 
"We discussed the current status of Pete's business and personal relationships and his desire to get back into the game," Spicer told the Cincinnati Post of his con­versation with DuPuy. "We reviewed the present state of the leadership of the game. We also discussed the current pro­cedure and what information baseball would like to review. I think Pete would very much like to be employed within the game. And everyone acknowl­edges he has a great deal to offer." 
Baseball officials, speaking on the condition they not be identi­fied, said they have no urgency to deal with Rose, who was manager of the Cincinnati Reds at the time he agreed to the ban. None of the 14 other peo­ple given lifetime bans ever were reinstated. 

The baseball officials have said in the past it would be hard to consider an application from Hose unless he admits he bet on baseball. 
While Hose contends he never bet on his sport, his finger­prints were found on betting slips for baseball games and handwriting experts -one hired by baseball and the other from the FBI -determined it was his writing on those slips. 
Baseball's investigator, John Dowd, concluded Rose bet $2,000 per game on his Reds and other baseball teams dur­ing the summer of 1987. 
The following April, Hose pleaded guilty to two counts of filing false incomes taxes by failing to report $354,968 in income from autograph appearances, memorabilia sales and gambling. He repaid the IRS at least $366,000 in back taxes, interest and penal­ties, and served five months at a federal prison in Marion, Ill. Rose then spent three months in a halfway house and per­formed 1,000 hours of com­munity service. 

·• • BEACH Vou.EYBAU. 
Volleyball championships fought on faux beach 
By JOHN NADEL 
Associared Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The inaugural World Championships of Beach Volleyball are under way with one key element missing -the ocean. The competition is taking place on 2,700 tons of sand spread over the tennis courts at UCLA. 
"It was wild. it was truck after truck after truck after truck," said James Leitz. the president of Event Source and manager of the transformation of the Los Angeles Tennis Center into a beach volleyball facility. 
It took eight 12-to-14 hour work days. 
In addition to the sand. which filled 100 double trucks, a quarter of a million nuts and bolts and four semi-trucks of steel were used to turn eight tennis courts into six world-caliber beach vol­leyball courts over the 60,000 square­foot facility, Leitz said. 
Sand was poured 18 inches deep on vinyl covering the courts. The Pacific Ocean is some 10 miles away, but that doesn't matter. 
This is beach volleyball without the beach. 
"I'm excited, are you kidding me?" said Holly McPeak, who along with Lisa Arce is seeded No. 1 in the women's division. "This whole setup is bigger and better than anything I've ever seen. It's awesome. 
"The Olympics were special. For me, this is very comparable. I feel like this is the ultimate challenge, this is the biggest tournament ever." 
While being interviewed, McPeak was besieged by fans asking for her auto­graph. 
"In some places, we're mobbed," she said. "In Brazil, it's unbelievable. I started winning tournaments in 1993. I'd go back east and people actually knew who I was. 
"At the (1996) Olympics, I signed for over an hour after each game. That was a little hard. I finally had to stop every day. I felt like a rock star or something. They were doing it with all the players." 
McPeak and Arce, along with the other top men and women players in the world, are competing for $600,000 in prize money -the most ever in the sport. · 
There arc 32 doubles teams compet­ing in the two divisions, with the purses divided equally. Athletes from more than 30 countries are taking part. 
In the Olympics, countries were limit­ed to two teams each. That's not the casn hnre, so countries like the United States and Brazil. where many of the best players are from, have several tfwms competing in both divisions. 

The bleachers at center court seats nearly 6,000 -and organizers expect a capacity crowd will be on hand for Saturday's championship matches and hopefully several matches before that. 
The turnout during the day Thursday as the tournament began was surpris­ingly large. 
"This is way bigger than I thought it would be," said Jose Loiola of Brazil. considered the top player in the world and, with his partner, Anjinho, sfwded No. 1 among the men. "We're bringing the sport to a different level. 
"It's beach volleyball -it doesn't mean we have to play at the beach." 
Leonard Armato. a sports agent who represents, among othr,rs, basketball stars Shaquille O'Neal and Lisa Leslin, is co-promoting the event. 

fPRELAW-sOCiETY: 
I MEETING I I September 16, 1997 I I 7:00P.M. I I Room 121 --Law School I
-
I I I I I I
-
I I 
• I I 
I Seniors should attend .. Juniors are I 
._ ________
I welcomed! _.J 
We'll Be On Campus Sept. 23. 
Please check with the Career Center for more details or visit us on our website: 
www.gecareers.com 

Thomas Edison's innovative spark led to the creation of General Electric more than l 00 years ago. The same spark is alive and thriving today. Our people and our team environ­ment are the primary reasons. We have an open forum-a learning culture -without boundaries or barriers. A place where ideas are born, heard, and allowed to flourish. A place where people are continually exposed to new experiences and world-class training 
programs. 

The results are astounding. GE holds more patents than any other US company and is a global leader in each of its twelve businesses. Operating in more than l 00 countries, we're the first corporation in the world to exceed $200 billion in market value. 
If you are a bachelor's or master's degree candidate and have a thirst for new ideas, solid academic performance and demonstrated leadership potential, come create your own sparks at GE! An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
We bring good things to life. 

, 


-------------------------------------------~~-------~~-------------------.~--~-­
Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
.. . 

• <'MC VOllEYBALl 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Ballet -Classes will be Synchronized swimming ­
Belles regroup after defeat 
held on Sundays from 3 to 4 The first practice will be held 
p.m. and Wednesdays from 8  on Monday, Sept. 15, from 8  
By MOLLY MCVOY  blocks.  energy up for the entire tour­ to 9 p.m. The fee is $35.  to  10 p.m.  at the  Rockne  
Sports Wrirn  Saint Mary's coach Jennie  nament and win it." said Bill.  Register  in  advance  at  Memorial pool.  
Joyce gave Hope College, last  Saint Mary's will go into the  RecSports. Sign-ups begin on  Women's  Instructional  
Tlw BPilcs of Saint Mary's  year's  conferenen  champs,  tournament with good passing  Sept. 8.  Boxing  - An information  
droppPd  a  tough volleyball  credit for their ability.  and  a strong defensive game.  Off-Campus Football  - meeting  will  be  held  on  
matrh  to  llopn College last  "They are a V!WY strong team  They will, as always, be aggres­ Anyone interested in playing  Monday, Sept. 15, at 7 p.m. in  
Thursday. but they are looking  with quick foot speed and  a  sive with their serves, and  interhall football for the off­ the Joyce Center boxing room  
to build  on  their 3  -3 n~cord  fast-paced offense," Joyce said.  Joyce hopes that they can carry  campus team should contact  in the pit. Contact Amy at  
this WPPkPnd at a  tournament  At this weekend's tourna­ that aggressiveness to the net  Bill McCartey at 273-1929.  x4633 with questions.  
in Lima. Ohio.  nwnt, Saint Mary's will face  this weekend.  Notre Dame Martial Arts  Japanese  Martial  Arts  
Saint Mary's playPd tough but  Thomas Moore, Wittenberg,  The players said that one of  Institute  -Taekwon Do and  Demonstration  - A fifth­ 
lost I :1-1 :i, 1 :i-:i, 1 :i-4 to IIope.  Ohio Northern and Mount Saint  the major strengths of Saint  Jujitsu practice for beginners  degree black belt in Aikido  
Tlw  team  was  IPd  by :i ·  X"  Joseph.  Mary's is the support the bench  at the sport will take place  will be in room  219 of the  
sophomorP Agrws Bill who had  ThPse  are  all  teams Saint  offers throughout the game.  from  4  to  6  p.m.  on  Rockne Memorial tomorrow  
sevPn  kills  and  12  digs.  Mary's has yet to face this year.  Joyce and the entire team hope  Thursdays and 6 to 8 p.m. on  evening from 8:30 to 9:30  
Fn~shman  M!~gan  Jardina had  but hopes are high.  they return to South Bend this  Sundays in Room 218 Rockne  p.m. For more information,  
20 assists and (>':~" senior Betsy  "Our goals for this weekend  weekend with a sparkling 7  -:~  Memorial. All are welcome.  call 1-5382.  
Connolly took chargP with four  are to play togPthcr, keep the  record.  

 • NHL  

NHL opens entertainment arena 
Associated Press and arcade games. Bettman said NHL Skate will teach hockey and BIRCH RUN, Mich. l'igure skating lessons as well as run youth and ThP first-ever NIIL-licensed ice rink and enter­adult ice hockey teams. tainmnnt complex opened Thursday, with NHL The facility was developed in a partnershipCommissioner Gary Bettman cutting a ceremoni­
with Muskegon-based Signature Sports and al goal net and promising similar complexes in 
Entertainment. Bettman said a similar facility is 
the future. · 

being designed in Connecticut. "This is the first of what we hope will be many 
Bettman said he has been reviewing the plansrinks to deal with and bolster the popularity of 
for the facility and working closely with develop­hockey," Bettman said in an interview with The 
ers for the last 3 1/2 years. He said the impetusAssociatnd Press after the opening ceremony. for the complex was the shortage of ice rinks "It's a brick and mortar attempt." 
around the country. 2:15p.m. NDvs. MSU More than 5,000 people attended the opening, "If you look at U.S. hockey statistics, the 
NHL spokeswoman Sandra Carreon said. growth of in-line, roller hockey has been 100 Scheduled for opening day was a display of the 
percent in the last three years. Ice hockey has Stanley Cup as well as an evening figure skating seen a growth of 200 percent over the last five show. 
years," Bettman said. "We're creating what we The $7.3 million NHL Skate at Birch Run fea­
think are state-of-the-art rinks." tures one NHL regulation iee sheet, one Olympic­
Bettman said Birch Hun was chosen because size icc sheet, dressing rooms and conference 
it's a popular tourist destination in "a great state rooms, a store selling equipment, a food court for hockey." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Ducks, Rabbits~rechauns 
Expen'ence the natural serenity qf North Shore Club, just minutesftom Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 1/4 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


NorthoSh~;~aClub @) 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Dai(y 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 219-232-2002 • 800-404-4275 Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine
MANDATORY HEALTH INSURANCE 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200
IMPORTANT REMINDER 
R£AT \\'ALL
INTERNATIONAL AND DEGREE-SEEKING 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
IJQ Dixi.e Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 

-
PLEASE BE REMINDED THAT YOUR DEADLINE FOR RESPONDING TO THIS MANDATE IS SEPTEMBER 15, 1997 
THE DEADLINE IS FOR WAIVING ENROLLMENT IN THE STUDENT IN 
-

THE STUDENT INSURANCE AND ALSO APPLIES TO DEPENDENT ENROLLMENT. 
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICES CHARLOTTE M. BOSTIC 
637-67 74 
~-~--~---­

-""-"--------~-~~-~~ ~ 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 12, 1997 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
position," said Streiffer. "EvPry position is so strong that othrr tPams can't just pick out one person to mark. We're just rpally dePp." 
\'\'est Virginia poses thr greatest challPnge for thr Irish this week­end. Notre Dame and West Virginia met for thr first time last year. resulting in an 11-0 Irish victory. The Mountaineers have bPgun the 1997 cam­paign with a bang, bringing their own undefeated record and two Big East conference victories to the field. 
At this point. the only real threat the Irish will face is themselves. With 
~­
two important games on the horizon. against first-ranked North Carolina and sixth­ranked Duke in next week's adidas/Lady Footlocker Classic at Alumni Field, Notre Dame could easily lose sight of the task at hand. 
"We've been looking forward to playing North Carolina for a long time," said Streiffer, "but these games are important too. 
"Coach (Chris Petrucelli) doesn't let us forget what's coming up. It's really important to be first in our confer­ence." 
Rank  Team  
1  North Carolina  
2  NOTRE DAME  
3  Portland  
4  William & Mary  
5  Nebraska  
6  Duke  
7  Santa Clara  
8  Virginia  
9  Texas A&M  
10  Harvard  
11  Clemson  
·'::.1''2  George Mason  
13.·;.;·.3  Florida Maryland  
Hartford  
Michigan  
BVU  
Connecticut  
UCLA  
Penn State  
Colorado College  
Kentucky  
Wake Forest  
Massachusetts  
Wisconsin  
Full menu  
is inside  
Scholastic  
back  
cover.  

NSCAA Women's Soccer 
Perkins' goes global with our New International Eggs Benedicts. From Cordon Bleu to Rio Grande, it's world-class taste serve!! around the clock. Come take· a taste tour today. 
-~ 
-
Record 
4-0-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-0 4-0-0 4-0-0 2-0-0 1-0-1 4-0-0 0-0-0 3-1-0 2-0-1 2-1-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 2-1-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 4-0-0 2-1-0 3-0-1 1-2-1 4-0-0 2-0-0 1-1-1 

M. Soccer 
continued from page 24 
captain Matt Johnson along with the consistent play or McNew, Murphy, Woods, Maio, and goalie Greg Velho will help us as we continue the season." 
The team has postml a 2-1-1 record in its first l'our games, and remains unclel'eatl~d in the Big East. 
Looking to the future, many hurdles lin ahead. ;\ tough Big East schedule and formidable non-conference opponents pose many difTnrent challenges for the Irish. but the team refusns 
• NHL 
to take its eves off the season's goals. · "We need to play well in all 
of the Big East games, rB­gardless of the opponent." Bertieelli rnmarked. "We want to return to the tournament showing that we can compete with all conference opponents." 
The team's next challenge is this weekend when the Irish take on the Buffalo Bulls in the first nweting between the two schools. Steve Butcher leads the Bulls' attack coming in with three goals and one assist. Notre Dame will look to contin­ue its winning ways against Buffalo in tomornny's 7:30 
p.m. contest at Alumni field. 

Federov seeks trade follolVing Cup title 
Associated Press Writer 

THi\VEBSE CITY, Mich. 
As contract negotiations con­tinue, Detroit Heel Wings center Sergei FPdorov has asked for a tradn from the dnl'ending Stanley Cup champions. 
NHL sources said Fedorov rPquested a trade on Aug. 2(J and then again last week, Booth News Scrvicn reported Thursday. 
Red Wings General Manager Ken llolland has declined to elaborate on the progress of negotiations with Fedorov's agent, Michael Barnett. 
According to Booth, Holland is hoping Fedorov will ca­pitulate rath1~r than lose the $5 million he could receive. 
r 
Happy w 
19th Birthday Patrick and Laura! Love, Mon1, Dad, Ed, and Lloyd 

Headed to West Lafayette for the game ??? 
the ~oi\er ~om 
tavern and danc.e dub is the only place to be ! ! ! ! 
• 
TV's, dart boards, music, foosball, etc. 

• 
Two floors of fun and entertainment 


• 
The best food in town, our wings are unrivaled • our upstairs is a dance club you would only 

expect to find in the "big cities" • our DJ's are the best in the area, hands down 

• 
Our doors open on Friday at 4PM and don't close untii3AM 

• 
Game day starts at 7 AM with "Breakfast Club", and doesn't end until the wee hours of Sunday morning 


We are located at 306 West State Street, only two blocks from campus 
the ~oi\er ~2-oom 
tavern and danc.e. dub '30(, W'5tate '5treet 1(,5 -14(,-'}loo 
~· 

Friday, September 12, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Carroll Baker, Gladys Knight, Ian Reming, Jim Thorpe 
Dear Eugenia: My husband was born on Sept. 21, 1946, at 11 :00 p.m. We are having a difficult time. I feel that 1 shoulder all the rc'Sponsibility regarding the children, household and communications. tam very tired of it. Are we a good match, or will I always be carrying the whole load? 
S.S. 
DEAR S.S.: Alter looking at your comparison, I wondered how the two of you-her got together in the first place. A·ny relationship can work if both parties put in the effort, but it isn't likely that your partner will. Usually Virgo men are practi­cal, giving and, although they expect their partner to run a tight ship on the home front, willing to reward and help if need be. Libras, on the other hand, are often referred to as the lazy Libras. You were bam under the sign of the scaJes,. but your hus­band's chart actually has more plan­ets in Libra than yours. Libras are also charming and sophisticated and don't have much trouble getting oth­ers to do things for them. You can probably see where I'm heading. Your husband is just better at shirk­ing responsibility, and therefore it's dumped into your lap. He isn't going to change. II you leave, he will find someone else to take care of him. As for you, if you l.eave, you will be in love again around the tum of the year, only this time you'd be wise to pick someone who will take care of you. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Get ready to party. Fitnessrmgrams start­ed today will pav of . Take time to help children with problems. 

I DON'T UNDE~SIAND WIW 50f'\E PEOPLE WA51-\ THEIR BATH 
TOWE.LS. 
MIKE PETERS 
0 z 

:1 ,. 
(J 

0 W\4EN I GET OUT OF THE.
... u 
0 .!:
S\-\OWE.R I'M THE CLEAN­
®"' 

"':1 E.5T O~E.CT IN f'\Y :;; ~ "' 1-\0USE.. IN TI-\E.ORY 1 ~ 
... 

"' 0 .
... "' 
0 

(J TH05E. TOWELS SHOULD BE 
.~ 

"' GETTING CLEANER E.VE.R'( .. 
.., 

~ TIME THE.Y TOUC.H ME.. ·;; ! 
w 

\ 
:::1 ::
., 
Q 

50 Western based on a Louis L'Amour story 
51 Tears 55 Mayflower 

Compact signer 56 Summaries 57 Immediate 58 Occidental 
tourist? 

DOWN 1 Trip instigator 2 Mineral suffix 3 Run up the phone bill 4 Bewhiskered 5 Essays 6 Clip component 7 Galoots 8 Certain plaintiff, at law 9Toyssince 1902 10 Touches base, so to speak Puzzle by Gerald R. Ferguson 
SCOTT ADAMS 
f'\AYBE I COULD HUG YOU EVERY DA.Y SO I DON'T NEED TO TAKE SHOWERS. 
ARE. TOWE~ SUPPOSED TO BEND? 
\ 



54 Former Union

48 Wild party member: Abbr. 20 Off course 
Americans
~-=-t..,..,-if=-1 21 Place for an 
34 Largest lake in
••=+=+=--•• 

unwanted ring? Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
central Europe""!"t'!"!"'-::'E-1-':'+:::­
are available by touch-tone phone: 22 Artist's place, 37 Much-covered 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

perhaps R.&B. song Annual subscriptions are available for the 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last ----'----'-'--'---'---' 26 Everywhere 42 Turn outward 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

11 Fretted 

27 This comes 43 Dash 49 Clinches instrument before a million 
44 Tribal chief 52 Royal flush 12 Israeli seaport 28 "Hey!" 
necessity 13 Drink for Robin 
45 Cameo, maybe29 Undivided 

4&Lick--53 Kind of neck

Hood 30 Mild expletive promise 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Part­ners may be difficult to deal with. Do not sign contracts unless you have taken a close look for loopholes. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Talk to your lover about commitment. You c.1n get invoh'l'd in business part­nerships today. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): Your emotions may get out of hand when dealing with co-workers. Refrain from letting others in on your intt•n­tion.o;. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): Invest· ments made today will be lucrative. You will be in the mood to socialize. Fitness pmgrams will show favorable results. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Your mate rray be difficult to get along 1\'ith: You should put your energy into doing chores around the house. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Difficul­ties with co-workers will develop if you shirk your responsibilities. DOn't let your personal dilemmas interfere. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): Con­centrate on moneymaking opportuni­ties. Look at long-term investments. Physical activity will help vent your frustrations. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): Your emotions will fluctuate today. Personal relationships will get you down if you don't discuss your in­
tentions. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 20): It is best to work 'juietly on your own today. You may ind that co-workers or employers will upset you. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): Your involv-:ment in groups and or­ganizatio• s will enable you to· broad­en your outlook. Mingle with those who can help you get ahead. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Fe­male co-workers or relatives will be difficult to get along with. Do not dis­cuss personal milttc. s. 

Activities" is the title of a lecture to be given by Richard Solomon, the president of The United States Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C., on Monday, SeptTl5 apO:l5 a.m. The lecture will be held in the Hesburgh Center AuditoriUm. 

sorith 
London Broil 
cheese Lasagna 
Shrimp ~9ppers 
Vegetables Marinara 

Skin-on Wedge Cut Fries 
North 
London .Broil 
Tofu Fried Rice 
Meatless Baked Ziti 
Chicken Fajita Pizzas 

Chicken & Cheese Chimichangas 
~t:h·:: 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
ToLeDo 
-
-
• 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Taps 10 With 15-Across, linguini topping 14 Connecting flight? 15 See 10-Across 16 Questioned, in away 17 Kin of hyper­18 Could tell 19 Milk 20 Charge 23 Old World evergreens 25 Bottom 26 Like loggers' boots 31 River at Rennes 32 Just above normal, in a sense 
33 "Hold On Tight" group 
34Wolf's give-away in "Little Red Riding Hood" 
35 Good name for a cook? 36 It's north of Liverpool 
38Auditory 
39 Launders, in a way 
40Title for Marquette 
41 Picnic 
hamperer 
42 Tied up 
44 Venomous 
snake 47 Compulsive 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.........,___,.........,~ 
E W E R X R A y 


"That entertaining thought in the 

9.13.97@ 7:30p.m. 
back of your

at a.drlrg Stcrliun 
head" 

'1hirs:By @ 10:30 LaFun Ballroom 
Sponsored by: OMSA, LA ALLIANZA, SUB, STUDENT AFFAIRS.
F.rid3y & SrtJirtBy"@ 8/10:30 
& ST. MARY"S OFFICE OF MULTICULTURAL AFFAIRS 
• 
-

SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, September 12, 1997 
• WoMEN's SoccER 
Unbeaten Irish to face tough Big East opposition 
By ALLISON KRILLA "We've just been having a lot Sports Writer of fun playing," said sophomore forward Jenny Streiffer, who 
The Notre Dame women's earned Big East offensive play­soccer team hits the road again er of the week accolades for this weekend. squaring off her play against Washington against Big 
~-----~ and Portland last weekend. East foes "We're getting more comfort­Pittsburgh ( 1-able with each other, and we're 1-1) and really looking forward to this West Virginia weekend." (3-0l today Teammate Kate Sobrero, a and Sunday. senior defender, has been tak­
Putting ing full advantage of her final their unblem­year in blue and gold. Sobrero ished record Jenny Streiffer earned Big East defensive play­
-
on the line, er of the week honors after her the Irish (4-0) face the game-winning assist against Panthers, the new kids on the Portland and her work in the block in Big East women's soc­Irish backfield that limited the cer. in the first-ever Big East Pilots to three shots on goal. conference game for She now has six assists in four Pittsburgh. games, topping her 1996 sea­
Unfortunately for the son mark of five. and placing Panthers. the Fighting Irish her among the nation's assist may not be the most accom­leaders, tied for second with modating house guests, having Richmond's Krisi Cronk. scored 17 goals in their first "We have threats from every four games, while allowing only The Observer/Brandon Candura one. see SOCCER I page 22 Shannon Boxx leads a second-ranked Irish team against Pittsburgh and West Virginia in this weekend's Big 
East conference action. West Viriginia is undefeated; Pittsburgh opens its first year of Big East play . 
• VOLLEYBALL

• MEN'S SOCCER 
Netters hit the road
Men's leaders emerge on field 
By TOM STUDEBAKER
-and DAN LUZIETTI for Colorado Invite 
Sports Writers 
By BILL HART one of three Notre Dame play­Sports Writer ers named to the all-tourna­The 1997 Notre Dame men's 
ment team. after leading the soccer team entered the year Notre Dame's womon's vol­team during the weekend in 

with high expectations. Coming 
leyball team departs on their kills (31 ), hitting percentageoff one of the successful years second road trip of the 1997 (.386), total blocks (17) and in Irish men's soccer history, 
season this weekend. h11ading solo blocks (4). 
the departure of five seniors 
to Boulder, Colo .. to compote in Last wenkend. senior hitter left the Irish devoid of a wealth the Colorado Invitational. AngiP Harris received the same 
of experience, including three Tonight, Notre DamP will honor, following a 71-kill per­conference championships and 
battle G11orgia. who went 3-0 formance in tlw three-game
three NCAA tournament ap­
before losing to three ranked Shamrock Invitational. 
pearances. 
teams. Tho Bulldogs have In the AVCNUSA TODAY poll.
Despite the preseason skep­defoated the Irish in all three Notre Dame fell to 21st place,ticism, upperclassmen co-cap­previous matches, but the last while Florida. their last oppo­

tains Ryan Turner and Matt 
time the two teams met was in nent, held at second place.
Johnson have stepped into the 1985. Colorado remained in 22ncl. 
leadership roles. 
On Saturday, the Irish will Following the two-game tour­
"As co-captains, Matt and I 

compete against host Colorado. nament, the Irish will return feel that it is our role to take The match will be the team's for a six-game home stand charge of the team and control third match against a ranked through the end of the month. 
the pace of the game," Turner opponent in the past eight days. The series will include the start said. "As the young guys look
• Colorado is 2-1 this season. fol­of Big East conference play . 
up to us, we must step up and lowing a loss at USC. Notre 
lead the team on and off the 
Dame lPads the series with 
field." 
Colorado 3-1, having won the Head coach Mike Berticelli 
scoring eight goals. best I have seen from a fresh­last thre11 contests, including 
agrees with Turner's opinion 
Coming off a back injury that man in my eight years here." two in 1995. The Buffaloes 
and stresses the leadership 
sidelined him for the 1995 sea­Junior co-captain Johnson have also made seven NCAA 
roles of all the upperclassmen. 
son, Turner was the team's anchors a strong defense that tournament appnarancns,
"The team looks to the up­

second-leading scorer last features junior Phil Murphy advancing to the second round 
perclassmen for an example of. 
year. Notre Dame will rely on and sophomores Alan Woods last year.
leadership on the field," 
Turner to create scoring and Matt McNow. Freshman The match will be a reunion 
Berticelli said. "They carry 
chances for himself as well as Stephen Maio is also involved of sorts for snnior hitter Jaimie 
over the intensity of last sea­
his teammates. in the mix. Lne, who played with CU senior 
son's successes as they stay 
McKnight has been a pleas­In the net for the Irish is middle Alison Koepke on the 
focused on this year's goals." 
ant surprise for the team. He junior Greg Velho, who was Griffins Volleyball Club in 
In the absence of last year's 

scored goals in back-to-hack named the Most Outstanding Northern California. Lee also 
goal scorers Konst.antin 
wins for the Irish, and has also Player of the 1996 Big East trained in Colorado Springs
Koloskov and Tony Capasso. 
totaled three assists on the tournamont. V1~lho is coming during this past summer to 
the Irish must look to new 
year. McKnight brings added off of a great season, and has earn a spot on. the U.S. World 
faces. Seniors Turner and Bill 
speed and quickness to the continued his solid play this University Games Warn. 
Savarino along with junior Ben 
front line, and could be the season. In other news, junior middln 
Bocklage, sophomores Andrew 
spark Notre Dame is looking "The consistent play of the blocker Lindsay Treadwell was 
Aris and Ryan Cox, ?.nd fresh­
for. defense has also been a named the Big East volleyball 
man Reggie McKnight look to 
"I am very pleased with the tremendous boost." Berticelli player of the week, following a 
fill the scoring void. Thus far. 
outstanding play of freshman said. "The steady play of co-solid showing at last week's 
the offense has made great 
Reggie McKnight," Berticelli "S pikeoff Spokane"
strides in its first four games by 
said. "His play has been the seeM. SOCCER I page 22 Tournament. Treadwell was 





vs. Buffalo, 
• Saint Mary's Volleyball Preview 
at Purdue, 
Tomorrow, 2:30p.m. EST 
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 
see page 21

• 
at University of Colorado

at Pittsburgh, 
• Alabama downs Vanderbilt 
Invitational,

Today, 7:15p.m. 
Today see page 18 
-
-------~---~---· -~---~-~-~-~-----­
r-~-~-----------~-~-~-~--~­
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Following his first career start, receiver 
.
Bobby Brown leads the Irish in catches. 
Irish Insider· STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, September 12, 1997 
htin' Irish 
No of punts-yards  3-144  
Avg per punt  48.0  Denson  
3  Punt returns: No-yards  2-13  O'Leary  
Kickoff returns: No-yards  2-45  
ND  Opp  lnt's: No-yards  2-4  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  
First Downs  22  17  Possession Time  29:05  Smith  3  120  40.0  
Rushing  10  10  3rd down conversions  7/16  
Passing  11  7  4th down conversions  0/0  Defense UT AT Tot ForLoss lnt BrUp Sck/Yds  
Penalty  1  0  Sacks by: No-yards  0/0  Dansby  6  6  12  2-18  0  0  2-18  
Rushing Attempts  42  44  Friday  2  8  10  0  0  0  0  
Yards gained rushing  174  201  Rushing  No Gain  Loss Net TD Avg  Minor  4  5  9  1-3  0  0  1-3  
Yards lost rushing  20  24  Denson  24  85  14  71  2  3.0  Howard  4  4  8  0  0  0  0  
Net yards rushing  154  177  Goodspeed 12  57  0  57  0  4.8  Bryant  4  3  7  1-3  0  0  1-3  
Net yards passing  217  118  Powlus  5  32  6  26  0  5.2  Covington3  3  6  0  0  0  0  
Passes attempted  29  21  Barry  1  0  0  0  0  0.0  Bennett  3  2  5  0  0  0  0  
Passes completed  18  10  Edison  3  1  4  0  0  0  0  
Had intercepted  2  2  Passing  Att-Cmp-lnt  Yds  TD  Sck  Guilbeaux2  2  4  0  1  0  0  
Total offensive plays  71  65  Powlus  29-18-2  217  0  0  Rossum 2  1  3  0  1  0  0  
Total net yards  371  295  
Avg gain per play  5.2  4.5  Receiving  No  Yds  TD  
Fumbles: No-lost  1-0  0-0  Brown  7  64  0  
Penalties: No-yards  7-44  5-30  Getherall  5  47  0  


Boilermakers 
Scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  OT  Final  Average per game  304.0  254.0  Rushing  No  Yds  Avg  TD  
Purdue  7  7  0  8  0  22  TO's passing  1  2  Watson  11  73  6.6  1  
Opponents 21  6  3  6  0  36  Total Offense  426  424  Matthews  4  25  6.3  0  
Total Plays  80  90  Dicken  5  18  3.6  0  
Team Statistics  PU  Opp  Average per play  5.3  4.7  Sutherland 1  5  5.0  1  
First Downs  18  26  Average per game  426.0  424.0  Brees  3  1  .3  0  
Rushing  5  8  Kickoff returns, # -yards4-76  2-22  
Passing  12  15  Punt returns, # -yards 2-4  1-32  Receiving  No  Yds  Avg  TD  
Penalty  1  3  lnt returns, #-yards  1-15  2-33  Alford  10  209  20.9  1  
Rushing Yardage  122  170  Fumbles-lost  3-0  2-0  Jones  4  28  7.0  0  
Yards gained rushing  134  199  Penalties-yards  9-79  5-35  Blackman  4  26  6.5  0  
Yards lost rushing  12  29  Punts-avg  5-44.0  4-36.5  Cox  3  28  9.3  0  
Rushing attempts  24  46  Time of poss./ game  25:30  34:30  Sutherland  2  9  4.5  0  
Average per rush  5.1  3.7  3rd down conversions  5/15  14/22  Matthews  1  4  4.0  0  
Average per game  122.0  170.0  4th down conversions  2/5  0/1  
TO's rushing  2  2  Punting  No  Yds  Avg  TB  Blkd  
Passing Yardage  304  254  PassingAtt-Comp Pet  Yds  Yds/Att  Elf.  TD  Kaser  4  184  46.0  0  0  
Att-Cmp-lnt  56-24-2  44-21-1  Dicken  35-13  37.14 207 5.9  84.92  1  Rogers  1  36  36.0  0  0  
Average per pass  5.4  5.8  Brees  21-11  52.38 97  4.6  91.18  0  
Average per catch  12.7  12.1  

@@Jlliru@ ~@@~@[])@] 0~®~0@]0 No"' all of Notre Dame can eat Purdue for Lunch! 
Delivery or Carryout 


Pasta Sandwiches Service & More 

Friday, September 12, 1997 Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS page 3 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Following a sluggish start, Joey Goodspeed and the Irish hope to be more successful on the ground in Saturday's contest at Purdue. . 
H
ere are the facts. The Purdue defense returns five starters and are emotional to face former coach Jim Colletta. That's good. 
Last season, that Boilermaker defense gave up an average of just under 30 points a contest, and its leading tackler was its free safety who represents the last line of defense and who is also academically ineligible. That's bad. 
That Purdue defense showed little signs of improvement last week as the offensive juggernaut, otherwise known as the Toledo Rockets, piled up 424 yards of total offense and 21 first-quarter points on its way to 36. That's really bad. 
Tomorrow in West Lafeyette, the Irish should be able to take 
P
urdue will enter Saturday's game hungry for a win. The Boilermakers watched as last weekend their defense gave up 27 straight points, 21 coming in the first quarter alone. Despite the 36­22 loss to Toledo, numerous Purdue players turned in astound­ing performances. 
Like the Irish, the Boilermakers are under new tutelage. Coach Joe Tiller is in his first year at Purdue, a spot left open by new Irish offen­sive coordinator Jim Colleto, after coming off a six-year stint as head coach of Wyoming. Tiller favors a big play offense and characterizes his new offense as "basketball on grass." 
"They are a one-back team," said Irish head coach Bob Davie. "A lot of times they are in empty formation. Any time you do that and spread the field, obviously the risk of giving up a big play on defense is there." 
Purdue's offense remains pretty much intact for the 1996 cam­paign with nine starters returning. Senior Billy Dicken quarterbacks the Boilermakers. Dicken started twice last year but spent the majority of the time nursing injuries. Last weekend, he com­pleted 13 of 35 attempts, was intercepted twice, and threw one touchdown. Davie characterized Dicken as being a scrambler who makes things happen. Also seeing time at quarterback will be fresh­man Drew Brees, who completed 11 of 21 for 97 yards against Toledo. 
Dicken's main target will likely be senior wide receiver Brian Alford. Last weekend, he broke the school record for receiving yards with a career-high 10 catch­es and 209 yards. In 1996, Alford advantage and work out the kinks in their new offense before they begin the toughest stretch of their schedule, hosting Michigan State and traveling to Michigan and Stanford. 
"I feel pretty good about our offense right now," head coach Bob Davie said. "There's a lot of things we have to work out offen­sively, but I think we can get that corrected. On offense, it's critical we eliminate making mistakes. We ended up really stopping our­selves (against Georgia Tech)." 
Some of the concerns for the Irish are Purdue's captain and the anchor of the defensive line, Rosevelt Colvin, and the Boilermaker blitz that the team­flashed late in its loss to the Rockets. 
"They have a real good defen­sive end, and they have got three young linebackers that are very active," Davie noted. "I expect them to line up and come after us. And certainly pass protection and blitz pick-up will be critical in this football game." 
Junior fullback Jamie Spencer should be back at full speed for the Irish this weekend, allowing him to alternate with Joey Goodspeed in order to keep both players fresh. 
"I expect Jamie to be at 100 percent Saturday," Davie said. "I think he will be healthy and ready to play this week." 
The coaching staff has moved Tim Ridder back to the offensive line which means true freshman J abari Holloway will likely see extensive action at tightendL16 
"Jabari has the total package, and it is time to go ahead and let him get some reps in," Davie said. 
With Joey Getherall out for a couple of weeks, the rest of the receiving corps will get its chance to make an impact. 
"We're going to work Raki Nelson there; he didn't play as much as we planned on him playing (against Georgia Tech)," Davie said. "We continue to work Shannon Stephens and Darcy Levy because he has a chance to be a game-breaker for us." 
Something that the aerial assault did not do last week was stretch the defense with the long ball. Davie plans on that chang­ing this week, hopefully with the use of speedster Allen Rossum. 
"We need to throw the football down the field more. We would like to get Allen Rossum some more playing time this week." 
History is also on the side of the Irish offense, and the Blue and Gold have put at least 35 points on the board in 10 of the last 11 meetings with Purdue. 
-Joe Cavato 

••• BOilERMAKERS ON THE OFFENSIVE 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Bob Davie h?s emphasized the importance of getting more production from the rotat1on of Jason Ching (99) and Kurt Belisle at defensive end. 
was first-team Big Ten and the quick moves and shifty play. teamMVP. Watson rushed for a team-high 
On the ground, the Boilermakers 768 yards in 1996. return two top rushers, seniors The Boilermakers want a win Edwin Watson and Kendall for the home opener. The offense Matthews. Both combined for 98 has some stars looking to shine, years in the first game, averaging but in order for them to do that, 
6.5 yards per carry. Watson plays the defense must elevate its game. more of a smash-mouth style of -Kathleen Lopez football, while Matthews relies on 

I 


Quarterbacks 
The play of senior Billy Dicken is critical to Joe Tiller's "Basketball on Grass" scheme. He had a nice game against Toledo, but one should have a bet­ter than nice game against the Rockets. 

Running Backs 
Edwin Watson and Kendall Matthews form a solid one-two punch, but Denson and Co. have knockout capabilities. 
Receivers _..-----~----..... 
Brown needs to contin-~ ue to prove himself, ...~li!Jiimli~~ 
and Nelson or Stephens '::':~7~:::·:::~: needs to step up. Purdue's Alford is for real, rolling up over 200 yards last week. 
Offensive Line 

The Purdue line is headed by a skilled 
• 

Mark Fischer, but the Irish traditionally win this battle, aver­aging just under 300 rushing yards a game in the Holtz era against Purdue. 
Defensive Line 

The Beast appears poised for a breakout
• 

year. Corey Bennett is out, but captain Rosevelt Colvin is the only one to speak of on Purdue's defensive front. 
Linebackers 

The tandem of Johnson, Fells, and
• 

Rose are about as experienced as Grant Irons. But Irons has the privilege of playing with Kory Minor, Lamont Bryant. and Jimmy Friday. 
Secondary 

The academic ineligibil­ity of Purgue's two best DB's (Derrick Brown 
and Jamel Coleman) should light up the eyes of Ron Powlus. 
Special Teams 

In last year's home 
opener, Rossum got things going, taking the opening kickoff 99 yards, and this could be his first chance to make some noise. 
Coaching 

No one knows if Tiller's WACkey offense can survive in the Big Ten. 
should know the Boilermakers inside and out. 
Overall This is a big game for Davie's crew. The Irish need to build on last week and be prepared for what lies ahead {Michigan State, Michigan, Stanford). 
page4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY Friday, September 12, 1997 
Melvin Dansby: 

By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
When the fourth quarter began, some hope was still alive. Notre Dame, in its new stadium. with its new coaching staff, had failed to put Georgia Tech away, and the Yellow Jackets had begun to think upset. 
Down 13-10 in fourth quarter, what many would consider the least likely of all Irish units to change the tone of a game did just that. 
Following turnovers deep inside Irish territory on two consecutive Notre Dame drives, the band of the Fighting Irish responded with the Star Wars "Imperial March," and the defense took the field with one goal in mind: The squad, without signal caller Bobby Howard, rose to the occasion, and no player was more instrumental in the effort than defensive end Melvin Dansby. 
The fifth-year senior tri-captain proved why he was chosen to be one of this year's team leaders. Despite knee injuries that sidelined him last spring and forced him to rotate with backup Brad Williams on Saturday, Dansby was all over the field throughout the afternoon. 
"I was feeling really good," said the defensive anchor. "That six­play rotation really paid dividends in the end, especially in the fourth quarter. I had a full tank in there going into the second half, so it worked for me." 
It was in that fourth quarter that Dansby made one of the plays of the game. On the second Jacket play from scrimmage, following Notre Dame's go-ahead touchdown, quar­terback Joe Hamilton dropped back, looking for a receiver to throw to for a first down. But Hamilton never got the chance to release the ball. 
Charging through the offensive line, Dansby got a grasp of the quar­terback's jersey and flung him to the ground on his own seven-yard line for a 13-yard loss, virtually ending Tech's hopes of becoming the sec­ond heavy underdog in three years to walk out of a Notre Dame Stadium opener with a win. 
"He did have an outstanding game," said defensive line coach Charlie Strong. "He's a leader and that's what we expect of him." 
When all was said and done, Dansby led the team with two sacks and 12 tackles. More importantly though, he served as an inspira­tional force in an Irish time of need, despite not being 100 percent at game time. 
"Earlier [last] week, some­body asked me that [if Dansby was 100 percent], and I said upper 90s, so it's about the same [now]." explained Dansby. "I felt like upper 90s the day of the game, so hopefully I can feel that well throughout the sea­son." 
The six-play rotation that the defensive coaching staff employed with Dansby and Williams may have also been a bit of a misnomer. 
"He [Dansby] played maybe 50 snaps and Brad Williams played 20," Strong pointed out. "He's in there more than six plays. We look at it as six plays, and we could end a d~;ive. We want him in there six and then pull him out, get him rested, and get him back in there." 
Dansby did not practice in pads on Tuesday, as the team was indoors because of the , rain. He planned to practice in full pads on Wednesday, although the weather was similar to the day before. 

"They're feeling pretty good," said Dansby about his knees on Tuesday. 'Til be ready by game time." 
That positive attitude is typical of Dansby, who has had the opportuni­ty to rehabilitate his knees over the summer. That was also partially due to new head coach Bob Davie's pre-season philosophy. 
"I think everything's a lot better tempo," Dansby said in comparing the practice schedules of Davie and ex-coach Lou Holtz. "It's real physi­cal, but at least you didn't come out feeling all beat up and bruised as far as pre-season is concerned. I'm not trying to bad mouth Coach Holtz or anything, but if Holtz was still here, with his type of practice, I don't think I would have made it through two-a-days. I feel real good about the whole system." 
Not only was Dansby able to work his way back into the flow of things gradually, but he used his extra time to develop in other ways. 
"It didn't hurt me [missing spring workouts] as far as physical condi­tioning is concerned," Dansby noted, "And that's what my main concern was. I just worked on improving my upper body strength and try to keep a good attitude about things." 
Anyone who has seen Melvin around campus in the past few years cannot be able to help but grin at the thought of Dansby improving his upper body strength. They certainly do not call him "the Beast" for nothing. 
Dansby, who now stands 6-foot-4 and weighs around 280 pounds, maxed out on the bench press this summer at 505 pounds. 
Hopefully for the Irish, Dansby can use some of that strength to make up for the absence of Howard and Corey Bennett due to knee injuries. 
True freshman Grant Irons, who saw time in 
t  h  e  
fourth  
quar­ 
t  e  r  •  ··  •  

against Georgia Tech, is expected to start in place of Howard. Lance Legree will get the start at nose guard and should rotate with junior Antwon Jones. 
When asked what the defense will have to do to respond to the changes, Dansby displayed nothing but confidence. 
"Close ranks. march, and try to play with the soldiers that we do have," said the captain. "Everybody just has to gel together and try to make up for it. I think they'll do a great job." 
Strong also seemed comfortable with the troops who will hold down the Irish fort on Saturday. 
"[Melvin's] just got to keep going and not try to over do it," Strong stated, "because even though Bennett's not going to be there, we're going to use Lance Legree and play enough guys and hopefully Melvin can have another good game." 
Dansby has had quite a few good games in his career at Notre Dame, and with any luck, he probably has plenty more to come. But great per­formances on the field are not the only thing the mild-mannered end has brought with him from his hometown of Birmingham, Ala. 
Back in February, Davie made Melvin's younger brother Kevin one of the first signees in his tenure as head football coach. The 6-foot-2, 210 pound linebacker was a USA Today honorable mention All­America pick, and more important­ly, was receiving offers from many other schools. 
The elder Dansby explained his part in his brother's decision. 
"I was just that little birdie sitting on his shoulder, saying 'come on, make the right choice,"' recalled Melvin. "I think he did, and I think he'd say the same." 
The Dansby brothers now have the wonderful opportunity of work­ing together and playing with one another for an entire football sea­son. And though he plays a differ­ent position, there is no one better for Kevin to watch and no one better from whom to learn what it is to be a college football player and a leader than his big brother Melvin. 
There can be no doubt for the University of Notre Dame, that with all of his contributions to the school, on the field and ofT, Melvin " t h e Beast" Dansby
1a 
was a 11 beauty of 
a find. 

------~---­
Friday, September 12, 1997 Irish Insider • THE TEAMS page 5 

In the S 
Irish youngsters Lance Legree and Grant 
1st season at Notre Dame 

Career record: 1-0 At Notre Dame: 1-0 Against Purdue: 0-0 
Pas. Ht Wt YR 1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 so 2 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-1 207 JR 3 Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SR 4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR 5 A'jani Sanders ss 5-11 188 JR 6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so 
1 0 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 so 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 12 Scan Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 14 Ivory CovingtoQ CB 5-10 169 SR 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 179 SR 16 Zak Kustok QB 6•2 190 FR 17 Hunter Smith p 6-2 210 JR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 t83 SR 18 Joey Getherall WR 5-9 165 FR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 so 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 

Kevin Kopka K5-7 214 JR Byron Joyner FS 6-1 188 JR Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FR Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR Cooper Rego TB 5-9 185 FR Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SR Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 so Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR Chirs Wachtel 5-11 207 SR
p Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SR Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FR Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 215 FR Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 so Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FR 47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SR 48 Johnathan Herbert WR 5-11 194 so 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JR 50 David Payne c 6-0 281 JR 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 57 Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 258 SR 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 60 Scan Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so 62 Casey Robin 0~ 6-7 285 FR 84 John Merandi c 6-3 272 so Anthony Brannan ss 5-11 194 so JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FR John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SR RobMowl OG 6-5 294 so Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FR Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 274 SR Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FR Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 so Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 so Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so N.VanHook-Drucker DE 6-2 228 so 

B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FR Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SR Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 so John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 
Irons were hoping to work their way into· the Irish lineup. 
They were probably not expecting to be called on so soon in the season. But with injuries to Corey Bennett and Bobbie Howard, Legree and Irons will see the field early and often come 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Lance Legree will start at nose guard for the Irish. 

TAILBACK 23-Denson 
32·Stokes 
FULLBACK ~­
45·Goodspeed _·· -~---_-­
33·Spencer ' . . 
74·Mowl 
RIGHT TACKlE 
73-Doughty 
54-Petitgout 
TIGHT END 
86-0'leary 
89-Ridder 
FLANKER 88-Brown -· 21-Stepnens 

RUNNING BACK 36-Watson 43-Matthews 
~ 
5-Brown 10-Walton 
RUSH 53-Bryant41-Ferrer 
gameday. Irons was thrown into the fire in the fourth quarter of Saturday's win over Georgia Tech and responded well. 
This weekend, both players will have to turn it up a notch and mature quickly as the Irish defense is in need of stability. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
With Bobbie Howard out, Grant Irons will step in. 
SPLIT END BO·Johnson 9-Nelson CORNERBACK 
14-Covlngton 
10·Harper 
FREE SAFETY 3D-Edison 
Hooper 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
39-Guilbeaux 
5-Sanders 
CORNERBACK 
15-Rossum 
24-Goode 


~;:' r~;~JJ1IUDA''BBJJ~1JJJ1]'' 
,· sept 6 at Toledo L36-22 .. f. 13 NOTREDAME 
.20 BAll STATE t 27 NORTHWESTERN .'11 at Minnesota ,18 WISCONSIN 
v. 1 at Iowa 
v. 8 MICHIGAN STAT£ · 
1st Season at Purdue 
Joe Tiller 
Career record: 39-30 At Purdue: 0-1 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 


No.Name Pos. HI. Wt. YR 1 Donald Winston WR 5-7 155 so 2 Derrick Brown FS 5-10 185 SR 3 John Reeves QB 6-4 217 SR 4 Mike Rose LB 6-1 220 so 5 Willie Tillman WR 6-0 180 SR 6 Isaac Jones WR 6-0 195 JR 7 Adrian Beasley ss 6-0 195 so 8 Gabe Cox WR 5-10 190 JR 8 Chris McKay DB 6-0 211 so 9 Robert Tolbert WR 6-1 195 so 10 Lee Brush FS 5-10 197 SR 11 Mike Hawthorne DB 6-3 195 so 12 Billy Dicken QB 6-1 207 SR 13 Jim Mitchell QB 6·3 190 FR 14 Jamel Coleman CB 6-1 200 SR 14 Vinny Sutherland WR 5-10 185 FR 14 Drew Brees QB 6-1 200 FR 15 Drew Barrymore QT 5-4 110 FR 16 Eric Haddad FB 6-1 235 JR 17 Ben Smith QB 6-3 185 FR 17 Neal Antoine DB 5-9 185 so 18 Clay Walters QB 6-4 205 so 19 R'Kes Starling CB 5-8 175 FR 20 Chris Daniels WR 6-3 202 so 21 Tommy Triplett DB 5-11 180 JR 22 Aaron Bunten K 5-9 185 so 22 Lamar Conrad DB 5-10 197 so 23 Willie Burroughs LB 5-11 200 JR 24 Dondre Johnson RB 6-0 205 FR 25 Curtis Taylor RB 6-2 190 JR 26 Danny Rogers p 5-10 193 SR 27 Willie Washington DB 5-10 185 so 28 Henry Bell CB 5-11 180 JR 30 Billy Gustin DB 6-2 195 JR 31 Tarah Graham RB 5-8 193 SR 32 Noble Jones SLB 6-1 245 JR 32 Noble Romans ZA "12 9.99 CH 35 Lee Johnson LB 6-0 220 JR 36 Edwin Watson RB 6-0 220 JR 37 Todd Stelma DB 5-11 185 SR 39 Nick Zitelli LB 6-1 215 so 40 Willie Fells LB 6-1 215 JR 41 Matt Ludwig FB 6-0 225 so 41 Tom Vaughan DB 6-0 185 so 42 Brent Botts DT 6-3 255 so 43 Kendall Matthews RB 6-0 210 SR 44 Doug Withers LB 6-2 235 so 45 Cullen Bryant Jr. DE 6-2 240 so 46 Akin Ayodele LB 6-3 230 FR 47 Chris Zurba DE 6-3 245 JR 49 Chukie Nwokorie DE 6-3 260 JR 50 Brian Dinkins DE 6-2 250 so 52 Nick Sweeney OT 6-7 320 so 53 David Berch LB 6-4 225 so 54 Mark Fischer OT 6-4 290 SR 56 Chukky Okobi OL 6·2 310 so 57 Lee Ray LB 6-1 225 so 58 Warren Moore DE 6-2 260 so 58 Warren Moon QB 6-4 210 ss 59 Colvin Rosevelt DE 6-3 245 JR 60 Andy Standifer LS 6-1 215 so 63 Jim Niedrach c 6-3 275 so 65 Pete VanderWeele OT 6-5 290 JR 66 Brian Koppen OL 6-6 290 FR 67 Dave Meyer OG 6-5 275 so 70 Sean Rufolo DT 6-3 270 FR 71 Anthony Gutwein DT 6-1 285 JR 73 David Cohen OL 6-4 298 so 75 Aaron Starnes OL 6-3 310 JR 76 Dan Maly OT 6-6 285 SR 78 Brian Nicley c 6-6 286 SR 79 Chad Manning OG 6-5 305 SR 80 Brian Alford WR 6-2 188 SR 81 Brandon Jewell TE 6-3 250 SR 81 Richard Jewell TNT 6-6 300 82 David Nugent DT 6-5 280 so 83 Ron Mason WR 6-0 185 so 84 Jon Blackman TE 6-6 265 SR 85 Chris Clopton WR 5-7 163 FR 86 Eric Clapton RS 5-10 145 Old 86 Cortez Miles WR 5-10 175 FR 87 Rocco Foggio DE 6-4 260 so 88 Jason Loerzel WR 6-3 195 FR 89 Tim Stratton TE 6-4 215 FR 90 Chris Randolph TE 6-5 240 FR 91 Man Light TE 6-4 255 so 92 Brandon Kaser p 6-0 185 JR 94 Brandon Gorin DT 6-6 270 so 95 Jody Goatley DE 6-4 250 so 961an Allen DT 6-4 260 so 96 lan Zering BH 9-0 210 STUD 97 Greg Smith DT 6-3 280 SR 98 Leo Perez DT 6-3 280 SR 99 Kurt Davies LB 6-3 230 so 

..---~ 

----~~--~--~­
page 6 Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT Friday, September 12, 1997 
-----
-~~-~~--~--~ ~--­
-~--~ --~­

• IRISH INSIGHT 
First road trip ·ves Irish -a harsh dose of reality 
marfiftf 


Side Door 
Deli 
T
here will be no pressure to win the inaugural game in the renovated stadium. There will not be 20,000 additional fans cheering the Irish onward to victory. There will not be 7,000 identically dressed students prac­ticing the new "Go Irish" cheer, gaining momentum each time. 
There will not be over 250 former Irish stars lining the tunnel, wishing the Irish 
players and coaches good luck in their first endeavor. With any luck, there will not be 80-degree heat and a relentless sun shining down. 
What there will be is a much-needed reality shock for Notre Dame 

head coach Bob Davie Betsy Baker 
and his team going Associate Sports Editor into Saturday's game against Purdue. 
Although the win over Georgia Tech on Saturday did not go exactly as planned for the Irish -including a fumble, a missed field goal, two interceptions, five missed scoring attempts inside the five, and numerous missed assignments -it provided a barometer for the Irish of how well they could handle the pressure of the 1997 season. 
Still, the major battle for the Irish comes tomorrow. 
Although Purdue, with first-year head coach Joe Tiller, is coming off a 36-22 loss to Toledo, the Boilermakers might not be the kind of team to provide this test. It will be more of a battle against themselves for the Irish -a battle to prove their own resilience. 
The Irish will head to West Lafayette, Ind., without the hype and hoopla they experienced last weekend. They will have a few dedicated fans along for the ride, but there will be no pep rally, no ceremony, no unified student body cheering their name. Another factor to consider is the weather. 

Our ..,., . ..,,...n Sante Fe SfYie •Chicken Quesadillas• 
Faiita chicken striPs. PePPers. onions. cheddar. mozzarella and a fresh cilantro. all folded into a crisPll flour tortilla. 
The Italian WaY 

Cotto Salami. PePPeroni. cured ham. sliced tomatoes. roasted red peppers. erilled onions. Provolone cheese and flavored with our own !!rain mustard sauce. 
HardY Beef & Mushroom 
AziPPll beef sandwich flavored with a li!!ht earlic mallonnaise. erilled onions. mushrooms. PePPeroncini's and smothered with Provolone cheese. 
Garden Ueaetable with Yoaurt Cheese 
low fat sandwich. stuffed with zucchini. onions. mushrooms. roasted PePPers. sPinach and cucumbers all melted toeether with SPiCllliOI!urt cheese. 
Roast TurkeY 

This turkell breast is teamed with tomato slices. PePPeroni and cheddar cheese. 
OUr Pesto Chicken 
Awonderful combination of Products. chicken breast. sliced tomatoes. fresh SPinach. basil Pesto sauce and swiss cheese. 
Whole Panini Half Panini 
$3.95 $2.49 
Panini S ecials! 
Half Panini with souP or salad. and drink 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ onlY $4.29 _________ _ 
Half Panini With SOUP 

__________ onlY $3.79 _________ _ 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie and quarterback Ron Powlus will face the unranked Purdue Boilermakers Saturday without the added elements of the home field advantage and all of the celebration that surrounded last weekend's home opener. 
Davie cited the heat as a major factor in last week's performance, and the Irish history with Purdue, whether supersti­tious or coincidental, has brought down­pours and dirt. If history repeats itself, it will not only test the Irish team as a whole, but more specifically, the highly­touted running game that was held to 66 yards in the first half last week. 
The only hype that will exist going into Saturday is that it will be Irish offensive coordinator Jim Colletto's first trip back to West Lafayette since resigning as Purdue's head coach last season. Regardless of history and hype, however, Saturday's contest will give us a chance to see what we've been waiting for-
Panini is a unique Italian Sandwich, filled with fresh meats, vegetables and sauces -grilled to perfection and served HOT! 
Available at these locations: 

-Corner ofSt. Rd. 23 & Ironwood 272-6928 -E. Jackson St., Elkhart 293-6659 -St. Rei. 23, 277­
••••lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese, beef or chicken. red onions. 
Prepared fresh daily. We start with Fresh Iceberg Lettuce and romaine, then top our salads with crisp vegetables and quality Meats & cheeses. 
:Y~11r:.,.~ 



Notre Dame football. 
Not Notre Dame football in a new sta­dium. Not Notre Dame football with a brand new coach. Just plain Notre Dame football. 
Even though there are kinks to be worked out and injuries to be dealt with, tomorrow's game will be the first true look at the Irish, out from under the shadow of a completely redone program. 
For the most part, the changes have benefited Irish fans and players, but they have also served as a distraction from what makes up the core of football Saturday. It is time for the Notre Dame football team to be judged for what it does best, and that is play football. 
Our 

Garden Salad 

lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. cucumber slices. red onions. 
l!reen PePPer rinl!s. black olives & boiled el!l!. 
Ueaetable Salad 

lettuce. tomatoes. cucumber slices. red onions. 
black olives & l!reen PePPer rinl!s. 
Chef Salad 

lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. cucumber slices. 
red onions. l!reen PePPers. boiled el!l!. furkell & ham. 
Cobb Salad 

lettuce. tomatoes, cheddar cheese. red onions. blue cheese. 
boiled el!l!. scallions. chicken striPs & bacon bits. 
Seven LaYer Salad 

lettuce. tomatoes. cheddar cheese. mallonnaise. l!reen Peas 
bacon bits & leaf lettuce. 
Caesar Salad 

Romaine lettuce. boiled el!l!. tomatoes. 
shredded Parmesan & croutons. 

Chicken Caesar Salad 
Romaine lettuce. boiled e.el!. tomatoes. chicken striPs 
shredded Parmesan & croutons. 

SPinach-Mushroom Salad 
SPinach. tomatoes. red onions. boiled el!l!.
bacon bits & sliced mushrooms. 

Beef or Chicken Taco Salad 
l!reen onions. black olives. leaf lettuce. salsa & tostido chiPs. 
Crab Flake Salad 

lettuce. lemon wedl!es. leaf lettuce, chives 
& imitation crab meat. 
ShrimP Salad 

lettuce. lemon wedl!es. leaf lettuce. chives 
& cooked babll shrimP. 
Uesi!ie Snack 

leaf lettuce. carrot sticks. l!reen PePPer striPs. celerll sticks. 
broccoli & cauliflower buds. tomato wedl!es & Ranch dressinl!. 
--selections 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF 
Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy Cover: Mark DeBoy, Brandon Candura 

r----~~~~~-----~--------­
-------~~--~---~~ 


Friday, September 12, 1997 
Irish Experts? 

Mike Day (3-1) Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Colorado North Carolina Miami 

Betsy Baker (4-0) Associate SportS Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan Stanford Miami 

Joe Cavato (3-1) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan North Carolina Miami 

Kathleen Lopez (4-0) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Michigan North Carolina Miami 

Brian Reinthaler (2-2) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Colorado North Carolina Miami 

Jenny Streiffer Big East Player of the Week 
Notre Dame Colorado North Carolina Miami 
Irish Insider • THE NATION page 7 
ISH INSIDER 
e on the Nation Buffs to battle UM in 'Big House' 
Cardinal to be tested at Chapel Hill 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
#8 Colorado at 
#14 Michigan 
The Wolverines finally get the 1997 campaign underway against a Colorado squad that already has a top 25 win under its belt. The Buffs defended their home turf as they topped the in-state rival Rams 31-21, after trailing 14-7 at the half. 
Colorado recorded one of the most memorable wins in college football history the last time they visited Ann Arbor, and they have every incentive to break the hearts of the Big Blue faith­ful again. Michigan upset the Buffaloes 20-13 at Boulder last year. 
Colorado has an opportunity to legitimize their national title campaign with a big road win against another ranked oppo­nent, while this is most likely the first of at least six ranked opponents that the Wolverines will have to face before the sea­son is out. 
Fighting Irish fans ought to root hard for their hated region­al rival if they want a game that has more than pride at stake on Sept. 27. 
TEAM RECORD 
1. Penn State (22) 1-0 2. Florida (15) 2-0 3. Washington (14) 1-0 4. Tennessee (6) 2-0 5. Florida State (4) 1-0 6. Nebraska (4) 1-0 7. N. Carolina (2) 1-0 8. Colorado (3) 1-0 
9. Ohio State 1-0 10. LSU 1-0 11. Texas 1-0 
12. 
Notre Dame 1-0 

13. 
Miami, Fla. 1-0 14. Michigan 0-0 15. Alabama 1-0 16. Auburn 1-0 17. Stanford 1-0 18. Iowa 1-0 19. Clemson 1-0 


20. 
Kansas State 1-0 

21. 
Michigan State 1-0 


21. Virginia Tech 1-0 
23. 
Southern Cal 0-1 

24. 
Arizona State 1-0 

25. 
Colorado State 1-1 


OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Texas A&M 118, No Carolina St 113, Brigham Young 75, West Virginia 74, Washington St 64, Southern Miss 26, Georgia 25, Wake Forest 12, South Carolina 10, Mississippi St 6, Northwestern 5, Virginia 4, Wyoming 3, Air Force 2, Georgia Tech 2, Oregon 2, Utah St 2, Arkansas 1, Hawaii 1, San Diego St 1. 
TJR 
POINTS 
1620 1 
1590 2 
1580 4 
1518 3 
1442 5 
1433 6 
1342 7 
1331 8 
1144 9 
1127 10 
1054 12 
911 11 
904 13 
838 14 
812 15 
688 16 
587 17 
527 20 
402 18 
377 21 
305 25 
213 
182 23 
150 
127 24 


#17 Stanford at #7 North Carolina 
Don't be surprised to see the winner of this showdown in Chapel Hill go on to be the 1997 version of Arizona State and contend for the national title. Both the Cardinal and the Tar Heels turned in sub-par perfor­mances in their openers a week ago so they each have some­thing to prove. 
The premiere match-up in this contest is, without a doubt, between Stanford quarterback Chad Hutchinson and North Carolina pre-season all­America cornerback Dre' Bly. Hutchinson has already run up over 300 yards passing, but don't expect him to have simi­lar success going to Bly's side of the field on Saturday night. 
Following BYU's loss to Washington last weekend, Stanford's winning streak became the longest in the nation at six (tied with Penn State). 
If the favored Tar Heels can dethrone the Cardinal, they should have fairly smooth sail­ing toward a win streak of their own, as their only potential top 25 match-up before the show­down with the Seminoles (Nov. 
8) is at rival North Carolina State on Oct 18. 
Arizona State at 
#13 Miami 
Who knows? Maybe Arizona State is back again. Sun Devil head coach Bruce Snyder thinks so, and he'll certainly get his chance to prove it when he leads his squad into the Orange Bowl tomorrow. Analysts are high on ASU's redshirt freshman quarterback Ryan Kealy. The 6­foot-2, 195-pounder is already being compared to Jake Plummer. 
Things do not exactly look rosy for the Sun Devils, though. Miami has lost only four of its last 103 games against unranked opponents and the Orange Bowl rarely leaves visi­tors with pleasant memories. Even if J.R. Redmond and com­pany can overcome the aura of playing against favored Miami in sunny Florida, the gauntlet has just begun for State. They will take on four ranked opponents, in the five weeks following their get-together with Hurricanes. 
The game to watch within the game will be between Redmond and Miami's Edgerrin James. They each turned in over 100­yard efforts in their respective openers against New Mexico State and Baylor. James was actually a backup at the start of last week's game. 





s~1blllrd~y9 SeJP>teJmlber 139 1997 2~30 JP>oJmo R({J)§§=-AJ.ce § tadiunn_ 
Weest Lafceycettce 9 Kn J.iana 






