
Monday, November 24, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 60 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
A CRUSHING FINISH ••• 
Students, fans rush field after West Virginia win 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
After a 21-14 win over West Virginia Saturday, thousands of Notre Dame students and fans rushed the football field in 
cc~lebration. causing minor ~l=l::w'!,~"i•JI 
injuries and •Moregamecrnating tho 
security cover­
risk of people 
age in mmor­b 0 i n g row's Observer 
crushed. 
"It [the rush I was incredible. The excitement was overpowering. Then~ was no way the ushers could havn prevented it. I cot1ldn't even prevent myself from being pushed onto the l'ield." said sophomore Amanda Kirvan. who sat in sPction 34. 
After students and fans began to push toward the field. ushers and police officers began he! ping them over con­crete and metal barricades in an effort to hinder injuries. 
"We encourage people to stay in the stands, but once people decide to come over and risk injury, we try to help them get over Ithe fences[. I saw the whole thing from the press box. and I would guess there were a few thousand people on the field," Rex Hakow, director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said.' 
While reports are still being reviewed, one minor ankle injury that was treated on the site by first aid attendants was confirmed by Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security/Police. 
lie reiterated Hakow's inten­tions with letting people on the field. 
"If you hold people back, there is the chance that people will get crushed, so we [police officers and ushers] let them on the field and were actually helping them onto the field," Hurley said. 


tudents in section 35 of the stadium leaped up and over the barricades and onto the field after theSFighting Irish beat the Mountainee~ of West Virginia. Some students were hurt in the field rush. 
Rakow also noticed an increase in alcohol consump­
• OBITUARY 
tion this weekend compared to games earlier in the season. A few arrests were made for dis­orderly conduct, he said. 
"There was more drinking than usual during this game. It was probably a product of this being the seniors' last game and all. That's not out of the ordinary," he said. 



Fans raise shoes at football game in protest of land mines 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY News Writer 
Thousands of students raised their shoes in the air during the national anthem during Saturday's football ganH\ to support the "One shoe in the 
air. one hand un the ~ ,...,"" ·~ !wart" campaign. The activity was • "Clinton 
designed to express rejects !and student concern mines treaty" about the deaths and 
I p. 5
injuries caused eac 1 ...________, year by the indis­criminatn nxplosion of landmines. 
The mnmbers of the Notre Dame Campaign to Ban Land Mines were excitPd that student discussion about landmines had been sparked by their efTorts, said Mike Deemer, one of the organizing members of the campaign. 
The group felt that the campaign was a success even before the game because it had generated interest and raised awareness among students. 
Mnmbers of the group are uncertain as to what their future activities may be. Deemer commented that, if the 
U.S. approves the ban, the organiza­tion will disband. 
The p'etition sponsored by the group was signed by more than 300 students · by Friday afternoon, and a total of more than 400 signatures had been collected by game time Saturday. 
The petition will be sent to President Clinton in the hope that it may influ­ence him to approve the ban, which already has the support of 113 other countries and will be signed this December in Ottawa. 


• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Kmiec: Independent counsel is not legal 
By KRIST! KUTSCH as assistant attorney general News Writer and constitutional legal counsel to President Honald Reagan, 
Title VI of the Ethics in and he asserted in a column Government Act of 1978 provid-that appeared in the Chicago eel for the appointment of an Tribune on Oct. 20 that, "[the independent counsel to investi-Reagan administration] only gate and prosecute violations of had one word for the indepen­federal criminal dent counsel law by high-law: unconsti­ranking oflieials tutional. Was of the executive 'IF WE CONSTANTLY CRY then. Still is." 
branch. The WOLF, WHEN THE WOLF According to in dependent SHOWS UP NO ONE WILL us-normal proce­
counsel is dural law, any appointed by TEN.' superior offi­the Special PROFESSOR DOUGLAS KMIEC cia! in the Division of the United States 
Court of ON THE MISUSE OF THE 
governmentAppeals, and INDEPENDENT COUNSEL STATUTE must be 
can only be removed by the Attorney General for reasonable good cause. 
The statute stemmed from the Watergate scandal and the investigation of President Richard Nixon's involvement in the cover-up. Since 1978, the independent counsel statute has been used to investigate alleged sexual misconduct of past and present presidents, illegal cam­paign contributions, and other wrong-doings in Washington. 
Yet according to Douglas Kmiec, professor of constitu­tional law at Notre Dame and visiting professor at Pepperdine Law School this academic year, independent counsel is a dan­gerous political weapon and unconstitutional. Kmiec served 
appointed by the president and receive the consent of the Senate. Buried within Article II of the Constitution, however, is also a provision that guides the appointment of inferior officials. 
"But the Congress may by Law vest the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper in the President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments," reads Article II, Section II. 
One of Kmiec's objections to the constitutionality of the inde­pendent counsel statute rests in this section of the Constitution. He believes that the indepen­dent counsel is not an inferior officer, but rather a superior 
see COUNSELl page 4 


--------~--~ ----~-----~­
page2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Sentimentality makes you stupid 
Sean O'Connor, in a David Freddoso recent column, asked Assisranr News Ediror why sentimentality is such a bad thing. Aside from the fact that sen­timental people are wimps, there are very good reasons for avoiding sentimentality. 
One of these would be that it makes you stu­pid. 
For example, some people believe that the death penalty is a legitimate form of punish­ment in our country today. But this belief relies entirely on sentimentality. 
Consider the usual arguments for the death penalty: "Think of the victim's family," "he lost his right to live when he took another life," or, "he is a hardened killer and cannot be changed." 
All of this is nonsense. First, the victim's fam­ily is not the concern of the law. Lady Justice's eyes are dry. Second, there is no clause in the Constitution that says anything about forfeiting one's right to life. In answer to the third argu­ment, how do you know he can't be changed? 
If people relied on some theory behind pun­ishments inflicted by the state, they wouldn't indulge in such sappy arguments. 
The state punishes criminals for three main reasons: to exact recompense for crimes com­mitted ("He deserves it"}, to protect society and to deter other potential offenders. 
The protection of society and deterrence from future crimes fall under the category of "the common good." The state has the right to execute criminals when it is for the common good. 
For example, when Bad Bart ran through the small towns of the old West, shooting up the people and stealing the animals, there was no way to protect society except by putting the man to death. In the days before secure pris­ons, such a criminal could not be contained by the sheriff. If he was locked up in the town jail, his men would come and break him out. Or else a few $20s in the right pocket would secure his release. It was really necessary for the common good that Bad Bart should die. 
But there is no way in the world you can con­vince me that the execution of Gary Burris last week had anything to do with the common good. No one was threatened by the man. We could have easily put him away for life, and he never would have gotten out. 
And no one is deterred by the death penalty: no one thinks about what the consequences will be if they are caught for murder. No one understands what it means to be put to death before he has committed a capital crime and faces that possibility. 
A potential murderer will not be scared. He will see the execution and say to himself, "That man's mistake was getting caught. I will not get caught." 
The only good argument for capital punish­ment in our society is that the killer deserves it for what he has done. All pretense of looking out for the common good should be dropped immediately. Execution is not cheaper than life in prison, nor will it protect the community any better. 
The only question left is whether he really deserves it. Does a killer deserve to die, whether it is in the interest of the community or not? Why does he have to die? Is it just because he killed? If someone steals a stereo, should their punishment be to have their stereo stolen, too? Or should Gary Burris have been stripped, robbed, and shot instead of given a lethal injection? 
Death is not just one more punishment. It is the end of all punishment and everything else, for that matter. We had better have a really good reason to put someone to death, and our emotions do not make good reason. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tootw's STAFF 
News Accent Michelle Krupa Nate Wills Sarah Hiltz Graphics Kristi Klitsch Melissa Weber Sports Production Allison Krilla Kathleen Lopez Bill Hart Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech 

The Observer· INSIDE Monday, November 24, 1997 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Ole Miss fan sues for right to wave Confederate flag 
OXFORD, Miss. Geldreich entered the stadium 
The battle over the waving of with a 3-by-5 foot flag without the Rebel flag was taken off the a stick and displayed the flag football field and moved into the against a back wall near the courts Wednesday when a scoreboard. After posting the Rankin County attorney filed suit flag "as so to not obscure any­in Oxford against Ole Miss for one's vision," Barrett said that interfering with free speech a UPD patrolman approached rights. the group and ordered them to 
Richard Barrett, a lawyer who 'take the flag down. did not attend Ole Miss, asked Barrett said that UPD federal judge L.T. Senter to lift Captain Calvin Sellers was the ban on sticks in Vaught­later called to the situation and Hemingway Stadium before threatened the three with Saturday's game against arrest. Georgia. However, Sellers said that no 
In a copy of the suit obtained by The Daily Mississippian, Barrett said, "There is a considerable interest in the Confederate Flag waving at the ball game among students and others throughout the nation." 
Chancellor Robert Khayat and uni­
university police department.
versity attorney Mary Ann Connell 
Barrett said that Edwards and 

could not be reached for comment. The incident stemmed from a con­frontation between Barrett, his clients David Edwards and Richard Geldreich, both of New Jersey and who do not attend Ole Miss, and the 
threat of arrest was made and that the group was asked either to lower the flag or to leave the stadium and go to the Grove where the flag could be raised. The three left the sta­dium. 
"The situation had nothing to do with the stick ban," Sellers said. 

• TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY 
Pepper spray greets celebrators 
FORT WORTH, Texas 

As students climbed on the north goal post of Amon Carter Stadium on Thursday night to celebrate TCU's victory, Tarrant County sheriffs deputies used pepper spray on sev­eral TCU students in response to reported hostilities against the officers. After students rushed the field to congratulate Horned Frog players on their first and only win of the year, a 21-18 victory over Southern Methodist University, many ran to the north endzone and began to tear do_wn the goal post. TCU Campus Police chief Steve McGee said students who were part of the announced crowd of 19,094 began to grab and assault the officers who were protecting the end zone, prompting the officers to use the pepper spray. McGee said he heard one sheriffs officer was thrown to the ground and kicked in the head. Mel Thomas, the assistant athletic director for Facilities, said he saw a similar incident from his vantage point in the press box. Don Mills, vice chancellor for Student Affairs, said a deputy sheriff was shoved from behind and knocked to the ground. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Policy would disclose use of tuition 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. The National Commission on the Cost of Higher 
. Education wants colleges and universities across the country to make public their financial records regarding the way they spend tuition dollars. More disclosure, the commission argues, would make it clearer why colleges charge what they do. The commission, which was con­vened by the U.S. House of Representatives last August, will forward its recommendations to Congress on Dec. 11. Congress could opt to enact such legislative changes. Peter Zetterberg, the director of the university's Office of Planning and Analysis, said the recommendations most likely would not affect the university. Like most public institutions, he said, the university's financial information is already public. "I can't think of any information we don't report," he said, adding that most of the records are available on the World Wide Web. 
• NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
AIDS Day planners provide home tests 
, EVANSTON, Ill. 
One person across the globe is infected each second. As of December 1996, an estimated 21.8 million men, women and children worldwide were living with HIV/AIDS. With one person in the United States dying of AIDS every 11 min­utes, AIDS has become a serious epidemic in contemporary times. World AIDS Day was created a decade ago to raise awareness of AIDS and to remember those who have died from the disease. In observance of Worlds AIDS Day, falling this year on Dec. 1, Peer Health Educators and the Health Education Department will be giving away free Home Access HIV test kits to the Northwestern community on Monday. "Hopefully lots of people can become involved with this year's exciting programs," said Ann ann Hong, co-direc­tor of Health Education at NU. In addition to the distribu­tion of free test kits on Monday at Norris University Center, PHEs will be giving away NU AIDS Days packages on Monday and Tuesday. The kits include resources on HIV/AIDS and information about the epidemic. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
Nasdaq head admits 1965 cow prank 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

When designing the university, Thomas Jefferson never thought of putting cows on top of the Rotunda. But the most infamous prank in university history did just that when a group of five students placed a 250­pound black calf 50 feet in the air on top of the Rotunda during the spring of 1965. The animal died shortly after it was removed from the roof because of shock, dehy­dration and a sedative overdose. The bizarre bovine case remained unsolved for 31 years until Alfred Berkeley Ill, now president of the Nasdaq stock market, confessed to being one of the culprits last June. On Monday, Berkeley donated $1,765, at the request of for­mer Albemarle County Sheriff George Bailey, to the Western Albemarle Rescue Squad -the same amount of money investigators spent trying to solve the case 32 years ago. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 24. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


Monday 
19 Tuesd~y 52 25 


WedntsdayQ, 
so 36 
53. 39 
50 38 


Kelly Brooks JeffHsu Jamie Heisler 


a,r0~~ill~(f ~ ~ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
,,',,'...~,~ ...... :. +.;::·.::!· -::..-::.-::.. 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Allentown  39  24  Dallas  74  50  Mobile  72  42  
Anchorage  t6  5  Death Valley 78  53  Newark  40  28  
Boulder  62  27  Detroit  32  20  Omaha  50  3t  
Cape Cod  42  26  Key West  80  70  Santa Fe  54  25  
Chicago  34  22  Manhattan  42  23  Seattle  48  4o  

---·-----------~~----~--~---~--~--------­
Monday, November 24, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SURV places SMC women in volunteer situations 
ByARIANN BUTLER News Wrirer 
The tiny office on the third 11oor of Haggar College Center has been a busy place this year. 
The office is home to SURV (Spes Unica Resource and Volunteer Center), an organi­zation which places Saint Mary's students in various vol­unteer positions throughout the South Bend community. 
SURV was started by stu­dents in 1991, but because of the hectic and transitory nature of students' schedules, however, the office closed. It was reopened this year in Haggar under the direction of Sister Linda Kors. 
Kors plans to add another SURV operates by contacting coordinates transportation dimension to SURV. On the and being contacted by vari­between students who are vol­surface level, Kors wants to ous organizations in the South unteering at the same place. encourage students to volun­Bend community, such as the "[SURV] is open to people 
teer and provide them with oppor­tunities to do so. 
'SURV IS OPEN TO PEOPLE BEING A PART OF THE 
On a deeper level, she wants TEAM.' to provide stu­dents with an 
SISTER LINDA KORS

understanding of what it means to DIRECTOR OF SPES UNICA RESOURCE AND VOLUNTEER CENTER 
do service and the relationship between service and Christianity. 
By incorporating this into the volunteering experience, Kors hopes to make volunteer­ing a "natural part of [student] life." 
Homeless Shelter and with the other volunteer Headstart. SURV keeps on file groups on campus. those organizations in need of "[Each group] works at vari­volunteers and then contacts ous levels with the students," students who have expressed Kors explained. She believes interest in volunteering. SURV more interaction will benefit 
Students
. . . _;"}''" '··· --,IL,,..,....,.J 
mentorii~, 
By KRISTINA ZURCHER ­
News Writer 
Through an open house sponsored Dame Mentor Program, students with alumni to develop a support s ter relationships that can prove ben __ ialiji era! areas of collegiate life,_ says'_ Mike ~oyo 
the program's chairman. , _···--·· _.-.-·.-.-·. I ' , 
"There are lots ofbenefitS to.-tl);e prppta:tn: 'Yp9_,,.. get a first-hand account of life on canipus, a go.od ­opportunity for career-netw,ofkin ; ori decisions like picking courses and i<. " _ _ 
Novotney explained. __ ._ _---··· ... _... ••_-. ___...• '-.-•.•···-·· · 
The program's co-sponsors; theStude,ittAJunn:ti Relations Group (SARG) _and thfl. Al~tp'ni Association, will match current stuAents. vvlth alumni at the open house; which \<\7ill take._pla,ce today at 8:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartol(i. · 
Though SARG has sponsored students and mentors, such as a cookies and subs; the ....,..,",-,....,..,.., lance development Of Novotney, the idea is to a self-directed, lifelong through activities like phone · 


Tomorrow., Tuesday, November 25 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
being a part of the team," Kors said. 
Kors wants to ­build a solid foundation for SURV and make a more concen­trated effort towards partic­ipation by work­ing more closely both the volunteers and the South Bend community. 
For instance, Kors has been working closely with Janice Pilarski, lecturer in the justice education department. 
Since both g'roups focus on similar aspects of volunteer­ing, such as challenges in today's society, their working together in a comprehensive program benefits each group as well as the commurlity. 
"[Kors] puts a lot of energy into [SURV]," student Elisabeth Krick said. Krick works at SURV in the service organization aspect. 
Kors has worked for 12 years in campus ministry since coming to Saint Mary's from Saint Joseph's College. 

Art finds a new home ... 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

N
ew works, like this sculpture in front of the Riley building, continue to grace campus as part of a continuing effort to 
I 
bring modern art to Notre Dame. 
1 
I
CoLLEGE 
Choosing a career path after 
graduating from college can be 
a formidable endeavor. You 
don't want to commit more 
years of your life to training, 
only to end up wit~ an uncer­
tain professional future. 
Before you choose. make 
sure you talk to the people at 
Prudential Securities. The name you know. Rock Solid. And a solid choice when it comes to a Financial Advisor Training Program. 
Build your future on solid ground. Choose Prudential Securities. For confidential consideration, please fax or forward your resume to the address below. 
Leslie Harmel 
Regional Recruiter 
One North Franklin, Suite 550 Chicago, /L 60606 Fax: (312) 629-3049 
GRADUATES 

I 
1 
I 
I 
We are looking for those 
individuals who can look 
back at their college expe­
rience and talk -to us about 
what set them apart from the 
crowd. Were you a camp,us 
leader, a top student, an outstand· ing worker, a top athlete~ Have you always risen to the top of the things you have chosen to be involved in? If any or all of this sounds like)'ou, we may have the career opportunity that you have been looking for. Prudential Securities offers: 
• 
A two-year, comprehensive, company-paid training program, widely regarded as one of the best in the industry. 

• 
Very competitive salary and a 

gradual transition to a lucrative commission system. 

• 
Ready access to analysis and research to benetit your clients and you. 



E-mail: LESinCHI@aol.com ~ p d t•a} Opportunities are ~ ru en I availa~le throughout ~ Securities 
the M1dwest. 

Visit our web site at: Equal Opporwniry www.prusec.com Employer (MIFIDIVJ 
~ 1997 Prudential Securities Incorporated. Member SIPC. 
--~-~----·--­
page 4 



Counsel 
continued from page 1 
officer, who should be appointed by the president and not the Special Division of the Court of Appeals. 
In the 1988 case Morrison vs. Olson, the Supreme Court issued an opinion that declared the indepen­dent counsel 

an inferior Kmiec officer. The Court gave a number of reasons for this decision, concluding that the independent counsel was inferior in rank and authority, duties, jurisdiction and tenure. 
Kmiec refuted all these rea­sons and remained strong in opinion that the independent counsel was not an inferior offi­cer. 
"I cannot fathom how the court can argue that Ken Starr [the independent counsel appointed to investigate the Whitewater controversy] is an inferior officer," he asserted. 
"He commands and receives as a co-equal branch of govern­ment ... when he asks for things he gets them," Kmiec added. 
He also pointed out that the term of office for an independent counsel is longer than most Cabinet members; they some­times spend years workiug on a trial. 
"Someone with this scope of authority can't be categorized as an inferior officer," he declared. 
Kmiec also discussed the power of the independent coun­sel and the futility of the Attorney General in removing him or her. 
The Attorney General must 
Septuplet 
mom goes 

home 
The Associated Press 
CARLISLE, Iowa 
Septuplet mom Bobbi McCaughey left the hospital and returned home Sunday while her seven babies stayed behind in intensive care, con­tinuing to impress doctors with their resilience. 
Even the last-born of the seven -Joel Steven -who had been listed in critical con­dition shortly after Wednesday's birth and was dubbed "underdog" by doc­tors, was taken off a ventila­tor on Sunday and upgraded to fair condition. 
"Last week we had very high expectations for these babies, and to this point, they have fulfilled all of those expectations remarkably well," Doctor Robert Shaw the 
neonatologist overseeing the care of the septuplets, said Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation." 
Mrs. McCaughey, 29, arrived Sunday afternoon at her home in Carlisle, 10 miles south of Des Moines, with her husband, Kenny. Hospitalized for more than a month, she walked into her, home slowly 
and without anyone's help. 
The McCaugheys made worldwide news when their septuplets were born by Caesarean section nine weeks' premature. Doctors have said the babies will be hospitalized into January. 
Kenneth, the first-born, has been breathing on his own since Friday. 

find reasonable good cause to remove the counsel, and Kmiec stated that "every attorney gen­eral has testified against it ... because they recognize the awe­some power of a prosecutor." 
The independent counsel is also unconstitutional because it is a violation of the separation of powers, he said. 
"Prosecution of a crime is a purely executive function of Article II," he said. "Article II, Section I assigns all executive powers to the president," he added. 
In this way, allowing the inde­pendent counsel to share in an executive function designed sole­ly for the president is a blatant violation of the separation of powers. Kmiec urges Congress to see the serious harm the inde­pendent counsel statute brings to the democratic system and the threat it has on the presidency. 
Donald Kommers, professor of government and law at Notre Dame, opposes Kmiec's narrow interpretation of the Constitution. 
"I see no reason why the statute is unconstitutional," Kommers said. "[Kmiec] is wrong on that ... it is a very liter­alistic and formalistic view of the separation of powers." 
Kommers agrees with the Morrison vs. Olson decision in its entirety. He believes that the statute does not threaten the executive branch, and that "the creation of the office of indepen­dent counsel is a convenient tool to see that executive officials are obeying the law. 
"As long as it doesn't interfere with the normal functions of the executive, I see no violations," he added. 
He referred to the Federalist papers and the systems of checks and balances that is vital to the function of the govern­ment. 
The Observer • NEWS 
"I see enough flexibility in the system to allow for this adjust­ment. The power rests in the Attorney General, and it doesn't seem to me that there is any interference with the executive branch," Kmiec said. 
Kmiec and Kommers differ in opinion on the constitutionality of the statute, yet Kmiec also opposes the law on a policy level. He believes that the law is a dan­gerous political weapon used by government officials to tarnish the reputation and character of their opponents. 
"To accuse the president of something is something not to be taken lightly," he said. "The structure of the independent counsel promptly comes from political opponents; they are expected to find something and not give up." 
He believes that the statute gives merit to false beliefs, and makes non-criminal acts look criminal. He also asserted the belief that the statute impedes the actual criminal investigation. 
In a normal criminal investiga­tion by the Department of Justice, the investigation is kept confidential, so evidence is easi­er to collect. Yet, in an investiga­tion led by an independent coun­sel, "we announce to the world who we are investigating," and then assume we will find evi­dence, Kmiec said. 
Lastly, Kmiec compares the statute to the analogy of crying wolf. 
"If we constantly cry wolf, when the wolf shows up no one will listen," he said. 
"We have many allegations against the president, and we must separate the serious from the un-serious. Why waste our time wondering where Clinton made a phone call when we should be investigating allega­tions of foreign officials receiving special treatment." 


Coming to the Chicago 
Area for the Holidays? 
Earn $ and gain exposure 
o the Corporate World. 
-Word Processing 
Operators -Receptionists -General Office Clerks 



Call City Staffing 
(312) 346-3400 

Summer Engineer·ng Program 





in London 
Applications 
are due Wednesday, November 26, 

371 Fitzpatrick Hall 

Monday, November 24, 1997 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


ANGERS9 FRANCE 
1998-99 Academic Year 

"Where Do We Go From Here" 
With Professor Paul McDowell 
Tuesday, November 25, 1997 7:00pm Room 126 DeBartolo 

Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 


?<. fk-~. e.s.e. ?<. t/at 1()ad. e.s.e. 

7CJ'I\ IN4U ~611-th ~c4 ~ ~~ (341Uldate ~~ ~s~ • ~ Zk-e. 1~ 46556 
(ZI9) 63!-639'5 • Mtp:/1-..ut.eaa/-~ 
ANSWER~ 

THE CALL'<!>' 


• WORLO NEWS BRIEFS 
Clinton rejectsland mines treaty 
VANCOUVER. British Columbia 
President Clinton de­clined Sunday to join the growing drive for a com­prehensive treaty banning land mines, which kill or injure 25,000 people each year. Clinton said the United States was doing more under his leadership 
=:o.a._£!t>...._ than any nation had before to get rid of land mines. There are an estimated 100 million land mines buried in 60 countries, most of them ves­tiges of war. But Clinton said the United States could not sign the treaty, which will be taken up in a conference in Ottawa early next month, because he wants to keep land mines on the Korean peninsula and retain others that are aimed at blow­ing up tanks, not people. Clinton told the Dallas Morning News in an interview that he would not let proponents of the treaty "browbeat" him into signing an agree­ment he said was bad for the United States. "My primary responsibility is to protect the young people that I or one of my successors will have to send into bat­tle," Clinton said. 
Mission launched to retrieve satellite 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Astronauts aboard the space shuttle Columbia will attempt a daring satellite rescue -the first in 5 1/2 years -under a plan approved by NASA on Sunday af~er considerable study. More than any­thmg, the space agency wants to avoid a collision. The slowly spinning, 3,000-pound satellite could do serious damage if it struck the shuttle or the two spacewalkers during Monday night's salvage effort. Mission operations representative Bob Castle told reporters the risk of a collision is "very, very small." "We feel very confi­dent that this is going to work," Castle said at a news conference. "The crew is quite capable of doing this. The flying tasks of bringing the orbiter up close to the tum­bling spacecraft, I think, are very doable." The $10 million reusable science satellite, called Spartan, has been tumbling out of control since Friday, when Columbia's crew re~eased it, saw it wasn't working and then failed to recover it with the shuttle robot arm. When the six astronauts last saw it, before the shuttle backed off to a safe distance, Spartan was spinning at a rate of two degrees a second, making a full revolution every three minutes. 

715,881,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
fUMl!6t:il: [lrJHH ·~~ rtl~ti!:if s!161t:i I!BICf 
New Jersey Steel NJST 43.60 +6 .. 850 22.44 View Tech Ine-WT VTKW 37.93 +.620 2.50 XNVAY 35.29 +.750 2.88
~~~0o~:c~r~fcJ; dr 
CLWTF 33.33 +2.000 8.00 Genemedicine GMED 31.25 +1.250 5.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
illinois Superod ISCO 31.67 -1.120 2.56 Amer Bing-Wts BNGOW 27.78 ·.625 1.63 Neoprobe Corp NEOP 25.89 -3.120 9.13 Versatility Inc VERS 24.24 ·2.000 6.25 Odetics Inc ODET8 22.22 -2.000 7.00 





Eight killed, 12 injured in Lebanon 

M 

Lebanese village of Beit Lif. Nine Lebanese civilians were killed and12 others were w~~nded yesterday in Beit Lif, located inside the Israeli self-security zone. lmttal reports said anti-Israeli militants fired mortar rounds on an Israeli post on the outskirts of Beit Lif but deviated and landed in the village itself. 
Associated Press 
BElT LIF. Lebanon 

Artillery shells fired by Lebanese guer­rillas accidentally struck a village Sunday near the Israeli border, killing eight Lebanese and wounding 12 others, some seriously. 
The shelling of this Shiite Muslim village in the Israeli-held "security zone" in southern Lebanon came after a night of intense fighting between the guerrillas and Israeli forces. 
Lebanese security and media sources put the death toll at nine. But Maj. Gen. Amiram Levine, head of Israel's northern command, said eight people were killed including three children. ' 
It was the deadliest attack on civilians in southern Lebanon since August, when six people were killed and 35 were wounded in bombardment of Sidon by the Israeli­allied militia. 
Levine said the guerrillas belonging to the Amal and Hezbollah groups "fired intentionally with artillery and anti-tank fire into Beit Lif," hitting the center of the village, about two miles from the Israeli border. 
About 25 artillery rounds struck the vil­lage, with most of the casualties stemming from two shells hitting a shop and a near­by house. 
There were no claims of responsibility for the attack. Besides Amal, the other guerrilla group in the region, the Iranian­backed Hezbollah, also denied firing into the village. 
Amal officials accused Israel of launch­ing the artillery barrage and then cover­ing it up by accusing the guerrillas. But the charge was refuted by U.N. peace­keeping officers in the south. 
The officers,' speaking on condition of anonymity, said the shells came from guerrilla-held positions north of the Israeli border, an account corroborated by Lebanese security officials, who said the shells landed by mistake on Beit Lif. 
The intended target may have been a post of the Israeli-allied Lebanese militia on the edge of the village, said Timor Goksel, spokesman for the U.N. peace­keeping force in south Lebanon. 
"Somebody missed very badly," Goksel said. Television pictures showed at least four bodies lying in the street. 
Two of the victims were women in long robes who apparently fell together, one hit by shrapnel in the back of the head. 
Before and after the shelling of Beit Lif, the guerrillas fired four to seven Katyusha rockets, which landed in Israel's _western Galilee, Levine, the Israeli commander said. No casualties were reported. ' 

Also, Israeli warplanes raided suspected guerrilla trails near the villages of Zibqine and Jebal al­Boutom, facing the occupied zone. No casualties were reported. 
In fighting overnight, at least four guerrillas were killed when the two sides exchanged machine gun fire, mortars and rockets. Two Israeli soldiers also were wounded, Levine said. 
Resistance sources confirmed one guerrilla died and said three others were missing. 
The Shiite Hezbollah is leading a war of attrition to evict the Israeli forces who control a swath of southern Lebanon, which they call a "security zone." Israel has occu­pied it since 1985 to guard its northern towns from cross-border attacks. 
Civilians have often been caught in the fighting in southern Lebanon, taking hits from both sides. In the biggest tragedy, about 100 civilians who had taken refuge at a U.N. base in Qana were killed by Israeli artillery dur­ing a bombing campaign in April 1996. 
Israel said it was a mistake. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, November 24, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergasr Managing Editor Business Manager j amie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... .jennifer Breslow Sports Ediwr ................................. Mike Day Production Manager. . .............. Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............. Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller...... . .......... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the in.dependem newspaper published by the srudenrs of the University ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofdrher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned. edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Spons Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of vary\ng opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediror  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• DIGGING DEEPER 
What Do You Stand to Lose? 
The late John Henry Cardinal Newman once posed a probing ques­tion to his congregation: What have you ventured for Christ? He asked them to try the following thought experiment and see what kind of results the data 
Newman was bold enough to sug­gest that for many of us, perhaps not much would change in our lives. We would probably stop wasting our time at Mass on Sunday (unless we really missed the community bond­
ing atmos­

would yield. For phere). We the sake of the would of course experiment, still celebrate imagine that all Christmas and 
Aaron 

the truths the maybe even Church propos­Easter, but we es turned out probably would 

Kheriaty
(God forbid) to not bother giv­be false. Now ing up Yo­our faith tells us cream for Lent. 
that this is 
impossible but suspend your beliefs for a moment, just for the sake of the .experiment. If it somehow turned out that Jesus Christ was not really God, 
that he was never raised from the 
dead, that in short, everything we 
hear on Sundays is pretty much 
bunk, what would we stand -per­
sonally-to lose? 
Well, the immediate and obvious answer for most of us would be the hope of heaven. This of course would be significant. But what else, con­cretely, in our daily lives, would be lost if Christianity turned out to be history's biggest hoax? The following human analogy may be useful. Suppose I invest $1 ,000 in the stock market. Now if the company I invest­ed in takes a turn for the worse and goes under, and the stock is suddenly worthless, I have of course lost the hope of any return on my invest­ment. But more significantly, I have also lost my $1,000. You see, because I ventured the money, because I took the risk, I stood to lose something when the stock failed. Now suppose the Christian faith were suddenly to go bankrupt; what kind of stock in Jesus Christ would I stand to lose? Besides the hope of a "return" in heaven, what would hap­pen to the bank account of my life? 
We would be disappointed that death really was the end for Aunt Edna, that she unfortunately was not playing a harp with the angels and saints. For many of us Christians, our psyche might be a bit disturbed, but our foundation would not be irreparably damaged. We would not feel the urge to jump out a window on Wall Street because we have not put much of our savings on the line. There would be a tremor, but the ground on which we stood would not open underneath us. Like the extremely conservative investor who could afford for the market to crash, not much would drastically change. 
With this question, Newman was attempting to rouse his congregation out of their routine complacency. He wanted them to truly examine their lives, concretely, to see exactly what their Christian faith meant to them. He noted that people loved to hear him talk about faith when it was all kept in the sphere of the theoretical, the idealistic. They wanted to hear him say things like "love your neigh­bor" and "feed the hungry." That was all very well. Very comfortable. But a question like "What have you ventured for Christ?" hits you right between the eyes. It brings the reali­ty of Christianity home. G. K. 
Chesterton once said that "Christianity comforts the affiicted, and afllicts the comfortable." That is exactly the sort of thing that this lit­tle thought experiment was meant to do. 
On the other hand, there still exist those foolish individuals who have placed their capital down -some­times all of it-on this wily bet. Their world would come crashing down if ever the cross does. They believed this man when he said, "Without me you can do nothing." They staked their savings on that promise. What would they do if he ever failed them? They believed him when he said, "I am the way, the truth, and the life." If he were to sud­denly crash, to vanish, they would be left with nothing. Imagine that. It seems that they may have taken their religion all too seriously. They have rolled the dice and lost Pascal's Wager. Kind of a wasted life. 
Or maybe not. Maybe the rest of us are the ones who need to do a bit more wheeling and dealing. Maybe we need to slap our money down and wait for the cards to be dealt. And not just our pocket change, but money that we cannot afford to lose. Money that we could easily spend on other things, but instead we choose to place our bet on a man who once told us to eat his body and drink his blood, so that we can live forever. We need to be daring in this great adventure of faith. For it is those who take a chance and let it ride that ultimately take home the jackpot at the end of the day. 
What have you ventured for Christ? 

Aaron Kheriaty is a junior Arts and Letters major. /lis column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
--=-=--=--_ 
:--:..-----.....-"""'=-=-~ 
;-___ ­

~-­
==-=---===------~­
• LETTER TO TliE EDITOR 


Student Challenges Szabo's Claim that Gippe~t.ll!~ Inaccurate 
I am writing in response to the front page article in The Observer on Tuesday about the CLC debate on inaccuracies in Scholastic's "Campus Watch by the Gipper." The Gipper's column provides the students with interesting stories that representatives of Notre Dame and the school itself try to cover up. So far this year, the Gipper ha!l written about three stories_ that involve people thatl know personally. AU three sto­
. ries have been true. I also know that the story involv­
ing Matt Szabo and an Asian Anmrican student is 
true because I AM the student in question. 
Since writing in anonymity appears cowardly to some, I am going to reveal my name. My name is Vince Oh. and I am a fellow Manorite of Mr. Szabo. When I read The Observer on Tuesday, I could not believe that Szabo felt that the Gipper's column was inaccurate. So; Mr.Szabo, l have decided to analyze the Gipper's storyto see where the inaccuracies lie. 
The article states, "Ben was born in Korea, but is 
as American as apple pie." Hmm ... I guess I was 
born in Korea, and 1am Americanized. The Gipper 
goes on to say that Szabo came into my room while I 
was on the phone and asked my roommate ifI had 
chopsticks. Oh, I guess that's true also. Oh, I'm 
sorry, they didn'trnention the real names of my 
roommate and me. SQatne on you Gipper. for trying 
tokeep the anonymityofyour sources! Now, explain 
to me Mr. Szabo, what part of that story is wrong? 
Apparently you are the only one of the four people 
that were in my room during the incident that 
believes that story is taken out of context. 
I am not upset at you, Mr. Szabo, because you just ASSUMED that I had chopsticks just because I am A,!)ian. I am upset because even though you make mistakes like this, you turn around and attempt to expel Dan Sullivan and suspend The Observer staff for making a mistake, The Gipper told the people of Notre Dame exactly how I felt about you. Everyone makes mistakes, Mr. Szabo, so don't go around try­ing to ruin other people just so you can get another mention in The Observer, Oh yeah, one more thing, I DO love cheeseburgers. 
Vince "Ben" Oh 
Sophomore, Morrissey Manor 
November 18, 1997 

•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
APPAR!WTl't 1/eriNAUY (J(JTl3R£t(l Jl{eHOUse. \0 -~..-------­ I CAN'T8eL./13VE 7HI5.' I MMN, I LOV5 MAliBU, 8UT /T!5 AlUlAYS 813eN MY PR&AM 7lJ R/37lJRN m mePi.At:e MteR/3 ITAU BeGAN fOR {}5! I  

• Quon:.. OF THE DAY 
"When you ask God to 
send you trials, you 
may be sure your prayer will 
be granted." 
-Leon Bloy 




VIEWPOINT
Monday, November 24, 1997 page 7 
• fROM THE lEFT 
University Should Take a Stand Against Rice, 'Reason' 
There persists a sweeping current of homophobia and gay-bashing at Notre Dame, promulgated by faculty members, carried through socially by the stu­dent community, and blessed by the auspices of the Church by a weakly-word­ed document known as "The Spirit of Inclusion." This blemish of intolerance must be excised. We all certainly have not spoken up enough to stem the tide 
of venomous skreed that bleats 
through such bleating horns as 
the horn of the Law School profes­
sor and perma-smiling columnist, 

Dave 

Charles Rice. His newest assault on a persecuted group has taken the form of Inquisition-style 

McMahon 
Church intolerance, and a denial 
of the mere existence of homosex­
uality, outside of the realm of dis­order. 
By ascribing homosexuality to a disorder, Mr. Rice does nothing but retard hopes for progression and push the level of campus debate to a medieval-era status. The student body continues to act like a stunned calf, a tiny voice of protest being heroically voiced by the College Dems this semester. And, worst of all, the supposed head of the greatest Catholic university poorly plays politi­cian and issues meaningless drivel in the form of "Spirit of Inclusion" -a warm and fuzzy document that veils the University's hard-line, right-wing denial of legal rights for the community of gays and lesbians. I fervently believe that Malloy should either step down as president, or step up to the moral higher ground-namely, the adopting of special anti-discrimination statutes for the University, a strengthening of the current harassment policy, and a "hands-off student sexuality" policy. 
First, let us dispense with Rice and "Right Reason's" ceaseless babble about how students should follow their supposed higher moral code. Their rambling monologues are in reality perversions of Church doctrine to fit their short­term, right-wing political goals. We should all view Rice's robotic mumblings as the morbid intolerance of an extreme, right-wing, and ill-informed lawyer, who throws bits and pieces of a puzzle he can't seem to grasp into the faces of a semi-conscious student populace. That's for those of us who even bother to read such tedium. "Right Reason," on the other hand, presents as much of a problem to Notre Dame as does the American militia movement to the United States. Their fantastic litany of characterizing Adolf Hitler as a liberal, and Columbus as a hero, reeks of the self-same paranoia found in the extremist militia groups in Idaho. As a community, we all must breathe a deep sigh and shake our collective lu~ad every time the newspaper appears on campus. Their un-researched, un-analytical tripe, coupled with blatant racist and homopho­bic attacks borders on harassment of the minority, women, and gay University community. While I stop shy of requesting that the University reign them in, I would applaud a more unified approach to engaging such fascists, whether it be by a leftist publication or guerrilla action. 
The University needs to get up off its collective posterior and get in gear to 
fight these extreme right wackos. What is needed now more than ever, is a 
unity amongst disparate pieces of Notre Dame progressives-such as was 
se(m during the actions in 1995-1996 where an Amnesty International/ 
GLND/SMC coalition garnered unprecedented support amongst all voting bod­
ies on campus, and stirred up such a ruckus that media attention to the issue 
embarrassed thosB who had thrown GLND/SMC off of campus for no apparent 
reason. The University's continued position has been meaningless dialogue, 
hoping that with such "actions" as forming a panel (whose recommendations 
Patty O'Hara nat out denies), and issuing statements such as "Spirit of 
Inclusion," which obviously comes from the pen oflawyers, and lack any real 
substance, will smother the fires of discontent through the tactic of using stu­
dent turnover to their advantage. Further, the misled attempts of Campus 
Ministry coupled by the sponsoring of "quack" psychologist lecturers throw 
more smoke over the true issues at heart-namely, the fact that the Church is 
built on a labyrinth of closets, and to open any (as many priests have threat­
ened to do) would get too close to the source of power within the Church. 
Fortunately for the community, such groups as the College Democrats have 
continued to organize around this issue, fanning the flames of discontent. 
I propos!l that the University adopt a much more stringent anti-discrimina­
tion policy which, coupled with a stronger wording of the harassment policy, 
should create an atmosphere of community tolerable to GLND/SMC-some­
thing other than the Campus Ministry full page ads on the issue. The 
University should move away from the single-sex dorm model, and create co­
ed dorms which would hammer away at existing sexism, and set the stage for 
a broader understanding of all harassment issues. Also, the University should 
integrate specific anti-harassment seminars into the orientation process for 
first-year students. 
Most importantly, the University should re-visit its stringent moral codes in 
relations to student sexuality. Because the one dominant voice in the commu­
nity has remained that of the Catholic hierarchy, the community suffers from 
the hierarchy's broad misunderstandings of sexuality. A perfect example is 
how the University believes that by somehow protecting its gay students' civil 
rights, that they will find themselves in a quagmire oflegal cases regarding 
student sexual practice. Thus we are faced once again with the Catholic 
Church's impotence and fear of human sexuality. By protecting gay students' 
civil rights, you are not condoning sexual behavior. To get past this obstacle, 
the University community must pressure the administration to drop its para­
noid. homophobic stance. Indeed, the University administration does actual 
harm to its students by continuing the Church's confused practices of linking 
sex with sin, homosexuality with sin, civil rights with sexual practice, and 
theocracy with democracy. 
We would be better off as a community if the University stopped meddling in 
the sexuality of its students. We need a "hands off student sexuality" policy 
whieh would only begin to repair the extensive damage done to a wonderful 
thing over the centuries by the Church. We need to look deeper as a 
Community into other more pressing issues-AIDS, rape, power, and misogy­
ny to name only a few. We need to find the moral conscience which the 
University administration, alone in its unrealistic medieval tower, lacks in 
regards to these issues of acceptance, tolerance, diversity, and positive growth. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate. He is working as a para­
legal in New Jersey, gnashing his teeth, and bidding his time before he moves 
on to Boston. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Goo 'N' l!FE 


Find your Personal 'Ground' 
Having done extensive research in the one's spouse or children, one's job, or a hobby; course of writing my plays, and having shared gardening or sailing come to mind. And, cer­local stages with a wide variety of actors and tainly, it is our faith in a loving God. Who else, actresses, I have been amazed at the lifestyle after all, gave us the creative gifts we possess of some of these people. On the amateur level, to make the world a better place? We need to there are participants who work full time jobs, be able to return to this "ground" after our perform their roles in the evenings and on successes, our failures. To deny oneself this 
-=================-chance is to deny the delicate balance between 

· 


Julie Ferraro 

------========---­
weekends, then migrate to the tavern for drinking and comraderie. 

When asked what other activities they enjoy, they find themselves at a loss for an answer. The same can be said for a choice number of playwrights. They often labor into the wee hours, venting their frustrations with life, fami­ly or friends on paper. Yet, when the plot is completed and the last stage direction final­ized, they find their existence relatively empty. Identifying a source for this problem is simple. When the "creative urge" consumes a soul, it is often difficult to break free of it and return to "normalcy." 
In other words, it is a struggle for those so afilicted to locate their "ground." Just as "ground" on a car battery or electrical cord prevents a power surge or explosion, so too does one's personal "ground." It can best be described as what is "real" for a person: what we believe, what we hold dear. It may be mind, body and soul -all of which combine to make creative expression a veritable miracle. Indeed, evidence of those "ungrounded" indi­viduals reaches us daily through the media in reports of divorces, affairs, drug abuse, and so forth. It is so important to "get in touch" with oneself, to find one's "ground." 
This need not be done using intricate psycho­
logical methods, expensive self discovery pro­grams, or other advertised trends. All that is necessary is to remember the God who loves us unconditionally, give thanks in prayer for the talents with which we have been blessed, and let God's own law provided to us in the ultimate drama of the Bible guide us in setting priorities, including how our creativity is used. 
It has to be admitted that there is no sensa­tion quite like claiming the limelight after we have accomplished something special. Still, once the lights dim, or the event ends, remem­bering what is important, returning to our "ground" is what will ultimately keep us going and make our life so much more meaningful and complete. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assis­tant. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

page 8 Monday, November 24, 1997 

Grisham's Story Shines on the Silverscreen 
they have comes across 

a hint of passion between Damon and Danes, but the screenplay does not dis­tract us with cheap, gratuitous romantic interludes. 
I found much more humanity in "The Rainmaker" than I have in other Grisham adaptations. "A Time to Kill" was so enveloped in nonsense melodra­ma that it distracted us from the humanity of the characters. The self­importance obvious in that film is exact­ly what "The Rainmaker" succeeds in protecting itself from. "The Firm" and "The Pelican Brief' were fun, but didn't have the substance to bring them above the level of mediocrity. 
Coppola has found heart in his actors as well. If anybody seems out of place, it is Damon. Perhaps he is too earnest in this role. A slight edge on his character may have given him some more panache. DeVito and Voight, however, seem to have been born into their roles: it's as if DeNiro or Pacino were playing a mobster. 
I don't want to reveal too much about the relationships and tensions that are generated throughout the film -experi­ence this Grisham adaptation for your­self. Realize how refreshing it can be to finally have a main stream Hollywood movie adapted from a mainstream, Hollywood author and still have some­thing with which you can sympathize in a way that does not feel cheap and nec­essary. 
The Rainmaker 
Directed by Francis Ford Coppola Starring Matt Damon, Claire Danes, Danny DeVito, and Jon Voight 

(out of five shamrocks) 


By MIKE MCMORROW 
Accent Movie Critic 
T
he legal profession is always under scrutiny by society and especially in the movies. We get representations of the big-shot, rich attorney who gets all the important cases -he has a sling of staff lawyers who help him out to organize the defense or prosecution. His charisma and commanding presence are enough for him to be able to pull it off. Then we have the young prodigy who is just out of law school and gets in with a big firm and has his ethics severely corrupted. Then there's the less successful lawyer in the firm who may have family prob­lems; usually this character doesn't have the legal savvy necessary to be one of the greats. 
All these stereotypes are manifested with zest in your average John Grisham courtroom thriller. Some young lawyers are more successful than others, and some Grisham pieces adapt to the screen better -whatever humanity 

through the characters on­screen as well or better than on the pages. John Grisham's "The Rainmaker" is an espe­cially well-done adaptation of the Grisham novel. And that success is due to the outstand­ing cast and finesse executed by the director, Francis Ford Coppola. 
The film stars Matt Damon as Rudy Baylor who is a young lawyer fresh out of a second-tier law school who goes to work for a non-licensed, shady lawyer by the name of Bruiser Stone portrayed by Mickey Rourke. Soon the law cracks down on Stone's tactics though, so Baylor teams up with another one of the lawyers in Stone's firm, a man by the name of Deck Shifflet played by Danny DeVito. After opening this partnership, Rudy gets the case of a young man named Ray Black whose insurance company is denying payment for medical treatment of leukemia. Rudy becomes his lawyer and challenges the insurance company for not paying for Black's treatment. 
The insurance company hires Leo F. Drummond (Jon Voight) as their attor­ney. Drummond is the closest thing in this Grisham, courtroom drama to the big-shot attorney described above. The rest of the film centers around the case. 
There are subplots, however. Coppola tries to intermingle the insurance com­pany case with two other cases. One of them involves a young woman, played by Claire Danes, who is battered by her young husband (Andrew Shue). There is 


Disney Dazzles Moviegoers, Again 
The Little Mermaid 
Directed by John Musker 

Starring Rene Auberjonois, Jodi Benson, and Christopher Daniel Barnes 


(out offive shamrocks) 


By JOSH BECK 
Accent Movie Critic 
F 
rom out of the Disney vault this past weekend came a masterpiece. No, not one of those live­action films which these famed movie produc­ers feel should disgrace the screen in between their mega-animated blockbusters; no, this was something we could treasure for ages. The film was of course "The Little Mermaid," and although its engagement only lasts 17 days (until November 30), the joy it brings on the faces of the viewers is still evident. I happened to be in a packed house with little viewers who had obviously seen it countless times before. In some cases, they were even mouthing the lines to the ears of their parents who were, recognizably, not asleep. They seemed to be enjoying it as much as their little compatriots. How does Disney do it? Simple, they make visually stunning animations that are not only entertaining but also exciting to watch. Pulling fables from ancient lore and restoring the pages of antique novels, these filmmakers bring what were once lost stories back to life and make us see them in a whole new light. 
"The Little Mermaid" stems from a story by the impeccable Hans Christian Anderson about a mer­maid named Ariel who longs to be human. So, as in all Disney animations, she of course can't achieve her goal without the help of her little animal friends; in this case, little sea creatures including the adorable Sebastian the crab among other helpful species. Of course, there is an evil sea witch she must contend with and the lonely prince whom she 

Although "The Little Mermaid" was a masterpiece of animation and was the catalyst for movies such as "Beauty and The Beast" and "The Lion King," its success lies in the fact that it is one of the best musicals to have appeared in theaters in recent memory. Since musicals have simply died out after the countless years that they were being made, it is refreshing to see movies that still live up to the greatness of this genre, even if they are animated. This may be the main reason that parents love these movies so much: the fact that they are drawn back to a time when they were little children or still old enough to be young at heart. 
The scores for these Disney films have had an unprecedented track record at the Academy; since 1989, they have been nominated for Oscars everytime that they have appeared. The musical team of Alan Menken and Tim Rice can be credited with almost all of this, as their lyrics and musical talent have spawned the hits "A Whole New World" from the film
Ariel and her best friend Flounder once again delight audiences young and old in 
"Aladdin," "Beauty and the Beast,"
the re-release of the Walt Disney Classic, "The Little Mermaid." 
absolutely must fall in love with. But why am I telling you all this? Chances are you've already seen it countless times and know it all by heart, whether it was your own will or not. The second half of the money these movies make always comes from video, and I remember having to watch this movie with my little cousins about 450 million times in all, just as I did with the countless other classics afterwards. But this is what these movies are all about: grabbing the viewer regardless of age and keeping the viewer riv­eted until the film is unfortunately over. This is what makes them work and gross over the $100 million mark everytime they appear on the screen. 
and "Can You Feel the Love 
Tonight" written by Elton John for "The Lion King." "The Little Mermaid" also won two awards for Best Score and Best Song, "Under The Sea." 
Classics like these Disney musicals don't die, and as long as we have "The Little Mermaid" among all the other countless Disney animated masterpieces, we are reminded of this very fact. 
Summary: Incredible animation with adorable characters and amazing songs. Only out for 17 days. Short at 82 minutes but average for an animated film. If you haven't seen it, now's the time! 
' 


Football 
1997 


Thieving Irish 
Seniors Ivory Covington and Ty Goode recorded key ··;X interceptions to lead the Notre Dame defense to a #· 

~··

second-half shutout of West Virginia. 
see page 3 


Irish defense withstands last­minute surge 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Spans Editor 
West Virginia tailback Amos Zereoue rushed for 234 yards Saturday, but the Mountaineers came up just short as Notre Dame extend­ed its winning streak to four games by winning its final home game of the season 21­14. 
A number of the Irish seniors came up big in their final home game in Notre Dame Stadium, and it was their leadership by example that pushed the team over the top. 
With just under five min­utes to play, fifth-year quar­terback Hon Powlus hit Bobby Brown with the game-win­ning touchdown pass from 11 yards out. Senior center Rick Kaczenski indicated that he knew, in the huddle, that Powlus would make the play. 
"As soon as he called the play, I looked him dead in the eye and he gave me a little smirk," recalled Kaczenski. "J told him. I said 'this is going to be a touchdown."' 
Senior wide out Malcom Johnson. who turned in a spectacular performance, ealching six passes for a earner-high 12 5 yards and a touchdown of his own, expressed similar confidence in Brown's ability to haul in the big catch. the clutch throw. 

"When the ball was in the "To take all of the criticism air and I see Bobby Brown he {Powlus) has taken two yards away from the throughout the years and still defender, I said 'money in the keep on fighting, and then to bank,"' said Johnson, throw a ball like that, per­"because that's what that is." fectly," said Brown, "that just 
Brown was quick to give shows the type of character credit to the coaches for mak­he's got." ing the call and to Powlus for Irish head coach Bob Davie reflected on the significance for him." of the much-maligned quar­The 52nd touchdown pass terback coming up with the of Powlus' career did not clincher in the last home quite put the Mountaineers to game of his Notre Dame bed, though. career. After failing to strike back 
"He's a good person," said on its first possession after the first-year coach. "It's Notre Dame took the lead, good to see the good guys win. That's why I'm happy 
see GAME I page 2 


• iRISH INSIGHT 
Davie ushers in time of immense appreciation 
As 80,225 fans in Notre Dame refused an invitation to a lesser bowl Stadium held their breath, backup cor­game last year? nerback Ty Goode came up with a div­Yes and no. ing snag of Marc Bugler's toss toward We're still talking about the midwest­the end zone with seconds left on the ern university founded on Father clock. The Notre Dame student body Edward Sorin's dream of academic and erupted in a raucous roar, flooding the religious excellence, of course. But this field. 
is far from the same team of one year 
Dotting the sea of ago. people on the field The end of the Lou Holtz era was just were the famous that, the end of an era. Although new golden helmets, head coach Bob Davie would have been raised high to salute at the helm, Notre Dame's appearance the students. at a lesser bowl game would have 
Had the Irish been, well, lesser. It would have defeated top-ranked seemed a disappointing conclusion to Michigan or Florida Allison Krilla an 8-3 season for a pretty good team State in a game with Sports Writer riding the coattails of Notre Dame national champi-football tradition. onship implications? This year's team, however, is com­
No. pletely different. The Bob Davie era 
The Blue and Gold captured a fourth ushered in the promise of bringing straight win, its second in as many Notre Dame football back on top of the weeks over a ranked opponent, college football ranks. A new stadium, increasing the chances of a post-sea­a new TV contract and a new attitude son bowl game invitation. for old players brought heightened 
But why all the excitement? Isn't this the same Notre Dame team that see INSIGHT/ page 3 
------~ -------­

page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER 
Johnson, receivers step up in pressure situation 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor  The most noticeable improvement of the offense  season in the history of  
this  season  is its ability to  Irish football  
Notre Dame's 21-14 victory over West Virginia Saturday served as the final proof that the team has turned its season  make the big plays. The emergence of Jarious Jackson has added an element of unpredictability by giving a  that two receivers h a v e amassed  
around.  No  area of the team  different  approach  to  the  more than 40  
needed to do this  more than  offense to complement Ron  receptions  
the offense.  Powlus' consistency.  each.  Bobby  
After the red  zone  frustra­ "Big plays are  a part of the  Brown leads  
tion and chaotic offensive per­ game," Powlus said.  "We had  the Irish with  
formances in the first couple of games, the offense has gradually improved to a point that makes the Irish a team  some big plays that really helped set up the win. On both sides of the ball, it was a key factor in winning the  43 and Malcolm Johnson is right behind  
with a winning record. And game." while Saturday's performance Also, despite the fact that was sloppy at times and did Irish fans can count on seeing not deliver the punch it did the the team's receivers dro.p week before at LSU, the about two catchable balls offense was able to score every game, the receivers when it needed it in order to have stepped up in a huge get its sixth win of the season. way. This season is the first The Observer/John Daily With his 146 yards against the Mountaineers, tailback Autry Denson passed the 1,000-yard mark for the season.  him with 40. Johnson's 45­personal best 125 yard diving over-the-shoulder reception from Jackson in the second quarter left nearly everyone in the stadium with wide open jaws. "I was just in awe," Brown said of his teammate's catch. "I know he can make great catches like that. I sec him practice every day, so I wasn't shocked. But I was just in awe to see someone do it in the game. To have that type of' concentration just shows how great a player he is." Johnson ended the day with a touchdown and six reecp­tions for 125 yards, the best of any Irish receiver this season. In addition to Johnson's per­formance, freshman tight end Jabari Hallway continued his big-play performance with a 48-yard reception f'rom Powlus at the end of the first quarter to set up the Irish first touch­down of the game. Brown also has been a con- yards. sistent target for the Irish, scoring his sixth touchdown of the season in the fourth quar­ter to close the door on the Mountaineers. On the rushing front, the Irish did not use as many run­ners as-they have in the last few games, but with Autry Denson's 144 yards on 26 car­ries, they really didn't need too. The Denson highlight of the game came after Ivory Covington's interception gave the Irish the ball back in the fourth quarter, when the junior tailback ran 36 yards to set up the game winning touchdown. Clement Stokes only got the ball five times, but score the first Irish touchdown of the game, which tied the game 7-7. Most impressive about thn offensive effort Saturday was the offense's tenacity that didn't really appear to exist  

Monday, November 24, 1997 

early in the season. The Irish have not fared well throughout the season when they do not jump out to an early lead, and when West Virginia scored on its first drive of the game, it did not look good for the Irish. However, the Irish fought back and tlw offense was able to maintain their composure. 
"The thing I'm most proud of is we were down 7-0 and we elawed our way back and made it 7-7," Notre Dame hnad coach Bob Davie said. 
/"Then we gave up a quick touchdown, and we clawed our way back and made it 14­14 at halftime. We struggled a little bit in the third quarter offensively, but we were able come back in the fourth quar­ter, move thn ball, and win. 
"I think to come back like that really kind of parallnls the season, and that's why I'm so proud of those players and those coaches. 

Game 
continued from page 1 
then converted on a critical third-and-1 0 play by scrambling for a first down and getting out of bounds to stop the clock. He then hit Jerry Porter for 37 yards and a first down inside the Notre Dame 30. 
The Mountaineers took two shots at the end zone in the final 25 seconds. 
The first ball was caught, but the play was ruled incomplete as the receiver was unable to get a foot down in­bounds. The next was picked off by senior defensive back Ty Goode, touch­ing off a wild celebration with the Notre Dame band. 
Powlus ran out the clock by taking a knee, and the Notre Dame student body rushed the field to join the players and the band. Irish supporters followed the team out of the tunnel at the north end of the stadium and could be heard cheering and chanting for almost an hour following the game. 
"It was an emotional win," explained Powlus, "there's no question about it. It's the last one in the Stadium for us seniors, but more importantly, it's a big win for this team." 
The play of the game was another fourth-quarter interception by Ivory Covington. The Mountaineers had been driving deep into Irish territory, when Bulger overthrew his intended receiver and Covington, also a senior, caught the ball and returned it to the Notre Dame 22-yard line to set up the game-winning drive. 
"I hadn't had an interception since the last time we went to a bowl game," said Covington, who recorded a pick against Florida State in the 1996 Orange Bowl. "You play hard to make big plays such as interceptions, but you have to be patient. I try to be a leader week in and week out. 
"When Allen (Rossum) went out today, I knew that I had to step up and I was fortunate enough to be able to have a couple of key plays." 
Clement Stokes got the Irish on the board to start the second quarter with a one-yard touchdown run to tie the game 7-7. The Mountaineers responded with a two-play 66-yard drive, capped by Zereoue 's second score of the game from six yards. 

Backup quarterback Jarious Jackson made the most of his only appearance by leading the Irish on a 67-yard drive to even the score before halftime. lie was three-for-three through the air, connect­ing with Brown on a key third down play and hitting Johnson for a 45-yard gain to set up his first touchdown pass of the season. 

Johnson made a spectacular play, adjusting his position in mid-air to record the diving reception. He found himself' in the right place again just three plays later and caught Jackson's bullet on a quiek timing pattern for the score. 
Notre Dame, now at 6-5 and on a four­game winning streak, is in position to accept a bid to a minor bowl game, something that semned virtually impossi­ble just two weeks ago. A win at Hawaii next week should wrap up that invitation and launch the Irish into post-season having won six of their last sevPn games. 
Powlus connecteo on 53 percent of his passes, but more impor­tantly averaged 17.3yards per completion, threw no intercep­tions, and delivered a perfect ball for the game-winning score. Jackson was equally as impressive, going three-for-three and tossing his first touchdown pass of the year. 
Running Backs; A~ 
Denson's 144 yards may have been overshadowed by Zereoue's performance, but his 36-yard jaunt sparked the Irish offense on the clinching drive. Barry looked strong and Stokes found the end zone once again. 
Receivers: A~ 
There were a few costly dropped balls, but the receiving corps made things happen Saturday. Holloway's strength, Brown's abil· ity to getopen, and Johnson's fabulous all-around efforts pre· vented a prolonged offensive stall and converted on key opportu­nities all day.·· 


Offenslv&Une! B+ 
The line was ableto create enough room for the backs to con­tribute and protected the quarterbacks when it counted most. A couple of illegal procedure penalties could have hurt Notre Dame down the stretch. 
Defensive Line: C+ 
Aside from one or two plays, Zereoue shot through the Irish line with ease from beginning to end. When one back gains more than 200 yards in a game, there has to be a breakdown some­where in the defense, not matter how good he is. 
Linebackers! B 
The unit of four improved as the game went on, despite allowing Zereoue 159 yards in the first half. Minor had a big sack and the linebacking corps contained Zereoue to some extent in the sec­ond half. 
Defensive Backs: A 
Covington and Goode played extremely well and each picked off West Virginia passes at critical points in the game. The sec­ondary had momentary lapses which turned out to be harmless when all was said and done. 
Special Teams: B 
It's always a plus when the Irish connect on all of their extra points and Cengia, thankfully, did not make it interesting. Smith had a below average game and the coverage units could have done a better job limiting the Mountaineer returners to shorter gains. 
Coaching: B+ 
The staffdesen!es a tremendous amount of credit for keeping the players. in a stron{.l state of mind following their huge upset in Baton Rouge last weekend. The lack of creativity in the playbook was apparentagain when the Irish found themselves on the goal line in the fit!st half and trying to run out the clock in the second. Mattison did a terrific job of adjusting at halftime to shut out West Virginia in the final two quarters. 
Overall: 3.26 
The Irish continued to show the heart that has allowed them to battle back from a 1-4 start. Davie's constant discussion of the "character of this football team" may sound monotonous at times, but that character is what has allowed Notre Dame to stick together and persevere through the low points of 1997. 
·Brian Reinthaler 

Monday, November 24, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish seniors lift defense following sluggish star.t 
.. 


By BILL HART all season for the Mountaineers, were Dame passing defense proved to be one Sports Writer converted with ease. And, when cor­of the toughest challenges he had faced nerback Allen Rossum was taken out of this year. Passes that were easily com­Over the course of this season, there the game with a light concussion, it pleted early on were broken up by the have been two versions of the Notre looked as if this version of the defense quick hands of Ty Goode and Brad Dame defense. would remain for the rest of the game. Williams. After Zereoue scored for the 
While it has been dominated by However, midway through the second second time in the third Mountaineer Purdue. Michigan State and Stanford, it quarter that other face began to show drive of the game, they failed to reach has also had extraordinary perfor­itself. Little by little, the Notre Dame the end zone again. mances against Boston College, defense that had torn LSU to shreds a During the critical third quarter, the Pittsburgh and LSU. week ago returned to the forefront and defense was able to hold off the West 
So. with the game against the No. 21 slowly wore the vaunted West Virginia Virginia offensive threat while the Irish Mountaineers approaching, and bowl offense down. offensive unit struggled to get back on hopes hanging in the balance, the ques­The Mountaineers did have their its feet. However, Notre Dame was not tion of most Irish fans was, "Which share of bright spots, but the Blue and able to take full advantage of the team will show up today?" Gold were able to escape without suffer­Mountaineer penalties. It was not until 
Early in the game, it looked very ing a critical blow. While Zereoue did another senior, Ivory Covington, much like the earlier version, as Notre rack up 234 yards on Saturday, the stepped up that the Irish offense was Dame was unable to shut down the most by an opposing· player this season, able to capitalize on its opportunities. West Virginia offense. Sophomore sen­he became less of a factor as time went Driving in the fourth quarter, West sation Amos Zereoue picked away at the on. Virginia looked as strong as it had at defense, ripping off chunks of yardage After gaining a mind-boggling 159 the start of the game. Zereoue led them on almost every play. Third down con­yards in the first half, Zereoue was held down the field making short but consis­versions, which have been troublesome to a quiet 13 yards in the third quarter tent gains. It looked as if the 
and only 62 Mountaineers would score again when yards in the the improbable happened. Bulger, fourth. Melvin sensing that the defense would try to Dansby, in his contain Zereoue, attempted a pass final home toward the end zone, which fell right game, along into Covington's hands. with lineback­"It means a lot to any team to be able ers Kory Minor to close out a season on a positive note," 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 

and Jimmy Covington said. "I've been able to step 
Cornerback Ivory Covington takes on Friday were up my game, and I've been able to make Mountaineer running back Amos Zereoue. key players in plays that people notice." 
loss forced the special teams onto the
putting the Head coach Bob Davie acknowledged 
field. On West Virginia's last opportuni­
breaks on the the importance of Covington's play. 
ty, an interception by Goode in the end­
West Virginia "I think that early in the second half 
zone clinched the game. The Irish pre­
running game. we had the field position (advantage)," 
vailed, and the class of 1998 ended its
Although Davie said, "and then there was a point 
career at home on a high note.
West Virginia where West Virginia started to have the 
"You've just got to give these kids
quarterback field position (advantage) and the 
credit," defensive coordinator Greg
Mark Bulger momentum. I think that interception 
Mattison said. "Allen Rossum doesn't
entered the was a critical point in the game because 
play from the first play on. Jimmy 
game as one of it brought both the momentum and field 
Friday is hurt, and he doesn't play for
the best passers position back on our side." 

most of the game. It really shows how 
in the nation in With the momentum in Notre Dame's 
much they've come on. I don't know if I
efficiency, favor, the Mountaineer offense never 
could be any prouder of our defense for
attempting to had a chance. On the next drive, a key 
believing, and sticking with it." 
crack the Notre sack by Minor and a Zereoue run for a 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total West Virginia 7 7 0 0 14 Notre Dame 0 14 0 7 21 
Team Statistics wvu NO
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
First Downs 19 16
1. Michigan (69) 11-0 1749 1 
Rushed-Yards 41-248 42-148 
Passing Yards 140 . 217 Sacked-Yards Lost 1-5 2-16 
2. Nebraska (1) 10-0 1679 3 
3. Tennessee 9-1 1570 5 
Return Yards 39 44 
4. Penn St 9-1 1497 6 
Passes 12-28-2 12-20-0 Punts 6-36.3 7-37.9
5. Florida St 10-1 1470 2 
Fumbles-Lost 1-0 1-1
6. UCLA 9-2 1311 7 
Penalties-Yards 9-89 6-52 

The Observer/John Daily 

7. Florida 9-2 1285 10 
Time of Possession 30:15 29:45 Linebackers Lamont Bryant (left) and Kory Minor had 
-
8. North Carolina 10-1 1236 8 
reason to celebrate in Saturday's 21-14 victory. 
Individual Statistics 
9. Ohio St 10-2 1206 4 
RUSHING: WVU-Zereoue 32-232l, Bulger 6-14, White 2-1, 
Insight

Keaton 1-(minus 1 ).
10. Washington St 10-1 1178 11 
ND-Denson 26-144, Barry 3-20, Stokes 5-3, Spencer 3-3, 
11 . Kansas St 10-1 1163 9 
continued from page 1

Driver 1-(minus 5), Powlus 4-(minus 17). 
12. Arizona St 8-2 978 12 
expectations. And as the Irish faltered early, the
PASSING: WVU-Bulger 12-28-2-140. ND-Powlus 9-17-0-156, 
13. Auburn 9-2 907 13 
students felt new disappointments.
Jackson 3-3-0-61. 
Notre Dame supporters wondered if even a .500 record was possible -with LSU and West
14. Georgia 8-2 865 14 
15. Texas A&M 8-2 727 16 
RECEIVING: WVU-Foreman 6-50, Green 3-42, Porter 1-37, 
Virginia remaining on the schedule, who knew? Zereoue 1-12, Bulger 1-(minus 1). NO-Johnson 6-125, 
Fans began to find solace in the little things -a Holloway 3-63, Brown 3-29.
16. Syracuse 8-3 648 18 
completed pass, a first down, a defensive stand.
17. LSU 7-3 589 20 
Touchdowns and field goals were hard to come by, making them all the more valuable. The things we take for granted were no longer overlooked Att: 80,225
18. Purdue 8-3 473 23 
19. Missouri 7-4 433 21 
with such ease. 
Of course, being Notre Dame fans, the outcome was always the bottom line, but the essence of the 
20. Colorado St 9-2 359 25 
21. Washington 7-4 270 17 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
game took on noticeable importance. The team's 
heart and soul were as talked about as the stat lines. 
22. Mississippi St 7-3 257 15 
1st Quarter 
23. So Mississippi 8-3 192 
And then it happened. The Irish reeled off four WVU-Zereoue 11-yard run (Taylor kick), 6:39
24. Air Force 10-2 148 
consecutive wins. Just when "Bob Davie" and "Gerry Faust" were uttered in the same breath,
25. Oklahoma St 8-3 118 
2nd Quarter Notre Dame football turned itself around. The bit­
NO-Stokes 1-yard run (Cengia kick), 0:52 
ter taste of an early string of defeats made the WVU-Zereoue 6-yard run (Taylor kick), 1:32 
wins all the more sweet. NO-Johnson 7-yard pass from Jackson (Cengia kick), 11:06
Others receiving votes: Virginia Tech 112, 
In the waning moments of Saturday's victory,
Iowa 70, West Virginia 60, Wisconsin 44, 
the students felt the energy once again. It didn't New Mexico 41, Louisiana Tech 30, 
hurt that this was the last home game for the class of 1998, either. But regardless of the oppo­3rd Quarter 
No Scoring nent or the day, a victory is not something to be
Marshall 30, Notre Dame 20, Virginia 6, 
USC 4, North Carolina St. 2. 
taken for granted anymore.
4th Quarter 
This year Notre Dame football taught us some­NO-Brown 11-yard pass from Powlus (Cengia kick), 10:04 
thing new. There's more to a football game than wins or even pride. Don't take the little things for granted. 


--~----------~ 
Monday, November 24, 1997 


Notre Dame 21 

West Virginia 14 
Notre Dame Stadium November 22, 1997 
Irish linebacker Lamont Bryant corrals West Virginia fullback Leroy W~ite. Although the Irish defense allowed nearly 300 yards rushing, the unit made the critical plays in the fourth quarter when the game was on the line. 
-
The Observer/John Daily 

Fullback Jamie Spencer and the Irish running attack amassed just 148 yards on Saturday, but they moved the ball when they needed to in the fourth quarter. 

------------------------------------------------, 

Monday, November 24, 1997 page 9 
Eventually the father and 
son join a group therapy 
session to deal with their 
problems. 
Austin works along side 
Vanessa Kensington 
(played to perfection by 
Elizabeth Hurley) who has 
to help Austin adjust to a 
world where free love 
isn't the common practice. 
As Austin and Vanessa 

eventually begin to click. and a relationship seems possible, Vanessa con­fronts Austin that, although she feels guilty, she can't help feeling suspicious about Austin and the Italian sidekick of Number Two. Showing just how unfamiliar with the '90s he is, Austin glee­fully responds "Oh no Vanessa, you have every right to be suspicious. I shagged her. I shagged her rotten, baby! Yeah!!" 

Gene Siskel quips that the plot, where the bad guys hijack nuclear weapons to hold the world hostage, is a very weak one. Well, guess what, Gene, you're just missing more of the humor. "Austin Powers" is a great satire of James Bond movies, as it both mocks and honors such films which always had plots of villains with unorigi­nal hostage schemes and slow moving, easily escapable death traps for the heroes. 
The movie just works on so many levels! The enthusiasm of Myers is amazing, and along with his concise and flowing writing, he gives the film its energy. James Bond fans will get a kick out of the many references to the 007 movies. "Austin Powers" is smart enough not to exaggerate the sixties, but instead to pretty much show the clothing and other cultural aspects as they were, because that's where the humor really lies. 
Also, the supporting characters are particular­ly hilarious, especially Dr. Evil's fellow bad guys. !laving already seen this movie four times, I have the urge to just go on and on about every little joke in the movie, but that would require me to submit the entire screen play, and The Observer does give me a word limit -darn it. (I encour­age you to express those feelings and submit a formal complaint to the editor suggesting that movie critics get free reign of column space ­thank you for your support!) 
OVERALL: Great movie, "totally shagadelic." Lots of fun, with quick, witty humor. 
POSSIBLE DOWN SIDE?: They're making a sequel. Remember Wayne's World 2? I hope not -it's one of those things you want to block out of your memory. IIopefully, Myers has learned his lesson and knows now that a sequel also has to try and be funny, and not just ride the coat­tails of the first film. 
MULTIPLE VIEWJNGS?: Definitely a movie that gets funnier as you become more familiar with it and can join in the British dialogue. Remember how in 1994 you saw Pulp Fiction so many times, as it became a '90s cult favorite, and you were able to quote every line? Well, "Austin Powers" is one of those movies, because the one liners written by Mike Myers are fantastic, and usable in almost any social situation: "This is my hap­pening, and it freaks me out! Yeah, baby, yeah!!" 

Evil, who feels contempt towards his father for having deserted his par­

By JOHN BARRY 
Accent Movie Critic 
E 
very once in a while, a film comes along which makes you ponder the vastness of the universe and makes you try to under­stand the intricacies within the human mind and soul: a movie that spans all human emotions, inspiring great thoughts and actions; a movie which rivals the greats of the modern era, such as "Schindler's List," "The English Patient," and "Braveheart." Okay, "Austin Powers" isn't one of those movies, but it's dang funny, and you should definitely sec it. 
I don't know about you, but sometimes I just need a break from movies that are "critically acclaimed." You have to bear in mind that "criti­cally acclaimed" just means that lifeless out-of­touch twerps like Siskel and Ebert couldn't understand it so they thought it must be really smart, so they felt obliged to give it "Two Thumbs Up, Way Up." Well, there's more to enjoying a good movie than being confused or bored. Sure, sometimes it can be okay to watch a film that people discuss in social situations by saying things like "It had great scenery," which is nice, but lends to films of over three hours in length. We're college students -we need fast entertainment. not "epics" which take a whole day to watch and a whole week to fully under­stand. So. I'm recommending a movie for every­one's Beer and Pizza Night, a movie that's just plain fun-"Austin Powers." 
From the opening musical sequence where Austin (Mike Myers) first appears, all groovy in his velvet suit and Italian boots, you'll be instant­ly entertained by the 1967 spy hero -an international James Bond who's the object of nvery woman's desires. especially in his home town of swinging London. Austin nearly captures his nemesis. Dr. Evil (also played by Mike Myers), but the clcvnr bad guy escapes into a rocket ship (shaped like a Big Boy) with a cryogenic freezer, determined to get even with Austin Powers in the future. Fast forward to 1997. 
Dr. Evil strugg\ps with the challenges of being a bad guy in thn '90s. lie invents the evil scheme of making these things called "lasers" which are intense beams or light -using these "lasers" he will put a hole in the "ozone layer" which will in time cause an increase in skin cancer... unless the world pays him a hefty ransom of one million dollars! Needless to say hn is quite upset when his colleague, Number Two, informs him that this has already happened, and that one million dollars is not quite what it used to be. Dr. Evil also linds out that he has a teenage a son, Scott 

c~ 

Hell() na.ys fans! Similarly to last week, there is only one columnist bringing you all of Salem's news this week. I, Nicole, have been left to keep you informed since Kristy is punishing me for not being here last week and Freeman, as usual, is nowhere to be found. Now, on to Days! 
Jack is desperate to save Jennifer and even tries to get Mickey to help him, but itis his cellmate, Herbie, who comes to his rescue. Apparently, Herbie had tried to escape before through a secret passageway, and Jack plans to try this method <IS well. Jen, meanwhile, is still being help captive by Travis, Pnfortunately, T.C. tells Travis that everyone knows that h~.'t:~n9tTrent and th11t they are out looking for Jennifer. Susan is devastated to li:iarn that Stefano is the father of her child (apparently, Stefano had poisoned her peanut butter and banana sandwich at an Elvis convention) and fears he will t~e le Elvis. However, .Sister Mary Moira uses her ~;t~a ·(1 k !)to prevent him from taking the ba,by ~s .tO k.eep his and Marlena's secret from especially when Roman asks him to he the best 
ding. . 

, Marleml stops John from telling Roman the she be that telling Roman any had news 
... ..•..... ... ....• John wasn't insecure enough 
. about .. M(trlena before, Marlena asks Rom .. ..•. ove m.•. .. >her. Nutty Laura is on the verge of yet another breakdow:tl while she is fearing for Jen's safety. Abe ag · to do all he can, which isn't that much, to find Jen. ~lly.rilana es ~0 break through the prison walls jtl J!i.Ct:)\fer(l · ing.'.AF·· . 
... .... tries>t . to Travis' good side, on Wednesd~y, and begs . to let her go. However, her pleas have little affect on him"imd he still plans to deliver her to Peter,.. · to.anages to overpower a guard and make his way house~ ever, it's surrounded by cops so he 
'!!)1 ·... . s the detaUs of Hope's jungle 
· adve ..··......... . . real . . .... e feelings that he had of danger in Rome were .correct, ~ter, he and Billie (sporting a new hair­do) meet up with Hope (and the rest of Salem for that mat­ter} at Jen's house, wh~re Bo and his "fancyface" exchange me~ ces. · 
Y •Dn sdllyls ~fe', Bo and Hope finally talk as 
· both . o. explaJn e events that led them to be apart. Thanks , Stefano, Jennifer's friends and family learn that she is ali\ii:~. Later, Kristen suggests to Stefano the only way for him to .gain everyone's trust is to admit that Peter is alive. Meanwbil Kristen · J1ing a plan of her own to win back John a . invblv •.. •· e Elvist After Jack escapes from Jen's h se, unseen ,by the police, he finds the address of Travis' bld girlfriend and hopes it will be useful in the future. Back tothe hostage: Jennifer takes advantage of time alone with T.C ~tries to s~duce him into letting her go. 
Final }1 Friday, H ls relieved to learn that Bo was only st g with Billle. ause of her illness, but she does not understand why they are still together. Jack runs into 
T.C. and forces him to take him to Jennifer. Unfortunately, Jack is too late as Travis had already disguised himself and 
Jennifer ore they1eftt.lte motel. However, they are on the 
'rig discov?ted as they are pulled over by the police. Lexie and Kristen plead With Stefano to tell the truth ah. J Peter, and in a dramatic moment, Stefano finally admits Peter is alive. 
Email r,t$ip~th your «f,)aysD comments or questions: 
Paulinfl.;L(i#.n.,rf,;edu, Fteeman... 19@nd:edu. or · 
Howard.35@nd.edu ·· · · 
I. Mortal Kombat: Annihilation I. Liar, Liar 
2. 
Anastasia 2. Batman & Robin 

3. 
The Rainmaker 3. The Fifth Element 

4. 
The Jackal 4. Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery 

5. 
The Little Mermaid 5. The Lost World: Jurassic Park 

6. 
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil 6. Grosse Point Blank 

7. 
Starship Troopers 7. Breakdown 

8. 
Bean 8. Anaconda 

9. 
The Man Who Knew Too Little 9. Volcano 

10. 
I Know What You Did Last Summer 10. The Saint 


Source: Reuters Source: Billboard Online 
~------------------------------------------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday November 24, 1997 
• BOXING 

Foreman hangs up his gloves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 
George Foreman walked away from boxing, and left them laughing. 

Foreman, who will turn 49 on Jan. 10, announced his retirement following his majority decision loss to 25­year-old Shannon Briggs that was greeted with jeers and catcalls. 
''I'm walking away," said the puncher with a paunch, who defied time for a decade and made an indelible mark in a young man's sport. "This could go on for the rest of my life, chasing young guys. Young guys should be chasing young guys." 
In 1994, at age 45, Foreman became the oldest heavy­weight champion in history by knocking out Michael Moorer in the lOth round for the WBA and IBF titles. 
Asked if he thought anybody would break that record, Foreman said, "If some guy breaks it, I'm coming back." 
Then, in his best carnival barker's voice, he added, "''m the last of the bearded ladies. Step right up." 
Almost everybody but two judges thought Foreman won the 12-round fight Saturday night. 
"They said Shannon Briggs won," Foreman said. "Good luck to him. 
"I'm not bitter about any­thing." 
Said Briggs: "He had the crowd behind him, and that's why they reacted like they did." 
The reactions of most of 5,220 fans at the Trump Taj Mahal were those of dismay and anger. Ringside reporters were virtually unanimous in thinking Foreman won. 
Foreman, all 260 pounds of him, pressed Briggs through­out. Briggs' movement and jab might have given him an edge, or at least had him even, after eight rounds. But Foreman appeared to control the last four rounds with pun­ishing jabs and hard rights to the head. He hurt his 227­pound opponent in the 1Oth round and him a few times in the last round. 

Judge Steve Weisfeld, who called the fight even at 114­114, gave Foreman three of the last four rounds. Calvin Claxton, who favored Briggs 116-114, gave Briggs three of the last four rounds. Larry Layton, who scored it 117-113 for Briggs, gave Briggs the seventh and eighth rounds and called each of the last two rounds even. 
The AP scored it 116-112 for Foreman, favoring him in each of the last four rounds. 
Despite the loss, Roy Foreman said his brother's accomplishments were incred­ible. 
"This has been one of the great achievements in history, in life or in sports," he said. 
That might have been laying it on a bit thick, but Foreman's career unquestionably is one of the most remarkable in sports history. 
A street tough in Houston, Foreman won the heavyweight gold medal at the 1968 Olympics at Mexico City. lie turned pro in 1969, became undisputed world champion by stopping Joe Frazier in the second round on Jan. 22, 1973, at Kingston, Jamaica, and lost the title to Muhammad Ali when he was stopped in the eighth round Oct. 30, 197 4, in Kinshasa, the capital of what was then Zaire. 
After being outpointed by Jimmy Young on March 17, 1977, at San Juan, Puerto Rico, Foreman said he had a vision and he retired to become an evangelist in Houston. 
He sounded like the Hev. Foreman early Sunday when he said, "I hope that nice young man (Briggs) doesn't smoke and doesn't drink. He should go forth and lead a good life." 
In 1987, Foreman began a comeback, he said, to raise $100,000 for his youth center. He has earned more than $100 million in purses and endorsements. His purse Saturday night was $5 million. Briggs got $400,000. 
The Forflman who rctirfld in 1977 often was a scowling, menacing man. The one who came back in 1987 did so with a smile and quip, especially about his waistline and love for chflflseburgflrs. llfl became a middle-aged folk hero, espe­cially after he went the dis­tance in losing to Evander Holyfield in a bid for the undisputed championship in 1991 at Atlantic City. 
Foreman fought his way back for a title shot and cashed in by knocking out Moorer. lie won a controver­sial decision over Axel Schulz in 1995 at Las Vegas before he was stripped of the titles for not fighting opponents desig­nated by the WBA and IBF. 
In the Moorer fight, Foreman's age started to show. lie was far behind when he scored the knockout. After the Schulz match, he needed 12 rounds to beat Crawford Grimsley and then flked out a split decision against Lou Savarese. He looked old against Briggs, too. An old winner. 
''I'm happy, I'm not hurt," Foreman said. 
And a lot people in boxing are happy as well, happy that Foreman has finally retired. 
"I've had a wonderful career," he said. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds like the ones you see here. 

Patriots stay close with win over Miami 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. 

The New England Patriots finally fotmd a quarterback to win a big game for them ­Dan Marino. 
Then he nearly won it for the MJarrtt Dolphins with a fourth-quarter comeback after throwing two first-half inter­ceptions for touchdowns. 
"You explain that game," relieved Patriots coach Pete Carroll said after Sunday's 27­24 win, only their second in six games, kept them within a game of the AFC East lead. 
Patriots quarterback Drew Bledsoe had been criticized for not winning big games against strong teams. The last four losses by AFC champions (7• 
5) were against the New York Jets. Green Bay, Minnesota and Tampa Bay. 
"If you're going to be a good quarterback, you have to be resilient,'' Bledsoe said. "You have to be able to survive three interceptions and keep coming back. You have to sur­vive a bad game and come back the next week." 
Bledsoe, coming off one of the worst games of his five pro seasons in a 27-7 loss at Tampa Bay, completed 15-of­26 passes for 207 yards. Marino was 38-for-60 for 389 yards with three interceptions. 
Two of the interceptions in the last two minutes of the half were returned 60 yards by Larry Whigham and a team­record 100 yards by Jimmy Hitchcock for touchdowns that gave the Patriots a 24·3 lead. 
Then Marino led the Dolphins to three 1-yard scor­ing runs by Karim Abdul­Jabbar, the last with 10 sec­onds left that cut the lead to three. They recovered the onside kick, but Marino's last two passes fell incomplete. 
"An interception is a mis­take," said Marino, the NFL's career leader in touchdown passes to his own players. "It doesn't matter if it's your frrst year or 15th year. It's a mis­take." 
Whigham also intercepted a pass at the goal line for a touchback with 6:50 to go and the Patriots leading 27-17. 
"We just knew we were going to have to go in and fight Dan Marino and we'd have to fight him 'til the last second," said Whigham. Marino had thrown only five interceptions all season. 
New England moved into a second-place tie with Miami in the AFC East, one game behind the Jets, who beat Minnesota. 
"We're still in the thick of things," Miami coach Jimmy Johnson said. "We can't turn the ball over like we did today and .expect to win." 
After cutting the lead to 27­17, the Dolphins recovered their first onsidc kick with 
11:51 left. Marino led them to a first-and-goal at the New England 1 before Abdul­Jabbar lost 5 yards on the next two runs, On the .next play, Whigham outleaped Jerris McPhail for the ball. 
The Patriots scored on three passes, but Bledsoe, whose streak of 11 games with a touchdown pass ended a week ago, didn't throw any. 
With the score 3-3, Dave Meggett connected with Troy Brown on an option pass for a 35-yard touchdown with 2:37 left in the half. 
Then Marino went to work. 

Two completions moved the ball to the New England 45. Then he threw a short pass to his right, where Whigham stepped in front of O.J. McDuffie and ran untouched to the end zone. 
The next Dolphins drive started with a pass interfer­ence call against Hitchcock. They moved from their 24 to a first down at the Patriots 7. where Marino threw toward McDuffie. But Hitchcock inter­cepted and took off for the longest interception return in Patriots history. 
fhe Observer accepts class1fieds every busmess day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day
Classifieds classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, includ­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

GREAT RESUMES! Only 4 mi. from ND campus on U.S. 31/33. Call (616)684-4633. 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica. Bahamas. & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www_endlesssummertours.com 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: PAIR OF BROWN LEATHER GLOVES ON NOV. 19. CALL NICK 246·1146. 
WANTED 

CHRISTIAN BUSINESS OPPOR­TUNITY Earr. a living while spread­ing God's word. Join Scriptures. Sign up is FREE. To receive a FREE Into Pack call 1-800-585­5873 option 3 and listen to "Success with Scriptures." Please leave my LD_#5237. 
SALES/MARKETING Excellent opportunity. Part-time per­son needed. We will work around your schedule. Great income. Fax resume to 1-800-333-7562 or leave name & number at 1-800-332-5643. 
WANTED 2 JANE'S ADDICTION TICKETS!!!! Please help : 631-5144 or 256-1354. Ask tor Zac. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 2192917153 
VACATION OVER THE CHRIST­MAS HOLIDAYS ON THE BEACH OF SIESTA KEY. FLORIDA IN A BEAUTIFUL, DELUXE CONDO­MINIUM ON THE GULF OF MEXI­CO. UNIT HAS A FULLY EQUIPPED KITCHEN AND SLEEPS 3. THERE IS A HEATED POOL WITH HOT TUB. 
12-19-97 TO 1-2-98. SEA CLUB V ROOM 114 VALUE $1630, RENT FOR $800. CALL LARRY GRUMMELL 
219-291-2988. 
THAT PI1ETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70-$90, 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 
1-800-418-9487. 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES. GILLIS PROPERTIES. 
272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551 
House to Rent: 3 bedroom, beauti­ful wood floors, new kitchen on his­toric Riverside Dr. 5 min. drive to ND. Perfect for Grad. students or visiting faculty. $750 a month, util. included. available Jan-June negot. Call John at 631-4114. 
FOR SALE 
Near Campus -1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air & Full Basement $44,900 1-800-382-2952 
Complete Sega System. CD, 4 controls, Genie, 30 games. 450+value. Asking 300_ Call1­5398 Sega Genesis w/2 cntrls, 12 games, incl. Madden. FIFA, etc., $200. Call x-1926. 

TICKETS 
FOR SALE 
N.D. G.A.'S 
271-9412. 
WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 

PERSONAL 
000 Looking for a unique gift? Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 

I dislike applications. would anyone like to fill them out for me? 
ND Inquisition http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu We're smarter than you. 
Mike, we love you meghan and katie 
prof connelly, she beat you with zorn. how are you going to retaliate? 
mike day is a slave driver -jon and mark 
Would you like a tossed salad today?????? 
i'm done with the pullout. in case anyone is interested, it's the heisman, national trophy, Ieahy and the crowd. i'm out of here 
Mike M. , well, never mind. that would be (ude 
Hey Sweet Daisy! 
big jim, I will get it in I swear, but those graphs are a pain 

i'm done and if you don't like it you can do it yourself 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center '-i High-Speed Copies ...J Canon Color Laser Copies '-i Digital Color Printing '-i Binding & Lami~ating '-i Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 
Phone 631-COPY HELP: Need ride to Allentown. PA for Thanksgiving. If going to NYC. NJ or anywhere near Allentown, please help me. I just need to get close. Will help pay for gas. Call Dave@ 243-1868. 
anyone seen a watch? maybe in a backyard or somewhere ... by a fence? 
what does the 64 stand for in nin­tendo 64? 
the number of hours per week spent playing madden football? 
average grade on exams once you own one? 
Who loves pumpkins? 
anyone had that gambling urge lately? 
just checking ... 
I hate people that don't have classi­fieds. 
Mike Day is the sole reason my GPA is going to drop this semester. 
Shauna, I hope you had fun here with your cousin and that he didn't corrupt you too much. Although I think he could take a lesson from you in some things. 
Smelly cat, smelly cat 


Monday, November 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALl 
Belles' season opener meets with mixed results 


world Hunger coalition, campus Ministry, & Food services are working together to pro­vide good Thanksgiving Meals for south Bend families who probably wouldn't get one otherwise. But we need your help! 
Monday, November 24th 
3-Gpm 

Stepan center Help put the baskets together and be there when the families come to pick them up. 112 hr, 1hr, whatever you can give 
Questions: Call Karen@ x2297 

inks three 
tunity to train long course so to finish eightl:l tthe OlyJ1:ipic Trials is pretty rem le.~. said Weathers. "Brooke will .. 'bote heavily in the relays in addition to our individual events. With Brooke and Carrie NJ,xon. we will have -a great one-two punch in our sprint 
freesty~~." 

. Ll(}y9 starred in breaststroke at Canterbury High School and for her club team Fort Wayne Aquatics, coached by Dave Gihson. She qualified for seJliop nationals iri both the 100 and 200 br~{ts~troke <a,Iid was a finalist in the lOO.hreaststtoke in February, 1996. lloyd qualified for the Olympic Trials in the 100-meter breaststroke and attent;led the U$. swimming select camp.·... C()loradoin{~ctober, 1996. 
"Alll$ preparerf us for the future after S .. nnon Suddarth and Brittany Kline," said Weathers. "She will really add with those two to make the breast· stroke ope of our strongest events and 
at;lds 8:·····~~~. ~f options to allow Shannon and Brit~any to S"VVimJn other events." Riggs brings versatility to Notre Dame's freestyle with the ability to swii:nln freestyle events from 200 
. ya to 1,650 ;rill'ds as well as the 
··• bu . . . §he has sV(ium for the City of Charles on swim teai:n and coach T.J. Liston, and for Wando High School with times tmder NCAA qualifying stan­dards. 
matches, third longest in volley­ball history. 
The Irish will finish off the reg­ular season next weekend by competing at the annual Long Beach State Thanksgiving tour­nament. 
The Irish will face No. 6 UC Santa Barbara on Nov. 28 before facing the top-ranked host school on Nov. 30. On the same day. NCAA Tournament pairings will be announced. 

CoHege NigRllts 

9PM -MIDNIGHT
• 

By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's basketball team opened its season this weekend at the Kalamazoo Hornet Tip-Off Classic. The Belles dropped their first game on Friday night to Defiance College 94-75, but came back Saturday afternoon and defeated Whittier College 76-57. 
!lead coach Dave Roeder's squad got off to an impressive start against Defiance, a top-ranked Division III team, and had the lead for a while before Defiance's seasoned squad took back mntrol of the floor. 
Saint Mary's senior and co-captain Julie McGill was a constant threat to Defiance. McGill kept her sqwid close by scoring 26 points and pulling down 11 rebounds. 
".Julie was incredible.·• said senior co­captain Darcy Nikes. "She worked for every basket and she took it upon herself to gnt the rebounds." 
Converting off fast breaks helped Defiance stay in the driver's seat. At the half. the Belles found themselves down 43-29. The Belles came out stronger in the second half and put the pressure on Defiance. Saint Mary's improved its sec­ond-half fir.ld goal shooting to 50 percent and its free throw shooting to 82.4 per­cent. The Belles pulled down. 47 rebounds compared with 40 for Defiance. 
Point guard Nikes finished the game with 10 points in 37 minutes of play. 
"I was not satisfied by the way played," said Nikes. "I was a little bit jit­tery." 
Also scoring in double figures for the Belles was freshman guard Julie Norman with 16 points. 
"We tested them," said Roeder. "They are a very good team." 
Friday's loss forced a match-up on Saturday with Whittier College. Norman got the Belles off to a quick start by nail­ing her first of two three-pointers. At the end of the first half the Belles were lead­ing 46-26. 
The second half was more evenly bal­anced. as Whittier stepped up its level of play. The Belles continued to out­rebound Whittier however, finishing the game with 46 rebounds compared with 38 from Whittier. McGill led the Belles with 16 rebounds. McGill also had 24 points, three blocked shots, and three steals in 38 minutes of play. 
"Julie [McGill] had a really solid perfor­mance," said senior co-captain Brenda Hoban. "It definitely kept us going and ended the other team's momentum." 
Hoban also scored in double figures fin­ishing with 11 points and five assists. Besides scoring 11 points, Nikes had two assists and eight steals. 
Saint Mary's next match will be its home opener Tuesday against Hope College at the Angela Athletic Center at 7 p.m. 
V-Ball 
continued from pagel6 
bn the Irish who would advance, as they defeated the Panthers handily in three games, by a score of15-7, 15-11, 15-9. 
In the first game, both teams struggled at the start before the Irish took a 7-0 run for a quick 9-2 lnad. Freshman setter Denise Boylan then led the balanced Irish offense to take a one game lnad. In the second game, Pittsburgh got their second wind. opt'ning a 8-0 gap. After a quick timeout. head coach Debbie Brown substituted senior Carey May for Boylan in the setter posi­tion. May sparked the Irish to capture 15 of the final 18 points and take a 2-0 lead in the match. The Panthers jumped out again in the third, taking leads of 5-l and 8-4. However. the Irish ral­lied again. with the help of Lee, Harris, and junior middle Lindsay Treadwell. A solo block from Treadwell, followed by 
world Hunger coalition 

THANKSGIVING BASKETS 
back-to-hack aces from fresh­man Jo Jameyson set the game at match point, where Harris scored the final kill. 
Notre Dame's balanced offense was led by the duo of Lee and Harris, who each tallied 12 kills. Treadwell and Leffers also aided the Irish cause, each scoring eight kills and one error. Treadwell hit .500 on 14 attempts while Leffers had .368 hitting on 19 tries. 
"Pittsburgh had been a little bit up and down this season," Brown said about the Panthers. "and that's mainly because they're a young team. They lost a couple of key seniors last year, and while they have the capabili­ty to play at a higher level, they have also had some matches where they haven't played quite so well." 
The win against the Panthers set up a championship match between the Irish and No. 2 seed Villanova. The Wildcats advanced to the title match by defeating Connecticut on Saturday in four games, by a score of 15-7, 19-15, 16-14, 15­
7. This time, however, the Wildcats weren't nearly as lucky, as the Irish won in four games, 9-15, 15-3, 15-10, 15-4. 
The Irish were given a scare early on, as Villanova jumped out early in the first game to leads of 11-4 and 14-6. However, the Wildcats were unable to close out the match on their first five attempts at game point. The Irish had five service errors in the first game while several opposing players were able to hold off the attacks of Lee and Harris. 
Notre Dame came back, taking a quick 8-1 lead and extending it to 11-2 en route to tying the match at one game apiece. Notre Dame then kept that momentum to take a 7-3 lead in game three, but the Wildcats rallied back to take a 8-7 advantage. Lee regained her composure and recorded 12 kills in the third game to help the Irish take a 2-1 lead. The team then held off Villanova and coasted to its third straight Big East title. 

Notre Dame was led by an extraordinary match from Lee, who scored a career-high 29 kills on 61 attempts. The perfor­mance bested her previous career-best of 27 kills last season in an NCAA Tournament loss to Ohio State. After the match, she was named the tournament MVP. Lee was aided by Harris, who had 14 kills and 13 digs on the day. For Harris, it was her 16th straight match with double­digit kills, equaling the Irish record set by Christy Peters in 1993. Harris needs 21 more digs to be the sixth member on Notre Dame's 1,000 kills/1,000 digs club. Treadwell led the blocking game with a team-high seven block assists and 15 digs. 
"Along with us, Villanova is defmitely one of the top teams in the conference," Brown said about the Wildcats, who the Irish defeated in three games during the regular season. "While they aren't a very big team, they work very well together as a team, and that's something we had to watch for." 

"''~t !0~!~ ~~~~~~~~ 
-
Weekly Specials 

~"""'Spend Y""' <Om~'""""""
inner ci1y kids while you live i~ community on campus wi!tt other 

The win gave the Irish a lock for their sixth straight NCAA Tournament. The team has advanced as far as the NCAA Regionals from 1993-95. The question still remains, however, on whether or not the Irish will meet their first opponent at home or on the road. 
"It's very difficult to say right now," Brown said. "We don't have all the polls and indices in front of us that the conference pollsters have. A lot depends on what happens on the West Coast in our last two matches. But right now, I'd ·say our chances are about 40 percent." 
With the tournament, Notre Dame improves to 23-6 on the season. 
Currently, the Irish are on a 10 match winning streak, fourth longest in team history. The team has also won 17 of its last 18 matches, with the only loss coming at the hands of then­No.9 Texas on Oct. 21. 
With the win over Villanova, Notre Dame extended its confer­ence winning streak to 76 

--------------~-~......--·------..------~ --------------~--·---·~-----­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 24, 1997 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 



The Observer/John Daily Antoni Wyche contributed three points, but could not stop Marquette guards Aaron Hutchins and Marcus West, who wreaked havoc. 
Our unique erzonomic swivel hood is designed to move with your head. The Mountain light jacket also features articulated sleeves, zip-m compatibility, and a durable, waterproof breathable Gore-lex® shell. It's the ultimate multipurpose mountaineering jacket. 

NEVER STOP EXPLORINCi'" 

Duke hands Irish first loss 
ByJOECAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With a team as young as the Notre Dame women's basketball squad, the early season will pro­vide many lessons. This · Saturday in North Carolina, the Irish learned a lot about them­selves as their record fell to 1-1 following an 80-62 loss at the hands of the 19th-ranked Duke Blue Devils. 
Notre Dame trailed 38-29 at halftime but refused to give up as Sheila McMillen brought her squad within one at 55-54 with 
8:13 left in the game. But, Blue Devil sharpshooter Nicole Erikson was too much. Erikson connected on all six of her three point attempts for a game high 18. 
"The three point shooting is what killed us," sophomore Julie Henderson said. "The foul shoot­ing was terrible and that made it hard." 
Notre Dame shot just 50 per-
B-Ball 
continued from page 16 
Aaron Hutchins and Marcus West, wreaked havoc for the Notre Dame defense. Hutchins finished with 19 points, nine assists and just one turnover sparking the Eagles' offense. West added 10 points and four assists as Marquette shot 49 percent from the field. 
"I think Hutchins and West are both dynamos," MacLeod said. "They are very, very quick and put pressure on our guards." 
The Eagles jumped out to a 13-4 lead but three pointers from Wyche and Friel, their only field goals of the game, helped bring the score to 16-14 Marquette. But the Irish 12got cent from the charity stripe which hindered its hopes for an upset. 

What also made a comeback difficult was that the shots were falling for Duke, but not for the visiting Irish. Duke shot 54 per­cent in the second half and 48 percent in the game, while Notre Dame shot just 37 percent in the second half and 42 percent in the game. 
After McMillen's lay-up, Peppi Brown and Naz Medhanie scored on back-to-back trips down the floor to give the Blue Devils a bit of breathing room. Henderson answered with two of her 10 points, but Duke had an answer for everything Notre Dame threw at them. Duke then went on an 18-6 run to ice the contest and improve its record to 2-0. 
Danielle Green and Ruth Riley paced Notre Dame in the first half with seven and six points. respectively. The Irish battled with the Blue Devils before Duke 
only two held goals m the next eight minutes. 
Marquette was running away with the game, with a 32-16 lead. but a Jimmy Dillon three pointer and two free throws by freshman Hans Rasmussen got Notre Dame within striking dis­tance, down only 34-21 at half time. 
The Irish began to make a move mid-way through the sec­ond half but Wyche missed a potentially momentum shifting lay-up and Garrity was forced to sit on the bench when he picked up his fourth foul with 11 :20 left in the contest. 
"I felt that we were making a move there," MacLeod noted, "But we missed a couple of opportunities that made it diffi­cult." 
The Eagles continued to work 
Think'ofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Mltlway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service. all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles. no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busvme.com 
I JNITFn 11~~0 
..., I ~ • • ---·· 't' • "" Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day••• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  (via Tri State Coach- Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:20a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m.  
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m.  
2:00p.m.  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m.  
4:00p.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  

went on a 13-4 run in the final four minutes of the first half giv­ing them a nine point lead. Mollie Peirick and Sheila McMillen went a combined 7 for 27 as they scored 11 and 10 points, respectively. 
Peirick added nine rebounds and four assists in the losing effort. 
In the post, Julie Henderson lead the way with 10 points on 5 of 7 shooting in just 20 minutes of play. 
Freshman forward Kelley Siemon also scored in double fig­ures with 10 points and four boards. but she fouled out in 28 minutes of play. 
Despite the outcome. McGraw's team can see the posi­tives in how it competed against a top 25 opponent. 
"I think you can learn more from a loss than a win," Henderson said. "I think we learned how to stick together and what level we're up against." 
ettechvely on oflense as It only committed 11 turnovers com­pared to Notre Dame's 19. Marquette was also aided by balanced scoring six players scored eight or more points compared to Notre Dame's two. 
The 24 point loss forces MacLeod and Co. to go back to the practice floor and try to fix the problems that were exposed at the Bradley Center. 
"I don't think we can take any­thing from this game," Garrity said. "We just need to go back and work on it and try to forget about it." 
Northeastern and Sam Houston State will travel to the Joyce Center this weekend, pro­viding Notre Dame with oppor­tunities to work out the kinks in their offense before they have to travel to Indiana. 
5taxf_J~l1-B 
SPREAD THE JOY THIS HOLIDAY SEASON WITH HANDMADE GREETING CARDS FROM BANGLADESH 
II
TEN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES.. 
Formerly Global Gifts 919 West McKinley Mishawaka (219) 255-3536 Monday -Saturday: 10-6 Friday: 10 -8 Holiday Sale Thru Nov. 29 
FAIRLY TRADED HANDICRAFTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 

~Monday, November 24, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• HOCKEY 
leers suffer setback in weekend against Bulldogs 

and things just went for me." 
But even Chipchase couldn't slow down the Bulldogs. The Irish headed into the third peri­od leading, 3-2, but Wishart tied the game up with a fancy goal on a three-on-two rush. Wishart, a one-man wrecking crew, then notched the game­winner less than two minutes later. 
"We made a few defensive mistakes," explained Chipchase. "We are a good defensive team but we have moments when we commit errors, and the team that makes the most mistakes loses. That was us on Saturday." 
Chipchase acknowledged that the team now faces a bit of adversity. The Irish defeated national powerhouses Michigan State and St. Cloud State but couldn't squeeze out a victory in a two-game stand with the mediocre Bulldogs. 
"We're going to just work through the adversity," he explained. 
Chipchase :S hat trick fails to .lift team to victory 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame's hockey team suffered its first major setback of the season this weekend. After playing Ferris State to a tie in Central Collegiate Hockey Association action Thursday evening at the Joyce Center, the Irish traveled to Big Rapids Saturday evening for the second game in their three-game sea­son series with the Bulldogs. Despite an impressive second­period hat trick by freshman left wing Chad Chipchase, the Irish lost the game, 4-3. 
"This was a tough game for us," lamented Chipchase. "We really would have loved the points, but we'll deal with it." 
Notre Dame { 6-5-1 overall, 3­4-1 CCHA) 'held the lead twice but couldn't hold on as Brent Wishart notched two third-peri­od goals to clinch the victory. 
The Bulldogs wasted no time getting things started in the first period. FSU's Jim Dube slid one past Irish senior goaltender Matt Eisler only 2:54 into the game. Ferris State's Brett Colborne set up the goal on the odd-man rush by feeding Dube's shot. That goal represented all the scoring in the first period. 

Then came the second period and Chipchase's magic. He notched a pair of goals just nine seconds apart, and just like that the Boys of Winter were up 2-1. On the first goal, senior captain Steve Noble sent a crisp pass to Chipchase, who sent a hard shot from the left circle past Bulldog goaltender Vince Owen. The Irish won the ensuing face-off and sophomore defenseman Tyson Fraser worked the puck to Noble, who led a rush down the ice and fired a shot. Owen made the initial save but coughed up the rebound, and an opportunistic Chipchase was waiting just to the right of the crease and knocked in the rebound at 4:32 of the second period. 
"Those two goals really shocked me," Chipchase explained. "I really didn't have time to react to the first one because the second one fol­lowed so quickly." 
The Bulldogs struck back by converting a three-on-one breakaway. But Chipchase wasn't finished just yet. Twenty-five seconds later, he notched his third goal of the game, and Owen departed from the game. Chipchase's hat trick is the first by an Irish player in 81 games, a streak that stretch­es back to a four-goal perfor­mance by current junior Brian Urick against Alaska-Fairbanks in October 1995. 
"I didn't do anything different­ly today," stated Chipchase. "The puck bounced my way, that's all. I kept working hard, 

FORD MOTOR COMPANY 

Announces 
UFORD DAY" 
at the University of Notre Dame 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1997 
Featuring Keynote Speaker 
JOHN KAPLAN 
Controller, Manufacturing, Ford Automotive Operations 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
College Of Business Administration 
1:15-1:45pm  Ford Overview by John Kaplan  
1:45-2:15pm  Questions &Answers  
2:30-3:30pm  Functional Area Presentations  

Interested in a Career with Ford? 
Stop by and meet some of the people of Ford! 
DEPT. OF ART, ART HISTORY & DESIGN wlahet to announce: · 
ATI'ENTIONIU!I! 

SILIC$CIEEN I (c.tl• 1316) is OPEN TO ALL SllJOENTS! 
QI,AWING 1 (c~llta 1072 &: 3050) i1 OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS! 
FIGURE D&AWINQ (calli 3813) is Ol'tiN TO ALL Sl1.JDENTSI 
METAL lOUNQRl (talll 3380) is OPEN TO ALL STUDENT"Sf 
Amistake wu made in the DAIU book. These eta-are lct\lally .II open to allatudents. 
1

B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH1 
I 

...
US 31 NORTH 273-3890 
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 ($1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 

Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:00 Fri. -Sat. 4:00-11:00 
Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 

<C. 
6:00-9:30 

Come and watch Monday Night Football 
....
273-3890 
Ford and Lincoln-Mercury Products will be on display in the COBA Courtyard! 
HSTILL THE BEST" 
page 14 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
Maybe it was the frigid tem­peratures and snow flurries, or perhaps the shock of seeing the team's leading scorer Jenny Streiffer go down with 
a:n ankle injury in the first minute of the contest that left the Notre Dame women's soc­cer team back on its heels. 
Whatever the reason, the team warmed up quickly to defeat sixth-ranked Nebraska 6-0 in the second round of the NCAA tournament yesterday. 
"When Streiffer got hurt, everybody was kind of in shock," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "It took us a couple minutes just to figure out what was going on. We didn't even know on the bench whether she was going to stay in or come out. We were playing with 10 at that point because she was on (the field), but she wasn't running much. Ten against 11 is kind of tough." 
Losing a 50-plus point scorer could have been disastrous for another soccer team. But Notre Dame's depth and talent really showed, as the other 50­plus point scorers picked up the slack in Streiffer's absence. 
"I don't feel any pressure," said Meotis Erikson. who has 55 points for the Irish. "When you have people like Anne (Makinen), Monica Gerardo, Jenny Heft, Holly (Manthei), Shannon Boxx and all those other great players, there's no pressure. If you're not going to get it done somebody else will be there." 

Erikson opened the scoring for the Irish with an unassist­ed goal, her 21st of the year, from 18 yards out that found the upper left corner of the net. 
Five minutes later, Makinen recorded her 52nd point, col­lecting a loose ball and blast:. ing a shot through the hands of Nebraska goalkeeper Rebecca Hornbacher. 
"We were aware of what was going on (the injury to Streiffer), but it didn't really affect my game. or anyone else's," said Makinen. "I really didn't think about it that, much during the game." 
·Just over a minute later, Manthei took a perfect pass from Makinen that split the defense at midfield and capi­talized on a breakaway for just her fourth goal of the year. 
Before Nebraska could say "goodbye" to its NCAA tourna­ment hopes, the Irish had a 3­0 halftime lead. · 
"(Nebraska) deeided that they were going to try to be attack-oriented and play three in the back against us," said Petrucelli. "A number of teams have tried to do that against Cornhuskers came out firing in the second half, trying to erase the three-goal deficit, but goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene and the defense hung tough and preserved the 17th shutout of the season. Beene made six saves in the game, while Kate Sobrero, Jen Grubb and Kelly Lindsey kept the Nebraska front line from getting a clear look a the goal. 

us, and we  have  
exposed it."  
T  h  e  

"It's good to get some games in before you actual­ly get thrown into later rounds," said Beene. "It's nice to get a touch on the ball." 

The Irish offense also refused to yield in the second half, conneeting on The Observer/John Daily three more shots Meotis Erikson helped pick up the scoring slack when Jenny Streiffer suffered an in an eight-minute ankle injury in the first few minutes of Notre Dame's shutout victory over Nebraska. 
span. 
Forward Monica Gerardo, who notched a hat trick in first-round action against Cincinnati. stole the ball from a Nebraska defender and beat Hornbacher. 
At 60:16, Makinen added another unassisted goal. putting a free kick from 26 yards into the upper left cor­ner of the net beyond the goalie's outstretched arms. 
Erikson scored the game's final tally, putting a Manthei pass, her 30th assist of the season, into the back of the net. 

"When you're down two or three goals to nothing against a team like Notre Dame it's difficult to come back," said Nebraska head coach John Walker. 'They're just too good a team for us to have come back from that kind of deficit." 
Now only one team stands between the Irish and a trip to the NCAA Final Four in Greensboro, N.C.-UCLA. 
The Bruins knocked off Portland in the opening round before defeating SMU to advance to the Elite Eight, and will travel to Alumni Field for a meeting with the Irish Saturday. 
"I don't know that much about (UCLA)," said Petrucelli, "but we've got about six days to find some things out about them. 
"I think everybody would have considered themselves an underdog coming in," said Petrucelli. "''m very confident in our players, and I don't usu­ally get too concerned about the other opponent. I'm just concerned about us playing." 

... 
The Observer/John Daily 
Kate Sobrero played stellar defense, anchoring a back line that did not . The Observer/John Daily allow a goal for the 17th time this season. Nebraska goalie Becca Hornbacher (center) made several oustanding saves, but the Irish attack prevailed. 
-~-~---------------~-~-------­
Monday, November 24, 1997 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
A. NEW FOG. I5 ROLLING IN. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Words to remember
1 Tolerate 26 Let use
9 Food item introduced in 
28 Uses a coaster, 1968 
perhaps 
30 Tournament match 15 Trifling 

16 Some computer 31 Summerlike
keys 17 Got to 
33 Transfers, for a limited time, at18 Fairy tale lawheroine 35 Minimal19 Bygone measuretheaters 36 Kind of order 20Andrew 37 Handled easily, Carnegie and 

Alexander 
with "through" Graham Bell, by 41 Add more staff 
birth than 22 Chip maker 45 Split 2350's Reds star, 46 Big name in 
familiarly little books 24 Some time iri 48 Crime-fighters, Toledo for short 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
:I; 0 
<..> 
49 Summer clock setting: Abbr. so Tank 51 Bolt, perhaps 52 Ballantine and others 
54 Many churchgoers: Abbr. 
56 Island named for a figure in Hindu myth 
57 Unwelcome end, with "the" 59 Greek 61 Spread, as hay 62 Balance 63Giimpse 64 Having furrows 
DOWN 
1 Vivacity 2"That--!" 3 Rendering 4 Dundee 
denials s Bad: Prefix 6 Bother 7 Detainee's 
privilege 8 Newly appointed 
9 Catches 10 Sale abbr. 11 Snowballed 12 Columbo 
concerns 
14 "Perelandra" novelist 

THIS CAN ONL'( MEAN ONE. 
THING. 
\ 

21 Thelma of "The Maltese Falcon," 1931 
27 Like many tests 
28 "The Crucible" 
setting 
29 rransition 
30 Spectacle 
32 Relative of "i.e." 
34 Tangle 
37 Split 
38 Mark for cancellation 
39 Town on Lake Victoria 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Today's focus is on your relationships with others. Something differ­
. ent is happening, and it could work to your advan­tage. Discard what isn't working, and don't look back for a little while. 
Taurus: This is the per­fect day to start a new project or a new phase of your career. You are in the right state of mind get things done. Your activi­ties raise such a flurry that all the right people are sure to notice. 
Gemini: Today you gen­erate enough energy to light up everyone around you. Romance is in the air, and you are breathing deeply. Create, have fun, and don't worry about anything. 
Cancer: Home security and the stability of your living situation occupy your thoughts today. There are whispers and murmurs about moving, 
SCOTT ADAMS which is something you'd 

rather not do. Work out a 
c 

compromise.
u CA.R.OL, 5CI-IE.OULE A. 

Leo: Communication
STt-.H r-\EE.iiNG. 1.T'5 

between equals makes 
TII"\E TO RE.ORGANI'Z.E 

this day shine bright. THE. Ot.PA.RT I"\E. NT. 
Everyone works better when not constantly reminded of his or her place in the food chain. Learn a lesson from someone else's humanity. 
Virgo: Signing contracts today, and acquire new possessions. Get what you think you deserve in a tremendous forward rush. Indecision will grab you from behind if you stop moving. 
Libra: With the Moon in Libra's house, new adven­tures in partnership will 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
40 Battle, e.g. 53 Tarry in a tub 41 Secretly 54 Jazzman Baker 42 "Don't play with ss Score line 
me!" 56 Shannon's 

editors. 43 Net coach 44 Drew 581974 abduction 47 Carpentry 
grp. 

Join The Observer
tools 60My­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

be favored over the next 
few days. Whether you 
are in love, in business, or 
in the company of 
strangers, new bonds 
form between those who 
are willing to connect. 
Scorpio: Your energy is 
so low today that you feel 
like going back to bed. 
You become obsessed 
with trying to remember a 
dream from last night. 
Surrender feems like the 
preferred solution to most 
problems. 
Sagittarius: Today you are moved to be generous by the needs of others. Your leadership inspires co-workers. Your person­al integrity easily makes you the woman or man of the hour. 
Capricorn: Start new projects at the office today, or start off at a dif­ferent job altogether. You are the one who initiates what others have only thought about doing. Actions draw people's attention better than words. 
Aquarius: Your produc­tivity slips today, but being productive is the last thing on your mind. You have the solution to everything if only some­one would come and ask you for it. You could prob­ably use a vacation right now. 
Pisces:Today you find the solution to a long, infuriating mystery. Now that you have your answer, what do you pro­pose to do with it? Help someone else with solve her problem while you contemplate your next move. 


share the warmth. 
PR 
ECT 

WA~MTH 
come back from thank~giving with an old coat 
.
to give to 1n need.
~omeone 
staff. 
Makin' Life Happy 



St der1t Go v e rr1mer1 t 
.... 
-. 
-
-

Football 
1997 
Notre Dame 


Irish climb over 
21 

West Mountaineers 
Virginia 17 



SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, November 24, 1997 · 
• VO!..LEYBALL 
-
By BILL HART Sports Writer 
Since its inception into the Big East in 1995, Notre Dame's vol­leyball team has done nothing less than dominate the confer­ence. In three years, it has not lost a single match in confer­ence play, and has won two Big East conference title. 
This weekend, there was room for one more. 
Notre Dame's volleyball team, in a fashion that was unprece­dented in conference history yet not surprising to most experts, successfully defended and won its third consecutive conference title at the Big East Tournament on the campus of Seton Hall this weekend. 
On Friday night at the confer­ence's annual tournament ban­quet, five Notre Dame volleyball players were named to various Big East all-star teams. The highlight of the night came . when senior hitter Jaimie Lee was named Big East player of the year for the second straight year. During the conference season, Lee led the conference with a .451 hitting percentage while ranking fourth in the con­ference with 4.33 kills a game. In the six matches this season against nationally ranked oppo­
nents, Lee averaged 4.40 kills a  
game, including 20 kills against  
then-No.2 Florida.  
Lee, along with senior Angie  
Harris and sophomore Mary  
LeiTers, were named to the first  
team, while freshman setter  
Denise Boylan was named sec­ 
ond team and to the all-rookie  
squad. Freshman opposite  
Christi Girton rounded out the  
cast by also being named to the  
all-rookie team.  
Georgetown's Kiren Gill was  
named Big East rookie of the  
year while West Virginia's  
Veronica Hammersmith  
received the Big East coach of  
the year award.  
Competition began the next  
day, with first round matches  
played in the morning. Only two  
first round matches were  
played, since the No.1 and No.2  
seeds in the bracket received  
byes. As a result, Notre Dame's  
first opponent of the tournament  
would be No.5 seed Pittsburgh.  
In a mild upset, the Panthers  
defeated fourth-seeded Syracuse  
in four games. Pittsburgh has  
traditionally had great success  
in the Big East tournament, as it  
has gone to the champirmship  
match every year since 1987.  
However, this season it would  
The Observer/John Daily  
see V-BALL I page 11  Notre Dame flexed its muscles this weekend at the Big East tournament, grabbing a third straight title .  

• MEN's BASKETBALl.. 

The Observer/John Daily 
Senior Pat Garrity poured in 16 points in a losing effort for the Irish, 
who dropped a 72-48 contest to Marquette in Milwaukee on Friday.
-
Poor shooting plagues team 
By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
MILWAUKEE 
Three of the last five years, Marquette has led the nation with the lowest field goal per­centage allowed to its opponents. 
Friday night head basketball coach John MacLeod found out why. 
The defense of Golden Eagles set the tone for the game as Notre Dame shot just 28 percent 
. from the field in the first half and just 33 percent for the game. Marquette pushed its record to 2-0 with the 72-48 win while Notre Dame fell to 1-1 in front of more than 13,000 fans at Milwaukee's Bradley Center. 
"They looked razor sharp on defense," MacLeod commented. "They were more aggressive then we were tonight." 

The Marquette defense made Garrity work for all of his shots. He finished with 16 points and seven rebounds but failed to con­nect from three-point range. 
"They did a good job on me," Garrity explained. "There was a lot of help defensively and we weren't able to hit outside shots." 
Outside of Garrity, Notm Dame players could not hit many shots at all. Garrity was the only Irish player with more than one field goal in the first half, and the only one to score in double figures l'or the game. Take out Garrity's seven of 15 shooting, and the rest of the team shot a dismal 12 of 43 (27.9 percent). 
"We just weren't able to scoro," Garrity said, "we couldn't even score 50 points." 
The defense collapsed on Garrity, foreing the Irish guards to shoot. Freshman Martin Ingelsby drained two thnle­pointers in the second half. but thfn went cold. lngelsby, Antoni Wyche and Keith Friel shot a combined four-of-20, allowing Marquette to continue to conom­trate on Garrity in the post. 
Early foul trouble for Phil I Iickey kept him quiet in the first half as seven of his nine points came in the second half. Garrity also picked up his second foul in the first half, forcing Macleod to use a small and relatively inr.x­perienced linr.up in the closing minutes of the first ha!f that included Derek Manner, Todd Palmer, Hans Rasmussen, Keith Friel and Jimmy Dillon. 
A pair of 5-l"oot-10 guards, 
see B-BALL I page 12 

-
at Hawaii, ~:• vs. Lake Superior, ~November 29, TBA ;;, ~. November 29, 7 p.m. 
., aJ 
• Women's soccer advances in NCAAs 
Men's Basketball, ., ... vs. UCLA, vs. Northeastern ~ see page 14 
~ -e ....
.
.. 
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m.

\~ November 29, I p.m. 
• Women's Basketball, CIJ •Women's basketball falls to Duke 
see page 12 at UCSB, 

at UC Santa Barbara November 28, 5:30p.m. November 28, 7:00p.m. 






