
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 6 7 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Griffin's accuser receives threats Professor wins 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Associate News Editor 
Just as senior Jeremy Lingenfelser has been petitioning for a recall of stu­dent body president Matt Griffin. so oth­ers have been calling-prank calling that is-to punish him for making claims against Griflin. 
Thursday night, Lingenfelser received two phone calls from different voices which he did not recognize that threat­ened him physically. 
"The calls were pretty graphic," he said. "I was appalled." 
Lingenfelser continued that the calls included threats like "slicing [him] open with a knife," and that both callers claimed to be contacting him on behalf of Matt Griffin. 
Griffin responded to these claims by saying that he had no knowledge of the calls. 
'I'M IN NO POSITION TO CALL HIM. I HAVE NO NEED TO DO THAT.' 
MAn· GRIFFIN 
"Obviously I'd like to hear the calls myself to see if I can recognize the voic­es, but I give myself more credit than to ask someone to get in contact with [Lingenfelser] on my behalf. I'm in no position to call him. I have no need to do that," Griffin said. 
After receiving the calls, Lingenfelser reported them to Notre Dame Security/Police. 
"They said they would tap my phone if I wanted. They did not think that there would be much of a chance to catch the people who did this only using the two calls ... but they said that if it happened again, catching them would not be a problem," he said. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Security, said that he recalled seeing Lingenfelser's report of the incidents and discussed steps the department typically takes to try to track down a prank or threatening caller. 
see THREATS I page 4 

award for space probe addition 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN News Writer 
The Institute of Electrical and 
Electronical Engineers (IEEE) presented 
Oliver Collins, associate professor of electri­
cal engineering at Notre Dame with the 
prestigious 1998 Judith A. 
~= 
Resnik Award for his 
research in deep space 
communications. 
Collins' research played an integral role in the Galileo probe's ability to transmit information without requiring t e I e com m u n i cat i on s Collins upgrades. Galileo is cur­rently in orbit around Jupiter. 
Collins' theoretical and initial practical work eventually enabled the Jet Propulsion Laboratory to complete a decoding machine in 1990. 
"I always think you could interest the freshmen and sophomores a little more in electrical engineering if they could see the interesting things that they could eventually do that may be hard to see when they're slugging through a freshman circuits course," said Collins. 
''I'm hoping this will attract more good undergraduate and graduate students to the department," he added. 
Collins specializes in deep space commu­nications, satellite communications, and coding theory. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1995. 
After earning his bachelor's degree in engineering and applied science in 1986, Collins obtained his master's and doctoral degrees in electrical engineering in 1987 and 1989, respectively. All three degrees were from the California Institute of Technology. 
Collins is currently working on a project to improve multi-rate turbo codes with the chair of Notre Dame's electrical engineer­ing department, Dan Costello. 
''I'm still actively working on improving systems for deep space communication," said Collins. "Notre Dame's electrical engi­neering department is certainly a good one, and grants and awards receiv~d by its fac­ulty are one way to judge that program." 
The Judith A. Resnik Award, IEEE's high­est international honor, is presented annu­ally to a person for outstanding contribu­tions to space engineering. The contribu­tions must be within the realm of IEEE, the 
I 
see AWARD/ page 4 

New Jersey program recruits students to help youths 
By ERICA THESING 
News Wrirer 
Kids Corporation, an organization in Newark, N.J., that runs free summer schools and day camps for urban chil­dren, hopes to employ Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students as teaching assis­tants and counselors for its 1998 ses­sion. 
Michael Nolan, president of Kids Corporation, traveled to Notre Dame in mid-November to meet with prospec­tive employees. 
Students working with Kids Corp. may opt for a salary of $125 a week or work as volunteers through the Summer Service Project of the Center for Social Concerns. The summer ser­vice project option offers a $1700 tuition scholarship and course credit in theology. 
The most important quality for a 
potential Kids Corp. employee is an gram." ability to get along with other people, The educational aspect is key to Kids according to executive director Orlando Corp., which operates four summer 
Perozzi. Perozzi said that he also looks for a love of children and a desire to work amoTig them. 
Perozzi empha­
sized the impor­tance of Kids Corporation in 
Newark. 
"We're the only free program in New Jersey. 
'OUR STUDENTS HAVE A REALLY GOOD TIME WHILE THEY ARE HERE. THEY WORK HARD AND PLAY HARD.' 
SUE CUNNINGHAM DIRECTOR OF SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
schools for kindergarten through fifth grade. Each school has 100 to 125 students staffed by one certified teacher and two college students. 
The college stu­dents are assigned to teach all age levels in a 
Without our program, the kids wouldn't be doing anything in Newark besides sitting on the sidewalk," he said. 
"Without Kids Corp., there would be 8,000 kids not involved in any pro­gram, much iess an educational pro-specific area such as science, math, language arts, social studies or the his­tory of Newark. 
Kids Corp. operates a rural day camp outside of New Jersey as both an incen­tive for its summer school kids and a supplement to other day camps in the area, such as Boys and Girls Clubs. 
If the summer school students attend class four days a week, they are rewarded with a day at the rural day camp. The camp offers three challenge courses, a 300-foot zipline, nature studies and a stable full of animals. 
The Newark children are not the only ones who benefit from camps and sum­mer school, according to Perozzi. He feels that the college students on the staff also learn a great deal throughout the summer. 
"They find out a lot about themselves and are able to take challenges and meet challenges," he said. "It's more of an adventure. The individual learns to grow." 
Sue Cunningham, director of the summer service projects, agrees with 
see PROGRAM/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
A Christmas revisited 
My youngest brother Patrick calls the bald spot on the back of his head, "God's little stamp of love." 
I call it the best gift I've ever been given. 
Christmas vacation two years ago started off like 

every other long break: 
Allison Koenig my other brother Nick Assisram News Ediror managed to get out of school that last Friday of finals to drive up and bring me home on Saturday. During the drive home to Indianapolis, we discussed our Christmas lists and the fact that the gifts would be limited under the tree that year, due to the January opening of our par­ents' first business. We arrived home to find Patrick, who was 11 at the time, sick with the stomach flu. Annoyed that we had to put off our annual visit to Santa's lap until Patrick felt better, Nick and I kept our distance from our germy little brother. By next morning, Patrick's fever had esca­lated to a dangerous 104·, and my mother and I decided to take him to the emergency room. Late that night, my father called home to report that Patrick was in critical condition, and was being transferred to Riley Children's Hospital, where the staff could better accom­modate his needs. No one knew what was wrong. Worse yet, no one seemed to know how to fix it. In a matter of 36 hours, our original, selfish annoyance with Patrick's health turned into panic, guilt, and fear when the doctors told us he would not be home for Christmas. My parents became permanent fixtures in Riley's Intensive Care Unit, where Patrick slept in a drug induced coma to give his body and the nine or so intravenous medicines a chance to fight the infections. The doctors told us he might not come home at all, ever. And if by some miracle he sur­vived the deadly combination of pneumonia and influenza, he would surely suffer perma­nent heart and lung damage. Christmas gifts, or the lack thereof, became the least of our worries. Outwardly, I was strong for our family. I continued to work my law firm internship while keeping up with the nightly barrage of phone inquiries about Patrick's condition. In secret, I called my best friend in California and racked up $100 worth of phone calls, during which all I did was cry. Nick was in complete denial of the fact that we were about to lose our best friend. Mom and Dad remained positive, and they resided constantly at Patrick's bedside, leaving only to shower and eat. · After two weeks of keeping vigil over Patrick's limp, delicate body, the incredible doctors of Riley Hospital, including Saint Mary's alum Ann Farell, delivered to us the best gift that could ever have been given. They gave us Patrick back. The only permanent damage is the bald spot, resulting from his drawn-out, immobile position in bed. Forgive me if I don't get excited about Christmas gifts. Nothing in a box can top my beautiful, funny, intelligent baby brother. Merry Christmas, Patrick. God knows that Christmas was not happy without you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Accent 
Allison Koenig Andrea Jordan Bill Uniowski Joey Crawford Sarah Hansen Graphics 
Sports Pete Cilella Kevin Robinson Production Viewpoint Mark DeBoy Mary-Margaret Nussbaum Lab Tech Anthony Shaker 
Th~ Obs~rv~r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish~d Monday through Friday exc~pt during ~um and vacation periods. The Observ~r is a m~mber of th~ Associated Press. All r~production rights ar~ reserved. 



utside· the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Police arrest Columbia student for repeated harassment 
NEW YORK 
A Columbia sophomore was arrested inside a university resi­dence hall last Tuesday and subse­quently charged in Manhattan Criminal Court with seven counts of both first-degree harassment and second-degree aggravated harass­ment. 
The student was released from custody after posting $1,000 bail, according to Fredericka Jacks, a spokesperson for the Manhattan District Attorney's Office. 
A memo from Columbia Security dated last Thursday and addressed to all .. Dormitory Security Desks" stated that the student had been declared "Persona Non Grata on all Columbia property" and "should not be admitted to any dormitory or academic building." 
According to a copy of a formal complaint against the student filed in criminal court on Wednesday, the defendant is alleged to have been stalking another current Columbia student since 1994. 

The specific charges of harass­ment and aggravated harassment stem from a period of time between November 18 and 25 when the defendant is alleged to have sent threatening voice and e-mail mes­sages to that student stating his intentions to sexually assault and kill her. 
In addition to the measures taken by Columbia Security to keep the alleged harasser off campus, an Order of Protection has been issued by a criminal court judge. The order bars the defendant from communi­cation with the complainant. 
According to the District Attorney's office, harassment and aggravated harassment are both misdemeanors punishable by up to a year in prison. . 
The University Rules of Conduct prohibit "harassment of others in the University community" and the Dean of Students' office oversees disciplinary action in such matters. 
Director of Communications Anne Canty said Friday that the Dean of Students' office at Columbia College had been made aware of the situa­tion. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Campus judicial systems face change 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Some federal lawmakers want to break down the walls of secrecy surrounding campus judicial systems. But if their legislation passes, administrators and victims' rights advocates across the country -including an MSU official -said it would deter people from reporting crimes. The 1997 Accuracy in Campus Crime Reporting Act would make several changes in policy regarding campus crime statistics, crime logs, campus disciplinary hearings and records. The proposal, which is pending in a House sub­committee, would require all U.S. colleges and universities that receive federal funding to open their campus discipli­nary proceedings and records involving criminal allega­tions to the public. Marie Hansen, director of Judicial Affairs at MSU, said opening campus judicial hearings to the public would discourage people from reporting crimes and participating in judicial hearings. 
• RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 

Police arrest athlete for lewd behavior 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
University police arrested a first-year student Wednesday afternoon, charging him with lewd behavior, harassment and burglary. Maurice Brown, a Scarlet Knight basketball player from Syracuse, N.Y., turned himself in after police contacted him and informed him that a university female filed a complaint against him, Chief Anthony Murphy of the Rutgers University Police Department said. According to police, the victim filed the complaint Nov. 24, hours after Brown allegedly entered her room without her permission, while she was sleep­ing. Brown is currently at the Middlesex County Correctional Facility in North Brunswick in lieu of $10,000 bail, because his parents have beert unable to raise· the money, Murphy said. Police are not disclosing the details of any of the charges or the name of the resi­dence hall where the incident allegedly took place to protect the privacy of the victim, and because the investi­gation is still continuing. Brown has been suspended indefinitely according to guidelines set by the Division of Intercollegiate Athletics. 
• UNIVERSITY Or MICHIGAN Sororities vote on new alcohol policy 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A new bring-your-own-beverage policy will be signed Tuesday night by several University sororities. ''I'm real­ly proud of the way {the sororities) have taken the prob­lem and tried to eradicate it," said Panhellenic president Shelby Brown. Delta Delta Delta sorority president Katie Heid, who helped create the policy, said the agreement aims to ensure that all sorority and fraternity members involved in a party will supply their own alcohol and that no community source of alcohol will be present. Each time a fraternity and sorority house holds a party together, a contract will be written stating the party will require attendees to provide their own beverages, along with information about the time, location and sororities or fraternities involved, Heid said. "Everyone who signs the policy is planning on going BYOB as of January 1st," she said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-ARLINGTON 
Tuition may earn tax credit 
ARLINGTON, Texas 
Beginning in January, tuition costs and related expenses may earn income tax credit for some students or their par­ents under a new Internal Revenue Service provision. Taxpayers who pay post secondary education tuition may be eligible to claim non refundable Hope Scholarship Credit when reporting taxes for 1998, Shirley Binder, vice presi­dent for student enrollment, said Tuesday. "This is nice, a wonderful boon for whoever's paying the tuition, whether it's the student or their parents," Binder said. The Hope Scholarship Credit, a Bill Clinton initiative named for the president's home town, does not apply to expenses paid before Jan. 1, 1998, nor can it be claimed for tuition paid in 1997 to cover academic periods in 1998. Under the pro­vision, up to 100 percent of the first $1,000 and 50 percent of the next $1,000 of tuition and other related expenses, may be claimed for income tax credit by whoever pays a student's tuition. Some restrictions do apply though. To claim the credit the student must be enrolled at least part­time, in one of the first two years of post secondary educa­tion and in a program leading to a degree. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 9. 
, ·-----J~............... .......................... 

H 
Tuesdc.y ~ 33 Wednesday (J 3 2 ThursQay (J 31 
< ~ 30
Friday ·=·.·:·:=··:· ,_...
·:· : 
/ j 

Saturday /b 30 
' ~ ....\l"-'..-........., ;"" ~.....; •. 
,..,, "' 


Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
L 
30 28 27 
26 

24 
Pressure 
H L 6] ~ [!]] 0 (Z]Q i) ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~5Q.~A~8 (f ~ ~ 
Boston 42 23 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 35 27 
V'1<1 Associated Press GraphiCSNet 

Dallas 64 45 
Atlanta 48 38 Baltimore 43 34 
Indianapolis  37  34  Phoenix  56  42  
Memphis  56  34  San Francisco 54  45  
New Orleans  75  63  Savannah  76  52  
New York  43  25  Seattle  46  35  
Pittsburgh  41  33  St. Louis  37  37  

, 

Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

'Irish Elves' to fulfill local families' wishes 
Special To The Observer participating dorm with a for­vide holiday products such as Cavanaugh, Carroll, Dillon, 
merly dependent family trying decorations and candy. Each Farley, Fisher, Knott, Lewis,
Notre Dame's student govern­to make it on their own. dorm has the option of deliver­O'Neill, Pangborn, Stanford,ment's social concerns commit­"This is a great opportunity ing the gifts to the family per­Walsh and Welsh are participat­tee is working with the South for Notre Dame students to get sonally, or turning in the gifts to ing in the "!rish Elves" pro­Bend community to make this involved," said Andrea Selak, a student government on gram.
Christmas a little happier for social concerns committee Wednesday. Beth Wladyka, a social con­those in need. chairperson. 
Suggestions for raising the cerns committee chairperson is 
As part of a program dubbed, 
The Center provided the necessary funds include collec­very supportive of the program. "Irish Elves," the committee dorms with a "wish list" from tions at dorm masses, dorm sec­"I think this service not onlyasked each dorm to sponsor a the families to give the dorms tion contests or the assignment helps the community, but also 
family in the area. The Center 
suggestions for gifts. of a family member to a section promotes dorm unity. It is nice for the Homeless Outreach The dorms arc asked to fulfill or floor of the dorm. to know that we, as a communi­Families sector matched each the wish list requests and pro-This holiday season, ty can be of some help." 

To be part of a small faith sharing group.... To deepen understanding of Scripture.... To pray for world concerns.... To be guided by the Spirit.... 
To celebrate, sing, and .give praise! 
Discover Emmaus!! 
Information and applications in your Hall or Campus Ministry. For questions please call631-5242 and ask for 0MPUS 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~t~e·~·~lo~h~n~.~S~y~l~vuz~·~·~.l~im~.~C~h~a~n~d~r~a~.~o~rS~a~ra~h~.~~~~~~tV11~N~ISTRY~~~~~~ 
page 3 

Police try to prevent field rush 
ByKATRINA STAUDE Tht:: Manearer (UniversityQfMissouri) 

COLUMBIA, Mo. 
Hundreds ofstudents rushed onto Faurot Field after the Nov. 15 victory against Baylor. They uprooted the north goal post without a hitch but had more trouble with the south etid. where the ·University of Missouri Police Department officers used night sticks and pepper spray to stop the crowd. 
University officials are still revieWing the .b~st course of action in dealing with students charging the football field . 
.. ~~After the game.J heards?iJW oflice~s. Ul,Ikf~g a.tlQutthe 
incident " said an MU student 
·:' .-·:= :. -_,' :. ' _--·::---;,-,: ··:· __ :(:·:'::?::-':-_:_:,:::·-::_.:·. '. :-:-..:.·-__:_.-__ ::·.::-:··:-~--:-: 
who ·asked to l'~tth~in anoriy~" m~us>tfOne officer sajd thatit wiiS the first tinie he'd had tu use his nightstickin''20. years. H~ logk¢d. as ~,ll~ugh .he regr~t~~(l. that l1e\(i h~q to do··. it, butit was a art ofhis ·ob." H ~()me/stud~h.t'~J Sl].c~···· a.s Damon .Weatherspoon,. won;. dered how necessar)' the COrn~ binef.i use offorce ana pepper spra,y was and ~hat will he dop~ to s~op stll.~e:Qf$ .•the next.·· tiriie . .they charge the field. .. ; o~If ..~··asn'.ft~ (l,t> sefi(>'Us.~·~: Weatllerspo3J:l said.•.·•'"There had to be another way to deal 
~~Y~ti¢1!. Qii'~~~~r <Jo~' ~'~\;~~~j~6kMI(Jr~~J~~~~t ··· wa,yt~-~,!feal Witli.th~~~tua,tion.· 
L_ __ 
--~------------~-~~------.......---,______
_ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 9, 1997 

Program 
continued from page I 
Perozzi. 
"Our students have a really good time while they are there," she said. "They work hard and play hard." 
The college student who work for Kids Corporation all live at camp. The 40 employ­ees share responsibilities, such as cooking for the staff. 
Perozzi describes the camp as rustic, noting that the near­est grocery store is eight miles away. 
"The living situation makes all the difference in the world," he said. "It's part of the lifestyle. It's a growing up experience." 
Christine Gabany, a Notre 
Dame junior who worked as a counselor at the camp as a summer service project, also feels that the unique living sit­uation is key to the experi­ence. 
She explained that Kids Corporation intentionally hires employees with diverse ethnic and social backgrounds. 
"There was a whole world at camp that wasn't camp. You got to know a lot of different people and you got to live with them," she said. "One of my best friends now is a guy from Newark." 
Perozzi estimates that about 25 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have worked for Kids Corporation in the past. The mid-November meeting at the Center for Social Concerns generated several applications for next summer's program. 

Threats 
continued from page 1 
"First, we get the person th~t the [phone] line is going to. They have to sign off so a trap can be put on their line," Hurley said. 
. "Once we've completed an investigation, if we discover the person making the calls, the case would be presented to the St. Joseph County prosecutor, and a copy would also be given to Student Affairs," he continued. 
He noted that all further action after the apprehension of a caller is based upon the wish­es of the victim. 
Hurley said he could not comment further on the investigation, but Lingenfelser said that he has not received any more threatening calls since Thursday. 
Heather MacKenzie contributed to this report. 
That time of the year ... 


For Immediate Service Ca II 
Don at Rafferty's Body Shop 
. 683-1510 

Notre Dame. 


enanzgans 
Singing and Dancing Ensemble 
Winter Concert 
Tuesday, Dec. 9 8:00pm Washington Hall 


Free Adntission 

UWfENtr1fQ())MfE 
in no time. We love you! 

Dad, Mom, Kelly & Jared 

'N'E'ETI A STUDY BR'EAJC?? Come to the ... 
Women's Resource Center 

Monday, 12/8-Friday, 12112 Montgomery Theatre, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Monday, 12/8 7pm Thelma and Louise Tuesday, 12/9 7pm The Color Purple Wednesday, 12/10 7pm Heathers Thursday, 12/11 7pm Alien Friday, 12/12 7pm Chasing Amy 
Refreshments will be served!!! All films will begin at 7:00 pm Everything is Free!!! 


Established by the IEEE Board of Directors in 1986 to commemorate the late continued from page 1 Challenger astronaut, the award consisting of a bronze 

Award 
largest and most prestigious 
medal, a certificate and
society of electrical engineers 
$3,000.

in the world. 
Happy Birthday Derek! 
From 
())~HE 
to 


Tuesday, December 9, 1997 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
NASA officially recognizes first black astronaut 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
Let the history books now show that before there was Guy Bluford, Ron McNair or Mae Jemison. there was Air Force Maj. Robert Lawrence Jr., America's first black astro­naut. Thirty years to the day after his death in a jet crash, Lawrence was recognized offi­cially Monday as an astronaut. In a ceremo­ny replete with Air Force and NASA honors, his name was added to the astronauts' memorial. The move came after a long bureaucratic dispute over the definition of an astronaut. "History being rewritten -and corrected," said his widow, Barbara Lawrence of Chicago. "It was a long time coming," added Beverly Lawrence franklin, a cousin from Gary, Ind. "But we're glad we finally got it." "Amen!" said Franklin's daughter, Charmaine Burns. The 32-year-old test pilot never flew the required 50 miles up to earn his Air Force astronaut's wings. But he was a member of the Air Force's manned orbiting laboratory program, and had he lived, he probably would have transferred over to NASA, as many of his colleagues did after the Air Force canceled the program in 1969. More than 350 people -including nearly 50 family members from around the country, with the notable exception of Lawrence's only child -gathered for the ceremony at the Astronauts Memorial Foundation's Space Mirror. 
Bird flu kills two in Hong Kong 
HONG KONG 
A flu strain previously found only in birds has killed a second person in Hong Kong, but the illness does not appear to spread from human to human, a health official says. The flu strain has infected three other people in llong Kong since May, but the virus is not widespread, Dr. Paul Saw, Hong Kong's deputy director of health, said Sunday. "Our initial findings of the first four cases have shown that the virus does not appear to have human-to-human transmission," said Saw, who heads an investigation team that includes U.S. medical experts. "To rule out this possibility, we need further tests and fur­ther investigation," he said at a news confer­ence, also attended by Dr. Keiji Fukuda, an expert from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. The flu's most recent vic­tim, a 54-year-old man, died Friday. A13­year-old girl is hospitalized with the viral strain, known as HSN1 influenza A. In May, a 3-year-old Hong Kong boy died from the virus. the first known case of human infec­tion. Last month. a 2-year-old boy suspected of having the virus was hospitalized but recovered. The Hong Kong government has asked the World Health Organization to inves­tigate the cause of the mysterious cases. 

S&P 500: 
Composite
982.37 Volume:8110.84 -1.42 495,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CQM£.6lSl: IIC~EB 1!h CIJ&lSG~ l "!.ll:ll ~BICE 
APPLIX INC APLX 41.46 +2.125 7.25 EUTO TECH IILD-Wr CLWWF 38.46 +0.625 2.25 USWEB CORP USWB 31.25 +3.187 13.125 MVSI INC-WTS MVSIW 30.77 +0.500 2.125 COMMODORE SEPERA CXOT .l0.62 +0.468 2.00 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
MICROPROSF. INC MPRS 50.66 ·2.25 2.31 DELTA PETROLEUM DI'TR .l3.75 ·0.75 1.65 BLUE DOLI'IIII' EGY BDCOD 23.81 ·1.00 5.00 SUNHASE ASIA ASIA 20.66 ·0.50 2.H6 CELEBRITY SYSTE~1S Cl.RT 19.]5 ·1.50 3.13 

Officials release Hight 800 transcript 
Federal hearings probe fatal crash 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BALTIMORE 

In the final moments before TWA 
Flight 800 blew up, pilots chatted 
about restless passengers, a wildly 
fluctuating fuel gauge and how the jet 
was handling sluggishly, like a "home­
sick angel." 
At the end, there is an abrupt, tenth-of-a-second noise that trails off into silence, possibly the sound of the center fuel tank exploding. 
The 54-page transcript released Monday during the opening of federal hearings into the July 17, 1996, disas­ter was described by investigators as routine conversation, revealing noth­ing unusual leading up to the blast aboard the Paris-bound flight that killed all 230 people aboard. 
Having ruled out a bomb or missile, investigators are searching for a mechanical explanation for the explo­sion in the Boeing 747's center fuel tank. Their goal: to prevent something similar from happening again. 
The weeklong hearings are intended. to gather facts, and a probable cause will not be determined until late next year. 
National Transportation Safety Board Chairman James Hall warned victims' relatives attending the hear­ings that they might want to leave the room before another exhibit -a videotape simulation that chronicled the disaster second by second, picking up where the cockpit voice recorder left off. 
It shows the explosion, the nose of the plane shearing oiT, while the fuse­lage continues to rise. Suddenly, the plane slows and begins dropping, div­ing for a long time before bursting into flames and crashing into the Atlantic Ocean off New York's Long Island. 
On the transcript, a comment from Investigators have said the flight tine. TWA Capt. Steven Snyder, six minutes data recorder showed nothing unusu­At 8:30:15 p.m., Boston Air Traffic before the explosion, appeared al. Control told Flight 800 that it could intriguing and a little eerie. Then, two minutes before the explo­climb from 13,000 to 15,000 feet. 
"Seems like a homesick angel here," sion, Snyder said: "Look at that crazy "Climb thrust," Snyder said before Snyder said, using pilot lingo to say fuel flow indicator there on No. 4. See quickly adding, "Climb to one the plane did not seem to be going as that." five thousand." 
fast as it should. Alfred Dickinson, the NTSB chief "Power's set," said flight engineer 
"It's bleeding off airspeed," Capt. investigator, testified that it is not Richard Campbell, indicating that he Ralph Kevorkian responded, implying unusual for the indicator to fluctuate. had adjusted the power to allow the that the minor decrease in speed was Investigators cautioned that the tran­plane to go higher. It was 8:30:35 p.m. not a problem. script can be misleading if parts are Those were the last words from the 
"Yeah," Kevorkian said, ending that taken out of context. Dickinson said plane. Thirty-seven seconds later, it discussion . the pilot communications seemed rou-blew up. 

• ENVIRONMENTAL SUMMIT 
China refuses tO decrease emissionsff; 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  nearing their final talks.  ·  . gy use in the 21st ce,ntury.  UnitedStates.  
; ·····~·  ·.... .·.. /The  KYOTO, Japanworld sbouldn•t  Like other developing nations. China believes that since powers. such as  China, like other devel­oping countries;Js amajor greenh9use gas''prqducer,  •"China is moving in the right diredion now," she.·· said ln an interview in.·  
expect China to take part  the United States hav~  · but it still only produces  Kyoto. "We need to have  
in any binding agreement  produced  most  of +be  one.,.tenth the carbon diox-'  an agreement by industri­ 
for cutting back gas emis­ world's greenhouse gases  .ide  per ·capita  as  the  alized nations that will  
sions tied to global warm­ -byproducts of fossil fuel  United States, and it has  motivate China and other  
ing, a Chinese delegate to the Kyoto climate forum  burning that trap heat in the atmosphere -the 34  taken steps that have cut the growth of it~ emis­.... ' .  developing nations to do more,"  
said Monday.  industrial countries at the  sions~  One report fouJ1d that  ·  
"It is not possible for the  conference should accept  "We have done two stud­ between  1990-91  and  
Chinese government to  mandatory cutback targets  ies that challenge the myth  1995-96, total fossil fuel  
undertake the obligation of  alone.  that China isn't doing any­ subsidies in 14 developing  
the reduction of green..;  That could make it diffi­ thing when it comes to  countries declined 45 per­ 
house gases until China  cult for Vice President Al  global warming... said Liz  cent. The reduced subsi­ 
works its way out of Third  Gore to persuade the U.S.  Cook. a senior associate of  dies led  to  higher fuel  
World poverty." Yaobang  Senate  to  accept  an  the  World  Resources  prices and reduced rates  
Chen told delegates from  unprecedented  global  Institute, an authoritative  .of growth in consumption  
150 countries, who were  agreement to control ener­ research  group  in  the  and carbon emissions.  








OINT 
page 6 Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heuher Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifor Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the_ Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofthe authors, and not neces­sarily thos<O ofThe Obs.:rver. Viewpoint space is available to all memb<:rs of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
Managing Editor  63 I -4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoim E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• SHADES OF GRAY 

How to Pull the Perfect.All-Nighter 
"DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I tvA~ "!JE GlJY aHO
NICE 

70Mf.&T Sl'Rif'Pt[)t:VRING I!VRE£T. w, 7Hl3 !JCQVN 64ff;70 I)AMN, THATS A 70 PROTe3T... UMM. 7lJ GI?&ATWG-55.
alRRffl. 

I ~\ '\ 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
''John Lennon didn't 
believe in the Beatles, he believed in himself. But, then again, he was the Walrus. I could be the Walrus." 
-Ferris Bueller 

I Folks, finals season is upon us, and there are plenty of finals freaks running around. I know, because I'm one of them. But it's also Christmas-time, and in the spirit of giving, I've decided to perform my annual service project today. Thank me later. Before I give you your Christmas gift. understand that I am not responsible if you die or are otherwise permanently dam­aged as a result of your reading this column. Without further ado, I give you -The Perfect All­Nighter. You say you need to learn the history of the world before tomor­row morning? Here are a few guidelines given to me by an advi­sor at the University of Texas dur­ing freshman orientation. Most of these tips came from a 1989 arti­cle in "In View" by Julia Califano. Take it from an all-nighter veter­an. These really work. Rule 1. Take a short nap during the early evening. This will put off the first yawns, which will occur at your usual bedtime. Regardless, though, by 10 or 11 p.m., you'll experience your first dip in alertness. The key to the perfect all-nighter is to work through your lapses in concentra­tion. It'll get easier as the night progresses. Rule 2. Body temperature is tied to your alertness, and the warmer the room is, the sleepier you'll feel. Brave the cold, and put on a sweater. Rule 3. The greatest all-nighter myth is that if a little caffeine is good, a lot is better. At some point, caffeine ceases to make you feel awake and starts making you feel antsy. Stick to the best stimu­lants -exercise and conversa­
tion. 

Rule 4. As the night wears on, you'll start to lose your focus, so tackle the really difficult material first. If you have to write a paper, write the important sections first. Leave the easy stuff for later, when you don't have to be at your 

Isaac Ruiz 
witty best. 
Rule 5. Avoid large meals. They'll only make you drowsy. Instead, nibble on fruits, carrot sticks, or fat-free yogurt. 
Rule 6. By 3 a.m., you'll start feeling more alert. Your body temperature is rising and you're cranking out anti-derivatives faster than you can say logarithm. If you've been planning on taking a 15-minute nap at about this time, don't! The moment you shut your eyes, you'll fall into deep sleep, and you won't get back to work for another hour. 
Rule 7. At about 4 or 5 a.m., you'll really want to get some sleep. A two-hour nap probably won't hurt, especially if you're ordinarily an early riser. 
Rule 8. 6 a.m. Rise (from your desk) and shine! It's daytime again. Step out and smell the sweet Michiana morning. 
Rule 9. I know you won't believe me, but carbohydrates are bad. Protein produces small amounts of tryptophan, an amino acid which contributes to the pro­duction of serotonin, believed to cause sleepiness. When carbs and protein combine, they act to divert other amino acids from the brain, giving tryptophan exclusive access to your brain. You'll be snoozing in no time. Stick to just proteins. 
Rule 10. No fatty foods. Duh. 

Rule 11. It's 8 a.m. -test time. If you're normally a late sleeper and you put your head down an hour before a morning exam, you won't make the test. Exercise and eat a high-protein, low-fat break­fast. Take a shower (most of you will need it), and go to class. 
Rule 12. After the exam, you can eat all those carbohydrates you've been denying yourself. But whatever you do, do not sleep for the rest of the day. A short nap is fine, but unless you wait until nighttime, you'll really screw up your sleep cycle. 
Rule 13. Your all-nighter is·fin­ished. You'll probably feel alert despite your lack of sleep. But driving home for Christmas is a no-no. You'll be more tired than you feel. 
Rule 14. It's nighttime again. Sleep. 

Of course, you should probably avoid cramming when you can. The best all-nighter can't beat the semester-long effort your profs expect from you. If you find your­self cramming for all of your exams, you may want to reevalu­ate your study habits for next semester. 
Issac Ruiz is a first-year law student. !lis column appears every other Tuesday. 

The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe columnist and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
.....~-----_...._....__............._.-......_...------------~-....... 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 page 7 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Lingenfelser Explains Recall 
I want to address the student is related to their content. Saying where the allegations in "The body concerning the proposed that our president has involved Gipper" were originally coming recall of student body president himself in "actions unbecoming from. I questioned a lot of differ­Matt Griffin. In particular, I would for a person in his position of ent people. The facts in the peti­like to respond to some of the let­responsibility" is tough to prove tion are from both insiders and ters printed in Friday's issue, and without making vague statements outsiders of the Student Union. to dispel some myths and rumors backed up by specific facts. The ethics committee of the around campus. Besides, I doubt that Mr. Griffin Student Senate itself has said Mr. 
First, I would like to discuss would like me to make public Griffin is guilty of most of these specifically some of the ludicrous many of the specific ethic viola­charges. Not only that, but also notions raised by our student sen­tions. there are others that he is guilty ators. They have insisted that they Next, I would like to discuss my of that are still in front of the feel insulted that an outsider has motives. I find it unsurprising that ethics committee. Not only has the invaded student government. We the people on Mr. Griffin's side ethics committee already found may be outsiders, but this is our want to make my motives the him guilty of past improprieties, Student Union. Mr. Chapski's dominant issue, not the actual but it is currently considering frantic attempt to steer people content of the petition. Once even more. Just ask any ethics away from the truth by dwelling again, Griffin's supporters committee member whether the on two isolated imprecisions attempt to distract us from dis­mismanagement of $5,000 from ignores the big picture. None of cussing the truth. Well, for the SMC into the president's account, Griffin's supporters ever mention record, I honestly believe that Mr. instead of going to the general his mismanagement of well over Griffin is guilty of all the charges student union fund, is being dis­$20,000. He has attempted to cir­on the petition. Our Student cussed. They will answer "no cumvent the checks and balances Senate is not doing its job. comment." They cannot discuss in the student constitution by Although the ethics committee any charges currently in front of signing for a computer for his has stated that he is guilty of most them. I am sure time will show office without getting approval of these charges, it has failed to that there is truth in all of these from the student treasurer, or the take any punitive action. This is charges. Student Activities office. This fail­why the recall article is in the In conclusion I would like to ure to properly manage our stu­constitution. As students, we feel applaud his friends for their loyal­dents' funds is our greatest con­responsible for what we deem an ty to Mr. Griffin. The ex-room­cern about his presidency. Even if embarrassment to our university. mate and close friends who have these were "well-intentioned mis­I am leading the recall because it written their letters to the editor takes," they are grounds for is the right thing to do. People have, I am sure, comforted him impeachment. We will not tolerate have said, "This is not a nice thing and helped Mr. Griffin through mismanagement of student gov­to do." While this may not be nice, this tough time. But they have all ernment. We must enforce the sometimes the hard right must be failed to mention the facts. Why checks and balances of our consti­chosen over the nice and easy won't they address the specific tution. We must recall this presi­wrong. charges made in the petition? The dent. Finally, let me discuss the most facts are against them. 
Mr. Griffin responds that the misguided point that my detrac­I hope this letter removes some petition is "vague" and full of tors raise, my sources. Freshman doubt surrounding this issue. "inaccuracies." But he himself is Kyle Owens is quick to point out Please feel free to contact me at vague about what is inaccurate that "The Gipper" is not a reliable any time about this petition. My about it. Yes, some of the ethics source. I applaud Mr. Owens for number is 634-3447. I will be charges are vague, by necessity. his scientific conclusion. happy to talk the issues over with But other charges are very specif­Obviously he is one of our honor anybody. 
ic. Failing to attend the fall lead­students. But the close reading of ership retreat is not a vague The Observer articles would show Jeremy Lingenfelser charge. Failing to abide by the that my source is not "The Senior, Morrissey Manor Student Senate ruling on the con­Gipper" but the original source of December 7, 1997 troller issue is very specific. The "The Gipper." I spent hours of vagueness of some of the charges research in order to find out 
Bring Back Chivalry 
From an early age it was impounded into my brain by both my mother and father (and probably all that Catholic schooling) that men and women were created equal. Men were not always better than women at math. Or driving. Or sports. I was convinced and a true believer, especially in the realm of sports. That gender equality lecture finally sunk in in the seventh grade when a male in my class ignorantly told me, "Girls cannot play baseball." I played first base for my school's team. Therefore, I did not agree. I angri­ly asked him, "What did you hall, with either my name written on the board, a notice slipped into my mailbox or a message left on my machine asking me to pick up my flowers at the front desk. 
This isn't too hard of a concept to grasp. Some peo­ple are just a little slower to catch on than others. For example, a close male friend of mine and I first formed our bond when he asked me if I wanted to help him rebuild a Barracuda his dad haq just bought him. I had no idea what he was asking, but I said 
"yes" anyway. It turns out a 

say?" He never did answer, Barracuda is an old car, imagine however. I sort of knocked him that. We still joke around that we 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Last Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry Class says Goodbye 
E
arlier this semester we were described as "elders" in an article in Viewpoint and rightfully so. Although we're considered students, the youngest in our program is 40 and the oldest is 71. We're only here for one semester, not a four-or five-year academic career. We already have masters degrees or more. We're ordained priests and/or vowed religious repre­senting numerous dioceses and religious orders from across the country and around the world. We come to be updated and learn new things about the Church, to sharpen our skills to become better as Pastors, preach­ers, missionaries, educators and administrators. We've come here to participate in a sabbatical program that was started over 20 years ago by Fr. Bob Pelton, C.S.C., and has been part of the Institute for Church Life here atND. 
We've spent time together in prayer and celebrated the Eucharist together often, sometimes using residence hall chapels instead of our own in Browson. We're the grey-headed ones in the computer clusters stumbling through e-mail and the like, trying to keep in touch with family and friends and even parishioners or diocesan offices instead of writing papers and doing research. We're the ones often mistaken for someone's parents or grand­parents in the North Dining Hall and have to explain our meal cards 
to any new atten­dants. We're the ones who had to show our ID to numerous ushers at pep-rallies so we could be admitted to the student section. We're also the ones who asked for a little more respect at football games -you couldn't move us out of our seats like other students! We're also the ones who have been asked on various occasions by students and some staff for confession or counselling. 
Now our time together with each other and here at Notre Dame is about over. On Friday we will take our leave to go back to our ministries, parishes, religious orders and dioceses, renewed and ready to face the challenges of being priests, Sisters and Brothers in today's Church and in today's world. 
I can't speak for the entire group of 42 but I can say that our overall experience was positive. We were the first in a long time in this program to actually be on campus for our meetings and liturgies while those for the last decade before us met in James Hall at Holy Cross College where they also lived. With Holy Cross going residential our program han to move, and we were skeptical at first as to how this new arrangement would work. We lived ofT campus and commuted or walked daily, ate in the dinning halls and used the library and other facilities. 
As we go (before the craziness of exam and cnim week starts) it would be appropriate for us to express our thanks to you for your patience in the food lines, the computer clusters and elsewhere. Sometimes we looked like the group of senior citizens from the movie "Cocoon" and moved like it too. We've enjoyed our time here for the most part although we weren't too fond of the microwaved cheese smell or being crushed at the last football game or having to dodge bikes on the side­walks. But it's all part of the experience and we are richer for it. We have met new friends among the stu­dents, faculty and staff that we will hopefully maintain. And we wish it were just beginning again instead of ending. 
Unfortunately, as we take our leave from campus, so does the sabbatical program: The Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry (CCFM). There won't be others following us next semester. We can only speculate as to the difficulties of the physical arrangements creating part of the problem (especially winter weather) and the pool of available priests and religious for such is getting smaller as being reasons for the end of the sabbatical program here. But at least we're going out on a high note and, again, we wish to thank you as we say good bye and God bless. 
Fr. Frank Kilcline Diocese of Lafayette-in-Indiana December 8, 1997 

out before he had a chance to respond. 
Bridget
I chalk that little incident up to youthful rebellion in my case and ignorance in his. But there 

Rzezutko
are times now where I feel the exact same way, but the tides have turned just a little bit. I 
was always a sort of tomboy as a child; I still am. I would much ra~her wear a ponytail or baseball hat than have to curl my hair. And I would rather shoot myself than got to a Tupperware or Mary Kay makeup party. I personally might not be interested in these things, but I am still a woman. And with that, comes the "chick" stuff, and I want it. 
I don't mind being just "one of the guys." This is fine for when I am hanging out, watching TV, playing Nintendo 64, or just joking around with my male friends. But when we go somewhere, I don't get doors opened for me because we are "just friends." And ouch, it hurts a wee bit when I run right into them. Or car doors for that matter. At a party, why can't the fact that I am a woman get me preference over having to wait in the long line at the keg? Isn't there an old saying, "Ladies first?" Do men even buy women drinks at the bar anymore? At dorm parties, (God help you if you are at one, no offense freshmen), you men get a woman a drink so she doesn't have to dive into a huge garbage can of ice up to her elbows. 
I am a complete and total sap and I admit it. What I want most are !lovvers. I want them delivered to my rebuilt that car together, although all I really did was hand him a couple of tools now and then, keep him company and learn invaluable knowledge. God knows I'll never mistake a Philip's head screwdriver with a flat head ever again. Or ask why the fan 
belt looked like a propeller -at 
least I think it was the fan belt. 

But the point is, I am a woman and want to be treated like one. I don't want to sit and learn about cars or rebuild one, and it is not because I am a woman and I am not "supposed" to. It is simply because I don't care to. Believe it or not I can change a light bulb and a flat tire with absolutely no help. And I dd know about cars. My parents are engineers, and I paid some attention. This article is not about needing a man. I can take care of myself, pay for myself, fend for myself, and have no problem doing it. I don't want or expect a man to take care of me. But it would be nice to be looked out for. What happened to the age of chivalry? I know some old fashioned males are still out there. But where are you? That's all I, and most of us women, are asking. 
Bridget Rzezutko is ajwzior English major at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at Rzez1904@saint­marys.edu. Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
-------~--------------~~----~----~~~--~--~----~------~~~-.--~----~~--~~ 
page 8 Tuesday, December 9, 1997



ACCENT 


• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What was your worst Christmas gift? 

"I once got a big pink elastic towel with my name on it." 
Katharine Bardenheier Freshman, Pasquerilla West 
"A couple of friends gave me 
a wrapped-up fetal pig cut from high school anatomy class." 
Morris Karam Senior, Carroll 



"A black t-shirt with 'San Francisco' air brushed across it in hot pink." 
Peggy Phelan 
Senior, Off-campus 
"Pair of jellies because someone thought my name was female." 
Marques Celestine Sophomore, Off-campus 



"Really bad clothes from ancient relatives." 
Kristen Walicki Sophomore, Walsh 


A kitten named Waffles 
eJea monkeys (tfjey swim, tfjey bance, tfjey bo tricks . 


118aywatch'' lifeg~f!'~ 
-'.'-·.. "'l 
r '
/!I" \o-.._'.,,.,._ 
' i!~y 
. • i>; 
The Boss 
tongue rtn ', ;, f 
. ..,
I 
]
·,,~: '~~ .·.· 
... ~· : ... 
~) "· . 
. \ ' .. . :·::•
Anything out of Victoria's Se 


Coed-n 
edS 
1J ~~,~ P,4eT ti"'t Monev, lots and_l
7 J : 
Sun in South Bend Closer student parking lots 
New computers for the Accent department 
Voice lessons To be Iike Mike 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

~ 
.... 
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 page 9 

ACCENT 


• 


A man Qf a woman to stuff your stockings A one~year subscription to The Observer 
/' 
~ .. we(( tfjat's wfjat N0 fin a IsTickets to the Village People 
I 
t rights End ofparietals 
\ 
' 
·'"''''rr-OJtJ C E More room in South Dining Hall 
IAFT#I::··-" l 
I \
;jn-a-6 P't--in-c-e-fer every~G~ne te smile f;~il
I 4 J'OB moR~a '5IDt:UMLK'5 
ffiillt 8 For him or her to OF LAFORTUNE 
A decrease in tuition 
A new Secret Santa 

erical 
Homecooked meals 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
By SCOTT RABALAIS 
Advocare sponswrirer 
Notre Dame coach Bob Davie knew after beating LSU 24-6 a month ago, his Irish would have to face the Tigers in a revenge game sometime. 
He just figured that it would be Nov. 21 in South Bend, Ind. 
Instead, the matchup Notre Dame was dreading and LSU may -or m·ay not -have been looking forward to finally became official Sunday after­noon. 
LSU and Notre Dame will cross swords once again, this season, in the Dec. 28 Poulan/Weed Eater Independence Bowl. 
And unlike their first meet­ing, Nov. 15 in Tiger Stadium, this one will be under the lights. Kickoff is set for 8 p.m. EST at Shreveport's Independence Stadium. The game will be televised on ESPN. 
"We're excited about the opportunity to be in the 1997 Independence Bowl," LSU coach Gerry DiNardo com­mented in a written statement. 
DiNardo was an All-America offensive guard at Notre Dame in the early 1970s, a subject likely to come up in the next three weeks as it did before the earlier matchup. 
"This game was a great experience the last time we were there," DiNardo said. "We appreciate the efforts of everyone associated with the Independence Bowl who have put this game together." 
"Notre Dame is obviously a marquee opponent and we'll be playing on national televi­sion in the only college game to be played that day," LSU athletic director Joe Dean said. "We're looking forward to hav­ing a tremendous crowd and an exciting game." 
LSU went to the 
Independence Bowl in 1995, 
beating Michigan State, 45-26. 
The Tigers beat Clemson, 10­
7, in last year's Peach Bowl, 
but circumstances relegated 

----~~--------------------------------~----~~~~~--­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
LSU's leading rusher, Kevin Faulk was held to only 126 yards against the Irish in their first matchup. 
with the other SEC schools desire to seek revenge on ticket holders (limit four) and while Notre Dame, an indepen­Notre Dame. $25 for LSU students, faculty dent, takes all of its check to ''I'm glad to be playing them and staff (limit two). Tickets the bank. again," said Jeff Easley, an may also be purchased by 
Fans began lining up LSU student from Slidell. He phone at 388-2184 or 1-800­Saturday afternoon outside the was parked on a recliner and 960-8587. LSU Athletic Administration layered in blankets to ward off The LSU Athletic Ticket Building for first crack at the the cold. "I think we'll (LSU Office will be open 8 a.m. -7 11,000 tickets that go on sale players) have more guts this p.m. today· and Tuesday. at 8 a.m. this morning. time." Season ticket holders have 
By the time the 1-Bowl pair­"I feel sorry for Notre until 5 p.m. Wednesday to pur­ing was announced, there Dame," said Bob Argrave of chase tickets. Beginning were more than a dozen motor Baton Rouge, one of the Thursday, any remaining tick­homes in the parking lot and mobile-home owners. "They're ets will be made -available to LSU students camped out on in a no-win situation. We have the public. recliners and mattresses. everything to gain. I think Bowl officials said tickets not 
The consensus among the we'll beat them this time." reserved for participating early ticket seekers was a Tickets are $30 for season-schools have been sold out. 
LSU looking for revenge in Independence Bowl 
Bring in your favorite pictures and we'll create a personalized COLOR COPY CALENDAR!!! 
. THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. 
LSU to the I-Bowl again despite an 8-3 record this year compared with a 6-4-1 mark in '95. 
Notre Dame also had few options. The Irish needed North Carolina to get in an alliance bowl (Orange, Sugar or Fiesta), freeing up a slot in the Gator, or Iowa to vacate their spot in the Sun. 
Neither happened, though Notre Dame did turn down an • invitation from the new Motor City Bowl to face Marshall for the rematch with LSU. 
"We're delighted with the opportunity to be in the bowl because of the strong finish our team has made," Notre Dame athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. "We're not disappointed ... to play in the Independence Bowl." 
After a 1-4 start, it seemed the Irish might not go bowling for a second straight year. But Notre Dame won six of its last seven to become bowl eligible at 7-5, though the Irish had to survive a 23-22 scare at Hawaii to do it. 
"We know what a tremen­dous challenge that will be, going back to Louisiana and playing LS U and trying to repeat what we did several weeks ago," Davie said. "Our players are excited about going to Shreveport and play­ing a nationally ranked team." 
LS U, which shared the Southeastern Conference Western Division title with Auburn, improved one spot in both polls to No. 15. Notre Dame is unranked. 
This will be the second bowl 
rematch of a regular-season 
game for LSU in 31 appear­
ances. The Tigers beat Ole 
Miss, 7-3, in 1959 on Billy 
Cannon's famous punt return 
but lost in the Jan. 1, 1960, 
Sugar Bowl to the Rebels, 21­
0. 
This will be LSU's first bowl 
against Notre Dame. The 
Tigers are 13-16-1 in bowls. 
The Independence Bowl pays 
out $850,000 per team. LSU 
has to share part of its take 
The Observer acceprs classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
Students w/ND·SMC ID-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
Would you like a tossed salad today?????? 
Hey Sweet Daisy! 
NO Inquisition · http://rosenberg-3a.student.nd.edu We made Griffin do it 
WEDNESDAY, DEC. 10, IS THE 
LAST ISSUE OF THE OBSERVER 
FOR THE SEMESTER. · TUES. 3 PM IS THE DEADLINE 
FOR CLASSIFIED ADS. 
Trish Sloma & Gordy Young ROCK. 
Sculder, 
Don't tell me you believe in drag­ons! 
-Mully 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center -./ High·Speed Copies -./ Canon Color Laser Copies -./ Digital Color Printing .,J Binding & Laminating \Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY 
one more day baby 
Worried about vandalism to your 
car over Christmas Break? Craft Tool & Mold, located in Airport Industrial Park, has room to store 20-25 vehicles over the holiday recess-for a donation. ALL donations will then be given to the Hope Rescue Mission. Call233-7157. 
LATIN AMERICAN FOLK MUSIC w/ Eduardo Wolf Tonight @ 7:30 Rathskelller @ 1 00 Center 
meghan, here is ·your personal 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 EXTENDED STUDY DAYS & FINALS STORE HOURS Wed 7:30am·Midnight Thu 7:30am-Midnight Fri 7:30am-Midnight Sat. 9:00am-Midnight Sun 9:00am-Midnight Mon 7:30am-Midnight Tue 7:30am-Midnight Wed 7:30am-Midnight Th•J 7:30am-Midnight Fri 7:30am-7:00pm Christmas Break Hours Begin HAVE A MERRY CHRISTMAS' 
wax what? 
do you need some synonyms? 
nothing like a little enlightenment too much information, entirely ... 
~~----------------------------------------~ 
it's all about branson 
and memphis 
and n'orleans 
Good thing it wasn't a gun. 
Is getting a *touch* from a Hooters chick really worth shooting a raw oyster? 
Mark, it is so nice to see your smile. I just couldn't stand it when I thought you were mad at me 
It's all Mike's fault, you know. 
Shreveport or bust 
I don't have anything funny to say. 
Sports Dinner -7:30 tomorrow night. We can all go to Pete's as one big HAPPY group (you know what we mean) Kevin's attendance is mandatory. 
Pete's party will immediately follow the sports dinner for those privi­leged members of the sports department. 
I have wasted so much time tonight, even though I had @ #%* to do 
let me go home. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" 
Spring Break Packages are going 
fast. Stop in Anthony Travel and 
check out the best Spring Break 
vacations around. Book your reser­
vations before Dec. 19 and save$! 
Don't take a chance with an 
unknown agency or some 1-800 
number. Anthony Travel, Inc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
ILOST & FOUND I 
CLASS RING FOUND ON NORTH QUAD' 
CALL 634-1101 TO CLAIM 
F 0 R RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232·2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219 291 7153 NICE HOMES FOR NEXT SEMES­TER OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 277-3097 
Room available for next semester 4 NO students as roomates. 1 mile from campus. Call 273-2910. Ask for Noelle 
Spacious one bedroom condo for rent at Topsfield. $440 a month. Immediate occupancy. Call 234-3425 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
1,2 & 3 BDRM HOMES.GILLIS PROPERTIES. 
272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEXT FALL.272­6551 
1 ,2.&3 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
I I FOR SALE I 000 lookiog fo' a ooiqoo giO? 
. 1-----------___J 
Near Campus -1338 Miner St. 2 BR Enclosed Front Porch. New Roof, Siding & Carpet. Central Air & Full Basement $44.900 1-800-382-2952 LAPTOP PC, PENTIUM, CDROM, ETHERNET. $1150. X2207 
elec guitar w/case, $65. boss mea gtr fx $200. x2207 
89, Bonneville Loaded, V. Clean, $3000 OBO 277-3384 
FUTON 4 SALE $150 CALL 273­6212 ALMOST NEW 
BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. ALL SPRINGBREAK locations. Cancun, Jamaica, from $399, Florida, from $89, Texas. Maza~an, Bahamas. Register your group or be our Campus Rep. 800-327-6013 www.icpt.com 
MOVING SALE! '89 Olds-1 03k-one owner-$2200 dining table/4 chrs-$30 desk-$20 10 gal fish tank·$10 futon mattress·$30 phone stand-$5 call 255-3511 
I PERSONAL 
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 page 11
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Monday-Friday, December 8-12, 103 Hesburgh library 
Sign-up: NDE Retreat #49 (Jan. 31-Feb. 2) 
Tuesday, December 9, 10:00 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Advent Penance Service 
Wednesday, December 10,12:45-1:15 pm, Sorin Room/Main Lounge, Lafortune 
Notre Datne Handbell Choir 
Christmas Favorites 
Friday, December 12 
Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe 
5:05 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Fr. Patrick Neary, CSC presiding. Fr. J.Steele, CSC preaching. Featuring Coro Primavera and Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
10:30 pm, Our Lay of Guadlupe Chapel at Keough Hall • Fr. Patrick Neary, C. S.C. presiding. Music: Coro Primavera and the Notre Dame Folk Choir. 
Freshm.an retreat#14, January 23-24 
Freshmen of Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, Sorin: Please look out for information on the application! 
A Ne-w Cam. pus Ministry Choir is being formed for an 
inter-denominational mid-week evening prayer on Wednesday nights. The choir will sing a variety of musical styles, from Taize chants to lively contemporary songs. All are welcome, including instrumentalists. Please contact Karen Schneider-Kirner or Sarah Granger @ 1-5242. 
University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for two students to volunteer at University Village, the Married Student HousingComplex on campus, in a "Parents' Time-Out " program that meets in the community center on Wednesdays from 9:00A.M.-11:30 A.M. when the University is in session. This ministry would entail working with two mothers to plan activities for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
A Word of Thanks 
The student planning committee for the Pilgrimage for Peace on November 18, would like to thank the Basilica staff, students, rectors, administrators, Glee Club, Liturgical Choir, Coro Primavera and many others for their support and prayer. 
Campus Ministry wishes all ofyou all the Blessings 
... 

ofthis Holy Season! 
~ ---­
page 12 . ·-~~ ..,...The Observer • SPORTS December 9, 1997 

Elections open to all second semester sophomores & above in good acadeinic & social standing 
You MUST ATTEND ONE OF THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIONAL MEETINGS: TUESDAY, JANUARY 13 OR WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14 AT ]:00 IN HAGGAR PARLOR 
Questions before break? Call Janet Horvath Elections Commissioner at 284-4305 

CLU8 
WELJNESLJAV NITE 



SKALCOHOLIKS 
GIVE~AWAYS 
' 
.SPECIALS 
MUNCHIES 
-~ 
I 
SPONSO~ECJ 8 y ... 
WVFI WSNO 
CLASS 


I 


ALUMNI-SENIOI=l CLUB 
I 
1 
• SPORTS BRIEfS< 

; Notrel)~me Mail'tiat Atts
..... BUY DIAMONDS··,:-::'·. 
Institute .Tae kwotl do and jujit$u practi~e Jot beginners will take place from 4 to 6
~· BELOW.WHOLESALE! . 

p.m. on Thursdays and 6 t() 89!v!t. fYJech &-<fi£Y-'p.ni>on·sundaysin Room 218 
5ince 1921 Rockne Memorial. CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL Field-Hockey~ Practice 
Direct Diamond Importers will be on Mondays and 
Wednesdays from 9 to 10 p.m. 1-800-922-0090 in Loftus~ Call Maureen at 
or visit our website at 
x428l or Stephanie atx2741. 
sapeck.com 

Winner of The Reader's Digest LookSmart Editor's Choice Award 

LOOKING FOR CAREER OPTIONS? 
Saint Mary's College Accelerated Programs 
For individuals with abaccalaureate degree as of May 1998 in gm major. 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING 
•
Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 

• Program begins May 26, 1998 

•
Application deadline: February 15, 1998 


ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN ACCOUNTING 
•
Earn acertificate in Accounting in 10 months 

•
Course work is intended to cover material typically tested on the CPA examination • Program begins August 25, 1998 •Application deadline: June 15, 1998 


-~±~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
For more information, please contact the Admission Office at 219/284-4587. FAX (219}284-4716 • hHp: I/www.saintmorys.edu • E-Mail: admission@sointmorys.edu 
THE NATION'S PREMIER CATHOLIC WOMEN'S COLLEGE 

1()~ aJte ~? 
1f/W u thut ~? 

~. fli-~· e.s.e ~-~ilL 1flad. e.s.e. 
7~ wtMe ~fUt, de ~~~tUU-~~~~ ~ S~ • ~ v.u-. 1~t4i4H4 46SS6 
(2/9) 63!-6315 • ~:1/-.d.eaul-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL '<f>/ 
~-. 
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 page 13
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
. ~: . --~""· Xost:Reverma DcmteCJt J ,C.S.C. Bctsificct of the Sctcre() Meart 5:00p.m.-5:15p.m. ff"u~s~ctH, D~cem6~r 16, 1997 J\otre De1me (iturgica( Choir an() the Xotre Dame .Fo(k Cfioir wi((partici_pate. J'(cQsc Come!  :Rite of:Rec:eytion of the Xew Bishop crt the Bctsificct of the Scrcre() 3fecrrt o\((are invitei' to we(come the newf9 or()ctine() ctuxifh1r9 6isfiop of the Diocese of..Fort Wct9ne-Soutfi Ben().  

+­
t. 



p~~····~tk ri~~s~ ~~a­

tM4 wed~ 5-7 p.m. i~t,ead~tk~ 
~~ 

93terrM <tfjristmas! 
~--------------------­
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
nine points. losing streak, they are young 
During this three game losing and have yet to be blown out of streak, the Irish have done the gym. something that you simply can­The nationally ranked Purdue not do against ranked teams. Boilermakers will visit the Joyce Notre Dame has continually shot Center Wednesday giving the themselves in the foot with Irish another chance to try to turnovers as they have given get their turnover problem good teams plenty of help. under control and giving them 
Even though McGraw's team an opportunity to get back to the is in the midst of a three game .500 plateau. 




Bowl 
owl owl '97 Irish vs. 



L.S.U. 
Dec. 28, Shreveport, LA 
Student Tickets 
Wednesday, Dec. 1 0 1:00pm -7:00 m 

Dec. 0-11 8:30am -5:00pm Joyce Center Ticket Windows 
(Gate 1, second floor) $30 each Mastercard, Visa, Cash, Check accepted Each student may only purchase one ticket with 

........utation of student ID. 





Late Night Olympics XII Friday, January 23, 1998 
.
' 
7:00PM-4:00AM:}'i·;:l:=··· 
:=:,;:-:··.·.. 

Joyce Center 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
RI\TBE.RT THE CONSULTI\NT 
NOW THAT YOU'RE UNDER MY SPELL, I'D LIKE TO SIT ON YOUR HEAD AND PLAY BULLDOZER. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 MosqueV IP 1 Lots 35 Live. 1n aTV 5 Desert studio streambed 36 Like Britam 
9 Tennis great Rod 38 Poet•c 14 "Are you some palindrome kind of---?" 39 It may be used 15 Black 1n mmor surgery
16 .. __ at the 
42 Ouattro mmus oHice" uno 
17 Vidal's 43 Freshman,
Breckinndge sophomore, 18 Roar at the shore etc. 
19 Count wtth an 44 Revolvmg
orchestra 
machme part 20 1989 Madonna 
45 Reply to·· Are

hit 
not1.. 23 Churchill"s sign 
47 1-80. e g Abbr

24 Basic college 48 Item m a 
degrees Mex•can fiesta 
25 Summit 49 Luau dish 
29 ---Jo (1988 Olympics 51 Sound f~o'Tl name) Sand)' 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

! l~ 
f--+-+-+-1 22 W.W. II menace 25 Physicist Alessandro 26 Vast. old-style 
E 
0 
u ai 
i 
! E 
'2 
I :I 

52 Btbl1opl1ile·s treasures 61 Belief m sorcery and magic 62 Pre-tractor 
farmer's need 63 Plummet 64 "A votre ---!" 
G If t" 

65 rp. a ec mg 
gas prices 

66 Go gently (into) 67 More correct 
68 Brood 69 "Jeopardy'" host Trebek 
DOWN 
1 Charades. e g 2 Cameo stone J Pat on the back. 
as a baby 4 Asterisk s Setting for 
Thomas Hardy 
novels 6 Maltreatment 7 Boat with oars a Data 9 Astrologrcally, 

the thoughtful. diplomatic type 10 Tennis great Andre 11 Bouquet site 12 Satanicalness 13 Sailor's peril 21 Don or Phil of so·s-6o·s pop 
1"1\AKE. 501"\E ENGINE NOISES WITH YOUR 
LIPS/ 

21 Regattas 28 Spanish aunt 29 French brother 30 Minus 32 Acclaimed 
"Hostess w1th 

the Mostes'" 33 Unrestrained 34 Stiller's comedy 
partner 36 Buzzing pest 37 Savings and 

loan 40 Condor's home 41 Long time 46 Narcotic 
DAN SULLIVAN 

.4L fHOU4fl A GENtl/5 HI 5 SILENT 
F/LfilS) CHARLIE 
CJIAPLltJ'S COMIC 
S-rRtPS NEVER QVJ/£ f?ECE/VtD CR,.·ncAL AccLAI,N\. 
c------------·--..
"' 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

DO YOU THtNK OUR 
CONSULTANT HA5 TOO MUCH POWER? 

~AH. HE'5 BARELY 
fo\0\IING 11-\AT F'!LE CABINE.T. \ 


48 William or 54 Maitre d's Harry. e.g. oHering 
so Word w1th 55 Condemn woman or 56 Montreal player worldly 57 Bright thought 
51 Take ---breath 58 Spoken 
52 Bewildered 59 Winning 
53 Construction margin, maybe support so Glasses. in ads 
Answers to any three clues tn this puzzle are ava1lable by touch-tone phone 
1-900-420-5656 (75c per minute) 
Annual subscrrptrons are avarlable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years 1·888· 7-ACROSS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
ARIES: The Aries Moun promises a high energy day. Your focus is on app!)arances, not only yours but those of the people around you. Make sure you really want today's changes -they will stick once jou've made them. 
TAURUS: If things do not work today, stop and just listen. The rea­sons for your difficulty will become obvious if you shut ofT your inter­nal monologue for a moment. The universe is sending you a message. 
GEMINI: This is a good day to gather friends and aquaintances into an activity-oriented group. Your leadership skills put you in charge of the proceedings. Make something happen quickly today. 
CANCER: Do not expect those who wield power over you to be rational today. Just do the job you were hired or contracted to do. Without seeming to linger, take the time you need to get it right the first time. 
LEO: The Aries Moon puts a fire under you and sends you springing into action. Start making real plans about something you've just been thinking about. Everything turns out fun today, even the serious stuff. 
VIRGO: Be careful what you eat, and be careful whose story you believe. Stomachs and egos are especially sensitive today. Ask for proof if a friend confesses an unbelievable secret. 
LIBRA: Check the details of all legal issues today. Whether in busi­ness or in the supposed comfort of your relationship, you could be up against a force more powerful than you imagined. 

SCORPIO: Other may accuse you of excessive hair-splitting today. Let them complain -it is better to be safe than sorry when it comes to details. Use this state of mind to catch up on your filing and record keeping. 
SAGITTARIUS: Today is a time 

for romance and creativity. If you 
are not already having fun, what in 
the world are you waiting for'? 
Children and young adults prove to 
be your best teachers. 
CAPRICORN: Today your focus is on personal property. A real estate deal may be on shaky ground that conceals a money pit. If you must change something in your empire, consider rearranging the furniture. 
AQUARIUS: Communication will be problematic today. Meetings 
are missed, advice is misunder­stood, and e-mail vanishes into a black hole. Minor car and computer troubles make you glad to be alive. 
PISCES: Keep an eye on the financial scene. Misunderstandings about money are notorious for gen­erating ill will. Keep your debits and credits separate, and make sure all your decimal points are in place. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
;--.-1 
'J. 

Late Night Olympics is an all-night sports extravaganza of competeing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's residence hall teams. All Proceeds from this event 
For More Info. Contact: benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. RecSports -1-61 00 www.nd .ed u/-recsport 
~ ~~___..._..._----------­


SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, December 9, 1997 
• WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame drops third straight to Wisconsin 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 

! 
~ 
I 
I. 
What does a first month's schedule loaded with top 2 5 opponents and the graduation of four starters spell for a squad?
I 
For the Notre Dame women's
I 
I! basketball team, it spells grow­
I 
ing pains. The Irish dropped
i I 
their third game in a row to the 
I 
17th ranked Wisconsin Badgers
II 

I! by a score of 89-77 as their 
! 
record fell below the .500 mark at 3-4. 
Muffet McGraw's young squad went up against a tough Badger team on its own court, but the Irish never quit. 
The home team domi­nated much of the action in the first half as LaTonya Sims went 8­for-15 from the field for a game high 20 points helping her squad to a 48-32 lead going into the lockerroom. 

Notre Dame tried to mount a comeback in the second half, but the Badgers had too many weapons as five players scored in double figures. 
To make things more difficult for the Irish, senior co-captain and the team's floor leader Mollie Peirick fouled out of the game with 17:20 left in the con­test. Peirick scored five points and had two assists. but she col­lected five fouls in just 13 min­
I ) utes of play. ! I Despite the loss of Peirick's leadership and her 45 percent three point shooting, the Blue and Gold managed an 18-4 run 
· to get within two points on a three-pointer by sophomore guard Niele lvey. 
Ivey turned in her second good performance in a row. The St. Louis native tied for a team-high 16 points on 6-for-9 shooting. She also added a game-high four assists and seven rebounds while filling in for Peirick in the point guard slot. 
Wisconsin turned back Notre Dame's efforts and the team's youth again was exposed as they committed 28 turnovers, and the 
Badgers came up with a tremendous 18 steals. That com­bined with Katie Voigt dialing long distance four times kept the Irish down. 
But the resilient Irish were not out. A f t e r Wisconsin 
managed to extend the lead again, McGraw's squad put together a 19-8 stretch to pull within seven with just under a minute and a half remaining 
Junior co-captain Sheila McMillen managed to break out of her slump as she scored 16 points. Junior guard Danielle Green added 14 points but had to work for them as she went just 5-for-14 from the field. 
Freshman center Ruth Riley got the first start of her career 
see LOSS/ page 1.4 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Mollie Peirick found herself in trouble last night, fouling out of the contest after just 13 minutes on the court . 

. I 
I 
! 
I I 
I 
i 
I 
I I 
.l ~ . 
-
I 
. 

I 
. 



The Observer/John Daily 
Freshman Martin lnglesby had an impressive seven assists last game. 
vs. LSU, Independence Bowl, December 28, 1997, Shreveport, La., 8 p.m. 
at Wisconsin, NCAA Regionals, Saturday, December 13, ?p.m. 
• MErtS BASKETBALL 

Irish to hone skills in exhibition 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
Usually, as the season grows older, the games become pro­gressively more important. However, that is certainly not the case with the Notre Dame basketball team. 
Last Saturday, the Irish opened up the Big East season at Pittsburgh, defeating the Panthers 73-69-to give them their first-ever winning record in league play. However, the 

level of importance subsides Irish center Phil Hickey net1ed 14 points in the Irish win 0ver Pit1sburgh . considerably tonight when 
opportunity to play real games "With Pat, nothing he doesNotre Dame hosts Marathon in 
and see where we stand. Now surprises you," said teammate
an exhibition game at the Joyce we see some areas that we have Derek Manner. "The guy domi­Center. 

to work on, and we can go from nates night in and night out, so I"The timing of it [an exhibi­there." guess you kind of take it fortion game] is funny, but it gives Obviously, those areas do not granted sometimes."
us a great opportunity that we 

include power forward. Pre­Despite the fact that Garrity
normally wouldn't have," said 

season Big East player of the may mean more to his team
Irish head coach John MacLeod. 

year Pat Garrity has been sim­than any player in the country,"We have the chance to try to ply outstanding, averaging 23.6 it is critical that he receivesimprove ourselves in a game sit­points in six games this year. In some help if Notre Dame is t~ beuation that doesn't count in the last Saturday's win over Pitt, the successful.
standings. 

senior co-captain played all 40 Against the Panthers, c:enter"The difference 'between this 
minutes, pouring in a game­Phil Hickey and point guard
game and pre-season games is 

high 28 points to go along with
that we've already had the 

a season-best 15 rebounds. see B-BALL/ page 12 


Men's Basketball, 
., vs. Marathon (Exhibition) a.) 
Tonight, 7:30 p.m. Women's Basketball, 
., vs. Purdue, ••-= •LSU prepares for Independence Bowl 
December 10, 7 p.m. ~ see page 10 
at Wisconsin,
~ 

.'Jf· •... December 10, 7 p.m . 
~ 
I ' 
i 
' 




