
Monday, October 6, ·1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 31 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Saint Mary's ready to welcome Eldred 
Students gather to 
Eldred officially offer blessing and to become 1Oth present inquiries president today 
By ALLISON KOENIG By SARAH CORKREAN 
S;~im Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's students gather:ed yester­After more than a year of day evening to share an outdoor dinner searching for a candidate and with and to otTer a blessing upon Marilou 
numerous interviews with 

Elch·cd, who will be inaugurated today as prospective individuals whose tlw College's 10th pres;_i---P'!I"!!'!!..,...,,.____, goals arc similar to the Saint dent. ~~-e =-::tr·l~ •RI 
Mary's mission statement, it Various faculty and 
will all come to a celebratory
• Coverage of

staff memb!~rs served 
ending this afternoon. students and guests of 
Marilou 

Marilou Eldred will be inau­the Eldred family 
Eldred's inau­

gurated as the 1Oth -and under a tent on the 
guration in 

first laywoman-president of Library Green. After 
tomorrow's 

Saint Mary's College in dinner. Ellen Coleman. 
Observer. 

O'Laughlin Auditorium in the th!~ student representa-'-----~----.J Moreau Center for the Arts. tiVt~ of the presidential inaugural commit­
The public is invited to attend u~n. >vho coordinated the evening's the event and the reception <wnnts. introdueed Eldred. who agreed to The Observer/Ke•in Oalum following the Ceremony.
Marilou Eldred will be inaugurated this afternoon as Saint Mary's 1Oth president. 
see ELDRED/ page 6 .see PREVIEW/ page 6 
• -lotOCAUST PROGRAM PREVIEW 
Hope dwindles ... as losses climb 

Caplan to discuss euthanasia 
By ERICA THESING eugenics, and he's been try­ing that the very basis, the News Writer ing to do this in terms of eth­very root, of llitler's argu­intl theory. This. along with ment was science, particular­World renowrwd bio-ethi­his extensive number of' pub­ly racial science," Signer rist Arthur Caplan will speak lications. has led to his said. "One of the first things on LIH~ relationship lwtween 
Hitler did once he established tlw Holocaust and euthanasia his power was to establish a at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the program of euthanasia for llesburgh Library lounge. people the Nazis said were 
Caplan, the director of the not fit for life." CPnter of Bioethics at the According to Signer, this University of Pennsylvania, is look atin the Holocaust is included people with mental lwst know for his work on the retardation and mental disor­
the understanding that ...
ethics of health care and in ders like schizophrenia. The eugnnics, which deals with the very root ifHitler's argu­families of these people, 
selective breeding in humans along with the Catholic and
ment was science, particu­
to favor specific traits. Protestant Churches. led suc­
larly racial science.' 
The subcommittee on sei­cessful protests against this Pnce for the Notre Dame practice. llolocaust Project invited "Prior to 1939, Hitler didn't
Rabbi Michael Signer
Caplan as a scholar-in-resi­want that kind or dissent, so denen. Habbi Michael Signer, co­he began to stop those pro­
"lie's a very dynamic per­director of' the Holocaust jects," Signer said. son." said Professor Phillip Project, feels that it is essen­Signer is excited about Sloan. vvho snrvns on the sci­tial to study the Holocaust Caplan's visit because of the nntif'ir subrommittee. "lie's from a scientific angle. ethical aspects Caplan spe­j bn!~n Pngaged in questions "One of the most important cializes in. Alumni sophomores (from left to right) Tom Dietrich, Mike Aubry, 
likn euthanasia. abortion. things to look at in· the Kerry Cavanaugh, and Cass Schneller watch this weekend's 
J 
game in agony. i

and positive and negative Holocaust is the understand-
see CAPLAN I page 4 I 

By LAURA PETELLE  mother and a student of Langford's at  
News Writer  the time, seemed an ideal person to  
talk to about raising biracial children.  
"The whole thing," Jim Langford  After hearing Zorich's stories of his  
said as he hoisted a log onto his  childhood, the Langfords adopted a  
shoulder with a grunt, "is about hap­ mixed race 7-week-old boy named  
piness."  Trevor. Trevor acquired a little sister  
Langford, director of Notre Dame  three years later, a biracial infant  
Press, professor in the College of Arts  named Emily. Zorich is the godfather  
and Letters and long-time Cubs fan,  of both children.  
seems an unlikely hero. But with his  It was then that "There Are No  
wife Jill, Langford has opened a day  Children Here" by Alex Kotlowitz was  
camp for at-risk children called  added to the curriculum in the Arts  
"There Are Children Here."  and Letters Core class. The book,  
Langford was preparing to retire  which tells the story of two boys  
when he and Jill decided to adopt a  growing up in Chicago public housing,  
child to fill their newly empty nest.  helped convince the Langfords to con­ 
"It was then," Langford said, "that  vert their farm into a day camp where  
the madness set in."  children could go to "just be chil­ 
They chose to adopt a biracial child,  dren," in Langford's words.  
because biracial children are often  "There Are Children Here" began to  
The Observer/Laura Petelle  difficult to place with families. Chris  raise money three years ago, securing  
Steph Schleef, a Farley Hall freshman, and a Boys and Girls Club member share pizza  Zorich, the son of an African­ 
and soda at the day camp "There are Children Here," founded by Jim and Jill Langford.  American father and Yugoslavian  see LANGFORD/ page 4  

page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Long Live 

Marilou 
My four and a quarter 
Mary Beth Ellis semesters at Saint 
Accen' Copy Editor
Mary's College have provided me with end­less opportunities for education and personal growth. 
I've learned to sleep with my head approxi­
mately two micrometers from the ceiling. I've been in a bomb threat. Through a highly beneficial co-exchange 
program with the University of Notre Dame, I have discovered testosterone. 
And yesterday afternoon -and this is the one I've been waiting for -I have been granted the opportunity to holler random Latin phrases in unison with 34 other women. 
Here I refer to the Saint Mary's Women's Choir's performance of "0 aula nobilis" on 

· the occasion of the inauguration of every­one's favorite first female lay president, Marilou Eldred. The piece ends with a rous­ing, non-pitched "Vivat! Vivat! Vivat!" 
After we first ran the Vivats in their entire­ty, several altos and sopranos raised con­cerned hands. As a nervous newcomer to the choir, I expected the comments concerning them to be of the musically technical sort, most likely involving such words as "pianissi­mo" or "descant" or "Beethoven." 
"This part makes us sound like darks," said one of the sopranos. 
Others accepted the last measure as a nat­ural finale to a traditional Latin hymn. I mean, it's infinitely better than other phrases the composer could have had us shout, such as "Less filling! Tastes great!" or "Down with The Man!" or "GooooOOOOOooooo0000-0!! ELDRED!!!!!" 
Our director, fully aware of the beauty of artistic freedom, settled things by informing the choir that the Vivats would remain in the piece, because -all musical technicalities considered -she said so. 
I personally like the cubed Vivats. The word means "may he or she live" or "long life," and if anyone deserves to live, especial­ly for a long time, it's our Marilou. Look at what's been happening around here since she rolled into town. 
For one thing, there's been an apparent influx of bread on campus. I recently spoke with the chair of the department of Religious Studies, Joseph Incandela, on the matter of an open house for the faculty held right in the new President's office. "I have never seen so many rolls in one place in my entire life," Incandela informed me. "And I got there late." 
Clearly, we have at last found a president concerned about the fiber intake of the facul­ty. And I for one am of the opinion that our professors deserve nothing less. 
In addition to the roll increase, I've noticed cuter Darners, less bomb threats, and, most important of all, the return of Belgian waffles to the Dining Hall. And the student body has discovered that what formerly appeared to be a solid wall of wood along the Great Hall in LeMans is really a door to the president's office, one that actually opens. More often than not, it's found that way. 
And so with full awareness of the solemnity commanded by this afternoon's academic ceremony. today I say to our new Head Belle, from the very bottom of my heart: 
GoooOOOOOooooo0000-0! ELDRED!!!!! 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Sean Smith  Melissa Weber  
Sarah Hiltz  Production  
Sports  Kathleen Lopez  
Kathleen Lopez  Heather Cocks  
Viewpoint  Sarah Hiltz  
Colleen Gaughen  Lab Tech  
Accent  Sam Assaf  
Joey Crawford  

Th< Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproducdon rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, October 6, 1997 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Race, sex issues top Supreme Court agenda for new term 

Internet and ruling that terminally ill 

cases to review and decide by June. people do not have a constitutional right to doctor-assisted Looming largest among those vying for the court's atten­suicide. tion is a challenge to California's Proposition 209, which 
"But who knows how many sleepers are lying in wait?" bans considering race or sex in filling state jobs or admit­asked Mary Cheh, a law professor at George Washington ting students to college. 
Allen speaks out in rare interview Gunmen attack U.N. office in Baghdad 
NEW YORK BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Woody Allen is still bitter about the 
r--:::;;:;;;::;s;-1 Gunmen hurled grenades and fired bullets at a U.N. 
scandal that cost him his children, but building in Baghdad, destroying one vehicle and damag­
loves his life with ex-girlfriend Mia ing two others, ollicials said Sunday. One attacker was 
Farrow's adopted daughter and mak­injured. The wounded gunman was overpowered and 
ing movies just like he has for decades, taken into custody by the Iraqi army, said U.N. 
the reclusive director said in a rare spokesman Eric Fait. The remaining three gunmen fled, 
interview. Allen lost contact with he said. The Saturday night assault targeted the World 
adopted daughter Dylan and his bio­Health Organization's headquarters, which houses an 
logical son with Farrow, Satchel, in a office for U.N. officials monitoring the oil-for-food pro­
fierce custody dispute aggravated by claims of child gram. No one claimed responsibility, but Iraq blamed it 
molestation and the director's sexlJal affair with Soon-Yi on Iran. The two neighbors fought a war from 1980 to 
Previn. Allen was never charged with molestation, but 1988 and still are bitter enemies. The official Iraqi News 
Farrow won custody. Another adopted son, Moses, is Agency said interrogation of the arrested person 
now an adult and has chosen not to remain in touch with revealed that he and the others were sent by Iran's intel­
Allen. "It's a terrible, terrible thing. You know, I don't ligence service. It did not provide a possible motive for 
see them," Allen says in Sunday's Daily News. "I haven't the attack. The news agency said the arrested attacker 
seen Dylan in about seven years. I haven't seen Satchel was an Iraqi of Iranian origin who was deported in 
in about 2 1/2 years.... I don't want to dwell on this 1983. It said he later "entered the Iraqi territory to 
because it's so painful, but between the court and some serve the Iranian intelligence's purposes." Details of the 
of the press and a portion of the public who have gunman's injuries were not known. Sfnce 1970, Iraq has 
behaved so dishonestly and unconscionably, I don't think deported tens of thousands of Iraqis of Iranian origin to 
I'll ever find it in my heart to forgive them." Regarding Iran. Iraq said their loyalty to the country was suspect. 
his romance with Previn, now 27, the 61-year-old direc­According to preliminary reports, the four men lobbed 
tor couldn't be happier. "My relationship with Soon-Yi is grenades and opened fire at the WHO building, the U.N. 
the best relationship of my life," Allen said. statement said. 
Harrod's pulls Diana biography Book reveals much about LBJ 
LONDON WASHINGTON 
The controversial Andrew Morton biography of Princess President Lyndon Johnson thought Cuban President 
Diana was withdrawn from sale at Harrod's department Fidel Castro played a role in the 1963 assassination of 
store on orders from its owner, Mohamed AI Fayed, President Kennedy, but worried that a retaliatory strike on 
whose son died with the princess five weeks ago. The Cuba could lead to nuclear war, according to a new book. 
book, in which Morton says Diana was the main source He said publicly blaming Castro would generate a public 
for the painful details of her early life and marriage to outcry for an attack on Cuba or the Soviet Union that could 
Prince Charles. was due for widespread publication "check us into a war that can kill 40 million Americans in 
Monday. A few London stores put several hundred copies an hour." According to the book, "The Johnson White 
of "Diana, Her True Story -In IIer Own Words" on sale House Tapes, 1963-1964," by historian Michael Beschloss, 
Saturday. Dillons said it sold all 4,000 of the books it Johnson also told the late Sen. Hichard Russell in 1964 that 
made available at five central outlets. Waterstone's book he did not believe the conclusion of the Warren 
stores, which has a branch at Harrod's, also began selling Commission, of which Russell was a member, that 
the book, a revised edition of Morton's 1992 bestseller Kennedy was killed by a lone gunman. The book casts 
"Diana: Her True Story." "It was withdrawn on Bussell, D-Ga., as a reluctant member of the commission 
Saturday," AI Fayed spokesman Michael Cole said who was pressured into signing the report against his will. 
Sunday. "Mr. AI Fayed gave the.order as soon as he found "I'm just worn out. fighting over that damned report," 
out the book was on sale." "lie didn't want the book in his Bussell is quoted as saying on one tape. "Well, I don't 
shop because he saw it as a blatant attempt to gain money ·believe it." "I don't either," Johnson said. Newsweek mag­
out of an awful tragedy for which he is still in grieving." azine, in its edition on newsstands Monday, carries 
Dodi Fayed died in the Aug. 31 car crash in a Paris tunnel excerpts of the book, which details conversations from the 
that killed the princess. The driver, Henri Paul, who was secret tape recordings Johnson kept running during his 
legally drunk, also died. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATI-lER 

I 5 Day South Bend Forecast I AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,/'~.:......_.,~..-........._.._.. 

i"•··· H L i 
' 

Monday {) .8?, .6Q, 
~ f: 7S;I '%58

Tuesday 
''''' 


Wednesday -(f 73 50 Thursday -(f(:73 51 

.·~ ·' i\:.71 57 
. ,.. ·· ;r~::Jc:>:.:: ,··:·_, 
~A~&1c!Bc:CI1 I)~ u
,,',,<~,~ ......:. +.:::·.::=--=--=--=­

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
stay in the White House. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWeather, Inc . 
Pressure 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 6. 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 60s 
r.::-;:-1
H L 
~ ~ 8 (f !:J. c:::J. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Baltimore  82  57  Detroit  78  60  Omaha  80  62  
Boston  70  56  Helena  52  30  Phoenix  90  72  
Chicago  82  61  Houston  86  73  St. Louis  83  64  
Cleveland  77  58  Memphis  85  65  San Diego  74  67  
Dallas  87  67  New York  75  63  Seattle  58  45  


Monday, October 6, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
•






ND students visit depleting forests 
By ANNE HOSINSKI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Students for Environmental Action elub (SEA) celebrated the rich her­itage of the American forest and contemplated the effects of the forest's destruction in a recent trip to the Allegheny National Forest in Pennsylvania. 

Twelve members of the SEA madP the trip and attended workshops on the depletion of the U.S. national forests by the United States Forest Service.. The weekend. Sept. 19-21, consisted of an outdoor "defense gathering" of envi­ronmental activists from Pennsylvania, New York and Indiana. 
The defense gathering con­ference included outdoor workshops on a variety of sub­jects dealing with the effects of the unnecessary logging of the forest. Located within the for­est. the con(erence site was an area marked t'o be logged in the near future. 
Gretchen Hasselbring, a member of SEA, described the conference location, which is considered a "clear-cut for­est." 
"It was like visiting a grave­yard because there was no wildlife. It was dead," said Hasselbring. 
llasselbring found the view­ing of the location to be very emotional. "It was like stand­ing by the side of a demolished building ... it was very devas­tating." 
According to Shannon Glynn, 
co-president of SEA, the only 
hope in saving the Allegheny 
National Forest is the discov-


Students will be taking action into their own hands this week, providing NO students petitions aimed at pre­serving National Forests and raising awareness of global warming. Petitions will be available at both dining 
halls. 

ery of an endangered species, possibly the Indiana bat. Glynn also mentioned that, of the 500,000 acres included in the Allegheny National Forest. 45,000 have been logged since 1990. 
In response to the powerful issues addressed at the defense gathering, the SEA has decided to take the issues dealing with the depletion of the forests into their own hands. In celebration of National Forest Week, they will be in the dining halls with two petitions concerning the depletion of the national forests. 
The first" petition calls for a "zero cut" law to be estab­lished by Congress. This peti­tion calls for the preservation of America's forest heritage by adopting a law ending the log­ging of the nation's forests. 
"The National Forests are our public lands," Glynn noted. "The cutting is due to commer­cial reasons, and the govern­ment is actually losing money at the expense of taxpayers by logging the national forests." 
Glynn revealed that, current­ly, the only protected forests in the United States are the national parks, totaling only 1 percent of the forest lands in the United States. 
The depletion of the national forests is detrimental to the worldwide ecosystem, not just the immediate surroundings, Glynn noted. Glynn commented that the U.S. Forest Service is "supposed to be protecting [the national forests] but are yield­ing to commercial interests." 
The second petition that SEA will make available for signa­tures is a "climate rider" peti­tion. This petition calls for raised awareness of global warming and is a "pledge and petition to prevent global cli­mate change." The climate rider petition is also a support tool for the environmental con­ference to be held Dec. 1 in Japan. 
The two petitions will be available for signatures in both North and South Dining Halls during the dinner hours Monday through Wednesday, Oct. 6th, 7th and 8th. Glynn and all members of the SEA encourage all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and fac­ulty to help in the salvation of the National Forests and sign the petitions. 
Donovan to manage endowment 
Will now head ND investments 
Special To The Observer 
Michael Donovan has been appointed to the position of senior investment director in the University of Notre Dame's investment office, according to Scott Malpass, associate vice president for finance and chief investment officer. 
Donovan will be responsi­ble primarily for investment activities in private equity and certain types of "hedge" funds for the $1.5 billion Notre Dame endowment. He also will manage the office's legal activities. 
Donovan received his bachelor>s degree in finance from Notre Dame in 1984, his law degree from the University of California at Los Angeles School of Law in 1987. and his master's of business administration from the Harvard Business School in May. 
Donovan most recently was president and co­founder of the Pin-6 Co., a manufacturer and distribu­tor of school and office prod­ucts. 
He previously served as a corporate attorney with the Philadelphia law firm of Morgan, Lewis, and Bockius. 

YOU DEMAND POWER, SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 

5300 
cash back* 



$200
Power Macintosh" 6500/275 32/4GB/12X,D/Multip/e Scan 15AV 
cash back*

L2/Zip Drive/EthemetNideo ln/NTSC Out/Kbd Now $2,675 (or Ss~nti1l-BU01IE REBATE PowerBook' 14oocs/133 t6/tGB/8XCD/L2/11.3" DSTN display Now $2,o85 (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 


$100 

cash back* 
Save another 

Power Macintosh" 5400/18o t6/t.2GB/8XCD/Built·in displayjl(bd 

Sso 
Now St.sso (or $>9/month)** BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 

Color StyleWriter' 4100 Now $220** BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or 
PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets 
you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a 
limited time, st11dents are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today for complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. S:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 14oocs/133 includes a carrying case. While suppli~ last! 



Youeanget 
at our ATM! 
Just need afew bucks? 1st Source Bank has you covered. Check out our Resource Center ATM conve­niently located in the Hesburgh Library basement. 
Grab your funds quickly with no additionalfees ifyou have a1st Source Resource® orResource Plus® card. Or you can use any other bank card honored by the worldwide CIRRUS Network. 
Other 1st Source locations-SaintMary's Haggar College Center, U.S. 31 at Cleveland, U.S. 23 at Iron­wood-dispense $10s and $20s, so there are lots of places around campus to cash in fast! 
**Offer expires October to, 1997. No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 9o-day period will~ added to the principal and will bear interest, whicl:l' wf!l be included in the repayment schedule. For example, the m~nth of May s. 1997, ha~ an mr~resf tate of 12.4o'lb with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 13.82%. A monthly payment of $49.75 for the Power Macmt_o~h 6_5oo/275 system !San ~stlmate based on a total loan amou[lt of $2,872.34, which includes a sample purchase price of S2,675 and a 6% loan ongmatron fee. Interest rs vanable based on the Prime Rate as reported on the sth business day of the month in The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3-9'*--~e Apple Computer loan has an 8-year loan term with no prepayment penalty and is subject to credit approvaL Mo~thly payments may vary dependrng on actual cor:nputer system prices, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxts and a change in the monthly v_anable mte_rest rate. Ot997 Apple Computer, Inc. All nghts reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh, PowerBook, Power Macintosh and StyleWrr!er are regrstered trademarks of Apple Computer, \~c. One~canner and QuickTake are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer vahd from july 12, 1997 thro_ugh Octob~r 10, 1997, wh1\e supph~ last and subject to availability. Void where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further rules and detarls. All Macmtosh computers are des1gned to be accessible to individuals with disability. To team more (U.S. only). call 8oo-6oo-78o8 or TTY 8oo-755·o6ot. 
.-sou•ce®
lifiBank 
Your partners from the firsfBl 
Member FDIC 


~--­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 6, 1997 



Langford 
continued from page 1 
a tax exemption and chasing grants. Two years ago, Langford began to clear the fields. He ran into some oppo­sition from the community, but was able to begin hosting groups as planned. 
"It's the most efficient thing I can imagine," Langford said, adding that the camp hosts 2,500 children a year, with 500 volunteers from area colleges and 200 adult volunteers. The program's operating budget is only $7,000 per year. 
"We want it to be as nice a country club for at-risk chil­dren as we can make it." Langford said. "There's noth­ing like it." 
Hanging on the wall in the clubhouse "office" is a quote from Dostoyevsky that sums up the concept of the camp: "Some good, sacred memory preserved from childhood is perhaps the best education." 
The camp does not charge any group for use of the facil­ities. and the concept is sim­ple: groups come out to the farm and play, under the supervision of volunteers. 
Langford said that the camp still needs a lot of work to "make it right." The Langfords are always search­ing for toys, books, and sports equipment for the children, as well as manual labor and money to help with the build­ing and development of the camp. 
This year, he'll have some help. 
Notre Dame juniors Lori Mrowka, Tony McCanta and Brandon Williams began a student group this year to 
Caplan 
continued from page 1 
"One of the things the Holocaust Program is trying 

Clinton to veto part of military bill 
The Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton is poised to exercise his line-item veto authority, making an "exten­sive" edit of congressionally approved spending for military construction. 
Rahm Emanuel, the presi­dent's senior policy adviser, declined to estimate how many items in the $9 billion bill were on the chopping block today or their amounts, but said on "Fox News Sunday" that "it will be extensive." 
The Washington Post quoted unidentified White House offi­cials as saying Clinton would delete funding for 30 to 50 pro­jects worth nearly $300 million from the bill. 

At least 11 provisiOns were and $6.9 million to renovate the considered veto-eligible because launch pad at the White Sands they were not on the Pentagon's Missile Range in New Mexico. five-year list of needed projects The action would be only the and were not requested by the second use of the line-item veto, administration. under which the president can 
Among them were $13 million disapprove individual items in a for family housing at the Pearl bill and avoid having to kill the Harbor naval complex in Hawaii entire measure. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Wednesday, October 8, 1997 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 

coordinate volunteer efforts at "There Are Children IIere." They arc currently in the process of writing a constitu­tion for the group, and expect to be up and running within the month. 
Both Williams and McCanta were at the camp on Saturday when several groups of' volun­teers from North Quad, Zahm Hall, and Lyons Hall were vis­iting the camp. The volun­teers played with children from the Boys and Girls Club, helped clear the woods of' dead branches, and worked on improving the long drive leading from the road to the farm. 
It rained for much of the afternoon while the volun­teers worked and played. But the students didn't seem to mind the rain and mud. 
"It's a good time, gathering branches and helping out. · [Langford] gives all this land 
- the  least  we  can  do  is  
help,"  said  Tim  Riely,  a  
sophomore from Stanford.  

"Despite all this rain and getting dirty, it's totally worth it," agreed Greg Joseph, a Dillon sophomore. 
McCanta, Williams, and Mrowka all got involved with the program when they had Langford for Core last year. 
"He brought us out here for . a couple of classes," McCanta said as he hauled armload after armload of dead branches to a growing pile in the woods. "We wanted to start something just for here." 
McCanta, Williams, and Mrowka have worked hard to get the group running, and are planning a lunch hour mentoring program with Benjamin Harrison school, as well as regular volunteering at Langford's farm. 
to cover is how science ethics of science are very relates to ethics," Signer important," she added. said. As a scholar-in-residence, 
"To engage in the study of Caplan will also lead a dis­the Holocaust, we have to cussion this afternoon on the look at science. Science may morality of eugenics and have objective claims, but guest teach selected genetics scientists are human. The and bioethics classes. 
"We got over 100 names at Activities night; the response has been great," said McCanta. 
The Langfords' enthusiasm has been infectuous. The sup­port from the communities has been tremendous, accord­ing to the Langfords. 
This enthusiasm is the dri­ving force behind the camp, providing the kids with a .comfortable atmosphere in which they can have fun. 
"Out here, they're able to play," said Langford. "Many of' these children don't know how to play." 
Erika Fuehrmeyer, a junior from Cavanaugh, became a regular at the farm this sum­mer when she stayed at Notre Dame for summer school. 
"I love kids," she said, as she hugged one of the chil­dren. "They teach you so much because they just have this unconditional acceptance and love." 
"Our kids are an inspira­tion," Jill Langford said, as she served pizza to the mass­es of hungry children and stu­dent volunteers. "Children need a place to relax and take 
time out  - the kids  arc  so  
absolutely grateful."  
"They  don't  take  it  for  

granted," she continued. "The crowning moment is when the kids say thanks." 
As the afternoon wore down and the rain let up, the chil­dren and volunteers began to play soccer and baseball on the fields, shrieking with laughter as they slipped and fell in the mud. 
Clad in a bright red shirt and muddy jeans, McCanta surveyed the scene with satis­faction. 
"If this doesn't make you smile," he said, "I don't know what would." 

The Obse!Ver/Laura Petelle Emily Langford enjoys a moment while her adopted parents work with area children in their program, 'There Are Children Here." 
Professor Ludger 
Honnefelder 
Professor ofPhilosophy at the Faculty of 
Philosophy of the University of Bonn and 

Director of the Philosophisches Seminar B. and 
member of the Steering Committee on Bioethics 
of the Council ofEurope since 1991 

ntion of the Council 
eon Human Rights Biomedicine 
::}''"'''''''''''''-·.,.,..,.,.,..,.,....... . 
.m. 
artolo Hall 

For more infonm•tion, contAct Profeuor M. Cathleen Kaveny at 
631·7844. 

!~ilii<il::LAW SCHOOL, THE (ENTER FOR CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTS, (U FOR SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND VALUES AND 
;o;o;'o'o'o'lo'o''ffl1\~/lNOV'IC(ENTER FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 

Monday, October 6, 1997 
page 5 
Clinton's fundraising tapes draw concern 

By SONYA ROSS Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
The White House on Sunday released videotapes showing President Clinton greeting donors at 44 finance-related coffees dur­ing the year before his re-election. The presi­dent is seen thanking his visitors without directly ask-Clinton ing for money. 
In footage from one recep­tion, a former Democratic Party chairman could be heard refus­ing five checks from a donor who offered them inside the White House -while Clinton talked golf with another guest. 
The DNC official, Don Fowler, tells the donor the checks could be handled later. 
The tapes were provided to the news media by the White House without comment late in 
"19&•:.. 
TniBiJJE. 
THE HAIRCUTS. THE BOOTS. THE SUITS. THE CUITARS. THE \tUSIC Of Lf..NNON I MrCA.RTNEY. 

The Notre Dame African Students, Association 
Proudly Presents: 
FACES OF WOMEN 
A FEATURE FILM FROM THE IVORY COAST portraying the universal struggle of women to empower themselves and have a say in a patriarchal society. 
A TRIBUTE TO WOMEN IN ALL SOCIETIES Through the heart and voice of African Women 
Followed by a Panel Discussion on: 
"THE ROLE OF WOMEN IN OUR SOCIETIES" 
Featuring: 
1. 
Prof. Ann Loux, English Dept., Saint Mary's College Moderator 

2. 
Prof. Douglas Agbetsiafa 

3. 
Temika Williams, MBA, College of Business Administration 

4. 
George Mugwanya, Ph.D. Candidate, Center for Civil & Human Rights 

5. 
Aida Tessema, Saint Mary's College 


• Wednesday, October 8 • 7:00pm • 155 DeBartolo • Admission Free • http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
OTHER EVENTS: Prof. Leonard Wantchekon/ YALE University Today at 12:15 pm in Hesburgh Center Auditorium: "Electoral Competition with Outside Options: A Game Theoretical Analysis of Transitions to Democracy" 7:30pm same venue: "Democracy as an Optimal Enforcement Mechanism for Power-Sharing Contracts" 
the day. Recorded by White 
House television crews between 
Aug. 3, 1995 and Aug. 23, 
1996, the tapes had been 
turned over to Justice 
Department and congressional 
investigators late Friday. 

The revelation of the tapes 
touched off a political firestorm 
among Republicans who 
demanded to know why they 
were not turned over when the 
White House was first asked for 
all records related to fund-rais­
ing for the 1996 elections. 

"We want them all," said 
Rep. Dan Burton, head of the 
House panel investigating cam­
paign finance irregularities. 
"We didn't even know about 
them, and that really bothers 
us," Burton, R-Ind. said on 
"Fox News Sunday." "We're 
going to check very thoroughly 
into the logs of the White House 
to make sure we get all of those 
videotapes." 

"We made our best efforts to respond to all of the requests for materials from all the inves­tigating agencies," White House special counsel Lanny Davis said later. "We inadver­tently did not realize that these tapes were in existence. This was an honest mistake. Nothing on these tapes is inconsistent with what we've previously stated regarding what occurred at these White House coffees. Any suggestion that these materials were deliberately withheld ... is totally baseless." 
The footage released Sunday shows a pattern to the coffees, which Republicans and other critics insist were fund-raising events. They typically were held in the White House's Map Room, part of the residential portion of the White House, although one event was held in the Oval Office and another in the Roosevelt Room across the hall. 
They show Clinton entering the room, accompanied by Fowler, or former aide Harold Ickes. The president would greet guests, invite them to sit with him at an oblong table, then make brief remarks. 
One June 18, 1996 snippet shows Clinton shaking hands with Democratic fund-raiser John Huang, who brought in guests to Clinton's coffees and is at the center of charges that the Democrats accepted illegal donations from abroad. 

-~-~-~~--~-­

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 6, 1997 
desire to be a part of the institu­areas of concern for the College. Mary. Throughout her career, tion. She mentioned that maintain­she has published extensively in 
Eldred Preview 

Another student asked Eldred ing the high level of admitted the areas of curriculum reform, continued from page 1 a question that was asked on students' SAT scores, curricu­continued from page 1 higher education for women 
the students' Saint Mary's lum adjustments specific to an and alternative approaches to participate in a question and admissions application: which all-women's college, expansion Ninty-two delegates repre­undergraduate education. answer session. three things would she take to of cultural diversity, and further senting colleges, universities A graduate of Mundelein 
Index cards mailed with the her new dorm room? "Today, if physical campus improvements and learned societies will College in Chicago with a bach­invitation to the dinner asked I were going to college, I would were personal priorities. process in full academic regalia elor of arts degree in history, students to write down any take a computer, a coffee pot, In specifying hopes for cur­along with faculty, students, Eldred earned her master of questions they had for the and my favorite fiction pieces." riculum changes, Eldred stated staff, members of the board of arts and her doctorate in edu­incoming president. Student Milos and Morrill then asked that it is the faculty of a school trustees and ceremony partici­cation administration from New body president Nikki Milos and her to list her favorite books and who has the ultimate say, but pants. (In recognition of the York University. St. Catherine's medal winner authors. Eldred cited Barbara reiterated the importance of inauguration, Mayor Steve Eldred is married and has a Genevieve Morrill moderated Pimm, who wrote about the having one that supports a Luecke from South Bend, Mayor daughter. Among her many the session. hierarchical relationship with women's college. Perron from Elkhart, and contributions to the community, 
"I think the question and the laity in the Anglican church, A Saint Mary's senior wanted Mayor Beutter from Mishawaka Eldred has served as chair of answer segment was a great and Wallace Stegner, author of to know what qualities a woman will proclaim Oct. 6, 1997, as the board of trustees of the way for students to get a feel for "Crossing to Safety." should possess at graduation. "Saint Mary's College Day.") Convent of the Visitation Dr. Eldred's personal side," Before Eldred could name the "Self confidence," was Eldred's The College of St. Catherine in School, Minnesota's only all­Morrill commented. "She has a one person she admired the immediate . response. She St. Paul, Minn., where Eldred girls high school, and as a great sense of humor and a high most, her husband Don, seated emphasized that a Saint Mary's held administrative positions member of the board of direc­regard for Saint Mary's, both of just in front of the podium, woman should know, upon for the past 18 years before tors of Insight, Inc., an educa­which really came through in cleared his throat loud enough graduation, that she can do any­coming to Saint Mary's, has tion program at two Minnesota her answers to the questions." for the entire group to hear and thing because of the hallmarks donated a tree to be planted on prisons. 
The first card asked Eldred to insinuate his position as that and quality of the liberal arts campus in honor of her inaugu­Eldred sees in her inaugura­recount a favorite college mem­most admired person. education she has received. ration. tion as president of Saint ory. She admitted that her col­Another student wanted to Since assuming the presiden­Mary's the opportunity "to cele­lege years, spent in a convent, know Eldred's feeling on smok­cy officially in June, Eldred's brate our long-held shared were quite different from those ing in the residence halls, which career has primarily been dedi­commitments to the life of the of Saint Mary's today. is currently allowed on all but cated to higher education, most mind and the life of the spirit 
She said that one her greatest five floors of the campus' living recently at the College of St. and to rededicate ourselves to experiences was arriving on a quarters. Catherine, a Catholic women's the mission of educating women campus with 500 students; she "I have a huge bias against college. As vice president and for lives of achievement, service had come from a town of the smokers," Eldred said. "I think it academic dean from 1989 to and faith." same population. should be prohibited every­1996, she was responsible for The mayors from South Bend, 
A subsequent question asked where." all aspects of the academic pro­Elkhart and Mishawaka will be her to explain her views on all­through in her answers The final questions from the grams of 28 undergraduate among several prominent fig­women's education. index cards were again light in departments, eight graduate ures from both the Saint Mary's 
to the questions.' 
"The single-sex education nature, inquiring on her favorite programs and the Weekend and Michiana communities who allows the women who choose it flavor of ice cream (chocolate), College. She also served as act­will bring greetings to the new the opportunity to engage in Genevieve Morrill what kind of car she drives (a ing president during the winter president at the inaugural cere­leadership opportunities and Chrysler Cirrus) and how her of 1994 while the president was mony.
session moderator 
other activities that don't occur parents thought of her name on sabbatical. Other presenters include in a coeducational setting," ("The hospital nurses suggested Prior to her tenure as chief Father Edward Malloy, presi­Eldred said. "Most leadership Eldred, laughing heartily with it"). academic officer at St. dent of the University of Notre positions in college and the the rest of the crowd, declared, Discussion facilitators Milos Catherine, she held the posi­Dame; Sister Catherine O'Brien, world are held by men. This set­"I believe that question was just and Morrill then entertained a tions of college vice president, president of the Congregation of ting allows women to fill these answered ... and it is true." few more questions, these from vice president for administra­the Sisters of the Holy Cross; positions." Other students wished to actual audience members. tion, dean of students, and and Brother Richard Gilman, When asked for her personal know how she met her husband Senior Joann Joliet wanted to associate academic dean. She president of Holy Cross College. definition of feminism, Eldred and how he proposed, to which know if Eldred had any sugges­has also served as research In addition to the inaugural said that it included "the oppor­Eldred replied were long stories. tions for commencement speak­associate for the University ceremony and reception, other tunity to be very supportive of ''I'll save that for a time when ers, to which Eldred replied, Without Walls at the University events -free of charge and women in whatever role they I come talk with students in the "Not yet." of Minnesota; personnel repre­open to the public -include an choose," and that it should hap­residence halls," she said. "I Eldred's husband asked her if sentative for Universal Oil Inaugural Exhibit which will pen "on the personal and pro­hope you're catching my hint, she would mind if he and Products; curriculum coordina­trace the history of the Collegefessional level." that I would like to be invited to daughter Sarah yelled, "Yeah tor for St. Mary's Center for and display official greetings to One student referenced the do that." Mom!" at the inauguration cere­Learning, an inner-city experi­the president. This exhibit will recent debate on Saint Mary's Steering the discussion back to mony, to which she laughingly mental high school in Chicago; be in the Cushwa-Leightonposition in the Notre Dame com­more serious matters, Milos and replied, "Yes." · assistant dean for freshmen at Library from 11 a.m. until mid­munity by asking Eldred how Morrill read a question to dis­The Saint Mary's choir then her alma mater, Mundelein night. An art exhibit will also be she and the students might cern Eldred's feelings on the led the group in singing College in Chicago; and history in the Moreau Galleries from 11 change the negative impression place of gay and lesbian stu­"Jubilate Servite" while pro­teacher at Xavier High School a.m. to 5 p.m., and campusof Saint Mary's held by those dents in the framework of the ceeding across the Library in St. Louis, Mo. tours will be leaving from the across the street. College mission statement. Green to Mary's Place, the From 1959 to 1969 she great hall in LeMans every half 
"I hope that through our "[These are) important issues newly landscaped holy area in belonged to the Sisters of hour from 10 a.m. to noon and behavior and interactions, [the we need to pay attention to," front of McCandless Hall. Charity of the Blessed Virgin from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. Notre Dame community) could Eldred said. "I feel as though I Coleman announced that the come to change their minds," need the time to learn the cam­students would "send [Eldred) Eldred responded, while adding pus culture ... and other factors with blessings into the night." that it is difficult to change before knowing how to address The group was then led in other's opinions in any situation. this issue." singing the refrain from "On "I am proud of the way students Eldred mentioned that the Eagles' Wings" in between stu­responded. They were very committee on relationships, dents' recitation of the verses. mature and not demeaning in reformatted with the addition of Students extended their arms any way." student representatives, would over Eldred for a final blessing, 
When asked why she chose to continue to approach the issue. while the four class presidents come to Saint Mary's, Eldred "[The committee) will be the placed flowers at the foot of the responded simply, "Because avemte through which this dis­statue of Mary, as a reminder of they chose me." She added that cussion needs to take place," the students' prayers for Eldred. Saint Mary's stellar academic Eldred said. "There will be a Finally, the group sang regime and reputation as the resolve, at the latest, by the end "Spirits Taking Flight," gave the best Catholic women's college in of this year." sign of peace, and departed for the country heightened her Eldred then addressed other the evening. 
Democrats join Te~rnsters campaign 
By KEVIN GALVIN campaign official: She worked Vasquez, employed 116 peo­Associated Pre$S W rlter · closely with Martin Davis. a ple in the Philippines, he ~()nsultant who pleaded guilty dropped her donation. WASHINGTON in. what federal officials "Richard did give me the 
Democratic fund-raisers described as an illegal scheme parameters," Thomann said. tried to steer a $100,000 to swap Teamsters' money for "He certainly was doing more donor to Teamsters President contributions to s:;~rey' s cam-than asking me to just look Ron Carey's ·re:..election cam­paign. · , into it. (But) once I said, 'No, paign, according to former "I made that call as a favor she isn't going to send a party officials who said the to Laura Hartigan, who for check,' he was fine with idea was dropped whertits ].'~asons not cleliit tO me was that.'' ;;;;: legality was questioned. intent on trying to help" The only person to pressure 
Richard Sullivan, former Carey. Sullivan said in atele-him to find a way to deliver finance2di:t .··.for .. ~h€l .ei~tervi~ · dtiY night. the mon;ey, Thomann said, Democratic Natiortal en('rhom arne back was Carey campaign attorney
CO:JDmitt · confirmed tblit he said it w legal ... l Nathaniel Charny. 
i.k Char.qy yvas .di~missed from 
an t;·• q~~ N~.~ ;¥ork fh;:m after the mgthe union campaign scandal came to Carey •··.········..·.· ..... ·· •..·.. ·.• to.light; 
.Sulliv .. . . d ~~ :made the .Q~.yis.. t~f).id.in. Gf.lurt.... that•· a 
request at thB urging o£ IAl.lra DNC oft1cial dire~ed a largeHartigan,· a Clinton-Gore ~96 donor t(}the campaign. 
Monday, October 6, 1997 
The Observer • NEWS 

• BRAZil 
Pope says last Mass in Brazil 

By VICTOR L. SIMPSON 
Associated Press W mer 
RIO DE JANEIRO 

Some peered from high-rise balconies and others climbed trees to see Pope John Paul II Sunday, as more than a million people turned out for his final Mass in Brazil -one of his biggest crowds of the year. 
Winding up a four-day visit, John Paul kept to his theme of defending the family, calling it "the fundamental community of love and life." 
Globo TV estimated the crowd at bayside Flamengo Park at more than 1 million, while police put it at 2 million. 
It was at least as large as the turnout this year in Paris and Krakow, Poland. But this one had a Brazilian flair -men in shorts and women in bikini tops. all swaying to hymns under the tropical sun. The temperature hit 82 degrees on the first warm Brazilian spring day since the pope arrived Thursday. 
The fierce sun took its toll. Firemen sprayed the crowd with water and some 700 hun­dred people were treated for dehydration, according to press reports. 
"The show of enthusiasm and the profound piety of this gen­erous people will forover be engraved in my memory," John 


Pope John Paul II in Brazil 
The pope's visit to Brazil is his 80th trip outside Italy, more than any pope in church history. Itis his 15thtriptoLatinAmerica 
1979: Dominican Republic, Mexico cSingle visit and the Bahamas -,. &. M 1 · 1 · · 
1980: Brazil '~~ u up e vtsJts 1982: Argentina """"~...,......·~·~. 1983: Central America (Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, El Salvador, Guatemala, Belize and Honduras) and Haiti 1984: Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico 1985: Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru, Trinidad and Tobago 1986: Colombia 1987: Uruguay, Chile and Argentina 1988: Uruguay, Bolivia, Peru and Paraguay 1990: Mexico and Curacao 1991: Brazil 1992: Dominican Republic 1993: Jamaica and Mexico 1996: Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Venezuela 
Paul said in a farewell speech at Rio's Galeao Air Base. At 
7:00 p.m. local time, his Alitalia MD-11 jetliner took off for Rome. 
The frail, 77-year-old pontiff showed remarkable vigor dur­ing his visit, often insisting on walking unaided and twirling his cane for the crowd. At a rally in Maracana stadium Saturday night, he walked up and down the 23 stairs to the stage. 
The Vatican said he intends to keep on traveling, with his next pilgrimage -to Cuba ­scheduled for January. 
"He looks a lot older now and a lot weaker, but his message is still the same," said Jose Alberto Rabelo, a systems ana­lyst who was 16 when John Paul last visited Rio in 1980. "He's the greatest." 
The pope's visit was mainly to pronounce the church's mes­sage on the family and to set down strategy with bishops meeting here for defending the institution against what the church sees as secular threats. 
John Paul condemned sex outside of marriage, gay mar­riage and pornography, and issued a major attack on abor­tion, calling it the "shame of humanity.'' 


When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-together, Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. 
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 10, 1997. CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW. 
Raytheon
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
EXPECT GREAT THINGS
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, October 6, 1997 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.....•.......•....... Jennifer Breslow Sporn Editor ...••..•.......................... Mike Day Production Manager............•............ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor.•.......•................. Joey Crawford Sy>tems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ..........•.....•....... Lori Allen Controller........•......•••.......................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .............•............. Karie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrrarion ofeither instirucion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accenr Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commcmaries, letters and Inside Columns presem rhe views ofrhe authors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofrhe None Dame/Saim Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  63I-5313  
Managing Editor  631-454I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-747I  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-747I  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• fROM THE lEFT 

Utopian Fields of Corn and the Future of Notre Dame 
2008. 
The Patricia Ireland/John Sweeney ticket has been elected in a narrow vic­tory over the Gore/Gephardt attempt for a third term. Jesse Jackson has been named Secretary of State and Ralph Nader Secretary of the Treasury. Noam Chomsky and Howard Zinn co-wrote Patricia Ireland's inaugural speech "A Rebirth of American Democracy." Flames of revolution ignite the world over as second-wave communism secures control of the bankrupt "democ­ratic" regimes. 
David McMahon 
In the United States, Republicans have become closely associated with their age-old right wing militia supporters. The second American Civil War was narrowly averted, but such catastrophes as the Lincoln Tunnel bombings and the Chicago plot-a narrowly averted nuclear disaster-have all but discred­ited the Republicans and their neo-Nazi Idahoan cronies. 
In the chaos, Rush Limbaugh was assassinated and the Christian Coalition disbanded. Hawaii and Puerto Rico have gained independence, and the Hudson River Valley has been occupied by the friendly forces of the American Indian movement. Half of California has been destroyed by devastating earthquakes, and the other half is now an island. The short-lived "Republic of Quebec" has been admitted as a U.S. protectorate, furthering tensions along the borders of socialist Canada and the U.S. 
The University of Notre Dame. 
Ever since the millennia! schism, many thought that the fledgling American Catholic Church {ACC) would flounder and fail. That was before the ill-fated Vatican City invasion of Italy, code-named "Operation Papal State." After the Great Schism, the patriarchy of Notre Dame was overthrown in an ACC coup sponsored by the Masciarotte­Royer-South Bend Greens coalition. 

Under the new administration, all poli­cy-making decisions are open to the public. The late 20th century gesture known as the "Spirit of Inclusion," penned by the last homophobic Notre Dame dictator, has been torn from the books and exposed as a shallow piece of Old School propaganda. ACC priests have recognized that Jesus' presence on earth over two thousand years ago had nothing at all to do with laying claims to women's bodies and sexuality, or insti­tuting autocratic rule over their flock's sexual orientation or practice. 
"Civil law" has replaced homophobic Church practice. "The societal milieu in which we live" has replaced the Disney­model followed last century. "A context that is normative for this community" has replaced the medieval barbarism of the Catholic Dark Ages, which had branded gays, lesbians, bisexuals, and transsexuals as outcasts, actively taken the lead in their persecution, and ignored any progressive spirit from its theologians, clergy, followers, or its own gay priests. The "Spirit of Inclusion" has been stomped into the ashes of history, replaced by the commission for the "Law of Inclusion," headed by Comrade Ava Preacher. 
By an overwhelming vote, the campus ROTC units were disbanded and para­military terrorist organizations banned from campus. The business building was changed into the new Center for Social, Environmental, and Labor Concerns, a center which houses the five local unions that represent all workers on campus and many in the South Bend community. Patricia Ireland sent in the National Guard to force integration of the sexes in the dorms. Zahm Hall, unfortunately, was levelled by artillery fire. 
Notre Dame has merged with Saint Mary's, and a new name has yet to be found for the new larger school. Tuition has been drastically reduced, and a new scholarship program for service has replaced ROTC. Comprehensive health benefits have been extended to every segment of worker on campus, as well as to any domestic partnerships. All receive a living wage. 
Notre Dame has become recognized as one of the international moral leaders in academia. Many new departments have been formed or expanded, including Feminist Studies, Labor History, American English, Sustainable Economics, African-American Studies, Green Studies, Labor Studies, "Third" World Studies, Latino Studies, Liberation Theology, and Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transsexual Studies. Mastery of Spanish with proficiency in Cantonese and French has become a pre-requisite to receiving a degree. 
The lakes and large parts of the cam­pus have been returned to their natural state or utilized for farming for the com­munity. Some new structures around campus include the Fidel Castro Organic Gardening Institute, The Stephen Fredman Center for the Study of the American Soul, and the Women's Center, which has actually taken over the old ROTC building. 
Most campus buildings now depend on energy from solar cells saved during the summer months with the newly avail­able and cost-effective solar cell technol­ogy. Only electric cars are allowed on campus, and the west side of campus has become a hub for the new street car system, harkening back to times long forgotten. 
South Bend is a changed and revital­ized city -closure of the malls, a new reliable street car system, and increased public works have made the downtown bustling again, and businesses in the Midwest over are relocating to the the capital of the "Hoosier" Tiger market. 
In a final twist, Notre Dame officials began work on the stadium in 1999 and completed the new stadium in 2004. The new stadium now hovers about the and interesting quirks such as "Maloney's Fall" in 2006 or the tilt in 2007 which may have cost us the cham­pionship. 


During winters, one can jet about in the new magnetic underground tram system {MUTS) to get anywhere around campus. Except for Carroll Hall. 
David McMahon, Notre Dame '96. is now living in New Jersey and can be reached at dmcmahon32@hotmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• DooNESBURV 

ti.ICU, IT'5 ANHONOR 7V M BACK.' 8.0., IT'S COACHING MY OUJ T&AM 6RCAT I~ A OR£AM COMe TRU& TOHAV£ f"(;R M& ANOMY ti/HOt-e 
YVVBACK.' 
FAMILY! 
' 
GARRY TRU~EAU 
I JliST1-KJP£ YOU'L.t BE84TIENT. IIIG BUNGOING OVe-R THe 
~T£R, AI\IPIM AFRA!f) fJJe JUSTIXJN'T H4VE THe KINO OF 
'TAlENT THAT/1/IN5 BIG 64M£'5. 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Atrue friend is thinking 
of you when everyone 
else is thinking of them­
selves." 

-Anonymous 
VIEWPOINT
Monday, October 6, 1997 page 9 
• SENTIMENTAl RATIONALITY 
Get Down to the Task at Hand: Love 
. For starters. let me betray my roots. I come from a polit­Ically conservative family of mixed Protestant and Catholic baekgr~mnds. In high school, I helped found the Young Republicans. I used to read the Bible before I went to bed every night. I did a lengthy research project on the biologi­cal basis of homosexuality, solely because I wanted to dis­prove that there .was any. !listened to Rush Limbaugh on tl~e _way to Taco Bell at lunch and sometimes laughed at Ius Jokes. I even wrote an article in my high school news­paper entitled "Homosexuality is Unnatural." You could safely s~y that I was a ~udding young Charles Rice, ready to chastise homosexuality from every angle. 
Michael Peppard 

These opini_ons inevitably carried over into my first col­lege days until! was blessed with a roommate empathetic to the homosexual movement. Beginning with those first days of freshman year, when he and I stayed up late vehe­mently expressing our opinions, I began an odyssey of sorts. 
or t_he opinions my roommate expressed so articulately, certam phrases began sticking in my memory. I would sit in class the following day, remembering his retorts: "Why can't you just love everybody!" "Why do you have to judge what you can't possibly understand?" 
. At some point _I ":as enlightened, realizing that all during frnshman year Chnst was speaking through my friend in th~1 next bunk over. "Love your neighbor as yourself," lie smd through my roommate. "Judge not, lest ye be judged." 
. Up to that point, these fundamental ideals of social jus­tice, as revealed by God, had escaped my vision. I had r:-plac1~d ~h_e practices of faith, hope and love with skepti­Cism. eymc1sm and hal!l. Nowhere in my Christian faith was I commanded to criticize others and exclude them, but I relished in my ability to do it. So how could I recon­cile my dedication to the Gospel and my disdain for homo­scxu_als? Quite simply, I couldn't, and thus my odyssey contmued. 
Then one day I found myself at a GLND/SMC rally. In truth, I was afraid to be there. Could my opinions really have changed so radically? My high school buddies proba­bly would have pictured me spearheading an opposite event. But with the commencement of that rally, my ?dyssey b~canH: co~plete. It wasn't that something clicked m my bram saymg, I understand where they're coming from." But something did click in my heart which would be trivialized if put into words. . I had mad11 ti_HJ li~al conversion from an arrogant and JUdgmental ratiOnality to a humble and loving sympathy. And I know that God was guiding me in.that direction. For the way of Christ is not a way of rationality. Anyone who ponders the folly of the cross can realize that Christianity doesn't always "make sense." Not to worry, though, because God doesn't ever ask us to understand the world around us. _No one gets to heaven through their cognitive understamhng of the plan of salvation -for no one can ever understand that mystery. But admission to heaven comes through faith. In the same way, no one follows ~:hnst_ by judgi?g others on rational grounds-for no one IS IJqlllppPd to JUdge another in such a way. Rather, true discipleship is revealed through loving works. 
In the end. my actions toward others should be analo­gous to my actions toward God. On one hand, I can't understand the providence of God because I am looking f:om a totally different perspective. I don't have the cogni­~Ive _POW~r ~o comprehend God's will for me, so persever­mg m faith IS all I am called to do. Similarly, I can't under­stand those with a different sexual orientation because I am looking from a totally different perspective. But thank­fully, persevering in love is all I am called to do. 
As a heterosexual, I've concluded that nothing will ever "f!Iake sense" to me about the lifestyle of my homosexual fnends. But that cognitive limitation should have no bear­ing on my actions. If I subordinate loving works to the r,eq~irell_lents of rationality. I risk leaving the way of Chnsl: It I want to emulate Christ as His disciple, I need to put aside my addiction to things making sense. 
Today, I consider myself thankfully "opinion less" about the nature of homosexuality. I no longer care whether gays have different hypothalmic nuclei or a difl'erent genetic structure. I no longer try to discern how nature or nurture have affected my homosexual friends. Ijust try to focus on the only thing my God asks of me: to love. 
And that is a big enough task. 
Michael_P~pp~rd is_a senior !lrts and Letters major cur­rently res1duzg m a lng old house. lie welcomes comments at Michael.L.Peppard.2@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
• lETTERS TO THE tD!TOR 

At the open house for my brought enough food to fill recent retirement as director the small pickup truck of the of Educational Media in the Little Flower Food Bank Office of Information which provides food for ~s Technologies, the students many as 500 families a gave me a present for which month. I shall be forever grateful. For this I was deeply 
The student government appreciative. I sincerely announced that the Notre thank all who contributed. Dame students are giving But this additional gift from $100 for each of my 21 years the students really touched here at Notre Dame as a gift my heart. I want to express for food for those in need. my sincere appreciation to Notre Dame's Food Services the Notre Dame students for will purchase the food at dis­whom my staff and I have count prices, thus increasing been happy to provide media the value of the gift by a siz­services for the last 21 or able amount! more years. They will contin­
Earlier, I had a dream that ue to do so under the able whoever came to my party direction of Michael brought food for the poor. Langthorne. The dream was so clear that I made a note of this on the Sister Elaine DesRosiers open house invitation. The Educational Media Director Emerita result was that people October 4, 1997 
Is Notre Dame Family Acting Like One? 
In his letter, Jonathan French calls on Notre Dame to extol the Gospel values of love, compassion and concern for one's fel­low man. Yet, his letter lacks both compas­sion and love at every important turn, with the exception of his comment on the prob­lem of racism. His attack on the College Democrats and his response to the call for a nondiscrimination clause seem to be more politically motivated than the efl'orts of those he opposes. • 
There is no denying that the College Democrats can be considered allies of GLND/SMC. But are they the attention seekers French claims them to be? Is the move for nondiscrimination an important focus simply because of its "political cor­rectness"? It would be nice if, at a univer­sity such as this one, opposing forces could rise above simple name calling. 
The College Democrats work for this cause for their belief in its intrinsic value. They ally themselves with GLND/SMC because they are living out the Gospel value of love. No one else will sympathize with these people; Notre Dame treats them as its lepers. Is it "political correctness" to lobby for those students that could use a helping hand in a community that continu­ally turns its back on them? 
_French also has a wonderful way of usmg pretty but hollow words when it comes to the actual case of a nondiscrimi­nation clause change. He says, "It is impor­tant to realize that the University is con­stantly working to protect homosexual stu­dents as human beings and to help them spiritually, clause or no clause. Human dignity and compassion, not a binding nondiscrimination clause, is what those people who consider themselves to be homosexual need." 
How is the University working to protect homosexuals? True compassion and pro­tection would give these people legal safe­guards. As of now, the University lacks those safeguards. It simply extends an invi­tation telling everyone that it will include homosexuals, but it still refuses to guaran­ty that "inclusion." There is no Jove or compassion in that. 
In this debate, both Jesus and the Church are often invoked. Now it is under­standable that such views can be attrib­uted to the Church, seeing as how St. Paul said that homosexual acts were evil deeds. But that is St. Paul, not Jesus. It is also St. Paul who made the folly of saying that "by faith alone" a person shall be saved. Such a statement is against both what Jesus has said and the words of St. James. Catholics tend to follow the latter teaching, that faith and action go hand in hand. In fact, many believe that it is the righteous actions that lead us to faith. 
However, even with the fallibility of St. Paul's letters established, the Catholic Church still says that homosexual acts are wrong. Here is where Jesus truly needs to be invoked. When addressing the Pharisees, Jesus invoked the ptophet Isaia~ saying, "In_ vain do they worship me, teachmg as doctrmes human precepts. You disregard God's commandments but cling to human tradition!"(Mark, 7:7-9). 
Jesus has given us two commandments: love God and love your neighbor as your­self. Let us follow those commandments and discontinue traditions that work against such love. 
The Church is the people of God. So we, as a Church and a school, allow people of other religious traditions to be freely wel­come, even though they do not follow any of our teachings. Yet we hold fast to one particular tradition, excluding those who do not adhere to it. Recently the U.S. Catholic bishops stated that it was more important for families to love their homo­sexual members than to cut them off because of Church teaching. What about the so called "Notre Dame family?" Where is our love? 
Liam Brennan College Democrat October 2. 1997 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

page 10 Monday, October 6, 1997 
Thrillers 101: AStudy of Reuent Trends 
doctor whose hobby is mar­
Kiss the Girls 

tial arts, which comes 
Directed by Gary Felder 

in pretty handy. 5. The 
Starring Morgan Freeman and Ashley 

woman walks into a room at
Judd 


night. looking for an intrud­er, and guess (our of five shamrocks) 
where he is? Right behind her. AHIIII! 6. There is a copBy MIKE MCMORROW 
(played by Morgan Accent Movie Critic 
Freeman) whose niece is kidnapped bY the photo courtesy Polygram 
T
here is a common argument 

killer-but he is out of Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman square off against a psychotic kidnapper in "Kiss the Girls."
that states that one of the trou­his jurisdiction. 7. The bles with movies in general is 

doctor escapes using
that there are only a limited 

her handy karate and teams up with acters on screen and the audience utterly dependable as the detective number of ideas to go around. If sub­
the cop to get this guy, all of course out itself. (Director Gary Felder gives with a personal interest in the case. He scribed to, this conviction really limits 
of their professional arenas. Oliver Stone a run for his money for adds depth and warmth to a role that a "movie experience" because only a 
There are countless more cliches that who uses the most cuts in a minute.) If is otherwise utterly banal. Ashley Judd handful of movies have a genuinely are shamelessly used in "Kiss the you see it, notice how interestingly lit does not fall into the trap of putting too 
original presence; others take what 

Girls," but some of them go too far into the dungeon is (I know, now you're much melodrama into her character of one usually calls a genre and attempt the plot for me to be able to say with­saying, "There is a dungeon in this the woman in dismay. The supporting 
to renew it by using style and acting out your seeing the movie. Although movie!"), which gives life to what performances are adequate, but noth­techniques to bring life to perhaps a 

the film is often extremely predictable, would be a very incredible setting in ing stands out. Freeman and Judd easi­hackneyed story. it brings some life to the "Don't-turn­another film. ly overshadow them. The filmmakers of "Kiss the Girls" around-because-someone-scary-with­"Kiss the Girls" borrows specific ele­The combination of the performanceshave no choice but to go with the sec­
dangerous-stuff-in-his-hands-is-there" ments from other psycho horror films and filming aspects give "Kiss the ond option. The story is old and pre­genre. Take, for example, the opening as well. You'll notice blatant similari­Girls" a sense of tension and terror. dictable, so let us list the elements: credits: unlike most films, "Kiss the ties to films such as "The Silence of the When watching this film, you almost 
1. A serial killer is out on the run. 2. Girls" sets a mood of horror which Lambs" and "Seven." However, in want to laugh at yourself for being so He likes to abduct women and sadisti­
most films don't even consider utiliz­today's age, similarities among these "on-your toes" because of its inherent cally use them for sensuality. 3. He ing. "Kiss the Girls" also makes the "psycho movies" make comparisons silliness. However, it does do its job: it wears a mask so women cannot identi­most of camera and lighting tech­inevitable. sucks you into its plot, takes you for a fy him -but of course they can recog­niques. Many of the chase scenes use Aside from the interesting filming ride, and leaves you checking the rear 
nize his voice. 4. One of the women 

extremely quick cuts to create an technique~ used, the performances view mirror as you leave the theatre 
who is kidnapped (Ashley Judd) is a 

atmosphere of dismay among the char-really stand out. Morgan Freeman is parking lot. 
Stone turns a disappointing new leaf 
this movie is no exception. As I walked out of the theater, I heard many reactions, such as: "God,
U-Turn 


that sucked!" or "I want my $3.75 back!" This was all coming out of faces with vacant stares as a
Directed by Oliver Stone 

result of the debacle they had just witnessed. Starring Sean Penn, Billy Bob It may not be fair to call "U-Turn" a debacle, although it is a semi-debacle. Surprisingly, you
Thornton, Jennifer Lopez, Nick Nolte, 
would never guess this from looking at the cast. 
and Claire Danes Sean Penn plays the humiliating road hound whose every act turns into his worst nightmare. Billy Bob Thornton is the slow-minded mechanic who can't stop charging more money for a simple 
(our of five shamrocks) job, Jennifer Lopez is the seductive wife of the fiery and naughty Nick Nolte, and Powers Booth plays the always suspicious sheriff who seems to show up at just the right times. Heck, even Claire By JOSH BECK 
Danes is cast as a dim-witted teen hussy. With Accent Movie Critic 
that caliber of acting, how can you go wrong? It's very simple: you create a plot that goes nowhere. 
A
t the ending of the movie "Platoon," I was dis­Penn's car breaks down on the highway in the 
turbed. By the finish of "Natural Born 
middle of the Arizona desert and he is forced to 
Killers," I was shocked. At the end of the film leave it in the hands of Thornton. From there, we "U-Turn," I was sick to my stomach. What do discover more about Penn's character as we learn 
all of these have in .common besides my belabored that two of his. fingers have been chopped off by areactions? You're right: they were all made by Oliver crime boss. Everything goes downhill from then on Stone, and this may be unfortunate for you. the reader, as he introduces himself to Lopez and as a result that I have really never exuded a good reaction to any meets Nolte and Booth and everyone else. It would of his films, although he is one of the most prolific film­be useless of me to outline the entire plot because makers of our era. Unfortunately, he has taken the you'd probably become bored and go watch NDroad that most artists today have turned on, and this is football or something like that. Needless to say, it the road that leads directly to pop culture. 
does nothing for the lilm, and this is the ultimate Stone has never failed to shock the viewer with his reason why it fails. 
material. although with the film "Natural Born Killers," Judging from other Stone films, "U-Turn" is nothe developed a cinematography that would break the in the least controversial. But it is disturbing, andplane as being the most independent to date and estab­this may be what attracts our mainstream pop cul­lish itself as Stone's style for the '90s. The filming of ture to it. However. as a whole, the movie is justthat movie was chaotic at best, zooming from shot to not what I expected from Stone, and for this rea­
Sean Penn checks out the action in Oliver Stone's new film, "U­

shot, never staying in one place, flashing surrealistic son I cannot deem it a must-see. Although it does 
Turn."

images across the screen, and so forth. While "Killers" possess the brilliant talents of people like Penn, was a somewhat intriguing film due to this fact, the good to pass up. A new Oliver Stone film with many Thornton, Nolte, Lopez, and Danes, the film can'tmovie "U-Turn" sadly disappoints in this category. 
famous actors deemed itself more than appropriate for escape its terrible plot and the fact that the dialogue isThe newest installment in a long line of films by viewing. Needless to say, I have never been this disap­horrible. That in and of itself is enough to make youStone. this movie is simply a test of how much we can pointed in a film that I was anticipating to be worth sick, even if you're watching it from the back row.
take. Sitting in one of the first rows of the theater, I viewing. "U-Turn" is bad, and the reasons for this are Summary: A well-filmed movie with a cast whichfound myself growing sicker as the film went on due to many. While the cinematography, for lack of better exudes brilliant acting. Disappointing ultimatelyStone's "hip-hop" style of cinematography and the fact words, blew my mind, it reminded me too much of because the plot goes absolutely nowhere due to thethat the camera would NOT stop moving. If I had sat "Natural Born Killers" and for this reason I found horrific screenplay and bland dialogue. DO NOT SIT INfarther back and not eaten the popcorn, perhaps I myself comparing the two and not liking what I saw. It THE FIRST ROW. Option: rent "Platoon," "JFK,"would not have had this problem. 
seems almost as if Stone tries to extract a reaction "Nixon," "Born on the Fourth of July," or any other of
The surface appearance of "U-Turn" seemed too 
from his viewers in each of the films he makes, and his films. 


Football 
1997 

Stanford Notre Dame 
The Stanford offense gave a tired

33-15 
Notre Dame defense more than it could handle in
Stat of the 
the second half.

The Irish have lost tour straight games for the f[rst time since 196~; . see page 3 




• IRISH INSIGHT 
Rona failure? Not quite 
A
s Notre Dame students, we all ~arbor an array of expectations. 
During our time here, we expect to spend at least 24 thrilling f a 1 1 Saturdays cheering our Irish to victory. We expect Brian Rienthaler that our Assistant Sports Editor 

coaching ______;...._ staff will make the proper decisions in any given sce­nario. We expect that our recruiters will go out and lure the cream of the high · school football crop to South Bend for four years of title hunting. More importantly though, we expect that once these highly-touted individuals arrive on campus, they will perform to the level set by the hype-spewing blue-chip analysts and scouts. And there is no one who knows more about these lofty expec­tatiOns then quarterback Ron Powlus. As a high school senior back in 1992, Powlus was one of the most talked about and coveted prep school players in years. As a red­shirt freshman, the native of Berwick, Penn., opened his collegiate career by tossing four touchdown passes to help Notre Dame rout region­alfoe Northwestern. Immediately, it was decid­ed that Powlus would go on to be the greatest quarter· hack in college football histo­ry. He would certainly win a Heisman trophy, probably two. There was no doubt that he would easily smash all existing passing records. It went without saying that he would be the player to \\<Tite the next triumphant chapter in the tradition-rich, champi· onship-laden history of Notre Dame football before going to star in the professional ranks via the frrst round of the NFL Draft. Now, however, as Powlus approaches the half-way point of his fourth and final season under the Golden Dome, he is viewed by many as a complete failure. He has failed even to con· tend for· that prestigious player of the year award. He has failed to capture that wut(}matic n~tional champi-Tonship. He has failed; accotding to most scouts, to 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Offense falters after quick start 
By MIKE DAY  Tailback Autry Denson, who  All in all, it may have been the  
Spons Editor  entered the game having topped  best the Irish offense has looked  
the 100-yard mark just one time  all season.  However, the unit's  
PALO ALTO, Calif.  this season, tallied 106 yards on  inability to convert yardage into  
It was the tale of two halves  15 carries in just the first half.  points would end up costing  
for the struggling Notre Dame  "We were able to run the ball  them dearly.  
offense on Saturday.  pretty successfully in the first  "When we move tho hall down  
For the first 30 minutes, it  half and that started to open up  field against a team, we havo to  
was the Notre Dame offense of  the pass a little bit," said offen­ get  points  out  of  it,"  said  
old.  The Irish successfully  sive coordinator Jim Colletto.  Colletto.  "Too many times, we  
mixed an aggressive, shove-it­ "Autry did a good job of hitting  put together a good drivE) and  
down-your-throat  running  the holes and making the most  get nothing out of it.  That kind  
attack with  a safe yet e!'ficient  out of what the defense was giv­ of thing cannot continuo to hap­ 
passing game.  ing him."  pen."  
In  a  season  where  it  has  Meanwhile, Hon Powlus and  While the group bore striking  
struggled to establish any sem­ the passing attack were Holtz­ resemblance to Irish offenses of  
blance of a running game, the  like conservative but managed  happier tim11s, the unit was  
Notre Dame offensive line took  to keep the Stanford defense  downright pitiful in tlw second  
charge Saturday afternoon.  The  guessing.  In becoming Notre  half.  Following intormission,  
bigger.  more  physical group  Dame's all-time leader in com­ Notre Dame fell hack into tho  
pushed the Stanford front seven  pletions and passing yardage,  olfensive rut they've boon in all  
all over the field, rolling up 201  Powlus completed 9-of-11 pass­ season. and Stanford took full  
total yards in the first half.  es for 77 yards in the first half.  advantage, delivering an old­ 
fashioned ass-kicking.  
Aside from  onr.  late touch­ 
down drive in the fourth quar­ 
ter. the Irish failed to nstablish  
anything when the gamo was on  
the line.  Amazingly enough. tho  
group went away from what gled in the second half.  
had brought thmn suecoss in the  Playealling" in its back pockot.  
first half.  Powlus, aftor a solid first half.  
"We're just not oxecuting,"  completed just four of his 10  
said center Hick Ka<:zenski.  passes and was sackml twice in  
"We'ro not bning productivn  the fourth quartor.  Thn senior  
ofl'ensivoly in the third quartor.  quarterback may have addnd  
and whoevnr wins the third  another record to his collection,  
quarter just carries it on to the  but once  again displayed his  
fourth."  propensity for failing in tlw  
After an strong start, Denson  clutch.  
was limited to just 10 yards on  "We were successful with thn  
six carries in the second half.  run in the first hall'. and tlwy  
Stanford was able to keep the  ganged up a little bit on the run  
Irish offense oiT tho lield after  in tho second half," said l'owlus.  
controlling tho ball for  more  "You have to r<)alizn coming out  
than 18 of the final 30 minutes.  of the second half that they're  
The inability to  run  the ball  not just going to sit back and  
forced the Irish to the air in tlw  play tlw same stuff. You have to  
fourth quarter, and Stanford  be ready to adjust."  
The Observer/Brandon Candura Freshman Tony Driver carried the ball four times for 19 yards in the first half but did not get a carry in the second half.  appearod to have a copy of Colletta's "Children's Guidn to  The Stanford ofl'ense took full advantage of Notre Dame's fail- 

Monday, October 6, 1997 

urn to adjust, amassing over 300 yards and 21 points on what looked to bo a tired and frustratod Irish defenso. 
Whon it was all said and clone. Notn1 Damp's inabilitv to move the ball in the second half proved to bn the difTerence in the game. 
"They went in at halftime and made some great adjustments, and that was the difference the second half," said Denson. "We're being vory inconsistent right now. Whether it's tho third quarter. second quarter, whatever, we're having prob­lems moving the ball." 
With a 1-4 record, the Irish must find answers and find them quickly. 
Insight 
continued from page 1 
prove that he is even worthy of donning an NFL jersey. And following the most recent Irish disappointment of 1997, it appears th.at the young man who was expected by many to be the second com­ing will leave Notre Dame without ever winning a single bowl game. 
Apparently, Powlus simply could not realize the potential that all of those experts insisted he had. 
But be careful, fellow Domers. It would not only be a gross miscalculation, but a vicious injustice to label Ron Powlus a failure. In my mind, Ron Powlus epito­mizes three things: determination, perse­verance and, that's right, success. 
From the very moment he chose to attend Notre Dame, Powlus was deter­mined not to let the hype surrounding his abilities have any effect on his primary goal as the quarterback of the Fighting Irish. Never has he pointed fingers follow­ing a loss or a disappointing performance. Powlus will to give absolutely everything he has in pursuit of a win has never wavered for even a second. 
After the loss to Stanford on Saturday, while many Irish players had a diflicult time maintaining any semblance of a pos­itive attitude, Powlus continued to display his resolve to go on. 
"We've got to keep fighting," stated Powlus. ''I've enjoyed representing Notre Dame for four years and I'm not giving up on that." 
To say that Powlus has persevered through the difficulties he has faced is truly an understatement. After missing what would have been his true freshman year because of shoulder injury, the quar­terback's sophomore campaign was cut short by a broken arm he suffered against Navy. Due to the latter injury, Powlus has had only one opportunity to appear in a bowl, and that game proved to be an embarrassing loss to a significantly supe­rior Colorado squad. 
To this, add the constant scrutiny and criticism which has rained down upon him every time the Irish have faltered in the last four years. He has made his share of mistakes, but the extent to which all team failures are somehow pinned on him is astonishing and disturbing. 

Even through such trials as these, Powlus refuses to try to deflect the nega­tive comments elsewhere. 
"It hurts," said Powlus of the blame that inevitably comes his way. "Of course it hurts to hear it, but it's part of the posi­tion. I've been saying it for years and I'll continue to say it. It's part of the position and I'm not going to complain about my position ever." 
He realizes that he is in the spotlight and that it is the nature of the beast that his shortcomings, as well as his accom­plishments, will always be highlighted and sometimes exaggeratocl. 
Interestingly enough though, Powlus 
1994 should certainly ring a few bolls for some seniors. In the end, I suppose success depends on each pnrson's definition of it. 
Those of you who wish to clefino-success as living up to unreasonable expectations of any human being, go ahead and tab Powlus a failure. Even if you an~ not that brutal, maybe you feel that any quarter­back who fails to win onn I leisman trophy or one national championship at the Univorsity of Notre Dame is a failure. By that delinition, Mr. Powlus is indeed a fail urn. 
If expectations ean be put aside, and a person's qualities and achievements ean be measured against those of the people who have preceded him or her, Hon Powlus has succeeded with flying colors. 
Not only has he put up stunning num­bnrs in an era of sub-par recruiting, under a coach that misused his abilities for most of his 'career, but Powlus has dis­play<1d nothing but elass and dignity in the course of doing so. lie represented Notre Damn as well as anyone and his resilien­cy. dedication. and desire to achieve should be taken as an example for us all. 
It is my opinion, clospite what all the "experts" say. that the Irish quarterback will go on to professional football and be quitf1 successful. Regardless of where he ends up, Ron Powlus will succeed. He has boen succeeding throughout his entire life to date. 
Why should we expect anything else? 
virtually never receivos ,-----------------------------------------, 
the praise he is due for the achievements he has made. This weekend's contest is glaring exam­ple. Following the game, not one comment was made about the fact that Powlus broke two major Irish passing records with his efforts. He moved ahead of Steve Beurlein in both eareer completions and career passing yards. Beurlein had held the top positions with 473 completions and 6,527 total yards. 
Already this season, PowIus broke his own record of consecutive 
completions, connecting on 14 consecutive attempts against Purdue. On top of these signif'i­cant marks, Powlus will leave Notre Dame with at least eight other passing records. 
If this does not qualify for some measure of sue­cess, keep in mind times that Powlus has led the team back from a deficit, only to have another part of the team come up short in final moments. The Michigan game in 
• R C 
. EPORT ARD 
Quarterback: C Two touchdown passes help the grade for Powlus. 
Down the stretch, he was unable to wake up the stagnant offense. 
Running Backs: C 
Denson and Driver were a powerful combination on the first half and were simply non-existent in the second. 
Receivers: B 
Once again, the receiving corps was the class act of the entire team. Given the ball with room to run, Johnson and Brown proved that a more open pass­ing attack is possible. 
Offensive Line: D 
After dominating the Stanford front seven for two periods, the line threw in the towel when it came time to build momentum in the second half. The only thing these guys consistently do commit stupid penalties. 
Defensive Line: D 
It may not have looked as bad if the linebackers and defensive backs had tackled somebody, but the Irish front line cannot be given excuses just because they too small and too slow. 
Linebackers: C· 
Altl:l6ugh they pressured Hutchinson significantly early on, they could not stop him from picking apart Notre Dame's pathetic excuse for a sec­ondary. Allowing over 300 yards rushing does 

reflect any better on the linebackers. 
Defensive Backs: D 
They probably would have received a C for their typically bad performance (boosted slightly by the spirited play of Ty Goode), but it was ruined by the combined embarrassment of Harper's effort on 
Bookman's 58-yard touchdown run and Covington's inability to play at the collegiate level. 
Special Teams: C· 
Sanson negated his 45-yard field goal with a missed extra point and the kick coverage appeared to be a bit suspect at times. The return teams pro­vided no spark. 
Coaching: D 
The coaching staff, maybe Mattison excluded, has fallen into an all-too familiar pattern. The Irish have been losing games at halftime when the opposition adjusts for the second half and Notre Dame returns to the field to replay the first half. 
Overall: 1.48 
Abelow average effort from a team who's average game Is a nine-point loss. One can only hope Pitt does not do its best Purdue impersonation. 
-Brian Reinthafer 
Monday, October 7, 1997 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fourth quarter barrage opens Irish flood gates 
By BRIAN REINTHALER scored in very small increments over pretty much the Assisra~u Sports Editor large intervals at first, but as defensive entire unit's coordinator Greg Mattison put it, "In fault. The defen­Without being spectacular, the Irish the foiJrth quarter the dam broke." sive line has defensive unit has risen to the occasion The first-year Irish assistant found proved to be in almost every game this season and yet another analogy to describe the inept at compen­stuffed the opposition down the stretch Cardinal offensive avalanche late in the sating for its to knep the offense within striking dis-game. overall lack of lance. "They had a sense that they could run size, the line­Not this time. the ball on us and then it was over," backers now Tnrms such as "collapse" and "cave­explained Mattison. "It was like a dog seem to be taking in" were used to describe the defense's after meat. Our kids just aren't strong tackling lessons effort in the fourth quarter. enough right now to be able to with­from the pathetic "That's when you've got to step up," stand that kind of hammering." secondary, and said linnbacker Kory Minor of the The coach's sentiment might also be to sum up the fourth quarter. "Things just didn't go an understatement of the situation. play of the defen­our way." The play that was most indicative of the sive backs, It was more than just things not going complete exhaustion exhibited by the Deveron Harper Notre Dame's way though. The defense throughout the second half looked like a Stanford offense worked the Irish over came as time was running down. On chicken with its like a hole in a dam. The Cardinal fourth and two, rather than pinning head cut off (and Notre Dame d in their own end and a slow one) on _,....___,,.............,..-irtually elimi-the 58-yard 
ating any pos­touchdown run 
sibility of a by Stanford run­
comeback, the ning back 
Cardinal elected Anthony 
to risk going for Bookman. 
it and easily The coaches 
picked up six may actually be 
yards on the the only group 
play. that cannot be 
The fact is blamed for the 

that there was defensive break­
no risk in going down. Certainly, 
for it because although the 
the Irish simply 
did not have the admit It, 
strength or inability of the 14 carries on Saturday. 
mental fortitude Irish offense to 
left to hold off put points on the board must be animosity between the defense which 
the opposition. extremely disconcerting for a unit that saw three forced fumbles go to waste in 
nd Stanford has, for the most part, done its job this Ann Arbor and the offense that wasted 
head coach season. Maybe they thought it would be them. But how would you play if you 
Tyrone interesting to see how things would be knew that your offense was incapable of 
Willingham if the tables were turned and the putting 20 points on the board and you 
The ObserveriBrandon Candura knew it. offense had to play with the knowledge had already given up 24? Cornerback Deveron Harper, shown here chasing Stanford flanker Troy s0 who • s to that the defense was not going to sup­Ty Goode turned in a promising per­Walters, had probJems in the second half along with the rest of the Irish blame'? · formance in place of Ivory Covington,
port them. 


secondary. 

TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1. Florida (35) 5-0 1704 1 2. Penn St (26) 4-0 1672 2 3. Nebraska (6) 4-0 1606 3 4. Florida St (1) 4-0 1540 4 5. North Carolina 5-0 1464 5 6. Michigan 4-0 1404 6 7. Ohio State 5-0 1334 7 8. Auburn 5-0 1227 8 9. Tennessee 3-1 1158 9 10. Washington 3-1 1143 10 11. Michigan St 4-0 1065 12 12. Washington St 5-0 980 15 13. Georgia 4-0 814 18 14. LSU 4-1 770 13 15. Texas A&M 4-0 750 21 16. Stanford 4-1 714 19 17. Iowa 4-1 702 11 18. UCLA 3-2 560 22 
19. Air Force 6-0 416 23 20. Oklahoma 5-0 321 21. BYU 3-1 309 24 22. Kansas St 3-1 227 17 23. Virginia Tech 4-1 174 14 24. Colorado 2-2 140 16 25. Georgia Tech 3-1 125 
Others receiving votes: West Virginia 72, Clemson 65, Alabama 46, Wisconsin 43, USC 31, Kentucky 29, Toledo 27, Wyoming 26, New Mexico 18, Miami, OH 17, Arizona St 16, Kansas 14, Purdue 14, Marshall 5, No Carolina St 5, Virginia 2, Cincinnati 1, Colorado St 1, Ohio 1, Oregon 1. 
Well, it was No, there does not appear to be any which was perhaps the only highlight 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  
Team Statistics  
NO  su  
Passing yards  177  192  
Sacked-yards  3-24  1-8  
Return yards  0  7  
Passes  13-21-0  26-38-0  
Punts  4-40.8  3-33.7  
Fumbles-lost  1-1  1-0  
Penalties-yards  6-64  6-64  
Time of possession  23:28  36:32  
Individual Statistics  
Rushing  

ND-Denson 21-116, Driver 5-19, Spencer 2-12, Barry 2­minus 1, Powlus 5-minus 25 · 
Stanford-Bookman14-142, Mitchell 29-135, Ritchie 5-31, Lacey 3-20, Comella 1-2, Hutchinson 1-minus 8 
Passing ND-Powlus 13-21-0-177 Stanford-Hutchinson 26-38-0-192 
Receiving ND-Brown 5-88, M. Johnson 4-58, Denson 2-15, Holloway 1­11, Nelson 1-5 
Stanford-Walters 7-66, Dunn 5-41, Mitchell5-37, Bookman 4­11, Comella 2-11, Pitts 1-15, Ritchie 1-6, T. Hanson 1-5 
• ScomNG SuMMARY 
1st Quarter ND-Sanson 45 yard FG Stan-Mitchell 15 yard run (Miller kick) 
2nd Quarter ND-Holloway 11 yard pass from Powlus (PAT Failed) Stan-Miller 37 yard FG 
3rd Quarter Stan-Mitchell 3 yard run (Miller kick) 
4th Quarter Stan-Bookman 58 yard run (Miller kick) ND-Brown 27 yard pass from Powlus (2 point conversion failed) Stan-Bookman 5 yard run (Miller kick) Stan-Safety by Wong 
Streak 
continued from page 1 
same play, and this time, Bookman broke it for a touchdown. 
The junior running back, who amassed 142 yards on 14 carries, dashed past the Notre Dame front seven like they were standing still before freezing Deveron Harper and the Irish secondary on his way to a 58-yard score. 
"That play just kind of took the wind out of our sails," said Mattison. "We needed a big stop, and then those two plays caught us off guard. Once that happened, we couldn't get back into any type of rhythm." 

receivers did a good 

obtoday of making something 
happen. We just didn't do it often enough when it counted.' 
Offensive coordinator Jim Colletta 
.. 
Trailing 24-9, Powlus and the Irish offense finally awoke from their second-half slumber, engineering an impressive 80-yard drive on just six plays. 
Notre Dame receiver Bobby Brown, who once again led the receiving corps with six catches for 88 yards, snatched a Powlus pass and dashed 26 yards to cut the Cardinal lead to 24-15. 
"I thought the receivers did a good job today of making something happen after the catch," said offensive coordinator Jim Colletta. "We just didn't do it often enough when it count-ed. 
" The Irish were unable to build off Brown's third touchdown reception of the season, how­ever, as Stanford quickly shut the door on Notre Dame, rolling to an easy 33-14 victory. "I don't know what it is honestly," said cen­ter Rick Kaczenski. ''I'm at a loss for words. I don't know what the hell is going on." Perhaps "rock bottom" says it all. 
page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 7, 1997 
"Walking out of here, you've got the feeling that we've hit rock bottom. There's no doubt about that. We've got a long, long way to go in this program to get back to where we want to be." 
-Irish head coach Bob Davie 
.. 

Stanford 33 Notre Dame15 
Stanford Stadium October 4, 1997 


S~anford head coach Tyrone Willingham greets Bob Davie following the Cardinal's 33-15 victory over the Irish place kicker Jim Sanson (right) and punter Hunter Smith celebrate lnsh on Saturday. For Davie, it was his fourth consecutive loss after beginning the season with a win following Sanson's career-best 45-yard field goal in the first half on over Georgia Tech. 
Saturday. 



Monday, October 6, 1997 
'Smoke' 

By JOHN BARRY 
Arcenr Movie Critic 
D 
ireetor Wayn(~ Wang's movie lives up to its title: the stories are whimsical. delicatcdy intertwined streams which are diffkult to put into words. The film finds some centPr ground in /\uggie Wren's old-fashioned Brooklyn cigar shop. wlwre lw has PlltPrtained tall-tales and tobacco customers for 14 years. It is here that unrelated iives become related in some way, and some common tlwmes l'.merge. 
/\uggie (Harvey Keitel) might be the master story teller amongst the characters, but it is Paul (played by William Hurt) who carries the title of professional writer. llaving published four novels. Paul finds himself low both on words and on his life -his wife. four months pregnant, was killed by a random shoot­ing, and Paul hasn't been the same since. 
The sharp divide between 1\uggie, the skilled storyteller, and burned-out author Paul is revealed when Auggie shows him his personal project. /\uggie has taken a single pho­tograph of his corner of the world. his small Brooklyn cigar shop. every morning at 8 a.m. Tlw instant that Paul realizes that "all of these pictures arc exactly the same," he quickly flips through the pages without noticing the details. However, Auggie points out that each one is quite different. The angles of the sunlight, the people passing by. and the smaller points am all diiTen~nt. When Paul spots his wife in one of the shots, he begins to grasp the importance of everyday details. 
One of the film's central 
themes is chance -like the 
cigar smoke's movements 
which are so vulnerable to the 
smallest air_currents, the char­
acters' lives often convey their 
frailties to chance. Auggie pon­
ders that if Paul's wife had 
given him exact change the 
day or the shooting, perhaps she would not have entered the streets until a l'ew seconds later, saving her from death. 
In similar fashion, Paul him­self is narrowly saved from death when a boy who claims his name is Rashid (Harold Perrineau Jr. of "William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet" and "Thn Edge" fame) saves Paul from walking in front of an oncoming truck. This chance encounter leads to another plot in "Smoke," as Rashid ends up becoming a part of Paul's life. Hashid, meanwhile, is searching for his estranged father. 
But of course Wang and writer Paul Auster couldn't leave it that simple, as they make those themes pop up again. A girlfriend from Auggie's past (played by Stockard Channing) appears to tell him that they have an 18­year-old daughter (Ashley Judd) who is pregnant and addicted to cocaine. 
All of the many stories that emerge from Auggie's little corner are entertaining and intriguing. The film is built almost entirely on dialogue. and so any decent plot summa­ry is nearly impossible. llowever. the dialogue is natur­al, fitting each character as if the audience were watching a real-life version of MTV's "Real World" (!low dare I suggest that "Real World" isn't fully realistic?). 
The superior tale emerges 
from "Smoke" when Auggie 
tells his finest "Christmas 
Story" -it is this very story 
that Paul Auster wrote for The 
New York Times, inspiring this 
film. 

Bottom Line: "Smoke" is a 
creative and unique film that 
you can enjoy for around the 
same price as Swischer Sweets 
-not too hefty of a financial 
risk. So what the heck -part 
with your two bucks and take a 
deep breath of creativity. 
Acting: Bravos all around ­
all star cast combined with all 
star performances! 


I. Kiss the Girls 
2. 
Soul Food 

3. 
The Peacemaker 

4. 
In & Out 

5. 
The Edge 

6. 
L.A. Confidential 

7. 
The Game 

8. 
The Full Monty 

9. 
U-Turn I0. The Matchmaker 


Source: Associated Press 
page 11 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 

General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
General Hospital Correspondent 

Another exciting week of "General Hospital'' began !lS Keesha told Monica that A.J. didn't slip up and the part that Carly played in the entire sick incident. Nice job, K_eesha: Miss Moral High Ro~d just became one of the rest of us: When Keesha toldA.J. what s~lC did, he tore her a new arm?It, but in the end, like the wuss that he is, he forgave her. What a w1mp-would he even buy a spme if it were on sale at Meijer? 
Monica confronted Carly, who denied everything and then blamed Keesha for it all. Nice move, since the truth is not an option. The distressed Mama Q promised Carly a full reckoning, especially concerning Tony. One final threat: go near A.J. again and I'll kill you! Look out, Carty; the people Monica doesn't like end up mysteriously dead-remember Dorman? 
Across town Lorraine doubled the price when she discovered that Carly is involved with a Quartermaine. A.J. went into the sonogram with Carly; and was intrigued by the ba~y. The doctor was mysteriously called away and Lorraine backed early up. on the due date. 
Later early confronted AJ. about Monica knowing and then took on Keesha. As everything was going down, Bobbie walked in and was ready to hear all about the hatred that everyone ~as for Carly. When did Bobbie turn into a woman who just wants t? take revenge on Carl~? Get a life ~nd while you are at it, get one for Keesha too. Moreover, early IS usually more proactive; she was Jl!st standing there taking it-fight back, girl! A.J. told Monica to shut up and let Carly and Tony ra1se their child together. Monica agreed but vowed to fin~ out the truth. 
Nik heard Stefan and Katharine fighting, but was put off by a phony story. At school Sarah couldn't find her luckypen rigryt~eforea test, andfotgood reason~ Lizzie stole the exam answer questions and framed her ~,>ist~r f(!fi~. Sarah, like..a,!lid.iot opened her bag ~d _her t~a~h.er saw the test answers. Thinking on hisfe~t;Nikolas stood liP and took the blame; rummg LIZZie s plot and causing Lucky to jump up andcl1eer. Afterwards, he .tried to convince Sarah that Nikolas is bad, but she knew that he only lied to prote¢t her and loves him all th~ more. 
Kathy refuses to believe that. Stefan does not love her and believes that he is doing this whole 
nasty break-up thing for effect. When he claimed·that the only reason that he romanced her was so 
that he didn't end up in the "BigHouse" with a new boyfriend like Jack on "Days," she has Mac do 
a little investigating. Let me digress: policemen, mobsters. and now evil heads of wealthy interna­
tional families -her list of ex · ads like a movie pf the week To continue, Mac discovered the 
gun mysteriously missing! ./ ···•···.· ..•. . . .. .· · .·.....···••····•••· ..... ··· . · 
Later atthe hospital, Stefan pqblicly attacked< Kl:\.thy for misinterpr~ttng their rel?-tionship a~d 
fired her. No slouch in the brain. department, she f'~,gured out that AleXIs had somethmg to do wtth 
it and vowed to stay and fight. · ... · .•.· 

Brenda filled Jax in on her troubles, hut made bim promise not to rescue her, just to be her 
friend. Edward invited her to stay with the Q's so thiW could pamper her. Emily came home and 
joined Alan and Edward in hovering over Brenda. . .. . . ·....· . . 
Brenda moved into the Gatehouse and Lois and Brooke came over to cheer her up. Brenda admit­ted that everyone but her knew ~at Sonny was bad neW$. Lois told her· nqt to deny the pain or else she will deny all the lovel ·•••. •.• . . . .. ·.. ..•. ..••.... . ··. . 
Jason is now a gangster ·..... oJax promised>bilJI war and Jason seemed only too happy to 
oblige. Now here is the Jaxw~. k11ow and love. The strong, decisive, ruthless, and SEXY one, not the 
idiotic one. Edward asked Jason to come home andwas refused point blank. 
Felicia researched the figilrinejust as a man in T¢xas looked for it. Coincidentally enough, she 
realized that it had been moved to Texas at the same time the guy figured out that it could be in 
Port Charles. 

Lois met Alexis and asked h 
wwell she knew 
Necl. Spooked, Alexis ran from the house as if it · 
were on fire, When she left, pr()Inised Bre:n4~thatshewould ·always be there for her, th1.1s 
closing ~notb.er exciting wee:¥ :rt Chades! 

Genevieve Morrill can be rea at morr8584@s g,rys. edu ifyou have any questions or com­ments. 
Days of Our Lives 
By NAOMI FREEMAN, 
KRISTINE HOWARD, 


Well, Days f~ns, we feel the.t'~ tnay ha~e been sonie cotifusion regarding the Great Jack Switcheroo last week. When we said that Jack"turned around iii the shower and it was Steve Wilder," we didn't mean to imply that the two Jacks. were in the prison shower together! Nosirree, even Days has its limits! What we meant (and whafviewers were shocked to see) was that Mark Valley was suddenly gone and this new jerk was sud Iy there. In retrospect, thou?h, we may have bee~ a little harsh in our first appraisal of Steve. He otthat bad ofa r, whmh really stands out m Salem, as you might imagil1e• but we. wHln .. tol1r cfiticis. J4ssing. 
Anyway, ~ft~r the ''ste~~ yv$r scene.• > ....... .. Inlnded us more qf"Psycho" than "9 112 
Weeks," the two returned to ..·· •. cellwhere he ~x;plained his later plan. He apparently has some 
sort of disk which, when loaded onto the warden's computer, will allow Jack to access prison riles 
from his c('llllaptop. Despite Jack's warnings, Jen took the disk and broke into the warden's office. 
While she was busy downloadipgthe files, smarmy prison guard T.C. walked in on her and threat­
ened to blow the whistle on her: Jack, back in his cell, felt that Jennifer was in danger just as T.C. 
began to put the moves on "Hope Williams." 

The events in Rome took a tutD. f()r the interesting whenMike was persuaded to attend a local cos­
tume festivalby a former oil · e of his, Debra (or the ''Bra-less Wonder," as we like to call her). 
Little did he know that he. · ·.·.....e•. same costume a~ Austin, and Carrie, mistaking Mike for Austin, 
ran up and planted a big old . . !'ighton him. After j;be ensuing surprise andlaughter by both cou­
ples, the four decided to hang out together. Too bad that Mike had already told Debra that he was 
in Jove with a married woman from Salem. She spilled the beans to Carrie~ who was so dumb that 
not only did she not figure it ou.t, she decided to talk to Mike about it to help him out. Poor Mike 
received the shock of his life when Carrie started to question him about this woman. He thought 
Carrie was hinting about hero~ feelings for him! . . . . · 
In other news, Austin finally saw the needle travkS<(IU Billie's arms and recruited Dr. Mike to help 
her out. He is giving her some · atseem to be helping out. We love you, Dr. Mike! 
Back in Salem, Vivian went.. Jonesy's walletand found a photograph of a sheep, which she 
deduced must be "Baa Baa." So dressed up as Little Bo Peep and brought in a sheep. Now con­
vinced that Viv is his "Flora Dora girl," Jonesy has giVen her and Ivan the go-ahead to move in with 
him. 

Finally, we move to the jungle where the natives are restless and John and Hope begin to play. 
After Hope brought John the conipass, they began on their jungle adventure. After John rescued 
Hope from a tarantula, they decide to rest for the night. While asleep, Hope and John almost kiss. 
However, they are awakened fromtheir dreams of Bo and Doc by a tripped perimeter alarm. Later, 
they encouqter .more poison .•.. ·)id when Johntriedto push Hope out of the way of one of the 
darts, he lost his footing and fe.. . .the cliff! RestassuredDrakf) Hogestyn fans, John is okay, but his 
foot is lodged under a rock on t e ledge below. Hope ·lllanaged to build a vine bridge, which she 
learned when Shawn D was a boy scout (when was Hope alive for this?) and climbed down to rescue 
John. After .she freed his foot, th(;)y realize that the natives have cut the vine and that they are 
stranded. As Friday's episode ends, John and Hope sll}ell smoke and see on the ridge above a fire 
which is headed straight for thetnf > · 

-
page 12 The Ob~erver • SPORTS Monday, October 6, 1997 
• NFL 

Patriots prepare for Broncos 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 
Forget John Elway and Shannon Sharpe. When New England Patriots coach Pete Carroll slides a videotape of the Denver Broncos into his VCR, all he sees is the NFL's top rushing team. 
"Their running 

Davis
game is superior to anybody in the NFL right now," Carroll said. "They're committed to the running game and they're very good at it. That's one area where they're well ahead of us, and that can be a huge factor in controlling a game." 
Led by NFL rushing leader Terrell Davis' 605 yards, the Broncos rank No. 1 in the league, averaging 151.2 yards a game. 
Containing Davis will be a key for the Patriots, who are looking to snap a nine-game losing streak to the Broncos when they visit Mile High Stadium on Monday night in a battle of unbeatens. 
Two years ago in Denver's 

37-3 romp over New England, Davis ran for 97 yards on 24 carries and scored one touch­down. In last year's 34-8 rout, Davis had 154 yards on 32 car­ries with two TDs and added a third on a reception. 
"He's probably done more to hurt us than Elway," Patriots linebacker Todd Collins said. "All I know is, if we don't slow down Davis it won't matter who's playing quarterback for Denver because whoever it is won't need to be throwing the ball." 
The best counterpunch for the Patriots would be their own running back, Curtis Martin, who has rushed for 474 yards in one less game than Davis this season. 
Both were unheralded picks in the 1995 draft, Martin in the third round and Davis in the sixth, and their pro careers have been remarkably similar. 
Martin had a career-best 199 yards against the New York Jets in the third week of this season. The following week, Davis broke his own Bronco record with 215 yards against Cincinnati. 
Martin earned rookie of the year honors with 1,487 yards in 1995. Davis was named offensive player of the year after gaining 1,538 yards in 1996. 
Both players have had 14 100-yard games in their pro careers. Martin has rushed for 3,113 yards and Davis for 3,260. 
The similar.itics don't end there for the Patriots (4-0) and Broncos (5-0). 
Elway and New England quarterback Drew Bledsoe arc two of the most prolific passers in the NFL. 
New England quarterback Drew Bledsoe, who has thrown for 4,000 yards twice, led his team to the Super Bowl in his fourth season last year. Elway, the winningest quarterback in NFL history with 131 victories, also took Denver to the first of three Super Bowls in his fourth season. 
Each was the first player selected in the draft. Bledsoe in 1993 and Elway in 1983. 
In addition, New England's Ben Coates and Denver's Sharpe have been the two most productive tight ends in the AFC since 1994. 
For all those likenesses, the recent series between the teams has been strangp,ly one­sided. The two most recent games, both blowouts, were at Foxboro Stadium. New England's last win was in 1980, at home. The Patriots' last win in Denver was in 1968. 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAlL 
Mussina's outing lifts Orioles to win 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 

BALTIMOHE 
This time. Handy Johnson pitched well enough to beat the Baltimore Orioles. 
Mike Mussina wouldn't let it happen. 
Mussina allowed two hits in seven innings and the Orioles got home runs from Jeff Reboulet and Geronimo Berroa to beat the Seattle Mariners 3-1 Sunday and win their AL divi­sion series, three games to one. 
Baltimore will open its sec­ond straight appearance in the AL championship series Wednesday at home against either Cleveland or the defend­ing World Series champion New York Yankees. New York led 2-1 going into Sunday night's game in the best-of-5 series. 
Johnson, the Mariners' ace, started live games against the Orioles this season and Seattle lost every one of them. The Big Unit was 0-4 against Baltimore compared to 20-2 against the rest of league. 
The lcft-hander, who came in 3-8 with a 4.93 EHA lifetime against the Orioles, struck out 13, walked two and allowed seven hits in his sixth complete game of the year. But as is usu­ally the case, it wasn't good enough to beat Baltimore. 
Johnson, who allowed five runs in five innings in the open­er, absorbed a second straight defeat for the first time since April 30-May 6, 1994. 
That's because Mussina, operating on three days' rest for the first time this season, was brilliant. The only hits against the right-hander were a home run by Edgar Martinez and a single to Rob Ducey, both in the second inning. 
Mussina, who also won Game 1, struck out seven and walked three in improving to 10-1 life­time against the Mariners. It was the third time this season he earned a win at the expense of Johnson. 
Armando Benitez pitched the eighth, retiring Ken Griffey Jr. on a grounder with a runner on second to end the inning, and Handy Myers completed the two hitter for the save. 
The Mariners led the majors with 925 runs scored. but man­aged only 11 in the series. Griffey, who hit .304 with 56 homers, was 0-for-4 Sunday and finished 2-for-15 in the series without a home run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 L_aFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at .'109 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day 
class1heds IS 3p.m. All class1hcds must be prepa1d. The charge 1s 3 cents per character per day, mclud­
Classifieds

-... 
ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for comem wit hour issuing refunds. 
"'"'Windsor Park"""  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  4 Navy GAs 4 sale  I tried but I didn't want to interupt!  
NOTICES  '"Conference Center'" Upscale restaurant ("The Vintage  THAT PREITY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  AVAILABLE CALL 271-7042  Great Price Call Michele @ x0831  I found a date! HA!  
Cafe") looking for experienced  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  evening waitstaff for ala carte din­ with private baths, $70-$90,  2 Pitt GA tix: $100  Need USC & BC tickets  Coveleski Stadium rocks.  
LaFortune Student Center  ing. Must be 21 y.o. Apply in per­ Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Call 287 ·0611  Call Greg 2288  
Store Hours  son; M-F  Toll Road. Exit #107. - 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  4020 Edison Lakes Parkway  1·800-418-9487.  Need USC GA"s  FOR SALE: 2 GA Pitt. tics.  LaFortune Student Center  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Mishawaka  Pis. call Tim or Nate  Call Kristin @ (201 )963-8863  ,· High-Speed Copies  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME  @ 4849 or 2277  vCanon Color Laser Copies  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Sat.'s)  FREE TRIPS & CASH! SPRING BREAK! Outgoing individuals -sell  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  FOR SALE FOOTBALL GAs  PERSONAL  -./ Digital Color Printing -.J Binding & Laminating  
Phone 631-COPY  15 & go FREE. Cancun. South  NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT  BEST PRICES ON USC  -.J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
Padre. Mazatlan. Jamaica. South  SEMESTER 2773097  272-7233  PREGNANT? If you are pregnant  Phone 631-COPY  
ILOST & FOUND I  Beach, FL. Guaranteed Best Prices. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  HEY SUZY AND ELLEN SOLD  and condisering your options. we are a loving couple loooking to  Happy Birthday Beaner!!  
www.studentexpress.com  AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  THEIR USC GA"S ...  adopt. Please calj  
would appreciate anyone who finds  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  SO STOP CALLING THEM!!!  1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM  Viva!! Viva!! Vivat!  
keys to room 308 to call x1862  "'EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'"  (expenses paid).  
If you find the little grit who stole them, you can also call x1862  CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell15  FOR SALE  Married Stud Tix tarsale 4-461 0  Married. childless white couple of  Sheila Do you think girls will think I am  
trips & travel free! Highly motivated  NOTRE DAME  13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please  wierd if I shave?  
black-grey sweatshirt wl keys taken  students can earn a free trip & over  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ FOOTBALL TICKETS  call 1-800-916-5629, access code  
at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre  $1 0,000! Choose Cancun.  dic mattress set and frame. New,  BUY -SELL · TRADE  92.  Hello. Marilou.  
dame security  Bahamas. Mazatlan, Jamaica or  never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  232-0058  
Florida! North America's largest stu­ 219·862-2082  CONFIDENTIAL  hello pagan magle neterson  Saint Mary's love will ever reign;  
FOUND: Prescription glasses in - dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800­838-6411  1 G.A. for USC game. $io or best  TICKET-MART. INC.  hello emu,  our joy and hope she will sustain.  
LensCrafters black case. Found in  offer. Peter @ 4-1375  BUY/SELL NO SEASON AND INDI­ how about that orange thing?  
grey CSC van. Turned into  "Spring Break..."Take 2""  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  is that legal in this state?  Atlas... He made the hole from  
Security's lost & found. Call Kristen  Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free.  NEW STEREO EQUIP many  674-7645.  pushing off?  
for more info. 1-8404  Hot destinations! Free Parties,  names, 20-70% off retail, warranty.  Hey Stina, it's "NAP TIME"  
Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ Nick 4-2033  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Love,  
771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  FOR SALE  D.J.  Electra...You light up my life!  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  -89Buick Lasable,4Dr, 96K, V.Good  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  
on 10/1. if found call steve at x- Restaurant Servers wanted at Old  Cond. One Owner, $4000,Call: 232­ EVENING#: 288-2726  HOPE YOUR HAVING A GREAT  
2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  Chicago Steakhouse.  3707  DAY AND THANKS FOR BEING  Cupid...Sorry you didn't make it  
- Apply after 5:00pm at 222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200  -91 Ford Tours,Hch Bck, 4Dr, 72K One Owner, Clean,Mind Cond.  NO TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378  COOL LOVE YA TONS LATER POOKY NIP  out. ..  
Under New Management.  $4899, Call: 288-2808  EVENING#: 288-2726  
LOST: Purple fleece in Debart on  -86Honda Prelude, 2Dr, V.Ciean.  sorry mel.  I LOVE YOU JOEY CRAWFORD  
Thurs., Oct 2 between 2-3:15.  Restaurant Hostess wanted at  Gd.Cond. $21 OOorB/0,277-3254  FOR SALE  !love putting cryptic things in just to  
Please send him home, I miss him.  Old Chicago Steakhouse.  -90Honda Civic,Sspd, V.Ciean, like  N.D. G.A.'S  make you worry.  
Reward. 243-2643.  Apply after 5:00pm at  new. One Owner. Red, No Rust.  271-9412.  If you see Brad today, tell him he's  
222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200  Low Milge, 2773254.  g- shelf material. ..  
Under New Management.  WANTED N D G A'S  thanks again for such a lovely time.  
WANTED  Marketing Intern needed for  TICKETS  TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526  i didn't know you could dance! ~  John-Now that I am a pro and I do my  
Heartland and Old Chicago  own production, I miss you even  
Steakhouse. Call for interview  I NEED GA TIXS ALL NO  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME  I hope that my aerospace test used  more. Your skills and wit are sorely  
SUPERSTAR STUDENTS NEED­ at 234-5200. More information  HOME GAMES.272·6551  GAMES AND LSU  protection  missed. I hope that all is well at  
ED! Earn $ signing up friends &  posted at Career/Placement  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  your job and they realize the great  
classmates for our credit cards.  Center.  sparring starts and I think that I am  guy that you are.  
Opportunity to advance to campus  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  I Need 2 USC GA TIX -CALL BILL  going to die  -Your sports girl  
manager involving hiring & training  babysitter for two nice kids aged  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  4-4912  
other students. No car required.  8 and 6, occasional evenings or  243 5609  I hope that I can lose 15 lbs by  Hey.  
Must be outgoing & aggressive!  afternoons. 5 mins. walk from  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE  tomorrow  Did you see a guy in an orange  
Flexible hours & great income! Call  Hesburgh. 273 9739  4 USC GAs  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  hat? He is my boyfriend and he is  
Val at 800-592-2121 X154  703-590-937 4  JOHN AT  molly,  at the front of the line. He is going  
FOR RENT  lv msg  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  it worked today! we gotta use that handicapped  to get great seats.  
Help! Need 7 ND-SC tickets. Call  Need 4 BC TIX 716-425-9845  get-away car again, what fun.  Slap on a semiformal and go.  
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR.  BULLA RD, MCKINLEY TERRACE,  collect after Spm 219-324-3241  i love you!  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  SWANSON PARK 3 BDRM  Want two home game football tick­ colleen  I will dress and he will look sharp. If  
PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST.  HOMES, 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS  NEED USC TIX  ets for 11/2 or 10/25. Call Alan, col­ that is the last thing that I do.  
PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­ ALSO. 2726551  REGULAR & STUDENT GAs  lect, (813)899-1208 after 7 PM  don antonio,  
ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR. 1-6  CALL JOHN AT 232·0431  EST.  i saved a dance for you, where did  I must remember to ask him to  
M-F;  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  you go?  where the indigo shirt.  
9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  you-know-who  
BOX 11397. SOUTH BEND. IN  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  Have 4 WV GAs. Want to trade for  Finally his test. that counts for more  
46634.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or  BC. Call4-3918.  it was nice having you in town mom  than his four years here, is OVER!  
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  (318)747-8820.  and dad!  
243-0658.  

~----~-~­

Monday, October 6, 1997 The Observer • NFL page 13 
Rushing attack boosts Philly 
Eagles keep October record intact 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA 

The Philadelphia Eagles kept Ray Rhodes' perfect October record intact and gave a much­needed boost to their hopes of playing in January. 
With Ricky Watters, Charlie Garner and Kevin Turner com­bining for 202 rushing yards against the league's 29th­ranked run defense, the Eagles beat the Washington Redskins 24-10 Sunday. 
The win, Philadelphia's first in three NFC East games this season, improved the Eagles' record to 2-3. The Eagles, 8-0 in October since Rhodes was named coach in 1995, have now 10 of their last 12 games against Washington (3-2). 
Watters had 104 yards and two touchdowns on 31 carries, while Turner ran for 38 yards and added 43 receiving yards. Garner had 60 yards on 12 car­ries. 
Ty Detmer rebounded from a two-interception day in last week's 28-19 loss at Minnesota, completing 17-of-27 for 246 yards and running for a touch-down. 

The Eagles' defense sacked Gus Frerotte twice, intercepted him once and limited the Redskins to 30 rushing yards. 
Frerotte, harried all game, wobbled off the field late in the fourth quarter after being hit by Richard Dent. Frerotte finished 16-of-37 for 216 yards and a touchdown. 
The Eagles were only ahead by seven when Watters scored on third down from the 1, after being stopped on the two previ­ous downs. Watters' second 1­yard touchdown run of the game put the Eagles up 24-10 just over a minute into the fourth quarter. 
Washington threw on all six plays of a 70-yard drive that ended with Frerotte hitting Terry Allen for a 5-yard touch­down pass that cut the Eagles lead to 17-10 midway through the third quarter. 
The Eagles set the tone during a first quarter in which they held Washington to 14 yards, all on the ground. ­
On their second drive, the Eagles went 81 yards on 12 plays before Detmer scrambled in for the touchdown from 3 yards out. 
By the time Watters jumped over the pile for the 1-yard touchdown run that put the Eagles up 14-0 early in the first quarter, Philadelphia's defense still hadn't allowed the Redskins to convert a third down. 
Washington needed a Charlie Garner fumble to get their offense untracked. The Redskins recovered on the Eagle 23 and converted the turnover into a 3 7 -yard field goal by Scott Blanton that made it 14-3 midway through the sec­ond quarter. 
But the Eagles got those points back when Chris Boniol hit a 34-yard field goal to put Philadelphia up by 14 at the half. 

Green Bay survives Tampa Bay scare 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
The Green Bay Packers and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers are both back to their old ways. Barely. 
The reeling Packers halted their slide and thwart­ed Tampa's equally astonishing ascent with a 21-16 vic­tory, their 2 2 n d straight at 
Dunn Lambe au Field on Sunday. 
It wasn't easy. 

The Packers (4-2) survived a second-half scare when Trent Dilfer misfired twice to Warrick Dunn ~rom the Green Bay 42 with less than two min­utes left. 
The Bucs, trying for their first 6-0 start, got one more shot. But with no timeouts and 38 seconds left, the game ended with Tampa Bay at its 46 after a 4-yard pass to Dunn. 
Tampa Bay has not had a winning season in 15 years. 

Dilfer led the Bucs on scoring drives of 63 and 90 yards fol­lowing Hardy Nickerson's block of Ryan Longwell's 4 7­yard field goal attempt in the third quarter. 
Sparked by Nickerson's big play, the Buccaneers roared back from a 21-3 deficit, but couldn't pull off their first win in Green Bay since 1989. 
Dilfer drove the Buccaneers 63 yards in seven plays, with fullback Mike Alstott leaping in from the 1 to pull Tampa Bay to 21-10 with three minutes left in the third quarter. 
Dunn's 44-yard scamper on the first play of the fourth quarter sparked the Bucs on a 90-yard drive that ended when Dunn scored from the 2. Dilfer's 2-point conversion pass was incomplete and the Bucs trailed 21-16 with 10 minutes left. 
Dunn fmished with 125 yards on 16 carries and Alstott had 56 yards on 17 rushes. The Packers managed just 64 yards rushing, 44 by Dorsey Levens. 
A loss and the ailing Packers, who missed nose tackle Gilbert Brown and their two starting offensive tackles, would have been in big trouble, forced to start thinking about defending their title as a wild card. 
Now, they're right back in it in the NFC Central. 
Brett Favre hooked up with Antonio Freeman for touch­down throws of 31 and 6 yards and defensive end Gabe Wilkins returned an intercep­tion 77 yards for a score as the Packers built a 21-3 halftime lead. 
The Buccaneers trailed just 7-3 and were in prime position to take the lead in the second quarter after Favre fumbled on a sneak at his 17. 
But Dilfer's screen pass was intercepted by Wilkins, who then hurdled Dilfer and outran Dunn on his way to the end zone. 
It was the first career inter­ception for Wilkins, a first-year starter who replaced the retired Sean Jones. 
Wilkins wasn't done. His sack just after the two-minute warning set up a punt and the Packers got the ball at the 50. 
Favre hit Levens for 11 and 9 yards and Robert Brooks for 17 before he found Freeman for his second TD pass. 

-
PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Information Seminars Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, October 7 
6:30pm 

~ (800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 
-
By BUCKY GLEASON 
Associated Press Writer 

ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. 
Barry Sanders came into the game looking to find the end zone on a running play. Unfortunately for him, the Buffalo Bills found him in the wrong end zone. 
Sanders, still without a rushing touchdown this season, was tripped up by Bruce Smith and tackled by Phil Hansen for a safety, break­ing a 13-13 tie with 2:12 remaining and lifting the Bills to a 22-13 victory over the Detroit Lions Sunday. 
"I bet that doesn't happen very often," Hansen said. "There was just no place to run in there. We had backside pressure, frontside pressure. It was just a great defensive effort." 
Rookie running back Antowain Smith clinched the victory with a 56-yard run after the Bills got the ball back following Detroit's kickoff. 
Two plays after Buffalo special teamer Eric Smedley downed Chris Mohr's punt at the 1, Sanders ran off right tackle before Smith grabbed his foot from behind and Hansen fin­ished the play. 
"Barry Sanders is a wonderful guy and a great football player, and I'm glad to see him him leave town," Bills coach Marv Levy said. "He had us hustling most of the day. He did some good things, but we did some good things." 
Sanders finished with 107 yards on 25 car­

Sanders scores • • • for Bills 
have tied the score in the closing seconds in that game. 
The Bills (3-2) had a bye last week. 
Buffalo's Andre Reed caught five passes for 95 yards, including a 43-yard touchdown pass from Todd Collins. Steve Christie kicked field goals of 4 7 and 33 yards. 
"We got it from everybody," Reed said. "In our Super Bowl years, it was the same way. Somebody always comes up and makes a play. That seemed to happen a lot today." 
Buffalo had blown a 13-3 lead before making the key plays in the end. The Bills had four sacks, including two in the final two minutes. 
Lions quarterback Scott Mitchell tied the score at 13 with 5:54 remaining when he ran into the end zone on a third-and-goal from the 
8. Mitchell found Herman Moore for 31 and 19 yards on consecutive plays, and Bills safety Henry Jones was penalized for removing his helmet deep in Buffalo territory. 
"It's unfortunate to try so hard and come up just a little short, but that's the NFL," Mitchell said. "We have to move on because we're still in the middle of things. There's a lot of season left." 
Buffalo moved ahead 13-3 with two seconds remaining in the first half after Ken Irvin blocked John Jett's punt, giving the Bills the ball at the Detroit 15 with 11 seconds left. Collins threw one incomplete pass into the end zone before Christie kicked a 33-yarder. 
Detroit drew within 13-6 when Hanson kicked a 30-yarder in the third quarter. 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1997 
9;00 a.m. Session 1: What Can We Learn from Companies Today? 
Lee A. Tavis, Director. Program on Multinationals and Third World Puvorty, University of Notre Dame; 'The Globalization Phenomenon• Multinational Corporato Hesponsibility" Patrick E. Murphy. Author of Eighty Exemplary Ethics Statements, University of Notre Dame: "Update on Corporate Ethics Statements" 
10.45 a.m. Session 2: Learning from Other Areas 

Garth Meintjes. Associate Director. Center for Civil and Human Rights, University of Notre Dame; "An International Human Righl~ Perspective on Corporate Codes" Robert Kinloch Massie, Executive Director. CERES: "From Sullivan to CERES: Lessons in the Effectiveness of Voluntary Principles" John M. Kline. Director. Karl F. Landcgger Program in International Business Diplomacy, Georgetown University• "Business Codes and Conduct in a Global Political Economy" 
2:30p.m. Session 3: What Can We Learn from the Apparel Industry Code? 
Linda F. Golodner. President. National Consumers League: 
"Codes of Conduct and the Consumer" 

Pharis J. Harvey. Executive Director. International Labor llights Fund: 
"Problems and Prospects for tho Apparel Industry Partnership" 
Kevin J. Sweeney. Director of Communieation. Patagonia: 
"Voting with Their Pocketbooks• The Strengths, and Limits. of Consunwr-Driven Codes of Cvnduct" 
4;30p.m Session 4: KEYNOTE ADDRESS (Jordan Auditorium. College of Businnss Administration) Speaker. StephPn G. Butler. Chairman and CEO, KPMC; Peat Marwick I.Li'• "Haising the Ethies Bar in a Shrinking World" 
Defense digs up a victory for Chiefs 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

With the Miami Dolphins' sea­son in danger of slipping away, their defense dug in against the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Kansas City failed to score in the final 34 minutes, and Olindo Mare kicked a 26-yard field goal with 5:40 left for the only points in the second half, lifting Miami to a 17-14 victory Sunday. 
The win could prove pivotal to the young Dolphins (3-2), who bounced back from consecutive losses to Green Bay and Tampa Bay. It was the 300th victory in Dolphins' history, improving their record to 300-196-4 since joining the AFL as an expansion team in 1966. 
Kansas City (4-2) lost its sixth consecutive game in Miami since 1990. 
Dan Marino's 23-yard pass to Troy Drayton sparked a 60­yard drive that set up Mare's field goal. Mare, whose field goals were also the difference in Miami's other victories, missed a 41-yard attempt in the third period, but is 11-for-14 this season. 
Kansas City reached Miami's 45 with two minutes left, but Tim Bowens sacked Elvis Grbac, and Anthony Harris tackled Marcus Allen following a reception 2 yards short of a first down at the Miami 38 on fourth-and-3. 
The Dolphins' suspect run defense contained a Kansas City ground game that ranked fifth in the NFL. The Chiefs managed just 96 yards on 26 carries. 42 yards below their average. 
Marino completed 19 of 31 attempts for 259 yards and had four passes dropped. Drayton emerged as a new weapon with four catches for 80 yards. 
Grbac threw for 177 yards and two touchdowns for Kansas City. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 
9:00a.m. Session 5: What Can We /.earn from the Caax Principles? 
Gerald F. Cavanagh, S.J., Caux Principles facilitator: "Executives' Code of Business Conduct. Prospocts for the Caax Principles" Kenneth E. Goodpaster, Caux Principles resource person: "Corporate Conscience in a Global Business Environment: The Caux Principlns" 
10:45 a.m. Session 6: Prospects for a Global Code ofCrmdact 
Ruth Hoscnbaum, T.C., Co-Chair, Global Corporate Accountability Issue Group. ICCit "In Whosr Interest? The Purpose of a Global Code of Conduct" David Schilling, Director. Global Corporate Accountability, !CCII: "Making Codes Credible: The Hole of Independent Monitoring" 
2::10 p.m. Session 7: Learning from Other Areas 
Georges Enderle, Vice President of the International Soeiety of Business. Eeonornics and EtWcs (ISBEEl. University of Notre Danw:"Ethical Guidelinns for the lie form of "'"H'-'"w' Enterprises in China" James E. Post, Meroh"r of the Nestle Infant Formula Audit Commission. Boston University: "Global Codes ofConduet: Activists, Lawyers, and Managers in Search of a Solution" Oliver F. WiiUams. C.S.C., Member of tho National Advisory Council to the U.S. Companies in South Africa !Sullivan Prineiples.) University of Notre Dame: "What Can We I."arn from the Sullivan l'rineiples in South Africa?" 
4:30p.m Session 8: /Jribery and Corruption: Enforcement in the Glolwl Community !Jordan Auditorium, \.ollo.ge of llusinnss Administration) 
Kathleen A. Gctz, Departmnnt of Managnmont Amnrican Univnrsity• "lnternatiunallnsl.ruments on Bribery and Corruption" 
Monday, October 6, 1997 page 15
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Software© 1997 Electronic Arts. EA SPORTS, the EA SPORTS logo, and "If it's in the game, it's in the game: are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic [!·.•~· .-: 
Arts in the U.S. and/or other countries. All nghts reserved. The 'Officially Licensed Collegiate Products' label is the exclusive property of The Collegiate Licensing Company. The ·collegiate Licensed Product' label is the property of the Independent Labeling Group. All names. logos. team icons. and mascots associated with the NCAA, universities. bowls, and conferences are the exclusive property of the respective institutions. The NCAA Football logo is a registered trademark of NCAA Football Inc. Licensed by Sony Computer Entertainment America for use with PlayStation game console. PlayStation and the PlayStation logos are trademarks of Sony Computer 
Entertainment Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Feature sets vary among platforms. 

------------------~------------~------------~-------------------.----------------------~--------­
_ ....,.. 
Monday, October 6, 1997 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 

Indians defeat Yanks in ninth 
nine-game postseason road heroic homer in the best yearVizquel's RBI winning streak and stunned the of his career. Alomar, who hit defending World Series cham­the game-winning homer in thesingle ties series pions. All-Star game at Jacobs Field, "The way we lost doesn't tied it 2-2 in the eighth with a at two game~ make sense," said Paul O'Neill, solo homer off Yankees' closer 
who pushed the Indians to the Mariano Rivera. brink of elimination with a "It was a ball," Rivera said.
By KEN BERGER 

grand slam in Game 3. "We "I left it out a little high. He
Associated Pres Writer 

give up a cheap hit and the ball was hacking. I was surprised ricochets. What can you say?" he hit it." 
CLEVELAND 

It was Cleveland's second Jacobs Field started shaking
When the Cleveland Indians 

ninth-inning win against New · and it continued while Mike
beat the Yankees at Jacobs 

York in two weeks. The Indians Jackson retired the Yankees in
Field, they do it in style. 

came back from a seven-run order in the top of the ninth. 
They did it in the ninth 

deficit and clinched their third "It seemed like every time I
inning, with elimination staring 

straight AL Central title with a threw a strike, they were get­
them down and with New 

10-9 victory over the Yankees ting louder," Jackson said. "I
York's seemingly invincible 

on Sept. 23. kept wanting to throw another
bullpen standing in the way. 

The teams will meet Monday strike to see how loud they
Now, there will be a Game 5 

night in Cleveland. Rookie could get." 
in this series that most people 

Jaret Wright, who won Game 2 It truly erupted into mayhem
thought was over. 

impressively in New York, after Vizquel's single. Fans
The Indians, dominated in 

faces Yankees lefty Andy jumped up and down while the
their own stadium by the 

Pettitte. Indians mobbed each other
Yankees for four seasons, 

"He's a strong young man," against the backstop behind
avoided elimination at the 

Yankees manager Joe Torre home plate. 
hands of their old nemesis 

said of Wright. "We didn't do a "It was one of the loudest
Sunday night with a dramatic 

whole lot with him. We'll play stadiums I've ever heard," said
3-2 victory in Game 4 of the AL 

hard like we did tonight and Cleveland starter Ore!
division series. 

hope for better results." Hershiser, whose brilliant duel
Sandy Alomar tied it with an 

Alomar set up the ninth­with Dwight Gooden became an
eighth-inning homer, and 

inning drama with yet another afterthought.
Omar Vizquel won it with a 
quirky single in the ninth to force Game 5 -the first play­off game in Cleveland baseball history in which both teams face elimination. 
It had people talking about the best moments in Indians history -which were few and far between for decades thanks, in part, to the Yankees. 
"This game ranks right up there with Game 6 in the '95 ALCS when we beat Randy Johnson," Indians manager Mike Hargrove said. "If you didn't like this game, you just don't like baseball." 
The Indians were 5-16 against New York at Jacobs Field before Vizquel slapped a single off pitcher Ramiro Mendoza's glove and past scrambling shortstop Derek Jeter. It snapped New York's 

M~lfrrCD))) ~ ~IIDCD)~ IFl~JP~rrlf 
Ortho~Specialist 

Fix any type leather Quick Service -Reasonable 
m 
c.
Notre Dame 

Open 8.-6 Mon.-Fri 
c. 
'< 

8.-3 Sat 1025 E. Madison St. 
Mario's ---­

288.-6211 
1025 E. Madison St. • 
-7-11 
Fall '98 



+ 
Work in an internship 

+ 
Study Public Affairs 

+ 
Study American Art History -CJY..ew 


Come to the informational meeting Monday, October 6th 7:00-8:00p.m. 115 0'Shaughnessy 

Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l @nd.edu 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
was the first scored against the Irish in four outings. 
Notre Dame rebounded quickly from the tough loss to Southern Methodist with a 4-3 overtime victory against Texas 
Christian  Sunday  in  Fort  
Worth.  
Senior  co-captain  Ryan  

Turner got the Irish on the board less than five minutes into the match on an unassist­ed goal. 
Notre Dame's lead did not last long Texas Christian answered with two quick goals of their own. Horned Frog freshman Aaron Grieshaber scored both of these goals, giv­ing Texas Christian a 2-1 lead at the half. 
Notre Dame tied the score at two with a penalty kick taken by senior Scott Wells. Once again Texas Christian answered with a penalty kick of their own scored by junior Henry Driver. 
Late in the game, Turner tied it up with his second goal of the game. He collected a pass from fellow co-captain junior Matt Johnson and beat junior Horned Frog goalie Ian Keate. 

Notre Dame 0 SouthernMethodist 
1 

Regulation ended in a 3-3 tie, and Notre Dame would be forced to play its fourth over­time game of the year. 
Less than three minutes into the overtime period, Turner scored his third goal of the game, giving him a hat trick and Notre Dame the victory. Senior Bill Savarino and sopho­more Alan Woods were credit­ed with assists on the play. 
After this weekend's Texas trip, the Irish have a record of 7-3-2. with six out of the last seven games against confer­ence opponents, Notre Dame must now focus on the Big East, where the Irish are 4-0-1 this season. 

2:30p.m. •Saint Mary's College ,,;., .,.,,., <•"···~ Moreau Center/O'laughlin Auditorium ~~~ / 
TICkets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in / £~ rHE "!£!J..­O'Laughlin Auditoriwn, open 9a.m.-5p.m., Monday-Friday. ~ NOTRE DAME, IN 
Credit card orders phone 284-4626. 
EARN CASH BY DONATING 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$1Soo if you donate alone (first visit) +$ Sao if you show college I. D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 
+$1 Qoo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
Come to: Hours: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 515 Lincolnway West Sat: 8:00-5:00 South Bend, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
r--~---~­
Monday, October 6, 1997 
... 
The Observer/John Daily 

Senior Angie Harris receives a set from senior Carey May in the match against the Red Storm on Friday. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
team changed its lineup slight­ly to offer a more balanced l;ffense. 
"I think thP lim~up we used definitely had a positive impact on how we played this weekend." Brown said. "I think our previous lineup would have been effective too, but I think in this one we are better offensively and there's a lot more movement in it." 
On Sunday, the team faced their second Big East threat in the form of Connecticut, who were on a six-match winning streak and had won eight of its last nine. However, their recent successes weren't enough to counter the Irish, who dispatched them in three 

Library 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project and the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values 
THE FUTURE BELONGS To THosE WHO EARN IT. 
We cordially invite all 
NOTRE DAME SENIORS 

to attend a presentation describing our two,year 
INVESTMENT BANKING FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM 
Monday, October 6, 1997 7:00,9:00 P.M. Room 21 0, Center for Continuing Education 
Reception to follow the presentation. 
If you wish to apply to the program, please turn in a resume to Career and Placement on October 13th or 14th 
SMI'I'l I BARNEY 

Smith Barney is an Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/DN ©t997 Smith Barney Inc. Member S!PC AMemberofTrovdusGrou,D't 
games, 15-3, 15-11, 15-6. 
Once again, the team wasled by Lee and Harris, who had 18 and 12 kills respectively. The duo is the first Notre Dame teammates to have more than 50 double-digit kill matches in their career. 
They were assisted by Leffers, who scored 10 kills, and Girton, who continued her outstanding play with nine kills on .444 hitting. As a team. the Irish had a .403 hit­ting percentage, second only to a .451 percentage against Marquette. 
With the loss, Connecticut ends its streak and falls to 1-1 in conference play and 12-9 on the season. 
"I think we played very well against Connecticut," Girton said. "In the second game, I'd like to think that we wore the team down. and then came back and played hard in the third game." 
"Overall, I was really pleased with how the team did this weekend." Brown said. "For the most part, we kept it at a pretty high level of inten­sity. I think we did a good job offensively. I think for the first time working with the 
The Observer/John Daily 

Senior Jaimie Lee contributed eight kiills on Friday night. 
changed lineup we did pretty good." "I think the team played really well this week­end," Girton said. "We've got our new lineup, we've been practicing it for quite a while and it was really good that we finally were able to use it in a game. Everything's coming together really well." 
This weekend's matches continue the astounding sue­cess that the Irish have had in conference play. Since joining the Big East conference in 1995, the team has won all 28 matches in conference play, with 24 of those victories through 3-0 scores. In the seven years that Brown has coached the Irish, the team 
UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM IN 


has gone 65-0 against confer­ence opponents, including a 37-0 record in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
The Irish, now 9-5 on the season, have one more match in their three-week home stand against non-conference rival Illinois State. "We haven't done in-depth scouting of them yet," Brown said about the Redbirds. "But every time we play them it's a tough match. We've gone five games just about every time we've played them, so we know it's going to be a battle." 
The match begins at the Joyce Center Tuesday at 7 p.m. 


-
-
-
All Sophomores (AL, BA, SCI, ENG) Are Welcome 

" 
• 

Monday, October 6, 1997 
• WoMEN's GOLF.. 
Golfers take sixth place at Invite 
Melby leads 
team with a 79 
on Sunday 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre D·ame women's golf team maintained sixth place in final-round action Sunday at the Michigan Invitational, despite another off;.day from senior co-captain Katie King. 
The Irish totaled a 331 in
-the play-six, count-four for­mat to finish at 995 in the two-day, three-round event. Notre Dame nearly caught fifth-place Southwest Missouri State, which fin­ished at 922 after slipping to a 338 on Sunday. Senior co-captain Tracy On Sunday against the Eagles, freshman Meotis Erikson scored her sixth goal in the last four games. Melby -Notre Dame's 
Victory 
continued from page 20 
Eagles without a shot in the con­test, a welcome reprieve for Petrucelli and Irish goalie LaKeysia Beene, who is suffering from a slight wrist sprain. 
"This was great for LaKeysia," said Petrucelli. "I was hoping for a game like this." 
"In these games, my job is just 

-
to keep my defense focused," said Beene. ''I'm just there as support for the defense." 
Without recording a save, Beene earned her third consecu­tive shutout, and ninth overall. 
Junior Shannon Boxx opened the scoring for Notre Dame at 31:45, after the team came up empty despite eight shots on goal. 

From 12 yards out, Boxx slipped a feed from Jenny Streiffer and Meotis Erikson into the right cor­ner of the net for her sixth goal of the year. 
"I just got to the weak side and Motor (Erikson) found me," said Boxx of her first-half goal. "In games like these we have to focus on going out there and trying to get better. At halftime Coach told us that we needed to get out wide, try to find the most open spot and score." 
In the second half, Erikson scored the game's second and final goal, a header that found the upper right corner of the net. The goal was the eighth overall for the freshman forward, and her sixth in the last four games. Senior midfielder Holly Manthei and Kelly Lindsay picked up the assists on the play, marking the did not factor in the team scoring, carding a 91 to fin­ish at 259. 
King -who shot 93 and 86 in Saturday's rounds ­shot an 86 again Sunday to complete three of the more sub-standard rounds of her stellar career. 
King did not fact into the Notre Dame's team score throughout the three rounds. after having count­ed to the Notre Dame score in 64 of her previous 72 career rounds (.889). the second-best percentage of rounds counted in the 10­year history of Notre Dame women's golf. King also had counted in 44 of her previ­ous 46 rounds (.957) prtor to the off-days at Michigan. She had carded 86 or higher just twice in her previous 35 rounds beading into the Michigan Invitational. 
Melby's 79 lowered her career average to 82.15, just nine shots better than King's 
8 2. 27 (both players have totaled 75 rounds). 
Melby also now leads the Irish thought six rounds in 1997 with an 81.17 season stroke average, followed by Klee (81.33), Cooper (83.33), King (84.33) and Klein (85.00). 
and keep the scoring down. "It's very tough to play in a game like this," said Beene. "The 

Have something to
defense had to be its toes in ease they had a break away." Despite the win, Notre Dame 

say? Use Observer
did suffer a setback. Junior for­ward Monica Gerardo sprained her ankle that could keep her out 

classifieds.
of action for an extended period of time. 


-
Every Monday 
14" Cheese Pizza for $7.95 C$1.00 per each additional topping) All-You-Can-Eat 
Pizza and Pasta for $5.00 

Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 4:00-10:30 Fri.-Sat. 4:00-11:00 

Mon.-Fri. Lunch 11:00-1:30 
6:00-9:30 Come and watch Monday Night Football 
.. 
273-3890 
11 STILL THE BEST" 

• 
12th of the season for Manthei and third for Lindsay, a freshman defender. 
"The game was elose on the scoreboard," said Petrucelli, "but they never threatened our goal. We didn't play with a sense of urgency." 
Notre Dame pounded 11 more shots at Boston College goalie Courtney Schaeffer. but the Eagles clogged the box with ten players, content to play defense career stroke average leader -shot a 79 on Sunday, giving her a team­best 247 over the full 54 boles. Sophomore Andrea Klee carded an 84 to finish at 248 while freshman Mary Klein's final-round 85 yield­ed at 251 total. Sophomore Beth Cooper shot a final­round 83 and finished at 

252. Senior Kristin Schaner 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally-recognized consulting firm? 
Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in the design and implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/server information systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
• 
Clarity is a young, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design, and project management within the Fortune 500 community. 

• 
Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner. 

• 
Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 


If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Tuesday, October 7th 
TIME: 7pm-9pm 

PLACE: Morris Inn, Alumni Room
~)!TY ~N s u l r 1 N G *Refreshments will be served 

J 
r 
t 
-
-
-· 
-

Football 
1997 
Stanford 

Going 
Notre Dame 

33 nowhere 
15 
SPORTS 


page 20 
• VOLLEYBAll 

Freshman leads team 
Girton records 10 kills in 14 attempts in St. John's match 
By BILL HART Sports Writer 
If this weekend's matches for Notre Dame's volleyball team are any indica­
will be like this year, it will be tough for the other teams to catch up to the Irish. 
This weekend. the Irish defeated two Big East opponents to begin their quest for a third straight Big 

Girton
East title. Friday, the Irish began their title defense against an underpowered St. John's squad. Despite a strong effort by the Red Storm, the Irish managed to defeat them handily in three games, 15-4. 15-2' 15-4. 
In the first game, the Irish used their defensive power to keep the Red Storm at a negative hitting percentage. They then used strong serving to take big leads in the other two games. Senior hitter Jaimie Lee opened up game two with six straight service points, and the Irish took an 14-2 lead before a St. John's hit that went wide ended the game. 

In the third game, the Irish took a 9­0 lead before their opponent was able to get on the board. They managed to stretch it to an 11-2 lead before closing out the match in just under an hour. 
The Irish were led by freshman Christi Girton, who had one of the best matches in her short Irish career. She scored 10 kills on 14 attempts with only one error, for a total hitting per­centage of .643. 
"I thought she did great in both matches." head coach Debbie Brown remarked about Girton." She swung aggressively, and while she does need to improve defensively, she definitely helped balance our offense." 
Overall, the Irish had a team hitting percentage of .311, their third best of the season, while holding the Red Storm to negative hitting (-.028) for their third straight game. In the mid­dle of the first game, senior hitter Angie Harris scored the 200th ace of her Notre Dame career, extending an individual record she has held since 1995. Harris had six kills on 24 attempts. Notre Dame's offense also included six kills from sophomore Mary Leffers and eight kills from senior Jaimie Lee. With the loss, St. John's falls to 6-7 on the season. 
The St. John's matchup was the first match the Irish had played in 10 days. During the lull in the schedule, the 
see IRISH 1page 17 

The Observer/John Daily 
Senior Angie Harris recorded her 200th ace of her Notre Dame career against St. John's. 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

Eagles' strategy unsuccessful 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Sophomore Jenny Streiffer helped solidify this weekend's attack. 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
Big East women's soccer tlmms will try just about anything to lift Notre Dame's stronghold on the conference. 
Boston College ( 5-4-1) jour­neyed to Alumni Field yesterday for its shot at knocking off the Irish. But the Eagles defensive overload strategy met with little success, as the Irish shot them down 2-0. 
"We really possessed the ball well in the back," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "(Boston College) was really hard to play against since they were so defen­sive. They just packed it in and didn't seem to want to go for­ward or try to score at all." 
Notre Dame (11-0-1) held the 
see VICTdRY I page 18 

• MEN's SOCCER 
Notre Dame splits Texas weekend 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team traveled to Texas for two non-conference games this weekend. They lost to Southern Methodist 1-0, then bounced back and defeated Texas Christian 4-3 in over­time. 
The Irish, ranked 23rd in the Umbro/NSCAA poll, faced the fourth-ranked Mustangs Friday night at Westcott Field in Dallas. Southern Methodist controlled much of the game. The Mustang attack relentless­ly put pressure on the Irish 
defense. outshooting Notre Dame 13-2. 
The Irish defense withstood the attack for almost the entire game. With 42 seconds left in regulation. junior Paul Broome was able to slip a shot past junior goalie Greg Vfdho to give Southern Methodist the victory. 
Broome's shot was set up by senior Daniel Hernandez's cor­ner kick. Hernandez served the ball to junior Shawn Cantrell inside the box, who then dished it off to Broome who flicked in the game-winner from four yards out. The goal 
see SOCCER/ page 16 

vs. Illinois State, 

at Pittsburgh, 
~ October 7, 7 p.m. Q) •Orioles defeat Mariners ~-October 11, 2:30 p.m. 
fit.-. at Georgetown, 
Q.. (" Soccer vs. Kalamazoo, ~ see page 12 
October II, 11 a.m. 
C'····"-' October 7, 3 p.m. 
'!ill 

CIJ •Buffalo dismisses Detroit 
fff '% vs. Syracuse, 
Volleyball vs. Bethell see page I4 
ii ::u October I I, 7:30p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
s\~ ~ 


MIKE PETERS MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
u 
c 
I LIKE. ME.N WHO KNOW 
HOW TO 
COMMU NICAIE... 


~ ~ 
E 
~ 
·;: 
58 Nobelist Wiesel 59 0ld Dodge 60 Artist's support &1 Bambi and 
others &2 When a factory whistle blows &3 Mink wrap 
DOWN 
1 Wise 281ows it 3 Trials and 
tribulations 4 Take advantage of 5 Mark Twain, for 
one 6 Kind of electricity 71992 Robin 
Williams movie a Sound stage equipment 
9 Sign of sorrow 10Hoosegow 11 Billfold bills 12 Light beige 



13 "--ofthe  29 "Scram!"  45lnter-­ 51 Florence's  
D'Urbervilles"  30 Creator of the  4& Flutist  river  
18 Dracula player Lugosi  Ragged Dick books  48 Clinched, as a  52 Baja buck 53 Pitcher  
19 Princely abbr. 23lvan and Nicholas 24 Boxer Oscar --Hoya  31 Garden intruders 34 Circumnaviga­tor Sir Francis 3& "Jurassic Park"  victory 49 --survivor 50 Parisian lady friend  Hershiser 54 Bermuda, e.g. 56 Comic Philips 57 Kit--Club  
25 Northern  novelist  
Scandinavians 2& Phrase of resignation  37 Length of yarn 41 Candle brackets  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute).  
27 Blender setting  43 Hawaiian do  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
28 Nancy Drew's  44 Smash, as a  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
creator  windshield  50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

BUT NOI A MA.N Wl-\0 
ONLY TI\LI<-5 "-BOUT 
SPORTSJ OR COMPUTERS, OR HIS :JOB, OR TVJ : OR 5£.XJ OR "J"OKE5,0R ~ 
t\I5 ACCOMPLISHME.NTS... !·;; 
TI-\AT WOULD LE.A.\/E. ... 
GRE.E.I<.. AND  1'-\YTHOLOG Y ••. YOU  
NO GREEK STUFr.  


page 19 YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: CIL•nn Ford, Rita CoolH.igt..•, ]\1dy Collins, Tt..•rry Stmthern 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on Aug. X, 1Y6H, ctt 5:12p.m. My prt..'!:.L'Ilt p,1rllrit:>nd was horn on M.w 21:\, 1972. Wt:'vc bt.-cn lugl'lher sillL'L' 'Dt.•CL'IllbL'r of last vt•ar. J Mn t•xtn.•mdv .111r.Kit•d tu lwr, ·but I wonder il she is to Ilk'. We h.lVL' .1 lot nf fun tugt.·tht•r, but I wondL•r if uur rdntionship i~ going lo lrP-d vt>ry Jon~. Any prL·diction i~ murh .lppn•rirltt•d. 
KKTf 
DEAR KKIT: Your compari;on to your Gemini friend was pretty good. Any relation!,hip take!> work regard· less of how well you match up to one another. You have some very nice combinations in your synastry that Jead me to believe that she is just as turned on by you as you are by her. You have to admit that you are still in the f'arly stages of your re· lationship, and it isn't likely that either one of you will show your true colors before the fall of thi' year~ when the rush of love dimin· ishes and you are left with the core of the union. J feel that you can turn this into a long·term connection, but there is a sign of sorrow thal occurs where home and family come into the picture. You have until the end of this year to give this relationship your best shot. 
If it works, I suggest that you ask her to marry you next year. If it does· n't, be prepared to meet ..c;nmenne new when the area of your chart that deals with relationships comes into plenty ?f opportunities. 
ARIES (March 21-April 201: Avoid del'eption .1t i.lll emotione~J kvl'l. In· volveml•nt in intl'rL·stin~ AToUp!-> will promoll' nt•w romi\ntk rl'lntionships. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 211: Don't blow Situation~ out of propor· tlon if you wish to bt• productive. Ex· travahance and t.'Xi\ggt.•r,1tion will bt.• \'•ltlrdownfaiJ. · GEMif\,;1 (\'lay 22-June 211: Travel for bu!->il1t'"!-. or pk.1sun• \\'illlw •ltlspi­cious. Ynu will mel'lnL'\\' .1nd t.•xnting indi\'iduab. 
CANCER (june 22-July 221: Low" m.1y GlUSL' up~t.'t tod.1y. Do your bt•st ll' piL·il~L' .md rdusl' to pc1rtnkL• i11 con· Jnmt.1tions th.ll could rL'Sttlt in e~­tr.lllgt•mt•nl. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 231: l),m·l owr­read to ::.itu(1tion~ t'OJKt.'rnlng vuur pnrtnl'r. GL't all tht.• f.1cts bdore· vnu 
t.1kt• .Ktion · 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 221: Attrac­tions tnwnrd cn·\\'Orkl•r.:; will ht.• om•­sidl'd. You may hnvt.• diffkulty ~t.'tting 
your point <Kross. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 231: Prob­lt.•ms with your matt:> will gl't out of h,mJ. Use your l'11t.!rgy wisely by get· ting involvt·d in ~pllTt~ activity. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 221: Don't tdkl• ':>itu"tion';) at \\'Prk tun personc1lly. You may hil\'t:' ,1 t:hcln~l' of ht.•t1ft con­cernin~ ~~our lovt..•r. 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 211: Your In\'(' n.•l,ltionship m.1y ~uHt..•r if ym1 gt•t into '"it'rim1s discu::.::.ion~ t(r d.1y. Do not misintt'rprl't pt•t.•rs or t.•m­ployl'rs. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 201: 0\'l'rSpt.'JHJing will bt.' vour dovrnf.1ll. Rt.'llll'mbl'r vou can't buv thosl' vou lnvl'. GiHs ,;nd exoti1. tn'p~ \Vill Cost you more Ll1.1n ~·out.'X}.X"'Ct. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 181: Your t.'motions will fludtl.llt'. Soml'· one dosl' to your heart may disap· point ~'llll. Don't 0\'t.•rspt.•nd nn your livin~ llllarh.•rs. 
PISCES IFeb. 19-Marrh 201: HL'alth problt.>ms or minor injuries will GlUSt.! limitnti<llls. Tnkt• tinw off tn rt.'Cupernte. 

Born Today: CL't n\1dy to t.,w;h vour.t'lf nnd your ideas thi.., yt.•.u. Prt.~nta­
tion will be l'Vl'rything and you bt.•ltt.•r ht• pn•pared if you \\'clllt to rt'rlrh your 
higlu.'st pott.•ntial. Tht.• sky is thl' limit <llld your high t'llt'rgy will pay off. 
(Need advice? \lwck out FugL•ni,l'$ \Vt.•h sitt.' at www.eugenialast.com or try her intt..~riKti\'C sitl' c1t www.astroadvice.com.) 
Briised Beef
RoasF ];'t1~key
Manteottl 
.•.. ~calloped Potatoes 
South 

Cheese Chimichangas
Turkey Breast 

Whipped Potatoes 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..::..j..::..j~!-'-IJ...::.,j.:..:..!-=-~~ 


·­
-
• 
-
-
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Clinch, as a victory & R.B.I., e.g. 10 Keats, for one 14 Got out of bed 15 "Sock it--!" 16 Fairy tale's first word 17 Super Bowl I champs 20 Slalom curve 21 New Jersey five 22 Kind of monkey 23 Anklebones 24 June 6, 1944 25 Yummy items 29 TV's "L.A. -" 32 Waters: Lat. 33 "Xanadu" rock grp. 34 Remove from a manuscript 
35 Sound of a cat or engine 
3& Like Jack Benny, famously 
38 More than a vogue 39 Pecan and 
pumpkin 40 Sought election 41 Had money in 
the bank 42 Sault--Marie 43 Football 
defensemen 46 It gets slapped around a lot 
47 Skin cream ingredient 48 Book after Song 
of Solomon 51 Z--zebra 52 Hawaiian dish 55 On-line 
menaces 

SAFERIDE 1 9888 


10 p.m. 3 a.m. Fridays & Saturdays .. 



