

-----------------~-----~­
~--~~-------------------­
• Faculty, student panel 
Signs ofSpring • South Bend community 
discusses non-discrimina­
and others honor SMC presi­
tion clause. 
• Notre Dame sponsors dent Hickey 
p.3 
bike to campus day. 
p.3 
p.9 


Wednesday, April 23, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 130 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University reconstructs compensation plans 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR junction with several staff "The reason the action was Administration to the Faculty because as a group, the clerical Assistant News Editor groups, has developed a new taken was because the Senate in February of 1996, and secretarial staff is predomi­plan for all non-faculty workers. University had outgrown its cur­"the relative discrepancy nantly female. 
For the first time since the "One of the outcomes that we rent or previous pay system," he between the salaries paid to our "The reason why Gender late 1970s, the University of wanted to achieve is to put in explained. "Under our previous secretarial and clerical workers Studies is interested in clerical Notre Dame has restructured its place a process that would pay system, there were some and our service and mainte­workers is that it is a feminized employee classification and make sure that all employees of groups of employees that were nance workers creates an inter­occupation,"· explained profes­compensation plans. Calling on the University, regardless of paid higher levels than other nal inequity which needs to be sor Teresa Ghilarducci. "That is, the services of the Towers­classification or level, were paid groups of employees." remedied." the workers do what is regard­Perrins firm to assist them in competitively with the market," One of those groups is the This inequity was seen as par­ed as women's work and most this undertaking, the Human said associate vice president for office clerical staff. According ticularly alarming to some in the of the workers are female." Hesources department, in con-human resources Roger Mullins. to a report of the Committee on Gender Studies department 
see SALARIES I page 6 

South Bend's league of its own 

Fifty-four years after the AAGPBL, a new baseball league for women emerges 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Associate News Editor 
Laura Patterson stands in line with two of her team­mates and several adolescent boys at the Grand Slam 
U.S.A. batting cages in Elkhart. When it's her turn to hit, she steps into the cage and deposits the token for 20 pitches. But she does not have the attendant switch the pitching machine from the hard, straight baseball pitches to the slower. arched softball tosses. 
Crack. It's an aluminum bat hitting a plastic batting 
cage ball, but the contact is so solid it resembles a 
"crack" with only a little imagination. Patterson com­
pletes the 20 pitches. hitting line drives to all sides of the 
narrow cage and up the middle. The boys in line watch in · 
genume amazement at the 5'3" female making better 
contact than some of them have. 
"I always kind of laugh at that," Patterson said about 
_ boys' reactions to her baseball talents. ''I'm from a small town where all the guys are athletes. Everybody looks twice when a girl plays a boy's sport. But I always think, 'Yeah, of course I did that. What did you expect?"' 

Patterson is one of a handful of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women who play for the South Bend Belles in the Great Lakes Women's Baseball League, the first multi­state baseball league for women in 42 years. 
"I played Little League baseball when I was 9 or 10," Patterson said. "I never played softball, I was always brought up on baseball. I didn't see softball on television, so there was nothing pushing me to it. Spring and sum­mer was just baseball." 
In 1992, a lot of girls and women were made aware of, or were reminded of a time when women had a baseball league all to themselves. "A League of Their Own," a film directed by Penny Marshall starring Tom Hanks and Geena Davis, chronicled one season for two fictional sis­ters on the Rockford Peaches. 
"I saw the movie and I loved it," Patterson said. "I had never known there was a women's league. I hoped they'd start it again. When this opportunity came up, I couldn't say no." 
In 1943, with American men fighting in World War II, women stepped into jobs they never before had experi­enced, or even considered. "Rosie the Riveter" became a national icon as women entered the workforce enthusias­tically. 
Baseball was no exception. With Major League stars in 
see LEAGUE/ page 4 

When the All American Girls Softball League began, the women played with softballs. Gradually, the size of the ball shrunk to equal the size of a regulation baseball. 

The ObseJVer/Kim Michalik 

Brigid Coleman is the new student trustee. 
SMC names Coleman as new trustee 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
_News Writer 
Saint Mary's College announced the appointment of junior Brigid Coleman to the position of student trustee for the upcoming school year. 
Coleman has been involved in various cam­pus groups, including her class government, the sophomore and junior class boards, the social work club, and with Christ Child's Society. 
As student trustee, Coleman becomes a member of equal standing with the same rights and privilege as other members of the board, including an equal vote. The main dif­ference lies in that Coleman is responsible for representing the voice of the entire student body. 
The student trustee also resides on the the Board of Governance, the student governing body, where she is also a voting member. Both positions demand a large weekly time commitment. 
"I am looking forward to representing the students and being able to articulate their ideas," said Coleman. 
Surveys and conversations will be Coleman's main venues for increasing com­munication between herself and the students at Saint Mary's College. 
The selection of the student trustee is a lengthy process. Letters sent out each year to juniors by Dr. Linda Timm, Vice-President of Student Affairs, include an application for the student position for the Board of Trustees. The letter explains that the position on the Board of Trustees is open to all cur­rent juniors. • 
The student must submit a personal letter and three letters of recommendation, one of which must be from a professor and one from a current student. After these have 
see TRUSTEE I page 6 


-----~----------------~-~ -~~ 

page 2 
• INSIDE COUJM,._ 
Smoking 

a virtue??? 
The issue of smoking Wendy Klare on the Notre Dame cam­
Advertising Design 
pus has long been a 
Manager
heated debate. Recently the spark has been rekindled, with the assertion that by smoking, one can reach an enlightened state. I have no doubt that this statement strikes most of you as ridiculous. However, I feel that it is my duty as a former smoker to respond to this outrageous claim. 
Apparently some people think that because they are forced by the Notre Dame adminis­tration to walk a mile in search of a pack of cigarettes and a lighter, this makes them of uncommonly strong character. And that because they are forced to stand outside in the subzero temperatures to feed their habit, they are somehow superior to the fortunate majority here at Notre Dame-those who have not succumbed to the grip of a frighten­ing addiction. 
My question is this: do these people truly believe that the habit of smoking is a ritual that brings their souls closer to fulfillment? Did I tell myself, when I was 15 and my best friend and I smoked every afternoon at the bus stop, that I was doing it to build charac­ter? Did I congratulate myself every time I lit up, losing the batt!e against my craving? 
There were several reasons why we smoked. There was the oral indulgence, the secrecy when we were still under our parents' roofs, and also the society to which we belonged as smokers -the same society which, according to certain people, is the superior minority at Notre Dame. These peo­ple can actually say with a straight face that smokers are better people for it, because they have learned to care about the well-being of others. 
I will never be able to understand how giv­ing someone a cigarette can be translated into caring about his or her well-being, but I do know that at some point I stopped believing in the benefit of meeting someone by bumming a cigarette. Wouldn't it be better to belong to a group of people linked by a genuine concern for each other's thoughts, not just by a com­mon problem? I'd rather be approached by a stranger for anything better than the simple fact that I had a cigarette in my hand: my character and that of my seeker suffer an instant death once a cigarette becomes the only thing we share. 
There was another reason why I smoked ­
a more insidious one. My parents told me that 
my behavior was disgustingly self-destructive, 
and I continued to smoke, because we're all 
going to die someday anyway. This is the most 
common argument given by smokers in 
response to their habit, but do they always 
understand its implications? If I truly believe 
this, I am saying that I'm ready to die at any time. 
Looking back over the past six years, I can see that my smoking was one small part of the adolescent confusion that we all know in which we attempt to decipher our own impor­tance. Only recently have I figured out that self-preservation is a crucial concept-in order to attain true virtue, we have to reach a point where we value our existence and care for ourselves. 
So, to those of you who make up the "enlightened smoker" population at Notre Dame, stop arguing that listening to com­plaints about second-hand smoke gives you virtue. 
Instead, next time you light up, open your mind to the virtue of preserving your own mortality. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TOIJAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Allison Koenig  Melissa Weber  
Laura Petelle  Production  
Sports  Dan Cichalski  
Kathleen Lopez  John Hutchinson  
Accent  Allison Koenig  
.Megan Ferstenfeld  Laura Petelle  
Joe Weiler  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Joe Stark  
Tara Churik  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE 


• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Peruvian troops storm Japanese embassy, free hostages 

LIMA, Peru 

In a lightning assault, Peruvian troops stormed the Japanese ambas­sador's mansion Tuesday and rescued 71 hostages held for four months, killing all 14 rebel captors as the unsuspecting guerrillas reportedly played soccer. 
One captive, Supreme Court Justice Carlos Giusti, and two soldiers also died, President Alberto Fujimori said. Some hostages were secretly warned just before the raid, one of the freed men said. 
Fujimori said 25 other captives were injured in the gunfire and explosions that rocked the compound, only two seriously -Peru's foreign minister, Francisco Tudela, and another Supreme Court justice, both suffering gunshot wounds. 
"I didn't waver for a single minute in giving the order for this rescue opera­tion," said the president, who through­out the crisis adamantly rejected the guerrillas' demand that jailed comrades be freed in exchange for the captive diplomats and businessmen. 
The operation ended an international ordeal that had 
Clinton celebrates Earth Day Citadel takes day off for diversity 
WASHINGTON CHARLESTON, S.C. 
Recycling a proposal from last year, 
,........--......, The Citadel canceled classes Tuesday so its 1,700 President Clinton marked Earth Day by cadets could learn how to get along with the women expanding an "early-warning system" among them, everything from avoiding demeaning lan­for reporting release of toxic chemicals guage to not barging in on their barracks doors. in the environment. Under new rules "Diversity Awareness Day," sensitivity training on the for the decade-old "Community Right importance of women, was ordered as the formerly all­to Know" law, seven additional indus­male military college reels from allegations that two tries and 6,100 new industrial facilities female cadets left because they were hazed and will be forced to report to the public """"""""'--=-----' harassed. "It's no longer that men are the bosses and the the levels of toxic chemicals they women follow orders," said Faye Crosby, a professor at release into the air, water and land. "By expanding com­all-female Smith College in Northampton, Mass. "You munity right-to-know, we're giving Americans a power­need to learn how to work with people who don't look ful, very powerful early-warning system to keep their exactly like you." Classes were canceled and gray-uni­children safe from toxic pollution," the president said. formed cadets marched to the school's field house for the "We're giving them the most powerful tool in a democra­daylong training, beginning with lectures on gender cy-knowledge." Clinton scrapped a planned Earth Day awareness. As the day~wore on, such vast concepts were appearance in Washington to travel to the flood-ravaged boiled down to concrete questions: Should female cadets upper Midwest. Before departing for Grand Forks, N.D., wear skirts? Should sunbathing be allowed outside the he outlined the regulations for reporters and wondered barracks? Thirty-five women have been aceepted for this aloud whether global warming was to blame for this fall's freshman class, and 12 have already indicated they year's severe floods. will attend. 
Wyoming students strip-searched Friend testifies sex was consensual 
CASPER, Wyo. ABERDEEN PROVING GROUND, Md. 
School officials apologized to the parents of second­An Army trainee who accused a former drill instructor 
and third-grade students who were strip-searched while of rape claimed she received special treatment in return 
teachers looked for $10 reported missing by a classmate. for the sex, a witness testified Tuesday. The testimony at 
Principal Mark Mathern said the search was "a grave the court-martial of Staff Sgt. Delmar Simpson was aimed 
error in judgment." He met with the parents of the 23 at discrediting a key prosecution witness~ who contends 
students to apologize. "We really had to take a lot of Simpson raped her nine times in 1995, when she was in 
heat" from the parents, he said. "On the other hand, I his advanced infantry training company at the Aberdeen 
heard parents say, 'We really like your school and we Proving Ground. Pfc. Dana Jackson testified that the 23­
don't want to see any harm come to it in the long run." year-old alleged victim confided to her that "her life was 
An assistant principal, three teachers and a teacher's a little easier" as a result of having sex with Simpson. 
aide were suspended. The $10 was reported missing The accuser sounded angry at Simpson "but she didn't 
shortly before school ended Thursday. The 23 children, say rape," Jackson said. "I thought it was consensual." 
most 7 or 8 years old, were told to turn out their pockets The alleged victim testified last week that Simpson was 
and remove their shoes and socks. The superintendent "a devil" who made her feel like a puppet on a string. 
said the girls and boys were taken to separate locker The defense rested after calling Capt. Scott Alexander, 
rooms, where the boys removed their clothes and the the commander of Simpson's company at Aberdeen. He 
girls removed most of their clothes. The money wasn't said he was unaware of any complaints of sexual harass­
found, Olson said. An investigation is under way. ment or misconduct. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Atlanta 70 45 Denver 51 35 New Orleans 78 
56 

Baltimore 65 44 Los Angeles 74 52 New York 57
{) 45
Q~~uc:£1 & ~ u Boston 49 42 Madison 56 33 Philadelphia 55 45
',','' '''' :. :. :. ·!·.;:=·.:::· --­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pi. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 52 35 Miami 83 68 Phoenix 79 63 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Dallas 72 55 Minneapolis 58 39 St. Louis 60 38 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 23. 
FRONTS: 
--....-...._._ "T*r 
transfixed two nations and focused global attention on a little-known left­ist rebel group, Tupac Amaru, which has waged guerrilla war here since 1984. 
In Tokyo, Japan's prime minister called it a "splendid rescue," but also said it was "regrettable" that Peru had not forewarned his government of the surprise, broad-daylight attack. 
Fujimori told reporters late Tuesday that intelligence information convinced him it was an ideal time to end the impasse by force. 
He apparently was referring to word of the indoor soccer game. Bolivian Ambassador Jorge Gumucio, one of the freed hostages, said eight hostage­holders were playing soccer in the main hall of the diplomatic residence when the security forces struck, first setting off an explosion in a tunnel directly under the hall. It was about 3:30 p.m. The 140-man 

military-police assault team poured through the com­
pound's front gate, then blasted open the mansion's front 
door. Others attacked from the rear, and a third unit 
climbed to the rooftop and shepherded hostages down. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1997 AccuWealher, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Wednesday, April23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel examines ND clause 
vice p Faculty 
Pre key to th~" rit" South B~nd John Broden; Mayor Stephen "President -Hickey ship to SaintMary's most certainly roots are deeply South Bend, Michiana Indiana communities." 
Also in attendance Mishawaka mayor Beutter and Dean of Affairs Linda Timm, rept~~ senting Elkhart mayot Jifh Perron. Both acknowledged their appreciation of Hickey's commitment to women's high• er education. 
Congressman Tim Roemer's office presented a plaque ;;·•·.h:........n.lv,~,.:y which contained a portion of · the address honoring Hickey from the April 23rd U.S. Congressional record. 
On Indiana Gov. Frank 

THE 




OPY HOP 

LaFortune Student Center 
We're open late so 
* your copy order will * be completed on time! 
Mon. -Thur.: 7:30am to Midnight Fri.: 7:30am to 7:00pm * Sat.: Noon to 6:00pm Sun.: Noon to Midnight 
Most orders delivered by 
9:00 a.m. the next weekday 
Call 631-COPY<631-2679) for Free Pick-Up & Delivery to University Departments 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Associate News Editor 
While Notre Dame's non-dis­crimination clause is inade­quate, campus closed-minded­ness is a more troubling obsta-. cle, according to last night's panel discussion. 
The panelists, six heterosex­ual and homosexual Notre Dame students, combined their reflections with audience sen­timents to examine revision of the University's non -discrimi­nation clause. 
Central to the discussion is the current clause's omission of any wording explicitly guarding against discrimina­tion on the basis of sexual ori­entation. 
"Aside from the legal aspect is the negative climate this sets up," Clare Ribando, a Farley junior said. "If the administra­tion reserves the right to dis­criminate, what does that say to individual students?" 
Criticisms of an unprogres­sive administration and closed­minded campus surfaced throughout the evening. 

M~Kinley-Penn Self-Lo~k Storage' 
THE 

IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE SHIRT CHAIR. 
APPLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE (315 LAFUN) & ARE DUE BY APRIL 30 AT4PM. 
The Observer/Brat Hogan A panel composed of both students and faculty met to discuss impli­cations of the non-discrimination clause. 
O'Shaughnessy, set the tone for the evening by sharing how she has been affected by the non-discrimination clause. 
"In coming out, I opened myself up to being fired," she said. "And if I were fired, I would have no legal action with our current clause. I'd just have to move." 
Paula Shannon, a bi-sexual off campus senior expressed similar fears. 
ence. "We have 600 to 700 fac­ulty and only two of them are openly gay. There is a sense that we're not safe making this disclosure. 
"The students are being denied something in not hav­ing intellectual role models," Blandford said. 
Although several top Notre Dame administrators were invited to the panel to offer their perspectives, none could attend, according to College Democrats, the panel's spon­sors. 
"Three were busy and the rest felt it would be inappro­priate for them to comment on an issue under consideration by the officers," said College Democrats co-president J.P. Cooney. 
Sponsors also urged the audience to attend their Thursday afternoon rally for justice, rights and non-dis­crimination. 
"This will be a wonderful way for the Notre Dame com­munity to unite," Cooney said. 
"Notre Dame is a place with a living conscience. Hopefully it's never been bothered as much as we can [bother it on Thursday]," O'Shaughnessy said. 
"The problem 
"I work at isn't just conser­Loftus. What vativism and happens if my conservative boss finds ideas. [The out? I don't University is] think it would conservative in a come to sense of not even [being fired], considering oth­but if it did, that would be
ers' ideas," noted John Blandford, an economics graduate stu­dent. 
Moderator Faye Koley noted that while panelists had touched on the shortcomings of the current University poli­cy, many had also acknowl­edged potential for improve­ment as long as apathy can be kept at bay. 
Earlier, an openly gay resi­dent assistant, Molly 
that," she Clare Ribando said. "With 
this current clause, there's just a fear of the unknown." 
Students, the panelists explained, are not the only campus group affected by the current clause's exclusion of sexual orientation. Faculty could. be equally afraid to come out. 
"Look among your faculty," Blandford enjoined the audi­
10386 Mcl(inley -Osceola 

Summer Storage 
lOxlO 10xl5 10x20 Fenced I Lighted I Security 
Call 679-4744 
page 4 


League 
continued from page I 
the military. professional base­ball was forced to consider shut­ting down for the remainder of the war. Philip Wrigley, owner of the Chicago Cubs, came up with the idea of beginning a league for women to keep baseball alive at a competitive and money­making level. 
The All-American Girls Softball League was founded in 1943, with teams in South Bend; Rockford, Ill.; Kenosha, Wis.; and Racine, Wis. Over 12 years, it developed into the baseball league depicted in "A League of Their Own," and became known as the All American Girls Base Ball League. Of the 14 different teams that came and went, only two, the Rockford 

Lansing who Peaches and wanted to 
the South Bend develop a Blue Sox, were 
league within 
a part of the 
driving distance 
league for 
and I e-mailed 
every season. 
him." 
As a result, 
Glennie came 
South Bend has wonderful...' to South Bend one of the 
to meet with 
strongest tradi-
Kovach and tions when it Lou Arnold discuss the idea comes to 
further. The 
women's base­ball. When the league opened in 1943, Sports Editor Jim Costin covered the first game for the South Bend Tribune. South Bend Mayor Jesse Pavey threw out the first pitch. Women's baseball sparked interest from the start. 
"Those who never before had seen two teams of expert girl softball players tangling with each other were quite agreeably surprised at the artistry dis­played by the feminine athletes," Costin wrote on May 31, 1943. "Some of the girls on both teams are quite expert both at bat and in the field." 
"It was just an experience," said Nancy Rockwell, an outfield­er and pitcher for the Blue Sox in 1948. "Baseball was something I never thought women would play. The greatest thrill was that I actually did play.., just like to play ball, I like the competitive­ness." 
Over the years, the South Bend team remained competitive, putting together consecutive championship seasons in 1951 and 1952. 
"My best memories are about the games," said Lou Arnold, a Blue Sox pitcher from 1948-52. "And the best years were the ones we won the championship." 
But the AAGPBL could not sur­vive much longer than a decade. After a dozen years, the league folded and the players returned to their hometowns or settled in and around the cities in which they played. 
"My overall memories are the friendships I made from it," recalled Arnold, who grew up in Rhode Island but stayed in South Bend when she quit playing in 1952. "The fans were so won­derful, and so were the people we lived with here in South Bend." 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 23, 1997 

"The greatest enjoyment has come since the close of the league," Rockwell said. "The reunions, the-Hall of Fame ... there's a stronger bond between the girls now. We're all friends. It was different when we played, we were all competitors in the games." 
"The biggest memories arc from Cooperstown and the movie," Arnold said. "I think Penny [Marshall] did a good job." 
One night in 1995, John Kovach was "wandering" around in cyberspace, browsing the Internet and checking out some baseball sites. A web page for a women's baseball league in Lansing, Mich., captured his interest. 
"I had kicked around this idea [of a women's baseball league] and wanted to do this," said Kovach, an archivist at the Saint Mary's College library. "I found 
Jim Glennie in 
plan was to place teams in cities that show­cased teams in the 1940s. South Bend, Lansing, Ft. Wayne, and Battle Creek, Mich., were some of the locations that worked out for the first season during the summer of 1996. 
Putting together the Belles, Kovach began by tracking down some of his former softball play­ers. Julie Kleiser, a South Bend native and Notre Dame junior, had not heard much from Kovach since she was a .part of his team in seventh grade, but he found her. The transition from softball to baseball was the toughest part for Kleiser. 
"I had to learn how to throw the ball," she said, laughing. "It's a lot harder to hit and the bases are a lot farther apart. You think the ball goes farther than it actu­ally does [when it is hit]." 
While the Great Lakes League may not be a direct rebirth of the AAGPBL. there are similarities. 
The Great Lakes teams arc located in Midwestern cities within a day's drive of one another. Many players are recruited and picked up from softball fields and the women play for the love of the game more than anything else. 
"I was 15 years old when some scouts came out to a champi­onship game I was in," Hockwell said. "I was drafted from that· game and still had two years of high school left. High school was important and I only played for one year, 1948." 
Despite all the professionalism associated with baseball and other major sports leagues, there will always be more people play­ing the game for the enjoyment than for the money and notori­ety. Enthusiasm is what drove the players of the 1940s and those of today. 

"We play without contracts for the love of the game," Patterson said. "I just love to play." 
"Being back in the sport [has brought the most enjoy­ment!." Kleiser said. "I had been out of it since high school. Just getting together every week to work out was fun." 
"I think the women really like it," Kovach said. "We travel all over the area and it takes a commitment on their part. The players arc really supportive of each other." 
During their play­ing days, the women of the AAGPBL never thought they'd receive the recogni­tion that they have in the past five years. It was just sport to them, a game. Now, as individuals, they have become local celebrities in their hometowns and the cities in which they 
played· As a g~ou p, Photo courtesy Joyce Sports Research Collection they ar.-e natwnal A Blue Sox infielder poses for a publicity shot during the days of the AAGPBL. 
sports figures, leg­ends, a piece of American histo-In the AAGPBL in the 40s, the ry. Baseball was something they manager was another drawing 
had fun with and enjoyed. card. The men who ran the clubs 
"One thing you learn from were chosen because of their baseball," Rockwell said, "is that names -former Major League most true athletes will go stars Jimmy Foxx and Max through life with a positive atti-Carey directed women's teams in tude. They're naturally aggres-the 1940s and 50s. But today, sive." the managers arc just the coach­
''I'm going to continue with it es, remaining on the sidelines as long as I can," Kleiser said. and coaching the game to win. "Definitely next summer and This league is for the women then, basically, if I'm here [in who play more than anyone else. South Bend]." And the South Bend Belles have 
a shot at being one of the best 
\ 
\ 
\ 
. teams m the Great Lakes Women's Baseball League this 
summer. 
"I think we're going to be pret­ty strong this year," Kovach said. "It comes down to pitching. like I I it always docs. If we hadn't lost four players out of Chicago who arc going to the teams starting up there this year, we'd have been one player short of being the top team. 
"You couldn't pay me to do this job. These girls are a great bunch to be around." 
WHfi,..S NEW fiT CIRC 
WWW Forms 
for 

Renewals, Recalls, and On Order/In Process 
Where: University Libraries Home Page-­http://www.nd.edu/ ~ ndlibs/ and then select Electronic Services-­http://www.nd.edu/ ~ ndlibs/forms.htm Choose the form you need and fo11ow the directions. 
The 1944 South Bend Blue Sox. 
r=­
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
B~nder: Conception, birth face new ethical dilentntas 


By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
In this age of burgeoning genetic technology, ethical questions attend conception and birth in ways that they never have before. 
In his presentation to a main­ly-female audience in the base­ment of Lewis Hall: Professor Harvey Bender brought these questions to the attention of the listeners. 
Bender opened by picking students out of the audience who had cut lab but quickly moved on to the three central questions addressed by his talk. 
"Do parents have the right to determine the quality of their offspring according to any cri­teria acceptable to them alone?" Bender asked the audi­ence. 
"Do parents have the duty to avoid bearing children with serious genetic defects, if possi­ble?" he continued. 
"Does society have the right to intervene in parenthood?" he posed the final quesiton. 
Asking the audience to keep those three questions in mind, Bender embarked on a crash course in genetics. Saying, "Let me bring you up to speed," Bender explained the human genome, the twenty-three chro­mosome pairs and the process of fertilization and implanta­tion. 




Today is Secretary's Day! 

Come get your Flowers and Balloons at 


Irish Gardens • 
or else that memo mightget lost in the circularfile! 

Personalized, computerized study plans, tailored to your individual needs. 
Highly trained, expert teachers who know the tests inside and out. 
Enroll before April 30th and save $100. Summer MCAT classes forming now! 
the leader in test prep 
•' .' ,, :. ' 
·K·APlAN. 
. ' . •.: ··.!.· •.·. Ctl 
tJl 
~ 
()
1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.ka lan.com * ~ 
Bender explained how, using a blood sample, a stain can be used to show the chromosomes, which are then sorted into their pairs. He showed how the chromosomes are arranged from longest to shortest, with the sex-determining chromo­somes tacked on the end. 
"The dinky 'Y' is what makes a male a male," Bender rum­bled, drawing laughter from the audience. 
Amniocentesis, a process where amniotic fluid is taken from the amniotic sac sur­rounding the fluid, can be used to determine the chromosomal make-up .of a fetus, said Bender. 
The possibility of fetal abnor­malities increases as both par­ents age, Bender said, advising the audience to "get yourself a young guy. Stay away from 40, 50, 60-year-old jerks." 
Bender pointed out that most fetal abnormalities that are caused by drinking, smoking, or drug use occur in the first eight weeks of pregnancy, a time when many women are unaware that they are preg­nant. 
"Three to five percent of all babies have problems," Bender said. "You can't escape that." 
He gave several examples from his own experience of the difficulties faced in genetic birth disorders. 
One case he discussed was the case of a woman from Caracas whose child was born a dwarf. The father of the child divorced her for being unable to produce "quality" children. Bender said that the defect in the child was most likely due to a genetic mutation in the father. 
Bender talked about another time when the child had a genetic disorder that was auto­somal recessive, meaning that both the parents were carriers of the defects, and the father said that it was the mother's fault because she couldn't do anything right. 
The father will often blame the mother for defects when he is either partially or wholly responsible, Bender said. 
Being able to test for genetic pedigrees adds to the tension a couple feels when their child has a genetic defect, because they are able to often pinpoint from whom the child inherited the defect. 
Reminding the audience that genetic testing could be helpful if used properly in advising couples of the possibility of abnormal births so that they may choose not to conceive or choose to prepare themselves, Bender said that it can also be a very dangerous thing that brings up many ethical ques­tions. 
Bender did say that he did not find it necessary to check genetic compatibility on the first date. 

[HaHBtlao xxee~eoa 
•
(May 15-20, 1997) Need a place for your family to stay? 
Try Sacred Heart's Parish Center. 
(St. Joseph Hall on campus.) We set a $40.00 per person donation for the weekend. Come Early (Thursday), Stay Late (Tuesday) Same low price. 
For reservations please call Mr. Paul Eddy at 631,7512 
Kairos (4th Day) 
Farew-ell Mass for Graduating Seniors 
Wednesday, April 23 7:30p.m. Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford) 
Celebrant: Rev. Jim Lies, c.s.c. 0MPU5 

MINISTRY 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Salaries 
continued from page 1 
In an interview conducted prior to the release of the Towers-Perrins reclassification, Professor Jean Porter asked, "Why is it that secretaries are being paid significantly less in relation to other professions?" 
Ghilarducci explained that inequities, such as those described in the report of the Committee on Administrations, suggest that "women may be undervalued." 
According to figures released in the 1996 committee report, Notre Dame secretaries were paid at an average of 97 percent of the local market in the South Bend area, but food service workers and maintenance workers were paid at an aver­age of 110 percent of the local market. 
"In saying this, we are not saying that salaries for our maintenance workers should be lowered; rather, the salaries of the secretarial and .clerical staff should be raised to bring them to the same level of wages, rela­tive to the local market, that our maintenance staff now enjoy," the report went on to say. 
In an address to the Faculty Senate on Nov. 8, 1995, Father Edward Malloy, president of the University, expressed his desire to raise the pay of the secretari­al and clerical staff to 110 per­cent of market average. 
"One aspect of this that I am particularly proud of is that I have certainly never worked for an organization that established a target of 110 percent of the market," explained Mullins. "That's pretty incredible that an employer would publicly com­mit that they want to pay, on average, their employees 10 percent higher than the mar­ket." 
He noted that the exceptional nature of the goal "sometimes gets lost in the question of 'Why aren't we there?' 
"There's a defined process in place to do it, it will just take us some time to get us there." 
In developing the new classifi­cations and pay levels for the clerical staff, each staff member wrote a job description of what they actually did and supervi­sors reviewed the descriptions and worked with them until they both thought the descrip­tions were accurate representa­tions of their position. 
According to Jennifer Warlick, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters, "Towers­Perrins then grouped the likes with the likes" and developed 20 levels of classifications for the various positions. Each level contained a specific range of salaries and staff members were notified as to where their positions fell within the new structure. 
"The new groupings resulted in fairly large increases in most cases," Warlick said.. She explained that the salary changes are immediate and retroactive to July of 1996 and that increases are scheduled for the future. 
While the current increases do not amount to those neces­sary to accomplish the goal of an average of 110 percent of the local market, they are perceived as a step in the right direction. 
"Things are changing right now, and that could be very positive," said Porter. "I think we're just going to have to wait and see how far we move in this direction in the next year." 
According to Mullins, "the cost of [adjusting the salaries] would be prohibitive to [making the necessary changes] all at one time." 
As to the timeline for bringing the various groups whose salaries fell short of the goal up to the 110 percent level, Mullins went on to explain that it would be difficult to make an estimate because of the changing nature of the University and the work done within it. If however a "snapshot" were taken, that is assuming no changes, he felt it would take "around five years to get to the 110 percent on average" goal. 
Mullins stressed that one mis­conception of Malloy's intention "was that every employee would be at the 110 percent level," Rather he explained, "the goal is to get the average salary at 110 percent." 
~~1\.fay IUove Out ~97,, 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
10 am-Spm Stepan Basketball Courts Monday, May 5th-Saturday, May lOth Wednesday, May 14th-Saturday, May 17th Monday, May 19th Lyons Basketball Courts Wednesday, May 7th -Saturday, May lOth 
In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall Wednesday, May 7th-Saturday, May lOth Friday, May 16th . $1.00 Off Shipping 
PER BOX 
FREE PICKUP 
Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location Martin's Plaza -S.R. 23 Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm fill~ 
Sat: 10am-6pm ~~~;r!.Q!~~~I!!!!':f 
277-6245 
Reaction to the reclassifica­tion has been hard to gauge thus far. According to Ghilarducci, the results of a sur­vey turned in by 140 clerical staffers show that, "What is clear from the survey results is that except for a handful who are being paid at, or a little above the market, the majority is still being paid, in some cases, $5,000 or more below that average. 
"The results of what the University did confirm the femi­nist theory," she continued. She did note however, that there may be a confirmation bias in those surveys in that disgrun­tled employees may have been more inclined to respond. 
''I'm quite pleased with what I think is the responsiveness by the administration to this need," Warlick said. 
A series of meetings with the staff is scheduled with the department of Human Resources to provide a forum for reactions to the changes starting this week and continu­ing for several weeks. 

Trustee 
continued from page 1 
been sent in, the juniors wait to hear from the committee, who narrows the field to a few select applicants for further review. 
The remaining applicants are interviewed several different people at one time, including the president of the College, the current student body presi­dent, various department heads, faculty members and other student representatives. That committee then recom­mends a couple or the students to be interviewed by board members, who make the ulti­mate decision. 
Coleman is looking forward to working with the students and incorporating their sugges­tions into the board meetings. 
"Leadership skills are such an important part of being capable of handling this posi­tion," Coleman said. She intends to hold meetings to help the voices of her fellow students be heard and wants to improve the overall atmos­phere at Saint Mary's College. 
The student trustee who served for the 1996-97 school year was graduating senior Brandee Carlson. Carlson was involved in the search for the new Saint Mary's president and in gathering student input into the search for the new president. 
"Serving as a member on the Board of Trustees," Carlson said, "has proven itself to be a valuable experience for me, one that I will grow to cherish for the rest of my life." 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
Use it~ 


By CHRIS SHIPLEY News Writer 
In a brief ceremony yesterday, the African Students Association present­ed 20 African films to the Media Hcsource Center and the Office of Information Technologies. The films will now be made available to all stu­dents and faeulty in the Educational Media O.ffice in 115 DeBartolo Hall. 
The donation of' the !ilms, which deal with a wide variety of African issues, was received by Sister Elaine DesHosiers. director of the Educational Media Office. 
"We arc very happy to have an excellent collection of African films for students and faculty to enjoy," DesRosiers stated. 
The films will be added to the cata­logue in the Media Resource Center. Educational Media currently offers students and faculty a choice of nearly 2,000 independent !ilms. 
Guillaume Zounlome, president of the ASA, express!'d his hope that the students of Notre Dame would take a keen interest in these films, which depict the past and current struggles in Africa. 
The films have been part of a series shown by the African Students Association every Wednesday night to promote awareness of African issues. Each film is followed by a discussion of the movie. 
The next !ilm in the series will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo.· "Aime Cesaire: A Voice For History," a !ilm by Euzham Paley, doc·­uments the life of the Martinican author and poet. 
The film will be followed by a discus­sion on "Africa and the Diaspora in the New Millennium," which will feature panel members from such organiza­tions as the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, Urban League, and the Center for Philosophy of Religion. 
Funding for the films was made pos­sible by the Kellogg Institute, the provost's office, the College of Business Administration, tho Snite Museum of Art. the Center for the Study of Contemporary Society. the Gender Studies Program, College Fellows, the African and African-American Studies Program, the departments of sociology, anthropology and history, the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs, and the Office of International Student Affairs. 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• MULTICUlTURAl BEAT 
Museum musings 

The Observer/Brei Hogan The MFA/BFA student art show has provided plenty of moments of reflection for Snite ~isitors, including this student yesterday. The show, which presents the thesis exhibi­tions for graduate and undergraduate students in the fine arts, runs this week. 

_j 
~------~ ~----~----~ 
-
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
The Music ofTaize 
• 
She sits at the loom, and her hands are those of a dancer. The shuttle flies back and forth, the beater moves forward, the cloth is formed in the rhythmic pattern of her labors. Back and forth and beat, and do it 
again. When my wife is at the loom, the whole house echoes in tempo under the work of her hands. 
He is on his way to work on a bicycle, and the repetitive motion of his legs as he propels himself along brings a sort of reverie to the trip ­something repeated, to be entered into, an activity that the soul can seize upon and use as a prayer room for the heart-no matter what the surroundings may be. 
And then there are the faithful few who gather at the Grotto in the evening, and the constant chanting of their prayers is in some way kindred to the other activities I've described. Now, though, the heart is directed toward the mystery of Mary and her witness to the world. The gentle chantings are once again a repetition, a mantra through which we may pass to get at the center of the soul, that we might open up to greater mysteries. 
In all these activities-labor, exercise, prayer-and countless others, the universal signature is that of repetition. There is a common denominator to be found in the continuous repetition of an action. And through this repetition, we may be assisted in finding a place of peace, insight, and serenity. 
In every age, the Spirit has found a way to breathe life into the hearts of the faithful. In song and art, in story and through pilgrimage, we as a Church have had the privilege of being able to feast at a rich table of experiences, all of which can help our souls focus on the reality of God in our lives. Many of these are repetitive: litanies, rosaries-even the very action of walking is in itself a repeated action that can be used to go deeper into the soul. 
These repetitive experiences are similar, in a sense, to the beauty and integrity offered by the music of the Taize community. This is simple song-the mantras are often not more than four or six measures long. The content is not demanding, much like the everyday activities that we enter into without so much as a thought. But these mantras provide a framework to which our prayer can be attached. 
I never have visited Taize, but I have listened intently to the community's music since the 1970s. Their offering to the Christian world is unique, and vital, and remarkably simple. In a world that preaches entertainment through variety and distraction, they (and their musical expression) are wrapped in a mantle of repetitive chant. In a world which is broken by language barriers -most notably in the close quarters of the European community-they offer a glimpse of the redemption of Babel's arrogance, weaving the languages of humanity together. Often, their backdrop for this tapestry is a language long since considered dead: the Latin language, the very language of the Church. 
And in a world in which we are lucky if we can carry a tune, Taize's music is boldly laid out in four part harmony, offering a depth of choral expression that the lay person can embrace. 
We all are familiar with the expression "less is more." Ponder the "more" of this musical composition: It is only two measures long. Yet it simply expresses the desires of two thousand years of yearning. Against its Latin backdrop, verses soar in English, Dutch, Flemish, Spanish, German, Russian, Italian-all embracing the desire to be in concert with the holy wind blowing through Creation. Instruments move in and out of the mantra, like a well-rehearsed dance: oboe, recorder, clarinet, and flute and violin. Two chords are all it needs to come to life. Yet this utterly simple piece has been a backdrop for countless liturgies and a mesmerizing rallying cry for the Taize community. Its title, in fact its entire refrain: "Veni, Sancte Spiritus" -"Come, Holy Spirit." 
On behalf of the University and Campus Ministry, I invite you this Thursday night to come and help celebrate the life of the man who fashioned this remarkable community. Come to a simple banquet of song where our "less" will be much more. Come into the mantra, into the circle of repetition, that you may be drawn deeper into the yearnings placed in you by your Creator God. Come and share with us the gift of Taize. It is a simple gift. But perhaps it may change your life. Or at least the way you sing and pray. 
-Steven C. Warner, Campus Ministry 


The University of Notre Dame 
cordially invites you to attend a special evening celebrating the life and ministry of 
Brother Roger ofTaize 
1996 Notre Dame Award recipient 
Thursday 
April 24, 1997 
• 
7:15p.m. 
" 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Taize prayer and song led by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 
7:30p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Prayer service and presentation of the Notre Dame Award to Brother Roger, followed by his reflections 
8:15 p.m. Corby Hall 
Reception for all present with an opportunity to meet Brother Roger 
Wednesday, April23, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Bike event spotlights new lock 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Bike/Walk to Campus Day fea­tured a new bike locking system and a meeting between faculty and student cycling groups. 
The semi-annual event, hosted yesterday by the pedestrian and bikeways committee of the Faculty Senate, Notre Dame Security, and the Human Resources Department, is an opportunity for each. organiza­tion to convince staff members to cycle commute over the spring and summer months. 
"We are not aiming it exclu­sively at staff and faculty," said Kern Trembath, assistant chair of the theology department and chairman of the pedestrian and bikeways committee. "But if we were looking at a time other than April to October, when there are a lot of students here, there just wouldn't be a lot of nice days." 
He also described the new bike-locking mechanism that the University has considered buy­ing for the area around the library. The Graber Bike Bank is a locking system with a safe attached for storage of a helmet and other valuable items. 

"Hopefully we can get these put in place of the hoops in the library," Trembath said. "This will probably cut down on the amount of bike thefts in that 

r----------------------­
• 1997 CONFERENCE REGISTRATION FORM 
I 
Speakers include 
1\taria Esperanza has received apparitions of Our Lady in Betania. Venezuela sinceMarch25. 1976. These apparitions have been approved by the local bishop. A mother and grandmother. Maria was a spiritual daughter of Padre Pio and has experienced many supernatural phenomena throughout her life. 

Father Albert Shamon spoke at last year's confer­ence and is back by popular demand. He is a pastor and nationally-known author. columnist and radio broadcaster. In addition to his books. he has also written many booklets on the Mass, the rosary, and the sacraments. He is an excellent teacher with a very entenaining style. 

Archbishop Philip Hannan is the retired Arch­bishop of New Orleans. He has taken a very active role in a television apostolate and is the co-anchor, with Mary Lou McCall. of a Catholic religious news show. Their special documentaries have won local and national tirst place awards including two Gabriel Awards. 

Gerry Faust is a former head football coach at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Akron. Since his retirement from coaching. he has been giving talks around the country on the impor­tance of the rosary and family prayer. Coach Faust is well known for his personal devotion to the Blessed Mother. Recently he made a pilgrimage to Medjugorje, Fatima and Lourdes. 

IIName 1Address,·_------------­1 City/ State/ Zip'----------,--
Soecial Needs Seating 
The floor of the arena is reserved for those with special needs and one escort. If you have a special need please describe it below. 
Handicap..·_----------­I Name ofEscort: L 
I
Total #Registering _____(__) 
I 
#_Adults @$40 ................................. $ ___ 
I 
#_Married Couples @$70 ............ .'...$__ #_Youth (12-18)@ $20 .................... $ ___ I #_Children (<12)@ $5 ..................... $ ___ I Family Rate @$80 ................................ $ __ 
I
#_Priests#_Reiigious#_Deacons (no charge) Box Lunches @ $7.25 each: I #_Sat..#_Sun...Total Lunch Amount.$ __ 
I 
Offering in support of conference work$ __ 
I
Total Registration,Offering,&Lunches.$ __ 
area." 
Trembath spent some of the day talking to the Thomas Thornton, president of the Notre Dame Cycling Club and Tracy MacNamara, vice president of the club. 
"We discovered that our two organizations can work in con­junction to achieve common goals," Trembath said. 

Medjugorje 
1997 National Conference 
University of Notre Dame May 30, 31 and June 1 
Preparing for the Reign ofJesus through Mary 
Michael Brown is the author ofseveral best-selling books including The Dav Will Come, The Final Hour and Prayer ofthe Warrior. He has discussed spiritual phenomena on many national radio and TV programs including Mother Angelica Live. As a secular journalist he broke the Love Canal story in 1978. 
Wayne Weible has devoted his life to spreading the message of Medjugorje since 1985. when, as a Lutheran journalist, he first wrote about the appari­tions. He has written three best-selling books on Medjugorje. Miracle at Medjugorje. the tabloid of his original anicles, has reached 50 million copies in print. A close friend of the visionaries, he has visited Medjugorje 21 times. 
Mary Lou McCall is a former reponer-anchor for the ABC affiliate in New Orleans. While doing a repon on Medjugorje she had a profound conver­sion experience. She now co-anchors a Catholic religious news show with Archbishop Hannan, and has traveled extensively throughout the .world to 
Fr. Bernard Galic, pastor of Holy Family Church in South Bend, is the Vocational Director for the Diocese and is the former Director of the Diocesan TV Mass. He spent the first three months of 1997 in Medjugorje. Father will give us a Medjugorje up­date and share some of his experiences from this prayerful experience. 
-----------------------~ 
Make checks payable to Queen ofPeace Ministries and send to Queen ofPeace Ministries, Box 761, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
For housing/food package on Notre Dame's campus call 
(219) 631-6691 
or 
(219) 631-7640 
Deadline: May 1st 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COU!\!Cil 
Council backs Davie's plans for pep rallies 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
News Writer 
Year-end b·usiness and future planning dominated last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting, as the new presidents met for one of the last times before the school year ends. 
Among the chaos of filling out forms 
some games. The council's response to Davie's sugges­tions were positive and reflected an interest in shift­ing the focus of the rallies from the alumni to the stu­dents. 
In other HPC news: 
• Keenan Hall was announced as winner of Dorm of the Year. Badin Hall and 
Pasquerilla 
for upcom­ing hall stor­age and choosing new big brother and big sister dorms, the leaders dis­cussed plans for next year, includ­ing pep ral­lies and joint-dorm events. 

West Hall were chosen as hon­orable mentions for the award. 
• Student photographs for ID cards will be taken for one day in each res­idence hall. Ads in The Observer and on the Internet will advertise times and instructions. 
Following a meeting with head football coach Bob Davie last week, HPC co-chairs Mark Fennell and Katie Marchetti empha­sized Davie's hopes for future pep rallies. 
"Coach Davie really wants more student participation and input than there has been in the past," Fennell said. "He wants it so that every student who wants to can participate." 
Marchetti and Fennell remarked that Davie's plans for more student participation may include moving some ral­lies to the stadium and having individual dorms play host for 
Mark Fennell HPC co-chair 
• The new officers for 1997-98 HPC were recently appointed. Lee Hambright will continue in his 1996-97 role as treasurer of the council. Clare Deckelman and Adam Ortega will serve as executive assistants. 
Two new positions on the council were created for next year; Holly Hernandez and Bob Thornburg will be chairs of the Olympic Committee, which hopes to be a precursor to next year's AnTostal cele­bration, and Tony Conlin and Kara Hoadley will co-chair next year's reprisal of Date Week. 

page 10 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
Tobacco lobbies attempt to head off legal action 
.. 
By JIM DRINKARD ment talks say the country's Associated Press Writer largest cigarette makers are showing a remarkable change WASHINGTON of heart, offering to curb the The tobacco industry's nego­marketing and advertising of tiations to escape lawsuits over their products and pay billions 
the health ,------------------, of dollars in costs of smok­
return for
Tobacco deals 
protection3-1 Tobacco industry campaign
ing may be 
against
the easy part. 
1 contributions for each two­
future legalIf the talks 
~ year election cycle. 
action. The next obstacle I : $millions 
succeed. the 
discussions would be get­
continued ting the deal 
this week in through a sus­
Chicago. picious 
One tobac­Congress. 
co lobbyist "Key sena­
said propo­tors and con­
nents of any gressmen who 
agreement have been 
can't hope to prominent in 
win over all the tobacco­
the industry's control effort 
critics. would have to 
Rather, ciga­be on board, 
rette makers or at least not 
and their actively 
allies will opposed." 
need to begin said Richard Scruggs, a with a center-right coalition, Pascagoula, Miss., plaintiff's then reach out to include such lawyer who is involved in the industry opponents as Sens. negotiations, and who is the Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., brother-in-law of Senate Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, and Rep. Majority Leader Trent Lott. John Dingell, D-Mich. 
Negotiators in secret settle-Lawmakers viewed as the 


Associated 1'ress 
Television and radio stations in three states mistakenly got an alert from the. government's emergency}.n:-oadca.st , the F{lderal Emergency Manage~ent Agencys~id;; 
For television stations, the miscue sent a mis . . . . a.ge crawling against a stlirk red background. It sa.id: "Tho Emergency Action Notification Network has issued an emer­gency action notification for The United States beginning at 3:54 
p.m. and ending at 4:09p.m." ... ...··. . · As that was happening, a;male VoiCe. could be li ~yil)g "Can you hear me? ... Testing ... testing.··• ··· 
The test, intended to help one radio station in Chicago check new equipment Monday, inadvertently went out to Florida, Louisiana and Ohio, spokeswoman Barbara Yeagerman said. 
Automatic equipment relayed the signal; leading to broadcasts on an unknown number ofradio and television stati()Us;··· In Toledo, Ohio, WTVG-TVran a crawling message correcting the mistake for about two hours after broadcasting the glitch. 
"It was a little more of an expanded test than it was supposed to be," said Yeagerman. "We have people from FEMA and the FCC investigating it to determine the exact cause andti:> be sure that there wasn't afunctional error of the system.'' 
The government recently replaced its old system with digital equipment that allows broadcasts without a human verification, as was previously required. The new system has a new name: the Emergency Action System. 
STUDENTS SAVE 10% AND LOTS OF TIME­LET US PACK AND/OR SHIP YOUR ITEMS FOR YOU. ===BllXESP.Ll/5,,=== SHIPPING + PACKING + CRATING MOVING & SWRAGE BOXES I GIFT WRAPPING SERVICE PACKING MATERIALS I GIFT BOXES & BAGS MAILING TUBES I OFFICE SUPPLIES  
Ill 277 5555 M-F9AM-7PM ~. -:~: :~~:::~OPM 5818 Grape Road, Indian Ridge Plaza, Mishawaka Between T.G. Maxx and Venture  

most anti-tobacco -such as political safety around the issue advocates, the Coalition for Sens. Dick Durbin, D-Ill. and by bringing together one of the Tobacco-Free Kids, bipartisanFrank Lautenberg, D-N.J. -most unlikely coalitions congressional leaders and wouldn't be needed, said the Washington has ever seen. attorneys general in the 23 lobbyist, speaking on condition It would intlude President states that have sued tobacco of not being identified by name. Clinton, the cigarette makers, companies to recover costs of 
The first task for lobbyists the American Medical treating smokers for health would be to create a zone of Association and other health problems. 
• 
Ever wonder why 
PLS students bring Plato, Dante, and Virginia Woolf to lunch instead of leaving them in the classroom? 
The answer is 
not only because PLS is demanding and fulfilling but because WE HAVE FUN. 
Interested in reading great authors from Homer to Ellison in small groups with professors who have a special commitment to undergraduate education? 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
recently selected as an "Outstanding Example of the Best in American Higher Education" 
We are accepting applications for the entering Sophomore Class until April 30. Applications are now available in 2 I 5 0 'Shaugnessy. 

"An A~nersc.;: ·we Can a~n 
• 

Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
• .ALGHHA 
• MIDDLE EAST 
93 villagers killed by Muslim insurgents 
By RACHID KHIARI 
Associated Press Writer 
ALGIERS, Algeria 
Attackers used knives, hatch­ets and shovels on Tuesday to kill 93 villagers, including three children. in the bloodiest mas­sacre of a five-year Muslim insurgency. 
The early-morning massacre was the latest violence in a campaign of terror by Muslim insurgents in advance of June 5 parliamentary elections, in which they are banned from running. 
The Interior Ministry said 47 men, 43 women and three chil­
dren were killed near the town of Bougara, 12 miles south of Algiers. In addition to the 93 dead, 25 people were injured, 18 of them seriously. 
Security forces said knives, hatchets and agricultural tools -shovels and hoes -were used to kill the victims. Authorities arrived during the massacre· and killed some of the attackers, the ministry statement said without elabo­rating. 

Some townspeople were muti­lated by their attackers -their heads, legs or arms severed ­according to hospital workers in Algiers and Blida, site of the Algiers-area army garrison. They spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The June elections will be the first since the army halted January 1992 parliamentary voting to thwart a likely victory by the now-banned Islamic Salvation Front. The move trig­gered the insurgency, and repression by security forces, which have left more than 60,000 people dead. 
The Interior Ministry denounced ''this blind mas­sacre committed by criminals who want to oppose the nation­al recovery." 
Authorities often refer to Muslim insurgents as criminals. 
Members of a family who fled the area described the heavily armed group as Islamic guerril­las. They said the group began killing villagers because they refused to "collaborate." 
Armed groups depend for their survival on ordinary citi­zens who provide food, money and other necessities. 
"We have no more to give. They've already taken every­thing: money, food, animals," one member of the arriving family said on condition of anonymity. 
The massacre was the biggest single mass killing since the birth of the insurgency. 
Muslim militants killed 22 people in another village mas­sacre earlier this month. Such massacres around Algiers have become increasingly common, killing more than 370 people, including Tuesday's victims, in the past month. 
Most massacres, including the latest, have taken place in the Mitidja Plain, a fertile area run­ning 30 miles around Algiers and dotted with poor villages. 
The Armed Islamic Group, blamed for most of the mas­sacres, wants to topple the gov­ernment and install a state based on a strict interpretation of Islamic law. The Islamic Salvation Army, military arm of the Salvation Front, claims it wants to be part of the democ­ratic process. 

~ 
~Talle a IUIIY mteractiVe road lnP wtlh the new Ford Escon ZX2 on www.lord.com 
The new 1998 Ford Escon ~ 
While there mav be lots of good deals out there tor sman people, this one is available onlv to college seniors and urad students. Get $400 cash baCk* toward the purchase or $650 cash baCk* toward the Red camet Lease lor Red Camet OPUon) or anv eligible Ford or Mercurv. Sman going. And that includes 
the exciUng new Ford Escon ZX2, a terrific wav to grab lite bV the wheel. Big tun. For more College Graduate Purchase Program into, call1·800·321·1536 or visit the Web at www.tord.com 
'To be eligible. you must graduate with an assoc1ate's or bachelor's degree between 10/1195 and 1/3/98 or be currently enrolled 1n graduate school. You must purchase or lease your new vehicle between 1/4197 and 1/3/98. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restrictions apply. See your dealer for details. 

College Graduate Purchase Program Mercury~ 
Iran recalls European. liaisons 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran 
Iran is recalling ambas­sadors from 14 European nations amid tensions with the West over a German court verdict blaming Iran for political killings abroad, Iranian radio said Tuesday. 
The radio report did not specify the 14 nations. It said only that Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati met late Monday with the Iranian envoys to discuss relations with Europe. 
All 15 European Union countries recalled their ambassadors from Tehran after a German court's April 10 conviction of an Iranian and three Lebanese men for killing an Iranian dissident and three companions in 1992 in Berlin. The court said the killings were ordered by Tehran's top leaders. 
The Tehran radio report was the first indication that Iran had responded to the EU action in kind. Iran has exercised restraint over the ruling in order to preserve its 
ties  - and trade  - with  
Europe.  
Also  Tuesday,  Iran's  

supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, again charged that the United States and Israel had pushed Germany into the court ruling. 
"In the recent affair there was a lot of effort to ... iso­late Iran and the Iranian nation, and to make Europe and Asia confront Iran," he told reporters in the south­ern port of Bandar Abbas. "But the agents of arrogance [the United States and the West] and the Zionists -of which the German govern­ment has become a toy-did not succeed in their plot." 
He promised "a forceful response to anyone who tries to talk to it [Iran] with arro­gance." 
Khamenei was in the South to preside over three days of military maneuvers, begin­ning in the Gulf on Tuesday, that will involve air, sea and land operations. As part of the exercises, Iran plans to test various missiles, the offi­cial Islamic Republic News Agency reported. 
About 200,000 men are to be involved in the maneu­vers. 
Western intelligence sources say Iran has been trying to increase the range of its missiles with help from China, North Korea and Hussia. 
Earlier, Tehran radio said a procession calling itself the "Death to America Caravan" set off on foot for the Tabas desert to mark the failed U.S. attempt to rescue American Embassy hostages in 1980. 
A rally was to be held Friday at a spot where a U.S. cargo plane collided with a helicopter. Eight U.S. ser­vicemen died in the accident on April 25, 1980. 
The mission was dis­patched by then-President Jimmy Carter to rescue 52 Americans taken hostage at the U.S. mission in Tehran in the wake of Iran's Islamic revolution. The hostages were freed Jan. 20, 1981. 
:::;;:11_,........ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergan 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Maureen Hurley News Edjror.... ········"--· ...... Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager ............................. jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .................... Dan Cichalski Ad Design Manager......................... Wendy Klare Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager..... . ........... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor............ . ......... ..]oey Crawford Systems Manager......... . .... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Con<roller....... .. ................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ..... . ..... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of rhe Universicy ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration of either insrirmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accem Ediror, Saint Mary's Ediwr, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the aurhors, and nor neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd,cdu 
• GoD N' LIFE 
Reach out to others 
And n(lw for something com­made heirlooms or photographs pletely different. for the.ir. descendants to treasure. 
Does anyone of college age 
A record~d by a certain rememl:re~ Monty Python these s hold memories days:? That crazy troupe of Brits t or >relatH.n1shlp. who brought their peculiar brand · . of hutr16r to the States in their To ouch,; someone is to be 
certain that we are "alive." If a person walks through the world unnoticed, unloved -is that life? It is like the tree falling in the wilderness: does anyone hear it;
Julie 
does it make a difference'? God put us here to make a dif­ference. We have been given the
Ferraro 
e.n e world to do with as we 

; tq t11old it and shape it e.thing .beautifu~. like 
•th elf!,)'. Weo:onf;Atf!tl ly'"passthro;ugh\",_·
"Flying.· (;i~cus;, ;~~ies:;evolution:~ g an educati9ri;' ized much of American comedy. . ... ···. . . Dame students have They almost made it "cool" to do vent;Ured forth and done spectac­really w~ird things, ular things. touching not only one They had impact. They affected life~. but thousands. By volunteer" countless lives with their creativi· ing for projects through the ty and mirth. Center for Social Concerns. we They.touched people. use our talents to serve God's In the course of this school pedpl~: .. the poor,. the homeless, year, I've tried to write helpful. ex~offenders, and so forth. thought"provoking little articles. Thr · · these programs and in 
Since.none (:)fthe columns started y r(}u~ine, we .~re able to an onsl3'~~ht of negative letters to·· s .~to show them that the edttc:>rsofTbe Observer, I and that w~ have tC! hope and pray that they v .... e tl1etn enough tointeract accomplished a positive end. with them. 
Even if my words were ignored. If anyone who has been kind they were written in faith. God enough to read these columns gives everyone gifts, talents, and remembers nothing else, let it be we shouldn't waste them. Be it that we are all God's children, all oratory, research, writing or "worthy" because God loves us, music -or any of a myriad of That makes it possible ~ neces• other abilities -'-we should share sary to; love each other. what we have so generously been God bless yoursummer .m.onths; given with others. 
We should try to touch some~ 
oner ··. _.··...· ... . . 
There can be no greater satis· faction in this Jife than knowing we can leave a part of ourselves in the heart or mind of another. 
Grandparents pass on hand· 
• DooNESBURY 
OH YEN{?! WELL ! TU\NK. 'Ne S~\.D 
APFOINT ASFeCIAL P~cToR 10 11-4\(eS­TIGATe. TH~ H~~ oN TIR IN~TIGATloN oF TH( INVESTIGATORo~ The I~DE.R2N~NT COUNSEL's IN'Je5TJGA.TioN OF THE:. 
ORIGINAL IN'JEST\GATION! 
YOU.R TAX DoLLARS atWORK 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sins of pride and hatred 
Dear Editor: 
The column of Charles Hice this past Friday left a profound and lingering sense of disgust in me, and l am fairly resentful of this. How very dreadful it must be for a man or woman who has managed, with what awful struggles I cannot even imagine, to arrive at a sense of certainty and peace with his or her homosexu­ality, and then be treated to such a dish of words as this! 
How frightful it must be for any man or woman who may feel such an overflow of love for another person. another man or woman, as to make for a long lifetime of mutual love, and such an environment as is fit to nourish a child, to have one of the deepest desires of his or her heart classified as an "inclination," an inclination likened to an inclination to shoplift­ing, or to pedophilia or to rape, I suppose. 
How abominable it must be to a pair of women or men who love one another suffi­ciently to tolerate all the abuse and detestation that come with that love to be condemned to a life of perpetual celibacy and prayer dedicated to changing past recognition, that which they may not be intended to change, that which in any case they are as likely to change as the shapes of their faces, when their true vocation may well be to marriage and parenthood (with the one to whom their heart draws them)! 
It docs not seem to me that Hice or any of his federates has the least understanding of what he speaks, but let us say, purely for the sake of argument, that homosexuality is a sin. Then certainly it is a sin to which one is led by love, by a desire to share the lives of and come to understand one's fellow creatures, and by which one may come to wisdom, and ability to case the wounds of this world. 
It is then of all sins the most easily forgiven. Ilomophobia, on the other hand, which word Hicc felt compelled to place within quotation marks, as though he believed it an idle fancy, is a sin of pride and hatred. By this sin fell Satan. We are all sinful creatures. We are all in need of prayer. But some, I would say, far. far more than others. (And I do not mean gays or lesbians). 
MARY COLLEEN STATZ 
Badin Hall 
Junior 
Senate commits no censorship 
Dear Editor: 
Irfan Khawaja's column of March 18, 1997, raised several points about intellectual life at Notre Dame. llis purpose was laudable, but his target was wrong and his' source inade­quate. 
Had Laura Pctelle, the reporter from The Observer, been able to be present at and write about the meeting of the Faculty Senate Student All'airs Committee instead of hearing a very brief report later, her report might have been dill'erent. Perhaps Irfan Khawaja might not have a motive of censorship to the members of the committee. Indeed, neither the views nor the style of Right Reason were ever discussed in the committee nor the full senate. 
The issue was fairness since several stu­dents and faculty alleged that the university administration had unfairly given to Right Reason what is denied to GLND/SMC. Namely, GLND/SMC is forbidden to schedule meetings or publicize programs in any univer-
GARRY TRUDEAU 

sity facilities and publications. The committee was satisfied with the response of William Kirk, an assistant vice president of Student Affairs, about Right Reason's adherence to university regulations. As the allegations evaporated, so did any mention of Right Reason. 
In a larger sense, the issue was not censor­ship by the committee but its continuing eon­cern about any stifling of intellectual discus­sions. Furthermore, Irfan Khawaja can be assured that the Faculty Senate's several res­olutions on behalf of GLND/SMC and other issues speak more forcefully and clearly in support of academic freedom than he com pre· bends. Perhaps, regular reading of the Faculty Senate journal in The Notre Dame Heport may help him, very busy graduate stu­dent though he be. 
PATRICKJ SULLIVAN, C.S.C. 
Chair, Student A!hirs Committee 
Faculty Senate 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Distrust all in whom the impulse to punish is powerful." 
-Friedrich Nietzsche 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April23, 1997 page 13 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Approval of 
There is more to Asia than China and Japan 
SMC policy 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is to commend the coura­geous decision of the Student Board of Governance to approve as an official col­lege club The Alliance of Lesbian, Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College. This decision reflects many hours of careful deliberation concerning the criteria for approval of an official club and its rela­tionship to the constitution of The Alliance. Finding no inconsistencies between the constitution and the criteria, the BOG did what any good representative body should. They made the right deci­sion. Students at Saint Mary's should feel proud that they have elected such compe­tent leaders. 
I would also like to commend Carol Jones and the other women who have worked tirelessly, and at times against stiff opposition, to frame this constitution and to form a much needed group. Change worth making is always hard fought, and it is to your great credit that you have taken on what at times has been a very diflicult struggle. 
Finally, I would like tD strongly encour­age Saint Mary's administration to vali­date this hard work by approving the BOG's decision. As someone who has daily contact with students at Saint Mary's, l am very aware of' how much time, energy and careful reflection go into such work. The women involved in this process represent in a very concrete Cash­ion how a liberal arts education can foster strong leadership abilities. Our commit­ment to women in leadership. is on the line in this case. Let's do the right thing and approve The Alliance. 
GEORGE A. TREY Asst. Prof. of Philosophy Sainr Mary's Cpllege 
• AWAKENINGS 
Dear Editor: 
In the April 7th issue of The Observer, there appeared an article about the Center for Asian Studies and their attempt to increase Asian aware­ness on campus. This article also fea­tured interviews with Notre Dame sophomore Mugimin Lukito and Notre Dame· provost Nathan Hatch. Both of these individuals gave their views on the status of this program. 
As one of the few students graduat­ing with an area specialization in Asian studies this May, I feel I have an obligation to future students interested in Asian Studies to comment on these views and to evaluate Notre Dame's stance. on the direction of this pro­gram. 
First, I am glad Notre Dame has an Asian Studies program. While the courses are few, they make up for it in the quality of offering. I've taken classes from professors Ge, Kennedy, Koshiro, Brownstein, Preacher, Moody and Murray. They are dedicated both 
'Notre D 
Dear Editor: 
This Thursday, April 24, at Notre Dame community Will the Main Building. 
ThroughoUt the past Dame Office of StUdent ·needs ofstudents with 
1)Studentrights 
2) Changing the non sexual orientation. 
The administration has munity. dialogue on these issues hold Professor O'Hara and the accountable to the students in what they teach and in their com­mitment to increasing Asian aware­ness on this campus. 
Second, I am glad Hatch believes that Asian awareness needs to be increased through expanded course offerings, lectures and cultural activi­ties. We can not rest on our laurels on what we have now, and it seems Hatch realizes this. 
Third, Mugimin Lukito, in the April 7th article, was correct in noting that there needs to be an improvement in course offerings. Asian courses at Notre Dame focus on China and Japan at the expense of the rest of Asia. While Hatch recognizes this problem, I believe he is going in the wrong direc­tion when he states (in the context of language courses), "Our thinking is that until our foundation is firmly built in those two powerful ~ivilizations [Japan and China], we won't be able to expand considerably." 
This view has three problems with it. One, whether a culture is "power­ful" should not be factor in deciding to study it. Two, the complex interaction between different regions, like any other area of the world, makes up Asia. To fully understand China or Japan, one needs to understand Indonesia, India, Vietnam, Korea, etc. (e.g., to understand the Sino-Japanese War of 1894-1895, one needs to understand the role of Korea). Three, the other cultures of Asia deserve equal attention. Notre Dame's Asian Studies should not be considered "Asian-with-an-emphasis-on-China­and-Japan Studies." Instead, it should just be "Asian Studies." 
I agree that this vision is, as Hatch puts it, "somewhere down the road"; however, I hope that the views expressed here will help Notre Dame's Asian Studies to take the right road. 
JOHN GARDNER Senior Off-Campus 
your ri.ghts' 
issues. 
call for Student Affairs to respect .corril1?uttity to strictly adhere to poli­non-discrimina-
Rally aims to restore founding ideals to ND 
Last Friday the Saint Mary's commu­nity united to protest the decision of College President William Hickey to defer recognition of The Alliance, a stu­dent-led sexuality club for lesbian, bisexual. questioning, and straight stu­dents which the Board of Governance approved for recognition two weeks ago. Tomorrow the Notre Dame com-
J.P. Cooney 

munity will demonstrate in front of the Main Building at 12:30 p.m. to display its support for a non-discrimination clause inclusive of sexual orientation and the addition of a comprehensive student bill of rights to du Lac. 
What's gotten into South Bend's drinking water that has sparked what is notoriously one of the most passive stu­dent-bodies in the country into action? Wouldn't our parents, who back in the 1960s protested every cause from Vietnam to nuclear disarmament be proud? Actually, more likely than not, they're laughing at us. 
While the causes of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are certainly worthy, and there is a definite need to mobilize sup­port for these causes in the form of a rally, is it not ridiculous that we are demonstrating against our own admin­istration? Whoever heard of having to protest to obtain justice on a university· or college campus, what is supposed to be the last line of defense for enlight­ened thinking? 
Back in "the day," our parents stood up for what they believed in: non-dis­crimination, non-violence, equality and justice. Last week at Saint Mary's and tomorrow at Notre Dame we will do the same. The difference is that they fought for these things in a societal con­text, not on their campuses. In the 1960s, students, staff, faculty and administration at college campuses­including Notre Dame-stood together for what they believed in. And even today, at Berkley for example, the entire community stood together to protest the elimination of affirmative action in California. 
Notre Dame is one of only a handful of schools in the country with such an adversarial relationship between its students-and administration. Not to say that students at other schools do not have their battles too -like over get­ting money for an activity or booking the convocation center for an event ­but not over the right to demonstrate, the need for non-discrimination, or fair­ness in disciplinary hearings. There is no reason for battles over such issues. 
rt is in the interest of administrators not to discriminate and to see to it that the equivalent of our Office of Student Affairs is consistent and fair in its deal­ings with students. Why is that a con­cept which our administration has such a hard time grasping?· Why must they take us on, rather than stand with us? 
In his column on Monday, Chris Kratovil made a startling point. Notre Dame is like a fish -it is rotting from the head down. He noted that the cold­ness of our administration is permeat­ing its way down to the ushers at foot­ball games, the gate security guards, and the workers at the dining halls. He wrote, " ... the reality of the cloud of mis­trust that hovers over our campus is undeniable; one need look no further than the paranoid and often thugish behavior of those so-called ushers at home football games to see this illus­trated." How true. 
Luckily, those tendencies have not permeated their way into the student­body and faculty. As Kratovil pointed out, the relationship between faculty and students is "admirably healthy." In fact, it is the faculty and students which make Notre Dame the wonderful -and yes, it is still wonderful -place it is. What I fear, however, is that as the relationship between students and the administration continues to deteriorate, that coldness which exists in the admin­istration will penetrate the student-body and leave a permanent stain on the Dome. 
The purpose of tomorrow's demon­stration, then, is not solely for justice, rights, and non-discrimination; it's about restoring Notre Dame to what it once was: A united community whose mission is to be a source of strong ethics and sound values in a world overwrought with discrimination, injus­tice, and evil. Notre Dame cannot fulfill its vocation of spreading the Good News until we get our own house in order ­tomorrow is the first major step in accomplishing that. Because it is the students and faculty which have kept this University so special in a period of ill-advised administration and poor decision making, it is also our responsi­bility to put it back on track. 
So yes, it is ridiculous that we should have to demonstrate for justice on our own campus. And yes, our predeces­sors and even peers on other campuses must find it laughable that the pressing issues at Notre Dame deal not with peace and war, but with internal strife and poor communication. But this is the only way that we can show our administration that we are serious about improving the quality of our Notre Dame experience and making life on this campus something we can be proud of again -this is the only way we can finally make them listen and act. 
What is the point of all this ramble? 
The point is, tomorrow is not about hat­ing Notre Dame-rather it's about lov­ing it. Contrary to popular belief, I love the University of Notre Dame more than anything in the world-in fact I'm con­vinced that my blood is blue and gold. But we've got problems that need addressing. When considering whether or not to join us in front of the Dome tomorrow, think about what you want Notre Dame to stand for. Think about the fact that this place was founded for the Mother of God. In our current state, are we upholding the honor of the Lady for which this place was founded? 
Next year at this time I hope that the relationship between our administration and students will be improved. I hope the Office of Student Affairs will have a reputation for fairness and consistency. Most importantly, I hope the University of Notre Dame will have ceased to reserve the right to discriminate, having amended its non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation. 
Then perhaps we can hold the second annual rally for justice, rights and non­discrimination. But this rally, I hope, would be one that our predecessors and peers would smile upon. It would be one where students, faculty, staff and administrators join together to show support for non-discrimination and jus­tice in the United States and the world. After all, that is what Notre Dame is supposed to stand for; that's what we're supposed to be all about. 
Tomorrow, let's get together out in front of the Dome and remind the pow­ers that be that we're serious about restoring that image. Let's reemerge as a pillar of stability and Christianity in an otherwise turbulent world by uniting to repair our own broken house. 
J.P. Cooney is a sophomore Economics and Government major. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. 




"Fritos are hot-Huddleburgers are not." 
Kurt Lovell Sophomore, Carroll 
"Statically indeterminate beams are hot­finite element analysis is not." 
Tara Wegehaupt Sophomore, Cavanaugh 

The Observer/ Kevin Dalum 
MUSIC 
Performers s the Steve Mille actually comin! loss. These ba ment value, bu when they coul Their effort <\Jl! to these perfor bands such as Wallflowers. all any hallway on 
Speaking ab rotate around repetitive and gory. It's not rather good. appeal. As a reporting, it h dorm room ste
. 
TV AND 
The world o son with the running come nitely NOT HO on the map ne Al Bundy and 
page 15
ACCENT
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 

of exposure this year as well a..'i the following has already graduated. They ue, fast. There are a lot of clubs in 
Washipgton D.C. where their type of their talent and fewer weekly gigs. 
Mary's Board of Governance went out on a limb to give official 
p) a group of students whose name " and "Bisexual." This is possibly 
things that has happened for non­least the last four 
of re-educating 
about what the 
o. Nothing will be 
Student Union 
s student-leader types have 
free sandwiches and cookies discussing, . Eventually. they came up with However, the name may have 
may have been rearranged, but... 
Student Government 
Arcn't these the same people who we And aren't they discussing the did last year? Seems like a sneaky way to things without really changing any­
thing at all. And they even serve the same food at their meet­ings. 
NATIONAL POLITICAL ISSUES 
Hot -Fundraisers and Money 
Everyone seems to be having problems accountingforwhere their money came from this year. Democrats lov~t(l t<Ukabout Gingrich receiving his entire ethics violation ime from former Senat~ob Dole. Republicans love to talk about stayhig·in the White House and various Asian contribu~ tors to Bill Clinton. (If you do 
not think that both sides have a point, read Dave Barry's col­umn from last Sunday.) 
Not -Abortion This issue got everyone's 
dander up last year, but few peo­ple are even mentioning it this year. Not that it is ever a non­issue. Neither side ofthe issue will ever admit defeat and give up; it simply has been eclipsed by the 
need to create scandals, some­where, anywhere to make the opposition look bad. 
CAMPUS FASH­
ION 
Hot -SHORTS!!! 
Finally, the weather has (sort oO turned, and the kids are out on the quad in droves showing off the 
faded remnants oftheir Spring Break tans (or, God forbid, $5 
orangy fake-bakes from FunTan). Goose-down parkas, be gone! Get out there and enjoy South Bend's abbreviated ver­sion of spring. September blizzards will be here before you 
know it. 
Not -Workout Gear Without the Workout 
Girls in the dining hall, we're talking to YOU. You know who your are. You roll out of bed, hop in the shower, arrange your hair With go!)s of hair spray and mousse. perfectly apply lip gloss, masc~ra, et a:L, <tnd proceed to don your rattiest sweat pants and)Ii.oS~disintegrated dance T -shirt. If you really worked out, thenyow ability to emerge from aerobics sweat­free is amazing. Btityou aren't fooling anyone with the getup, except maybe yourselves. 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
Hot -AnTostal 
AnTostal: lots of interesting people doing interesting things on the quad instead of going to class. The alternative? Going to another boring accounting lecture. Although this Notre Dame tradition has lost some of its popularity in recent years, this campus party is only trying to bring a small amount of fun into students' typically boring lives. Take a chance; you might actually (gasp) have. a decent time. 
Not -SYRs and Formals 
You know the drill-pick cheesy theme, fmd random date, buy cheesy present wear random dress ... These dances get a little old come the end of the year.. Instead, try a theme party. Same general idea, except a lot more relaxed, and you don't have to invite the entire dorm! 
There you have it folks -an entirely non-conclusive list of things that are hot and not around campus. · The authors refrained from placing themselves into a particular category because they are perfectly happy living in their own delusional dream worldsfor the time being. But feel free to pass any judg­ments you like; .just don't write a letter to the editor about it. It's just not the "in» thing to do. 
l to our vPry own "Papal Rage" ultimate frisbee team a fad. it is becoming the HOT activity of choice for (•njoying Llw weather. Rcccnlly seen rolling along the the increased number of flying disks arc Bocce balls. !though no one other than the students playing this what the heck is going on, this activity of throw­. oss tlw lawn docs exist at Notre Dame. In fact, not but it is evidently on the rise with the formation of With tlw emergence of these IIOT now spring bettor choice than to put down your pigskins 
grab a disk or some balls and join in on the fun. 
Hot -Bands with Talent 
as Dave Matthews, Rusted Root. Wilco, Beck and 
Band have raised their stock at this University by here to play, several of them at Stepan Center no 
HOT not only for their talent and entertain­for their willingness to perform for their true fans be drawing larger crowds in more populated cities. 
attention to Notre Dame is appreciated. In addition 
the HOT sounds of this year have come from Sublime, The Mighty Mighty BossTones. and the of whom can be heard while walking through almost 
campus. 
Not-Campus Bands 
t music heard on campus, the local ND bands that popular weekend hangouts are getting somewhat 1erefore unfortunately fall under the NOT IIOT cate­1at these bands are bad, most of them are actually t the effects of overexposure have decreased their 1pccial news nash resulting from extensive in-depth also been found that blaring the Spice Girls from 
1os is definitely NOT HOT. 
ENTERTAINMENT 
Hot/Not-Fox .elevision sitcoms suffered a tragic casualty this sea­ncellation of "Married with Children," the longest r currently on the air. The Fox executives are deft­
for their decision to dissolve the show that put them 
•ly 10 years ago. Everyone should take time to thank is family of less-than-perfect citizens for leading the way in corrupting the nation's family oriented television. 
To make up for their NOT IIOT cancellation, FOX has redeemed itself with a HOT new series of shows featuring people being attacked by animals, swept away by floods and other natural disas­ters, and living through ncar death experiences. Although exploiting the misfortune of some for the amusement of others, these new shows offer great viewer entertainment. By the way, FOX's series of nudie dramas, such as Melrose Place and the new Pacific Palisades, while somewhat tasteless, are still HOT. 
At the pinnacle of the cartoon world sits the HOT show "Life with Louie." A nice change of pace from the world of super heroes and Power Rangers, this toon features a young boy version of Louie Anderson who has a comically low voice and overly-mature nature. The joy of this Saturday morning show lies in watching a 10-year-old boy go through a mid-life crisis while still in grade school. In addi­tion, the Simpsons, as they will always be, ctf-e HOT. 
HOT TOPICS 
-Bocce ball (whatever it is) 
-Bookstore Basketball 
-the renovation of AnTostal 
-overly-stressed streaking students 
-green plaid couches 
-outdoor pep rallies in the new football stadium 
-Irish taken as NFL draft picks 
-cruise, airfare, and car giveaways for AnTostal 
NOT so HOT TOPICS 
-bomb threats at Saint Mary's 
-harassing and plucking the confused ducks on the Quads 
-warm clothes 
-Zahm students who abuse golf cart rights 
-QBs in red jerseys 
-SMC Tostal 
-orange couches with stripes 
-root beer chugging for AnTostal: why would they think students 
on this campus would be good at chugging? 

... 
,.. 
mea 
~= WI a a 
-
eaac:~e 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 16 
•MlB 
Expos beat up on hapless Cubs with 5-1 victory 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
Dustin Hermanson, making his first start since college, pitched five effective innings Tuesday night and the Montreal Expos beat the Chicago Cubs 5­1. 
Hermanson (1-0) gave up four hits, including Sammy Sosa's home run. He struck out four and walked one as Montreal won its third straight game. 
Hermanson's last start came when he was a junior at Kent State in 1993. Traded from Florida to Montreal in March, his previous longest stint in the majors was three innings. 
The Expos, who have been looking for pitching help, want­ed to limit Hermanson to 60-70 pitches. He wound up throwing 77 before Omar Daal relieved to start the sixth. 
Doug Strange hit a two-run homer as the Expos dropped Chicago to 2-15. The Cubs had won their last two games. Strange homered in the fourth off Dave Swartzbaugh (0-1) for a 4-1 lead. 
David Segui hit an RBI double in the Montreal first and Chris Widger doubled in a run in the second for a 2-1 lead. 
Mike Lansing scored from third in the Expos fifth when 
Cubs reliver Ramon Tatis balked. 
Swartzbaugh, recalled from the minors earlier in the day, allowed five runs and six hits in four innings. He dropped to 0-3 in 15 lifetime appearances. 
Swartzbaugh opened the sea­son with the Cubs and got a no­decision April 5 against Atlanta before being optioned to Triple­A Iowa on April 10. 
Notes: The win was Felipe Alou's 400th as Expos manager. Alou is the third-winningest manager in Expos history, trail­ing Buck Rodgers (520) and Gene Mauch (499).... Cubs sec­ond baseman Ryne Sandberg returned to the lineup after missing~ six games and went 1­for-4 with two strikeouts. Sandberg received 14 stitches after being struck on the right ear by a foul ball while sitting in the dugout April 13. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
SUBLET at COLLEGE PARK  88 Honda Accord, LX, air, Am/Fm  I NEED GRADUATION TIX!!  Queen Bee??? You should hear  
NOTICES  WANTED: MOUNTAIN BIKE­Will pay some$$$ David-234-1840  $175/mo Part Furnished; 2 Bed/2 Bath  cassette, great condition, $4400. 219-273-3061  WILL PAY BIG $$!! X2369  what I call you guys when you're not around. Love, Jillian  
.5mfromND  I need 1 graduation ticket. Please  
THE COPY SHOP  PART TIME CUSTOMER RELA­ Call 243-9198  82 VW Pop-Up camper, great con­ call4-1021.  Queen Bee... No really, I like it  
LaFortune Student Center  TIONS  dition, sleeps 4, kitchen. $4,700.  Queen Bee. Queen Bee. Has a  
Phone 631-COPY  Positions available evenings  Going abroad? Do you need hous­ 219-273-3061  $18 lower level Steve Miller tickets  "I am one with nature and royalty all  
Mon.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  4-9 Mon-Fri or 10-6:30 on week­ ing for spring semester next year?  still available for a 4/25 concert at  at the same time" kind of a ring.  
Tues.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  ends from April through  Call 243-9430 or 1540 for informa­ TWIN BED FOR SALE  the JACC. Call Ashleigh at 1-7757  
Wed.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  August/September. Our busy call  tion.  BEST OFFER  and leave a message with how  SOUND TECHS NEEDED!!!!  
Thur.: 7:30 a.m. -Midnight  center is looking lor candidates with  CALL CRISTINA  many you need. Brought to you by  Student Activities is accepting  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m. -7:00 p.m.  excellent phone skills and a desire  Staying tor summer school?  243-9172  SUB.  applications for Sound Techs  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  to satisfy our customers.  Apartment at College Park for rent.  for 97-98 academic year.  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  Dependability an absolute must.  Good Location, Parking,  Applications available in  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  Starting pay is $8.00 per hour,  Nice/Clean, Sun  SOFA-5 Sections, $50 OBO  NEEDED  315 LaFortune.  
$9.00 per hour on weekends. Apply  Deck, Washer/Dryer. Call 243-9360.  CALL 288-2314  2 graduation tix  
EUROPE $229.  at Qualex Inc., a wholly owned sub­ CALL LIZ @ 232-7839  PRINT FROM DISK  
Within USA $79.-$129.  sidiary of Eastman Kodak. 921  2 BDRM, 2 Bath, W/D, Dishwasher,  Ethernet card for Macintosh  PRINT FROM DISK  
Caribb./Mexico $229.r/t  Louise St., South Bend, IN 46615.  Micro. Close to campus. Suitable  Powerbook series 100-180 and  PRINT FROM DISK  
Cheap Fares Worldwide!!!!!!!  We support a drug free workplace.  tor grad student or Prof. in Jamison  loft with 4 shelves -call Kathy  Very high-quality full-color output is  
http://www.airtich.org  EOE  Condos. Available June 1 thru May  @ x4171.  now available at THE COPY SHOP  
AIRTICH 1-800-326-2009  31. $800. (818)968-7030.  in the LaFortune Student Center.  
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEMO­ Bring in your computer disk to print  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! IRISH GARDENS  RABILIA WANTED TICKET STUBS PROGRAMS JERSEYS CASH  FOR SALE  COMPUTERS 486DX 33$400., 486DX 66 $500.,  NEED 2 GRADUATION TIXS for my Irish relatives!!  your files. We support PowerPoint, Photoshop. Illustrator, Pagemaker,  
PAID 2773097  Pentium 120Mhz, 16 EDO, 1.08  Call KATHRYN at 273-4486  and many many more types of files.  
Still accepting applications  HOUSE FOR SALE BY OWNER  GB, BX CDD, 33.6 Modem  It only costs a $1 plus the regular  
for the 1997-98 school year. See us in the Basement  Available -Part-time Retail Sales Clerk Pandora's Books 808 Howard -Just  Great nbrhd, near ND 2 bdrm brick ranch $99,500 288 7862  $950.00, Kantek 271-2573. Also build to order, trade.  PERSONAL  color copy price for the first ten files, then just the regular color copy price for over ten files. We  
of Lafortune for an application.  off of Notre Dame Ave.  MOVING OFF-CAMPUS?  can print directly onto overhead  
.....  IRISH GARDENS  Call 233-2342 1 OAM-5Pm  '89 Pontiac Sunbird, 85,000 miles, 6 cd changer  LAFAYETIE RESIDENTS SELL­ING FURNITURE: 2 Comfy  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS  transparencies too! PRINT FROM DISK  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Needed: Nanny. Nice little girls.  $3,000. Call 284-5139  Couches, 2-3 Twin Beds (Bought  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS  PRINT FROM DISK  
ILOST & FOUND I  Nice house. Nice neighborhood. 273-3010.  89' Dog. Caravan. V. Good  new this year), Entertainment Center, Antique Desk. Call 288­9278 for info.  The highest quality color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP  PRINT FROM DISK The countdown continues ..  
ARE YOU GETIING RID OF  Condition. $ 1690 o/bo. Call Jihad  LaFortune Student Center  THREEIJI  
LOST-Silver Olympus Stylus  YOUR LOFT?  277-3254  BAR AND BARSTOOLS FOR  Phone 631-COPY  
Camera  MY SON NEEDS IT. WILL BUY IT.  SALE: Black Vinyl bar with 2 match­ Hey everyone -only 1 more week  
on April 12 Reward-call Cas 4-1107  PLEASE CALL 282-2229 AFTER 6  •FURNITURE-Futon $100 Chair  ing swivel barstools. Great for  of classes to go -Hang in there!  
PM.  $50 273-8673  house or apartment Bought new  Family Needs Graduation  Cavanaugh Kerry  
Lost -green bookbag with diskette  this year-must sell!! $175 obo.  Tickets-Please Help!  
box, CDs, class notebooks inside.  ASST. FOOTBALL COACH­ GOV'T FORECLOSED homes from  Call Gina at 288-9278.  Christian 273-6967  Jamie.  
Lost at NDH on Mon. Apr. 14th.  OPENING FOR 1997-98 FOOT­ pennies on $1. Delinquent Tax,  You know that comparison isn't  
Very important.  BALL SEASON.  Repo's, REO's. Your Area. Toll  Cable TV. descrambler.  true. But if it makes you feel bet­ 
Call Paul  CONTACT HEAD COACH  Free (1)800-218-9000  Descrarnbles all premium  ter .....  
at x2018  NEIL WAGNER 219-842-3389  Ext. H-2013 for current listings.  channels including  
"Pay-Per View". Works in South  Tons of Furniture!  
LOST:  FOR RENT  SEIZED CARS from $175. Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  Bend. Call: 277-3899  ...Really, Really Cheap  Johnny, Congrats on the job. But remember,  
silver lacrosse stick bracelet  BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  TV/stereo ctr. & love seat w/pull out  Couches... Chairs... Dressers..  the Milwaukee is still the best place  
If found please call Colleen @  Near Campus  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  bed. Very nice, I just can't take  Tables... Beds... Bookcases...  in the country to raise children ..... :-)  
273-1130  Homes for 97-98  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-2013  them home! call Janine 243-1382.  Lamps...Kitchen Stuff ... and  (Pittsburgh is #5!)  
232-2595  for current listings.  some! We can even deliver!  
LOST: KEYS in the area  PowerMac 7100/66 with memory  Call287-4876  STOMPER BOB  
between Stepan center and  Apt . for 11 wks. V. close to ND  FOR SALE: 10' Burmese Python  upgrade, ResNet capabilities;  at Stonehenge  
North Quad. Please call  (May -Aug), $65 per Wk. Call  and 7.5' Albino Burmese  Laserwriter: and 15" monitor for  
X3097. Thanks!  Jihad 277-3254  Great temperments.  sale. $900 firm for a entire setup.  PROFESSIONAL SUMMER STOR­ 7 p.m.  
$200 OBO, cage and heat  Call Kevin x4077  AGE. Collegiate Student Storage  TONIGHTIIIJ!!!!  
My name is Yu-zhi Cui. My pass­ 5 Bdrms. in private home. Near  included.  offers On Campus and Off Campus  
port from the People's Republic of  campus. Safe neighborhood. Use of  Call Jeff at 283-0739 for details.  STEVE MILLER  Pick up and Delivery, Boxes,  Trick leg, Trick leg, Tnck leg Julie!!  
China has been lost. It is no longer  all facilities. 225/rno. 232-2794  Insurance, Tape and Packing  Luv, Funny Girl  
valid.  Paul.  93 HONDA CIVIC EX. Loaded:  CENTER STATE  Materials Included. Call Now to  
No. 458870  Power sun-roof, windows, locks.  FLOOR SEATS  Reserve Your Space at 800 3  Matt, you're just one big walking  
Two ND grads ('95) are looking for  Air, Cruise. AM/FM/Tape, ABS,  1ST 10 ROWS  STORE 9 (BOO 378-6739).  innuendo...  
one or two others (M or F) to share  5-speed. Air bag, Alarm. 60,000  
PLEASE HELP ME!  a HUGE 4 bdrm apt in Chicago for  miles, two new tires. Bay at dealer  272-7233  START PACKING NOW!  HEY! Tony .. tonight... Senior Bar ...  
the summer. Call 773/695-2545 for  cost and save!  
I CAN'T SEE ....  info.  $ 9,000. Jim, 289-1992.  SEIZED CARS from $175.  UPS UPS UPS UPS UPS  BP -then you must be as fun as  
Porsches, Cadillacs, Chevys,  return1ng a book...  
LOST MY GLASSES!  NEED TO SUBLET AN APART­ MAC COMPUTER w/ printer & eth­ BMW's, Corvettes. Also Jeeps,  LOWEST RATES ON CAMPUS  
MENT THIS SUMMER? WE HAVE  ernet: Performa 6214 w/ CD ROM.  4WD's. Your area. Toll Free  
WHERE AM I?  A TOWNHOUSE AT TURTLE  Purchased last year from ND for  1-800-218-9000 Ext. A-201J  THE COUNTRY HARVESTER  #######################  
CREEK! CALL 273-9829  $2000. Asking $950 obo. Amy  M-F 10-5 SAT 12-3  Wanted: KEGERATOR  
Brown Case: Brooks Brothers  x3525.  Desk w/Lamp & Chair, $25; Bike  
3 BDRM HOUSE 814 N. ST.  w/helmet & lock, $30; Bedlrame  $100 FREE INSURANCE ON  For use beginning June 1.  
REWARD IF FOUND: PLEASE  LOUIS. AVAIL SUMMER & FALL  '81 OLDS CUTLASS,  w/mattress, $15; Kitchen Table w/4  EACH PARCEL SHIPPED  Promise to take loving care and put  
CALL KELLY .... 243-9403  '97. CALL 234-1440.  4-DR, 1-0WNER, NEW MOTOR.  Chairs  to good use. Please call x-1305  
CALL 273-2241 .  ask for John, Andy. or Dan.  
NICE HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR  Couch, beds, shelves for sale. Call  Happy Birthday Leon  #######################  
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  13" Samsung TV/VCR combo. Like  243-9357  Happy Birthday Leon  
new. Orig. box/ manual/ warranty/  Happy Birthday Leon  
LOST: A gold necklace & heart charm with a sapphire stone and  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  remote. $249 o.b.o. Call X4931  TICKETS  Happy Birthday Leon Happy Birthday Leon  Kate-­should I apologize again?  
small diamond; lost 4/15 on  2773097  Marshall Valvestate 8040 40w  --me  
campus. Reward for return.  amp. Like new. $299. Call X4931  
Call Lisa x2688.  SUMMER RENTALS  Need Graduation Tickets  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  Hutch is the bestl All that popcorn ..  
AVAILABLE  Computer For Sale-Cheap  Desparately. Please help!  CALL JENNY AT 243-9282  
HOUSES CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ 243-9357  Brian ­287-4876  Still checking out Dan ....  
WANTED  WILL TAKE MULTIPLE STU­DENTS­ !@#@$%%11%.&%&"$%#$@#  Thank You  To the BP "Trash Can" Regatta Boat- Reunited and it feels so good...  
LOW SUMMER RATES­ Where did you go?! You never  
Family seeks loving, responsible,  UTILITIES INCLUDED, WASH­ APARTMENT SALE  Do you have an extra GRADUA­ came back... we had nothing to  Kathleen rocks my world  
fun person to help care for 2 chil­ ERS/DRYERS,  TION TICKET(S)? Will pay well!!  race for! And after all that we did  
dren while we move. Approx. 5/15  ALARM SYSTEMS  CALL JULIE @ 273-4486  Please call Paige at X4011  for you!  You take the good, you take the  
thru 6/1 O; 20-30 hours/wk. $6 per  AVAILABLE JUNE 1  bad, you take them both and there  
hr. References and own transporta­ OR SOONER.  !@$%#$%&11•&$#$@$#@&%$  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS.  The Four Oarsmen from Flanner  you have ..... The Facts of Life  
tion needed.  CALL 674-2571 MARK KRAMER,  WILL PAY$$$.  
Sue 233-6657  DOMUS PROPERTIES  !@$%#$"&%."%$"#$@$%11  ETHAN 4-1659.  Happy Birthday Leon!!!  Welcome back Carrie!l!  
Happy Birthday Leon!!!  
Wanted:  3-4 BDRM HOUSE.  APARTMENT SALE  STEVE MILLER  Happy Birthday Leon!!!  "I'll be here after the game!!!""  
•  3 people to share a beautiful brand-new house, plush and close  AVAIL AUG. 2 FULL BATHS, APPL. FURN.  CALL SARAH OR KERIN @  CENTER STAGE  Happy Birthday Leon!!! Happy Birthday Leon!!!  She's a maneater  
to campus for the '97-'98 year. For  ATIACH. 2-CAR GARAGE & OFF­ 243-9034  FLOOR SEATS  Happy Birthday Leon!!!  
more info call Jen at 277-1456 or  STREET PARKING.  FIRST 10 ROWS  Happy Birthday Leon!! I  Somebody missed a lunch date.  
Chris at x 1305.  683-6591.  !@$%#%·&11$%#$@%$%11&%  272-7233  Happy Birthday Leon!!!  Oh well, just paybacks. I guess.  

----~----------.._..,_............~-----~~-------------~--_____.,._.______, 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
• NHL PLAYOFFS 
Rodman returns from injury 
Blackha,wks give 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 
The earrings, the eye shadow and the glittery gold makeup stays in the locker room. But Dennis Rodman, fashion guy that he is, will still sport new apparel for the playoffs. 
Rodman, who missed the last 13 regular-season games with the Chicago Bulls, will be wearing a knee brace in Friday's playoff opener against the Washington Bullets. 
Just like his hair, no one's sure what color or how stylish the brace will be. But they are sure that Rodman, the flam­boyant six-time NBA rebound­ing champion, is back as the Bulls make a run at their fifth title of the '90s. 
Rodman missed 27 games this season, 14 because of three separate suspensions, and the last 13 with a sprained medial collateral ligament in 

Eastern Conference 
First Round Semifinals Finals Best-of-5 Best-of-7 Best-of-7 

4 Atlanta 
5 Detroit 2 Miami 7 Orlando 
3 New York 6 Charlotte 
his left knee. Chicago was 21-6 in his absence. 
But with the physical play of the postseason, the Bulls need Rodman. They will face a tall Bullets front line featuring 7­foot-7 Gheorghe Muresan. And if they win, Charlotte's Anthony Mason, New York's Charles Oakley and Miami's Alonzo Mourning are all possi­ble opponents in the coming weeks. 
"He brings a lot of energy to the game. Hopefully, he can corral that energy and use it in a very positive way," Michael Jordan said shortly after the Bulls finished the regular sea­son. 
"He can certainly hurt us if he doesn't. This is no time to be getting kicked out of games or getting suspended, and I'm pretty sure he's aware of that." 
Rodman, like the other Bulls and coach Phil Jackson, wasn't talking after Tuesday's prac­tice. Earlier, he told the Chicago Sun-Times he was OK physically and ready for the postseason. 
Avalanche a fight
"All this other stuff is well 
and good, bro. But the playoffs are what real men live and die for. So I'm ready," Rodman said. 
"All those other teams have been saying we're old and we're broken ... and we can't win anymore. If another team can play harder than we can and take the championship from us, then that's life. But we're not going to give up the championship. People are go­ing to have to take it. I feel we are the best until somebody takes it from us." 
Both Rodman and Toni Kukoc returned to practice Tuesday. Kukoc, who missed 22 of the final 26 games with a foot injury, was able to partic­ipate in all the drills, trainer Chip Schaefer said. Rodman sat out one while he fine-tuned his knee brace. 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Bob Probert, known more for brawling than scoring, had two of Chicago's four second­period goals as the Blackhawks evened the Western Conference quarterfi­nals at two games apiece Tuesday night with a 6-3 vic­tory over the Colorado Avalanche. 
Tony Amante also scored twice for the Blackhawks, who outworked and outskated the defending Stanley Cup champions for the second straight game. Chicago won 4­3 Sunday after dropping the first two games by 6-0 and 3-1 scores. 
The Avalanche, the NHL's best regular-season team, will 
try to avoid its first three­

game losing streak since December 1995 when it hosts Game 5 Thursday. The best­of-7 series will return here Saturday. 
Probert, who ranks sixth in league history with 2,653 penalty minutes, had eight goals in 16 playoff games for
Western Conference 
Detroit in 1988 but went into 
Finals Semifinals First Round Tuesday with only three in 44Best-of-7 Best-of-7 Best-of-5 postseason games since. He had never scored a playoff goal for Chicago, which signed him to a four-year, $6.6 mil­lion contract in 1994 despite his history of drug, alcohol and disciplinary problems. 
Though playing with a sore elbow, it might have been Probert's best game with the Blackhawks. 
He made it 2-2 at 5:53 of the second period, body-slamming Claude Lemieux off the puck, feeding Eric Daze in the slot and scoring on the rebound. 
After Ethan Moreau put the 
Blackhawks ahead on a pass from Amonte at 6:57, Probert drove hard to the netto deflect Jeff Shantz's peJ:fect feed past Patrick Roy for:a. power-play goal at 10:16 to put Chicago up by two. 
Steve Dubinsky's rebound goal atl7:53 made it 5-2, and Amonte added an empty-net­become bizarre. Team doctor Louis Kolb resigned after 19 years with the team because he said club owner Bill Wirtz accused him of mistreating Zhamnov and letting Avalanche doctor Andrew Parker operate on Zhamnov without authorization. 
Kolb also said coach Craig Hartsburg ordered an ailing Zhamnov to practice last week. Before Tuesday's game, Hartsburg called· Kolb "a liar." 
Devils 6 
Canadiens 4 
Valeri Zelepukin's three-goal performance moved the New Jersey Devils closer to a four­game sweep in the first round of the playoffs. 
Zelepukin's hat trick helped the Devils beat the Montreal Canadiens 6-4 Tuesday night and take a 3-0 lead in their best-of-7 Eastern Conference series. 
New Jersey can complete a sweep by winning Game 4 Thursday night at the Molson Centre. 
"It's just teamwork," Zelepukin said. "It's five guys working hard. You just have to be in the right place at the right time, and I was three times tonight.'' 
Zelepukin scored twice in the second period and put the Devils up 5-4 at 7:50 of the third on a power play, redirecting a Shawn Chambers pass from the point. 
Montreal goaltender Jocelyn Thibault took the blame for the loss, saying he allowed several easy goals. 
"Of course, I feel responsi­ble," Thibault said. "It seemed I'd make two or three good saves and then one would find a way in." 
Saku Koivu, who tied the game 4-4 with his first goal of the playoffs for Montreal at 
4:37 of the third period, was serving his fourth minor penalty of the game when Zelepukin scored the go-ahead goal. 
Brian Rolston scored short­handed into an empty net with 59 seconds left in the game. 
Mark Recchi scored twice for Montreal, including a goal that gave the Canadiens a 3-2 lead 2:39 into the second peri­od. Zelepukin banged in Bob Carpenter's rebound to tie it at 
4:58 of the second, then put the Devils up 4-3 at 7:15 of the period. 



SOCIAL CONCERNS 

ter in the third period.. Keith Jones, Joe Sakic and Aaron Miller scored for
doing service after 
Colorado. · The Blackhawks were with­out ce.hters Alex Zhamnov
graduation !?! 
(sprained ankle), Murray Craven (broken jaw) and Brent S1,1tter (sprained knee), as well as defenseman Steve Smith (sore back). 
please register for 
The Zhamnov situation has 
commencement weekend's 
Ill_ 
THE CUSHWA CENTER E:::::! FOR THE STUDY OF
VOLUNTEER SEND OFF 
--,IF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
U presents
CEREMONY 
"Fascist Transmission Belts" or Episcopal
which will be held 
Advisors? Italian Consuls and American
Saturday, May 17th; 10:00 a.m. 
Catholicisn[} in the 1930s at Washington Hall 
Peter R. jD'Agostino 
Department of Religious Studies 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: FRIDAY, APRIL 25TH 
Stonehill College 
FORMS AVAILABLE AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Thursday, April24, 1997
You do not need to have decided which program you will be volunteering with in order to register. 
4:15p.m. Hesburgh Library Lounge 
_
.. 

-------·~------------~----------~-­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Turn Back the Clock Night -The Notre Dame Baseball Team is turning back the clock to the glory days of baseball today at 8 p.m. The Irish will be outfitted in 1950s replica uniforms when they host Northwestern at Eck Stadium, Admission is just 50 cents and hot dogs, popcorn and drinks are also just $1 each. The first 250 fans will receive'''a free Collector's Edition Notre Dame Baseball Cap. A free mountain bike will be given away to one lucky fan and Tony Rice, who quarter­backed the Irish Football team to the 1988 National Championship, will throw out the first pitch. Fq't mor(l information, contacf'Dani&l Thornton in the Notre Danie Sports Prbmotif;ms o'ffice-at (219) 631-8103. nr 
Climbing Wall · Orientations are available at the climbing wall in the Rockne Memorial eyery Sunday at 1 p.m. 'and Wednesday at 6 p~m ·gn~ up outside the walL 
Drop-in voii~yball <-.-.. -RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays from 7-10 p;m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
Special Olympics Volunteers are needed to help Special Olympic swim­mers. Practices are at Rolfs Aquatic Center on Mondays and Wednesdays from 4:30­
5:30 p.m. For more info, call coach Dennis Stark at 1­5983, 
RecSports will be hiring two full-time, one part-time, and numerous substitutes to lifeguard at the St. Joseph Lake Beach this summer. Please contact Greg at 1­5100 or come to RecSports office at the Joyce Center to fill out an application. it 

RecSports is now accept­ing applications for student event supervisors and stu­dent issue room supervisors. Please pick up an application at the Office of RecSports on the first floor of the Joyce Center. For more in­formation, call631-6100. 
Bar Bell Club -A weightlifting club is coming soon next year for novice or serious lifters. Learn more about the art of lifting and developing a bigger and stronger physique. Call Binh at 4-4364 for sign-ups and more info. 
RecSports World Wide Web -RecSports is now accepting applications for a student who will be responsi­ble for maintaining a RecSports homepage. This position does require prior experience with creating and maintaining homepages. All interested students should come by the RecSports office to complete an application. The position is for the 1997­1998 academic year. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
• GOlF 
Woods discusses his diverse background 
Associated Press Perhaps that's because there Woods, described as the first brought to the forefront again wasn't a box for "Cablinasian." black Masters champion, said it when Fuzzy Zoeller referred to CHICAGO That's the word that best bothers him when people call him as "that little boy" and When Tiger Woods was asked describes his background, a him an African-American. urged him not to put fried in school to check one box that blend of Caucasian, black, Woods' race has often been chicken or collard greens on best described his background, Indian and Asian, the '21-year­an issue in a game played pre­the menu of the Championshe couldn't settle on one. old golf star recently said. dominantly by whites. It was Dinner next year at Augusta. 
Save time and 1noney with our convenient location just north of campus. \Ve'll even pay you a "nifty" fifty dollars•:• to open your Direct Deposit Checking Account with us. Cool ... 
• 
No-FEE CHECKING 

• 
No MINIMUM BALANCE 

• 
No PER-CHECK CHARGE 

• 
No MoNTHLY SERVICE CHARGE 


5ctJ. QJJ.-With Direct Deposit of your entire paycheck, you are eligible for our Golden Shamrock Club with these addit-ional benefits, and more. 
• 
FREE GOLDEN SHAMROCK CLUB CHECKS 

• 
FREE TRAVELER'S CHECKS (MAXIMUM OF $2,000) 

• 
DISCOUNTS (1/4%) ON QUALIFIED CONSUMER LOANS 


(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
World-Wide Web: http://www.ndfcu.org • E-Mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net 


A Better Choice to Make 
*This offer is extended exclusively to qualified Faculty and full time Employees of the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy Cross College. $50 will be credited to your account within 30 days of receipt of your first direct payroll deposit. Termination of this account prior to 12 months of its opening, can require repayment of the S50. This offer ends no later than June 30,1997, and may be withdrawn sooner without notice. 
Pearl Necklace 9  4 inmates & 1 loose Cannon 23!;;  
:.::;::  ::=.= ••  
Malicious Prosecute 21  Hollywood ~cn,me~'ma2~ 
Jerkstore 14  Pete, Bill, Tim& 2 other  
warm btidie$ 14  
SFR2 21  Swoosh Ill 21  
Serpico 8  WAX 15  
Sweeter than Candy 21  Consuming Fire 21  
T.B.A. 13  That's a Big Twinki  
Vanilla Kernals 21  We can drink more  
No Dessert 16  Knocker's Lounge  
NBT 21  BW3 Bolivian Yaks  
Villa de Lobos 11  Subject to Blackout  
If it Stinks... 21  E.G.O. 21  
Hoosier Daddy 18  5 Guys and their Testy Calls 17  
We asked Emily... 21  San Clemente 21  
JumanJi 21 ·::1 Show me the $ 21 A Bra and 4 Boobs 10 We usually play the old guys ...19 


If we're not dancing 10 Team 186 8 
11)e Big Pappa 21 2;.; A Panda, a Koala, and 3 other Hood River Banqn~; ~15 .j! guys that eat bush 13
1
Muddy Waters~1 
1;:1r Peef Uprising 21 5 ex::pornstars: .. 7· (Every Lady's) Dream Team 14 
.;.;.,:,: .(~.;.;,, 
jtl:; iii' .:;: 
1 
Primetime21 Corby's 21 Saint of Citcumsta .· ce 6 The Curve 9
.:6l;,-·.... ······'· 
Bring out the Gimp Ill 21 Boeing 777 and 4 other guys who can't get off the ground 4 
Yin & Yang 21 Pants 9 
Downtown:Assass . s 21 Dos Geses 21 Peter North: The Final Shot 9 BYE 14 

Vanilla Thunder 21 The Sixth Man 21 WPO II 15 Team 50715 
Mike Day!rhe Observer 

Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Obst:rver • SPORTS page 19 
players from great players." body I'd like to have behind 
"Lamont is a fun kid to be Bert, it's Lamont." 
around and a fun kid to coach "He brings the highest level continued from page 28 because he competes so hard," of competitiveness," Davie 
head coach Bob Davie said. observed. "He competes on 
"I feel like the only person that That competitiveness and every down. and I'd like to use can beat me is myself," Bryant effort and his 6-foot-3, 243 him as a role model for our commented. "The only way for pound frame, bring to the line­other players. In everything he that to happen is for me to go backing corps someone that they does he goes 100 percent, and 
out there and slack on any play feel will replace Berry. that's while ,he'll be a great at any time. That consistent ''I'm going to miss Bert Berry," player." . effort is what seperates good Minor said. "But, if there's any-. Bryant has been all over the 
Football· 
The Won1en of Lewis Hall would lil{e to congratulate Notre Dan1e 's Fen1ale Varsity Athletes for their outstanding achievement and excellence! 
Special Recognition goes out to our fellow Lewisites: Courtney Banks Jill Matalavage Emily Edwards Natalie Najarian 
Linda Gallow Erin Newman 
Jenny Heft Valerie Siqueira Anne Iacobucci Courtney South Nicole LaSelle Lisa Tully 
You're an inspiration to us all! 
field in Spring practice and in the Blue-Gold game as he recorded seven tackles and two sacks working against the top offensive unit. 
"He is having a great spring," Minor praised .. "He's a person that gives 100 percent every play, and by him doing that he's going to pick up our level of play. He's pushing me right now, and I thank him for that." 
"It's still a learning experi­ence right now," Bryant said. "So I have to leave everything out there on the field. I still have to prove myself." · 
Bryant's ability to overcome obstacles and his resiliency have added to his ability to lead by example, and he learned some valuable lessons while being sidelined. 
"I learned patience. I didn't try to rush anything," Bryant said. "When the time comes you have to prove yourself when it's there." 
From the indications this spring, he is proving himself as he continues to impress the coaching staff. 


"He has had an excellent spring. He's had some set­backs early in his career, and now he is developing into a fine football player," Davie said. "I think a lot of times when play­ers pay their dues as he has had to, they really benefit from that. 
"It's not so much what hap­pened to you, it's how you react to them, and he's reacted really positively and right now the stage is set for him to have a break out year this year." 
When asked about the extent of break out year that Bryant is capable of, Davie set no limits. 
"I think the sky's the limit for him. He's got all the tools." 
Despite losing three of the four linebackers from last year, Bryant is helping to make next season not a rebuilding season, but a reloading one and is poised to make Irish fans as familiar with his name as they are with Berry's. 
-
·­
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
recent efforts. The second baseman was
Baseball 
seven for 16 in four Big East 
games in the past week, spark­
ing the Irish as they moved 
continued from page 28
Bookstore Basketball Schedule 
kept the Irish within striking into first place in the National distance through the ninth, as Division. Among the seven he refused to allow a hit on the hits were two home runs, one evening. The young hurler of which was the game-winner 
fanned three Wolverine bat­in Saturday's contest with ters and walked just one in 2 Villanova. 1/3 innings. Ust hit .429 for the week as a 
Stepan 2 
8:00 SWOOSH vs. We Can Drink More Than 
Unfortunately for Notre whole, with two homers, three Dame, a rally in the bottom of triples and seven RBI.
Bailey 
the ninth was cut short after Ust and company will try to only one run by Michigan get back on track tonight when
8:45 Muddy Waters vs. Peef Uprising 
reliever Brian Steinbach, who they take on yet another Big recorded his lirst save of 1997. Ten opponent in.
9:30 6th Man vs. Vanilla Thunder The good news: Northwestern. The Irish will Notre Dame continued a host the Wildcats for Turn
10:15 SFR2 vs. Sweeter Than Candy 1997 trend by claiming yet Baek the Clock Night at Eck another weekly honor from the Stadium and will be sporting Big East. Freshman Brant Ust throw-back uniforms for the was named the conference's event. The game will have a Rookip of the Week for his special starting time of 7 p.m. 
Stepan 3 
8:00 Corby's vs. 4 Inmates and One Loose End 
8:45 Hollywood Schmegma vs. Consuming Fire 
9:30 Vanilla Kernals vs. We Asked Emily if Sean Could Play 
10:15 Malicious Prosecution vs. Burn and Shoot 
Stepan 6 
8:00 Sexual Chocolate vs. Primetime 
8:45 BW3 vs. I Love It When They Call Me Big Pappa 
9:30 Dos Geses vs. Sans Clemente !!'Report fo Stepan 
10:15 Downtown Assasins vs. Bring Out the Gimp 

Center\at 7:30 
Stepan 7 
.m. on April 26th
8:00 Show Me the Money vs. E.G.O. 
~ ~ \ i
8:45 Ying &Yang vs. NBT 
l
9:30 And 1 vs. If It Stinks, Don't Put It In Your Mouth 
!Coffee, juice & Donuts. Served 
10:15 Hoopaholics vs. Jumanji 

Campus View Apartments 
We are now taking applications for 
-furnished apartments -shuttle bus 
NEXT YEAR!! 
-central air -24 hour laundry 
•Swimming 
pool/SPA •Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts 

•FLEXIBLE 
LEASE PLANS Apartments Available for your selection 


For more information, call272-1441 
Summer leases Available 
-
Apexx is a new computer sales and service company in the ••• Michiana area. We are dedicated to providing quality service at competitive rates. Whether you need a new system to meet
-
your increasing needs as a student or professional, or your current computer nee.ds fine tuning, Apexx is the solution. 
TakeTheEasyWayOut Of College. 

---------------------,
10(!0 Ofl' Boxes & Supplies 
~" H:tr:!J'flf)!' I••JJ';'' /)g!:p,rc·.H. fo~J'I' U!i!!l'dt• l:'l"c:p. },tliiWIUi' if, \11 hli\'( 
t?:~. a. t'ou'/1 \1(:: d;,,·,nott pnr.·.-. ond ~.r,· 'II t·r,·s! iJ,,.,. had uny ho\('\' n:u
T 
d<111'! mf.'. \+'i!i,·h m,·rmt· \'Uii 'if.,fWr II!< 1ft' :i;WI Wli!' mtcf ?rou!;!r, yoor ·;; 
Wl't' lllr•H<'\' lt-1(•' C:.d! l{r,!cr l"R;\' f•;ch•Y and t!N u!i :h~· mo1 mr q'/'f'hd W'll 
RYDER FRS 
l1<i• • •"-Ph" ''it~ .,;ad!··.rl,>tt"' ~:11) ~~" lllf. "'l'~.:w, ~>~.u::h.1't"J '"'''IJt~m,· !.l'r': ~~ ~~:1'\ ..:::mu~ !o.·.~h,,." C.fl!.•. t ;:111!'~ "~ .,. :\h ~~~~ ollloo:~ :1!11:~ t!c" C'«•>l :.;-f'lr:l:~:<'lto. ..... , ( "') >,/lttp "' '"",<'<I f1• "I\ ,:I~ U~I•UI~ \v:-.ph ~·.<cf,·"lhl~, i :• I."•~I;"HII\ •1\f'<fl"­
~ ,..,,,,..!11• \: ,,,;-; Oc~H·~~:u•·j)l •c·.a !'-«rlf,'lf•lll:l\1 Hl .\tu.:'·•··•ljU'>tH,:t."\~'""''''''"~~•!·.:.:i"·'!lt "''lh~tl!Jr ..t>:J..J: >\'jH' ~ 
~' '· l'lifflo~ ....~; ~~-:jijj,_ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -~ Ill:,~ l'limm: lll'~ ~tmml'li: 
Jack's Trailer Sales 51370 U.S. 33 North 277-9799 Cira's Service 1914 Miami St. 289-6721 Tom's Car Care 320 I Sugar Maple Ct. 288-0316 RTS 2715 N. Bendix Dr. 277-3550 
Call 1-800-G-0-R.YDER. 
r~ -W~e-dn-"d'Y· Ap:~:7~ 
Th, Ob""'" •PAID ADVERTISEMENT P'g' 21 
----~~----------------------~~~~~==~--~~~~~~-------------------------~~-­

RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Joan Kelleher, a senior from 
Amanda Crosby, a resident of Lyons Atlanta, GA, resides in Cavanaugh Hall, is a sophomore American Studies Hall. Joan will graduate in May major from Lilttleton, CO. Amanda has with a Bachelor of Science in participated in several RecSports biology/chemistry. Joan has events such as the Biathlon, Casting & been a member of the Rowing Angling Clinic, Domer Run, Christmas Club for the last four years and in April Benefit Run, and IH Cross­is currently serving in the position Country. Amanda not only participated of president. During the 1993-in all of these events, but she also was 1994 academic year, she was the women's undergraduate division chosen as the Most Valuable winner in both the Domer Run 3 mile Oarswoman. An avid runner, Joan race and the Christmas in April Benefit has also competed in the Atlanta 5K, along with being the first female 
Cross-Country meets. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 


VARSITY SHOP 
r 
~ 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
Dro In Volle ball Tuesdays, 7-10-Joyce Center All Semester Bring a Friend, or Come by Yourself 
RecS orts Dinner of Cham ions May 1, 6:00 pm Joyce Center By Invitation Only 
For More Information Call 631-6100 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <£~ ­
I"T" L~.............~.: ~.-:_ • .,_
merchandise courtesy of \..&..-~_:._.,..;. and the viT*i% located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560).

r---~----­
' I 
I I I 
I 
I page 22 
I I I I 
• SoFTBALL 

Irish prepare for postseason tourneys 
By ALLISON KRILlA 
Sports Writer 
As the end of the regular sea­son draws near, the Notre Dame softball team's dreams of post-season glory have become clearer. Heading into today's doubleheader with Butler, the 28-19 Irish hope to gather momentum for the Big East tournament on May 3-4 and for the NCAA regionals held May 16-18. 
The returning players re­member the 1996 season-end­ing losses to South Carolina and Central Michigan, and they plan to make their presence know at this year's regional tourna­ment. 
First, the Irish will have to face the Bulldogs of Butler in a doubleheader at Ivy Field. Last year's Butler squad finished 13­29 overall, taking sixth place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. Until 1995, when Notre Dame moved to the Big East conference, the Irish and the Bulldogs squared off as members of the MCC. Notre Dame holds an 18-2 lifetime advantage over Butler. 
"One thing Coach (Uz Miller) talked about (yesterday) wa~ not taking (Butler) lightly," said Angela Bessolo. "We've played our best games against the top teams, like UConn and Michigan. We need to look at Butler as if they were the top team in the nation." 
A key for Notre Dame in to­day's game is the continued success of the offense. The en~ tire lineup has contributed to the cause, hitting over .309 as a team and leading the Big East in team average iri conference games. Meghan Murray and Katie Marten have emerged as team leaders in their senior seasons, leading the team and the Big East in batting. Freshman Sarah Mathison has displayed uncanny power at the plate, providing Coach Miller with no alternative than to keep Mathison in the lineup. 
With the luxury of a capable offense, the Irish pitching staff has responded with solid per­formances from all three hurlers, Joy Battersby, Kelly Nichols and Angela Bessolo. Bessolo leads the trio with a 12­9 record and an ERA near 1.65, while Nichols' ERA of under 
1.00 in Big East games leads the conference. The entire statT leads the conference in ERA and opposing batting average while allowing the fewest hits and runs per game against Big East opponents. For the remainder of the season, the focus for the Irish will not be on the fundamentals of offense or defense, but on the team's state of mind. 
"We have .to remember to keep having fun," said Bessolo. "We can't let (playing softball) become a chore. We have to stay relaxed. We have to re­member that we're out (on the field) because we love to play." 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Gottlieb to ~ecome a Cowboy 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite the legal trouble which he encountered last year, former Notre Dame basketball player Doug Gottlieb has found himself a new team to com­mand. Next season, he will most likely start for the Oklahoma State Cowboys. 
Gottlieb has been out of the basketball world for a season. After leaving Notre Dame, he attended school at Golden West Junior College in Huntington Beach, Calif., but spent his down time in search of a new sehool at which to hone his basketball skills and career. 
Oklahoma State was not his top choice. Several of his top choices reportedly baeked out as a result of Gottlieb's past legal problems. 
Rumors began to swirl about Gottlieb's past when he signed his letter of intent with the Cowboys and subsequently transferred in June of last year. It was initially rumored that he left due to head eoach John MacLeod's plans For the offense, which Gottlieb stated would have hurt his chances of getting drafted in the NBA. 
Last June however, Gottlieb transferred. and was charged with felony theft. He pleaded guilty to using the eredit cards of three Notre Dame students who lived in his dorm whieh he used to spend more than $900 on unauthorized purchases. 
Since pleading guilty, Gottlieb has attended counseling, ap­peared in court, and provided restitution to the three students whose credits cards he misused. 
Gottlieb is a part of Oklahoma State head coach Eddie Sutton's prized recruiting squad. He will join freshman Mike Johnson of Shawnee Mission, Kan., and transfer Brian Montonati of Fullerton College. While at Notre Dame, Gottlieb started 23 of 27 games, averaged 4.6 points per game, and dished 5.7 assists per contest. 
His former teammate, David Lalazarian, is aJso in search of a new team. Lalazarian an­nounced that he would transf-er at the conclusion of this sE:mes­ter. He primarily selected '\!otre Dame in order to play with Gottlieb. The chances of Lalazarian or Notre Dame meet­ing again are slim, unless they meet in preseason or postseason play. 
Gottlieb will have to prove his worth quickly as he enters Oklahoma State surrounded with controversy. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 


I 
I 
I 
I 
! I 
I 
I I 
~ 
I 
I
I _,r I I I 
! I 
I I 
I 
-

BACK 
• 
$1.00 hotdogs, popcorn, and pop 

• 
First pitch thrown out by Tony Rice, member of 1988 National Campionship football team 

• 
See the Irish outfitted in '50s uniforms 

• 
1950s cars parked outside the stadium 

• 
One lucky fan will win a FREE mountain bike 


• 

~cdn"d'Y· Ap<il 23, 1997 
• JOCK STRIP 
The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
More behind Lalazarian transfer than mef~ts the eye 
Show your Seniors you care! 

Advertise in the
ATTENTION 
May 16th 
Observer Commencement Issue!
SOPHOMORES! 

Hurry and reserve sp,ace before May 13th!
ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 
1-6900 
Call Early for best results
Official Class Ring 

.... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... : 
Vl 
t'l'l 
Going to~~ New City? ~ 
Vl 
Career & Placement Services can help you 
-
Orders may be placed in the bookstore beginning 
find other N.D. grads 
Wednesday, Apri/23rd 
going to the same city. 
Vl 
t'l'l 
THE HAMMES 

Stop By and Sign Up Now! ~ ~ ­
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
Open: Monday thru Friday: 9:00am-7:00pm, Saturday: 9:00am-5:00pm, Sunday: 11:OOam-5:00pm 
N 
eek ago today, David Lalazarian made public is intention to transfer from Notre Dame at the end of the semester. With this an­nouncement came a myriad of 
feelings: dis­appointment, sadness and confusion. 
The disap­pointment and sadness can be attrib­uted to Notre 

Dame and John Coppolella Lalazarian, Sports Writer respectively. However, the confusion lies in the reasoning behind Lalazarian's transfer; specifi­cally, why did Lalazarian trans-
The University of Notre Dame's SAINT MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY will again offer 
SUMMER STORAGE 

Storage Policy: 
As Wyche, Friel, and Dillon prepare to run the show for the 
• Storage begins April 21, 1997, with drop off at the laundry 
Distribution Center located on campus. 
Irish next year with so little 
• Students may request that the storage fee be deducted from 
experience, it becomes obvious their laundry contract, however, YOU NEED NOT HAVE A 
that the mistakes that were never made as freshmen due to
CONTRACT TO PARTICIPATE. 
a lack of playing time will come 
• All garments and linens MUST be laundered or dry cleaned back to haunt Notre Dame. It is MacLeod's success in college
(no leather/suede or pillows) by Saint Michael's at the time 
basketball and the NBA that
of storage and a $7 per order storage fee will be added to 
prompted him to play White and your invoice (does not include the cleaning fee). 
Miller so often down the stretch. Any smart coach knows the
• All items must be retrieved from the bundl-e distribution 
importance of experience and,
center no later than September 5, 1997, or an additional 
to some extent, this justifies fee of 25% of the total invoice will be imposed. 
MacLeod's reasoning. At the same time, this also explains part of why Lalazarian trans­ferred. Seeing limited playing
Saint Michael's Bundle Distribution Center Hours: 8 A.M.-4:30P.M. M-F 631-7565 
fer and what are the implica­tions of this transfer on the Notre Dame basketball pro­gram? 
In the April 17 sports edition of the South Bend Tribune, Lalazarian was quoted as say­ing, "There are a lot of factors [for the transfer], a lot of rea­sons." Among the reasons of­fered by the South Bend Tribune were the logjam at the position of small forward and his desire to go to school closer to home. ­
Both of these reasons are le­gitimate, but would these rea­sons alone push someone with as much talent and potential as Lalazarian to forsake a year of eligibility in addition to relin­quishing the exposure of the Big time himself, Lalazarian turned to his fellow freshmen, who were seeing less, if any, playing time. Frustrated, Lalazarian questioned his involvement in the future of the program. 
MacLeod's integrity, at least indirectly, also contributed to the transfer. While Lalazarian was questioning his involvement in the future of the program, he was no doubt also questioning the future of the program itself. The fact that Notre Dame has not landed a Top-20 recruiting prospect since Gary Bell does not bode well for the expected success of the program. 
While the rest of the Big East was signing the cream of this year's basketball crop, the Irish were seemingly left out in the cold. This can be attributed to MacLeod's integrity in the recruiting process and his rare yet admirable practice of treat­ing every recruit the same. 
While it is admirable and in­dicative of the aims of the University, the fact of the matter is that it has not produced results. Ultimately, the "fac­tors" that Lalazarian neglected to mention -the lack of playing time accorded to the freshmen, the inexperience and expected inconsistency at the guard posi­tion as a result of this lack of playing time, and the fact that the Irish have been unable to land a top recruit -seem like more appropriate reasons for transferring. 
Lalazarian, however. is a class act and could not bring up these factors because they would dis­parage the Notre Dame pro­gram, and he was not the type of individual to do such a thing. I only wish Lalazarian the best of luck on whatever court he ends up calling his new home. 
The views expressed in a Jock Strip are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
East Conference? I say no. 
While these reasons undoubt­edly contributed to his transfer, I believe the other "factors" in Lalazarian's decision were di­rectly related to the Notre Dame basketball program. Particularly, the "system" op­erated by coach John MacLeod, both on and off the court, all but forced Lalazarian's transfer. 
I admit that Coach MacLeod did a great job this year in tak­ing a team projected by every­one to finish last in the Big East to the Elite Eight of the NIT. I recognize MacLeod's success as a coach in both college ·and the NBA. Also, I recognize the fact that he knows more about the game of college basketball off the top of his head than I will ever know in my lifetime. Finally, MacLeod is a man of integrity in a time when coaches are willing to sell their souls if it means victories. 
Ironically, it is through these auspices that MacLeod operates his "system," and it is this "sys­tem" that all but forced Lalazarian's transfer. MacLeod's success this year was impressive, as he garnered Big East Coach of the Year hon­ors. However, this success came at a price. While Admore White and Pete Miller were playing literally 38 minutes a game down the stretch, the younger guards who will lead Notre Dame next year-Antoni Wyche, Keith Friel, and Jimmy Dillon -were watching from the bench. 
Wyche played some signifi­cant minutes, but the two fresh­men, Friel and Dillon, were unable to get any real time at their respective positions and were unable to make the fresh­man mistakes that allow a col­lege player to improve as a sophomore. Lalazarian, too, saw limited minutes as the sea­son approached its climax. The only other freshman on scholar­ship, Todd Palmer, was red­shirted for the entire season. 
' 

page 24 The Observer • BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL Wednesday, April 23, 1997 

"'t. 
t I 
I t 
I I 
I I I I I 
I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
~ 
I 
• 
I 
I' 
t I I I I I 
I I I I I t t 
,.
I 
-
-
I I I 
I 
'_________..I 
The Observer/Brandond Candura No.3 Malicious Prosecution defeated Jerkstore 21-14 to advance into the round of 32 where they will face Burn N' Shoot. 
Diamond Price Quotations 219 I 246-1939 1-800-969-1945 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
Tlhce Dic&Jm({J)lffid Autlh({J)riiy 
A division of John :M. :Marshall's Inc. Established 1965 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Copyright 1997 hy .John ~I. ~Iarsh:!! I 
The Rites of Spring For 
Juniors 
• 
Bookstore Basketball 

• 
Christmas In April 

• 
Blue-Gold Game 

• 
Resume Submitted To Career and Placement Office For Database and Resume Books 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
BW3 will face I Love It When They Call Me Big Pappa in the round of 32 today. 
Intensive Italian Summer Language Program June -July, 1997 
Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfills Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel*Grammar*Culture*Music*Movies*Art 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/16-7/1 ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/2-7/16 ROIT 103, Intermediate Italian 7/17-7/30 
Classes m~et daily from 9:10-11:20 AM Tutorial from 1:30-2:30 PM 
Contact: Summer School Director at 631-7282 

Make Money Fast! 
Work Reunion Weekend 


r Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Matt Campbell of SWOOSH got blocked last night in Bookstore action. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
11rst time since the 11rst round, defeated WAX. 
Jason Newcomer returned after a two-game absence due to a shoulder injury by scoring seven points. Matt Campbell and Matt Busam each had five points. 
In light of the injury prob­lems, the win was especially impressive. "We feel pretty good about the win," said 
Please Recycle The Observer 



The Observer/Mike Ruma 
No. 20 Vanilla Thunder defeated WPO II, 21-15, in their round of 64 matchup. 
HUGO BY HUGO BOSS 
CUSTOMIZED GIFT SETS 
FREE GIFT BOX WHEN YOU PURCHASE ANY 2 OR MORE HUGO FRAGRANCE FAVORITES 
LUS, FREE MASSAGE OIL .S·OZ. WHEN YOU PURCHASE ANY HUGO CUSTOMIZED GIFT SET Featured from the collection: Cologne Spray 1.3-oz., $28. Deodorant, $14. Scented Soap, $13. Also available from the collection: Massage Oil 6.7-oz., $26.. After Shave 3.4-oz., $30. After Shave Balm 3.4-oz., $26. 
Quantities limited on free offers. Valid while supplies last. 
-
Swoosh's Darnell Smith. 
"Newcomer came out and played a tough game. He drove to the hoop and got fouled a few times, and the shoulder looks good, so hope­fully. we're ready to make a run." 
Swoosh captain Benedict Rocchio, who scored three points, felt the game was his team's best showing yet. 
"This was our best effort. With everyone back from injury, we're really satisfied with the way things came together." 
L·S·AYRES 

... 
~---------------~----­
~---­
-
r
, , ~ ~ 
~ 
I 
,I 
, 
I 
--.._.------------­
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WoMEN's GoLF 
. 
Team developing consistency 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
A week after being labeled in­consistent by coach Ross Smith, the women's golf team re­sponded with one of its best out­ings of the season -all but one golfer finished in the Top 20. 
Facing better weather condi­tions then they had endured the past several weeks, Notre Dame finished in second place -two strokes behind host Illinois and 13 strokes ahead of third place finisher Eastern Michigan. 
"They played real well this weekend, and I am proud of their finish. This is a great way to end the season," said an ex­cited Smith. 
Leading the way for the Irish this weekend was junior co-cap­tain Tracy Melby, who posted a 153 and recorded the first medalist win of her career. Melby came out on the first day and shot a two-over 75. After bogeying her first couple of holes the second day, she was one over par for the remaining 15. 
"Tracy has unlimited potential and has always been capable of winning a tournament. She can overpower a course like Tiger Woods with her long drives. The ironic part of her finishing first was that this wasn't her 'A' game," Smith commented on his co-captain. 
"Overall, I played well this weekend, and I was glad to see 
Women•s Golf 
Women•s Golf 

Individual Scores 
1. Tracy Melby 75-78 153 
8. Mary Anne Hall 78-81 159 / 
13. Katie King 82-78 160 ,,/ 13. Beth Cooper 81-79 16Cl 16. Andrea Klee 78-83 1(11 
32: Brigid Fischer 86-·· '77 ~ 
myself finish strong," added Melby. 
Finishing behind Melby on the Irish team was Marty Anne Hall. Hall, a senior playing in her last tournament for Notre Dame, finished in eighth place with a 159, the best finish of her career. Also coming in for the Irish was the other co-captain Katie King, who finished 13th with a 160. Tying King was freshman Beth Cooper, ·Who carded an identical 160. Finishing in 18th place was Andrea Klee, one stroke behind King and Cooper. 
Klee, who struggled during the fall and the beginning of the spring, gave her best two show­ings in the past two tourna­

626 628 641 643 
The Observer/ Melissa Weber 
ments. 
"I stayed home for a couple of the tournaments, and this gave me extra time to practice. Also, Coach Smith changed my swing last season, and I really didn't have confidence in it," stated Klee. "I am very happy with how I have been playing, espe­cially now because I am playing like I am capable of." 
The Irish have finished the 1996-97 season and are antici­pating the fall season. 
"Our strength is our seniors, but we are expecting big things from Cooper and Klee. We also have two recruits entering, Mary Klein and Becca Schloss, both who can break 80 at any time. Another added bonus is that we will have one of the deepest squads I have ever coached, and the players will become better while they are jockeying for position on the travel squad," Smith added. "I am looking forward to this group. It will be the strongest team I've ever had." 
"We are looking good for next year. but we are losing Marty Anne who is a tough competi­tior. We are all hoping for good things to happen," stated Melby. 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
• MEN'S GOLF 
Irish beginning to gain national respect 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team appears to be on a role. After winning the Big East championship last fall, the team finished no lower than sixth in any of its tourna­ments. 
This past weekend was no exception. 
The Irish finished fifth in an 18-team field which included almost the entire Big Ten conference and the MAC. The team shot an 884 for three rounds, two shots behind the team ahead of them and five strokes ahead of Illinois and Eastern Kentucky. The 884 figures out to an average score of 73.67 for each golfer. 
''The team has played the best golf I have seen as a team in nine years. Our per­formance at this tournament moved us up to ninth in the region and gives us a good chance to make the NCAAs," said coach George Thomas. 
"Our play this season is starting to get us known on the national level; we are gaining respect from our competitors," stated senior co-captain Brian Donohue. "When I was a freshman we weren't well known, but now we are making a name for ourselves, and I wish I could remain here for another' four years." 
Donohue came out of the gate early, carding an open­ing round one-under 71. The next two days saw him shoot a 75 and two under 70. Donohue finished with 216 even par, the best 54-hole total for the Irish in the 1990s. 
"Brian played as well as he has played all year, especially after being paired with two top golfers," commented Thomas. 
"I played real well this weekend. Last year I strug­gled at this tournament, and I made it my goal this year to play well at this tournament," added Donohue. 
Donohue was complement­ed by his teammates, all of whom finished in the top 50. Donohue's fellow co-captain Joel Hepler turned in a 225 in his second to last tour­nament. Hepler was matched exactly round by round by next year's captain Bryan Weeks. 
Once again, fifth man Todd Vernon played well, shooting a 226 and carding a 7 4 in his final round. Vernon now leads the team this year in stroke average with a 76.07. Depending on this weekend's tournament, Vernon has a chance to break Joe Dennen's stroke average of 75.90, which was set in the 1992-93 season. 
"He is playing extremely well for a freshman at this level of competition," stated Thomas. 
"l am real proud of him," said Donahue. "He is starting a great career here at Notre Dame. His presence gives us a solid lineup all the way through. He is a great addi­tion to the team." 
The Irish end their season this weekend as they travel to Cleveland for the Cleveland State Invitational. 
"I hope the team will play well again this weekertd, and we will end the year on a good note," finished Thomas. 
• 

r--------­
page 27 
Wednesday, April 23, 1997 The Observer • TODAY 

-· 
IF YOU CHEW TOBACCO AND WANT TO QUIT, ASK US, WE CAN HELP! 
NOW AVAILABLE IN THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION, FREE MINT SNUFF, ALL MINT CHEW. THE HEALTHY ALTERNATIVE TO CHEWING TOBACCO!! CALL 631­7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 

DAN SULLIVAN 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

M.Y COMPANY WON'T GIVE ME MY STOCK OPTIONS UNLES5 I SIGN TI-IIS NEW EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Place to lose oneself
1 Cookbook 27 Emasculate
phrase 30 "Now I see!" 
4 You can't control it 31 Supped 9Ramadan 32 Like some observance eligibles, once 3 Beaujolais, say 33 Eponymous 4 Rock band 
physicist named for an 35 Party item inventor 
41 Weed 15 Mr. Tgroup 
42 Caps Lock 17 Fraternity letter neighbor, on a computer
18 Hunter of myth 19 A masked man 
43 Something to shoot for 20 Looking through photo 
44 Zeppo, for one albums, 47Where the perhaps? buffalo roam 23 Baseball's 49 Label info Sandberg so--pro nobis 24 Reactor part 51 Bilko's rank: 25 Posed Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
:E g
0 
t'M NOT
WHAT
0 
_, 
.
YAOA., '<A.D/l..., 
u ~ 
DO 
REA-DING IT.
0.. 
~ ,.. 'YOU
'(AD/l..., '(A.Ot.., 
I J'U5T LIKE
"' @ :E
.. 
"' ~ THINK? 
TO LOOK A.T
'<ADA, YADA., 
. ,
..0 1­1­
~ 
00CUME~T5
'<ADA., YAOA., 
5257-Down measurement 53 #1 movie of 
1985 59 Singer Cara &OComposer 
Copland 
61 "Interview With the Vampire" co-star 
62 Debussy work 63 Post-toast sound 64 "Independence 
Day" villains 65 High schooler &&Some 
cigarettes &7 Like a wallflower 
DOWN 
1 Declare as fact 2 Highbrows 3 One critically 
examining 4 Hot spot 5 Prefix with 
27 Experience 40 Italian numero 52 Street toughs 
scope or meter 28 Cultural org. 44 Shell competitor 54 Baby-bouncing
6 "Q --queen" 7 Work hard 
29 Quetzalcoatl 45 Genesis mount locale 
a Repeated word worshiper 46 Flower part 55 Vigorous 9 Disconcerted 30 Wake-up times: 48Go at 56 Land of poetry Abbr.
10 Over 49Wait 57 Printer's choice 32 Surprised cry 
11 Hoverer near 51 Unaccommo­sa Accommodat­God's throne 34 "Just hold 
dating ing 12 Human ankle 
everything!" 
16 Words on a coat 36"-1138" (1971 sci-fi film) 
of arms Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 21 Suffix with Alp 37 U.P.S. cargo: are available by touch-tone phone: 22 Center of a roast Abbr. 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
26 Queen 38 Connoisseurs Annual subscriptions are available for the described by 39 Home of Mary best of Sunday crosswords from the last Mercutio and Joseph 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Valerie Bertinelli, jan Hooks, Shirley Temple Black, Roy Orbison 
DEAR I UGENIA: I was born May 3, 1975, at L:05 a.m. I have been dating a man for a few years and we have had several problems. He is a Gemini born May 28, 1975, at 4:05 p.m. I know we aren't very compatible, but 1 really care about him. Do you think that all the effort that I put into this isn't worth it in the long-run? I know that he loves me too, but I never feel like 1fully satisfy him. 
Playing with a Twin 
DEAR PLAYING WITH A TWIN: When dealing with Geminis, never curtail their freedom and always stimulate their minds. In this partic­ular case, your Gemini has the planet Venus (representing lo •e) in the sign Cancer. Therefore, you can also satis­fy him if you are a great cook. On the other hand, looking at your chart, you may think like a Taurus, but you have the planet Venus in your natal chart in the sign Gemini. Your com­parison was adequate, but it did show a lack of passion. Work, under­standing and compromise will be a must if you want this union to last. You are likely to meet someone at the turn of the year who will capture your heart and match up to you much better. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Don't 
trust others with your personal pa­
per>. You must be sure not to donate 
more than you can really afford. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): '\'our 
high energy should be spent pleasing 
your mate. Have a heart-to-heart talk 
with iamilv members and find out ex-
Born Today: You were born with the kind oi passit>n that it takes to be ~real. Now .111 vou havt• to do is hame.-.s your de-;ires and make it so. You arc thL' master of vour destiny so don't hold yourself back just bl'G1use you face nbstll­clt.•s this ,-~·ar 
actly what the problems are. 
GEMINI (May 22-june 21): You are begim:ing to build momentum at your place of work. You should be able to mo ke notable contributions. 
CANCER (June 22-July 22): You can make some quality purchases to­day. Don't be afraid to call old friends and find out what they're up to. 
LEO (july 23·Aug. 23): Don't bother trying to hide something from your mate. It is best to be honest and clear the air. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): You can make financial gains if you imple­ment your ideas. Don't let too many friends in on your intentions. 
LIBRA _(Sept. 23-0ct. 23): You can make career moves or receive more responsibility and higher pay if you put forth an effort. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): You will find that you have gained popu­larity, and now you can rely on the strong force of allies. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 
You may want to start your own busi­
ness. Don't quit your present job, just 
work longer hours. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 20): 
You can meet new partners if you at­
tend community meetings. Your in­
terest in the area that surrounds you 
will put you into a leadership posi­
tion. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 21-Feb. 18): Don"t 
get involved in idle chatter or di­
lemmas that are none oi your busi­
ness. You can easily get dragged into 
a precarious position by someone 
afraid to speak their mind. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get­
together with people who are well in· 
formed in areas you have an intere>t 
in. Don't make promises you can't 
keep. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join Tht~ Observer staff. 
-
..... 
-

-
SPORTS 
page 28 Wednesday, April 23, 1997 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Top four seeds advance easily into round of 32 

Lamont Bryant will play an integral role in the defense next season. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Matt Doring of Vanilla Kernals shoots over a defender in Bookstore action . 
• BASEBALL 
Irish suffer tough loss to Wolverines 
By BRIAN REINTHALER. Assistant Sports Editor 
For the Irish baseball team, there is good news and bad news. 
Bad news first: 
Going into Comstock Park, Mich., last night, the Irish were hoping to follow up a workman-like sweep of conference foe Villanova by pinning a defeat on rival Michigan. Things did not go exactly as planned. 
The Wolverines avenged an 8-3 loss at Eck Stadium from a year ago by knocking o!T Notre Dame 5-3 in yesterday's re­gional showdown. 
The game started rather well for the Irish. In fact, at the end of six innings, the Blue and Gold held a 1-0 lead and sopho­more right-hander Chris McKeown was working on one of the best starts of his young career. . 
However, it all fell apart in the seventh inning. McKeown, who ultimately pitched 6 2/3 innings with two walks and two strike outs, got knocked around for five runs before he was lift­ed with two outs in the decisive frame. Wolverine rightfielder Derek Besco rec;orded the game winning hit by doubling in two runs which put Michigan in the lead for good. 
Notre Dame began an attempt at a comeback. adding a run in the bottom of the seventh. Freshman right-hander Tom O'Hagan, who came on in relief of McKeown in the seventh, 
see BOOKSTORE I page 25 By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Senior Spores Writer 
If any observers had doubts about the ability of the top­four seeded teams in the Bookstore tournament, they may have been silenced with the impressive showings by those teams in last night's action. 
As expected. Corby's, Muddy Waters, Malicious Prosecution, and Swoosh III all advanced to the round of 32 in dominating fashion. 
Top-seeded Corby's defeated The Curve, 21-9, as Tim Ridder exploded for the second straight game with eight points. Fans were shaking their heads early on as their opponents jumped to a quick 2-0 lead. but then Ridder and fellow forward Bob Baxter took over. Baxter, who fin­ished with four points, lit up the opposition, scoring three from long distance in the first half. 
Dan Fannon and Ridder were 

Benedict Rocchio, of No. 4 SWOOSH, is shown here driving to the hole in last night's matchup against WAX, which SWOOSH won, 21-15. 
superior on both the offensive and defensive side of the court, out-rebounding The Curve for­wards. 
Guards Kevin Carretta and Jeff Kloska showed their offen­sive prowess, leading several fast breaks and driving the lane, eventually leading to a collapse by The Curve. 
"This win was a good step­ping stone for our team and a good build-up for the end of the week," said 1996 Bookstore MVP Dan Fannon. 
Despite the slow start by Corby's, the players were satisfied with the outcome. 
"I think we started out slop­py once again. but we're slow­ly progressing and hoping to pick it up in the next couple of days," said Kloska, who fin­ished with four points. 
Second-seeded Muddy Waters' quickness and height was too much for 5 Ex-Porn Stars, as they advanced with a 21-7 thrashing. 
Tempers flared early on after Muddy Waters' Bobby Brown was the victim of a hard foul, but after aetion resumed, the quick play of Mark Johnson and the towering tandem of forwards Leon Wallace and 
Lamont Bryant proved too mueh for Porn Stars to handle. 
In other action, third-seeded Malicious Prosecution and No. 4 Swoosh Ill were on fire, easi­ly advancing. Malicious Prosecution utilized a well-bal­anced attack, downing Jerkstore 21-11. 
In another game where tem­pers flared during regular trash-talking sessions between players, Swoosh Ill, playing with a healthy squad for the 
see BOOKSTORE I page 25 
• fOOTBALL 
Bryant impressive in spring 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Spons Editor 
-
Even before Lamont Bryant stepped onto campus he had been sidelined. On his way to campus, the rising sophomore 
was involved in an automobile accident and was forced to sit out his freshman year with the injury. 
After he recovered from his injuries, he was still forced to watch from the sidelines because Bert Berry had a lock 
·~ on the starting outside line­backer position and his class­mate Kory Minor had the other. 
But all that has changed this spring with the injuries behind him, and Berry's selection by the Indianapolis Colts in the NFL draft. Bryant's time has finally come, and he is taking full advantage.
.... "I haven't really seen him play until now," Minor said. "The guy's a great player; he goes out there and gives 100 percent every play." 
see FOOTBALL I page 19 

vs. Northwestern 
• Gottlieb finds new home
Today, 7 p.m. 
MfJ at Michigan State 
' ® Saturday, 2 p.m. 
see page 22 
Softball, vs. Butler 
Today, 4 p.m. 
Softball, at Kalamazoo. 
• Bookstore schedule 
College, Thursday, 4 p.m. 
Track, at Drake Relays 
see page 20 
April25-26 
.. 











