
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 18 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'Key' change causes frustration among students 
This is because since January, the ATMs to get change from us,"ATM headaches KeyBank ATM machines have only 
Miller said. dispensed cash in increments with Students find that getting in line $20 bills. for a KeyBank tnller is the only
caused by $20 
"From the bank's perspective, option they have, since many it's the most common denominator LaFortune businesses will simply
bill-only policy 
of a bill that's requested. It allows send them back to the bank if they 
us to store more money and allows are paying with large bills, like By MICHELLE KRUPA the maximum number of transac­twenties. Associate News Editor tions in the most convenient way," "They will come in and buy a 10­
said Ken Baier!, public relations cent lollipop to break a $20 bill," ''Ya mean you're not allowed to 
manager for KeyBank. said Rose Horak, owner of the take less than $20 out of the ATM 
But the convenience is not Country Harvester. 
machirw at a tin111'?" asks a student always apparent, since between "It's a major inconvenience to standing in front of a KeyBank five and 10 students stand in line the business and the students," she ATM in LaFortune's basement. daily at KeyBank to get change for added,"because if they have big
"Nope, not in our machines," 
the $20 bills they receive from the bills, we just send them back to the rPsponds t1dler Jan Miller. 
ATMs. bank. This short conversation, accord­"The kids just get right back in "It's hard for me because I have ing to Miller, now occurs regularly. 
line here after waiting in line for 
see KEY I page 4 


Boys: Jews, Keeping Watch Peace Corps gets Catholics steady stream of must bond recruits from ND 
By SARAH HANSEN 
News Writer 

By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Since its inception in 1961, mor~ than 150,000 Americans have joined the Peace Corps, and

l'rPjudiees in the early 
641 of those volunteers have been Notre Dame

Church may inhibit Jewish­
alumni.

Christian rnlationships today, In a recent letter to University President
a!'cording to Mary Boys, 
Father Edward Malloy, Peace Corps director

SNJM. 
Mark Gearan announced that Notre Dame ranksBoys, who opnrwd the Notre 39th among all colleges and universities produc­Dame llolocaust Program last ing Peace Corps volunteers. 

night. J'nnls that a major stum­"Throughout its history, the Peace Corps canbling blo!'k for the Jewish­trace much of its success to the energy and ide­
Christian relationship is the 
alism of American college students," Gearan

wording of thn New 
wrote in his letter. "These colleges and universi­TPstanwnt. 

ties are to be commended for producing stu­"OnP of our own problems is dents committed to making a difference, with a

that we havn text that does 
thirst for adventure, and with the desire to expe­not talk favorably about Jews 

rience a new culture in an ever-changing

lJpt·ausp of thP. nra it was world."
writtr,n in," she said. "One of The Peace Corps is an independent govern­tlw things that SPPms to me is ment agency responsible for serving 87 coun­
so importar1t ... is that we 
tries worldwide. A typical volunteer enters a

have to understand what the 
two-year overseas service term, during which

tradition is in our religious 
he works to fight hunger, bring clean water totPXt." 

communities, teach children. start new smallBoys' goal is to promote a businesses and stop the spread of AIDS.

dnep faith in Jesus among 
The majority of volunteers have earned an

Christians. while at thn same .. time emphasizing a respect 
see PEACE I page 4 

for otlwr rnligions. "I believe this is a new phe­• l nomPnon. I brlieve it raises 
j
tlw question of whether reli­gious pluralism is God's will," 

Roommate problems? Now there's help
sl11• said. Pointing to the fact that 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Mary's students in the past mediators before any changes
Christianity originatnd within 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor years have been allowed to of rooms will occur. 
thr, Jewish tradition, Boys move rooms when problems Mediators will be chosen
nmphasizr,d the connections The Saint Mary's Residence arise. only after they attend thebrtween the two faiths. 
Life and Housing staff has cre­However, signatures from training meetings in October.
"All the way through history a new and effective way advisors Student
ated hall and Monthly meetings will be held 
we were connected in some 
of promoting a positive living Housing have always been thereafter, where mediators 
way. some ways subtly and, in 
environment within the cam­necessary to make the moving can discuss their progress and some ways, more directly," 
pus. dents allows them to grow and 
express any concerns.
she said. 
Katherine Rosswurm, the create bonds of friendships Activities such as role play­Due to this connection. Boys coordinator of Residence Life that will last a lifetime, said ing and ice-breakers will be
fnnls it is vital to foster a 
and Housing, has high hopes Rosswurm. · used to familiarize studentshealthy relationship between for this program. and the stu­"This program, when used during the training sessions.
tlwsc two faith traditions. llcr 
dents who choose to take effectively, can be extremely "Being a peer-mediator is 
own interest stems from years 
advantage of what it has to beneficial to students and not an easy job," stated
of work alongside and friend­offer. their own growth," Rosswurm Rosswurm. "It requires muchship with people of a Jewish "Roommate Communication" said. Through programs such patience and dedicationbackground. 
is the newly implemented pro­as this, an open and honest towards others feelings."
"I don't think we're going to 
gram developed to encourage atmosphere will be created Confidentiality, honesty, and go anywhere unless we have 
better relations between throughout the entire commu­Katherine Rosswurm willingness to communicate
people willing to dialogue," 
roommates. nity. with one's roommate are fac­
Boys said. "Sometimes it's 
T.he residence hall room "Co-peer mediators will be tors that all help to make this nasy to think that the other's 
where students live is their used, and there would be a program effective.
faith life is inadequate when home away from home. Time way to communicate and bring When students are willing to 
you don't know them. What 
spent with their hall communi­students together," she said. process final. let their guards down, and
happens when you meet a 
ty has proven to be an impor­It is hoped that this program Still, with this program, stu­begin communicating with
faithful person who isn't 
tant factor in one's develop­will encourage these women to dents will be required to meet their roommates, mediators ment through college. Time be more willing to share their and discuss their problems
see BOYS/ page 6 
co-

spent with their fellow stu-concerns with housing. Saint and concerns with two see ROOMMATE I page 4 



Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
r r 
t 
• iNSIDE COLUMN 
Bringing the problem to 
the front 
Amid the flurry of com­ments surrounding Monday's letter to the edi­tor from Notre Dame sophomores Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller, we at The Observer have been inundated with let­ters -from both Saint Brad Prendergast

Mary's and Notre Dame 
Editor-in-Chief
students -deploring the two women's state­ment. 

We've also gotten some phone calls asking us why we ran the letter in the first place. 
To us here in the newsroom, the answer is pretty clear: The Viewpoint pages are reserved for members of the campus commu­nity to say almost anything they want to say. So. we make it a point to run letters on almost any topic, no matter how much we personally may disagree with the content. As our masthead on the Viewpoint page states, "The free expression of varying opinions is encouraged." And Monday's letter was defi­nitely a varying opinion. 
But to our readership, the reason we decid­ed to publish the letter may not be so clear. Certainly the letter offended 2,000 people at Saint Mary's and many more at Notre Dame. The letter touched off a heated rally Monday night at Holy Cross Hall, and precipitated a slew of angry opinion pieces from both sides of U.S. 33. 
There are plenty of times when an op-ed submission appears to go too far for us to publish it. When that happens, we editors sit down and debate the worthiness of printing the letter. On the one hand. we prefer not to censor, but on the other hand, there are boundaries that should not be exceeded. We operate by the rule of thumb that if a ques­tionable letter is not written in good taste and does nothing to further intellectual discus­sion, then it ought not to run. An example in this category-and something that we've actually received in the past-would a piece that doubts the Holocaust ever happened. 
With the letter in question, there was no doubt that what Syner and Fuller said was in poor taste. But publishing the letter had some redeeming value: It brought to the surface the type of comments that are made in the dorm rooms, in the dining halls and in the hallways of the Notre Dame campus. 
The comments don't come from just one campus, of course. Each side is guilty of viewing the other in a limited fashion that is less than fair. · 
For the most part, the originators of these comments say them in jest. Unfortunately, they exacerbate tensions between the stu­dents on both campuses that simply don't need to be there. But the fact is, that uneasi­ness does exist. Syner and Full~lf·s letter serves as the wake-up call to that fact. 
These tensions are grounded in stereotypes that are themselves groundless. And the stereotypes will continue to exist as long as they remain only an undercurrent and are never brought to the forefront. That's why printing the Syner and Fuller letter is so important. Syner and Fuller have a right to say what they want to say, but public opinion also has a right to show them where they've gone wrong. 
In publishing this letter, we are not aiming only to stir things up. We are hoping that the ensuing discussion will make those stereo­types look as stupid as they really are. 
• Tm:uw·s STAFF 
News Accent David Freddoso Ashleigh Thompson Derek Betcher Andrea Jordan Sports Graphics Mike Day Tom Roland Viewpoint Production 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum Tara Grieshop Kelly Brooks Lab Tech Shannon Dunne 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excc:pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc: reserved. 
• V'VORLO AT A GLANCE 
Bomb explodes in Northern Ireland police station 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland ,,_ casting service HTE said the IHA was not 
Gerry Adams led his IHA-allied dele-~ 'F .;,:UNITED responsible for the blast. The caller used gation back into peace talks today, i r[]:,'~tNGDOM a recognized IRA code-word. hours before a bomb blew up outside a i Atlantic Ocean > . ~i'1 " .r-~ Before the blast, Adams, l(~ader of the police station outside the capital. i \.('·,~_;· ~LJ' · Sinn Fein party, had called on Trimble to 
The Ulster Unionists, the main pro-! ..,. IRELAN,:·:D.. • ' ' have the "courage of his convictions" 
·• c , ·>FRANCE
British Protestant party, which with-i "" and join negotiations. drew from the talks Monday, stayed ·~ j'4· L He also accused the unionists of trying away again, considering British and NORTHERN ~ to renegotiate the talks process from the Irish proposals to get them back to the 1 J IREL~ND ~ outside. table. ~ ("·...--,1_..,.."' . "The reality is that they are afraid of 
With news of the bombing at a police n_./'P ) )' tt"l the negotiations, they are afraid of real station in Markethill, 35 miles south-r<i() lt'IF.Til~iillll t.-..._fBelfast Q>.. negotiations because they are afraid of west of Belfast, Ulster Unionist leader , " Explosion fj change," Adams said. David Trimble headed for the scene. No "L.,~ ~~~-~g:~~-"'·-·-... • ~5) After a day of British-Irish shuttle injuries were reported in the blast, <~")! ~, i diplomacy among the pro-British parties which followed an anonymous warning 25 miles (._•.•·~~_)lrish Monday. there had been hope-that three that did not contain the Irish 2Skm IRELAND ~,_:;1 Sea of Northern Ireland's live Protestant par-Republican Army's usual code-word. tics would end their boycott and rejoin
L_________s._____j 
Hours later a caller to the Irish broad-AP the process. 
Clapton plays for island benefit 
LONDON 
Eric Clapton, Elton John, Sting and other rock stars drew a capacity crowd to Royal Albert Hall for a benefit con­cert to help the people of the stricken volcanic island of Montserrat. "This concert is just a gesture to show the people of Montserrat that somebody is thinking of them," Sir Paul McCartney, the former. Beatie, told the audience of 

4,500 Monday night. Sir Paul, Elton John, Eric Clapton, Mark Knopller, Sting and Phil Collins all performed solo sets before joining forces to sing the Beatles' anthem "Hey Jude" at the end of the Music for Montserrat con­cert. Although a final figure for the proceeds were not immediately available, record producer Sir George Martin, who organized the concert, said he hopes to have raised up to $1.6 million. Earlier Monday, David Brandt, the chief minister of the British colony, dis­cussed a new package of measures to aid the island with Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Robin Cook. "Both the Prime Minister and myself have assured Mr. Brandt that the Labor Government in Britain remains fully committed to the future viability of the island of Montserrat," Cook told reporters at Downi'ng Street. 
LAPD increases firepower with M-16s 
LOS ANGELES 
The Police Department has acquired 600 military sur­plus M-16 rifles to increase firepower against heavily armed suspects such as the two armor-clad bank rob­bers who fired their assault rifles with impunity at police as officers' bullets bounced off them in a televised shootout in February. Officers had to rush to a nearby gun store for more firepower in the middle of the gun battle. Both suspects were killed, and eight police offi­cers and three bystanders were wounded. "Never, ever again do I want to see officers of the Los Angeles Police Department outgunned," Gov. Pete Wilson at a news conference Tuesday at the Police Academy, where gun­fire from a shooting range crackled in the distance. The acquisition was announced shortly before another tele­vised bank robbery unfolded in Los Angeles. A Great Western Bank heist in Van Nuys was thwarted by two retired lawmen working security who killed one would­be robber. wounded a second and scared off three oth­ers. The manhunt was broadcast live on local television. The M-16s were obtained from the Defense Department with the help of state authorities. 
Typo causes $617,597 error 
CLEVELAND 

A city employee inadvertently punched in a 4 instead of a 1, and $617,597 wound up in the account of an anti­crime group. What happfmed next, prosecutors say, was itself a crime: Members of the organization converted the money into checks for four of them and spent a chunk of it, even though they say they didn't know where the money came from. Now. two leaders of the organization devoted to fighting black-on-black crime have been charged with grand theft. And the mayor. fac­ing a primary on Sept. 30, has suspended seven city employees, including his finance director. Art McKoy, founder of Black on Black Crime Inc., and chairman Abdul Rahim Ali Hasan could get up to live years in jail if convicted. The men insist that their bank told them the deposit was legitimate, and that they thought it might have come from a grant they had applied for or from an anonymous benefactor. They won't say how they spent the money -nor will prosecutors -but in the past week, the men have returned $146,600 -and a 1991 Mercedes. Mayor Michael H. White said the men "knew exactly what they were doing." "We have clear legal documentation that they were advised, before one dollar of this money was spent, that this m01wy was wire­transferred to their account by the city of Cleveland," he said. 
Soybeans jump to six-month high 
CHICAGO 

Soybean futures prices rose to six-month highs Tuesday .on the Chicago Board of Trade, with rain in thi~ South and forecasts for frost in the Upper Midwest threatening a record harvest needed to replenish virtual­ly non-existent inventories. On other markets, precious metals futurns prices plunged after the govcrnmP-nt reported that inflation is being held at bay. Copper futures fP-11 to 10-month lows as production outpaced world demand. Soybeans available for immediate usc have become virtually impossible to lind as inventories fall to the lowest level in 20 years and as foreign and domestic demand continues to exceed expectations, said analyst Dale Gustafson at Smith Barney Inc. With wide­spread harvesting set to begin in just a fnw wnnks, expnctations wnre that processing would come to a halt while producnrs await new supplies and falling prices. But the National Oilseed Processors Association, in a report on August usage, revealed an unexpectedly sharp drop in soybean oil inventories and found that implied usage hit a record level. "The latest crush report showed there's a lot of concern about where new supplies are going to come from," Gustafson said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime t:onditions and high temperatures 

f''·-----~;­I l  '----··.  H  L  
Wednesda yQ,  78 56  
Thursday  ~  76 60  
Friday  c:=1  80 60  

Satur~ay 4, ,64 56 
{" ,_) 

Sunday ;~ 59 49 
V'·"<S' .'-,.f' ,,J .,, 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta ASSOCt81Bd Press 
8,9,~9Q,Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



DeCrane establishes scholarship 
By MARY ZAKAS never be denied to a worthy over the student's four-year News Writer student because of financial undergraduate period. 
need." The DeCranes have been 
Outstanding students in Notre Jeff l'ethick, Notre Dame's actively involved in several Damp's College of 1\.rts and scholarship coordinator, com­University councils and alumni Letters will now have the mented that the DeCrann fund's programs. DeCrane is also a chance to bennfit from the Joan purpose is to "make a differ­contributor to Notre Dame's lloiTman lkCrane Scholarship ence in an exceptional student's $767 million "Generations" Fund for Excellence, estab­ability to attend Notre Dame," project. lishnd by Mrs. DeCrane's hus­aiding one who, without a DeCrane graduated from band, 1\.lfn~d. scholarship, may not financially Notre Dame in 1953. After 
"This is a generous, timely, be abln to consider the school serving in the Marine Corps and crucially important com­as an option for college. and studying law at mitment." said University The DeCrane scholarship is Georgetown University, l'residPnt. !;ather Edward open to undergraduates in the DeCrane joined Texaco Inc. in M a ll oy . "!\. s a N o t r<~ D a m e Collegn of 1\.rts and Letters. The 1959. In 1996, he retired from alumnus. pan~nt, friend. benn­recipient is subject to an annual his position as Texaco's chair­l'a!'tor. advisor. and trustee, !\.1 review which will evaluate his man and chief executive. DeCnuw keenly appreciates our or her academic progress. This A scholarship recipient has determination to ensure that a review must be passed in order already been selected for this NotrP Dame education will for the scholarship to extend academi!: year. 

The Largest Thai Restaurant in the Michiana Area 
Experience Authentic Food in an Exotic Atmosphere 

6502 N. Grape Road #798 Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Phone: 219/271-THAI (8424) Fax: 219/272-670 I 
Located in University Center next to Service Merchandise 

Gootblatt addresses gender relations 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY  importance of honesty and  
News Writer  truth in relationships.  
Additionally, Gootblatt  
For the sixth year in a row,  offered some premises for good  
Ellen GootblMt spoke using  relationships. Some of these  
humor and brutal truth at Saint  pointers included that one  
Mary's College last night about  should be happy in a relation­ 
relationships with the opposite  ship, that one should make  
sex, friends, and family in a  themselves fabulous before  
lecture entitled, "Meeting,  reaching out to another person,  
Dating, Helating, and Mating."  and determining if the relation­ 
Gootblatt, who speaks at over  ship enhances a person or if it  
100 colleges per year, has also  diminishes a person.  
had her own ABC radio pro­ Students attending the lec­ 
gram as well as serving as an  ture were impressed with  
advice columnist. In her lec­ Gootblatt and her insights.  
ture, Gootblatt emphasized the  "I thought that what she had  
importance of positive relation­ to say were things that I could  
ships and. understanding the  relate to my life. A lot of what  
differences between the sexes.  she said was very true and  
Although there was only one  things that I will be able to use  
male present at the lecture, she  later in life," .said Hobyn  
stressed the fact that her talk  Chmielewski. a sophomore at  
contains no male bashing.  Saint Mary's.  
"You can't fall in love with  There were also students  
the opposite sex unless you like  present who had seen Gootblatt  
the opposite sex," Gootblatt  on one of her previous visits  
said.  and came back to hear her  
The lone male at the lecture,  again.  
Barry Bergman, a junior at  "I came to see Gootblatt  
Notre Dame, said that Gootblatt  freshman year, and a lot of  
provided insight into the oppo­ what she said was so true.  
site sex.  Much of what she said are  
"It helped me to see how  things that have happened to  
women communicate and how  me in past years," added Amy  
they view relationships,"  Egan, a senior at Saint Mary's.  
Bergman said.  In her final remarks,  
Among the topics that  Gootblatt pointed out that peo­ 
Gootblatt touched on were jeal­ ple make the wrong choices  
ousy, arguing, commitment,  concerning relationships  
and how to know that a person  because they are too hungry  
is the right one for you. As for  for companionship. "People  
finding the right person,  can't settle for mediocrity,"  
Gootblatt said that the relation­ reiterated Gootblatt. "People  
ship should be one that is com­ have the power. to stay in a  
fortable and a person with  relationship or to leave a rela­ 
.whom onefeels like family:  tionship and they shouldn't  
Gootblatt also emphasized the  give that power away."  





Got News? 

Ducker Research Presentation 
You are cordially invited to attend an informational presentation on Ducker Research Company, a global business to business market research and consulting firm with strategic locations in Detroit, Michigan, Paris, France and Beijing, China. 
Ducker Research is expanding its global presence and is looking for individuals interested in global market research. 
• Date:  Thursday, September 18  
• Time:  7:00p.m.  
• Location:  LaFortune Student Center in  
the Dooley Room  

Contact The Observer news depart­
ment at 1-5323. Or, if you prefer, e­
mail us at 
Observer.obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
Doors open 8:00 pm 21 and over with proper lD's $2.00 with college lD ­$4.00 without Off-Duty Uniform Police Security Lighted Parking 

Ir-------------,
Save $1 .00 with this ad before 11 :OOpm

L-------------.J 
WACKY WEDNESDAY'S SOCIAL MIXER 
for Grad Students, Law Shtdents, Faculty and Staff 
Every Wednesday night • FREE ADMISSION 
Doors open 8pm Must be 21 or over. 
-------------------------------~---------------------~----~-----------------------------­
Peace 
continued from page 1 
. 
undergraduate degree. The Corps is touted as being highly selective, accepting volunteers based on their skills and mind­set. 
The Corps' aim is to provide as many Americans as possible an opportunity to serve. 
The University of California at Berkeley, with 2,960 students having joined the Peace Corps, ranks first among all colleges and universities in sending vol­untners. f'ollownd by the University of Wisconsin with 2,237 volunteers and the University of Washington with 1.990. 
llarvard University, one of only two private universities in the top 20. ranks fourth with 1,966 volunteers. 
The University of Michigan, site of President John F. Kennedy's first speech announc­ing the Peace Corps and calling for volunteers, rounds out the top five, having had 1,821 of its graduates join the Corps. 
This year, 25 Notre Dame alumni are currently serving in the Peace Corps, beating out fourth-ranked Harvard, which has 18 alumni presently active. 
Peace Corps spokeswoman Jennifer Ostermeier is pleased with Notre Damn's contribution to the service. "Notre Dame is one of the top 10 volunteer pro­ducing schools in the Midwest," she explained. 
The Peace Corps will hold an information session on Tuesday, Oct. 7 at 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Conerwns. 
to five times daily to get change.
Key 
Students also feel thn effects of only being ablr. to
continued from page 1 
get large bills from the 
to have an excess of change around at all times," llorak said. 
Employees at Irish Gardens Florist find themselves leav­ing the store for one person to manage during the day while another employee goes to KeyBank for small change, according to Christiaan Mamczak. 
"We need to get change for the twenties that people bring in and it gets extremely backed up. If we go to the other businesses, they can't help us because they need it too," Mamczak said. "It's not that we're short of cash but short of small bills." 
lie continued that cus­tomers get irritated with the back-up and that one worker needs to leave the store two 
machines. 
"Thn fact is that a lot of times I don't need $20, and if I don't, it just mnans that I have the cash on me and I'll spend it." sophomore Ileather Jeno said. 
Baier! noted that the bank understands the inconve­nience and attributes it to "the environment where the bank is located," where most businesses conduct transac­tions in small amounts. 
"Under the circumstances, it's something the bank is going to look at to see if we can put smaller bills in the machines," Baier! said. 
"J can't imagine there's any technical reasons we couldn't. It's definitely some­thing we'll look into," he eon­eluded. 
• SECURITY BEAT FRIDAY, SEPT. 12 
1 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from a Knott Hall bike rack" His bike was locked with a U-lock at the time of the theft. 
1:19 p.m. A University VIllage resident reported the theft of his bike from the hallway of his apartment. The bike was not secured at the time of the theft. 
2:28 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident reported the theft of his CD player from his bookbag in Cushing Hall. The bookbag was left una!· tended at the time of the theft. 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 13 5:14a.m" A Dillon Hall resident was cited by Security for minor consuming alcohol. 
10:35 a.m. Security responded to a two"car accident on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 
2:36p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
9:54 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident reported the theft of his book­bag from North Dining Hall. The bookbag was unattended at the time of the theft. 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 14 

1:30 a.m. A Keough Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
11 :42 a.m. A Welsh Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 4:27p.m. Security transported a Knott Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
9:25 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported the theft of her bike from a bike rack outside of Pangborn Hall. Her bike was locked at the time of the theft. 
express onn's idoas, slw went mediation program. on, because confusion, frus­The ultimate goal of this

Roommate 
tration. and lack of communi­program is to improvP tlw IPv­cation result wlwn people fail els of communication lwtwPPn
contin.ued from page 1 

to express their idnas and con­the studnnts. cerns to each othnr. "As studPnts sign up !'or this
become the outside characters Students attnnding this pPPr­program, lhP mPdialors will
who assist them with tlwir 
mediation program should bn bn pairnd dPpPnding on tlwirproblnrns. 
made awarn that thnrn is a tilllOS Of availaiJi]ity." StatPdThos<~ studnnts lwlp to c:rn­strict conf'idnncn policy that is Hosswurm.
atn an atmosphnrn ol' lwnnsty 
takPn vnry snriously. Pairing of mPdiators will
and trust. Communication in 
No situation will be rnportnd not bn dotH' in terms of rlass­
cvnry situation is nncnssary, 
to a judicial board or the (JS. Hatlwr it will Jw sPl up by
but the general topic or !wing 
authoriti<Js. tlw tinws of studnnt availabil­
honnst and opnn towards oth­
Students, slw said; twed to ity.
ers has become a JHJC!lssity of 
rnalizn that bnntusn of thnir Hosswurm was crrtifiPd as alife. 
willingness to bn honest and mediator this sumnwr. and
"These beliefs will help stu­efforts to work out thnir situa­feels that this program c·an lwdnnts grow and dnvelop their 
tion. honesty and rnspect will nxtrenwly betwl'irial to thPabilitins to nxprnss thnm­
bn given to all. studnnts. "This program,snlvns, which is an important 
No legal action, however, wlwn used. can lw nxtrnnwly
part of being an adult," 
will be takon, nor will anyone benef'icial to studPnts andBosswurm said. 
be forced to go through thn their own growth."
One needs to know how to 
Don't let good writing and reporting 

go to waste! 
~le~ydle 'JTJhle OJh§leiT'WleiT'o 






Keenan Hall 
• ASymbol ofQuality
•

University ofNotreDame 
' 


MARATHON 
from the makers ofThe Spirit ofChristmas Catch the 1st 5 episodes Tonight!! 
Congratulations to the 1997~ 
Lady Knights Cheerleading & Porn Squad who take the field this Sunday! 

FALL .M.0\1"11 ICHIDULI 
Thurs 
Thurs2 Thurs9 T\'tursl(f Break) Thurs 30 t,f;llaJ.Ioween)· 
1998 

Ransom Pink. Floyd/Wizard ofOz 
Gross Point Blank Caddy Shack Usual Suspects St}eam 
Auim.al House TopGun Rudy 
Austiu Powers Christmas Thcation 

The Men ofKeenan Send Their Prayers To Sophomore Maggie Meeks 

Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Settlers stay despite Netanyahu's appeals 
! 
business 
By DANNA HARMAN 

0 p e n f o r r--------------' 
At a dead run, it can gauge the exact instant to backhand a tennis ball traveling at 95 miles an hour for a baseline winner. Calculate how electrons move in a crystal. Compose symphonies. Even program a VCR. 
lt's your brain. Incredibly malleable. Infinitely versatile. Awesomely inventive. At Andersen Consulting, we want to keep it that way. So we challenge it with a stimulat­ing variety of assignments. Develop it with an average of over 170 hours of advanced training per year. Reward it with advance­ment. And support it with the resources of nearly 45,000 professionals operating across 47 countries. At Andersen Consulting, we always keep you in mind. 
We invite you to join Andersen Consulting/Notre Dame Alumni for an informal evening to discuss career opportunities. 
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. 

THE MORRIS INN NOTRE DAME ROOM 
All majors welcome! Casual attire is appropriate! 
© 1997 Andersen Consulting Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opportunity Employer. For more information, please visit our web site at http://www.ac.com 
Associated Press Writer 

JERUSALEM 
Jewish extremists showed no sign of heeding Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's appeal to leave an Arab neighborhood of Jerusalem, instead moving in furniture Tuesday and installing security lights. 
Fearing Palestinian anger could lead to riots, Netanyahu postponed a trip to Eastern Europe to search for a way out of the impasse. 
"We are trying to reach a solution, and we still haven't examined all the different aspects," Netanyahu said. 
Israel's attorney general toured the settler compound Tuesday and was to meet with Netanyahu before ruling on whether the settlers can be evicted on grounds their pres­ence endangers national securi­ty. 
Their controversial move into the Mount of Olives neighbor­hood comes at a time when Israel and the Palestinians were taking tentative steps toward better relations, at the urging of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, who visited the region last week. 
Israeli Police Commissioner Asaf Hefetz warned the new Jewish settlement would trigger Palestinian riots in the city. 
The 11 settlers leased the two buildings in east Jerusalem's Ras al-Amud neighborhood from Irving Moskowitz. a Miami bingo millionaire who also owns 
3.5 acres of land in the area. They moved in Sunday, under the cover darkness. 
In meetings with Moskowitz's representatives Tuesday, Netanyahu's aides tried to work out a deal under which the set­tlers would leave voluntarily. 
However, there were no signs the settlers intended to leave. Instead, trucks delivered bed frames to the compound and settlers installed floodlights on the rooftops for security. 
"When the situation quiets down in a day or so, I intend to move my whole family here," said Yossi Haikin. "Our plan is to lead a normal, comfortable life here." 
Moskowitz visited overnight, 
ANDERSEN CoNSULTING 
.' I 
affixing a mezuza -a little box with biblical passages -to a doorpost at the compound. "The people of Israel build their nation," he wrote in the set­tlers' guest book. 
The settlers move has put Netanyahu in an embarrassing situation. 
If he orders them evacuated, he will lose th(i support of right­wing groups that make up the bulk of his constituency and risk the stability of his government. 
Michael Kleiner, a leading lawmaker in Netanyahu's ruling coalition, said Tuesday he and fellow legislators would topple the government should the set­tlers be forced out. Kleiner's hardline "Eretz Israel Front" group commands the support of 18 lawmakers in the 66-seat coalition. 
However, if Netanyahu allows the settlers to stay he risks trig­gering Palestinian riots. He also could alienate Albright, who urged him to avoid unilateral actions that would anger the Palestinians. 
During a tour of the com­pound Tuesday, Attorney General Eliyakim Rubinstein watched from a rooftop as a group of 15 settler supporters studied the Bible below. Outside the building, Israeli peace activists staged a protest vigil in two small tents. 
Israeli media reports said Tuesday that Netanyahu and his ministers were ~arned of the settlers' plans during a Cabinet meeting on Sept. 5. 
However, Netanyahu, preoc­cupied with a suicide bombing by Islamic militants a day· earli­er, brushed aside the informa­tion, the Maariv daily said. 
Netanyahu has insisted he only learned about the takeover after the settlers were already in Ras al-Amud. 
The Palestinians have demanded that Netanyahu immediately evict the settlers, and warned of riots should they remain. 
"We are standing at a cross­roads we have not seen since 1967," said chief Palestinian peace negotiator Saeb Erekat, referring to the Middle East war in which Israel captured the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem. 



on the differences that we've overlooked the God behind it
Boys 
all." During a 20-minute question
continued from page 1 
and answer session following Christian?" her lecture, Boys addressed 
Turning to the issue of reli­topics raised by the audience gious diversity, Boys discussed such as conversion, evangeliz­the increasingly changing face ing and papal infallibility. ·she of the world, while emphasiz­expressed support for the cur­ing the need to overcome the rent pope and his efforts to boundaries of different faith improve relations between traditions. Jews and Christians. 
"The religious diversity has "It has been very important now come to our neighbor­that this pope has made some hood," she said. "At a certain strong comments regarding level when we approach God Jews and Judaism," she said. 
in prayer, our differences dis­The scholar-in-residence lec­solve. It is to say that maybe in ture series continues Sept. 29 the way we regard the other with speaker Nancy Harrowitz we have put so much emphasis of Boston University. 

U.S. delays land miq:~treaty 
ByJIM HEINTZ Associated Ptm Writ~r 
OSLO, Norway 

In a last-minute move to force changes in a pro­posed treaty banning land mines, the United States won a 24-hour postponement Tuesday in talks on drafting the pact. 
The Clinton administration is seeking several exceptions to a proposed ban on anti-personnel mines, which would be total and immediate. The 
U.S. delegation had been expected to present a compromise proposal when the more than 100­nation meeting resumed Tuesday after a weekend break. 
But Eric Newsom, head ofthe U.S. delegation to the talks, requested the one-day postponement, saying the United States needed more time to talk to other governments about changes that "would enable the United States to endorse this treaty." 
No one objected to the request and the meeting closed. Newsom refused to comment to raporters after the session. The move was an unusual delay in a process that has moved with remarkable speed. The talks leading to the treaty negotiations began 11 months ago in Canada and involved only a few small and midsize countries. 
Since then, scores of countries have-joined what has become known as the "Ottawa Process." The United States signed on reluctantly last month and generally has been seen as odd man out -but an influantial one. · 
The United States initially wanted the Korean Peninsula to be excluded from a ban, because it regards mines as a critical in keeping Stalinist North Korea from invading South Korea. 


American satellite whizzes past Mir space station 
By ANNA DOLGOV 
Associ.ncd Pres~ \Vrircr 
MOSCOW 

This time, the scare didn't come from Mir's own aging equipment or a crew member's error. 
A U.S. satellite zipped by the space station, coming within 500 yards of Mir and forcing its three occupants into an escape cap­sule because they feared a colli­sion, Russian officials said Tuesday. 
In a reversal of roles, American space officials played down the Monday night incident and said the defunct satellite was twice that distance from Mir. "It wasn't anything major. ... This happens every month," said John Lawrence, a spokesman for the U.S. space agency. 
Vera Medvedkova, spokes­woman at Russia's Mission Control. said it was the Mir's dosest brush with an unrelated spacecraft in its 11 years in orbit. If two airplanes pass at 1,000 yards in U.S. airspace, it is considered a near-miss. 
Near-collision or not, the inci­dent provided a reminder of the hazards of space traffic -and the deadly potential of a crash of objects crisscrossing at a sharp angle at 17,500 mph. 
"At orbital speed, even a grain of sand carries the impact of a . 38-caliber bullet," said James Oberg. an American space engi­neer who tracks the Russian program closely. 
Though Russian oflicials spoke matter-of-factly about it Tuesday, the rare decision to send the Russian-American crew into the Soyuz capsule as a pre­caution showed how serious they considered the risk. 
"They did the prudent thing," said Oberg, who called satellite's pass-by "closer than usual." 
"Had it hit the structure, you're talking about a cata­strophic failure (of Mir func­tions). The shock wave would have hit anything else in them," he said by telephone from Houston. 
The Mir already has been dented by one cosmic collision ­a June 25 docking exercise in whieh a cargo craft bashed into the Spektr module. 
Still living with the effects of that crash, the crew had barely finished fixing the Mir's cranky main computer Monday night when they were warned that an object was approaching the sta­tion. 
It was a 370-pound research satellite traveling on a perpen­dicular orbit -inoperative since shortly after its 1994 launch by the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, an arm of the U.S. Defense Department. At the Mir's altitude, objects in orbit typically burn up within a year or two. · 
The U.S. Space Command in Colorado Springs, Colo., had informed NASA of the close approach about 30 hours before­hand, and NASA in turn informed the Hussians. 
The Hussian-Anwrican crew spent 30 minutes in the Soyuz until the danger passed, Medvedkova said. 
Oberg said the ineident illus­trated a differencn between the 
U.S. and Hussian space pro­grams. The Hussians don't maneuver Mir out of the way of approaching objects -especial­ly since distance estimates are inexact. U.S. officials already have decided that the interna­tional space station, a much big­ger orbiting target, will use thrusters to try to dodge them. 
Either way, space officials must be alert to the risks of some 6,000 to 8,000 tracked objects orbiting Earth -any­thing bigger than the size of a pack of cigarettes. These objects are mostly fragments from payloads and rocket bod­ies. 
The June collision was the worst ever in space, and by far the most serious of a string of accidents plaguing the Mir all year. The aged space station's hapless performance in n~cent months has raised concerns in the United States about the safe­ty of American astronauts taking part in the collaboration. 
But NASA ollieials on Tuesday defended their decision to send an American replacement astro­naut to Mir this month and said it would be unprecedented to call ofi" or change the upcoming mission based on political pres­sure. 
''I'd be surprised at something like that,.. said Frank Culbertson, manager of NASA's shuttle-Mir program. 
The Ilouse Science Committee is holding a hearing Thursday to discuss the mission. 
During a briefing at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Culbertson stressed that the Mir is safe for thosP aboard. 



"Everything You Always Wanted to Ask an Ex-Gay (but Never Had the Chance)'' 
.lfl: Falzarano and Mr. Gonzalez, both former actil'e homosexuals, will gir:e their histories and their spiritual journeys, and will explain the most common roots of homosexual orientations. They will then explain how the love ofChrist, the Sacrament of Reconciliation, and the teachings of the Church can address these causes, and how they can help you help your homosexual friends and classmates. 
The Stroke Foundation presents Anthony Falzarano and Jaime Gonz61ez 
Mr. Falzarano and Mr. Gonzalez both direct Transformation Ex-Gay Christian Ministries, a Catholic-Protestant organization that is part of Exodus International, the largest organization in the world of gays and lesbians who have left behind their homosexual practices and feelings. They also direct a new national organization called Parents and Friends of Ex-Gays (P-FOX) . 
.ANTHONY FALZARANO spent 9 years as an active homosexual before he had a religious reconversion and decided that he had "no choice but to follow the Lord in sexual purity and leave the gay life behind." Mter 2 years of"very tough" Christian psychological counselling, Mr. Falzarano successfully left behind his homosexual dispositions. He has been happily married for almost 14 years and has two children. He has ministered to over 500 former homosexuals and is the East Coast and European media spokesperson for Exodus International. He is used as an expert source of information by CBS, ABC, The BBC, The Washington Post and USA Radio Network. He has testified before the Maryland General 


Assembly regarding homosexual issues, and he filed an affidavit in the case Romer v. Evans, which went to the Supreme Court. JAIME GoNzALEz also spent 9 years as an active homosexual, 7 of which he spent in a long-term relationship. Believing that it was consistent to be gay and Christian, Mr. Gonzalez attended the P-FOX National Converence at his father's request. Mter the conference, Gonzalez had become convinced that homosexuality and Christianity are not compatible, and came to accept traditional Catholic teaching on homosexuality. He has dedicated his life to ministering to former homosexuals. 
The speakers will briefly share their histories as homosexuals and their spiritual journeys away from that way of life, and will then answer questions from the audience. They hope that their stories will contribute in a positive way to the campus debate about homosexuality. 
Thursday, Sept. 18 Hesburgh Library Auditorium • 8:00 p.m. 
Join the Speakers in the Huddle Friday, Sept. 19, 11 :DD-1 :DO 

Maritain Center 
~-----~-------­
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

Get AT&T One Rate. FREE. And don't worry about th~ time or the distance. 

If you live off campus, choose AT&T Long Distance and sign up for AT&T One Rate. Free. You'll also get a free one-year membership to Student Advantage®-the largest student discount program ever. 
• 
AT&T One R~te: only 15¢ a minute on calls from home-to anybody, 

anytime, anywhere in the U.S. 

• 
Student Advantage: use your card to get special offers and up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite neighborhood places and national sponsors-like Kinko's~ Tower Records® _and Amtrak~ 


Live off campus? Get AT&T One Rate and a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 


ATs.T 
Student Advantage offer valid for AT&T Restdenttal Long Dtstance customers. © 1997 AT&T 
---~ ~-~~~ -~ 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• NAMIBIA 
Searchers find crash debris 
ByTOMCOHEN 
Associated Press Writer 
WINDHOEK, Namibia 

Searchers found debris Tuesday from a U.S. cargo plane in the same cold, shark­infested waters where they found remnants of a German aircraft. confirming the two mil­itary planes crashed off Namibia's Skeleton Coast. 
The prospects of finding sur­vivors from Saturday's crash were "getting slimmer," said Lt. Col. Eddie Brown of South Africa, who is overseeing the search effort. 
He said nothing has been heard since faint distress signals were detected Sunday and early Monday. The water, at 59 degrees, "is cold, and I believe there are also sharks in the area," he added. 
The two planes were carrying 33 people when they vanished Saturday while traveling in opposite directions. The German Tupolev 154 was heading from Germany to South Africa, while the American C-141 was flying from Namibia, a coastal country northwest of South Africa, to Ascension Island, off the coast in the south Atlantic. 
Only one body -that of an unidentified woman -has been found and taken to an unspeci­fied hospital for examination. Three women were among the 24 people aboard the German plane; all nine aboard the American plane were men. 
Low clouds and fog hampered 
visibility Tuesday for the 230 
searchers scouring the ocean 
Military crash 
No survivors were found at the Ute 
re U.S. and German military planes are believed to have collided and plummeted into the ocean. 
Ascension lsl.and 
L{~······., 
I 

Germany, the United States, France, South Africa and Namibia. 
Two American C-130 planes carrying 80 people arrived early Tuesday from a Royal Air Force base in the United Kingdom to help with the search. 
Both planes are equipped with . special night-operation equip­ment. 
A German investigative team was awaiting better weather to fly by helico12ter to the crash scene, 115 miles west of Cape Fria on the Namibian coast. The area is called the Skeleton Coast because its treacherous waters have claimed many ships. 
Tupolev TU-154 

Wingspan 123 feet, 2 1/2 inches 
(37.55 m) Length 157 feet, 1 3/4 inches 
(47.90 m) 

Height 37 feet, 4 3/4 inches (1140m) 
C-141 StarIifter 
Wingspan 160 feet (48.5m) 

Length 168 feet, 4 inches (51 m) 
Height 39 feet, 3 inches 
(11.9 m) 

The team was to examine debris being collected by two Namibian fishing research ves­sels, said South African Air Force Lt. Col. Laverne Machine. 
Debris found Monday, includ­ing airplane seats and a few papers, came from the German plane, while wreckage from the American plane, including a wing flap, a compartment door and other debris, was found Tuesday. 
The South African Air Force received a report Tuesday from a ship saying it saw a flash and fire Saturday, which officials believe was burning debris on the water, Brown said. 


Dissident may receive parole for poor health 
By CHARLES HUTZLER 
Associated Press Writer 

BEIJING 
In a move apparently ainwd at smoothing rolations bnfore a key summit in Washington next month. China's justice . minister suggnsted Tuesday that leading dissident Wei ,Jingsheng may be paroled on health grounds. 
Justice Minister Xiao Yang said the release of Wei, who is China's most prominent democracy campaigner and has spent almost all of the last 18 years in custody, is possible if his health is found to be as bad as his family claims. 
"If Wei .Jingsheng can meet the requirements for medical parole, then like other prison­ers, he will have the opportu­nity for medical parole," Xiao told reporters during the Communist Party congress, held every five years to draft policies and assign top party posts. 
Xiao's comments add to speculation that China may release a leading dissident before President Jiang Zemin travels to Washington next month to meet with President Clinton, who has repeatedly called for improved human rights in communist-run China. 
Despite the flexibility on Wei, Xiao said there would be no similar consideration for Wang Dan. a leader of the Tiananmen Square demons­trations in 1989 who was jailed last year for subver­sion. 
Xiao said Wang has received medical treatment he "is entitled to and is in "basically fine" health despite his family's claim that he has serious medical prob­lems. 
Other than Wei's possible releasn, there was little else in Xiao's remarks -or from policy changes expected at the congress -that might improve the atmosphere of the Clinton-cHang summit. 
Xiao flatly rejected Western-style government, saying China was building a "socialist democracy" ­meaning tight party control of all branches of government. 
"We must adhere to and 
improve our fundamental 
political system and can 
never copy the model of the 
Western political system," 
Xiao said. 
Democracy and human rights campaigners com­plained the meeting has been accompanied by increased police surveillance and harassment. Dissidents were told to stay home, and one who did not said he was chased by police. 
"They wouldn't dare run 
me down. The point is to get 
me to go home," said .lin 
Cheng. "I don't feel safe." 


Old Navy Clothing Co., the store that makes shopping fun again, TM 
offers you the remarkable opportunity to 
be part of our exciting growth in the family value priced clothing market. 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

Unleash big savings. AT&T presents the 

largest student discount program ever. FREE. 
Choose AT&T. And we'll give you a free one-year Student Advantage® membership. Use your card to get special offers a~d up to 50% off every day at thousands of your favorite-neighborhood places and national sponsors like these: 
e 



~mO. MOTDPHOTO 
T " • • T " E s Tbe Exper~oce Makes !be llilferenre· kinko•s· 

Choose AT&T. Get a Student Advantage membership. FREE. 
Call 1-800-878-3872 
or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
It's all within your reach. 



AT&T 
Student Advantage offer vahd for AT&T Res!dent1al Long 01stance, AT&T Calling Card and AT&T Umversal Cand customers. © 1997 AT&T 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 · 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-ChieF Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Rol.md Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor....... ..Heather Cocks Advertising Manager... ..Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ........... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor... . ......... Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. ......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller.... . . ............. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administrati.on ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to ali members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's cornmuniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-ChieF  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sporrs  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303.  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu  
General Information  631:7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AWAKENINGS 

Is a New Political Era Dawning? 
At his 1932 nominating convention in Chicago, Franklin Roosevelt reinterpreted the Declaration of Independence, forever changing the face of American politics and catapulting modern Liberalism to a primal position. Iri what has become known to Il).any as a second bill of rights, FOR declared that people not only had a right to life but to be employed and live well; people have a right to property but not boundless property when others lack even a roof over their head; people have a right to liberty and the pursuit of happi­ness but a duty not to trample over others in that pursuit. FOR's acceptance speech ushered in a revised conception of rights, from the natural and individual to the bestowed and cooperative. 

J.P. 

Cooney 
FOR's 1932 election is referred to as a critical one in American politics because it ended 36 years of Republican dominance in both the legislative and executive branches in favor of the Democratic Party and the Welfare State. Historically, these elections have taken place approximately every 30 years. including Jefferson in 1800, Jackson in 1828, Lincoln in 1860, McKinley in 1896, and FOR in 1932. Since FOR, however. there has been no critical or realigning election. 
The 1960 election of JFK, and the sub­sequent 1964 election ofLBJ, solidified the Democrats' stranglehold on the politi­cal system. They had controlled Congress for 28 prior years with the exception of 194 7-48, and held the White House for 20 years before the election of Eisenhower in 1952. Johnson's Great Society, though largely unfunded and poorly implement­ed, expanded the scope of the Welfare 
• DormEsBuRv 
1Ht: 7CAMN/3WSM£RIGHTAt<JtJ.Y, 50MOW11YANI? I MU.F~YA­HeAl?. APm</<£ 6eTseT7UI?IN, lfffi'U seN/?fOI? YaJANI?:Z:ONK/ 

State and seemed to signal a resurgence of liberal governance. However, clue in large part to the Vietnam War, the Democrats were swept out of the White House in 1968. 
Political scientists at the time thought that 1968 would eventually prove a realigning election, where the hearts of the American people would sway towards the Republican Party. While thn 1968 election effectively ended the Liberal movement and made the word synony­mous with defeat in national politics, no real resurgence of the Right occurred. Instead the era of divided government was introduced. Since 1968, thn execu­tive and legislative branches have been in the control of opposing parties every year except 1977-80 (largely clue to Watergate) and 1993-94. 
The 1994 Republican Revolution seemed as if it would be America's next realignment-and the Republicans cer­tainly did have a chance to finish the job in 1996. But a resuscitated economy, savvy political maneuvering by President Clinton in the 1995 budget battle, and a mediocre 1996 presidential candidate prevented such a result. Thus, the era of cliviclec\ government has continued, and no political party has stepped to the fore­front of our politica! system. 
Bill Clinton, despised by his liberal crit­ics for his centrist to sometimes right­leaning course of leadership, actually saved the Democratic Party from what seemed certain demise alter the 1994 congressional elections. His political sophistication since then has cornered the . Republican Party and put them perpetual­ly on the defensive. Clinton, consciously or not. has crept open the door for anoth­er Liberal--: excuse me, I meant to say "progressive"-movement. 
An article in last week's edition of The Economist suggests that the American political and economic climate is ripe for such a movement. The cornerstone of this possible reemergence, the article asserts, is the pot(mtial for a clashing of economic classes. In the past five years, corporate profits have risen more than 50 percent, while real wages have remained 

largely static. Income distribution 
remains more skewed than in any compa­
rable nation-the top lifth of America's 
earners maintain nearly half the share of 
aggregate income, while the lowest fifth 
maintains less than 5 percent. Moreover, 
by a margin of nearly two to one, the 
American public declared that they would 
support organized labor over manage­
ment in a dispute-these numbers are 
the reverse oF 15 years ago c\ uring thn 
Reagan ]{evolution. 
The signi/icance of these factors is mag­
nified by Democratic presidential hopefuls 
AI Gore and Dick Gepharc\t's courting of 
organized labor in the past months. Both 
have relr.ntlessly pursued union support 
three full years before the presidential 
election and before the highly critical 
1998 congressional elections. No doubt 
the racfl for party nominations always 
begins thn clay aftor thn previous election 
ends. but never in recent memory has onn 
been so plainly visible. The reason for 
this is because it seems that thn one who 
gains the Democratic nomination may 
have the opportunity to reshape thn politi­
cal landscape for a lasting period of tim fl. 
But labor's resurgence and growing 
class disparities are not enough to suggest 
that political realignment is on the hori­
zon. Class disparities have been widening 
in America for more than two c\ecac\es, 
and organized labor's momentum is 
spurred by a victory in thn UPS strike that 
is largely a public facade -a fact which 
may soon bocome apparent. 
The true clue that we are perhaps on 
the verge of a new wave of American poli­·tics is the growing public disgust with 
what Bill Weld referred to as 
"Washington Rules." Americans are clis­
enchantnc\ with Washington's impenetra­
ble walls, and they are fatigued by the 
indistinguishable rhetoric between the 
two parties. The fact is that there is little 
cli!ference between the Hepublican and 
Demoeratic parties today. Would 
America's current stato-of-affairs be that 
much different had we elected Bush 
rather than Clinton in '92? Probably not. 
Thn American people lie in wait for an 
attractive and appealing political move­ment which they ean grab hold of. The answer lies in a new Left-and I do not mean Clinton's "New Democrats." New Dna! Liberalism currently is dead; tlH' Bight had its chance in 1994, but political bumbling and ins(msitive social policy ch~stroyec\ their chance; Clintonism, tlw politics of thn cPnter, is nothing short of politics as usual and too boring for Americans to embrace for a sustained period. So the only alternatiw1 is Progressivism. 
The problem is that Progressivism still lacks a definition and guiding principle­it is yet to be developed. In general, how­ever' it incorporates social activism and global vision (i.e. prineiplr.s of free trade and markets). It is a roll-up your sleeves iclnology which will relentlessly pursue dillicult issues like campaign finance and income distribution, while being attentive to the fact that the federal government is often wastnful and unfoeusec\. Progressives will pursue an activist course, seeking to refine government and usn it to adc\rr.ss efl'ectively the social con'flir.ts we face. This is thn type of left-leaning ideology which thn American people are starving for. 
Thanks to Clinton, the Democratic Party staid oil' a right-wing alternative to · America's current ~'ocial and political dilemmas. But now they must seize this opportunity the way the Hr.publicans failed to in 1995-96. The ball is in tllf~ir court to shape the next political era-thn state of labor, the American political minclsnt, and the probable tight<ming of the economy in tlw coming years lie in their favor. The only question is whether or not someone, namely Gorn, Gnpharc\t, or maybe even a clark horse, will step up and get the job clone. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and gouernment major. lfis column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be reached al Joseph.P.Cooney.6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those l~{ the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 


GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUUTE Of THE DAY 
"you have not 
converted a man 
because you have silenced 
him." 
-John Viscount Morley 





VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 page 11 
• Goo 'N liFE 

Celibacy Right Choice for Those who Follow God 
Searching for God. 
It's something we all do, consciously or unconsciously. It's also the title of a book by British Cardinal George Basil lhime -a collection of talks he gave the monks of Ampleforth Abbey during his years at their abbot. Even for those who are not "monastically inclined," it is worth a good read. 
Cardinal Jlume wrote at one point (or 

Julie Ferraro 
spoke -depending on how you look at it) on the celibacy expected of not just priests and professed monks, but of non-married persons. He makes it so clear that. while it may seem celibate individuals live an "unfulfilled" life, they still fulfillment in God. His exact words were: 
"At the heart of celibacy there is always pain. It has to be so, because the celibate lacks something vital. But 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 


the pain is not to be grudged; the celi­bate forgoes the fulfillment of sexual desires precisely because he recognizes that his sexuality is a good thing. He renounces it because he knows that his Master did, and the Church from earli­est times has instinctively known that other values can be gained as a result of that renunciation. God loves a cheerful giver." 
George Basil Hume 
Searching for God, p. 52 

These ideals can be applied to the ongoing homosexual debate in which our campus is involved. Personally acquainted with a number of homosex­
uals through my involvement in local pie continue to use their God-given gifts sonal preference. God has given is all theatre, I have the utmost admiration and lead relatively happy lives. The -unconditionally, without reserva­for their talents, and their willingness same is possible for homosexual men tions. As we search and find Him day 
to face those in society who may see and women, and it all begins by nurtur­by day in every event of our lives, we them as "perverts," "sinful" or worse, ing a faith in God that gives us strength should give our all with the same simply because of their orientation. It 
in our weakness, and fills our empti­unselfish love. is not the orientation that is sinful or 
ness. wrong, necessarily. It is how this orien­Whether or not the non-discrimina­Julie Ferraro is an administrative tation is incorporated into their lifestyle tion clause includes sexual orientation, assistant at Notre Dame. She can be that matters. whether or not GLND/SMC is recog­reached at Julie.A.Ferraro.3@nd. edu. There are single, heterosexual men nized as a student organization, God The views expressed in this column 
and women-on this campus and else­calls people to love and respect each are those of the author and not neces­where-who never have and never other as created images of the divine. sarily those of The Observer. will have sexual relations with anyone, There is no room for debate on this 
because they hold fast to the belief that point. We are also called to abide by this union is an integral part of mar­
God's law. We cannot pick and choose riage and procreation. Yet, these peo-which rules to follow based upon per-


Unity Begins Under the Dome 
Although the outrage on this campus and the campus of Saint Mary's must be intense and the letters of response numerous, I feel that I am drawn to respond to the letter from Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller that appeared on Sept. 
15. I am a senior at Notre Dame and a former Saint Mary's student. Not only did I attend Saint Mary's before transferring here, but I have an older sister who graduated in May and a sister who is currently a freshman there, so my ties to the school are great. I have never in 
'The entire Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community worked together to raise money and to rebuild the campus. 
my time at Notre Dame been ashamed to admit that I am a woman of Notre Dame, until now. Thq narrow minded and juvenile bashing by these young women of Notre Dame gives a bad reputation to each and every Notre Dame stu­dent, regardless of gender. I could give many examples of ways in which Notre Dame stu­dents take advantage of the many things that Saint Mary's has to offer which are similar to those things that Saint Mary's students take advantage of on the Notre Dame campus, but I will not. 
What does prompt me to respond is an anec­dote I heard for the first time in a homily given by Father Malloy not too long ago. He related a narrative of the history of the University of Notre Dame and the founding of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College by the brothers and sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He mentioned that in April1879 there was a fire that destroyed the campus of Notre Dame just 36 years after its creation by Father Sorin. Many of the campus buildings as they are known today were rebuilt immediately after this 
fire, including the administration building and 
the Golden Dome. The entire Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community worked together to 
raise money and to rebuild the campus. To me 
this exemplifies a strong sense of community 
and a bond that has existed since the early days 
of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
When two women from Notre Dame charge that women from Saint Mary's should be grate­ful to even be allowed in their stadium I would ask them to shield their eyes from the beauty of Our Lady, Notre Dame at her perch atop the Golden Dome because it was the sisters and women from Saint Mary's that donated the money for the construction of this blessed and famous monument after the fire in 1879. 
If these women from Notre Dame do not want women from Saint Mary's to enjoy what the University of Notre Dame has to offer, then they, as women of Notre Dame should have no right to enjoy the many things that Saint Mary's has to offer, including the glory of the Golden Dome. 
Courtney Flemming 
Senior, Howard Hall 
September 15, 1997 

Reevaluating the Notre Da01e Fa01ily 
I am writing in response to Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller's Sept. 15 letter. 
Frankly, I found the two young ladies' argument to be extremely disheartening. I think the problem has to do with an unhealthy overcompetitiveness. Here at Notre Dame, there is a high level of competitiveness, be it in the classroom, in the dorm, or on the athletic playing field. This can be very benefi­cial in helping us all to achieve our best. 
But it is frequently taken too far. I remember as a freshman, arriving on this campus, hearing derogatory comments about Saint Mary's students as being less intelligent than their Notre Dame counterparts. Not only that, but I remember hearing of this dissension within the boundaries of our own campus. I can recall conversations about specific people who seemed less "intelligent" than the the "majority," and how these people were rudely assumed to be the children of faculty members or alumni. Whether or not there is preferential treatment is not the issue, the fact that we judge others because of these stereotypes and rumors is. 
In our school's fight song, we proclaim that Notre Dame will "win over all." That sentiment might be a great way to fire up the gold and blue before they take the field on Saturday after­noon. But if students are taking the attitude that because they got into Notre Dame they are somehow better or more important than the students of Saint Mary's, or the man who cleans the toilets in the bathroom, for that matter, then they are sadly, sadly mistaken. 
We are all lucky to be where we are today. There are millions of people our age who were born into starvation or civil war. They may not have homes or families, and it is a miracle that they are even alive. 
Yet, we have people here, who have been afforded luxuries that others can only dream of, complaining like babies that they deserve more than the blessings that they have already been given -that the gym they work out in, or the football team they watch should be reserved only for them. 
This is supposed to be a religious school. I don't care what church you call your own. All of us are created by God, and all of us are equal. We are all brothers and sisters. To read Syner and Fuller's comments makes me wonder if they know what it means to be a member of a family. They "are tired of hearing about the 'Notre Dame community."' Perhaps they wish to relinquish their membership? 
Even if they would choose not to be a member of the Notre Dame community, they cannot choose to no longer be a member of the community known as humanity. I pray that God can free us from such nearsightedness, and that we may live in love and in peace, remembering the words of His heavenly son: You shall love your neighbor as you love yourself." 
Timothy Kearney Senior, OffCampus September 15, 1997 

page 12 Wednesday, September 17, 1997 




What is your 
favorite local 
radio station? 

"B100-because I'm a country girl!" 
Valerie Quandt Senior, Off-Campus 

"97.7-it's good driving music." 
Amanda Gentine Sophomore, Cavanaugh 


"The Bear ­ because it  
rocks!"  
Nate Hudak  

Sophomore, Zahm 

"The Bear -because Hudak likes it." 
Chris Hendricksen Sophomore, Zahm 


"88.9 WSND -because my roommate Colleen reads the news for it." 
Erin Kiernicki Freshman, Farley 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

WNDU FM & AM 
Stations: U93 FM & 1490 AM 
Type of Music: popular music with a rock edge, contemporary hit radio 
Giveaways & Prizes: Frequent contests to win lunch, money, and concert tickets 



WVFI AM 
Station: 640 AM 
Type of Music: college music, alternative, specialty shows (ranging from heavy metal, jazz, R & B, to ska music), and the majority of Notre Dame athletics 
Giveaways & Prizes: 

wzoc 
Station: 94.3FM 

Type of.Music: oldies, m some 70s 
Giveaways & Prizes: Me 
5:30 a.m. and 9 a.~ Afternoons between 
Depends upon each show 

WNSNFM 
Station: "Sunny 101.5" FM 
Type of Music: adult contemporary 
Giveaways & Prizes: Daily and ongoing 
w 


Station: 1 
Type of M 
rock 
Giveaways 
Cons 

Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
ACCENT 

FM  WBYTFM Station: 100.7 FM  
ostly 60s and  Type of Music:  country  
>rnings  between  Giveaways & Prizes: All the time and everyday  



and Nocturne Nightflight which plays alternative tracks from 12 a.m. to 2 a.m., Sun. -Fri. 
Giveaways and Prizes: CO's during Nocturne Nightflight 
page 13 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 

Commercial 
radio may be "Not for you" 
By EMMETT MALLOY 
Accenr Music Editor 

Y
ou're sitting in themiddle of heavy traffic, com­pletely disgusted with the slowness and boredom of everything around you. Your only escape lies with music. yet unfortunately you forgot to bring any albums with you on this uneventful ride. You reach for the radio and begin surfing through the stations. No Doubt, commercial, some Hanson song, a retro 70s song, deejay spiel, No Doubt again, commercial. Absolutely nothing. We indirectly pay these radio sta­tions to play the music we enjoy. yet all we get are the one~hit wonders and dinosaur rock. 
•In my car, the only pre-set stations I listen to are local college and high school radio. Even though sometimes 
'the reCeption isn't all that good, college and high school 
radio is really the only medium to find out about new 
acts. I live outside Chicago. and the radio scene there is 
dominated by Q101. Q101 is accredited with discovering 
such "great" bands as Bush and No Doubt, and the 
power they exercise in the Chicagoland area is tremen­
dous. If a band can't make it on Q101, then they defi­
nitely can kiss goodbye to their chances of playing much 
in Chicago and maybe even the country. 
If you're asking why Chicago people listen to them 
when there are plenty of.other stations, it is because it's 
virtually impossible to avoid them. A majority of rock 
and alternative concerts are sponsored by QlOl. and 
Q101 even throws its own festival, the Q101 Jamboree. 
In 1994, Eddie Vedder was so disgusted with QlOl's 
exploitation of Pearl Jam that he wrote "Not For You," a 
statement against radio giants who abuse the music 
industry in order to make money. During Pearl Jam's 
last two visits to Chicago, Vedder has made it a habit to 
express his hatred towards Q101 and then plays the 
opening chords to the song. 
Enough bashing. The point of this editorial is that I 
wish more people would listen to college and high 
school radio. When I listen to these huge commercial 
radio stations, I feel as if the music they play is what I 
must buy. It's almost like buying books for school; you 
really have no interest in purchasing the books, but it's 
required. These radio stations pressure you into buying 
the albums they play because if the CO's number one on 
the Billboard charts. then you're missing out on some­
thing good. This is false advertising; some of the best 
musical acts have never even made it to the Top 200 at 
least. 

On the other hand. college and high school radio sim­
ply want to spread the word on different bands. Instead of forcing this group's song on you, they put the songs out there, and you decide which one you like. Also, because they're not under as much pressure from record labels as commercial giants, they play whatever they like. They're the only source on the newest, undis­covered talent in the music industry, and the music directors don't pick songs from bands only because their .lead singer looks like Kurt Cobain (hmmm.. .Silverchair comes to mind). College and high school radio avoid the ·superficiality and d~:'ic~ptive propaganda used ·by radio giants and record companies. The music programs at the college and high schoollevel are designed for and by 
students, 

Another great feature about college and high school 
radio is that they're not devoted to one musical genre. 
One listen can have you finding yourself enjoying the 
Foo Fighters, then Puff Daddy, and afterwards the 
Beatles. The change in musical format prevents over­
saturation and eventual boredom. It's great for anyone 
with an interest in the tmtire musical spectrum. 
MTV already has gone down the tube (they might as 
well start a televjsion show starring the Hanson broth­
ers considering they show a Hanson video around the 
hour), and I believe radio giants like QlOl will soon be 
following in their tracks. Huge radio stations have 
increasingly switched to talk/music formats, with much 
more ingenuity and work being put into the talk shows. 
Just look at the sudden explosion of Howard Stern 
wannabes and Love Line clones filling the airwaves. 
I'm just tired of a bunch of old men deciding what 
mJ1sic we listen to and w~ich groups will find success in 
the business. Music's. last hope lies with college and 
high school radio. So instead of listening to some album 
you've heard a hundred times, tune in to WVFI and 
WSND. There's no better way to get the inside scoop 
.,1han from your fellow classmates. 
-
... 

-
r 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
-· 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 

I 
I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
r 
! I I 
[ 
-~ 
Cooper's dilemma delightful Ditka embarrassed 
By RUSTY MILLER we've put him in more open­Arizona's hyperactive and Associated Press Writer field situations." ultra-aggressive defense is cen­
after loss to Niners
Cooper said Pearson is supe­tral to all of Cooper's fears. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio rior in many other aspects that For the first time in more 
By MARY FOSTER "We've gotten our hopes up
Michael Wiley has rushed for don't grab headlines. than a year, he has three quali­
Associated Press Writer so often we take it harder
more yards, scored more touch­"Pepe's a good running back. ty quarterbacks in the mix ­
when they're terrible now,"

downs and excited more fans He gained 1,500 yards last year Stanley Jackson, Joe Germaine 
NEW ORLEANS said Ken King, 57, of New
than Pepe Pearson so far this and averaged over 5 yards a and Mark Garcia. Garcia 
A couple of months ago, Mike Orleans. "We're going to save
year for 
carry," Cooper said. "So we missed all of last year after a 
Ditka was assuring New our money until they start to
ninth-ranked know what Pepe can do over knee injury. 
Orleans Saints fans they look like what we expected and
Ohio State. the course of the season. Cooper doesn't want to lose 
wouldn't be embarrassed by they sure don't look that way
But that Leadership, chemistry and one now because of a lineman's 
this year's team. now."
doesn't mean knowing who to block, carrying mistake. 
Now he's being haunted by And it's not just the fans who
the sopho­out your fakes -all the little "We've got to make sure we 
those words after the Saints' are feeling let down after the
more will things we take into considera­know how to protect our quar­
third straight loss, a 33-7 big buildup. 
start anytime tion that you could probably terback and give ourselves time 
whipping by the San Francisco "Our expectations were that
soon ahead care less about -all of that to move the ball down the 
49ers that was fueled by eight we were going to have a good
of Pearson -Cooper enters into our decision." field," Cooper said. 
turnovers. start and a really good sea­
and particu-Arizona ll-1) is limiting Another concern is the fum­
"This is embarrassing and I son," rookie quarterback
larly not Saturday when the opposing runners to 1.8 yards bleitis that has plagued the 
apologize for the way we're Danny Wuerffel said. "I don't
Buckeyes play Arizona. per carry and 57 yards a game, Buckeyes. They fumbled three 
playing," Ditka said. think anyone expected this." 
Wiley is averaging 9.6 yards eighth best in the nation. times in the opening 24-10 vic­
The Saints sold Ditka heavily Linebacker Winfred Tubbs,
per carry and has scored three "I think we have a speed tory over Wyoming, then lost 
as the antidote to four straight in his fourth year with the
touchdowns, including a 100-advantage over anybody we four fumbles in the first half 
non-winning seasons, capped Saints, had a different perspec­
yard kickoff return last week. play," he said. "At least at cer­against Bowling Green. 
by a 3-13 record last year. His tive.
"This guy's a rocket. This guy tain positions." What makes Cooper even 
tough-guy image and Super "You get tired of hearing
can hit the home run," head Cooper said it was necessary more nervous is that Arizona is 
Bowl victory were supposed how you did a good job and the
coach Gary Cooper said of to stamp out the mistakes that known for forcing fumbles. 
turn around the NFL's worst team didn't," Tubbs said. "We
Wiley at his weekly news con­have held Ohio State back in "I worry about us not secur­
franchise. need to win some games. We
ference Tuesday. two easy victories -and could ing the football when we're in 
Catch phrases like "This need that bad."
As reporters pointed out that cost them in the future. the open field more than I do 
year, we're made of iron," The worst part is the
Pearson has yet to score and "We need to have a real good anything else," he said. 
were used to market tickets, turnovers -a league-leading
has rushed for 39 fewer yards week of practice to correct the "And Arizona defensively will 
and "Find a way -Make a 19 in three games.
than Wiley despite nine more number of mistakes we're mak­do probably a better job of 
way," was the team motto. Now on a pace to finish with
carries. Cooper jumped to the ing, mental mistakes on both punching the ball out from 
Now fans, who with corpo­98 turnovers, the Saints have
senior tailback's defense. sides of the ball," he said. "The behind than anybody else we 
rate help provided a rare sell­already set an NFL record for
"You guys are getting down offensive line's got to know who play. You can see on tapes 
out of the first home game, most giveaways in the first
on Pepe more than we are. I to block and make sure that we where their defensive player 
appear to be opting for cyni­three games. They're more
can tell that right now by the don't turn people loose on our will take his fist and he's really 
cism over optimism. Late than halfway to last year's total
tone of your questions," Cooper quarterb(lck. not trying to make the tackle, 
Tuesday, there were almost of 37 and look like a sure thing
chided. "Maybe Wiley has had "That's the thing I fear this he's trying to punch the ball 
10,500 tickets left for Sunday's to shatter the old Saints record
more opportunities, maybe week." loose." 
game against Detroit. of 4 7 set in 1981. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dameoffice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadhne for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
WALK TO CAMPUS  NEEDED: 2 MSU Ga's  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI- Hey Ro-Can I call you later?  
NOTICES  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON  call 284-5198 will pay$$$  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674-7645.  PERSONAL  Please?  
232-2595  Love, Hugh  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  I need 2 GA's to BC. Please call or  Buying GA's seasons or individual  FREE Facial & Mkvr w/ Mary Kay  
LaFortune Student Center  YOU WILL LOVE this SPACIOUS 1  leave msg. for Brendan @4-3245  games. Top dollar paid.  Call Margrette 2845099  How is it you come to know so  
Store Hours  bedrm with FIREPLACE & OAK  Confidential service.  much about swallows?  
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  FLOORS. Extra storage available.  Married Student TIX For Sale  Call 234-5650.  Hey Collette- Well, you have to know these things  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  $395 mo., dep. & ref. 219-234-5996  273-3844  Where are your 40 pieces of silver?  when you're a king.  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  (Get your Dad to buy this STATELY  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  4-unit and you will live FREE!)  HAVE WV/NAVY BUT NEED  FOR SALE  NEEDED: a supervisor of a local  Brake fluid.  
(closed home football Sat. 's)  Mich/USC. CAll Mel4-1349 if  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  grade school CHESS CLUB. If  Bran flavor.  
Phone 631-COPY  Rent thru May  want to sell/trade!!  EVENING #: 288·2726  interested call Maureen @ 277­ Or as they say in Austria ....  
3 bed on Barron Lake  7821  kopfegeschlagen.  
SEASONS INN Bed & Breakfast Home  $600 furnished 1 bed $450 616-683-5195  Need 2 Mich St tx call Sean 273-3227  ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME#: 232-2378  ......................................  Huss o" the house.  
Rooms Available  EVENING #: 288-2726  Attn: GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL,  Haven't seen ya get crazy in a  
10 Miles from Stadium  RENT FOR FOOTBALL GAME  Need 2 Mich. GA's. Have GA's to  QUESTIONING. and SUPPORTIVE  while. You've gotta make a little  
888-226-5545  WEEKENDS 3 BED & 1 BED 219­ trade. Call Erin #4220  FOR SALE  Students, Faculty, and Staff:  effort in order to get recognized.  
234-9836  N.D. G.A.'S  The ORIGINAL Student-run group  You could've joined us in the win~  
SEASONS INN  Senior ticket book, unsigned  271-9412.  will hold a Support Group Meeting  dow if you'd come along. I'm  
Motorhomes/Campers  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  call 243-2187  on Wed., Sept. 17th at 7:00PM.  expecting more of you this week- 
Large Sites Available  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  WANTED N D G A'S  Highly Confidential.  end.  
10 Miles from ND  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  HELPI Need 3 MSU GA!stud  TO ALL HOME GAMES  Call for Details.  
Reserve Now  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  upgrades. Call Dave@ 243-1868  271 1526  Info-Line: 236-9661  G  
888-226-5545  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  **********************************  
243-0658.  4sale: 2GA's for MS 40yd line  I need 1 or 2 GAs for the Michigan  Beware "THE VOICE" of KAK  
*******************************  Call: 634-4612  State game!!!  Joseph Notes  
Junior Class Bar-B-Q  THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and  Please call Amy  -Pieather Party anyone  I like to Poop!!!  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Sale 2 GA"s for MichSt  at 810·355-9140.  -Jacob had 12 sons  -Ham bone  
Today at  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  287-3181 alter 7 pm  -make that 11  
Fieldhouse Mall  with private baths. $70-$90,  ND ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICK­ -8 now.  How's everybody feelin' today  
From 4:30 to 7:00  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  NEED 5 USC GAs, all together or 4  ET FOR USC GA"s 2773097  -well it's 6 on monday's and  (Silence)  
Free Food  Toll Road, Exit #107,  if not. call Dave 246-1131  Wednesdays.  That's fantastic  
T-shirt Giveaway  1-800-418-9487.  ND Alum 2 pay TOP$$ 4 USC TIX!  -3 days till Q-day  --Scott Baier  
****************•••••**********  410-737-6115  
2 WV GA"s and 1 set married  HI!  Three is a crowd  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR SALE  student Ticket for sale. Call 273-4372.  Have Mich St; 6 together; will TRADE only for USC or other  Hey!  Four is even better  
game; 813-281-2339  Come have dinner on us at  fireworks are fun until you burn  
Lose a set of keys to room 407?  SALE HOME ON BARRON LAKE  Married Student TIX For Sale  Greenfields Cafe on Wed., Sept.  holes in screens  
ask Carlo at x1862  $220.000 616-792-5520  273-3844  Local Models Needed for Nat\  24. We'd like to hear your ideas  
Modeling contest. Win Free Trip to  about the Huddle, North & South  I feel goooooopy.  
LOST! Silver Bracelet w/  Car must sell.  SALE STUD TIX BOOK. 273-8262.  New York! 18 to enter! No cost or  Dining Halls. Waddicks. Cafe  
"sisters" charm. Patti x-1363  Ford Tempo 1991, 4-door,  obligation. Call679-4745 for details  Poche and Common Sandwich  Say Katie Kroener  
air. very good condition.  2 student tckt. bklts for sale. Asking  by Sept. 20.  Company. We'll also fill you in on  [Clap your hands 3 times]  
- Lost Saturday before game: Black Fuji Smart Deluxe camera  $2800 or b/o. Call Emidio 631-8594  $200. Can be sold separately. Call 271-0898.  Papa's coming to town!! For the  plans for the exciting new South Dining Hall Food Market opening  Say Katie Kroener again [Clap 3 times again]  
Near Portable Toilets in Parking  love of GOD!!! I need just 1  next year. Reservations required  then cheer some more  
Lot. If found, please call: Rachel x1467  TICKETS  GA's MichSt & married student tix for sale 273-1997  Michigan State GA. Please help. CALL TONY @ 4-2195  and seating is limited. Call Food Services at 631-5589 for more info.  Wall dance and they will come.  

A silver bracelet with a "sisters·· charm was found Thursday September 4. Call4-1271 to claim it. WANTED  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551 Looking for GA's to Any & All ND Games! Will Beat Any Offer! Will Trade Any Home Game for  I need 1 ticket for MSU and 2 for usc. Jim-271-6005 2 STUD TICKET BOOKLETS FOR SALE, for $180 each. (You need ID!) Call ASAP 44465  Student Ticket Booklet for Sale.27H715 MSU stud. tix for sale! 288-3758 NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK. 800-243-9683.  nothing· much to say now I can move, glide, step and jab. can you handle that? big deal! I can hold my arms out for 20 minutes  Hey Renee, Sorry about the smelly gloves, but hey when you really work out they get smelly. Next time you should just play with the factorial button all nile. See you tonight Jim  
LSU. Call 634-4872  
- Wanted: Ride for one from Clay High School to SMC. MW. 2:45 pm, $6 per ride. Call 233-4581 or 631­5068. FOR RENT bed & breakfast football weekends near ND 272-5989  GAs FOR SALE to MS, Ml, BC, &WV 288-3975 Wanted: ND Football Tickets Discreet Buyer -Call 1-800-255­2850 NEED 4 MSU GA'S CALL KATE 243-1 089  Michigan St. GA Tickets For Sale Best Offer Jeremy at 612-427-3444 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS BUY -SELL -TRADE 232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET~MART, INC.  Exchange 2 Stanford GA's for 2 MSU GA's x3696 Please help mel Need 2 Student GAs in senior sec­!ion for Mich. St. 243-1806 Need 2 tickets for MSU Call Bill at 634-4284  you know that it is a sad sad day when 500 jumping jacks is a good day how does that monster weigh in at 165 Blythe can't handle footsies with more than one person at a time. Take it easy on her.  i don't wanna say Katie Kroener. but I will Hutch I sit and stare at the computer, longing for your companionship. It seems like just yesterday we were together and I yearn for those moments. Sending all my love, your faithful sports girl.  



---------~ 

That's the kind of service you can expect from FazOii's. 
SJ?resto. 
Whether you dine in, carry out or drive through, you'll get a real Italian meal in a matter of minutes. All for the price of a song. 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS 
• COLLEGE·fOOTBAll 
Boilermakers prepare for BSU 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Which Purdue football team will show up this week for Ball State? · 
The time for celebrating Saturday's victory against Notre Dame is over for the Purdun, coach Joe Tiller said Tuesday. He wants them to remmnbnr Toledo this week as they prepare for Saturday's visit by Ball State. 
l'ur~lue knocked the then 12th-ranked Irish out of the national ratings with Saturday's 28-17 triumph. It came one week after Tiller's reign as head coach began with a 36-22 loss to Toledo of the Mid-American Conference. 
"All you need to do is point out what happened to us the wonk brf'ore at Toledo," Tiller said. 
The Purdue coach. speaking at his weekly news conference, said, "Any timn you have an emotional win as a football team ... you'n) concerned about how your toam will perform the 
We're 
really into cars. 
In fact, we're in 
next week. 

"I do not subscribe to this line of' thinking that if you play emotional one week. you can't get up and play well the next week.... In my opinion. that's a bunch of hogwash." 
The victory over the Irish was the first by Purdue in their annual series since 1985. 
"Certainly it was a big win for us," said Tiller, who took over a program that hasn't had a winning season since 1984. "We may have the ability to win some big football games, but certainly we have the abili­ty to perform less than desir­able." 
"Reality kind of hits you between the eyes," Tiller said. "In Ball State, we're going to face a Mid-American team, and so far we 0-1 against Mid­American teams. I think very quickly we can remind our foot­ball team that not a Saturday (victory) does a season make and that we need to focus up." 
The Cardinals are playing a Big Ten team for the second consecutive week, having fallen to Indiana 33-6 on Saturday. 
Prince products are in millions of automobiles around the world. Our products include overhead systems, instrument panels, door systems. lighting. consoles. storage systems and integrated electric products including Homelink. keyless entry systems, digital compass systems, distribution systems, and on-board information systems. Now, as the Automotive Interior Systems Center of Expertise for Johnson Controls, Inc. we can offer our engineering professionals even more career opportunity. We are looking for engineers with a strong academic record in any of the following areas: 
International Project Engineers 
Electronic Engineers 
Manufacturing/ 
Quality Engineers 
CATIA Designers/Trainers 
Mechanical Engineers 
Our location in Holland. Michigan offers a comfortable lifestyle. affordable housing, excellent schools and unlimit­ed recreational activities. Prince offers an attractive package of compensation and benefits including tuition reimburse­ment and membership in a private fitness center To find out more, see us on campus at Industrial Day Sept 24 or send your resume to: Prince, One Prince Center. Holland, Ml 49423. Attn: Staffing Manager/A7CMBNOB9. Prince is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer M/F 
PRINCE 
A JOHNSON CONTROLS COMPANY 
www.johnsoncontrols.com 

·"We know the Purdue staff 
well and know a lot of their 
players. We know they're in a 
situation where they've got to 
be excited about what's going 
on," said Ball State coach Bill 
Lynch. "Toledo really outplayed 
them .... At this point in our 
season, we're nothing like 
Toledo but in terms of being 
from the MAC they're going to have some respect for us." 
A more effective Billy Dicken at quarterback was one reason for the turnaround between the Toledo and Notre Dame games. He passed for a career-high 352 yards against the Irish, completing 26 of 38 attempts. Against Toledo, Dicken con­nected on 13 of 35 attempts for 207 yards. 
"We tried to alter the game 
plan a little bit for him," Tiller 
said of Dicken. "In the first 
game ... we probably gave him 
too much latitude regarding 
audibles and throwing the ball 
up the field .... Saturday, we 
kind of cut it down a little bit 
and also inserted a few throws · 
that we thought were easier for 
him." 


• 
-

After last week's upset victory over the Irish, running back Kendall Mathews and Purdue will host Ball State on Saturday. 
t--lappy Bi~thday Mickey! 

Love1 

Mom1 Dad1 Bob1 ··­
& Peppev., 


Fast. 


----~-~-------------..............,. ~----------~-~ 
page 16 Wednesday, September 17, 1997
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in 


•
·­
MINDS. WIDE OPEN.SM 
www.gs.com 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 
Investment Banking Division presentation for undergraduates 
7:30-9:00pm Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
36236 Notre Dame 10x16 

~--~-----------------~~ 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAlL 
Paterno sees room for growth Griffey continues to 
By MICHAEL RAPHAEL exactly paid off. The first two But then Paterno was never Associated Press Writer games of the season Penn State one to cheerlead. In the 52-10 outscored Pittsburgh and victory over Temple, for exam­
take aim at Maris 
STATE COLLEGE, l'a. Temple a combined 86-24. ple, Paterno saw some good It's not easy being No. I. Nonetheless, Paterno is still things -the blocking of full­By JIM COUR of 404 feet in the first inning 
.lust ask Penn State coach Joe worried. back Aaron Harris, the passing Associated Press Writer and a solo homer of 39T feet in 
Paterno, who says teams some­"I have some concerns. I will of Mike McQueary, the defen­the fifth. 
times spend months preparing always have some concerns. sive play of the secondary. SEATTLE The Marinl)rS, who had for one game 
I'm sure of that we'll never be The bad, however, took cen­Joe Carter 
knows a thing or Tuesday ofT, open their final against perfect," Paterno said Tuesday. ter stage. Paterno returned two about home runs, having road tri;J of the season his Nittany "I have some concerns that again and again to miscues by hit 377 of them. And the Wednesday night at Texas. L!ons. Temple was able to run the ball the offensive line and the effect Toronto outfielder likes Ken Seven of their final 11 are ·'I' eo pIe fairly well against us. they had on the running game. Griffey Jr.'s against Oakland, which has the study us, Offensively we are still not pre­lie also suggested that beating chances of_ worst pjching staff in baseball. Paterno said cise enough with our ... offen­Temple was more mental than catching. Griffey's not a one-man Tuesday. "It sive line. And last Saturday our physical, an ominous statement Roger Maris team, leaving opponents with isn't as if we backs did not have a good day with the bigger, stronger Big even though the prospect of facing Edgar go in and Paterno blocking. They made some mis­Ten teams just a few weeks his season is Martinez, Jay Buhner and Paul 
we 'rc a foot-takes. away. down t-o 11 Sorrento if they choose to pitch ball team that people have not "We're really not as far along ''We fooled Temple a great games. around him. looked at all summer -early as I would like us to be," deal, we really didn't run over "When "They've got such a good-hit­games particularly. We have Paterno said. them," he said. "So I just don't you get him Griffey ting ballclub that people can't people who have scrutinized It almost sounded like the know where we are." g o i n g , just think about shutting down 
everything we've done, come top-ranked Nittany Lions were Part of the problem could be there's nothing he can't do," Griffey and that's what makes ­
up with a lot of times different winless, not undefeated as they the loss of fullback Jason Sload, Carter said. "And he's been him so dangerous," Carter 
schemes than we've seen." prepare for their first road a good blocker who often led dealing with pressure his whole said. Not that all that planning has game of the season. the way for Curtis Enis last life. It's part of his upbringing "He's the No. 1 part of that year. Sload has not played a because he's been around offense, but they can survive down this season, hampered by major league players his whole without him." a nagging knee injury. When he life." After hitting a dozen homers may return is sfill a question With two homers against the in August, Griffey hit eight mark. Blue Jays on Monday night, homers in the first 15 days of Harris has done well, but at a Griffey grabbed the home run September. price. lead at 52 to pull within nine of Since 1961, when Maris hit "He's carrying the ball and Maris. 61 homers and Mickey Mantle also blocking, which means he "I just stopped swinging at 54 for the New York Yankees, gets hit on every play," Paterno bad pitches," he said. four players have hit 52. said. "You carry the ball, you Griffey's seventh multi­Griffey joined Willie Mays get hit. If the other guy carries homer game of the season led (1965), George Foster (1977) the ball, you're blocking, so the Seattle Mariners to a 7-3 and Mark McGwire (1996). there's a contact on every play victory to reduce their magic McGwire hit his 51st for St. and that starts to take a toll on number to seven in their bid Louis on Sunday. you. for their second AL West title in Griffey became the sixth "When we would play with three seasons. major leaguer to hit 100 or Sload we weren't hiding the After going eight games with­more home runs over two con­secret that he wasn't going to out a homer, Griffey hit two off secutive seasons, matching a 
-

carry the ball a lot. He was right-hander Woody Williams feat accomplished by McGwire. more in there to. block and did into the Kingdome's right-field Griffey hit 49 homers last sea­an excellent job with that." second deck -a two-run shot son. 

GRAND OPENING! GRA.,.~D OPENING! GRA"ND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! GRAND OPENING! 
Wolfie's serves SANDWICHES served on loaves that are baked FRESH daily !! 
Start by choosing two of these: Then top it off with FREE extras: 
Ham Lettuce, Tomatoes, Turkey Onions, Green Peppers Salami Mushroom, Jalapenos, 
Pepperoni Cucumbers, Beef Strips Mayonnaise, Mustard, Chicken Strips Olive Oil, Vinegar, 


243-9911 
Bacon Strips Garlic Spread Meatballs Marinara Sauce Sun-Thurs 10 am-l am Fri-Sat 10 am-3 am
American, Swiss, Cheddar Parmesan Cheese or Mozzarella Cheese Salt, Pepper 
Located conveniently in the Campus Shoppes Small sandw-iches., only $2. 79., or grab a large Cor only $4.99 
Always FREE DELIVERY!!! , 
S5.00 minimum -Limited r\rca -Dri\'('l'S rarry less than $20 
..
" 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
I 
I ~ Greer at the plate with the 
The Michigan Student Ticket Lottery Winners Are: ~ 
I game on line. The Texas man­I 
I ager got just what he wanted · (In the order that they were picked) ~ 
I 
Tuesday night. 
Greer homered twice, includ­ing a tiebreaking two-run shot 

960361 960608 961428 961380 960854 961315 961423 960876 961072 960219
in the eighth inning, to give the Rangers a 4-2 victory over the 

960760 960485 961515 961042 960518 961335 960271 961338 960950 960962 
Kansas City Royals. 

"He's the right guy to have at 960122 960632 961193 960578 961436 961321 960744 960691 960432 961020 
the plate in those situations in 

960101 960502 960483 960082 961450 960293 960019 960090 960726 960996
the eighth or ninth inning," Oates said of Greer. who has 12 

961274 960232 960216 960754 960932 960351 961200 960648 960368 960464 
game-winning hits in the 

Rangers' final at-bat in the last 961183 961399 960135 961254 960653 960758 961562 961483 960324 961067 
three seasons. 

960179 961230 960394 961353 961403 960924 961365 961350 961103 960443
Greer. who hit a solo horner in the fourth, has hit two home 

960102 961269 960461 961539 960790 961251 960147 961509 960851 961541 
runs in four games this season. 

and fivP in his career. He has 960985 960364 960457 960689 960367 961097 960838 960113 960928 960572 
delivered game-winning hits in 

the Rangers' final at-bat in five 960870 960104 960263 960659 960316 961348 960503 960569 
games this season. 

The alternates are: 
"I'm just doing my job, 

whether it's a home run or a 961318 961363 960923 960856 960986 960473 961285 960577 961479 960285 
single," Greer said. "I think it's 

important to win as many 961091 960562 960238 960521 960305 960611 960745 961237 960663 960795 
games as we can these last 10 days." 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 

Pettitte sparks Yanks to win 
Associated Press homer. With slugger Juan pitched five-hit ball into thn Gonzalez up next, Olson had to seventh inning and Matt NEW YORK pitch to Greer. Williams drove in two runs to 
Andy Pettitte struck out a "Having Juan hitting behind lead the Indians to a 4-2 victo­career-high 12 and the New you with what he can do can ry. York Yankees cut their magic only help me," Greer said. "I "I pitched somn real good number for clinching a playoff need to try and get on base for games hem and lost. That's tlw spot to tive, beating Boston 2-0 Juan." way it goes sometimes," Kny Tuesday in the first game of a Greer is 51-for-140 lifetime said. "Tonight we seored a lot twi-night doublPheader. against Kansas City with five of nn~~ early, which helps you 
The Yankees won their third homers and I 8 1\B Is. relax. 
in a row and increased their "lie should kill us when you Brady Andnrson and Hafanl 
edge to 8 1/2 games over throw a pitch like that," Hoyals Palrneiro hornnred for thn 
Anaheim for the wild-c~d spot. manager Tony Muser said. Orioles, who lnd 7-0 after l'ivn 
The Angels played Minnesota "One bad pitch was the differ­innings and eoastnd. The victo­
later. ence in the game. Greer is just ry rnduced thf~ir magic number 
Pettitte (18-7) allowed only a good hitter." to elinch the AL East title to five hits in eight innings and Matt Whiteside (4-1) allowf~d night. 
walked none. He surpassed his · two hits and no runs in two Hoberio Alomar had thren strikeout high of II set on Aug. innings to pick up the victory. hits and thren HBis for 4, 1996, against Kansas City, John Wetteland pitched the Baltimore, which had lost five and improved to 5-0 in his last ninth for his 30th save. of seven and also split a day­
eight starts. Hangers starter Hoger Pavlik night doublehnader with -Mariano Rivera pitched a per­turned in his second strong Cleveland on Monday. fect ninth for his 42nd save. start since missing four months Both teams senmed happy to Aaron Sele shut out the following elbow surgery. Pavlik get a split in the two-day Yankees, who welcomed Cecil allowed five hits over five marathon. 
Fielder back to the lineup after shutout innings, giving him 13 a two-month absence, on five straight shutout innings. hits for six innings. John Kansas City's Kevin Appier Wasdin (4-6) relieved to begin also had an effective start. giv­
the seventh, and Paul O'Neill ing up two runs and six hits hit an RBI single that began a over seven innings before leav­two-run inning. ing with the score tied at 2. 
Pettilte gave up just four sin­Appier struck out six and gles until Nomar Gareiaparra walked two. tripled with onP out in the Appier continues to get little 
eighth. But Pettitte protected run support. lie has allowed his 2-0 lead. retiring John three or fewPr runs in eight of Valentin on a popup and strik­his last 11 starts, but he has ing out 'v1o Vaughn on three only three wins over thai span. pitches. "He hasn't gotten any run 
-
Pettiite did a slight twirl on support and they haven't the mound after fanning played any de~nsc behind Vaughn for the second time in_ him." \lluser said. "IIf~'s tlw game. Vaughn singled off pitdwd better than his re<:orcl 
tlw left-bander .in his first two shows." at-bats. Texas took a 1-0 lead in llw AftPr struggling against Sele's first when Tom Goodwin 
off-speed stuff. Tim Raines walked, moved to second on opened the seventh with a sin­Ivan Hodriguez's walk, and gle off Wasdin. Wade Boggs scored on Gonzalez's single. 
popped up a bunt attPmpt, but Gonzalez was 3-l'or-4. the ball landed fair and stopped rolling on the third-base line. Indians 4, Orioles 2, 1st 
O'Neill followed with a drive game
' 
I I off the base of the right-field Orioles 7, Indians 2, 2nd I wall. scoring one run. Bernie game
I I 
Williams drove in another run 

I 
I with an RBI force play. BALTIMOHE I Fielder. who fractured his
I Jimmy Key did his part, and l' I right thumb on a head-first for a change the Baltimore I slide on July 15, went 1-for-4 Orioles backed him up.
I I and struck out twice. The des­Key won at Camden Yards for I I ignated hitter, with 299 career the first time since May 7, I home runs, lost about 25
I allowing two unearned runs in I pounds during his recupera­
I 7 2-3 innings as the Orioles I tion. 
beat the Cleveland Indians 7-2
I 
I Tuesday to gain a split of a day­
.....­
I 
Rangers 4, Royals 2 night doubleheadflr.
' 
I In the opener, Charles Nagy
~ ~ ARLINGTON, Texas 
I I Johnny Oates wants Rusty 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers 
Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team­
for Computer Science and Computer Engineering individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM· UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us at the: RECEPTION INDUSTRY DAY September 23rd, 6:30pm September 24th,1Oam-4pm University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering 
Monogram Room We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning 
services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and _..····~'--.',.. much more. If u_nable to attend, please send resume to: •.. 
•.. . NOVUS Serv1ces, Inc., Human Resources, ·I NOVUS . . IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, SERVICES 
\t1···..... ~~ R;ve~ood•, IL 6001 5, To';"'_ charge in a chang•.·ng world. 
1y Faxo 18471405·1388 w:::~::~..:~.:::m 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
w l 
EAST 
57''W;

Baltimore 91 
NY Yankees 85 63 
Detroit 74 76 
Boston 73 76 
Toronto 71 79 
CENTRAl 

Cleveland 79 67 Milwaukee 73 75 7 ~ 
-·­

Chicago 73 77 8 Kansas City 61 86 18.5 Minnesota 60 88 20 
WEST 
w

Seattle 84 67 
Anaheim 78 72 5.5 
,,,,.mm
GB 
w "*"' 
.... 
''::?."' 
10 ·''" 
18.5 
21 ~t. ......"'""' 

r 
Ivan 1\odriguez reached on The tickets go on sale on Wed. Sept. 23 at lpm at the Lafortune Info Desk. Tickets not 
shortstop Jay Bell's fielding 

error leading off the eighth ~old by 7pm on Sept. 25 can then be bought by alternates on a first come ""'ff,..LJR 
against Gregg Olson (3-3), and Gn~er followed with his 25th 

~ first serve basis. Go Irish, Beat Wolverines! 'i!T&· 
-----~---------------------­
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

-
• 
-

-----~---~ ~----~------~--­
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl.. 

Braves slam slumping Giants 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 

ONALLEAGUE 
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
'  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
' I  -­ 
' I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
~  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
~  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I:  
I  
!  
I  
~  
I  
I  
~  
t  - 

By TOM SALADINO 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
Eddie Perez's grand slam in the sixth inning broke a tie and the Atlanta Braves tied a major-league record with 11 slams this season Tuesday in a 6-4 win over the San Francisco Giants. 
The Braves tied the mark for grand slams in a .season set by Seattle and Baltimore last year. Atlanta, seeking an unprece­dented sixth consecutive divi­sion title, led second-place Florida by 5 1/2 games in the NL East entering Tuesday's game. 
The Giants, who began the day trailing first-place Los Angeles in the NL West by one game, lost their season-high fourth straight. The Dodgers played at St. Louis Tuesday night. 
Perez, in a 3-for-33 slump, singled in the fourth before leading the Braves to a two­game sweep with his first career grand slam. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the sixth, Chipper Jones singled and took third when second baseman Jeff Kent let Fred McGriffs potential double-play grounder go through his legs for a two-base error. 
After Andruw Jones struck out for the third straight time, Alvarez walked Danny Bautista intentionally, loading the bases for Perez. Perez hit a 2-2 fast­ball from Wilson Alvarez (3-3} to left-center for his sixth homer. 
Alvarez allowed seven hits and six runs -five earned ­in six innings. The left-hander walked two and struck out 10. 
Rookie Kevin Millwood (4-3) earned the victory for the Braves. The right-hander gave up three hits in six innings. 
The Braves took a 2-0 lead in the fourth on a two-run single by Fred McGriff. McGriffs two­out, two-run homer off Hod Beck capped a four-run rally in the ninth Monday night that gave the Braves a 5-4 win. 

The Giants tied it in the sixth. Bill Mueller singled and Barry Bonds walked. Mueller tried to take third on Millwood's wild pitch and scored when catcher Perez's throw to third bouced into the Giants' dugout. Bonds took third on the play and scored on J.T. Snow's sacrifice fly. 
Astros 15, Padres 3 
HOUSTON 

Sean Berry hit a three-run double when Houston blew the game open early and Jeff Bagwell hit his 40th homer as the Houston Astros beat San Diego 15-3 Tuesday, eliminat­ing the defending champion Padres from the NL West race. 
The Astros entered play Tuesday leading second-place Pittsburgh by 3 1/2 games in the NL Central. The Pirates hosted Montreal Tuesday night. 
The Padres, last year's NL West champs, fell to 71-80, 12 112 games behind NL West­leading Los Angeles with 11 games left. 
Bagwell's two-run homer came in the fourth inning and broke his single-season season club record of 39 homers in 1994. It came in a six-run inning for the Astros, who led 13-1 after four innings. 
Houston had 16 hits -eight for extra bases -in setting a season-high for runs. 
The Astros gave Ramon Garcia (7-8) a comfortable 7-0 lead against Sterling Hitchcock (10-10} after the first two innings, highlighted by Luis Gonzalez's two-run double in the first and Berry's three-run double in the second. Gonzalez season and thr, 34th of his pitcher to notch 300 strikeouts career. Schilling is unbnat1m in since 1900 and thP first in tlw his last 10 starts and hasn't lost majors since Bandy Johnson a decision since July 26. struck out 308 in 1993. 
The MPts didn't get a three­The crowd at Veterans ball count until the seventh Stadium rose aft!'r the count on inning. Alfonzo ran the count to Alfonzo went to 1-2. and gave 3-2 before nying to center. Schilling a standing ovation The Phillies scored three runs when Alfonzo swung and in the second off Hick Reed. missed at strike three. 
Hieo Brogna dropped a one­Schilling is the first right-han­out double down the left-field der to strike out 300 since Scott line, and Mikfl Lieberthal fol­struck out 306 in 1986. lowed with his team-leading The major-league leader in 20th homer. strikeouts this season, Schilling 
Cummings' HBI singlP in the has a chance to break Steve fifth scored Kevin Stocker and Carlton's team record of 310, made it 3-0. set in 1972, and J.B. Richard's 
With the strikeout of J\ll'onzo, NL record for strikeouts by a Schilling became only the 13th right-hander (313, in 1979). 
Take advantage of these valuable rebates available at your campus bookstore through 1 0-31-97. 
Cirectcir''S Multimedia Studio 
Explore the most powerful tools for multimedia and the Web. 
c~';'~~ s 
with Electronic Cocumentation 
Explore the most powerful tool for multimedia and the Web. 
Graphic Studio 7 
Explore the most powerful design tools for print and internet graphics. 
Fr~j' 7 
Explore the most powerful design tool for print and internet graphics. 
FI~'J:h 

Explore the easiest way to create fast Web multimedia. 
·see specially marked boxes at your campus bookstore for details. Director 6 with Electronic Documentation available to students and faculty only. 2906.8.97. 

Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you a chance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. James King, C.S.C. Fr. William Wack, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
also had an RBI doublB in the fourth. 
Steve Finley doublr,d in the third inning and scored on Ken Caminiti's sacrifice fly off Garcia, who allowed six hits and struck out eight in six innings. 
Hitchcock was tagged for seven runs -six earned -and five hits in 1 1-3 innings. 
Phillies 3, Mets 2 
PI IILADELPHIA 
Curt Schilling passed tho 300­strikeout mark and took a per­fect game into the eighth inning Tuesday night beforn snttling for a three-hitter as the Philadelphia Phillies beat the New York Mets 3-l. 
Pinch-hittnr Luis Lopnz broke up Schilling's bid for perfection with a one-out, line-drive single to center in the eighth. Schilling (16-10) had retired 22 straight before Lopez's hit. 
In the fourth inning, Schilling recorded his 300th strikeout this snason by fanning Edgardo Alfonzo. Schilling is the 13th pitcher to reach the 300­plateau and the first in the NL since Houston's Mike Scott in 1986. 
One out aftnr Lopez's single, Carlos Baerga hit an HBI dou­ble on a ball center fielder Midre Cummings nearly grabbed with a diving catch. Cummings had tho ball in his glove, but lost it as he hit the ground. 
Brian McRae hit his 1Oth homer with one out in the ninth to make it 3-2. Phillies first baseman Rico Brogna made a diving stop of John Olerud's liner to end the game. 
Schilling finished with nine strikeouts, bringing his season total to 305, and didn't allow a walk. 
The right-hander recorded his seventh complete game this 

EAST 
Atlanta Florida NY Mets Montreal Philadelphia 
CENTRAL 
Houston Pittsburgh St. Louis Cincinnati Chicago 
WEST 
los Angeles San Francisco Colorado San Diego 


92 
86 
82 74 60 
75 
72 
69 69 63 
83 
82 
78 71 


~­

Love, 
.() ~ 

~ 
~ 

Hispanic Caribbean Study Program (Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico) 
Spring 1998 
Informational Meeting with 
-

Or. Thomas E. Bogenschild Director, International Study Programs 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 4:45 .. 5:45p.m. 313 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: October 1 
Study in the CARIBBEAN 
~ 

Wednesday, September 17, 1997 
Football 
continued from page 24 
experienced ol'l'ense to South Bend on Saturday, presnnt the Irish with an urgency on the defensive sidP of the ball to make vast improvnrlH-mts. 
Beyond an issul.' of time, the major hindrance in accomplish­ing this is injury. The Irish added del'ensiv<~ end Jason Ching and ofTnnsive tackle Chris Clevenger to the disabled list that includes linebackers Bobbie lloward and Joe Thomas, all lost to knee injuries, leaving thn defensive front short on experience and full of uncertainty. 
"On ddPnsn, it's obvious that· we rwPd to keep developing, or start to d<wPiop tlw inside line­barkPrs." Davi<~ said. "We real­ly don't have a player there that's played much football. Looking back at Purdue, some of the problems we had in alignments -getting the strong call, getting people lined up ­are due to the inexperience we have at inside linebacker." 
Davie is looking to junior Jimmy Friday and sophomon~ Bonnie Nicks, in addition to true freshman Grant Irons and soph<imore walk-on Anthony Brannan. to fill the role. 
Adding to the stress put on the inexperienced linebackers is the Spartans' line-up of three tailbacks that have combined for nearly 600 yards on the ground in the last two games. Sophomore Sedrick Irvin, senior Marc Henaud, and sophomore Leroy McFadden combine spe<ld, size, and expe­rience. whil<~ a mamouth offen­sive line -averaging 6-foot-5, 
The Observer • SPORTS 
299-pounds -creates holes for them. 
"I think on defense we've got to settle down," Davie said. "We've got to keep it simple. Because to attack, to attack on defense, we've got to anticipate and stay one step ahead. It's not just reacting, it's anticipat­ing what's going to come." 
On the offensive side of the ball, the Irish are looking to move the ball the way they have in the last two weeks, putting up impressive numbers both in the air and on the ground, but get it in the end zone. The offense has been unable to score in clutch situa­tions. Without Clevenger, the offensive line will have to step up in order to create room for running back Autry Denson to continue his ground domination 
i\ key factor offensively for the Irish against the Spartan 

Institute for International Peace Studies 
Telephone: (219) 631 ..6970 Fax: (219) 631 ..6973 
presents 


Professor Bruce Cumings 
"North Korea: The Politics of a 
Humanitarian Crisis" 
Thursday, September 18, 1997 
12:15 p.m. The ·Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies University of Notre Dame 
The Changing Status of Children in Latin America: 
Issues in Child Health and Children's Rights 

The Joan B. Kroc 
Everyone Welcome 
KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
Academic Workshop 

26-28 September 1997 The Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Friday, September 26 (3:30 p.m.-6:30p.m.) 
I. The Changing Face of Malnutrition in Latin America 
Saturday, September 27 (9:00 a.m.-6:00p.m.) 
II. Feeding Practices and Environmental Sanitation Ill. Bridging Issues of Child Health and Juvenile Rights IV. Childhood, Citizenship, and Democracy 
Sunday, September 28 (9:00 a.m.-12:45 p.m.) 
V. Violence, Delinquency, and Penal Law 
VI. Child Labor and Education 

l 
' 
l 
page 21 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Senior defensive end Corey Bennett (95) will start on Saturday after missing last week's game with a sore knee. 
defense is limiting the number · of turnovers. The Spartan defense is the top-ranked defense nationally ·in forced 
Happy Birthday Beth! 
~ ' ' 
turnovers, and the Irish have 
committed costly turnovers in 
both games. 
Another area in which Notre Dame hopes to improve on offense is using more of a vari­ety of players. hopefully creat­ing a downfield threat. Davie said at the press conference that he hopes to use more of his young talent, such as running back Tony Driver, tight end Jabari Holloway, and wide receiver Darcy Levy, in addition to senior Allen Hossum as a potential big-play man. 
"The thing I would like us to see is us throw the football down the field more," Davie said. "Part of it is, in all hon­esty, that we've been so close in football games. We've never been able to have any kind of a comfort level where we feel like we can waste a play." 
Overall, Davie hopes that this week's game against the Spartans will bring an enthusi­asm that seems to have been lacking in the last two games. ­
''I've always been under the impression that you need to set the tempo yourself," Davie said. "You don't wait to find out how the games going to decide if you're going to play in an enthusiastic manner. 
"We need to be ~thusiastic first, and then will come suc­cess." 

Public Policy Forum: A Round Table Discussion 
Monday, September 29, 8:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
Michael Heisler Task Force for Child Survival and Development Nelson Castro The Carter Center, USA 
Chair 
Radio del Plata, Argentina Marta Mauras 

UNICEF-Latin America and the Caribbean Invited Panelists Juan E. MendezSir George Alleyne 
Inter-American Institute of Human Rights, 
Costa Rica Luis Anderson CIOSL-ORIT. Venezuela Pan America Health Organization Marinela Servitje de Lerdo de Tejada Papa~ote Children's Museum, Mexico 

Gilberte Dimenstein Journalist, Brazil Eugenio Raul Zaffaroni Faculty of Penal Law, 
University of Buenos Aires, Argentina Rev. John Drexel, OMI 
Archdiocese of Sao Paulo. Brazil Nelly Zavaleta lnstituto de lnvestigacion Nutricional, Peru 
Project Latin America 2000, faceted program of the Kell Institute for International Stu supported by the Company, includes an emic workshop and public forum that address some of cal challenges facing Latin at the century's end. shops have examined integration, the development consolidation of democracy, and employment issues, and th underprivileged and the rule of law. 
have a twofold objective: to deli the present situation of chi Latin America with respect to nutrition, environmental sani citizenship, employment, viole delinquency, and the law, and 
public and private sectors to needs and unresolved proble affecting the well-being of children. 
For more information, contact Gabriela Mossi, Acting Academic Coordinator, The Kellogg Institute Tel: (219) 631-6580, Fax: (219) 631-6717, e-mail: Mossi.1 @nd.edu 



page 22 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 

overtime, as the Irish allowed only one additional shot in tlw sudden death period. The Irish attack was able to put sonw pressure on the Wildcats with three attempts on goal. Notre Dame came up short and the game ended in a 2-2 tie. 
Notre Dame returns to action whnn it faces Big East opponent West Virginia at Mountaineer Field on Saturday. It will bn the third conference game for the Irish, who are undefeated in thn Big East with a record of 1-0-1 . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Ballet -Classes will be held on Sundays from 3 to 4 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 
p.m. 
The fee is $35. Register in advance at RecSports. Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute -Tae kwon do and jujitsu practice for beginners will take place from 4 to 6 

p.m. 
on Thursdays and 6 to 8 


p.m.  on  Sundays  in  218  
Rockne Memorial.  All are  
welcome.  

Field hockey-There will be an informational meeting on 
• i\~AJOi1 lEAGUE BASEBAll 

No vote on realignment 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
After a meeting of the sport's ruling executive council Tuesday night, it appeared owners would be unable to come to a vote on realignment this week. 
Unable to issue a I 998 sched­ule because they can't figure out where to put the two expansion teams. owners had

-
many different proposals under consideration as they began their quarterly session with a five-hour meeting of the sport's ruling executive council. And when the council recessed after midnight, even more ideas were presented for r,onsideratit~. "Everyday my fax is busy, dubs sending different plans,'' acting commissioner Bud Selig said. A council member, speaking on the condition he not be iden­tified, said it was "highly unlikely" a plan could be for­mulated that would win approval in the next two days. Going into the meeting, realignment committee chair­man John Harrington said his goal was "to eliminate some alternatives." But several com­mittee members said the num­ber of plans had grown Tuesday, not shrunk. "We need to air everything out because what we're doing is going to be dono for a long 
• CORRECTION 
Tuesday's Accent section fea­tured a report on club sports at Notre Dame. However, it failed to mention men's volleyball. 

Sept. 21 at 5:30 p.m. in the lobby of Pasquerilla East. Please call Maureen at 4-4281 or Amy at 4-4308 with any questions. Volleyball tournament­
RecSports will be sponsoring a 
One Night Volleyball touma­
ment on Thursday, Sept. 18. 6 
p.m. at Stepan outdoor courts. Space is limited and sign-up deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 
17. Call RecSports for more information. 
time,'' Selig said. 
The executive council will meet again with the rmtlign­ment committee Wednesday, then brief teams during sepa­
. rate league meetings. Both leagues meet jointly Thursday. 
Owners arriving at the meet­ings weaved their way through celebrities such as heavyweight champion Evander llolyfield. who was attending the opening of Atlanta's All-Star Cafe. which is just down the block from the hotel baseball is using. 
Some teams remain in l'avor of the radical realignment plan that would have 15 teams switch leagues next season, basically turning the American League into an East Coast cir­cuit and the National League into a West Coast circuit. 
Seven NL teams have threat­ened to vote against it, includ­ing four with veto power. Still, other teams think they can per­suade those clubs to change their minds. 
''I'm sure people will say things in the heat of the moment, but, hopefully, ratio­nality will take over," said Texas Hangers president Tom Schieffer. 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997

The Observer· SPORTS 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Junior Ben Bocklage scored an apparent goal that would have given the Irish a 3-2 lead, but it was called back moments later because of an offsides penalty. 




dome 
Call the Information Desk at 631-8128 or Student Activities at 631-7308 
· · TS. Ne-w Mexic:o 8p... 
AND-~-= 
Saturday Sept. ~OIL Free admission to everyone!! 
" . 
Attention Seniors!!! 
You don't want to miss your ONLY opportunity to have your Senior portrait Sept. 1 through Sept 26. Sign up at LaFortune Information Desk until 9:00PM on Sept. 17. 

Questions: 
... 


l 
I 
Wednesday, September 17, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Xmas gift 59 Semi support recipient 
60 Troy story 6 Woodworking 36 Considerate 61 "Boy, that was tool 37 Grocery close!" 9 Barks coupon value 62 Cap that may be 38 Wharf partly plaid 
1 Understanding 
13Adime, dollarwise 39 Mass. hours 63Watchers 14 Hideout 
40 "Piece of cake" 16 Calamitous DOWN
41 Bolivian capital 17 Filer's aide 
42 Plumbing 1 Communica­

18 "Rule, 
convenience 
tions giant

Britannia" 
44 Court stat 2 Sleep state

composer 
47 "Who, me?" 30ver

19 Rack site 20 Pink slip 
48 Means to an 4 Short on cash end 
5 "The Mary Tyler 53 Jivers Moore Show" 

23 Arafat's org. 
24 Menu selection 
spinoff

54 Devoid of seeds 
25 Sebastiania 
rocks? 6Jai-­7 "Nuts!"

31 First sign of 55 Sen. Thurmond spring 58 "The Thin Man" 
8 Get in a good one on

32 Takes it easy dog 9 Decides to use 10 Hudson, e.g. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Soeur's sibling 12 Brains 15 Undoes .:.:.f.=+=-+==-! 21 ---Tiki ~-=-+.:....j.:.-'-1 22 Reinking and Richards 25 Boxer LaMotta 26 "Battle Cry" author 27 Like new 28 Close in films 29 Actress Beulah 30 First name in rock 33 Passageway 34 River through Bern 


IF YOU CHEVJ TOBACCO AND 'NA.NT TO QUIT, ASK US, WE CAN HEL.P! 
NOW AVAILABLE IN THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION, FREE MINT SNUFF, ALL MINT CHEW. THE HEALTHY ALTERNAT:VE TO CHEWING TOBACCO!! CALL 631­7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION. 
J 

SENS I TI'IE, I/'1 AiY OPiNION P.£Ai.LY 
\WO \--\OURS 7!! 1\~~G\-\ \~ ~ T\-\ERE'S I ~l'< TEN MINUTES 
~OR\\-\ 0~ 1~5¥-S~! 
Puzzle by Rich Norris 
350newhose work is always changing 
37 Southwestern saloon 
38With old-fashioned charm 
40 Where Virgo meets Libra, e.g. 
41 Actress Kurtz 42 Lumber mill fixture 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST

CI:LI:Ill{l 111:~ llU!{N UN I HI~ 
DAY: Clint E"'tw<K>d, lln>oke Shidds, Don An-.eche, Sharon Ck·s~ 
DEAR EUGENIA: I .1m confusL"d and dating fnur differt.•nt 1i1en at tlw same time. I nt.•ed to lllilkt.• il dl•cision regarding them. I c,1nnut deride which direction to go, as I GHl' \'t.•ry much about tht.•m all. I gut.•ss I want to know who b the bt.~st match, or which one can m,1ke mt.• the happiest and settle down "'ith. Mv lift.• ha~ bt.•en in upheaval for the ·last three years with career, romance and fami­
iv. I "'" horn April 22, 1957, at 'I: IS 
il.m. My prospecti\'t.' partners \Vere born Au~;. '1, 1%6; Dec. 24, 1966; Julv 31, 1Y56;and0ct.21, 1%6. ­
Four-Timer
MIKE PETERS 
DEAR FOUR-TIMER: It appears to me that you aren't all that picky when it comes to your partners. 
Your chart indicates that you match up adequately to all of them. No one stood out as being better for you. There is an element of dishon­esty in all four comparisons. There­fore, I'm assuming that it is you who are not being up front and straight. Physically, Dec. 24, 1966, matches up the best, but you are also likely to pass sexual disease back and forth. Mentally, they are all about the same, but possibly July 31, 1956, and Oct. 21, 1966, have a slight edge. 
Emotionally Aug. 9, 1966, and July 31, 1956, have a slight edge. You will be in a high cycle where love is concerned at !he beginning of next year. You may as well play until that time, when you may meet someone 
SCOTT ADAMS 
who is better for you. 

ARIES (March 21-April 201: Avoid 
u 

TR'< 5RE~THINC.
UH-01-\. I
0 

dt.•ct.•ption at an emotional lt.'\'l'L In­volvement in groups of interest will
INTO A. PAPERTHINK. I'M
~ 
TEMPORf>.RIL'( 

eAG A.NO
~ 



Born Today: Your drive will leod vou to the winners circle this vear. Don't 
~ 

lose sight of your goals and dtm't stop to see \,:hat everyone else is doing.
</) 

REPE.A.TtNC,
SANE. 

Added discipline will allo\\' you to finish wl1.1t you start and leil\'e your cum­pditors light years behind you.
, ~ 

OUR f'\I55ION 
... . 

5T~TE.MENT. 
Saint Miry's 
. __ ,.:...:,--:. 

Call 284~5542 for menu information, 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and
43 All clocks are 50 Festive set by it: Abbr. 
51 Rose part 44 Musicians' 52 Northwest org. Pennsylvania 
editors.
45 Thief's secret city 46 Tre + quattro 56 Scull 49 Bakery call 57 Ax writers 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


promote new romantic retanonsmps. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Late in the dav, travel will be favorable and SJnall-gatherings with friends will provide mental stimulation. 
GEMINI (May 22-June 21): Take a look at your personal papers. Make deci~inns regarding your direction. Terminate dead-end projects that are taking up valuable timt•. 
CANCER (june 22-july 22): Take time to he with family. You can gl't in· volved in ~roup Jctivities that will in­volve thuSt.' close to your heart. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): Opportuni· ties to sluw.· vour \Vorth will enhance your reputation and bring possible advatKl'llll'nt. Your high energv must be dim:ll'li into productive goab. 
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 221: Get the whole family into participatit~g in outdoor activities. Your high energy must be directed wiselv. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 23): Trv to direct your energy into physicall.lbor rather than serious discussions that YOU Ccln't \\'ill. . SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 221: Trav­d fnr pleasure, visit friends or rela­tives that you don't get to see that often. Talk to vour lover about vour J.:>t.·r~c.mrd goals.' · 
SAGIITARIUS <Nov. 23-Dec. 21): You can help older family members with their personal papers. Be conscr­\'i1ti\'t.' in your spending. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 20): Plea~ure trips will be satisfying. Ne\V ron1c1n tic encounters can develop with foreigners. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 181: You can c,1tch up on domestic chores, ren­ovate or redecorate your living space or entertain in vour home. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do not gd involvt•d in dubious get-rich­quick schemL'S. You mav find that SOI11l'Oill' is being untruthfitl. 
.,.... 
-
-

SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, September 17, 1997 


Irish left kissing their sister in tie with Wildcats 
.. 
Notre Dame fails to hold early lead at Northwestern 
By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI Sports Writers 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team was forced to play overtime for the second straight game and the third time this season as the Irish tied the Northwestern Wildcats 2-2 on the road. The tie gives 
......------~ N o t r e Dame a season record of 2-2-2. 
Senior co-captain R y a n Turner put Savarino the Irish on the scoreboard first. giving them a 1-0 lead just over three minutes into the game. Turner received the pass from fellow senior Bill Savarino and was able to beat Northwestern goalie Matt Keeler from 20 yards out. The goal was Turner's third of the season. 
Ten minutes later, the Wildcats responded when junior Dave Mooradian tied the score at 1-1. Mooradian's goal came off of a pass from 

Brandon Swalve, who was able to maneuver the ball within five yards of tho net. The goal was Mooradian's fourth of tho snason. 
Northwestern senior Andy McDermott gave the Wildcats the lead at the 22-minutn mark when he was able to finish a Patrick Eggen cross. The Wildcats' lead did not last long. 
Savarino tied the game for the Irish just I 4 seconds later, scoring from just out­side the penalty box. Turner and senior Joe Gallo were credited with assists on the play. 
Late in the first half, it appeared that Irish junior Ben Bocklage had given tho Irish a 3-2 load. llnwcver, his header with loss than seven minutes left in the half was called back on an o!Tsides penalty. 
The second half was domi­nated by defense. The Irish surrendered only one shot attempt to the Wildcats but could only muster two them­selves. 
The defensive attitude for Notre Dame continued into 
see SOCCER I page 22 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Senior Joe Gallo and Notre Dame jumped out to a 1-0 lead but were forced to settle for a 2-2 tie Tuesday afternoon at Northwestern. For the Irish, it was the second tie in their last three games. 
• fOOTBALL • SMC VOLLEYBAll 
Back injury sidelines Clevenger 
Belles register 

By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor 

first win of year
Regardless of the opponent, this week's 
game will be one of the major challenges the Belles.
for the Notre Dame football team this sea­
Saint Mary's llownver, Chicago battled
son. Coming off a devastating 28-17 loss 
back and matched Saint

to Purdue last week, the Irish have been forced to step back and re-evaluate the rebounds from Mary's point for point at the 
start of' the first game, but tiH'

team plan as a whole. However. when you throw an explosive opening loss Belles wore the opposition 
down and went on to cruise to

Michigan State into that equation, the 
By MOLLY McVOY victory.

complexity of the situation magnifies itself, 
Sports Writer 
After struggling with their

leaving the Irish on display under a nation­serve in the start of game two.
wide microscope, searching for proof of The Saint Mary's volleyball the Belles went on to domi­resilience. 
team regrouped after last nate the second and third
Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie 
week's loss, defeating the 
games. Saint Mary's was onceknows the challenge that lies ahead of his 

University of Chicago 15-9, 
again led by the strong serv­team, and he also knows that the worst 

15-3, 15-5 ..-,..-------.,...--, 
ing of' Ozbolt in the secondthing for the Irish to do right now is panic. 

last night in 
game. Overall, Bill and Betsy"Everyone asks if we're going to panic, 

the squad's 
Connolly led the way in kills,or how the football team's going to react," 

first home 
while Jardina served well and

Davie said at his weekly press conference 
game of the 
led the squad in assists.

yesterday. "I think the great thing about year. 
Jardina also had a block at

football is you only have to wait a week to 
The team the end of the second game

get a chance to play again. But obviously 
was led by 
that secured Saint Mary's vic­it's going to be a big challenge because 

6-foot 
tory.

Michigan State is a heck of a football team, 
sophomore Connolly 
"We had great defense andand we'll need every second of that week M a r y

to put ourselves in a position to be compet­were reading their killers
Radovich, 5-foot-11 sopho­really well," said head coach
itive." 

more Jayne Ozbolt, 6-foot Jennie Joyce. "We had con­
The major area of concern for the Irish 
senior Meg Kelly, 5-foot-4 
trol of the net on offense andlies in the failure by the defense in the past freshman Megan Jardina, and 

defense, and we served

two weeks to establish a rhythm in which 5-foot-8 Agnes Bill. 
aggressively."

the Irish can gain control of the tempo of Meg Kelly got the Belles off
the game. That, cumpiled with the fact Saint Mary's hopes to con­
and running, scoring the
that the Spartans will bring an explosive, The Observer/Brandon Candura tinue to the streak when they
game's first point with an ace.
Senior tackle Chris Clevenger will likely miss three games face DePauw and Albion
Mary Roderich added eight
after lllJUnng h1s back last week against Purdue. College in upcoming games.
see FOOTBALL I page 21 kills to secure game one for 
vs. New Mexico, 
-vs. Michigan State, 
September 20, I :30 p.m. 

@ September 19, 7:3{) p.m. a) •Purdue prepares for Ball State 
~~ 

'A -vs. North Carolina, 
Volleyball at DePauw, ~ see page 15 
September 19, 7:30 p.m. 

September 18, 7 p.m. •JIIIIIIII
~ 

riJ •Griffey continues to eye Maris 
6; 
at West Virginia, 
Soccer at Franklin College, see page 17 
September 20, 7 p.m. 

Today, 4 p.m. 
~ ..e 









