-----~ 

• The Irish hockey team opens its season
Go Irish ... Beat Panthers Money Problems??? 
tonight at home against Western Ontario. The game will begin at 7 p.m. in the Joyce a Roadtripping to Pitt or just watching the • Professor Charles Hice asks Center. Last year's team won the match­

game on TV? Cheek out Accent for all the why the University is "robbing up 2-1.
info on this week's Irish enemy. non-wealthy students." 
Back Page
p. 12 & 13 p. 11 

Friday, October 10, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 35 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
.. 

Ashley: Pleasure should not be the sole intent of sex 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE Assistant News Editor 

"For every Christian homosexual. chaste celibacy is the true vocation." 
Father Benedict Ashley, Notre Dame alumnus and professor emeritus, presented a theological answer to questions about human sexuality and homosexuality in a lecture yesterday afternoon. 
In an effort to present a Biblical understand­ing of homosexuality. Ashley first discussed the Scriptural interpretation of marriage. 
"Marriage is to be a covenant of love that is both faithful and fruitful," he said. "God created man and woman in marriage to complement each other for these two purposes." 


'Heterosexuality is 
an achievement. Every person has the chance to attain it.· 
Father Benedict Ashley 
Ashley explained that this type of union is not purely physical, but also psychological and spiri­tual: "We arc told in Ephesians that this is a union of love like Christ's own love for his peo­ple." 
But where does the aspect of sexual pleasure fit into the concept and idea of human sexual·ity? 
"That the Bible does not condemn sexual plea­sure is plain," Ashley remarked, "yet physical pleasure is not an end in itself, but a facilitator of good activities." 
Thus, Ashley emphasized, engaging in sexual acts merely l'or physical pleasure is not only morally and ethically wrong, it is a condemna­tion of Jesus' teachings. 
"Sexual pleasure is morally good when it promises the two essential purposes of sex, the love of a man and wife and the building of their 
see PRIEST I page 8 
Misty watercolor images ... 

with numerous puddles that later reflected the crystal-clear afternoon. 
·---·-·------~-----·-·----~·---------~ -----~
Friday Feature 

Student managers work at football practices doing everything from assisting coaches, preparing the game field and painting the football helmets the traditional Irish gold color. 
. Behind every good team ••• 
IAthletic managers Idedicate energy, 
! 

time to ND sports 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Assistant News Editor 
Every spring, letters go out from Notre Dame's athletic department to every freshman on campus advertis­ing the position of sports manager. Students who are interested can join the select few who help make varsi­ty athletics possible on such a grand scale as it is run at Notre Dame. 
With the position of manager 
Atypical manager's schedule­Thursday before a game weekend 
9:3Q-12 p.m. Class 
12:15 p.m. · Lunch 

1 p.m.
2:30 p.m. 
7:30 p.. m... 8:30p.m. 


2 a.m. 

Study
Work atlhe practice Held finish practice, go to the "' 
stadium, prepare gOlden ­
llellllets for··-.
Dinner 
Paint tbe footballfttlftliW 

with paint thatlncllldas real 
gold specks, then pack Diem up with all the other . equipment to getto PHisburgb '• Go home to sleep before class tomorrow morning 
come many perks: managers who stay on beyond sophomore year receive at no charge a full wardrobe of Notre Dame sports clothes both for work and their own use. They also get the opportunity to play in the traditional sophomore vs. junior and senior manager football game, in which they wear the famed gold­en helmets and jerseys used by the football team. 
In addition, managers who perse­vere through their senior year can receive a grant of anywhere from two-thirds to three-fourths of their tuition. 
"I love it," said Bill Klish, who 
see MANAGERS I page 4 



Offended Catholics demand apology after Stanford band's antics at game 
By MICHELLE GUIDO 
Knighr-Ridder/Tribune News Services 

PALO ALTO, Calif. 
The Leland Stanford Junior University marching band !)as made its reputation by being absurd, over-the-top and sometimes offensive. 
But when Stanford's football team played Notre Dame last weekend, the pre-game and halftime shows so outraged some Irish and Catholics in the stands that administrators from schools in the Catholic Diocese of San Jose have written a letter demanding an apology. 
During the shows, the band narrator called the Irish "stinking drunks." A parody of the Irish pota­to famine featured "Seamus O'Hungry," whose "sparse cultural heritage consisted only of fighting, then starving." Also featured was a mock debate between one band member dressed as a Catholic "Cardinal," a play on words since Cardinal is the Stanford mascot, and one dressed as the devil. 
Tim Brosnan, principal of Archbishop Mitty, a Catholic high school in San Jose, wrote the letter to Ted Leland. Stanford's athletic director, and had it signed by more than 30 administrators from dio­cese schools. The letter asks for a public apology and sanctions for the band. 
Leland has issued a written apology for "the tasteless performance by the Stanford band ... In their sophomoric attempt at humor, the band crossed the line from funny to obnoxious and offensive." 
No sanctions have been or will be taken against the band, according to assistant athletic director Gary Migdal. Leland's apology should not be mis­taken for an apology from the band itself. 
For all of its scandalous behavior over the years, the band is not in the habit of saying, "We're sorry.'' Often described as the most outrageous marching band in football history. the Stanford band has long been able to chart its own course remaining largely autonomous from the university administration. 
Brosnan said he appreciates Leland's apology, but said the university's refusal to punish the band shows its "unwillingness to take a true stand on this issue." And he argues that when the band plays at university-sanctioned activities, it becomes a reflection of the school. 
"Stanford needs to realize that this sort of insti­tutional idiocy that is their band when it goes out in front of 75,000 people who pay to see the game is representing the university," said Brosnan, a 
see BAND I page 4 

Friday, October 10, 1997
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
At least 59 dead as Hurricane Pauline devastates Acapulco 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Who's disordered here? 
For over three years Anthony Shaker now I have been able to 

Photographer
read Professor Charles 
Rice's frequent Observer 
columns with a certain 

endurance -not necessarily condemning his 
extremely conservative arguments, but politely 
agreeing to disagree. His article on Sept. 26 
entitled "Stop Being PC, Treat Homosexuality 
as Disorder," however, finally pushed me over 
the proverbial edge. 

I've grown tired of listening to this man's 
archaic, outgrown pontifications instructing 
the whole of humanity on how to live their 
lives, how to understand morality, and how to 
think. It is this same sanctimonious attitude 
that has been distancing young persons from 
Christianity, and pushing them towards lives 
devoid of spirit. We have pompous law profes­
sors putting themselves on pedestals and refus­
ing to even entertain the idea of contesting, on 
any level, church and/or papal doctrines. The 
"Spirit of Inclusion," which is so overplayed at 
Notre Dame these days, does possess both spir­
itual and doctrinal merit. 

Condemning the administration for not clas­
sifying a group of Notre Dame students as 

being contrary to nature? Are you kidding 
me? College kids don't deserve that kind of 
treatment, no matter what their supposed 

crime may be. I'm not by any means defending 
the school's stance on this issue or on any 

other, but Professor Rice has gone too far. His 
incessant, mean-spirited attacks on students 
are, to me, contrary to a Christian nature and 
part of a "disorder" that afflicts the communi­
ty. 

How long is Rice and his audience going to 
defy the messages of Christ by ostracizing 

members of the student body? It's unholy and 
uncompassionate. Furthermore, these same 
"disorders" are in part financing Professor Rice 
and other members of the faculty to teach at 
this university. Obviously, it would be ridicu­
lous to assume that professors should be 

expected to conform their opinions to those of 
their students. That's not what I am implying. 
But a fine, unequivocal line exists between pos­
sessing and/or teaching one's opinions, and 
continually going out of one's way to berate 
your student<; in their school publication with 
those opinions. 

Make no mistake, I do not claim to under­
stand all aspects of Christianity, nor am I a the­
ologian. But I'm not a moral relativist, either, 
and neither are most of the students here. 
Our beliefs have been shaped by being 

Christians, studying theology, and coexisting 
with other Christians. Mr. Rice should under­
stand that people of our faith can read and 
study the same Bible as his and arrive at differ­
ent conclusions. They shouldn't be made to 
feel inferior or any less pious for doing so. 

Right and wrong may exist, but is it Professor 
Rice's position to rudely ram his interpretation 
down our throats? 

I find it difficult to believe that the always 
inclusive Jesus Christ would have ever consid­
ered adding to his sermon on the mount or the 
beatitudes that "homosexu~lity is a more or 
less strong tendency ordered toward an intrin­
sic moral evil, and thus the inclination itself 
must be seen as an objective disorder." It 

seems out of place. But scripture did say "Woe 
also to you scholars of the law! You impose on 
people burdens hard to carry, but you your­
selves do not lift one finger to touch them. 
Woe to you! (Luke, 11: 46-47)." 

Please, Professor Rice, spare us from any 
more of your arrogant sermons. They're get­
ting tired. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 

News Accent Michelle Krupa Joey Crawford Sean Smith Graphics Nicole Swartzentruber 
Dave Piening Sports 
Production Allison Krilla 

Michelle Krupa Sarah Dylag 
Laura Petelle Viewpoint 
Lab Tech Kelly Brooks Sam Assaf 

Th~ Obs~rv~r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish~d Monday through Friday ~x~~pt during ~xam and vacation periods. Th~ Obs~rvcr is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
ACAPULCO, Mexico 

Hurricane Pauline struck Mexico's most famous tourist resort with devas­tating fury Thursday, unleashing deadly torrents that swept people, cars and giant boulders toward storm-ravaged Pacific beaches. 
At least 59 people died along hun­dreds of miles of coast pummeled by Pauline's 1 OO-mph winds -40 of those deaths in badly battered Acapulco, a glittering resort of 2. 9 million people that dawned a disaster zone. 
"This is a very sad day," said Gov. Angel Aguirre of Guerrero state, home to Acapulco, where Pauline sent torrents of rainwater raging through streets. Aguirre said at least five other people were killed elsewhere in the state, 
Friday Saturday 
Sund~y 

Monday 
:·i 

Tue~day 
r· ~/\.}';'..._
,. 

where powerful Pauline ripped makeshift homes away and badly dam­aged such resorts as Puerto Angel. 
Fueled by the warm El Nino ocean currents, Pauline powered towering waves -30 feet tall on exposed coasts -that pounded Acapulco's pristine beaches to a maelstrom of trash and twisted lounge chairs. 
Heavy rains turned streets into roaring rivers of debris. 
Water swept boulders the size of cars down the hills and flipped vehicles like toys, catching some with lights still on, their doors underwater. A coastal high­way skirting the famed beaches teemed 
.. 
with raging water, and one man's body stuck from the mud, arms outstretched and mouth agape. 
L___________________________
goo 

As of 8 a.m. EDT Thursday, Oct. 9 Position: 17.4°N, 100.5W -......____JJ---.::,-, Moving: WNW at 15 mph Sustained winds :100 mph Gusts at: 115 mph  
2s•  
20a  
15°  
10o  Pacific Ocean  
s·  Hurricane watch  =======  

adding, "We don't recall a hurricane ever having caused such damage." 
In neighboring Oaxaca state, where Pauline first struck with 115-mph winds a day earlier, state government spokesman Leandro Hernandez confirmed 14 deaths, 15 people missing and thousands of homeless. 
"The figure could still rise," said Hernandez, speaking with The Associated Press by telephone from the state, 
Clinton announces IRS changes 

WASHINGTON 
Two weeks after dramatic Senate hearings on IRS misconduct, President Clinton plans to propose changes including new taxpayer-rights legisla­tion and greater citizen involvement in fielding complaints. a congressman and staff members said Thursday. In a White House announcement scheduled Friday, Clinton plans to recommend 
""""'"'-"""--""----' "citizen advocacy boards" at the IRS and an enhanced role for the agency's taxpayer advocate's office, accord­ing to Rep. Rob Portman, R-Ohio. Portman, who was briefed on the announcement by a top Clinton official, said Yice President AI Gore will unveil _results of a National Performance Review study of customer service practices. The review will recommend internal adminis­trative reforms at the IRS. And the president will discuss the administration's work on improving the IRS, work that predates last month's Senate Finance Committee hearings, Portman said. Portman, who co-chaired a yearlong study panel of the Internal Revenue Service, is sponsor of a bill that would create a nine-member board with private citizens to oversee IRS operations. 
Air bag blamed for child's death 
CHILOQUIN, Ore. 
An air bag that deployed when a car was sideswiped by a pickup truck was blamed for the death of a 7-year­old boy. "The air bag killed him, no doubt about it," said Dr. Robert Edwards, Klamath County medical examiner. "He remained on life support overnight, but it effectively killed him instantly." Nationwide, air bags had killed 82 people as of Oct. 1, including 45 children, 12 of them infants, according to the National Safety Council. Authorities believe it's the first case in Oregon in which a child passenger was killed by an air bag. Garrick William Case-Scott had just climbed into his mother's car for the ride home from school Monday when, two blocks from his house, a truck veered to avoid a head-on collision with the car and sideswiped it. The bag inflated, slamming into the boy's lower chin and upper chest hard enough to break his neck. As in nearly all air-bag deaths of children, the boy was not wearing a seat belt. 
105° 100• gs• j The U.S. Hurricane Center in Miami 
extended a hurricane warning hundreds of miles up the coast, from Acapulco to the resort city of Puerto Vallarta, as satellite images showed Pauline moving roughly parallel to the shore. 
At 5 p.m. EDT, Pauline was off the coast near the port of Lazaro Cardenas, but its 100-mph winds had weakened to 85 mph. 
Researchers find new pain control 
WASHINGTON 
Injections of small amounts of toxins into precise 
places in the spine cah block debili"tating pain without 
causing the "stoned-out" numbness of narcotic drugs, 
according to new research. Patrick Mantyh, a University 
of Minnesota scientist, said his team has found the nerve 
ch.annel that delivers to the brain sensations of 
intractable, chronic pain and have shown in rat research 
that the pain can be permanently stopped by injecting 
toxins that kill specific nerve cells. Mantyh said the 
research shows that "you can disassociate the normal 
pain that you want from the hypersensitive pain 
responses" that can be crippling. He said the work could 
lead to a new way to control pain in patients who have 
cancer or disorders that make them supersensitive to 
pain sensations. Stephen Hunt, a pain researcher at the 
Medical Research Council in Cambridge, England, said 
the finding is extremely important and may lead to a 
novel way to bring relief to patients who suffer from con­
stant, unrelenting pain that does not respond to other 
treatment. Hunt said the research gives "a new way to 
manipulate nerve cells" so that undesirable pain is 
blocked without the drowsy effects of opiates. 
Search on for missing federal plane 
MONTROSE, Colo. 
Search parties scoured the woods and mountains 
Thursday for a chartered plane that vanished while car­
rying eight employees of the federal Bureau of 
Reclamation and a pilot to a meeting in Arizona. 
Rescuers focused on a rugged, snow-covered forest 23 
miles south of Montrose, where radar indieated the sin­
gle-engine Cessna may have gone down in clear weather 
Wednesday morning shortly after takeoff. "The chal­
lenge is there's a lot of thick brush and pine trees and 
low visibility," said Air Force Capt. Leslie Pratt. The 
employees on board included William II. Duncan, who 
manages the Glen Canyon Powerplant and Dam on the 
Colorado River in Arizona; Jeff Waite, who manages the 
power plant; Delphina Holliman, Walt Kaltmaier and 
Catrina Wall, computer specialists; and Jim Bloomfield, 
electrical engineer. All worked at the Bureau of 
Heclamation's Page, Ariz., office. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

' ' ' ' ' 
~ 70 42 

COLO WARM STATIONARY 
Q 1997 AccuWeather. tnc: 
Pressure 
~ > 63 38 

H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT ClOUDY ClOUDY 
Vur Assocl.lled Press 
Atlanta 82 65 Dallas 83 70 New Orleans 87 
68 Baltimore 72 48 Denver 72 47 New York 66 53 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 10.
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.
AccuWeather 8 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

~--····· ....<-H
. 
L 

Boston 62 49 Los Angeles 71 58 Philadelphia 69 
50
4,~,~8.QQ~~~ 
Chicago 74 49 Miami 87 74 Phoenix 83 70
Showers T·storms Rain Ff~,;,es $~;~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 71 42 Minneapolis 69 53 St. Louis 74 62
Vra Assocrat6d Press Grapl11csNet 
Friday, October 10, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HoLOCAUST PROJECT 




Marks: Cultural differences not based on genetics 
By ERICA THESING 
News Wrirer 
Genetic make-up does not account for differencns among culturos, according to Jimathan Marks. 
Marks. an anthropology pro­fnssor from the University of' California, Berkeley, gave a Icc­tun~ last night on lwredity and folk sriencc as part of the Notre Damn I !olocaust Project. 
''The difference between cui­turPs is based on history. It has nothing to do v>ith genetics," \1arks said. "Every time a geneticist tells you everything important in life is in your genes, they have a contlir,t of inten~st. Their eonf1iet of inter­est is that they want your money." 
Aceording to Marks, geneti­cists face stiff r,ompetition for n~sParch funding and must ere­aLP interest in their field. This idea first became prominent in tlw 1920s \vhen people turned to eugenics to solve social prob­lrms. Eugenics is a field of sei­nncn that suggests humans should usc seler.tivc breeding to favor, or eliminate, specific traits. 
"Eugenics represented a sci­entific, progressive program for improving sodety," Marks said. 
People interested in this field, according to Marks, suggest~d the possibility of "breeding a better citizPn." This idea was similar to that of Nazi Germany. 
"From the standpoint of a humanist the interesting thing is how close genetics in 19:~os Germany was to genetics in 1920s Ameriea," Marks said. 
To prove this point, Marks used the 1916 book "The Passing of a Gr~at Race" as an example. This book, written by Madison Grant, quiekly became 

a bestseller \Vith fans around 
the world. 
"There arc very f~w things you r,an imagine Theodore Hoosevelt and Adolf Hitler agreeing on. This book is one of them. This book cross-cut polit­ical lines," Marks said. "This book is <>nP of the classics of American racist thought." 
Marks also criticized modern examples of eugenics, sueh as the · Great Ape Project. Aecording to Marks, people involved vvith this project want to give human rights to pri­mates based on the idea that humans and apes have such similar genetic make-up. 
"We don't give out human rights on the basis of genetic distance. Some people argued for it in the twentieth century. You know what? They lost World War II," he said. 
Marks used a trend in twin studies to further emphasize his point. lie mentioned theories of identical twins experiencing 
ESP. 
"There is pressure on people to com~ up with these stories. If you are an identical twin with­out an amazing story, you don't get on Oprah," he said. 
Marks hopes to encourage geneticists to recognize the implications of their work. 
''I'm c. all ing for h umanistie genetics. I'm r,alling for a field in which geneticists are edur,at­ed into an a\vareness of the greater social matrix their field is situated in," he said. "That responsibility includes checking the widespread invoeation of genetics in folk scienee. That is pr~dsely what the geneticists of the 1920s failed to do. That is 

preeisely what the geneticists of Holocaust Project will be Nov. 6 the 1990s must do." at 7:30 p.m., given by Saul The final scholar-in-residence Friedlander on writing the his­lecture of the Notre Dame tory of the Holocaust. 

THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 

STUDENT NEEDS 


page 4 
Managers 
continued from page 1 
answered the call to be a man­ager two years ago. Now he is a junior and has no regrets about his decision. "If you want to be with the 
f best football program in 
I America at its most critical 
I moments, [managing] is one of 
I 
I the greatest opportunities youI will have in your Notre DameI career,'' he said.
I 
But don't let the enthusiasm

f 
that Klish and all the managers seem to show for their job be misleading. Managing is hardly a cake-walk, and all of them knew what to expect when they accepted their positions. 
Managers make a full time commitment, and between managing, classes, keeping up their studies and spending time with their friends, managers are often expected to somehow fit more than 24 hours into their day. 
Pete Byrne, a junior from Sorin Hall, is one of those who decided that managing was for him. 
"All my life I've had a real interest in sports," said Byrne, who lettered in both soccer and basketball while in high school, and also played in local base­ball leagues during the spring and summer. "When I got out of high school, I missed being involved in sports," he said. "I saw this as a good way of being involved in sports somehow at a level higher than inter hall." 
The primary duty of a student manager, according to Chris Matlock, the sports equipment manager, is "to assist in every sport that we have." 
Managers help the coaches of various varsity sports. They have to make sure that prac­
tices run smoothly. They are also responsible for each team's equipment. 
This includes the task of 


Band 
continued from page 1 
Friday, October 10, 1997 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Notre Dame alum. "When you send them out to do a perfor­mance at halftime, you're giving them a venue that is substantial to represent that kind of bigotry. And that's what it was: It was bigotry." 
Please recycle The Observer. 

UNIVERSITY CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Is accepting membership applications for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College & Holy Cross Faculty and full--time staff. 
Dues = $50 per .year 
2:30p.m. •Saint Mary's College
Call631~4678 
Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium MOREAJb / 
TICkets on sale at !he Saint \1arv's c...n.-. Box Ofli~ m· ~E/9TE1{.
for men1bership applications or 
()'J · · · ' ~ . ·• FOR THE ARTS 
.au,;ilinAuditorium. open 9a.m.· 5p.m.. \1nnda~-Friday. NOTRE OoUIE, w 
for tnore infonnation 
Credit card orders phone 284-4626. 
painting the football players' famous golden helmets with paint containing real gold. 
Byrne and Klish are among the few who were selected by their fellow managers to contin­ue managing through their junior year. After a relatively light schedule sophomore year, the hardest work begins for them this fall with the football team. 
Byrne is assigned to work with the wide receiver coach of the varsity football team. He works every weekday after classes are over, beginning at 
2:30 p.m., when he and the other managers arrive at the practice field to set up the vari­ous practice stations. 
After the managers play a quick traditional game of two­hand-tap football, the team arrives to practice, and the managers take to their stations, where they will spend the next few hours doing whatever the coaches need done. 
''I'm responsible for running drills with the players and assisting [wide receiver coach Urban] Meyer in any way possi­ble," Byrne explained. Among other things, he works a machine that "throws" passes to the wide receivers at high speeds. 
When practice is over, the managers have to clean up after the team, secure the equipment, and finally follow them off to the late dinner ses­sion reserved for athletes in the North Dining Hall. After din­ner, several managers will often get together to hit the books. 
Byrne, who estimates that he works upwards of 40 hours managing every week, admitted that the schedule of a manager can be somewhat grueling at times. lie mentioned that since he has become a manager, he has had "nowhere near the amount of time" he had had in the past. 
"It's a combination of the time 
Scott McKissen, the band's manager, said Tuesday that peo­ple who were offended by the performance are overreacting. lie said Stanford's athletic department approves scripts before the band's performances and Saturday's script was no exception. Members of the ath­letic department have told him that people were upset with the show, he said, but no formal commitment and the fatigue," he explained. "It wears you out, and it isn't easy to study when you're tired." 

Nonetheless, as Jen Hyduk, a junior from Farley who is also working with the football team this semester, believes that that kind of tough schedule can help to form good habits in time management. 
"At first it was tough, but you adjust to it," she said. "You learn to set a schedule and pri­oritize, so that you can get everything done." 
Byrne, who is traveling with the football team to Pittsburgh to help at tomorrow's game, felt the same way. "I have to make good use of all the spare time in my day," he said. "I can't waste five minutes here and 10 there. If you plan your time well, you learn to get your school work in." 
"You just have ·to realize that managing is your non-academic time," said Mike Kuharich, a business major from Knott Hall. "I can't sit around the dorm and watch television." 
But for all the work and time involved in managing, all of the managers seemed happy with their jobs and were glad to have the experience of working with Notre Dame's varsity programs. 
"I think managing is some­thing that is necessary behind the scenes," said Kuharich. "We don't look to be out in the lime­light, but we want to be with the team. We make everything go smoothly for the team, so that when the whole country is watching Notre Dame football on Saturday, there aren't any miscues on our.part." 
"I like sports," Ilyduk said, "and I like the people involved, the other managers and the coaches." 
"It's a lot of fun," Byrne added. "As much work as it is, it is a lot of fun. The managers are a team, a cohesive unit. And the players and coaches appreciate what we're doing." 
sanctions have been brought against the band. 
"Our shows are always mis­construed by people, whether they take a line out of context or whatever," McKissen said. "Our field show was meant to poke fun at the Notre Dame mascot (the Fighting Irish) and not at a group of people. Unfortunately, some people took it far more seriously than it was intended." 
The Observer/Meg Kroener Student managers spend much time helping teams prepare for match-ups with other schools, including the University of Pittsburgh this Saturday. 



Before MAACO... After MAACO! 
AMBASSADOR 






:•Q9

~~~~i~~~~~ .........~~ 9$ 


With over 25 years experience in auto painting and bodyworks, MAACO is the national leader of quality automotive collision and point services. We hove oIorge variety of packages to ensure a collision and point service to fit every budget. 
SOUTH BEND 
250 East Sample Street 
234·1925 


•DENT 
STRAIGHTENING 

•RUST 
REPAIRS 

•PARTS 
REPLACEMENT 

•SKILLED 
BODYWORK TECHNICIANS 



Bodywork, rust repair and stripping of old paint extra. Vans, trucks and commercial vehicles by estimate. Additional surface preparation may be necessary. Not valid with arrt other offer. MAACO Auto Painting & Bodyworks centers are independent franchises of MAACO Enterprises, Inc. Prices, hours and services may vary. 
1:25, 4:05, 7:20, 10:00 MONEY TALKS (R) 5:25, 7:35, 9:55 ESS BAGGAGE (PG-13) 12:45, 3:05 KISS ME GUIDO (R) 12:55, 3:10, 5:20, 7:25, 9:35 PEACEMAKER (R) 12:50, 3:35, 7:00, 9:45 THE EDGE (R) 1:40, 4:30, 7:45, 10:25 EPEACEMAKER (R) 1:20.4:15, 7:30, 10:15 
GANG RELATED (R) 1:15,4:00,7:15, 
THOUSAND ACRES (R) 5:45, 8:05, 10:30 HERCULES/GEORGE (PG) 1:10 U·TURN (R) 1:00,3:45,7:10,9:50 MEN IN BLACK (PG-13) 1:05,3:20, 
5:40, 8:00, 10:20 

s•••, ....r·•co,.8.~ 
*No passes 


Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Groeke: Chooses life despite illness 
By COLLEEN MURPHY 
News Writer 
In continuation of Respect Life Week, Tammy Groeke spoke last night in the Walsh Hall chapel. 
Groeke has been diagnosed vvith severe cervical cance!' and at the same time is seven months pregnant with her third child. The natural choice for a couple facing this obstacle might br. abortion. However it wasn't that easy for Groeke and her husband. Together they chose to go through with the pregnancy. 
"She is my baby. I feel her grow within me," says Groeke of her attachment with the daughter inside her. Groeke spoke of the decision she and her husband had to make, and they know that they made the right one. 
"Our baby didn't ask to be born. God gives us the privilege to give life not to take it," Groeke said of her reasoning behind the decision. 
The Right to Life Committee organized the talk with vice president Laura Antkowiak as 

and then an introduction by Antkowiak. 
..Motherhood and childhood are gifts to be received but also ones which we can give," said Antkowiak on the importance of life. After Groeke spoke, she was. presented with flowers and a gift for her unborn daughter, Lois. The service concluded in prayer with a special blessing for Tammy, her family, and all those unborn children never given a chance to live. 
Respect Life Week will contin­ue with other services on cam­
host. The service began with . pus throughout the rest of the songs by the Spanish Chorale week. 
SMC hosts Fall Day on Sunday 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's will host its 10th annual Fall Day on Campus on Sunday. Oct. 12. from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Designed for high school juniors, seniors, and prospec­tive transfer students and their parents, the day includes admission and financial aid presentations, a faculty/admin­istrator fair, lunch and tours of the campus. There is no charge to attend. 
The Fall Day program pro­vides an opportunity to discuss the admission process, to speak with college professors and current students, and tour 


Taking Applications for Fall '98 and January '98 
campus facilities and residence halls. Students from across the country will attend the event. 
The schedule of events begins at 1'0 a.m. with regis­tration followed by a formal welcome and liturgy. Students and parents will have the opportunity to tour campus facilities and residence halls. 
Lunch will be followed by admission and financial aid presentations. The day will conclude with an open house where students and parents will be able to speak with col­lege administrators, professors and students. 
For the fourth consecutive year, Saint Mary's has been ranked number one in its cate­gory of Midwest Regional Liberal Arts Colleges by the 
U.S. News and World Report annual survey. Nearly 70 per­cent of them rank in the top 25 percent of their high school class. 

DePauw discusses 
women's depression 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Writer 

Every person has mood swings, but depression is not merely mood swings, accord­ing to Mary DePauw, director and licensed psychologist of the Counseling and Career Development Center at Saint Mary's. 
In her lecture 
tors and avail­able treatments. Although the lecture began with a general definition of depression, the forthcoming material was focused on depression of women. 
"The statistic clearly illus­trates that depression is a women's health issue that deserves attention," DePauw said. 
She noted that between 11 and 17 million Americans suf­fer from eli nical depression each year. 
Women are twice as likely as men to experience major depression while manic depression occurs equally among the sexes. 
Maternal stress, infertility, premenstrual stress and post­partum issues are some of the specific reasons for increased 
instance  of  depression  in  
women.  
Some  ·  other  causes  of  

depression are loss, life crisis, stress and general view of the world. 
It is impera­

"Women and tive to seek 
Depression," help before DePauw the stages of referred to a depression list of 10 symp­impair a per­toms of depres­son's daily sion and said functions, that if a person such as family exhibits five of or job, accord­them, he or she ing to should consider DePauw. getting help. "It is your 
DePauw then life, and this is clearly defined the only one depression, vul­you have. nerability fac­There is no 
d r e s s rehearsal," she said. 
In the lecture, DePauw gave several ways for women to alleviate the alarming problem of depression. 
"They need to have a will­ingness to express their emo­tions. Participation in social support networks can also help with depression," DePauw said. "Most of all, having a sense of humor and keeping life's events in per­spective can help women over­come depression. It is a ques­tion of persistence." 
Yesterday's lecture was held at noon in the Student Affairs Conference Room. 



Reception Sunday, October 12, 1997 • 7-9pm LaFortune Student Center • Notre Dame Room Interviews Monday, October 13, 1997 
WATERSTONE CONSULTING 


http:/ /www.waterstone.com For more information call 847.699.9797 or e-mail per~onnel@water~tone.com 
page 6 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 10, 1997 


en professor of accountancy at the University of Notre Dame and contributor to the United Way. ~ .•. ~ l.,,..,m-;..:--.-.oow.-:-w..w,.;.-:..-.«<·»»:·m""'*"-="<-'*»>""-""'""'·>x«'>.'>""""':·>:<->:·x·:<·:=;-.'•«<·J  e an1, "In our income tax classes and financial accounting classes, we occasionally discuss the subject of charitable . contributions, but we rarely do so in terms of return on investment. Nevertheless, the returns my family and I have received from our 'investments' in the United Way over the years have been nothing short of miraculous. Fourteen years ago my son, Adam, then a senior at St. Joseph's High School in South Bend, sustained a terrible injury during a hockey game. As a result of the damage done to his neck and spine, Adam became a quadriplegic. "The community responded to our family's tragedy with prayers, cards, meals and money. Crucial support from United Way agencies enabled us to remodel our home to accommodate the new limitations on Adam's mobility, to obtain and equip a van for him to drive, and to provide him with a variety of special therapies. "Support from the community and from United Way agencies made it possible for Adam to focus on his studies while my family and I focused on Adam's care. He finished high school with his class, and four years later was graduated from Notre Dame as a member of the Phi Beta Kappa society. After graduation, he obtained a law degree from Duke University and returned to South Bend to practice law for four years. Now, after two years at the University of Illinois, Adam is a professor of legal writing at Mercer University in Macon, Georgia. "I can't guarantee that if you give to the United Way your 'investment' will bring you the blessings that our family received during a time of ordeal. But I can assure you, from experience, that United Way helps miracles happen."  

• .. ' ' • • t I 


Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
• CANAOA 

British Columbia creates protected wilderness area 
The Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 

Oil executives, environmentalists and Indian chiefs are praising British Columbia's plan to create a protected wilderness area larger than Switzerland. 
Premier Glen Clark announced Wednesday that 17,000 square miles of pristine land will be set aside in the rugged northeastern section of the province, populated by thousands of moose, elk, wolves and bears. 
Almost one-fourth of the land will be ofT-limits to any development. The rest will be open to resource development under tight rules. 
Two oil companies, Amoco Canada Petroleum Co. Ltd. and Talisman Energy Inc., helped the project materialize by revoking oil leases within the area. 
"It is a sacrifice, but we're willing to make it because it's for a good cause," said Bob Erickson, Amoco Canada's chairman. The Kaska Dene, the main Indian tribe in the region, praised Clark for "a courageous decision." 
George Smith, national conservation director of the Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society, called the move "an environmental victory which will resound around the planet." 
The environmentalists' praise was a welcome change for Clark. During the summer, he had called Greenpeace and other environ­mental groups enemies of British Columbia because of their militant protest-; against logging projects. 

Happy 20th, Crudo From, 4 _East 
• PALESTINE 





Ha•nas vows to keep fighting 
By IBRAHIM BARZAK 
Associated Pr~s Writer 
GAZA CITY 
Hamas leaders, gathered ·in Gaza to celebrate their spiritu­al leader's return. vowed Thursday to keep fighting Israel_..;. despite earlier concH-. iatory statements by Sheik Ahmed Yassin himself. 
"Hamas will continue to ter· rorize all the enemies of God and we will continue in our Jihad and resistance," said the militant Palestinian group's 
political leader Abdel Aziz· 
Rantisi. who is con . relative moderate. Rantisi stood with the in a Gaza City so · 
.st :·:·while the t 
which Hamas would cease attacks against Israeli civilians if Israel stops .. attacks against· our civilians.;~: .. 
It was not.Clear what Yassin 
·meant by the truce offer, and Israel's r~sponse was cautious. But the 'statement had fed speculation Yassin·s presence in Gaza might rein in more radical Hamas members who had been influenced by the group's hard·Jine leadership abroad while Yassin was imprisoned. 
. "'Ktfalil Shikaki, a leading ·· Palestini an t, said 
bring N in · 
cease 
but· 
·' 
on Hamas following two sui­cide bombings that killed 26 people inJerusalem. 
Israeli officials said the esti..; mated $49 million would be handed 'to the Palestinians nexL week f details could be worked ouk · .,; 
Accordingi:"to the Israel: · Palestinian peace accords, Israel is obligated to hand over customs duties and other taxes levied on Palestinian imports and puJ:;phases. The United States;;':¥ has criticized 
..............g the 
~~~j~~~fiil,~:r1:~i-
M l 
ann"ounic~Y1!hat 

one call ·r..;;.~.,··}'?i:ilii; the the 
D

h!~!~.~··~····~·a•···~··~··m@'Ii~~~~~-~~!~i'~~~~~~~~;~~~~
to have helped free Yassin, ont)OSf3S 
who Israel released last week ·••·">•/·•·1'hn 
in a swap for two Israeli 
agents captured in the attack 
"It would have been my great­
est pleasure to die for .. ·. lHiiV\fed.ne~>d I#~P1r9 .: ~~tilJs~~:r+;,:t.J~iil@;~i*:!ilt•l~ 
Counseling Center Reaffirms Position 
Over the last month two presentations have been made concerning the clinical treatment of homosexuality. As a service to the Notre Dame community the University Counseling Center offers the following: 
In 1973 the American Psychiatric Association stated that homosexuality is not a mental illness. In 1975 the American Psychological Association stated that homosexuality is neither a disease nor a pathological state. These positions continue to hold today and were recently (August, 1997) reaffirmed at the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association. 
Thus, the staff of the University Counseling Center states: 
1. 
That it supports the position of both professional organizations that homosexuality is not a mental disorder. We believe that by training and clinical experience, psychiatrists and psychologists are qualified to determine what is and what is not a mental disorder. 

2. 
Given the fact that there is no scientifically confirmed evidence that a person's sexual orientation is changeable through psychotherapy, we do not provide "conversion therapy," reparative therapy," or any other similar reported treatments. 

3. 
We are committed to providing a confidential and non-discriminatory atmosphere in which any student can actively explore sexual orientation issues. 


The ftill text of the most recent statement of the American Psychological Association is availahle 011 the Current Events page of our WEB site at: 
h tti) :/ /www. nd.edu/--ucc/ucc_eventsl.html 
-·---­
' 
' 
' 
.\ 
l 
t 
t 
t• 
i ~ 
dent/also· signed.... a~ executive ···'"\ .. Rep, ~harles ..~qhtuner~iP·'"·•• ...•. 'JWhen you hay~ a. firearm that order inMarch requiringsafety N.Y.. a iJ'rominent gun-control · 'you are keeping for self-protec· lockson all handguns issued to advocate, joined in urging tion, it is in use," he said. 
Atrr:-:. 

U.S. tightens Iraqi no-fly zone 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associared Press Wrirer 
WASHINGTON 

The United States is tightening enforcement of a no-fly zone over southern Iraq, and Defense Secretary William Cohen said Thursday that Iraq will "bear the consequences" if its war­planes continue to violate the ban. 
Asked to explain what consequences Cohen had in mind, his spokesman Kenneth Bacon declined, but he noted the presence in the Persian Gulf of U.S. strategic bombers and Navy ships capable of firing Tomahawk cruise mis­siles. 
In addition, the Nimitz carrier battle group is steaming toward the Gulf, and Bacon said its fighter aircraft should be flying in the area by this weekend. 
Bacon said the United States is tightening its enforcement of the no-fly zone by patrolling closer to the 33rd parallel, which marks the 


WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 

A Better Choice to Alake

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Independent of the University 

....... _........., __.. ,100.­
239-6611 or 800-522-6611
reland Road-299-2220 • Edison Lakes-254-4400 • Mill Street-256-2361 

NCUA 
aint Mary's Campus-284-4614 • Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 

24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 • E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 
By TERENCE HUNT Associated Prr:ss Writer 
WASHINGTON 

In an alliance forged under pressure, major gun manufac­turers stood with President Clinton and announced Thursday they would provide
childproof trigger locks with all their handguns. 
'This will affect eight of 10 handguns made in America and it will save many young lives," the president said in a Rose Garden ceremony on a 
summerlike day. He encour­aged other gunrnakers to follow suit. 
Each year. about 1,500 t;hil­dren are rushed to hospital emergency rooms with acciden­tal gun injuries. M~arly 200 children died fforn those wounds in 1994 alone, 
The gunmakers' prnmise was quietly negotiated after Clinton threatened last January to press for legislatiorLrequiring child locks on handguns. To holster his demand, the presi-
Your road to convenience begins on the Information Highway with our FREE "Office" Banking service. Via the Internet, you can access your account and perform many of the same trans­actions that were once only available through Touch-Tone Teller. 
All you need to access your account is an Internet Connection. Questions? Call for details. 
federal law enforcement offi­cers. 
With the gunmakers' volun­tary agreement in hand, the administration dropped its call 
'This will affect eight 
f l O h d
0 an guns in American and it will save many young lives., 
Bill Clinton president ofthe U.S. 
f()r legislation. Two advocacy groups quickly objected, calling anew for mandatory federal standards. 
"The big winners today are 
"'America's gun manufacturers, not America's children," said Kristen Rand of the Violence Policy Center. 
· White House press secretary Mike McCurry shot back, "That sounds like sour grapes." •• . . .. 

Congress to pass his bill ensur­ing that safety standards apply to all guns. 
The White House ceremony marked a rare instance of agreement between gunmakers and Clinton. 
"As is well known, this administration and the gunindustry from time to· time have stood on different sides of vari­
ous issues-the Brady law, the assault weapons ban -and thAre may be other disagree­
ments in the future," the presi­dent said. But in this case. he said, "we stand together." 
Echoing that sentiment, Richard Feldman, executive director of the American Shooting Sports Council. said, ••Let's not let those issues that divide us prevent us from mov· ing forward on those issiJeS that we cant1U agree upon. And this is that issue." ... 
Feldman, talking with reporters outside the White House. said consumers should not use trigger locks on guns they keep loaded for protection. 
northern edge of the zone. He said larger num­bers of U.S. planes are participating in each patrol, too. 
The no-fly zone was created after the 1991 Gulf War to prevent Iraqi government forces from attacking rebel Shiite Muslims in the southern marsh areas. 
Cohen said Iraqi aircraft have periodically crossed into the no-fly zone recently. He accused Iraqi President Saddam Hussein of playing a dangerous game. 
"He is posing a risk to himself, his pilots as such, whenever they start to challenge the no­fly zone," Cohen told reporters during a photo session in his office. "If they make a mistake, they will have to bear the consequences." 
Several times in recent days U.S. officials have publicly cautioned Iraq against flying in the restricted zone but comments by Cohenseemed to suggest the Clinton administra­tion was considering possible retaliatory mea­sures. 





ON-LINE OFFICE 
Priest 
continued from page 1 
family," Ashley said. "When it is separated from [these pur­poses], it becomes addictive and depersonalizing." 
Under these homosexuality, bisexuality and even become wrong in a theological sense. 
"Casual and promiscuous relationships, like masturba­tion, are merely a form of lov­ing one's own body and seek­ing out personal pleasure. There is no person to person relation that makes the sexual pleasure right," Ashley said. 
The only way this sexual pleasure can be right, accord­ing to Ashley, is if it is within a marriage that can fulfill the two goals of married love. 
"Homosexuality and bisexu­ality are disabilities that make it impossible for the victim to enter this kind of marriage," he said. 
Thus, because homosexuali­ty and bisexuality make truly biblical marriage impos­sible, Ashley thinks that any attempt at unity outside mar­riage is "intrinsically unethi­cal." 
"Some priests think that the only ethical solution for those victimized by feelings is for them to search for a relationship like riage," Ashley stated. "But they are merely trying to have a sort of heterosexual rela­tionship within the context of homosexuality. It is morally wrong because the action is contradictory to the needs and purposes of marriage instilled by God." 
Ashley went on the causes of homosexuality and the Christian response: "Some have argued, made me gay, so he want me to live as a gay.' But it is false that God made any­one homosexual 
Count Me j/J fr 
LED Br 
GROVER MITCHELL 
the 
Yeay)fthe
@::rtlnrnni 
WITH DRUMMER 
BUTCH MILES 

Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Discovery on Jupiter moon excites Galileo scientists 
By PAUL RECER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The discovery of organic 
compounds on two of 
Jupiter's moons increases the 
possibility that all of the ele­
ments for life are present on 
another of the planet's moons, 
Europa. 
The finding, from instru­ments on tho Galileo space­craft orbiting Jupiter. sug­gests that Europa may have all throe of the ingredients scientists consider essential for life: an energy source, liq­uid water and organic mole­cules, said planetary scientist Thomas B. McCord of the University of Hawaii. 
"This doesn't mean there is 
life on Europa," said McCord, 
lead author of a study to be 
published Friday in the jour­
nal Science. "The exciting 
thing now is the evidence that 
Europa may have all three of 
the ingredients."Europa is 
already known to have water 
and internal heat sources. 
Dale Cruikshank, a research scientist at NASA's Ames Research Center, said the work of M'cCord and his team should sharpen .the research concentration on Europa, which already "is the subject of very special interest." 
"This finding increases the ·plausibility for life on Europa," Cruikshank said. "It also supports the idea that there were organic molecules streaming throughout the solar system." 
The study of Jupiter's moons is part of a growing effort by astronomers and planetary experts to find evi­dence of life within the solar system, particularly on Mars. 
A major goal of NASA's Mars exploration, for exam­ple, is to search for the finger­prints of life on the Red Planet. Researchers have determined that Mars once had vast pools of water and there is speculation this could have led to the evolution of life. Some believe there mav be evidence of life in frozei1 underground water. 
NASA researchers also have found what some believe may be the fossilized remains of microbes in an asteroid that fell to Earth from Mars. The interpretation of that finding, however, is controversial. 
In the case of Jupiter's moons, jnstruments on Ga1ileo detected the complex organic molecules on the surfaces of the moons Callisto and Ganymede, suggesting that such organics are also pre­sent on Jupiter's other two large moons, Europa and Io. 
"What we have on Callisto and Ganymede are some of the kinds of organic molecules that could be the basis for life." said McCord. "These are the basic ingredients.'' 
And if Callisto and Ganymede have these com­pounds, said McCord,\then it is highly likely that they also exist on Europa. 
Water and an energy source, said McCord are "two angles on the triangle of life." 
Eddie Bauer to pay $1 million 
By JOANN LOVIGLIO 
Associated Press Writer 
GREENBELT 

A federal jury awarded $1 mil­lion Thursday to three young black men who accused the Eddie Bauer chain of "consumer racism" for detaining them on suspicion of shoplifting and forc­ing one man to take ofT his shirt. 
The jury of four whites and three blacks found that the young men were falsely impris­oned and defamed by store offi­cials and that the outdoor-cloth­ing company negligently super­vised its security guards. 
However, the jury did not find that the civil rights of 18-year­old Alonzo Jackson were violat­ed by being forced to remove his shirt. 
Thejury deliberated seven hours over two days before awarding Jackson $850,000 in compensatory and punitive dam­ages. His friends, Hasheed Plummer, 18, and Marco Cunningham, 20, each were awarded $75,000. 
They had sought $85 million. 
''I'm happy we won but it doesn't give you your dignity back," Jackson said outside the courthouse. 
Eddie Bauer attorney Gerald lvey said the company was "gratified there was no finding of racial discrimination." 
Blacks who have long fought discrimination in the workplace are increasingly taking their complaints of unfair treatment to the doors of corporate America-as consumers. 
Major companies such as 
Denny's, Avis Hent-A-Car and Motel 6 have been sued in recent years for allegedly discriminat­ing against black customers. 
"There are number of cases like this all over the country." said Kweisi Mfume, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. "Is every case valid? I think tlw answer is no. Are most of them valid? I think the answer is probably yes." 
Lawyers for Eddie Bauer said the company's anti-discrimina­tion policy bars unfair treatment of minority employees and cus­tomers, and its officials have apologized in writing to the plaintiffs.The lawyers instead blamed security guard Robert Sheehan, who they said acted on his own and in violation of store policy. 


Challenger denounces Giuliani 
By MICHAEL BLOOD 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Hoping to gain ground on Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, Huth Messinger repeatedly denounced the Hepublican incumbent in their first debate 
Thursday as a bully who has failed city schools, the poor and the unemployed. 
Giuliani countered by claiming his Democratic chal­lenger would steer New York toward the policies of his pre­decessor, David Dinkins, also a Democrat, who was mayor 

at a time when the city was vexed by high crime and lost of thousands of jobs. 
The televised debate -the first of two for the candidates -was marked by sharp exchanges on issues from police brutality to school crowding to the death penalty. Each offered a sharply divergent assessment of the 
city, with Messinger flatly dismissing sugges­tions that the quality of life in her Upper West Side neighborhood had improved -at least from her vantage point. 
"Rudy Giuliani has told us every problem in this city is just about solved," Messinger said. "He neglected to recognize that many of these problems are real.'' 
The mayor emphasized that schools and other services could be improved, but offered a mostly flattering portrait of the city under his stewardship, taking credit for a lower crime rate and improved business climate. For Messinger, the debate offered perhaps one of her best opportunities to dent Giuliani's commanding edge in the polls. 
In her opening statement, she described Giuliani as a cutthroat autocrat who governs by intimidating rivals and ousting dissenters. She accused him of unjustly squeezing out former police Commissioner William Bratton and former schools Chancellor Hamon Cortines. 
We'll Be On Campus 
Monday, October 13th, 5:30pm-7:30pm, St. Mary's -Hagger Parlor, Room 303 

'Dwmas Edison's innovative spark led to the creation of General Elecuic more than 
100 years ag?. ll1e same spark is alive and th1iving today. Our people and our team environment are the primary reasons. \\'e have an open forum-a learning culture ­without boundaries or barriers. A place where ideas are born, heard, and allowed to flourish. A place where people are continually exposed to new experiences and world-class training programs. 
The results are astounding. GE hold:; more patents than any other US company and is a global leader in each of its twelve businesses. Operating in more than 100 counuies, we're the first corporation in the world to exceed $200 billion in market value. 
If you are a bachelor's or master's degree candidate in a relevant discipline ... have a thirst for new ideas, solid academic performance and demonsu-ated leadership potential ...and are interested in our Information Management Leadership Prognun...come create your own sparks at GE! We will also be on the St. Mary"s Campus on November 6th at 'The Showcase of Careers" in the LeMans Hall Lobby. 
FIR-Ji~IJ-liml' fXl\ltltnLf, TP..\1l1111'~ must IJt' rn-eilJt'.fl by Ortobrr 17 at 5 PM. F11r irUern.VIip.s, TP..\U1111'J must be Tt'reivwl by Mrvnn.brr 10 at 5 PM. Sulnnit to SMC GJnm~iNt; arul c~ITI't'T IJI1Jf'li1mvnl Oj]ire. An F.qurrl OJijxJTtunity j~'mpliryer. :...,, :• . . 
7 
Visit our website: www.gecareers.com 
• 

We bring good things to life. 




Flying Felines, Walkie-Talkies, and Real Blood! 
• DOONESBUHV GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 

t! 
·~ 
II
I 
l-
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's O~FICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prenderg;tst Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisl~r Tom Roland Assistanr Managing Ediwr 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Hearher Cock-Advertising Manager...........................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brook-Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ................. Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Kyle Culin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Spans Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and As.•ociate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the ;nl!hors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to ;til readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters i' encourag~cL 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4'542  Busine" Otllce  6.'H -5j13  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  6] 1-532.~  Svstems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obser\'er@darwin.cc.nd.edu  




OINT 
Friday, October 10, 1997 


It's the sporting event of the year at the Scheibel household -the annual Taking-Of-The-Cat-To-The-Vet. It's also the spectator event of the year. because it involves Scheibel folly. and, well, apparently that's pretty entertaining. 
Oh, sure getting a cat to the vet SOUNDS easy enough, but when you're 

Kathy Scheibel 

dealing with Mittens the overweight-yet­extremely-agile-raging-terror-of-a-scmi­professional Wonder Cat (who also hap­pens to cheat flagrantly ... without qualms), it's one of the must difficult tasks known to man! (We have to keep reminding ourselves of this, lest we become discouraged by our losing record.) 
But, the fact that we have lost this competition to our cat in an obscenely disgraceful fashion for the last eight years in a row certainly is not due to lack of effort. Certainly not! We take such challenges ridiculously seriously! All year long, in sunshine and in snow, while normal families are doing normal family things, the Scheibels are engag­ing in rigorous training and intense strategy sessions. It's a matter of pride! We will not accept inferiority to our cat! 
The preliminary heats of the competi­tion begin with the Locating-Of-The-Cat. which is altogether much more dif1icult than it sounds, because once Mittens receives that wacky postcard addressed directly to her from the vet, reminding her of her upcoming visit (which, if you ask me is a rather shady practice, con­sidering that the vet, who is only inciting difficulties with such postcards, is usual­ly among the spectators, taking bets), she takes cover in some unknown locali­ty of the house, leaving her existence to be doubted. 
But, we know she's got to be some­where. and we figure she has to come out sometime, if only to mock our efforts. So. armed with tuna fish and walkie-talkies, we sit, waiting and watching ... And we're right! She does emerge! Well ... we assume that the bolting streak of grey sounding like a herd of bumbling elephants racing through the upstairs hall is her. "Base to Mom. Base to Mom. We have a cat sight­
ing! We have a cat si hti  !"  
Mom immedi­ 
ately sounds the  
whistlo and yells,  
"CIIAHGE!" And  
from all direc­ 
tions, mad  
Scheibels come  
racing towards  
the panie-strick­ 
en cat. The  
games are now  
under way!  
Mittens tears off  
running, with  
entire family fol­ 
lowing directly  
behind her ... up  
the stairs. under  
the bed, through  
the master bath­ 
room {"Watch  
out kids; it's  
kinda slippery!"), over  toi  bowl,  

down the laundry chute ... DOWN THE LAUNDRY CHUTE?!?! But, wait! There's a flag on the play. Illegal procedure called on the cat. She declines her own penalty-What?!?! You can't decline your OWN penalty!!!! But the cat isn't concerned with rules; she just keeps on running! 
... Around the kitchen table, through the chairs. on top of the ecmnter, through the breakfast dishes, over the cactus plant (Oops! "Player down! We have a player down!") "Keep going!" Mom yells, as we trample my brother. 
... Down the stairs; through the base­ment; around a pile ofjunk; through a pile of dust; over the dead computer; past the Joneses' confounded phone and the gemstone-studded, polished­mahogany, state-of-the-art, we-bcat­the-Joneses bird feeders; up the stairs; across, over. around and through Mom's highly beloved, incredibly fragile, extremely irreplaceable collection of antique stuff. A time out is abruptly called. Mom is extremely displeased with the location of play, and vehement­ly rules the play out of bounds. Tl IE CAT DOESN'T CAHE!!! Over the chair. under 
the rug, across the piano... 
Then Mittens makes her mis­take of doom ­she tries to go long, attempting to launch her­self across the entire length of the sofa AND the love seat. I seize the oppor­tunity! This is my moment of glory! Though I'm worn and beaten, bruised, cut. scraped and generally fatigued, I dig in deep and, giving 
it the last I've got, I leap up and catch her in midair! INTERCEPTION!!! "Hun, Kathy! Hun! Hun for the car!" 
I run like the wind! Fur is flying every­where! Blood is dripping all over! BLOOD?!?! Wait! That's MY blood! ... And PAIN! Yes, that's the distinct sensa­tion of pain I'm feeling! ... And good gra­cious those are CLAWS that are piercing my flesh! DAHKNESS! Yes, that would be darkness that I'm seeing, because the eat has now attached herself to my FACE!! (Did I mention that she cheats?) 
Somehow, I am tossed into the car, and in .03 seconds, we are going 90 mph over the Jones'-garbage cans, through the Smith's flower garden and onto the main street. 
The cat is now running laps inside the car, across the dashboard and on top of our heads, before finally attaching her­self to Mom's face. (Mom just happens to be the one driving.) Now, perhaps I should be panicking at this particular moment. being that I (along with my entire family) am a passenger in the car of a blinded driver. Hut instead, I choose to sit back, relax and enjoy what will probably be the last few moments of my life. So, it's the beautiful scenery that I'm noticing as we hop medians, uproot trees, knock over lire hydrants and jump trains "Dukes of Hazard" style before ultimately landing in the parking lot at the vet's office. 
It's the final stretch! We can see the finish line as we climb from our man­gled car and roll into the office in a sneezing, gasping cloud of fur, causing somewhat of a scene as we proclaim our long-sought success. "We did it! We got the cat to the vet!" we tell the reception­ist. "Aren't you proud of us?" But, she is unable to respond, because the cat {in keeping with her face-attaching fetish) is now on the receptionist's face. 
And for the first time. the cat is direct­ly in front of us and is not moving at supersonic speeds. As we look our com­petitor in the face ... we gasp in horror, realizing, "That's NOT our cat!!! That's the Joneses' cat!!!-WE'VE GOT TilE WRONG CAT!!!!" 
At this point, however, we're willing to overlook this petty detail. 
"A mere technicality." 
"An unimportant insignificance." 
"A triviality, really." 
We're just hoping that cat fraud isn't a felony. 
Kathy Scheibel is a senior Arts and Letters major. 
The views expre~<;sed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, October 10, 1997 page 11 
• RIGHT AND WRONG 

Why is Notre Dame Robbing Non-Wealthy Students? 
This column arises from conversations with law students who wonder how they are going to pay off six-figure loans and with undergrads whv desire to attend Notre Dame Law School but whose debt situation forces them to study law at their state university. In attracting stu­dents. Notre Dame docs not exactly 

Charles Rice 

emphasize the loan burden they may have to assume. But as graduation approaches. the truth romes home. Heavy debts can dictate the course of a graduate's life, determining his career path and openness to marriage and fam­ily. National trends indicate that the sit­uation is not likely to improve. 
The College Board reports that student financial aid totaled $55 billion in 1996­
97. That is "70 percent higher than a deeade ago after adjusting for in11ation." said Board director Lawnmce Gladieux. "However.... loan programs [arel responsible for two-thirds of this increase." ~ederal grants have steadily declined and loans are now 60 percent of all aid. Increasingly, student loans are unsubsidized, adding in-school interest charges to the total cost. Unsubsidized loans are about one-third of the total loan volume and over one-third of all federal loans. 
The problem is most acute at high­priced private universities. Three-quar­ters of all full-time undergrads attend four-year institutions with tuition and fees (not including room and board) of less that $8,000. According to the College Board. only 5.5 percent attend schools with tuition and fees of $20,000 and over. Notre Dame, with an under­grad tuition of $19,800, has tuition and 
fees of $20,000 and over. Notre Dame, 
with an undergrad tuition of $19,800, 
has escalated itself into that top tier. 
Before Notre Dame embarked on its quest to become a national Catholic Hnscarch University, undergrad tuition, room and board, in 1978-79, totaled $5.180. In 1996 dollars that amounts to $12,380. Given the 2.5 percent inflation since 1996, the total in 1997 dollars would be about $12,669. Notre Dame's total for 1997-98 increased by 5.3 per­cent to $24,820, almost double, in real money, what it was in 1978-79. 
Notre Dame has imposed this doubled burden on its students in pursuit of a Hescareh Greatness having only a mar­ginal relation, at best. to the education of those students. In this. Notre Dame was not a leader but a follower. In 1978, income rcstrietions were removed on eligibility for federal student loans. This enabled the major universities to finance their expanded research and building programs through tuition. They enabled the major universities to finanre their expanded research and building programs through tuition. They lobbied Congress to raise loan limits. As the limits went up. so did tuition and baek to Congress went the universities to lobby for higher limits. And so on. Notre Dame, while far from the worst ofl"ender, should not have played this shabby game. 
Notre Dame makes a good effort to aid its students. "During the 1995-96 fiscal year." said Father Malloy, "$24 million was put into scholarship endowments, bringing the total market value of such endowments to more than $330 million. This academie year the University will spend $15.5 million for undergraduate scholarship aid. up from $12.8 million." The Generations campaign will add $199 million to the undergrad scholar­ship endowment. How much of that will 
be disbursed to students is unclear. Moreover, University aid is usually pro­vided only after a student has borrowed what he can. Only aminority of students receive University scholarships, and the 
average scholarship doesn't bring them 
down close to the 1978-79 cost in real 
money. 

Non-wealthy applicants can still count 
on borrowing heavily to attend Notre 
Dame's increasingly crowded, urban­
style research campus. They may go 
instead to state universities or to private 
schools that are not in the research rat 
race. "Public colleges and universities 
enroll 11.1 million of the 14.3 million 
students in higher education. [They pay] 
around $2,000 a year for their educa­
tion. The 2.9 million students who 
attend private four-year colleges pay an average of $12,432 in tuition and fees" . (Louis Men and. Everybody Else's College 
Education, N.Y. Times Magazine, Apr. 
20, 1997, 48). Only 3.2 percent of them, 
in 1996-97, were enrolled at colleges 
with a sticker price of more than 
$20,000 a year. 

The exodus from pricey private 
schools is not limited to the middle class. 
In their forthcoming book, "The Student 
Aid Game," Morton Schapiro and 
Michael McPherson show that 38 per­
cent of college freshmen come from 
families with annual income over 
$200,000 enrolled in public institution in 
1994. compared with 31 percent in 
1980. From families who earned 
between $100,000 and $200,000, fresh­
man enrollment at public schools rose to 
48 percent in 1994 from 42 percent in 
1980. (Trusteeship, Sept./Oct. 1997, 
pg.33.) 

Private universities in general are pricing themselves out of their market. "(More] are offering deeper tuition dis­counts.... Fewer than 10 percent of stu­dents who attend an independent insti­tution pay the full published tuition price. [In] Colleges and universities with entering freshman classes exceeding 850 students, ... the discount rate increased [last year] to 28 percent from 
20.5 percent" (Trusteeship, May/June 1997, pg.32). Institutions like Notre Dame will have to keep large sums rolling in to pay for their building boom and to sustain their research efforts. The sticker price will keep going up faster than inflation. And, despite dis­counting, student loans will still be the bedrock form of "financial aid." Our leaders act in what they see as the best interests of Notre Dame and its students. But they may have place Notre Dame past the point of no return with respect to accessibility to the middle class. At least they ought to make full disclosure, whether on the Internet, Fact Sheet or wherever, of two items: 
1. 
The average and median student loan obligation of the graduates of the previous year who have such obligation. That would be useful to prospective stu­dents. 

2. 
Details on how all of the income from tuition and the Endowment is used, including restricted and unrestricted endowments and especially including the amount spent on need-based schol­arships. In 1978-79, before the University embarked on its pursuit of Research Greatness, the Endowment was $113 million. Why does tuition keep rising faster than the inflation rate while the Endowment has risen past $1.5 bil­lion? With such an endowment and other sources of income, why do "stu­dent tuition and fees" still account for 45 percent of the University's income? What are they doing with the income from the Endowment? And maybe somebody could explain why a universi­ty needs an endowment anyway. General Motors doesn't have one. Why should Notre Dame? 


Or perhaps our leaders will at least explain how it comports with Catholic social teaching for them to amass and sit upon a mountain of money built in part upon the imposition on their non­wealthy students of debt burden that will distort their career choices and deter them from living their married 
lives in accord with the moral law. 
Prof. Rice is on the /,aw School Faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 



A Perpetual Victim to the Same Old Routine ••• 
Editor's note: These two letters are descriptions ofincidents that happened to /Jan Chambliss. originally a member ofthe Class of1975 who has returned to com­plete his degrees. 
I applied for student employment at the Waddick's Cafe. I filled out my application and arranged an interview with the super­visor. Several days passed without any acknowledgement. A wonk and a half" later. I inquired about the job again and was told that tlw supervisor had not hired all of his people as yet. I was advised to try once more to reach him and possibly arrange to meet with him at Waddicks. I felt as if I had hit pay dirt! I was told lH~ would be stopping by to check on a few things and I should wait to speak with him. Upon the arrival of the supervisor, one of the employees informed him I was waiting and seated at a nearby table. lie perused the entire cafe and appeared not to acknowledge me, .even though the employee had poinh~d in my direction. I supposed he may have been looking for a man of Caucasian persuasion because I could read his 1~xpression of' confusion. Then I stood up. introduced myself in the professional manner and asked i!" we could interview today. Unfortunately. he did not have time and requested that I keep trying to cateh him. He departed assuring me he would call and let me know the status of things. I le also men­tioned that he was attempting to sc.:heduh~ the returning students and would let me know the status of the position. I find it to be very unusual that a position could not be found for me. I have ~~xtensive t~xperi­cnce. I previously worked for the Fairmont I lotel as a banquet waiter and room ser­viceman for two years. I also owned and operated a catering company for over seven years. So could it be ... I am not qualified to serve food at Waddick's or was that I did not fit his prcconceiwd image of an ideal employee? It was not 
·' 

until the first week of October that I received a notification that he in fact would be in position to offer me a job ... but the only time slots available just hap­pened to be when 1was scheduled to be in class. So dashed my opportunity to forgive and forget this episode of charades. Sorry, I am not your typical undergraduate. This is a New Day! I know the game ... bait and switch, pacify the naive undergrads. I am originally from the class of 1975 and hip to the old game. I have learned that you must take the initiative and if necessary, take things to the next or higher level in order to possibly rectify the problems. Pmblems will never be solved or under­stood unless we all share in constructive dialogues. 
As a black student, it is unfortunate that I continue to experience these forms of blatant racism. Blacks and all the minority students that comprise this university desnrve the same respect and considera­tion as our white counterparts. What is really disturbing is the .-;ilence from the administration. Their hesitation and unwillingness to accept the inevitable position to fully recognize, assme the rights of all the minorities; black, Asian, Ilispanie, gay, single unmarried individu­als and all the other minorities that con­tribute considerably to support our educa­tional system deserve the respect and dig­nity aiTorded to the white majority. We are one of a whole ... the Notre Dame Family. Our Lady who nurtures. protects, feeds, teaches. and instills the values and virtues 1weessary to eombat (supposedly) the ignorance and eoniplacfmcy within her realm. Making more positive impact upon the lives of her alumni, faculty and employ(~es by showing more compassion and sense of play. Notre Dame and society will havn to wake up and accept all indi­viduals as viable, treasured "Human Beings" and not cast the first stone with­out totally regarding and evaluating her 
1was the gentleman that asked a few thought provoking questions at the conclusion of James Earl Jones' remarks. Jones acknowledged the fact that he had worked with me in the past. I refreshed his memory about working on his television show, in which I handled the talent casting for "Gabriel's Fire." I also had several occasions performing as an actor along his side in major films. He has been a major inspiration and role model practically all my life. I speak of Jones as being "my father." another influential force in my life. 
I posed a series of questions regard­ing the need for inclusion of all stu­dents-black, hispanic, gay, single, female -in the encompassing policies of our American educational institu­tions. lie thanked me for my in-depth, thought provoking questions. He reit­erated his statement regarding our educational institutions making edu­cational opportunities available to all individuals. I made another query in reference to the initiation of policies protecting and assuring minorities those rights afl'orded to the majority in our institutions. I was congratulated by many people for broaching this controversial topic. since we arc try­ing to resolve this issue on our cam­pus. 
I am appalled and saddened by the insensitive irresponsible handling of the reception for Jones several weeks ago. I was the individual who stood his ground and questioned the SUB host and moderators about why their choice and means of determining exclusion of obvious potential guests. Excluding the various minority groups and organizations, minority faculty, speech and communication depart­ment and any of the individuals to properly represent a more favorable impression of our institution. These 
groups were not equated in the for­
mula of "being in the mix of things," 
(beneficiaries of Notre Dame's inclu­
sion policy). I was denied entrance to 
the reception held in the Dome Room 
of the LaFortm'le Student Center, as 
well as about fifteen other black and 
Hispanic students congregation in 
front. There was a few black adminis­
trative members who attempted to 
enter and were denied. 
I had arrived with hopes of greeting Jones and talking briefly about our experiences and commending him for his oration. Instead. confronted by the two moderators, who spoke rather condescendingly and seemed a bit irrational, I mentioned that I would love to be allowed in to speak with him briefly and leave. They refused to entertain the thought and decided that I presented too much of a challenge to them and threatened to call seeurity and have me removed. I was not being belligerent in anyway, but I did refuse to leave. Mainly because during our discussion and confrontation they allowed other individuals inside, while I stood there watching in amazement. 
SUB and the powers involved in this event need to be disciplined and fur­ther schooled in public relations. The assemblage of big burly students to run interference at the door should have been left up to the appropriate department of athletics. Iris Outlaw of Multi-Cultural Student Affairs wit­nessed this fiasco and attempted to assist, but to not avail. I hope that the proper attention to this matter and other inappropriate situations, where the lack of inclusion of the policies set forth by this university, will be adhered to and enforced. 

------~------~-------------------·~·--~-------~--------~------~--~--~~ 
~ 
~ ; f 
f 
I I 
I 
i 


ACCENT 
Friday, October 10, 1997 Friday, October 10, 1997
l 

Taming the Panthers 
Location-Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Founded-1787 Enrollm.ent-31,656 Colors -Blue and Gold Nickname -Panthers Conference -·· Big East Stadium Capacity -56,150 Total Record vs. ND -. 16 -39 -1 
THE PANTHER 

The Panther (felis concolor) was adopted as the University of Pittsburgh's mascot at a meeting of students 
and alumni in 
autumn 1909. 
According to George .M.P. Baird, '09, who made the suggestion, 
it was chosen for the following reasons: (1) 
the Panther was the 
most formidable creature once indigenous to the Pittsburgh region; (2) it had ancient, heraldic standing as a noble ani­mal; (3) the happy accident of alliteration; 
(4) the close approximation of its hue to the old gold of the University's colors (old gold and blue), hence its easy adaptability in decoration; and (5) the fact that no other college or university then employed it as a symbol. 

-~--------~ --~ 
Friday, October 10, 1997 



ACCENT 


Planning on making the six-hour trek to Pittsburgh this year to watch our Fighting 
Irish take on the newly revamped Panthers this Saturday? After the game you might want to head out into the city and soak in all the culture that Pittsburgh has to offer . You may want to visit The Andy Warhol Museum, located on the North Side at Sandusky andGeneral Robinson Streets -just across the 7th Street Bridge from downtown Pittsburgh. 
The museum features extensive permanent collections of art and archives. Temporary exhibitions, which may include the work of other artists, are presented on a regular basis. 
The Andy W.arhol Museum is essential to the understanding of the most influential American artist of the second half of the 20th century. It is also a primary resource for anyone who wishes to gain insights into contemporary art and popular culture. 
More than 500 works of art and extensive displays of related archival material are shown together and offer the visitor an integrated presentation of the development of Warhol's work with emphasis on specific thematic concerns. 
Andy Warhol's contribution to the history of art included the use of popular and every­day imagery, photographic techniques, and serial repetition. It has scarcely been recog­nized that he also created a kind of hybrid "abstract" painting with his later series of Rorschachs, Camouflages, Crosses, Eggs, Shadows, and Oxidations, in which color, pat­tern and shape play a primary role. These paintings and prints reflect Warhol's interest in wallpaper and decoration. The Eggs and Crosses also evoke his family~s observance of Easter ceremonies during his years in Pittsburgh. 
In the 1980s Warhol experimented with diamond dust as a material which could give 


the surfaces of his paintings and prints additional reflective qualities, glamour and value. Widely different meanings could be read from its use on his portraits or on Shoes, his poignant images of women's discarded footwear. Warhol never lost his capacity to confound simple expectations by making the abstract real. by turning something tawdry into something grand, or by presenting the spiritual in the guise of contemporary worldly images. 
Warhol's pre!J.C:CUpatinn with colh~cting is legendary and his archives reveal his equally obsessive habit of never parting with any­thing. -Th-e Vast assortment of items assembled by Warhol over 40 years now forms the single most extensive archive of an artist of the second half of the 20th century. The archives contain artist's materials, tools and supplies; business records; scrapbooks; issues of Interview magazine; pho­tographs; clothing; furniture; collectibles; audio and videotapes; published materials; including books by and about Warhol; and acetates and silkscreens. The Archives Study Center is the definitive source of research material and information on Andy Warhol and his work. It is also a primary resource for the study of the Pop Art movement, as well as for an understanding of the profound changes in journalism, rock music, celebrity culture, fashion, and other aspects of popular culture influenced by Warhol. In his last works Warhol often returned to hand painting on canvas, a practice he had largely relinquished after he started to silkscreen photographic images in the early 1960s. In the mid-80s he collaborated on paintings with the younger artists Jean Michel Basquiat and Francesco Clemente, who also worked in New York. Each artist would add his contribution before passing the painting on to his colleague's studio, so that the style and hand of each was overlaid by the work of the other. Recognizable por­traits, signs, logos and lettering all became part of their game. In 1985 and 1986, Warhol continued an extensive series of paintings and drawings of Ads and Last Suppers in which sacred and mundane images mingled together in ways which Warhol had not attempted earlier. His Last Supper/Punching Bag sculptures, a collaboration with Jean-Michel Basquiat, which have not been exhibited before, combine these symbolic references to the body and spirit. Andy Warhol founded Interview magazine in 1969. An avid reader of movie magazines and tabloids since his youth, Warhol transformed his obsession with Hollywood and fans into a monthly review of popular culture. Having used movie stars and sensa­tionalism in his paintings, he now ventured into celebrity journalism. Historically, many aesthetic movements gave rise to journals, such as the Vienna Secessionists' Ver Sacrum, Surrealism's Minotaure, and various Fluxus publications. These served to disseminate the movements' ideologies and provide an additional 
forum for creative expression. Warhol's magazine, initially titled interNIEW: A Monthly Film Journal, was dedicated to film reviews and interviews with movie stars and directors. Within a few years, the coverage expanded to include other aspects of Pop culture, embracing fashion, art, music, television, gossip, and celebrity nightlife -especially New York's notorious disco, Studio 
54. Warhol and Interview's editors pioneered and developed the concept of celebrities interviewing celebrities: Mae West by Anjelica Huston, Calvin Klein by Bianca Jagger, Bette Midler by Armistead Maupin. Truman Capote was both subject and conduc­tor of interviews. 
When asked who read the publication, Warhol replied, "Our friends. And whoever is on the cover." Appearing in the first year were Jane Fonda, Robert Redford, Raquel Welch, and Mick Jagger-twice. The cover of Interview became prominent on news­stands as the hip equivalent of Life or Vogue, both of which had earlier played important roles in Warhol's careers as a commercial and fine artist. 

-
page 14 Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Indians even series on Grissom three-run homer 
By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 

BALTIMORE 
Check the temperature and the scoreboard, this Indian summer isn't over yet. 
Marquis Grissom hit a three­run homer in the eighth inning off Armando Benitez on Thursday night, giving the Cleveland Indians a 5-4 victory over the Baltimore Orioles in Game 2 of the AL championship
., 
senes. 

With the Indians trailing 4-2 in the eighth and on the verge of falling behind 2-0 in the best­of-7 series, Grissom hit a shot into the Orioles' bullpen that stunned the Camden Yards crowd and surely sent living rooms and bars in Ohio into a frenzy. 
Cleveland, which came back from a 2-1 deficit to beat the defending World Series champi­on New York Yankees in the opening round, benefited from two walks and a controversial call in the eighth that set up Grissom's shot. 
Benitez struck out pinch-hit­ter Jeff Branson to open the inning before walking Sandy Alomar. He then struck out Tony Fernandez and appeared to get pinch-hitter Jim Thome as well on a 3-2 pitch. 
Thome checked his swing on the pitch and although TV replays showed his bat had crossed the plate, he was awarded first base. 
Grissom, who went 3-for-4, then drove a 1-1 pitch to the deepest part of the ballpark, bringing the Indians out of the dugout. 
In last year's playoffs, Benitez gave up a tie-breaking grand slam to Albert Belle in Cleveland's 9-4 win in Game 3. 
Cleveland's Mike Jackson got two outs in the eighth and Jose Mesa pitched the ninth for the save. 
Following a travel day Friday, the series will"resume at Jacobs Field on Saturday. The Orioles will send ace Mike Mussina to the mound against Orel Hershiser. 
Until Grissom's dramatic shot, it appeared Baltimore's new shortstop and its old one 

would push the Orioles a little closer to the World Series. 
Mike Bordick snapped a sixth-inning tie with a two-run single, and Cal Ripken hit a two-run· homer -his first career postseason shot -as the Orioles took a 4-2 lead into the eighth and turned it over to their brilliant bullpen, which was 83-4 when protecting leads after the seventh inning this year. 
Manny Hamirez hit a two-run homer in the first inning for Cleveland, which stranded seven runners through the first four innings and was 0-for-7 in the series with runners io scor­ing position before Grissom's homer. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the sixth, the Orioles loaded the bases against starter Charles Nagy on two fielder's choices and a walk. Bordick, whose off­season acquisition as a free agent finally moved Hip ken from shortstop to third base, battled Nagy to a full count before lining an opposite-field single to right, scoring both runners. 
With a game-time tempera­ture of 7 5 degrees, Cleveland took a 2-0 in a top of the first inning that looked more Little League than major league. 
Baltimore starter Jimmy Key, one of the game's best control pitchers, set a postseason record by hitting three batters in one inning. 
After Key nailed Omar Vizquel with one out, Hamirez followed with his first postsea­son homer, a drive to center that Brady Anderson couldn't get despite scaling the outfield wall. 
Both runners advanced on a fielder's choice and Key found himself in a bases-loaded mess when he hit Tony Fernandez on the foot. Key fell behind 3-0 to Kevin Seitzer before striking him out for the final out. 
The missed opportunity cost Cleveland in the second when Hafael Palmeiro doubled lead­ing off and Ripken hit a 3-2 pitch from Nagy over the wall in left for his first career post­season homer in 91 a.t-bats. 
Key, 1-9 in his last 12 home starts, gave up five hits and two runs in four innings. 
Nagy, who had a loss and a no-decision in the playoff last year, allowed eight hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Notes: Key's one-inning effort tied the record for hit batsmen in an entire championship series set by Detroit's Frank Tanana in 1987. Key hit five batters in 212 1-3 innings dur­ing the regular season, and 35 in 2,890 1-3 innings in his 14­year career. Seven times in his career he has hit less than three batters in a season...~ Cleveland manager Mike Hargrove's decision to start Seitzer over Thome was based on the slugge~ going 0-for-19 at Camden Yards this year.... The Indians' loss Wednesday night was their fifth straight in a Game 1 -all five were road games.... The Orioles haven't had much success at Jacobs Field, posting just a 6-15 record there.... Cleveland DH David Justice strained his left shoul­der diving back to second base on a pickoff attempt in the first. Branson pinch-hit for him in the eighth. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Norre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 USC GA and 1 BC GA  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
NOTICES  '"EARN FREE TRIPS & CASH'.. CLASS TRAVEL needs students to  10/13 Unfurnished 2bdrm duplex  tor sale. Leave message w/ best offer @ x4420  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL JOHN AT  LaFortune Student Center -J High-Speed Copies  
.\  promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15  w/space for office.  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18 .  -J Canon Color Laser Copies  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  trips & travel free! Highly motivated  Near St.Joe Hosp.  2 PITT GA's  -J Digital Color Printing  
LaFortune Student Center  students can earn a free trip & over  $425/mo. + utilities & security dep.  Face or BO  Need 4 BC TIX 716-425·9845  -J Binding & Laminating  
Store Hours  $10,000! Choose Cancun,  287-0433.  4-3402  -J Public Fax Service 631-FAX1  
Mon.·Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica or  4 Navy GAs 4 sale  Phone 631-COPY  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m. Sat.: Noon·6:00 p.m.  Florida! North America's largest stu· dent tour operator! Call Now! 1-800·  FOR SALE  4 GA's to Navy for sale!!! Call Colleen @ 4-3848  Great Price Call Michele @ x0831  Sizzling Saturday SYR!!  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  838·6411  Wanna come to the hottest dance  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  Brass bed, queen size with orthope­ Alumni needs 3 GA USC tixs. Call  Need 2 USC GA'S and 4 BC GA'S  on campus??  
Phone 631-COPY  *'Spring Break .. ."Take 2"*'  dic mattress set and frame. New,  Megan at 773-327-1480.  For Family. Call Rob or Bobby  Call 4-1391  
Hiring Reps! Sell 15 .. Take 2 Free.  never used, still in plastic. $250.00.  X3056  
SUN, SURF, SAND. SUDS, and  Hot destinations! Free Parties.  219-862-2082  I need 2 USC GAs. 634·3880  "Thinking about the future just, like,  
S... Spring Brek with Bianchi-Rossi  Eats, Drinks. SunSplash 1·800-426·  USC .. BOSTON .. NAVY  stresses me out!"  
Tours in Acapulco! Packages from  7710/www.sunsplashtours.com  Clean House near campus!  USC GA's needed DESPERATE­ W.VA.GAs FOR SALE 272-7233  
$425.90. Party packages includes:  746 Marquette ave $98,500  LY!!!!!!!!!  You know when you get in one of  
FREE cover, FREE drinks, VIP ser­ Restaurant Servers wanted at Old  1,600 sq ft 3 bdrm, FM, 2 bath  Call Colin at 288-2504  GARTH BROOKS  those wandering moods and you  
vice, & more. Call for info 800-875­ Chicago Steakhouse.  2car garage,a/c call287-6868  IN CHICAGO 272-7233...  just... wander.  
4525.  FOR SALE  
www.bianchi-rossi .com  Apply after 5:00pm at  -89 Buick LeSabre,4D, 96K, V.  3 USC G.A.s  USC stud tic for $45, you need ID!  I'm thinking of joining the flower of  
222 S. Michigan St. 234·5200  good, Clean,One owner, $4000  $160 abo  CALL ASAP 44465  the month club.  
!LOST & FOUND I  Under New Management. Restaurant Hostess wanted at  Call:232-3707 -91 Ford Taurus,HBack, 4d, 72K, One owner, V. clean, Call: 288­ 284-5116 ...... FOR SALE  PERSONAL  Chick night in the sports depart­ment!  
black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken  Old Chicago Steakhouse.  2808  2 BC Student tix  
at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre  Apply after 5:00pm at  call Jenny @ 687-8435  NATIONAL COMING OUT DAY  Michele's got the love nest all to  
dame security  222 S. Michigan St. 234-5200  PICNIC....  herself this weekend ­watch out!  
Under New Management.  -86 Honda Prelude, 20, V. Clean,  STONEHENGE 11:30-1:30pm  
blue bookbag lost in bookstore  V.G condition Just $1800, Call:  FOR SALE  Friday, Oct. 1oth.  ... in Big East Conference play this  
on 10/1 . it found call steve at x­ 277-3254  2 USC GA's  Come Out and Support your fellow  weekend ...  
2070. REWARD OFFERED!!  Marketing Intern needed for  -90 Honda Civic, V. Clean, Like  1 USC GA'D STUD TIX  Students, Facutly, &Staff.  
Heartland and Old Chicago  new, 5spd, Low Milge, Just $3800,  289·4384 MEL  The operative word being "WRITEI"  
LOST: BLUE FOSSIL WATCH  Steakhouse. Call for interview  Call: Hamad, 277-3254  lvmsg  100 x 100 maxtrix  
with leather band  at 234-5200. More information  mountain range  Sometimes I wake up in the middle  
call: john -4197 reward!! please!  posted at Career/Placement  2 USC GA's for sale Call Kelly 271­ low altitude path  of the night and I think my room·  
Center.  GREAT DEAL on 35mm camera.  8361  due tomorrow  mate is dead. Then I remember that  
found book laying in engineeriing  Brand new Minella Maxxum 500si,  no problem  she is, and 'that's* where I left my  
classroom  Sigma 28-80;  2 BC GA's for sale  Swiss Army Knife!  
call john ·4197 to identify  ND/SMC/Holy Cross students  70-210 lenses, 4 fillers. List $825  (757)671-1649  
VECTOR INTERNATIONAL  Sell $625. 277-5912 b4 10 pm  Prayer to the Blessed Mother  Jamike- 
LOST: Purple fleece in Debart on  will be accepting applications for  2 USC GA's & 1 BC StUD GA  (never known to fail)  Don't you care about John any­ 
<  Thurs., Oct 2 between 2-3:15. Please send him home, I miss him.  part-time postions. All majors may apply. Flexible schedules around  TICKETS  4 SALE!!!!!!!! X2555  0 Most beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruitful is the splendour of  more? I mean, he fell off a cliff and had sun·screen rubbed all over his  
Reward. 243-2643.  classes are available. Where:  Heaven, blessed Mother of the Son  toot and you still show up late?  
lost CAMERA at west quad formal  HOLY CROSS VINCENT HALL ATRIUM  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS  of God. immaculate Virgin. assist me in this necessity 0 star of the  At least Wendy and I still care.  
call ali X1511  When: MONDAY OCTOBER  BUY -SELL -TRADE  sea help me, and show herein you  I've met Barbie.  
13TH 11 a.m.-1 :30 pm  NEED 4 STUD TIX ·GA'D  are my Mother 0 holy Mary Mother  
·.  LOST: key ring with TAZ key chain. last seen on lakeside of Bond Hall. please call Mike at X3528 WANTED I  it unable to apply in person call 282·2357 on mon/lues 12-5. I FOR RENT I BULlA RD. MCKINLEY TERRACE,  FOR NAVY CALL TODD 243 5609 4 USC GAs 703-590·937 4 lvmsg  232-0058 CONFIDENTIAL TICKET-MART, INC. BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­VIDUAL GAME TICKETS. 674·7645.  of God Queen of Heaven and earth I humbly beseech thee from the bottom of my heart succour me in this necessity there are none that can withstand your power 0 show me herein you are Mother 0 Mary conceived without sin pray for us  Did I mention I'm defecting? To K.P. and the interim OB: Great job! "That's it!"  
~------------------~. LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST. PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI· ENCE A MUST $7.75/HOUR, 1·6 M·F; 9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O  SWANSONPARK3BDRM HOMES. 1 & 2 BDRM DUPLEXS ALSO. 2726551 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS.  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or (318)747·8820. Need BC GA's. Grandparents are coming in and will pay good money! Call Frank, 4-2340.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE DAYTIME #: 232-2378 EVENING #: 288·2726 ND TICKETS WANTED DAYTIME #: 232-2378  wt>o have recourse to thee (3 times) 0 Holy Mary I place this cause in your hands (3 times) Sweet Mother I place this cause in your hands (3 times) thank you for your mercy to me and mine Amen GMN  Hey Charlie, nice dancing! Has anyone been checking the modern art on my dorm room door? ... tn early trading today, CORN is up ten points...  
BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND. IN  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5  EVENING #: 288-2726  I wonder what it's like to be the rain­ 
46634.  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  I need tix for NO/USC game. I am  i got these done early today!  maker. I wonder what it's like to  
······windsor Park······ ...Conference Center··· Upscale restaurant ("The Vintage  243·0658. THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  willing to trade NO/West Vir. tix or NO/Navy tix or pay cash ... Call Bob (818)793-0412  FOR SALE N.D. G.A.'S  i get to spend the next 10 hours doing homework. wee!  know that I made the rain. ,. Krilla-eyeball much?  
Cafe") looking tor experienced evening waitstaff for ala carte din­Ing Must be 21 y.o. Apply in per·  Breakfast Inn has space available tor footbaiVparent wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths. $70-$90,  NEED WV Tix a.s.a.p. Call Chris 4·2220  271-9412. WANTED N D G A'S  can you say "ajalskdjgiwgtakjs­dbfvv" three times fast? neither can i  FOR SALE -1 Student GA for USC game. Please call Dave at x1911.  
son; M·F  Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  I want to trade 6 Navy tixs for 3 BC  TO ALL HOME GAMES  
4020 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka  Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418·9487.  tixs Call Sam 289-2767  271 1526  the don is back  "No, ma'am. We're musicians."  


Friday, October 10, 1997 page 15
The Observer • SPORTS 
•NFL 
Morris faces possible jail time 
The Associated Press 
ROCKWALL, Texas 
Baltimore Havens running back Byron "Bam" Morris is expected to turn himself in in response to an arr~st warrant issued as part of an attempt to revoke his 10-year probation on a drug conviction. 
Morris' attorney, Jay Ethington, said his client might also turn himself in early next week but is taking the matter very seriously. Ethington said Morris could surrender as early as Friday or as Jato as next we~k. 
District Attorney Hay Sumrow of Hockwall. 25 miles east of Dallas, sought the arrest war­rant. He said Morris' probation should be revoked because he violated two conditions of his probation by using alcohol and by failing to report to his probation oflicer seven times from July 1996 to August 1997. 
Ethington said he was reviewing his client's probation reporting records. 
"\'Ve anticipate there will be some explana­tion to this and part of it may be merely a mis­understanding," he said. ''We are not pre­pared to contest thf~ allegations, but we ccr­


76ers beat Knicks in overtime 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN Associared Press Wrirer 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

Larrv Brown was absPnt f'rom his •~x-hibition eoaching dt'!Hit an d m issP d s e •~ i n g .'\ II P n Iverson score :~o points as tlw Philadelphia 76ers beat the New York Knicks 104-101 in overtime Tlnwsday night. 
Brown stayed in Chapel llill, N.C., whnrn the 7(H~rs held tlwir training camp until W•~chwsday, for· the announc!Hnent that Dean Smith was n~signing as 
coaeh at North Carolina. Car Heard took his place as tlw Sixers and Kn icks played tlw first game of tlw NBA exhibi­tion sPason. 
Iverson swred 16 in the final quartPr but was scoreless in ovnrtinw. 
New York point guards Chris Childs and Scott Brooks com­mitted six fouls apiece trying to guard Iverson. and Walter l'vtcCarty also fouled Iverson twiee in the final period ­although Iverson missed three of' those four free throws. 
Patrick Ewing scored 20 points on 8-for-11 shooting and Allan llotiston, testing his sur­gically repaired right wrist in a gam(~ situation for the first tinw, madP four of his first six shots and finished with 12 points, all in the first half. 
H(~X ·walters tiN! the game at 92-1J2 on a ]-pointer with 10 tainly are analyzing them to a great extent." 
Sumrow said he has not decided what pun~ ishment to recommend and wants to meet with the probation officials who supervise Morris to determine "what they think is best to help him got back to where he needs to be." 
Morris pleaded guilty to marijuana posses­sion after his arrest in March 1996 on Interstate 30 ncar Rockwall. An officer found more than 5 pounds of marijuana in the trunk of Morris' car. The player was driving toward his hometown of Cooper, 75 miles northeast of Dallas, when he was arrested. 
Morris was suspended by the NFL for the first four games of this season after a drug test revealed in January that he had used alcohol. 
However, Sumrow said Morris signed an agreement when he went on probation that any privileges attached to those records are waived. 
He said he was surprised that Morris is fac­ing a possible prison stint. 
Kevin Byrne, a Havens spokesman. said the team "will try to learn more about the sit­uation as fast as we can, and we will react when we learn more." 
seconds left in regulation. 
Terry Cummings put Phladelphia ahead 102-99 on a layup with 24.9 seeonds left in overtime. Larry Johnson missed an off-balance jumper for New York with 13 seconds left and Jim Jackson iced the victory with two foul shots. 
Brown stayed behind in Chapel llill with 76ers center Scott Williams and assistant Hon Kuester, all of whom played for Smith during his 36 years at North Carolina. The 
thnw planned to rnjoin the 7(>ers on Friday. 
First-round pick Tim Thomas came off the bench early, played extensively and scored nine points. 
• IV1AJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Torn rotator cuff ends Alex Fernandez's season 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

Florida Marlins pitcher Alex Fernandez's postseason ended suddenly today when doctors discovered a fully torn rotator cuff, an injury that could finish his career. 
The 28-year-old right-han­der underwent an MHI on his pitching shoulder after last­ing just 2 2-3 innings Wednesday in a 7-1 Joss 
. . .

to the 
accompanied Atlanta ,,•••.. ·· feel bttd for the orga-by his wife at Braves in a news con­
nization and the

Game 2 of ference. "I the N a tiona! team. I feel sometimes I feel some­League times I let
let the team down, now

champi­the team onship that I'm not there for down, now series. that. I'm not
game six." 

The outing there for w a s game six." "This is
Fernandez's Alex Fernandez shortest v e r y
Florida Marlins pitcher 

since May disheart­
25, 1995, when he pitched for the Chicago White Sox. 
He struggled with his con­trol. and his fastballs were consistently clocked at just 83-84 mph. 
"There was more pain yes­tet·day than normal," he said. "I didn't feel like I could throw with any velocity." 
Fernandez pitched 220 2-3 innings this season and led the Marlins with 1 7 victories, but he said his arm bothered him off and on the second half of the year. 
An examination today revealed the injury pitchers dread, but it's unclear when ening news 
for Alex and the organization," general manager Dave Dombrowski said. 
Fernandez. a free-agent last offseason, received a five-year, $35 million con­tract from the Marlins partly because of his durability. 
lie averaged 213 innings per year in six seasons with the Chicago White Sox. 
Fernandez said he expects to pitch again, but it won't be soon. 
"It could be probably a full season, a year or a year and a half," he said, his voice breaking with emotion. "Hopefully it's less than the prognosis." 
0 
the tear occurn~d. 
"The doctor can't believe how I was able to go out and throw the ball," Fernandez said. 
lle'll be replaced by Livan Hernandez in Game (> of the NLCS, if the serif~s goes that far. Florida and Atlanta are tied at one game victory apiece. with Game 3 Friday night in Miami. 
"I feel bad for the or­ganization and the team," 
s a i d 
Fernandez, 

Open 5-lOpm Tues.~ Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland \vith Dinner ;!22 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
f 


MACHINE GUN 

Tickets available at ~~-~ and HEARTLAND 
SATURDAYNITE 
DANCE PARTY 
Get ready for a night of blgb energy 
featuring Cbloago•• Hotte•t D.l'• _......, 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 
Snow Crab Legs, All-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & lib. of Snow Crab Lcgs,just 17.95 
r-•.• -. 


r~-­
.. ' 
-----~---~ 
page 16 

• COLLEGE BASKETBAll • 
Guthridge steps up 
as new UNC coach 
By JIM LITKE 
As~ciared Press Writer 

It is not one of those jobs that comes with an instruction manual. 
Bill Guthridge won't walk into the North Carolina basketball office on his first day as head coach, reach into a drawer and find something entitled, "How To Succeed A Legend." It simply doesn't exist. 
Nobody knows this better than the man he will succeed. Dean Smith walked into a similar situation in 1961, when he had to follow Frank McGuire. In his fourth season trying. reel­ing from four straight losses, Smith and his team returned to the Chapel Hill campus late one night after a particularly bad beating at Wake Forest. They found his likeness swinging from a tree. 
"It made me think," Smith recalled nearly 40 years later, "gosh. who needs this?" 
Apparently some people do. Just as Guthridge followed Smith and Smith followed McGuire, someone volunteers sooner or later to step into those oversized shoes. One man did it twice. 
"Usually," said Dan Devine, who followed Vince Lombardi at Green Bay and Ara Parseghian at Notre Dame, "you do it because you're young and you have an ego spurring you on, telling you, 'You can do this.'" 
Neither of those things would appear to be a factor in Guthridge's case. He is 60 years old, and for the last 31 of those, he worked as Smith's assistant. He was the thin, stu­dious looking man always peering in from the edge of the pic­ture frame. 
As recently as last year. Guthridge was still telling people his career ambition was to retire as an assistant. Indeed, even as he was anointed Thursday as Smith's handpicked successor, Guthridge admitted, "I hoped Dean and I would go out togeth­er, kind of ride into the sunset in about five or six years." 
Those words may yet come back to haunt him. 
It's harder to envision a smoother transition: Guthridge has Smith's blessing. He inherits a skilled, veteran team. He knows Smith's routine, tactics, practice schedule, even his mo­
. tivational tricks. But some of the other assistants \Vho moved one seat farther up the bench recall with regret how much hot~ ter that one seat happened to be. Bill Curry, who followed Ray Perkins, was just settling into Bear Bryant's old office at Alabama when somebody threw a brick through the window. Still. that episode seemed mild com­pared to the day death threats were made against his family. "I decided a long time ago I won't live my life looking over my shoulder.'' Curry said at the time. "I'd rather be doing something else." 
Diamond PriceQuotations 





246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diamond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Ducks, Rabbits, 
E.xpen"ence the natural serenity 91 North Shore Club,just minutes.from Notre Dame. 
• 
A wise investment for alumni, faculty and parents 

• 
More than 114 of our residents are part of the Notre Dame family • Waterfront views 

• 
Townhomes and condominiums from $89,000 


North.Sh~;~·club ti!J 
Angela at the St. joseph River • South Bend 
Furnished Models Open Daily 
Sat. & Sun. 12-5 p.m. • Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-6 p.m. 
219-232-2002 • 800-404-42 75 
-
Friday, October 1 0, 1997
The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 




UNC coach Dean Smith retires 

By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press Wrirer 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Dean Smith retired today as North Carolina's basketball coach after 36 years, two na­
tional cham­pionships, more victo­ries than anyone else 
- and  just  
nine  days  
before  the  

start of prac­
tice. Smith 
"I enjoy basketball. I enjoy coaching basketball." Smith said. "It's the out-of-season stuff I didn't handle well. 
''I've been saying for the last eight years or so maybe it's time to go do something else." 
And today he shocked basket­ball fans everywhere by decid­ing to do exactly that. 
Bill Guthridge, Smith's long­time assistant, will succeed him. 
"He has learned well from the master and he is ready and eager to do the job," Athletic Director Dick Baddour said. 
Guthridge said Smith had had enough of public appearances, autograph signing and speech­es. 
"It's all the little things that wore Dean out," he said. Said Smith: "I had one week­end from last Oct. 15 to May 
18. I canceled something. I took a weekend \\lith my family. That's when children and grandchildren are free." 
The 66-year-old Smith fought back tears and sipped from a cup of water as he announced his retirement at a packed news conference in the basket­ball arena that bears his name -the Dean Dome. 
''I'm the luckiest guy in the world ... to be at the University of North Carolina." said Smith, who just last season broke Adolph Hupp's career vietory mark of 876. 
Among those attending the news conference were current players, Georgetown coach John Thompson, who coached the U.S. Olympic team with Smith in 1976, and Philadelphia 76ers coach Larry Brown, who played for the Tar IIeels. 
Smith even got a call from President Clinton. 
"There is nobody like you," Clinton said. "But not just be­cause you won. but because of 

the way you did it. We all  re­ 
spect  and  admire  you  so  
much."  

Michael Jordan, who played on Smith's 1982 championship team, called him "a father fig­ure." 
"He's made an impact on so many players. people's lives and now he's entitled to do that with his family," Jordan said from the t::hicago Bulls' training camp in Deerfield, Ill. "And certainly we support his deci­sion." 
Guthridge, 60, said he would try to continue Smith's run of athletic and academic success. 
"This isn't quite the way I had envisioned this whole see­n a rio over the years, Guthridge said. "I had hoped Dean and I could go out togeth­er and ride off into the sunset in five years." 
And he knows his is no easy job. "I think it is a very difficult situation to follow the greatest coach of all time, hut we P-xpect to win here." 
Smith said earlier this year he planned to honor his con­tract through 2001. 
"I take eaeh year as it 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 

Showing Friday and Saturday: 7:15 and 9:45pm 
(Brassed Off will be shown Nov. 14 and 15) 
comes," he said in March, "and I won't make that decision in April, because every April I am probably {tired). So. you wait to see how excited you are in August. For 36 years I guess I've been excited in August and September. If that ever changed up until 2001, then I would make that decision." 
Smith and Guthridge have bnen virtually inseparable through the years, with Guthridge turning down several head coaching opportunities to remain on Smith's staff. 
Smith leaves at the top of his profession. 
lie took the Tar Heels to his 11th Final Four last season. IIe also guided the team to his 13th Atlantie Coast Conference tournament title during the 1996-97 campaign, which was his first 0-3 league start. 
The Tar IIeels are considered contenders for a national title, which Smith has already won twice. 
Kris Lang, a senior at Gastonia Jluss High School who plans to play for UNC during the 1998-99 season, got the news from the coach himself. 
"Co_aeh Smith left a message for me and when I call(~d him back, he just came out and told me he was retiring," Lang said. "lie said he hoped I undf~r­stood, and I said I did. lie told me he was still going to be around. lie just wasn't going to be coaching anymore." 
With a career record of 879­254, Smith broke Hupp's record during the NCAA tournament in Winston-Salem. If(~ won nation­al titles in 1982 and 1993. 
The Tar llnnls under Sroith also posted an NCAA-record 27 straight 20-win seasons. 
Smith's only losing sPason eamc in his first. when the Tar I!eels went 8-9 in 1961-62. 




Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

• BOXING 

'Madman' Green sues :Cyson 
By SAMUEL MAULL 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Mike Tyson said former opponent Mitch Green came after him like "a madman," grabbing him and ripping his shirt. 
That was how their street fight began on Aug. 23. 1988. the former heavyweight champion testified Thursday. 
Green is suing Tyson for $25 million for beating him up during the fight in front or Dapper Dan's, a 24-hour-a­day leather goods store on Harlem's 125th Street. 
Tyson described a violent and irrational Green. Tyson said he went to the store to pick up a jacket he ordered and was there about 40 min­utes when Green entered around 4 a.m. 
"He came in and started ranting and raving, talking about Don King had robbed him," Tyson said. 
Green maintains that fight promoter King cheated him by 

Free admission to all students! 
paying him $30,000 for his 1986 fight with Tyson, who got $650.000. 
Green says this disparity in pay left him dispirited, and the emotional upset caused him to lose the 10-rounder to Tyson by decision. 
He has sought a rematch ever since. 
Tyson said that when Green continued his harangue, "I said. 'I'm getting out of here.' I left. He tried to block my way. I walked around him. He followed me outside ranting and raving. He grabbed my shirt and ripped it." 
''I believe I struck him then," Tyson said in reply to questions by his lawyer Robert Hirth. "I believe he went down." 
Green and his lawyers con­tend that Tyson hit him mere· ly because he approached and asked for a rematch. They said Green was frustrated because he had been virtually blackballed for two years by Don King. 
"Do you recall how many 
times you hit him?" Hirth asked his client. "I don't knnw. Once or twice." 
"He got back up," Tyson continued. "He started throw­ing punches." 
He said he hit Green again, and Green went down for 30 to 40 seconds. Meanwhile, Tyson said, he fled to his Holls-Royce and locked him­self in. 
''He beat on the window," Tyson said. "He ripped my sideview mirror off. I was pretty upset. He was scream­ing and ranting and raving while he was punching the window. I got out of the car:· 
Tyson said he hit Green again. "He went down. He didn't get up that time," Tyson said. 
Green sat with lawyers, sometimes shaking his head as if disagreeing with Tyson, but restraining himself much more than at most other times during the trial. He and Tyson occasionally looked directly ~t each other. 

• THE OlYMPICS 
Salt Lake City rebuilds support for 2002 Games 
The Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Gov. Mike Leavitt asked Utah residents today to get behind the 2002 Winter Olympics, a message prompted by souring public opinion in the wake of scandal and management up­heaval. 
"Hemember who we are ­pioneers who made cities bloom in the desert; neighbors who help each other when help is needed; citizens who band together to rise to any occa­sion," the governor said in a statewide radio address carried by 10 stations. 
"We are doers and builders who decided we wanted the Olympic Games and worked until we got them," he said. 
Leavitt's address and an appearance before the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the Games came as public sup­port for the Olympics was at its lowest ebb as measured by pollsters. 
BUY DIAMONDS BELOW WHOLESALE! 
9!A.f/Jeck ~ ((ir;v.
Since 1921 
CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP •ISRAEL 
1 Direct Diamond Importers 
1-800-922-0090 
or visit our website at 
sapeck.com 
Winner of The Reader's Digest 
lookSmort Editor's Choice Award 
l\len's Soccer 
Sat. Oct. 11th 



vs. Syracttse 7:30pm 
A poll conducted for the Deseret News in late September found support for the Olympic efTort had dropped to 53 percent from 62 percent in late July. That's when Olympic committee chief exec­utive Tom Welch resigned and then pleaded no contest to a spousal abuse charge. 
Later, the organizing commit­tee announced sites for the cross-country skiing and biathlon events. voting unani­mously for Wasatch Mountain State Park, some 27 miles southeast of Salt Lake City in the Heber Valley. 
In the weeks following Welch's resignation, the com­mittee moved its chairman, Frank Joklik, into Welch's spot. That prompted the resignations of two top financial executives, one a respected former state budget director. 
Last week, Leavitt appointed a new coordinator, John E. Fowler, a former general au­thority of the Mormon church. And the governor and Mayor Deedee Corradini announced auto dealer Robert GarfT as the new chairman of the commit­tee. 
Now, the governor says, it's time for a fresh start. 
He drew parallels between Utah's euphoria over the Jazz reaching the NBA finals last spring. "We rose up spon­taneously behind the Jazz and we united. It was because the Jazz are our team. Well. the Olympics are our Games," he said. 
.. 

·-------------------~~-----· ·-­
I 
l ! 
l
) 
{ \ 
l 
I 
I'
I 
\ I\ I'·r) 
) 
I' I• 
l I) I· I· 
I. I, I; I) 
l ) \ 
1 
) 
\ 
.., 
I! 
'~ 
I~ 
' 
) 
i 
i 
\ ·, 
. ' 

I 
}
; . 
! . 
I 
\ 

Friday, October 1 0, 1997 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
Hatcher signs two-year contract with Dallas Stars, ends stalemate 
because of the stalemate. He had asked for

Associated Press $5.2 million over two years, while the Stars DALLAS were offering $4.8 million. 
Defenseman Derian Hatcher ended his hold­Dallas, which was 1-2-1 without Hatcher in out Thursday, signing a two-year contract with the lineup, last week signed veteran de­the Dallas Stars. fenseman Craig Muni to a one-year deal. 
"We're glad to have Derian sign for two Younger brother of Pittsburgh defenseman 
years," Stars general manager Bob Gainey said Kevin Hatcher, Derian has played his entire in a statement announcing the signing of the six-year career with the Stars. In 378 career All-Star defenseman. "He has been a big part games, he has 40 goals, 91 assists and 808 of our organization for the past six seasons and penalty minutes. we look forward to his future contributions." He was the Stars' first-round selection, 
Contract terms were not disclosed. eighth overall. in the 1990 draft. He will begin Hatcher, 25, is in his fourth season as the practicing with the Stars on Friday. Stars' team captain. To make room on the roster for Hatcher, 
He played in 63 games last season, scoring Dallas assigned forward Patrick Cote to the three goals and adding 19 assists with 97 Michigan K-Wings of the International Hockey penalty minutes. He also made his first appear­League. 
ance in the NHL All-Star Game. Cote, 22, hadn't appeared in a game for Hatcher sat out the Stars' first four games Dallas this season. 
ROCKETMAN (PG) 
1:45 4:1 0 6:40 9:00 7 YEARS IN TIBET (PG13) 1 :00 4:00 7:00 9:50 
KISS THE GIRLS (A) 1:15 4:30 7:10 9:40 
Sunday, October 12 
SOUL FOOD (R) 1 :30 4:20 6:50 9:30 


8:00P.M. 
THE EDGE (A) 2:15 4:50 7:30 10:10 

Walsh Hall Chapel 
PEACEMAKER (R) 2:00 4:40 7:20 10:00 
Capital Punishment: the Catholic Response 
Charles Rice, Law School Professor 
Music by Voices ofFaith Gospel Choir 
SaVSun Mat. in [brackets] MATCHMAKER (R) 
,--~ / 
. I\ ' 
[2:30) 5:00 7:30 9:30 

~~ \ J\ //
THE FULL MONTY (R) 

...._ '. [2:00) 4:30 7:00 9:30 IN AND OUT (PG-13) 
+;tl~ ~ 
'~bl" TO'-"(( IVVNlSTRY

[2:15] 4:45 7:15 9:40 "•''"' Lil• w.... NlSfR)I 
Be our guest fo ofthe year. A time to shar ith teachers 
•



·.. arnzng 

IS . enter. He served in m uding prio­cipal of an rs, school psycholo ... for the Utah State Office o on coordina­tor. He is a ;;(Q.lltUlolatJt:illii'rl1)a1·enting and family counseling and has se subjects. 
·'::'-L ;~ =~=.):-:::.:~it'·.-\=\:: 
·C·";,_.:<..;•.···· ..~::-:::.:;::.:·; 
.:1~\ 
.z··'§J)~~~~reb··•b;f· 
N,otre Dame Alumni Association AlunllJ.i Continuing Education 
·# 


Hockey 
continued from page 24 

taste of narrowly missing the Central Collegiate Hockey Association's playoffs last year lingering in their mouth, and their sights are set on accom­plishing what they failed to last year. 
"We have to take the first step tonight," said Dusbabek. "We have to show everyone that we are competitors and that we are going to be a pres­ence in the CCHA." 
Notre Dame returns its two top goaltenders and 18 other players who accounted for 77 pet;cent of the team's goals, and with a strong freshmen class, fans are justifiably san­guine about this team's prospects. 
During the past six weeks the team has basically focused on fundamentals: skating, spe­cial teams, and checking. 
"We've put a lot of time into special teams, like the power play and man-down situations. We're working on stuff that is pretty basic but very impor­tant," said Dusbabek. 
Another focus is the team's offense. They dropped 12 one­goal games last year, and they hope that increased offensive output will alleviate this situa­tion. 
"We only averaged some­thing like 2.4 goals per game last year," said Dusbabek, "which isn't a lot. But we are 
going  to  change  that  this  
year."  
With  a  charismatic coach  

and a talented crop of return­ing and incoming players, one has to like their chances. 


M. Soccer 
continued from page 24 
Orangemen tied Villanova. Despite their record, they are a very sound team funda-· mentally and always put up a challenge for their opponent. 
"Against Syracuse, we need to continue to do what we have done all season," Coach Berticelli stated. "We have always had good games with Syracuse. They always played well against us in the past. We need to play with confi­dence and control the tempo of the game in order to win." 
They are led by Gabriel 
Gervais, a sophomore from 
Brossard, Quebec. 
He has scored nine goals 
and added two assists on the 
season. The Irish defense 
needs to contain Gervais in 
order to stop the 
Orangemen's attack. 
This game is key for the 
Irish as they look forward to 
the remaining games in the 
Big East season. 
Six out of the last seven 
games are against conference 
opponents, and it is impor­
tant to gain momentum as 
they approach this critical 
part of their season. 
"From a Big East perspec­
tive, we are where we want 
to be. We are undefeated and 
have yet to give up a goal in 
conference play," Coach 
Berticelli commented. 
"However, where we are 
has nothing to do with where 
we need to be," Berticelli 
continued. "We need to stay 
focused from game to game 
because, in our conference, 
anything can happen." 

r------~~---------------------------------~ 
Call for Reservations Monday -Friday 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
!~--~----------~----------------~~ 




FREE DELIVERY 

:t­
•


@ 
The Delivery Experts Edison Plaza 


Crunchy_Thin Crust Traditional Hand Tossed Deep Dish Pizza $1 Extra Pesto Crust $1 Extra 


.. 



.... 
'. 
i I 
.. 
tMullaney's 



flAJtP & FIDDLE 
9rish ~b 
TRAVELING IRISH FANS! 
While in Pittsburgh please join us at Notre Dame Headquarters 
MULLANEY'S HARP AND FIDDLE 
24th & Penn in the strip district Irish Food, Live Irish Entertainment 52" Big Screen T.V. & much more 
(412) 642-6622 
Irish open season at midnight practice 
Special ro The Observer 
The 1997-1998 University of Notre Dame men's basket­ball team will begin its sea­son with a "Midnight Madness" practice session on Friday, Oct. 17, in the Joyce Center. The event is free and open to the public. 
"Midnight Madness" will begin at 11:10 p.m. with Joyce Center public address announcer Jon Thompson serving as host. The 50 min­utes leading up to the first Irish practice will include give-aways by Continental Express airlines, University Park Mall and adidas. Two Notre Dame season tickets 

jujitsu practice -for }>eginners\vill--take, ••place'from''4-to 6 ' 
p.m. on Thursdaysf:and 6 to 8 p.m. on Sundays in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All arewelcome. 
Field Hockey .'-·Practice will be on Mondays and Wednesdays frot,Jl. 9 to_1 0 p.m)jn Loftus~ Call Maureen at 4-4281 orStephanie.at 4-2741 with any questions .. 
Synchronized Swimming ~ Practices are held on Mondays and Wednesdays from 8 to 10 p.m. and Sundays from10 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Men's basketball walk-on. tryouts -Tryouts will be held on Monday and Tuesday, Oct. _27 & 28, from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. in the Joyce Center: Candidat~s must att~nd both ses­
~~. 
\:. 

will also be given away. In addition, the first 1 ,000 peo­ple to enter the building will receive a free t-shirt from adidas and First USA credit card company. 
At midnight, the first opportunity for the teams to practice under NCAA rules, head coach John MacLeod and his Irish will conduct a half-hour practice session, including slam-dunk drills and a 10-minute scrimmage. 
The Notre Dame women's volleyball team will play North Carolina that same night at the Joyce Center and the building will remain open until the completion of "Midnight Madness." 
-




SPRING BREAK '98 
CANCUN MAZATLAN SOUTH PADRE JAMAICA 

r-----r----­
1 1411 1

1 1411 Lor~e Lor~e I I Cheese P1zzo I 1 Cheese P1zzo I 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll 
Women's lnterhall Power Poll 
·.•.-•SI!Ii•'' .........,•.••••••,.!M. 
1. P.E. 4·0·0 2. Walsh 4·0·0 3. Lyons 4·1·0 4. P.W. 2·1·1 5. Breen-Phillips 2·0·3 6. Lewis 3·2·0 7. Cavanaugh 2·2·1 8.. McGlinn 2·2·0 9. Off-Campus 1·3·1 10. Welsh 1·3·0 11. Howard 0·2·2 12•.,. Farley 0·2·2 
::::-.:. 

13. Badin 0·3·1 14. Pangborn 0·4·0 
The Observer/Dave Piening 

Catch this weekend's interhall football action as the regular season draws to a close and teams eye a spot in the playoffs, with a chance to play for the championship in Notre Dame stadium. 


\VoAo0oRo ROCK & JBO\VL 
~ ~--­

-----------------,
~------------~-·--------~ 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 10, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Die-hard fans rewarded by new policy 
Special to The Observer 

Student seating at University of Notre Dame men's basket­ball games will be on a general admission basis beginning with the 1997-1998 season. The policy will reward students who show enthusiasm by showing up early for games with the best seats in the stu­dent section. 
"We wanted to provide ali students with the same oppor­tunity to have the prime seats for our basketball games," said Notre Dame's director of tick­ets and marketing Jim Fraleigh. 
In accordance with this new policy, Notre Dame allowed a pre-ordering of student season tickets by sending applications to the students' parents. Regular student issue for sea­son tickets will occur Oct. 14­15 at Gate 10 of the Joyce Center between 8 a.m. and 5 
1. Keenan  3·0·0  
2. Zahm  2·0·0  
3. Dillon  3·0·0  
4. Morrissey  2·0·0  
5. Sarin  2·0·1  
6. Knott  2-0-1  
7.Keough  1·2·1  
8. Fisher  0·1·1  
9. Siegfried  0·1·1  
10. Alumni  0·2·0  
11. O'Neill  0·2·0  
12. Stanford  0·2·0  
13. Off-Campus  0·3·0  


··,·ov·· 
• SPORTS BRIEFS  
_..;\~1ltf ',  .  -·:··:::·­ :·-~  
Notre Dame Martial Arts'lnstitute - Tae kwon ·do and  

p.m. Season tickets are priced at $44 each for the 11 home games when classes are in ses­sion, and students may pur­chase one ticket. Married stu­dents may buy two tickets, but must show a marriage license at the time of purchase. Pre­ordered tickets may be picked up on Oct. 13 or any date after that at the Joyce Center. 
When students enter the Joyce Center for ·basketball games, they will enter Gate 8 by presenting their student ID and game ticket. Lines will not be allowed to begin until four hours before each contest. While students are in line, they may hold a position for them· ~elves and three other stu­dents. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
U5e:l. l:ooks l::::cu;lht arrl sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback 


l:ooks in stock 

• Q.lt-of-Print Se:!rch Service: $2 . 00 
• Pwraisals large arrl srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 


Saturday Nights 
11 PM-2 AM 







,af The Huddle 
7pm -1 am Sun.· Sat. 
10 pm • 1am 
Football Fri. and Sat. 



1-6902 
Free Delivery on Campus 

r----­
1411 Lor~e 

I Cheese P1zzo I 1 $3.99 I 
Offer expires Fri., 10/16

1----­
1 lwith 1 Topping 1 I 
I I  I I  
I I  $4.99  I I  
...  l  Offer expires Fri., 10/16 _____  ...  l  

Men's lnterhall Power Poll
··""""'·'· ,......,......,_______ 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
• with . 
Mult1ple Toppmgs 

$5.99 
Offer expires Fri., 10/16 
_____ _, 


Friday, October 10, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• WOMEN's VOllEYBAlL 



Notre Dame battles Boston College, Providence 
Bad Reception? Come watch the game with us 

vs. ~ 
Class of 1999 


GAME J\TCH 
Octobe.~ 111  1997  This  Saturday  
LaFortune Ballroom  kitkoff -2:30Pm  
Free Food!!!  Bring your friends!  

GO IRISH! 
By BILL HART On Friday, the Irish will head Sporrs Writer to New England for the first time this season to face Boston 
Notre Dame's volleyball team College. returns to Big East action this The Eagles have struggled wenkend with road matehes throughout the year, clinging to 
against two conference oppo­a 5-14 record going into nents. Saturday's match. They started 

t.· • 
~·. Notre Dame heads to New England to take on Boston College in Big East conference play today. 

Four Years ago you were making the dri~e to state; today, you just wish you could dri~e! 
Happy Birthday Dan! 
Love, Your Family 
their season with a seven 
match losing streak, and just 
recently bounced back from 
another six match streak last 
week. 

In conference play, BC beat 
Hutgers in five games on Friday 
before losing to Seton Hall in 
three games on Sunday. The 
Eagles are led by senior Amy 
Laurence, who scored 15 kills 
in the victory over the Scarlet 
Knights, and freshman Julia EI­
IIaq, who had a total of 22 kills 
and six blocks over the course 
of last weekend. 
The Irish have a 3-0 record 
against Boston College, defeat­
ing them in three games last 
year by a score of 15-7, 15-5, 
15-10. 

"They're a relatively young team,·· head coach Debbie Brown said about the Eagles. "They've got two pretty good outside hitters. I think if we play hard and stick to our game plan we should be able to defeat them in three." 
On Sunday, the Irish will face off against Providence, a team which is looking to improve on last year's performance. The Friars are currently 15-7 on the season, after losing to Rutgers in five games Sunday. 
The defeat ended a nine-match winning streak for them which began on Sept. 19. The only other conference match Providence has competed in was a three game win against Seton Hall last Saturday. 
The Irish have faced off against the Friars only twice, but have defeated them both times in three games last year by a score of 15-7, 15-5, 15-3. They are led by setter Colleen Lee, who recorded fifteen kills, 45 assists and 30 digs this past weekend. 
Providence hosts Syracuse tomorrow before facing the Irish. 
"They're in a very similar sit­uation as Boston College," Hrown remarked about the Friars. "They have a couple players they go to a lot. I think if we key on them and put a lot of pressure on them, we should be able to play them well." 
Notre Dame, currently 10-5 and still undefeated in confer­ence play, hopes to extend a four-match winning streak, their longest of the season. 

The Irish defeated non-con­ference opponent Illinois State in a marathon five-game match on Oct. 7, with four players scoring between 19 and 23 kills. 
Sophomore Mary Leffers totaled 19 kills on just two hit­ting errors in the match. 
"I think at this point we're playing pretty well," Brown said. "During the ISU match we did a lot of good things, and we learned a lot. We were under a lot of pressure after we were down 2-1 and were losing 6-0 in the fourth game, but we came back and won it. I think this will be very significant when we play even tougher teams later on." 


FRIDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
OCTOBER 10TH FEATURING 
STOMPER BoB 
.. 
-

WITH GUEST BAND FROM WILLIAMSBURG, VA 
VELVETEENS 

(10 PCS. SKA-SOUL BAND) 
Doors open 8:00 p.m. 21 and over with proper ID's $3.00 with College ID-$5.00 without Off Duty Uniform Police Security ­Lighted Parking 
Save $1.00 with this ad before 11:00 pm 
... 

Coming Thursday October 16 FLORIDA EVANS SHOW BAND & REVUE 233-8505 
.-~ 

~ i I ~'I 
:: \ 
·~)
0\ 
~)
!'1.\ page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 10, 1997 
~· ...'-..,.. • JOCK STRIP 


~l Blue chips opt for pro contracts 
:\ 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA
~ 
~; Sports Writer 
! I 
The six-year. $125 million 
I\ dollar contract signed by the. 't
r 
l) Minnesota Timberwolves' Kevin Garnett shook not onlv the bas­
:11 
ketball world, but the whole 
~!' 
_, sports world. 
Garnett, a 21-year-old prodi­~\! gy who was an All-Star game alternatP last ypar. was given 
I 
1 the riclwst contract in the his­\ tory of tlw game. lie was given I this contract by the ~ Timberwolves due to the power 'J) that he holds as a potential 
I 
\ superstar playing for a relative­ly young franchise in a small­market city. 
In other words, had the
~ 
\ Tim berwolves not given in to Garnett's demands, he would
~ 
have gone away faster than
~ 
Notre Dame football's national ehampionship aspirations. and left them without a franchise player. 
!low does Garnett have this power? Well, under the NBA collective bargaining agree­ment, any NBA rookie is eligi­ble for free agency in three years. This rule. which first takes effect with the class of players drafted in 1995, has forced many NBA general man­agers to make tough decisions. However. this rule, combined with Garnett's $125 million dol­lar contract, has also forced many high schoolers to evalu­ate whether college basketball is the best way to the NBA and the big money. 

n 
The fact of the matter is that Garnett himself should be a junior in college right now. Instead, he is earning an annu­al salary in excess of $20 mil­lion. 
\ As a high school basketball phenom, would you choose to play for and study at a college like Notre Dame, Duke. or 
! ' 
Michigan, where you would have to endure the academic rigors while trying to make a name for yourself in the world of college bask<~tball. or would you prefer to be in the NBA making $20 million a year? II mmm ... let me think for a minute. 
Kobe Bryant. rookie sensation of the Los Angeles Lakers, was a bilingual student with an 1100 SAT scorn. Although he had his choice of any eollege in the free world, Bryant opted for the NBA, and for good reason. Next year, Bryant will also be in the final year of his three­year deal \vith the Lakers and will be eligible to become a free agent. 
The Lakcrs, burdened with contracts to Shaquille O'Neal, Robert llorry, Elden Campbell, and Nick Van Exel. will most likely be unable to re-sign Bryant. As a free agent. Bryant might yet eclipse Garnett's record contract. 
So who's losing here? Is it the athletes jumping from high school to the pros and raking in the millions? No. Is it the teams willing to pay the millions to these athletes? Not really. The loser here is the game of col­lege basketball. Simply put, the game has evolved from one of the most exciting sporting events in the world of sports to 
· a talent show where college basketball players are given roughly two years to prove themselves before they are informally obligated to declare themselves eligible for the NBA draft. College basketball players with the intention of going to the NHA are not only racing against a clock, but also against themselves. They must compete against not only players on the opposing team, but at some schools, even against their own 
teammates for adequate play­ing time to display their skills. 
Compound this pressure with the fact that, as college basket­ball players fail to fulfill their potential (i.e. Danny Forston, Charles O'Bannon), they plum­met faster than our rank in the AP poll. and it is easy to see why college basketball has now beeome more of an option than a requirement to get to the NBA. 
Yes, it's true that there are exceptions to this evolution. Perhaps the best example of this is here at Notre Dame. Pat Garrity. who could be a lottery pick in next year's NBA draft, is a rarity: a college senior who has an actual future in the NBA. However, expect there to be fewer Garritys, fewer Tim Duncans. and fewer Larry Johnsons. As the money grows exceedingly larger and larger, the eyes of every high school athlete get bigger and bigger, and their propensity to bypass college and the game of college basketball increases tenfold. 
With yesterday's news of the retirement of Dean Smith, arguably the greatest coach in college basketball. college bas­ketball suffers another devas­tating loss. The North Carolina Tar llcel coach said that he felt that the time was right for him to retire. He'd been in the game for a long time and had seen the game evolve from what it was when he began coaching to what it is today. Perhaps he retired because he knows what lies ahead in the future based on all that he has seen in the past. Perhaps he knows that the Kevin Garnetts and Kobe Bryants are slowly overcoming the Pat Garritys and Tim Duncans, and that the negative imprint this will leave on the game of college basketball will sear. 


0
~~@Oil lJ~®O@ ~g@:Q) [f.h(Mb (Bg®@ [poCMlo 
• 
Bonfire and Bands, Hot Chocolate, Smores, More Prizes, More Fun! 

• 
Proceeds benefit Camp Albrecht Acres ••• A special needs camp 




the crush. 


1f you've been invited to the
:<_£JA~i4, 
Lewis Luau, then the Chicks 
can't wait to see you on 
Saturday! I ! 
REMEMBER YOUR STUDENT I.D., So we know that you are on our guest list 
T-Shirts will be handed out at 9:00 p.m. sharp! Please try to arrive no later than 10:00 p.m. 
Come for a night of X~r?:~®~, @'IJJIJ8~, and [i)@]me5~~~· Wear your favorite tropical outfit, and your lei. 
· · · · · · · · ·~; ·~ ·~·tk· 9;;RS7·c·:rusii·&11-e~: ·: ·:·: · · · · · · 
/ 
A Tradition is beginning. 
Sorr 
uests onl 

• MEN's GoLF 



Weeks' career-best paces Notre Dame 
Spedal to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame men's golf team completed an impressive showing at the 18-team Legends of Intercollegiate by finishing just three shots out of fifth place on the par~72, 7,044-yard Legends of Indiana Golf Course while compiling some of the top team scores in the history of the golf program. 
Notre Dame totaled an even-par 288 in Tuesday's final round of the play-five, count~four format, after posting scores of 287 and 298 on Monday, to finish with a three-round total of 873 (+9), the best 54-hole score by an Irish squad in recorded team history. The previous best 54-hole score by a Notre Dame team came at the 1990-91 Northern Intercollegiate, when the Irish totaled a 27~over 879 on the par-71 Purdue University course. 
Notre Dame finished three shots ahead of Toledo and four in front of Marshall. Three teams, Illinois, Ball State and Missouri, edged the Irish by a single stroke while Iowa State and Eastern Michigan tied for fifth at 870. 
Senior co-captain Bryan Weeks of Tulsa, Okla., led the Irish in the final round with a career-best, six-birdie round of 69, equaling the best single-round score by an Irish golfer since 1978. Six other Notre Dame golfers have carded a 69 in the 1990s, including sophomore Todd Vernon of Englewood, Colo. 
Vernon, coming off a Big East medalist showing, totaled a 223 (71~76-76) while junior Brad Hardin of Martinsville, Ind., finished at 228 (79-73-76). 
Notre Dame stood in fifth place after the opening-round 287, whieh equals the second-best round by an Irish squad since 1968 and stands in the best since the 1994-95 Notre Dame team shot 284 at the Legends of Indiana. 


.,Akt. B"'t" 
t/.c 



Nfs/.t... 
Join us in a Candlelight \X'alk to Dalloways on Sunday, October 12'" beginning at Stonehenge at (Jpm. 
)l Skalcoholics will be joining us at Dalloways at 8pm. )l 
f-;11! a. mi.M, lltbw tlfAt!(brA ~. 


Friday, October 10, 1997 page 23
The Observer • TODAY 

SCOTT ADAMS 


ACROSS  31 MASH  51 Foreign heads  
1 Pursuing  procedure  of state  
6 Part of a Mideast name  32 Lend ­attention)  (pay  54 End of the quip 59 Latin extension  
9 Bibliophile's suffix  33 Liza's mentor, to Liza  60 Belittle 61 Brood  
12Truman  34 Telecommuni­ 62 London-to­ 
biographer-­ cations letters  Lisbon dir.  
Miller  35 Obie-winning  63 Kind of star  
13 Atomic bits  dramatist David  
16 Start of a quip 19 Blackmore  38 1982 Michener epic  DOWN  
heroine 20 Sticking spot?  40 Out of focus 42 Quip, part 3  1 Grp. with a caduceus  
21 Ego"iste's concern  46 Gives the heave-ho  1 Eliot Ness, e.g. 3 Swaps at a car  
22 Event where  47 Quilt stuffing  lot  
one stands for a spell  48 "Help!" 49They make  4 One who's tickled  
24Actress Dickinson  contact in "Contact"  5 Start again from scratch  
26 Suffix with scan  50 Professional  6 Move over a bit  
27 Quip, part 2  runner?  7Big-­ 
a Fuel for the  
body 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Desert mount  
~""""t~~~~-=-~~RR~  10 Veterans Day mo. 11 Tiredness  28 St. Paul's birthplace  41 Broncos run for them: Abbr.  52 Nobelist Pavlov 53 Singer McEntire  
~~~  14Cop  29 Memphis  42 Super-duper  55 Third-century  
15 Bird decoy  setting  43 Clean up  date  
~~.........,_'-t  17 Without  30 British peers  44lnitiations  561-Down  
substance 1Bit comes from a pen  34 Not so well-heeled person?  45 Bray 50 "Painter of the soul": D'lsraeli  members 57--rule 58 State on the Atl.  
--t--t--t 22 Deli order 


36 Pentagon big -:::-+:-+~~:-! 23 Where l)urling 
37 Cubist Rubik Answers to any three clues in this puzzle originated are available by touch-tone phone: ..;;..+.~~ 25 Like Mitch 39 Patronized an 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 
innMiller, e.g. 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 
":"'i=-t=i 26 Horror novelist 40 Part of W.W. ll's 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last Peter Pacific theater 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE Aries: Every mobilization you've been avoiding. Your 
needs a leader, and you seem to  intellectual and emotional con­ 
be at the head of today's move­ nection with your work affects  
ment. With so many people  the way you deal with other  
depeeding on you. be sure that  people. Wander off the path for  
you have a plan. A sense of  awhile today.  
humor would also be useful.  Scorpio: Loyalty is tested by a  
Taurus: Someone's conser­ big shakeup today. A familiar  
vatism or intransigence begins  room in your home or office is  
to drive you crazy today. Resist  suddenly changed in appear­ 
the temptation to do something  ance and function. Avoid trivial­ 
for shock value. Rudeness or  izing people not directly related  
antagonism will surely backfire.  to your problem.  
Gemini: The world interrupts  Sagittarius: You are on dis­ 
your thoughts today, jolting you  play tf'day as a model of the  
off on a different track. Your  qualities everyone wants to pos­ 
speech is peppered with words  sess. Many people step forward  
and phrases from other lan­ to share in your joys and tri­ 
guages. You are entitled to  umphs. Use all this attention to  
change your opinions.  advance a cause that. is impor­ 
Cancer: You may need to bow  tant to you.  
before the opinions of others  Capricorn: If you run into a  
and serve their needs. Emphasis  wall with today's plan, pick  
is important today, and you  yourself up and start planning  
might not have the strength for  for tomorrow. Be cautious when  
it. Intellectual responses are  considering unusual or untried  
favored over emotional ones.  options. Avoid people who have  
Leo: Broaden your perspec­ a history of unreliability.  
tive so that you can see what  Aquarius: Whenever the  
has been going on at the edges  Moon visits Aquarius' house.  
of your tunnel vision. Business  you become the visionary  
associates appreciate your  leader. delighting in change for  
efforts to meet them halfway.  its own sake. You are a tele­ 
Open your heart to someone  phone switchboard for the call  
this evening.  of freedom.  
Virgo: The Aquarius Moon  Pisces: Making nonverbal  
makes Virgo uneasy, bringing  contact with someone else's  
interruption and change to a  mind can be both exhilarating  
well-ordered system. Clean out  and disturbing. You quickly  
your desk today to get rid of the  understand that there is no  
unimportant. Take constructive  point discussing what others  
criticism seriously.  will not accept. The lure of  
Libra: This is a good day to  intoxicants is overwhelming  
start a project, even if it's one  today.  
• OF INTEREST  

~eneral. Etectri~ Company's vice president oflead~ eJ.1ihiprSteven l<~fhis.·•sp~ll}(U,g toq~prrow iJ1 CORA's Jortlan Auditorium. The lecture, "Developing Leaders for the 21st Century... is scheduled to start at noon. 
Patrick Hughes, Jr., the founder of Natural Ties, a 
national nonprofit organization committed to involvw ;i;ing people with'~isabilities into all mainstream orgaw 
nizations, will Jje the speaker at the CSC's. coffee 
houseFat noon on Monday. Oct. 13, sponsored by 
Alumni Community Service. He will share his own 
story of turning a friendshipwith one person into an 
effective national organization. · · 
•MENU 
Notre Dame Saint Mary~s 
·south Fried Chicken Roast Pork Loin Mozzarella Sticks Szechuan Chicken Vegetable Kabobs Spanish Rice with·Beans Cauliflower/Cheese Sauce 
North 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Grilled Walleye Pike 
?zechuan Beef Stir~Fry 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

---....,...---__,..--------­
I'~
I. I'! 
t': 
I I I. I I I 


I. SPORTS Weekend 

page 24 Friday, October 10, 1997 
I­I 
' 
I• 
I i. 
/ 
I, 
-~ 
f; "" 
~I ( ~­
j: 
I 
! 
I I 
j 
l I 
I 
I' 

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish seek consistency against weak Hoyas 
Gerardo returns to line-up after time off due to ankle injury 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 

Consistency is the order for the Irish this .weekend, as they head into the nation's capital to take on a weak Hoyas team. 
"We are just trying to get better," captain Kate Sobrero said. "Mainly, we are trying to not get stuck in the lull. Last year, we got stuck in the lull and never improved. That's why we didn't beat North Carolina the second time. We never improved." 
Losing eight starters is tough on any team; it has been especially tough on the Georgetown Hoyas. They are 2-7 thus far in the season and 0-6 in Big East play. The Hoyas are coming off a tough loss to the West Virginia Mountaineers 1-0. Tomorrow. they play one of the toughest teams in the nation, the Irish. Currently. the Irish lead the series 4-0-1. 
"Lately, we haven't been playing tough \Vhich we JJeed to do," said junior Shannon Boxx. 
Notre Dame. currently ranked second in the nation, is riding a high streak into the nation's capital. The Irish remain unscathed thus far in the season with an 

By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sporrs Writers 
After nearly a week off, the Notre Dame men's soccer team will be back in action when they face Big East opponent Syracuse on Saturday at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame is coming off of a fairly productive weekend. Last Friday, the Irish played the Southern Methodist Mustangs, currently ranked fourth in 
The Observer/John Daily 
Reggie McKnight and the 18th ranked Irish face Syracuse this weekend. 
II 
~ ~ 
@ 

11-0-1 record. The team's main focus is to ·improve on its performance against Boston College, only defeating the Eagles by a score of 2-0. 
"We were disappointed with Sunday's performance," said sophomore Jenny Strciffer. "We need to work on being more competitive." 
The Irish have four players nominated for the Missouri Athletic Club Sports Foundation Player of the Year. Last year's winner was former Irish player Cindy Daws. This year's nominees are Streiffer, Sobrero, sophomore Jen Grubb, and senior Holly Manthei. 
Most impressive for the Irish this season has been the play of the freshmen. Freshman Meotis Erikson recently received Big East rookie of the week honors. She ranks fifth on the Irish scoring list. 
"They all come up for us big," Sobrero said about the freshmen. "They spark us off the bench as well." 
Irish fans can rest assured because junior Monica Gerardo will return to the lineup. There was speculation that the starting forward could be out for up to four weeks. 
Coach Petrucelli maintains that the Hoyas are a threat due to their physical play. With the contributions of the fresh­men and with the return of Gerardo, the Irish look as solid as ever. The team is anx­ious for a big win after a weak showing 


against the Eagles. 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish return to Big East with new confidence 
the nation, in a 1-0 game, with the lone goal coming with just one minute left in regulation. 
"After the SMU game, we realized that we don't need to be intimidated by any team," Coach Berticelli said. "We shouldn't play scared and be overly conservative." 
Sunday provided Notre Dame an opportunity to rebound from the tough loss when they faced the Texas Christian Horned frogs. In a high­scoring game, the Irish were able to win in overtime 4-3. Much of the cred­it goes to senior co-captain Ryan Turner, who scored three goals in the victory. 
"We overcame a great deal of adversity against TCU," Berticelli commented. "We came from behind in difficult situations three times in the game in order to win it. The team came away with a great deal of confi­dence." 
The game against Syracuse will be the first Big East game for Notre Dame in nearly two weeks. Notre Dame has posted a record of 4-0-1 against conference opponents, which puts them in second place in the Big East. The most impressive stat for the Irish this season is that they have yet to give up a goal against a Big East opponent. 
The next test for Notre Dame is the Syracuse Orangemen. They bring a record of 4-6-1 on the season and 2­4-1 in the Big East. Most recently, the 
seeM. SOCCER/ page 18 
at Pittsburgh, ,... 
Tomorrow, 2:30 p.m. 
• ~ 

ar Georgetown, Tomorrow, 11 a.m. 
vs. Syracuse, 
Sr~

Tomorrow, 7:30 p.m. 
'~ 
at Boston Co.llege, 
S1tt

Tomorrow, 2 p.m. .;-,·:: :····-.. 
• HOCKEY 

Opener big for freshmen 
BY CHARLEY GATES Spons Wrirer 
The Boys of Winter are back. 
Following a summer of hard work and six long weeks of practice this fall, they finally face their first test tonight when the Western Ontario Mustangs roll in from Canada. 
"We're fired up. We're ready to go," said sophomore forward Joe Dusbabek. 
"We've put in six weeks now, and we're just ready to lace them up and hit somebody other than a teammate," added sophomore defenscman Sean Molina. 
None of the players cited patriotism as a factor in this game, and no one is billing this meeting as a "United States versus Canada," winner-take-all title match. In fact, a good number of play­ers on Notre Dame's roster hail from Canada. 
Irish head coach Dave Poulin heads into his third season behind the bench and has again recruited a talented fresh­man class. Two incoming freshmen, for­ward Jay Kopishcke and defenseman Ryan Clark, were 1997 National Hockey League draft picks. 
This game against Western Michigan will benefit these youngsters as they experience collegiate hockey for the first time. 
"This is most certainly a big game for the freshmen," explained Dusbabek, who scored his first career goal last year in the opener against Western Michigan. "This is their first opportunity to see what it's like." 
"This game definitely is a chance for freshmen to get their feet wet," agreed Molina. "They arc going to learn from the upperclassmen, and a game night 
vs. Western Ontario, Today, 7 p.m. a) Swimming at NO Relays, Today, 4 p.m. 
'-= 

Soccer vs. Albion College, 
·-Clj

Tomorrow, 12 p.m. Volleyball at K~lamazoo, Tomorrow, 1 p.m. 
~ 

_, 
~ Home Schedule 
Oct. 24  Boston Colle  e  
Oct. 31  Michigan St.  
Nov. 7  Bowlin  ·Green  
Nov. 20  Ferris State  
Nov. 29  Lake Su  erior  

Dave Piening/The Observer 
provides an excellent opportunity for us to work with them." 
In addition to being a big game for the freshmen, this game is a big one for the Irish team. They still have the bitter 
see HOCKEY I page 18 
see page 21 
see page 22 



page 2 Irish Insider • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING Friday, October 10, 1997 
FIGHTIN' IRISH 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Tailback Autry Denson enjoyed his best game last week in the first half. 
Scoring  1st  
ND  17  
Opponents  28  

Team Statistics Scoring Points Per Game First Downs Rushing Passing Penalty Rushing Yardage Rushing Attempts Average Per Rush Average Per Game TD's Rushing Passing Yardage Total Offense Total Plays Average Per Play Average Per Game Penalties-Yards Average Per Game Time Of Possession 3rd Down Conversion 
2nd  3rd  
33  0  
30  24  
ND  
70  
14.0  
99  
40  
54  
5  
649  
185  
3.5  

129.8 4 
1073 
1722 343 5.0 344.4 35-327 65.4 31:00 28/67 4th Total 20 70 36 118 

Pitt 118 23.6 114 
55 
50 
9 1022 
218 
4.7 
204.4 11 
970 1992 
358 
5.6 
398.4 
30-246 
49.2 
28:58 
34/69 4th Down Conversion 2fl 2/4 Individual Statistics 

Rushing  Att  Net  Avg  TO  Long  Avg/G  
Denson  107  453  3.9  3  19  84.4  
Goodspeed  18  81  4.5  0  14  27.0  
Driver  19  56  2.9  1  9  11.2  
Barry  7  30  4.3  0  22  6.0  
Pow Ius  24  29  1.2  0  22  5.8  
Passing  Effie  Att-Cmp-lnt  Pet  Yds TO  Avg/G  
Powlus  129.7 157-105-4  66.9  1073  5  214.6  
Smith  0.00  1-0-0  0.0  0  0  0  

Receiving No Yds Avg TD Long Avg/G Brown 29 320 11.0 3 27 64.0 Johnson 22 276 12.5 0 38 55.2 Denson 19 173 9.1 1 47 34.6 Nelson 8 64 8.0 0 16 12.8 O'Leary 5 68 13.6 0 19 34.0 
Punt Returns No Yds Avg TD Long Rossum 5 18 3.6 0 7 Denson 1 13 13.0 0 13 Interceptions Minor Rossum Guilbeaux 
Kick Returns Driver Rossum Denson Harper Sanders 
Defense UT Dansby 28 Friday 24 Guilbeaux26 Minor 24 Bryant 21 
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
2  37  18.5  0  33  
1  1.0  0  1  
0  0.0  0  0  
No  Yds  Avg  TO  Long  
7  137  19.6  0  49  
7  136  19.4  0  27  
5  93  18.6  0  33  
1  23  23.0  0  23  
1  10  10.0  0  10  
AT  Tot  For-Loss  Sacks  lnt-Yds  
21  49  4-28  1.5-26 0  
23  47  0  1.0-5  0  
10  36  2-5  0  1-0  
12  36  4-8  0.5-3  2-37  
15  36  3-6  2.0-7  0  



PANTHERS
.. 

Time of Possession/G 27:44 3rd Down Conversions 28/73 4th Down Conversions 5/6 lnterceptionsNo Yds Avg TD Long 
Crayton 3 52 17.3 0 53 
Team Statistics Pitt Opp Individual Statistics Dinkins 1 0 0.0 0 0 First Downs 102 110 Kasperowic 1 12 12.0 0 12 Rushing 41 51 Rushing Att Net Avg TO Long Avg/G Jenkins 1 10 10.0 0 10 Passing 53 55 Schulters 73 326 4.5 1 44 85.2 Allen 1 97 97.0 1 97 Penalty 8 4 West 34 144 4.2 0 21 28.8 Rushing Yardage 713 787 Gonzalez 38 116 3.1 2 31 23.2 Punting No Yds Avg Long TB 120 Blk Rushing Attempts 180 231 Schneider 11 67 6.1 0 18 13.4 Coffierde 31 1133 36.5 55 0 8 1 Average Per Rush 4.0 3.4 Lytle 8 42 5.2 0 12 21.0 Schneider 1 51 51.0 51 0 0 0 Average Per Game 142.6 157.4 TD's Rushing 4 5 Passing Effie Att-Cmp-lnt Pet Yds TD Avg/G Kick Returns No Yds Avg TD Long Passing Yardage 993 1192 Gonzalez 124.8 142-77-3 54.2 872 10 174.4 Schulters 10 206 20.6 0 42 Att-Cmp-lnt 155-83-3 167-84-7 Lytle 137.7 12-5-0 41.7 98 1 48.0 West 18 18.0 0 18 Average Per Game 198.6 238.4 Angel 293.2 H-0 100.0 0 4.6 McMullen 3 3.0 0 3 TD's Passing 11 6 
Total Offense 1706 1979 Receiving No Yds Avg TO Long Avg/G Punt ReturnsNo Yds Avg TD Long Total Plays 335 398 Murphy 21 297 14.1 5 28 58.4 Poteat 6 43 7.2 0 23 Average Per Play 5.1 5.0 Hoffart 18 188 10.4 2 19 37.6 Jenkins 2 13 6.5 0 8 Average Per Game 341.2 395.8 Schulters 11 92 8.4 0 31 18.4 Hoffart 0 0.0 0 0 Penalties-Yards 31-300 35-333 Angel 6 105 17.5 1 34 21.0 

The Observer/Rob Finch Senior free safety John Jenkins will attempt to blanket the Irish receiving corps. 


OetfV-e~tirJ Tie [itk_t Rzza/ 
• Better Ingredients • 
.... _ 

• Better Pizza •
..... _ 

271.-1.1. 77 
~\c\S . 
•••• s'­
••••.. oato•'"' & 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted [if' Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 
" , I I 1 t I I I I J I I 1 I 


Friday, October 10, 1997 page 3 
Irish Insider • THE MATCH-UPS 

IRISH ON THE 0FFENSIVE.u 
B
efore one starts to dwell on all the negatives surrounding the Irish offense, perhaps it is best to take a second look at some of the positive aspects ... 
... All right, back to the nega­tives. 
The running game, once the backbone of Notre Dame football, has been the biggest difference between last year's 8-3 squad and this season's 1-4 bunch. In the past, the Irish were able to take control of a game merely by shoving the ball down the throat of the opposition. 
However, as the team's four­game losing streak illustrates, a successful rushing attack has become a thing of the past. 
To make matters worse, the passing game, which was sup­
posed to soar under the guidance 
of offensive coordinator Jim Colletto, seems to bear a striking resemblance to the one Lou Holtz 
L
ast year the Panther offense was simply horrible, ranking 99th out of 111 teams in total offense. 
This year it returns nine starters and they are in the middle of the pack. Walt Harris' squad ranks 63rd with a total offensive aver­age of 356.8 yards a game which is better than Jim Colletta's unit, which averages 356 yards a con­test. 
"I like their offense; they've got nine starters back," head coach Bob Davie said. "Walt Harris has done a good job. He was coordina­tor of Ohio State; they did a lot of similar things." 
The Panthers are lead by senior signal caller Pete Gonzalez, who has improved from his dismal sea­son of a year ago in which he completed just under 43 percent of his passes. 
Through five games Gonzalez is completing 54 percent of his pass­es for 1 7 4 yards a game and he can also hurt opponents with his scrambling ability. He is averag­ing over three yards a carry and just under Notre Dame's average per carry. 
"I think Gonzalez is really a competitor," Davie noted. "He's a player that's been in the program for a long time." 
Gonzalez' backfield mates form a very capable senior duo. Dwayne Schulters has given defenses fits, averaging over 136 all-purpose yards a game. If he isn't using his speed and quick­ness, Billy West is there with his durability. 
West has amassed over 2,500 yards in his career and will likely finish fourth in Pitt's record books, looking up at names such as Tony Dorsett and Craig 
floundered with over the last three years. 
With this in mind, is it time to give up on the Irish offense and let the buzzards take their turn with them? 
"We have not given up, and we definitely don't want our fans to give up," said quarterback Ron Powlus. "We're going to get this thing right, and hopefully that will start on Saturday." 
There's no reason it shouldn't. Despite building a 3-2 record, the Pittsburgh defense still has its share of holes in it, namely the linebackers and defensive backs. 
The Panthers gave up nearly 300 yards rushing to the well­renowned power known as Houston and relinquished 331 yards through the air to run-ori­ented Penn State. 
Pitt coach and offensive guru Walt Harris has rejuvenated the football program, but it has come 
MU 

PANTHERS ON THE OFFENSIVE 

"Ironhead" Heyward. 
"They've got two good tailbacks in Billy West and Schulters," Davie said. "Both of those guys are talented and they've got good athletes at tight end. They're a good offensive team." 
Defensively the Irish are still beat up and are still at least a week away from the return of Bobbie Howard and Corey Bennett. Linebacker Ronnie Nicks is questionable as are defensive backs Ivory Covington and A'jani Sanders. 
So the best defense for Davie and Co. maybe a good offense as he hopes the defense can stay fresh with the help of its offensive counterparts. 
"I think it's pretty obvious we must control the football," Davie explained. "We need to be able to keep our defense off the field. When our defense is fresh, they're able to hang in there and bend but don't break." 
"When they get worn down as they have in the second half of the Michigan game and the Stanford game," Davie continued, "we col­lapse a little bit." 
But this is Pitt that the Irish will be going up against and not Michigan State, Michigan and Stanford. It's Pitt and the Irish should never collapse before the Panthers. 
-Joe Cavato 

through an emphasis on offense. Meanwhile, the Panther defense, which gives up nearly 400 yards per game, may be just an eyelash better than the unit the Irish scored 60 points against a year ago, including a whopping 40 in the second quarter. 
With Autry Denson coming off his best game of the year and with Ron Powlus returning to the state of his endless high school accomplishments, perhaps this is the week the Irish offense returns to prominence. 
"We need to be able to control the ball and keep our defense off the field," said head coach Bob Davie. "Secondly, we've got to be able to score some points. We've got to be able to run the ball bet­
ter. and I think that will open up the pass." 
If so, there might just be some positives to talk about next week. 
-Mike Day 
I 

Quarterbacks 
Gonzalez has been a different player since Harris was hired, improving his completion percentage by 12 percent. Powlus has not been as effective on turf in his career. 
Running Backs 
Schulters and West form a potentially dangerous tandem for the Panthers. Injuries have hurt the Irish, and Driver will have to start to make some noise. Receivers 


Surprisingly. this unit has been one of the only positives for the offense. Murphy has been a playmaker for the Panthers and has a knack for finding the end zone. Offensive Line 
The Big Uglies need to rekindle the past against Pittsburgh in which they averaged 321.7 rushing yards. This year Powlus has had time, but Denson has had no· room. Defensive Line 

The injured and undermanned line . for the Irish ranks 83rd in rushing defense. Pitt.managed to hold :re11nStat{'. JQ. Ju,§t 107 yardfi Ol}the

ground. · · 

Linebackers 
Coakley leads Pittsburgh's corps and has help from inside linebacker Phil Clarke. All things considered, the Irish unit has done fairly well, and we still have Kory Minor. 
Secondary 
tough one to call. Both are simply awful. The Panthers get the nod by virtue of their seven picks. 


Special Teams 
Last year. ND's special 
teams ran wild in part of a 40-point quarter. Pittsburgh has not in1proved since last year's game against the Irish. 
Coaching 
Davie and Harris are both in their first sea sons. Last year Pitt was 4-7, now they're 3-2, while Davie inherited an 8-3 team but is 1-4. 

Overall Pittsburgh has beaten three awful teams, and the Irish have lost to three good teams. The Panthers' loss to Temple makes it impossible to give them the edge. 


-------------~~:---:---_____..___________._..___ 
Friday, October 10, 1997

page 4 Irish Insider • COVER STORY 

Bryant steps it up 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 

Tomorrow is Lamont Bryant's 21st birthday. There could be no better present for the junior outside linebacker from his teammates than a much-needed victory from the struggling 1-4 Irish. 
In fact, it is safe to say that he would settle for a couple of points from the Irish offense and let his defensive company do the rest. 
That has been the story for the Irish defense this season thus far. Plagued by inexperi­ence, lack of size, and injury, the defense has been one of the brighter spots in the rather dull season, stepping up its performance under less­than-ideal circumstances, and keeping the Irish in games that otherwise were out of grasp. 
The 6-foot-3, 243-pound Bryant is one of the main rea­sons for this. Bryant and classmate/fellow outside line­backer Kory Minor have been two of the key players who have resurrected an Irish defense that allowed 1,133 total offensive yards in its first three games into a stabilizing force against the toughest schedule in the nation. The unit's performance against Michigan two weeks ago brought the Irish level of play Unfortunately, offensive laten­cy prevented the win. 
back to that which  we  are  
accustomed to from  a  Notre  
Dame  football  team.  

Bryant's play at linebacker has provided a major spark in the development of the defense, including a sack against both Georgia Tech and Purdue. and a key fourth­quarter fumble recovery against Michigan. Bryant is tied for third on the defense in total tackles with 36, but it is not necessarily the numbers he puts up that make his per­formance impressive. 
Bryant brings to the field an almost animal-like intensity that appears to be unmatched by any other Irish defensive player. While Minor provides the experience with a combi­nation of both intelligence and a necessary patience to read the opponent's offense, Bryant contributes a sheer aggression that, when successful, can be inspiring for the Irish defense. 
Irish head coach Bob Davie recognized the intensity last spring when Bryant emerged as a probable starter on the defense. 
"He brings the highest level of competitiveness," Davie commented. "He competes on every down, and I'd like to use him as a role model for our other players. In everything he does he goes 100 percent, 

After seeing limited action as a sophomore, linebacker Lamont Bryant has stepped into the starting line­up and has given the Irish a lift. Through five games, Bryant ranks third on the team in tackles (36) and 
first in sacks (two). 

As a freshman 
Saw no action as a freshmen ..• Suffered injuries as result of car accident Aug. 3,1995, near Ghent, W.Va., while traveling to campus for start of football drills ... suffered road rash and head lacerations ... returned to practice at mid-season though he never played in a game 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Lamont Bryant chases down Michigan quarterback Brian Griese. 
and that's why he'll be a great player." 
Bryant, whose intensity can also be seen off the field as he refused an interview citing the fact that he "doesn't mess with the media," had big shoes to fill when returned for fall camp this year. With the graduation of Kinnon Tatum, Lyron Cobbins, and Bert Berry, the linebacker corps was one of the most depleted areas on the Irish squad. Bryant has been looked at to fill in the spot left vacant by Berry, who is now playing for the Indianapolis Colts. 
The adversity he, along with the whole team, has encoun­tered this season is nothing new to Bryant. On the way to pre-season camp his freshman 
year, Bryant was involved in a car accident that sidelined him with a season-ending injury. His resilience, in addi­tion to his intensity, has added to the Irish defense's ability to rebound from its sluggish early performances this sea­son into a legitimate threat to opposing offenses. 
Bryant has brought the lessons he learned while sit­ting out a season to his play this year, and has allowed his level of play to springboard off a successful spring campaign into what he hopes will be a successful overall career with the Irish. Still, Bryant knows that in order to do so, he must maintain the focus and inten­sity that has gotten him thus far -a task that is not very easy in the middle of a four­game losing streak. 
"I feel like the only person that can beat me is myself," Bryant said at the end of spring practice. "The only way for that to happen is for me to go out there and slack on any play at any time. That consistent effort is what sepa­rates good players from great players." 
With some further develop­ment, and maybe a little bi of birthday luck going into his 22nd year, Lamon Bryant wiJI become of those great players. 
As a sophomore 
Played in 1 0 games in '96 behind Bert Berry at outside linebacker, missing only Air Force contest .... made 94 appearances with Irish special teams ... made six tackles, one for loss, and shared a sack vs. Purdue ... had three tackles vs. Ohio State, Pittsburgh and Rutgers 
• Position: · 
Outside ··Linebacker 
• Height: 6' 3" 
• Weight:243 
Assisted Tackles 
15 
':)':.­
Tackles For Loss 3-6 yds. 
Sacks 2-7 yds. 
Broken-up Passes 
1 
Quarterback Hurries 3 
Fumble Recoveries 
1 

Friday, October I 0, 1997 page 5 
Irish Insider • THE TEAMS 
·;1JJa;,;••~



In the Spo 
-41 PiJnu, ·51ut~ i(>~:~,;.w ·. .Uf ii!J1Jilmt w-,~1 
l'Jfi\VJli, 'Fl.J\. 71 '!I4f· at :r~nlflle 1t~-~
itrJffff1:»\\11£ .._.... ~ 

Over the past couple of weeks. several mem­break free and gain some yards after the catch. 
at Pubjat-3

bers of Powlus' receiving corps have stepped up and they have now combined for 51 receptions, 
·at !itJ~iloo CtJt~

as legitimate targets. Against one of the best one less than the top tandem of recievers 
~-''l_n_ <1i _tt""U'~"'
>.) f I.tf.PI-!J-iJ(

secondaries in the nation in Ann Arbor, Bobby nationwide combined on the year. 
~lHUiiUa 11£f;ll raised their level of play. continue this upward trend against Pitt, who 
Brown, Malcolm Johnson, and Raki Nelson all They will certainly have the opportunity to 
at J}Je3PiitHitliU 

Last week. Brown and Johnson managed to gives up 238 yards a game in the air. 
.< 
1st season at Pitt 

Walt Harris 
Career record: 14-26 At Pittsburgh: 3-2 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 


The Observer/Brandon Candura The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Malcolm Johnson is looking for his first touchdown. Bobby Brown leads the Irish with 29 receptions. 
No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR 1 Deke Cooper FS 6-3 209 so 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. VA
. SPLITENO 
CORNERBACK

2 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-1 207 JR 
1 Darnell Dinkins QB 6-4 225 SO 3 Ron Powlus QB 6-3 225 SR SO-Johnson 
7-Crayton 
2 Rasshad Whitmill WR 5-11 185 JR 4 Kory Minor OLB 6-1 234 JR LEFT END31-levy 21-AIIen 
3 CheoAngel WR 5-10 190 FA 5 A'jani Sanders ss 5-11 188 JR 
45-Graham 
4 Chuck Brown DB 5-11 175 JR 6 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 213 SR TAILBACK 
5 Eric Kasperowicz DB 6-0 210 SR 7 Jarious Jackson QB 6-0 219 JR 23-Denson LEFT TACKLE 
6 Ramel Johnson WR 6-1 185 FR 8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 213 so 25-Driver 54-Petitgout 
7 Tray Crayton DB 6-2 175 JR 9 Raki Nelson FL 5-11 189 so ...
_ 
-.Y<-o-u~' 

8 Matt Lytle QB 6-4 225 JR 10 Deveron Harper CB 5-11 185 so -~ 
9 Jake Hoffart WR 6-2 200 SR 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 186 so 
1 0 Pete Gonzalez QB 6-1 215 SR 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 181 SR 
QUARTERBACK 

11 Jennaine Brooks WR 5-11 175 JR 12 Mario Strayhorn OLB 6-1 214 JR 
3-Powlus 

12 Tony Zimmennan QB 6-3 225 SO 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 227 JR 
7-Jackson 

15 John Jenkins DB 6-2 190 SR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 169 SA 
FULLBACK 
16 Paul Ruzila PK 5-10 165 FR 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-B 179 SR 
28-Barry 
17 Grant Coffield PK 6-3 205 SO 16 lak Kustok QB 6-2 190 FR 
33-Spencer 
1B Melvin Porter WR 5-9 150 FR 17 Hunter Smith 6-2 210 JR
p 

19 Vital Joseph WR 6-3 205 SR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 
19 Vital Signs ER 0-8 9:00 NBC 18 Joey Getherall WR 5-9 165 FR 
20 Billy West RB 5-10 215 SR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 179 so 
20 Adam West Bat 6-0 190 man 19 Wayne Gunn OLB 6-2 210 JR 
21 Chiffon Allen DB 5-10 170 SO 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 214 JR 

22 Karim Thompson DB 5-11 195 SO 20 Byroo_JaJ,Lner FS 6-1 188 JR 
23 Kevin Bever P/PK 5-10 185 JA 21 Shannon Stephens FL 5-10 175 JR 
24 Dwayne Schulters RB 5-7 180 SR 22 Jay Vickers TB 5-11 218 so 25 Victor Strader DB/RB 5-9 170 FR 23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 184 JR 

25 Darth Vader SW 6-5 300 OS 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 184 SR 
26 Seth Hornack DB 5-1 0 190 SO 25 Tony Driver TB 6-3 205 FA 
27 Kenny Harris DB 5-11 175 FR 26 Lee Lafayette CB 5-9 189 so 
27 Kenny G Sax 5-8 150 Hair 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 JR 
28 Lee Lighter DB 6-2 180 FR 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 221 SR 
28 Bic Lighter Fire 1" 6oz. CP 29 Cooper Aego TB 5-9 185 FR 
29 Greg Bethea RB 5-10 200 FR 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 221 SR 
30 LaFann Williams RB 6-0 185 SO 31 Darcey Levy RB 6-2 195 FR 

FLANKER 31 Hank Poteat RB 5-11 185 SO 32 Clement Stokes TB 6-0 205 SA 
88-Brown 32 Chris Schneider FB 6-1 260 JR 33 Jamie Spencer FB 6-1 248 JR 
9-Nelson 34 E.G. Varoutsos DB 6-1 195 JR 
34 Ronnie Nicks ILB 6-0 220 so 
35 Curtis McGhee DB 5-11 185 SR 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 189 SR 
36 Tony Thompson FB 5-11 235 FR 36 Chris Wachtel p 5-11 207 SR 
37 Chris Ferencik PK 5-11 185 JA 36 Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 
38 Chris Feola FB 6-1 230 SO 37 Ron Israel DB 6-1 175 FR 
39 Nick Cole DB 6-2 210 FA 37 Kevin Rice FB 6-0 200 SR 
39 Nat King Cole UF 6-0 175 Mus 38 Brock Williams CB 5-11 175 FR 
40 Mark Moothart FB 5-11 230 FR 38 Paul Grimm CB 5-9 170 SR 
41 Grant Elam LB 6-2 205 FA 39 Anthony Denman LB 6-3 205 FR 
43 Kevan Barlow RB 6-1 220 FA 40 Jason Murray FB 6-2 235 FR 
4-Brown 
44 Rickey Mendenhall RB 6-0 220 FR 40 Brendan Farrell ss 5-11 215 so 
45 Julian Graham LB 6-3 245 SO 41 Joe Ferrer OLB 6-2 230 so 
45 Graham Cracker Nab 4x2 1 oz MMM 42 Antwoine Wellington ILB 6-0 237 so 
46 John Parker LS 6-1 210 SO 44 Grant Irons ILB 6-5 225 FA 
47 Mark Panko DB 5-10 190 FA 44 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 215 FR 
47 Porky Pig Bac 2-0 200 Oink 45 Joey Goodspeed FB 6-0 225 so 
49 Ken Konek FB 5-9 200 SA 45 Chris McCarthy K 5-11 205 SR 
50 Trey McCray DL 6-2 240 SO 46 Kevin Dansby LB 6-2 210 FR 
51 Roderick HumphreyLB 6-1 235 SA 47 Bill Mitoulas OLB 6-1 225 SA 
53 Ken Kashubara LB 6-4 225 SO 48 Johnathan Herbert VVR 5-11 194 so 
54 Andrew Grischow OL 6-3 250 JR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 223 JA 
CORNERBACK 

55 Calvin Robinson DL 6-4 285 FR 50 David Payne c 6-0 281 JR 
14-&ovington 

56 Calvin Klein Ck One just Be 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 276 SR 
10-Harper 

56 Reggie Thomas OL 6-5 275 SA 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 270 JR 
59 Jason Dugger OL 6-4 285 JR

71-Schultz
53 Lamont Bryant OLB 6-3 243 JR 

61 Ethan Weidle OL 6-6 285 SO 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-5 287 SR 
62 Kenny Pegram DL 6-2 285 JR 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 JR 
66 Tom Coury OL 6-3 335 FR 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-2 266 SR 
67 Mike Bosnic OL 6-6 265 FR 57 Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 258 SR 
69 Khiawatha Downey OL 6-4 340 FA 58 Brendan O'Connor OG 6-2 294 so 
70 Frank Moore DL 6-3 300 SA 58 Mike Burgdorf TE 6-0 205 JR 
71 Mike Schultz OL 6-5 325 JR 59 Matthew Kunz ILB 6-0 215 SR 
72 Jason Sepkowski OL 6-2 285 SR 60 Scott Fagan OLB 6-2 219 so 
74 Ben Kopp OL 6-4 300 SO 62 Casey Robin OL 6-7 285 FR 
75 John Raymond OL 6-7 320 JR 64 John Merandi c 6-3 272 so 
76 Jon Marzoch OL 6-3 275 SR 65 Anthony Brannan ss 5-11 194 so 
n Tony Orlandi OL 6-5 295 SR 66 JW Jordan OL 6-1 284 FR 
78 Justin Wade OL 6-4 330 SO 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 JR 
80 Ernest Coakley LB 6-2 210 SR 70 Tim Ridder OG 6-7 298 JR 
RIGHT GUARD 

80 Ernest Hemingway Lit 6-6 240 KW 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-6 295 JR 
74-Kopp 

81 Terry Murphy WR 6-0 175 JA 72 Leon Hires OG 6-4 287 so 
78-Wade \ 
82 Andy Molinaro WR 6-1 200 SO
SAM

73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 303 SA 
CENTER 
83 Bryan Knight WR 6-2 205 SR
13-Friday

74 RobMowl OG 6-5 294 so 
RIGHT TACKLE 54-Griadlow FREE SAFETY 
84 Juan Williams TE 6-1 240 JR 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 312 SR 
61-Weidle 72-Sepkow~ 42-Weltiln, 3D-Edison 
85 Tim Robertson TE 6-4 235 FA 76 Kurt Vollers OL 6-7 275 FA 
71-Schultz 1-Gooper 
86 John Jones TE 6-5 240 JR 77 Brad Williams DE 6-4 266 so 
NOSE 
87 Jackie Womack WR 5-11 180 JA 78 Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 274 SA 
GUARD 
87 Jackie Onassis FL 5·6 130 JFK

90-Legree
79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 315 JR 8 Kirk McMullen TE 6-4 250 SO
85-Jones
80 Justin Smith WR 6-1 185 FA 
90 Jeff McCurley DL 6-4 250 FR 81 Lewis Dawson SE 5-11 186 so 
91 Djems Don DL 6-3 260 SO 82 Mike Gandy TE 6-5 264 so 
92 Marlin Young DL 6-2 250 JR 83 Justin Orr FL 6-2 233 SR 
92 Florida Martins NL 4-0 80 K 84 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 243 SR 
STRONG 

94 Demond Gibson DL 6-4 320 SO 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 267 JR WILL 
SAFETY 

95 Phil Clarke LB 6-0 235 JR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-4 243 so 44-trons 
39-Guilbeaux 

96 Chris Dilba DL 6-4 290 SO 87 Jabari Holloway TE 6-4 235 FR 34-Nicks 
5-Sanders 

97 Jason Soboleski DL 6-4 260 SR 88 Bobby Brown FL 6-3 185 JR 
98 Joe Conlin TE 6-5 245 FA 90 Lance Legree NG 6-1 271 so 91 N. VanHook-DruckerDE 6-2 228 so 
RUSH
92 Bryan Mulvena LB 6-2 225 JR SPLIT END 
53-Brro~nt
93 B.J. Scott DE 6-3 267 so 9-Hoffart 
41-Ferrer
94 Andy Wisne DL 6-5 255 FA 82-Molinaro CORNERBACK 95 Corey Bennett NG 6-1 253 SA 
15-Rossum 96 Jim Jones NG 6-2 280 so 
24-Goode 

97 Eric Glass DT 6-4 220 so .98 
John Teasdale TE 6-6 255 FR 99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 235 so 




FULLBACK 36·Thompson32-Schneider 


w 
page 6 Friday, October 10, 1997
Irish Insider • THE INSIGHT 
• IRISH INSIGHT 



Forget the Gipper, ND needs one for the sake of it 

• 
WRITTEN AND co-PRODUCED BY JOHN ScuLLY ( 1980 IRISH TRI-CAPTAIN AND ALL-AMERICAN; NFL VETERAN FROM 1981 TO 1991)WJTH GRAMMY-AWARD WINNING PRODUCER JIM TULLIO. 

• 
PERFECT GIFT IDEA-ALLOWS FANS OF ALL AGES TO BRING THE NOTRE DAME EXPERIENCE INTO THEIR HOMES 


ttSINCE GRADUATING AFTER THE 1980 SEASON, I HAVE BEEN KNOWN BEFORE ANYTHING ELSE AS 
SOMEONE WHO CAME FROM NOTRE DAME. I AM PROUD TO SAY THAT LABEL SPEAKS FOR ITSELF 
IN ALL MY ENDEAVORS." JOHN ScULLY 
Co-PRODUCER 
H
ere we are. Mid-terms have come upon us quicker than expected. Some other things that have come upon us rather quickly, and they are the four losses by our football team. Four, that's an awful lot of losses for early October isn't it? 
Although we feel simply awful about this four-game losing streak and 
we've had an earful from everyone we know that hates the Blue and Gold, there is no one that feels worse than Bob Davie, except maybe for Ron Powlus. 
In Davie's first year as head coach, everything that could 
possibly go wrong has. After apparently 

finding a game-breaker in Joey Getherall in the opener, he goes down for the next three games and is still not at 100 percent. Davie also lost his defensive leader in Bobbie Howard as well as many other key players. 
An offensive unit that scored 30 points a game last year has been as effective getting into the end zone as Florida State is at keeping its boys out of jail and away from agents. 
We haven't won a game since buy­ing our books, and Davie is in a more dire need of a win than John MacLeod is of obtaining another scoring threat to go with Pat Garrity. 
When most of the Irish signed their letters of content, they figured it would take at least a year and a half to amass four losses, and that they would not have to worry about where they would spend New Year's. 
But even if Davie and Co. pull off a miracle and have one of the biggest mid-season turnarounds ever, the Irish will be spending their second consecutive New Year's at home. 
In all fairness to the squad. the 
0 . . 
~\-··~·· 

Joe Cavato Assistant Sporrs Editor 
schedule has been absolutely brutal. With this schedule, the team could be 2-3 and still be pretty darn good. 
Michigan State has been called this year's Arizona State. Michigan is a top 10 team and is always talented. We knew that Stanford in Palo Alto was going to be a tough task. Now even our win over Georgia Tech, who is now in the top 25, looks like an upset. 
However, that Purdue loss sticks out like a sore thumb, and the Irish got a couple of good, old-fashioned ass­kickings from Michigan State and Stanford. What the Spartans did to us looked like what we used to do to teams. It was boring, but it won foot­ball games. 
Things are looking up a bit though as the Irish are done with the most difficult part of the schedule. Those first five opponents are a combined 15-3, while the next opponents are 18-15. So there is a glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel. 
That glimmer is represented in the Pittsburgh Panthers. Pitt is much improved from last year when Notre Dame scored 40 points in the second quarter on its way to a 60-6 thrash­ing. That defense returns seven starters, but Davie probably wishes that all 11 of the defensive starters returned after watching his team score just 70 points all season. 
The Panthers are 3-2 with its most impressive win coming over the Miami Hurricanes at home. But the Hurricanes, who looked like just another team that Florida State abused last weekend, have taken as big a slide as the Irish have since the days of Jimmy Johnson and Tony Rice. 
This is the week for the Irish. It sim­ply has to be. The Panthers should run into a team that is hungrier than any other team that Pitt has faced this 
year. Davie and Co. will be fired up 
not because it is Davie and Powlus' return to Penn­sylvania, but for the simple reason that *·· they will be playing a team that they can beat. 
This is the second team on the schedule that we should simply domi­nate -that old bigger, stronger. faster theory. But that theory should have been in effect in West Lafayette. 
But this weekend the players are in 

desp~rate !lee? The Observer/BrandonCandura of wm ~h1ch ~s Jim Colletta hopes that his offense will take advantage of playing Pitt. 
why, If thiS team truly has a pulse, there will not be a reoccurrence of Billy Dicken and that infamous Purdue weekend. They don't need to "win one for the Gipper." They simply need to win one just to remember what if feels like to be on top. 
If the team can show any of the character they showed in the first half in Ann Arbor, they should be able to dispose of the Panthers. It probably won't be a 60-6 annihilation, it may even be a barn burner. but regard­less, it should be a win. 
And at this point, a win is all that it would take to leave all those involved in the Notre Dame program more than content. 
• THE IRISH INSIDER STAFF Editor: Mike Day Associate Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Editors: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Graphic Design: Tom Roland, Jon King Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Mark DeBoy 
Cover: Jon "The Don" King, Brandon Candura 

Available NOW at the Notre Dame Bookstore and Varsity Shop. .Or to order, call the Notre Dame Catalog FuHillment Center today at 
1-800-647-4641 

Friday, October 10, 1997 



Mike Day (12-8) Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Ohio State Florida Tennessee 

Betsy Baker ( 12-8) Associate Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Florida Tennessee 

Joe Cavato (10-10) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Florida Tennessee 

Kathleen Lopez ( 14-6) Assistant SportS Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Florida Tennessee 
Brian Reinthaler (9-11) Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame Penn State Florida Tennessee 

M uffet McGraw 1997 Women's Basketball Final Four coach 
Notre Dame Penn State Florida Tennessee 
page 7Irish Insider • THE NATI 0 N 




RISH INSIDER 
ye on the Natio Big Ten showdown at Happy Valley 
SEC battles 
highlight 

weekend 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistam Sports Editor 
No. 7 Ohio State at No. 2 Penn State 

The Buckeyes proved their strength with a character­building, road win over Iowa last Saturday. That should improve their confidence even more as they stroll into Happy Valley to face a team that they have beaten two years in a row, including a 38-7 trounc­ing last year. John Cooper is 3­1 versus Penn State. 
The Nittany Lions will cer­tainly be the more rested team, though. While Ohio State was battling with a gritty and tal­ented Hawkeye squad last weekend, Joe Pa's troops got a bit of breather in Champaign against the Illini. Curtis Enis has crossed the goal line eight times in just four games for Penn State and quarterback Mike McQueary has already thrown for 1,009 yards and is 
the second-rated passer in the nation. 
For the winner of this game, the only thing standing between them and the Rose Bowl is the state of Michigan. Trips to East Lansing and Ann Arbor remain on the slate for the Buckeyes, while Penn State will get the Wolverines at After defeating then number 11 Iowa last week, things don't get any easier for Pepe Pearson and his home, three weeks before clos­Buckeye teammates as they head to Happy Valley this weekend to battle Penn State. 

TEAM 
1. Florida (35) 
2. Penn State (26) 3. Nebraska (6) 
4. 
Florida State (1) 

5. 
N. Carolina 

6. 
Michigan 

7. 
Ohio State 

8. 
Auburn 

9. 
Tennessee 

10. 
Washington 

11. 
Michigan State 


12. Washington St. ) 13. Georgia 
14. 
LSU 

15. 
Texas A&M 


15. Stanford 
17. 
Iowa 

18. 
UCLA 

19. 
Air Force 

20. 
Oklahoma St. 

21. 
Brigham Young 

22. 
Kansas State 

23. 
Virginia Tech 

24. 
Colorado 

25. 
Georgia Tech 


OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: West Virginia 72, Clemson 65, Alabama 46, Wisconsin 43, USC 31, Kentucky 29, Toledo 27, Wyoming 26, New Mexico 18, Miami, OH 17, Arizona St. 16, Kansas 14, Purdue 14, MarshallS, North Carolina St. 5, Virginia 2, Cincinnati 1, Colorado St. 1, Ohio 1, Oregon 1. 
TJR 

-
-
-

ing the season at Michigan State. 

No. 1 Florida at No. 14 LSU 
With both SEC championship and national championship implications, this battle in the bayou is a critical contest for both teams. Obviously for Florida, a loss would severely dampen their title hopes, while tossing them into the rabble that will battle it out for the SEC East division champi­onship. For the Tigers, this game has the potential to erase any chance of reaching the SEC Championship. 
Most analysts would have tabbed this as preview of the title game before the season began, but Auburn has taken charge of the West division of the conference with a defeat of LSU in Baton Rouge. With tail­back Cecil Collins out of the lineup, all of the pressure will fall on the shoulders of Kevin Faulk to keep the Tigers in the game. Faulk carried 31 times for 135 yards against Vanderbilt last week. 
This is the first stop on a treacherous three-week stretch for the Gators. They will travel to Auburn next Saturday before returning to the Swamp to take on Georgia 
three weeks from now. Realistically, at this point in the season, Auburn appears to be the only real speed bump for Florida before the Seminoles come calling on Nov. 22. 
The Bulldogs have a huge opportunity to make statement before their collision with Florida, which should decide the representative of the East division in the SEC Championship game. They can also virtually eliminate Tennessee from conference title contention. Georgia would love to crack the top 10 and has consistently played the Vols tough over the years. This year should be no different. 
P.eyton Manning's squad faces its last legitimate chal­lenge, unless, of course, South Carolina or Kentucky scares anyone. If the Volunteers can indeed hold off the Dawgs, they will all but guarantee them­selves a 10-1 finish. Based on the remaining schedule for the rest of the top 10, that record will be good enough for at least a No. 4 ranking, with one of three teams ahead them being a Rose Bowl-bound squad. 
RECORD 
5-0 4-0 4-0 4-0 5-0 4-0 5-0 5-0 3-1 3-1 4-0 5-0 4-0 4-1 4-0 4-1 4-1 3-2 6-0 5-0 3-1 3-1 4-1 2-2 3-1 
POINTS 
1704 1672 1606 1540 1464 1404 1334 1227 1158 1143 1065 980 814 770 750 714 702 560 416 321 309 227 174 140 125 


PREV 
1 2 3 
4 5 
6 7 8 9 
10 12 15 18 13 21 19 11 22 23 
24 17 14 16 





-
• ! • I " 
vs. 



SatullrJay9 October 11 9 1997 2~30 JPomo Pitt StaJiuurn IPitts1burgh9 Pennsylvania 








