
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 • Vol. XXX No. 89 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Scalia denounces idea of 'living' constitution 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST originally ratified in 1791. of the "living" Constitution. News Editor "Those things that were clearly con­"We are now operating under a doc­stitutional then are clearly constitu­ument which is [mistakenly] under­
Arguing that the Constitution tional now, and those things that were stood to reflect whatever our passions "means what it says and says what it clearly unconstitutional then are are," Scalia said. "It morphs from means," U.S. Supreme Court Justice clearly unconstitutional now," Scalia generation to generation. It means Antonin Scalia denounced the idea said. whatever it ought to mean. That's the that the Constitution should be mold­The right to an abortion and the living Constitution." ed to fit the changing demands of the right to die, Scalia said, are not pro-Drawing on his belief in the strict American public. interpretation of the document, Scalia 
Scalia, speaking to a standing room pointed to some problems with the only audience in DeBartolo Hall yes­notion of a living Constitution. terday afternoon, took the American 'We are now oper-First, a living Constitution necessi­people to task for their recent trend of ating under a tates that the Supreme Court justices looking to the Constitution instead of determine the path of American law,
document which is

looking to the legislatures whenever a power that Scalia said ought to an issue arose with which they dis­[mistakenly] understood remain in the hands of the legislative agreed. branch.
to reflect whatever our 

"(Forty years ago,] when a person "There's nothing in our Constitution was frustrated with a state of affairs, passions are.' that says the Supreme Court shall be someone would pound the table and the authoritative interpreter of it," say, 'There ought to be a law.' But Scalia said. "If you think that this is a
Antonin Scalia 

today, people cry, 'That's unconstitu­document that reflects the changing
Supreme Court Justice

tional,"' Scalia, a 10-year member of standards of decency in society, why the Supreme Court, said. "It is the did you give it to nine lawyers to fig­problem of the American people and vided for in the wording of the ure out? their perception of what the Constitution, and are therefore not to "My qualifications as a lawyer don't Constitution means." be decided by that document or by the give me any special powers to know, 
According to Scalia, the meaning of Supreme Court. To Scalia's consterna­for example, what constitutes an the Constitution is stagnant, unchang­tion, this tendency to read new rights ing from when the Bill of Rights were into the document has given it the tag 
see A W ARDI page 4 
ND honors monk with award Panel: Ebonies debate 

Special to the Observer 


Notre Dame Award 
Tlw University will honor Brother Roger, the 

Recipients

founder and prior of the ecumenical Taize commu­nity in eastern France, with the 1996 Notre Dame 
r:i1:992.tittfB\XiH®:ti,!~L;,. ,.•.··. ··· · 
Jimmy & Rosalynn Carter The 81-year-old Brother Roger, who observes the 

Award for international humanitarian service. 
(Former U.S. President and First Lady) 
:,:~:\,~~:Ha!J~ill~~~l!h1111J~i%:i~::.::

Taize community's custom of foregoing the use of 
Mother Theresa of Calcutta

family names, will be on campus to address the 
(Religious Missionary)

Notre Dame community in a ceremony and to 
!ill1EI\!Iil:ll iiE:if:trilllilitiiT®?;iit··

receive the award on April 24. 
Jean Vanier
"For more than half a century, Brother Roger 
(Founder of I'Arche communities for the handicapped)

and his companions have born witness to Christ in 
K\!1:995';,!£~

an increasingly secular Western culture," said 
Helen Suzman

Notre Dame's president, Father Edward Malloy. 
(South African anti-apartheid politician)

"Their joy, mercy, and simplicity provide a tanta­
n;1:996t~TiifREiw6/iih ·· 

lizing glimpse of what Christ's Church, healed and 
John Hume

reunified. is called to become." 
(Leader of N. Ireland's Social Democratic &Labour Party)
Brother Roger is a native of Switzerland. His 
''1;1'997( W:ti'iii;'}';t;YW)t~'·· Brother Roger 


(Founder of ecumenical Taize Community in France)
see AWARD I page 6 




Prof shares business lessons 
By ANN KEARNS years later, Shannon was able to "augment the acade­Saint Mary's Assistant Editor offered a position in the Saint mics with the professional Mary's business department. world." 

College professors exist to Shannon's involvement with Shannon often refers to his give students knowledge and Hacienda started several years class as "show-and-tell." skills that they will use upon prior to the beginning of his Because of his position with their entrance into "the real Saint Mary's career. In 1978, Hacienda, Shannon has access w or I d." he and four other individuals to many tools used in business W iII i am co-founded Hacienda. That that directly benefit his stu­Shannon, year, Shannon also served as dents. He says that these are associate the corporation's president. items with which students professor of Although Shannon has great need to be familiar, such as business responsibilities at both Saint formal business contracts. administra­Mary's and Hacienda, he has This "show-and-tell," he feels, tion and eco­no difficulty in balancing the enables students to apply the nomies at two professions. Instead, he knowledge they have gained Saint Mary's, believes that they compliment from the textbook. combines his one another. "I am able to "Hacienda helps me do all experience as an entrepreneur bring realities of the profes­this," Shannon claimed. with his classroom lessons. sional world to the classroom," Students agree that 
Shannon has been a mem­Shannon said. Shannon's professional experi­ber of the Saint Mary's com­Shannon continued to say ence has enhanced his teach­munity since January of 1983 that being a part of Hacienda ing ability. and is also senior chairman of has positively affected his Fanny Gonzalez, senior Hacienda Mexican teaching because it has given international business and Restaurants. him the opportunity to be asso­economics major, believes that 
Shannon became interested ciated with other organizations Shannon's international busi­in teaching marketing so that in the community. He has ness class has given her a he could stay up to speed with been able to serve on many "real business perspective." new developments in the field. boards and meet with people Gonzalez said, "It's not just a His first position was at who have varying background textbook; it's applied busi­Roosevelt University in and ideas. ness." Chicago as an adjunct profes­Shannon brings these ideas sor in marketing. Several back to the classroom. He is 

see FEATURE I page 6 


distorts central issue 
By LAURA PETELLE Johnson began the panel's News Writer remarks by saying that she felt it was important to focus on 
The debate about ebonies cen-"the victim -the children." ters too often around issue of Johnson said that she felt that racial power rather than the the focus of the ebonies debate effective education of the chil-should be on the children and dren involved, according to a what was best for the children panel discussion last night. and not on the politics involved. 
The panel included Chandra "We have to take and view Johnson, assis-and deal with 
tant director of ------------the individual," retreats and spe-she said. cia! projects for '}believe we should L a n e · s Campus Ministry, all learn and be r e m a r k s 
Robert Lane, a focused on the graduate student proficient in standard issues of Ian-in English, Tia English, but to flatly guage and on Likely, a senior bilingualism. arts and letters deny ebonies is to deny He said that major, David our history, our her-the ebonies Moss, a grad stu-issue was dent in psycholo-itage, culture, and about "frame­
gy, and Erskine image.' works of Peters, professor power." ofEnglish. Lane com-
Shavers intro-David Moss mented that duced the topic English itself and explained the history was the language of the peas­behind the ebonies controversy. ants of England after the She touched on the 30-year his-Norman Conquest and said that, tory of ebonies and the use of "it [language conflict] is always ebonies in the Oakland Unified based on authorizing frame­School District. Shavers then works of power." gave a brief history of the recent As for ebonies in the class­ebonies controversy and the room, Lane said that instructing media coverage. teachers to be sensitive to ebon­
"We're here to talk about ics helped children make the what that [controversy] implies transition from ebonies to stan­-what it implies for history, dard English and "when it what it implies for culture, what comes to teaching, it's all about it implies for class, what it implies for race," Shavers said. see EBONICS I p~ge 4 


~-------~-~-----------­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 12, 1997 




Vote 
OK, you've heard this all 
before, but apparently 59 
percent of you need to 
hear it again. 
Today is Election Day at 
Notre Dame. The tickets of 
Matt Griffin!Erek Nass and 
Matt Szabo!Mary Gillard 
square off one more Brad Prendergast time in a repeat of last 

News Editor
Friday's primary elec­
tion, in which 
Griffin!Nass edged out Szabo/Gillard by a 
scant 35 votes. 
When one considers that only 41 percent of 
the undergraduate population bothered to 
yote on Friday, the outcome of the primary 
could have easily gone the other way. 
In other words, every vote counts. 
Plenty of reasons are given for why some 
students don't vote. The general ineffective­
ness of student government to effect major 
change on delicate issues. The prevailing 
belief that one ticket will accomplish just as 
much as the next ticket. The inevitable snuff­
ing out of the leaders' motivation after they 
bang their heads against walls that just 
won't fall down. 
But there's one overriding reason to vote: 
If you do, you have the right to complain. 
Honestly, all the reasons mentioned above 
can only be used by those who take the time 
to vote. Granted, the present system of stu­
dent government isn't perfect, but as 
Supreme Court Justice Antonio Scalia said 
yesterday about the Constitution, it's the only 
system we've got. And for student govern­
ment to be effective at all, people must care 
about it. 
Griffin!Nass and Szabo/Gillard know that 
keeping students informed on what student 
government is doing is necessary if they 
want to represent the students effectively. 
They know the importance of the word 
"communication." It's a word that has been 
repeated over and over by these two tickets, 
both in their campaign rhetoric and in their 
posters; in fact, when all five tickets for stu­
dent body president where interviewed by 
The Observer prior to the primary election, 
they all cited the notion of increasing com­
munication with the students as one of their 
top priorities if they were to be elected. 
But because of the simple fact that commu­
nication demands the involvement of two 
parties, students have to do their part, too. 
Students have to vote. 
The choice in today's election is fairly 
clear-cut. Griffin!Nass offer a platform that 
can guarantee that, a year from now, some 
things will have been accomplished. Their 
platform is reasonable and both of them 
know their way around the second floor of 
LaFortune so that they can get through the 
bureaucratic red tape and get things done. 
Szabo/Gillard also have plenty of experi­
ence on their resume, but their platform 
takes a different angle. They propose ideas 
that might not be feasible, but if there's any 
duo with the personality to see their plat­
form through, it's these two. The risk lies in 
that they might focus so much energy on one 
battle that they'll lose the war. 
So it's up to you to decide which ticket best 
matches your idea of what student govern­
ment should do. It's up to you to choose. 
Voting takes place today from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. and from 5 to 7 p.m. in the residence 
halls and in LaFortune Student Center. You know what to do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Marr Loughran Melissa Weber Allison Koenig 
Sports Production 
Karhleen Lopez John Hutchinson Viewpoint Chris Hahn Tara Churik Accent Lab Tech 
Ashleigh Thompson Shannon Dunne 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORU3 Al AGlAMCE 

Fans might want to cry for Madonna 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 
Madonna said she wanted him, even deserved him. But the star won't be snuggling up with Oscar after all. 
The Material Mom who pro­claimed herself Academy Award-worthy for her starring role in "Evita" was denied a nomination Tuesday, and the musical was passed over in the best-picture cate­gory. 
Academy voters instead lavished recognition on thoughtful films made outside the Hollywood studio system, including the wartime romance "The English Patient," which captured a leading 12 nomi­nations. 
Four of the five best-picture slots went to independent films, with 

''"=1:.:~· 13h":~~=...,ppr 
l:mM·DiAWW l:!i!f1Jii!Oio141!Gfii·AN 
~'!':!!::~:r· l!?J!"~.. ~~~'fJ.o,:).. l:JJ!'~~!1 r.,!\l..,. f,'J';.,""'""00'm'"" ~'l)!·:::,~)k"... !11\:~h),.,~~.~~·· ~~~~­!l.':'!~'l),~'ll)...,.. ~:::'Zt::J'·Baptl<~• 
Lies" joining "The English Patient." TriStar's "Jerry Maguire" was the sole big-studio, big-grossing nominee. 
"There's two businesses in Hollywood: The big studio event movies and the good writing and innovative projects (for which) the indies are pick­ing up the mantle," said Miramax Films chief Harvey Weinstein. 
"Ecstatic is mild," was the reaction from "English Patient" producer Saul Zaentz. His film nearly foundered because of budget problems, but Zaentz held fast against a studio bailout that would have forced cast changes. The movie was ultimately rescued by Miramax. 
Three stars of the film received acting bids: Ralph Fiennes and Kristin Scott Thomas in the lead category, and Juliette Binoche for best supporting 

"Fargo," "Shine" and "Secrets & '------'--------'---------' actress. 
Yeltsin recovering slowly 
MOSCOW 
In a departure from his usual rosy reports, Boris Yeltsin's spokesman acknowledged Tuesday that the presi­dent is recovering "quite slowly" from his ailments and will not be back full time at the Kremlin for some time. Spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky did not provide details of the president's prognosis, but the change of tone was 


striking in contrast to his previous upbeat assessments of Yeltsin's health. Yeltsin had a heart attack last sum­mer, then quintuple bypass surgery in November. Just two weeks after going back to work at the Kremlin, he came down with pneumonia. "The post-operation period at that moment was far from completed," Yastrzhembsky explained at a news conference. He described Yeltsin's pneumonia as a "very serious ill­ness," but said the president "is gradually gaining (strength) and physical activity, as his schedule can testi­fy." Yeltsin's doctors are exercising "double caution," said Yastrzhembsky, adding: "Do not expect the presi­dent's speedy return to the Kremlin." The 66-year-old president has been at his Kremlin office only sporadical­ly over the past seven months. 
Senators pull prank in retaliation 
ATLANTA 
Retaliating in a tit-for-tat war between the states, a pair of Georgia lawmakers yanked down New York's flag from the state Capitol. It was a stunt to get back at New York for removing Georgia's flag after Gov. George Pataki branded the Confederate emblem on the banner as a "symbol of hatred" for all Americans. "They started it," said Sen. Eric Johnson, who got a few cheers from onlookers as he and fellow Republican Sen. Joey Brush marched New York's flag out of the Capitol's Hall of States. But Secretary of State Lewis Massey was not amused. He promised to have the flag back in place by Wednesday. "I hope this puts an end to these childish exercises." The Georgia flag had hung about 100 feet from Pataki's office in the New York Capitol for some 20 years. A group of black lawmakers complained to the governor late last week that they wanted the flag removed. New York Sen. David Paterson, a Manhattan Democrat who spearheaded the Georgia flag's removal, condemned the retaliatory move as "quite insensitive." Said Paterson: "I hope those two senators would never have to feel the symbol of any kind of antagonism or racism." 
City overturns dog's death sentence 
PORTSMOUTH, N.H. 

Prince, a little boy's four-legged friend who was con­demned to death after he killed a rooster, won a reprieve Tuesday-and was ordered to get out of town. "Thank you, everyone," 5-year-old Jeffrey Kristiansen said following the city's decision to lift his dog's death sentence. Jeffrey's mother, Margaret Kristiansen, was ordered to find a new home for the 3 1/2-year-old black Labrador mix, somewhere outside this city of about 25,000. No deadline was set. Prince, whom Ms. Kristiansen nicknamed "Houdini" for his ability to escape from cages and leashes, was labeled a vicious dog under a city ordinance after killing a rooster in May. Vicious dogs are supposed to be kept leashed or locked up, but Prince got away twice, once by breaking out of a cage and another time by bolting when Jeffrey opened a door. That earned the dog a death sentence under the "three-strikes-and-out" ordinance and he's been in a kennel ever since. Jeffrey said Prince got a bad rap. "fie's not the one responsible -the rooster's responsi­ble," he said last week. "A dog can't be a dog anymore," resident Tim Record said Tuesday. Ms. Kristiansen said she'll interview prospective new owners for Prince and work out a visitation agreement. 
Guards protect communion wafers 
PICAYUNE, Miss. 

Two Roman Catholic churches have posted guards to make sure parishioners swallow the communion wafer and don't pocket it. The reason: Priests fear that the wafers are being used in satanic rites. There have been no recent police reports of any satanic activity, but sus­picions were raised at St. Charles Catholic Church in December when a half-dozen people were seen leaving with the Holy Communion, the Rev. John Noone said. Now, guards posted at the altar-usually church ushers -discreetly ask parishioners to eat the wafer or give it back, Noone said. St. Margaret Mary Church in nearby Slidell, La., also has guards keeping watch over the sacraments. In the Catholic faith, the bread and wine served at communion are considered the body and blood of Christ. During Satanic rituals, or what are known as Black Masses, communion wafers are burned or other­wise desecrated, said Justin Hudelson, an assistant pro­fessor of anthropology and religion at Tulane University. Myra DeCourcy, a member of the St. Charles church, said anybody who steals communion is crazy and sick. "We have set up a 24-hour watch over the Holy Eucharist, and Satan doesn't like it so he's sending some of his bad people to get it," she said. 



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 12.
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Wednesday $. Thursd).y FridayJ 
S3tq.r4~Y 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1997 AccuWeather, Inc.

sunauy 

Pressure 
.~..5'-·""J."''"'-v(' '\.~ .. 




HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY C~OUDY 
Atlanta 54 36 Dallas 46 39 New Orleans 60 44 Baltimore 42 32 Denver 29 15 New York 45 34 
~~~aruaa {) ~ Q 

Boston 44 31 Los Angeles 70 52 Philadelphia 45 31
S~~;e~; T-;t~;,;,s Rain ~~~~;~~ 'i~~·~:· ~~-=. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 35 24 Miami 82 69 Phoenix 65 
47 
Vie Associated Press GrephicsNet 

Columbus 38 27 Minneapolis 33 19 St. Louis 39 26 
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

They came from another planet... 
For the past week, workers from Ziolkowski Construction have been re­tuckpointing the mortar on the Edna and Leo Riley Hall of Art and Design. 


Formal generates hot interest 
Survey reconfirms ND conservative attitudes 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
In the 1960's and 1970's, col­leges fostered liberal ideals, marked by student activism and wide­spread sup­port for social welfare programs. 
Recently, students are entering their first year of studies with a consider­ably more conservative point of view, according to a survey conducted by the University of California, Los Angeles. 
The American Council on Education put together the survey and UCLA has conduct­ed it every year since 1966. "It presents a picture of our incoming freshman," said Mark Gunty, assistant director of institutional research at Notre Dame. 
"It gives us the reasons that they decided to come to the University, their opinions on political and social issues and, most importantly, their life goals." 
The survey is sent to fresh­man before they arrive on campus. "It is included with the last of our summer mail­ings," said Eileen Kolman, dean of the first year of stud­ies. 
"We participate and can then compare results to similar col­leges across the country, select private institutions, which makes for a good base of comparison." 
Gunty says that such surveys are useful because they pro­vide time sensitive data that may be asked for in the future by University departments. But the most important use of the surveys is in conjunction with the survey handed to stu­dents in their senior year. 

"We use both surveys for out­comes assessment," he said. "For the most part, the col­lege experience has a liberal­izing effect on students nation­ally. Notre Dame students tend to stay conservative. But we need to look at the fresh­man attitude surveys as a con­trol to see how the students thought when they came into the University." 
"The results are not really that exciting for a year-to-year basis, but for what happens to the student attitudes over ten years," said Kolman. "The real difference comes in looking at the students of 1996 as com­pared with those of 1986 and also to 1976." 
Gunty went on to say that the surveys are used by policy makers and departments when making decisions about under­graduate education. "The use­fulness of [the survey] is in the whole, the aggregate results. While the way it informs policy is a slow process, it does inform debate and discus­sions," Gunty said. 
Both administrators agreed on what the surveys indicate for college students. 
"The surveys mention that volunteerism and social action are high in students," said Gunty. "Involvement," agreed Kolman. "that is the main issue. You only get out of what college what you put into it." 

!RECYCLE THE OBSERVER! 
By RACHEL TORRES 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students are lining up in droves this week to purchase tickets to the first annual All-Campus Formal. Over 800 tickets have been sold for the event that will be held at Union Station from 9 
p.m. to 1 a.m. on Friday, Feb. 
21. 

The formal started last year as the brainchild of former Residence Hall Association vice president Barbara VanDersal. Current RHA president Nikki Milos reflects, "[Due to certain circum­stancesi last year, there just wasn't enough time to plan an all-campus formal, so we planned a regular dance for the campus to participate in." The dance last year was a rel­ative success, with over 300 students in attendance. 

This semester, rather than having individual hall formal dances, the campus will unite its resources to come together for one extravagant affair. "This is going to seem like prom all over again," said LeMans social committee member Courtney Regan. 
Milos stated, "we wanted to get the largest facility in South Bend, and we booked it all the way back in October. Union Station was all that was avail­able at that time." 
A rumor circulated that a restriction would be made on the number of women allowed to purchase tickets. 
"We were given estimates," stated Milos, "but no definite numbers were released to the students at any time. Students must keep in mind that we are subject to Union Station's fire codes, and we have nothing to do with those regulations." 
The fact is that while RHA members still do not have def­inite numbers on Union Station's capacity regulations, they will sell tickets to stu­dents who want them. 
Another rumor that caused unsettlement among some students was the fact that the $16-per-couple ticket would not include a dance favor. 
Make A Difference Be A ... 
Early this week, however, it was decided by the RHA dance coordinators to give commem­orative glasses to the first 500 people who purchased tickets. 
''I'm very excited about going to the dance," stated junior Katie Brauer. "I think it's great to go to a dance with friends who live in other halls that you may not see at a dance otherwise." 
However, Brauer reflects the reaction of several students who are not happy with the sudden arrival of the favors. "I wish I had known that before I waited to buy my tick­ets." 
Entitled "Shades of Spring," the dance will kick off a week of spirit activities at SMC. The week-long theme of "Winter Carnival" will feature activi­ties that include the entire campus. 
Monday, Holy Cross and Annunciata will host campus games and an open house. Tuesday, Regina will host a pool party during the same hours. 
On Wednesday, McCandless will sponsor snow sports and other athletic competitions. All events will run from 7 p.m.-9 p.m. Finally, LeMans ends the week with its second annual Bengal Bout Auction from 7:30p.m. to 9:30p.m. 


Good Shepherd Volunteer 
Opportunities for a year in service in: Human Services and Special Education 
In the Context of: Community and Spirituality 
Come and meet a representative at the: Center for Social Concerns Thursday, February 13, 1997 at 7:30 p.m. 
Interviews available Thursday and Friday Drop by the esc or contact Meridith Welch at 212-4 75-4245 ext. 717 to Schedule 
Good Shepherd Volunteers-337 East 17th Street-New York, NY 10003 
1 .J 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
said he, too, was dismayed by and expressed his displeasure that instead of talk­excessive jury awards, but ing to experts on ebonies, many media people
Scalia Ebonies

added that he did not think any spoke to politicians such as Jesse Jackson. 
continued from page 1 
undue burden on a woman's rights to an abortion than any­one else," he added. "If you want a right to an abortion, pass a law. If you don't want the right to an abortion, pass a law:·· 
Secondly, proponents of a liv­ing Constitution often say that it is necessary in the interest of llexibility so that the document reflects the 
changing con­
ditions of soci­ety. But Scalia 'The political said their aim branches and 1 
may be mis­guided. have a deal. They "The people leave me alone, and 1 
who want to 
bring us new leave them alone.' 
constitutional 
rights -are Antonin Scalia 50-minute talk, 
they really giv­ing us more flexibility, or are they giving us less?" Scalia asked. "They are after imposing their view on the entire polity through the Constitution." 
Scalia also noted that the jus­tices of the Supreme Court are similarly guilty of propagating the notion of the living Constitution. 
In. a speech last month in Los Angeles, Scalia denounced the court's decision striking down a $2 million punitive damages verdict as so "grossly excessive" as to be unconstitutional. Scalia amendment contained that interpretation of due process. 
"Some say that what consti­tutes cruel and unusual punish­mentis not static, that there are evolving standards of decency that reflect a maturing society," Scalia said yesterday. "I suggest that that is extremely Pollyanna-ish." 
In criticizing recent rulings by the Supreme Court, Scalia noted that the "original interpreta­
tion" of the 
he also took 
questions from 
the crowd, although he noted that he would not necessarily answer every one. 
Asked for his opinion on the proposed balanced budget amendment, Scalia replied with a grin, "The political branches and I have a deal. They leave me alone, and I leave them alone.'' 
While visiting Notre Dame, Scalia also sat in on some class­es and presided over a moot courtroom session at the Law School. 
Cons tit uti on 
transcended lib­eral-conservative lines. "A pox on 
both their hous­
es," Scalia said, drawing laughter from the audi­ence. 
During Scalia's 
continued from page 1 
transition." 

Tia Likely's opening remarks caused a stir in the room. The audience focused rapt attention on her as she spoke in clear, direct statements. "I choose not to look at ebonies as a linguistic issue. I choose to look at ebonies from a cultural pespec­tive," Likely said. "I do not believe ebonies is a specifically African American phenomenon," she continued. "To assert that ebonies is just ignorant and lazy is ignorance in itself." 
Likely said that she felt that languages were dynamic and undergoing change and gave an example, saying, "I can be kickin' it with my crew or I can be socializing with my peers." 
"I believe we should all learn and be proficient in standard English, but to flatly deny ebonies is to deny our history, our heritage, culture, and image," she concluded. The audience applauded as Likely sat down. 
Moss discussed the psychological point of view. He cited the studies that show that African Americans tend to score lower on standardized exams and said that "culture docs have an influ­ence on cognition." 
"Unfortunately, the power structure of this soci­ety has always interprctod being different as being less than," Moss said. "This, I believe, is the underlying cause of the black student's poor acad­emic performance. 
"Ebonies is a small step in the right direction," Moss concluded. "My hope is that, through this small step, America begin to face the real issues of racism, liberty, and justice for all." 
Peters began by saying that the media had only picked up the issue of ebonies because it was mar­ketable. "It's a part of the whole mechanism of American sensationalism with regard to race. Black people become newsworthy when there's controversy around them." 
He said that he felt there was not a lot of con­cern for the children in the discussion of the issue 
"Languages will always change," Peters said. "Standard English is a dialect." 
Peters said that there is not a lot of motivation for black students to learn to speak standard English and gave the example of W. E. B. DuBois. DuBois spoke perfect English, wrote several nov­els, and was a highly regarded academic, who, because of his race, was never offered a place on a university faculty. 
"When we deal with a language, we are talking about a person's identity," Peters said. "When one goes to school and somebody says, outright and arbitrarily... don't speak that black English in here, then what one is doing is defaming that per­son's whole family line and those people who have loved him." 
One woman brought up the point that it was a stigma for blacks to speak ebonies but that when whites said "girlfriend!" and used ebonies, they were considered "cute" or "cool" for being up on the latest "slang." 
Peters commented that whites are considered to have the "option" to speak standard English or ebonies, whereas when a black person speaks ebonies, it is assumed that he only knows ebonies. 
Others asked about how ebonies would actually be implemented in the school system and asked about the cultural sensitivity issues in general. 
"Language is one aspect of the whole issue," Peters said. The panelists agreed that it was important to teach multiculturalism in the schools. As for implementing ebonies, the panel explained that the teachers would be taught about ebonies so that they were more sensitive to the needs and backgrounds of the students they were teaching. 
One man questioned whether ebonies could really "bridge the gap" and whether black stu­dents "really care about speaking proper English." 
Lane replied that kids want to succeed and kids want to achieve and while they may not want to speak standard English, they do want to be a suc­cess, and if standard English is a part of that, they will care. 


FREE EXTRAS 54533 Terrace Ln. 
Extra Pizza Sauce • Parmesan Cheese Crust At S.R. 23 East of Ironwood Garlic Butter Crust 
-JustAsk­
243-1111 
CAMRUS SR,ICIAL LAIIGEDO LE 
+%£, ., p .. CHEESE & TWO TOPPIN (Original Crust, Pan Stvle or CrJIIIy-Thln) 
K(;·'·'·... •o.·.P•a·.· . 

FREE DEUVERY
Only 
ON CAMPUS 
No Coupon Necessruy. Not 
Valid With />lTf Other otter 
Delivery EJdra HNot On 
Campus limited Tme otter. 

Irish Gardens Is a student run business located In the basement ofLaFortune. 
Open from I2:3o-s:3oPM 
Monday through Saturday 
6)1--4004 
1111m1m Drl1r Fer Dllilll'l Dllilll'l Eltll Ott Camtu Not 11lld with any other oner Mil IIIII lllllll Otllr DHer 1.55 


~~---~-~--------~­
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
HPC approves contest Yakutia establishes preserve 


By SEAN SMITH 
News Writer 
In an effort to increase pizza sales during the upcoming months, Papa John's will be rewarding students for buying more food. 
Allison Patton of Papa John's spoke to the Hall President's Council last night and announced plans for a contest that would give incentives to stu­dents to buy more pizza from the store. 
"This is just to do something to get involved with the campus and to show how much we appreciate the students' busi­ness," Patton said. 
The contest is called "Who Loves Your Papa Most?" and will run from Feb. 14 through March 
31. The dorm which spends the most money per student in the six week time period will receive $500 and free pizza for a spring dance. 
In other HPC news: 
• 
The HPC budget committee met last week and voted on charity allocations. The commit­tee voted to donate $1,325 to both There are Children Here and Habitat for Humanity, and $700 to the Dismas House. 

• 
Dating Week on the Notre Dame campus will begin Feb. 17 and run through March 1. Students participating will be able to take advantage of dis­counted prices at restaurants and other locations throughout the South Bend area. 


By ALEXANDER HIGGINS 
Associated Press Writer 
GENEVA 
The vast Siberian republic of Yakutia is setting aside 270,000 square miles -twice the size of Japan-for nature reserves in hopes of saving the Siberian crane and other endangered species. 
Polar bears, walruses and reindeer will be among the wildlife protected in a system of national parks and other reserves stretching into the arc­tic. 
"Yakutia is a unique place, with a vulnerable Arctic ecosys­tem," Mikhail Nikolayev, presi­dent of the republic that makes up one-fifth of Russia, said at a news conference Tuesday. 
The campaign aims to correct "mistakes madt:l in previous years {that) have left us with a 

Illegals die crossing border 
By DANA CALVO 
Associated Press Writer 
CAMPO, Calif. Martin Facio can thank the 
U.S. government for reminding him of the proper way to dress when sneaking across the bor­der. 
Because of a U.S. border crackdown in the balmy San Diego area, illegal aliens have been trying to cross into the 

B ondie's Valentine Cookie Gifts... 
your Valentine a delicious gift from Blondie's today. 
Call ahead to guarantee that your order is ready when you want it. 
~ Woo-~~ 
Mail order available. 

University Park Mall 
277-7970 
VISA' 

AP/Carl Fox 

heritage of severe environmen­tal degradation," he said. 
Claude Martin, director-gen­eral of the World Wildlife Fund, said the area to be set aside makes up one-quarter of Yakutia, which is also known as the Sakha Republic. His group, based just outside Geneva in 
United States by trekking through the cold, windswept mountains to the east. As a result, at least 14 immigrants have died of exposure in the past month. 
To prevent more deaths, the 
U.S. and Mexican governments are broadcasting public service announcements warning illegal immigrants to stay away from the area. 
"Well, I'm not saying we should tell them how to get here, but sometimes we find them wearing trash bags they've found -like that's going to keep them warm and dry," said Ronny Kastner, a Border Patrol agent in Campo, where an average of 125 immi­grants are arrested each night. "This year we found them after it was too late, or we found people real cold." 
Facio, a 33-year-old auto repairman from Mexico City, heard radios crackling in Tijuana with helpful hints for would-be crossers. 
He and his nephews bought long underwear and flannel shirts and stayed in a Tijuana way station until the weather, which had been around the freezing mark, broke. As tem­peratures climbed to the mid­50s, Facio and his nephews set out on their journey, heading more than 50 miles east of Tijuana. 
"I heard the warnings, but I Gland, has donated $360,000 to help start the project. 
Vasily Alexeyev, the republic's environment minister, said the scattered reserves would allow residents to practice traditional hunting and fishing methods but ban industry and mining. 
By 2000, the republic intends to increase its national parks from three to 10, and add 50 resource reserves, 30 protected areas and 134 world heritage sites, Alexeyev said. 
The Sakha people regard the Siberian crane as sacred and hope that they will be able to preserve the species by protect­ing the summer breeding areas of some 700 birds, he said. 
However, the birds winte.r in China, and their nesting areas will be inundated by the the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River, the world's largest hydroelectric project. 
don't care," Facio said from behind bars recently. "In Mexico, there is no work." 
By the time Border Patrol agents caught them and put them in a detention cell just after nightfall on the same day they set out, the temperature had dipped to 38 degrees. 
In the next 24 hours, 126 other immigrants were detained by agents based at Campo, an enforcment area that encompasses an Indian reservation, the Cleveland National Forest and the site of most of the 14 deaths -the Laguna Mountains. 
Although the international border and the main highway are only two miles apart, impassable mountains turn the trip into a 22-hour marathon. And that's if the aliens don't stop to rest or eat. The average illegal immigrant logs three to four days between the border fence and downtown Campo. 
Several years ago, immi­grants sneaking into Southern California crossed over from the booming city of Tijuana into San Diego, where even winter temperatures overnight are in the mid-40s and 50s. 
It's a straight 20-minute sprint from the streets of Tijuana to the closest San Diego highway -so easy that some teenagers used to run back and forth between countries several times in one night just for kicks. 

---------------------~--------~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
Feature 
continued from page 1 

Rocio Sandoval, a senior; international business and eco­nomics major agrees. "We have an approach to the real world," said Sandoval. 
Shannon also believes that the senior comprehensive is an integral part of applying the knowledge gained in the class­room. 
The structure of the compre­hensive includes a three hour exam testing the individual's general competence in busi­ness. Following the prelimi-
Award 
continued from page 1 
father was a Swiss Calvinist pastor, and his mother was from the Burgundy region of Southeastern France, where the Taize community has its head­quarters. 
The community was founded in 1940, when the 25-year-old Brother Roger and three like­minded companions took up residence in a house in Taize, a nearly abandoned village, and began to live a simple commu­nal life. Convinced that this was an ecumenical vocation, he felt himself called to give a radical Christian witness "without becoming a symbol of denial for anyone, by reconciling the depths of my heart the current of my faith of the Catholic Church." Today he is prior of a community which includes nearly a hundred Anglicans, Lutherans, Evangelicals, and Catholics from more than twen­ty countries. 
The earliest ministry of the nary test is a two hour exam testing the individual's profi­ciency in her selected concen­tration. 
Shannon hopes that the stu­dents gain stronger analytical skills as a result of taking these tests, and believes that they benefit from the comprehensive because they are able to insure their future employers that "they are getting competent women." 
Courtney McEvers, a senior marketing major, agrees with Shannon. "The marketing com­prehensive brought it all together. It did sharpen my analytical skills which will be useful in the future." 
Taize community was hospital­ity, as Brother Roger and his friends offered shelter and con­cealment to European refugees of World War II, including many Jews fleeing Nazi persecution. Following the war, the growing Taize community sent several members into Eastern Europe to establish surreptitious prayer circles among young Catholics in Poland and young Protestants in East Germany. In 1949 sev­eral of the community's mem­bers formally committed them­selves to a rigorously monastic life of vowed celibacy and com­munal stability, and three years later, Brother Roger wrote a rule for the community. 
The life of the community cen­ters around prayer, work and hospitality. Its white-robed monks never preach to their guests, insisting that their role is to live together as a "parable of community." The liturgies at Taize combine elements of the Catholic, Orthodox, and Protestant traditions, and the community's meditative chants of scriptural verses, has become popular all over the world. 
• WEST BANI< 

Israel releases 31 prisoners 
By SAMAR ASSAD 
Associated Press Writer 

RAMALLAH Waving clenched fists and "V" for victory signs, 31 
Palestinian women pris­oners were freed from Israeli prisons Tuesday after the Supreme Court rejected a final peti­


tion to block Netanyahu their release. 

Hundreds of friends and fami­ly members mobbed the women as they arrived early Wednesday in the autonomous West Bank town of Ramallah, where they were greeted by 
Palestinian  leader  Yasser  
Arafat.  
''I'm proud  to  be  on  free  

Palestinian land!" shouted Abir Wehaibi, 27, as she climbed oil' a bus and was surrounded by ecstatic relatives. 
Wehaibi was convicted of heading a militant group that attacked Israeli soldiers and settlers. She served 4 1/2 years 
Valentine's For Your Love! 
5-Course Dinner • Champagne • Roses • Dancing 

Share aromantic and memorable Valentine's Day with your love. Enjoy a5-course dinner beginning with aglass of champagne and hors d'oeurve plate followed by soup, salad, and mixed grill of be~! tenderloin, rosemary 

rawns, and cbtcken &apple sausages. hocolate _Ob!ivion Torte _completes the meal just mtime for danctng. 
$70 
Limited Seating Per Couple (Plus tax & Gratuity) 
11wBLUE HERON 

(2 l!l)23:J-:JO!l I .\I llld< l,tltotll FAX(21 !l)23:J-02fl5 
of a life sentence. 
The release of the women ­several of whom were involved in deadly attacks on Israelis ­brought Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu severe criticism from hardliners, including his own supporters. 
Several dozen protesters car­rying signs reading "Freed to kill again" and "Kill Jews for peace" marched outside Netanyahu's oflice in Jerusalem during the day. Three of the demonstrators carried a coffin with a sign reading "Victims of peace." 
Arafat called the releases a good sign for peace with Israel. 
"No doubt this will help the relationship between the two peoples," he told reporters in Ram allah. 
The releases came after a year of delays and wrangling and a long day of waiting and confusion. 
Seven women had left the prison earlier Tuesday -but one was brought back by her jailers because of the Supreme Court petition and three others insisted on being returned to prison in solidarity with her. Finally, after 11 p.m., all the remaining prisoners, their hands bound with plastic euffs, climbed onto a bus to make the trip to freedom. 
The petition to bloek the release was filed by a group representing families of Israeli terror victims, which argued that some of the women were not on the original list autho­rized by the government. 
The eourt had thrown out another appeal by the group on Monday. 
Aisha Abu-I-Iazem, who served two years of a 12-year sentence for stabbing a police­man, expressed mixed feelings about her release. 

Marketing Club Meeting Tonight 
6:00 pm 217 DeBartolo 

Lots to discuss and do! Anyone welcome! 
Questions? 1-9330 
~OBSERV~~R 
is now accepting applications for the 
1997-98 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Brad Prendergast by Friday, Feb. 14 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
ST. MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, gen­erates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 

ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gener­ating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Air Force resumes flights 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The Air Force resumed train­ing flights over the East and Gulf coasts Tuesday after a four-day suspension that included a quick course in the dangers of shadowing airliners with sensitive collision avoid­ance systems. 
One of the things investigators discovered was that many com­mercia! planes' alerts can be triggered by fighter jets at dis­tances the military pilots may not be counting on, Pentagon spokesman Kenneth Bacon said. 
In two cases last week, colli­sion alarms sounded in airliners when jet fighters came too close, causing one airline pilot to maneuver so sharply that three people were thrown to the floor. In the other case the pilot went into a descent to avoid the military planes. In two other cases alarms did not sound. 
"The military needs to remind their pilots of the effect of close approaches to aircraft like that," said Tony Broderick, an industry consultant who for­merly headed the Federal Aviation Administration's regu­lation and certification office. 
Air Force Secretary Sheila Widnall, asked about the rash of incidents on a visit to Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico, said: "It may be that controllers are afraid to chal­lenge pilots who are too close to civilian aircraft." 
Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said the Air Force is redesigning its training to take into account the sensitivity of collision avoidance systems on civilian planes. 
Training in areas along the East and Gulf Coasts was sus­pended Friday for a review of safety procedures, but Air Force spokesman Capt. Leo Devine said many units have now resumed flying. 
Authorities insist that none of the planes was in danger. But the incidents raised concern about close calls in the sky ­particularly since all four cases involved F-16 fighter jets. 
The case causing most con­cern occurred last Wednesday when two Air National Guard fighters doing interception training off the coast of New Jersey discovered a Nations Air flight nearby and one fighter approached it. 
Like all airliners with 30 or more seats, the Nations Air Boeing 727 had a collision alert system. It went off and the pilot followed instructions to dive. 

Cold fails to cool Mardi Gras 
By MARY FOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW ORLEANS 

George Harris described his costume as fishnet, feathers and goose bumps -mostly goose bumps. 
"This is a Mardi Gras for the dedicated exhibitionist," Harris said as he shivered in Fat Tuesday's 38-degree sunshine. 
The weather kept crowds smaller than usual and coats outnumbered costumes, but the beer flowed freely and the parades rolled in full cry with masked riders raining beads and trinkets on the revelers in the street. 
The big street party, which ranges from family picnics to transvestite beauty pageants, picked up quickly as the sun­shine sent the temperatures into the 50s. 
"Being the center of attention warms you right up," said Kathy Broussard, 26, of Daytona Beach, Fla.. dressed as a harem girl with gauzy pants and plenty of flesh showing. 
Belly dancers mingled with popes on Bourbon Street. Four Elvises watched a dozen cock­roaches being chased by a giant can of bug spray. A bride with a beard posed for pictures next to a man wearing a leather G­string and jacket. 
Mardi Gras is the final blowout before the somber reli­gious season of Lent. Businesses and schools close, mail goes undelivered and streets are blocked off for what has been called the nation's biggest free party. 
"It's the day to eat everything you can, drink what you want and do what you shouldn't," said Madeline Newton, a 53­year-old New Orleans native. 
"It's the only chance you have to have beer for breakfast and live out a few fantasies," said Pat Clinton of Atlanta. 
She wore a short skirt, bulging top and feather boa ­and so did her husband, Tom. 

•INDIA 
Villagers stumble upon dinosaur eggs 


ByRAMOLA TALWAR 
Associated Press W rirer 
PIS DURA 

Indian villagers thought they were stumbling over rocks as they plowed their wheat and cotton fields ­but scientists were thrilled to find fossilized dinosaur eggs. 
Villagers had been finding the oval-shaped eggs -six inches long and three inches wide -over the past sever­al years in Pisdura, 440 miles northeast of Bombay, but researchers were only recently alerted. 
"The villagers did not know the importance of the fossils," said Dr. Gyani Badam, a paleontologist from nearby Deccan College. 
Villagers also found fos­silized bones and droppings in their green and yellow fields. In all, more than 300 dinosaur eggs in clusters of four to 10 were unearthed. 
"What is it to me? These are just like stones. People come in cars to take them away. They look like animal bones, but it had to be a very big animal," said farmer Kisna Dadmal. 
Badam said the dinosaurs who laid the eggs lived 65 million years ago during the Cretaceous period, when such creatures were dying out. Studying such late-peri­od remains could provide 
AP/Amy Kranz 
clues about what led to the end of the dinosaurs. 
The dinosaur embryos in the eggs could have been suffocated in volcanic erup­tions. It will be six months before samples sent last week to laboratories for bio­chemical analysis will pro­vide details about the dinosaurs' size, eating habits and the environment in which they lived. 
Studies of surrounding rock and plant fossils have shown that the four-legged, long-necked vegetarian dinosaurs fed on conifers and tree ferns on the Indian peninsula. 
Scientists were called in to study the fossils by Vikas Amte, a doctor and environ­mentalist who supervises a self-help handicraft project for lepers and handicapped people near Pisdura. 



We have hundreds of CD titles priced from $5.99
$13.99 CD 

to $9.99 each. Check out 


our selection filled with great artists and some of their finest work. 

$13.99 CD 
SALE PRICES IN THIS AD END ON FEBRUARY 28, 1997 

On The Campus 11 I
The Hammes I11 
phone:631-6316 
Notre Dame Bookstore  this week's store hours  Monday-Saturday: 9 am-5 pm Sunday: 9 am -3 pm  

-~---~-....,.----·~~--~---~ ~ --~-~--~ ~~ 
page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
Cutting deficit heads Jury renders FBI agent sane 
Associated Press wove a complex plan last June had nothing to do with her
Congressional agenda 
to kill his wife, Marguerite, col­divorce. They met in 1992 while MANASSAS, Va. lect nearly $1 million in insur­Ms. Cornwell was going through 
By ALAN FRAM lingering disputes over the bal­A jury on Tuesday convicted a ance money and get custody of FBI training to research her Associated Press Writer anced-budget constitutional former FBI agent of trying to kill the couple's two daughters best-selling series about a amendment and revamping his wife, rejecting his claim that They said Bennett took his sleuthing coroner. WASHINGTON campaign finance laws. 
her lesbian affair broke up his wife's minister hostage and used His lawyers argued that 
In a display of bipartisan The campaign-financing 

marriage and drove him tem­the clergyman to lure Mrs. Bennett had been losing his 
issue is notably absent from

unity, President Clinton and porarily insane. Bennett to a church where he grasp on sanity for years -and congressional leaders agreed the parties' mutually agreed Eugene Bennett, who pleaded threatened to blow her and the was being tormented by a Tuesday to focus the new priorities; Republicans, who innocent by reason of insanity, clergyman up. malevolent alter ego named Ed 
Congress on 
control both houses of was found guilty of attempted Mrs. Bennett, also a former -when his wife's affair pushed balancing the Congress, are divided on a murder, abduction and seven FBI agent, foiled the plan when him over the edge. 
budget and solution. Also missing from the other charges. The jury recom­
she squirted her husband with Mrs. Bennett said she was five other agenda are expanding chil­mended a 61-year sentence. His pepper spray and fired a gun at relieved by the verdict. ''I've got 
issues rang­dren's health-care coverage, a lawyer said an appeal was like­
him. The "bombs" he wrapped to move on with my life. I do feel ing from cut­Democratic priority; and an ly. "I can't say I'm completely on the minister's body turned there is a future now," she said. ting taxes to overhaul of toxic-waste surprised," said attorney Reid out to be Play-Doh. Bennett's other convictions solving the cleanup laws, with Democrats 
Weingarten. "There was a lot of Mrs. Bennett testified that she include possession of explosives 
capital city's objecting to GOP efforts to 
evidence and most of it was and crime novelist Patricia with the intent to make a bomb,myriad prob-Clinton ease some penalties for corpo­bizarre." Cornwell had "two intimate con­threatening to bomb a church !ems. rations. Prosecutors said Bennett, 42, tacts" but said the relationship and possession of explosives. 
From the Even the issues on the bipar­agenda it produced to its very tisan agenda are rife with dif­location in the Victorian-style ferences. Both sides agree the President's Room in the budget must be balanced by Capitol, the closed-door meet­2002 but champion different ing was designed to signal vot­mixes of savings. Clinton ers that both sides want a year wants narrower tax cuts than of compromise with minimal Republicans and more money partisan sniping. It was also for education and welfare aimed at persuading the par­clients, too. ticipants that they can trust Conceding this, Senate each other and at finding ways Majority Whip Don Nickles, R­to quickly yield legislative Okla., said that even for the accomplishments. five agenda items, the two 
"We're trying to find a way sides may have to settle for to take the minimum number examining "some things we of pot shots at each other and have in common we might be get on with our work," Senate able to break out and pass." Majority Leader Trent Lott, R­The two sides set no dead­Miss., told reporters after the lines. "The timetable is as meeting, which lasted just over swiftly as possible on all these an hour. "And that's not issues," Gore said. always easy. I think it's a In a signal of possible prob­learned trait, and we're trying lems ahead, though, some to learn how to do that." members of the two parties 
Vice President Al Gore called seemed to emerge with some the session "an excellent different interpretations of start" and said both parties what they had agreed to. want to prevent disagreements Speaking on condition of "from generating the kind of anonymity, some GOP partici­tension that would slow down pants said Clinton asked both progress in the areas where sides to refrain from mislead­we know we can eventually ing attacks on each other as find agreement." they struggle to work out their 
The agenda will include differences. Democrats, how­improving schools, combatting ever, said there was no such juvenile crime and finding discussion. ways to help welfare recipients And on the upcoming bal­find jobs. Participants said anced-budget effort -the working groups of lawmakers year's top-tier issue -Lott and administration officials and House Speaker Newt would be established for each Gingrich, R-Ga., said Congress area in hopes of reaching early would work off a "base docu­agreements. ment" that both sides would 
The meeting was opened be able to amend. with a prayer by Senate Some Republicans, speaking Chaplain Lloyd Ogilvie, who on condition of anonymity, asked for divine guidance of said that the document would the leaders, participants said. be Clinton's fiscal 1998 bud­
The backdrop for the meet­get, which he produced last ing: A 1996 election campaign week. in which still-bitter Republicans said Clinton unfairly accused them of seek­ing to ravage Medicare; GOP plans to investigate Democratic fund raising; and 


Come see the Campus Entertainer of the Year... 
Tom DeLuca 
America's most talented, not to mention best looking, hypnotist!!! 
Tuesday, Feb. I 8 and Wednesday, Feb. 19th 
at 8:00p.m. 

Library Auditorium Tickets on sale for $3 at the LaFortune Info Desk 
Brought to you by Student Activities 


--~------------------~~--~----~-~-~-----~-~~·-~-----­
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Astronauts repair Hubble Studies connect body 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Aerospace Writer 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

Space shuttle Discovery and its mechanic-astronauts chased after the Hubble Space Telescope on Tuesday for a service call that took on new urgency with the failure of one of its components. 
A science instrument aboard Hubble conked out last Friday. The seven astronauts are bringing its replacement, a top-of-the-line spectrograph that they will install this Friday. 
"This is an example, you could say, of just in time," NASA payload manager Kenneth Ledbetter said after Discovery's spectacular liftoff in the dark early Tuesday. 
Once Discovery was on its way, ground controllers pivot­ed Hubble into a safe position for Thursday's rendezvous and began shutting down the tele­scope. one component after another. Within six hours, Discovery had narrowed the gap from 7,500 miles at the start of the chase to 5,200. 
This will be the second Hubble visit by spacewalking 

Near·infr~rrd camen 1nd multi-objed spectrometer (NICIIOSJQ 
EqJIOOs~~~tllrll!d~ 
Replaces alens !1\al prevents lhe Ht.We from seeing through dusty clouds. 
astronauts in three years. 
The astronauts' No. 1 priori­ty, during the first of four spacewalks on consecutive days, will be to install the new $125 million imaging spectro­graph and a $105 million near­infrared camera. Scientists 

"clock" to emotions 
hope to peer back even farther in time and space with these instruments, which will bring the 1970s-era Hubble up to date. 
"With a little luck in a couple weeks, the best telescope in the universe will be even bet­ter than it is now," shuttle commander Kenneth Bowersox said. 
The $2 billion telescope ­considered the world's premier optical. observatory -was launched from the same shut­tle in 1990. 
In 1993, a repair team had to fix Hubble's blurred vision ­the result of a flawed mirror ­and replace its shaky solar panels, broken gyroscopes and failed computer memory boards. 
This crew will install 11 major components. Among the upgrades: new data recorders, pointing-system devices and a computer "switchboard." 

By BRENDA C. COLEMAN 
AP Medical Writer 
CHICAGO 

Changing the timing of when you are awake and when you sleep can profoundly affect your mood, according to scientists who have for the first time linked mood changes to the pre­dictable and enduring internal rhythms of the human body. 
Two studies released Tuesday explore the complex relation­ships between daily biological rhythms, sleep choices and whether people feel cheerful or blue. 
The studies suggest, for example, that even if a person has gotten enough sleep, he is likely to be irritable or blue if his waking hours center on a time when his biological clock tells him he "should" be asleep. 
Conversely, even if a person stays awake 36 hours straight and is seriously sleep-deprived, 
he may say he feels terrific if you ask him about his mood at
FBI interferes in cyber affair 
By JEFFREY GOLD 
Associated Press Writer 
NEWARK, N.J. 

FBI agents arrested a 400­pound man Tuesday after he allegedly enticed a 13-year-old girl to mail him homemade pornographic videos of herself. 
Paul Brown Jr., 47, was arrested in Cleveland on a sin­gle charge of coercing a minor to engage in sexually explicit acts for the purpose of produc­ing a picture. 
The girl was 12 when Brown first made contact, posing as a 15-year-old pen pal and exchanging e-mail on the Prodigy online service in the spring of 1995, federal officials said. 
Last summer. he sent her instructions on sex acts he 
wanted her to perform in front of a camera, and the girl com­plied beginning in November, sending him four tapes that depicted "lascivious exhibition," they said. 
The girl's mother alerted authorities last month after dis­covering a pair of men's under­wear -size 48 -in her daugh­ter's room in their New Jersey home. It wasn't clear how the underwear got there. 
Federal agents tracked Brown down using telephone bills from the girl's home and searched this apartment in the basement of his ex-wife's house in Cleveland. There, they uncov­ered correspondence with more than 10 other girls, ages 14 to 16, from Los Gatos, Calif.; Jacksonville, Fla.; and Saginaw, Mich.; according to court papers. 
A federal magistrate ordered him held until a Friday bail hearing. Brown waived extradi­tion to New Jersey. Agents needed a van to transport Brown because of his weight, FBI officials said. 
Court papers, identifying the girl, now 14, only by her initials, gave this account: 
Brown responded in spring 1995 to the girl's ad asking for a computer pen pal, identifying himself as a 15-year-old boy who lived with his mother. 
They began exchanging e­mail, speaking on the telephone, and writing to each other. 
Brown told her he loved her in an Aug. 2, 1995, letter and also asked for photographs of her. "Some sexy if possible. Please. Baby, for me." 
are so widespread in humankind and so debilitating to so many people, and lead to self-medication with alcohol and so many other problems, being able to identify the funda­mental processes in every human that may go awry in producing them is hugely important," Dinges said. 
The studies, conducted inde­pendently in Boston and in Manchester, England, are described in a report in the February issue of the Archives of General Psychiatry, released Tuesday by the· American Medical Association. 
A total of 24 healthy young volunteers were confined to laboratories and regimented to artificially long sleep-wake cycles -30 hours or 28 hours instead of the usual 24 hours ­for about a month. 
The subjects experienced highs and lows in mood corre­sponding to a combined effect of two things: the amount of time a subject had been awake and the subject's body tempera­ture, which is usually lowest in the early morning of a 24-hour sleep-wake cycle. 
"This is very exciting, because it leads us to believe that similar mechanisms could be involved in depression," said Dr. Diane B. Boivin, who led the Boston research at Harvard­affiliated Brigham and Women's Hospital. 
Dr. Thomas Wehr, chief of the Psychobiology Branch at the National Institute of Mental Health, said he is preparing to use the "ingenious" design of the studies to explore whether altering sleep patterns can combat manic depression, which afflicts about 1 percent of the population. 
Manic depression and major depression, which afflicts 8 per­cent to 10 percent of the popu­lation, are often typified by worse moods in the morning and steadily improving moods throughout the day, said Wehr, who was not involved in the new studies. 

an hour when his biological clock tells him he is supposed to be awake, findings suggest. 
The studies show that "some hours of the day, we're happier than others, and it's occurring inside us, not just in reaction to the world around us," said psy­chologist David Dinges of the University of Pennsylvania. He called the work a "tour 'de force." 
The findings will pave the way for research that one day could help millions of depressed people live happier lives and aid people whose sleep patterns are disrupted by shift work or trav­el, said Dinges, chief of sleep and chronobiology in the psy­chiatry department. 
"We don't really understand whether (sleep) disturbances ... are leading to some of the mood disturbances associated with night shift work or chronic exposure to time zone 
changes," he said. 
But since depression, anxiety 
disorders and manic-depression 
Trouble with your 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents
FAFSA or Profile? 

1\ SCIIUBERT CELEBRr\TION 
with Guest Artists 

Si\~TFOIIU S\'1,\i\N & D1\VID BIIEIDIAN 

baritone pianist
WE CAN HELP! 
Selected Songs 
Mon., Feb. 10, 8:00p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium

Joe Russo, Director of Financial 
Winterreise
Aid, vvill be discussing these 
Wed., Feb. 12, 8:00 p.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium
forms and ansvvering your 

For une concert -$5 General Admission; $2 Students/Seniors For both concerts -$8 General Admission; $3 Students/Seniors Tickets available at the door or in advance b callin 631-620 I. 
questions 


Diamond Price Quotations
Monday,February 1 7 
219 I 246-1939 
8 p.m. Dooley Room 

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely, with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, and clear advice about how to select an affordable diamond. 
I st Floor of LaFortune 


The D~~~~9M!~!lhoricy®
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AID 

.......------------------~-----------~--~------~---~--~------------~ ------~ ·-~-~­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Business Manager 
Patricia Carson Matt Casey 

Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the iifdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent [he opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• fR!VOLATA 
Valentine's Day festivities not meant for all 
Since this is my last column before Valentines' Day, I feel compelled to devote it to the wonder of love and the joy of having found that special some­one ... Oh, I'm not fooling you guys at all, am I? You've guessed that this is a crock o' crud. But what you might NOT have guessed is that, while I don't revel in· this holiday, neither am I one of those lonely hearts who boycotts the day, act-
Kirsten Dunne 

ing as if she's mourning the death of a family member and wearing an expres­sion of hopelessness and despair. I'm one of those rare people in dead center­when it comes to V-day, I really don't care either way. 
Nonetheless, it took me quite awhile to become indifferent to the day of sweet­hearts, and if my heart goes out to any­one around this time of the year, it is to those of you who are without a boyfriend or girlfriend and regretting it. I was once one of you, and I can recall how difficult it was to be dateless on Valentine's Day, or to be going out with one guy and wanting to be with another. I want to help those of you who are still suffering. I therefore sat down and con­templated the many things I like about being single, and have listed them here in the hopes that at least some of them will make you feel a little better as VD approaches. 
You can go to places you enjoy. "Opposites attract," some say. Whether this is true more often than it is false, I have no idea, but when you're dating someone who doesn't share your taste in recreational activities, you're headed for problems. I recall this guy Jay I dated as a college freshman. He had a gothic air to him, and I thought we'd be really compatible ... until we went out together for the first time. Before our date, I'd made a mental list of all the parties we may want to hit. It was Friday night, and I'd just assumed that this was what we'd be doing -my friends, at least, never did anything else and that was cool with me. Thus, when Jay came by and told me that he wanted to sit in his room and read poetry by candlelight, I was morti­fied. In an attempt to postpone such boring activity as long as possible, I urged him to go to at least one of the parties and see if he might find it fun. The guy was in my friends' Pangborn room for about five minutes before he informed me that he'd be waiting for me in the hall. Needless to say, we did not date again. 
The more tragic cases involve couples who remain together despite having two different ideas of fun. Case in point: last April, one of my friends broke up with her boyfriend of almost four years, and it was only then that I realized she still liked going to nightclubs. It tuned out that she spent every weekend in some yuppie meatmarket bar only because her ex liked those places. Although it probably wasn't the most consoling thing I could have said to my unhappily-single friend, I told her how absolutely ecstatic I was that they'd bro­ken up and that we could once again hang out at clubs together. And in case you're tempted to criticize me for my thoughtlessness, you might note that it didn't take long at all before she felt the same! 
You save money. Sweethearts are always buying each other cutesy little gifts for every imaginable occasion. Valentine's Day, birthdays and Christmas are the biggies, but there are also the anniversaries (which some overzealous couples celebrate monthly or even weekly, instead of yearly) and the countless gifts which are given "just to say I love you." These things add up! Of course, you ARE getting something in return for your money, but the money itself is ten times more practical for those of us who have bills to worry about. And if your luck with gifts is any­thing like mine, lot me tell you -the money is FAR better. 

You more easily stay fit and attractive. It's been said that couples who have been together awhile and who have a sturdy relationship tend to grow lax about their appearances. In my experi­ence, this is true. I hate to be cruel, but it's the cold, hard truth: with few excep­tions, my friends who are married or in long-term relationships seem to get larger by the day. They don't care what they wear anymore or whether their hair looks fashionable, and gradually develop an overall appearance. You might respond that some people stay in shape for themselves, not their mates. I agree, but the fact of the matter is that even those with this attitude are prone to become increasingly unattractive after spending considerable time with the same significant other. More of your time is occupied idly, simply spending "quality time" together. If you are a woman and your relationship produces children, your body becomes perma­nently altered by pregnancy and child­birth. Call me vain, but I think there's much to be said for good looks, and they are a whole lot easier to retain without a significant other. 
You can flirt. The person who made up the maxim about opposites attracting is probably tho same one who said that "just because you've already ordered doesn't mean you can't look on the menu." Theoretically, this is true, but when put to the rest of everyday life, it just doesn't hold water. You CAN look at the menu, but only when your guy or gal isn't around... which becomes increas­ingly less frequent as a relationship intensifies. Let's face it -most people just do not understand when their sig­nificant other comments on the beauty or desirability of someone besides them­selves. And really, why should they? If you're involved in a relationship, it's not really the right thing to do. However, if you are a living, breathing human being, it IS the natural thing to do, and if you're not weighted down with a signifi­cant other, you can follow your instincts without fear of reproof. 
You are free. Considering as a whole all of the above points, as well as the countless other this that make single life a positive experience, what they really all boil down to is that you can pretty much do as you please. When two peo­ple unite, they essentially become one person, which means that each one loses a lot of his or her autonomy. This is perhaps best exemplified by a short, but powerful, Olive Schreiner excerpt: "In her sleep she dreamt life stood before her, and held in each hand a gift -in the one hand love, and in the other freedom. And life said to the woman, "Choose." And the woman waited long and said, "Freedom." 
Olive was right on when she recog­nized that one must choose between love and freedom. What I question, though, is the representation of both options as "gifts." After all, what kind of "gift" are you getting when you bargain away your liberty? And if you choose against freedom, aren't you essentially choosing restraint ... subjugation ... enslavement? (Now there's some fat to chew on, huh?!) 
Now, I feel the need to address the happy couples who may be reading this and wondering what kind of vindictive loon would spread such propaganda. I'm not out for revenge, guys. I'll readily admit that, if the perfect man were to come along, I'd gladly sacrifice my free­doms and give love a chance. But I'm just being honest, and seeing as though I haven't had any date offers from Dennis Rodman as of yet, I'll choose liberty over love any day! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo. Ltd. in Chicago. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 

• DooNESBUlW GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 



VIEWPOINT 
page 11 

• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Gender issues crucial 
all God vidual prays to th~ Chris Allah, Buddha or the Supreme by other names. we still have ¢om~ mon ground· on which to stand. We share dorms. classrooms, and Ian~ guage. Whatever the color of our skin. we are past of "God, Earth, Notre Dame.'' 
There can be another dimension to this motto, however. As we are part of God and part of Notre Dame ·· · 
having r¢spopsibilities Jo bo~h · we are part of the Earth.a.nd responsibilities on thatleveL 
>cau~!~SJOI>tfl.ose 
· · ····· 
people callit "stewardship," vv•~ ...,.. · means to tend well what we have our disposal. Much inthe same Way we would not destroy an expensive textbook, so we are required to pre" serve this Earth in which we live. 
Such efforts can he as simple as not flicking a cigarette butt on the ground 

• WHERE I'M CALLING fROM 
Dear Editor: 

I wasted 27 dollars on Tom Clancy's Executive Orders yesterday. My dad reads his books and I figured he'd love a copy signed by the big man himself. Unfortunately Clancy, who is paid by the Sophomore Literary FestivaVNotre Dame, refused to sign a member of the audi­ence's book, explaining that his hand was too tired from the three hours he spent book-signing at his last lecture. In retro­spect how do I feel about this? Three words: No big loss. 
I have never sat through a talk so overtly offensive. In the hour or so I was there he referred to someone as a "WOP," he referred to the general public as "you know, that scum out on the street," and kept his inappropriate ball rolling by making hackneyed accusations toward Democrats and lawyers. Meanwhile, I sat and wondered, what is funny about this? But I thought I would stick it out -out of respect for the speaker and the SLF. When Tom Clancy commented on the law enabling women the right to vote with something like, "What good did that do us," I realized how the respect was in no way recipro­cated, and I walked out of Stepan. I was disgusted and frustrated by a man who abused an opportunity to instruct and encourage young writers and loyal fans by making what I assume was supposed to be a joke out of women. 
Enraged by the partial acceptance of the audience (displayed by their laughter) I was anxious to talk to my friends about the surprisingly outrageous and inappro­priate Tom Clancy. However, I was equally surprised by the response of my male friends -which is presumably shared by a large percentage of Notre Dame: "It was only a joke, you're being oversensitive." I also got the usual after­a-woman-says-one-word-in -defense -of­her-gender, "Are you one of those femi­nists?" The young men in the room pro­ceeded to devalue the issue with "Why don't you go cook us some dinner" cheap shots -I mean jokes. Truly, it was sex­ism in action and it just kept on coming. 
When I stood up to take off my jacket someone "joked," "Maka, are you going to strip for us?" A clever knee-slapper that was repeated. Or maybe if that's not gender harassment, how about when I asked for Tootsie Rolls and they were intentionally thrown at my chest for what was defended as "cleavage shots." Now for the reader that doesn't know me, I didn't exactly take the passive response, that is, I wasn't giggling and enjoying the attention. Actually, I was annoyed. Most of my friends are men and I'd like to believe that a common ground is under­stood between us, but for some reason the point isn't getting across. I've never considered myself a "feminist" but if they are the women who refuse to stand for the sexism pervading our society -and more poignantly, pervading our Notre Dame, I'm very appreciative of their effort. 
Tom Clancy, or any thinking individual, should recognize that gender equality is much too sensitive an issue to ridicule. Issues of equality, sexism, and gender harassment are not funny or insignifi­cant, and the audience and society have a responsibility to make sure that a per­son's rights are not devalued like they were in Clancy's speech. Back in Iowa, my family and high school had me fooled into thinking that women were finally breaking through the inadequate and unacceptable patriarchal society of yes­terday that endorsed unequal gender sta­tus. Then Tom Clancy and too many of the students at Notre Dame laughed, and I realized how far, as a society, we haven't come. For example, when a man demands respect from others, he is called a man, but when a woman expects the same respect, she is an oversensitive feminazi. 
Man is woman's equal. It is essential to realize that women are not asking for a favor here, we are simply demanding a natural right. Needless to say, I will be returning the book. 
MAKA PILCHER Junior, Off-campus 

Clancy's visit insightful into the true American Dream 
In a time in my life of choices, changes, careers, developments, and dilemmas, I feel like Robert Frost in that famous poem that all English majors worth their salt should know but at this point in time I can't seem to remember: I see myself at a fork in the road of life, look­ing down two paths. One, the path of the wallet. The other, the path of the heart. 

Thomas 
Coyne 
As we all know, we are supposed to take the latter, the road less travelled by, for that will make all the difference. 
But I am not living in a poem. Alas, I am living in the world of bills and bounced checks and deadlines and dis­eases. My path-less-travelled-by is the path of the writer, the road of the artist, a path laden not with gold but with ful­fillment; a hard, hungry road, but a road paved with my dreams. 
Last Friday night as I sat in Stepan Center for the opening evening of the Sophomore Literary Festival, I felt myself being pointed in the direction of that less travelled path. I listened to a popular, successful writer explain how he too had a dream, how he followed it and, over several years finally achieved it. 
And I was inspired. Not because Tom Clancy showed me the possibility, the potential, the promise of following the heart instead of the wallet, but because he showed me exactly how ugly and tragic it is when one confuses the two. I walked out of Stepan and into the cool air, my blood boiling, sardonic quips and sexist remarks ringing in my ears, and things became very clear. I now know what I want to be because the SLF showed me exactly what I don't want to be. 
As arrogant and obnoxious as Clancy was, he was frank and honest. To some extent I admire his guts (even though they may have been inspired by the liba­tions of Mishawaka Brew Co.) in that he was unapologetic about the type of writer he is. As he explained, he is an "entertainer," a businessman who believes the purpose of writing as to "sell so that you can buy things like the Baltimore Orioles," which he did (I'm going to go out on a limb and say he was the first part-baseball owner to read at the festival -I heard somewhere that Vonnegut might have had a piece of the Brewers, but that's speculation.) 
Clancy "doesn't write poetry because there's no money in it" ( a tough pill to swallow for all you lovers of Clancy's prolific and poignant prose) and does not support the National Endowment for the Arts as it is "welfare for snobs" because "artistic value is elitist." A writer slamming the NEA smacks of Hillary not voting for Bill. It is no won­der that much of the crowd left disap­pointed and disgusted before he was even finished. Yet he felt the need to remind us that he's "not the reincarna­tion of Shakespeare." Thanks. 
But my purpose here is not to slam poor Tom, although he made it so damn easy. As I sat there with pen in hand and watched journalistic gems fall from his mouth onto my paper, I couldn't believe how easy he was making it for me to portray him as a vile addition to the festival. Remarks like "Ghandi was an arrogant little bastard," "The poet did not establish freedom of the press, a soldier did," "Even Democrats can have a good idea once in a while, like in 1956...," "Senator Clancy has a nice ring to it, but it would be a pay cut," and his comment that giving women the right to vote was a "mistake" made him look like a reactionary buffoon, even to the most loyal Clancy lovers. 
Yet throughout his abrasive talk, I couldn't help but feel that he was entire­ly in control of exactly how much he was alienating the audience. He pulled strings and prodded soft spots to get reaction from the listeners as if he was entertaining himself by enraging us. As he stood on the stage, he was still very much the author, the writer of a book called Tom Clancy. And, like much of the audience that remained for the entire talk, I sat there and read the whole thing. We listened and we left exactly how I think he wanted us to ­we were disgusted and he was in con­trol. It was as if he was saying, put your literature in your pipe and smoke it -I am what people are reading, I am what is important. 

And he is exactly right. He is what peo­ple are reading. He is the only writer to require a change of venue for the SLF because of his popularity, and, on this campus, he is undoubtedly the most well-known name of this SLF's readers (with the exception of Jim McNamee, but that's only because he plays clarinet in Cod in Salsa.) 
As surprised as I was by what I heard, I didn't look at the man on the stage and blame him for my repugnance. I blame us, the audience, the people sitting there, listening attentively like Clancy disciples, waving copies of The Hunt For Red October and Patriot Games. as if they were Bibles. 
We have created the monster we lis­tened to -we have put him on a pedestal, we have bought the books, we have watched the movies. It's supply and demand -we demand mindless drivel from our writers, we put cliched stories of cliched characters written in flat fifth grade diction on the bestseller list. 
We ignore young artists and starving poets getting by on ten grand a year, writers struggling to contribute some­thing of intellectual import, of human value. Instead we reward writers drowning in money, writers of pop fic­tion who offer nothing to the reader save a cheap thrill and some unearned suspense. I think Mr. Clancy. He gives us exactly what we want, what we demand, what we'll pay for. 
I did appreciate a point in his talk when he alluded to going out and read­ing different sorts of writers to find what one enjoys. While it might cut into his revenue, it is exactly what we as readers should be doing. We should be pouring through the back racks in bookstores, not the bestseller shelves teeming with books Oprah Winfrey deemed worth­while. Consume books that will chal­lenge you, books you will learn from, books you might even be changed by. 
A good place to start is the list of au:thors that have previously read at the festival. Writers like Barth, Brautigan, Vonnegut, Ginsber, etc., have pushed the boundaries of language and repre­sentation and have reshaped what is lit­erature. They are part of the festival's legacy, part of its proud history, but a part Clancy would discount as "not good writing" because it is not readily acces­sible to the intellect of the "common man." 
Since when is art's worth judged by how well it panders to the limited understanding of the average, unchal­lenged mind? Is it not art's duty to broaden, to push, to challenge, to free the "common man" from being com­mon? And as far as extolling the virtues of the "common man" is concerned, it sounded a bit absurd coming from the mouth of a multi-millionaire baseball owner. 
Yet I am glad Tom Clancy read that evening, and I appreciate that he was part of the festival. His is the voice. of a writer that America has chosen to embrace -a voice rich in entertain­ment, but shallow in meaning; a voice almost unparalleled in popularity, but void of substance. And through our embracing it, it has become our voice, our culture. If we don't like the sound of that, we should be more careful in the bookstore. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. 

;ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Editor 
ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accent Editor 
and TOM ROLAND 
Managing Editor 

T
o describe Mardi Gras as the most entertaining event on the planet is an understatement. So is regarding it as the most decadent. But to those who have never Mardi-Gras'ed, the festival can be quite awe-inspiring if not frightening. Everyone has heard horror stories stemming from the carnival. Muggings, random acts of violence, even organ-napping (everyone has heard the story where some kid woke up in a telephone booth 15 miles outside New Orleans with a major pain in his back at which point he called 911, only to later dis­cover that he was drugged and his kidney was stolen ... and you thought hangovers the next morning were bad) frighten people away from this festival which encompasses a fortnight. But for those adventurous travelers that make the pilgrimage to the city of sin, Mardi Gras will be remembered as one of the great­est experiences of their lives. 
Thousands of people from every corner of the earth flock to New Orleans once a year for the biggest party in the nation. Some stay for just a few days while others make New Orleans their second home for a few weeks. Regardless of the dura­tion of their stay, all come to revel in what is one of the world's most prominent displays of insanity. There is no certain type of person who makes their way to the Carnival, everyone just wants to have fun. 
The French term "Mardi Gras" translates as Fat Tuesday, the last day before Lent begins on Ash Wednesday. Typically the final celebration before the solemnity of Lent, Fat Tuesday quickly expanded into weeks of preparation and celebration, including parades, formal balls, costumes and mass drunken­ness. 
Parades grace Canal and St. Charles streets, each organized by a different "krewe," such as Isis or Bacchus. Marching bands interspersed between floats keep the crowd moving, as if they needed to try. The floats ooze with lavish themes and designs, and a dozen fully costumed and masked residents throw beads of all shapes and colors at the screaming crowds. Diving to catch these tokens is a sport in itself, and a violent one at that. Toys and plastic cups also fly, as do doubloons, or metallic coins with the seal of that krewe. Girls quickly learn that they can catch twice as many beads if they sit on their boyfriend's shoulders, and some people even proffer 
nets. 

At the conclu­
sion of the 
parade, necks 
disappear 
beneath mounds of 
plastic beads, and the two or three hours spent waiting for the event to occur seem com­pletely worthwhile. These plastic beads represent a form of spending money for things other than the basic necessities, but the tradition stems from prominent and wholesome beginnings. The earliest form of carnival jewelry originated with the Rex organization. The ducal decoration was a pin worn by those in the party resem­bling a crest-like badge worn by European royalty. Originally the pins, manufactured differently each year, could be pinned onto someone who caught a member's eye. That person had the choice of wearing the pin for the remainder of the Carnival season. This tradition of fairly innocent foundations has taken on a much more fun, if not perverse role in the celebration of the festivities. 
And thus the true spirit of Mardi Gras ensues. 
Strangers rush the streets to show off their newly acquired treasures and trade them for crude tokens of affection while gathering in thousands 
amidst the infamous concrete jungle of the French Quarter. Mardi Gras now moves from wholesome fun to slightly(?) o!T-color. The main trading commodity? A drink ... a kiss ... a flash of flesh. 
The humorous thing about this tradition is that few people even question it. Women pull up their shirts without flinching, and some men have no problem with dropping their pants for some coveted beads. Ironically, the police watch for whatever bor­ders indecent exposure (some­times even taking pictures of the exposed partiers, presumably for their own personal collection), while both the former and present owner of the beads smile with the glee of accomplishment. The transfer then takes place and the parties move along to repeat the again ... again ...and again. 
Some "carnelevares" opt to participate high above the chaos below. They watch from the balconies of their homes, drinking establishments and hotels, and offer their beads or "goods" to those passing by. With this position comes more exposure in all aspects. 
While the legal drinking age may be 21, this law is nothing more than a formality in New Orleans. Alcohol can be pur­chased from any storefront lining the main thoroughfare of Canal Street by just about anyone. Probably even a baby. 
The police seem to have bigger problems to worry about, such as public urination or roughing up a fellow festival-goer. It is ultimately their job to control mayhem in a city that threatens to explode into riots. 
The French Quarter throbs with life, as beer, "hand grenades" and "hurricanes" flow from every doorway. As there is no open container laws in the state of Louisiana, the streets become flooded with the nectar of Bacchus, blurring the borders between bars. 
Pat O'Brien's, known for its outdoor courtyard and piano bar, is one of the larger and more frequented bars in New Orleans, with lines waiting over an hour to enter. Home of the 
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
est hurricanes in New Orleans, this establishment is a 
'te watering hole for any visitors from the Notre Dame mmunity. The Bulldog, another popular night spot, boasts over 50 
on tap as well as a full bar. This nostalgic bar is a popu­hangout for college students and older people alike. The use of Blues is yet another popular breeding ground for auchery, but don't be misled by the name, for they do not 
play blues music there, much to many visitors dismay. For those weary travelers who are looking for a bar that !Ters something perhaps a bit more visual (because they can't 
anyone to exchange beads with them), Bourbon Street !Ters a multitude of exotic dance clubs, ranging from the up­cale to the down right sleazy. Many of these establishments ave lines pouring out the doors and well down the street. 
Louisiana is also the home of two fine microbrewed beers. Abita and Blackened Voodoo appeal to even the most tedious beer entrepreneurs. Both are dark in tone and great in taste, offering an alternative to the typical beers and the mysterious hurricanes and hand 
grenades that plague every bar. Aside from the pure fun of Mardi Gras however, New Orleans is a 
playground in its own right. New Orleans is a very textually rich town. The architecture is quaint and sometimes classical. Art museums dot almost every corner of the city (The famous French impressionist Degas lived in New Orleans for awhile and visitors can visit his home). 
There are numerous casinos in the area. Baily's boasts "The loosest slots in the French Quarter." The residents are friendly (except for those vicious organ-nappers) despite their heavy creole accents, and trolleys trans­port tourists from one spot to another, as 

street musicians color the streets. And to nourish the overstimulated Mardi Gras­
goer is food, food, food. Cajun specialties such as crawfish (like a miniature lobster), gumbo (a reddish brown seafood stew) and jambalaya (a seafood and rice mixture) are on every menu from cheap, roadside stands to well-known restaurants like Galatoire's. Po-boy sandwiches are also a big hit. 
. Cafe Du Monde is another notable eating spot, open 24 hours and always packed. The menu contains two expertly prepared items: coffee and beignets. Beignets reside in the donut fami­ly, and seem perfect for any time of the day. Served hot and covered with powdered sugar, they are a delight regardless of the consumer's state of mind. 
For the less adventurous connoisseur, staples like Wendy's a?d McDonald's line Canal Street, as do various hotdog and pizza street vendors, that specialize not in food but in ripping off the customer oblivious to the questionable quality and quantity of the food. It is helpful to note that many of the fast food restaurants are open 24 hours a day, seven days a week during the festival, and this is enough to send any Mardi­Gras'er with the munchies to heaven. 
After all of this, anyone with money remaining can saunter 
ACCENT 

into Riverwalk, an outdoor shopping area on the river that boasts several restaurants and stores. The New Orleans Museum of Art, an aquarium and the Confederate Museum o!Ter additional attractions during non-parade hours. No one can complain that New Orleans is a city with nothing to do. 
Despite the 14 to 20 (depending on the size and make of your car/Winnebago) hour drive from South Bend to New Orleans, the road trip may actually be half of the fun or frustration of the experience. Driving through the south can prove interest­ing and enlightening. Tacky signs advertising the world 's largest tobacco outlet store or the world's best selection of fireworks plague the highways like gravy on biscuits. 
Fast food restaurants in Alabama served grits, and cars in Louisiana actually displayed David Duke bumper stickers. White Castles graced the way into Kentucky, and Mississippi state troopers drooled while waiting for speeding college stu­dents. Country music monopolized radio frequencies in Tennessee. Small diners boasting to be world renowned proved to be well below their billing, and gas stations adver­tised homemade boiled peanuts. Despite these factors, per­haps troubling to the student unfamiliar with the subculture of the south, the scenery was indeed beautiful and the residents hospitable. 
If this account proves enticing and you want to participate in the madness, start planning early. Depending upon the accommodations, plane and hotel reservations need to be made anywhere from months to almost a year in advance. Domestic airfare can reach a thousand dollars, and a regular double room can cost over $300 during the height of activity. 
Anyone sober enough to complain about the expenses of Mardi Gras though is somehow missing the spirit. Mardi Gras is a celebration of life, and for about a month, problems dis­solve as people from every walk of life come together as friends. Old and young alike chat and swap beads, and the mood is one of friends joining to basque in collective energy. 
So pack lots of jeans and some old shoes in your suitcase and bring a water bottle (a convenience for those who are hesitant to abuse the no open container rule), and make plans for next year's festival. Some memories may be a bit hazy, but you'll know it was a great time. 
Ashleigh Thompson, Tom Roland and Joey Crawford are all juniors from Notre Dame and would like to thank all those who made their first Mardi Gras experience memo­rable and sometimes not so memorable. 
page 13 
-.. 
-
-• 


---~-~---~-~--·-------~ 
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 

Alabama dominates in state rival Auburn 
By EDDIE PELLS of the season. 
Associated Press Writer After falling behind by 16 early, Auburn went on an 18-7 TUSCALOOSA, Ala. run to pull within 28-22 with Shalonda Enis scored a sea­seven minutes left in the first son-high 28 points Tuesday to half. But Yolanda Watkins re­lead No. 7 Alabama to a 89-57 sponded with five straight points win over Auburn, the Crimson to start a 15-2 Alabama run and Tide's biggest win ever over its the Tigers never got back into it. in-state rival. Watkins finished with 14 
Enis scored 15 points during a points and nine rebounds while 21-4 run to open the game for teammate Dominique Canty had Alabama (20-4, 8-2 14 points and seven boards for Southeastern Conference), Alabama. which reached the 20-win mark It was the third straight vic­for the sixth straight season. tory for the Tide, which had lost 
Laticia Morris scored 18 for two of three before the streak. Auburn (16-7, 4-5), which saw Since then, Alabama has won its its four-game winning streak three games by an average of halted and sustained its worst 40.7 points per game. loss since 1985-86, a 95-61 loss Laticia Williams had 14 points to Georgia. and Tiffany Krantz had 13 for 
Enis was pretty much unstop­the Tigers, who lost to Alabama pable in every phase of her for the third straight time and game, going 9-for-10 from the allowed the most points since field, 3-for-3 from 3-point range the 1986 loss to Georgia. and 7 -for-8 from the foul line. Auburn's previous worst loss She also had 11 rebounds to to Alabama was a 19-point set­record her eighth double-double back in 1979. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 'charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BODYTALK  MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS!  Sarah jane  
~~N~O~T~I~CE~s=--__.1  IL~~;·~ FOUND I  ColorWorks is currently recruiting on campus for a limited nurnber of summer '97 management positions.  FOR SALE  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Come see Doug McKenna tonight  bizz buzz!! jaw  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  . .  Gain hands on experience in man­ Bed -Queensize orthopedic premi­ C.J.'s  SLAMMERS UNITE'!  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  aging a business in your hometown.  um mattress set. Never used still in  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%  POETRY SLAM, 9 pm at the  
Meals. Parites, & Taxes! Great  REWARD $$ REWARD $$  Opportunities available in SOUTH  package -cost 550 sacrifice 175.  Huddle during this Thursday's  
Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From  LOST -Antique silver earring on  BEND, ELKHART,  (219) 674-2352  SLF-Don't miss your last chance!  Acoustic Cafe. Wanna read your  
Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  Tuesday night between O'Shag and  FT.WAYNE, INDIANAPOLIS, and  Robert Greeley tonight at 8 pm at  poetry? Call SUB at 1-7757.  
springbreaktravel.com  stadium parking lot.  other areas. Summer earnings $7­ Wash.Hall. Donate a book and get  
It is round with an old fashioned  $9,000. To speak to a campus rep­ New Unopened External Zip  entered into a raffle to win an auto­ WILCO IS COMING!!!  
Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  screw back.  resentative call  graphed copy of one of Greeley's  You saw them in Rolling Stone,  
Room With Kitchen Near Bars  PLEASE call Kathleen 631-6479.  1-800-477-1001.  Drive-SCSI $175 OBO  works!  come see them at Notre Dame on  
$119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  REWARD $$ REWARD $$  Call Steve 280-8124  2/25! Tickets go on sale this Wed.  
Florida's New Hotspot -Cocoa  MATI,  at the La Fun info desk-only $1 o to  
Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ LOST: Wallet with identification  Attention Campus Bands!!  OJ HAS YOUR GLOVE.  see Chicago's hottest new band.  
el.com  and special key chain. Last seen  FEMALE AND MALE CAMP  P.A. equipment for sale. Great  MARK FUHRMAN  
1 -800-678-6386  under the passenger seat of RP's  COUNSELORS needed for out­ condition! Amps, 4 Speakers, mon­ Top 10 Injuries at Purdue  
car. If found, please call Juliet at  standing Maine camps! CAMP  itors, mics, pre-amp, etc. etc.  St Jude Novena  Gymnastics Meet  
SPRING BREAK  284-5459. Thank You.  VEGA for girls and CAMP CEDAR  If interested,  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus  1 O.Chris's finger.  
PANAMA CITY BEACH FLORIDA  for boys. Each located on rnagnifi­ call dave at 273-4318  be adored and glorified, loved  9. Cheryl's big band-aid on a tiny  
SANDPIPER-BEACON BEACH  LOST: CAMERA LEFT AT CAM­ cent lakefront setting with excep­ and preserved throughout the  scratch  
RESORT 3 POOLS, 1 INDOOR  PUS VIEW AT CASE RACE  tional facilities. Over 1 00 positions  '90 Camry 111 K miles  world, now and forever. Sacred  8. Jason on rings (only his pride)  
POOL, HUGE BEACHSIDE HOT  PARTY, CALL ERIK AT 243-9290  at each camp for heads and assis­ $3500 291-4114  Heart of Jesus pray for us. St. Jude,  7. Bob's vault  
TUB, SUITES UP TO 10 PEOPLE  AND DESCRIBE.  tants in tennis, basketball, baseball,  Worker of Miracles, pray for us. St.  6. Jill's beam  
TIKI BEACH BAR, HOME OF THE  volleyball, soccer, lacrosse, golf,  GENESIS w/ 2 6-button ctrlrs, 9  Jude, Help of the Hopeless, pray for  5. Trent's vault  
BIGGEST PARTY.  FOUND: HEMP NECKLACE WITH  field hockey, roller hockey, swim­ top games. $150. 1-4639.  us.  4. Bryce's dismounts 3, 4, 5, & 6  
FREE INFO 1-800-488-8828  TURTLE STONE BEHIND THE  ming, sailing, canoeing, scuba,  Say this prayer nine times a day. By  3. Chris's car  
WWW.SANDPIPERBEACON.COM  BOOKSTORE ON SATURDAY.  water-skiing, archery, weight train­ the eighth day your prayer will be  2. Scary Mary-I still have night­ 
THE COPY SHOP  CALL AMY 4-2880.  ing, athletic trainer, journalism, pho­tography, ceramics, crafts, drama,  PERSONAL  answered. Publication must be promised. It has never been known  mares. 1. Team unity-Pump 6! See you  
LaFortune Student Center  If anyone has found a computer  dance  to fail. Thank you, St Jude.  tomorrow.  
Phone 631-COPY  disc labeled "Sophomore Year" in  Uazz, tap, ballet), nature study,  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
Mon.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  the library computer lab please con­ backpacking, horseback riding,  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Stamper Bob  Fitz- 
Tues.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight  tact Beth at x1514. Thank you.  ropes course, trip leaders, mountain  Meals, Parties & Taxes! Great  at Bridgets  Don't forget Hot Lips Leslie on V  
- Wed.: 7:30a.m. -Midnight Thur.: 7:30a.m.-Midnight  LOST: Pioneer detachable face  biking, riflery, general (w/youngest campers). Also looking for secre­ Beaches & Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! 1-800-678-6386  TONIGHT  Day!  
Fri.: 7:30a.m.-7:00p.m.  for car CD player. was in a  taries, maintenance, kitchen. Camp  springbreaktravel.com  Top Ten Quotes from Mardi Gras  ###########################  
Sat.: Noon-6:00p.m.  black carrying case. if found,  dates approx. June 21-Aug 21. Top  with the Leprachaun  ATIENTION all LESBIAN, GAY,  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  please call4-2079 (ask for Lee)  salary, room, board, laundry, cloth­ Florida Spring Break! Panama City!  10. What does Gumbo taste like?  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  
Open Early, Late, & Weekends  reward  ing, and travel allowance. MEN­ Room With Kitchen Near Bars  Gumbo.  students, faculty and staff of Notre  
CAMP CEDAR for boys, 1758  $119! Daytona-Best Location $139!  9. Show me  Dame and Saint Mary's College.  
SPRING BREAK! MARCO ISLAND, FLORIDA AND  WANTED  Beacon Street, Brookling, MA 02146, ccedarme@ aol.com, 1-888­ Florida's New Hotspot-Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktrav­ 8. It's a good thing I brought band­aids.  There will be a support group meet­ing TOMORROW at 7:30. Please  
S. PADRE, TX BEACH FRONT  844-8080. WOMEN-CAMP VEGA,  el.com  7. One more day and we'd all be  call the Q-LINE at 236-9661 for the  
CONDOS SLEEPS 4 TO 8. FROM  SUMMER JOBS  PO Box 1771, Duxbury, MA 02332,  1-800-678-6386  dead.  location of the meeting.  
$695 WEEK. PRICES DISCOUNT­ ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  jobs@campvega.com, http://cam­ 6. Where's the LSU hat you got?  ###########################  
ED BY OWNER.  PRESTIGE CHIDREN'S CAMPS  pvega.com, 1-800-838-VEGA. WE  JAZZERCISE  don't really know.  
941-642-5483  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME  Very close to campus  5. And you are? I'm Chris Mullins.  I'm sure Tenille's fine. I've never  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  CAMPUS, Monday, March 3 in the  277-0111  4. Wait, you called security too.  met her and don't know what she  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  1-800-786-8373  LaFortune Student Center, Dooley  3. Make the pain go away.  looks like, but if she doesn't have  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  Room from 10AM to 4PM. NO  Electrolysis by Rebecca  2. This room smells like .  red hair, she's got nothing on  
GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Earn up  APPOINTMENT NECESSARY.  Blend Method 674-6933  1. If you're shaking you're alive and  Shannon.  
CALL 291-2540 FOR INFO.  to $3,000-$6,000+/mo. in fisheries,  if you're alive that's good.  
parks, resorts. Airfare!  FAX IT FAST!!!  "I love you, Holly. You belong to  
•••ACT NOW' LAST CHANCE TO CALL LEISURE TOURS AND GET  Food/Lodging! Get all the options. Call  FOR RENT  Sending & Receiving at  If we go in there I'll be asleep before we get the menus  me."  
FREE INFO FOR SPRING BREAK  (919)918-7767, ext.A154.  THE COPY SHOP  Christina- 
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE,  Homes for Rent for 97-98  LaFortune Student Center  Wait, where's the leprechaun  Did you get into London?  
CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI­ EASTERN EUROPE/ASIAN JOBS  ADT Security 232-2595  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Good thing. If not, you might have  
DA. 1-800-838-8203  Live in Prague, Budapest, Tokyo,  FAX IT FAST! I!  So would you consider people from  killed someone.  
etc. teaching simple conversational  AFFORDABLE 1 ,2, & 3 BDRM  ND close?  
COME IN AND PLACE A VALEN­ English. No languages/teaching  HOMES. AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ Happy Birthday Fatty D!!!!!  
TINE CLASSIFIED FOR YOUR  exp. required.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  production studio at $100 a day. I'll  
SWEETHEART OR YOUR  (919)918-7767, Ext. W154.  272-6551  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  Here's a few words from  Single red rose  
FRIENDS!!! DEADLINE IS 3 PM  Gavin .... zzzzz  
ON 2113.  HOUSE FOR RENT FOR 97-98  Is your band ready? Rent a full­ Macaire-You R-0-C-K,  
Looking for Sales Reps to sell  5 BDRMS; WSHR/DRYER; ALRM;  production studio at $100 a day. I'll  How did you lose your camera? I  Rock-n-Roll!!!!!  
Weight Loss System, Vitamins,  DISH WSHR; .4 ML FROM NO;  Learn To Fly Productions 237-9736  don't really remember.  
HEY, EVERYBODY!!! STOP BY  and/or Skin Care and Cosmetics.  CALL 232-0431  Welcome Parents of 5a!!!  
THE OBSERVER AND PLACE AN  Direct Sale. Part time/Full time.  You play Irish Music? Sesuns at  ADOPTION:  
AD TO YOUR VALENTINE!!!  Training. Call  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Battell Park Cafe in Mishawaka.  Corporate Executive & homemaker  2 in one night?!?!?  
(219)277-6021.  219-291-7153 FAX 1185  256-9041. Musicians welcome.  can offer newborn a wonderful life  
filled with warmth, security, endless  40 days might be easy, its the forty  
Campus View Apartments  AMY MARGARET CASSIDY  love, education & a bright future.  nights that is going to cost you your  
PACK O'LAUGHLIN THEATER.  Campus Manager: $1 ,500-$5K p/t  1&2 Bedroom Apts Avail '97-'98  TURNS 22 TODAY!  Confidential. Mark  $10.  
This Fri., Sat., and Sun.  f/t Student Advantages seeks indi­ Schoolyear  Buy her a Drink!  & Candace 1-888-811-1141  
We need YOUR help!  vidual to develop local area.  Summer Leases Available  Summer School rocks!! Only the  
Buy your tickets soon!!  Sales/mktg a plus. For more info go  Call272-1441  Marketing Club meeting­ coolest people who no one wanted  
For the SMC/ND dance workshop  to our web site at  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  TONIGHT!!  to hire get to go.  
production of  www.studentadvantage.com  POTATO HOUSE-8-BDRM-FOR  JEANNE MciNERNEY  217 DeBartolo-6pm  
"BODY TALK."  or call 800-333-2920  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 277-3097.  -?s 1-9330­ The library can be a lonely place  

Wednesday, February 12, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
1997 BLACK HISTORY MONTH CELEBRATION A EGE 
Tuesday, February 
4:00 p.m. Lecture 
7:00 p.m. Performance Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Ophelia Wellington -national Village giving a Dramatic Presentation 
Wednesday, February 19 7:00p.m. Little Theatre, Moreau Ha Play: "American Association of Opp by the Urban Arts Company. Inc 
Thursday, February 20 ­
7:00 p.m. Little Theatre, Moreau Hall "When We Get To Christana Creek" in four play depicts the days of the Under County located in Southwest Michigan. The play foe .... ~.:;·~ Vandalia, Michigan as they prepare for the arrival of run-away sla freedom by the aid of other freed African Americans and the ng in that area. 
Friday, February 28 
7:00 p.m. Carroll Auditorium Film: Spike Lee's "Get On The Bus" Sponsored by SAB 
Sponsoring Organizations: Office of Multicultural Affairs, Center for Academic Innovation and the Departments of English, History and Education. 
--~­
-------------~------­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
• BASEBAll 

Ceremony marks 50th anniversary of MLB integration 
-
By RONALD BLUM 
Associared Press Wrirer 
NEW YORK 
Jackie Robinson's daughter hopes President Clinton will at­tend the ceremonies marking 50th anniversary ceremony of her father's major league de­but, but a White House spokesman indicated it was unlikely . 
"Of course, it's important," Sharon Robinson said Tuesday. ''I'm sure there's no doubt in his mind that he wants to be there and will be there." 
Baseball officials have invit­ed Clinton to the ceremony on April 15 at Shea Stadium. where the Los Angeles Dodgers play the New York Mets. Clinton has not yet responded, according to Rich Levin. the 
• GOLF 
Woods favorite in upcoming tourney 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE 
Even as Tiger Woods pre­pared for the Australian Masters his mind wandered down the road to the Masters in April. 
"When you look at my physical aspects, I should always be a Woods favorite to win there, as should John Daly," Woods said Tuesday at Huntingdale Golf Club, site of this week's Australian Masters. "We both hit the ball long and we hit the ball very high." 
As long as Woods hits the ball he's likely the favorite in every tournament he plays. This week oddsmakers have Woods at 3-1 to win the Australian Masters, the low­est-priced favorite in the histo­ry ofthe event. 
Tournament organizers ex­pect galleries up to eight times as large as normal as interest in the 21-year-old sensation sweeps from Thailand. where he won by 10 strokes over the weekend, into Australia. 
Woods, coming off a hectic week in his mother's birth country, fought his way through swarming fans and a media onslaught as he began preparations for the Australian Masters. 
"After what I had to go through last week, I'm not sur· prised by anything." Woods said. "I can't describe it, it was very tough. Thailand was 10 times tougher than here, you cannot believe how it was." 
Woods said the level of attention he has received has caused him to fear for his safe­ty, and also his image. 
"The hardest thing is that people kind of mob you, and at times that can be pretty dan­gerous," he said. "People will have to learn that I can only be as obliging as they let me. 
Shrimp Feast
$5.99 
(Don\ let this one get away) 
l(.,n··:-o tlw rt•alh bi~r t·alt'IL l.muls nfour IH'\\. no-tail:-~ ,lll"ionp. dt•t•p-fri;·d I~ pt•rft•t·liun and >t'r"·d 1\ilh fn·ndo l'rit·:-.. onion rinf!,)O:. l'nlt• :-;ht\\ i.ltHI t'ol·ktuil l'OUilt't'. Thi-i l'.iJI'Iain'~ IHI'i.JI i~ <l\ailablt· ror -.limitt-d lilllf' 0111~ ..'itl n·~·l it in IHn\ HI a parti,·ipalin~ p,.•·kin:-. Famil~ Ht·:-.taurant. 
~........................... 
~1,,-,,llllll~luH··•u•·•n 
It""'""'·''·'"·'''''''' m,,, '·''' l••o.tlool!ll••llu,,. ,,.,1, "'l'·•r••··•t•·•IIIL:.. 
,.,••,,,..,,110 j. •i•l'l;j•,.,l.tu·llo•C.ult',<ffl· o.ol . 1 ,, 1.1' 

spokesman for acting commis­sioner Bud Selig. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Tuesday that Clinton had videotaped a message to be played at the ceremonies. usually an indica­tion Clinton won't be there in person. 
Baseball officials intend to announce their plans this month. Among them are patch­es that will be worn on players' uniforms this season to mark the breaking of the sport's color barrier by Robinson. 
Wheaties announced its own celebration Tuesday. releasing limited edition cereal boxes. 
"My father ate grits every morning of his life," Sharon Robinson said. "He was a dia­betic. He had a special diet." 
The Wheaties box has a pho­

Ixnay on the Eumb :..'e 
Toni Braxton 
Sec~·e't....> 

OVer 60,000 CDs Discounted EVery Day 
tograph of Robinson sliding into home plate. Honey Frosted Wheaties has Robinson throw­ing, while Crispy Wheaties n' Raisins shows Robinson field­ing. 
In conjunction with the an­nouncement, Wheaties gave $5,000 each to The Jackie Bobinson Foundation and to the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in Kansas City, Mo. 
No Doubt 
':'::..'agic King&vm 

The Offspring 


·'"' 

-----~--·-~-~---~-----~ ----------~-----~-~--~---­
Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• TENNIS 
Hingis closes on top ranking 
By SALVATORE ZANCA 
Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 

Riding a winning streak of three tournaments and un­beaten for the year, Martina Hingis came to Paris with something else on her mind apart from tennis. 
It wasn't art, and it wasn't food or fashion. 
"At indoor tournaments it is hard to find a horse," she said. "You have to go indoors and I don't like that too much." 
Since arriving in Paris, Hingis has met an Olympic gold medalist in show jumping, Pierre Durand, who is now president of the-French Equestrian Federation. 
The Swiss teenager told Durand of how she bought an­other horse back home and how she fell while riding just four days before winning the Australian Open. 
In that final, Hingis routed France's Mary Pierce 6-2, 6-2 to become No. 2 in the world, closing in on Steffi Graf. 
Hingis has a first-round bye before starting at this week's 
or the 1997-98 year. You may pick up Student Activities, 315 LaF 
Paris Women's Open. The ten­nis may be the easy part. Finding a chance to ride in Paris is another matter. 
Which means she must con­centrate on the tennis, and she has been doing well in that 
Named after Martina Navratilova, Hingis, at 16 years 4 months, became the youngest Australian Open champion and the youngest women's Grand Slam singles winner since Lottie Dod won Wimbledon in 1887 at the age of 15 years, 10 months. 
"I wasn't really expecting so much and then I became No. 2 and everything came very fast," Hingis said. "But I worked so much to become the best player in the world." 
"I've won a Grand Slam title and I've reached something in my life and especially my tennis career," Hingis said. "You just have to keep refining your game." 
She also won the Sydney and Tokyo tournaments and has not lost in 14 matches. ­
"Sometime when someone beats you, you have to know the reason why you lost and you have to improve it," Hingis said. "But there is no reason to think about it now. 
"Right now I am playing some very good tennis. I am in great shape. So it's normal I keep beating the other play­ers." 
Two years ago, Hingis played Graf in Paris. Graf won 6-2, 6­3, but it was closer than the score indicated. Hingis was just 14 then. 
"I learned a lot from that match. It was the first time I met Steffi," Hingis said. "I was very excited to play Steffi for the first time and No. 1. Now I am a different player. I am now No. 2 in the world and it's dif­ferent to go into a tournament when you are seeded No. 1." 
The last time they met was at the WT A championships in November, where Graf needed five sets to beat Hingis. And she looks to keep on getting better. 
"At my age you just always learn from one week to an­other," Hingis said. "It's no dif­ferent if you're No. 16 or No.2. You keep on wanting to get bet­ter and better." 
page 17 

Pierce moves on in Paris Women's Open 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

Mary Pierce won her first­round match at the Paris Women's Open Tuesday in sharp contrast to the way she went out of the tournament a year ago. 
Pierce defeated Sweden's Asa Carlsson 6-2, 6-3. Last year, playing with a bad back and not making an effort on many shots, Pierce lost a first-round match and was whistled and jeered off the court 
This year she is full of confi­dence after reaching the Australian Open final and climbing back to the No. 12 spot in the world rankings after 
•MlB 
Phillies decide not to pursue Tartabull 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla. 

The cost-conscious Philadelphia Phillies crossed Danny Tartabull off their wish list after the outfielder turned down the team's final offer of a $2 million, one-year contract with $300,000 in incentives. 
Tartabull, 34, made $5.3 million with the White Sox last season, the final year of a $25 million, five-year contract signed with the New York Yankees. He hit 27 home runs and drove in 101 runs for Chicago. 
"As far as I'm concerned, it's over with Tartabull," Phillies gen­eral manager Lee Thomas said. "I do riot have $5 million left in my budget." Tartabull's only other offer is $500,000 from the Cincinnati Reds, although that could rise with bonuses. 
..~Day-.
;;c r
,,/ 'ttl~
r:'· 

Roses -~29l'99 D . . ~·--:~livered Flower B~Kay$F $:to.9·e~~:~p -Delivered Flowering Phints ;.... $;L0.9~f-Delivered 
c•·. ""' 
We also have homemade chocolates, vases, balloons, cards ..~ ,;t~ngels 
MATER'·NO"WsK~I 'S 
Please Pre order to guarantee delivery! 272-0970 VISA . 
.. yHalfmile north ofN.D. at U.S. 31/Pendle Rd. Stop Light 
Is our student government really working for you? 
Presenting a panel discussion on the current system of student government and its possible reformation. 
Participants include: 
1 =--!..:_..!:!.!:~'-"'-'~~G~aeg_,_,li'-=o; Assistant Dean, Management, loe Cassidy; Director of Student Activities, Deborah Hellmuth; Co-chairperson of H.P.C. Mark Leen; Student Senate, Brendan Kelly; Chair of Student Government Reform Committee. 
Wednesday, February 12 7:30PM Keenan Hall basement 
Refreshments will be provided. 
Presented by the Keenan Hall Intellectual Life Committee. 


dropping to No. 22. 
The player she lost to at the Australian Open, Martina Hingis, is top-seeded in Paris and begins play on Wednesday against Silvia Farina of Italy. 
In her first round match, Farina beat Katarina Studenikova of Slovakia 6-3, 1­6, 6-3. 
In other matches in the $480,000 tournament, Kristie Boogert of the Netherlands ral­lied to beat Sandrine Testud of France 0-6, 6-1, 7-6 (7-2); fifth­seeded Irina Spirlea of Romania topped Yelena Likhovtseva of Russia 6-4, 7-5, and Adriana Gersi of Czech Republic defeated Germany's Andrea Glass 7-5, 6-0. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
• BASKETBALl 

Gophers haunted by past record at Mackey Arena 
the tight placement of the the crowd noise. sion in 1982. Of their last three bench area next to the court "When you go in there for wins at Mackey Arena, two makes it tough on the players. practice, when you bounce you have come in seasons in which 
''I'd say the benches are the hear like a metal kind of rico­they finished as conference hardest part of Mackey chet, and you kind of hear that champs. Arena," he said. "When you're in the voices when the crowd The Boilermakers also have on the bench you have to put really gets going," he said. won the last three Big Ten your feet up on the court to get The symbolism of a win at crowns, although they are a some leg room." Purdue would not be lost on young team this year and lost 
Thomas has lost at Mackey the Gophers. by 23 points at Williams Arena each of the last three years. He Minnesota's last victory there on Jan. 25. That snapped a said the metal-roofed arena came in the last season they string of seven straight wins has odd acoustics that enhance won the Big Ten, a 53-52 deci-over the Gophers. 
WE NEED A FEW GOOD PEOPLE 
KIDS CORPORATION, A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT OPERATES A VARIETY OF PROGRAMS FOR NEWARK CHILDREN, IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD PEOPLE TO JOIN ITS SUMMER STAFF. 
Kids Corporation operates Summer educational programs in Newark, New Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban education and the needs of young children. This is n.,pt a job, it is an experience. We work long hours to provide the kids with a sense of hope and opportunity. We need college students who are interested in working in the following programs: 
h:IDS SCHOOLS: Kids Schools operate for eight weeks each summer and provide children in Grades 1-5 with basic educational skills and a sense of community. All schools are located in Newark, N.J. 
h:IDS QMf: Children attending educational programs in Newark visit Kids Camp once a week. Over 6000 children come to the camp each summer. Kids Camp is located in Warren County near Blairstown N.J. 
All programs run from June 21 thru August 17, 1997. Students gross $125 per week, room and board, and three college 
credits in Urban Education from St. Vincent College. The work is hard and the hours long, but the kids are great. If you are interested in learning more about this opportunity see us at: 

TilE Cb:NTER FOR SOCIAL CONCER'\S TIHIRSDA \',FEBRUARY 13, 1997 FROI\1 6:00 TO 7:30 P.'\1. 
ATTENTION TO THOSE --­ATTENDING JPW!!! 
PLEASE NOTE THIS IMPORTANT JPW INFORMATION! 
1. 
If you have not registered for JPW, please go to the CCE Info Desk to do so ASAP! 

2. If you did not sign up for a table, please contact the JPW Office in order to do so. 

3. 
By next week you should receive a mailing containing ticket info and a JPW itinerary. 


4. Ticket Pick-Up will occur next Tuesday & Wednesday, 2/11 & 2/12, from 6-9pm near the LaFortune Info Desk. Tickets will be distributed for the Gala, Dinner, and Brunch only. 5. If you have other questions, please stop by the JPW Office (in the Reynolds Rm of LaFortune) from 7-1 Opm, Mon-Thurs, or call 1-6028. 
Thanks for all of your cooperation! The big weekend's almost here!!! 
ByRON LESKO Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 
Trevor Winter thinks it might be the cramped benches. John Thomas says it could be the acoustics. Clem Haskins says it's simply the coach and his players. 
There are a lot of ideas about why Minnesota has such an abysmal record at Purdue's Mackey Arena over the past 30 years. The Golden Gophers have won just three times in their last 29 visits there, including 14 straight losses. 
But there would be no better time to beat the Boilermakers on their home court than Wednesday night, when No. 3 Minnesota begins a two-game week that could put it on the verge of its first Big Ten title since 1982. 
The Gophers (20-2, 9-1 Big Ten) have a 1 1/2-game lead over Purdue in the conference to mean a guaranteed loss for Minnesota. 
Haskins is winless in 10 trips to West Lafayette, Ind., and never has come closer than six points to beating his close friend and former mentor Gene Keady there. 
"Gene Keady does a tremen­dous job year in and year out," Haskins said. "We have a lot of respect for them. They've won three Big Ten titles in a row and again they're in con­tention. We know we have to beat a team like Purdue, play really well against them and Iowa, to have a chance to win 
it... 
A fifth-year senior who never has been a starter, Winter has had a unique perspective on the Gophers' struggles at Mackey Arena. The 7-foot backup center theorized that 
standings. Iowa, which plays host to Minnesota on Saturday, is two games back in third place. 
"We definitely look at these two games as a huge turning point if we can win them 

"It would make things a lot 
easier. It would take a lot of Jt!t!!!~~~~~~~~~ the pressure off. It basically eliminates everybody else from the Big Ten race." 
To do that the Gophers will have to start by winning in an arena that has become a haunted house for them. A road trip to Purdue has come 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Soccer Officials-The Department of Re<.;Sports is seeking officials for spring soccer, including women's interhall. campus co-ree, and indoor soccer seasons, as well as the campus outdoor tournament. Officials are paid on a per game basis with a pay range of $8-10. If you are interested call the RecSports office at 1-6100. 

Hey Caffarone­

Are you 
\bringing out -the birthday suit tonight? 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE PRESENTS 
t 

--~---~ 

Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•NBA .. 
Gill helps snap Magic streak 
Iverson trash talk 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press Writer 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

Kendall Gill scored 28 points and the New Jersey Nets made eight free throws in the final 
1:11 to stop Orlando's season­high five-game winning streak with a 1 04-98 victory Tuesday night. 
Kerry Kittles had 25 points and Khalid Reeves made two clutch 3-pointers down the stretch to finish with 19 for the Nets, who began the game with Gill on the bench because he arrived late for practice Monday after missing the team flight. 
Rony Seikaly led the Magic with 23 points and 11 rebounds. Nick Anderson had 18 points, including a 3-pointer that trimmed New Jersey's lead to 101-98 with 19 seconds to go. 
Kittles then iced the win by making three of four free throws the rest of the way. The Nets shot 62 percent from the field (10-for-16) in the fourth quarter and were 1 0-of-13 from the foul line to win in Orlando for the first time since January, 1993. 
Penny Hardaway finished with 16 points from Orlando, while Horace Grant had 15 points and 14 rebounds. 
The Nets led 23-21 after one quarter and 48-44 at the half, getting 13 points from Kittles and closing the second period with a 15-6 spurt that Reeves triggered with one of his five 3­pointers. 
Gill, Kittles and Kevin Edwards, whose trey put the Nets up 6 7-66, were the only players to score for New Jersey in the third quarter. But their offense -Gill had 14 and Kittles 6 in the period -was enough to keep the Nets ahead. 
Reeves began New Jersey's final push, hitting 3-pointers on consecutive posessions to put the Nets ahead 92-86. Gill made his next two shots, then made two free throws after Grant's putback enabled Orlando to pull to 96-93. 
Notes: The Nets placed sec­ond-leading scorer Robert Pack 
(15.9 points) on the injured just with a bone bruise and sprained left ankle. Edwards, who under­went arthroscopic knee surgery last April and has missed 46 games this season, was activat­ed and played 19 minutes, scor­ing 12 points.... New Jersey's victory denied the Magic a sweep of the four-game season series.... Dennis Scott continued to struggle offensively for Orlando, shooting just 2-of-8 shots and scoring 5 points ... New Jersey's Jayson Williams, who had 21 points and 20 rebounds in his last game before the All-Star break, was scoreless until making a free throw with 25 seconds left. He was 0-for-8 from the field and grabbed seven rebounds. 


is not backed up 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 

Chris Mills and Tyrone Hill had 22 points and 10 rebounds 
apiece and Allan Iverson didn't quite back up his boast as the 
Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Philadelphia 76ers 105-94 Tuesday 
night. 
Iverson, who was booed by the Gund Arena crowd after he 
was named MVP of the rookie game on All-Star Saturday, said 
he would take out his revenge in this game. But he shot 5-for-22 
while scoring 21 points, and a few of his field goals came in the 
final two minutes when the game was already decided. 
Terrell Brandon was limited to 23 minutes due to foul trouble 
and shot 3-for-11 for 10 points in Cleveland's ninth straight vic­
tory over Philadelphia. Bob Sura had 14 off the bench while fill­
ing in for Brandon. 
Jerry Stackhouse and Rex Walters each had 16 for 
Philadelphia, which shot 39.5 percent. 
...

After missing his first shot of the fourth quarter, a driving 
layup, Iverson stood frowning at halfcourt with his hands 
clasped, as if in prayer. Fans had been booing the flamboyant 
rookie all night, and a few hecklers at courtside let him hear it. 
Though Iverson had 11 assists, many of those came late, too. 
Fans really got on him when he shot an airball on a 3-point 
attempt with 2:34 to play. He then hit a couple of jumpers and a 
driving layup to almost match his season average of 23 points. 
Iverson looked like he was going to take over early in the 
third. He drew Brandon's third and fourth fouls on successive 
super-quick baseline drives, sending the Cavs' point guard to the 
bench with Cleveland leading 57-51. 
New Bullet coach debuts with loss 
By DAVID GINSBURG Washington then went up 62­Associated Press Writer 59 before Chris Childs hit a 3­pointer, a 20-footer and a dri­LANDOVER, Md. ving layup to put the Knicks 
A new head coach couldn't ahead for good. prevent the Washington After Tracy Murray sank a Bullets from the same old 3-pointer for the Bullets, result against the New York Houston scored six straight Knicks, 
points to give New York a 72­whose 97-92 65 lead entering the fourth victory quarter. Tuesday Buck Williams and Ewing night ruined scored successive baskets to Bernie put the Knicks up 84-75 with Bickerstaff's 6:06 left. Washington closed to debut. 93-90 with 55 seconds to go, 
Patrick but a pair of baskets by Ewing Ewing and Ewing in the final 40 seconds iced it. John Starks Rod Strickland scored 21 for scored 18 points each for the the Bullets, Juwan Howard 19 Knicks, who swept the four­and Chris Webber had 17 game season series by beating points before leaving after a the Bullets for the 20th time in fourth -quarter collision near 21 games since Nov. 13, 1992. midcourt. Details of the injury 
Bickerstaff was named the were not immediately known. Bullets' new head coach Houston scored 17 and Monday, replacing the fired Charles Oakley 14 for New Jim Lynam. But Bickerstaff, York. who served as an assistant Strickland had 15 points and with Washington from 1973-Washington outrebounded the 85, couldn't prevent the Knicks 21-14 in taking a 54-52 Bullets from losing their fifth halftime time lead. straight and 11th in 14 games. Fueled by the emotion of 
Washington led throughout playing their first game under the first half but scored only Bickerstaff, the Bullets raced 11 points in the third quarter to a 10-0 lead as New York on 4-for-14 shooting from the missed its first six shots. It was field and a 2-for-8 effort at the 20-8 when Knicks coach Jeff line. Van Gundy pulled his entire 
New York took its first lead starting five, and the reserves on a jumper by Allan Houston helped bring New York to 32­early in the third period. 22 after the first quarter. 
S&lf!&'Hri'D& '1/fYUil!! 1Jr/L&'H71'1t& 1'1tJ 7"71& LJ41t9UJ49& fY1 LfJ1J&! ~ 
The Campus Trio: "Soledad" will be delivering vour singing Valentine on Feb. 13 and Feb. 14. 
.. , 
Reservations can be made from 4~m-10)m at Lafortune on Wednesday and Thursday.
•

For more information call 634-3031 or 284-5010. Price: $12 (includes aflower and card) 
"Sponsored by: LA ALIANZA n 
,.-------­~  
r I I I I  page 20 •NBA  The Observer • SPORTS • COLLEGE BASKETBAll  Wednesday, February 12, 1997  

I I I I I 
I Rodman restrains 
' 
I I 
I himself this time 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Dennis Rodman tripped over a cameraman again, but this time he got his kicks only by helping the Chicago Bulls beat the Charlotte Hornets 103-100 Tuesday night on Michael Jordan's 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
Jordan scored 43 points and Rodman, in his return from an 11­game NBA suspension

-. for kicking a 
'---"'"""'------"'-"'o....;::..JI..L......:"-"" cameraman, Rodman grabbed 14 rebounds as the Bulls won their 15th consecutive home game and ended Charlotte's four-game winning streak. Muggsy Bogues hit a 3­pointer with 9.5 seconds left to tie the score 100-100. The Bulls didn't call timeout and quickly got the ball upcourt to Jordan, who pulled up about three feet behind the top of the key and hit the shot over Dell Curry as the clock ticked to zero. Glen Rice, coming off his All­Star game MVP performance, scored 32 points. Curry added 20 and Anthony Mason 18. With 5:59 to play, Rodman fouled Mason and stumbled out of bounds -where he tripped over WGN-TV camera­man Tommy Skinner. Rodman smiled, patted Skinner playful­ly on the chest and apologized into the camera. "Are you happy David Stern?" Rodman said after the game. The cameraman Rodman kicked Jan. 15 in Minnesota, Eugene Amos, accepted a $200,000 out-of-court settle­ment from Rodman. "I wasn't thinking about any money," Skinner said. "I was just trying to brace myself." In addition to playing for charity -Rodman said he would donate his salary from his first 11 games back -he was playing in front of his father, Philander, for the first time. Rodman said he hadn't seen 
-t±t­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
his father in three decades and didn't want a relationship with him; it didn't appear that the two got together Tuesday. 
Philander Rodman was flown into Chicago from the Philippines by a tabloid televi­sion show in exchange for ex­clusive interviews, so he didn't talk to other reporters. He sat in the lower section behind the basket. 
Before the game, Dennis Rodman said he expected the fans to "boo the hell out of me." Instead, the league's leading rebounder was greet­ed with a loud ovation. 
It didn't take Rodman long to get into it with Mason, Charlotte's tough guy. The blond Rodman and Mason, who had his nickname "Mase" shaved into his hair, hooked arms and were called for a double foul 89 seconds into the game. 
Mason's short jumper over Rodman put Charlotte in front 23-22, but the Bulls scored the final six points of the first quarter. 
Midway through the second period, Rodman was left open from 17 feet by Vlade Divac. Instead of taking the shot, Rodman tried a pass that was stolen by Divac, who fed Curry for a 3-pointer. 
Mason beat the halftime buzzer with a layup over Jordan to cut the Bulls' lead to 55-53. Rice had 21 first-half points, Jordan 19. 
A layup by Divac put Charlotte up 69-67 with 5:47 left in the third quarter, but Jordan sparked a 15-3 surge with 9 points as the Bulls took their biggest lead, 82-72. 
During the run, Rodman thought he got fouled and was upset that Ted Bernhardt didn't make the call. Bernhardt was the referee that Rodman head-butted last season, drawing a six-game suspension. Bulls coach Phil Jackson, fearing another con­frontation, pulled Rodman out of the game. 
The Bulls led 92-83 until Charlotte scored eight straight points, capped by Mason's three-point play on the foul that sent Rodman into the cameraman, and the game remained close to the end. 
Alumnae Association 1997 Smnmer Service Projects 
The Alumnae Association's Caring Connection SIJmmer Service Project Program will take place during summer 19 9 7 in the following alumnae club cities: South Bend, 

... 
IN; St. Louis, MO; Washington, DC; and Columbus, OH.
•
Any currently enrolled Saint Mary's freshman, sophomore or junior is eligible to apply.
•
ASummer Service Project tuition-credit scholarship of $1,0 50 per site is awarded for six weeks of volunteer service. Non-funded projects may also be available.
•
TO APPLY: Pick up an application packet from the Alumnae Relations Office, 110 Le Mans Hall. For more information, call284-4 5 78. 
Application Deadline: February 24, 1997. 

Hoosiers win easily over Nittany Lions 
Lions have lost 

11 of last 12 games, 6 straight 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press Writer 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Charlie Miller made it easy for coach Bob Knight this time. 
Miller outscored Penn State by himself in the first half and finished with a season-high 22 points as Indiana beat the Nittany Lions 81-57 Tuesday night. 
Knight, who twice left the bench for a stroll in a courtside hallway and a seat in the bleachers during a sloppy, foul-plagued victory over Ohio State on Saturday, rarely strayed far from his seat this time. 
He didn't have to. 

The Hoosiers (19-8, 6-6 Big Ten) took control with a 14-0 run in the first five minutes, built their lead to 43-16 at halftime and were never seri­ously threatened. Penn State (8-13, 1-11) hit just three of its first 15 shots, didn't manage more than two unanswered points until three minutes into the second half and went on to its sixth straight loss, its 11th defeat in the past 12 games. 
Unlike Saturday, when 62 fouls were called and Indiana hit 43 of 52 free throws, the Hoosiers relied on their shoot­ing from the field to build their big lead. Indiana hit six of eight 3-pointers in the first half, including two by Miller, who had 17 points before the break. 
A.J. Guyton added 21 points for the Hoosiers, whose 19 vic­tories with six games to go al­ready match their regular-sea­son total for each of the past three years. 
The Nittany Lions were led by Pete Lisicky, who had 16 of his 18 points in the second half, and Jarrett Stephens with 13 points. 
Penn State's only leads were at 2-0 and 4-2 before a 3­pointer by 7-foot freshman Jason Collier started Indiana's big streak. After a basket by Penn State's David Macklin, Miller's first 3-pointer began a 16-4 run that put Indiana ahead 32-10. 
Miller's second 3-pointer just ahead of the halftime buzzer gave Indiana its 27 -point lead, a margin the Hoosiers matched twice more early in the second half before a brief Penn State rally. 
A 3-pointer by Lisicky with 
17:38 to go marked the first time the Nittany Lions scored more than two points without an intervening Indiana basket. Penn State, which shot only 29 percent in the opening period, matched its 16 first-half points within the first seven minutes of the second half and closed within 53-36, but that's as close as the Nittany Lions could come. 
A free throw by Guyton, an­other 3-pointer by Miller and two more baskets by Guyton pushed the lead back to 25 with under seven minutes remammg. The 24-point spread at the finish was Indiana's second-biggest win­ning margin of the season. 
Help Notre Dame eelebrate 25 years of eoedueation! Join the committee that's planning next month's cele­bration week (March 17-24) and Notre Dame's biggest survey ever! 
Contact Patrick Belton by Friday, February 14 at the Student Government office as we trace 25 years of women at Notre Dame 
UNIVERSIT'I' Of NOTRf. DAME STIJOfN1 GOYflNUONT 
Lavin 
Promoted 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Interim UCLA basketball coach Steve Lavin was pro­moted to permanent head coach today and will receive a four-year contract. 
Lavin, 32, was an assistant for five seasons before being appointed interim coach when Jim Barrick was fired Nov. 6. 
The Bruins (13-7) are tied with Southern California for first place in the Pacific-1 0 Conference with an 8-3 record. 
"With all that has occurred this year, they could have given up on the season, but instead, they pulled together as a family should do in a time of crisis," Lavin said of his players. 
Lavin hasn't been afraid to bench starters for being late or throw them out of practice, as he did with forward J .R. Henderson last month. 
Lavin's contract will run through June 30, 2001. That could mean underclassmen Toby Bailey, Henderson and Jelani McCoy will stay instead of leaving for the NBA. 
And Baron Davis, consid­ered the top point guard prospect in the nation, may follow up on his oral commit­ment to play for the Bruins and sign a letter of intent. 
Davis. a senior at Santa Monica Crossroads High, de­cided last fall to wait until the spring signing period to com­mit after Barrick was fired two weeks before the season began. 
Athletic director Peter Dalis did not disclose the other can­didates but said Lavin was his top choice. 

Call the Gender Relations Department at 1-4556 



The Observer/Rob Finch 

Phil Hickey and the rest of the Irish stepped up the defense last night. 
•NHL 
Mcinnis scores game-tying goal 
Wednesday, february 12, 1997 
Men 
continued from page 24 
In their earlier meeting, a 67-66 WVU win, Manner was lit up by Owens to the tune of 25 points, including the two late free throws that won the game. 
This time, the scrappy Manner easily won the battle, as he forced Owens into a 0-7 mark from the floor. 
"Whnn you really want something, it's hard to hold back," Manner said about his evening's task. "It was kind of a pay-back attitude. I was pretty happy to see his statis­tics." 
Another statistic that had to ploase Manner and co. was 
Women 
continued from page 24 
this evening's matchup. 
"They (Boston College) are a 
good team," acknowledged the 
senior. "But last time we 
played them, the game was to­
tally in our control, (despite 
the fact that) we didn't play 
very well." 
Senior guard Beth Morgan 
acknowledged Notre Dame's 
unimpressive finish in the last 
Boston College game, but fo­
cused on the current Eagle 
squad. 
"They have been playing 
very well lately," noted 
Morgan. "They are going to 
be gunning for us." 
The thing that the players 
felt would be key to tonight's 
contest was consistent 
defense. 
"Our defense was atrocious 
the last time we played them 
(Boston College)." remem­
bered Bohman, "but it has got­
ten better. They have a really WVU's 36.6 shooting per­centage. The Irish, mean­while, shot a relatively gaudy 
57.1 percent. 
"I wish I could say why we're shooting better, but I can't," MacLeod said. "We just work hard on our shooting in prac­tice." 
In the second half, Miller took over where White left off, as he scored an early eight (two from long range) to stretch the lead to all the way to 63-40. 
However, Millers' night ended a bit pre-maturely a bit later, as he took a Garrity elbow to the cheek. The for­mer walk-on left the game for good with a mild-concussion. 
"He didn't know where he was," MacLeod said. "He was very groggy." 
By that point, the game was 
good forward in Holly Porter and some good three-point shooters. We need to play well on defense." 
As for the offensive side of the floor, Notre Dame will cer­
tainly be looking to improve on 
Sunday's frigid shooting per­
formance. 
"Shooting was the main diffi­culty (against Connecticut)," said Bohman. "That got us down and it helped them to take over the rest of the game. We were somewhat shocked. We've never experienced that before." 
The Irish have been in the 
process of regrouping since 
the loss and seem ready to 
move on. 
"It was a tough loss," admit­ted Morgan, who was among the Notre Dame players that experienced poor shooting ef­forts on Sunday, "but everyone can really take something from that game. They (Connecticut) played so hard for 40 minutes. It was a learn­ing experience." 
In practice yesterday, the 
The Observer • SPORTS well in hand. And unlike a handful of previous contests such as Saturday's win over Connecticut, Notre Dame made sure they kept as such. Although the Mountaineers made a handful of late threes, the Irish made 23 of their 35 second half free throws to pre­serve the lead. Antoni Wyche was 8-14 from the line and fin­ished the contest with 10 points. Joining him in double figures were Garrity, White (17), Miller and Manner (11 a piece). "We have had teams down and haven't put them away," White noted. "But tonight we focused on that and did the job. We just want to finish strong and make it to the post­season." And keep smiling. 
Irish discussed the positives of the game with the Huskies and worked especially hard toward applying them to the rest of the season. 
"We had a tough practice to­day," said Bohman, "so I think that should set us up well for (tonight)." 
Boston College marks the first of five opponents left on the regular season schedule. All five of these teams are Big East squads, and all five have suffered defeats at the hands of the Irish already this sea­son. Taking into account the fact that three of these matchups will be home games, it appears that another win­ning streak may indeed be in order for Notre Dame. 
"Our goal is to be undefeated in the last five games," as­serted Morgan, "and if we are playing well, we feel that this is very realistic." 
If this Irish squad's recent past is any indication of their near future, Morgan's vision will be more than just realis­tic. It will be probable. 
O
ur stylists specialize in a wide range of styles for dances and special occasions. 
S
uprise your sweetheart with a new look. and a golden tan this Valentine's Day. 

Seniors! Lool~ here every Wednesday for upcoming events such as these: 
Feb. 25  metime  
Blackhaw s v. Stars Gam~-"""" '"'""""""'"  
.........,;;ii~---..,;,;;;,;-­ 

$20 tix@ LaFortune Queslitlnl Call 1 ·5111 
Associated Press 
Islanders defenseman Rich Pilon left the ice with a sprainUNIONDALE; N.Y. of the medial collateral liga­Marty Mcinnis scored with ment ofhis left knee. He will 
•· 1:49. left in the,,third period, . miss atleast 7~10 days.and the New York Islanders tied the Ottawa Senators 5-5 
Avalanche 3 Tuesday night .. Kings 1 . Travis Green scored twice for the-Islanders. Hisgoal at Patrick Roy had 31 saves
!:04 of the third period made and Adam Deadmarsh scored lt5·4. •i >.. ._.. _ •'•() .. ·. his 23fd goal Tu¢sf.lay night,New York is winless in six' ''leading the · Colorado 
of its last seve11 games (1-5-Avalan~he to a 3-1 win over lL Bryan Sniolins~tand ~he vndermanned Los Bryan ~erard a,lso scored for • Angeles Kings. 
New York. Mike Ricci and Valeri Yashin scored twice Kamensky each scored a goal "'""lN'" ·D~tri1¢1 fo_•·_r Col_o_rado, and Roy· ._limited arid . ,Los Angeles to only a short-also s the handed goal in the first peri­
of '>od. 
;,:::h The ~Jpgs, ~'"<8-1 si!lce the All-Star break, playedwith­out le~tding !;Corer Dimitri 
Hu~ ••..••·.,_.·,~.n1 s~t2h, to..Q.f.lefNwema!l 
Blake arid left winger Matt Johnson. Khristich was ~ut witp an inNry to hisright eye while Slake and Johnson 
were .. suspensions. ruJll>l.tlttl:s goalie Stephane 
stsbots, his most · ppiil.g 46 against Feb. 14, 1991, 
Quel:mc. a!lche set a club 
29 shots on goal It was also ver taken 

Happy 20th Birthday 
KIERAN HENNESSEY 
~~. ~eutdZ'ad, 
'PeWUd, 
7~ (1t'D'96) eutd~dbf 
~" 
.:"­
... 
-... 
page 22 
Men 
continued from page 24 
rebounds (13), and assists (six). Defensively, he limited his counterpart, WV forward Brent Solheim, to two points and five rebounds, as well as four frustr.ation-related fouls. Back-up forward David Liguori did just as poorly, chipping in three points and one rebound in nine minutes. He did man­age to accumulate five fouls in that span, however, earning an early exit from the game. 
The scouts were not only there to observe Garrity; West Virginia's top prospect Damian Owens has been a big reason for his squad's success this season, and his quickness on the drive is impressive. Or it usually is. 
Owens had a bit of an off­game last night. Well, actually "this was the poorest that Damian Owens has played all year," according to his coach, Gale Catlett. Owens con­tributed a meager two points on 0-7 shooting, and was rele­gated to the bench on more than one occasion. Indeed, this was not a night Owens wanted the pros to see. 
"I was a bit disappointed, basically, with the play of all three of their top players (guards Adrian Pledger, Seldon Jefferson, and Owens)," scout Courtney Witte from the Pacers offered. "Owens was never able to get going, but that was mostly attributable to Notre Dame's defense." 
Despite Garrity's impressive showing, the team representa­tives saw areas for the for­ward to try and improve upon. 
"He needs to keep working on all of his game, but ball­handling with both hands, strength, and the ability to create space for himself are areas for him to work on," said Witte .. "(Notre Dame does) a nice job of running him off screens here, but he'll need to get himself open a bit more individually against the zone on the next level." 
Garrity also faces a disadvantage in having a frame that doesn't fit either a typical power forward, his position at Notre Dame, or small forward mold. All three scouts pointed out that this may be his greatest shortcom­ing and will probably force him to move to small forward where his touch may be more 

The Observer • SPORTS 
effective. 

"lie won't be able to play power forward in the NBA. lie's just too small and not athletic enough. People aren't going to expect him to be a low-post player. lie's going to have to learn how to put the ball on the floor, and faen the basket and get his own shots." 
The positives outweighed the negative, however. The three scouts also had a great appre­ciation for Garrity's touch, es­pecially considering his size. 
"It's a bonus to find some­body a little taller, I guess he's 6-8, who can shoot with range. lie's what I call a pure shoot­er, and shooters are harder and harder to find. He's got nice potential ahead of him," Witte judged. 
"lie plays hard all the time, and you really like to sec him spot up and shoot." said the Seattle scout, who requested anonymity. "There just aren't many people on any level who shoot like that." 
The early returns arc in, and they look good so far. Garrity apparently still has a little work to do. But with the remainder of this season and the next in his future, he's got 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
some time to work with. 

Junior Pat Garrity shot his way to 27 points in last nights game. 
• ME!'.J'S TENNIS 
Irish suffer first loss of season 
By JIM ZALET A 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Men's Tennis Team suffered its first lost yesterday to Kentucky. The No. 18 Wildcats defeated the Irish 6-1. The Wildcats im­prove their record to 5-0. Kentucky won all 6 singles matches, 3 of them in straight sets. 
The Notre Dame squad did win the doubles point. Sophomore Brian Patterson and junior Jakub Pietrowski defeated Marcus Fluitt and Carlos Drada 8-3 in the No. 1 doubles match. Their record improves to 5-0. Freshmen Ryan Sachire and Trent Miller were victorious at the No. 3 doubles spot with a 8-5 win over Dan Spancer and Ariel Gaitan. Their record also moves to 5-0 in their doubles" 

-1c slot. Senior Ryan Simme and junior Dan Rothschild lost the No. 2 singles match 8-4. 
In the singles matches it was all Kentucky. No. 6-ranked Cedric Kauffmann defeated No. 38-ranked Sachire in two sets, 6-4, 6-3. In the No. 2, 4, 5 sin­gles matches the Irish struck first by winning the opening set, but none of them could hold on for the victory. 
No. 5-ranked Ludde Sundin defeated Pietrowski at No. 2 singles. Pietrowski won the first set, but fell to the Kentockty star 3-6, 7-6, 6-4. Fluitt, not letting Patterson de­feat him twice in the same day, won the No. 3 singles match 6­4, 6-3. Simme also won the first set, but lost to Drada 3-6, 6-4, 6-4. Junior Erie Enloe lost 6-2,6-4 to the Wildcats' Gaitan. 
The 29-ranked Irish move on to two more important and challanging meets this week­end againist Duke on Saturday at the Eek Tennis Pavillion and the Texas Longhorns on Sunday also at Notre Dame. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

.. 
THE PERFECT STUDY BREAK••••• 
vs. 
BOSTON COLLEGE 

...­
~:00 p.m. 10yeE eE.N((EYl 


--~-----~­
------------------. 

Wednesday, February 12, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 23 


JACK OHMAN 
---F"Of\ A C.ATHOl..lC Sc.HOOL.l THS:RE'S AN AWFUL. 1.01 OF Dl~N SiOFF ON THE:".SE IJAJ.L~ 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Become more health-conscious. Replacing had habits with good will make you feel and look better. If hoping to attract the notice of YIPs, polish your image and appearance. A partnership you launch now will help you build a more prosperous business. Carefully consider all of your options before making a finan­cial commitment. Maintaining domestic harmony can be difficult when everyone is so busy. Be affec­tionate even if you have a lot on your mind. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: author Judy Blume, actor Arsenio Hall, singer Chynna Phillips, naturalist Charles Darwin. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An 
authority figure may push your 
patience to the limit. Play it smart; 
resist the temptat:ion to retaliate. 
Your romantic feelings are recipro­
cated. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be 
willing to go along with the majority 
at work. Creative and artistic pur­
suits prove highly satisfying. A new 
relationship could reawaken some 
very old memories. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Work conditions will gradually 
improve. Be patient and keep a close 
watch for errors. With luck, you will 
be able to wrap up an important 
matter by nightfall. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Seek professional advice before 
tackling a complicated work or 
household project. Once you get rid 
of the deadwood in your life, you 
will be able to make real progress. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your 
career is picking up momentum. 
Now is your chance to assume a 
leadership role. When investing in a 
JEANE DIXON 
work wardrobe. emphasize 4uality over quantity. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22l: Put the finishing touches on a creative project; it could lead to a second income. Bounce an idea off co­workers before presenting it to high­er-ups. Avoid being too blunt lest you tum someone off. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to what you prefer even if other; try to press their choices on you. You cannot afford to goof off with your friends during the work day. A legal matter is close to resolution. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If 
you cherish a special dream. be will­
ing to pay the price to make it come 
true. Staying in a job you hate will 
take a terrible toll. You need to find 
work you enjoy. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Trying to conform to someone 
else's expectations can be exhaust­
ing. Seek the company of people 
who accept you as you are. Recently 
formed alliances flourish. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): You can break new ground in 
your field if you real! y try. Children 
love being around you. Put on some 
lively music and dance together. The 
kind deeds you perform now will be 
amply rewarded. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Strive to stay on an even emotional 
keel. A friend or co-worker comes to 
you with a business deal that is 
worth considering. Your confidence 
level is at an all-time high. Victory 
is imminent. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
People are, not always what they 
seem. Stay atert. Someone could be 
evaluating your work performance. 
Emotional issues cannot be avoided; 
face them head on. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
This Valentine's Day, why not *KISS* your sweetheart and have a wonderful romantic day you both will enjoy and remember??!! 
*Keep It Sober Sweetheart* 
Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
-

MIXED MEDIA 
AHH, HE'SBURGH... 
IHE"RE'S NO BETTER 
JOHN5 ON CAMPUS/ 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


'--~---.L.L---I..L------~ Vj ,_______.~-o~o..L......Jo:4....U....l...---....l 
6 Jack, in Spain 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Victimize a Beeper calls 9 "Potent 
Potables for 200,-" 
10 Nay 
11 Yea 
!-=+':'+.=:+.:~ ....~~-4-=-1=-1 12 Mouth, slangily 14 Olympic vehicle 
18 Fabric measure: Abbr. 24 Sight from Tokyo 

SCOTT ADAMS 
TOO BUS'<? 'fOU 1-\AVEN'T DONE 1-\NY WORK FOR ME. IN SIX MONTI-\5. 
\ 
Puzzle by Mark Diehl 
29 Abbr. on a bank 
statement 30 Arafat grp. 31 Batman and 
Robin, e.g. 33 Eddie Cantor 
sweetheart 34 Like good wine 35Yea 36Nay 37 In the past 381941 film "A 
Yank in the 
40 Filled with awe 43 Buffet tidbit 
44 Primp 5o Small fish 45 Excites 52 Late Kennedy 46 Frozen foods 
matriarch brand 54 Work in the 47 Black-footed 
bleachers critter 55 "Calm down" 49 More sensible 56 Soft diet 
Answers to any three clues in this puule are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

DILBERT 
0 0
l NEED M"Y OWN " 
SECRETARY. I'M 6
.. 
TOO BUSY TO ~ 
" 
1-\ELP YOU UNLESS ~ 
.. 
1 GET 50M£. ~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Electric guitar hookup 
4 Johnny of "Edward Scissorhands" 
a Kind of hose 13 Corner piece 15 One in the red 16 Island greeting 11 Nay 19 Advice to a 
sleepyhead 20Yea 21 Physical, e.g. 22 Maltese money 23 Big gobblers 25 SuperStation 
initials 
27 Schoolroom fixture 28 Elephantine 30 El--, Tex. 31 Aykroyd et al. 32 Gas purchase 34 Culpable 38 Holiday team leader 39 Kind of eyes 40 Lower California 41 River in Spain 42 Some escapist literature 
44 One teaching econ or psych, e.g. 
48 Fahrenheit figure: Abbr. 49 Vigorous dance 50"--Jacques" 51 Transfusion fluids 
53 Nay 56 Jest 57 Yea 58 Spring (from) 59 Kennel features 60 Art subject 61 Fictional rabbit 62Whirl 630newayto 
stand 
DOWN 
1 First name in action films 2 Former Met Wilson 3 Propels 4 Martial arts school 
5 Cuddly "Star Wars" creature 
-



SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, February 12, 1997 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

White, Irish stick it to the Mountaineers 90-76 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Junior Pat Garrity's play this season has earned him some recognition from NBA scouts. 
Watched by scouts, Garrity displays talent 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Senior Admore White shot 4-4 from behind the arc last night against West Virginia. 
Notre Dame basketball eyes the postseason 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
Fresh off a brilliant defensive effort in which he held West Virginia's leading scorer to just two points, Notre Dame's Derek Manner grinned from ear to ear as he answered questions during the post-game press conference. 
It was a moment that truly captured the present mood of the now 12-9 Irish. These days, it's all smiles for John MacLeod's squad. 
Maybe the Irish were smiling because the 90-76 thumping of a quality Mountaineer club was their third­straight win and boosted their confer­ence record to a very respectable 6-7. 
Maybe they were smiling due to the fact that guards Pete Miller and Admore White combined to shoot 4-6 from out­side the three-point arc in the first half (7-10 for the game), as the Irish opened up an 40-30 lead . 
Or just maybe they couldn't quite hide their happiness that came from having five players notch double-digit point totals. 
Whatever it was, MacLeod shared the smiles. 

-
"It was very encouraging to see this," a pleased MacLeod said. "It was an excel­lent first-half for us and it was the first time we were able to get away from someone early." 
Along with the ever-steady Garrity (27 points, 13 rebounds, six assists), it was White who figured heavily in building the early cushion. 
During a four-minute stretch, the senior point guard drained three con­secutive three-pointers as the Irish jumped ahead 20-12. 
"They had some guys hitting threes that surprised me," Mountaineer coach Gale Catlett admitted. "(White) is a great guard and he put it in the hole early." 
Most of White's looks were wide-open, a fact attributable to the overwhelming attention that WVU paid to Garrity. . 
"Our focus is to work the ball down low to Pat," White explained. "lie did a great job of finding the open man." 
And per usual, Garrity managed to get himself plenty of quality scoring chances. 
The Mountaineers played without 6­foot-11 forward Gordon Malone (hand injury). who would have likely been the man to check Garrity. 
"His absence definitely made a differ­ence," said Garrity of the athletic Malone. "At times I had a guy that was like 6-foot-2 guarding me. I don't know what that was all about." 
The Irish, on the other hand, were able to solve their match-up problem. 
see MEN I page 21 

By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It may take another year, but Notre Dame power forward Pat Garrity is heading for the NBA. So this season, he needs to hone his game, concen­trate on improving weaknesses and bolstering strengths, and prepare for the jump to professional basketball. 
As it turns out, professional basket­ball is also preparing for Pat Garrity. 
Scouts from the Indiana Pacers, Seattle Supersonics, and Sacramento Kings found their way to press row to take a look at the talent on the court last night, and offered some insight into Garrity's professional future. 
An early evaluation of Garrity's potential seems to indicate that tlw NBA sees some promise. After last night's game against the West Virginia Mountaineers, these three scouts admitted that this is indeed the case. 
"lie's a first-rounder next year," Kings' scout Scottie Stirling predicted. "We'd take anybody who could shoot like that. lie can rebound, he's bright, sees the floor pretty well. Tonight he's even played like a guard: drove in and kicked the ball out. lie's got skills." 
The Mountaineers' defense made Garrity look especially promising. The junior led all players in points (27), 
see GARRITY I page 22 


The Observer/Mike Ruma Senior Rosanne Bohman feels confident about the teams chances against rival Boston College. 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Morgan and team hope to rebound against BC 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
SportS Writer 
It is fitting that the women's basketball team faces Boston College tonight, as they attempt to bounce back from the disap­pointment they suffered at the hands of Connecticut on Sunday. Notre Dame used their previous game against the Golden Eagles to rebound from their most recent loss before Sunday. 
After falling to Ohio State in Columbus on Jan. 4, the Irish prevailed in a lackluster game at Boston College to launch a 10-game winning streak that finally came to end against the Huskies on Sunday. 
Tonight, they will attempt to start the ball rolling once again at the expense of the Eagles. Forward Rosanne Bohman ex­uded confidence as she spoke of 
see WOMEN I page 21 

at Villanova at Northwestern Meet February 16 
February 22
X aJ 
• Rodman returns vs. Boston College 
Basketball at Franklin Tonight, 7 p.m. 
~ February 15, I p.m. see page 20••--= at Michigan Swimming at Liberal Arts 
riJ • Women's college basketball 

~ Invitational, February 20 \_ February 14, 7 p.m. 
see page 14 

~ 





