
Wednesday, October 1, 1997 • Vol. XXXI No. 28 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Death threats raise issue of phone harassment 
By MICHELLE KRUPA voice mail that same morning. receive such calls can have best thing is to get a record of Hurley said. Associate News Editor The sender of the message did recourse through his office. it on file -it's the best way to Lori Maurer, assistant direc­not identify herself. identify a suspect. If we can tor of Residence Life, referred 
The following is part of a "This kind of thing has no 
identify a suspect, we would to page 53 of du Lac, which voice-mail message received by place here," Fuller and Syner certainly interview that person. explicitly states the Notre Dame sophomores said in their second letter to "If there is a problem, we University's policy about Catherine Syner and Stacey The Observer. "We think the will then forward it to Student harassment. Fuller: "You want to hear student body needs to know Affairs or the St. Joseph "Any threat to or harassment threats. You'd better not walk how inappropriate some of the County prosecutor's office." of another: Unwelcome phone alone. I'm going to kill you. responses that we received He said that to his knowledge calls, obscene or no't, may con­
thought it e 

You will die ... I will kill you. have been. We realized that Fuller and Syner have not filed stitute harassment," the manu­
done in a more mature

You will die. You better run, there would be a response, but such a report, but students do al reads. hole up in your room ... we thought it would be done in manner.' so often, whether about threats Maurer said that students because if you step foot out­a more mature manner." or harassment. are always welcome to report side, then~·s going to be us ... What the women described "Harassment is usually a any incidents to her office and killing you." as immature is also against Catherine Syner and Stacy practical joke, while obscenity that there are numerous 
The message was in response University policy and illegal. Fuller in The Observer generally is sexual in nature. options for victims of harass­to their letter to the editor of According to Chuck Hurley, Threatening phone calls are ment. The Observer published on assistant director of University "Students should definitely pretty rare, but we get reports 
see THREATS I page 4

Sept. 15. The threat was left on Security/Police, students who file a report," he said. "The filed about all of these types," 
Career and Placement sponsors event 
ARTS &LETTERS CAREER DAY 
Representatives from the following groups will give seminars on Oct. 9: 
• 
First Chicago/NBD Bank 

• 
The Peace Corps 

• 
Sears Roebuck & Co. 

• 
Kaplan Educational Services 

• 
In Roads -Chicago 


questions.

Next Thursday's Anne Deitch, a sophomore sociol­ogy major from Cavanaugh Hall,fair offers work plans to attend the Arts and Letters 
Career Day. 

"It is important to learn aboutopportunities internship possibilities even as a sophomore because they are so
By KATIE CA TENACCI 
competitive," she said. "Learning

News Writer 
about programs early is essential to leaving all doors open." 

The annual fall semester Arts 
There will also be workshops

and Letters Career Day, sponsored 
held in the Center for Continuing

by the University of Notre Dame's 
Education throughout the day. 

Career and Placement Services, 
Bill Harlan Jr. of First

will be held in the Center for 
Chicago/NBD Bank will discuss

Continuing Education on Thursday, 
"Careers in Banking," Brian

Oct. 9, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Anderson will give a talk about

The purpose of Career Day is to 
opportunities in the Peace Corps,

acquaint students with representa­
Kari Gambatz of CSC Consulting

tives from various career fields, 
will present a workshop entitled

according to a letter issued by 
"What is Consulting?" and Van

Career and Placement. 
Dam of Sears Roebuck & Company

This year, 30 different fields will 
will lead "Careers in Retail

be represented. These fields 
Management."

include Catholic education, pub­
"Career Development Through

lishing, law, financial services, and 
Internships" will be addressed by

federal government career oppor­
Michael Jackson of In Roads ­

tunities, among others. It will also 
Chicago. There will also be a

include both professional and aca­
workshop given by Denise Roland,

demic graduate studies. 
a representative from Kaplan

Representatives from each compa­
Educational Services, regarding

ny and organization will provide 
testing for the GMAT, GRE, LSAT,

literature and answer students' 
and MCAT. 

SMC shoots for diversity Hitting it out... 
BY COLLEEN McCARTHY fied students who will make contributions News Writer when they are here as well as when they are alumnae," said Nolan. 
In the last clccacle. it has become a com­Each member of the admissions staff mon practice of colleges across the coun­works with students of different races and try to target and recruit multicultural stu­ethnicities in their assigned geographical dents in onler to increase the diversity of area. what 
may otherwise b11 a The assistant director of homogenous student body. admission, Mona Bowe, is Saint Mary's College is defi­fluent in Spanish. Nolan nitely not an exception. emphasized that Bowe's Currently, multicultural stu­fluency in Spanish is a dents make up 6. 7 percent of valuable asset when com­
municating with families Mary's. who do not speak English 
According to Mary Pat Nolan, director of or whose first language is not English. admissions. increasing the number of mul­"The families appreciate that we can ticultural students attending the r-ollege communicate with them," Nolan said. has been a goal for the past 10 years. Each year, in order to target multicul­
"To a \'isitor, the increased diversity tural students, the College participates in might not be obvious," she said. "But if the student search through the College you would have been at the school 10 Board and seeks students who have cho­years ago. you would have seen a different sen through their own self-report to share complexion of the student body," Nolan their ethnicity or race. said. Nolan outlined the process. "After identi­
Although the admissions office has fying the students whose PSAT scores placed an emphasis on recruiting multicul­demonstrate they are a potential match tural students. they have attempted to for the institution, we do a targeted mail­integrate it into the system of the admis­ing to multicultural students," she said. sions process. The students who respond to the mailing 
"We have no specific quota as to the and demonstrate an interest in the school 

ND professor sues to build 
•


newpnson 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY News Writer 
University of Notre Dame Law Professor Charles Rice has recently filed a lawsuit against the group Citizens for Common Sense, claiming that they have 
intentionally delayed the construction of a new St. Joseph's County Jail despite an order from a U.S. District Court that the project should pro­ceed. 

the new jail was Rice ordered following a suit in which Rice represented the inmates of St. Joseph's, who complained that overcrowded conditions violated their constitutional rights. 
Citizens for Common Sense opposes the construction project because of its 
see JAIL I page 4 


The ObseiVer/Laura Giuliani 

number of multicultural students we want Two Notre Dame students practice their moves on each other in preparation for the to admit because we are looking for quali-see MULTICULTURAL/ page 4 Bengal Bouts this spring. 

page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 

Mtntn ... Beer. 
Students at Notre 
Dave Freddoso 
Dame do not like beer. 
Ass'stanr News Editor 
No, I'm not joking. You 
probably just don't 
know what it is to like beer, which only 
proves my point. 
1 am not responding to an earlier column 
on this subject by Nora Meany {which, by 
the way, was a parody-but don't feel bad 
if you wrote a letter to the editor, because 1 
wasn't sure when I read it, either). 
I am not going to make jokes about fresh­
man parties with Natty Light, or tell you 
how pathetic the typical campus drunk is, 
or how his friends will always make fun of 
him when he's not around. 
Rather. what I find interesting is the fact 
that some see fit to drink until they almost 
pass out {or do pass out) every weekend, 
while others try to avoid this by abstaining 
from drink altogether. The latter is not a 
completely bad idea for some people, but no 
one seems to be interested in drinking in 
moderation. 
When I said that Notre Dame students do 
not like beer, this is what I was referring to. 
I'm not talking primarily about the students 
who avoid it altogether: I'm talking about 
the ones who gorge themselves on it every 
week. 
Singing does not reflect an appreciation 
of alcohol. It reflects a curious insensitivity 
to it. When one ceases to appreciate the 
good in beer, one begins to drink heavily, 
and through heavy drinking one ceases to 
be able to appreciate the good of beer. And 
with the appreciation of the good in beer, 
one begins to lose appreciation for every­
thing else that is good as well. 
The difference between enjoying good 
beer with friends and getting hammered is 
not merely a difference in degree: The two 
are fundamentally different actions. The 
latter, from my own observation of it on 
campus, reminds one of the dog from the 
Old Testament who returns to lick up his 
own vomit {look that one up, theology schol­
ars). That kind of drinking elevates one of 
the lowest of man's desires. 
But the enjoyment of a good beer with a 
couple of friends, on the other hand, ele­
vates one of man's highest desires, that of 
friendship. 
The heavy drinking at Notre Dame is inti­
mately related with the all-too-common 
four-year transformation of cheerful fresh­
men with high ideals into the predictable, 
dull, listless, lazy, cynical, and cowardly, 
who are found not infrequently among the 
upperclassmen. 
You know their type. For them, every 
thing in the world that could be considered 
good or beautiful is something to make a 
joke about or sneer at. 
Every good person, from their studious 
roommate to the Pope, is just one more per­
son for them to ridicule. Every sentence of 
theirs is a complaint. And even worse, for 
all their moaning and groaning, they still 
don't really take anything seriously. 
They have indulged so heavily since their 
freshman year that there is nothing left that 
will satisfy them. Their eyes are set in their 
head in an indescribable but unmistakable 
way. 
So don't turn out like that. Keep your 
ideals. St11;y interesting. Learn to enjoy alco­
hol, and go get a beer with your friends this 
weekend. 
{Or you could join me in taking up a bet­
ter vice, like cigarette smoking.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Dave F reddoso  Melissa Weber  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Production  
Sports  Anne Marie Mattingly  
Brian Kessler  Dave Feddoso  
Brian Reinrhaler  Tara Grieshop  
Viewpoint  Kathleen Lopez  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Lab Tech  
Accent  Kevin Dalum  
Andrea Jordan  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, October 1, 1997
The Observer· INSIDE 

• WORLD AT AGlANCE 
Oil spill from undersea pipeline fouls coastal waters 
VANDENBEHG AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. 
An oil spill caused by a leak in an offshore platform's undersea pipeline has killed at least one bird but should be cleaned up within 72 hours, offi­cials said. 
The spill discovered Monday, a half-mile off from the central California coast at its closest point, was four miles by two miles and estimated at 200 to 500 barrels of heavy crude oil. 
Seas were initially calm and weather was favorable for cleanup efforts Monday and about 180 barrels of oil were recovered, but later, 5-foot ~~~""'-----"''""-'--~~--;:__-"""' waves forced skimming vessels back to AP shore, authorities said. 
Ships were expected to return to sea today. Darryl condition in July, Boehm said. Waldrom, an official of Clean Seas, a cleanup consor-The Santa Barbara County coast is home to endan­tium, predicted all recoverable oil could be cleaned up gered species, including western snowy plovers, least in 72 hours. terns, brown pelicans and sea otters. 
John Paul II visits Brazil 
HIO DE JANEIRO 


Like a shepherd with a straying flock, Pope John Paul II arrives in Brazil on Thursday to preach to the world's largest Roman Catholic nation, many of whose citizens are abandoning the Church. The pope will spend all four days in Rio, where he will pray at an international con­ference on the family and preside 
over a festival at the Maracana soccer stadium, the world's largest. He is expected to attack abortion, extol the virtues of the family and urge people every­where to be more Catholic. It remains to be seen if his message will help stem the outflow of faithful from the Catholic Church in this country of 155 million. Brazilians have long taken their Catholicism loosely. African deities worshipped by slaves mixed with Roman Catholic saints and native religions to produce a uniquely Brazilian blend. In 1970, 91.7% of Brazilians considered themselves Catholic. By 1991, the last year census figures are available, the number had dropped to 83.3 percent. Many Brazilians have flocked to evangelical sects that have sprouted across the country. 
Boy dies on neighborhood sales trip 
JACKSON TOWNSHIP, N.J. 

An 11-year-old boy who vanished while selling mer­chandise door to door to raise funds for his school was found dead in the woods near his home, authorities con­firmed today. They said the body had been identified as that of Edward Werner, who was believed to be carrying $200 cash from his sales of holiday merchandise when he was last seen Saturday. Authorities using tracking dogs found the body of a boy Monday evening in a wood­ed area near his neighborhood. Police questioned neigh­bors and distributed fliers with the boy's photo and description "If someone has him, please let him go," Mrs. Werner pleaded earlier. "I just want him to come home." One of his school's top sellers, Edward was flashing the money to friends as he made his way around the neighborhood, police said. He had his heart set on winning a pair of walkie-talkies for sales of candy, nuts and wrapping paper as part of the Parent Teacher Association's two-week fall fund-raiser. The boy's uncle, Jim Werner, told The Associated Press that the family moved to this suburban township from the Staten Island section of New York City because they considered it safe. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
r<------/  L  
!  
Wednesdayq,  59 41  
Thursday  ~  60 42  
Friday  i)  68 46  
Saturday  ~  71 46  
Sunday  ~  73 44  

Q,Q,~4.QQ (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu-,;ies S~o~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 1. 
60s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
"T""T"" ........._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
CO 1997 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY VtaASSOCIIItf1dPress 
Atlanta  78  50  Dallas  91  66  New York  62  45  
Baltimore  61  38  Denver  84  53  Pasadena  69  56  
Boston  57  43  Indianapolis  72  42  Phoenix  99  79  
Cincinnati  64  37  Lansing  62  30  Reno  76  53  
Columbus  62  34  Milesville  87  54  Youngstown  59  31  

BP limits greenhouse gases 
BERLIN 

British Petroleum will begin voluntarily measuring and seeking ways to limit the greenhouse gases it pumps into the air to help halt global warming. The decision increases BP's maverick stance within the oil industry on global warming, after its chief executive officer, John Browne, allied himself with environmentalists this spring. Browne said BP's program could serve as an example ahead of a December U.N. meeting where offi­cials from 150 countries hope to adopt a timetable and limits for cutting emissions of gases blamed for global climate changes. "For too long this has been an issue on which few were prepared to accept responsibility," Browne said. "The oil industry has the ability and the responsibility both to contribute to the debate... and to take a leadership position by showing that we, ourselves can make a constructive contribution to the solution." The Environmental Defense Fund, which will help set up and monitor the program, called BP's step a "historic acceptance of responsibility for the overriding environ­mental problem of our time." The group's executive director, Fred Krupp, said it "puts real pressure on the other oil companies to act like responsible adults, and I think it puts substantial pressure on the Clinton White House to advance a meaningful reduction target." 
Stanford paper tries to ignore Chelsea 
STANFORD, Cali!'. 

Don't ask. Don't tell. And, as a Stanford Daily colum­nist learned, don't opine -if your subject is Chelsea Clinton. Jesse Oxfield, a senior at Stanford, lost his job at the student newspaper after writing about the first daughter in a column his boss considered a violation of her strict policy of not covering the president's daughter. He wrote an opinion piece about the media coverage of Chelsea's arrival accompanied by her parents. Hundreds of reporters descended on campus but were kept at a distance from the Clintons, who wanted to be like any other family seeing a child of to college. "First. why, pre­cisely, is it that we're all expected to bend over back­ward to give Chelsea and her family a 'normal' Stanford experience while the first family itself is under no similar obligation?" Oxfield wrote. He also criticized the Daily's rule of not writing about Chelsea unless she does some­thing newsworthy, something that the paper would write about if she were just anyone else. He described it like this: "Don't ask (anything abut her life,) don't tell {any­one outside the campus what you might happen to dis­cover about her life). don't pursue (her, at all)." 
Oil flowed from a break in the pipeline midway between Platform Irene, which stands three miles from shore, and a shoreline terminal at Point Arguello. 
The point is about 130 miles north­west of Los Angeles, on a stretch of central coast spanned by Vandenberg Air Force Base. 
The oil escaped through a crack in a flange eonnecting two pieces of pipe, said Art Boehm, a spokesman for Torch Operating Co., which oper­ates Platform Irene for Nuevo Energy Co. of Houston. It was not immediate­ly known what caused the crack. The pipe was inspected and found in good 

~ ------~----­
----------~--~------~-----------~----­
Cut to pieces ... 
• SECURITY BEAT 
.Friday, Sept. 

12:26 p.m. Security transported dent to the University Health Center illness. 
4:20 p.m. A Welsh resident reported the bike from a Welsh bike rack. Her bike was .v.v•··...---· time of the theft 
7:52 p.m. A Dillon resident was transported. to Joseph Medical Center tor treatment of a sports injury. 
Saturday, Sept. 27 -'·''·" ____ _ 

3:05 a.m. Security and the Notre Darrie Fire Department responded to a small fire ori a sidewalk north ot Stanford Hall. 
3:42 a.m. Security apprehended an O'Hara Grace resident inside Eck Baseball Stadium. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Two Crows speaks about Miami culture 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor 
Last night, "Two Crows" told many stories from his experi­ence as an Indian of the Miami Tribe. Students from Saint Mary's gathered together in order to learn more about what a Native American's life is like. 
ln addition to this week's topic of living in a multicultural society, several speakers have come to Saint Mary's to speak about the traditions their eth­nicities partake in. Two Crows, the speaker, was originally named by his grandfather when he was a child. The name has remained ever since. 
Among the differences between Western and Native American cultures are the nasal sounds the Miami people speak with, and the fact that many of them were educated by "the old ones," said Two Crows. 
Originally from Green Bay, Wisconsin, "the Miami Indians were forced to move when white man came to America," remarked Two Crows. "They took over our lands... we were moved to the prairies, and after that, into lands surrounding the Great Lakes." 
"Attending this lecture tonight gave me the insight that I need­ed to further my education towards living in a multicultural society," said Junior Alison Buysee. 
Two Crows went on, saying that his people "have always held a deep love toward nature." Creating musical instruments such as flutes,· dancing and singing have been some of their rituals. Drum playing has also been of a great significance to their culture. 
For many years, the Miami Indians have been educated 

through the elders. Two Crows attended college himself, but stressed that he has kept his culture's teachings as a major source of his lifestyle. 
"I believe in learning my own language," he stated, "just because my elders are unable to read or write docs not make them stupid." 
His grandfather has been a major source of inspiration throughout his life. When he was younger, they would take many long walks into the forest together. where Two Crows would then learn much about his grandfather's philosophy on life. "One needs to ask ques­tions in life;" Two Crows said. 
Children, as he mentioned, are easily influenced, and look up to those older than them as role models. "We are painting pictures in the lives of children through our every actions," Two Crows mentioned. "What we do children will carry on with them for the rest of their lives." 
According to Two Crows, tele­vision and working parents have a major effect on the way our children communicate with each other. 
"Love is a treasure, and the key to a religious belief takes us back from where we're from," he said. The issues of how our deeds and actions are present­ed are the memories we leave behind to others for them to remember us by, he urged. 
Communication through nature and music has been a long lasting ritual for the Miami Indians. Further, Two Crows urged that teaching children about the past generations while making them aware of differences is a necessary com­ponent to life. 
+ Work in an internship • Study Public Affairs • Study American A'rt History ­CJ'{ew Come to the informational meeting Monday, October 6th 7:00 -8:00 p.m. 115 0'Shaughnessy Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l @nd.edu  7tte 'It'DIsme 'l~tult 'Da-~eee etetd will hold its first meeting this Thursday, October 2 If you are interested, please contact Kelly (634-0595) or Erin (284-4292). No Experience Necessary!  Write for The Observer! Calll-5323  
CLRSS OF 198 FEATURING FRRNKIS DOGS A/S CLUB TONITE 7PM  

--~ -------­page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 1, 1997 
~~--------------------------------------------~~~~-­
Threats 
continued from page 1 
"We will get Security involved and possibly put a trace on the phone and do an investigation," Maurer said. 
With the technology of our phone system, there are many ways to find out who is doing the harassing," Maurer said. 
The repercussions for this kind of action can range from probation to dismissal from the University, according to Maurer, depending on the severity and frequency of the incident. 
"We view this very seriously. How the student felt, what the impact on his or her life was and how many calls were made will decide what the sanction will be," she said. 
"It's important to let stu­dents know that these things will come back to you." 

' "Let's go fly a kite, up to the highest height!" 

The Observer/Meg Kroener 
Students made the most of the beautiful weather Monday afternoon to engage in recreational activities. 

Jail 
continued from page 1 
$50 million price tag, which is twice the amount of the origi­nal proposal in 1995. Rice claims they have an "ulterior purpose to delay and hinder" the new jail construction. 
The group has cireulated a petition in an effort to halt con­struction of the new jail. An Indiana Tax Court ruled that they had no right to petition in this case, and they arc eurrently filing suit with the Indiana State Supreme Court in an effort to overrule that decision. 
Rice's current suit will pin­point the initiators of the state court suit, vice president Peggy Hossow and seeretary­treasurer Carole Havens of Citizens for Common Sense, claiming that they have abused the judicial process. 
Sarah Nelson contributed to this report. 


Multicultural 
continued from page 1 
are then entered into the system and receive the same mailings as other prospective students who are not multi­cultural. Nolan added, "The multicultur­al students don't want to be singled out, and that is why we don't treat them dif­ferently through the other mailings." 
Nolan said that personalizing the admissions process is a definite goal. 
"Building relationships with the prospective students is so important in the admissions process because this is how we can help the student, multicul­tural or not, to identify if they are a match with Saint Mary's," Nolan stated. Additionally. by personalizing their approach, Nolan believes that once the students get to campus to visit, they can feel like it is their home and family. 

"We try to match up current multicul­tural students to call or meet with these particular prospective students," Nolan said. 
A current freshman at Saint Mary's, Mariecruz Segura, said that the person­al approach was one of the reasons she ehose the sehool. "I chose SMC because I liked the all women's school setting, and the admission people were very nice, open and personal," Segura said. 
She emphasized that even though Saint Mary's doesn't have the same amount of diversity as other schools, she feels comfortable here. "There were not many Hispanics at my high school so this is not new to me. However, I haven't felt any racism since I've been here," Segura said. 
Additional commitments to increasing th.e number of multicultural students at Saint Mary's have included being a sponsoring institution of the National Hispanic Institute and working with C01]1munity centers in major metropoli­tan areas such as the Eerie Ilouse in Chicago to reach out to multicultural students. 
Also. the college has been able to reach Hispanic students specifically through the Leaders of a New Indiana (LON!) program. 
Through this program Saint Mary's has been able to work on getting into high school programs. This way, it can interact with students who might be considering college and get the students to consider Saint Mary's. "The LON! program feeds into the multicultural effort," Nolan said. 
Karla Flores, a Saint Mary's and LON! student, feels that there is still room for an increase in diversity on campus. 
"I feel there isn't enough diversity. There is a division among. between. and within the different raees and ethnic groups," Flores said. 

However, Nolan reiterated that one of the goals M the school is to increase the number of multicultural students. "The college has made the commitment to increase the diversity of the student body. We have only scratched the sur­face," said Nolan. 
Have something to say? 
Use Observer Classifieds! 



October at the Alumni-Senior Club 
Tuesday Wednesday ThursdayFriday SaturdayThursdayWednesday 
28 29 30 Senior Class 
2 

3 4
1 
BOSSTONESEighties Night THEAII-U-Can-EatFree Food Night BASH: DJs will HALLOWEENWings for$ 2RESERVED FOR DANCES 7-9 pm feature the musicBad music, BASH at ASC. 

of the Bosstones.
bad clothes, Don't miss out 
AII-U-Can-Eat All ages night.
lots of fun & on the best. 
Wings for$ 2 many specials. 

Friday SaturdayThursdayWednesday 10 11
8 
9 

The Alumni-Senior Club now features 
Bartender 

a full menu of yummy food to meet
SkalcoholicsT-Shirt Night RESERVED FOR DANCES 

all of your ingestion needs. EVERY 
AII-U-Can-Eat Wings for$ 2 

Wednesday is AII-U-Can-Eat Wing Night, and EVERY Thursday features 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 

a host of financially superior 
16 17 18
15 

alternatives to meet your liquid intake 
Tune up for another decade of dominance over USCClub Night: 
needs. In addition, our courteous staff 
with a night at the ASC. Catch up with friends, relax, Euro-style rage enjoy the new menu, and talk football over a frothy 
is unparalleled in both on-the-job 
beverage. These are the times to remember...
AII-U-Can-Eat 

performance and backgammon.
Wings for$ 2 

Find the Ju-Ju Hound. Spot the Otter. 
Friday SaturdayWednesday Thursday 

Or glimpse the ever-popular felinus 
24 25
CLOSED FOR FALL BREAK 

minimus.These are the personalities 
Come back from break and fire up 
of the Alumni-Senior Club. So come 
your game face. BC is in town. 
on out. You will not be disappointed. 

La-wyers separate Nichols from McVeigh 
Speaker 

5300 
cash back* 


$200
Power Macintosh" 6soo/275 
32/4GB/nXCO/Multiple Scan tsAV 
cash back*

l2/Zip Drive{Ethemet,Nideo ln/NTSC Out/l<bd Now $:z,675 (or $s~nti0** BEFORE REBATE PowerBook" 14oocs/133 t6/1GB/8XCD/L2/11.3" DSTN display 
Now $:z,o85 (or $39/month)** BEFORE REBATE 






$too 
cash back* 


Save another Power Macintosh" 5400/18o 
t6/t.2GB/8XCO/Built-in display/Kbd 
Sso 

Now St.sso (or $29/mont!O** BEFORE REBATE 
cash back* 

Color StyleWriter" 4100 Now $220** BEFORE REBATE 
WANT SOME CASH TO GO WITH THAT? 
Now is the right time to get an Apple Power Macintosh or PowerBook. Because in addition to getting the computer that lets you do more than you can imagine, you can save big time. For a limited time, students are eligible for special cash rebates. 
*This is a limited time rebate coupon offer. See your Apple campus reseller today fur complete details. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Computer/Math Building Room 112 • Mon.-Fri. S:oo-s:oo http://www.nd.edu/-ndstore/ Prices shown include ClarisWorks and a Bonus Bundle. PowerBook 1400cs/133 includes a carrying case. While supplies last! 
*-Offer expires October 10, 1997. No payment of interest will be required for 90 days. Interest accruing during the 90-day period will be added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be included in the repayment schedule. For example. the month of May 5, 1997, had an interest rare of 
~~\0~t~:rro!~ ~~"o~a~t~~'$~~;:~.;:.r~~~~)i~:~~J!2 ~~~~~~t~~~,~~~ePnJ,~f ~t~i~7~ra~d :Ot%rt:n°~~~~~a~i~~r!!~ ~~fe~~ ~ ~~rf:~\~~~se~~~ 
the Prime Rate as reported on the 5th business day of the month in The Wall Street Journal plus a spread of 3-9'*-'· The Apple Computer loan has an 8-year loan tenn with no prepayment penalty and is subject to credit approval. Monthly payments may vary depending on actual c'bmputer system prices, total loan amounts, stat~ and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly 'iariable interest rate. 01997 A.pple Computer, Int. A.\1 rights reserved. 
~g'du~~:r~t~~~~~de~a~ks~~i~~~~~· !oC:;~~e~~~nt~~~~e~~:~:~s~:;t~ ~~~~!:~d'fr~~ ',~f!s~~~~~~1h~~Z~ g~:g~~e1;,0:~~e;~~~ s~~~~~n~~~~ 
and subject to availability. Void where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further rules and details. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. To learn more {U.S. only), caU Boo-f,oo..78o8 or TTY 8oo-7SS·o6ol. 
By SANDY SHORE 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 

A potential juror said today she initially believed Terry Nichols could be guilty of the Oklahoma City bombing because Timothy McVeigh was convicted. but she thought she could set aside such feelings and judge the matter fairly. 
"I think initially I did have those feelings of possibly Terry Nichols' being guilty, but I haven't heard anything, but I have no proof to back up my feelings," said the woman, a computer systems specialist. 
In a response listed on a jury questionnaire filh1d out Sept. 17, the woman said she believed Nichols could be guilty. 
"I answered them with my reelings at the moment," she said today as the selection process resumed. 
The woman said she believed she could set aside her beliefs. saying it was possible her feel­ings when she wrote the ques­tionnaire were "clouded by the financial distress I might have to entail" by serving on the jury. 

On Monday, she had told U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch that her company would pay for only 10 days of jury duty. She said her parents had offered assistance, but she wasn't sure how she would manage. 
The woman also said she believed it would be a waste of tax money to sentence a con­victed offender to life in prison unless there were some benefit to society. 
During the first two days of jury selection, Nichols' attor­neys have tried to distance their client from McVeigh. 
They repeatedly asked poten­tial jurors Monday if they could distinguish between someone who is primarily responsible for 


With the Great Taste and Winning Varieties 
of the HOT POCKETS®, LEAN POCKETS®, CROISSANT POCKETS® Brand Stuffed Sandwiches, and HOT POCKETS® Brand Pizza Snacks 

~~~==~~~~~~~ 
I 
I 
I when you buy any 2 packages or any combination of I 
I HOT POCKETS®, LEAN POCKETS.,, ,,~,~· I CROISSANT POCKETS"',,.,,"'""'""'..,~.I or HOT POCKETS®"""' Pizza Snacks 
!Save 40¢,~ I I 
~--·I
lllis""-""" 
I ~~"" I I 
~eo. ~aan/ AoA~n 
O'Hara Professor Emeritus, Department of Philosophy 
THURSDAY, OcTOBER AT 4: I 5 P.M.zND SEVENTEENTH CENTURY GALLERY THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE DAME 
a crime and someone who may have had a secondary role. 
Prosecutors say Nichols, 42, was a supporting player in the deadliest act of terrorism on 
U.S. soil, acquiring fertilizer and other components, robbing a firearms dealer to finance the attack and helping McVeigh build the bomb. 
They also say Nichols helped McVeigh stash the getaway car in Oklahoma City three days before the blast. 
Matsch told each prospective juror Nichols faces the same charges as McVeigh and could be sentenced to die if convicted. But, he added, "This is a differ­ent case.... It begins with a clear page." 
The prospective jurors quizzed Monday, the trial's opening day, said they under­stood that Nich<Jis must be judged separately from McVeigh. 
But one, an unemployed Fort 

Philippines' new rape law allows for death penalty 
Associated Press 

MANILA 
President Fidel Ramos signed a new rape bill into law Tuesday that for the first time allows both men and spouses to sue for rape. 
"Through this law, we ensure that no woman -including wives -or man is subjected to sexual acts against her or his will," Ramos said. 
Sen. Leticia Shahani, the Jaw's principal author, said the law redefines rape as a public instead of a private crime, mak-
YOU DEMAND POWER, SPEED, AND MOBILITY. 
Collins dairy farmer said: "If he's guilty like McVeigh, I feel he's caused enough damage and should be put to death. What got me the worst was there were so many children in it." 
Nineteen children were among the 168 people killed in the blast on April 19, 1995. Hundreds of others were injured. 
Nichols stood, bowed stiffly from the waist and greeted each prospective juror. He smiled and waved to his mother in the front row as he was escorted into the courtroom. 
Selecting 12 jurors and six alternates from a pool of 500 is expected to take two weeks to a month. Six potential panelists were quizzed on Monday. 
Nichols is charged with mur­der, conspiracy and weapons­related counts. McVeigh was convicted of identical charges in June and sentenced to die. 

ing it possible for the police or any person to sue for rape on behalf of a victim. The law also broadens the definition of rape to include acts like oral and anal sex or the insertion of any object into a sex organ. 
The bill first was introduced in 1989, but Shahani said approval was delayed because some law­makers objected to the marital rape provision. 

Under the new law, rape is now punishable by death under certain conditions, including when the victim is a minor. 



Diana's death drug related 
By NICOLAS MARMIE Associat~4 Press Wther 
PARIS New blood tests on the dri·
1 ver of Princess Diana's car show the strongest evidence yet that he was suffering from alcoholism, and hair analyses show he was on prescription drugs for months. judicial sources said today. The tests of driver Henri Paul's blood, ordered by Judge Herve Stephan, show ''moder· ate chronic alcoholism for at least a week" before the fatal crash, the sources said on con· dition ofanonymity. Previous tests have shown Paul had more than three times the legal level of alco· hoi in his blood at the time of the Aug. 31 crash, and ·revealed the presence of the anti-depressant Prozac and tiapride, a drug used to com­bat alcoholism. Investigators have deter­mined from hair analyses that Paul had been taking Prozac since May and tiapride since July. the judi­cial sources said. Investigators have been focusing on the driver's alco­hol level and the speed he was traveling at as likely causes of the crash. . But they also are looking into the role of nine photogra­phers and one press motorcy­. clist who were tailing the Mercedes that night. 

Wednesday, October 1, 1997 

By JON MARCUS 
Associared Press Wrirer 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 

A frP-shman found unconscious amid vomit and empty liquor bot­tles at a Massachusetts Institute of Technology fraternity has died of an alcohol overdose. 
Scott Krueger. 18, of Orchard Park. NY, died late Monday, throe days after the fraternity pledge was discovered in his basement room at the Phi Gamma Delta housn. 
!lis parents said his blood-alco­hol level had reached .410 per­cent -five times the legal limit in Massachusetts. Authorities say that mnans he consumed about 16 drinks. The medical examiner said Tuesday that Krueger died of an alcohol overdose. 
"You'd think people here would be smarter than that. But in some cases. tragic things just happen," said John Fries, 18, a freshman. 
It was at least the second such death at at an American univer­sity this fall. In August, a Louisiana State University frater­nity pledge died after a night of 

Alcohol overdose kills MIT freshman 
a distinction, however, between homosexual orientation and sexual activity. 
In the letter, the bishops urge parents to encourage their chil­dren to lead a chaste life and to challenge aspects of their chil­dren's lives they find objection­able. Bishops also tell parents that church rules should not be enforced at the expense of their child. 
"First, don't break off contact; don't reject your child," the bishops say. Instead, create an atmosphere in which a child would be willing to discuss his or her sexual orientation 
"This child, who has always been God's gift to you, may now be the cause of anpther gift: your family becoming more honest, respectful and support­ive," the bishops said. 
Bishops urge parents to "do everything possible to continue demonstrating Jove for your child." That includes remaining open to the possibility that even after counseling, a child may still be "struggling to ... accept a basic homosexual orienta­tion." 
The document also encour­ages priests to welcome homo­sexuals into parishes, to help establish or promote support groups for parents of gay chil­dren and to let people know from the pulpif and elsewhere that they are willing to talk about homosexual issues. 
"Generally, homosexual ori­entation is experienced as a given, not as something freely chosen," the bishops said. "By itself, therefore, a homosexual orientation cannot be consid­ered sinful, for morality pre­sumes the freedom to choGse." 
"The basic hope here," said Bishop Thomas O'Brien of Phoenix, chairman of the Committee on Marriage and Family Life, "is that parents will accept their children, regard­less of their sexual orientation. 
drinking. 
A dean-cut three-letter athlete who graduated in the top 10 of the 325 students in his high school class. Krueger had attend­ed a party at the fraternity earli­er that night where he was paired off with a "big brother," and where alcohol was served, school officials said. 
Police have begun a criminal investigation, and licensing authorities in Boston, where the fraternity is located, have charged it with serving alcohol to minors. allowing an overdose 
MIT has also suspended Phi Gamma Delta's social activities. 
Students said Phi Gamma Delta promoted an image of itself as MIT's "Animal House" frat. Several said they had been offered beer there during the freshman summer rush week, despite university regulations banning alcohol at the event. 
MIT's other fraternities and its dormitory council have agreed to ban alcohol indefinitely, and the school is sending letters to stu­dents, holding seminars and ask­ing resident advisers to counsel freshmen. 


By DAVID BRIGGS 
Associared Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
U.S. Catholic bishops are advising parents of gay children to put love and support for their sons and daughters before church doctrine that condemns homosexual activity. 
In a groundbreaking pastoral letter, the bishops say homosex­ual orientation is not freely cho­sen and parents must not reject their gay children in a society full of rejection and discrimina­tion. 
"All in all, it is essential to recall one basic truth. God loves every person as a unique indi­vidual. Sexual identity helps to define the unique person we are," the bishops say. "God does not love someone any less simply because he or she is homosexual." 
The document was approved by the Administrative Board of the National Conference of 
Catholic  Bishops  early  in  
September  and  released  
Tuesday.  

In the last two decades the Roman Catholic Church has stood firm, teaching that homo­sexuality is morally wrong. 
In two high profile cases in the 1980s, the Vatican disci­plined Seattle Archbishop Raymond Hunthausen for allowing a group of gay Catholics to meet at St. James Cathedral and revoked Charles Curran's liscense to teach theol­ogy because he had said homo­sexual acts are sometimes morally acceptable. 
But the mounting turmoil and pain felt by Catholics torn between church teaching and love for their gay children prompted several bishops to request guidance from the bish­ops' Committee on Marriage and Family. The committee began studying the conflict in 1992. 

Bishops: Accept your gay children 
The culmination of their work five years later comes as gay teens remain at special risk of suicide and running away from home. In their Jetter, the bish­ops describe parents who suffer guilt, shame and loneliness because their children are gay and report that "a shocking number" of homosexual youth are rejected by their families and end up on the streets. 
The parental rejection, along with the other pressures faced by young gays and lesbians, 

place them at greater risk of drug abuse and suicide, the bishops said. 
Why the form of a pastoral letter from the church's spiritu­al leaders? 
"Primarily to get them to accept the fact that their son or daughter is gay or lesbian, and that their child was not damned forever," Bishop Joseph Imesch of Joliet, Ill., chairman of the Committee on Pastoral Practices, said in an interview. 
The Vatican has staunchly held that sex is morally accept­able only within the bounds of heterosexual marriage. 
And the U.S. bishops' letter in no way abandons Catholic doc­trine. It states clearly that geni­tal sexual activity between same-sex partners is immoral and that the Jetter is not to be understood "as an endorsement of what some would call a 'homosexual lifestyle.'" It draws 
THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP 
Invites all interested students to attend a presentation by 
Marc Chapman 

Associate Recruiting Director, Chicago 
Speaking on "Strategy Consulting and the Associate" 
* * * 

Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Wednesday, October 1 


6:00p.m. 
Reception to follow Casual Attire 
* * * 

Ifyou are unable to attend the presentation, pleas. visit Career and Placement Services for more information about career opportunities with BCG 
r NOTREDAME LAW i 



REVIEW STUDENTS 
PRESENT 

"What you want to know about Law School." 

Wednesday 
Mock Court Room


October 1, 1997 
Law School

7:00p.m. 


Sponsored by the Prelaw Society









---------_.J 
Amsterdam • Atlanta • Auckland • Bangkok • Boston • Brussels • Budapest • Buenos Aires • Chicago • Dallas • DUsseldorf Frankfurt • Hamburg • Helsinki • Hong Kong • Jakarta • Kuala Lumpur • Lisbon • London • Los Angeles • Madrid • Melbourne Milan • Monterrey • Moscow • Mumbai • Munich • New York • Oslo • Paris • San Francisco • Sao Paulo • Seoul • Shanghai Singapore • Stockholm • Stuttgart • Sydney • Tokyo • Toronto • Vienna • Warsaw • Washington • ZUrich 

-~-.--~-~-----------------~---------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 

page 8 Wednesday, October 1, 1997 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............•.. : ............. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy 
Accent Editor........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Phow Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhc policies of the administrarion of either insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent rhe opinion of the majoricy of the Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, Assistam Managing Ediwr, News Ediror, Viewpoim Ediwr, Sports Ediwr, Accem Edimr, Saim Mary's Editor, Phow Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns presem rhe views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-53I3  
Managing Editor  63 I -4 541  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
News/Photo  63 I-'i323  Systems  631-8839  
Spprrs  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-747I  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  63 I-6927  
Day EdirorNiewpoim General Information  631-5303 63I-747I  Viewpoint E-Mail Ad E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• AWAKENINGS 

Campaign-Finance Corrupts Whole Society 
• IJOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
8Y 'lOURUAI-?J, tliT55TAI<T l(f/TH TH!i t-~ STl/ff. 7J11<&3 7H!i !<VW'W!i;"A?RIN5TANC$. 
ISN'TIT TIMG 7D5lDP~ra<­RJNG 7lJ YOUR56t-VE!3 IN 7Hf3 FIRST f!31<'SON Pi-1/RAU' 
Thanks to the Senate Government Affairs Committee hearings, campaign­finance reform has been on the front­page of the past two months' news. However, the hearings have served pri-

J.P. 

Cooney 
marily as a partisan expose of the 1996 Clinton/Gore campaign and accom­plished little in the way of examining and recommending actual reform pro­posals. In fact, it took gutsy political maneuvering by the president and Senate Democrats to even place the leading reform bill, McCain-Feingold, on the Senate floor for debate. Little good it will do though, as Senate Majority Leader Lott added a controversial union amendment yesterday threatening to stall debate until next session. Moreover, Speaker Gingrich declared the bill dead-on-arrival in the House last week. 
We have on our hands a system in desperate need of reform, but since it pays marked dividends to incumbents, lawmakers avoid addressing the issue seriously. Instead, it is used to point fin­gers back and forth -Republicans at abusive Democrat fundraising practices and Democrats at elitist Republicans unwilling to reform. The hearings are not about reform but rather laying blame. This is classic Washington power-politics at work. 
The substantive debate which has resulted from this process has focused too little on how to reform campaign­financing and instead has been dominat­ed by a discourse on the constitutionali­ty of reforms. Sens. Mitch McConnell and Robert Bennett, to name a few. swear by the First Amendment as though it were this country's sole guid­ing principle. Their arguments equating political spending to freedom of expres­sion have so muddled the campaign­finance debate that no reform measure can be considered without its constitu­tionality being decried. 

While I thoroughly disagree with the basis of such arguments, attentiveness to the Constitution is important and commendable. But not when it comes at the expense of recognizing a startlingly obvious fact: the current system of cam­paign-finance, which sets no limits on spending or donations to the parties and rewards incumbents for succumbing to private special interests, represents a much larger problem in America. This problem, as expressed in a ledure here at Notre Dame 10 days ago by Sen. Joseph Lieberman, is the prowess of money and the erosion of ethics, values, and good judgment in American civil society. 
The problems with campaign-finance go much deeper than the Constitution ­and much deeper than a few soliciting phone calls from the White I louse for that matter. The problem lies in the intent of large contributions and the consequent access to politicians large donors gain. This was crystallized two weeks ago by the testimony of interna­tional businessman Roger Tamraz before the Senate GQvernment Affairs Committee. 
Tamraz donated $300,000 to the Democratic Party in the 1996 election cycle (and similar amounts to Republicans in the past), gaining him invitations to a half-dozen White llouse social events and unparalleled leverage in business ctealings. He testified that his sole motivation was access; for Tamraz, party affiliation is inconsequen­tial-what counts is power. When asked whether or not he got his money worth, Tamraz exclaimed that next time he would donate $600,000. lie also revealed in his testimony that he has never voted in an nlection nor is 
but worse than that, it encour­he registered to vote. lie ages and rewards highly 

court them really feel secure 
more moral Amnriean civil 
that their actions uphold the Constitution and do not erode the values of democracy and the stability of our supposed polity? 
It seems that in the heat of the debate over campaign-finance reform our law­makers have failed to stand back and reflect on these rather fundamental questions. I firmly believe that our cur­rent system tramples over key principles such as unfettered access to the political process and "one-person, one-vote"­
society. Until this dilemma is reme­died, corruption will continue to be pro­tected by the f<'irst Amendment. 
J.P. Cooney is a junior economics and government major living in Knott !fall. !lis column appears every other Wednesday. lie can be reached at Joseph.P. Cooney. 6@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• GUOTE Of THE DAY 
"some of us are becom­ing the men we wanted to marry." 
-Gloria Steinem 


VIEWPOINT

Wednesday, October 1, 1997 page 9 
• Goo 'N liFE • lETTE:RS TO THE EDITOR 
Walk in the Love of Christ, Not in the Hate ofMan 
When the late Cardinal Joseph Bernardin initi­ated the Catholic Common Ground Project, one of his reasons was because of the "increasing polarization" within the Church. It cannot be denied that this has become a problem, especial­ly in America. Perhaps if the term polarization was better explained, however, this phenomena might be better understood and eliminated. 
The best way to explain polarization is by example. And such examples can be found whenever groups of Catholics converge -even 
Julie Ferraro 

on the Internet. There are e-mail discussion lists that provide a forum for "right wing" or "ultra conservative" Catholics, as well as lists which host more liberal souls. Evidence of polarization presents itself when one group discusses the other, or Church teachings. 
Views have become very hardened in recent times, as read on such lists. Many conservative Catholics firmly believe that anyone who consid­ers women's ordination as a future option is damned. The same holds for the topics of homo­sexuality, contraception, and so forth. These conservatives have not tolerance for liberal Catholics. Their view is the only one that is "cor­n~ct" within the Church-in their own opinion -and anyone who does not agree with them is wrong. 
Some liberals. on the other hand, have little tolerance for conservatives of this ilk. The lat­ter's bf'liefs are seen as "old fashioned" or anti­quated. And should a conservative attempt to "enlighten" a liberal, there is sure to be a lively exchange, if not an outright argument. 
These attitudes leave many Catholics wonder­ing: whatever happened to Christianity? Whatever happened to the example Jesus Christ gave us of loving each individual as neighbor, as brother, as child of God? 
It shouldn't really matter if a person is a con­servative or a liberal, or somewhere in between. .Jesus healed the sinners and the righteous; he shan~d meals with tax collectors, talked with Samaritans, and refused to condemn the women caught in adultery. To those people despised by society, Christ showed love. 
Add to this fact that not one of us knows what tomorrow will bring-prosperity. poverty, life, death -and we lind no cause to push individual views on others. God has created each person as a unique soul, and leads each one along a singu­lar path to eternity. Judging others based on a personal interpretation of Church teachings is not fair. to say the least. 
Growth in understanding of the various view­points within the broad spectrum of the Church may not solve all the problems we face today, but it may bring those who have "polarized" themselves a bit eloser together in God's love. This understanding starts when individuals are grounded in sincere, loving prayer and strive to have an open mind -a mind open to the won­ders of God's world and God's people. By under­standing their own place and value in God's family, it is possible to lind value in others, regardless of their views. 
Whether this value be in organizational skills, creativity, computer aptitude, or capacity to learn. by frank and honest dialogue even the most ardent conservative and the most vocal lib­eral will lind they share common ground, if only that Cod loves both equally and unconditionally. 
In appreciating that love, it will no longer mat­ter if a person claims to be on the right, the left or somewhere in the middle. An optimistic assessment'? Throughout his 44 years as a priest. Cardinal Bernardin didn't think so. 
Julie Ferraro is an administrative assistant at Notre Dame. She can be reached at Julie.A. Ferraro.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Non-discrimination Clause About Trust 
I am in partial agreement with Kate Rowland's article "Are We Ready for Inclusion?''. (Sept. 29). In certain regardstl1i$ University is 
probablythe.last campus where one would· 
taf<.Ur a.mi honest 
non~discrimi~a~ol1 claus~ to exist. This fac 
allow this issue th.e hack7hurner treatme Notre · · · tywher ·· 
· ty toward consery 
Dame b . f.student others who are differi:inHrinn them. 
"Fishett'aggot$" arid "Zahm's gay" ch lent examples oftllis; . · · 
An expeti~nce in my own life is equally in 
bia that exists here. As an editor for Schol · 
many responsibilities. A few weeks ago, the range:~ ·esponsibili­
ties was expanded in an unusual direction. After · cajolery 
from a very crafty editor~in-chief I was persuaded to pose for the 
cover of the magazine's "Spirit of Inclusion': issue (Sept. 11}, Yes, 
that's me wearing the "Gay Irish" shirt against the h. ·ound of the Dome. and, nope,I'm NOT gay. ··· · 
From therea.ction the cover got. though; l nli 
Friends ofminefron1themagazine can1~t ries of angry1readelfi "\N~P hated me I'~g~rd 
me. One fr · tllld.tnetbatbeoverh ·· · · kick thatf: . 's as8!";Ntceguy.Wel 
so tactfully put it; 'Ihe .very fact that Ih . 
this to people whenever they find outthat i~ wa~ 
evidence e11ough that there is an obsession with 
uality on ourcampus, •· · ···•. 
In her artiele, however, Rowland suggests th,at 
deal with th,is preoccupation is to ignore it ••C ot r~:~adyfor 
change, Rowland used the parable of pet care ·. .··.· .······ ... · yeill'~old asks 
his parents for a dog. His parents tell him he mUist firstprove he is 
responsible enough to take care of it." A fine an ·· · e kid 
doesn't have any chance of getting that pet ifhisp e dog-
haters in the first place. Well that's what our adn( n is-a 
bunch of dog-haters, scoundrels andmeanies. Big· iS alive and 
well at Notre Dame. 
It all addsup.to a lack of trust. We should all h 
administration does not trust us enough to give 
ing non-diserirnjrtation clause. Admittedly, it 
dents mightnotberea(iy, hut who's to say 
future...• NotreDam~has the potentiaLtobe 
but as long aswe have an administrationw 
us morals and says ''Live by these rules,"we! 
as a community and help everyone feelaecep 
Hey, Monk and Patty-if you don't want h 
University,ju~t put a "check here if you're ahom 
the Notre Dame application. Otherwise, accept the . .. there are 
gay people at Notre Dame who are just as deserving ofacceptance 
and the knowledge that their rights as human beings aregnaranteed.
··.::::t::·:·· :·::··.<:~·=·>.· 
Aaron J. Nolan 

Love is Love, 
Gay or Straight 
This letter is in reply to Charles Rice's editorial featured in Friday's issue of The Observer. I thought the letter was clear, articu­late, and well-argued, but I disagree with his conclusion. He believes that the University should start programs (or stay out of the way of those who are trying to start programs) to turn homosexuals away from their orientation. I feel that this would actually be in conflict with our mission to promote people knowing God on earth. 
I cannot speak with the authority of a gay man on these issues, but I have had the privilege of walking with a close friend along her dif­ficult journey of coming out. What this experience has taught me is that homosexuality is not about PC-ism or politics, but about love. It is about loving whom you choose, and who chooses you. In a theolo­gy class I took on human sexuality and Christian marriage (not here but at my undergraduate university), I learned that it is through lov­ing one another that we come to love God. As a man and woman grow closer together in a traditional marriage, their intimacy brings them both together with God. 
When we finally see that homosexuality is about love, and not about politics or offending people or sheer rebellion, then we must finally see that it is also about coming to know God through other people, people of our own choosing. 
Jacob Heidenreich Graduate Student, Mathematics/Philosophy September 27, 1997 


Widespread Panic is Fun For All 
I couldn't help but question many of the critiques Joel Cummins made about Widespread Panic's Sept. 19 concert (Sept. 25, Accent). I was shocked when he called the concert simply "respectable." Many points raised in the review seemed contra­dictory. 
The first of these comments was that John Bell's vocals "hauntingly resemble those of Dave Matthews." I heard a similar comment made about John Popper of Blues Traveler, citing that Popper was emulating Matthews. For both, I lind this ironic since Blues Traveler and Widespread Panic had been touring for years before DMB originated. I'm not trying to discredit Matthews; I was a DMB fan well before the teeny-boppers joined the bandwagon. But down­playing Bell's "inventive­ness and rhythmic 11air" versus Matthews' is ridiculous. At the concerts I saw, Dave seemed aimed towards 13­to 15-year­olds while 
J.B. really let loose. 
Cummins cited WSP as uncomfort­able, lacking dynamic or stage pres­ence, and unable to keep attentive fans. I don't know where Cummins was, but nothing about the show seemed nat. With five albums, an enormous fol­lowing, and 15 years of exhaustive touring experience, I don't understand how a band with a reputation as one of the best jam-bands around could still lack so much in concert. However, I sensed later in Cummins' critique that he found what the "Widespread Experience" is. Perhaps it was the way the band lit up the crowd with a 20-minute percussion jam and the improvs which enveloped the entire audience. 

In addition, I brought some new-comers to the show and they loved it. So it wasn't just the experienced fans who were "havin' a good time." 
Dave Clark Freshman, Keough Hall 
We want to hear from you! 
Submit your letters to the edi­tor via e-mail or disk. Please drop offyour letters at 314 LaFortune Student Center or send them to Viewpoint.1@nd.edu. Please limit the length ofyour letter to 250 words. Ifyou have any questions call the Viewpoint department at 
631-5303. 

page 10 Wednesday, October 1, 1997





ACCENT 


• AccENT Asxs••• 

What do you l{.now about Rosh Hashanah? 


"I'm all about Jewish hoildays." 
Andrew Aris Sophomore, Stanford 

"It's the beginning of the Jewish New Year lasting 1 0 days and ending in Yom Kippur." 
Catherine Flannery Sophomore, LeMans 


"I know how to pronounce it." 
Peter Bandera Sophomore, Zahm 

"It's the Jewish New Year." 
Katy Catenacci Sophomore, Cavanaugh 

Celebrating Rosh I) 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Assistant Accent Editor 

R
osh Hashanah. Rosh what? You know, Hosh Hashanah, one of the many Jewish Holidays, the Jewish New Year. And no, you don't get extra points for pronouncing the words right. Ever wonder what all the holidays were that appeared at the bottom of the dates on your calendar? Perhaps you never gave them much thought. Well, prepare to be enlightened about one of them. For those of you who can actually do more than just spell and pro­nounce the words Rosh Hashanah correctly, then pat your­self on the back. 
First, when exactly is Hosh Hashanah? Three guesses: 
a) near Christmas b) tomorrow or c) on Halloween? If you picked answer "b" you are the big winner. This year it is Oct. 2 and 3, actually starting tonight. It marks the beginning of the Jewish New Year and is celebrated on the first and second days of the Jewish month of Tishrci. Unlike the big, loud and riotous festivals seen on television at mid­n i g h t, Dec. 31 for the n e w Homan cal­endar year, the Jewish New Year is a solemn festival. 
In the Torah it is known as Yom Teruah or the Day of Blowing the Shofar (a ram's horn) and in prayer it is referred to as Yom Hazikoron, or the Day of Hemembrance. The New Year Day is the Day of Judgment on which God will determine the future for every­one based on how people have been behaving, a n d according to tradi­tion, the judgment is then written down. 

It can be looked upon as the holiday of second chance, an opportu­nity for people to renew themselves and improve upon their past and strive to become better people. 
Luckily for some sinners a bad judgment can be changed to a good one during the Ten Days of Penitence, the 10 days between the New Year, Hosh Hashanah and the Day of Atonement, Yom Kippur. 
But repenting better be done soon and before the end of Yom Kippur because on this day everybody's future is sealed. This belief is truly followed because on the night of Hosh Hashanah people greet each other saying "Leshanah Tavah Tikaselvu," or "May you be inscribed for a good year." 
A traditional custom on Hosh Hashanah night is to have a regular holi­day meal after the services. During the meal a person should take a piece of apple and dip it in honey and repeat "May it be Your will, Lord our God and God of our fathers, to bless us with a bountiful and sweet year." 
Before Hosh Hashanah comes along, how many people know that the month before is spent in preparation for it? This month is known as Elul which is used for the spiritual preparation for the season of Yomin Noraim, or the Days of Awe, which are Hosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur. 
On the second day of Rosh Chodesh Elul, the Shofar is blown after 
' 
morning services in :he syJI! reminds people that the Y soon and that everyo:~e sho is spent reflecting ttJOn SJ _repenting to God for he wn 
The week before lbsh H~ Selichos are prayers ~or Israel, and an era of :::>eace 
The third c.ay of of fasting -the found in a::bit of 
"
.·····•·., ....
•••• •·.<• ... 
..·..·.~·(¥·
.......•-..
•.:~= ... 
·.~.~.•~.· 
••••,/'..• .•• • • • ..•. rej
.•..•.•.• 
• •••..·.• Sue 
•,.• .,• • •• it is re • • • • • .. • •"•" dLy of
........; 
•'• • • • "•.." • • • • whi:h Go ••*•"•"•"•" On \>om K 

"..• .. • • • .."• but a :::lOssi 
•.,• .,• • • asked i• the
....
...••• Though =til of 
cannot be !'lone j can be recognized and a time when you hea.-the your minuscule kno..vledg cle. 
Special thanks to Rabbi 
Congregation Synag-:1gue fo 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

---~ 
Wednesday, October 1, 1997 page 11
ACCENT 

ashanah 

agogue (except on the Sabbath). The Shofar may Badin (Days of Judgment) are coming ld be prepared when they arrive. The month iritual life, achievements and failures, and ngs one has committed in the past year. 
shanah, special Selichos services are recited. iveness and mercy, an end to the suffering of or all of mankind. 
fishrei. the day after Rosh Hashanah, is a day of Gedaliah. The reason for this fast can be 
586 B.C. King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon alem, then appointed a Jewish leader by aliah as the governor of Judah. The gov­to save the Jewish nation, but people envi­power killed him after only two months of 
assassination was on the third day of Tishrei that day all Jewish life in Eretz Yisrael came halt. Thus, this day is now a day of fasting. 
The day pre­
ceding Yom Kippur is Erev 
•..• ••.•.•.•. Y o m
..........
,. .. " . 
•• • • .. •••• •*•• • 
••.•.•.• Kippur. ·.•.·.•.• On this
..... 
• " • • day an ~•.•.·.·. individual 
.•.•,•.• has the duty .•.·.•.•. of asking for • • .. •"' • • • forgiveness from 

.••••.•.,•.,• the people they 
•.,•·"••.•.•.• have harmed or .•• • ••• • • • offended within the
.~ .. 
•.•.-•.• past year. 
• ..• ..• • The "Season of Our • • • •• Rejoicing," one of • • • • • • the names given to 
•.•..•, the holiday • • • • Succos, follows • • • • •. the "Ten Days 
•.•.' of Awe and 
' ..
....
... . 

• ' • • • * • • 4 ~ • • • • • •
.... ..... . .... . . 
.•.•.•.•. . • • • . . •.• •. . • •.•. . • •.•.
. . ' . ~ ....... . . ..
~ 

• • • • • • • • • • ~ • • • • • • • 
Hepentance." Succos begins on the 15th day Tishrei, during the time in Israel when the are gathered together and people can 
over the fruits of their labor. 
JS is a seven-day holiday, and the last day of ·red to as Jloshana Rabbah. This is the final 101 Hamoed Succos, the Intermediate Days in might change the inscription for a good year. pur the gates of heaven arc officially closed, ly P-xists that God may reopen them if he is ayers on the day of Hashana Rabbah. 
le aspects and traditions of Rosh Hashilnah ltice in such a small story, these festival days reciated by all who read this article. So next ords Hosh Hashanah. impress someone with of the holiday gained from reading this arti-
Yisrael G'ettinger and the Hebrew Orthodox helping with this story. 

-
Shabbat-The Sabbath every week from Friday evening to Saturday evening; one of the holiest days in the calendar 

Rosh Hashanah -The Jewish New Year; start of the Ten Days of Penitence 
Yom Kippur-Day of Atonement; a very solemn day of the year, devoted to fasting, prayer and repentance 
Sukkot-First two days of Tabernacles; commemorates the dwelling of the Israelites in booths in the wilderness 
Shemini Atzeret-Eighth Day of Assembly 
Simchat Torah -Rejoicing of the Law 

• • I • 
Hanukkah -Feast of Lights; victory of the Maccabees and rededication of the Temple 


Purim -Celebrates defeat of plot to destroy the Jews of Persia 

Pesach -Passover; deliverance of the Je·wish people from Egypt. The Seder service on the first two evenings recounts the story of the Exodus. The last two days of Pesach are also observed as full holy days. 

Shavuot-Feast of Weeks; marks the giving of the Law (Torah) 
at Mount Sinai. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 1997 
•NBA • GOLF 
Spurs anticipate Robinson's return Shark attacks 
By CHIP BROWN seven preseason games, the team's He was also told by doctors that his Associated Press Writer first 18 regular-season games jumping mechanics were poor, that because of the back injury and then he used his lower back too much 
Woods' play
SAN ANTONIO the team's final 58 games because of instead of relying more on his legs. 
Sean Elliott remembers looking the broken foot. Over the summer, he did thousands 
Associated Press 
down at the San Antonio Spurs San Antonio, which went 59-23 in of situps and leg lifts to strengthen 
bench last season and seeing David Robinson in street clothes hunched over in pain -his back ailing, ·his foot broken and a lost look on his face. 
"I was one of the doubters," Elliott said. "I was real quiet about it. The 
4 
way I saw him last year, at the end of the season, sitting at the end of the bench, I thought he would play half the games this year. I had question marks about his back." 

-
So did Robinson, the All-Star cen­ter who began having back pain after a hernia just before the 1996 Olympics. He never fully treated the 
injury before last season and wound up missing 76 games, the big factor in the Spurs making the biggest one-year drop by a team in NBA history. 
But after months of carefully paced strength and conditioning work, Robinson says he is in the best shape of his life, pain free and full of rookie enthusiasm. 
''I've been out here every day, run­ning and shooting or playing," Robinson said after a recent workout at the University of the Incarnate Word. "My back has responded extremely well." 
That's good news for the Spurs, who were without Robinson for 1995-96, was 20-62 last season as Chuck Person {back), Charles Smith {knee) and Elliott (knee) also missed most of the season. 
Eleven players missed games because of injury, forcing coach and general manager Gregg Popovich to use 24 different starting lineups. 
Now Popovich smiles as he watches Robinson race up and down the court and bang bodies with Tim D'lncan, a fellow 7-footer and top NBA draft pick. 
"It means the whole world having David healthy," Popovich said. "We learned that last year, obviously. He's about 90 to 95 percent and get­ting contact every day. 
"He's stronger than he ever has been, and we are very optimistic that he can return to his old self." 
Robinson said putting off surgery to repair the hernia until after the Olympics last year, allowed his stom­ach and back muscles to deteriorate, increasing the vulnerability for a back injury, which occurred during the Olympics. 
"The back problem persisted, especially after the hernia surgery," Robinson said. "It got worse. When I started training camp last year, I couldn't run." 
his stomach and lower back and changed the way he jumps. 
"I have no concerns whatsoever when it comes to playing game after game," said Robinson. adding that he won't pronounce himself totally fit until he starts the season and is pain free, night after night. 
"Nothing compares to playing night-in and night-out, and that's why I don't say I'm 100 percent. But I feel great. In fact, physically I'm probably in the best shape of my life." 
Robinson, who has averaged 25.5 points, 11.7 rebounds, 3.1 assists and 3 blocks a game over eight years and was the NBA's Most Valuable Player in 1995, said the injury made him realize he still loves the game. 
"When you sit out, there's a couple things that can happen," he said. "You can realize you enjoy sitting out, or you can realize that you really enjoy playing." 
He said he has the same enthusi­asm for this season as he did his rookie year. 
Elliott said he was happy to be proved wrong about Robinson's recovery. 
"He's our centerpiece," Elliott said. "We are all decorations around him." 

BRISBANE, Australia 
Despite winning the Masters at age 21 earlier this year, Tiger Woods has not yet lived up to his tremendous hype, Greg Norman said. 
Norman, the world's top-ranked player, made the remarks in an interview prior an announce­ment Tuesday about The Players Championship, to be played on his home course of Royal Queensland in December. 
Woods twice took the top spot from Norman this year before falling back to his current rank­ing of No. 2. Woods has struggled recently, including a disappointing Ryder Cup performance when he won just 1 1/2 of a possible five points. 
"Tiger got off to a phenomenal fast start. but he's come back to reality and he's just another golfer out there, like all of us who's going to have his ups and downs," said Norman, who was inter­viewed from his Florida home. 
"In any profession when there's a lot of hype, the individuals that play the game understand that, and in a career like golf it takes decades to really smooth itself out and see how good you are over a period of time. 
"The hype has put him up on a level and now, the way his play is, it's not up to that level and the hype has ealmed down." 
Norman's deeision to play the TPC brings him back to his home course for the first time in 15 years. 
"I've got a lot of great memories of the golf course and I remember it like the back of my hand, like it was yesterday," Norman said. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day !rom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oftlce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifleds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
..Spring Break ..."Take 2"••  4 USC GAs  Class of '88 needs 4 GA tixs for  NO's biggest dance party EVER!  alright, whatever punk thinks that  
NOTICES  Hiring Reps! Sell15 .. Take 2 Free. Hot destinations! Free Parties.  703-590-937 4 lvmsg  USC game. Call 818-790-0094 or e-mail JPOOIG@AOL.COM  This Friday in Stepan. WSND 88.9 fm's Retro 70's Dance. Free Food.  he is the keough klepto, you wish! that has been my name forever and  
Eats. Drinks. SunSplash 1-800-426­ Free CO's. Free Admission. 8pm  I hate the fact that you are trying to  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com  NEED 4 STUD TIX -GA'D  I Need 2 USC GA TIX -CALL BILL  til Midnight. Be a part of history.  pass yourself off. freaking wanna­ 
LaFortune Student Center  FOR NAVY CALL TODD  4-4912  be! don't be such a sheep!  
Store Hours Mon.-Thur.: 7:30 a.m.-Midnight  FOR RENT  243 5609  WANTED: 2 BC TIX. WILL TRADE  Prayer to the Blessed Virgin (Never known to fail.) Oh. most  I hate vector spaces and the fact  
Fri.: 7:30 a.m.-7:00p.m.  Married stud tix for sale.  FOR WVA GA'S OR CASH. CALL  beautiful flower of Mt. Carmel, fruit­ that they always contain 0. why is  
Sat.: Noon-6:00 p.m.  WALK TO CAMPUS  4-4610 (even.)  JOHN AT  ful vine splendor of He'lven,  that?  
Sun.: Noon-Midnight  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  (415) 668-1391 BY 10/18.  Blessed Mother of the Son of God.  and why do I care?  
(closed home football Sat.'s)  $195/PERSON  Wanted: USC GA's for$$$$!!!  Immaculate Virgin, assist me in my  
Phone 631-COPY  232-2595  Call Krista @ X0735  I'm willing to donate a kidney for  necessity. Oh. Star of the Sea, help  MOFAKI ... YOU ARE MY AMBAS­ 
USC G.A.'s  me and show me. herein you are  SADOR TO QUAN  
Bed & Breakfast  NEED USC TIX  call 243-5609  my mother. Oh Mary, conceived  LOVE ALWAYS.  
SAVE THIS AD  Have rooms for USC & Boston  REGULAR & STUDENT GAs  without sin, pray for us who have  D.J. LEXI LEX  
Rooms left at our b-n-b for the USC  games. 1 mi. N. of campus.  CALL JOHN AT 232-0431  WE HAVE USC GA'S FOR SALE  recourse to thee (3X). Holy Spirit,  
game, Oct. 18th. Spacious rooms,  2 night min. 272-9260  CALL US:  you who solve all problems, light all  LUD  
less than 5mins. from campus, toll  Wanted: Individual wants tickets for  SUZY 634-4311  roads so that I can attain my goal.  
road and airport. Great for family,  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  LSU/Notre Dame Game. Will pay  OR  You who gave me the divine gift to  serina. almost forgot!  
friends & relatives. Call today 277­ FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND  cash. Phone (318)752-1208 or  ELLEN 634-4308  forgive and forget all evil against  but who can forget you?  
2388.  OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS.  (318)747-8820.  me and that in all instances in my  
ILOST & FOUND I  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS-5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS AVAILABLE  need five SC GAs for fam. call Matt 634-3313  life you are with me. I want in this short prayer to thank you for all things as you confirm once agian  I suck at this stuff. but hopefully meghan is right and they can't fail us.  
CALL 271-7042  Need 1 USC GA  that I never want to be separated  
-­ Lost: Diamond Necklace last  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  Prefer Converted Stu Ticket  from you in eternal glory. Thank you  SABOR LATINO making changes'  
Thursday at Jazzman's.  Breakfast Inn has space available  2 USC stud tix, $65 each, call  -call Holly, x2141  for you mercy toward me and mine.  Try Outs for Horns, Vocals, Bass.  
Reward. If found, please call  for football/parent wknds. 5 Rooms  44465  The person must say this prayer 3  Drums.  
284-4350.  with private baths, $70-$90,  2 usc, 2 BC Tix For Sale.  consecutive days. After 3 days, the  Call Ed 277-6976 after 5  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  NOTRE DAME  Best Offer. 243-5354  request will be granted. This prayer  
would appreciate anyone who finds  Toll Road, Exit #107,  FOOTBALL TICKETS  must be published after the favor is  We're looking for a basist .. Here  
keys to room 308 to call x 1862 If you find the little grit who stole  1-800-418-9487.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  PERSONAL  granted.  bassist ... here bassist ... That's a good bassist. Call Jim if interested  
them, you can also call x1862  Bed and Breakfast for ND games.  232-0058  about playing bass-x0677.  
Private home 2 miles from stadium.  My teacher's breath smells­ 02 Motorcycle Tool  
black-grey sweatshirt w\ keys taken  Private baths. 272-9471  CONFIDENTIAL  Whoa! I love you.  Yes, person who's name I can't say  
- at Stepan Fields -turn in to notre dame security  ENTIRE FURNISHED HOME  TICKET-MART, INC.  •••••• ATTENTION ••••••  Every night when I come home, to Siegfried, next to Knott,  these are for you ...  
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS 2773097  BUY/SELL ND SEASON AND INDI­ GAY, LESBIAN. BISEXUAL-STU­ I pray that the Lady on the Dome  can you tell she's from california?  
FOUND: Prescription glasses in  VIDUAL GAME TICKETS.  DENTS, FACULTY & STAFF ....  provide a parking spot.  what part of it gave her away? just  
LensCrafters black case. Found in  NICE HOME NOW OR NEXT  674-7645.  The ORIGINAL Student-Run Group  everything she said ...  
grey CSC van. Turned into  SEMESTER 2773097  will hold General Meeting on Thurs.  And Lo! Before my weary eyes.  
Security's lost & found. Call Kristen  Buying GA's seasons or individual  10/2 at 8pm  a single space unfurls,  and why are you II and not Jr. ?  
for more info. 1-8404  FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  games. Top dollar paid.  New members welcome.  A beacon under dreary skies.  
WANTED .I LARGE REAL ESTATE co. NR.  AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 I FOR SALE I  Confidential service. Call 234-5650. ND FOOTBALL TICKETS FOR SALE  Call Info-Line at 236-9661 for details. PREGNANT? If you are pregnant  untouched by boys & girls. But as I peer around the bend, I find to my dismay, A teeny. tiny motor bike  what's it like getting two roommates for the price of one? see cause we have two roommates for the price of three ...  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELAIBLE  ·  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  and condisering your options, we  is standing in my way!  
PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST. PHONE & COMPUTER EXPERI­ENCE A MUST. $7.75/HOUR. 1-6  MOUNTAIN BIKE '95 Trek 9200 full aluminum  EVENING #: 288-2726 ND TICKETS WANTED  are a loving couple loooking to adopt. Please call 1-800-866-8848 after 6 PM  And thus my hopes have vanished, Until the glorious day,  what's it like to know you'll have a job after graduation? hmmm...  
M-F;  FULL SUSPENSION  DAYTIME#: 232-2378  (expenses paid).  When motorbikes are banished  I'll call specifically for you next time.  
9-2 SAT. SEND RESUMES TO P.O  sweet condition  EVENING #: 288-2726  02 Motorcycle Tool: YOU SUCK!!!!  
BOX 11397, SOUTH BEND. IN  $750 OBO  Married, childless white couple of  OK. I'm done.  
46634.  .-------------,  FOR SALE  13 yrs. seek to adopt infant. Please  Hey girlies, Saturday is going to be  
...EARN FREE TRIPS & CASw··  TICKETS  N.D. G.A.'S  call 1-800-916-5629, access code 92.  awesome. I can't wait. Rock On, D.J.  I'm not.  
CLASS TRAVEL needs students to promote Spring Break 1998! Sell 15 trips & travel free! Highly motivated  I NEED GA TIXS ALL ND HOME GAMES.272-6551  271-9412.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  crap I need a DATE please help me i'm a loser  Maybe it is finally meant to be. Then again. maybe not.  
students can earn a free trip & over $1 0,000! Choose Cancun. Bahamas. Mazatlan. Jamaica or Florida! North America's largest stu­dent tour operator! Call Now' 1-800­838-6411  Wanted: ND Football Tickets Discreet Buyer-Call 1-800-255­2850 Need 2 USC tix  WANTED N D G A'S TO ALL HOME GAMES 271 1526 NEED 2 NAVY TIX. CALL FRANK. 800-243-9683.  '-1 High-Speed Copies '-1 Canon Color Laser Copies '-1 Digital Color Printing '-1 Binding & Laminating '-1 Public Fax Service 631-FAX1 Phone 631-COPY  i'm going to flunk my linear test If you see Carah Smith. tell her to have a smashingly good birthday.  Ready to bust out the vinyl pants? You could not go wrong by painting them green. Leave Big Bird alone!  
Male seeks female roommate to share 2-bdrm home. $325/mo. Inc/  Call Rob at 271-6005 Need 7 ND-SC tickets. Call collect  ALUM NEEDS GA TIX TO HOME GAMES AND LSU  STOMPER BOB & GRAVITY HILL TONIGHT  I can hook too! watch out baby, the panther is lethal.  Who else has randon bruises to show for the weekend?  
utilities. 243-0491 .  after 5pm 219-324-3241  CALL MIKE 800-991-0525  AT BRIDGET'S!  Potpourri spray  Brian, the computer crashed.  

• l'' ~T!ONAL lEAGUE PLAYOFFS 
Jones leads Braves to victory Marlins take Game 
By PAUL NEWBERRY appearance. ing the Braves a 2-0 lead. That Associawd Press Writer Houston, making its first would be their final hit of the postseaso.n appearance since day, but that was all they 


One in the ninth 
ATLANTA 

Greg Maddux gave the Braves the kind of pitching they take for granted. But it was Kenny Lofton who 
f i n a I I y 
showed Atlanta what a littln speed can do. 
Lofton, hampered most of the season by a pulled groin muscle, created a lirst-inning run with his daring on the basepaths. and Maddux limited llouston to seven sin­gles as Atlanta defeated the Astros 2-1 in tlw first game of NL division series Tuesday afternoon. 
Darryl Kiln and two relievers lw I d tlw Braves to only two hits in seven innings -none after the first pitch in the sec­ond inning -but Atlanta scored a run off each one, showing the experience of making an unprecedented sixth straight postseason 1986, has played the Braves close all year. The 11 regular­season games each were decided by one or two runs, with Atlanta winning seven. 


Atlanta, a one-base-at-a­time team during most of its run as the team of the '90s, acquired Lofton in a block­buster trade with Cleveland during training camp. 
Rut the injury and unfamil­iarity with NL pitchers held him to 27 stolen bases, the lowest output of his major league career in a full season. 
Lofton, insisting he was healthy heading into the post­season, demonstrated that in the very first inning. He blooped a hit just inside the left-field line and turned on the speed to stretch it to a double. 
Lofton taggnd and sprinted for third on a fly to medium right, sliding in just ahead of the throw from Derek Bell. Chipper Jones brought home the run with another fly to left. 
Ryan Klesko led off the sec­ond with a homer to right, giv­
needed with Maddux on the 

By STEVEN WINE majors. Their 52-29 record atmound -especially in a day 
Associated Press Writer home this season was also
game. He was 10-0 with a 1.94 

baseball's best. 
ERA in daytime starts during MIAMI Kevin Brown and Kirk Rueterthe season. 

The first postseason game in dueled for six scoreless innings, Working on 10 days rest, the Florida Marlins' history went then departed after seven with
four-time Cy Young Award 

down to the last pitch. game 1-all. Both starters bene­winner allowed morr. than one Edgar Renteria's two-out, fited from acrobatic defensivehit in only one inning and shut bases-loaded single in the bot­plays.
down the top three hitters in 

tom of the ninth inning gave Dennis Cook pitched two per­llouston's order. Craig Biggio, Florida a 2-1 victory over the fect innings to earn the win forBell and Jeff Bagwell were a San Francisco Giants in the the wild-card Marlins. Tavarezcombined 0-for-12 with three opening game of their best-of-5 took the loss for the West cham­strikeouts. 
NL division series Tuesday. pions.
Bagwell, who had 43 homers The score was tied at 1 when Bill Mueller led ofT the top of

and 135 RBis, struck out 

Jeff Conine, the only Marlins the seventh with a home run toswinging in the eighth with a starter who has been with the give San Francisco a 1-0 lead.
runner at second. Maddux's 

team since its first game in Johnson's leadoff homer in the
114-pitch complete game 

1993, began the ninth with a bottom of the seventh tied theensured the Braves didn't have single against Julian Tavarez. score.
to go to their shaky bullpen. 

Charles Johnson was hit by a Giants slugger Barry Bonds
The Astros scored a most 

pitch attempting to bunt. went 1-for-4 with a double,unlikely run in the fifth. With After Roberto Hernandez raising his lifetime postseasonone out, Tony Eusebio singled relieved Tavarez, Craig average to .194. He flied out to
and stunned the Braves with 

Counsell advanced both runners end the top of the ninth. 
the first stolen base of his 

with a two-strike sacrifice, and The crowd of 42,167 wasmajor league career. 
Jim Eisenreich was intentional­noisy but 2,500 shy of capacity, The slow.srunning catcher ly walked to load the bases. and there were several thou­
has gone 296 regular-season ''I've been in that situation sand empty seats when the

games without swiping a base. 

many times before," said game began. 
Eusebio moved to third on a Renteria, who deliverPd his fifth The victory was welconiegroundout and scored on Kile 's game-ending hit of the season. medicine for Florida's Jimsingle up the middle. Kile, who "I go up there and just hope I Leyland, who managed his firsthit .124 with 38 strikeouts in can put the ball in play. A lot of playoff game in five years while 89 at-bats this season, was 2­times, that's all that's neces­battling walking pneumonia. 

for-2 against Maddux. 

sary." "[don't feel well, but obvious­Fans in Atlanta have appar­"Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes," the ly I feel a lot better than l would ently grown so accustomed to 21-year-old shortstop said have if we had lost," Leyland
postseason baseball that the 

through a translator. "To be said. "It was just a great, greatBraves failed to sell out a divi­
put in that situation and do playoff game."
sion playoff game for the sec­what happened, it's definitely Game 2 will be Wednesday,ond year in a row. Attendance the best time of my life." with AI Leiter pitching againstat Turner Field was 46,467 ­It was the Marlins' 25th win Giants' ace Shawn Estes. 

about 3,000 short of capacity. 

in their final at-bat, most in the "It's tough to lose the first game," San Francisco manager Dusty Baker said, "but we're coming back with our best Wednesday." 
"We're going to bounce back,
Happy 21 

like we've done all year," Mueller said. "This team is

Birthday, 
unique. It doesn't take much to generate something positive. 
We keep fighting." 
Brown, who no-hit the Giants in June, this time retired the first 14 batters and took a two­

Meeghan! 
L 
~eer'rN~ &.~~~. 

hitter into the seventh. Mueller, who hit seven home runs dur­
~r/. ./P6r/N, 

ing the regular SPason, then pulled a 1-0 pitch into the sec­
Zjrr. .YArwt, 

ond row of the right-field stands.
C()~~rjk/1 rr/lr/ 
Johnson, who batted just .119 in the final 24 games of the reg­
v#6ru~,~~ 

ular season, hit a 2-2 pitch over ­the scoreboard. 

& 
urn 


c[l 



9 pm LaFortune Ballr()Oin Free Food 3 rd Frida 
1st Lolt Show olthe Veaflf 

r---~ 
page 14 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 1997­
• AMERICAN lEAGUE PLAYOFFS 


Three straight blasts propel Yankees to win 
By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
That is why they're the defending 
champions. · 
The New York Yankees, using 
some leftover magic from their 1996 
World Series run. became the first 
team in postseason history to hit 
three consecutive home runs, rally­
ing to beat the Cleveland Indians 8-6 
Tuesday night in the opener of their 
AL playoff series. 
Trailing Ore! Hershiser 5-0 after the first inning and down 6-3 enter­ing the sixth, New York got a game­tying, two-run shot by Tim Raines and solos by Derek Jeter and Paul O'Neill to stun the Indians and give a record crowd of 57,398 in Yankee Stadium a charge like it hadn't felt since last October. 
"We felt if we could hold them there. we'd have a chance," Raines said. "Thank goodness we were able to get back in it. ... We always think we have a chance to come back and win." 
After an off-day on Wednesday, the best-of-5 series resumes Thursday night with the Indians starting 21­year-old rookie Jaret Wright against Andy Pettitte. 
Sandy Alomar hit a three-run homer in Cleveland's five-run first inning off David Cone, who lasted only 3 1-3 innings and must have New York manager Joe Torre think­ing about what he'll do for Game 4 -ifthere is one. 
The night got off to an ominous start for the Yankees when longtime stadium announcer Bob Sheppard 
skipped over Torre during pregame 
introductions. 
Then, New York fell behind by five 
runs to Hershiser, baseball's preemi­
nent postseason pitcher before chas­
ing the right-hander in the fifth 
when it closed to 6-3. 
Baines' sacrifice fly pulled New 
York within three, and llershiser 
was replaced after giving up a single 
to Jeter. Lefty Alvin Morman came 
on and walked O'Neill to load the 
bases before Eric Plunk came in. 
Plunk, who pitched three seasons 
for New York, got Bernie Williams on 
a foul pop and struck out Tino 
Martinez looking. Alomar ripped off 
his catcher's mask, pumped his arm 
and screamed toward Plunk in cele­
bration. 
That would be the last time the 
Indians would get too excited 
because the Yankees were about to 
make baseball history in the sixth. 
With two outs, Bey Sanchez hit an RBI single off Plunk (0-1) and Raines followed with his homer off the upper deck in right to tic it 6-6. Jeter fell behind 0-2 before homering to left and O'Neill had almost the same at-bat against Paul Assenmacher, homering on an 0-2 pitch. 
It was the only the fourth time a team had hit three homers in an inning in postseason play. · 
Cleveland loaded the bases in the seventh, but Matt Williams' fly ball off Jeff Nelson was caught by O'Neill against the right-field wall. 
Ramiro Mendoza (1-0) pitched 3 1­3 scoreless innings in relief of Cone. Mariano Rivera got one out in the eighth and pitched the ninth for the save. 



Johnson, Mussina ready to battle in Baltimore 
ByJIMCOUR 
· Press Wdter 


SEATTLE 
A year ago, Randy Johnson's baseball 
life passed before his eyes, hanging pre­
cariously in the balance as doctors oper­
ated on his back. And then it reappeared. 
Johnson has the gift again, the ability to 
throw a 98-mph fastball after his once­
ailing back healed even better than the 
doctors believed it would. 

"Did I imagine where I would be right 
now?" Johnson asked. "No, I don't think 
anybody did." 

Back and better than ever after missing most of last season because of a bulging disc that required surgery, Johnson will be on the mound for the Seattle Mariners against the Baltimore Orioles Wednesday night in Game 1 of their AL playoff series. 
Johnson (20-4) will be opposed by Mike Mussina (15-8). 
Johnson, 34, was told by doctors that he'd be able come back from his back operation of Sept. 12, 1996. They just weren1 sure how far he'd co.tne back. 
And the 1995 AL Cy Young Award win­ner wasn't sure if he believed them. Through his long months of rehabilitation, the uncertainty ate at him. The anxiety was overwhelming. 
''I'm just very fortunate that I have been given a second chance so I can be out there pitching again," he said. ''I'll never take anything for granted anymore. It's a lonely feeling when you're hurtY 
Johnson won his last two starts this sea­son and then got victory No. 20 -to become a 20-game winner for the first time. ever -when Piniella gave him a gift and brought him in in relief in the fifth inning against Oakland on Saturday. 
By missing four starts late in the season because of finger tendinitis;whe probably lost the Cy Young Award to Toronto's Roger Clemens. 
Still, he thinks he had a career year. In rehabilitating his back, he rehabilitated his pitching soul. He became stronger physically and mentally, too. 
In 29 start.'>, he had a 2.28 ERA and he struck out 291 in 213 innings. In '95, he went. 18-2 with a 2.48 ERA in 30 starts and 214 1-3 innings, when he had 294 strikeouts. 
With four more starts, he surely would have bettered his career best of 308 strikeouts when he won 19 games in 1993. 
"I feel I'm a bette'r pitcher this year than I ever have been," he said. "I did so many things in this offseason than I ever 
· did before that made me a better pitch­cr." 
Johnson was 0-2 against the Orioles this season and is 3-7 against Baltimore in his career. He lost at Camden Yards 13-3 May 8 in a game when he allowed five earned runs in six innings. Then he lost again in Baltimore 4-3 Aug. 15. 
In three starts against the Orioles, he allowed 12 earned runs in 19 innings, a 
5.68 ERA. 
Publicly, he shrugs at those statistics. Those who know him well and know how competitive he is whisper how much he wants to make amends and beat 
Baltimore. 
Unlike '95 when he was bone tired from pitching the Mariners into the ALCS, he is rested now and ready to face the Orioles twice if need be -Wednesday night and again in Game 4 or 5 in Baltimore. In order for the Mariners to beat the Orioles, they feel Johnson has to win Game 1. 
"I don't think Randy will need any moti­vation at all," manager Lou Piniella said. 
Notre Dame"'s biggest Dance Party 




ever!!! 

IS COllliDg. • • 

Friday, October 3rd, in the Stepan disco ball, from 8:00pm-!2:00am. Featuring WSND r.adio personalities, .the MEC's_Taste of Nations, Troop ND free cd's, and your grandmother. Be a part of history!!! Relive the decade you were born m. Show off your mnate fashiOn sense. Look groovy· 
page 15

RecSports 11 Champion Student Award .. recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Michael J. Kroeger, a senior Civil Engineering major, hails from Phoenix, Arizona. Mike is the president of the Notre Dame Rowing Club, one of the oldest clubs on campus. Mike has been involved with the Notre Dame Rowing Club since 1994 and served as the men's captain in 1996-1997. In 1996 he was also named as the Most Improved Oarsmen. Currently he is a member of the Men's Lightweight 8's which were Midwest Champions in 1996 and 1997 as well as 2nd place finishers in the Southern Championships in 1996. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP
....., 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 


altlt. 
VARSITY SHOP

••­
"Specializing in Authentic 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (£~ ,....... .......~..:-~~ .._
merchandise courtesy of \,&..-..__........ ,---·~ and the virfir' located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
1..._

v.r.o; is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
page 16 
The Observer· SPORTS 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll.. 


Tragedy strikes BYU team 
One football player killed, two injured 
Associated Press 
PROVO, Utah 
Terrence Harvey, a corner­back for Brigham Young, was killed in a highway accident and two teammates were injured when their car tried to pass another vehicle and flipped several times. 
Harvey, a 21-year-old sopho­more from Las Vegas, was pro­nounced dead at Utah Valley Regional Medical Center follow­ing the accident on Interstate 15 near Provo about 9 p.m. Monday, the Utah Highway Patrol said. 

"We are shocked and sad­dened by the loss of an out­standing young man who had such great promise," BYU coach LaVell Edwards said. "Our thoughts and prayers are with his family." 
Treated for minor injuries and released was junior defen­sive back Tony Fields, 20, also of Las Vegas. 
Freshman defensive back Roderick Foreman, )7, of Los Angeles, was in fair condition and proJably will have hand surgery today, said hospital spokesman Anton Garrity. 
The three were traveling between 80 and 90 mph in a Nissan Pathfinder when Fields, the driver, attempted to pass on the right and lost control. The car rolled several times, <~ject­ing Harvey, said a patrol dis­patcher who asked not to be identified. The dispatcher said it is too early to determine if alcohol was involved. 
Harvey transferred to BYU three weeks ago from Victor Valley Community College in Victorville, Calif. 
He made his first appearance in the starting lineup Saturday at left cornerback in BYU's 19­16 victory over SMU. Fields and Foreman also played in the game. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 

Bevington gets axe in Chicago 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Terry Bevington was fired today as manager of the Chicago White Sox following an 80-81 season in which his team had one of baseball's highest payrolls. 
"We felt it was in the organi­zation's best interest to make a managerial change," general manager Ron Schueler said. 
Despite the addition of Albert Belle and a $54 million payroll, the White Sox still finished sec­
ond  in  the  AL  Central  to  
Cleveland.  
Bevington had  a  222-214  

record after taking over in June 1995 for Gene Lamont, who 

was fired two years after being named AL Manager of the Year. 
"1 have not set a timetable for finding a new manager," Schueler said. "With this young and aggressive team we are going to have in 1998, I think it is very important that we find the right person, no matter how long that process takes." 
Bevington's dealings with his own coaching staff were strained this season. 
Batting coach Bill Buckner was fired and said it was because he didn't get along with Bevington. Third-base coach Doug Rader, often pro­jected as Bevington's successor, also resigned at the end of the season after just one year with the team. 
And the l'ans turned on the manager, booing him loudly at home when he went to the mound to change pitchers. 
Late in the season in a game against Cleveland, Bevington motioned for reliever Keith Foulke to come into the game. There was one catch -Foulke had not warmed up. 
Bevington will also be remembered for a 1995 on­field wrestling match with Milwaukee's Phil Garner that led to the suspension of both managers. 
Bevington managed for eight seasons in the minors -seven with the Milwaukee organiza­tion -and won five division titles, compiling a 611-492 record. 

GTE GUSTA BAILAR? 
(DO YOU LIKE TO DANCE?) 

lAB PRIIIMTI: ~IDWE/T LATIN JAZZ PERFORMANCE W£DNEIDAY. OCT. I 
8:30-10:30 
@DALLOWAY'I 

• 
LEARN LATIN DANCE MOVES 


• 
ENJOY THE FOOD (CHIPS AND SALSA) 


See, it worked. So stop by Fazoli's for free soft drink refills and unlimited 




Free! 
freshly baked breadsticks 
when you dine in. Hurry. Save. No coupon required. 100% Guaranteed. As seen on TV. 


-
-~ ~---~~~---. 

Wednesday, October 1, 199"' 
.Nfft' 

.L<lEontainexeturns 
~i~ t,o"'r,~Rangers"·, 
.:.X~$::· :.~~:x~~;;~;;:\M-ark Messier:Jeft the Rangers '\iij;to sign with'the Vancouver RYE, N.Y. Canucks. 
•AJter ll}i~~i:Qg .most of last ...·'One player can't replaceyei;).r With cbtnpllc.atioils from ;;(•Mark Messier. HisNcareer a concussion ahd haggling!"' speaks for itself," LaFontaine wi~hthe Buffalo ~ahres ~bo:':t ..:.said. ''The only shoe!' I want hilt return, Pat Y<~.Fontq..me ts v to ftll are my own." _ j\lSt happy to ~f,) hack on the " LaFontaine gives the"' ice.. . . ·. . . : , ::Rangers a talented offensive (;Fve been. Jv.\ly ·recovered.... center to play behind Wayne
for seven· months,"• Gretzky. LaFontaine said Tuesday, at "It's nice to have him on the_ his first:practice after being< team, because now we have traded 'to the New York •itwo offensive center icemen,'',.,, 

Rangers..,;'! was hoping to get back forthe playoffs lastyear, but I'm just excited to bo a Ranger." 
LaFontaine has been Cleared to play for more than a month by two of his own doctors, but Buffalo's team physicians disagreed. He received clearance from the Rangers' medical staff last week. 
"My concern was if I got hit again would I have permanent damage," LaFontaine said. "But the doctors told me that I am at no more risk than anyone who has had one con­cussion. There are a lot of players in that category." 
LaFontaine is expected to ftll. a void left at center when coach Colin Campbell said. "It make~... it difficult for teams with one defensive line to decide who to check." 
LaFontaine, 32, has been sidelined since Nov. 7 because of complications related to a concussion he sustained Oct. 17, when he took an elbow to'"' the head from Pittsburgh's·­Francois Leroux. ~'> 
He played a few games after · the injury, but left the lineup~ after experiencing dizziness, nausea and severe headaches that lasted for several months and threatened to end his career. 
LaFontaine has 445 goals and 506 assists in 13-plus NHL seasons with the New York Islanders and Sabres. 

F·~ ~d;. 
~ 9 ~. 
·-oo,..s~· ~ 
ilL. 
A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND 
-:':~· .. 
PANCAKE BREAKFAST SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 11:00-STEPAN CENTER 
0'ii1y;,T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS 4J0i~ REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS P*$s.OO IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
Placements in: 

• 
Phoenix, AZ 

• 
Hayward (Bay Area), CA 

• 
Colorado Springs, CO 

• 
Brockton (Boston Area), MA 

• 
Portland, OR 

• 
Wilkes-Barre, PA 


WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER IST 
4:00P.M. OR 6:30P.M. 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1@ND.EDU http://www.nd.edu:80/~ hcassoc/ 

~-~---~-­
level, he'II be the first to teII I I
• COLLEGE fOOTBALl ,. I 
you that he needs to do it in a I 
critical situation late in the 
continued from page 20 football game and win the 

Focus 

Tiller, Purdue enjoy success 
game for it," bavie said. his signal caller. Despite the 1-3 start, Davie is Tiller said the bye will mean Big Ten champion
By HANK LOWENKRON "I think he continues to still impressed with the attitude 
Associated Press Writer he could go into the Minnesota Northwestern, is pleasant but progress and he plays well," of his team as hfl feels the tide game with nearly every player "not a huge surprise." 
Davie said. "I think he's played is beginning to turn. 
INDIANAPOLIS physically ready to play. He explained that "our team consistent football for us." "I think the attitude of this The schedule gives Purdue a In his first season heading has some talent and sell them 
The only glaring flaw in football team has been and 
bye this week. a time to heal Purdue's football program. short is a huge mistake." be excellent,"
Powlus' play has been his per­continues to and work to extend the Tiller has already matched last Tiller said he didn't arrive at formance in the fourth quarter Davie said. 
Boilermakers' first three-game year's victory total when the Purdue with a five-year plan to in which he has turned the ball "If you see how this footballBoilermakers finished 3-8. The rebuild a program which strug­
winning streak since 1984. over five times in the four team pract;ces, because of that. 
"A couple of years ago we Boilermakers are hoping to gled for years. 
games. I do think we 'II get this thingsettled on a routine. which produce th<>. school's first win­"We tried not to emphasize "For him to get to the next turned around." 
really is no change of routine," ning football season on the field what we don't have, but rather coach Joe Tiller said Tuesday since 1984. They finished 4-5-2 place emphasis on what we do during his weekly teleconfer­in 1994. b-ut were later award­have," he said. "What we do nnce. ed a forfeit victory over have is some good football play­
Still. there is some variation Michigan State. ers -maybe not as many as in the schedule for the The current winning streak we wish -and they certainly Boilermakers (3-1, 1-0 Big Ten) began after a 36-22 loss to have an ability to execute." before they head to Minnesota Toledo of the Mid-American The Boilermakers have exe­for an Oct. 11 game. Tiller said Conference. cuted well enough to average the Boilermakers had their tra­"I was not as disappointed in 451.3 yards per game on ditional film review of the last our squad after the first game offense. The teams 274.8 yards game on Sunday, but did not as many of the other folks per game passing leads the Big have their usual practice. were," Tiller said. "The ability Ten. 
"The only change that occurs to come back and beat Notre The Boilermakers are averag­(in routine) is you don't have Dame gave our team a tremen­ing 176.5 yards rushing, led by the game on Saturday. The dous lift ... it validated what Kendall Matthews who had a change for us will be next we've been tell our team ... in career-high 152 yards on 22 Sunday, instead of going out terms of what we felt we were carries against Northwestern. and having a light, short 45-capable of accomplishing." Matthews is averaging 6.1 minute workout we'11 practice Tiller said the team's current yards per carry this year. Tiller in full gear for about an hour success, which includes a 21-9 isn't planning on starting him and a half." Tiller said. victory over two-time defending against Minnesota next week. 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association & The Graduate Student Union 
Proudly Present 
PROFESSOR LEONARD WANTCHEKON POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPARTMENT/ YALE UNIVERSITY 
1. Lecture: 
Electoral Competition, "Political Violence and Democratization 
• Monday, October 6 • 12:15 pm • Hesburgh Center Auditorium (Peace Studies) • 
2. Lecture: 
Democracy as an Optimal Enforcement Mechanism for Power-Sharing Contracts 
• Monday, October 6 • 7:30pm • Hesburgh Center Auditorium (Peace Studies) • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
The Irish look to freshman Tony Driver and several other underclass­men to play an important role against Stanford this Saturday. 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 1997 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 


Stanford's Willingham earns respect of players 
ByALDALEU as individuals." Stantord Editorial Sratr Born and raised in North 
Carolina, Willingham's biogra­Discipline. phy reads like that of many It's the word you'll hear over successful coaches. His journey and over again in reference to to Stanford has taken him Stanford football head coach through assistant coaching Tyrone Willingham. stints at Michigan State, his It's how he is; it's what he ·alma mater, Central Michigan, brings to the team. But that's North Carolina State, Rice, an outsider's perspective. Stanford and the Minnesota 
Ask his players, and they will Vikings. talk about respect-the all­Scanning his list of creden­encompassing respect that he tials, it is the sunny California has for his players and that school that stands out both in they have for him. location and student attitude. It 
Ask an assistant coach and he is also the one that Willingham 
will discuss Willingham's returned to as head coach in I ' "relentless pursuit of his goal" December 1994. I I and his staunch work ethic. Since then, his accomplish­
I 
I 
But ask Willingham himself ments have continued to grow. I I and he will say, "flexibility." In two short years as the Card's I ---Flexibility? head coach, Willingham has led 
As he is quick to point out, in the team to two consecutive addition to being football coach bowl appearances and is of a top-25 team and Rose Bowl steadily progressing toward a contender, Willingham is a third straight bowl berth. After father too. his first season at Stanford's 
"I have children that are helm, Willingham was voted growing and changing, and I 1995 Pacific 10 Conference am very much a parent for 90-Coach of the Year. 
some young men," he said. Every coach wants to win, but Flexibility is the key to deal­few want to do it like ing with them. Willingham does. When he says 
"Being at Stanford," that he wants to create a tradi­Willingham said, "we have a tion of winning at Stanford, he different kind of young man, isn't just talking about statis­not to say any better, but treat­tics. To him, winning means ed a little differently-we bring "on the field, in the classroom working college football coach His players have learned junction with areas one and in the best student athletes in and creating a social con­in the nation," said team assis­through his example, living two, lend themselves to trouble. the country." science." tant Kit Harris. "He'll be watch­their lives with the same princi­But he doesn't need to set 
His players agree that his Willingham is the type of ing tape at 11 p.m. on a Sunday ples that he exemplifies. hard and fast rules. He onlyinfluence has transcended the coach that makes an effort to night. No other coach does Willingham has a theory needs to creat~ an environment 
football field. talk to his players. 
that." about how to avoid problems. of expectation and lead by
"He's a lot like a father fig­Willingham is the type of Willingham is quick to dis­Experience has shown him example. ure. He has great insight on father that makes time for his agree, however, saying that 14-three areas in which problems "Everybody on the team has common sense in life," said family and goes to his daugh­hour work days arc generally tend to occur, and he is quick to so much respect for Coach," sophomore wide receiver Rossi ter's gymnastics meets, the type the coaching norm. Also, he caution his players. Jones said. "When he walks 
Jones. "Everything that he of interviewee that takes the 
expects the same devotion from The first is the hour-most into the room everyone is silent teaches us about football can time to ask the reporter about 
his players and staff. "accidents" happen after mid­and all eyes are on him." be applied to real life experi­her life and academic career, "You can't short-cut football night. The second is sub­And what do those 90-some ences. He teaches us that you the type of person who buys and be successful-football is stance-in many cases drugs young men sec'? are successful not only as pizza for students sleeping out the greatnst team sport, but the and/or alcohol arn involved. Discipline. liard-work. Stanford football players; he for basketball tickets. physical and mental demands And th'e third is location­Hespect. Flexibility.really wants to see us succeed He is "probably the hardest are tremendous," he said. restaurants and bars, in con-Character. 
DANCE CLUB ROCK CLUB 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 

Snow Crab Legs, AII-U-Can-Eat, just 15.95 9 oz. Top Sirloin Butt Steak & 1 lb. of Snow Crab Legs, just 17.95 
Open 5-lOpm Tues. -Thurs. & 5-llpm Fri. & Sat. Free Admission to Heartland with Dinner 
222 S. MICHIGAN· SOUTH BEND· (219) 234-5200 
page 19
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT PEOPLE WITH BAD OPINIONS 
THE INTERNET SHOULD BE FREE. WHY 51-\0ULO I HAVE TO P~Y SOME GREEDY CORPOf\1\TION OR LOOt<-AT ADS??!! 
"'\I 


MIKE PETERS 


SCOTT ADAMS  
I WILL NOW USE TI-llS CARD1301\RD TUBE TO E'X.PLI\IN THE. INTRICAC[E5 OF CAPITALISM.  LESSON ON£: THI5 Wf.\5 SOME­TI-UNG THAT SHOULD BE F~EE.  

~ 
(,) 
-' 
0 
"'@J 
"' 
" 
"'0 
,_
"'
,_ 
0 
(,) 
"' 
.. 
E 
w 


35 Kind of situation 65 Permitted 14 Kind of sch. 39 Absolute flop 
66 "Paradise Lost" 15 Dennis the 41 Deplete, setting Menace's perhaps 
67 Clear 

mother 43 "--your life!" 
68 Michener tale,44 Poetic

16"--Thata 
e.g.
preposition·Shame" (1955 69 MGM Grand site

hit) 45 Had no doubts 46--gestae 70 Africa's largest
17 Lamb's alias nation48 "Internal Affairs"18 Superior being 
star, 1990 71 Proof word 

20 Compassion 
so "Der Ring-­22Twofold Nibelungen" 
DOWN
51 Yule garland23 Ballantine brew 54 Talk turkey? 

1 Pager cue24 Annoying critic 56 Mahler's 2 Stew crock26Aswan Dam homeland: 3 Prevailing moodlake Abbr. 

4 College World28 Pizza 57 Vow 

Series site 5 Traditional wife 6 R.&B. singer
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--Sure 7 Like Grateful 28 Hock 49 Recede sa Like some traffic 
Dead attire 29 Golfer Aoki 51 Vegas 60 Marathoner a Beige transaction Markova
33 Now, in
91nsist on Nogales10 Groupie (arcaded Paris 63 Lively card36 "Splendid!"

11 Loeb and Bonet 
street) game

of showbiz 37 "Ah!" 
53 Ruhrcity 
64 "This --test12 Cry of defeat 38 Part of CNN 55 Pay for monthly

13 Early anesthetic 40 Gravel order, 
19 Julia perhaps 
Louis-Dreyfus 41 Nabisco sweet Answers to any three clues in this puzzleTV role are available by touch-tone phone:42 Prohibited21 Flowery tribute 

1-900-420·5656 (75t per minute). 25 Fluff 
44 Brainiac 

Annual subscriptions are available for the 27 Hybrid eating 47 Secret Service best of Sunday crosswords from the last utensil eyewear 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 

rROI\1\WORO ACROSS 1 Dummy 5 More than unpopular 10 Sooty shaft 
59 "A Midsummer Night's Dream" king 
62 Word to a cold sufferer 
30 Foe of the Iroquois 31 Quick swim 32 The East 34Aswell as 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Candice Bergen, Daniel Berrig· an, Glenda jackson, Billy joel 
DEAR EUGENIA: I was born on jan. 27, 194'1, at 5:10p.m. My husband is a Virgo, born Aug. 24, 1'14X, at 10:30 
p.m. We have trouble communicat­
ing. However, we have managed to 
stay together for 2l),.¥ears. He's a good man most of tfie time, but l1l' frequently hides things frnm me in order to protect me. My boss is a Leo born Aug. H, 1961\, at 4:30p.m. and he lies to me, t<XJ. He also tries to control me too much. I also think he's jealous of me. I feel that my boss is trying to get me to quit mv job. 
In the Dark 
DEAR IN THE DARK: You and 
your husband have a terrific com pari· 
son. However, you are right about 
communication. Although you can 
converse about this and that, when it 
comes to real issues, not much is 
accomplished. This is due to the Sat· 
urn Mercury opposition that you 
share. It comes out in areas that deal 
with important papers, legal matters, 
sexual concerns, money, investments 
and so on. In many ways, he is trying 
to protect you -as well as himself. 
At an emotional level, the compari­
son also denotes temper tantrums, 
and this could be why he is reluctant 
to get into such matters. As for your 
boss, you do appear to have a bit of a 
personality clash but that isn't the 
issue or the real problem. Your boss 
not only lies to you, but he lies to 
himself. Until he sorts through his 
own issues, you can expect to put up 
with his erratic behavior. My sugges· 
tion is to start looking for a new posi· 
tion if you can't handle his abuse. 
ARIES (March 21-April 20): Emo· tionally, you may not SCl' thing; accu· rately. Don't jump to conclusions or accuse others unjustly. 
TAURUS (April 21-May 21): Do not let others take advantage of you financiallv. Children will cost vou more than-anticipated. · 
GEMINI (May 22-june 21): You will get into arguments with partners if vou aren't extremely careful. Don't juinp to conclusions. · 
CANCER (june 22-july 22): It is best not to confront situations that are personal. Avoid getting involved in gossip. 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 23): Arguments concerninr, joint financial \'entun•s will set vou off. Be careful not to over· spend. ­
VIRGO (Aug. 24-Sept. 22): Con­
trol your anger. Put your energy into 
work-related matters rather than con· 
frontations with familv members. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23--0ct. 23): Dis­
agreements with friends will cause 
friction. Minor accidents will occur if 
you don't p.:1y nttention. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 24-Nov. 22): 
Don't Ol'l'rreact about joint financial 
l'l'ntures. You will be emotional con· 
cerning other pl'oplc"s money. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 23-Dec. 21): 
You mav be somewhat argumentative 
with vour mate or those vou li1·e 
with. Trv hard to think before vou act. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-j~n. 20): 
You will not agree with co-workers. 
Al'oid gossip and don't take criticism 
too personallv. 
AQUARIUS (jan. 21-Feb. 18): 
Tr,1\'el should be on your agenda. Be 
sure to folio\\' procedures 1\'ith cus­
tums and luggage. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Dis­
,,greements \\'ill erupt on the home 
front ii vou l1a1·e neglected vour 
domestic duties. Try 1wt to jump to 
Clmclusions. 

Join The Observer staff. 
Ask yctorself, Is alcohol doing ycto more gctod than harm, or more harm than good? 
Spon11ored by the Office of Aleohol and Drug Education 
-~ -----­
~-~-~--~~­

.. SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, October 1, 1997 
• WoMEN's SoccER 


Hoosiers no match for Irish 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sporrs Wrirer 
When you're hot you're hot. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team blasted interstate rival Indiana, 8-0, last night at Bill Armstrong Stadium in Bloomington, the Irish were paced once,----~----, again by freshman standout Me otis Erikson, who netted two goals for the second ~~a______ consecutive Grubb game, and Jen Grubb, who tallied three assists. 
For the Irish, the victory marked the eighth-straight win over the Hoosiers, who fell to 7-3, and the 29th consecutive victory against Big Ten oppo­nents, since dropping a 3-0 contest to Michigan State on Sept. 22, 1989. The eight goal margin of victory also marked the worst loss in Indiana women's soccer history. 
"Our goal is really just to concentrate on our game," 

·said Erikson before the contest 
with Indiana. "No matter who 
the opponent is, our objective 
is to play our best." 
Behind the smart play of 
Jenny Heft, Notre Dame (10-0­
1) struck first, as Heft tapped in a cross from Kate Sobrero t~at slipped past the Indiana keeper into the open net at 7:55. 
Anne Makinen's fifth goal in 
three games came at 14:10, 
and as usual, it was a blast 
from 20 yards out that found 
the lower left corner of the net, 
giving the Irish a 2-0 advan­
tage. 

Shannon Boxx added anoth­
er long-range rocket at 24:06, 
taking a feed from Makinen 
and Grubb that found the 
upper corner of the net. To 
dose out the first half scoring, 
Erikson took a dish from Jenny 
Streiffer and split the defense 
for her second goal at 43:27. 
"Sometimes it's hard to get up for weaker teams," said Erikson. "That can be a disad­vantage as you move toward the end of the season, because other teams may play a more difficult regular season or con­ference schedule. But as long as we focus on our goal, we'll be fine." 
Opening the second half with a bang, Streiffer headed in a cross to the far post from Makinen, followed by a Holly Manthei goal off a redirection out to the left wing by Monica Gonzalez at 73:37. Grubb fed Erikson at 81:12 for her sec­ond goal, and Gonzalez con­verted an assist from Julie Maund to close out the scoring. 
Goalkeeper LaKeysia Beene recorded her eighth shutout of the season, making just one save on the day. Notre Dame outshot Indiana 30 to 4 and earned eight corners. 
Although the Irish displayed an all-around solid offensive attack, the freshmen once again showed they belong. 
"Everybody's getting more comfortable," said Erikson. "Having made the adjustment to school has helped our play; it's one less thing to worry about." 
Notre Dame will put its per­feet 5-0 conference mark on the line, returning to action on Sunday, Oct. 5 for a 1 p.m. showdown with rival Boston College at Alumni Field. 


f 
' 
! 
I 
t 
I 
I ,.. 
I I I 
I The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Junior Shannon Boxx's first half goal propelled the Irish to a 8-0 shutout for their eighth straight win over
I Indiana. 
• fOOTBAll 


By JOE CAVATO 
Assistant Sporrs Ediror 

With the team's record at 1-3 and the challenge of traveling to Stanford looming this week­end, head coach Bob Davie is trying to focus on the positives and improving. The offense has struggled, but the unit will like­ly be healthier and is finally beginning to develop. 
"I do think we're a better football team right now than we were last week at this time," Davie said. "We've made some progress. We've taken some small steps." 
Some of those baby steps are in the offense beginning to come around and the develop­ment of some of the younger players. 
"I think you'll see the balance in our offense will start to pay off," Davie said. "I think we're able to throw the football and we've got to be able to come back now and run the football." 
There is a good chance fresh­man wide receiver Joey Getherall, who has been side­lined since the Georgia Tech game, may be back for Saturday's contest against Stanford. Getherall and some of his classmates have the poten­tial to spark the Irish offense that is still in need of a game breaker. 
"Young players, we're going to continue to try to play," Davie said. "I look at this freshman class with Tony Driver, Jabari Hollowav, Getherall, Grant Irons, Anthony Denman, Brock Williams, there are some players in this class. The hard part with Darcey Levy is he really wants to play tailback, but we've got some tailbacks. He's good enough to be a wide receiver. I'd like to get him in the football game, he's an impressive player." 
The offensive unit is also looking at running smoother. Penalties and poor execution have hampered the Irish from sustaining drives and reaching the end zone. 
"I think it is critical that we eliminate penalties," Davie said. "I think our red-zone offense is something we have to continue to work on." 
One of the concerns for the Irish has been the tight end and fullback slots. Dan O'Leary who did not see thP field as a freshman last season was the starter but an injury to his ankle will keep him out of action this weekend. In his place will be true frPshman Jabari Holloway. 
Lined up in front of tailback Autry Denson has bonn Joey Goodspeed, Jaimie Spencer. and Ken Barry. While Spencer has not yet reached full speed due to injury, Goodspeed has gone down with a shoulder injury forcing Barry to fill in. The rotation in the tight end and fullback slots has not allowed the running game to fully develop. 
"I think we need to eontinue to try to work to develop full­backs, develop tight ends so that we're able to run the foot­ball," Davie said. "I think right now Ken Barry would be the best blocker and that's why he's playing. Goodspeed is obviously hurt but he's doing better than expected." 
During this three game slide, much of the pressure has fallen on quarterback Ron Powlus, but Davie discussed the play of 
see FOCUS/ page 17 

at Stanford, 
vs. Sr. John's, 


• Major League playoff action 
October 4, 2:30 p.m. 
October 3, 7 p.m. 

see pages 13, 14
vs. Boston College, 
Soccer at Manchester, 
October 5, I p.m. 
si~ Today, 4 p.m. 

• BYU football player dies in accident 
&ito 
at SMU, 
Volleyball at Concordia, 

see page 16
Sttr;

\!tin' October 3, 7:30 p.m. 
October 2, 7 p.m . 

• 










